---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 1
'TCDD',bind,'AHR';'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'AHR'

These results, coupled with site-directed mutagenesis and AhR functional analysis, have allowed detection of the " TCDD binding-fingerprint" of conserved residues within the ligand binding cavity necessary for high-affinity TCDD binding and TCDD-dependent AhR transformation DNA binding.

Taken together, our results dramatically improve our understanding of the molecular determinants of TCDD binding and provide a basis for future studies directed toward rationalizing the observed species differences in AhR sensitivity to TCDD and understanding the mechanistic basis for the dramatic diversity in AhR ligand structure.

This study revealed the fact that TCDD-activated AhR frequently binds to promoter-distal regions even without a DRE and is not always involved in transcriptional regulation, suggesting that within the genome DNA-binding of AhR could take place often in many regions without cis-regulatory elements and might not be a key determinant to establish its regulatory function.

In vitro, ARNT and ARNT2 dimerized equally with the AHR in the presence of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetracholorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and ARNT2 outcompeted ARNT for binding to the AHR when expressed in excess.

To confirm the features of the modeled domain, the effects of point mutations in selected residue positions on both TCDD binding to the AhR and TCDD-dependent transformation and DNA binding were analyzed.

Most, if not all, TCDD-induced pathology is mediated via binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , a ligand-activated transcription factor that belongs to the basic helix-loop-helix/Per-Arnt-Sim (bHLH/PAS) superfamily.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) induces expression of the cytochrome P450 1 A1 gene, cyp1a1, by binding to its receptor, aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

PD98059 pretreatment also inhibited TCDD-induced DRE binding of the AhR/Arnt heterodimer.

Together these results indicate that TCDD activates the MEK-1/p44/p42 MAPK pathway, which in turn activates AhR and so facilitates binding of AhR to the cyp1a1 DRE.

We delineate a mechanism by which dioxin (2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin or TCDD)-mediated formation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) DNA binding complex is disrupted by a single mutation at the conserved AhR tyrosine 9.

TCDD-related toxicity is considered mainly to be mediated by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) protein, which binds TCDD, and heterodimerizes with its partner protein, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and binds to xenobiotica responsive elements (XREs) in the promoter regions of biotransformation genes as well as genes involved in growth, differentiation and cellular homeostasis.

It has been shown that most of this toxicity is due to TCDD binding to and activating the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR).

Thus, the harbor seal AHR bound TCDD with an affinity that was at least as high as that of the mouse AHR, suggesting that this seal species may be sensitive to PHAH effects.

Saturation binding analysis was used to compare the [ (3) H]TCDD binding affinity of the in vitro-expressed beluga AHR with affinities of in vitro-expressed AHRs from a dioxin-sensitive mouse strain (Ah(b-1) allele) and humans.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) binds to arylhydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , activating the AHR/AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) heterodimer.

Indeed, some xenobiotics do activate CYP1A1 gene expression in spite of their inability to compete with TCDD for binding to the AhR.

SRC-1 interacted weakly with AhR in the absence of TCDD and the addition of ligand further increased SRC-1 binding to AhR.

To determine the molecular mechanisms underlying the " cross talk" between the activity of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetra-chlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , which binds to arylhydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and estradiol (E2)-liganded estrogen receptor (ER) , we first examined the initial step of estrogen action, ligand binding to ER.

The mechanism of induction of gene transcription by TCDD involves ligand recognition and binding by the AhR, nuclear translocation, and dimerization with the AhR cofactor, AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt).

A stochastic model of nuclear receptor-mediated transcription was developed based on activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzodioxin (TCDD) and subsequent binding the activated AHR to xenobiotic response elements (XREs) on DNA.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor that is bound and activated by many toxic ubiquitous environmental contaminants, including the halogenated aromatic hydrocarbon, 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

We developed an in vitro recombinant yeast assay to investigate whether five representative xenobiotic ligands including 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , β-naphthoflavone (BNF) , benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) , chrysene (CHR) and phenanthrene (PHE) can bind with the AhR of the scallop Chlamys farreri (CfAhR).

β-galactosidase activities were significantly induced in 1-100  nM TCDD groups, indicating that TCDD can bind with CfAhR.

This provides evidence for the binding capacity of TCDD and invertebrate AhR, while no evidence was found to prove that other four compounds could bind with CfAhR in our experiments.

TCDD elicits most of its effects through binding the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

The identification of the brominated indoles as direct ligands and activators/agonists of the AhR was confirmed by their ability to compete with [ (3) H]TCDD for binding to the AhR and to stimulate AhR transformation and DNA binding in vitro.

Here we sought to determine whether this mechanism of weak TCDD binding is shared by other amphibian AHRs.

Axolotl AHR bound one-tenth the TCDD of mouse AHR in velocity sedimentation analysis, and in transactivation assays, the EC50 for TCDD was 23 nM, similar to X.

Application of the three-dimensional reference interaction site model showed that the stabilization of TCDD binding to avian AHRs may be due to the solvation effect depending on the characteristics of two amino acids corresponding to Ile324 and Ser380 in chicken AHR1.

Although these mouse strains possess AhR\240\alleles tightly bound to TCDD, their difference in incidence and severity of hydronephrosis can be explained, in part, by differences in the expression of mPGES-1 and Egr-1.

The results of the binding assay show that PeCDF and TCDD bind with equal affinity to chicken AHR1, but PeCDF binds with greater affinity than TCDD to pheasant (3-fold) and Japanese quail (5-fold) AHR1.

The environmental toxin and carcinogen 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD, dioxin) binds and activates the transcription factor aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , inducing CYP1 family cytochrome P450 enzymes.

The finding that PCP antagonizes TCDD-induced IFN-γ suppression could be due to the competitive binding of PCP to AhR (aryl hydrocarbon receptor).

AhR was bound to dioxin-responsive element and transcriptionally active in both TCDD-untreated and-treated lung adenocarcinoma cells.

The results showed that SFN inhibited TCDD-induced CYP1A1 activity in H4IIE cells by directly inhibiting CYP1A1 activity, probably through binding to aryl hydrocarbon receptor and/or CYP1A1 revealed by molecular docking.

The 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) toxicity has large species differences, and TCDD exerts its toxicity by binding into aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR).

This study indicated that mammalian differences of TCDD acute toxicity might be partly determined by the differences of glutamine-rich domain and ligand binding domain of AHR, which provides a potential insight to analyze the species differences of TCDD toxicity.

It is a well-established fact that xenobiotics with planar structure like TCDD, benzo(a) pyrene (BP) can bind aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) followed by its nuclear translocation and transcriptional activation of target genes.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) was discovered as the intracellular receptor that bound with high affinity to the environmental toxicant 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , and the AhR is required for mediating the toxicity induced by TCDD.

Exposure to 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) induces a variety of toxicities upon binding of TCDD to aryl hydrocarbon receptor.

Moreover, activated TCDD had high affinity to bind with aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , with a binding energy of-564.7 Kcal/mol.

The effects of TCDD are exerted via binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

This enzyme is strongly induced by many different chemical agents, including 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , which binds to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

The environmental pollutant 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-ρ-dioxin (TCDD) is the prototype of a large number of non-genotoxic carcinogens, dietary phytochemicals and endogenous metabolites that act via binding the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR).

6-Formylindolo[32-b]carbazole (FICZ) and 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) are ligands of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and bind to the AHR with high affinity.

Until recently, TCDD was considered to be the most potent AHR agonist, but several recent studies indicate that FICZ binds with greater affinity to the AHR than TCDD.

Knockdown of AhR by siRNA remarkably weakened TCDD-induced binding of AhR to the XRE promoter of slug, thereby suppressed TCDD-induced vimentin.

Binding of retinoid-X-receptor (RXR) α to the promoter region was detected in response to at-RA, while AHR bound to the gene promoter following its activation by TCDD.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , the most toxic halogenated aromatic hydrocarbon, is dependent on binding to the AhR to mediate a broad range of toxic effects.

We examined cardiotoxicity induced by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) in the chick embryo and the cardiac expression of transcription factors, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) which binds TCDD, and its dimer partner, the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt).

TCDD treatment of splenocytes induced binding of the AhR nuclear complex to the dioxin-responsive enhancer (DRE) as detected by the electrophoretic mobility shift assay.

To further evaluate the functional role of AhR phosphorylation we determined whether TCDD binding altered total AhR phosphorylation, and identified phosphorylated regions by the examination of chemical cleavage patterns.

Polycyclic aromatic halogenated chemicals, of which 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is the most potent bind to the AhR.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) binds and activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ah-R) , an endogenous transcription factor that is expressed in the thymus.

Moreover, STO-609 was demonstrated to physically interact with the ligand-binding domain of AhR, as assessed by TCDD binding competition assay, and to induce AhR translocation to the nucleus.

Although the effects of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) are mediated through binding and activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , the subsequent biochemical and molecular changes that confer immune suppression are not well understood.

TCDD exerts its toxicity via binding to and activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

TCDD up-regulated the expression of IL-1beta, IL-6 and IL-8 through binding to AhR, and this effect was transmitted via the NF-kappaB and ERK signalling cascades.

TCDD binds and activates the transcription factor aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , leading to adverse biological responses via the alteration of the expression of various AHR target genes.

TCDD mediates toxicity via binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , a transcription factor that regulates the expression of xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes and growth regulatory molecules.

DMSO and ethanol extracts also stimulated AhR transformation and DNA binding, and also competed with [ (3) H]TCDD for binding to the AhR.

We found that TCDD stimulated the binding of the AhR to COX-2 and cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) oligonucleotides containing consensus XREs.

To characterize further the expression profiles induced by BaP in HepG2 and MCF-7 cells obtained in our previous study, they were compared to those induced by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , which activates AHR but does not bind to DNA, and anti-benzo(a) pyrene- trans-78-dihydrodiol-910-epoxide (BPDE) , which binds directly to DNA but does not activate AHR.

Taken together, although benzo(a) pyrene and TCDD exert their effects via binding to AhR, their effects on the growth and functional differentiation of bone marrow-derived DCs are different.

Chloronaphthalenes (CNs) , due to their structural similarities to 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and the other " dioxin-like" compounds, can bind to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and induce a wide range of pleotrophic effects.

DIOXIN TOXIC EQUIVALENCY FACTOR EVALUATION OVERVIEW: Polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) have the ability to bind to and activate the ligand-activated transcription factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

Notably, regulation of AhR target gene expression is initiated by tetrachlorodibenzodioxin (TCDD) binding to AhR and by a poorly understood cAMP-dependent pathway followed by the translocation of AhR from the cytosol into the nucleus.

TCDD exerts its toxic effects, in part, by binding to its receptor known as the aromatic hydrocarbon receptor (AHR).

Furthermore, biochanin A competed with the prototypical AhR ligand, 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , for binding to the AhR in an isolated rat cytosol.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exerts its toxicity by binding a transcription factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

The mechanism of inhibitory AhR-ERalpha/Sp1 cross talk was further investigated by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) , and the results show that ERalpha/Sp1 and the AhR are constitutively bound to the CAD gene promoter and only minor changes are observed after treatment with 17 beta-estradiol, TCDD, or their combination.

These interspecies data on the most sensitive and best understood response to binding of TCDD and related compounds to the AhR are consistent with the binding affinity and molecular structure data and support the hypothesis that the human AhR is less functional than the AhR of the more sensitive laboratory animals at a molecular level.

Neither compound significantly affected [ (3) H]-TCDD binding to AhR, thus their effect on AhR transcriptional activity proceeds via indirect means.

These are mediated by TCDD binding to and activating the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor.

In addition, CH-223191 blocked the binding of TCDD to AhR and inhibited TCDD-mediated nuclear translocation and DNA binding of AhR.

Our current investigation of these AhR effects revealed the TCDD-dependent activation of a subset of retinoid-dependent genes (tissue-transglutaminase, IGF binding protein-3, AhR) in MCF-7 breast cancer cells.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is known to cause a large number of adverse effects, mediated largely by its binding to the aryl-hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and subsequent modulation of gene expression.

Typical inducers of the cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) , such as TCDD, benzo(a) pyrene (B(a) P) and 3-methylcholanthrene, have a planar molecular structure in common and bind to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a potent hepatotoxin that exerts its toxicity through binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and the subsequent induction or repression of gene transcription.

Both AhR1alpha and AhR1beta exhibit TCDD-dependent binding of cognate DNA sequences, but they bind TCDD with at least 20-fold lower affinity than the mouse AhR(b-1) protein, and they are similarly less responsive in TCDD-induced reporter gene induction in conjunction with the mouse CYP1A1 promoter.

TCDD treatment induced CYP1A1-luciferase activity in an AhR-dependent manner, as determined by binding of nuclear AhR to xenobiotic response elements (XREs).

This suggests that theaflavins inhibit the binding of TCDD to the AhR and also the binding of the transformed AhR to the specific DNA-binding site as putative mechanisms.

TCDD is believed to exert most of its effects through binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

Although it is known that most of the effects of TCDD are mediated by binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , the mechanisms leading to tumor promotion remain to be elucidated.

Although it is known that most of the effects of TCDD are mediated by binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , the mechanisms leading to tumor promotion still remain to be elucidated.

In addition, EGR1 protein was increased by TCDD and PAHs that have binding affinity to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor.

We have previously demonstrated TCDD-inducible binding of both the AhR nuclear complex and NF-kappaB/Rel proteins to the DRE and kappaB motifs, respectively, as well as TCDD and LPS-induced transcriptional activity through the hs4 domain.

TCDD suppressed DNA synthesis of SK-N-SH human neuronal cells determined by [ (3) H]thymidine incorporation which was significantly prevented either by pretreatment with alpha-naphthoflavone (alpha-NF) , a partial AhR antagonist, or 8-methoxypsoralen (MOP) , a binding inhibitor of activated AhR to dioxin response elements.

Since TCDD is known to bind to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , the distribution of the AhR repressor (AhRR) , which is co-expressed with AhR in the same cells, was studied by immunohistochemistry in the mouse hypothalamus using mouse AhRR specific antiserum.

As expected, OME and TBZ were unable to displace [ (3) H]-TCDD from its binding sites to the AhR in competitive binding studies.

Most of the toxic damage caused by TCDD is considered to be secondary to the binding of TCDD to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor, the AH receptor (AHR).

Sucrose gradient analyses using rat liver and murine hepatoma 1 c1c7 extracts demonstrated that SP600125 competed with TCDD for binding to the AhR.

The relative affinity of the hexabrominated DBP congener (vs TCDD) for binding to chicken AhR was estimated to be 1.7e-5.

Although it is known that most of the effects of TCDD are mediated by binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , the mechanisms leading to tumor promotion still remain to be elucidated.

Although it is known that most of TCDD actions are mediated by binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , the mechanisms leading to tumor promotion still remain to be elucidated.

PAH that induced CYP1A inhibited [ 3 H]TCDD binding to in vitro-expressed AHRs from rainbow trout and the AHR expressed in PLHC-1 fish hepatoma cells.

GTEs blocked TCDD-induced binding of the AhR to DNA in HepG2 cells and in vitro in isolated hepatic cytosol.

Only (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) , the most abundant catechin in green tea, was able to inhibit TCDD-induced binding of the AhR to DNA and subsequent CYP1A transcription, however EGCG alone was less effective than GTEs.

Electrophoretic mobility shift assay-Western analysis demonstrated TCDD-induced binding of the AhR nuclear complex to both DRE-like sites as well as TCDD-induced binding of several nuclear factor-kappa B/Rel proteins to a kappa B site, which overlaps one of the DRE-like sites.

Seven days after treatment with 1 or 2 microg TCDD/kg, the expression of CYP1A1 mRNA, one of the sensitive responses caused by the binding of TCDD to AhR, was detected in the thymus of rats.

As most TCDD-related effects are believed to be mediated via binding of the TCDD-Ah receptor (AhR) complex to DNA, nuclear AhR levels were measured in rat and human hepatocytes after TCDD treatment.

The environmental contaminant 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD or dioxin) induces gene transcription, a process that requires binding of the activated aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) to dioxin-responsive elements (DREs) within the enhancer region of responsive genes.

Moreover, CAR, naphthol (its major metabolite) and NAPn were not ligands in vitro of the TCDD binding site of AhR or the benzo(a)-pyrene binding site of 4 S protein in rat, neither was CAR a ligand of these two binding sites in mice, dog, monkey or human.

These results showed that TCDD caused rapid, reciprocal changes in C/EBPalpha and C/EBPbeta mRNAs and DNA binding in the adipose and liver of male C57BL mice and induced C/EBPbeta in hepatoma cells in an AhR-dependent manner.

The addition of PD98059 to rat liver cytosol just before the addition of TCDD suppressed TCDD binding (IC50 = 4 muM) and aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) transformation (IC50 = 1 muM) , as measured by sucrose gradient centrifugation and electrophoretic mobility shift assays.

These results provide evidence that (i) TCDD activates protein kinases in murine hepatic cytosol, (ii) a 60-kDa protein kinase is associated with the cytosolic form of the AHR complex, (iii) ligand binding directly activates this kinase because TCDD treatment of immunoprecipitated AHR complex results in increased protein kinase activity, and (iv) the AHR-associated protein kinase seems to be pp60(src) kinase.

While AhR derived from TCDD-treated wild-type hepa cells bound specifically to a DRE, no binding was detected when an identical amount of AhR obtained from activated T cells was used.

Our inability to detect binding of the T cell nuclear AhR complex to a consensus response element, combined with the observation that it is difficult to reproduce the in vivo immunotoxic effects of TCDD in vitro, suggests that T cells may lack a factor(s) required for AhR binding to a DRE, or may contain a suppressor factor which inhibits AhR binding to DNA.

In addition to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) complex inducible by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , nuclear extracts from 3 human keratinocyte cell lines also contained one or more proteins that bound specifically to the DRE but whose levels were unaffected by TCDD or by anti-AHR antibody pretreatment.

In livers of adult nonresponsive DBA/2J (D2) mice TCDD binds to a low-affinity variant form of AHR.

Thus, our results indicate that protein kinase activity does not appear to be necessary for TCDD-dependent AhR transformation and DNA binding and they imply that protein kinases must play a role in another step(s) in the AhR-dependent mechanism of P4501A1 induction.

This was found to be due to the ability of these compounds to competitively inhibit [ 3 H]TCDD specific binding to the AhR under conditions in vitro.

The binding of ligand (2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)) to AhR alpha requires the receptor be in its oligomeric 8-10 to S conformation (bound to other protein subunits) , while ligand binding to AhR beta can occur with the dissociated 5-6 S form.

The lower sensitivity of the LS180 cells to induction of AHH activity by TCDD or BA is consistent with the lower affinity of TCDD and MC for binding to human AhR.

Following a poorly defined process of transformation, during which the TCDD:AhR complex acquires the ability to bind to DNA with high affinity, TCDD:AhR complexes activate gene transcription by binding to dioxin responsive enhancers (DREs) adjacent to the responsive gene.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD, dioxin) produces many of its biological effects by binding to a soluble, intracellular protein (the Ah receptor (AhR].

Based on the structure of a closely related protein HIF2α, we modeled the AHR ligand binding domain (LBD) bound to 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and benzo(a) pyrene (BaP) and identified residues that control ligand preferences by shape and H-bond potential.

Since TCDD acts through binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , and the AHR has been identified as an important factor in ovarian function, we also conducted experiments to confirm the presence and activation of the AHR in our tissue culture system.

We characterized AHR activity in the mutant line using TCDD and leflunomide as toxicological probes to investigate function, ligand binding and CYP1A induction patterns of paralogues AHR2, AHR1A and AHR1B.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) was initially identified as a receptor that bound 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and related environmental toxicants.

TCDD action probably initiated with binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) present on Leydig cells.

Although AhR activation is most recognized for mediating the effects of its prototypical ligand 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , many compounds existing in dietary sources can also bind the AhR.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD, dioxin) and related dioxin-like chemicals are widespread and persistent environmental contaminants that produce diverse toxic and biological effects through their ability to bind to and activate the Ah receptor (AhR) and AhR-dependent gene expression.

Dioxin Toxic Equivalency Factor Evaluation Overview- Polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) have the ability to bind to and activate the ligand-activated transcription factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

Chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by quantitative PCR in TCDD-treated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated B cells showed increased binding of the AHR within the first intron in the Bach2 gene.

Lisa Opanashuk discussed how dioxin [ TCDD] binding to the arylhydrocarbon receptor [ AhR], a transcription factor that regulates xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes and growth factors, increased granule cell formation and apoptosis in the developing mouse cerebellum.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is an environmental pollutant that binds the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , a transcription factor that triggers various biological responses.

The effects of TCDD are mediated through its binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , a ligand-activated transcription factor.

Most of the toxic effects of TCDD are believed to be mediated by high-affinity binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and subsequent effects on gene transcription and protein expression.

Receptor-mediated mechanisms involving the reversible binding of xenobiotic substrates to a specific receptor are exemplified herein by the interaction of the environmental chemical 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD or " dioxin") with the cytosolic aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , which translocates to the nucleus and, in association with other proteins binds to AH-responsive elements (AHREs) in numerous genes, initiating changes in gene transcription that can perturb development.

It is thought that this effect may have occurred via curcumin and TCDD binding aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) competitively.

It is thought that this effect may have occurred via curcumin and TCDD were binding aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) competitively.

Most of the toxic effects of TCDD are believed to be mediated by high-affinity binding to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and subsequent effects on gene transcription.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , a known disruptor of B-cell differentiation and a ligand for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR)  induces binding of the AhR to dioxin responsive elements (DRE) in sensitive genes.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , a known disruptor of B-cell differentiation and a ligand for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , induces binding of the AhR to dioxin responsive elements (DRE) in sensitive genes.

the recombinant AhR bound TCDD with an affinity that was not statistically different from the full-length protein.

The TCDD-induced binding of the AhR was reduced by small-interfering RNA for the AhR or the cotreatment with synthetic (3-methoxy-4-naphthoflavone) or dietary AhR antagonists (DIM, RES).

The human AhR bound TCDD with significantly lower affinity than the rat AhR.

The AhR is also recognized as the culprit for most toxic responses observed after exposure to dioxins and related compounds such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a mediator of xenobiotic toxicity, best recognized for conveying the deleterious effects of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a cytosolic receptor for low molecular weight molecules, of which the most widely recognized ligand is 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , and the most widely recognized effect, chloracne.

TCDD-bound AhR subsequently translocates to the nucleus and interacts with the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt) to induce signal transduction.

TiPARP and AHR co-localized in the nucleus, directly interacted and both were recruited to CYP1A1 in response to TCDD.

Here, we show that the smoke toxins benzo(a) pyrene (BaP) and 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) interact with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr) to induce osteoclastic bone resorption through the activation of cytochrome P450 1 a/1b (Cyp1) enzymes.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is the most potent member of a class of chlorinated hydrocarbons that interact with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

TCDD, or dioxin as it is frequently called interacts with the Ah receptor (AhR) , which functions in a manner analogous to receptors for steroids.

These results suggest that TCDD could also be interacting with cellular targets though AhR-independent pathways.

Induction by 3 MC and BaP was AHR dependent but, surprisingly, the potent AHR agonist, TCDD, did not induce FMO3 mRNA in Hepa-1 cells nor did chromatin immunoprecipitation assays detect recruitment of AHR or ARNT to Fmo3 regulatory elements after exposure to 3 MC in liver or in Hepa-1 cells.

Transcriptionally active AhR was detected in immature cerebellar granule cells in a transgenic dioxin-responsive lacZ mouse model after acute TCDD exposure.

Expression of aryl hydrocarbon receptor, aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator, and estrogen receptor alpha mRNA was detected in liver, kidney, and pituitary gland, suggesting that the effects of TCDD on estrogenic signaling in these organs is independent of the expression pattern of these receptors.

In comparison of temporal trends of TCDD-induced AHRs and CYP1A expression, and developmental toxicities, the highest expression of rsAHR2 and CYP1A mRNA were detected prior to the appearance of maximal incidence of TCDD toxic manifestations.

The AhR was detected in all cell types examined, but the AhR translocated to the nucleus only in activated, TCDD-treated T cells.

Upon binding to ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , an aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is activated to form a heterodimer with an aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt).

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-dependent, basic helix-loop-helix Per-Arnt-Sim (PAS)-containing transcription factor that can bind and be activated by structurally diverse chemicals, including the toxic environmental contaminant 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

Here, we analyze the interference between the AhR signaling activated by 10 nM 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo- p-dioxin (TCDD) , and the HIF-1 alpha pathway, induced by hypoxia (5 % O2) , in two human cell lines, the breast carcinoma cell line MCF-7 and the hepatocyte cell line HepG2.

We found that TCDD induces the expression of the B-cell activating factor of the tumor necrosis factor family (BAFF) , B-lymphocyte chemoattractant (BLC) , CC-chemokine ligand 1 (CCL1) , and the transcription factor interferon gamma responsive factor (IFR3) in U937 macrophages in an aryl hydrocarbon receptor- (AhR) and RelB-dependent manner.

Treatment with 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) induces CYP1A1 protein and mRNA levels and also activates inhibitory AhR-ERalpha crosstalk associated with hormone-induced reporter gene expression.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor that is activated by a structurally diverse array of synthetic and natural chemicals, including toxic halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is activated by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , but activation without an exogenous ligand also occurs when normal cell-cell contact is prevented.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exerts diverse adverse health effects by activating the transcription factor arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

In the present study, we investigated whether or not TCDD induces the CYP1A1 gene by functionally activating AhR in primary mature T cells in mice.

In conclusion, AhR signaling is activated in the ovary by TCDD and inhibition of COX-2 appeared to be a critical step in the TCDD blockage of ovulation because blockage or reduction of COX-2 expression is well known to be associated with failure of ovulation.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) binds to arylhydrocarbon receptor (AHR)  activating the AHR/AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) heterodimer.

Within this family, the AhR is the only member conditionally activated in response to ligand binding, typified by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

TCDD and related polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons are widespread industrial pollutants that activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR).

Guinea pig hepatic cytosolic AhR activated in vitro by equipotent concentrations of TCDD, 3-methylcholanthrene, β-naphthoflavone, indirubin, L-kynurenine, or YH439 was incubated with a pool of DNA oligonucleotides containing a 15-base pair variable region consisting of all possible nucleotides.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor which plays a role in the development of multiple tissues and is activated by a large number of ligands, including 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) activated complex regulates genes in response to the environmental contaminant 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

AhR can be activated by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (2 , 3 , 7 , 8-TCDD) and once activated, it promotes the abnormal expression of cytochrome P450, leading to several diseases, including cancer.

These results suggested that SUMOylation of AhR might play an important role in the regulation of its function, and TCDD may activate the transcriptional activity of AhR through downregulating its SUMOylation.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-dependent, basic helix-loop-helix Per-ARNT-Sim (PAS) containing transcription factor that can bind and be activated by structurally diverse chemicals, including the toxic environmental contaminant 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor that can be activated by structurally diverse synthetic and natural chemicals, including toxic environmental contaminant 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

The pollutant 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) activates the AhR (aryl hydrocarbon receptor) signaling pathway.

Transient transfection assays revealed that AhR1a, AhR1b, and AhR2b were functional, whereas AhR2a was poorly activated by the potent agonist 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

The toxic manifestations of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , an environmental contaminant, primarily depend on its ability to activate aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , which is a ligand-dependent transcription factor belonging to the superfamily of basic-helix-loop-helix DNA-binding proteins.

Many widespread and persistent organic pollutants, for example, 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and some polychlorinated biphenyls activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) causing it to translocate to the cell nucleus where it transactivates target genes, increasing expression of a number of xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes as well as some transporters.

Four decades after its discovery, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , a ligand-inducible transcription factor (TF) activated by the persistent environmental contaminant 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , remains an enigmatic molecule with a controversial endogenous role.

Here, we show that AhR is activated in cells infected with mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) , a coronavirus (CoV) , and contributes to the upregulation of downstream effector TCDD-inducible poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (TiPARP) during infection.

The dioxin TCDD accumulates in sebum, and thereby persistently activates the Ah receptor (AhR) , expressed in bipotential stem/progenitor cells of the sebaceous gland.

The 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and 3 , 3 \-diindolylmethane (DIM) were used to activate Ahr in MDA-MB-231 and T47D breast cancer cells.

The Ah receptor (AhR)-responsive CALUX (chemically activated luciferase expression) cell bioassay is commonly used for rapid screening of samples for the presence of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD, dioxin) , dioxin-like compounds, and AhR agonists/antagonists.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor activated by a variety of widespread persistent environmental pollutants such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

RCC cell lines were exposed to indirubin or 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , AhR ligands, to activate the AhR pathway, or were transfected with small interfering RNA (siRNA) for AhR.

Furthermore, we found that ADP potentiates TCDD action, which led to the discovery that ADP itself activates AHR in the absence of TCDD.

Our results suggest that FICZ and TCDD activate avian AHR1 by different modes of interaction with AHR1.

Exposure of zebrafish embryos to 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) activates the zebrafish aryl hydrocarbon receptor 2 (AHR) to produce developmental and cardiovascular toxicity.

It was demonstrated that white sturgeon expresses AhR1s and AhR2s that are both activated by DLCs with EC50 values for 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-TCDD that are lower than those of any other AhR of vertebrates tested to date.

AhR in fibroblasts was activated by TCDD with an increased expression of cyp1a1 and cyp1b1.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a transcription factor that is activated by either 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) or omeprazole (OP).

The expression of the cytochrome P450 1 A (cyp1a) gene is upregulated in the presence of TCDD through activating the aryl hydrocarbon receptor pathway in a dose-dependent manner.

Nonetheless, prior studies comparing FICZ with TCDD have generally used the same 10-50 μg/kg dose range, and thus the two ligands would not equivalently activate AhR.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) or 3 , 3 \-diindolylmethane (DIM) were used to activate aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr) in azoxymethane (AOM)/dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced CAC in mice.

We have previously shown that cytochrome P450 1 A1 (CYP1A1) was highly induced for a long period of time in a patient who had been poisoned by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , a compound known to activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a persistent environmental pollutant that activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) resulting in altered gene expression.

In human sebocytes, TCDD and BaP were found to activate the expression of multiple genes, including cytochrome P450 1 A1 (CYP1A1) , and inhibit lipid synthesis via AhR, while little is known about endogenous functions of the AhR.

, 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) ] and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) , can xenobiotically activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and contribute to adverse health effects in humans and wildlife.

The expression level of CYP1A1 also was measured to confirm that Ahr was activated by TCDD or DIM in prostate cancer cells.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a transcriptional enhancer activated by the binding of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and related xenobiotics.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor is a ligand activated transcription factor which regulates biological responses to a variety of environmental pollutants, such as dioxin (2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, TCDD) and cigarette smoke.

The AHR is activated by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon toxicants, including the pervasive teratogen and carcinogen 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD or dioxin).

AhR mediates the toxic and biological effects of environmental contaminants such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , but a number of structurally diverse compounds has also been found to activate AhR.

Our data suggests that TCDD activates PKC-betaII via RACK-1 in an AhR-dependent manner.

The data obtained in this study also suggests that TCDD activates the MAPK pathway via an arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR)-independent mechanism in RAW 264.7 murine macrophages.

The ability of AhR ligands, other than TCDD, to activate the AhR-mediated transgene, in combination with the insertion-site independence of the response, strengthens the data previously derived from this model and increases the utility of this system for investigations examining AhR-mediated events during development.

AhR activated by IL-4 caused expression of a xenobiotic-metabolizing gene, CYP1A1, and TCDD synergistically acted on the induction of this gene by IL-4.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-induced transcription factor that is activated by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and other related compounds, leading to toxicity.

Known mainly for its role as a toxin sensor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) complex is also involved in homeostasis regulation and differentiation processes and activated by xenobiotic compounds like 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , when activated by exogenous ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , regulates expression of several phase I and phase II enzymes and is also involved in the regulation of cell proliferation.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor that can be activated by a structurally diverse range of synthetic and natural chemicals, and it mediates the toxic and biological effects of environmental contaminants such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) to mediate transcriptional activity of dioxin-responsive genes.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is revealed to exert diverse biological effects including immunotoxicity, mainly by inadvertently activating the transcription factor arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is an environmental toxin that activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and disrupts multiple endocrine signaling pathways.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exerts diverse biological effects by activating the cytosolic transcription factor, arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , which translocates to nuclei by TCDD binding and induces gene expressions.

Although the AhR is found at high levels in both thymocytes and thymic stroma, it is uncertain in which cells TCDD is activating the AhR to cause alterations in the thymus.

The intracellular distribution of the AhR was studied by subcellular fractionation of both resting and activated T cells in the presence and absence of TCDD.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a transcriptional enhancer that is activated by the binding of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and related toxic xenobiotics, as well as some naturally occurring compounds.

The AHR locus encodes the structural gene for the Ah receptor, a ligand activated transcription factor that regulates the expression of a number of enzymes involved in the metabolism of chemical carcinogens and that appears to mediate the tumor promoting properties of compounds such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

In a model of human non-tumorigenic prostate epithelial cells BPH-1, derived from the benign prostatic hyperplasia, 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) persistently activates the AhR signaling pathway and induces expression of xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes, such as CYP1A1 or CYP1B1.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a transcription factor activated by several environmental pollutants, such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , and involved in carcinogenesis and various physiological processes, including immune response and endocrine functions.

AHR is activated by numerous environmental toxins, such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , and plays an as yet poorly understood role in development and reproduction.

Western blotting and immunocytochemistry assays were used to demonstrate that TCDD or BaP could activate AhR signaling.

Here we compared the results of c-Src tyrosine phosphorylation via aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR)-dependent mechanisms from Western blot analysis with fluorescent resonance energy transfer (FRET) assay detecting c-Src activation after treatment with TCDD to activate AhR in two different human cell types.

AHR is a transcription factor activated by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and other ligands.

, 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)  activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , causing it to translocate to the cell nucleus, where it transactivates target genes.

TCDD activates the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and suppresses peripheral humoral and cellular adaptive immune responses.

Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a transcription factor and its function is activated by the binding of halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and 1 , 2 , 4-trichlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TrCDD).

Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a drug-sensing receptor activated by environmental contaminants such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , and is known to drive regulation of target genes in various human cell types.

Structural similarities between ITX and the AhR-agonists 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and furanocoumarins, prompted us to investigate whether ITX could have the potency to activate the AhR.

To determine whether the AhR pathway can be activated in the T24 UC cell line, we examined the expression of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1 A1 and CYP1B1, which are target genes of the AhR pathway, following exposure to 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , a ligand of AhR.

In present study, we used 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD) , a classic and most potent ligand of AhR, to activate AhR pathway and investigated the effect of AhR pathway activation on human gastric cancer AGS cell invasion and explored the corresponding mechanism.

To determine whether AhR pathway can be activated in AGS cells, we examined the expression of CYP1A1, a classic target gene of AhR pathway, following TCDD exposure.

We find that DIM and TCDD have differing abilities to activate the distinct AhR-controlled pathways.

Arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR) activated by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) triggers its downstream signaling pathway to exert adverse effects on vasculature development, which can be initiated by vasculogenesis, followed by angiogenesis, or vascular remodeling, in a variety of animals including avians, piscines and mammals.

Most evidence of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) signaling in prostate growth, morphogenesis, and disease stems from research using 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) to pharmacologically activate the AHR at various stages of development.

Previous studies in mammalian hepatoma cell lines have shown that hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-and/or aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR)-activated gene expression is suppressed following co-exposure to hypoxia and the hallmark AhR ligand 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

----> event: 'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

What\s more, the gene expressions of protein kinase C (PKC) signaling pathway, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPKs) signaling pathway, NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling pathway and antioxidant defense system indicated that AhR may regulate the Nrf2-Keap1 signaling pathway through Kelch-like ECH-associated protein-1 (Keap1) and MAPKs, PKC signaling pathways.

Although NRF2 and AhR cooperate to regulate numerous antioxidant gene expression responses, the induction of Pkm2 by TCDD is independent of reactive oxygen species-mediated NRF2 activation.

An aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) possesses possible expression of phase I and phase II enzymes directly by binding of its ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and indirectly by regulating expression of nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2).

The Ahr is a transcription factor that regulates gene expression of many Phase I and II detoxifying enzymes and interacts with Nrf2, a transcription factor that regulates the response to oxidative stress.

In addition to its role as a toxicological signal mediator, the Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor (AHR) is also a transcription factor known to regulate cellular responses to oxidative stress and inflammation through transcriptional regulation of molecules involved in the signaling of nucear factor-erythroid 2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) , p53 (TRP53) , retinoblastoma (RB1) , and NFκB.

Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , a receptor that is activated by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons such as dioxin, is a sensor of the redox system against oxidative stress and regulates nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) , a master switch of the redox machinery.

The arylhydrocarbon receptor (AhR) regulates the expression of cytochrome P450 (CYP)-1 gene family members which catalyze xenobiotic Phase I metabolism, while Nrf2 exerts the concerted regulation of Phase II enzyme genes.

The expression of genes and activity of Nrf2/ARE-regulated enzymes-heme oxygenase- 1 (HO-1) , NAD(P) H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) , AhR/XRE-regulated CYP1A1, CYP1A2 enzymes and the mRNA level of transcription factors Nrf2 and AhR were determined in rats liver.

On the other hand, the antioxidant system-inducing transcription factor Nrf2 can be stimulated by Ahr, and Nrf2 can itself activate Ahr expression.

In conclusion, this study demonstrates for the first time that methylated pentavalent arsenic metabolites are bifunctional inducers, as they increase CYP1A1 by activating the AhR/XRE signaling pathway and they increase NQO1 by activating the Nrf2/ARE signaling pathway in addition to the AhR/XRE pathway.

Target genes of Nrf2a and AhR2, NAD(P) H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (nqo1) and glutathione S-transferase, alpha-like (gsta1) , showed a 2-5-fold increase in expression in the Nrf2a mutants as compared to wildtype.

Neutrophil depletion abolished Cl2-induced AHR in large conducting airways and prevented increases in antioxidant gene expression and NRF2 nuclear translocation.

Nrf2(-/-) mice exposed to relatively low-dose DEP showed significantly increased percentage changes relative to the OVA alone group in terms of airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) and inflammatory cells, levels of IL-5 and thymus and activation regulated chemokine (TARC) in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid than did Nrf2(+/+) mice.

In addition, elevated expressions of other transcription factors like aryl hydrocarbon receptor (ahr) 1 b, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (ppar)-β, and nrf2 were found in pxr-deficient models without any treatment, while enhanced induction of ahr1b, ppar-β and pxr could only be seen in nrf2-deficient embryos after the treatment of metal ions, indicating different compensation phenomena for the absence of transcription factors.

These results suggest that I3C is an AhR activator and enhances microsomal ROS production resulting in the upregulation of Nrf2 gene batteries, but the oxidative stress generated overcomes the antioxidant effect of Nrf2-related genes.

NAD(P) H:quinoneoxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) belongs to a group of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) battery of drug-metabolizing enzymes that are characteristically induced by both AhR agonists and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) activators.

Taken together, our results show that OTA induces oxidative stress through the phase I reaction regulated by AhR and induces apoptosis, and that the phase II reaction is activated by Nrf2 in the presence of oxidative stress.

The expression of nrf1b, nrf2a, and nfe2 was induced by TCDD, and AHR1b directly regulated their expression by binding to cis-XRE promoter elements.

These data suggest that EGCG can inhibit AhR regulated genes and induce Nrf2-regulated antioxidant enzymes, thus providing protection against PCB-induced inflammatory responses in endothelial cells.

However, the role of Nrf2 in protecting against oxidative stress and DNA damage induced by sustained activation of the AhR remains unknown and was investigated herein.

In conclusion, Nrf2 protects livers of mice against oxidative stress, DNA damage, and steatohepatitis induced by TCDD-mediated sustained activation of the AhR.

The Nrf2 activators induced most Gsts (10) , followed by the CAR, PXR, and PPARalpha activators (6-7) , whereas the AhR ligands induced the least (1).

Moreover, a pharmacological activator of NRF2 signaling, CDDO-IM { 1-[ 2-cyano-312-dioxooleana-19(11)-dien-28-oyl]imidazole} induced Ahr, Cyp1a1, and Cyp1b1 transcription in Nrf2+/+ MEFs but not in Nrf2-/- MEFs.

Linkage between AhR and Nrf2 batteries is probably achieved by multiple mechanisms, including Nrf2 as a target gene of the AhR, indirect activation of Nrf2 via CYP1A1-generated reactive oxygen species, and direct cross-interaction of AhR/XRE and Nrf2/ARE signaling.

Gene expression analysis in PDAC tumors (n = 63) showed a positive correlation between the expression of NOS2 and the tryptophan/kynurenine pathway genes, including indoleamine-23-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) and several aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR)-target genes including NFE2L2 (NRF2) , SERPINB2, IL1b, IL6 and IL8, which are implicated in pancreatic cancer.

These methods were subsequently applied to the AhR and Nrf2 signalling pathways and altered expression of the predicted target genes was validated by qPCR in Caco-2 cells exposed to coffee extracts, known to activate both AhR and Nrf2 pathways.

Approximately 842 NRF2-enriched regions were located in the regulatory region of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) , whereas 579 DEGs showed both NRF2 and AhR enrichment.

We have previously demonstrated that luteolin inhibited TCDD-induced AhR transformation, and modulated the expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes through not only the AhR, but also the nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2).

In this work we demonstrate for the first time that Nrf2 gene transcription is directly modulated by AHR activation.

NRF2 signaling is positively modulated by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) but inhibited by estrogen receptor alpha (ERα).

Children with particle-bound PAH exposures have a relatively high health risk of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR)-mediated adverse outcomes than adults, in particular in the winter period, while the activations of Nrf2 and p53 pathways are insignificant.

In human keratinocytes, we found that perillaldehyde (1) inhibited BaP-induced AHR activation and ROS production, (2) inhibited BaP/AHR-mediated release of the CCL2 chemokine, and (3) activated the NRF2/HO1 antioxidant pathway.

Activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) ultimately leads to the induction of the carcinogen-activating enzyme cytochrome P450 1 A1 (CYP1A1) , and activation of the nuclear factor-erythroid 2 p45-related factor 2 (Nrf2) in addition to the AhR pathway induces the expression of the NADP(H) : quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1).

Because some phytochemicals exert their antioxidant activity by activating aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR)  leading to subsequent induction of the antioxidant pathway including nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and quinone oxidoreductase 1 (Nqo1) , we investigated whether Cyn also activates the AhR-Nrf2-Nqo1 pathway.

Cyn indeed induced the activation (nuclear translocation) of AhR leading to nuclear translocation of Nrf2 and dose-dependent upregulation of Nrf2 and Nqo1 mRNAs in human keratinocytes.

Since AHR negatively controls adipocyte differentiation, we postulated that NRF2 would inhibit adipogenesis through the interaction with the AHR pathway.

We uncovered interstrain differences in the expression of Nrf2 and Nrf2-dependent genes (glutathione S-reductase [ Gsr] and heme oxygenase 1 [ Hmox1]) , in the expression of AhR-dependent genes (cytochrome P450 1 A2 [ Cyp1a2] and cytochrome P450 1 B1 [ Cyp1b1]) , and in the NADPH-quinone oxidoreductase (Nqo1) expression, which is controlled by both AhR and Nrf2.

Finally, genetic experiments using AhR (aryl hydrocarbon receptor)-, Arnt (aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator)-or Nrf2-deficient cells reveal that, while induction of NQO1 by TCDD depends on the presence of AhR and Arnt, the basal and inducible expression of NQO1 by either TCDD or tBHQ requires functional Nrf2.

The binding efficacy of AITC with AhR and Nrf2 analysis by molecular docking studies reveals that AITC has strong interaction with AhR and Nrf2 proteins through hydrogen and hydrophobic interactions.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 2
'ARNT',bind,'AHR';'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'ARNT',bind,'AHR'

Notably, RNA-interference experiments combined with back-transfection of siRNA-resistant cDNAs revealed that the induction of L1-RTP by FICZ is dependent on AhR nuclear translocator-1 (ARNT1) , a binding partner of AhR, and the activation of cAMP-responsive element-binding protein.

The hypoxia-responsive transcription factor HIF-1alpha dimerizes with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , which is also an important binding partner for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

The artificial clonal protein ARNT-PAS could specifically bind to the natural AhR complex with the existence of TCDD.

Sf9 beta-tubulin interacts with Arnt and suppresses the binding of the AhR/Arnt heterodimer to its corresponding enhancer.

During transformation, protein chaperone Hsp90 is thought to be replaced by Arnt in overlapping binding sites in the basic helix loop helix and PASB domains of the AhR.

In vitro, ARNT and ARNT2 dimerized equally with the AHR in the presence of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetracholorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and ARNT2 outcompeted ARNT for binding to the AHR when expressed in excess.

The AHR repressor (AHRR) inhibits AHR signaling through a proposed mechanism involving competition with AHR for dimerization with AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) and binding to AHR-responsive enhancer elements (AHREs).

AhR/ARNT binding to XRE1, XRE4, and the Ebox complex function in combination to support the AhR/ARNT complex at XRE5.

These findings imply that the proteolytic machinery present in the cytoplasmic compartment is sufficient to degrade the AHR and that nuclear translocation, binding with ARNT, or DNA binding are not necessary for efficient degradation of the AHR.

Trx-1 transfected MCF-7 cells show increased AhR/ARNT DNA binding activity that is not due to altered AhR or ARNT protein expression.

Gene activation by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and its DNA binding partner, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) requires a number of sequential steps that occur following the binding of ligand and entry of the AHR into the nuclear compartment.

Mechanistic studies reveal an AhR/DRE paradigm for the induction, which involves activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) by an agonist, dimerization of AhR with the Ah recceptor nuclear translocator (Arnt) , followed by binding of the AhR/Arnt heterodimer to the dioxin-responsive enhancer (DRE) and transcription of the gene.

Mutagenesis of leucines 66 and 71 of the putative AHR NES resulted in a protein with reduced function in dimerization to ARNT and binding to DNA, while alanine substitution at leucine 69 (AHR(A69)) resulted in an AHR that bound with ARNT and associated with DNA.

: Transcriptional up-regulation of mammalian CYP1A1 genes by dioxin is known to require binding of dioxin to the Ah receptor (AHR) , subsequent interaction of this ligand-receptor complex with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and binding of this heterodimer to aromatic hydrocarbon response elements (AHREs) located in the 5 \ flanking sequences.

The addition of TFIIB significantly increased the formation of the AHR/ARNT DNA binding complex, but only if TFIIB was first allowed to interact with the AHR before the addition of ARNT.

ARNT serves as a common binding partner for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) as well as HIF-α subunits.

Following activation and nuclear translocation, AHR heterodimerizes with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) and binds to AHR response elements (AhREs) in the enhancer of target genes, of which Cyp1a1 is the prototype.

The most AhR-active catabolites (indole, skatole, tryptamine, i3-pyruvate, i3-acrylate, i3-acetamide) elicited nuclear translocation of the AhR, followed by a formation of AhR-ARNT heterodimer and enhanced binding of the AhR to the CYP1A1 gene promoter.

These effects were arisen from HIF-1α out-competing AhR for ARNT binding which limited the activity of the AhR pathway.

Furthermore, NOR could activate aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) in THP-1 cells, inducing CYP1A1 mRNA expression, and promoting dissociation of AhR/HSP90 complexes, association of AhR and ARNT, AhR nuclear translocation, XRE reporter activity and binding activity of AhR/ARNT/XRE.

Although the mouse Arnt gene was not identified until 1991 , evidence of its co-transcriptional binding partner, aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , was first reported in 1974 as a " sensor" of foreign chemicals, up-regulating cytochrome P450 family 1 (CYP1) and other enzyme activities that usually metabolize the signaling chemical.

Unexpectedly, the palindromic Arnt E-box drove the binding of the AhRJun/ArntFos heterodimer (Kd = 276 nM)-not the ArntFos homodimer-that binds to the Arnt E-box.

On this basis, a mutagenesis strategy for both the murine AhR and ARNT proteins was designed and ligand-dependent DNA binding ability of the AhR:ARNT heterodimer mutants was evaluated.

Chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative PCR (ChIP-qPCR) assays revealed increases in AHR, AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) and p300 binding and histone H3 acetylation at an AHR binding site in the LAT1 gene in response to TCDD.

Since ARNT is a heterodimerization partner of the AhR required for binding of the ligand-activated AhR to dioxin-responsive elements on DNA in the nucleus to transactivate genes controlled by the AhR, an alternative mechanism for TCDD\s action is discussed which does not require ARNT.

Arnt complex could bind to the consensus xenobiotic-responsive element, which indicates that AhR expressed in adult rabbit liyers possessed binding activity to the consensus xenobiotic-responsive element in vitro, although aryl hydrocarbons did not induce the activity of AHH in adult rabbits.

ARNT binds to the side of the xenobiotic responsive element (XRE) that resembles an E-box (the sequence recognized by the majority of other basic helix-loop-helix proteins) , whereas AHR binds to the side of the XRE that does not conform to the E-box sequence.

The Arnt homodimer binds the sequence of adenovirus major late promoter (MLP) with the E box core sequence CACGTG, suggesting that the CAC half of the XRE, CACGCN(A/T) , recognized by the AhR-Arnt heterodimer is a target for Arnt.

To accomplish this in a manner that was independent of the ARNT protein, we constructed a chimeric receptor in which the DNA binding and primary dimerization domains of the AHR were swapped with analogous domains from the LexA protein.

One partner, HIF-1beta, had been recognized previously as the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , an essential component of the xenobiotic response.

In contrast, the nuclear DNA-binding AhR complex in IM-9 and PJS-91 cells consisted of several closely migrating species, one being recognized by an AhR antibody, while an ARNT antibody reacted with all species.

In contrast with Arnt, Arnt2 was practically incapable of interacting with ligand-activated AhR to induce the expression of target genes for xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes in response to xenobiotics.

To delineate the transcription factors that may facilitate DNA binding and transcriptional activation of the AHR/ARNT heterodimer, we questioned whether transcription factor IIB (TFIIB) may interact with either the AHR or ARNT and whether this interaction may affect the ability of the AHR/ARNT complex to bind DNA.

MAGED1 binds and positively regulates the transcriptional activity of family members SIM1, SIM2, NPAS4 and ARNT2, but does not interact with AhR, HIF1α and ARNT.

The AHR and ARNT mRNAs were detected in the same areas but in contrast to CYP1A1 the changes in AHR and ARNT mRNA expression were limited to the 28-day time point.

Upon binding to ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , an aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is activated to form a heterodimer with an aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt).

Upon binding to ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , an aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is activated to form a heterodimer with an aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt) and binds to DNA.

Thus, ARNT2 has the ability to dimerize with the liganded AHR in vitro and is influenced by the activating ligand yet appears to be limited in its ability to influence AHR-mediated signaling in cell culture.

In response to aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) ligands, cytoplasmic AhR becomes activated and then translocates to the nucleus where it forms a complex with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT).

Furthermore, AhR (polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon receptor) , when activated by the binding of aromatic hydrocarbons (Ah) forms a complex with the aryl hydrocarbon nuclear-translocator chaperone protein (Arnt).

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand activated transcription factor that together with Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Nuclear Translocator (ARNT) controls the expression of Xenobiotic metabolising enzymes (XME) such as CYP1B1.

----> event: 'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 3
'TCDD',bind,'AHR';'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2';'TCDD',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'TCDD',regulate,'NFE2L2'

An aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) possesses possible expression of phase I and phase II enzymes directly by binding of its ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and indirectly by regulating expression of nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2).

TCDD increased the protein level and induced the nuclear accumulation of Nrf2 with a delayed kinetics compared with activation of AhR.

The findings reveal that TCDD induces multi protein complexes to mediate cross-interaction between the AhR and Nrf2 pathways, uncovering a novel mechanistic aspect of gene regulation by environmental chemicals through AhR and Nrf2.

The expression of nrf1b, nrf2a, and nfe2 was induced by TCDD, and AHR1b directly regulated their expression by binding to cis-XRE promoter elements.

In conclusion, Nrf2 protects livers of mice against oxidative stress, DNA damage, and steatohepatitis induced by TCDD-mediated sustained activation of the AhR.

We have previously demonstrated that luteolin inhibited TCDD-induced AhR transformation, and modulated the expression of drug-metabolizing enzymes through not only the AhR, but also the nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2).

Kaempferol dose-dependently inhibited not only the TCDD-induced expression of phase I and phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes, but also the tertiary butylhydroquinone (t-BHQ)-induced expression of phase II drug-metabolizing enzymes, by modulating the AhR- and Nrf2-pathways.

Furthermore, microarray analysis by ingenuity pathway analysis software showed that the nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-mediated oxidative stress response pathway was significantly activated following co-exposure to TCDD and PCBs.

However, HUVECs incubated in hydrogen-rich medium did not exhibit these TCDD-induced changes accompanying Nrf2 activation, which was observed even after H2was undetectable in the medium.

Of the 12 genes that responded to TCDD during the dose-response analysis, none had an ED50 equivalent to that of Cyp1a1, the most sensitive gene in this study, while nine genes responded to doses at least 10-100 fold higher, in at least one strain (Ahrr (L-E) , Aldh3a1 (both) , Cyp1a2 (both) , Cyp1b1 (both) , Cyp2a1 (L-E) , Inmt (both) , Nfe2l2 (L-E) , Nqo1 (L-E) and Tiparp (both)).

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 4
'TCDD',bind,'AHR';'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2';'TCDD',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'TCDD',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

Curcumin dose-dependently inhibited TCDD-induced expression of phase I enzyme cytochrome P450 1 A1 (CYP1A1) and phase II enzymes NAD(P) H:quinone oxidoreductase-1 (NQO1) and heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) but not tert-butyl hydroquinone-induced NQO1 and HO-1, suggesting that curcumin inhibited only AhR pathway, but not Nrf2 one directly.

In addition, V(5+) was able to decrease the TCDD- and SUL-induced nuclear accumulation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) without affecting Nrf2 mRNA or protein levels.

At transcriptional level, V5+ was able to decrease the TCDD- and SUL-induced nuclear accumulation of Nrf2 and the subsequent binding to antioxidant responsive element (ARE) without affecting Nrf2 protein levels.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 5
'ARNT',bind,'AHR';'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2';'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'ARNT',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

ARNT-expressing cells had increased expression of SOD2 and Nrf2 transcripts and elevated intracellular GSH concentration.

Co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that, in addition to AhR-Arnt binding, TCDD induced an interaction between AhR and Nrf2 as well as Keap1.

Finally, genetic experiments using AhR (aryl hydrocarbon receptor)-, Arnt (aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator)-or Nrf2-deficient cells reveal that, while induction of NQO1 by TCDD depends on the presence of AhR and Arnt, the basal and inducible expression of NQO1 by either TCDD or tBHQ requires functional Nrf2.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 6
'TCDD',bind,'AHR';'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2'

An aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) possesses possible expression of phase I and phase II enzymes directly by binding of its ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and indirectly by regulating expression of nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2).

To explore aspects of the crosstalk between Nrf2 and Ahr and its impact on development, we used zebrafish (Danio rerio) with a mutated DNA binding domain in Nrf2a (nrf2a(fh318/fh318)) , rendering these embryos more sensitive to oxidative stress.

The Ahr is a transcription factor that regulates gene expression of many Phase I and II detoxifying enzymes and interacts with Nrf2, a transcription factor that regulates the response to oxidative stress.

However, some AHR ligands simultaneously activate the nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor-2 (NRF2) transcription factor, which is a master switch of antioxidative enzymes that neutralizes oxidative stress.

These findings indicate that CAE exerts protective effects against B[a]P by inhibiting AhR signaling and activating Nrf2-mediated signaling, suggesting its potential in protection from harmful B[a]P-containing pollutants.

In conclusion, this study demonstrates for the first time that methylated pentavalent arsenic metabolites are bifunctional inducers, as they increase CYP1A1 by activating the AhR/XRE signaling pathway and they increase NQO1 by activating the Nrf2/ARE signaling pathway in addition to the AhR/XRE pathway.

Concurrently, various phytochemicals and herbal extracts have been found to possess biological activities that suppress dioxin-induced toxicity via aryl hydrocarbon receptor or activate the antioxidant nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor-2 (NRF2) signal pathway, making them promising therapeutic candidates.

These methods were subsequently applied to the AhR and Nrf2 signalling pathways and altered expression of the predicted target genes was validated by qPCR in Caco-2 cells exposed to coffee extracts, known to activate both AhR and Nrf2 pathways.

Cinnamaldehyde is an antioxidant phytochemical that inhibits AHR⁻CYP1A1 signaling and activates the NRF2⁻antioxidative axis.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 7
'ARNT',bind,'AHR';'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'ARNT',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 8
'TCDD',bind,'AHR';'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2';'TCDD',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

----> event: 'TCDD',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 9
'TCDD',bind,'AHR';'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2';'TCDD',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

----> event: 'TCDD',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 10
'ARNT',bind,'AHR';'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2';'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'ARNT',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

----> event: 'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 11
'TCDD',bind,'AHR';'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

Mechanistically, the involvements of AhR and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) in the MET-mediated inhibition of DMBA-induced CYP1A1 and NQO1 gene expression were evidenced by the ability of MET to inhibit DMBA-induced xenobiotic responsive element and antioxidant responsive element luciferase reporter gene expression which suggests an AhR- and Nrf2-dependent transcriptional control.

OA increased the expression of Nrf2 and its target gene, Nqo1, but decreased the expression of AhR, CAR and PPARα along with their target genes, Cyp1a2, Cyp2b10 and Cyp4a10.

While there was no alteration in Nrf2 expression or localization between RelB-/- and wild type cells in response to CSE, RelB-/- cells displayed significantly decreased AhR mRNA and protein expression, concomitant with loss of AhR target gene expression (Cyp1a1, Cyp1b1, Nqo1).

Neutrophil depletion abolished Cl2-induced AHR in large conducting airways and prevented increases in antioxidant gene expression and NRF2 nuclear translocation.

AhR silencing, SB203580 (a p38 inhibitor) , SP600125 (a JNK inhibitor) , U0126 (a MEK inhibitor) and LY294002 (a PI3K inhibitor) did not suppress Z-Ligustilide-induced Nrf2 activation.

AHR has recently been shown to affect Nrf2 expression.

CNM (1) normalized serum estradiol-17β levels, (2) induced gastric Nrf2 and phase II antioxidant enzymes through extracellular signal-regulated kinase, (ERK)/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) , (3) reduced glucose synthase kinase 3 beta (GSK3β) and aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and this was associated with (4) increased estrogen receptor expression, BH4 (Cofactor of nNOS) biosynthesis enzyme GCH-1 and nNOSα dimerization in WT Obese/T2 diabetic female mice.

Arsenic pretreatment led to elevated GSH levels and sensitized the cells to ligand-dependent AHR signaling, while silencing of Nrf2 significantly reduced arsenic-mediated activation of the AHR.

Cell-specific activation of Nrf2 in club cells of the airway epithelium significantly reduced allergen-induced AHR, inflammation, mucus, Th2 cytokine secretion, oxidative stress, and airway leakiness and increased airway levels of tight junction proteins zonula occludens-1 and E-cadherin.

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 12
'ARNT',bind,'AHR';'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'ARNT',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 13
'TCDD',bind,'AHR';'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2';'TCDD',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'TCDD',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 14
'TCDD',bind,'AHR';'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2';'TCDD',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'TCDD',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 15
'ARNT',bind,'AHR';'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2';'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'ARNT',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 2

----> event: 'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

----> event: 'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 16
'TCDD',bind,'ARNT';'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'ARNT'

Most toxic effects induced by TCDD are mediated by binding to the Ah-receptor (Ah-R) which binds together with a second protein, ARNT, to the respone elements of a number of target genes, and thus modulates gene expression.

PD98059 pretreatment also inhibited TCDD-induced DRE binding of the AhR/Arnt heterodimer.

TCDD-related toxicity is considered mainly to be mediated by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) protein, which binds TCDD, and heterodimerizes with its partner protein, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and binds to xenobiotica responsive elements (XREs) in the promoter regions of biotransformation genes as well as genes involved in growth, differentiation and cellular homeostasis.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) binds to arylhydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , activating the AHR/AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) heterodimer.

The mechanism of induction of gene transcription by TCDD involves ligand recognition and binding by the AhR, nuclear translocation, and dimerization with the AhR cofactor, AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt).

The transcription factor ARNT, the obligate partner for gene activation by the TCDD-bound Ah receptor, exhibited an up-regulation of its Ser77 phosphorylation, a modification known to control the differential binding of ARNT homodimers and heterodimers to different enhancers suggesting that this phosphorylation represents a novel mechanism contributing to the alteration of gene expression by TCDD.

We examined cardiotoxicity induced by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) in the chick embryo and the cardiac expression of transcription factors, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) which binds TCDD, and its dimer partner, the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt).

A mutant lacking all regions of ARNT other than the bHLH and PAS regions is unimpaired in TCDD-dependent dimerization and subsequent XRE binding and only modestly reduced in ability to complement an ARNT-deficient mutant cell line, c4, in vivo.

TCDD first binds with its cytosolic Ah-receptor, translocates into the nucleus, dimerizes with " arnt" (a nuclear transcription factor) , and activates genes containing " xenobiotic-responsive element" (XRE).

In target cells, TCDD initially binds to the aryl hydrocarbon (Ah) receptor which accumulates in the nucleus as an Ah-receptor:aryl hydrocarbon nuclear translocator (Arnt) protein heterodimeric complex.

, 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin [ TCDD]) , (ii) the xenobiotic responsive element (XRE) recognized by the AHR/ARNT heterodimer differs from the recognition sequence for nearly all other bHLH proteins, and (iii) both proteins contain a PAS homology region, which in the Drosophila PER and SIM proteins functions as a dimerization domain.

TCDD-bound AhR subsequently translocates to the nucleus and interacts with the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt) to induce signal transduction.

Induction by 3 MC and BaP was AHR dependent but, surprisingly, the potent AHR agonist, TCDD, did not induce FMO3 mRNA in Hepa-1 cells nor did chromatin immunoprecipitation assays detect recruitment of AHR or ARNT to Fmo3 regulatory elements after exposure to 3 MC in liver or in Hepa-1 cells.

Upon binding to ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , an aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is activated to form a heterodimer with an aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt).

Whereas the environmentally toxic compound 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetra-chlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) initiates the trans-activation activity of AhR:ARNT/HIF-1beta, hypoxic exposure stabilizes HIF-1alpha and functionally activates the HIF-1alpha:ARNT/HIF-1beta complex.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) binds to arylhydrocarbon receptor (AHR)  activating the AHR/AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) heterodimer.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) activated complex regulates genes in response to the environmental contaminant 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

----> event: 'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 17
'AHR',bind,'ARNT';'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'AHR',bind,'ARNT'

Although alteration of transcription after nuclear translocation and heterodimerization of AhR with its binding partner, aryl hydrocarbon nuclear transporter (ARNT) , is often cited as a primary mechanism for mediating the toxic effects of dioxins, recent evidence indicates that crosstalk between AhR and several other signaling pathways also occurs.

Both quantitative PCR and immunoblot analysis indicated that induction of the hypoxia response pathway significantly reduced the levels of AhR downstream targets CYP1A1 and CYP1B1 and AhR protein binding to ARNT.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , in complex with its binding partner ARNT, mediates the cellular response to xenobiotic compounds such as the environmental pollutant dioxin.

Most of the effects of dioxin are attributed to its activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , a transcription factor that binds to the Ah receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) to regulate the transcription of numerous genes, including CYP1A1 and CYP1B1.

In a process termed transformation, ligand binding converts the AhR into its high affinity DNA binding form that represents a dimer of the AhR and Arnt, a closely related nuclear protein.

We propose a mechanism of AHRR action involving " transrepression" of AHR signaling through protein-protein interactions rather than by inhibition of the formation or DNA binding of the AHR-ARNT complex.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a transcription factor that binds to DNA as a heterodimer with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) after interaction with ligands such as polycyclic and halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons found in tobacco smoke and the environment.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and its DNA binding partner, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) are basic helix-loop-helix/PAS proteins.

The goal of the current study was to determine the extent to which residues R14 and R15 contained within the basic region of the AHR contribute to the DNA binding affinity and stability of the AHR/ARNT heterodimer.

PAH exposure activates the aryl hydrocarbon transcription activating factor (AhR) , resulting in nuclear translocation binding to the aryl hydrocarbon nuclear translocator (ARNT) , which thereby increases expression of a pool of carcinogen metabolizing enzymes.

Furthermore, AhR (polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon receptor) , when activated by the binding of aromatic hydrocarbons (Ah) forms a complex with the aryl hydrocarbon nuclear-translocator chaperone protein (Arnt).

Replacement of tyrosine 9 with the structurally conservative phenylalanine (AhRY9F) abolished binding to dioxin response element (DRE) D, E, and A and abrogated DRE-driven gene induction mediated by the AhR with no effect on TCDD binding, TCDD-induced nuclear localization, or ARNT heterodimerization.

AhR/ARNT binding to XRE1, XRE4, and the Ebox complex function in combination to support the AhR/ARNT complex at XRE5.

These findings imply that the proteolytic machinery present in the cytoplasmic compartment is sufficient to degrade the AHR and that nuclear translocation binding with ARNT, or DNA binding are not necessary for efficient degradation of the AHR.

TCDD-related toxicity is considered mainly to be mediated by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) protein, which binds TCDD, and heterodimerizes with its partner protein, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and binds to xenobiotica responsive elements (XREs) in the promoter regions of biotransformation genes as well as genes involved in growth, differentiation and cellular homeostasis.

Trx-1 transfected MCF-7 cells show increased AhR/ARNT DNA binding activity that is not due to altered AhR or ARNT protein expression.

ARNT bound AHR or PML, whereas the sumoylated form of ARNT associated with AHR, but not with PML, resulting in a reduced effect of PML on transactivation by ARNT.

Gene activation by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and its DNA binding partner, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) requires a number of sequential steps that occur following the binding of ligand and entry of the AHR into the nuclear compartment.

Hsp 90 appears to be involved in the initial folding of newly synthesized AhR, stabilization of ligand binding conformation of the receptor, and inhibition of constitutive dimerization with ARNT.

The AhR complex is a ligand-dependent transcription factor that binds to its specific DNA recognition site as a dimer with the AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) and activates gene transcription.

The effects of dioxins are mediated via the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and its binding protein, aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT).

In mice, aryl hydrocarbon receptor repressor (AHRR) , which binds to ARNT in competition with AHR, plays a critical negative regulatory role in AHR signaling.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , after binding xenobiotic ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , associates with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and the dimer so formed activates transcription of several genes, including the cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) gene.

Mechanistic studies reveal an AhR/DRE paradigm for the induction, which involves activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) by an agonist, dimerization of AhR with the Ah recceptor nuclear translocator (Arnt) , followed by binding of the AhR/Arnt heterodimer to the dioxin-responsive enhancer (DRE) and transcription of the gene.

Gel shift assays revealed that the PST-rich domain affected AHR-mediated signaling by inhibiting DNA binding of the AHR,ARNT heterodimer.

Mutagenesis of leucines 66 and 71 of the putative AHR NES resulted in a protein with reduced function in dimerization to ARNT and binding to DNA, while alanine substitution at leucine 69 (AHR(A69)) resulted in an AHR that bound with ARNT and associated with DNA.

It has been hypothesized that after ligand binding, the AhR dissociates from its chaperone complex and translocates into the nucleus, where it heterodimerizes with its DNA binding partner, the AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and activates specific genes.

The protein exhibits AHR-dependent DNA binding capability typical of other vertebrate ARNTs.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and its DNA binding partner, the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) , are basic helix-loop-helix transcription factors that mediate many of the toxic and carcinogenic effects of polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons.

To determine whether the interaction between TFIIB and the AHR may affect DNA binding of the AHR and ARNT complex, we performed gel shift experiments in the absence and presence of TFIIB.

The addition of TFIIB significantly increased the formation of the AHR/ARNT DNA binding complex, but only if TFIIB was first allowed to interact with the AHR before the addition of ARNT.

These results indicate that TFIIB interacts with the AHR and may stabilize the DNA binding form of the AHR and thereby augment the ability of the AHR/ARNT complex to interact with its DNA recognition site.

The present study explored the impact of AhR and its binding partner AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt) on p65-activation and two differentially regulated chemokines, CXCL8 (IL-8) and CCL5 (RANTES) , in human bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS-2B).

To regulate gene expression, the AhR requires its binding partner, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT).

These results demonstrate that the binding and activation of the AhR by structurally diverse agonists do not appear to alter its nucleotide specificity of DNA binding and suggest that stimulation of gene expression mediated by direct DNA binding of ligand-activated AhR:ARNT complexes is DRE dependent.

Ligand activation leads to AhR nuclear translocation and binding to a xenobiotic response element (XRE) in association with the Arnt to regulate gene expression.

We previously found in MCF-7 cells that these drugs activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) via translocation to the nucleus, induction of AhR-specific DNA binding activity, and expression of CYP1A1, whose transcription is controlled by the AhR-ARNT transcription factor.

The AhR functions as a ligand-activated transcription factor that binds to a canonical xenobiotic response element (XRE) in association with the heterodimerization partner, the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt) protein.

Treatment with DOX induced AhR migration to the nucleus, increased AhR binding with its co-factor, aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator-1 (ARNT1) , and increased the expression of AhR-regulated phase I (CYP1A1) and phase II (GSTA1) drug-metabolizing enzymes in both cardiomyocytes and in the intact heart.

AHR and its transcriptional binding partner, ARNT were depleted using siRNA to determine their role in activating expression of MMP1.

The most AhR-active catabolites (indole, skatole, tryptamine, i3-pyruvate, i3-acrylate, i3-acetamide) elicited nuclear translocation of the AhR, followed by a formation of AhR-ARNT heterodimer and enhanced binding of the AhR to the CYP1A1 gene promoter.

Ligand-dependent transformation of the AhR into its DNA binding form involves a ligand-dependent conformational change, heat shock protein 90 (hsp90) , dissociation from the AhR complex and AhR dimerization with the AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) protein.

Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a transcription factor that binds to DNA as a heterodimer with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) after interaction with ligands, such as polycyclic and halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons and other xenobiotics.

Antagonism of AhR and knockdown of AhR and its binding partner aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) attenuated CYP1A1 induction by 5-HT.

The structure clearly disclosed that AhRR competitively represses AhR binding to ARNT and target DNA and further suggested the existence of an AhRR-ARNT-specific repression mechanism.

Immunocytochemistry, co-immunoprecipitation and western blot assays collectively revealed that Qu and β-NF engendered the translocation of Ahr from the cytoplasm into the cell nucleus, where binding of Ahr with the Ahr nuclear translocator (ARNT) blocked its binding to hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 α, which inhibited the cardioprotection of HIF-1α, including the induction of nitric oxide (NO) and inhibition of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) production.

Ahr knockdown recovered the binding of ARNT to HIF-1α and the generation of NO and VEGF.

AhR activity depends on its binding to the xenobiotic response element (XRE) in partnership with the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt).

Unexpectedly, the palindromic Arnt E-box drove the binding of the AhRJun/ArntFos heterodimer (Kd = 276 nM)-not the ArntFos homodimer-that binds to the Arnt E-box.

On this basis, a mutagenesis strategy for both the murine AhR and ARNT proteins was designed and ligand-dependent DNA binding ability of the AhR:ARNT heterodimer mutants was evaluated.

In the present study, homology models of the porcine AhR-ligand binding domain (LBD) and the porcine aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator-ligand binding domain (ARNT-LBD) were created on the basis of structures of closely related respective proteins i.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a transcription factor which activates gene transcription by binding to its corresponding enhancer as the heterodimer, which is consisted of AHR and the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT).

Since ARNT is a heterodimerization partner of the AhR required for binding of the ligand-activated AhR to dioxin-responsive elements on DNA in the nucleus to transactivate genes controlled by the AhR, an alternative mechanism for TCDD\s action is discussed which does not require ARNT.

We examined cardiotoxicity induced by 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) in the chick embryo and the cardiac expression of transcription factors, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) which binds TCDD, and its dimer partner, the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt).

We previously reported that the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) complex, composed of the AhR ligand binding subunit and the Ah receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , was constitutively present in nuclear extracts from two human B lymphocyte cell lines (Biochem.

The Ah receptor (AHR) and its DNA binding partner, the Ah receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , are basic helix-loop-helix proteins distinguished by their PER, AHR, ARNT, and SIM (PAS) homology regions.

In agreement with these results, c-jun and junD, but not c-fos, fosB, and junB AhREs, competed with a canonical Cyp1A1 AhRE for binding to the AHR ARNT heterodimeric complex.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that binds DNA in the form of a heterodimer with the AHR nuclear translocator protein (ARNT).

Deletion of the carboxyl-terminal half of Ahr does not affect dimerization or XRE binding but, in contrast to an equivalent deletion of Arnt, eliminates biological activity as assessed by an in vivo transcriptional activation assay, suggesting that this region of Ahr plays a more prominent role in transcriptional activation of the cyp1a1 gene than the corresponding region of Arnt.

By using the yeast two-hybrid system with the N-terminal half of AHR as a probe, which contains the bHLH and PAS regions, to screen cDNA libraries prepared from human lymphocytes and C57BL mouse liver for clones encoding proteins capable of binding to these regions, we isolated a partial ARNT cDNA clone.

This complex dissociates following ligand binding and then the ligand-bound AhR binds ARNT.

In vitro expression studies demonstrated that in contrast to the full length AHR, the splice variant did not bind ligand nor did it bind to a cognate enhancer element in the presence of ARNT.

One partner, HIF-1beta, had been recognized previously as the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , an essential component of the xenobiotic response.

ARNT binds to the side of the xenobiotic responsive element (XRE) that resembles an E-box (the sequence recognized by the majority of other basic helix-loop-helix proteins) , whereas AHR binds to the side of the XRE that does not conform to the E-box sequence.

The Arnt homodimer binds the sequence of adenovirus major late promoter (MLP) with the E box core sequence CACGTG, suggesting that the CAC half of the XRE, CACGCN(A/T)  recognized by the AhR-Arnt heterodimer is a target for Arnt.

A putative AHR response element (XRE) was identified in the Cyp2a5 promoter at the position-2514 to-2492 and found to interact with the AHR/ARNT heterodimer.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) interacts with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) to form a heterodimer that binds to promoters in target genes to alter transcription in response to xenobiotics such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

In GST pull-down assays, ARNT interacted directly with SHP in vitro, but AHR did not interact with GST-SHP.

Once bound by ligand, the AhR interacts with the AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) protein to form the aryl hydrocarbon receptor complex (AHRC).

To delineate the transcription factors that may facilitate DNA binding and transcriptional activation of the AHR/ARNT heterodimer, we questioned whether transcription factor IIB (TFIIB) may interact with either the AHR or ARNT and whether this interaction may affect the ability of the AHR/ARNT complex to bind DNA.

D2, which contains part of the AhR PAS-A domain and interacts with the PAS-A domain of Arnt, inhibits the formation of the AhR gel shift complex.

TCDD-bound AhR subsequently translocates to the nucleus and interacts with the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt) to induce signal transduction.

An unexpected role for AHR in vascularization was suggested when mice lacking AHR displayed impaired closure of the ductus venosus after birth, as did knockout mice for aryl hydrocarbon receptor interacting protein (AIP) and aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT).

Upon binding to dioxin, aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) dissociates from HSP90 and subsequently translocates to the nucleus, where it interacts with AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT).

In this study, we demonstrated that betulinic acid (BA) significantly increased Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) expression through demethylation on the AHR promoter in AML cells, and the increased AHR expression interacts with and sequesters ARNT, subsequently suppressing hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF1α) pathway.

Arnt2 interacted with AhR and mouse Sim as efficiently as Arnt, and the Arnt2-AhR complex recognized and bound specifically the xenobiotic responsive element (XRE) sequence.

These results demonstrated that the N-terminal half of AHR is capable of interacting with ARNT in yeast (probably through the bHLH motif).

In the presence of ligand, AhR interacts with its dimerization partner, Arnt, and the heteromeric complex is able to bind DNA.

Induction by 3 MC and BaP was AHR dependent but, surprisingly, the potent AHR agonist, TCDD, did not induce FMO3 mRNA in Hepa-1 cells nor did chromatin immunoprecipitation assays detect recruitment of AHR or ARNT to Fmo3 regulatory elements after exposure to 3 MC in liver or in Hepa-1 cells.

The AHR and ARNT mRNAs were detected in the same areas but in contrast to CYP1A1 the changes in AHR and ARNT mRNA expression were limited to the 28-day time point.

Upon binding to ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , an aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is activated to form a heterodimer with an aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt).

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator/hypoxia-inducible factor (ARNT/HIF-1 beta) mediates an organism\s response to various environmental cues, including those to chemical carcinogens, such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-rho-dioxin (TCDD or dioxin) , via its formation of a functional transcription factor with the ligand activated aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR).

Whereas the environmentally toxic compound 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetra-chlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) initiates the trans-activation activity of AhR:ARNT/HIF-1beta, hypoxic exposure stabilizes HIF-1alpha and functionally activates the HIF-1alpha:ARNT/HIF-1beta complex.

The sum of the data demonstrates that some synthetic retinoids in addition to activating the retinoic acid receptor/retinoid X receptor pathway are capable of binding to AhR and activating the AhR/Arnt pathway.

2 , 3 , 7 , 8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) binds to arylhydrocarbon receptor (AHR)  activating the AHR/AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) heterodimer.

In addition to induction of drug-metabolizing enzymes, the liganded AhR complex was found to activate gene expression of a factor designated AhR repressor (AhRR) , which inhibits AhR function by competing with AhR for dimerizing with Arnt and binding to the XRE sequence.

ARNT is a heterodimerisation partner of the xenobiotic ligand activated Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor (AhR) , the Single Minded proteins (SIM) , the cardiovascular helix-loop-helix factor 1 and the Hypoxia Inducible Factor proteins (HIF-α).

----> event: 'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 18
'TCDD',bind,'ARNT';'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2';'TCDD',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'ARNT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 16

----> event: 'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'TCDD',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 3

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 19
'TCDD',bind,'ARNT';'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2';'TCDD',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'ARNT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 16

----> event: 'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'TCDD',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 4

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 20
'AHR',bind,'ARNT';'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2';'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'AHR',bind,'ARNT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 17

----> event: 'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 21
'AHR',bind,'ARNT';'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2';'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'AHR',bind,'ARNT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 17

----> event: 'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

----> event: 'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 22
'TCDD',bind,'AHR';'AHR',associate,'ARNT';'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

----> event: 'AHR',associate,'ARNT'

We tested our hypothesis using a human AhR construct C Delta553 which is capable of heterodimerizing with Arnt in the absence of a ligand.

AhR and HLF heterodimerize with Arnt as the common partner, and bind to asymmetric E-boxes termed XRE and HRE, respectively.

TCDD-related toxicity is considered mainly to be mediated by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) protein, which binds TCDD, and heterodimerizes with its partner protein, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and binds to xenobiotica responsive elements (XREs) in the promoter regions of biotransformation genes as well as genes involved in growth, differentiation and cellular homeostasis.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR or dioxin receptor) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that heterodimerizes with the AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT/HIF-1beta) to form an AhR/ARNT transcription factor complex.

The ligand activated basic-helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-PAS transcription factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) protein heterodimerizes with its partner protein the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT).

It has been hypothesized that after ligand binding, the AhR dissociates from its chaperone complex and translocates into the nucleus, where it heterodimerizes with its DNA binding partner, the AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and activates specific genes.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and the alpha-class hypoxia inducible factors (HIF1alpha, HIF2alpha, and HIF3alpha) are basic helix-loop-helix PAS (bHLH-PAS) proteins that heterodimerize with ARNT.

Upon binding to its ligands, cytoplasmic AhR translocates to the nucleus heterodimerizes with aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and mediates numerous biological and toxicological effects by inducing the transcription of various AhR-responsive genes.

Following activation and nuclear translocation, AHR heterodimerizes with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) and binds to AHR response elements (AhREs) in the enhancer of target genes, of which Cyp1a1 is the prototype.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) heterodimerizes with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt) for transcriptional regulation.

Androgen-dependent tissue has been reported to be affected by chemical ligands of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , a ligand-activated transcription factor, which heterodimerizes with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator protein (ARNT).

Upon ligation, cytoplasmic AHR translocates to the nucleus heterodimerizes with aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator and mediates numerous biological effects by inducing the transcription of various AHR-responsive genes such as epidermal barrier proteins.

The aryl hydrocarbon (or dioxin) receptor (AhR) is a ligand-activated basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein that heterodimerizes with the bHLH protein ARNT (aryl hydrocarbon nuclear translocator) forming a complex that binds to xenobiotic regulatory elements in target gene enhancers.

The aryl hydrocarbon (or dioxin) receptor (AhR) is a ligand-activated basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein that heterodimerizes with the bHLH protein AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) to form a complex that binds to xenobiotic regulatory elements in the enhancers of target genes.

The Ah receptor (AhR) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor subunit that heterodimerizes with the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt) and mediates the predominant biological effects of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

In sum, these data suggest that AHR-ARNT dimers within the hepatocyte direct the toxic and adaptive and developmental functions associated with the AHR and that developmental vascular events arise due to signaling in a distinct cell type expressing this dimeric pair.

ARNT bound AHR or PML, whereas the sumoylated form of ARNT associated with AHR, but not with PML, resulting in a reduced effect of PML on transactivation by ARNT.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , after binding xenobiotic ligands such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD)  associates with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and the dimer so formed activates transcription of several genes, including the cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) gene.

Moreover, we showed that AhR associating with Arnt, binds to target DNA sequences and activates transcription.

The developmental decreases in prostatic AhR and ARNT protein were associated with decreases in AhR and ARNT mRNA.

This meta-analysis suggested that the polymorphisms of AhR Arg554Lys and ARNT Val189Val are not associated with endometriosis, while the AhRR Pro185Ala polymorphism may be associated with endometriosis risk.

Binding of polycyclic or halogenated aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH and HAH) ligand causes release of AHR, which then associates with the AHR nuclear translocator protein (ARNT) to generate the heterodimeric " transformed" AHRC.

These results indicate that AhR/ARNT complexes are recruited to specific subnuclear compartments in a ligand-dependent manner and that these foci represent the sites of AhR target genes.

Given that the expression of Arnt is limited, HIF-1alpha may compete with AhR for recruiting Arnt as a heteromeric partner.

After binding ligand, Ahr dimerizes with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt) protein, and the dimer upregulates the transcription of Cyp1a1, Cyp1b1 and other enzymes involved in the metabolic activation of B[a]P.

In vitro, ARNT and ARNT2 dimerized equally with the AHR in the presence of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetracholorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and ARNT2 outcompeted ARNT for binding to the AHR when expressed in excess.

Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) have been connected to developmental toxicity in the early life-stages of many species by their ability to bind to the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , which dimerizes with ARNT (AHR nuclear translocator) to induce transcription of genes such as CYP1A1.

For instance, the expression of CYP1 genes can be induced by AhR, which dimerizes with the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt) , in response to many polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAHs).

Upon ligand binding, AhR translocates to the nucleus dimerizes with the AhR nuclear translocator protein (Arnt) , and regulates transcription by interaction with dioxin-response elements (DREs) in target genes, most notably specific cytochrome P450 (CYP) family members.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that dimerizes with ARNT to mediate responses to compounds such as 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD).

Upon ligand binding, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) translocates into the nucleus and dimerizes with its partner aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt).

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor repressor (AhRR) protein may dimerize with the AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) and may compete with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) to bind the xenobiotic responsive elements.

For regulation of gene activities, AHR dimerizes with another member of the bHLH/PAS protein family, AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT).

Following ligand activation or hypoxia, AhR or HIF-1alpha, respectively, translocate into the nucleus dimerize with ARNT, and regulate gene expression.

For instance, the expression of CYP1 genes can be induced via the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) which dimerizes with the AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) , in response to many polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAHs).

Upon activation, the AHR enters the nucleus dimerizes with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and this heterodimer modulates a number of genes that mediate toxicity.

Dioxin and other aryl hydrocarbons bind to the PAS domain of Ahr, causing Ahr to translocate to the nucleus, where it dimerizes with another bHLH-PAS protein, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt).

In addition to induction of drug-metabolizing enzymes, the liganded AhR complex was found to activate gene expression of a factor designated AhR repressor (AhRR) , which inhibits AhR function by competing with AhR for dimerizing with Arnt and binding to the XRE sequence.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-activated transcriptional factor that dimerizes with aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT).

Upon ligand-dependent activation, the AHR translocates into the nucleus and dimerizes with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) to modulate the expression of its target genes.

When activated by dioxin, the cytosolic AhR protein complex translocates into the nucleus and dimerizes with the ARNT (Ah receptor nuclear translocator) protein.

Arnt uses the same face of the N-terminal PAS domain for homo- and heterodimerization and mutational analysis of AhR demonstrated that the equivalent region is used by AhR when dimerizing with Arnt.

Ligand-bound AHR translocates from cytoplasm to nucleus, where it dimerizes with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) protein.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor repressor (AhRR) was first described as a specific competitive repressor of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) activity based on its ability to dimerize with the AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) and through direct competition of AhR/ARNT and AhRR/ARNT complexes for binding to dioxin-responsive elements (DREs).

AhR dimerizes with HIF-1beta/AhR, which is shared with HIF-1alpha, a transcription factor critical for the response of cells to oxygen deprivation.

The ligand-activated aromatic hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) dimerizes with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) to form a functional complex that transactivates expression of the cytochrome P-450 CYP1A1 gene and other genes in the dioxin-inducible [ Ah] gene battery.

Upon binding agonists, the AHR dimerizes with a structurally related protein known as ARNT and this heterodimer then binds cognate enhancer elements and activates the expression of target genes.

Similar to human AIP-deficient pituitary adenomas, immunohistochemical studies showed that expression of aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator 1 or 2 (ARNT or ARNT2) protein was lost in the mouse tumors, suggesting that mechanisms of AIP-related tumorigenesis involve aberrant ARNT function.

Analysis of gene expression revealed that AhR directly regulates the expression of Pai-2 through a mechanism involving NF-kappaB but not AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt) , in an LPS-dependent manner.

The " classical" pathway of AHR action involves dimerization of the liganded AHR with the aryl hydrocarbon nuclear translocator (ARNT) protein, and the AHR-ARNT dimer specifically associates with the enhancer regions of dioxin-responsive genes, leading to their increased transcription.

The classical AHR pathway involves ligand binding, nuclear translocation, heterodimerization with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and binding of the heterodimer to dioxin response elements (DREs) , thereby modulating the transcription of an array of genes.

The AHR repressor (AHRR) inhibits AHR signaling through a proposed mechanism involving competition with AHR for dimerization with AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) and binding to AHR-responsive enhancer elements (AHREs).

We propose a mechanism of AHRR action involving " transrepression" of AHR signaling through protein-protein interactions rather than by inhibition of the formation or DNA binding of the AHR-ARNT complex.

We suggested that proteasome inhibition-dependent AhR activation could involve an increase in the expression of the partner protein dioxin receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT).

Mechanistic studies reveal an AhR/DRE paradigm for the induction, which involves activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) by an agonist, dimerization of AhR with the Ah recceptor nuclear translocator (Arnt) , followed by binding of the AhR/Arnt heterodimer to the dioxin-responsive enhancer (DRE) and transcription of the gene.

Since both the AhR and hypoxia transcriptional pathways require ARNT, some of the effects of TCDD and similar types of ligands could be explained by interaction between the AhR and hypoxia pathways involving ARNT.

The AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) is involved in AhR signal transduction.

To this end, we analyzed the mRNA expression in the liver of AHRAIP, ARNT, and other genes involved in this pathway, namely, those for aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator 2 (ARNT2) , hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF1A) , heat shock protein 90 AA1 (HSP90AA1) , cytochromes P450 (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, and CYP1B1) , vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) , nitric oxide synthesase 3 (NOS3) , and endothelin (EDN1).

A key step in the activation of AHR involves heterodimerization with the AHR nuclear translocator (ARNT) protein before binding to its DNA response element.

Using a new bacterial two-hybrid system that selects for loss of protein interactions, we have identified 22 amino acids in the N-terminal PAS domain of Arnt that are involved in heterodimerization with aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

Ligand-dependent transformation of the AhR into its DNA binding form involves a ligand-dependent conformational change, heat shock protein 90 (hsp90) , dissociation from the AhR complex and AhR dimerization with the AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) protein.

Using a hepatocyte-specific Arnt deletion, we were able to demonstrate that hepatocyte ARNT is required for major aspects of AHR-mediated dioxin toxicity in the liver.

Based on the rapidity of activation of cPLA2 and COX-2, which occurs within 1 h of cell exposure to TCDD, when no change in mRNA expression of CYP1A1 has been observed, it is apparent that this unique action of TCDD is carried out through a distinct " nongenomic" pathway which, is clearly discernable from the classical, " genomic" action pathway of the AhR by not requiring the participation of ARNT.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor which requires heterodimerization with the Ah receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt) for function.

Hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) both require dimerization with AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) to initiate transcription of their respective target genes.

Such functions of AHRs require a cofactor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and the cytoplasmic chaperonins HSP90 and XAP2.

Both SIM1 and AHR require heterodimerization either with ARNT or ARNT2 to function.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor that requires heterodimerization with its partner, the Ah receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt) , for activation of transcription.

Most if not all of the toxic responses of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) are mediated through the AhR, which requires ARNT to regulate gene expression.

These data demonstrate that ARNT is required for AHR function in the intact animal.

This indicates that 1) HSP90 dissociation is not required for nuclear translocation of the AhR, 2) HSP90 dissociation is essential for formation of the AhR/ARNT heterodimer, and 3) an additional undefined regulatory step is required for AhR/ARNT dimerization in the nucleus.

" A domain swapping and deletional analysis of the native AhR and AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) protein transactivation domains (TADs) was performed to determine if these domains are absolutely required for the AhR x ARNT dimer-mediated PMA effect in the L10.

I cells reveals the native ARNT TAD is not absolutely required for the AhR x ARNT-474-FLAG dimer to mediate the PMA effect.

To regulate gene expression, the AhR requires its binding partner, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT).

Activation of AhR responsive genes requires AhR dimerization with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , a heterodimeric partner also shared by the hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) protein.

However, less attention has focused on the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , which is the dimerization partner of the AHR and required for AHR-mediated transcription.

AhR requires aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) to form an active transcription complex and promote the activation of genes which have dioxin responsive element in their regulatory regions.

Since ARNT was isolated as a factor required for the nuclear translocation of AhR from the cytoplasm in response to xenobiotics, the subcellular localization of ARNT has been of great interest.

Since ARNT is a heterodimerization partner of the AhR required for binding of the ligand-activated AhR to dioxin-responsive elements on DNA in the nucleus to transactivate genes controlled by the AhR, an alternative mechanism for TCDD\s action is discussed which does not require ARNT.

In African Green Monkey CV-1 cells, which lack AHR, expression plasmids with AhRE motifs require coexpression of AHR and ARNT for TCDD to stimulate luciferase expression.

The ligand-mediated dissociation of Ahr from the 90-kDa heat shock protein (HSP90) does not require the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (Arnt) , but it is slightly enhanced by this protein.

To investigate the expression of aryl hydrocarbon receptor repressor (AhRR) and related molecules in various tissues and the effects of aromatic hydrocarbons (AHs) on their expression, we developed a reliable technique of quantification of human AhRR as well as aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) and cytochrome P450 1 A1 (CYP1A1) mRNA by real-time TaqMan PCR method.

To investigate the effects of dioxins on the hepatic expression profiles of AHR1, AHR2, ARNT1 and ARNT2 in avian species, and whether the expression levels of AHRs and ARNTs affect the transcriptions of CYP1A4 and CYP1A5 genes, the eggs of common (great) cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) collected from Lake Biwa, Japan, were in ovo administrated with 0 , 1500 and 4500 pg/g egg of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , and the hepatic expression levels of AHRs, ARNTs and CYP1As in embryos were monitored with two-step real-time RT-PCR.

To evaluate AhR and Arnt expression, untreated chick embryos were collected on Days 2.2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , and 8 of incubation, preserved in Bouin\s fixative, sectioned, and stained with AhR and Arnt antibodies.

Furthermore, the amount of ARNT combined with either HIF-1α or AhR was determined after the exposure of 2-(1 H-Indol-3-ylcarbonyl)-4-thiazolecarboxylic acid methyl easter (ITE) with normoxia and hypoxia.

Since dimerization with the AhR Nuclear Translocator (ARNT) protein, occurring through the Helix-Loop-Helix (HLH) and PER-ARNT-SIM (PAS) domains, is needed to convert the AhR into its transcriptionally active form, deciphering the AhR:ARNT dimerization mode would provide insights into the mechanisms of AhR transformation.

AhR/ARNT binding to XRE1, XRE4, and the Ebox complex function in combination to support the AhR/ARNT complex at XRE5.

The involvement of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and aryl hydrocarbon nuclear translocator (ARNT) in mediating the effects of oltipraz on the XRE is supported by electrophoretic mobility supershift data and AHR/ARNT overexpression studies.

The rat AHR and ARNT mRNAs were expressed in a largely coordinate manner across the eight tissues examined with the exception of the placenta where AHR levels were relatively low compared to ARNT.

----> event: 'ARNT',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 5

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 23
'TCDD',bind,'ARNT';'ARNT',associate,'AHR';'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'ARNT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 16

----> event: 'ARNT',associate,'AHR'

The aryl hydrocarbon nuclear translocator (Arnt) is a basic helix-loop-helix (per/Arnt/Ahr/sim) PAS-containing protein that can heterodimerize with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , the hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha, and other PAS-containing proteins to form transcriptionally active complexes.

This would indicate that each isoform of ARNT is capable of heterodimerizing with the AhRin vitro.

HIF-1 beta is a series of ARNT gene products, which can thus heterodimerize with either HIF-1 alpha or AHR.

In sum, these data suggest that AHR-ARNT dimers within the hepatocyte direct the toxic and adaptive and developmental functions associated with the AHR and that developmental vascular events arise due to signaling in a distinct cell type expressing this dimeric pair.

ARNT bound AHR or PML, whereas the sumoylated form of ARNT associated with AHR, but not with PML, resulting in a reduced effect of PML on transactivation by ARNT.

These data suggest that while estrogen may not be the key regulator of AHR mRNA expression, a factor associated with the rat reproductive cycle may be important in regulating the expression of both the AHR and ARNT genes in the ovary and liver.

In contrast, AhR in TCDD-treated cells was primarily immunoprecipitated from nuclear extracts and was associated with Arnt but not 90 kDa heat shock protein.

The developmental decreases in prostatic AhR and ARNT protein were associated with decreases in AhR and ARNT mRNA.

These results suggest the AHR modulates aspects of ceramide signaling associated with the induction of apoptosis but not cell cycle arrest, and does so by a mechanism that is independent of its interaction with aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator and exogenous AHR ligands.

Our findings suggest that the homozygote variant genotype of AHR Lys554Lys is associated with a significantly lower AHR, ARNT and CYP1B1 mRNA expression.

In this report, we examined the levels of AhR protein and its associated protein (Arnt) during the adipose differentiation in 3 T3-L1 cells.

The transcript levels of the AhR and its associated translocator protein (ARNT) were found to increase with ongoing differentiation in the human keratinocyte cell line HaCaT.

These results indicate that AhR/ARNT complexes are recruited to specific subnuclear compartments in a ligand-dependent manner and that these foci represent the sites of AhR target genes.

ARNT also dimerizes with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR).

Thus, ARNT2 has the ability to dimerize with the liganded AHR in vitro and is influenced by the activating ligand yet appears to be limited in its ability to influence AHR-mediated signaling in cell culture.

In this study, we wanted to determine if another bHLH-PAS transcription factor, ARNT2, which has high amino acid sequence identity to ARNT and has been shown to dimerize with the TCDD-activated AHR, is involved in mediating TCDD\s effect on lymphocyte development.

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) mediates aryl hydrocarbon signaling and toxicity by dimerizing with the ligand-activated aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , forming a complex that binds specific DNA elements and alters transcription of target genes.

ARNT dimerizes with several PAS superfamily members, including the ligand-activated aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) , forming a complex that alters transcription by binding specific elements within the promoters of target genes.

Arnt dimerizes with AHR and mediates the induction signal of aryl-hydrocarbon hydroxylase activity.

Aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) has been known to participate in cellular responses to xenobiotic and hypoxic stresses, as a common partner of aryl hydrocarbon receptor and hypoxia inducible factor-1/2alpha.

The AhRR is thought to be involved in transcriptional control of AhR-regulated genes by sequestering ARNT.

These interactions physically link the AHR to proteins involved in the immune and cellular stress responses, gene regulation not mediated directly via the traditional AHR:ARNT heterodimer, and mitochondrial function.

To this end, we analyzed the mRNA expression in the liver of AHRAIP, ARNT, and other genes involved in this pathway, namely, those for aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator 2 (ARNT2) , hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF1A) , heat shock protein 90 AA1 (HSP90AA1) , cytochromes P450 (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, and CYP1B1) , vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA) , nitric oxide synthesase 3 (NOS3) , and endothelin (EDN1).

The aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) is involved in xenobiotic and hypoxic responses, and we previously showed that ARNT also regulates nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signaling by altering the DNA binding activity of the RelB subunit.

Considering these results and that Arnt or Arnt2 functions as a common partner in the formation of transcriptional regulators with other bHLH/PAS proteins such as AhR, HLF, and HIF-1alpha, the possibility arises that CBP/p300 is extensively involved as a coactivator in the transactivation process by bHLH/PAS (a conserved sequence motif among Per, Arnt, and Sim) heterodimer transcription factors through interaction with Arnt or Arnt2.

In response to environmental pollutants, AHR-ARNT heterodimers regulate genes involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics, whereas ARNT-HIF-1alpha heterodimers probably regulate those involved in the response to oxygen deprivation.

Using a hepatocyte-specific Arnt deletion, we were able to demonstrate that hepatocyte ARNT is required for major aspects of AHR-mediated dioxin toxicity in the liver.

Gene activation by the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and its DNA binding partner, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) requires a number of sequential steps that occur following the binding of ligand and entry of the AHR into the nuclear compartment.

Lastly, genetic analyses by using AhR- or Arnt-defective variant cells demonstrate that superinduction by cycloheximide requires the transcription activation (TA) domain of AhR, implicating the TA domain in the control of AhR turnover by ADPF.

This increase is not observed in the aromatic hydrocarbon receptor (AhR)-defective TAOc1BP(r) c1 and the AhR nuclear translocator (Arnt)-defective BP(r) c1 variants, demonstrating that the induction of mdr1 by 3-MC requires AhR.

This indicates that 1) HSP90 dissociation is not required for nuclear translocation of the AhR, 2) HSP90 dissociation is essential for formation of the AhR/ARNT heterodimer, and 3) an additional undefined regulatory step is required for AhR/ARNT dimerization in the nucleus.

" A domain swapping and deletional analysis of the native AhR and AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) protein transactivation domains (TADs) was performed to determine if these domains are absolutely required for the AhR x ARNT dimer-mediated PMA effect in the L10.

I cells indicates that the native AhR TAD is not absolutely required for this AhRDeltaCVP x ARNT dimer to mediate the PMA effect.

Since ARNT is a heterodimerization partner of the AhR required for binding of the ligand-activated AhR to dioxin-responsive elements on DNA in the nucleus to transactivate genes controlled by the AhR, an alternative mechanism for TCDD\s action is discussed which does not require ARNT.

To investigate the expression of aryl hydrocarbon receptor repressor (AhRR) and related molecules in various tissues and the effects of aromatic hydrocarbons (AHs) on their expression, we developed a reliable technique of quantification of human AhRR as well as aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) , AhR nuclear translocator (ARNT) and cytochrome P450 1 A1 (CYP1A1) mRNA by real-time TaqMan PCR method.

Dioxins exert their effects through a ligand activated transcription factor termed the dioxin or aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr) , which acts in concert with another structurally related protein: the aryl hydrocarbon nuclear translocator (Arnt).

The Ah receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that is structurally related to its dimerization partner, the Ah receptor nuclear translocator (ARNT) , and two Drosophila proteins, SIM and PER.

Upon binding agonists, the AHR dimerizes with a structurally related protein known as ARNT and this heterodimer then binds cognate enhancer elements and activates the expression of target genes.

To investigate the effects of dioxins on the hepatic expression profiles of AHR1, AHR2, ARNT1 and ARNT2 in avian species, and whether the expression levels of AHRs and ARNTs affect the transcriptions of CYP1A4 and CYP1A5 genes, the eggs of common (great) cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo) collected from Lake Biwa, Japan, were in ovo administrated with 0 , 1500 and 4500 pg/g egg of 2 , 3 , 7 , 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) , and the hepatic expression levels of AHRs, ARNTs and CYP1As in embryos were monitored with two-step real-time RT-PCR.

To evaluate AhR and Arnt expression, untreated chick embryos were collected on Days 2.2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , and 8 of incubation, preserved in Bouin\s fixative, sectioned, and stained with AhR and Arnt antibodies.

Furthermore, the amount of ARNT combined with either HIF-1α or AhR was determined after the exposure of 2-(1 H-Indol-3-ylcarbonyl)-4-thiazolecarboxylic acid methyl easter (ITE) with normoxia and hypoxia.

Since dimerization with the AhR Nuclear Translocator (ARNT) protein, occurring through the Helix-Loop-Helix (HLH) and PER-ARNT-SIM (PAS) domains, is needed to convert the AhR into its transcriptionally active form, deciphering the AhR:ARNT dimerization mode would provide insights into the mechanisms of AhR transformation.

AhR/ARNT binding to XRE1, XRE4, and the Ebox complex function in combination to support the AhR/ARNT complex at XRE5.

The involvement of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) and aryl hydrocarbon nuclear translocator (ARNT) in mediating the effects of oltipraz on the XRE is supported by electrophoretic mobility supershift data and AHR/ARNT overexpression studies.

Functional inhibition of the AhR and AhR-/ARNT-defective cell lines demonstrate that the AhR/ARNT pathway is mandatory for the observed ROS defence caused by ICZ supporting the hypothesis that AhR-mediated regulation of defence genes is involved.

The rat AHR and ARNT mRNAs were expressed in a largely coordinate manner across the eight tissues examined with the exception of the placenta where AHR levels were relatively low compared to ARNT.

----> event: 'AHR',regulate,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 1

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 24
'TCDD',bind,'ARNT';'ARNT',associate,'AHR';'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'ARNT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 16

----> event: 'ARNT',associate,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 23

----> event: 'AHR',bind,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 6

---------------------------------------------------: 

PATHWAY: 25
'TCDD',bind,'ARNT';'ARNT',associate,'AHR';'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

----> event: 'TCDD',bind,'ARNT'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 16

----> event: 'ARNT',associate,'AHR'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 23

----> event: 'AHR',inhibit,'NFE2L2'

See the event's documentation in PATHWAY: 11

