8995695 | Macrophage tropism of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and utilization of the CC-CKR5 coreceptor. The recent identification of the CC-CKR5 beta chemokine receptor as a major cofactor for entry of macrophage-tropic isolates of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) raises the question of whether macrophage tropism is determined by utilization of this chemokine receptor. We observe that in addition to macrophage-tropic isolates of clades A, B, and E, macrophage-tropic isolates of clade F also utilize the CC-CKR5 molecule for entry. However, using single-round replication-competent reporter viruses carrying the envelope genes of T-cell line-tropic or macrophage-tropic phenotypic recombinant and mutant HIV-1 strains in infection of stable cell lines that coexpress the CD4 and chemokine receptors, we were unable to establish a strict correlation between macrophage tropism and utilization of the CC-CKR5 chemokine receptor. This latter finding suggests that a cofactor other than CC-CKR5 serves to determine entry into primary macrophages.
38128681 | Systemic immune response of rainbow trout exposed to Flavobacterium psychrophilum infection. Bacterial cold-water disease (BCWD) caused by Flavobacterium psychrophilum is one of the most serious bacterial diseases leading to significant economic loss for rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) aquaculture. However, little is known about the systemic immune response of rainbow trout against F. psychrophilum infection. This study investigated the immune response of rainbow trout to F. psychrophilum infection using multiple experiments, including bacterial load detection, phagocyte activity assessment, enzyme activity evaluation, and gene expression profiling. Results showed that the spleen index and intestinal pathogen load reached a peak at 3 days post-infection, with strong pro-inflammatory gene expression observed in rainbow trout. Leukocytes RBA and PKA were significantly elevated in the spleen, blood and intestine at 7 days post-infection. Heat map analysis demonstrated that the spleen had a more substantial pro-inflammatory response compared to the intestine post-infection and exhibited higher expression levels of immune-related genes, including IgM, il1beta, il6, cd4, cd8a, cd8b, c1q, chathelicidin, inos, and lysozyme. Both Th1 and Th2 polarized responses in the spleen were activated, with Th2 (il4/13a, gata3) (FC > 4) being more intense than Th1 (tnfalpha, t-bet) (FC > 2). Tight junction proteins exhibited down-regulation followed by up-regulation post-infection. Collectively, the results of this study expand our current understanding of the immune response of rainbow trout post F. psychrophilum infection but also provide new avenues for investigation in salmonid aquaculture.
38482010 | TLR5-deficiency controls dendritic cell subset development in an autoimmune diabetes-susceptible model. Introduction: The incidence of the autoimmune disease, type 1 diabetes (T1D), has been increasing worldwide and recent studies have shown that the gut microbiota are associated with modulating susceptibility to T1D. Toll-like receptor 5 (TLR5) recognizes bacterial flagellin and is widely expressed on many cells, including dendritic cells (DCs), which are potent antigen-presenting cells (APCs). TLR5 modulates susceptibility to obesity and alters metabolism through gut microbiota; however, little is known about the role TLR5 plays in autoimmunity, especially in T1D. Methods: To fill this knowledge gap, we generated a TLR5-deficient non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse, an animal model of human T1D, for study. Results: We found that TLR5-deficiency led to a reduction in CD11c+ DC development in utero, prior to microbial colonization, which was maintained into adulthood. This was associated with a bias in the DC populations expressing CD103, with or without CD8alpha co-expression, and hyper-secretion of different cytokines, both in vitro (after stimulation) and directly ex vivo. We also found that TLR5-deficient DCs were able to promote polyclonal and islet antigen-specific CD4+ T cell proliferation and proinflammatory cytokine secretion. Interestingly, only older TLR5-deficient NOD mice had a greater risk of developing spontaneous T1D compared to wild-type mice. Discussion: In summary, our data show that TLR5 modulates DC development and enhances cytokine secretion and diabetogenic CD4+ T cell responses. Further investigation into the role of TLR5 in DC development and autoimmune diabetes may give additional insights into the pathogenesis of Type 1 diabetes.
38234717 | Mapping inherited genetic variation with opposite effects on autoimmune disease and cancer identifies candidate drug targets associated with the anti-tumor immune response. Background: Germline alleles near genes that encode certain immune checkpoints (CTLA4, CD200) are associated with autoimmune/autoinflammatory disease and cancer but in opposite directions. This motivates a systematic search for additional germline alleles which demonstrate this pattern with the aim of identifying potential cancer immunotherapeutic targets using human genetic evidence. Methods: Pairwise fixed effect cross-disorder meta-analyses combining genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for breast, prostate, ovarian and endometrial cancers (240,540 cases/317,000 controls) and seven autoimmune/autoinflammatory diseases (112,631 cases/895,386 controls) coupled with in silico follow-up. To ensure detection of alleles with opposite effects on cancer and autoimmune/autoinflammatory disease, the signs on the beta coefficients in the autoimmune/autoinflammatory GWAS were reversed prior to meta-analyses. Results: Meta-analyses followed by linkage disequilibrium clumping identified 312 unique, independent lead variants with Pmeta<5x10-8 associated with at least one of the cancer types at Pcancer<10-3 and one of the autoimmune/autoinflammatory diseases at Pauto<10-3. At each lead variant, the allele that conferred autoimmune/autoinflammatory disease risk was protective for cancer. Mapping each lead variant to its nearest gene as its putative functional target and focusing on genes with established immunological effects implicated 32 of the nearest genes. Tumor bulk RNA-Seq data highlighted that the tumor expression of 5/32 genes (IRF1, IKZF1, SPI1, SH2B3, LAT) were each strongly correlated (Spearman's rho>0.5) with at least one intra-tumor T/myeloid cell infiltration marker (CD4, CD8A, CD11B, CD45) in every one of the cancer types. Tumor single-cell RNA-Seq data from all cancer types showed that the five genes were more likely to be expressed in intra-tumor immune versus malignant cells. The five lead SNPs corresponding to these genes were linked to them via expression quantitative trait locus mechanisms and at least one additional line of functional evidence. Proteins encoded by the genes were predicted to be druggable. Conclusion: We provide population-scale germline genetic and functional genomic evidence to support further evaluation of the proteins encoded by IRF1, IKZF1, SPI1, SH2B3, and LAT as possible targets for cancer immunotherapy.
31681580 | Globular C1q Receptor (gC1qR/p32/HABP1) Is Overexpressed in Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma and Is Associated With Increased Survival in Surgical Patients Treated With Chemotherapy. Introduction: Globular C1q receptor (gC1qR/p32/HABP1) is overexpressed in a variety of cancers, particularly adenocarcinomas. This study investigated gC1qR expression in malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) and its pathophysiologic correlates in a surgical patient cohort. Methods: Tissue microarrays comprising 6 tumoral and 3 stromal cores from 265 patients with MPM (216 epithelioid, 26 biphasic, and 23 sarcomatoid; 1989-2010) were investigated by immunohistochemistry for gC1qR expression (intensity and distribution by H-score, range 0-300), and immune cell infiltration. Overall survival (OS) was analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method (high vs. low gC1qR expression delineated by median score) in the whole cohort and by neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) status. Multivariable Cox analysis included stage, chemotherapy, and immune cell infiltration. Results: gC1qR was overexpressed in all histological types of MPMs (263/265, 99.2%) compared to normal pleura. In epithelioid MPM, high gC1qR expression was associated with better OS (median 25 vs. 11 months; p = 0.020) among NAC patients, and among patients without NAC (No-NAC) but who received post-operative chemotherapy (median OS 38 vs. 19 months; p = 0.0007). In multivariable analysis, high gC1qR expression was an independent factor for improved OS in patients treated with NAC. In the No-NAC cohort, high gC1qR expression correlated with lower tumor stage. Moreover, the influence of Ki67 and CD4 T-cell infiltration on OS were more pronounced among patients with high gC1qR expression. Conclusion: This is the first description of gC1qR expression in MPM. The data identify gC1qR as a potential new prognostic factor in patients treated with surgery and chemotherapy.
8243653 | Reaction of the type III iodothyronine deiodinase with the affinity label N-bromoacetyl-triiodothyronine. The type III iodothyronine deiodinase (ID-III) catalyzes the inner ring deiodination and, thus, the inactivation of the thyroid hormones T4 and T3. ID-III activity in rat brain, rat placenta and embryonic chicken liver is inhibited by the affinity label N-bromoacetyl-T3 (BrAcT3) with an affinity similar to that of T3. Reaction of rat brain and placenta microsomes with BrAc[125I]T3 resulted in the extensive labeling of a 32 kDa protein (p32). However, p32 was also prominently labeled in fetal rat liver microsomes which have no ID-III activity. Labeling of p32 was not influenced by 100 microM substrate analogs or inhibitors of ID-III, some of which completely inhibit ID-III activity at 1 microM. BrAc[125I]T3 labeling of embryonic chicken liver microsomes did not reveal p32 or another protein possibly related to ID-III. In contrast to previous suggestions, it is unlikely that p32 represents ID-III or a subunit thereof.
2329720 | [Pathologic diagnosis of renal transplantation]. Eighty-seven renal allografts were examined at our department between 1980 and 1989. In these specimens, 24 cases involved so-called \1 hour biopsy\, including a case of donor carrying IgA nephropathy. Nine cases showed glomerulonephritis, of which three cases are suspected as de novo membranous nephropathy. Acute rejection, glomerular, tubular and vascular type were seen in 11 cases, and chronic rejection in 20 cases. Four cases showed tubular injury which may be associated with cyclosporine nephrotoxicity. At diagnosis of acute cellular rejection, immunohistological analysis was performed to characterize the composition of the micronuclear cells. In all cases we examined, T lymphocyte is dominant, and CD8+ (Leu 2) cells and CD4+ (Leu 3) cells were seen in various percentages. The Leu M1(+) macrophage was also seen in glomerular capillary lumen or peritubular space. Whether the expression of HLA-DR antigens is altered in renal transplants was examined. Expression of DR antigens increased considerably on renal tubular cells and glomerular capillary endothelial, and may be a markers of acute rejection.
37991414 | Comprehensive analysis of the role of interferon gamma-inducible protein 30 on immune infiltration and prognosis in clear cell renal cell carcinoma. Although the immune factor interferon gamma-inducible protein 30 (IFI30) has been linked to the growth and immune infiltration of various malignancies, its function and mechanism in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) remains unclear. We used several databases to detect and validate IFI30 expression in ccRCC and its connection to immune invasion. We found that IFI30 expression was higher in ccRCC tissues compared to normal tissues, and was strongly associated with tumor grade, T stage, and M stage. Univariate and multivariate analyses showed that ccRCC cases with lower IFI30 expression levels had a higher OS rate than those with high IFI30 expression (P < 0.05). Additionally, we collected a total of 104 cases of ccRCC and adjacent tissues from the First Affiliated Hospital of Jinzhou Medical University between January 2018 and January 2020 for immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis, along with their relevant clinicopathological data. The relationship between IFI30 and expression of CD3E, CD4, CD8A, interleukin 10 (IL-10) and transforming growth factor beta (TGFB2) was examined using the ccRCC data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, with findings verified by IHC analysis using the collected cases. Statistical analysis performed with SPSS found the positive correlation between the expression of CD3E, CD4, CD8A and IL-10 and the IFI30 expression, and negative correlation of TGFB2 expression with the IFI30 expression in ccRCC. Concurrently, a notable association was observed between high IFI30 expression and immune cell infiltration in ccRCC. High IFI30 expression is connected to the ccRCC's poor prognosis with the infiltration of immune cell. These findings suggest that high IFI30 expression could serve as a marker of poor prognosis and be associated with immune cell infiltration in ccRCC.
1535337 | Coordinate change in phenotype in a mouse cell line selected for CD8 expression. A CD4+, CD8+ derivative of the CD4+, CD8- cell line SAKRTLS 12.1 was isolated by fluorescence activated cell sorting for CD8+ cells. This derivative showed a co-ordinate change in a number of independent characters: The parental cell line was CD4+, CD8-, CD3+, CD5hi, HSA+, DEXR, CD44hi, while the derivative was CD4+, CD8+, CD3-, CD5(10), HSA+, DEXS, CD44(10). The derivative expressed the Thy-1.1, Ly-2.1, and Ly-3.1 surface antigens, consistent with origin from the SAKRTLS 12.1 parental cell line, and showed a drug resistance profile identical to that of the parent. It was not possible to isolate revertants with a phenotype identical to that of the parental cell line. Activation of the structural gene coding for CD8 alpha chain was correlated with demethylation at several sites. We interpret these results to mean that this CD8+ derivative of SAKRTLS 12.1 arose as a result of an alteration of a gene that coordinately regulates multiple genes whose expression changes during thymocyte differentiation. Gene methylation may contribute, directly or indirectly, to some or all of the changes in gene expression observed.
1384663 | Quantitative acute leukemia cytogenetics. Using literature data on cytogenetic abnormalities in 3,612 cases of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 1,551-cases of acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), we have attempted to quantify the information value of finding the typical ALL- and AML-associated chromosome aberrations. Sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value of finding or not finding a given aberration were calculated for several diagnostic scenarios: for the differential diagnosis between ALL and AML when the patient is known to have acute leukemia, for the differential diagnosis among AML FAB subtypes in a patient with known AML, and for the differential diagnosis between ALL FAB subtypes in a patient with known ALL. The specificities were generally high, close to 1. The highest sensitivities in AML were found for +8, t(15;17)(q22;q11), t(8;21)(q22;q22), and -7 (all greater than 0.1), and in ALL for t(9;22)(q34;q11), t(4;11)(q21;q23), and +21 (again all greater than 0.1). In the AML subtypes, the highest sensitivities were 0.89 for t(15;17)(q22;q11) in M3, followed by 0.40 for t(8;21)(q22;q22) in M2, 0.30 for inv(16)(p13q22)/del(16)(q22)/t(16;16)(p13;q22) in M4, and 0.16 for t(9;11)(p21;q23) in M5. In the ALL subtypes, the highest sensitivities were 0.71 and 0.11 for t(8;14)(q24;q32) and t(8;22)(q24;q11), respectively, in L3, 0.23 for t(9;22)(q34;q11) in L2, and 0.18 and 0.13 for +21 and t(4;11)(q21;q23), respectively, in L1. The highest (1.0) positive predictive values in the AML versus ALL comparison were found for t(1;3)(p36;q21), inv(3)(q21q26), t(6;9)(p23;q34), t(7;11)(p15;p15), t(8;16)(p11;p13), t(8;21)(q22;q22), t(15;17)(q22;q11), and, as sole anomalies, for +4, +9, and +11. In the reverse comparison, ALL versus AML, positive predictive values of 1.0 were found for t(1;14)(p32-34;q11), dup(I)(q12-21q31-32), t(2;8)(p12;q24), t(8;14)(q24;q32), t/dic(9;12)(p11-12;p11-13), t(10;14)(q24;q11), and t(11;14)(p13;q11). Among the AML subgroups, the highest predictive values were: 1.0 for M3 if t(15;17), 0.91 for M2 if t(8;21), 0.86 for M4 if inv/del(16)/t(16;16), and 0.82 for M5 if t(9;11). Among the ALL subtypes, positive predictive values of greater than 0.8 were reached only for the L3-associated aberrations t(2;8) (1.0), t(8;14) (0.95), t(8;22) (0.87), and dup(I) (0.80). The highest negative predictive values were in AML 0.98 that the disease is not M3 if t(15;17) is not found, and in ALL 0.96 that the patient does not have L3 if a t(8;14) is not detected.
7617661 | Immunophenotypic characterization of infiltrating polynuclear and mononuclear cells in childhood brain tumors. During a systematic cell surface antigen expression profile analysis of 76 primary childhood brain tumors (34 medulloblastomas/primitive neuroectodermal tumors and 42 astrocytomas), we employed the following library of monoclonal antibodies (MoABs): anti-Leu-2/a; anti-Leu-3/a; anti-Leu-M5; anti-Leu-11b; anti-HLA-A, -B, -C; anti-HLA-DR; anti-HLe-1 (leukocyte common antigen); and UJ 308. The MoABs identified the expression of various leukocyte-associated, lymphocyte cell line differentiated, cell surface antigens in childhood brain tumors. The antigens were detected with an indirect, biotin-streptavidin-conjugated alkaline phosphatase (AP) immunocytochemical technique. Leu-2/a+ cells comprise the significant CD8+ cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) population of the tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. CTLs are major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I restricted, tumor-associated antigen-specific, cytotoxic cells and were identified in 58 of 76 (76.32%) brain tumors. CTLs usually represented 1-10% of all cells, but in some cases 30-44% of the cells were CD8+. CD4+, MHC class II restricted helper lymphocytes, detected with MoAB anti-Leu-3/a, were present in 65 of 76 (85.53%) brain tumors. Usually 1-10% of the observed cells reacted with MoAB anti-Leu 3/a. Macrophages (Leu-M5 antigen-positive cells) were expressed in 74 of 76 (97.37%) brain tumors. Their number also represented 1-10% of all observed cells in the frozen brain tumor sections. All 76 (100%) brain tumors contained cells that reacted positively with MoABs anti-HLA-A, -B, -C and anti-HLA-DR, demonstrating a strong MHC class I restriction of the tumor cell population and an overall leukocyte antigen expression.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1716736 | [RNA and DNA synthesis catalyzed by a DNA-polymerase alpha complex with primase from silkworm cells on single-stranded DNA]. Depending on the ionic environment the replicative complex of silkworm Bombyx mori, containing DNA polymerase alpha and primase, catalyzes on single-stranded DNA of phage M13 a NTP-dependent synthesis or elongation of preformed primers. In the presence of NTPs and dNTPs at conditions optimal for the NTP-dependent synthesis the replicative complex synthesizes on M13 DNA oligoribonucleotides of 9-11 residues, which serve as primers for polymerization of DNA. The length of RNA-primers synthesized by primase of the complex depends on concentration of dNTP but does not depend on activity of DNA polymerase alpha. During elongation of exogenic primers annealed to M13 DNA the complex is processive synthesizing DNA fragments of dozens residues without dissociation from the template. Double-stranded structures in DNA such as \hairpins\ appear to be barriers for driving of the complex along the template and cause pauses in elongation. DNA-binding proteins the SSB of Escherichia coli or the p32 of phage T4 destabilize double-stranded regions in DNA and eliminate elongation pauses corresponding to these regions. The replicative complex is able to fill in single-stranded gaps in DNA completely and to perform slowly the synthesis with displacement of one of parent strands in duplexes via repeated cycles of binding to the primer-template, limited elongation and dissociation.
2952796 | Lymphocyte subpopulations in rheumatic heart disease. Monoclonal antibodies and indirect immunofluorescence techniques were used to compare the distribution of lymphocyte subpopulations of tonsil and peripheral blood from patients with rheumatic heart disease and age and socioeconomically matched patients undergoing tonsillectomy for chronic recurrent tonsillitis, but who had no evidence of rheumatic fever or rheumatic heart disease. The proportions of B cells (BA-1+), total T cells (Lyt-3), inducer/helper T cells (T4+) and cytotoxic/suppressor T cells (T8) were determined. No significant differences were apparent between rheumatic heart disease and control groups in resting cells from tonsils or blood. Cells undergoing proliferation in response to streptococcal blastogen A were identified by similar techniques. These tonsillar preparations from patients with rheumatic heart disease generated a smaller proportion of T8+ cultured cells and a greater T4/T8 ratio of cultured cells in response to group A streptococcal blastogen A than did nonrheumatic subjects.
26429413 | Local and systemic inflammatory and immunologic reactions to cyathostomin larvicidal therapy in horses. Encysted cyathostomin larvae are ubiquitous in grazing horses. Arrested development occurs in this population and can lead to an accumulation of encysted larvae. Large numbers of tissue larvae place the horse at risk for developing larval cyathostominosis. This disease complex is caused by mass emergence of these larvae and is characterized by a generalized acute typhlocolitis and manifests itself as a profuse protein-losing watery diarrhea with a reported case-fatality rate of about 50%. Two anthelmintic formulations have a label claim for larvicidal therapy of these encysted stages; moxidectin and a five-day regimen of fenbendazole. There is limited knowledge about inflammatory and immunologic reactions to larvicidal therapy. This study was designed to evaluate blood acute phase reactants as well as gene expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, both locally in the large intestinal walls and systemically. Further, mucosal tissue samples were evaluated histopathologically as well as analyzed for gene expression of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, cluster of differentiation (CD) cell surface proteins, and select transcription factors. Eighteen juvenile horses with naturally acquired cyathostomin infections were randomly assigned to three treatment groups; one group served as untreated controls (Group 1), one received a five-day regimen of fenbendazole (10mg/kg) (Group 2), and one group received moxidectin (0.4mg/kg) (Group 3). Horses were treated on day 0 and euthanatized on days 18-20. Serum and whole blood samples were collected on days 0, 5, and 18. All horses underwent necropsy with collection of tissue samples from the ventral colon and cecum. Acute phase reactants measured included serum amyloid A, iron and fibrinogen, and the cytokines evaluated included interferon gamma, tumor necrosis factor alpha, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta, and interleukins 1beta, 4, 5, 6, and 10. Transcription factors evaluated were FoxP3, GATA3 and tBet, and CD markers included CD163, CD3z, CD4, CD40, and CD8b. Histopathology revealed an inflammatory reaction with higher levels of lymphocytes, T cells, B cells, eosinophils and fibrous tissue in the moxidectin-treated group compared to controls or horses treated with fenbendazole. No apparent systemic reactions were observed. Expression of IL-5 and TGF-beta in intestinal tissues was significantly lower in Group 3 compared to Group 1. This study revealed a subtle inflammatory reaction to moxidectin, which is unlikely to cause clinical issues.
38529287 | Antibody-mediated depletion of select leukocyte subsets in blood and tissue of nonhuman primates. Understanding the immunological control of pathogens requires a detailed evaluation of the mechanistic contributions of individual cell types within the immune system. While knockout mouse models that lack certain cell types have been used to help define the role of those cells, the biological and physiological characteristics of mice do not necessarily recapitulate that of a human. To overcome some of these differences, studies often look towards nonhuman primates (NHPs) due to their close phylogenetic relationship to humans. To evaluate the immunological role of select cell types, the NHP model provides distinct advantages since NHP more closely mirror the disease manifestations and immunological characteristics of humans. However, many of the experimental manipulations routinely used in mice (e.g., gene knock-out) cannot be used with the NHP model. As an alternative, the in vivo infusion of monoclonal antibodies that target surface proteins on specific cells to either functionally inhibit or deplete cells can be a useful tool. Such depleting antibodies have been used in NHP studies to address immunological mechanisms of action. In these studies, the extent of depletion has generally been reported for blood, but not thoroughly assessed in tissues. Here, we evaluated four depleting regimens that primarily target T cells in NHP: anti-CD4, anti-CD8alpha, anti-CD8beta, and immunotoxin-conjugated anti-CD3. We evaluated these treatments in healthy unvaccinated and IV BCG-vaccinated NHP to measure the extent that vaccine-elicited T cells - which may be activated, increased in number, or resident in specific tissues - are depleted compared to resting populations in unvaccinated NHPs. We report quantitative measurements of in vivo depletion at multiple tissue sites providing insight into the range of cell types depleted by a given mAb. While we found substantial depletion of target cell types in blood and tissue of many animals, residual cells remained, often residing within tissue. Notably, we find that animal-to-animal variation is substantial and consequently studies that use these reagents should be powered accordingly.
24116565 | High-resolution infrared spectroscopy of atomic bromine in solid parahydrogen and orthodeuterium. This work extends our earlier investigation of the near-infrared absorption spectroscopy of atomic bromine (Br) trapped in solid parahydrogen (pH2) and orthodeuterium (oD2) [S. C. Kettwich, L. O. Paulson, P. L. Raston, and D. T. Anderson, J. Phys. Chem. A 112, 11153 (2008)]. We report new spectroscopic observations on a series of double transitions involving excitation of the weak Br-atom spin-orbit (SO) transition ((2)P(1/2)   (2)P(3/2)) in concert with phonon, rotational, vibrational, and rovibrational excitation of the solid molecular hydrogen host. Further, we utilize the rapid vapor deposition technique to produce pH2 crystals with a non-equilibrium mixture of face centered cubic (fcc) and hexagonal closed packed (hcp) crystal domains in the freshly deposited solid. Gentle annealing (T = 4.3 K) of the pH2 sample irreversibly converts the higher energy fcc crystal domains to the slightly more stable hcp structure. We follow the extent of this conversion process using the intensity of the U1(0) transition of solid pH2 and correlate crystal structure changes with changes in the integrated intensity of Br-atom absorption features. Annealing the pH2 solid causes the integrated intensity of the zero-phonon Br SO transition to increase approximately 45% to a value that is 8 times larger than the gas phase value. We show that the magnitude of the increase is strongly correlated to the fraction of hcp crystal domains within the solid. Theoretical calculations presented in Paper II show that these intensity differences are caused by the different symmetries of single substitution sites for these two crystal structures. For fully annealed Br-atom doped pH2 solids, where the crystal structure is nearly pure hcp, the Br-atom SO transition sharpens considerably and shows evidence for resolved hyperfine structure.
36169564 | Treg-Dominant Tumor Microenvironment Is Responsible for Hyperprogressive Disease after PD-1 Blockade Therapy. Programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) blockade therapy can result in dramatic responses in some patients with cancer. However, about 15% of patients receiving PD-1 blockade therapy experience rapid tumor progression, a phenomenon termed \hyperprogressive disease\ (HPD). The mechanism(s) underlying HPD has been difficult to uncover because HPD is challenging to reproduce in animal models. Near-infrared photoimmunotherapy (NIR-PIT) is a method by which specific cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME) can be selectively depleted without disturbing other cells in the TME. In this study, we partially depleted CD8+ T cells with NIR-PIT by targeting the CD8beta antigen thereby temporarily changing the balance of T-cell subsets in two different syngeneic tumor models. PD-1 blockade in these models led to rapid tumor progression compared with controls. CD3epsilon+CD8alpha+/CD3epsilon+CD4+FoxP3+ (Teff/Treg) ratios in the PD-1 and NIR-PIT groups were lower than in controls. Moreover, in a bilateral tumor model, low-dose CD8beta-targeted NIR-PIT with anti-PD-1 blockade showed rapid tumor progression only in the tumor exposed to NIR light. In this experiment CD8beta-targeted NIR-PIT in the exposed tumor reduced local CD8+ T cells resulting in a regulatory T-cell (Treg)-dominant TME. In conclusion, this reports an animal model to simulate the Treg-dominant TME, and the data generated using the model suggest that HPD after PD-1 blockade therapy can be attributed, at least in part, to imbalances between effector T cells and Tregs in the TME.
11495812 | Mouse hepatitis virus. Inoculation of mice with most neurotropic strains of the coronavirus mouse hepatitis virus results in an immune response-mediated demyelinating disease that serves as an excellent animal model for the human disease multiple sclerosis. Recent work has shown that either virus-specific CD4(+) or CD8(+) T cells are able to mediate demyelination and also that the antibody response is crucial for clearing infectious virus. Another exciting advance is the development of recombinant coronaviruses, which, for the first time, will allow genetic manipulation of the entire viral genome.
23385756 | Crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic analysis of sterol transcription factor Upc2 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Upc2, a zinc-cluster transcription factor, is a regulator of ergosterol biosynthesis in yeast. In response to sterol levels, the transcriptional activity of Upc2 is controlled by the C-terminal domain. In this study, the C-terminal regulatory domain of Upc2 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae was purified and crystallized by the vapour-diffusion method. To improve the diffraction quality of Upc2 crystals, a Upc2 fusion protein in which 11 residues of the variable loop (residues 715-725) were replaced by T4 lysozymes in Upc2 (Upc2-T4L) was engineered. The Upc2-T4L crystals diffracted to 2.9 A resolution using synchrotron radiation. The crystal was trigonal, belonging to space group P3(2) with unit-cell parameters a = 67.2, b = 67.2, c = 257.5 A. The Matthews coefficient was determined to be 3.41 A(3) Da(-1) with two molecules in the asymmetric unit. Initial attempts to solve the structure by the single-anomalous dispersion technique using selenomethionine were successful.
28701395 | Preferential Targeting of Conserved Gag Regions after Vaccination with a Heterologous DNA Prime-Modified Vaccinia Virus Ankara Boost HIV-1 Vaccine Regimen. Prime-boost vaccination strategies against HIV-1 often include multiple variants for a given immunogen for better coverage of the extensive viral diversity. To study the immunologic effects of this approach, we characterized breadth, phenotype, function, and specificity of Gag-specific T cells induced by a DNA-prime modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA)-boost vaccination strategy, which uses mismatched Gag immunogens in the TamoVac 01 phase IIa trial. Healthy Tanzanian volunteers received three injections of the DNA-SMI vaccine encoding a subtype B and AB-recombinant Gagp37 and two vaccinations with MVA-CMDR encoding subtype A Gagp55 Gag-specific T-cell responses were studied in 42 vaccinees using fresh peripheral blood mononuclear cells. After the first MVA-CMDR boost, vaccine-induced gamma interferon-positive (IFN-gamma+) Gag-specific T-cell responses were dominated by CD4+ T cells (P < 0.001 compared to CD8+ T cells) that coexpressed interleukin-2 (IL-2) (66.4%) and/or tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) (63.7%). A median of 3 antigenic regions were targeted with a higher-magnitude median response to Gagp24 regions, more conserved between prime and boost, compared to those of regions within Gagp15 (not primed) and Gagp17 (less conserved; P < 0.0001 for both). Four regions within Gagp24 each were targeted by 45% to 74% of vaccinees upon restimulation with DNA-SMI-Gag matched peptides. The response rate to individual antigenic regions correlated with the sequence homology between the MVA- and DNA Gag-encoded immunogens (P = 0.04, r2 = 0.47). In summary, after the first MVA-CMDR boost, the sequence-mismatched DNA-prime MVA-boost vaccine strategy induced a Gag-specific T-cell response that was dominated by polyfunctional CD4+ T cells and that targeted multiple antigenic regions within the conserved Gagp24 protein.IMPORTANCE Genetic diversity is a major challenge for the design of vaccines against variable viruses. While including multiple variants for a given immunogen in prime-boost vaccination strategies is one approach that aims to improve coverage for global virus variants, the immunologic consequences of this strategy have been poorly defined so far. It is unclear whether inclusion of multiple variants in prime-boost vaccination strategies improves recognition of variant viruses by T cells and by which mechanisms this would be achieved, either by improved cross-recognition of multiple variants for a given antigenic region or through preferential targeting of antigenic regions more conserved between prime and boost. Engineering vaccines to induce adaptive immune responses that preferentially target conserved antigenic regions of viral vulnerability might facilitate better immune control after preventive and therapeutic vaccination for HIV and for other variable viruses.
1311833 | Immunoprecipitation of SV40 replicating minichromosomes complexed with bacteriophage T4 gene 32 protein. Simian Virus 40 (SV40) DNA replication is a useful model to study eukaryotic cell DNA replication because it encodes only one replication protein and its genome has a nucleoprotein structure ('minichromosome') indistinguishable from cellular chromatin. Late after infection SV40 replicating DNA molecules represent about 5% of total viral minichromosomes. Since gene 32 protein (P32) from bacteriophage T4 interacts with single-stranded DNA and SV40 replication complexes are expected to contain single-stranded regions at the replication forks, we asked whether P32 might be used to isolate replicating SV40 minichromosomes. When nuclear extracts from SV40 infected cells were treated sequentially with P32 and anti-P32 antibodies, pulse-labeled minichromosomes were selectively immunoprecipitated. Agarose gel electrophoresis analysis confirmed that immunoprecipitated material corresponded to SV40 replicative intermediates. Protein analysis of the pelleted material revealed several proteins of viral and cellular origin. Among them, T antigen and histones were found to be complexed with at least other three proteins from cellular origin, to the replicative complexes. Additionally, anti-P32 antibodies were able to detect three cellular proteins of approximately 70, 32 and 13 kDa in western blots. These proteins could correspond to those found as part of an eukaryotic multisubunit single-stranded DNA binding protein. The use of P32 and anti-P32 antibodies thus allows the separation of replicating from mature SV40 minichromosomes and can constitute a novel method to enrich and to study replicative active chromatin.
36818626 | CD93 serves as a potential biomarker of gastric cancer and correlates with the tumor microenvironment. BACKGROUND: The tumor microenvironment (TME) plays an important role in the growth and expansion of gastric cancer (GC). Studies have identified that CD93 is involved in abnormal tumor angiogenesis, which may be related to the regulation of the TME. AIM: To determine the role of CD93 in GC. METHODS: Transcriptomic data of GC was investigated in a cohort from The Cancer Genome Atlas. Additionally, RNA-seq data sets from Gene Expression Omnibus (GSE118916, GSE52138, GSE79973, GSE19826, and GSE84433) were applied to validate the results. We performed the immune infiltration analyses using ESTIMATE, CIBERSORT, and ssGSEA. Furthermore, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was conducted to identify the immune-related genes. RESULTS: Compared to normal tissues, CD93 significantly enriched in tumor tissues (t = 4.669, 95%CI: 0.342-0.863, P < 0.001). Higher expression of CD93 was significantly associated with shorter overall survival (hazard ratio = 1.62, 95%CI: 1.09-2.4, P = 0.017), less proportion of CD8 T and activated natural killer cells in the TME (P < 0.05), and lower tumor mutation burden (t = 4.131, 95%CI: 0.721-0.256, P < 0.001). Genes co-expressed with CD93 were mainly enriched in angiogenesis. Moreover, 11 genes were identified with a strong relationship between CD93 and the immune microenvironment using WGCNA. CONCLUSION: CD93 is a novel prognostic and diagnostic biomarker for GC, that is closely related to the immune infiltration in the TME. Although this retrospective study was a comprehensive analysis, the prospective cohort studies are preferred to further confirm these conclusions.
37143494 | Implementing real-time immunometabolic assays and immune cell profiling to evaluate systemic immune response variations to Eimeria challenge in three novel layer genetic lines. Introduction: Evaluating differences in immune responses to Eimeria spp. between poultry genetic lines could be valuable for understanding favorable traits to address coccidiosis, a costly poultry disease. The objective was to compare peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) immunometabolism and composition during Eimeria challenge in three distinct and highly inbred genetic lines; Leghorn Ghs6, Leghorn Ghs13, and Fayoumi M5.1. Methods: At hatch, 180 chicks (60/ line) were placed in wire-floor cages (10 chicks/cage) and fed a commercial diet. Baseline PBMC were isolated on d21 (10 chicks/line) and 25 chicks/line were inoculated with 10X Merck CocciVac -B52 (Kenilworth, NJ), creating 6 genetic line x Eimeria groups total. Chicks were euthanized on 1, 3, 7, and 10d post-inoculation (pi; 5 chicks/ line x Eimeria group) for PBMC isolation with body weight and feed intake recorded throughout. Immunometabolic assays to determine PBMC ATP production profiles and glycolytic activity were implemented along with flow cytometric immune cell profiling. Genetic line x Eimeria challenge, and line challenge fixed effects were analyzed using the MIXED procedure (SAS 9.4; P <= 0.05). Results and Discussion: Before inoculation, M5.1 chicks had 14.4-25.4% greater average daily gain (ADG) with 19.0-63.6% increased monocyte/macrophage+, Bu-1+ B cell, and CD3+ T cell populations compared to both Ghs lines (P < 0.0001) but similar immunometabolic phenotype. The Eimeria main effect reduced ADG by 61.3% from 3-7dpi (P = 0.009) except in M5.1 chicks, where no ADG difference due to challenge was found. At 3dpi, Eimeria-challenged M5.1 chicks had 28.9 and 33.2% reduced PBMC CD3+ T cells and CD3+CD8alpha+ cytotoxic T cells than unchallenged chicks, suggesting early and preferential recruitment from systemic circulation to tissues local to Eimeria challenge (i.e., intestine; P <= 0.01). Both Ghs lines displayed 46.4-49.8% T cell reductions at 10dpi with 16.5-58.9% recruitment favoring underlying CD3+CD4+ helper T cells. Immunometabolic responses in Eimeria-challenged Ghs6 and Ghs13 chicks were characterized by a 24.0-31.8% greater proportion of ATP from glycolysis compared to unchallenged counterparts at 10dpi (P = 0.04). These results suggest that variable T cell subtype recruitment timelines in addition to altered systemic immunometabolic requirements may work synergistically to determine favorable immune responses to Eimeria challenge.
38288443 | Bibliometric analysis of photodynamic therapy and immune response from 1989-2023. Objective: Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a minimally invasive treatment approach for precancerous and cancerous lesions, known for its ability to activate the host immune response. This study conducted a bibliometric analysis to identify the research trends and hotspots related to the immune response in PDT. Methods: We analyzed articles and reviews published from 1989 to 2023, retrieved from the Web of Science database. Using Citespace and VOSviewer, we visualized the distribution patterns of these studies in time and space. Results: The analysis revealed a substantial increase in the number of publications on PDT-related immune response since 1989. A total of 1,688 articles from 1,701 institutions were included in this analysis. Among thei nstitutions, the Chinese Academy of Sciences demonstrated exceptional productivity and a willingness to collaborate with others. Additionally, 8,567 authors contributed to the field, with Mladen Korbelik, Michael R. Hamblin, and Wei R. Chen being the most prolific contributors. The current research focus revolves around novel strategies to enhance antitumor immunity in PDT, including PDT-based dendritic cell vaccines, combination therapies with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), and the use of nanoparticles for photosensitizer delivery. Furthermore, genes such as CD8A, TNF, CD4, IFNG, CD274, IL6, IL10, CALR, HMGB1, and CTLA4 have been evaluated in the context of PDT-related immunity. Conclusion: PDT not only achieves tumor ablation but also stimulates the immune response, bolstering antitumor immunity. This study highlights the emerging hotspots in PDT-related immune response research and provides valuable insights for future investigations aimed at further enhancing antitumor immunity.
26115946 | Reactivation of latently infected HIV-1 viral reservoirs and correction of aberrant alternative splicing in the LMNA gene via AMPK activation: Common mechanism of action linking HIV-1 latency and Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome. Although the use of antiretroviral therapy (ART) has proven highly effective in controlling and suppressing HIV-1 replication, the persistence of latent but replication-competent proviruses in a small subset of CD4(+) memory T cells presents significant challenges to viral eradication from infected individuals. Attempts to eliminate latent reservoirs are epitomized by the 'shock and kill' approach, a strategy involving the combinatorial usage of compounds that influence epigenetic modulation and initiation of proviral transcription. However, efficient regulation of viral pre-mRNA splicing through manipulation of host cell splicing machinery is also indispensible for HIV-1 replication. Interestingly, aberrant alternative splicing of the LMNA gene via the usage of a cryptic splice site has been shown to be the cause of most cases of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS), a rare genetic condition characterized by an accelerated aging phenotype due to the accumulation of a truncated form of lamin A known as progerin. Recent evidence has shown that inhibition of the splicing factors ASF/SF2 (or SRSF1) and SRp55 (or SRSF6) leads to a reduction or an increase in progerin at both the mRNA and protein levels, respectively, thus altering the LMNA pre-mRNA splicing ratio. It is also well-established that during the latter stages of HIV-1 infection, an increase in the production and nuclear export of unspliced viral mRNA is indispensible for efficient HIV-1 replication and that the presence of ASF/SF2 leads to excessive viral pre-mRNA splicing and a reduction of unspliced mRNA, while the presence of SRp55 inhibits viral pre-mRNA splicing and aids in the generation and translation of unspliced HIV-1 mRNAs. The splicing-factor associated protein and putative mitochondrial chaperone p32 has also been shown to inhibit ASF/SF2, increase unspliced HIV-1 viral mRNA, and enhance mitochondrial DNA replication and oxidative phosphorylation. It is our hypothesis that activation of AMPK, a master regulator of cellular metabolism which has been shown to activate PKC-theta (theta) and is essential for T cell activation, may modulate the splicing activities of SRp55 as well as enhance a p32-mediated inhibition of ASF/SF2-induced alternative splicing, potentially correcting aberrant alternative splicing in the LMNA gene and reactivating latent viral HIV-1 reservoirs. Moreover, similar epigenetic modifications and cell cycle regulators also characterize the analogous stages of premature senescence in progeroid cells and latency in HIV-1 infected T cells. AMPK-activating compounds including metformin and resveratrol may thus embody a novel treatment paradigm linking the pathophysiology of HGPS with that of HIV-1 latency.
11104582 | Effects of raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator, on thymus, T cell reactivity, and inflammation in mice. Raloxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator approved for prevention of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. It is selective by virtue of having estrogen agonistic effects in bone, vessels, and blood lipids, while it is antagonistic with mammary and uterine tissue. The aim of the study was to examine whether the raloxifene analogue LY117018 (LY) has estrogenic effects on the thymus, T cell responsiveness, and inflammation. Oophorectomized normal mice were treated with subcutaneous injections of equipotent antiosteoporotic doses of LY (3 mg/kg) and 17beta-estradiol (E2) (0.1 mg/kg) or vehicle as controls. Effects on thymus were studied by analyses of thymus weight, cellularity, and CD4 and CD8 phenotype expression and histology, while inflammation was determined as T-cell-mediated delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) and granulocyte-mediated footpad swelling. LY lacked the suppressive properties of E2 on DTH and granulocyte-mediated inflammation. Furthermore, LY induced only minor thymus atrophy compared with E2 and did not, in contrast to E2, alter the thymic CD4/CD8 phenotypes. These results clearly demonstrate that raloxifene principally lacks the modulatory effects of estrogen on T cell responsiveness and inflammation. Our data are discussed in the context of recent findings in estrogen receptor biology and also with respect to estrogen-mediated alteration of autoimmune rheumatic diseases.
35787993 | JAK inhibition as a new treatment strategy for patients with COVID-19. The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) epidemic continues to spread globally. The rapid dispersion of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by SARS-CoV-2 drives an urgent need for effective treatments, especially for patients who develop severe pneumonia. The excessive and uncontrolled release of pro-inflammatory cytokines has proved to be an essential factor in the rapidity of disease progression, and some cytokines are significantly associated with adverse outcomes. Most of the upregulated cytokines signal through the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway. Therefore, blocking the exaggerated release of cytokines, including IL-2, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and IFNalpha/beta/gamma, by inhibiting JAK/STAT signaling will, presumably, offer favorable pharmacodynamics and present an attractive prospect. JAK inhibitors (JAKi) can also inhibit members of the numb-associated kinase (NAK) family, including AP2-associated kinase 1 (AAK1) and cyclin G-associated kinase (GAK), which regulate the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2) transmembrane protein and are involved in host viral endocytosis. According to the data released from current clinical trials, JAKi treatment can effectively control the dysregulated cytokine storm and improve clinical outcomes regarding mortality, ICU admission, and discharge. There are still some concerns surrounding thromboembolic events, opportunistic infection such as herpes zoster virus reactivation, and repression of the host's type-I IFN-dependent immune repair for both viral and bacterial infection. However, the current JAKi clinical trials of COVID-19 raised no new safety concerns except a slightly increased risk of herpes virus infection. In the updated WHO guideline, Baricitinb is strongly recommended as an alternative to IL-6 receptor blockers, particularly in combination with corticosteroids, in patients with severe or critical COVID-19. Future studies will explore the application of JAKi to COVID-19 treatment in greater detail, such as the optimal timing and course of JAKi treatment, individualized medication strategies based on pharmacogenomics, and the effect of combined medications.
2955903 | Reconstitution of MHC class I specificity by transfer of the T cell receptor and Lyt-2 genes. The T cell receptor alpha and beta chain genes donated by an H-2 class I-specific, CD8-dependent cytotoxic T cell clone were transferred, alone or in combination with the Lyt-2 gene, into a class II-restricted, CD4+ T cell hybridoma. Two important points emerged. First, the alpha and beta T cell receptor genes endowed the recipient with the H-2 class I specificity of the donor only if the same cell had also been transfected with the Lyt-2 gene. Second, the functional Lyt-2 molecule was expressed on the transfected cells in the absence of the Lyt-3 polypeptide. These results demonstrate that, besides the T cell receptor, the Lyt-2 polypeptide is the only subset-specific molecule required to retarget a class II-reactive, CD4+ T cell line toward H-2 class I molecules.
37127471 | A Clinical and Correlative Study of Elotuzumab, Carfilzomib, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone (Elo-KRd) for Lenalidomide Refractory Multiple Myeloma in First Relapse. INTRODUCTION: Treatment of patients with multiple myeloma (MM) in first relapse remains a challenge. This phase II study combined elotuzumab (Elo) with carfilzomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (KRd) for treatment of MM in first relapse with the aim of improving efficacy. METHODS: Enrolled patients received Elo-KRd induction for 4 cycles, and Elo-lenalidomide maintenance until progression. The primary endpoint was VGPR or better (>=VGPR) postinduction. Secondary endpoints were MRD by flow cytometry, OS, PFS, and safety. Correlatives included characterization of the impact of Elo-KRd on NK and T cell subsets via flow cytometry. Target accrual of 40 patients was not met due to COVID-19 pandemic. RESULTS: Of 15 patients enrolled, 10 (67%) had high-risk features (del17p, t[4;14], t[14;16], 1q gain/amplification, plasma cell leukemia, extramedullary MM, or functional high risk), 12 (80%) were lenalidomide-refractory, and 5 (33.3%) bortezomib-refractory. Postinduction >=VGPR was 7/15 (46.7%) and MRD-negative (10-5) rate 20%. Overall response during study was 80%, including >=VGPR as best response of 53.3%. At median follow-up of 28.2 (range, 3.8 to 44.2) months, the median PFS was 11.5 months (95% CI 1.9, 18), and median OS not reached (95% CI 10.1, NA). No new safety concerns were reported. Elo-KRd treatment did not augment NK cell distribution or activity in blood or bone marrow. Effector CD4+ and CD8+ T cells significantly decreased postinduction, with concomitant acquisition of T central memory phenotype, particularly at a high rate in >=VGPR group. CONCLUSION: A short course of Elo-KRd induction followed by Elo-lenalidomide maintenance demonstrated activity in predominantly lenalidomide-refractory and / or high-risk MM. The results with this well-tolerated combination are comparable to other contemporary approved triplet combinations.
38164397 | Effect of treatment with Lactococcus lactis NZ9000 on intestinal microbiota and mucosal immune responses against Clostridium perfringens in broiler chickens. Alterations in intestinal microbiota can modulate the developing avian intestinal immune system and, subsequently, may impact on resistance to enteric pathogens. The aim was to demonstrate that early life exposure to Lactococcus lactis, could affect either susceptibility or resistance of broilers to necrotic enteritis (NE). L. lactis NZ9000 (rL. lactis) pre-treatment at 1, 7, 14 and 21 days of age (DOA) led to a significant decrease in NE lesion scores in Clostridium perfringens infected chickens. C. perfringens Infection was associated with spatial and temporal decreases in mononuclear phagocytes and CD4+ alphabeta T cells. However, rL. Lactis pre-treatment and subsequent C. perfringens infection led to a significant increase in mononuclear phagocytes, CD8alpha + gammadelta T, alphabeta T cells (CD4+ and CD8alpha+) and B cells (IgM+, IgA+ and IgY+), as well as IL-12p40, IFN-gamma and CD40. Differential expression of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-13, IL-18, IL-22, and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta were observed in L. lactis treated chickens when compared to C. perfringens infected chickens. Microbiota analysis in C. perfringens infected chickens demonstrated an increase in abundance of Bacillota, Bacteroidota, Pseudomonadota and Actinomycetota. These findings suggests that modulation of the chicken intestinal immune system by L. lactis confers partial protection 30 against NE.
18796705 | Vaccinia virus protein C16 acts intracellularly to modulate the host response and promote virulence. The vaccinia virus (VACV) strain Western Reserve C16 protein has been characterized and its effects on virus replication and virulence have been determined. The C16L gene is present in the inverted terminal repeat and so is one of the few VACV genes that are diploid. The C16 protein is highly conserved between different VACV strains, and also in the orthopoxviruses variola virus, ectromelia virus, horsepox virus and cowpox virus. C16 is a 37.5 kDa protein, which is expressed early during infection and localizes to the cell nucleus and cytoplasm of infected and transfected cells. The loss of the C16L gene had no effect on virus growth kinetics but did reduce plaque size slightly. Furthermore, the virulence of a virus lacking C16L (vDeltaC16) was reduced in a murine intranasal model compared with control viruses and there were reduced virus titres from 4 days post-infection. In the absence of C16, the recruitment of inflammatory cells in the lung and bronchoalveolar lavage was increased early after infection (day 3) and more CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells expressed the CD69 activation marker. Conversely, late after infection with vDeltaC16 (day 10) there were fewer T cells remaining, indicating more rapid clearance of infection. Collectively, these data indicate that C16 diminishes the immune response and is an intracellular immunomodulator.
25282079 | Chromatin structure is distinct between coding and non-coding single nucleotide polymorphisms. BACKGROUND: Previous studies suggested that nucleosomes are enriched with single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in humans and that the occurrence of mutations is closely associated with CpG dinucleotides. We aimed to determine if the chromatin organization is genomic locus specific around SNPs, and if newly occurring mutations are associated with SNPs. RESULTS: Here, we classified SNPs according their loci and investigated chromatin organization in both CD4+ T cell and lymphoblastoid cell in humans. We calculated the SNP frequency around somatic mutations. The results indicated that nucleosome occupancy is different around SNPs sites in different genomic loci. Coding SNPs are mainly enriched at nucleosomes and associated with repressed histone modifications (HMs) and DNA methylation. Contrastingly, intron SNPs occur in nucleosome-depleted regions and lack HMs. Interestingly, risk-associated non-coding SNPs are also enriched at nucleosomes with HMs but associated with low GC-content and low DNA methylation level. The base-transversion allele frequency is significantly low in coding-synonymous SNPs (P < 10-11). Another finding is that at the -1 and +1 positions relative to the somatic mutation sites, the SNP frequency was significantly higher (P < 3.2 x 10-5). CONCLUSIONS: The results suggested chromatin structure is different around coding SNPs and non-coding SNPs. New mutations tend to occur at the -1 and +1 position immediately near the SNPs.
33359361 | Full recombinant flagellin B from Vibrio anguillarum (rFLA) and its recombinant D1 domain (rND1) promote a pro-inflammatory state and improve vaccination against P. salmonis in Atlantic salmon (S. salar). Flagellin is the major component of the flagellum, and a ligand for Toll-like receptor 5. As reported, recombinant flagellin (rFLA) from Vibrio anguillarum and its D1 domain (rND1) are able to promote in vitro an upregulation of pro-inflammatory genes in gilthead seabream (Sparus aurata) and rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) macrophages. This study evaluated the in vitro and in vivo stimulatory/adjuvant effect for rFLA and rND1 during P. salmonis vaccination in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). We demonstrated that rFLA and rND1 are molecules able to generate an acute upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-8, IL-12beta), allowing the expression of genes associated with T-cell activation (IL-2, CD4, CD8beta), and differentiation (IFNgamma, IL-4/13, T-bet, Eomes, GATA3), in a differential manner, tissue/time dependent way. Altogether, our results suggest that rFLA and rND1 are valid candidates to be used as an immuno-stimulant or adjuvants with existing vaccines in farmed salmon.
7901248 | Treatment of chronic severe alopecia areata with topical diphenylcyclopropenone and 5% minoxidil: a clinical and immunopathologic evaluation. BACKGROUND: Topical diphenylcyclopropenone (DPCP) and minoxidil have been used in the treatment of alopecia areata with variable results. OBJECTIVE: This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of DPCP alone or in combination with topical 5% minoxidil for the treatment of chronic severe alopecia areata. The effect of therapy on cutaneous T-cell and Langerhans cell subpopulations and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression was also examined. METHODS: Fifteen patients with chronic (more than 2 years), severe (more than 50% scalp involvement) alopecia areata participated in a 24-week trial. Half of the scalp was treated with DPCP once weekly and with either 5% minoxidil solution or a vehicle solution twice daily in a randomized double-blind design. Skin biopsy specimens from each half of the scalp were obtained before therapy and after 12 and 24 weeks of therapy for histologic and immunophenotypic analysis. RESULTS: Thirteen patients completed the study. Five of 13 patients (38%) showed marked regrowth of coarse terminal hair after 24 weeks of treatment with DPCP. The addition of topical 5% minoxidil did not produce any significant clinical benefit in this 24-week trial. Immunophenotypic analysis showed no differences between responders and nonresponders at baseline. During treatment, Leu-4, Leu-2, Leu-3, and keratinocyte ICAM-1 expression were significantly reduced in biopsy specimens of responders versus nonresponders. CONCLUSION: DPCP treatment showed a 38% success rate in producing cosmetically acceptable regrowth in patients with chronic severe alopecia areata.
23793512 | Transcriptional control of CD4 and CD8 coreceptor expression during T cell development. The differentiation and function of peripheral helper and cytotoxic T cell lineages is coupled with the expression of CD4 and CD8 coreceptor molecules, respectively. This indicates that the control of coreceptor gene expression is closely linked with the regulation of CD4/CD8 lineage decision of DP thymocytes. Research performed during the last two decades revealed comprehensive mechanistic insight into the developmental stage- and subset/lineage-specific regulation of Cd4, Cd8a and Cd8b1 (Cd8) gene expression. These studies provided important insight into transcriptional control mechanisms during T cell development and into the regulation of cis-regulatory networks in general. Moreover, the identification of transcription factors involved in the regulation of CD4 and CD8 significantly advanced the knowledge of the transcription factor network regulating CD4/CD8 cell-fate choice of DP thymocytes. In this review, we provide an overview of the identification and characterization of CD4/CD8 cis-regulatory elements and present recent progress in our understanding of how these cis-regulatory elements control CD4/CD8 expression during T cell development and in peripheral T cells. In addition, we describe the transcription factors implicated in the regulation of coreceptor gene expression and discuss how these factors are integrated into the transcription factor network that regulates CD4/CD8 cell-fate choice of DP thymocytes.
6165796 | Evolutionary conservation of surface molecules that distinguish T lymphocyte helper/inducer and cytotoxic/suppressor subpopulations in mouse and man. We describe the biochemical properties and cell surface distributions of three human T cell antigens (Leu-1, Leu-2a, and Leu-2b) which we postulate to be the homologues of the Lyt-1, Lyt-2, and Lyt-3 antigens that distinguish functional T cell subsets in the mouse. Leu-l, like Lyt-1, is on all thymocytes and peripheral T cells and is present in greater amounts on the helper/inducer subset than on the cytotoxic/suppressor subset. Both antigens increase in parallel fashion during T cell maturation in the thymus and each antigen is carried on a single 67,000-molecular weight (relative) (M(r)) polypeptide chain. Surprisingly, Leu-1 and Lyt-1 each are also expressed in readily detectable amounts on some B celI Ieukemias but not detectably so on normal B cells. Leu-2a and Leu-2b are antigens found only on suppressor/cytotoxic cells in the human and are very similar to the murine Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 antigens. In both species, the two antigens are on the same disulfide- linked multimeric molecules. Disulfide-bond reduction in both species yields subunits of similar size and charge. Lyt-3 and Leu-2b are extremely sensitive to trypsin digestion on viable cells whereas Lyt-2 and Leu-2a are much less so. A different membrane antigen, Leu-3, is an exclusive marker of the helper/inducer subset in man. No mouse homologue for this 55,000-M(r) protein is known. The maintenance of the homologous molecules on functionally distinct T cell subpopulations in two evolutionarily distant species suggests that the Lyt and Leu antigens perform essential functions for the cells on which they are found.
12070352 | Design of protein struts for self-assembling nanoconstructs. Bacteriophage T4 tail fibers have a quaternary structure of bent rigid rods, 3 x 160 nm in size. The four proteins which make up these organelles are able to self-assemble in an essentially irreversible manner. To use the self-assembly domains of these proteins as elements in construction of mesoscale structures, we must be able to rearrange these domains without affecting the self-assembly properties and add internal binding sites for other functional elements. Here we present results on several alterations of the P37 component of the T4 tail fiber that change its length and add novel protein sequences into the protein. One of these sequences is an antibody binding site that is used to inactivate phage carrying the modified gene.
36275672 | Longitudinal cellular and humoral immune responses after triple BNT162b2 and fourth full-dose mRNA-1273 vaccination in haemodialysis patients. Haemodialysis patients respond poorly to vaccination and continue to be at-risk for severe COVID-19. Therefore, dialysis patients were among the first for which a fourth COVID-19 vaccination was recommended. However, targeted information on how to best maintain immune protection after SARS-CoV-2 vaccinations in at-risk groups for severe COVID-19 remains limited. We provide, to the best of our knowledge, for the first time longitudinal vaccination response data in dialysis patients and controls after a triple BNT162b2 vaccination and in the latter after a subsequent fourth full-dose of mRNA-1273. We analysed systemic and mucosal humoral IgG responses against the receptor-binding domain (RBD) and ACE2-binding inhibition towards variants of concern including Omicron and Delta with multiplex-based immunoassays. In addition, we assessed Spike S1-specific T-cell responses by interferon gamma release assay. After triple BNT162b2 vaccination, anti-RBD B.1 IgG and ACE2 binding inhibition reached peak levels in dialysis patients, but remained inferior compared to controls. Whilst we detected B.1-specific ACE2 binding inhibition in 84% of dialysis patients after three BNT162b2 doses, binding inhibition towards the Omicron variant was only detectable in 38% of samples and declining to 16% before the fourth vaccination. By using mRNA-1273 as fourth dose, humoral immunity against all SARS-CoV-2 variants tested was strongly augmented with 80% of dialysis patients having Omicron-specific ACE2 binding inhibition. Modest declines in T-cell responses in dialysis patients and controls after the second vaccination were restored by the third BNT162b2 dose and significantly increased by the fourth vaccination. Our data support current advice for a four-dose COVID-19 immunisation scheme for at-risk individuals such as haemodialysis patients. We conclude that administration of a fourth full-dose of mRNA-1273 as part of a mixed mRNA vaccination scheme to boost immunity and to prevent severe COVID-19 could also be beneficial in other immune impaired individuals. Additionally, strategic application of such mixed vaccine regimens may be an immediate response against SARS-CoV-2 variants with increased immune evasion potential.
37747933 | CD8+ cells and small viral reservoirs facilitate post-ART control of SIV replication in M3+ Mauritian cynomolgus macaques initiated on ART two weeks post-infection. Sustainable HIV remission after antiretroviral therapy (ART) withdrawal, or post-treatment control (PTC), remains a top priority for HIV treatment. We observed surprising PTC in an MHC-haplomatched cohort of MHC-M3+ SIVmac239+ Mauritian cynomolgus macaques (MCMs) initiated on ART at two weeks post-infection (wpi). None of the MCMs possessed MHC haplotypes previously associated with SIV control. For six months after ART withdrawal, we observed undetectable or transient viremia in seven of the eight MCMs, despite detecting replication competent SIV using quantitative viral outgrowth assays. In vivo depletion of CD8alpha+ cells induced rebound in all animals, indicating the observed PTC was mediated, at least in part, by CD8alpha+ cells. With intact proviral DNA assays, we found that MCMs had significantly smaller viral reservoirs two wpi than a cohort of identically infected rhesus macaques, a population that rarely develops PTC. We found a similarly small viral reservoir among six additional SIV+ MCMs in which ART was initiated at eight wpi, some of whom exhibited viral rebound. These results suggest that an unusually small viral reservoir is a hallmark among SIV+ MCMs. By evaluating immunological differences between MCMs that did and did not rebound, we identified that PTC was associated with a reduced frequency of CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocyte subsets expressing exhaustion markers. Together, these results suggest a combination of small reservoirs and immune-mediated virus suppression contribute to PTC in MCMs. Further, defining the immunologic mechanisms that engender PTC in this model may identify therapeutic targets for inducing durable HIV remission in humans.
38455042 | Natural intraepithelial lymphocyte populations rise during necrotic enteritis in chickens. Intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) reside in the epithelium at the interface between the contents of the intestinal lumen and the sterile environment of the lamina propria. Because of this strategic location, IEL play a crucial role in various immunological processes, ranging from pathogen control to tissue stability. In mice and humans, IEL exhibit high diversity, categorized into induced IEL (conventional CD4 and CD8alphabeta T cells) and natural IEL (TCRalphabetaCD8alphaalpha, TCRgammadelta, and TCRneg IEL). In chickens, however, the subpopulations of IEL and their functions in enteric diseases remain unclear. Thus, we conducted this study to investigate the role of IEL populations during necrotic enteritis (NE) in chickens. At 14 days of age, sixty-three Specific-pathogen-free (SPF) birds were randomly assigned to three treatments: Control (sham challenge), Eimeria maxima challenge (EM), and Eimeria maxima + Clostridium Perfringens (C. Perfringens) co-challenge (EM/CP). The EM and EM/CP birds were infected with Eimeria maxima at day 14 of age, and EM/CP birds were additionally orally inoculated with C. perfringens at days 18 and 19 of age. Birds were weighed at days 18, 20, and 26 of age to assess body weight gain (BWG). At 20 days of age (1 day-post C. perfringens infection; dpi), and 26 days of age (7 dpi), 7 birds per treatment were euthanized, and jejunum was harvested for gross lesion scores, IEL isolation, and gene expression. The EM/CP birds exhibited subclinical NE disease, lower BWG and shorter colon length. The Most changes in the IEL populations were observed at 1 dpi. The EM/CP group showed substantial increases in the total number of natural IEL subsets, including TCRalphabeta+CD4-CD8-, TCRalphabeta+CD8alphaalpha+, TCRgammadelta+, TCRneg and innate CD8alpha (iCD8alpha) cells by at least two-fold. However, by 7 dpi, only the number of TCRalphabeta+CD4-CD8- and TCRalphabeta+CD8alphaalpha+ IEL maintained their increase in the EM/CP group. The EM/CP group had significantly higher expression of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta and IFN-gamma) and Osteopontin (OPN) in the jejunum at 1 dpi. These findings suggest that natural IEL with innate and innate-like functions might play a critical role in the host response during subclinical NE, potentially conferring protection against C. perfringens infection.
37902602 | Segmented filamentous bacteria-induced epithelial MHCII regulates cognate CD4+ IELs and epithelial turnover. Intestinal epithelial cells have the capacity to upregulate MHCII molecules in response to certain epithelial-adhesive microbes, such as segmented filamentous bacteria (SFB). However, the mechanism regulating MHCII expression as well as the impact of epithelial MHCII-mediated antigen presentation on T cell responses targeting those microbes remains elusive. Here, we identify the cellular network that regulates MHCII expression on the intestinal epithelium in response to SFB. Since MHCII on the intestinal epithelium is dispensable for SFB-induced Th17 response, we explored other CD4+ T cell-based responses induced by SFB. We found that SFB drive the conversion of cognate CD4+ T cells to granzyme+ CD8alpha+ intraepithelial lymphocytes. These cells accumulate in small intestinal intraepithelial space in response to SFB. Yet, their accumulation is abrogated by the ablation of MHCII on the intestinal epithelium. Finally, we show that this mechanism is indispensable for the SFB-driven increase in the turnover of epithelial cells in the ileum. This study identifies a previously uncharacterized immune response to SFB, which is dependent on the epithelial MHCII function.
25928883 | Genome-wide association study of IgG1 responses to the choline-binding protein PspC of Streptococcus pneumoniae. Streptococcus pneumoniae causes invasive pneumococcal disease. Delayed development of antibodies to S. pneumoniae in infancy is associated with the development of atopy and asthma. Pneumococcal surface protein C (PspC) is a vaccine candidate and variation in its choline-binding region is associated with invasive disease. This study examined 523 060 single-nucleotide polymorphisms in The Western Australian Pregnancy Cohort (Raine) Study to find loci influencing immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) responses to PspC measured at age 14 years (n=1152). Genome-wide significance (top SNP rs9275596; P=3.1 x 10(-14)) was only observed at human leucocyte antigen (HLA). Imputed HLA amino-acid polymorphisms showed the strongest associations at positions DRB1 47 (P=3.2 x 10(-11)), 13SRG (P=9.8 x 10(-10)) and 11SP (P=9.8 x 10(-10)), and at DQA1 34 (P=6.4 x 10(-10)), DQB1 167R (P=9.3 x 10(-6)) and HLA-B 95 W (P=1.2 x 10(-9)). Conditional analyses showed independent contributions from DRB1 47 and DQB1 167R to the signal at rs9275596, supported by an omnibus test showing a strong signal for the haplotype DRB1_47_DQB1_167 (P=9.02 x 10(-15)). In silico analysis showed that DRB1 four-digit allele groups defined by DRB1 47F bind to a greater complexity of core 9-mer epitopes compared with DRB1 47Y, especially across repeats in the C-term choline-binding region. Consequent differences in CD4 T-cell help for IgG1 to PspC could have implications for vaccine design. Further analysis in other cohorts is merited.
37197651 | The thymus and T-cell ontogeny in ballan wrasse (Labrus bergylta) is nutritionally modelled. Marine fish larvae often experience high mortality unrelated to predation during early life stages, and farmed ballan wrasse (Labrus bergylta) is no exception. Knowing when the adaptive immune system is developed and fully functional, and how nutrition may modulate these processes is therefore of importance to establish effective prophylactic measures and will also extend the relatively limited knowledge on the immune system in lower vertebrates. The thymus anlage of ballan wrasse was found to be histologically visible for the first time at larval stage 3 (20-30 days post hatch, dph) and becomes lymphoid at stage 5 (50-60 dph) correlating with an increase of T-cell marker transcripts. At this stage, a clear zonation into a RAG1+ cortex and a RAG1- CD3epsilon+ medulla was distinguished, indicating that T-cell maturation processes in ballan wrasse are similar to other teleosts. The higher abundance of CD4-1+ compared to CD8beta+ cells in the thymus together with the apparent lack of CD8beta+ cells in gill, gut, and pharynx, where CD4-1+ cells were identified, indicates that helper T-cells have a more prominent role during larval development compared to cytotoxic T-cells. As ballan wrasse lacks a stomach but has an exceptionally high IgM expression in the hindgut, we hypothesize that helper T-cells are crucial for activation and recruitment of IgM+ B-cells and possibly other leukocytes to the gut during early development. Nutritional factors such as DHA/EPA, Zn and Se may lead to an earlier expression of certain T-cell markers as well as a larger size of the thymus, indicating an earlier onset of adaptive immunity. Including live feeds that supplies the larva with higher amounts of these nutrients can therefore be beneficial for ballan wrasse farming.
791948 | Translational, autogenous regulation of gene 32 expression during bacteriophage T4 infection. Functional half-life measurements of the bacteriophage T4 gene 32 messenger RNA indicate that this mRNA is extremely stable. Regulation of gene 32 expression at the transcriptional level cannot account for the rapidity with which P32 synthesis can be repressed. Furthermore, derepression of P32 synthesis occurs in the presence of rifampicin, a drug which inhibits transcriptional initiation. In addition, T4-infected cultures in which P32 expression is repressed possess almost as much gene 32 mRNA as derepressed cultures. We conclude that expression of the T4 gene 32 protein is regulated at the level of translation.
38187627 | Antibody-mediated depletion of select T cell subsets in blood and tissue of nonhuman primates. Understanding the immunological control of pathogens requires a detailed evaluation of the mechanistic contributions of individual cell types within the immune system. While knockout mouse models that lack certain cell types have been used to help define the role of those cells, the biological and physiological characteristics of mice do not necessarily recapitulate that of a human. To overcome some of these differences, studies often look towards nonhuman primates (NHPs) due to their close phylogenetic relationship to humans. To evaluate the immunological role of select cell types, the NHP model provides distinct advantages since NHP more closely mirror the disease manifestations and immunological characteristics of humans. However, many of the experimental manipulations routinely used in mice (e.g., gene knock-out) cannot be used with the NHP model. As an alternative, the in vivo infusion of monoclonal antibodies that target surface proteins on specific cells to either functionally inhibit or deplete cells can be a useful tool. Such depleting antibodies have been used in NHP studies to address immunological mechanisms of action. In these studies, the extent of depletion has generally been reported for blood, but not thoroughly assessed in tissues. Here, we evaluated four depleting regimens that primarily target T cells in NHP: anti-CD4, anti-CD8alpha, anti-CD8beta, and immunotoxin-conjugated anti-CD3. We evaluated these treatments in healthy unvaccinated and IV BCG-vaccinated NHP to measure the extent that vaccine-elicited T cells - which may be activated, increased in number, or resident in specific tissues - are depleted compared to resting populations in unvaccinated NHPs. We report quantitative measurements of in vivo depletion at multiple tissue sites providing insight into the range of cell types depleted by a given mAb. While we found substantial depletion of target cell types in blood and tissue of many animals, residual cells remained, often residing within tissue. Notably, we find that animal-to-animal variation is substantial and consequently studies that use these reagents should be powered accordingly.
35680625 | [Preparation of CD52-targeted chimeric antigen receptor-modified T cells and their anti-leukemia effects]. Objective: To construct chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells targeting CD52 (CD52 CAR-T) and validate the effect of CD52 CAR-T cells on CD52-positive leukemia. Methods: A second-generation CD52-targeting CAR bearing 4-1BB costimulatory domain was ligated into a lentiviral vector through molecular cloning. Lentivirus was prepared and packaged by 293 T cells with a four-plasmid system. Fluorescein was used to label cell surface antigens to evaluate the phenotype of CD52 CAR-T cells after infection. Flow cytometry and ELISA were used to evaluate the specific cytotoxicity of CD52 CAR-T cells to CD52-positive cell lines in vitro. Results: (1)A pCDH-CD52scFv-CD8alpha-4-1BB-CD3zeta-GFP expressing plasmid was successfully constructed and used to transduce T cells expressing a novel CD52-targeting CAR. (2)On day 6, CD52-positive T cells were almost killed by CD52-targeted CAR-T post lentivirus transduction [CD52 CAR-T (4.48 +- 4.99) %, vs Vector-T (56.58+-19.8) %, P=0.011]. (3)T cells transduced with the CAR targeting CD52 showed low levels of apoptosis and could be expanded long-term ex vivo. (4)The CD52 CAR could promote T cell differentiation into central and effector memory T cells, whereas the proportion of T cells with a CD45RA(+) effector memory phenotype were reduced. (5)CD52 CAR-T cells could specifically kill CD52-positive HuT78-19t cells but had no killing effect on CD52-negative MOLT4-19t cells. For CD52 CAR-T cells, the percentage of residual of HuT78-19t cells was (2.66+-1.60) % at an the E:T ratio of 1:1 for 24 h, while (56.66+-5.74) % of MOLT4-19t cells survived (P<0.001) . (6)The results of a degranulation experiment confirmed that HuT78-19t cells significantly activated CD52 CAR-T cells but not MOLT4-19t cells[ (57.34+-11.25) % vs (13.06+- 4.23) %, P<0.001]. (7)CD52 CAR-T cells released more cytokines when co-cultured with HuT78-19t cells than that of vector-T cells [IFN-gamma: (3706+-226) pg/ml, P<0.001; TNF-alpha: (1732+-560) pg/ml, P<0.01]. Conclusions: We successfully prepared CD52 CAR-T cells with anti-leukemia effects, which might provide the foundation for further immunotherapy.
37535041 | HIV-1 transcriptional modulation: novel host factors and prospective therapeutic strategies. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review highlights advances in HIV transcription and epigenetic latency mechanisms and outlines current therapeutic approaches to eliminate or block the HIV-1 latent reservoir. RECENT FINDINGS: Novel host factors have been reported to modulate HIV-1 transcription and latency. Chromatin affinity purification strategies followed by mass spectrometry (ChAP-MS) identified the chaperone protein p32 to play an important role in HIV-1 transcriptional regulation via interactions with the viral transcriptional activator Tat. Similarly, an shRNA screen identified the methyltransferase SMYD5 contributing to HIV-1 transcriptional activation also by modulating Tat activity. These new factors, among others, represent potential druggable targets that could be explored in the 'block-and-lock' or 'shock-and-kill' approaches. SUMMARY: The HIV-1 latent reservoir is established early after infection, persists during antiretroviral therapy, and is the source of viral rebound after treatment interruption. An HIV cure requires either eliminating this reservoir or blocking latent proviral reactivation in the absence of antiretroviral therapy (ART). Understanding the mechanisms and key-players modulating HIV transcriptional and reactivation may facilitate therapeutic advancements. Here we summarize, the latest findings on host factors' roles in HIV transcriptional regulation.
2962791 | Effect of IL-2 on immunoregulatory function of intestinal lamina propria T cells in normal non-human primates. The role of T cell activation on the immunoregulatory function of lymphocytes in the lamina propria of the normal intestine was investigated. Lymphocytes were isolated from different sites in non-human primates, and their cell surface phenotypes, response to exogenous IL-2, and immunoregulatory function in pokeweed mitogen stimulated cultures were determined. The proportions of Leu-3+ (CD4) and Leu-2+ (CD8) lymphocytes in isolated lamina propria cells were similar to peripheral blood and spleen, but the proportion of Leu-3+ cells was significantly higher in mesenteric lymph node lymphocytes. The proportion of IL-2 receptor positive cells was significantly higher in lamina propria compared with peripheral blood, spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes. Increased IL-2 receptor expression was found on both Leu-3+ and Leu-2+ lamina propria T cells. In addition, although lamina propria T cells had a lower proliferative response to Con A, they had a significantly higher response when cultured with recombinant IL-2, indicating that they have increased expression of functional IL-2 receptors. The helper function of lamina propria T cells for pokeweed mitogen stimulated immunoglobulin synthesis was enhanced by recombinant IL-2. Although Leu-2+ lymphocytes in the lamina propria had increased IL-2 receptor expression, suppressor function of lamina propria T cells was similar to that of spleen cells, and was not enhanced by addition of exogenous IL-2. Thus, T cells in the lamina propria have increased expression of functional IL-2 receptors, and recombinant IL-2 enhances the helper, but not the suppressor function of lamina propria T cells for immunoglobulin synthesis.
35505068 | COVID-19 patient serum less potently inhibits ACE2-RBD binding for various SARS-CoV-2 RBD mutants. As global vaccination campaigns against SARS-CoV-2 proceed, there is particular interest in the longevity of immune protection, especially with regard to increasingly infectious virus variants. Neutralizing antibodies (Nabs) targeting the receptor binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2 are promising correlates of protective immunity and have been successfully used for prevention and therapy. As SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs) are known to affect binding to the ACE2 receptor and by extension neutralizing activity, we developed a bead-based multiplex ACE2-RBD inhibition assay (RBDCoV-ACE2) as a highly scalable, time-, cost-, and material-saving alternative to infectious live-virus neutralization tests. By mimicking the interaction between ACE2 and the RBD, this serological multiplex assay allows the simultaneous analysis of ACE2 binding inhibition to the RBDs of all SARS-CoV-2 VOCs and variants of interest (VOIs) in a single well. Following validation against a classical virus neutralization test and comparison of performance against a commercially available assay, we analyzed 266 serum samples from 168 COVID-19 patients of varying severity. ACE2 binding inhibition was reduced for ten out of eleven variants examined compared to wild-type, especially for those displaying the E484K mutation such as VOCs beta and gamma. ACE2 binding inhibition, while highly individualistic, positively correlated with IgG levels. ACE2 binding inhibition also correlated with disease severity up to WHO grade 7, after which it reduced.
36366318 | Differential Kinetics of Effector and Memory Responses Induced by Three Doses of SARS-CoV-2 mRNA Vaccine in a Cohort of Healthcare Workers. We reported the long-term kinetics of immune response after vaccination and evaluated the immunogenicity after a third dose of mRNA vaccine in 86 healthcare workers. Humoral response was analyzed by measuring anti-spike IgG and SARS-CoV-2 NTAbs titer; cell-mediated response was measured as frequency of IFN-gamma producing T-cells and cell proliferation. Memory B cells secreting SARS-CoV-2 RBD-IgG were measured by B-spot assay. At three weeks after the third dose (T4), the frequency of subjects showing NT-Abs titer at the upper detection limit (>=640) was significantly higher than that observed at three weeks after the second dose (26/77; 33.7% vs. 9/77; 11.6%; p = 0.0018). Additionally, at T4, all the subjects reached positive levels of T-cell mediated response (median 110 SFU/106 PBMC, IQR 73-231). While the number of IFNgamma-producing T-cells decreased between second and third dose administration, the T-cell proliferative response did not decrease but was sustained during the follow-up. Among T-cell subsets, a higher proliferative response was observed in CD4+ than in CD8+ population. Moreover, even if a decline in antibody response was observed between the second and third dose, a sustained persistence of memory B cells was observed. Subsequently, the third dose did not affect the frequency of memory B cells, while it restored or increased the peak antibody levels detected after the second dose.
37843832 | CD8+ lymphocytes are critical for early control of tuberculosis in macaques. The functional role of CD8+ lymphocytes in tuberculosis remains poorly understood. We depleted innate and/or adaptive CD8+ lymphocytes in macaques and showed that loss of all CD8alpha+ cells (using anti-CD8alpha antibody) significantly impaired early control of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection, leading to increased granulomas, lung inflammation, and bacterial burden. Analysis of barcoded Mtb from infected macaques demonstrated that depletion of all CD8+ lymphocytes allowed increased establishment of Mtb in lungs and dissemination within lungs and to lymph nodes, while depletion of only adaptive CD8+ T cells (with anti-CD8beta antibody) worsened bacterial control in lymph nodes. Flow cytometry and single-cell RNA sequencing revealed polyfunctional cytotoxic CD8+ lymphocytes in control granulomas, while CD8-depleted animals were unexpectedly enriched in CD4 and gammadelta T cells adopting incomplete cytotoxic signatures. Ligand-receptor analyses identified IL-15 signaling in granulomas as a driver of cytotoxic T cells. These data support that CD8+ lymphocytes are required for early protection against Mtb and suggest polyfunctional cytotoxic responses as a vaccine target.
8349855 | Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma associated with HIV infection. BACKGROUND: Mycosis fungoides-type cutaneous T-cell lymphoma is uncommon in association with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection. Reported patients have a high incidence of CD8+ T-cell lymphomas and erythroderma, are usually severely immunocompromised, and rapidly die. Chronic, more typical patch-plaque mycosis fungoides-type cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in association with HIV-1 infection has not been reported. OBJECTIVE: We report two cases of stage 1B epidermotropic mycosis fungoides-type cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in HIV-1-infected men with no history of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. METHODS: Clinical and laboratory data, including lesional immunophenotypic and immunogenotypic findings of two patients with HIV-1-associated cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, were studied. RESULTS: Immunohistochemical analysis of skin determined the lesional infiltrate of one patient to be CD8+ (Leu-2+), CD7- (Leu-9-), and Leu-8- with germline lesional skin and blood T-cell receptor genes. The other was CD4- (Leu-3+), CD2- (Leu-5-), CD7- (Leu-9-), and Leu-8- with beta-chain T-cell receptor gene rearrangement in lesional skin and blood. Circulating Sezary cells were not detected in either patient. Peripheral CD4/CD8 T lymphocyte numbers did not appear to correlate with cutaneous disease activity or the predominant lesional T-cell subtype. Both patients were responsive to standard therapies and have experienced prolonged survival in excess of that generally reported for HIV-1-associated systemic peripheral and cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. CONCLUSION: In the absence of severe immunodeficiency, HIV-1-infected patients with concomitant cutaneous T-cell lymphoma may follow a more typical slowly progressive course.
34010360 | SARS-CoV-2 infection, neuropathogenesis and transmission among deer mice: Implications for spillback to New World rodents. Coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19) emerged in late 2019 in China and rapidly became pandemic. As with other coronaviruses, a preponderance of evidence suggests the virus originated in horseshoe bats (Rhinolophus spp.) and may have infected an intermediate host prior to spillover into humans. A significant concern is that SARS-CoV-2 could become established in secondary reservoir hosts outside of Asia. To assess this potential, we challenged deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) with SARS-CoV-2 and found robust virus replication in the upper respiratory tract, lungs and intestines, with detectable viral RNA for up to 21 days in oral swabs and 6 days in lungs. Virus entry into the brain also occurred, likely via gustatory-olfactory-trigeminal pathway with eventual compromise to the blood-brain barrier. Despite this, no conspicuous signs of disease were observed, and no deer mice succumbed to infection. Expression of several innate immune response genes were elevated in the lungs, including IFNalpha, IFNbeta, Cxcl10, Oas2, Tbk1 and Pycard. Elevated CD4 and CD8beta expression in the lungs was concomitant with Tbx21, IFNgamma and IL-21 expression, suggesting a type I inflammatory immune response. Contact transmission occurred from infected to naive deer mice through two passages, showing sustained natural transmission and localization into the olfactory bulb, recapitulating human neuropathology. In the second deer mouse passage, an insertion of 4 amino acids occurred to fixation in the N-terminal domain of the spike protein that is predicted to form a solvent-accessible loop. Subsequent examination of the source virus from BEI Resources determined the mutation was present at very low levels, demonstrating potent purifying selection for the insert during in vivo passage. Collectively, this work has determined that deer mice are a suitable animal model for the study of SARS-CoV-2 respiratory disease and neuropathogenesis, and that they have the potential to serve as secondary reservoir hosts in North America.
1661605 | Failure of T cell receptor V beta negative selection in murine intestinal intra-epithelial lymphocytes. The intestinal intra-epithelial lymphocytes (IEL) are divided into several subsets on the basis of expression of T cell receptor (TCR) alpha beta and gamma delta, intensity of Thy-1 expression and expression of Lyt-3 chain. To investigate the differentiation pathway of the IEL, we examined the repertoire of V beta segments of T cells in the IEL in BALB/c (H-2d, MIs-1b2a) or AKR/J (H-2k, MIs-1a2b) mice. Among freshly isolated IEL, an appreciable number of T cells bearing V beta 3 or V beta 11, which recognize MIs-2a- or MHC IE-encoded molecules respectively, were detected in BALB/c mice. Similarly, in AKR/J mice, IEL contained appreciable levels of V beta 6-bearing T cells. V beta 3- or V beta 11-bearing T cells in the IEL in BALB/c mice increased to a significant level when incubated with staphylococcal enterotoxin A which specifically stimulates V beta 3- and V beta 11-bearing T cells. Most of IEL without clonal deletion expressed Lyt-2 but not Lyt-3 antigens. Such T cells were hardly detected in other organs, including liver. Our results indicate that TCR alpha beta-bearing intestinal IEL that have not undergone negative selection may have differentiated outside the thymus, presumably at a local site of the intestine and can respond normally to the signal via their TCR.
11401089 | Agranular CD4+CD56+ blastic natural killer leukemia/lymphoma. Blastic natural killer cell leukemia/lymphoma (blastic NKL/L) is characterized by blastic morphology and a distinctive immunophenotype combining blastic features and cytologically resembling acute myeloid or lymphoid leukemia. The clinical, pathologic, and cytogenetic features of blastic NKL/L have not yet been systematically identified. We report herein a case of blastic NKL/L with skin lesion, adenopathy, and systemic lymphoadenopathy. The identified tumor cells were positive for CD4 and CD56, and negative for T-cell, B-cell, and myeloid markers. T-cell receptor beta, gamma, delta, and immunoglobulin heavy chain genes in the bone marrow cells showed germ-line configurations. Southern blot analysis with a terminal probe did not reveal any Epstein-Barr virus infection. Although patients diagnosed as blastic NKL/L have generally shown chemotherapy resistance and poor prognosis, our patient was treated with a combined chemotherapy, which is also used for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and has maintained complete remission (CR) for more than 13 months. In addition to clinical investigations, we thoroughly analyzed his karyotype by using a combination of G-banding and a new technique, spectral karyotyping. The karyotype was described as 45, XY, der(1)t(1;20)(p32;q11.2), der(6) (1pter-->1p32:: 6p21.1-->6q13:: 7q11.2-->7qter), der(7) t(7;20)(q11.2;q11.2), t(13;14)(q14;q32), der(13)t(6;13) (p21.1; q14), -20.
37683720 | Spike Protein is a key target for stronger and more persistent T-Cell Responses - A study of mild and asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 Infection. BACKGROUND:  Understanding the immune response in very mild and asymptomatic COVID-19 is crucial for developing effective vaccines and immunotherapies, yet remains poorly characterised. OBJECTIVE:  This longitudinal study examined the evolution of IFN-gamma responses to SARS-CoV-2 peptides in 109 asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Ugandan COVID-19 patients across 365 days and explored their association with antibody generation. METHODS:  T-cell responses to spike-containing CD4-S and CD8 nCoV-A (CD8-A) megapools, and the non-spike CD4-R and CD8 nCoV-B (CD8-B) megapools, were assessed and correlated with demographic and temporal variables. RESULTS:  SARS-CoV-2-specific IFN-gamma responses were consistently detected in all peptide pools and time points, with the spike-targeted response exhibiting higher potency and durability than the non-spike responses. Throughout the entire 365-day infection timeline, a robust positive correlation was observed between CD4 T-cell responses to the spike-derived peptides and anti-spike IgG antibody levels, underscoring their interdependent dynamics in the immune response against SARS-CoV-2; in contrast, CD8 T-cell responses exhibited no such correlation, highlighting their distinctive, autonomous role in defence. No meaningful variations in complete blood count parameters were observed between individuals with COVID-19 infection and those without, indicating clinical insignificance. CONCLUSION:  This study highlights the dominant role of spike-directed T-cell responses in mild and asymptomatic disease and provides crucial longitudinal data from Sub-Saharan African settings. The findings provide valuable insights into the dynamics of T-cell responses and their potential significance in developing effective strategies for combating COVID-19.
16164339 | Imaging photon-initiated reactions: a study of the Cl(2P(3/2))+CH4-->HCl+CH3 reaction. The hydrogen or deuterium atom abstraction reactions between Cl((2)P(3/2)) and methane, or its deuterated analogues CD(4) and CH(2)D(2), have been studied at mean collision energies around 0.34 eV. The experiments were performed in a coexpansion of molecular chlorine and methane in helium, with the atomic Cl reactants generated by polarized laser photodissociation of Cl(2) at 308 nm. The Cl-atom reactants and the methyl radical products were detected using (2+1) resonantly enhanced multiphoton ionization, coupled with velocity-map ion imaging. Analysis of the ion images reveals that in single-beam experiments of this type, careful consideration must be given to the spread of reagent velocities and collision energies. Using the reactions of Cl with CH(4), CD(4), and CH(2)D(2), as examples, it is shown that the data can be fitted well if the reagent motion is correctly described, and the angular scattering distributions can be obtained with confidence. New evidence is also provided that the CD(3) radicals from the Cl+CD(4) reaction possess significant rotational alignment under the conditions of the present study. The results are compared with previous experimental and theoretical works, where these are available.
37736497 | Role of ferroptosis and immune infiltration in intervertebral disc degeneration: novel insights from bioinformatics analyses. Background: Intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD), which contributes to stenosis of the spinal segment, commonly causes lower back pain. The process of IVDD degradation entails gradual structural adjustments accompanied by extreme transformations in metabolic homeostasis. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms associated with IVDD are poorly understood. Methods: The RNA-sequencing datasets GSE34095 and GSE56081 were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Ferroptosis-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified from these gene sets. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was established and visualized using the STRING database and Cytoscape software, and the key functional modules of ferroptosis-related genes were identified. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses were performed on the DEGs. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), immune infiltration analysis in the GEO database, and other GSE series were used as validation datasets. The xCELL algorithm was performed to investigate the immune cell infiltration differences between the degenerated IVDD and control groups. Results: The major genes involved in nucleus pulposus tissue immune infiltration and ferroptosis-related genes were mined by bioinformatics analysis. A total of 3,056 DEGs were obtained between the IVDD tissue and control groups. The DEGs were enriched in the cell cycle; apoptosis; necroptosis; and the PI3K-Akt, Hippo, and HIF-1 signaling pathways. PCR and Western blot techniques were utilized to confirm the differential ferroptosis-related genes. The results indicated that the protein expression levels of NCOA4 and PCBP1 were elevated, while the protein expression level of GPX4 was reduced in NPCs following IL-1beta treatment. Our study has found that severe disc tissue degeneration leads to a noteworthy increase in the expression of CD8A in naive T cells, CCR7 in memory CD4+ cells, GZMB in natural killer (NK) cells, and CD163 and CD45 in macrophages. Conclusion: Our data demonstrate that ferroptosis occurs in IVDD, suggesting that ferroptosis may also increase IVDD improvement by triggering immune infiltration. This work was conducted to further understand IVDD pathogenesis and identify new treatment strategies.
7768329 | Investigation of type I and type III iodothyronine deiodinases in rat tissues using N-bromoacetyl-iodothyronine affinity labels. In the present study the hypothesis was tested that N-bromoacetyl-3,3',5-[125I]triiodothyronine (BrAc[125I]T3) is a useful affinity label for both type I and type III iodothyronine deiodinases (ID-I and ID-III). Therefore, the microsomal fractions of various rat tissues were tested for ID-I and ID-III activities, and microsomal proteins were labeled with BrAc[125I]T3 and analyzed by SDS-PAGE. In agreement with previous observations, high ID-I activities were found in liver, kidney and thyroid, and high ID-III activities in brain, in particular fetal brain, and placenta. SDS-PAGE of BrAc[125I]T3-labeled microsomes showed a prominent radioactive approximately 27 kDa protein (p27) in liver, kidney and thyroid, which was previously identified as ID-I, and a approximately 32 kDa protein (p32) in brain, in particular fetal brain, and placenta. A good correlation was found between the affinity labeling of p32 and the inactivation of ID-III by BrAcT3, suggesting that p32 represents ID-III or a subunit thereof. After treatment of microsomes with 0.05% deoxycholate or carbonate buffer (pH 11.5) p32 was still labeled by BrAc[125I]T3, indicating that p32 is a transmembrane protein. Although 3,3',5'-triiodothyronine (rT3) is not a substrate for ID-III, p32 was readily labeled with BrAc[125I]rT3. Labeling of p32 in rat brain microsomes by BrAc[125I]rT3 was not affected by addition of 100 microM unlabeled thyroxine (T4) or T3, whereas deiodination of [125I]T3 by ID-III was inhibited by 91 and 96% in the presence of 1 microM T4 and T3, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
9213386 | African swine fever virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes recognize the 32 kDa immediate early protein (vp32). African swine fever (ASF) virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity has been studied in a model in which SLA inbred minipigs were experimentally infected with an attenuated isolate of the virus. The CTL assays were performed using alveolar macrophages as target cells. The specific lysis is mediated by purified CD8+ lymphocytes but not by CD4+ cells and can be blocked by incubation with anti-SLA class I monoclonal antibodies. The purified CD8+ population produced high levels of interferon-gamma after ASF virus stimulation. In an attempt to define the viral proteins recognized by CTL, target cells infected with a recombinant vaccinia virus (VV) expressing the ASF virus p32, an immediate early protein during ASF virus replication, were recognized and lysed by CTL. This assay may be useful for VV recombinant screening in order to identify other potential target ASF virus proteins.
10504409 | Folding of coliphage T4 short tail fiber in vitro. Analysing the role of a bacteriophage-encoded chaperone. The morphogenesis of the Escherichia coli bacteriophage T4 depends on the presence of helper proteins which are not components of the mature virion. Two bacteriophage-encoded proteins, p57 and p38, are required for the assembly of the bacteriophage T4 tail fibers. In the absence of p57, two polypeptides of the long fiber (p34 and p37) and that of the short tail fiber (p12) fail to trimerize. Instead they form water-insoluble aggregates. Co-expression of the genes 12 and 57 in vivo caused the formation of only trimeric, water-soluble p12. The function of g57 cannot be replaced by overexpression of the host proteins GroEL/ES or parvulin. The mechanism of action of this helper protein has remained unknown, mainly because it has not been possible to determine its activity in vitro. Purified p12, denatured in 7 M urea, trimerized spontaneously in a slow reaction (half-time approximately 6 h) and with low yield. Upon renaturation, p12 forms native SDS-resistant trimers as indicated by spectroscopic and hydrodynamic measurements. Addition of p57 increased the rate of folding threefold and nearly doubled the yield. These experiments demonstrate that p57 acts as a molecular chaperone during folding of T4 tail fibers.
37249292 | Fibulin-2: A potential regulator of immune dysfunction after bone trauma. OBJECTIVES: To reveal the relationship between the fibulin-2 protein and immune dysfunction after bone trauma. METHODS: Individuals who were admitted to the study were divided into a bone trauma group, a recovered from bone trauma group and a volunteer without bone trauma group based on the reason for admission. Fibulin-2 levels in the three groups were compared. Fibulin-2-knockout (fibulin-2-/- ) mice and wild-type (WT) mice were used to detect susceptibility to infection. Hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining and immunohistochemical staining were employed to observe pathological changes in each organ from fibulin-2-/- mice and WT mice. RESULTS: In total, 132 patients were enrolled in this study. The fibulin-2 level in the bone trauma group was lower than that in the recovered bone trauma group (3.39 +- 1.41 vs. 4.30 +- 1.38 ng/mL, t = 2.948, p < .05) and also lower than that in the volunteers without bone trauma group (3.39 +- 1.41 vs. 4.73 +- 1.67 ng/mL, t = 4.135, p < .05). Fibulin-2-/- mice are more prone to infection. Compared with those in WT mice, spleen function and thymus function in fibulin-2-/- mice were impaired. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that compared with those in WT mice, significantly fewer CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, and CD19+ B cells were noted in the spleen and thymus of fibulin-2-/- mice. CONCLUSIONS: The plasma fibulin-2 level was lower in patients with bone trauma. Decreased fibulin-2 is associated with immune dysfunction after bone trauma.
37809082 | Potential clinical impact of T-cell lymphocyte kinetics monitoring in patients with B cell precursors acute lymphoblastic leukemia treated with blinatumomab: a single-center experience. Blinatumomab is a bispecific anti-CD3 and anti-CD19 antibody that acts as a T-cell engager: by binding CD19+ lymphoblasts, blinatumomab recruits cytotoxic CD3+ T-lymphocytes to target the cancer cells. Here we describe seven different patients affected by B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Bcp-ALL) and treated with blinatumomab, on which we evaluated the potential association between the amount of different T-cells subsets and deep molecular response after the first cycle, identified as a complete remission in the absence of minimal residual disease (CR/MRD). The immune-system effector cells studied were CD3+, CD4+ effector memory (T4-EM), CD8+ effector memory (T8-EM), and T-regulatory (T-reg) lymphocytes, and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC). Measurements were performed in the peripheral blood using flow cytometry of the peripheral blood at baseline and after the first cycle of blinatumomab. The first results show that patients with a higher proportion of baseline T-lymphocytes achieved MRD negativity more frequently with no statistically significant difference (p=0.06) and without differences in the subpopulation count following the first treatment. These extremely preliminary data could potentially pave the way for future studies, including larger and less heterogeneous cohorts, in order to assess the T-cell kinetics in a specific set of patients with potential synergy effects in targeting myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC), commonly known to have an immune evasion mechanism in Bcp-ALL.
36464706 | Small molecules in the treatment of COVID-19. The outbreak of COVID-19 has become a global crisis, and brought severe disruptions to societies and economies. Until now, effective therapeutics against COVID-19 are in high demand. Along with our improved understanding of the structure, function, and pathogenic process of SARS-CoV-2, many small molecules with potential anti-COVID-19 effects have been developed. So far, several antiviral strategies were explored. Besides directly inhibition of viral proteins such as RdRp and Mpro, interference of host enzymes including ACE2 and proteases, and blocking relevant immunoregulatory pathways represented by JAK/STAT, BTK, NF-kappaB, and NLRP3 pathways, are regarded feasible in drug development. The development of small molecules to treat COVID-19 has been achieved by several strategies, including computer-aided lead compound design and screening, natural product discovery, drug repurposing, and combination therapy. Several small molecules representative by remdesivir and paxlovid have been proved or authorized emergency use in many countries. And many candidates have entered clinical-trial stage. Nevertheless, due to the epidemiological features and variability issues of SARS-CoV-2, it is necessary to continue exploring novel strategies against COVID-19. This review discusses the current findings in the development of small molecules for COVID-19 treatment. Moreover, their detailed mechanism of action, chemical structures, and preclinical and clinical efficacies are discussed.
36584296 | The chaperone protein p32 stabilizes HIV-1 Tat and strengthens the p-TEFb/RNAPII/TAR complex promoting HIV transcription elongation. HIV gene expression is modulated by the combinatorial activity of the HIV transcriptional activator, Tat, host transcription factors, and chromatin remodeling complexes. To identify host factors regulating HIV transcription, we used specific single-guide RNAs and endonuclease-deficient Cas9 to perform chromatin affinity purification of the integrated HIV promoter followed by mass spectrometry. The scaffold protein, p32, also called ASF/SF2 splicing factor-associated protein, was identified among the top enriched factors present in actively transcribing HIV promoters but absent in silenced ones. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis confirmed the presence of p32 on active HIV promoters and its enhanced recruitment by Tat. HIV uses Tat to efficiently recruit positive transcription elongation factor b (p-TEFb) (CDK9/CCNT1) to TAR, an RNA secondary structure that forms from the first 59 bp of HIV transcripts, to enhance RNAPII transcriptional elongation. The RNA interference of p32 significantly reduced HIV transcription in primary CD4+T cells and in HIV chronically infected cells, independently of either HIV splicing or p32 anti-splicing activity. Conversely, overexpression of p32 specifically increased Tat-dependent HIV transcription. p32 was found to directly interact with Tat's basic domain enhancing Tat stability and half-life. Conversely, p32 associates with Tat via N- and C-terminal domains. Likely due its scaffold properties, p32 also promoted Tat association with TAR, p-TEFb, and RNAPII enhancing Tat-dependent HIV transcription. In sum, we identified p32 as a host factor that interacts with and stabilizes Tat protein, promotes Tat-dependent transcriptional regulation, and may be explored for HIV-targeted transcriptional inhibition.
37974224 | YAP1/Piezo1 involve in the dynamic changes of lymphatic vessels in UVR-induced photoaging progress to squamous cell carcinoma. BACKGROUND: UV-induced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is one of the most common skin cancers. The constant alterations of the lymphatic-centered immune microenvironment are essential in transforming from photoaging to cSCC. Studying the mechanism will be beneficial for new targets exploration to the early prediction of cSCC. AIMS: To investigate the dynamic changes and mechanism of the lymphatic-centered immune microenvironment in transforming from photoaging to cSCC induced by ultraviolet irradiation (UVR). METHODS: TIMER2.0 was used to analyze whether YAP1/VEGFC signaling pathway is involved in lymphangiogenesis in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Meanwhile, lymphatic-centered immune microenvironments alterations and the related cumulative survival time were also analyzed. With the accumulated UVR, skin photoaging developed and gradually progressed into actinic keratosis and cSCC on SKH-1 hairless mice. The skin lymphatic-centered immune microenvironment was evaluated at the 0th, 8th, 12th, 16-18th, and 20-24th week of UVR. Skin phenotype was assessed using optical coherence tomography (OCT) and skin image. H&E and Masson's trichrome staining evaluated epidermis and dermis. The structure of lymphatic vessels (LVs), blood vessels, and different types of T cells were evaluated by immunohistochemistry staining. The expression of Piezo1 whose deletion in adult lymphatics led to substantial valve degeneration, VE-cadherin that maintained the permeability of LVs, and YAP1 were evaluated by immunohistochemistry staining as well. Besides, the drainage function of LVs was assessed by Evans Blue assay in vivo. RESULTS: The lymphatic function and immune cell infiltration underwent adaptive changes under continuous UVR. TIMER2.0 analysis indicated that VEGFC genes high expressed in HNSCC. YAP1 gene expression was positive correlated with VEGFC in HNSCC. LV density increased in human cSCC. More LVs in HNSCC were beneficial to prolong the survival time. VEGFC gene overexpression was positive correlated to CD8+T cell infiltration. More CD8A+T cells and CD8B+T cell infiltration in HNSCC extended survival time. When YAP1 gene overexpression and high infiltration of endothelial cells took place simultaneously might prolong the survival time of HNSCC patients. And high infiltration of CD8+T cells prolonged the survival time as well. In animal studies, UVR-induced eight weeks (photoaging) and 16-18 weeks (precancerous) were two turning points. The density of LVs in UV-8w was the least. When photoaged skin developed into AK lesions (UV-16-18w), LV slightly exceeded healthy skin and proliferated sharply in cSCC (UV-20-24w). YAP1 expression was almost consistent with LV but rose after the photoaging stage. The drainage of cSCC mice induced by UVR was better than that of photoaged skin and worse than that of health skin. The dynamic alterations of LVs number, Piezo1 expression, and collagen might be reasons for it. The expression of Piezo1 was in the highest point after 8 weeks of UVR, then gradually descended to the platform. The total T cells increased slowly, but the infiltration of CD4+T cells increased, and CD8+T cells decreased after eight weeks of UVR. The CD8+T cells and CD4+T cells increased sharply in UV-16-18w and UV-20-24w groups. CONCLUSION: The lymphatic-centered immune microenvironment underwent adaptive changes under continuous UVR via regulating YAP1/VEGFC and Piezo1. During the formation of cSCC, there are two turning points, eight weeks (photoaging) and 16-18 weeks (precancerous). YAP1, Piezo1, LVs, and immune cells constantly changed with the skin state induced by UVR. According to these changes the process of cSCC can be identified in advance and intervene timely.
35975552 | Nonproductive exposure of PBMCs to SARS-CoV-2 induces cell-intrinsic innate immune responses. Cell-intrinsic responses mounted in PBMCs during mild and severe COVID-19 differ quantitatively and qualitatively. Whether they are triggered by signals emitted by productively infected cells of the respiratory tract or result from physical interaction with virus particles remains unclear. Here, we analyzed susceptibility and expression profiles of PBMCs from healthy donors upon ex vivo exposure to SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2. In line with the absence of detectable ACE2 receptor expression, human PBMCs were refractory to productive infection. RT-PCR experiments and single-cell RNA sequencing revealed JAK/STAT-dependent induction of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) but not proinflammatory cytokines. This SARS-CoV-2-specific response was most pronounced in monocytes. SARS-CoV-2-RNA-positive monocytes displayed a lower ISG signature as compared to bystander cells of the identical culture. This suggests a preferential invasion of cells with a low ISG baseline profile or delivery of a SARS-CoV-2-specific sensing antagonist upon efficient particle internalization. Together, nonproductive physical interaction of PBMCs with SARS-CoV-2- and, to a much lesser extent, SARS-CoV particles stimulate JAK/STAT-dependent, monocyte-accentuated innate immune responses that resemble those detected in vivo in patients with mild COVID-19.
3091303 | Cultured human thymus epithelial monolayer cells induce CD4 expression on mononuclear cells of AIDS patients in vitro. We investigated the in vitro effect of cultured human thymic epithelial monolayer cells on mononuclear cells (MNC) from patients with Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and AIDS-related complex (ARC). Patients having undergone bone-marrow transplantation (BMT), who showed a similar deficiency of T-lymphocytes expressing CD4 (Leu-3, T4), and healthy blood donors served as controls. Most epithelial monolayer cells were of thymic medulla origin, as documented using a panel of monoclonal antibodies to thymic epithelial cells. In AIDS/ARC patients the CD4-positive cells (ranging between 4 and 30% of MNC) increased by a factor of 1.56 (s.e.m. 0.15, n = 12) during a 2 h incubation on the monolayer. Human fetal lung fibroblasts were inactive in this respect. There was no consistent change in cells expressing CD3 (Leu-4, T3), CD5 (Leu-1) or CD8 (Leu-2, T8). In BMT patients and healthy controls, neither thymus epithelium nor fibroblasts had any effect on T cell marker expression. Incorporation of tritiated thymidine by stimulated or unstimulated lymphocytes was increased after incubation for 3 days on either epithelium or fibroblasts. We conclude that CD4 expression is induced on MNC from AIDS/ARC patients during a 2 h incubation on epithelial monolayers.
38240274 | Immunohistochemical characterization of the immune cell response during chlamydial infection in the male and female koala (Phascolarctos cinereus) reproductive tract. Chlamydiosis is one of the main causes of the progressive decline of koala populations in eastern Australia. While histologic, immunologic, and molecular studies have provided insights into the basic function of the koala immune system, the in situ immune cell signatures during chlamydial infection of the reproductive tract in koalas have not been investigated. Thirty-two female koalas and 47 males presented to wildlife hospitals with clinical signs suggestive of Chlamydia infection were euthanized with the entire reproductive tract collected for histology; immunohistochemistry (IHC) for T-cell (CD3epsilon, CD4, and CD8alpha), B-cell (CD79b), and human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR markers; and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (rtPCR) for Chlamydia pecorum. T-cells, B-cells, and HLA-DR-positive cells were observed in both the lower and upper reproductive tracts of male and female koalas with a statistically significant associations between the degree of the inflammatory reaction; the number of CD3, CD4, CD79b, and HLA-DR positive cells; and the PCR load. CD4-positive cells were negatively associated with the severity of the gross lesions. The distribution of immune cells was also variable according to the location within the genital tract in both male and female koalas. These preliminary results represent a step forward towards further exploring mechanisms behind chlamydial infection immunopathogenesis, thus providing valuable information about the immune response and infectious diseases in free-ranging koalas.
10979879 | Effects of testosterone and progressive resistance training in eugonadal men with AIDS wasting. A randomized, controlled trial. BACKGROUND: Substantial loss of muscle mass occurs among men with AIDS wasting. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the independent effects of testosterone therapy and progressive resistance training in eugonadal men with AIDS wasting. DESIGN: Randomized, controlled trial. SETTING: University hospital. PATIENTS: 54 eugonadal men with AIDS wasting (weight < 90% ideal body weight or weight loss > 10%). INTERVENTION: In a 2 x 2 factorial design, patients were assigned to receive testosterone enanthate (200 mg/wk) or placebo injections and progressive resistance training (three times weekly) or no training for 12 weeks. MEASUREMENTS: Cross-sectional muscle area and other indices of muscle mass. RESULTS: Cross-sectional muscle area increased in response to training compared with nontraining (change in arm muscle mass, 499 +/- 349 mm2 vs. 206 +/- 264 mm2 [P = 0.004]; change in leg muscle mass, 1106 +/- 854 mm2 vs. 523 +/- 872 mm2 [P = 0.045]) and in response to testosterone therapy compared with placebo (change in arm muscle mass, 512 +/- 371 mm2 vs. 194 +/- 215 mm2 [P< 0.001]; change in leg muscle mass, 1,236 +/- 881 mm2 vs. 399 +/- 729 mm2 [P = 0.002]). Levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol decreased in response to testosterone therapy compared with placebo (-0.03 +/- 0.13 mmol/L vs. 0.05 +/- 0.13 mmol/L [-1 +/- 5 mg/dL vs. 2 +/- 5 mg/dL]; P= 0.011) and increased in response to training compared with nontraining (0.05 +/- 0.13 mmol/L vs. 0.00 +/- 0.16 mmol/L [2 +/- 5 mg/dL vs. 0 +/- 6 mg/dL]; P = 0.052). CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to anabolic therapies that may have adverse effects on metabolic variables, supervised exercise effectively increases muscle mass and is associated with significant positive health benefits in eugonadal men with AIDS wasting.
34612113 | Assessing the infiltration of immune cells in the upper trachea mucosa after infectious laryngotracheitis virus (ILTV) vaccination and challenge. The types of immune cells that populate the trachea after ILTV vaccination and infection have not been assessed. The objective of this study was to quantify CD4+, CD8alpha+, CD8beta+, TCRgammadelta+, and MRC1LB+ cells that infiltrate the trachea after vaccination with chicken embryo origin (CEO), tissue culture origin (TCO), and recombinant herpesvirus of turkey-laryngotracheitis (rHVT-LT) vaccines, and after challenge of vaccinated and non-vaccinated chickens with a virulent ILTV strain. Eye-drop vaccination with CEO, or TCO, or in ovo vaccination with rHVT-LT did not alter the number of CD4+, CD8alpha+, CD8beta+, TCRgammadelta+, and MRC1LB+ cells in the trachea. After challenge, the CEO vaccinated group of chickens showed swift clearance of the challenge virus, the mucosa epithelium of the trachea remained intact, and a limited number of CD4+, CD8alpha+, and CD8beta+ cells were detected in the upper trachea mucosa. The TCO and rHVT-LT vaccinated groups of chickens showed narrow viral clearance with moderate disruption of the trachea epithelial integrity, and a significant increase in CD4+, CD8alpha+, CD8beta+, and TCRgammadelta+ cells infiltrated the upper trachea mucosa. Non-vaccinated challenged chickens showed high levels of viral replication, the epithelial organization of the upper trachea mucosa was heavily disrupted, and the predominant infiltrates were CD4+, TCRgammadelta+, and MRC1LB+ cells. Hence, the very robust protection provided by CEO vaccination was characterized by minimal immune cell infiltration to the trachea mucosa. In contrast, partial protection induced by the TCO and rHVT-LT vaccines requires a prolonged period of T cell expansion to overcome the established infection in the trachea mucosa.
9263597 | Myelin basic protein immunoreactivity in the internal capsule of neonates from rats on a low iodine intake or on methylmercaptoimidazole (MMI). Rats fed on low iodine diets (LIDs) result in a normal circulating level of triiodothyronine (T3), a low level of thyroxine (T4) and an elevated thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). These changes are similar to those observed in habitants who live in iodine-deficient areas and different from those observed when the hypothyroidism is produced by goitrogens. To study the effects of LID or goitrogens on the myelin basic protein (MBP) immunoreactivity (MBP-ir) during the myelination of the internal capsule, one group of experimental female rats was fed on an LID, and another group received a standard laboratory diet with methylmercaptoimidazole (MMI) added in the drinking water. Animals fed on a standard laboratory diet and animals fed on an LID supplemented with KI were used as controls. At P10, the MMI treatment has produced a more marked decrease in the surface density of MBP-ir processes with respect to controls than that produced in the LID animals. This decrease was correlated with the cerebral concentrations of triiodothyronine (T3) we found. During the postnatal development, a recovery in the levels of the surface density with respect to controls was observed in both experimental groups. The recovery occurred by P20 in the LID group and by P32 in the MMI rats.
38327516 | Single cell analysis revealed that two distinct, unique CD4+ T cell subsets were increased in the small intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes of aged mice. Recent advances in research suggest that aging has a controllable chronic inflammatory disease aspect. Aging systemic T cells, which secrete pro-inflammatory factors, affect surrounding somatic cells, and accelerate the aging process through chronic inflammation, have attracted attention as potential therapeutic targets in aging. On the other hand, there are few reports on the aging of the intestinal immune system, which differs from the systemic immune system in many ways. In the current study, we investigated the age-related changes in the intestinal immune system, particularly in T cells. The most significant changes were observed in the CD4+ T cells in the small intestinal IEL, with a marked increase in this fraction in old mice and reduced expression of CD27 and CD28, which are characteristic of aging systemic T cells. The proliferative capacity of aging IEL CD4+ T cells was significantly more reduced than that of aging systemic T cells. Transcriptome analysis showed that the expression of inflammatory cytokines was not upregulated, whereas Cd8alpha, NK receptors, and Granzymes were upregulated in aging IEL CD4+ T cells. Functional analysis showed that aging IEL T cells had a higher cytotoxic function against intestinal tumor organoids in vitro than young IEL T cells. scRNAseq revealed that splenic T cells show a transition from naive to memory T cells, whereas intestinal T cells show the emergence of a CD8alphaalpha+CD4+ T cell fraction in aged mice, which is rarely seen in young cells. Further analysis of the aging IEL CD4+ T cells showed that two unique subsets are increased that are distinct from the systemic CD4+ T cells. Subset 1 has a pro-inflammatory component, with expression of IFNgamma and upregulation of NFkB signaling pathways. Subset 2 does not express IFNgamma, but upregulates inhibitory molecules and nIEL markers. Expression of granzymes and Cd8a was common to both. These fractions were in opposite positions in the clustering by UMAP and had different TCR repertoires. They may be involved in the suppression of intestinal aging and longevity through anti-tumor immunity, elimination of senescent cells and stressed cells in the aging environment. This finding could be a breakthrough in aging research.
38531803 | Analysis and Investigation of Bioinformatics and Epigenetics Reveal the Underlying Mechanisms by which FLOT2 Modulates the Progression of Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma. BACKGROUND: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) poses a significant threat to the quality of life for people worldwide. Regrettably, effective treatment strategies for this disease remain elusive in clinical practice due to the unclear understanding of its molecular mechanisms. Therefore, this study was devised to address these issues and identify novel diagnostic, therapeutic, and prognostic biomarkers for DLBCL. METHODS: Gene expression and clinical data for DLBCL patients were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, and relevant clinical data, tumor mutational burden (TMB), and gene expression levels were extracted. Bioinformatics analysis was conducted to screen for differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The prognostic significance of flotillin-2 (FLOT2) was assessed using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot analyses were employed to evaluate mRNA and protein levels of the genes. Cell proliferation, apoptosis, and invasion were assessed using cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, flow cytometry analysis, and Transwell assay, respectively. RESULTS: Our bioinformatics analysis revealed that FLOT2 was significantly overexpressed in DLBCL tissues compared to normal tissues, a finding corroborated by subsequent immunohistochemistry staining, qRT-PCR, and Western blot analyses. To elucidate its biological functions, shRNAs targeting FLOT2 were transfected into DLBCL cell lines (LY-3 and U2932), resulting in suppressed cell proliferation and invasion, while promoting apoptosis. Furthermore, a positive correlation between TMB and FLOT2 expression in DLBCL was observed. Subsequently, quanTIseq was utilized to calculate the immune score and assess FLOT2 gene expression. In DLBCL, FLOT2 gene expression was found to be associated with T cell CD4+ (non-regulatory) (p < 0.01), monocytes (p < 0.05), and uncharacterized cells (p < 0.05). Regarding immune checkpoint markers, including the cluster of differentiation 274 (CD274), cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 (CTLA4), hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 2 (HAVCR2), lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG3), programmed cell death protein 1 (PDCD1), programmed cell death 1 ligand 2 (PDCD1LG2), Siglec-15 (SIGLEC15), and T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT), our analysis indicated that in DLBCL, FLOT2 exhibited a relationship only with TIGIT (p < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: In summary, FLOT2 functions as an oncogene and is linked to DLBCL prognosis and the tumor microenvironment. Targeting FLOT2 deletion emerges as a novel strategy to impede DLBCL aggressiveness by inhibiting cell proliferation and invasion, ultimately inducing apoptotic cell death.
35645319 | TNF-alpha/IFN-gamma synergy amplifies senescence-associated inflammation and SARS-CoV-2 receptor expression via hyper-activated JAK/STAT1. Older age and underlying conditions such as diabetes/obesity or immunosuppression are leading host risk factors for developing severe complications from COVID-19 infection. The pathogenesis of COVID-19-related cytokine storm, tissue damage, and fibrosis may be interconnected with fundamental aging processes, including dysregulated immune responses and cellular senescence. Here, we examined effects of key cytokines linked to cellular senescence on expression of SARS-CoV-2 viral entry receptors. We found exposure of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) to the inflammatory cytokines, TNF-alpha + IFN-gamma or a cocktail of TNF-alpha + IFN-gamma + IL-6, increased expression of ACE2/DPP4, accentuated the pro-inflammatory senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), and decreased cellular proliferative capacity, consistent with progression towards a cellular senescence-like state. IL-6 by itself failed to induce substantial effects on viral entry receptors or SASP-related genes, while synergy between TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma initiated a positive feedback loop via hyper-activation of the JAK/STAT1 pathway, causing SASP amplification. Breaking the interactive loop between senescence and cytokine secretion with JAK inhibitor ruxolitinib or antiviral drug remdesivir prevented hyper-inflammation, normalized SARS-CoV-2 entry receptor expression, and restored HUVECs proliferative capacity. This loop appears to underlie cytokine-mediated viral entry receptor activation and links with senescence and hyper-inflammation.
13242767 | Decay of incorporated radioactive phosphorus during reproduction of bacteriophage T2. The multiplication of vegetative T2 bacteriophage in B/r bacteria has been followed by studying the lethal effects of decay of incorporated radiophosphorus P(32) at various stages of the eclipse period. Experiment I. Non-radioactive B/r bacteria were infected with highly radioactive (i.e. P(32)-unstable) T2 and infection allowed to proceed at 37 degrees C. for various numbers of minutes before freezing the infected cells and storing them in liquid nitrogen. The longer development had been allowed to proceed at 37 degrees C. before freezing, the slower the inactivation of the frozen infective centers by P(32) decay. Samples which were frozen after incubation for 9 minutes were completely stable. Experiment II. Radioactive B/r bacteria in radioactive growth medium were infected with non-radioactive (i.e. stable) T2 and incubated for various lengths of time before being frozen and stored in liquid nitrogen, like those of Experiment I. In this case, the infective centers were stable to P(32) decay as long as they were frozen before the end of the eclipse period. The T2 progeny phages issuing from the infected bacteria were P(32)-unstable. Experiment III. Radioactive B/r bacteria in radioactive medium were infected with radioactive (i.e. P(32)-unstable) T2 and otherwise incubated and frozen like those of the first two experiments. In this case, the same progressive stabilization, of the infective centers towards inactivation by P(32) decay was observed as that found in Experiment I. The ability to yield infective progeny of infected bacteria incubated for 10 minutes at 37 degrees C. before freezing could no longer be destroyed by P(32) decay. The progeny issuing from the infected cells were as unstable as the parental phage. These results could be explained by one of three general hypotheses. As vegetative phage begins to multiply, it is possible that: (a) there is a high probability that any part of the vegetative phage already duplicated can be saved after its destruction by P(32) decay through a process analogous to multiplicity reactivation or, (b) there occurs a change in state of the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) preliminary to or in the course of its replication that renders it refractory to destruction by P(32) decay, or, finally (c) there occurs a transfer of the genetic factors from the DNA of the infecting phage to another substance not sensitive to destruction by P(32) decay.
38606261 | Ivermectin: A Multifaceted Drug With a Potential Beyond Anti-parasitic Therapy. Ivermectin was first discovered in the 1970s by Japanese microbiologist Satoshi Omura and Irish parasitologist William C. Campbell. Ivermectin has become a versatile pharmaceutical over the past 50 years. Ivermectin is a derivative of avermectin originally used to treat parasitic infections. Emerging literature has suggested that its role goes beyond this and may help treat inflammatory conditions, viral infections, and cancers. Ivermectin's anti-parasitic, anti-inflammatory, anti-viral, and anticancer effects were explored. Its traditional mechanism of action in parasitic diseases, such as scabies and malaria, rests on its ability to interfere with the glutamate-gated chloride channels in invertebrates and the lack of P-glycoprotein in many parasites. More recently, it has been discovered that the ability of ivermectin to block the nuclear factor kappa-light-chain enhancer of the activated B (NF-kappaB) pathway that modulates the expression and production of proinflammatory cytokines is implicated in its role as an anti-inflammatory agent to treat rosacea. Ivermectin has also been evaluated for treating infections caused by viruses, such as SARS-CoV-2 and adenoviruses, through inhibition of viral protein transportation and acting on the importin alpha/beta1 interface. It has also been suggested that ivermectin can inhibit the proliferation of tumorigenic cells through various pathways that lead to the management of certain cancers. The review aimed to evaluate its multifaceted effects and potential clinical applications beyond its traditional use as an anthelmintic agent.
35334297 | Structural characteristics and mucosal immune response of the interbranchial lymphoid tissue in the gills of flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus). A specialized lymphoepithelial tissue termed the interbranchial lymphoid tissue (ILT) is recently identified in several fish species. However, the structural variation and mucosal immune functions of the ILT remain largely unknown. In this study, the anti-Zap-70 MAb was firstly determined to specifically recognize ZAP-70 protein, and CD4-1+, CD4-2+ and CD8beta+ T-cells, but not IgM+ B cells, in peripheral blood leucocytes of flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus). Then we found that aggregates of Zap-70+ cells were located in the epithelium covering the bottom of the interbranchial cleft and along the afferent and efferent edges of the filaments in a cross view, where a meshwork of epithelial cells containing diffused lymphoid cells was exhibited, confirming these structures as the ILT; In a sagittal view, Zap-70+ cells were situated at the base of the filaments (here named as proximal ILT, pILT) and in the interlamellar epithelium (named as distal ILT, dILT). Also, a few IgM+ B cells were distributed at these sites. The lymphoepithelium within pILT and dILT was very thin with a low number of Zap-70+ cells in premetamorphosis and postclimax larvae of flounder, and got thicker containing much more Zap-70+ cells in juvenile and adult individuals. The aggregates of CD4-1+/Zap-70+, CD4-2+/Zap-70+, and CD8beta+/Zap-70+ T-cell subsets were identified in the ILT. Post bath vaccination with inactivated Edwardsiella tarda and then intraperitoneal injection of EdU, the amounts of EdU+ and Zap-70+ cells obviously increased at 3 d and 7 d, and co-localization of EdU+/Zap-70+ cells identified the presence of proliferative T cells; meanwhile, MHC class II-expressing cells were increased. These findings indicated that the ILT in gills of flounder was an important site for the induction of local T cell-mediated immunity, which would lead to a better understanding of mucosal immunity and defense mechanisms of teleost fish.
9709937 | Transdermal testosterone administration in women with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome wasting: a pilot study. Although human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease is increasing rapidly among women, no prior studies have investigated gender-based therapeutic strategies for the treatment of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and its complications in this population. Markedly decreased serum androgen levels have been demonstrated in women with AIDS and may be a contributing factor to the wasting syndrome in this population. To assess the effects of androgen replacement therapy in women with AIDS wasting, we conducted a randomized, placebo-controlled, pilot study of transdermal testosterone administration. The primary aim of the study was to determine efficacy in terms of the change in serum testosterone levels, safety parameters and tolerability. A secondary aim of the study was to investigate testosterone effects on weight, body composition, quality of life, and functional indexes. Fifty-three ambulatory women with the AIDS wasting syndrome defined as weight less than 90% of ideal body weight or weight loss of more than 10% of the preillness maximum, free of new opportunistic infection within 6 weeks of study initiation, and with screening serum levels of free testosterone less than the mean of the normal reference range (< 3 pg/mL) were enrolled in the study. Subjects were age 37 +/- 1 yr old (mean +/- SEM), weighed 92 +/- 2% of ideal body weight, and had lost 17 +/- 1% of their maximum weight. CD4 count was 324 +/- 36 cells/mm3, and viral burden was 102,382 +/- 28,580 copies. Subjects were randomized into three treatment groups, in which two placebo patches (PP), one active/one placebo patch (AP group), or two active patches (AA group) were applied twice weekly to the abdomen for 12 weeks. The expected nominal delivery rates of testosterone were 150 and 300 microg/day, respectively, for the AP and AA groups. Forty-five subjects completed the study (PP group, n = 13; AP group, n = 14; AA group, n = 18). Two additional subjects from the PP group and two from the AP group were included in the intent to treat analysis. Serum free testosterone levels increased significantly from 1.2 +/- 0.2 to 5.9 +/- 0.8 pg/mL (AP) and from 1.9 +/- 0.4 to 12.4 +/- 1.6 pg/mL (AA) in response to testosterone administration (P < 0.0001 for comparison of AA vs. PP and AP vs. PP; normal range, 1.3-6.8 pg/mL). Testosterone administration was generally well tolerated locally and systemically, with no adverse trends in hirsutism scores, lipid profiles, or liver function tests. Weight increased significantly in the AP group (1.9 +/- 0.7 kg) vs. the PP group (0.6 +/- 0.8 kg; P = 0.043), but did not increase significantly in the AA group (0.9 +/- 0.4 kg; P = 0.263 vs. PP, by mixed effects model assessing the interaction of time and treatment on all available data, one-tailed test). Improved social functioning (P = 0.024, by one-tailed test) and a trend toward improved pain score (P = 0.059) were observed in the AP vs. the PP-treated patients (RAND 36-Item Health Survey questionnaire). Five of six previously amenorrheic patients in the AP group had spontaneous resumption of menses compared to only one of four amenorrheic patients in the AA group (P = 0.045 for comparison of actual number of periods during the study). This study is the first investigation of testosterone administration in women with AIDS wasting. We demonstrate a novel method to augment testosterone levels in such patients that is safe and well tolerated during short term administration. At the lower of the two doses administered in this study, testosterone therapy was associated with positive trends in weight gain and quality of life. Higher, more supraphysiological, dosing was not associated with positive trends in weight or overall well-being. These data suggest that testosterone administration may improve the status of women with AIDS wasting. Further studies are needed to assess the effects of testosterone on weight in HIV-infected women and to define the optimal therapeutic window for test
26568826 | Effects of different forms of yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae on growth performance, intestinal development, and systemic immunity in early-weaned piglets. The present study was conducted to determine effects of different forms of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae, strain Y200007) on the growth performance, intestinal development, and systemic immunity in early-weaned piglets. A total of 96 piglets (14-d old, initial average body weight of 4.5 kg) were assigned to 4 dietary treatments: (1) basal diet without yeast (Control); (2) basal diet supplemented with 3.00 g/kg live yeast (LY); (3) basal diet supplemented with 2.66 g/kg heat-killed whole yeast (HKY); and (4) basal diet supplemented with 3.00 g/kg superfine yeast powders (SFY). Diets and water were provided ad libitum to the piglets during 3-week experiment. Growth performance of piglets was measured weekly. Samples of blood and small intestine were collected at days 7 and 21 of experiment. Dietary supplementation with LY and SFY improved G:F of piglets at days 1-21 of the experiment (P < 0.05) compared to Control group. Serum concentrations of growth hormone (GH), triiodothyronine (T3), tetraiodothyronine (T4), and insulin growth factor 1 (IGF-1) in piglets at day 21 of the experiment were higher when fed diets supplemented with LY and SFY than those in Control group (P < 0.05). Compared to Control group, contents of serum urea nitrogen of piglets were reduced by the 3 yeast-supplemented diets (P < 0.05). Diets supplemented with LY increased villus height and villus-to-crypt ratio in duodenum and jejunum of piglets (P < 0.05) compared to other two groups at day 7 of the experiment. Feeding diets supplemented with LY and SFY increased (P < 0.05) serum concentrations of IgA, IL-2, and IL-6 levels in piglets compared to Control. The CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio and proliferation of T-lymphocytes in piglets fed diets supplemented with LY were increased compared to that of Control group at day 7 of the experiment (P < 0.05). In conclusion, dietary supplementation with both LY and SFY enhanced feed conversion, small intestinal development, and systemic immunity in early-weaned piglets, with better improvement in feed conversion by dietary supplementation with LY, while dietary supplementation with SFY was more effective in increasing systemic immune functions in early-weaned piglets.
20432760 | T-lymphoblastic lymphoma with an unusual t(8;14)(q24;q11)--case report. Cytogenetic abnormalities seen at presentation of acute lymphoblastic leukemia or lymphoblastic lymphoma (ALL/ LBL) are associated with distinct clinical and hematologic disease entities. T-ALL/LBL are morphologically indistinguishable from those of B-ALL/LBL. An abnormal kariotype is found in 50-70% of cases of T-ALL/LBL. We present a 35-year old male patient with T-ALL/LBL and t(8;14)(q24;q11.2). Our patient presented with B-symptoms, bulky mediastinal disease and CNS infiltration. Bone marrow was morphologically normal and cytogenetically without clonal aberrations. Cytological findings of the supraclavicular lymph node showed numerous CD3 positive (100%) and CD2 positive (88%) lymphoblasts, negative for CD34 and CD10. Flow cytometry of lymph node revealed T cell phenotype of immature cells: CD45+CD2+CD5+CD7+CD4+CD8+CD3cyt +CD3TdT+CD10-CD34-HLAD/DR-. Cytogenetic analysis of lymph node showed translocation t(1;4)(p32;p12), t(8;14)(q24;q11.2). Southern blot analysis of extracted DNA from the supraclavicular lymph node demonstrated clonal rearrangement of the T cell antigen receptor (TCR/J) gene (region Vb+Jb2). Based on these findings, diagnosis of T lymphoblastic non Hodgkin lymphoma was established. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed CNS infiltration with 49% lymphoblasts positive for CD4 and CD8. The disease progressed rapidly with poor response to therapy. T-ALL/LBL with an unusual t(8;14)(q24;q11.2) is a very rare hematologic disorder with rapid disease progression and poor response to conventional therapy because of frequent central nervous system involvement and early relapses.
37352926 | PROGNOSTIC AND PREDICTIVE VALUE OF TUMOR INFILTRATING LYMPHOCYTES IN COMBINATION WITH SYSTEMIC INFLAMMATORY MARKERS IN COLON CANCER. OBJECTIVE: Systemic inflammatory indices and CD8(+) tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in the tumor microenvironment are highly prognostic in colon cancer but combined assessment is less well studied. The purpose of this study was to investigate the prognostic and predictive value of CD8(+) TILs in combination with systemic inflammatory indices in patients with resected stage II-III colon cancer. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with stage II-III CC (n=304) diagnosed between 2008-2016 were included. Pan-immune inflammation value (PIV) was used as a comprehensive inflammatory index and was calculated as: [neutrophil count x platelet count x monocyte count]/lymphocyte count. The mean density of CD8+ TILs in the periphery and center of the tumor was assessed and dichotomized at the 75th percentile. Combined inflammation score (CIS) was classified as \high\ in patients with high PIV (>median) plus low mean CD8(+) TILs density, and CIS \low\ in the remaining patients. RESULTS: 5-year DFS was 71% (78% in stage II, 63.4% in stage III). PIV was higher in right colon tumors, T4 tumors and in patients with obstruction / perforation. CD8(+) TIL density was lower in node positive tumors. High PIV and low CD8(+) TILs were associated with shorter disease-free survival (DFS). In multivariate analysis; age > 65 years, stage III disease and high CIS (PIVhigh / CD8low) were associated with shorter DFS. Among patients with stage II disease, patients with high CIS (PIVhigh / CD8low) derived significant benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy while those with low CIS derived no benefit. CONCLUSION: Combined inflammation score may represent a new prognostic factor for localized colon cancer and predictor of chemotherapy response in patients with stage II disease.
36064077 | Targeting spike protein-induced TLR/NET axis by COVID-19 therapeutic NRICM102 ameliorates pulmonary embolism and fibrosis. The global COVID-19 pandemic remains a critical public health threat, as existing vaccines and drugs appear insufficient to halt the rapid transmission. During an outbreak from May to August 2021 in Taiwan, patients with severe COVID-19 were administered NRICM102, which was a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formula developed based on its predecessor NRICM101 approved for treating mild cases. This study aimed to explore the mechanism of NRICM102 in ameliorating severe COVID-19-related embolic and fibrotic pulmonary injury. NRICM102 was found to disrupt spike protein/ACE2 interaction, 3CL protease activity, reduce activation of neutrophils, monocytes and expression of cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-8), chemokines (MCP-1, MIP-1, RANTES) and proinflammatory receptor (TLR4). NRICM102 also inhibited the spread of virus and progression to embolic and fibrotic pulmonary injury through reducing prothrombotic (vWF, PAI-1, NET) and fibrotic (c-Kit, SCF) factors, and reducing alveolar type I (AT1) and type II (AT2) cell apoptosis. NRICM102 may exhibit its protective capability via regulation of TLRs, JAK/STAT, PI3K/AKT, and NET signaling pathways. The study demonstrates the ability of NRICM102 to ameliorate severe COVID-19-related embolic and fibrotic pulmonary injury in vitro and in vivo and elucidates the underlying mechanisms.
36814923 | Genetic architecture of innate and adaptive immune cells in pigs. Pig industry is facing new challenges that make necessary to reorient breeding programs to produce more robust and resilient pig populations. The aim of the present work was to study the genetic determinism of lymphocyte subpopulations in the peripheral blood of pigs and identify genomic regions and biomarkers associated to them. For this purpose, we stained peripheral blood mononuclear cells to measure ten immune-cell-related traits including the relative abundance of different populations of lymphocytes, the proportions of CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells, and the ratio of CD4+/CD8+ T cells from 391 healthy Duroc piglets aged 8 weeks. Medium to high heritabilities were observed for the ten immune-cell-related traits and significant genetic correlations were obtained between the proportion of some lymphocytes populations. A genome-wide association study pointed out 32 SNPs located at four chromosomal regions on pig chromosomes SSC3, SSC5, SSC8, and SSCX as significantly associated to T-helper cells, memory T-helper cells and gammadelta T cells. Several genes previously identified in human association studies for the same or related traits were located in the associated regions, and were proposed as candidate genes to explain the variation of T cell populations such as CD4, CD8A, CD8B, KLRC2, RMND5A and VPS24. The transcriptome analysis of whole blood samples from animals with extreme proportions of gammadelta T, T-helper and memory T-helper cells identified differentially expressed genes (CAPG, TCF7L1, KLRD1 and CD4) located into the associated regions. In addition, differentially expressed genes specific of different T cells subpopulations were identified such as SOX13 and WC1 genes for gammadelta T cells. Our results enhance the knowledge about the genetic control of lymphocyte traits that could be considered to optimize the induction of immune responses to vaccines against pathogens. Furthermore, they open the possibility of applying effective selection programs for improving immunocompetence in pigs and support the use of the pig as a very reliable human biomedical model.
1914770 | Two-color immunofluorescence and flow cytometric analysis of lamina propria lymphocyte subsets in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. By using two-color immunofluorescence with fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) and phycoerythrin (PE)-labelled monoclonal antibodies and multiparameter flow cytometry, we investigated lamina propria lymphocyte subsets of patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD). Leu-3/Leu-2 (CD4/CD8) ratio of lamina propria lymphocytes (LPL) of CD (mean +/- SD: 1.9 +/- 0.8, P less than 0.01) was significantly decreased compared with controls (3.3 +/- 1.1), because of an increased number of CD8+ lymphocytes. The majority of lamina propria CD4+ cells were CD4+, Leu-8- and CD4+, CD45R- both in controls and IBD tissue. Many lamina propria T lymphocytes were activated, expressing HLA-DR antigen not only in IBD but also in controls. NK cells defined by CD16 and CD 56 (3.0 +/- 1.4%, P less than 0.01) were significantly decreased in patients with UC compared with controls (6.5 +/- 3.0%). A low proportion of B cells in the intestinal mucosa expressed Leu-8 antigen and CD23 antigen. The proportion of activated B cells of LPL was high in IBD mucosa as well as normal mucosa. These findings suggest that local activation of B cells leads to the loss of the expression of Leu-8 antigen and CD23.
35891565 | Network Pharmacology and Molecular Docking Elucidate the Underlying Pharmacological Mechanisms of the Herb Houttuynia cordata in Treating Pneumonia Caused by SARS-CoV-2. Used in Asian countries, including China, Japan, and Thailand, Houttuynia cordata Thumb (H. cordata; Saururaceae, HC) is a traditional herbal medicine that possesses favorable antiviral properties. As a potent folk therapy used to treat pulmonary infections, further research is required to fully elucidate the mechanisms of its pharmacological activities and explore its therapeutic potential for treating pneumonia caused by SARS-CoV-2. This study explores the pharmacological mechanism of HC on pneumonia using a network pharmacological approach combined with reprocessing expression profiling by high-throughput sequencing to demonstrate the therapeutic mechanisms of HC for treating pneumonia at a systemic level. The integration of these analyses suggested that target factors are involved in four signaling pathways, including PI3K-Akt, Jak-STAT, MAPK, and NF-kB. Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation were applied to verify these results, indicating a stable combination between four metabolites (Afzelin, Apigenin, Kaempferol, Quercetin) and six targets (DPP4, ELANE, HSP90AA1, IL6, MAPK1, SERPINE1). These natural metabolites have also been reported to bind with ACE2 and 3CLpro of SARS-CoV-2, respectively. The data suggest that HC exerts collective therapeutic effects against pneumonia caused by SARS-CoV-2 and provides a theoretical basis for further study of the active drug-like ingredients and mechanism of HC in treating pneumonia.
37886164 | Radiotherapy-induced dynamic changes in the lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio in patients with laryngeal cancer indicate poor prognosis. Aim: We hypothesized that markers of inflammation correlate with response to radiotherapy in patients with non-metastatic laryngeal cancer (LC). Our aim was to assess peripheral and local markers of inflammation including lymphocyte to monocyte ratio (LMR), neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet to lymphocyte ratio (PLR), infiltrating CD8+ lymphocytes (TILsCD8), and programmed death 1 ligand (PD-L1) expression. Methods: We performed a retrospective single-center analysis of LC patients administered definitive (R-RT) or postoperative radiotherapy (PORT). The primary endpoint was overall survival (OS) in relation to peripheral and local inflammatory markers and their dynamic changes during RT. Results: Study group included 215 patients (R-RT, n=116; PORT, n=99). The baseline (t0) NLR and LMR were significantly correlated with OS in the R-RT group. In patients with high and low NLR at t0, the five-year OS was 33% and 56% (p=0.010) and in high and low LMR at t0, the five-year OS was 56% and 27% (p=0.003), respectively. The LMR increase during R-RT predicted better prognosis: the five-year OS in high and low LMR was 57% and 31% at t2 (after 2 weeks of RT) (p=0.015), 49% and 26% at t4 (p< 0.001), and 50% and 25% at t6 (p=0.013), respectively. Multivariable analysis shows that the worse performance status (p=0.003), the presence of nodal metastases (p=0.0001), and low baseline LMR (p=0.049) in the R-RT group, and the presence of nodal metastases (p=0.035) and completion treatment on time (p=0.042) in PORT group were associated with poor prognosis. The PD-L1 expression had no significant prognostic value in any of the examined patients. Conclusion: The baseline LMR and its dynamic changes during R-RT and baseline NLR are independent prognostic factors in patients with nonmetastatic LC. PD-L1 expression and number of TILsCD8 have no prognostic value in R-RT and PORT group.
37243868 | Comparison of Recovery Effect for Sufentanil vs. Remifentanil Anesthesia in Elderly Patients Undergoing Curative Resection for Hepatocellular Carcinoma. INTRODUCTION: The aim of this work is to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of sufentanil vs. remifentanil anesthesia in elderly patients undergoing curative resection for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). METHODS: Medical records of elderly patients aged >= 65 years who received curative resection for HCC between January 2017 and December 2020 were retrospectively reviewed. The patients were divided into either the sufentanil group or the remifentanil group according to the method of analgesia used. Vital signs including mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2), distribution of T-cell subsets (CD3, CD4, and CD8 lymphocytes), distribution of the stress response index [cortisol (COR), interleukin (IL)-6, C-reactive protein (CRP), and glucose (GLU)] were recorded prior to anesthesia (T0), after induction of anesthesia (T1), at the end of surgery (T2), 24 h after surgery (T3), and 72 h after surgery (T4). Postoperative adverse events were collected. RESULTS: Repeated measure analysis of variance (ANOVA) showed that after controlling for baseline patient demographic and treatment characteristics as covariates, both between- and within-group effects were significant (all P < 0.01), and the interaction between time and treatments was also significant (all P < 0.01) in the vital signs (MAP, HR, and SpO2), distribution of T-cell subsets (CD3, CD4, and CD8 lymphocytes), and distribution of the stress response index (COR, IL-6, CRP, and GLU), indicating that sufentanil led to stable hemodynamic and respiratory functions, lower reduction of T-lymphocyte subsets, and stable stress response indices compared to remifentanil. There is no significant difference in adverse reactions between the two groups (P = 0.72). CONCLUSIONS: Sufentanil was associated with improved hemodynamic and respiratory function, less stress response, less inhibition of cellular immunity, and similar adverse reactions compared with remifentanil.
38544333 | The dysfunction of CD8+ T cells triggered by endometriotic stromal cells promotes the immune survival of endometriosis. Endometriosis is defined as an oestrogen-dependent and inflammatory gynaecological disease of which the pathogenesis remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the cellular heterogeneity and reveal the effect of CD8+ T cells on the progress of endometriosis. Three ovarian endometriosis patients were collected, and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) progressed and delineated the cellular landscape of endometriosis containing five cell clusters. The endometrial cells (EMCs) were the major component, of which the mesenchymal cells were preponderant and characterized with increased inflammation and oestrogen synthesis in endometriosis. The proportion of T cells, mainly CD8+ T cells rather than CD4+, was reduced in endometriotic lesions, and the cytokines and cytotoxicity of ectopic T cells were depressed. CD8+ T cells depressed the proliferation of ESCs through inhibiting CDK1/CCNB1 pathway to arrest the cell cycle and triggered inflammation through activating STAT1 pathway. Correspondingly, the coculture with ESCs resulted in the dysfunction of CD8+ T cells through upregulating STAT1/PDCD1 pathway and glycolysis-promoted metabolism reprogramming. The endometriotic lesions were larger in nude mouse models with T-cell deficiency than the normal mouse models. The inhibition of T cells via CD90.2 or CD8A antibody increased the endometriotic lesions in mouse models, and the supplement of T cells to nude mouse models diminished the lesion sizes. In conclusion, this study revealed the global cellular variation of endometriosis among which the cellular count and physiology of EMCs and T cells were significantly changed. The depressed cytotoxicity and aberrant metabolism of CD8+ T cells were induced by ESCs with the activation of STAT1/PDCD1 pathway resulting in immune survival to promote endometriosis.
38598121 | Aerobic physical training reduces severe asthma phenotype involving kinins pathway. INTRODUCTION: Aerobic physical training (APT) reduces eosinophilic airway inflammation, but its effects and mechanisms in severe asthma remain unknown. METHODS: An in vitro study employing key cells involved in the pathogenesis of severe asthma, such as freshly isolated human eosinophils, neutrophils, and bronchial epithelial cell lineage (BEAS-2B) and lung fibroblasts (MRC-5 cells), was conducted. Additionally, an in vivo study using male C57Bl/6 mice, including Control (Co; n = 10), Trained (Exe; n = 10), house dust mite (HDM; n = 10), and HDM + Trained (HDM + Exe; n = 10) groups, was carried out, with APT performed at moderate intensity, 5x/week, for 4 weeks. RESULTS: HDM and bradykinin, either alone or in combination, induced hyperactivation in human neutrophils, eosinophils, BEAS-2B, and MRC-5 cells. In contrast, IL-10, the primary anti-inflammatory molecule released during APT, inhibited these inflammatory effects, as evidenced by the suppression of numerous cytokines and reduced mRNA expression of the B1 receptor and ACE-2. The in vivo study demonstrated that APT decreased bronchoalveolar lavage levels of bradykinin, IL-1beta, IL-4, IL-5, IL-17, IL-33, TNF-alpha, and IL-13, while increasing levels of IL-10, klotho, and IL-1RA. APT reduced the accumulation of polymorphonuclear cells, lymphocytes, and macrophages in the peribronchial space, as well as collagen fiber accumulation, epithelial thickness, and mucus accumulation. Furthermore, APT lowered the expression of the B1 receptor and ACE-2 in lung tissue and reduced bradykinin levels in the lung tissue homogenate compared to the HDM group. It also improved airway resistance, tissue resistance, and tissue damping. On a systemic level, APT reduced total leukocytes, eosinophils, neutrophils, basophils, lymphocytes, and monocytes in the blood, as well as plasma levels of IL-1beta, IL-4, IL-5, IL-17, TNF-alpha, and IL-33, while elevating the levels of IL-10 and IL-1RA. CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that APT inhibits the severe asthma phenotype by targeting kinin signaling.
36426366 | Influence of PRRSV-1 vaccination and infection on mononuclear immune cells at the maternal-fetal interface. Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is one of the most devastating viruses for the global swine industry. Infection during late gestation causes reproductive failure but the local immune response in utero remains poorly understood. In this study, an experimental PRRSV-infection model with two different PRRSV-1 field isolates was used to investigate the immune cell phenotypes at the maternal-fetal interface during late gestation. In addition, phenotypic changes induced by a modified live virus (MLV, ReproCyc  PRRS EU) vaccine were studied. Vaccinated (n = 12) and non-vaccinated pregnant gilts (n = 12) were challenged with either one of the PRRSV-1 field isolates (low vs. high virulent, LV or HV) or sham-inoculated at day 84 of gestation. Twenty-one days post infection all gilts were euthanized and the fetal preservation status for all fetuses per litter was assessed. Leukocytes from the maternal-fetal interface were isolated and PRRSV-induced changes were investigated using ex vivo phenotyping by flow cytometry. PRRSV load in tissue from the maternal endometrium (ME) and fetal placenta (FP) was determined by RT-qPCR. In the ME, a vast increase in CD8beta T cells with CD8alphaposCD27dim early effector phenotype was found for fetuses from the non-vaccinated LV and HV-challenged gilts, compared to non-treated and vaccinated-only controls. HV-challenged fetuses also showed significant increases of lymphocytes with effector phenotypes in the FP, including NKp46pos NK cells, CD8alphahigh gammadelta T cells, as well as CD8alphaposCD27pos/dim CD4 and CD8 T cells. In vaccinated animals, this common activation of effector phenotypes was more confined and the fetal preservation status significantly improved. Furthermore, a negative correlation between the viral load and CD163highCD169pos mononuclear phagocytic cells was observed in the FP of HV-infected animals. These results suggest that the strong expansion of effector lymphocytes in gilts that were only infected causes immune-pathogenesis rather than protection. In contrast, the attenuated MLV seems to dampen this effect, yet presumably induces memory cells that limit reproductive failure. This work provides valuable insights into changes of local immune cell phenotypes following PRRSV vaccination and infection.
37864073 | Humoral immune response to SARS-CoV-2 and endemic coronaviruses in urban and indigenous children in Colombia. BACKGROUND: Although anti-SARS-CoV-2 humoral immune responses and epidemiology have been extensively studied, data gaps remain for certain populations such as indigenous people or children especially in low- and middle-income countries. To address this gap, we evaluated SARS-CoV-2 seroprevalence and humoral immunity towards the parental B.1 strain, local SARS-CoV-2 variants, and endemic coronaviruses in children from Colombia from March to April 2021. METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional seroprevalence study with 80 children from Bogota and expanded our analysis by comparing results with an independent observational study of 82 children from the Wiwa community living in the north-eastern Colombian territories. Antibody IgG titers towards SARS-CoV-2 and the endemic coronaviruses as well as ACE2 binding inhibition as a proxy for neutralization towards several SARS-CoV-2 variants were analyzed using two multiplex-based immunoassays. RESULTS: While we find seroprevalence estimates of 21.3% in children from Bogota, seroprevalence is higher with 34.1% in Wiwa children. We observe a robust induction of antibodies towards the surface-exposed spike protein, its S1-, S2- and receptor-binding-subdomains in all SARS-CoV-2 seropositive children. Only nucleocapsid-specific IgG is significantly lower in the indigenous participants. ACE2 binding inhibition is low for all SARS-CoV-2 variants examined. We observe a dominance of NL63 S1 IgG levels in urban and indigenous children which suggests an early exposure to this respiratory virus independent of living conditions and geographic location. SARS-CoV-2 seropositivity does not correlate with antibody levels towards any of the four endemic coronaviruses indicating the absence of cross-protective immunity. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, antibody titers, but in particular ACE2 binding inhibition are low within Colombian samples, requiring further investigation to determine any potential clinical significance.
32758800 | An engineered anti-idiotypic antibody-derived killer peptide (KP) early activates swine inflammatory monocytes, CD3+CD16+ natural killer T cells and CD4+CD8alpha+ double positive CD8beta+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes associated with TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma secretion. This study evaluated the early modulation of the phenotype and cytokine secretion in swine immune cells treated with an engineered killer peptide (KP) based on an anti-idiotypic antibody functionally mimicking a yeast killer toxin. The influence of KP on specific immunity was investigated using porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) and porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2) as ex vivo antigens. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from healthy pigs were stimulated with KP and with a scramble peptide for 20 min, 1, 4 and 20 h or kept unstimulated. The cells were analyzed using flow cytometry and ELISA. The same time-periods were used for KP pre-incubation/co-incubation to determine the effect on virus-recalled interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) secreting cell (SC) frequencies and single cell IFN-gamma productivity using ELISPOT. KP induced an early dose-dependent shift to pro-inflammatory CD172alpha+CD14+high monocytes and an increase of CD3+CD16+ natural killer (NK) T cells. KP triggered CD8alpha and CD8beta expression on classical CD4-CD8alphabeta+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) and double positive (DP) CD4+CD8alpha+ Th memory cells (CD4+CD8alpha+low CD8beta+low). A fraction of DP cells also expressed high levels of CD8alpha. The two identified DP CD4+CD8alpha+high CD8beta+low/+high CTL subsets were associated with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and IFN-gamma secretion. KP markedly boosted the reactivity and cross-reactivity of PRRSV type-1- and PCV2b-specific IFN-gamma SC. The results indicate the efficacy of KP in stimulating Th1-biased immunomodulation and support studies of KP as an immunomodulator or vaccine adjuvant.
38143822 | The impact of full-fat Hermetia illucens larvae meal on the health and immune system function of broiler chickens. Introduction: Alternative protein sources have recently been attracting growing interest as potential components of livestock nutrition. This study evaluated the effect on broiler health of replacing the soybean protein component of poultry feed with processed insect protein from farmed Hermetia illucens (HI) larvae. Material and Methods: A total of 384 male broiler chicks were divided into four diet groups (eight pens/treatment and 12 birds/pen) and reared to the 42nd day of life (dol). Each treatment group received a starter diet until the 14th dol, then a grower diet until the 35th and finally a finisher diet until the 42nd. The soybean meal in standard diets was replaced with full-fat HI larvae meal in the following amounts: 0% for the control group HI-0, 50% for group HI-50, 75% for group HI-75, and 100% for group HI-100. At 1 dol, chicks were vaccinated against Marek's disease, coccidiosis, Newcastle disease and infectious bronchitis and at 7 dol against avian metapneumovirus infections using live-attenuated vaccines. Blood and spleen samples were collected at three and six weeks of age and analysed using ELISA, flow cytometry, haematology and biochemistry. Results: On the 42nd dol, as the content of larvae meal in the chickens' diets increased, the birds' body weights decreased significantly. The substitution of the protein source had no effect on the haematological markers. In chicks that received larvae meal, there was a decrease in creatine kinase activity and phosphorus levels and an increase in calcium and uric acid levels in serum. Raising the proportion of full-fat HI larvae meal in the diet raised the percentage of T CD3+CD8a+ cells and lowered that of T CD3+CD4+ cells in both sample types. Chickens fed larvae meal had significantly lower post-vaccination anti-infectious bronchitis virus antibody titres. Conclusion: The poorer production results and impaired health in experimental birds may indicate lower than 50% protein substitution with full-fat HI larvae meal to be optimal.
27068393 | Uracil DNA glycosylase interacts with the p32 subunit of the replication protein A complex to modulate HIV-1 reverse transcription for optimal virus dissemination. BACKGROUND: Through incorporation into virus particles, the HIV-1 Vpr protein participates in the early steps of the virus life cycle by influencing the reverse transcription process. We previously showed that this positive impact on reverse transcription was related to Vpr binding to the uracil DNA glycosylase 2 enzyme (UNG2), leading to enhancement of virus infectivity in established CD4-positive cell lines via a nonenzymatic mechanism. RESULTS: We report here that Vpr can form a trimolecular complex with UNG2 and the p32 subunit (RPA32) of the replication protein A (RPA) complex and we explore how these cellular proteins can influence virus replication and dissemination in the primary target cells of HIV-1, which express low levels of both proteins. Virus infectivity and replication in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs), as well as the efficiency of the viral DNA synthesis, were significantly reduced when viruses were produced from cells depleted of endogenous UNG2 or RPA32. Moreover, viruses produced in macrophages failed to replicate efficiently in UNG2- and RPA32-depleted T lymphocytes. Reciprocally, viruses produced in UNG2-depleted T cells did not replicate efficiently in MDMs confirming the positive role of UNG2 for virus dissemination. CONCLUSIONS: Our data show the positive effect of UNG2 and RPA32 on the reverse transcription process leading to optimal virus replication and dissemination between the primary target cells of HIV-1.
2118122 | The cytoplasmic domain of the CD8 alpha-chain is required for its interaction with p56lck. The CD8 glycoprotein expressed on the surface of CTLs is a heterodimer composed of alpha (Lyt-2) and beta (Lyt-3) chains. Recent studies have shown that CD4 and CD8 are physically associated with a T cell-specific protein-tyrosine kinase p56lck. Our previous experiments have suggested strongly that p56lck interacts directly with CD4 and CD8 molecules. The present report using cytoplasmic deletion mutants of the CD8 alpha-chain gene has extended our observations to demonstrate unequivocally that the cytoplasmic domain of the CD8 alpha chain is responsible for interaction with p56lck. The data has also confirmed the importance of the conserved twelve amino acid sequence motif of the CD8 alpha cytoplasmic domain in complex formation with p56lck.
36776826 | Exploring the potential mechanisms of impairment on genitourinary system associated with coronavirus disease 2019 infection: Bioinformatics and molecular simulation analyses. Objective: The novel coronavirus (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2) has been spreading worldwide since December 2019, posing a serious danger to human health and socioeconomic development. A large number of clinical trials have revealed that coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) results in multi-organ damage including the urogenital system. This study aimed to explore the potential mechanisms of genitourinary damage associated with COVID-19 infection through bioinformatics and molecular simulation analysis. Methods: We used multiple publicly available databases to explore the expression patterns of ACE2, TMPRSS2, and CD147 (Basigin [BSG]) in major organs in the healthy and disease-specific populations, particularly the genitourinary organs. Single-cell RNA sequencing was used to analyze the cell-specific expression patterns of ACE2, TMPRSS2, CD147, cytokine receptors, and cytokine interacting proteins in genitourinary organs, such as the bladder, kidney, prostate, and testis. Additionally, gene set enrichment analysis was used to investigate the relationship between testosterone levels and COVID-19 vulnerability in patients with prostate cancer. Results: The results revealed that ACE2, TMPRSS2, and CD147 were highly expressed in normal urogenital organs. Then, they were also highly expressed in multiple tumors and chronic kidney diseases. Additionally, ACE2, TMPRSS2, and CD147 were significantly expressed in a range of cells in urogenital organs according to single-cell RNA sequencing. Cytokine receptors and cytokine interacting proteins, especially CCL2, JUN, and TIMP1, were commonly highly expressed in urogenital organs. Finally, gene set enrichment analysis results showed that high testosterone levels in prostate cancer patients were significantly related to the JAK/STAT signaling pathway and the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway which were associated with COVID-19. Conclusion: Our study provides new insights into the potential mechanisms of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 damage to urogenital organs from multiple perspectives, which may draw the attention of urologists to COVID-19 and contribute to the development of targeted drugs.
36015032 | Molecular Insights into Innate Immune Response in Captive Koala Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells Co-Infected with Multiple Koala Retrovirus Subtypes. Koala retrovirus (KoRV) exists in both endogenous and exogenous forms and has appeared as a major threat to koala health and conservation. Currently, there are twelve identified KoRV subtypes: an endogenous subtype (KoRV-A) and eleven exogenous subtypes (KoRV-B to -I, KoRV-K, -L, and -M). However, information about subtype-related immune responses in koalas against multiple KoRV infections is limited. In this study, we investigated KoRV-subtype (A, B, C, D, and F)-related immunophenotypic changes, including CD4, CD8b, IFN-gamma, IL-6, and IL-10 mRNA expression, in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) obtained from captive koalas (n = 37) infected with multiple KoRV subtypes (KoRV-A to F) reared in seven Japanese zoos. Based on KoRV subtype infection profiles, no significant difference in CD4 and CD8b mRNA expression was observed in the study populations. Based on the different KoRV subtype infections, we found that the IFN-gamma mRNA expression in koala PMBCs differs insignificantly (p = 0.0534). In addition, IL-6 and IL-10 mRNA expression also did not vary significantly in koala PBMCs based on KoRV subtype differences. We also investigated the Toll-like receptors (TLRs) response, including TLR2-10, and TLR13 mRNA in koala PBMCs infected with multiple KoRV subtypes. Significant differential expression of TLR5, 7, 9, 10, and 13 mRNA was observed in the PBMCs from koalas infected with different KoRV subtypes. Therefore, based on the findings of this study, it is assumed that co-infection of multiple KoRV subtypes might modify the host innate immune response, including IFN-gamma and TLRs responses. However, to have a more clear understanding regarding the effect of multiple KoRV subtypes on host cytokines and TLR response and pathogenesis, further large-scale studies including the koalas negative for KoRV and koalas infected with other KoRV subtypes (KoRV-A to -I, KoRV-K, -L and -M) are required.
15576786 | In vivo bypass of chaperone by extended coiled-coil motif in T4 tail fiber. The distal-half tail fiber of bacteriophage T4 is made of three gene products: trimeric gp36 and gp37 and monomeric gp35. Chaperone P38 is normally required for folding gp37 peptides into a P37 trimer; however, a temperature-sensitive mutation in T4 (ts3813) that suppresses this requirement at 30 degrees C but not at 42 degrees C was found in gene 37 (R. J. Bishop and W. B. Wood, Virology 72:244-254, 1976). Sequencing of the temperature-sensitive mutant revealed a 21-bp duplication of wild-type gene 37 inserted into its C-terminal portion (S. Hashemolhosseini et al., J. Mol. Biol. 241:524-533, 1994). We noticed that the 21-amino-acid segment encompassing this duplication in the ts3813 mutant has a sequence typical of a coiled coil and hypothesized that its extension would relieve the temperature sensitivity of the ts3813 mutation. To test our hypothesis, we crossed the T4 ts3813 mutant with a plasmid encoding an engineered pentaheptad coiled coil. Each of the six mutants that we examined retained two amber mutations in gene 38 and had a different coiled-coil sequence varying from three to five heptads. While the sequences varied, all maintained the heptad-repeating coiled-coil motif and produced plaques at up to 50 degrees C. This finding strongly suggests that the coiled-coil motif is a critical factor in the folding of gp37. The presence of a terminal coiled-coil-like sequence in the tail fiber genes of 17 additional T-even phages implies the conservation of this mechanism. The increased melting temperature should be useful for \clamps\ to initiate the folding of trimeric beta-helices in vitro and as an in vivo screen to identify, sequence, and characterize trimeric coiled coils.
2964240 | Increased helper inducer and decreased suppressor inducer phenotypes in the rheumatoid joint. Cells isolated from the joints of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) exhibit functional immune abnormalities, such as diminished suppressor activity, depressed response to mitogens, and enhanced immunoglobulin production. We sought to characterize the T lymphocyte subsets in the synovial fluid (SF) and peripheral blood (PB) of RA patients in an attempt to clarify the mechanism(s) responsible for these functional immune abnormalities. We used dual-immunofluorescence staining techniques with several combinations of monoclonal antibodies, including anti-4B4 and anti-2H4, which define, respectively, the helper inducer and suppressor inducer subsets of CD4+ (Leu-3+ and T4+) cells. Mononuclear cells from normal PB (n = 9), RA PB (n = 6), and RA SF (n = 9) were analyzed, after staining, by flow cytometry. We observed a significant increase (P less than 0.0002) in the number of cells bearing the helper inducer phenotype (CD4+, 4B4+), and a significant decrease (P less than 0.0002) in the number of cells bearing the suppressor inducer phenotype (CD4+, 2H4+), in RA SF compared with the levels in PB from RA patients or normal control subjects. We also observed that the CD8+, 2H4+ subset was significantly decreased (P less than 0.0001) in SF compared with that in PB. There was no significant difference in the lymphocyte subset levels in PB from RA patients and from normal subjects. These observations may account, in part, for the reduced suppressor activity, the poor response to mitogens, and the autologous mixed lymphocyte reaction, as well as the enhanced production of Ig and rheumatoid factor, that are observed in the rheumatoid joint.
36058151 | The landscape of potential health benefits of carotenoids as natural supportive therapeutics in protecting against Coronavirus infection. The Coronavirus Disease-2019 (COVID-19) pandemic urges researching possibilities for prevention and management of the effects of the virus. Carotenoids are natural phytochemicals of anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties and may exert potential in aiding in combatting the pandemic. This review presents the direct and indirect evidence of the health benefits of carotenoids and derivatives based on in vitro and in vivo studies, human clinical trials and epidemiological studies and proposes possible mechanisms of action via which carotenoids may have the capacity to protect against COVID-19 effects. The current evidence provides a rationale for considering carotenoids as natural supportive nutrients via antioxidant activities, including scavenging lipid-soluble radicals, reducing hypoxia-associated superoxide by activating antioxidant enzymes, or suppressing enzymes that produce reactive oxygen species (ROS). Carotenoids may regulate COVID-19 induced over-production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, pro-inflammatory enzymes and adhesion molecules by nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB), renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAS) and interleukins-6- Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (IL-6-JAK/STAT) pathways and suppress the polarization of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophage. Moreover, carotenoids may modulate the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors gamma by acting as agonists to alleviate COVID-19 symptoms. They also may potentially block the cellular receptor of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). These activities may reduce the severity of COVID-19 and flu-like diseases. Thus, carotenoid supplementation may aid in combatting the pandemic, as well as seasonal flu. However, further in vitro, in vivo and in particular long-term clinical trials in COVID-19 patients are needed to evaluate this hypothesis.
2208107 | Immunological effects of flavone acetic acid. Flavone acetic acid (FAA) enhances natural killer and lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell activity in mice. We examined the immunological effects of FAA on human blood cells both in vivo and in vitro. Peripheral blood natural killer and LAK activity and lymphocyte subsets were evaluated in cancer patients after receiving 3-h infusion of FAA at either 8.5 or 10 g/m2 with alkalinization. Natural killer cell activity and the number of Leu-19 (CD56) positive cells decreased at 24 h after infusion; significant changes in LAK activity and the number of Leu-1 (CD5), Leu-3 (CD4), Leu-2 (CD8) cells were not observed. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells and peripheral blood lymphocytes collected from healthy volunteers were exposed in vitro to FAA, interleukin 2, and FAA plus interleukin 2. FAA, alone or in combination, failed to enhance LAK activity at any time point or concentration from peripheral blood mononuclear cells and peripheral blood lymphocytes. Concentrations of greater than or equal to 100 micrograms/ml antagonized the generation of LAK activity from interleukin 2 treated peripheral blood lymphocytes. These data suggest that FAA may not be useful in enhancing immunological responses in humans.
37365840 | Mas receptor: a potential strategy in the management of ischemic cardiovascular diseases. MasR is a critical element in the RAS accessory pathway that protects the heart against myocardial infarction, ischemia-reperfusion injury, and pathological remodeling by counteracting the effects of AT1R. This receptor is mainly stimulated by Ang 1-7, which is a bioactive metabolite of the angiotensin produced by ACE2. MasR activation attenuates ischemia-related myocardial damage by facilitating vasorelaxation, improving cell metabolism, reducing inflammation and oxidative stress, inhibiting thrombosis, and stabilizing atherosclerotic plaque. It also prevents pathological cardiac remodeling by suppressing hypertrophy- and fibrosis-inducing signals. In addition, the potential of MasR in lowering blood pressure, improving blood glucose and lipid profiles, and weight loss has made it effective in modulating risk factors for coronary artery disease including hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia, and obesity. Considering these properties, the administration of MasR agonists offers a promising approach to the prevention and treatment of ischemic heart disease.Abbreviations: Acetylcholine (Ach); AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK); Angiotensin (Ang); Angiotensin receptor (ATR); Angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB); Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE); Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI); Anti-PRD1-BF1-RIZ1 homologous domain containing 16 (PRDM16); bradykinin (BK); Calcineurin (CaN); cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB); Catalase (CAT); C-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 2 (CCL2); Chloride channel 3 (CIC3); c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK); Cluster of differentiation 36 (CD36); Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART); Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF); Coronary artery disease (CAD); Creatine phosphokinase (CPK); C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10); Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR); Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS); Extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK 1/2); Fatty acid transport protein (FATP); Fibroblast growth factor 21 (FGF21); Forkhead box protein O1 (FoxO1); Glucokinase (Gk); Glucose transporter (GLUT); Glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta); High density lipoprotein (HDL); High sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP); Inositol trisphosphate (IP3); Interleukin (IL); Ischemic heart disease (IHD); Janus kinase (JAK); Kruppel-like factor 4 (KLF4); Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH); Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP); Left ventricular end-systolic pressure (LVESP); Lipoprotein lipase (LPL); L-NG-Nitro arginine methyl ester (L-NAME); Low density lipoprotein (LDL); Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR); Mas-related G protein-coupled receptors (Mrgpr); Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP); MAPK phosphatase-1 (MKP-1); Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK); Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1); NADPH oxidase (NOX); Neuropeptide FF (NPFF); Neutral endopeptidase (NEP); Nitric oxide (NO); Nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kappaB); Nuclear-factor of activated T-cells (NFAT); Pancreatic and duodenal homeobox 1 (Pdx1); Peroxisome proliferator- activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma); Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3k); Phospholipase C (PLC); Prepro-orexin (PPO); Prolyl-endopeptidase (PEP); Prostacyclin (PGI2); Protein kinase B (Akt); Reactive oxygen species (ROS); Renin-angiotensin system (RAS); Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK); Serum amyloid A (SAA); Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT); Sirtuin 1 (Sirt1); Slit guidance ligand 3 (Slit3); Smooth muscle 22alpha (SM22alpha); Sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP-1c); Stromal-derived factor-1a (SDF); Superoxide dismutase (SOD); Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS); Tissue factor (TF); Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4); Transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1); Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha); Uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1); Ventrolateral medulla (VLM).
37608279 | ACE2 in chronic disease and COVID-19: gene regulation and post-translational modification. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), a counter regulator of the renin-angiotensin system, provides protection against several chronic diseases. Besides chronic diseases, ACE2 is the host receptor for SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-2 virus, mediating the first step of virus infection. ACE2 levels are regulated by transcriptional, post-transcriptional, and post-translational regulation or modification. ACE2 transcription is enhanced by transcription factors including Ikaros, HNFs, GATA6, STAT3 or SIRT1, whereas ACE2 transcription is reduced by the transcription factor Brg1-FoxM1 complex or ERRalpha. ACE2 levels are also regulated by histone modification or miRNA-induced destabilization. The protein kinase AMPK, CK1alpha, or MAP4K3 phosphorylates ACE2 protein and induces ACE2 protein levels by decreasing its ubiquitination. The ubiquitination of ACE2 is induced by the E3 ubiquitin ligase MDM2 or UBR4 and decreased by the deubiquitinase UCHL1 or USP50. ACE2 protein levels are also increased by the E3 ligase PIAS4-mediated SUMOylation or the methyltransferase PRMT5-mediated ACE2 methylation, whereas ACE2 protein levels are decreased by AP2-mediated lysosomal degradation. ACE2 is downregulated in several human chronic diseases like diabetes, hypertension, or lung injury. In contrast, SARS-CoV-2 upregulates ACE2 levels, enhancing host cell susceptibility to virus infection. Moreover, soluble ACE2 protein and exosomal ACE2 protein facilitate SARS-CoV-2 infection into host cells. In this review, we summarize the gene regulation and post-translational modification of ACE2 in chronic disease and COVID-19. Understanding the regulation and modification of ACE2 may help to develop prevention or treatment strategies for ACE2-mediated diseases.
6233369 | Rapidly expanded activated human killer cell clones have strong antitumor cell activity and have the surface phenotype of either T gamma, T-non-gamma, or null cells. Cloned lymphoid cell lines showing cytolytic activity were derived from natural killer (NK) cell-enriched cell fractions obtained by fluorescence-activated cell sorting of cells that reacted with B73 .1, an NK cell-specific monoclonal antibody (MCA). The clones were cultured for more than 30 generations (i.e., more than 10(9) descendants from a single cell). The rapid expansion was achieved by using a special culture system developed for this purpose and based on the use of two types of allogeneic feeder cells. Three phenotypically different types of cytotoxic clones were obtained. These clones showed a broad spectrum of cytolytic activity against several NK-susceptible and NK-nonsusceptible tumor target cells. One of these clones had the following binding pattern to MCA: B73 .1+, T3-, T4-, T8-, HNK1 -, and Lyt-3-. These cells formed rosettes with IgG-coated erythrocytes but not with sheep erythrocytes, and therefore might be null cell-derived. Most of the cytotoxic clones showed the following phenotype: B73 .1+, T3-, T4-, T8-, HNK1 -, Lyt-3+, E+, and EA-gamma +. These clones were probably derived from T-gamma cells. In addition, one clone with cytolytic activity was derived from B73 .1- cells. This had the phenotype B73 .1-, T3+, T4-, T8-, HNK1 -, Lyt-3+, E+, and EA-gamma-, and may be of T-non-gamma cell origin. About 10 noncytolytic clones showed the phenotype B73 .1-, T3+, T4, or T8+, HNK1 -, Lyt-3+, Ia+, E+, and EA-gamma -. An absolute correlation was found between the presence of the B73 .1 antigen, the absence of the T3 marker, and the capacity of the cells to form EA rosettes. Furthermore, all clones except one (Lyt-3-) formed E rosettes. Although the in vitro life span varied from clone to clone, B73 .1- clones generally grew faster and for longer times (greater than or equal to 50 generations) than did B73 .1+ ones (less than or equal to 40 generations). The cytolytic activity, cell surface phenotype as determined with MCA, rosette formation, and target cell specificity spectrum remained stable over the entire culture period. We conclude that the majority of the activated MHC-nonrestricted cytolytic clones obtained in this culture system show a particular phenotype. These cells can be expanded to large numbers. Whether or not these clones might be derived from B73 .1+, HNK1 + NK cells with the morphologic appearance of large granular lymphocytes will be discussed.
13620882 | The release and stability of the large subunit of DNA from T2 and T4 bacteriophage. T(2) and T(4) bacteriophage have been exposed to various treatments which are known to release the encapsulated DNA. The unseparated reaction products have been examined by autoradiography. The results indicate the presence of one large subunit of DNA (molecular weight 45 x 10(6)) for each former phage particle. Some smaller subunits of molecular weight 12 x 10(6) have been observed. The large subunit is sensitive to very small amounts of DNAase, and is resistant to mixed proteases and cannot be dispersed by banding in cesium chloride density gradients. The sensitivity to fragmentation by P(32) decay and the increase in this sensitivity following heat treatment are best explained by assuming that the large subunit is a duplex of polynucleotide strands over most of its length. The presence of hypothetical non-DNA interconnections is considered.
26079129 | Significant association between rare IPO11-HTR1A variants and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in Caucasians. We comprehensively examined the rare variants in the IPO11-HTR1A region to explore their roles in neuropsychiatric disorders. Five hundred seventy-three to 1,181 rare SNPs in subjects of European descent and 1,234-2,529 SNPs in subjects of African descent (0 < minor allele frequency (MAF) < 0.05) were analyzed in a total of 49,268 subjects in 21 independent cohorts with 11 different neuropsychiatric disorders. Associations between rare variant constellations and diseases and associations between individual rare variants and diseases were tested. RNA expression changes of this region were also explored. We identified a rare variant constellation across the entire IPO11-HTR1A region that was associated with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in Caucasians (T5: P = 7.9 x 10(-31) ; Fp: P = 1.3 x 10(-32) ), but not with any other disorder examined; association signals mainly came from IPO11 (T5: P = 3.6 x 10(-10) ; Fp: P = 3.2 x 1 0(-10) ) and the intergenic region between IPO11 and HTR1A (T5: P = 4.1 x 10(-30) ; Fp: P = 5.4 x 10(-32) ). One association between ADHD and an intergenic rare variant, i.e., rs10042956, exhibited region- and cohort-wide significance (P = 5.2 x 10(-6) ) and survived correction for false discovery rate (q = 0.006). Cis-eQTL analysis showed that, 29 among the 41 SNPs within or around IPO11 had replicable significant regulatory effects on IPO11 exon expression (1.5 x 10(-17) <=P < 0.002) in human brain or peripheral blood mononuclear cell tissues. We concluded that IPO11-HTR1A was a significant risk gene region for ADHD in Caucasians.
35792186 | Peritoneal M2 macrophage-derived extracellular vesicles as natural multitarget nanotherapeutics to attenuate cytokine storms after severe infections. Cytokine storms are a primary cause of multiple organ damage and death after severe infections, such as SARS-CoV-2. However, current single cytokine-targeted strategies display limited therapeutic efficacy. Here, we report that peritoneal M2 macrophage-derived extracellular vesicles (M2-EVs) are multitarget nanotherapeutics that can be used to resolve cytokine storms. In detail, primary peritoneal M2 macrophages exhibited superior anti-inflammatory potential than immobilized cell lines. Systemically administered M2-EVs entered major organs and were taken up by phagocytes (e.g., macrophages). M2-EV treatment effectively reduced excessive cytokine (e.g., TNF-alpha and IL-6) release in vitro and in vivo, thereby attenuating oxidative stress and multiple organ (lung, liver, spleen and kidney) damage in endotoxin-induced cytokine storms. Moreover, M2-EVs simultaneously inhibited multiple key proinflammatory pathways (e.g., NF-kappaB, JAK-STAT and p38 MAPK) by regulating complex miRNA-gene and gene-gene networks, and this effect was collectively mediated by many functional cargos (miRNAs and proteins) in EVs. In addition to the direct anti-inflammatory role, human peritoneal M2-EVs expressed angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), a receptor of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, and thus could serve as nanodecoys to prevent SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus infection in vitro. As cell-derived nanomaterials, the therapeutic index of M2-EVs can be further improved by genetic/chemical modification or loading with specific drugs. This study highlights that peritoneal M2-EVs are promising multifunctional nanotherapeutics to attenuate infectious disease-related cytokine storms.
8892827 | Characterization of the helper proteins for the assembly of tail fibers of coliphages T4 and lambda. Assembly of tail fibers of coliphage T4 requires the action of helper proteins. In the absence of one of these, protein 38 (p38), p37, constituting the distal part of the long tail fiber, fails to oligomerize. In the absence of the other, p57, p34 (another component of the long tail fiber), p37, and p12 (the subunit of the short tail fiber) remain unassembled. p38 can be replaced by the Tfa (tail fiber assembly) protein (pTfa) of phage lambda, which has the advantage of remaining soluble even when produced in massive amounts. The mechanisms of action of the helpers are unknown. As a first step towards elucidation of these mechanisms, p57 and pTfa have been purified to homogeneity and have been crystallized. The identity of gene 57 (g57), not known with certainty previously, has been established. The 79-residue protein p57 represents a very exotic polypeptide. It is oligomeric and acidic (an excess of nine negative charges). It does not contain Phe, Trp, Tyr, His, Pro, and Cys. Only 25 N-terminal residues were still able to complement a g57 amber mutant, although with a reduced efficiency. In cells overproducing the protein, it assumed a quasi-crystalline structure in the form of highly ordered fibers. They traversed the cells longitudinally (and thus blocked cell division) with a diameter approaching that of the cell and with a hexagonal appearance. The 194-residue pTfa is also acidic (an excess of 13 negative charges) and is likely to be dimeric.
37961145 | Extracellular domain, hinge, and transmembrane determinants affecting surface CD4 expression of a novel anti-HIV chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) construct. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells have demonstrated clinical potential, but current receptors still need improvements to be successful against chronic HIV infection. In this study, we address some requirements of CAR motifs for strong surface expression of a novel anti-HIV CAR by evaluating important elements in the extracellular, hinge, and transmembrane (TM) domains. When combining a truncated CD4 extracellular domain and CD8alpha hinge/TM, the novel CAR did not express extracellularly but was detectable intracellularly. By shortening the CD8alpha hinge, CD4-CAR surface expression was partially recovered and addition of the LYC motif at the end of the CD8alpha TM fully recovered both intracellular and extracellular CAR expression. Mutation of LYC to TTA or TTC showed severe abrogation of CAR expression by flow cytometry and confocal microscopy. Additionally, we determined that CD4-CAR surface expression could be maximized by the removal of FQKAS motif at the junction of the extracellular domain and the hinge region. CD4-CAR surface expression also resulted in cytotoxic CAR T cell killing of HIV Env + target cells. In this study, we identified elements that are crucial for optimal CAR surface expression, highlighting the need for structural analysis studies to establish fundamental guidelines of CAR designs.
1836956 | Interleukin 7 preferentially supports the growth of gamma delta T cell receptor-bearing T cells from fetal thymocytes in vitro. Murine fetal thymus cells were cultured with various interleukins (IL-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7) in the absence or presence of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), and it was found that only IL-4 and IL-7 induced a prominent proliferative response in the presence of PMA. A large proportion of cells grown in the cultures of fetal thymus cells (days 15 and 17 of gestation) stimulated with PMA plus IL-4 or with PMA plus IL-2 remained CD4-CD8-. In marked contrast, nearly 70% of the cells generated in the cultures of the same fetal thymocytes stimulated with PMA plus IL-7 expressed CD8 on their surface. Approximately 30% of these cells expressed TCR gamma, delta, whereas TCR alpha beta+ cells were virtually undetectable. The cells grown in cultures stimulated with PMA plus IL-7 comprised three populations: CD4-Lyt-2-3-, CD4-Lyt-2 + Lyt-3- and CD4-Lyt-2 + Lyt-3+, and that TCR gamma delta+ T cells were found in all three populations. It was also found that the addition of IL-7 in the culture of adult CD4-CD8- thymocytes on the monolayer of a thymic stromal cell line, which selectively promotes the generation of alpha beta T cells, resulted in the generation of gamma delta T cells. These results strongly suggest that IL-7 plays an important role in the development of gamma delta T cells.
37189345 | Effects of GHR Deficiency and Juvenile Hypoglycemia on Immune Cells of a Porcine Model for Laron Syndrome. Laron syndrome (LS) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by low levels of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) and high levels of growth hormone (GH) due to mutations in the growth hormone receptor gene (GHR). A GHR-knockout (GHR-KO) pig was developed as a model for LS, which displays many of the same features as humans with LS-like transient juvenile hypoglycemia. This study aimed to investigate the effects of impaired GHR signaling on immune functions and immunometabolism in GHR-KO pigs. GHR are located on various cell types of the immune system. Therefore, we investigated lymphocyte subsets, proliferative and respiratory capacity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), proteome profiles of CD4- and CD4+ lymphocytes and IFN-alpha serum levels between wild-type (WT) controls and GHR-KO pigs, which revealed significant differences in the relative proportion of the CD4+CD8alpha- subpopulation and in IFN-alpha levels. We detected no significant difference in the respiratory capacity and the capacity for polyclonal stimulation in PBMCs between the two groups. But proteome analysis of CD4+ and CD4- lymphocyte populations revealed multiple significant protein abundance differences between GHR-KO and WT pigs, involving pathways related to amino acid metabolism, beta-oxidation of fatty acids, insulin secretion signaling, and oxidative phosphorylation. This study highlights the potential use of GHR-KO pigs as a model for studying the effects of impaired GHR signaling on immune functions.
36602319 | Animal Age Affects the Gut Microbiota and Immune System in Captive Koalas (Phascolarctos cinereus). Gut microbiota is one of the major elements in the control of host health. However, the composition of gut microbiota in koalas has rarely been investigated. Here, we performed 16S rRNA gene sequencing to determine the individual and environmental determinants of gut microbiota diversity and function in 35 fecal samples collected from captive koalas. Meanwhile, blood immune-related cytokine levels were examined by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR to initially explore the relationship between the gut microbiota and the immune system in koalas. The relative abundance of many bacteria, such as Lonepinella koalarum, varies at different ages in koalas and decreases with age. Conversely, Ruminococcus flavefaciens increases with age. Moreover, bacterial pathways involved in lipid metabolism, the biosynthesis of other secondary metabolites, and infectious disease show a significant correlation with age. Age affects the relationship between the microbiota and the host immune system. Among them, the gut microbiota of subadult and aged koalas was closely correlated with CD8beta and CD4, whereas adult koalas were correlated with CLEC4E. We also found that sex, reproductive status, and living environment have little impact on the koala gut microbiota and immune system. These results shed suggest age is a key factor affecting gut microbiota and immunity in captive koalas and thus provide new insight into its role in host development and the host immune system. IMPORTANCE Although we have a preliminary understanding of the gut microbiota of koalas, we lack insight into which factors potentially impact captive koalas. This study creates the largest koala gut microbiota data set in China to date and describes several factors that may affect gut microbiota and the immune system in captive koalas, highlighting that age may be a key factor affecting captive koalas. Moreover, this study is the first to characterize the correlation between gut microbiota and cytokines in koalas. Better treatment strategies for infectious disorders may be possible if we can better understand the interactions between the immune system and the microbiota.
37928528 | Xenogeneic equine stem cells activate anti-tumor adaptive immunity in a 4T1-based intraductal mouse model for triple-negative breast cancer: proof-of-principle. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remains difficult to treat, especially due to ineffective immune responses. Current treatments mainly aim at a cytotoxic effect, whereas (stem) cell therapies are being investigated for their immune stimulatory capacities to initiate the anti-tumor immunity. Here, a thoroughly characterized, homogenous and non-tumorigenic mixture of equine mesenchymal stem cells (eMSCs) harvested from horse peripheral blood as innovative xenogeneic immunomodulators were tested in a 4T1-based intraductal mouse model for TNBC. The eMSCs significantly reduced 4T1 progression upon systemic injection, with induction of inflammatory mediators and T-cell influx in primary tumors, already after a single dose. These xenogeneic anti-cancer effects were not restricted to MSCs as systemic treatment with alternative equine epithelial stem cells (eEpSCs) mimicked the reported disease reduction. Mechanistically, effective eMSC treatment did not rely on the spleen as systemic entrapment site, whereas CD4+ and CD8alpha+ T-cell infiltration and activation were critical. These results show that eMSCs and potentially also other equine stem cell types can be a valuable TNBC treatment strategy for further (pre)clinical evaluation.
36057605 | Suppression of ACE2 SUMOylation protects against SARS-CoV-2 infection through TOLLIP-mediated selective autophagy. In addition to investigating the virology of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), discovering the host-virus dependencies are essential to identify and design effective antiviral therapy strategy. Here, we report that the SARS-CoV-2 entry receptor, ACE2, conjugates with small ubiquitin-like modifier 3 (SUMO3) and provide evidence indicating that prevention of ACE2 SUMOylation can block SARS-CoV-2 infection. E3 SUMO ligase PIAS4 prompts the SUMOylation and stabilization of ACE2, whereas deSUMOylation enzyme SENP3 reverses this process. Conjugation of SUMO3 with ACE2 at lysine (K) 187 hampers the K48-linked ubiquitination of ACE2, thus suppressing its subsequent cargo receptor TOLLIP-dependent autophagic degradation. TOLLIP deficiency results in the stabilization of ACE2 and elevated SARS-CoV-2 infection. In conclusion, our findings suggest selective autophagic degradation of ACE2 orchestrated by SUMOylation and ubiquitination as a potential way to combat SARS-CoV-2 infection.
36625011 | Peripheral CD4 +CD8 + double positive T cells: A potential marker to evaluate renal impairment susceptibility during systemic lupus erythematosus. Lupus nephritis (LN) has a high incidence in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients, but there is a lack of sensitive predictive markers. The purpose of the study was to investigate the association between the CD4 +CD8 + double positive T (DPT) lymphocytes and LN. The study included patients with SLE without renal impairment (SLE-NRI), LN, nephritic syndrome (NS), or nephritis. Peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets were analyzed by flow cytometry. Biochemical measurements were performed with peripheral blood in accordance with the recommendations proposed by the National Center for Clinical Laboratories. The proportions of DPT cells in the LN group were significantly higher than that in the SLE-NRI group ( t=4.012, P<0.001), NS group ( t=3.240, P=0.001), and nephritis group ( t=2.57, P=0.011). In the LN group, the risk of renal impairment increased significantly in a DPT cells proportion-dependent manner. The risk of LN was 5.136 times (95% confidence interval, 2.115-12.473) higher in cases with a high proportion of DPT cells than those whose proportion of DPT cells within the normal range. These findings indicated that the proportion of DPT cells could be a potential marker to evaluate LN susceptibility, and the interference of NS and nephritis could be effectively excluded when assessing the risk of renal impairment during SLE with DPT cell proportion.
38283360 | Mutational analysis of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6-KPNA2 binding interface and identification of potent small molecule inhibitors to recuse the host immune system. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) surfaced on 31 December, 2019, and was identified as the causative agent of the global COVID-19 pandemic, leading to a pneumonia-like disease. One of its accessory proteins, ORF6, has been found to play a critical role in immune evasion by interacting with KPNA2 to antagonize IFN signaling and production pathways, resulting in the inhibition of IRF3 and STAT1 nuclear translocation. Since various mutations have been observed in ORF6, therefore, a comparative binding, biophysical, and structural analysis was used to reveal how these mutations affect the virus's ability to evade the human immune system. Among the identified mutations, the V9F, V24A, W27L, and I33T, were found to have a highly destabilizing effect on the protein structure of ORF6. Additionally, the molecular docking analysis of wildtype and mutant ORF6 and KPNA2 revealed the docking score of - 53.72 kcal/mol for wildtype while, -267.90 kcal/mol, -258.41kcal/mol, -254.51 kcal/mol and -268.79 kcal/mol for V9F, V24A, W27L, and I33T respectively. As compared to the wildtype the V9F showed a stronger binding affinity with KPNA2 which is further verified by the binding free energy (-42.28 kcal/mol) calculation. Furthermore, to halt the binding interface of the ORF6-KPNA2 complex, we used a computational molecular search of potential natural products. A multi-step virtual screening of the African natural database identified the top 5 compounds with best docking scores of -6.40 kcal/mol, -6.10 kcal/mol, -6.09 kcal/mol, -6.06 kcal/mol, and -6.03 kcal/mol for tophit1-5 respectively. Subsequent all-atoms simulations of these top hits revealed consistent dynamics, indicating their stability and their potential to interact effectively with the interface residues. In conclusion, our study represents the first attempt to establish a foundation for understanding the heightened infectivity of new SARS-CoV-2 variants and provides a strong impetus for the development of novel drugs against them.
3904400 | Lymphomatoid papulosis. Characterization of skin infiltrates by monoclonal antibodies. Cryostat sections from fully developed papular lesions of lymphomatoid papulosis (histologic subtype A or B) have been examined by immunoenzymatic staining with 24 monoclonal antibodies against lymphoid cells and their subsets. The lesions demonstrated essentially identical cellular compositions and consisted of T-lymphocytes with a peripheral phenotype (Lyt3+, anti-Leu-4+, OKT6-), macrophages (HLA-DR+, EB11+, OKM1+), and Langerhans cells (HLA-DR+, OKT6+). T-helper/inducer cells (anti-Leu-3+) usually dominated over T-suppressor/cytotoxic cells (anti-Leu-2+). In all cases, proportions of the infiltrating T-cells expressed markers associated with activation (HLA-DR, the OKT1O antigen, interleukin-2 receptor) or proliferation (transferrin receptor, the Ki-67 antigen) of lymphoid cells. Furthermore, the infiltrates contained clusters and/or sheets of large cells reactive with antibodies (Ki-1, Ki-24, Ki-27), which recognize Hodgkin's and Reed-Sternberg cells. These data indicate an origin of the cellular infiltrate from transformed or activated lymphoid cells and suggest an interrelationship of lymphomatoid papulosis to Hodgkin's disease.
32793912 | SARS-CoV-2 infection, neuropathogenesis and transmission among deer mice: Implications for reverse zoonosis to New World rodents. Coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19) emerged in November, 2019 in China and rapidly became pandemic. As with other coronaviruses, a preponderance of evidence suggests the virus originated in horseshoe bats (Rhinolophus spp.) and likely underwent a recombination event in an intermediate host prior to entry into human populations. A significant concern is that SARS-CoV-2 could become established in secondary reservoir hosts outside of Asia. To assess this potential, we challenged deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) with SARS-CoV-2 and found robust virus replication in the upper respiratory tract, lungs and intestines, with detectable viral RNA for up to 21 days in oral swabs and 14 days in lungs. Virus entry into the brain also occurred, likely via gustatory-olfactory-trigeminal pathway with eventual compromise to the blood brain barrier. Despite this, no conspicuous signs of disease were observed and no deer mice succumbed to infection. Expression of several innate immune response genes were elevated in the lungs, notably IFNalpha, Cxcl10, Oas2, Tbk1 and Pycard. Elevated CD4 and CD8beta expression in the lungs was concomitant with Tbx21, IFNgamma and IL-21 expression, suggesting a type I inflammatory immune response. Contact transmission occurred from infected to naive deer mice through two passages, showing sustained natural transmission. In the second deer mouse passage, an insertion of 4 amino acids occurred to fixation in the N-terminal domain of the spike protein that is predicted to form a solvent-accessible loop. Subsequent examination of the source virus from BEI Resources indicated the mutation was present at very low levels, demonstrating potent purifying selection for the insert during in vivo passage. Collectively, this work has determined that deer mice are a suitable animal model for the study of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis, and that they have the potential to serve as secondary reservoir hosts that could lead to periodic outbreaks of COVID-19 in North America.
35434592 | SARS-Cov2 acute and post-active infection in the context of autoimmune and chronic inflammatory diseases. The clinical and immunological spectrum of acute and post-active COVID-19 syndrome overlaps with criteria used to characterize autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Indeed, following SARS-Cov2 infection, the innate immune response is altered with an initial delayed production of interferon type I (IFN-I), while the NF-kappa B and inflammasome pathways are activated. In lung and digestive tissues, an alternative and extrafollicular immune response against SARS-Cov2 takes place with, consequently, an altered humoral and memory T cell response leading to breakdown of tolerance with the emergence of autoantibodies. However, the risk of developing severe COVID-19 among SLE and RA patients did not exceed the general population except in those having pre-existing neutralizing autoantibodies against IFN-I. Treatment discontinuation rather than COVID-19 infection or vaccination increases the risk of developing flares. Last but not least, a limited number of case reports of individuals having developed SLE or RA following COVID-19 infection/vaccination have been reported. Altogether, the SARS-Cov2 pandemic represents an unique opportunity to investigate the dangerous interplay between the immune response against infectious agents and autoimmunity, and to better understand the triggering role of infection as a risk factor in autoimmune and chronic inflammatory disease development.
12860018 | t(4;11)(q21;p15), including one complex translocation t(1;4;11)(p32;q21;p15), in adult T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. We report two adults with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Cytogenetic studies at diagnosis with R banding showed a 46,XX,t(4;11)(q21;p15)/46,XX karyotype in one patient and 46,XY,t(1;4;11)(p32;q21;p15)/46,XY in the other. Fluorescence in situ hybridization with whole chromosome paints (WCP1, WCP4, and WCP11) confirmed the complex rearrangement in the latter patient. Only 10 T-cell ALL patients with the t(4;11)(q21;p15) have been described, all, but one of them, being over 15 years old. Although recurrent in T-cell ALL, its frequency appears to be very low; indeed, it has been identified in only 4 of 193 adults and in 1 of 734 children with T-cell ALL thus far reported in the literature.
3180000 | Multiple structural chromosome rearrangements, including del(7q) and del(10q), in an adenocarcinoma of the prostate. Cytogenetic analysis of a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the prostate revealed the complex karyotype: 76-86,X, -Y, +X, +X, +del(X)(q24), +t(1;10) (p22;q24), -2, +der(2) t(1;2;?)(p32;q24p13;?), +der(2)t(1;2;?) (p32;dq24p13;?), +3, +3, +4, +5, +5, +6, +7, +del(7) (q22), -8, +der(8)t(8;?)(q24;?), + der(8)t(8;?)(q24;?), +9, +10, +10, +der(10)t (1;10)(q24;q22), +del (10)(q23), +11, +11, +12, +der(12)t(4;12)(q11;p11), +der(12)t(4;12) (q11;p11), +14, +der (15)t(1;15)(q21;p11), +t(16;?) (q21;?), +17, +18, +19, +19, +20, +20, +21, +22, +2-5 mar. The karyotype contains deletions of both 7q and 10q, abnormalities that also have been described previously in prostatic adenocarcinomas, and which hence may represent primary chromosomal rearrangements in this type of cancer.
37376656 | Correlation between Clinical Characteristics and Antibody Levels in COVID-19 Convalescent Plasma Donor Candidates. COVID-19 convalescent plasma (CCP) with high neutralizing antibodies has been suggested in preventing disease progression in COVID-19. In this study, we investigated the relationship between clinical donor characteristics and neutralizing anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in CCP donors. COVID-19 convalescent plasma donors were included into the study. Clinical parameters were recorded and anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody levels (Spike Trimer, Receptor Binding Domain (RBD), S1, S2 and nucleocapsid protein) as well as ACE2 binding inhibition were measured. An ACE2 binding inhibition < 20% was defined as an inadequate neutralization capacity. Univariate and multivariable logistic regression analysis was used to detect the predictors of inadequate neutralization capacity. Ninety-one CCP donors (56 female; 61%) were analyzed. A robust correlation between all SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies and ACE2 binding inhibition, as well as a positive correlation between donor age, body mass index, and a negative correlation between time since symptom onset and antibody levels were found. We identified time since symptom onset, normal body mass index (BMI), and the absence of high fever as independent predictors of inadequate neutralization capacity. Gender, duration of symptoms, and number of symptoms were not associated with SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibody levels or neutralization. Neutralizing capacity was correlated with SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies and associated with time since symptom onset, BMI, and fever. These clinical parameters can be easily incorporated into the preselection of CCP donors.
37302368 | Immunosensitivity mediated by downregulated AKT1-SKP2 induces anti-PD-1-associated thyroid immune injury. BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint inhibitors evoke the immune system, which may cause immune-related adverse effects. The predictors and mechanisms of anti-PD-1-associated thyroid immune injury remain unclear. METHODS: A retrospective analysis is conducted on 518 patients treated with anti PD-1/PD-L1. Firstly, the differences between anti PD-1 and anti PD-L1 are compared on the risk of thyroid immune injury. Then, the predictors of the risk and thyroid function for anti PD-1 related thyroid immune injury are analyzed. Furthermore, the in vitro mechanism of normal thyroid cells (NTHY) is studied. First, the effect of anti PD-1 on the cell viability and immune sensitivity of thyroid cells is observed. Cell viability includes cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle, T4 secretion, while immune sensitivity includes molecular expression and CD8 + T cell aggregation and killing towards NTHY. Then the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) are screened by protein mass spectrometry. Enrichment of KEGG pathway and annotation of GO function on DEPs are conducted. Human protein-protein interactions are obtained from STRING database. The network is constructed and analyzed using Cytoscape software. In vitro, key proteins and their pathways are validated through overexpression plasmids or inhibitors. The recovery experiment and the immuno-coprecipitation experiment are designed to support the results. In vivo, the key proteins are detected in the thyroid tissue of mice fed with anti PD-1, as well as in the thyroid tissue of patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. RESULTS: Thyroid irAE is associated with female, IgG, FT4, TPOAb, TGAb, TSHI, TFQI, and TSH. Peripheral lymphocytes are associated with thyroid function. In vitro, the NIVO group shows prologed G1 phase, decreased FT4, downregulated PD-L1, upregulated IFN-gamma, and more CD8 + T cell infiltration and cytotoxicity. AKT1-SKP2 is chosen as the key protein. AKT1 overexpression and SKP2 inhibitor replies to NIVO and AKT1 overexpression, respectively. Immunoprecipitation shows SKP2 and PD-L1 interaction. CONCLUSION: Female, impaired thyroid hormone sensitivity and IgG4 contribute to the risk of thyroid irAE, while peripheral blood lymphocyte characteristics affect thyroid function. Anti-PD-1 induces thyroid irAE by downregulating AKT1-SKP2 to enhance thyroid immunosensitivity.
37925604 | Intracellular delivery of nuclear localization sequence peptide mitigates COVID-19 by inhibiting nuclear transport of inflammation associated transcription factors. The novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, responsible for COVID-19, can trigger dysregulated immune responses known as cytokine release syndrome (CRS), leading to severe organ dysfunction and respiratory distress. Our study focuses on developing an improved cell-permeable nuclear import inhibitor, iCP-NI, capable of blocking the nuclear transport of inflammation-associated transcription factors (IATFs), specifically nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB). By fusing advanced macromolecule transduction domains (aMTD) and nuclear localization sequences (NLS) from human NF-kappaB, iCP-NI selectively interacts with importin alpha5, effectively reducing the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. In mouse models with SARS-CoV-2-induced pneumonitis, iCP-NI treatment demonstrated a significant decrease in mortality rates by suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokine production and immune cell infiltration in the lungs. Similarly, in hamsters infected with SARS-CoV-2, iCP-NI effectively protected the lung from inflammatory damage by reducing TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-17 levels. These promising results highlight iCP-NI's potential as a therapeutic approach for COVID-19-related lung complications and other inflammatory lung diseases.
38261850 | Cancer cell membrane-coated bacterial ghosts for highly efficient paclitaxel delivery against metastatic lung cancer. Chemotherapy is one of the major approaches for the treatment of metastatic lung cancer, although it is limited by the low tumor delivery efficacy of anticancer drugs. Bacterial therapy is emerging for cancer treatment due to its high immune stimulation effect; however, excessively generated immunogenicity will cause serious inflammatory response syndrome. Here, we prepared cancer cell membrane-coated liposomal paclitaxel-loaded bacterial ghosts (LP@BG@CCM) by layer-by-layer encapsulation for the treatment of metastatic lung cancer. The preparation processes were simple, only involving film formation, electroporation, and pore extrusion. LP@BG@CCM owned much higher 4T1 cancer cell toxicity than LP@BG due to its faster fusion with cancer cells. In the 4T1 breast cancer metastatic lung cancer mouse models, the remarkably higher lung targeting of intravenously injected LP@BG@CCM was observed with the almost normalized lung appearance, the reduced lung weight, the clear lung tissue structure, and the enhanced cancer cell apoptosis compared to its precursors. Moreover, several major immune factors were improved after administration of LP@BG@CCM, including the CD4+/CD8a+ T cells in the spleen and the TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, and IL-4 in the lung. LP@BG@CCM exhibits the optimal synergistic chemo-immunotherapy, which is a promising medication for the treatment of metastatic lung cancer.
37744374 | CD4+TGFbeta+ cells infiltrated the bursa of Fabricius following IBDV infection, and correlated with a delayed viral clearance, but did not correlate with disease severity, or immunosuppression. Introduction: Infectious Bursal Disease Virus (IBDV) causes immunosuppression in chickens. While B-cell destruction is the main cause of humoral immunosuppression, bursal T cells from IBDV-infected birds have been reported to inhibit the mitogenic response of splenocytes, indicating that some T cell subsets in the infected bursa have immunomodulatory activities. CD4+CD25+TGFbeta+ cells have been recently described in chickens that have immunoregulatory properties and play a role in the pathogenesis of Marek's Disease Virus. Methods: To evaluate if CD4+CD25+TGFbeta+ cells infiltrated the bursa of Fabricius (BF) following IBDV infection, and influenced the outcome of infection, birds were inoculated at either 2 days or 2 weeks of age with vaccine strain (228E), classic field strain (F52/70), or PBS (mock), and bursal cell populations were quantified by flow cytometry. Results: Both 228E and F52/70 led to atrophy of the BF, a significant reduction of Bu1+-B cells, and a significant increase in CD4+ and CD8alpha+ T cells in the BF, but only F52/70 caused suppression of immune responses to a test antigen in younger birds, and clinical signs in older birds. Virus was cleared from the BF more rapidly in younger birds than older birds. An infiltration of CD4+CD25+T cells into the BF, and elevated expression of bursal TGFbeta-1+ mRNA was observed at all time points following infection, irrespective of the strain or age of the birds, but CD4+TGFbeta+cells and CD4+CD25+TGFbeta+ cells only appeared in the BF at 28 dpi in younger birds. In older birds, CD4+TGFbeta+ cells and CD4+CD25+TGFbeta+ cells were present at earlier time points, from 7dpi following 228E infection, and from 14 and 28 dpi following F52/70 infection, respectively. Discussion: Our data suggest that an earlier infiltration of CD4+TGFbeta+ cells into the BF correlated with a delayed clearance of virus. However, the influx of CD4+TGFbeta+ cells and CD4+CD25+TGFbeta+ into the BF did not correlate with increased pathogenicity, or immunosuppression.
2419409 | Function of the CD4 and CD8 molecules on human cytotoxic T lymphocytes: regulation of T cell triggering. The function of the T cell differentiation antigens CD4 (Leu-3/T4) and CD8 (Leu-2/T8) on human cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) is presently seen only in conjugate formation between CTL and target cell via class II or class I MHC antigens rather than in the later killing steps. In this study, human CD4+ and CD8+ CTL clones were used to investigate the effects of monoclonal antibodies against these differentiation antigens on nonspecific triggering of cytotoxicity. Cytotoxicity was induced either by antibodies against the CD3 (T3) antigen or by the lectins Con A and PHA. Anti-CD4 or anti-CD8 antibodies specifically inhibited all types of cytotoxicity of CD4+ or CD8+ CTL, respectively, regardless of the specificity of the CTL for class I or class II HLA antigens and regardless of whether target cells expressed class I or class II antigens. These results are incompatible with an exclusive role of the CD4 and CD8 molecules in MHC class recognition and are discussed with respect to a function as negative signal receptors for these molecules on CTL.
37243263 | Genes Involved in miRNA Biogenesis Are Not Downregulated in SARS-CoV-2 Infection. miRNAs, small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression, are involved in various pathological processes, including viral infections. Virus infections may interfere with the miRNA pathway through the inhibition of genes involved in miRNA biogenesis. A reduction in the number and the levels of miRNAs expressed in nasopharyngeal swabs of patients with severe COVID-19 was lately observed by us, pointing towards the potential of miRNAs as possible diagnostic or prognostic biomarkers for predicting outcomes among patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. The objective of the present study was to investigate whether SARS-CoV-2 infection influences the expression levels of messenger RNAs (mRNAs) of key genes involved in miRNA biogenesis. mRNA levels of AGO2, DICER1, DGCR8, DROSHA, and Exportin-5 (XPO5) were measured by quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) in nasopharyngeal swab specimens from patients with COVID-19 and controls, as well as in cells infected with SARS-CoV-2 in vitro. Our data showed that the mRNA expression levels of AGO2, DICER1, DGCR8, DROSHA, and XPO5 were not significantly different in patients with severe COVID-19 when compared to patients with non-severe COVID-19 and controls. Similarly, the mRNA expression of these genes was not affected by SARS-CoV-2 infection in NHBE and Calu-3 cells. However, in Vero E6 cells, AGO2, DICER1, DGCR8, and XPO5 mRNA levels were slightly upregulated 24 h after infection with SARS-CoV-2. In conclusion, we did not find evidence for downregulation of mRNA levels of miRNA biogenesis genes during SARS-CoV-2 infection, neither ex vivo nor in vitro.
1673361 | CD8 is needed for development of cytotoxic T cells but not helper T cells. A mutant mouse strain without CD8 (Lyt-2 and Lyt-3) expression on the cell surface has been generated by disrupting the Lyt-2 gene using embryonic stem cell technology. In these mice, CD8+ T lymphocytes are not present in peripheral lymphoid organs, but the CD4+ T lymphocyte population seems to be unaltered. Cytotoxic response of T lymphocytes from these mice against alloantigens and viral antigens is dramatically decreased. Proliferative response against alloantigens and in vivo help to B lymphocytes, however, are not affected. These data suggest that CD8 is necessary for the maturation and positive selection of class I MHC restricted cytotoxic T lymphocytes but is not required on any of the intermediate thymocyte populations (CD8+CD4-TcR- or CD4+CD8+TcRlow) during the development of functional class II MHC restricted helper T cells.
37409267 | iProMix: A mixture model for studying the function of ACE2 based on bulk proteogenomic data. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused over six million deaths in the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. SARS-CoV-2 uses ACE2 protein to enter human cells, raising a pressing need to characterize proteins/pathways interacted with ACE2. Large-scale proteomic profiling technology is not mature at single-cell resolution to examine the protein activities in disease-relevant cell types. We propose iProMix, a novel statistical framework to identify epithelial-cell specific associations between ACE2 and other proteins/pathways with bulk proteomic data. iProMix decomposes the data and models cell-type-specific conditional joint distribution of proteins through a mixture model. It improves cell-type composition estimation from prior input, and utilizes a non-parametric inference framework to account for uncertainty of cell-type proportion estimates in hypothesis test. Simulations demonstrate iProMix has well-controlled false discovery rates and favorable powers in non-asymptotic settings. We apply iProMix to the proteomic data of 110 (tumor adjacent) normal lung tissue samples from the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium lung adenocarcinoma study, and identify interferon alpha/gamma response pathways as the most significant pathways associated with ACE2 protein abundances in epithelial cells. Strikingly, the association direction is sex-specific. This result casts light on the sex difference of COVID-19 incidences and outcomes, and motivates sex-specific evaluation for interferon therapies.
10194445 | Immunization with recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor as a vaccine adjuvant elicits both a cellular and humoral response to recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) is an important cytokine for the generation and propagation of antigen-presenting cells and for priming a cellular immune response. We report here that use of recombinant human GM-CSF (rhGM-CSF), administered as an adjuvant in a peptide-based vaccine trial given monthly by intradermal injection, led to the development of a T-cell and antibody response to rhGM-CSF. An antibody response occurred in the majority of patients (72%). This antibody response was not found to be neutralizing. In addition, by 48-hour delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) skin testing, 17% of patients were shown to have a cellular immune response to the adjuvant rhGM-CSF alone. Thymidine incorporation assays also showed a peripheral blood T-cell response to rhGM-CSF in at least 17% of the patients. The generation of rhGM-CSF-specific T-cell immune responses, elicited in this fashion, is an important observation because rhGM-CSF is being used as a vaccine adjuvant in various vaccine strategies. rhGM-CSF-specific immune responses may be incorrectly interpreted as antigen-specific immunity, particularly when local DTH responses to vaccination are the primary means of immunologic evaluation. We found no evidence of hematologic or infectious complications as a result of the development of rhGM-CSF-specific immune responses.
36203585 | Characterization of the immune system of Ellegaard Gottingen Minipigs - An important large animal model in experimental medicine. Interest in Ellegaard Gottingen Minipigs (EGMs) as a model in experimental medicine is continuously growing. The aim of this project is to increase the knowledge of the immune system of EGMs as information is still scarce. Therefore, we studied the postnatal maturation of their immune system from birth until 126 weeks of age. For the first 26 weeks of the study, animals were kept under pathogen-reduced conditions (SPF) and afterwards under conventional housing conditions. The development of the immune system was analyzed by monitoring changes in total numbers of leukocytes and lymphocytes of ten individuals and the composition of leukocyte populations by multi-color flow cytometry (FCM). We followed the presence of monocytes using monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against CD172a+ and CD163+ and B cells based on the expression of CD79a. NK cells were distinguished as CD3-CD16+CD8alpha+/dim cells and further subdivided using NKp46 (CD335) expression into NKp46-, NKp46+, and NKp46high NK cells. T-cell receptor (TCR) gammadelta T cells were defined by the expression of TCR-gammadelta and different subsets were determined by their CD2 and perforin expression. TCR-alphabeta T cells were classified by their CD8beta+ or CD4 expression. For monitoring their differentiation, expression of CD27 and perforin was investigated for CD8beta++ T cells and CD8alpha together with CD27 for CD4+ T cells. We clearly detected a postnatal development of immune cell composition and identified phenotypes indicative of differentiation within the respective leukocyte subsets. Examination of the development of the antigen-specific immune system after transfer to different distinct housing conditions and after vaccination against common porcine pathogens such as porcine circovirus 2 (PCV2) revealed a markedly increased presence of more differentiated CD8+ and CD4+ T cells with central and effector memory T-cell phenotypes. To complement the findings, a PCV2 vaccine-specific antigen was used for in vitro restimulation experiments. We demonstrated antigen-specific proliferation of CD4+CD8alpha+CD27+ central and CD4+CD8alpha+CD27- effector memory T cells as well as antigen-specific production of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma. This study of postnatal immune development defines basic cellular immune parameters of EGMs and represents an important milestone for the use of EGMs for immunological questions in experimental medicine.
38169648 | Immunization of BALB/c Mice with Killed Tachyzoites of Toxoplasma gondii against Acute Toxoplasmosis. Background: Toxoplasma gondii with widespread distribution infects over one third of human populations in the world and can cause serious life-threatening diseases especially for the immunodeficient patients in acute toxoplasmosis. As the clinical pharmaceutical drugs with severe side effects for treatment and non-ideal extant vaccines for prevention, more work starves to be done for keeping advantages in the athletics. Methods: Aluminum adjuvant and hybrid formaldehyde-killed tachyzoites of T. gondii RH and GT1 isolates were prepared to intramuscularly immunize BALB/c mice for five times at 0, 3, 7, 14 and 21 days post first injection. The triggered humoral and cellular immune responses at two weeks post the last immunization and the survival times of infected mice were examined for the hybrid immunization scheme judgement. Results: The anti-RH and anti-GT1 specific antibodies were both increased at one week prior to challenge (P < 0.05), and the survival times of immunized mice (7.33 +- 0.71 d for RH, 7.22 +- 0.97 d for GT1) against acute toxoplasmosis were significantly prolonged by the immunizations performed in the study compared to blank control (6.67 +- 0.50 d for RH, 6.33 +- 0.71 d for GT1; P < 0.05), with the higher IFN-gamma, IL-2 and IL-12p70 in sera, the elevated CD3e+CD4+ T and CD3e+CD8a+ T cells, and the enhanced lymphocyte proliferation in spleen (P < 0.05). Conclusion: The hybrid killed tachyzoites with aluminum adjuvant induced humoral and cellular immune responses of mice, and offered mildly protective efficacy against acute toxoplasmosis.
35717657 | Antibody Binding and Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 Binding Inhibition Is Significantly Reduced for Both the BA.1 and BA.2 Omicron Variants. BACKGROUND: The rapid emergence of the Omicron variant and its large number of mutations led to its classification as a variant of concern (VOC) by the World Health Organization. Subsequently, Omicron evolved into distinct sublineages (eg, BA.1 and BA.2), which currently represent the majority of global infections. Initial studies of the neutralizing response toward BA.1 in convalescent and vaccinated individuals showed a substantial reduction. METHODS: We assessed antibody (immunoglobulin G [IgG]) binding, ACE2 (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) binding inhibition, and IgG binding dynamics for the Omicron BA.1 and BA.2 variants compared to a panel of VOCs/variants of interest, in a large cohort (N = 352) of convalescent, vaccinated, and infected and subsequently vaccinated individuals. RESULTS: While Omicron was capable of efficiently binding to ACE2, antibodies elicited by infection or immunization showed reduced binding capacities and ACE2 binding inhibition compared to wild type. Whereas BA.1 exhibited less IgG binding compared to BA.2, BA.2 showed reduced inhibition of ACE2 binding. Among vaccinated samples, antibody binding to Omicron only improved after administration of a third dose. CONCLUSIONS: Omicron BA.1 and BA.2 can still efficiently bind to ACE2, while vaccine/infection-derived antibodies can bind to Omicron. The extent of the mutations within both variants prevents a strong inhibitory binding response. As a result, both Omicron variants are able to evade control by preexisting antibodies.
35464421 | Sleeping With the Enemy? The Current Knowledge of Piscine Orthoreovirus (PRV) Immune Response Elicited to Counteract Infection. Piscine orthoreovirus (PRV) is a virus in the genus Orthoreovirus of the Reoviridae family, first described in 2010 associated with Heart and Skeletal Muscle Inflammation (HSMI) in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). Three phases of PRV infection have been described, the early entry and dissemination, the acute dissemination phase, and the persistence phase. Depending on the PRV genotype and the host, infection can last for life. Mechanisms of immune response to PRV infection have been just beginning to be studied and the knowledge in this matter is here revised. PRV induces a classical antiviral immune response in experimental infection of salmonid erythrocytes, including transcriptional upregulation of ifn-alpha, rig-i, mx, and pkr. In addition, transcript upregulation of tcra, tcrb, cd2, il-2, cd4-1, ifn-gamma, il-12, and il-18 has been observed in Atlantic salmon infected with PRV, indicating that PRV elicited a Th1 type response probably as a host defense strategy. The high expression levels of cd8a, cd8b, and granzyme-A in PRV-infected fish suggest a positive modulatory effect on the CTL-mediated immune response. This is consistent with PRV-dependent upregulation of the genes involved in antigen presentation, including MHC class I, transporters, and proteasome components. We also review the potential immune mechanisms associated with the persistence phenotype of PRV-infected fish and its consequence for the development of a secondary infection. In this scenario, the application of a vaccination strategy is an urgent and challenging task due to the emergence of this viral infection that threatens salmon farming.
3118100 | Characterization of the blast cells in acute leukemia with translocation (4;11): report of eight additional cases and of one case with a variant translocation. Eight new cases (five adults and three children) of acute leukemia characterized by the presence in bone marrow cells of a t(4;11)(q21;q23)and one similar case, a child, with a t(1;11)(p32;q23) are reported. All patients were diagnosed as having acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with high-risk features. Immunologically the blast cells of the nine cases showed a strikingly consistent immature lymphoid phenotype, i.e., TdT+, HLA-DR+, B4(CD19)+, CALLA(CD10)-, Smlg-, cmu-, BA-2(CD9)+ corresponding to a \null ALL.\ In addition, six of nine cases expressed the myeloid marker VIM-D5(CD15). By double immunofluorescence staining it was determined that the VIM-D5(CD15) antigen was expressed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-positive blast cells, excluding the possibility of double leukemia. In five cases investigation of the Ig heavy chain genes by Southern blot analysis showed clonal rearrangement of both Ig heavy chain gene alleles. These data suggest that the blast cells involved in t(4;11) leukemia represent early B-cell progenitors with \aberrant\ expression of myelomonocytic features, possibly related to the 11q23 breakpoint.
38512979 | Autoimmunity-associated allele of tyrosine phosphatase gene PTPN22 enhances anti-viral immunity. The 1858C>T allele of the tyrosine phosphatase PTPN22 is present in 5-10% of the North American population and is strongly associated with numerous autoimmune diseases. Although research has been done to define how this allele potentiates autoimmunity, the influence PTPN22 and its pro-autoimmune allele has in anti-viral immunity remains poorly defined. Here, we use single cell RNA-sequencing and functional studies to interrogate the impact of this pro-autoimmune allele on anti-viral immunity during Lymphocytic Choriomeningitis Virus clone 13 (LCMV-cl13) infection. Mice homozygous for this allele (PEP-619WW) clear the LCMV-cl13 virus whereas wildtype (PEP-WT) mice cannot. This is associated with enhanced anti-viral CD4 T cell responses and a more immunostimulatory CD8alpha- cDC phenotype. Adoptive transfer studies demonstrated that PEP-619WW enhanced anti-viral CD4 T cell function through virus-specific CD4 T cell intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms. Taken together, our data show that the pro-autoimmune allele of Ptpn22 drives a beneficial anti-viral immune response thereby preventing what is normally a chronic virus infection.
36403042 | Characteristics of lymphocyte subset alterations in COVID-19 patients with different levels of disease severity. BACKGROUND: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a respiratory disorder caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which had rapidly spread all over the world and caused public health emergencies in the past two years. Although the diagnosis and treatment for COVID-19 have been well defined, the immune cell characteristics and the key lymphocytes subset alterations in COVID-19 patients have not been thoroughly investigated. METHODS: The levels of immune cells including T cells, B cells, and natural killer (NK) cells in 548 hospitalized COVID-19 patients, and 30 types of lymphocyte subsets in 125 hospitalized COVID-19 patients admitted to Wuhan Huoshenshan Hospital of China were measured using flow cytometry. The relationship between lymphocytes subsets with the cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) and the characteristics of lymphocyte subsets in single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data obtained from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were also analysed in COVID-19 patients. RESULTS: In this study, we found that patients with critical COVID-19 infection exhibited an overall decline in lymphocytes including CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, total T cells, B cells, and NK cells compared to mild and severe patients. However, the number of lymphocyte subsets, such as CD21low CD38low B cells, effector T4 cells, and PD1+ depleted T8 cells, was moderately increased in critical COVID-19 patients compared to mild cases. Notably, except for effector memory T4 cells, plasma blasts and Tregs, the number of all lymphocyte subsets was markedly decreased in COVID-19 patients with IL-6 levels over 30-fold higher than those in healthy cases. Moreover, scRNA-seq data showed obvious differences in the distribution and numbers of lymphocyte subsets between COVID-19 patients and healthy persons, and subsets-specific marker genes of lymphocyte subsets including CD4, CD19, CCR7, and IL7R, were markedly decreased in COVID-19 patients compared with those in healthy cases. CONCLUSION: A comprehensive decrease in immune cell and lymphocyte subsets in critical COVID-19 patients, and peripheral lymphocyte subset alterations showed a clear association with clinical characteristics.
20590190 | Photoionization of iodine atoms: Rydberg series which converge to the I(+)((1)S(0))<--I((2)P(3/2)) threshold. Relative partial photoionization cross sections and angular distribution parameters beta have been measured for the first and fourth (5p)(-1) photoelectron (PE) bands of atomic iodine by performing angle-resolved constant-ionic-state (CIS) measurements on these PE bands between the (1)D(2) and (1)S(0) (5p)(-1) ionic thresholds in the photon energy region of 12.9-14.1 eV. Rydberg series arising from the 5p-->ns and 5p-->nd excitations are observed in both the first PE band, I(+)((3)P(2))<--I((2)P(3/2)), and the fourth PE band, I(+)((1)D(2))<--I((2)P(3/2)), CIS spectra. For each Rydberg state, the resonance energy, quantum defect, linewidth, line shape, and photoelectron angular distribution parameter beta have been determined. For the beta-plots for each PE band, only resonances corresponding to 5p-->nd excitations are observed; no resonances were seen at photon energies corresponding to the 5p-->ns resonances in the CIS spectra. The beta-plots are interpreted in terms of the parity unfavored channel with j(t)=4 being the major contributor at the 5p-->nd resonance positions, where j(t) is the quantum number for angular momentum transferred between the molecule, and the ion and photoelectron. Comparison of the results obtained with those published for bromine shows reasonably good agreement for the CIS spectra but poor agreement for the beta-plots. It appears that parity unfavored channels are playing a greater role in the valence (np)(-1) ionization of atomic iodine than in the corresponding ionization of atomic bromine.
10477615 | The nonintegrin laminin binding protein (p67 LBP) is expressed on a subset of activated human T lymphocytes and, together with the integrin very late activation antigen-6, mediates avid cellular adherence to laminin. A search for genes expressed in activated T cells revealed that the nonintegrin, 67-kDa laminin binding protein (p67 LBP) is expressed on the surface of a subset (10-15%) of activated peripheral blood T cells. Surface p67 LBP expression is detectable by FACS using the anti-p67 LBP mAb, MLuC5, within 6 h of T cell activation with phorbol dibutyrate and ionomycin, peaks 18-36 h postactivation, and persists for 7-10 days. The subset of T cells expressing p67 LBP is composed of mature, single-positive cells (85% CD4+8-, 15% CD4-8+) of memory cell phenotype (100% CD45 RO+/CD45 RA-). The p67 LBP+ T cells also express the integrin alpha6 chain (CD49f), which is known to associate with p67 LBP on tumor cells. In addition, the p67 LBP+ T cells express the integrin beta1, which associates with alpha6 in the laminin-specific integrin receptor very late activation Ag (VLA)-6 (alpha6beta1). Expression of an exogenous cDNA encoding the 37-kDa LBP precursor (p37 LBPP) confers p67 LBP surface expression on a p67 LBP-negative Jurkat T cell line (B2.7). Expression of p67 LBP induces B2.7 transfectants to adhere to laminin, but avid laminin binding depends on coexpression of VLA-6. Taken together, these data indicate that p67 LBP is an activation-induced surface structure on memory T cells that, together with VLA-6, mediates cellular adherence to laminin.
37478362 | IMMUNOREACT 6: weak immune surveillance characterizes early-onset rectal cancer. BACKGROUND: Colon cancer in young patients is often associated with hereditary syndromes; however, in early-onset rectal cancer, mutations of these genes are rarely observed. The aim of this study was to analyse the features of the local immune microenvironment and the mutational pattern in early-onset rectal cancer. METHODS: Commonly mutated genes were analysed within a rectal cancer series from the University Hospital of Padova. Mutation frequency and immune gene expression in a cohort from The Cancer Genome Atlas ('TCGA') were compared and immune-cell infiltration levels in the healthy rectal mucosa adjacent to rectal cancers were evaluated in the IMMUNOlogical microenvironment in REctal AdenoCarcinoma Treatment 1 and 2 ('IMMUNOREACT') series. RESULTS: In the authors' series, the mutation frequency of BRAF, KRAS, and NRAS, as well as microsatellite instability frequency, were not different between early- and late-onset rectal cancer. In The Cancer Genome Atlas series, among the genes with the most considerable difference in mutation frequency between young and older patients, seven genes are involved in the immune response and CD69, CD3, and CD8beta expression was lower in early-onset rectal cancer. In the IMMUNOlogical microenvironment in REctal AdenoCarcinoma Treatment 1 and 2 series, young patients had a lower rate of CD4+ T cells, but higher T regulator infiltration in the rectal mucosa. CONCLUSION: Early-onset rectal cancer is rarely associated with common hereditary syndromes. The tumour microenvironment is characterized by a high frequency of mutations impairing the local immune surveillance mechanisms and low expression of immune editing-related genes. A constitutively low number of CD4 T cells associated with a high number of T regulators indicates an imbalance in the immune surveillance mechanisms.
19449311 | A new function for LAT and CD8 during CD8-mediated apoptosis that is independent of TCR signal transduction. The majority (>95%) of thymocytes undergo apoptosis during selection in the thymus. Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain how apoptosis of thymocytes that are not positively selected occurs; however, it is unknown whether thymocytes die purely by \neglect\ or whether signaling through a cell-surface receptor initiates an apoptotic pathway. We have previously demonstrated that on double positive thymocytes the ligation of CD8 in the absence of TCR engagement results in apoptosis and have postulated this is a mechanism to remove thymocytes that have failed positive selection. On mature single positive T cells CD8 acts as a co-receptor to augment signaling through the TCR that is dependent on the phosphorylation of the adaptor protein, linker for activation of T cells (LAT). Here, we show that during CD8-mediated apoptosis of double positive thymocytes there is an increase in the association of CD8 with LAT and an increase in LAT tyrosine phosphorylation. Decreasing LAT expression and mutation of tyrosine residues of LAT reduced apoptosis upon crosslinking of CD8. Our results identify novel functions for both CD8 and LAT that are independent of TCR signal transduction and suggest a mechanism for signal transduction leading to apoptosis upon CD8 crosslinking.
18533345 | [Construction, expression and immunogenicity of eukaryotic vectors based on goat pox virus P32 gene]. The full-length P32 gene and the truncated P32 gene (MP-32) were amplified from the recombinant plasmid pMD-P32 by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and cloned into pcDNA3. 1(+) and pcDNA3.1-CpG respectively. The recombinant plasmids (pcDNA3.1-P32, pcDNA3.1-CpG-P32 and pcDNA3. 1-CpG-MP32) were transfected into BHK-21 cells by using lipofectin. The expressed P32 protein was confirmed by indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA). The BALB/c mice were immunized with these recombinant plasmids by intramuscular injection. The specific antibodies aginst CPV were detected by ELISA kit weekly. The murine splenic T lymphocyte subgroups CD4+ and CD8+ were detected by flow cytometry. Results showed that the P32 protein was expressed successfully in vitro. After 2 weeks post im munization, the specific IgG antibodies against CPV were detected in the vaccinated mice. The percentage of CD4+ /CD8+ T cells was significantly higher than that of the control. In conclusion, these constructed eukaryotic vectors could induce humoral and celluar immune responses in mice.
37386586 | Immunological effects of glutamine supplementation in polytrauma patients in intensive care unit. BACKGROUND: In polytrauma intensive care unit (ICU) patients, glutamine (GLN) becomes a \conditionally essential\ amino acid; its role has been extensively studied in numerous clinical trials but their results are inconclusive. We evaluated the IgA-mediated humoral immunity after GLN supplementation in polytrauma ICU patients. METHODS: All consecutive patients with polytrauma who required mechanical ventilation and enteral nutrition (EN) provided within 24 h since the admission in ICU at the University Hospital of Foggia from September 2016 to February 2017 were included. Thereafter, two groups were identified: patients treated by conventional EN (25 kcal/kg/die) and patients who have received conventional EN enriched with 50 mg/kg/ideal body weight of alanyl-GLN 20% intravenously. We analysed the plasmatic concentration of IgA, CD3+/CD4+ T helper lymphocytes, CD3+/CD8+ T suppressor lymphocytes, CD3+/CD19+ B lymphocytes, IL-4 and IL-2 at admission and at 4 and 8 days. RESULTS: We identified 30 patients, with 15 subjects per group. IgA levels increased significantly in GLN vs the control group at T0, T4 and T8. CD3+/CD4+ T helper lymphocyte and CD3+/CD8+ T suppressor lymphocyte levels significantly increased in GLN vs the control group at T4 and T8. CD3+/CD19+ B lymphocyte levels increased significantly in GLN vs the control group only at T8. IL-2 and IL-4 levels showed no significant differences when comparing GLN with the control group. CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed that there was an improvement in humoral and cell-mediated immunity with GLN supplementation in polytrauma ICU patients using recommended doses.
2104186 | Increased interleukin 2 receptor expression in post-gestational women: relationship to impaired glucose tolerance and islet cell antibodies in pregnancy. Fifteen women with positive islet cell antibodies were identified in a group of 115 consecutive patients found to have impaired glucose tolerance in pregnancy. These subjects were postulated to be at increased risk of later developing type 1 diabetes mellitus. They were examined post--partum for HLA types known to be associated with this disease and for any increase in Interleukin 2 receptor expression or alteration of T cell subsets of possible relevance to its pathogenesis. Fifteen women negative for islet antibodies and with normal glucose tolerance during previous pregnancy and 15 women with a normal fasting plasma glucose who had never been pregnant were studied as controls. Using flow cytometric techniques a significant increase in both the number and proportion of activated (Interleukin 2 receptor, CD25) lymphocytes in the peripheral blood of women who had islet cell antibodies and previous impaired glucose tolerance in pregnancy was found (0.14 +/- SE 0.03 x 10(9)/l; 7.1 +/- 1.1%) when compared with normal parous controls (0.09 +/- 0.01 x 10(9)/l; 4.2 +/- 0.6%), p less than 0.01 x 10(9)/l; showed significant increases when compared with nulliparous controls (0.04 +/- 0.01 x 10(9)/l; 2.1 +/- 0.2%), p less than 0.01. No differences were detected between the three groups with respect to total T-lymphocytes (CD3), helper T-lymphocytes (CD4), suppressor cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CD8), or the inducer of suppressor (Leu 3+/Leu 8+) subset of T-lymphocytes. Three women persistently islet cell antibody positive, two of whom were HLA DR4, showed impaired glucose tolerance at the time of lymphocyte subset analysis, while two further patients, one DR3 and the other DR4, had developed type 1 (insulin-dependent) diabetes. No correlation between increased Interleukin 2 receptor expression and glucose intolerance was demonstrated. We conclude that islet cell antibody positive women with impaired glucose tolerance during pregnancy are at increased risk of later developing type 1 diabetes but that heightened immune activation present in these women is in part a post-pregnancy phenomenon.
11605024 | The genetic events of HPV-immortalized esophageal epithelium cells. We studied cytogenesis, telomere and telomerase, and c-myc, ras, bcl-2, and p53 genes of cells in the progressive process of immortal epithelial cells from embryonic esophagus induced by human papillomavirus (HPV). The SHEE cell line, established by us, consist of immortalized epithelial cells from the embryonic esophagus induced by genes E6E7 of HPV type 18. It was in initial malignant transformation when cultivated over 60 passages without co-carcinogens. Cells of the 10th, 31st, and 60th passages were represented in the progressive process within the immortal period. In these three stages of the cell line, the modal number of chromosome and karyotypes were analyzed. The telomere length was assayed by Southern blot methods, and the telomerase activity was analyzed by hTR and hTERT assay. C-myc, p53, bcl-2, ras genes were assayed by the multi-PCR method. The morphology of the 10th passage cells exhibited good differentiation, the 60th passage cells were relatively poorly differentiated, and the 31st passage cells differentiated in two distinct ways. The growth characteristics of the 31st and 60th passage cells were weakened at contact-inhibition and anchorage-dependent growth. Karyotypes of three cell passages belonged to hyperdiploid and hypotriploid with abnormal chromosomes +1, +3, +7, +9, +17, +18; del(1)(p32); der(4), t(4;?)(q31;?); der(5),t(5;?)(q31;?); der(13),t(13;13)(p11;q11) and others. Bimodal distribution of chromosomes with more aberrant chromosomes appeared in the 31st and 60th passage cells. Telomere length sharply shortened from normal fetal esophagus to the 10th and 31st passage step by step, but was stable from the 31st to the 60th passage and the telomerase activities measured were expressed at late two passages. p53 mutant was positive in three passages, c-myc was positive in the 31st and the 60th passage K-ras only in the last. The results reveal that changes of chromosomes, telomere length, telomerase activity and certain gene expressions are important events of HPV-immortalized esophageal epithelium cells. All of these changes occurred in dynamic progressive process. This cell line may be useful for the elucidation of the genetic mechanism of cellular immortalization.
36451060 | Increased Expression of POSTN Predicts Poor Prognosis: a Potential Therapeutic Target for Gastric Cancer. BACKGROUND: Periostin (POSTN) is involved in many biological processes and is associated with the occurrence and development of several cancers, while its role in gastric cancer is not clear. We aimed to demonstrate the relationship between POSTN and gastric cancer based on publicly available data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. METHODS: POSTN expression data and corresponding clinical information were downloaded from TCGA database. We compared the expression of POSTN in gastric cancer samples and normal samples. POSTN-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified for further functional enrichment analysis. In addition, the relationships between POSTN expression and clinicopathological features and survival in patients with gastric cancer were also investigated through univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses. Furthermore, a nomogram was constructed to predict the survival probability of gastric cancer patients. RESULTS: POSTN expression in gastric cancer was significantly higher than that in normal gastric tissues (p < 0.001). High POSTN expression in gastric cancer was significantly related to poor prognostic features, including greater tumor extent (odds ratio [OR] = 1.638 for T3 and T4 vs. T1 and T2), worse histological type (OR = 0.329 for diffuse type vs. tubular type), and advanced histological grade (OR = 1.646 for grade 3 vs. grades 1 and 2) (all p < 0.05). The 118 identified DEGs were primarily enriched in pathways related to tumorigenesis and tumor progression, including the TGF-beta signaling pathway, the WNT signaling pathway, and the signaling by VEGF. POSTN expression was positively correlated with the enrichment of the macrophages (r = 0.599, p < 0.001), helper T2 cells (r = 0.146, p = 0.005), and CD8 + T cells (r = 0.190, p < 0.001), but negatively correlated with the enrichment of Th17 cells (r =  - 0.130, p = 0.012) and NK CD56bright cells. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that high POSTN expression is associated with a short overall survival (hazard ratio [HR] = 1.54; p = 0.011). In the multivariate cox regression analysis, high POSTN expression was confirmed to be an independent predictor of poor overall survival (HR = 1.681; p = 0.017). The constructed nomogram can well predict the 1 and 3 years overall survival probability of patients with GC (0.696 [95% CI, 0.671-0.721]). CONCLUSION: POSTN plays an important role in the progression and prognosis of gastric cancer, and it may serve as a useful biomarker to predict survival in gastric cancer patients.
37003032 | Long-term evolution in liver disease markers and immune and lipid profiles in vertically HIV/HCV-coinfected youths with sustained viral response after direct-acting antivirals therapy. This study aimed to analyse the long-term effect of direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) in vertically acquired HIV/HCV-coinfected youths. We performed a multicentre, longitudinal and observational study within the Spanish Cohort of HIV-infected children and adolescents and vertically HIV-infected patients transferred to Adult Units (CoRISpe-FARO). We included HIV/HCV-coinfected youths (n = 24) that received DAAs between 2015 and 2017 with successful sustained viral response (SVR) with a subsequent follow-up of at least three years. Long-term evolution in liver disease severity and haematologic markers, lipid and immune profiles after SVR were assessed. Study times were the start date of DAAs treatment (baseline, T0) and 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 years after SVR (T1, T2, T3, T4 and T5, respectively). We observed global improvements in liver function data that persist over time and a favourable haematologic and immune outcome at the long-term including a constant augment in leucocytes, neutrophils, neutrophils to lymphocytes ratio (NLR) and CD4/CD8 ratio over-time. Regarding the lipid profile, we found a significant increase in total cholesterol T2, total cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein (HDL) ratio at T4, triglycerides at T5, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) over time, and a decrease in HDL in all patients but with marked higher levels in the subgroup receiving anti-HIV Protease Inhibitor (PI)-based regimens. Comparisons of vertically HIV/HCV-coinfected youths after SVR at 3-year follow-up and a control group of vertically HIV-monoinfected youths never infected by HCV showed no significant differences in most variables analysed, suggesting a possible normalization in all parameters.
23216389 | Genome-wide significant association signals in IPO11-HTR1A region specific for alcohol and nicotine codependence. BACKGROUND: Alcohol and nicotine codependence can be considered as a more severe subtype of alcohol dependence. A portion of its risk may be attributable to genetic factors. METHODS: We searched for significant risk genomic regions specific for this disorder using a genome-wide association study. A total of 8,847 subjects underwent gene-disease association analysis, including (i) a discovery cohort of 818 European American cases with alcohol and nicotine codependence and 1,396 European American controls, (ii) a replication cohort of 5,704 Australian family subjects with 907 affected offspring, and (iii) a replication cohort of 449 African American cases and 480 African American controls. Additionally, a total of 38,714 subjects of European or African descent in 18 independent cohorts with 10 other nonalcoholism neuropsychiatric disorders were analyzed as contrast. Furthermore, 90 unrelated HapMap CEU individuals, 93 European brain tissue samples, and 80 European peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples underwent cis-acting expression quantitative locus (cis-eQTL) analysis. RESULTS: We identified a significant risk region for alcohol and nicotine codependence between IPO11 and HTR1A on chromosome 5q that was reported to be suggestively associated with alcohol dependence previously. In the European American discovery cohort, 381 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in this region were nominally associated with alcohol and nicotine codependence (p < 0.05); 57 associations of them survived region- and cohort-wide correction (alpha = 3.6 x 10(-6) ); and the top SNP (rs7445832) was significantly associated with alcohol and nicotine codependence at the genome-wide significance level (p = 6.2 x 10(-9) ). Furthermore, associations for 34 and 11 SNPs were replicated in the Australian and African American replication cohorts, respectively. Among these replicable associations, 4 reached genome-wide significance level in the meta-analysis of European Americans and European Australians: rs7445832 (p = 9.6 x 10(-10) ), rs13361996 (p = 8.2 x 10(-9) ), rs62380518 (p = 2.3 x 10(-8) ), and rs7714850 (p = 3.4 x 10(-8) ). Cis-eQTL analysis showed that many risk SNPs in this region had nominally significant cis-acting regulatory effects on HTR1A or IPO11 mRNA expression. Finally, no markers were significantly associated with any other neuropsychiatric disorder examined. CONCLUSIONS: We speculate that this IPO11-HTR1A region might harbor a causal variant for alcohol and nicotine codependence.
2954655 | Predominance of helper-inducer T cells in mesenteric lymph nodes and intestinal lamina propria of normal nonhuman primates. To define the characteristics of T cells associated with the gastrointestinal tract, the phenotypes and immunoregulatory function of T cells from mesenteric lymph node (MLN) and lamina propria lymphocytes (LPL) were compared to peripheral blood (PBL) and spleen lymphocytes in normal nonhuman primates. Mesenteric lymph node lymphocytes were characterized by a higher proportion of Leu-3+(CD4+) and 9.3+(alpha-Tp44) lymphocytes and a lower proportion of Leu-2+(CD8) lymphocytes than lymphocytes in other sites. LPL and MLN lymphocytes were both characterized by a higher proportion of cells having the helper-inducer phenotypes (Leu-3+, Leu-8+, Leu-3+, 2H4+) compared to PBL. A lower proportion of cells with the suppressor-inducer phenotypes (Leu-3+, Leu-8+, Leu-3+, 2H4+) was found in LPL, but not in MLN lymphocytes compared to PBL. In studies of the Leu-2+ T cells, it was found that whereas PBL, spleen, and LPL contained approximately equal proportions of Leu-2+, Leu-15+ (suppressor phenotype) and Leu-2+, 9.3+ lymphocytes (cytolytic T-cell phenotype), the MLN T cells were predominantly Leu-2+, 9.3+. Furthermore, the Leu-3/Leu-2 ratio was significantly higher in MLN compared to other sites. In pokeweed mitogen-stimulated cultures, the highest helper function for Ig synthesis was found in MLN. Cells from none of the sites studied showed evidence of increased suppressor cell activity. These results show that MLN and LPL T cells in normal nonhuman primates differ from T cells in peripheral blood and spleen. While both MLN and LPL have a high proportion of T cells with the helper-inducer phenotype, cells with the suppressor-effector phenotype are infrequent in MLN, while cells with the suppressor-inducer phenotype are infrequent in LPL.
38058414 | BIOMOLECULAR ACTIVITY OF CRYPTOCOCCUS DURING CRYPTOCOCCOSIS: A REVIEW OF MOLECULAR INTERACTIONS OF CRYPTOCOCCUS WITH HUMAN IMMUNE SYSTEM AND BLOOD-BRAIN-BARRIER. Global mycosis is still a problem. One of these is the cryptococcal disease. A systemic mycosis brought on by Cryptococcus is called cryptococcosis. Host immunological conditions influence infection with Cryptococcosis. When environmental spores are inhaled by the host, the spores get to the lungs, an infection is created. Alveolar macrophages and other immune cells recognize Cryptococcus in the lung. The initial line of defense against pathogens in the phagolysosome is provided by alveolar macrophages found in the lungs. When the immune system is weak, Cryptococcus uses the evasion system as a molecular interaction with the immune system and persists in the lungs without causing any symptoms such as Factor Transcription, Cell masking, N-glycan structure, Extracellular molecule, and Antioxidant system. The evasion mechanism protects and makes Cryptococcus disseminate throughout the other organs, especially CNS. If Cryptococcus escapes against the host immune system, it will disseminate to other organs, especially Cerebrospinal System by Three mechanisms. There are Trojan Horse, Paracellular, and Transcellular interactions with Blood-Brain Barrier. Disease severity is determined by the Interaction between the host's immune system and the fungus.
2955973 | Studies on human blood lymphocytes with iC3b (type 3) complement receptors. II. Characterization of subsets which regulate pokeweed mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation and immunoglobulin synthesis. Human blood lymphocytes that express Type 3 complement receptors (CR3) can be divided into a major subset with high density Fc receptors for IgG (FcR) identified with the monoclonal antibody Leu 11 and two minor subsets which display either CD8 (Leu 2) or CD4 (Leu 3) markers. We isolated CR3+ lymphocyte subsets and examined them for regulatory effects on pokeweed mitogen (PWM) stimulated cells. The FCR CR3+ cell suppressed PWM-induced proliferation and Ig production. Pretreatment of these lymphocytes with immune complexes was required to suppress proliferation, but not IgG production. The CR3+ Leu 2+ FCR- subset also had suppressive activity, but this effect was not observed unless the CR3+ Leu 3+ enriched subset was removed. In fact, the CR3+ Leu 3+ enriched subset enhanced IgG synthesis. Brief exposure of CR3+ lymphocytes to recombinant interleukin 2, recombinant alpha-interferon, but not gamma-interferon, markedly enhanced the inhibitory effect. Time course studies and a comparison of inhibition of Ig synthesis with natural killer cell activity suggested that CR3+ lymphocytes act shortly after lymphocytes are exposed to PWM and that Ig production was regulated by suppression rather than cytotoxicity. These CR3+ lymphocyte subsets may have broad antigen non-specific effects on immunoglobulin synthesis.
11222733 | High-magnitude, virus-specific CD4 T-cell response in the central nervous system of coronavirus-infected mice. The neurotropic JHM strain of mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) causes acute encephalitis and chronic demyelinating encephalomyelitis in rodents. Previous results indicated that CD8 T cells infiltrating the central nervous system (CNS) were largely antigen specific in both diseases. Herein we show that by 7 days postinoculation, nearly 30% of the CD4 T cells in the acutely infected CNS were MHV specific by using intracellular gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) staining assays. In mice with chronic demyelination, 10 to 15% of the CD4 T cells secreted IFN-gamma in response to MHV-specific peptides. Thus, these results show that infection of the CNS is characterized by a large influx of CD4 T cells specific for MHV and that these cells remain functional, as measured by cytokine secretion, in mice with chronic demyelination.
38201217 | Differential Activation of Splenic cDC1 and cDC2 Cell Subsets following Poxvirus Infection of BALB/c and C57BL/6 Mice. Conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) are innate immune cells that play a pivotal role in inducing antiviral adaptive immune responses due to their extraordinary ability to prime and polarize naive T cells into different effector T helper (Th) subsets. The two major subpopulations of cDCs, cDC1 (CD8alpha+ in mice and CD141+ in human) and cDC2 (CD11b+ in mice and CD1c+ in human), can preferentially polarize T cells toward a Th1 and Th2 phenotype, respectively. During infection with ectromelia virus (ECTV), an orthopoxvirus from the Poxviridae family, the timing and activation of an appropriate Th immune response contributes to the resistance (Th1) or susceptibility (Th2) of inbred mouse strains to the lethal form of mousepox. Due to the high plasticity and diverse properties of cDC subpopulations in regulating the quality of a specific immune response, in the present study we compared the ability of splenic cDC1 and cDC2 originating from different ECTV-infected mouse strains to mature, activate, and polarize the Th immune response during mousepox. Our results demonstrated that during early stages of mousepox, both cDC subsets from resistant C57BL/6 and susceptible BALB/c mice were activated upon in vivo ECTV infection. These cells exhibited elevated levels of surface MHC class I and II, and co-stimulatory molecules and showed enhanced potential to produce cytokines. However, both cDC subsets from BALB/c mice displayed a higher maturation status than that of their counterparts from C57BL/6 mice. Despite their higher activation status, cDC1 and cDC2 from susceptible mice produced low amounts of Th1-polarizing cytokines, including IL-12 and IFN-gamma, and the ability of these cells to stimulate the proliferation and Th1 polarization of allogeneic CD4+ T cells was severely compromised. In contrast, both cDC subsets from resistant mice produced significant amounts of Th1-polarizing cytokines and demonstrated greater capability in differentiating allogeneic T cells into Th1 cells compared to cDCs from BALB/c mice. Collectively, our results indicate that in the early stages of mousepox, splenic cDC subpopulations from the resistant mouse strain can better elicit a Th1 cell-mediated response than the susceptible strain can, probably contributing to the induction of the protective immune responses necessary for the control of virus dissemination and for survival from ECTV challenge.
2575080 | Expression of Leu M1 antigen on a monoclonal B cell line established from a patient with rheumatoid arthritis. The purpose of this study is to show that anti-Leu M1 antibody (anti-CD15), which has different staining characteristics in lymphoid and non-lymphoid cells, reacted against the surface antigen of a defined monoclonal B cell line. This antibody recognizes the sugar moiety, lacto-N-fucopentaose (LNF-III), which is linked to the cell membrane protein in several kinds of cells, but not in B cells. However, a human monoclonal B-cell line (TKS-1) which was established from the peripheral blood of a patient with rheumatoid arthritis, expressed the Leu M1 antigen spontaneously. The analysis of surface markers using a fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS) has revealed that the surface markers of TKS-1 were anti-mu, delta, kappa, HLA-DR, DQ, Leu 12 (CD19) and Leu M1 (CD15). TKS-1 cells were not reactive with any of the following antibodies: anti-OK M1 (CD11b), Leu M2, Leu M3 (CD14), Leu M4, Leu 1 (CD5), Leu 2 (CD8), Leu 3 (CD4), Leu 4 (CD3), Leu 7 and Leu 11 (CD16). In addition, TKS-1 was positive to Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen, weakly positive to non-specific esterase without staining inhibition by NaF, and negative to peroxidase. TKS-1 cells produced IgM in the culture supernatant and have kappa-light chain rearrangement in its DNA. As shown in other studies, distribution of Leu M1 is very wide. This antigen is not a specific immunodiagnostic marker to distinguish the cell type. We conclude that it is possible to express Leu M1 antigen on the membrane of a B-cell lineage cell.
37770796 | Exploring characteristics of placental transcriptome and cord serum metabolome associated with low birth weight in Kele pigs. The neonate with low birth weight (LBW) resulted from intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) exists a substantial risk of postpartum death. Placental insufficiency is responsible for inadequate fetal growth; however, the pathological mechanisms of placental dysfunction-induced IUGR in pigs remain unclear. In this study, the characteristics of placental morphology, placental transcriptome, and cord serum metabolome were explored between the Kele piglets with LBW and the ones with normal birth weight (NBW). Results showed that LBW was a common occurrence in Kele piglets. The LBW placentas showed inferior villus development and lower villi density compared to NBW placentas. There were 1024 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) identified by transcriptome analysis between the LBW and NBW placentas, of which 218 and 806 genes were up- and down-regulated in the LBW placentas, respectively. PPI network analysis showed that ITGB2, CD4, IL6, ITGB3, LCK, RAC2, CD8A, JAK3, TYROBP, and CXCR4 were hub genes in all DEGs. From GO and KEGG enrichment analysis, DEGs were primarily enriched in immunological response, cell adhesion, immune response, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. By using metabolomic analysis, a total of 115 differential metabolites in the cord serum of LBW and NBW piglets were found, mostly linked to amino acid metabolism and sphingolipid metabolism. In comparison to NBW piglets, LBW piglets had lower levels of arginine, isoleucine, and aspartic acid in the cord. Taken together, these data revealed dysplasia of the placental villus, insufficient supply of nutrients, and abnormal immune function of the placenta may be associated with the occurrence and development of LBW in Kele pigs.
38240823 | Identifying novel inhibitors targeting Exportin-1 for the potential treatment of COVID-19. The nuclear export protein 1 (XPO1) mediates the nucleocytoplasmic transport of proteins and ribonucleic acids (RNAs) and plays a prominent role in maintaining cellular homeostasis. XPO1 has emerged as a promising therapeutic approach to interfere with the lifecycle of many viruses. In our earlier study, we proved the inhibition of XPO1 as a therapeutic strategy for managing SARS-COV-2 and its variants. In this study, we have utilized pharmacophore-assisted computational methods to identify prominent XPO1 inhibitors. After several layers of screening, a few molecules were shortlisted for further experimental validation on the in vitro SARS-CoV-2 cell infection model. It was observed that these compounds reduced spike positivity, suggesting inhibition of SARS-COV-2 infection. The outcome of this study could be considered further for developing novel antiviral therapeutic strategies against SARS-CoV-2.
2332632 | Expression of murine IL-2 receptor beta-chain on thymic and splenic lymphocyte subpopulations as revealed by the IL-2-induced proliferative response in human IL-2 receptor alpha-chain transgenic mice. Lymphocytes from the human (h) IL-2R alpha chain transgenic mice (TGM) constitutively express high affinity binding sites for hIL-2, consisting of transgenic h-IL-2R alpha and endogenous murine IL-2R beta, and therefore easily proliferate in vitro in response to hIL-2. Our study was undertaken to clarify the hIL-2-responsive lymphocyte subsets in the TGM, which should most likely reflect the normal distribution of m IL-2R beta expression. In both thymus and spleen, the majority of expanded cells by hIL-2 was CD3+CD4-CD8+ TCR alpha beta+ cells. The proliferation of CD4+ cells was not observed at all from either organ despite the expression of transgenic hIL-2R alpha. Potent cellular proliferation was also observed from the thymocytes that had been depleted of CD8+ cells, the expanded cells consisting of CD3- (15-40%) and CD3+ populations (60-85%). Among CD3+ cells, approximately the half portion expressed TCR alpha beta, whereas the other half was suggested to express TCR gamma delta. A variable portion (5-20%) of the CD3+ cells expressed CD8 (Lyt-2) in the absence of Lyt-3, and the CD3+CD8+ cells were confined preferentially to the TCR alpha beta- (TCR gamma delta+) population. In the culture of splenocytes depleted of CD8+ cells, however, the proliferated cells were mostly CD3-CD4-CD8-TCR-Mac1-, whereas a minor portion (10-30%) was CD3+CD4-CD8-TCR alpha beta- (TCR gamma delta+. Analysis of TCR genes at both DNA and mRNA levels confirmed the phenotypical observations. These results strongly suggested that IL-2R beta was constitutively and selectively expressed on the primary murine thymocytes and splenic T and NK cells, except for CD4+ cells in both organs.
6281260 | Nucleic binding affinity of bacteriophage T4 gene 32 protein in the cooperative binding mode. This study reports on various parameters which affect the binding stoichiometry for complexes of bacteriophage T4 gene 32 protein (P32) and single stranded polynucleotides (determined by UV absorbance and fluorescence quenching) and presents results of a quantitative electron spin resonance assay to determine physiologically effective binding affinity differences of nucleic acid binding proteins. The assay employs macromolecular spin probes (spin-labeled nucleic acids) which are used to determine the fraction of saturation in competition experiments with unlabeled nucleic acids. It was found that the fraction of complexed spin-labeled polynucleotides can be directly monitored by ESR with a two-component analysis approach when ligands such as poly(L-lysine), gene 5 protein (P5) of filamentous bacteriophage fd, and gene 32 protein (P32) of bacteriophage T4 are used. The ESR data unequivocally show that: 1) the binding stoichiometry for poly(L-lysine), P5 and P32 is nucleotide/lysine, 4 nucleotides/P5 monomer, and 10 nucleotides/P32 monomer, respectively; and 2) under physiologically relevant buffer conditions the relative affinity of P32 in the cooperative binding mode for polythymidylic acid is about 4 times greater than for polydeoxyinosinic acid and about 12 times greater than for polyinosinic acid, and the relative affinity of P32 for polydeoxyinosinic acid is about 3 times greater than for polyinosinic acid.
37048045 | Rotating Magnetic Field Mitigates Ankylosing Spondylitis Targeting Osteocytes and Chondrocytes via Ameliorating Immune Dysfunctions. Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is clinically characterized by bone fusion that is induced by the pathological formation of extra bone. Unfortunately, the fundamental mechanism and related therapies remain unclear. The loss of SHP-2 (encoded by Ptpn11) in CD4-Cre;Ptpn11f/f mice resulted in the induction of AS-like pathological characteristics, including spontaneous cartilage and bone lesions, kyphosis, and arthritis. Hence, this mouse was utilized as an AS model in this study. As one of the basic physical fields, the magnetic field (MF) has been proven to be an effective treatment method for articular cartilage degeneration. In this study, the effects of a rotating magnetic field (RMF; 0.2 T, 4 Hz) on an AS-like mouse model were investigated. The RMF treatment (2 h/d, 0.2 T, 4 Hz) was performed on AS mice from two months after birth until the day before sampling. The murine specimens were subjected to transcriptomics, immunomics, and metabolomics analyses, combined with molecular and pathological experiments. The results demonstrated that the mitigation of inflammatory deterioration resulted in an increase in functional osteogenesis and a decrease in dysfunctional osteolysis due to the maintenance of bone homeostasis via the RANKL/RANK/OPG signaling pathway. Additionally, by regulating the ratio of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells, RMF treatment rebalanced the immune microenvironment in skeletal tissue. It has been observed that RMF interventions have the potential to alleviate AS, including by decreasing pathogenicity and preventing disease initiation. Consequently, RMF, as a moderately physical therapeutic strategy, could be considered to alleviate the degradation of cartilage and bone tissue in AS and as a potential option to halt the progression of AS.
37724058 | Osteopontin-driven T-cell accumulation and function in adipose tissue and liver promoted insulin resistance and MAFLD. OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the contribution of osteopontin/secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1) to T-cell regulation in initiation of obesity-driven adipose tissue (AT) inflammation and macrophage infiltration and the subsequent impact on insulin resistance (IR) and metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) development. METHODS: SPP1 and T-cell marker expression was evaluated in AT and liver according to type 2 diabetes and MAFLD in human individuals with obesity. The role of SPP1 on T cells was evaluated in Spp1-knockout mice challenged with a high-fat diet. RESULTS: In humans with obesity, elevated SPP1 expression in AT was parallel to T-cell marker expression (CD4, CD8A) and IR. Weight loss reversed AT inflammation with decreased SPP1 and CD8A expression. In liver, elevated SPP1 expression correlated with MAFLD severity and hepatic T-cell markers. In mice, although Spp1 deficiency did not impact obesity, it did improve AT IR associated with prevention of proinflammatory T-cell accumulation at the expense of regulatory T cells. Spp1 deficiency also decreased ex vivo helper T cell, subtype 1 (Th1) polarization of AT CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. In addition, Spp1 deficiency significantly reduced obesity-associated liver steatosis and inflammation. CONCLUSIONS: Current findings highlight a critical role of SPP1 in the initiation of obesity-driven chronic inflammation by regulating accumulation and/or polarization of T cells. Early targeting of SPP1 could be beneficial for IR and MAFLD treatment.
3872139 | In vitro expansion and analysis of cloned cytotoxic T cells derived from patients with chronic T gamma lymphoproliferative disorders. Patients with T gamma lymphocytosis are a heterogeneous group, clearly distinguishable from other patients with chronic T lymphoproliferative disorders and usually without proven malignancy. We have attempted in vitro cloning of lymphocytes from three patients with an expansion of phenotypically and functionally different types of T gamma cells. One had T3+ B73.1+ T4 T8+ OKM1+ T gamma cells exerting antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity; another had T3+B73.1-T4-T8+OKM1-ADCC+NK- and a third had T3-B73.1+T4-T8-OKM1+ADCC+NK+ cells. On morphological characterization, most of the mononuclear cells of these patients resembled large granular lymphocytes (LGLs). Although lymphocytes of these patients showed almost no proliferative response capacity after stimulation with mitogens, they shared the capacity to proliferate after stimulation with Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphoblastoid B (B-LCL) feeder cells. Stable clones were established by this procedure. Clones from patient 3 exerted cytolytic activity against a broad spectrum of tumor cell lines, including fresh biopsy specimens of melanoma tumor target cells. All of these clones (termed activated killer [AK] cells) had the surface phenotype T3-, T4-, T8- or +, HNK1-, OKM1-, Lyt3+, WT1+ and showed ADCC in addition to AK cell cytotoxicity. Most of them were B73.1+ and expressed IgG-Fc receptors. They most likely belong to the T cell lineage, since they express IL2 receptors as recognized by the Tac antibody and did not bind monoclonal antibodies directed against monocytes or granulocytes. Thus lymphocytes with the functional and phenotypical characteristics of T gamma cells can be cloned and expanded in vitro from the peripheral lymphocytes of these patients by using the appropriate stimulus. Our results indicate that, of the heterogeneous population of NK cells, the T3- cells are more rapidly expanded than T3+ subsets. It is discussed whether or not our culture system might selectively induce proliferation in \normal\ T cells rather than aberrant ones.
35408447 | Angiotensin II Type I Receptor (AT1R): The Gate towards COVID-19-Associated Diseases. The binding of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) spike glycoprotein to its cellular receptor, the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), causes its downregulation, which subsequently leads to the dysregulation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in favor of the ACE-angiotensin II (Ang II)-angiotensin II type I receptor (AT1R) axis. AT1R has a major role in RAS by being involved in several physiological events including blood pressure control and electrolyte balance. Following SARS-CoV-2 infection, pathogenic episodes generated by the vasoconstriction, proinflammatory, profibrotic, and prooxidative consequences of the Ang II-AT1R axis activation are accompanied by a hyperinflammatory state (cytokine storm) and an acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). AT1R, a member of the G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) family, modulates Ang II deleterious effects through the activation of multiple downstream signaling pathways, among which are MAP kinases (ERK 1/2, JNK, p38MAPK), receptor tyrosine kinases (PDGF, EGFR, insulin receptor), and nonreceptor tyrosine kinases (Src, JAK/STAT, focal adhesion kinase (FAK)), and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase. COVID-19 is well known for generating respiratory symptoms, but because ACE2 is expressed in various body tissues, several extrapulmonary pathologies are also manifested, including neurologic disorders, vasculature and myocardial complications, kidney injury, gastrointestinal symptoms, hepatic injury, hyperglycemia, and dermatologic complications. Therefore, the development of drugs based on RAS blockers, such as angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs), that inhibit the damaging axis of the RAS cascade may become one of the most promising approaches for the treatment of COVID-19 in the near future. We herein review the general features of AT1R, with a special focus on the receptor-mediated activation of the different downstream signaling pathways leading to specific cellular responses. In addition, we provide the latest insights into the roles of AT1R in COVID-19 outcomes in different systems of the human body, as well as the role of ARBs as tentative pharmacological agents to treat COVID-19.
38545102 | Immune cell expression patterns of CD39/CD73 ectonucleotidases in rodent models of cardiac arrest and resuscitation. Background: Cardiac arrest (CA) is a significant public health concern. There is the high imminent mortality and survival in those who are resuscitated is substantively compromised by the post-CA syndrome (PCAS), characterized by multiorgan ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). The inflammatory response in PCAS is complex and involves various immune cell types, including lymphocytes and myeloid cells that have been shown to exacerbate organ IRI, such as myocardial infarction. Purinergic signaling, as regulated by CD39 and CD73, has emerged as centrally important in the context of organ-specific IRI. Hence, comprehensive understanding of such purinergic responses may be likewise imperative for improving outcomes in PCAS. Methods: We have investigated alterations of immune cell populations after CA by utilizing rodent models of PCAS. Blood and spleen were collected after CA and resuscitation and underwent flow cytometry analysis to evaluate shifts in CD3+CD4+ helper T cells, CD3+CD8a+ cytotoxic T cells, and CD4/CD8a ratios. We then examined the expression of CD39 and CD73 across diverse cell types, including myeloid cells, T lymphocytes, and B lymphocytes. Results: In both rat and mouse models, there were significant increases in the frequency of CD3+CD4+ T lymphocytes in PCAS (rat, P < 0.01; mouse, P < 0.001), with consequently elevated CD4/CD8a ratios in whole blood (both, P < 0.001). Moreover, CD39 and CD73 expression on blood leukocytes were markedly increased (rat, P < 0.05; mouse, P < 0.01 at 24h). Further analysis in the experimental mouse model revealed that CD11b+ myeloid cells, with significant increase in their population (P < 0.01), had high level of CD39 (88.80 +- 2.05 %) and increased expression of CD73 (P < 0.05). CD19+ B lymphocytes showed slight increases of CD39 (P < 0.05 at 2h) and CD73 (P < 0.05 at 2h), while, CD3+ T lymphocytes had decreased levels of them. These findings suggested a distinct patterns of expression of CD39 and CD73 in these specific immune cell populations after CA. Conclusions: These data have provided comprehensive insights into the immune response after CA, highlighting high-level expressions of CD39 and CD73 in myeloid cells.
37207887 | Construction of an alanine dehydrogenase gene deletion strain for vaccine development against Nocardia seriolae in hybrid snakehead (Channa maculata   x Channa argus  ). Nocardia seriolae is the main pathogen of fish nocardiosis. In our previous study, alanine dehydrogenase was identified as a potential virulence factor of N. seriolae. On the basis of this fact, the alanine dehydrogenase gene of N. seriolae (NsAld) was knocked out to establish the strain DeltaNsAld for vaccine development against fish nocardiosis in this study. The LD50 of strain DeltaNsAld was 3.90 x 105 CFU/fish, higher than that of wild strain (5.28 x 104 CFU/fish) significantly (p < 0.05). When the strain DeltaNsAld was used as a live vaccine to immunize hybrid snakehead (Channa maculata   x Channa argus  ) at 2.47 x 105 CFU/fish by intraperitoneal injection, the non-specific immune indexes (LZM, CAT, AKP, ACP and SOD activities), specific antibody (IgM) titers and several immune-related genes (CD4, CD8alpha, IL-1beta, MHCIalpha, MHCIIalpha and TNFalpha) were up-regulated in different tissues, indicating that this vaccine could induce humoral and cell-mediated immune responses. Furthermore, the relative percentage survival (RPS) of DeltaNsAld vaccine was calculated as 76.48% after wild N. seriolae challenge. All these results suggest that the strain DeltaNsAld could be a potential candidate for live vaccine development to control fish nocardiosis in aquaculture.
2573270 | Two-year evaluation of clinical and laboratory variables of immune function in 117 hemophiliacs seropositive or seronegative for HIV-1. Fifty-nine HIV-1 antibody positive and 58 antibody negative hemophiliacs were evaluated over a 2 year study period to gain insight into the natural history and prognosis of HIV-1 disease in members of this risk group. Mean CD4 (Leu 3+) cell counts calculated at 6 month intervals decreased gradually in seropositive patients (from 403 to 311/microliters) whereas CD8 (Leu 2+) counts remained stable but above the normal range. CD4 cell counts correlated closely with advancing CDC clinical stage; CD8 numbers showed no such association, but were markedly lower in the six patients with overt AIDS. Serum P24 antigenemia was associated with low CD4 cell counts and with advanced clinical stage (58% of antigenemic and 14% of non-antigenemic seropositive patients were in stage IV). In addition to CD4 cell counts, significant reductions in Leu 11+ natural killer cell (NK) subsets and in Leu 3 + 8 - cells occurred in seropositive patients over the study period; Leu 2 + DR + cells increased significantly. When expressed as a percentage of lymphocytes, the reduction in Leu 19 + NK cells was also significant, as were the increases in Leu 4 + DR + cells and Leu 12 + 8 + B cells. In summary, declining CD4 cell numbers and percentages are valuable markers of progressive HIV-1 disease in hemophiliacs, but may not always accurately reflect the degree of disease activity. Progressive changes in additional variables such as serum P24 antigen, and numbers and percentages of NK cell subsets and (as AIDS supervenes) CD8 cell numbers, may allow more precise monitoring of HIV-1 disease. This will, in turn, facilitate the design of optimal individualized strategies for therapeutic intervention.
3093583 | Two-color flow cytometry and functional analysis of lymphocytes cultured from human renal allografts: identification of a Leu-2+3+ subpopulation. The phenotype of T lymphocyte subsets present in renal biopsies showing acute cellular allograft rejection in six patients on cyclosporine have been characterized in situ by immunoperoxidase staining, and after expansion in vitro in interleukin 2 (IL-2) by two-color flow cytometry, sorting, and functional analysis. After 8 to 42 days in organ culture, both Leu-3+ (CD4) and Leu-2+ (CD8) subsets were found in each culture, in a ratio that varied from 0.2 to 5.0, which was not significantly different than the results of in situ immunoperoxidase staining of the uncultured biopsy. The cultured cells were almost all Leu-4+ (CD3) T cells (89% +/- 4), which expressed the activation markers DR (82% +/- 6) and the IL 2 (CD25) receptor (15% +/- 4). The Leu-3+ cells were largely Leu-8- (90% +/- 6), whereas a minority of the Leu-2+ cells were Leu-15+ (CD11) (26% +/- 4). Only a small fraction of the Leu-2+ cells stained for Leu-7 (8% +/- 6). Functional analysis of FACS-purified Leu-2-3+ and Leu-2+3- populations indicated that both subsets proliferated in response to graft donor antigens in a mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) and produced IL 2. Only the Leu-2+3- population demonstrated donor-specific cytotoxic activity. A minor subpopulation in each culture were both Leu-3+ and Leu-2+ (2.0%). Leu-2+3+ cells from one biopsy were purified to homogeneity (99.8%), and were found to express the T cell antigen receptor complex Ti/CD3 (WT-31+, Leu-4+), but not the common thymocyte antigen CD1 (OKT6). The Leu-2+3+ cells neither responded in the MLR, nor showed any cytotoxic capacity. The Leu-2+3+ cells were capable of IL 2 but not interferon-gamma production. None of the purified cultures demonstrated NK activity. A subset of the purified Leu-2+3+ cells lost Leu-2+ during 1 to 3 wk in culture, and became Leu-2-3+. These studies provide evidence that the cells that infiltrate renal allografts during rejection include alloproliferative, lymphokine-producing cells of both Leu-2+ and Leu-3+ subsets. The Leu-2+3- cells are also highly cytotoxic against donor lymphocytes, indicating the presence of helper independent cytotoxic T cells. A minor population of Leu-2+3+ T cells that do not express donor specific function was also identified.
35953767 | Assessment of DNA methylation in porcine immune cells reveals novel regulatory elements associated with cell-specific gene expression and immune capacity traits. BACKGROUND: Genetics studies in the porcine immune system have enhanced selection practices for disease resistance phenotypes and increased the efficacy of porcine models in biomedical research; however limited functional annotation of the porcine immunome has hindered progress on both fronts. Among epigenetic mechanisms that regulate gene expression, DNA methylation is the most ubiquitous modification made to the DNA molecule and influences transcription factor binding as well as gene and phenotype expression. Human and mouse DNA methylation studies have improved mapping of regulatory elements in these species, but comparable studies in the pig have been limited in scope. RESULTS: We performed whole-genome bisulfite sequencing to assess DNA methylation patterns in nine pig immune cell populations: CD21+ and CD21- B cells, four T cell fractions (CD4+, CD8+, CD8+CD4+, and SWC6gammadelta+), natural killer and myeloid cells, and neutrophils. We identified 54,391 cell differentially methylated regions (cDMRs), and clustering by cDMR methylation rate grouped samples by cell lineage. 32,737 cDMRs were classified as cell lowly methylated regions (cLMRs) in at least one cell type, and cLMRs were broadly enriched in genes and regions of intermediate CpG density. We observed strong correlations between differential methylation and expression across immune cell populations, with cell-specific low methylation disproportionately impacting genes exhibiting enriched gene expression in the same cell type. Motif analysis of cLMRs revealed cell type-specific enrichment of transcription factor binding motifs, indicating that cell-specific methylation patterns may influence accessibility by trans-acting factors. Lastly, cDMRs were enriched for immune capacity GWAS SNPs, and many such overlaps occurred within genes known to influence immune cell development and function (CD8B, NDRG1). CONCLUSION: Our DNA methylation data improve functional annotation of the porcine genome through characterization of epigenomic regulatory patterns that contribute to immune cell identity and function, and increase the potential for identifying mechanistic links between genotype and phenotype.
37465154 | Immune responses in carp strains with different susceptibility to carp edema virus disease. Carp edema virus disease (CEVD), also known as koi sleepy disease (KSD), represents a serious threat to the carp industry. The expression of immune-related genes to CEV infections could lead to the selection of crucial biomarkers of the development of the disease. The expression of a total of eleven immune-related genes encoding cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-10, IL-6a, and TNF-alpha2), antiviral response (Mx2), cellular receptors (CD4, CD8b1, and GzmA), immunoglobulin (IgM), and genes encoding-mucins was monitored in gills of four differently KSD-susceptible strains of carp (Amur wild carp, Amur Sasan, AS; Ropsha scaly carp, Rop; Prerov scaly carp, PS; and koi) on days 6 and 11 post-infection. Carp strains were infected through two cohabitation infection trials with CEV genogroups I or IIa. The results showed that during the infection with both CEV genogroups, KSD-susceptible koi induced an innate immune response with significant up-regulation (p < 0.05) of IL-1beta, IL-10, IL-6a, and TNF-alpha2 genes on both 6 and 11 days post-infection (dpi) compared to the fish sampled on day 0. Compared to koi, AS and Rop strains showed up-regulation of IL-6a and TNF-alpha2 but no other cytokine genes. During the infection with CEV genogroup IIa, Mx2 was significantly up-regulated in all strains and peaked on 6 dpi in AS, PS, and Rop. In koi, it remained high until 11 dpi. With genogroup I infection, Mx2 was up-expressed in koi on 6 dpi and in PS on both 6 and 11 dpi. No significant differences were noticed in selected mucin genes expression measured in gills of any carp strains exposed to both CEV genogroups. During both CEV genogroups infections, the expression levels of most of the genes for T cell response, including CD4, CD8b1, and GzmA were down-regulated in AS and koi at all time points compared to day 0 control. The expression data for the above experimental trials suggest that both CEV genogroups infections in common carp strains lead to activation of the same expression pattern regardless of the fish's susceptibility towards the virus. The expression of the same genes in AS and koi responding to CEV genogroup IIa infection in mucosal tissues such as gill, gut, and skin showed the significant up-regulation of all the cytokine genes in gill and gut tissues from koi carp at 5 dpi. Significant down-regulation of CD4 and GzmA levels were only detected in koi gill on 5 dpi but not in other tissues. AS carp displayed significant up-expression of Mx2 gene in all mucosal tissues on 5 dpi, whereas in koi, it was up-regulated in gill and gut only. In both carp strains, gill harbored a higher virus load on 5 dpi compared to the other tissues. The results showed that resistance to CEV could not be linked with the selected immune responses measured. The up-regulation of mRNA expression of most of the selected immune-related genes in koi gill and gut suggests that CEV induces a more systemic mucosal immune response not restricted to the target tissue of gills.
2906281 | Immunomodulation by methimazole therapy in Graves' disease: rapid changes in activation stage of circulating regulatory T cell subsets, B cells and NK cells. In patients with Graves' disease, initiation of thyrostatic therapy with methimazole causes a selective reduction of thyroid but not other autoantibody levels. The mechanism of this immunosuppressive effect is unknown. In the present study, methimazole (20 mg daily) induced very rapid changes in the surface antigen expression of several circulating lymphocyte subpopulations in six patients with Graves' disease. Within 1 to 3 days of therapy, the proportions of HLA-DR+ cells within the CD8+(Leu 2+) subset (activated 'suppressor/cytotoxic' T cells), CD11+(Leu 15+) cells out of CD8+ cells ('suppressor' T cells), and CD45+R (Leu 18+) cells out of CD4+(LEU 3+) cells ('suppressor/inducer' T cells) increased significantly from 4.7 +/- 3.9% to 9.5 +/- 6.0%, from 7.5 +/- 1.5% to 17 +/- 5.8% and from 49 +/- 17% to 73 +/- 19%, respectively. In parallel, the percentages of DR+ cells within the CD4+(Leu 3+) subset (activated 'helper' T cells), 4F2+ cells out of CD19+(Leu 12+) cells (activated B cells) and 4F2+ cells out of CD16+(Leu 11+) cells (activated 'natural killer'-like cells) declined significantly from 7.2 +/- 5.6% to 2.8 +/- 2.1%, from 7.2 +/- 1.5% to 4.0 +/- 2.8% and from 5.5 +/- 3.5% to 2.8 +/- 4.9% at 3 days, respectively. In contrast, no consistent phenotypic changes occurred in lymphocytes drawn from six healthy subjects during 7 days of methimazole medication. Direct in vitro effects of methimazole on lymphocyte markers were not observed when blood mononuclear cells from untreated patients were incubated with either the drug (10(-4) and 10(-6)M) or with autologous pre/post treatment serum for 1 to 4 days. Methimazole thus induces rapid alterations in the subclass and activation marker expression of circulating lymphocyte populations in Graves' disease. These alterations are compatible with a down-regulation of B cell activity. Indirect evidence suggests that the thyroid gland is the source of secondary signals for these changes to take place.
19166935 | Analysis of indirect pathway CD4+ T cells in a patient with metastable tolerance to a kidney allograft: possible relevance to superior graft survival of HLA class II closely matched renal allografts. MHC class I mismatched, but class II matched kidney transplants are tolerogenic in large animal models. CD4(+) T regulatory cells specific for HLA-B1501-derived peptide p37-MA (DSDAASPRMAPRAPWIEQ) developed in a long term (>12 years) tolerant patient who received an HLA-B1501 mismatched, HLA class II closely matched renal allograft. We hypothesized that class II matching favored T regulatory cell development by allowing allopeptide presentation on either recipient (DR4/DQ7(+)) or donor (DR4/DQ8(+)) antigen presenting cells (APC). Indirect pathway CD4(+) T cell clones were generated from recipient PBMC by sorting antigen-stimulated, proliferating cells. Most clones responded to p37-MA-pulsed B1501(-) autologous, but not to DQ8(+)B1501(+) donor B-lymphoblastoid cell lines (B-LCL). However, some clones responded to both; in fact, one responded even more strongly to donor B-LCL than to p37-MA-pulsed autologous B-LCL. P37-MA contained a DQ8-binding motif and induced strong TH1 responses from DQ8 but not DQ6 transgenic mice. Microchimerism was found to be enriched in the dendritic cells (DC) cultured from adherent PBMC. This indicates donor APC could possibly present p37-MA peptide directly to p37-MA specific T cells. These data support the concept that, when the donor is MHC class II closely matched, a \hybrid\ form of allorecognition (direct/indirect) occurs. This may favor the generation of a beneficial form of indirect pathway alloreactivity, i.e. allopeptide-specific CD4(+) T regulatory cells, in the context of long term DC microchimerism.
28476672 | Gene expression profiles associated with lymphocystis disease virus (LCDV) in experimentally infected Senegalese sole (Solea senegalensis). In the present study, the pathogenesis of lymphocystis disease virus (LCDV) and the immune gene expression patterns associated with this viral infection were determined in the flatfish Senegalese sole. The results indicate that LCDV spreads rapidly from the peritoneal cavity through the bloodstream to reach target organs such as kidney, gut, liver, and skin/fin. The viral load was highest in kidney and reduced progressively thorough the experiment in spite of the viral major capsid protein gene was transcribed. The LCDV injection activated a similar set of differentially expressed transcripts in kidney and intestine although with some differences in the intensity and time-course response. This set included antiviral-related transcripts (including the mx and interferon-related factors irf1, irf2, irf3, irf7, irf8, irf9, irf10), cytokines (il1b, il6, il8, il12 and tnfa) and their receptors (il1r, il8r, il10r, il15ra, il17r), chemokines (CXC-type, CC-type and IL-8), prostaglandins (cox-2), g-type lysozymes, hepcidin, complement fractions (c2, c4-1 and c4-2) and the antigen differentiation factors cd4, cd8a, and cd8b. The expression profile observed indicated that the host triggered a systemic defensive response including inflammation able to cope with the viral challenge.
36982803 | Infection of Trichinella spiralis Affects the Reproductive Capacity of ICR/CD-1 Male Mice by Reducing the Urine Pheromone Contents and Sperm Quality. Female mice can discriminate the urinary odors of male mice due to their olfactory acuity. Parasitic infection or subclinical infection can decrease the odor attractiveness of male mice and finally lead to aversion or avoidance responses in odor selection for female mice. Trichinella spiralis is a kind of tissue-parasitizing nematode that causes trichinellosis, a zoonotic parasitic disease that spreads throughout the world. However, the reproductive injury caused by Trichinella spiralis infection was not fully revealed. In this study, we explored the effect of Trichinella spiralis infection on the reproductive capacity in ICR/CD-1 male mice. We identified eight volatile compounds in urine by GC-MS analysis, and the results indicated that the contents of dimethyl sulfone, Z-7-tetradecen-1-ol, 6-Hydroxy-6-methyl-3-heptanone and (S)-2-sec-butyl-4,5-dihydrothiazole were significantly downregulated after parasitic infection, which might lead to the reduction of attractiveness of male mice urine to females. On the other hand, parasitic infection decreased sperm quality and downregulated the expression levels of Herc4, Ipo11, and Mrto4, and these genes were strongly related to spermatogenesis. In summary, this study revealed that the reproductive injury caused by Trichinella spiralis infection in ICR/CD-1 male mice could be associated with a decrease in urine pheromone content and sperm quality.
2523934 | Phenotypic and functional analysis of murine CD3+,CD4-,CD8- TCR-gamma delta-expressing peripheral T cells. Murine CD3+,CD4-,CD8- peripheral T cells, which express various forms of the TCR-gamma delta on their cell surface, have been characterized in terms of their cell-surface phenotype, proliferative and lytic potential, and lymphokine-producing capabilities. Three-color flow cytofluorometric analysis demonstrated that freshly isolated CD3+,CD4-, CD8- TCR-gamma delta lymph node cells were predominantly Thy-1+,CD5dull,IL-2R-,HSA-,B220-, and approximately 70% Ly-6C+ and 70% Pgp-1+. After CD3+,CD4-,CD8-splenocytes were expanded for 7 days in vitro with anti-CD3-epsilon mAb (145-2C11) and IL-2, the majority of the TCR-gamma delta cells expressed B220 and IL-2R, and 10 to 20% were CD8+. In comparison to CD8+ TCR-alpha beta T cells, the population of CD8+ TCR-gamma delta-bearing T cells exhibited reduced levels of CD8, and about 70% of the CD8+ TCR-gamma delta cells did not express Lyt-3 on the cell surface. Functional studies demonstrated that splenic TCR-gamma delta cells proliferated when stimulated with mAb directed against CD3-epsilon, Thy-1, and Ly-6C, but not when incubated with an anti-TCR V beta 8 mAb, consistent with the lack of TCR-alpha beta expression. In addition, activated CD3+,CD4-,CD8- peripheral murine TCR-gamma delta cells were capable of lysing syngeneic FcR-bearing targets in the presence of anti-CD3-epsilon mAb and the NK-sensitive cell line, YAC-1, in the absence of anti-CD3-epsilon mAb. Finally, activated CD3+, CD4-,CD8-,TCR-gamma delta+ splenocytes were also capable of producing IL-2, IL-3, IFN-gamma, and TNF when stimulated in vitro with anti-CD3-epsilon mAb.
33324408 | CD45RA, CD8beta, and IFNgamma Are Potential Immune Biomarkers of Human Cognitive Function. There is increasing evidence that in humans the adaptive immunological system can influence cognitive functions of the brain. We have undertaken a comprehensive immunological analysis of lymphocyte and monocyte populations as well as of HLA molecules expression in a cohort of elderly volunteers (age range, 64-101) differing in their cognitive status. Hereby, we report on the identification of a novel signature in cognitively impaired elderly characterized by: (1) elevated percentages of CD8+ T effector-memory cells expressing high levels of the CD45RA phosphate receptor (Temra hi); (2) high percentages of CD8+ T cells expressing high levels of the CD8beta chain (CD8betahi); (3) augmented production of IFNgamma by in vitro activated CD4+ T cells. Noteworthy, CD3+CD8+ Temra hi and CD3+CD8betahi cells were associated with impaired cognition. Cytomegalovirus seroprevalence showed that all volunteers studied but one were CMV positive. Finally, we show that some of these phenotypic and functional features are associated with an increased frequency of the HLA-B8 serotype, which belongs to the ancestral haplotype HLA-A1, Cw7, B8, DR3, DQ2, among cognitively impaired volunteers. To our knowledge, this is the first proof in humans linking the amount of cell surface CD45RA and CD8beta chain expressed by CD8+ Temra cells, and the amount of IFNgamma produced by in vitro activated CD4+ T cells, with impaired cognitive function in the elderly.
37261344 | Aerosol vaccination of chicken pullets with irradiated avian pathogenic Escherichia coli induces a local immunostimulatory effect. The present study investigated the expression of cytokines and cellular changes in chickens following vaccination with irradiated avian pathogenic Escherichia coli (APEC) and/or challenge. Four groups of 11-week-old pullets, each consisting of 16 birds were kept separately in isolators before they were sham inoculated (N), challenged only (C), vaccinated (V) or vaccinated and challenged (V+C). Vaccination was performed using irradiated APEC applied via aerosol. For challenge, the homologous strain was administered intratracheally. Birds were sacrificed on 3, 7, 14 and 21 days post challenge (dpc) to examine lesions, organ to body weight ratios and bacterial colonization. Lung and spleen were sampled for investigating gene expression of cytokines mediating inflammation by RT-qPCR and changes in the phenotype of subsets of mononuclear cells by flow cytometry. After re-stimulation of immune cells by co-cultivation with the pathogen, APEC-specific IFN-gamma producing cells were determined. Challenged only birds showed more severe pathological and histopathological lesions, a higher probability of bacterial re-isolation and higher organ to body weight ratios compared to vaccinated and challenged birds. In the lung, an upregulation of IL-1beta and IL-6 following vaccination and/or challenge at 3 dpc was observed, whereas in the spleen IL-1beta was elevated. Changes were observed in macrophages and TCR-gammadelta+ cells within 7 dpc in spleen and lung of challenged birds. Furthermore, an increase of CD4+ cells in spleen and a rise of Bu-1+ cells in lung were present in vaccinated and challenged birds at 3 dpc. APEC re-stimulated lung and spleen mononuclear cells from only challenged pullets showed a significant increase of IFN-gamma+CD8alpha+ and IFN-gamma+TCR-gammadelta+ cells. Vaccinated and challenged chickens responded with a significant increase of IFN-gamma+CD8alpha+ T cells in the lung and IFN-gamma+TCR-gammadelta+ cells in the spleen. Re-stimulation of lung mononuclear cells from vaccinated birds resulted in a significant increase of both IFN-gamma+CD8alpha+ and IFN-gamma+TCR-gammadelta+ cells. In conclusion, vaccination with irradiated APEC caused enhanced pro-inflammatory response as well as the production of APEC-specific IFN-gamma-producing gammadelta and CD8alpha T cells, which underlines the immunostimulatory effect of the vaccine in the lung. Hence, our study provides insights into the underlying immune mechanisms that account for the defense against APEC.
9141512 | Body composition and endocrine function in women with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome wasting. The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) wasting syndrome is a devastating complication of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection characterized by progressive weight loss and severe inanition. In men, the wasting syndrome is characterized by a disproportionate decrease in lean body mass and relative fat sparing. In contrast, relatively little is known about the gender-specific changes in body composition that characterize AIDS wasting in women. Three groups of women were studied to determine body composition and hormonal changes with respect to stage of wasting [nonwasting (NW; weight >90% ideal body weight; weight loss <10% of preillness maximum; n = 12), early wasting (EW; weight >90% ideal body weight; weight loss >10% of preillness maximum; n = 10), and late wasting (LW; weight <90%; n = 9)] and compared with a control group of 12, healthy, age-matched women. Weight loss averaged 6 +/- 6% (NW), 15 +/- 6% (EW), and 20 +/- 8% (LW) in the three groups. Lean, fat, and muscle masses were determined by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry and urinary creatinine excretion. Subjects were 36 +/- 5 yr of age (mean +/- SD) with a CD4 cell count of 379 +/- 239 cells/mm3. The body mass index was 24.4 +/- 2.6 kg/m2 (NW), 22.2 +/- 1.2 kg/m2 (EW), 18.2 +/- 2.0 kg/m2 (LW), and 24.3 +/- 2.6 kg/m2 (controls; P < 0.01, NW vs. EW; P < 0.0001, NW vs. LW). Lean body mass indexed for height was 15.7 +/- 2.4 kg/m2 (NW), 14.8 +/- 2.0 kg/m2 (EW), and 13.7 +/- 1.2 kg/m2 (LW) and was decreased significantly only in the LW group (P < 0.05 vs. NW). Muscle mass was 96% (NW), 94% (EW), and 78% (LW) of that predicted for height (P < 0.05, NW vs. LW). In contrast, fat mass indexed for height was decreased significantly among patients in both the EW and LW groups [8.7 +/- 1.9 kg/m2 (NW), 6.5 +/- 1.9 kg/m2 (EW), and 3.7 +/- 1.4 kg/m2 (LW); P < 0.05, NW vs. EW; P < 0.001, NW vs. LW). Expressed as a percentage of the value in nonwasting HIV-positive controls (NW), the relative loss of fat was greater than the loss of lean mass with progressive degrees of wasting [EW, 25% vs. 6% (fat vs. lean); LW, 58% vs. 13%]. The prevalence of amenorrhea was 20% among study subjects [17% (NW), 10% (EW), and 38% (LW)]. The percent predicted muscle mass was significantly lower in subjects with amenorrhea (74 +/- 8%) compared to that in eumenorrheic HIV-positive subjects (94 +/- 4%; P < 0.05). Estradiol levels were lower among subjects with amenorrhea (17.6 +/- 21.8 pg/mL) compared to eumenorrheic HIV-positive (48.9 +/- 33.6 pg/mL) and control (68.3 +/- 47.6 pg/mL) subjects and did not correlate with body composition. Mean free testosterone, but not total testosterone, levels were decreased in subjects with EW and LW compared to those in age-matched healthy controls, but not compared with those in NW [0.9 +/- 0.6 ng/dL (NW), 0.7 +/- 0.4 ng/dL (EW), 0.6 +/- 0.3 ng/dL (LW), and 2.0 +/- 2.4 ng/dL (controls); P < 0.05, EW vs. controls and LW vs. controls] and correlated with muscle mass (r = 0.37; P < 0.05). The percentages of women with free testosterone levels below the age-adjusted normal range were 33% (NW), 50% (EW), and 66% (LW). Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels were also low in the subjects with LW compared to those in the control group [98 +/- 85 microg/dL (NW), 102 +/- 53 microg/dL (EW), 55 +/- 46 microg/dL (LW), and 132 +/- 68 microg/dL (controls); P < 0.05 LW vs. controls] and were correlated highly with free testosterone levels (r = 0.73; P < 0.00001) and also with muscle mass (r = 0.48; P < 0.01). These data demonstrate that women lose significant lean body and muscle mass in the late stages of wasting. However, in contrast to men, women exhibit a progressive and disproportionate decrease in body fat relative to lean body mass at all stages of wasting, consistent with gender-specific effects in body composition in AIDS wasting. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
37571863 | STAR SIGN study: Evaluation of COVID-19 vaccine efficacy against the SARS-CoV-2 variants BQ.1.1 and XBB.1.5 in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. BACKGROUND: Vaccine-elicited immune responses are impaired in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) treated with anti-TNF biologics. AIMS: To assess vaccination efficacy against the novel omicron sublineages BQ.1.1 and XBB.1.5 in immunosuppressed patients with IBD. METHODS: This prospective multicentre case-control study included 98 biologic-treated patients with IBD and 48 healthy controls. Anti-spike IgG concentrations and surrogate neutralisation against SARS-CoV-2 wild-type, BA.1, BA.5, BQ.1.1, and XBB.1.5 were measured at two different time points (2-16 weeks and 22-40 weeks) following third dose vaccination. Surrogate neutralisation was based on antibody-mediated blockage of ACE2-spike protein-protein interaction. Primary outcome was surrogate neutralisation against tested SARS-CoV-2 sublineages. Secondary outcomes were proportions of participants with insufficient surrogate neutralisation, impact of breakthrough infection, and correlation of surrogate neutralisation with anti-spike IgG concentration. RESULTS: Surrogate neutralisation against all tested sublineages was reduced in patients with IBD who were treated with anti-TNF biologics compared to patients treated with non-anti-TNF biologics and healthy controls (each p <= 0.001) at visit 1. Anti-TNF therapy (odds ratio 0.29 [95% CI 0.19-0.46]) and time since vaccination (0.85 [0.72-1.00]) were associated with low, and mRNA-1273 vaccination (1.86 [1.12-3.08]) with high wild-type surrogate neutralisation in a beta-regression model. Accordingly, higher proportions of patients treated with anti-TNF biologics had insufficient surrogate neutralisation against omicron sublineages at visit 1 compared to patients treated with non-anti-TNF biologics and healthy controls (each p <= 0.015). Surrogate neutralisation against all tested sublineages decreased over time but was increased by breakthrough infection. Anti-spike IgG concentrations correlated with surrogate neutralisation. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with IBD who are treated with anti-TNF biologics show impaired neutralisation against novel omicron sublineages BQ.1.1 and XBB.1.5 and may benefit from prioritisation for future variant-adapted vaccines.
37651685 | Biomimetic Metal-Chalcogenide Agents Enable Synergistic Cancer Therapy via Microwave Thermal-Dynamic Therapy and Immune Cell Activation. Microwave thermal dynamic therapy (MTDT), which combines thermal effects and reactive oxygen species (ROS) by microwave activation, seems to be a promising anticancer therapeutic method. A multifunctional agent for achieving synergistic localized cancer treatment is the key to exploit the strategy to inhibit tumor cell recurrence and metastasis. In the study, a ZIF-67 based theranostic agent loaded with metal-chalcogenide open framework 3 (MCOF3) and heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) as the inner component was studied, coupled with targeting cancer cell membrane (TCM) as the biomimetic outer shell. We found that metal ions in MCOF3 enabled the composite agents to show peroxide-like activity to produce  OH and destroy cancer cells. And then, the microwave (MW) thermal sensitizer of ZIF-67 was used to specifically convert the MW energy into thermal energy and selectively heat the tumor via the cell's targeting. Additionally, the effect of continuous MW thermal therapy has been shown to promote the expression of HSP70, and further activate the effector of CD4 T cell and CD8alpha T cell. As such, the agents effectively inhibit the tumor cell growth under MW irradiation in vitro and in vivo due to the synergistic effects of MTDT and immune cell activation. The study provides an emerging strategy to ablation cancer effectively.
35038635 | Insufficiency of CD205-positive cortical thymic epithelial cells in immature Japanese Black cattle with severe thymic abnormalities and poor prognosis. To investigate the involvement of thymic function in the development of diseases with poor prognosis in calves, this study conducted a survey for the assessment of thymus cell composition in immature Japanese Black cattle with poor prognosis. Histopathological evaluation of 47 cattle showed signs of acute thymic involution in most cases. Less than half of the cases had a cortex predominant over the medulla in the thymic parenchyma, and a quarter of the cases indicated severe histological condition with an unclear boundary between the cortex and medulla. Correlation analysis revealed a close relationship between the corresponding stages of acute involution, cortical occupancy, and the expression of CD4, CD8B, and CD205. When cases were grouped by cortical occupancy, the expression of CD4 and CD8B expression was lower in the severe group with less than 25 % cortical occupancy, and the expression of CD205 was lower in the group with an unclear cortical-medullary boundary. Meanwhile, there was no difference in the expressions of IL7, CD80, FEZF2, and FOXN1 according to cortical occupancy. Immunohistochemistry has shown that cytokeratin-positive thymic epithelial cells are more densely populated in the severe thymus. UEA-I-binding medullary thymic epithelial cells were also present, but CD205-positive cortical thymic epithelial cells were rare in severe thymus. Moreover, there were significantly fewer Ki-67-positive cells in cattle with severe thymus. Therefore, these results indicate that thymic histological abnormalities frequently occur in immature cattle with a poor prognosis, and the presence of CD205-positive cortical thymic epithelial cells is associated with the severity of the abnormalities.
2485199 | Peripheral T-cell lymphoma or Hodgkin's disease in a HIV seropositive patient: a histopathological study. Malignant lymphomas occurring in patients with AIDS are usually derived from the B-cell lineage while T-cell malignant lymphomas are very rare in these patients. We report a HIV seropositive 29-year-old homosexual man in whom cervical lymph node biopsy showed an atypical lymphoproliferative process. On morphological and paraffin section immunohistochemical grounds the possibility of Hodgkin's disease (HD) mixed cellularity was initially suggested, but frozen section immunohistochemical studies revealed that the cellular infiltrate exhibited an aberrant pan T immunophenotype and consequently the diagnosis of peripheral T-malignant lymphomas (T-ML) was made. However, genotypic studies would be required to definitely confirm this diagnosis, in such cases. In our case, varying numbers of small and medium-sized cells were positive for both Leu 3/CD4 and Leu 2/CD8 whereas some large cells reacted only with Leu 3/CD4 antibody. Some medium-sized, large and giant cells showed cytoplasmic positivity for Leu M1/CD15. Furthermore, the positivity of many large and giant cells with the activation markers BerH2/CD30, Ki-1/CD30, Tac/CD25 and HLA-DR suggested an activation state for these cells. Our findings emphasize the usefulness of frozen section immunohistochemical methods in order to investigate the spectrum of lymphoid malignancies occurring in HIV seropositive patients, and confirm results of previous studies which stressed the diagnostic difficulties that may appear in distinguishing HD from peripheral T-ML.
2140790 | Selective expression of CD8 alpha (Ly-2) subunit on activated thymic gamma/delta cells. Although most cells of the T cell receptor (TcR) gamma/delta lineage are CD4-CD8-, some gamma/delta cells express CD8. We show here that mouse thymic gamma/delta cells express CD8 following in vitro activation by concanavalin A. Staining with monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies to the CD8 alpha (Ly-2) and CD8 beta (Ly-3) subunits indicates that only CD8 alpha is expressed by these activated TcR gamma/delta cells. Furthermore, immunoprecipitation and reduced/nonreduced gel analysis reveals that thymic gamma/delta cells express CD8 alpha as a homodimer. In contrast, similarly activated TcR alpha/beta cells express a conventional CD8 alpha/CD8 beta heterodimer.
38179731 | Quercetin/Anti-PD-1 Antibody Combination Therapy Regulates the Gut Microbiota, Impacts Macrophage Immunity and Reshapes the Hepatocellular Carcinoma Tumor Microenvironment. OBJECTIVE: The use of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) provides promising strategies for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) treatment. This study aimed to explore impact and underlying mechanism of the combination therapy of quercetin and anti-programmed cell death 1 (anti-PD-1) antibody on HCC. METHODS: Orthotopically transplanted HCC tumors in mice were treated with quercetin, anti-PD-1 antibody, or a combination of both therapies. Histopathological changes and programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression were characterized by hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining. The diversity and differences of gut microbiota (GM) were evaluated through 16S rRNA sequencing. Levels of macrophage immunity-related cytokines were quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), and Western blot. RESULTS: Combination therapy reduced necrosis, fibrosis, and PD-L1 expression in liver tissues. Additionally, combination therapy reduced GM imbalance and increased abundance of Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Verrucomicrobiota at the phylum level as well as Dubosiella and Akkermansia at the genus level. Combination therapy improved macrophage immunity, raised the expressions of CD8a, CD4, CD11b, interleukin (IL)-10, and interferon (IFN)-gamma , and declined the expressions of IL-4, IL-6, toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), an inhibitor of nuclear factor kappaBalpha (IkappaBalpha), and the NFkappaB subunit p65. Upon combination therapy, expressions of M2 macrophage-related genes arginase-1 (Arg-1), IL-10, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) were upregulated. Instead, M1 macrophage-related genes IL-6, IL-12a, IL-1beta, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were downregulated. CONCLUSIONS: Quercetin/anti-PD-1 antibody combination therapy reshaped HCC tumor microenvironment in mice in parallel with regulating the GM and macrophage immunity.
25593026 | The role of B cells in the early onset of the first demyelinating event of acute optic neuritis. PURPOSE: We evaluated the molecular pathways that operate in the early phase of acute optic neuritis (ON) by studying gene expression profiles of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) subpopulations, including CD19(+) B cells, CD14(+) macrophages, and CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. METHODS: Samples of PBMC subpopulations were obtained from 18 MS patients within 96 hours of the acute onset of the first demyelinating event of ON, and from 14 age- and sex-matched healthy subjects. High throughput gene expression analysis was performed on samples from six ON patients and nine healthy subjects using Affymetrix technology. Data were analyzed using Partek software, and most informative genes (MIGs) were defined as genes with P < 0.01 and fold change > 2.0. Molecular pathways were analyzed by Ingenuity software. Verification of key MIGs was done on samples from five independent ON patients and five healthy subjects by quantitative (Q) RT-PCR and Western blot. Functional assay to test antigen presentation ability of sorted B cells was performed on blood samples from seven additional ON patients. RESULTS: Significantly differentiating gene expression signatures consisting of 467, 55, and 55 MIGs respective of CD19(+), CD14(+), and CD4(+) cells, were identified between ON and healthy subjects. No MIGs were detected for CD8(+) cells. The major involvement of CD19(+) B cells in the early stage of ON was characterized by enrichment of genes involved in activation of immune mechanisms (P = 3.2 x 10(-25) to 2.5 x 10(-3)), including cellular immune response (P = 7.1 x 10(-12)), B-cell cellular growth and proliferation (P = 1.0 x 10(-7)), activation of immune cells trafficking pathways (P = 5.4 x 10(-15) to 2.0 x 10(-3)), and stimulation of antigen presentation (P = 8.9 x 10(-11)). This massive B-cell-restricted initiation of the immune response in the early disease process of ON was followed by low CD14(+) and CD4(+) cells activity and CD8(+) cells anergy. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that CD19(+) B cells have a significant role in the pathogenesis of the first demyelinating event of acute ON and suggest their role as a possible target for immunomodulation.
36992208 | Development and Evaluation of Recombinant B-Cell Multi-Epitopes of PDHA1 and GAPDH as Subunit Vaccines against Streptococcus iniae Infection in Flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus). Streptococcus iniae is a severe Gram-positive pathogen that can infect a wide range of freshwater and marine fish species. In continuation of our earlier studies on the development of S. iniae vaccine candidates, pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 subunit alpha (PDHA1) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) were highly efficacious in protecting flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus) against S. iniae. In the present study, to investigate the potential of multi-epitope vaccination strategy to prevent flounder against S. iniae infection, the liner B-cell epitopes of PDHA1 and GAPDH proteins were predicted using a bioinformatics approach and were identified by immunoassay, and recombinant B-cell multi-epitopes of PDHA1 and GAPDH (rMEPIP and rMEPIG) containing immunodominant epitope-concentrated domains were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) and were used as a subunit vaccine to immunize healthy flounder, while recombinant PDHA1 (rPDHA1), GAPDH (rGAPDH) and formalin-inactivated S. iniae (FKC) served as controls. Then, the immunoprotection efficacy of rMEPIP and rMEPIG was evaluated by determining the percentages of CD4-1+, CD4-2+, CD8beta+ T lymphocytes and surface-IgM-positive (sIgM+) lymphocytes in peripheral blood leucocytes (PBLs), spleen leucocytes (SPLs) and head kidney leucocytes (HKLs), as well as total IgM, specific IgM, and relative percentage survival (RPS) post immunization, respectively. It was found that fish immunized with rPDHA1, rGAPDH, rMEPIP, rMEPIG and FKC showed significant increases in sIgM+, CD4-1+, CD4-2+, and CD8beta+ lymphocytes and production of total IgM and specific IgM against S. iniae or recombinant proteins rPDHA1 and rGAPDH, which indicated the activation of humoral and cellular immune responses after vaccination. Moreover, RPS rate of the multi-epitope vaccine rMEPIP and rMEPIG groups reached 74.07% and 77.78%, higher than that of rPDHA1 and rGAPDH (62.96% and 66.67%) and KFC (48.15%). These results demonstrated that B-cell multi-epitope protein vaccination, rMEPIP and rMEPIG, could give a better protective effect against S. iniae infection, which provided a promising strategy to design the efficient vaccine in teleost fish.
38203757 | Comparative Evaluation of STEAP1 Targeting Chimeric Antigen Receptors with Different Costimulatory Domains and Spacers. We have developed a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) against the six-transmembrane epithelial antigen of prostate-1 (STEAP1), which is expressed in prostate cancer, Ewing sarcoma, and other malignancies. In the present study, we investigated the effect of substituting costimulatory domains and spacers in this STEAP1 CAR. We cloned four CAR constructs with either CD28 or 4-1BB costimulatory domains, combined with a CD8a-spacer (sp) or a mutated IgG-spacer. The CAR T-cells were evaluated in short- and long-term in vitro T-cell assays, measuring cytokine production, tumor cell killing, and CAR T-cell expansion and phenotype. A xenograft mouse model of prostate cancer was used for in vivo comparison. All four CAR constructs conferred CD4+ and CD8+ T cells with STEAP1-specific functionality. A CD8sp_41BBz construct and an IgGsp_CD28z construct were selected for a more extensive comparison. The IgGsp_CD28z CAR gave stronger cytokine responses and killing in overnight caspase assays. However, the 41BB-containing CAR mediated more killing (IncuCyte) over one week. Upon six repeated stimulations, the CD8sp_41BBz CAR T cells showed superior expansion and lower expression of exhaustion markers (PD1, LAG3, TIGIT, TIM3, and CD25). In vivo, both the CAR T variants had comparable anti-tumor activity, but persisting CAR T-cells in tumors were only detected for the 41BBz variant. In conclusion, the CD8sp_41BBz STEAP1 CAR T cells had superior expansion and survival in vitro and in vivo, compared to the IgGsp_CD28z counterpart, and a less exhausted phenotype upon repeated antigen exposure. Such persistence may be important for clinical efficacy.
32582181 | Back From the Brink: Alterations in B and T Cell Responses Modulate Recovery of Rainbow Trout From Chronic Immunopathological Tetracapsuloides bryosalmonae Infection. Proliferative kidney disease (PKD) caused by the myxozoan parasite Tetracapsuloides bryosalmonae is one of the most serious infectious diseases negatively impacting farmed and wild salmonids throughout Europe and North America. PKD pathogenesis results in a massive B cell proliferation and dysregulation with aberrant immunoglobulin production and plasma cell differentiation along with a decrease in myeloid cells and inhibition of innate pathways. Despite the huge immunopathological reaction in the kidney during infection, under specific conditions, fish can survive and return to full fitness. Fish are unique in this ability to recover renal structure and functionality from extensive tissue damage in contrast to mammals. However, only limited knowledge exists regarding the host immune response coinciding with PKD recovery. Moreover, almost no studies of the immune response during disease recovery exist in fish. We utilized the rainbow trout-T. bryosalmonae system as an immunological model of disease recovery. Our results demonstrated that recovery is preceded by an intense immune response at the transcript level, decreasing parasite burden, and an increased degree of kidney inflammation. Later in the recovery phase, the immune response transpired with a significant decrease in lymphocytes and an increase in myeloid cells. These lymphocytes populations contained lower levels of B cells comparative to the control in the anterior and posterior kidney. Additionally, there was downregulation of several transcripts used as markers for plasma cells (blimp1, igt sec, igm sec, igd sec, and cd38) and T cell subsets (cd4, cd8alpha, cd8beta, and tcrbeta). The decrease in these T cell transcripts significantly correlated with decreasing parasite intensity. Alternatively, there was strong upregulation of pax-5 and igt mem. This suggests a change in B cell processes during the recovery phase relative to clinical PKD may be necessary for the host to re-establish homeostasis in terms of an arrest in the dominant antibody like response transitioning to a transcriptional profile associated with resting B cells. The knowledge generated here in combination with earlier studies illuminates the full power of analyzing the entire trajectory of disease from the normal healthy state to recovery enabling the measurement of an immune response to pinpoint a specific disease stage.
38348038 | Radiofrequency ablation plays double role in immunosuppression and activation of PBMCs in recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma. Background: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is the primary curative treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients who are not eligible for surgery. However, the effects of RFA on the global tumor immune response remain unclear. Method: In this study, we examined the phenotypic and functional changes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from recurrent HCC patients who had undergone two RFA treatments using mass cytometry and high-throughput mRNA assays. Results: We observed significant increase in monocytes and decrease in T cell subpopulations three days after the first RFA treatment and three days after the second RFA treatment. The down-regulation of GZMB, GZMH, GZMK, and CD8A, which are involved in the cytotoxic function of T cells, was observed following RFA. Furthermore, the population of CD8 effector and memory T cells (CD8 Teff and CD8 Tem) significantly decreased after RFA. The expression of CD5 and CD161 in various T cell subpopulations also showed significant reductions. Additionally, elevated secretion of VEGF was observed in monocytes, B cells, regulatory T cells (Tregs), and CD4 naive T cells. Conclusion: In recurrent HCC patients, serum components derived from radiofrequency therapy can enhance the antigen-presenting capacity of monocytes. However, they also inhibit the anti-cancer immune response by reducing the population of CD8 effector and memory T cells and suppressing the activation of T cells, as well as down-regulating the expression of CD161 and CD5 in various T cell subpopulations. These tumor-derived components also contribute to an immunosuppressive microenvironment by promoting the secretion of VEGF in monocytes, Tregs, B cells, and CD4 naive T cells.
37251903 | Combining cell-free RNA with cell-free DNA in liquid biopsy for hematologic and solid tumors. Current use of liquid biopsy is based on cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and the evaluation of mutations or methylation pattern. However, expressed RNA can capture mutations, changes in expression levels due to methylation, and provide information on cell of origin, growth, and proliferation status. We developed an approach to isolate cell-free total nucleic acid (cfDNA) and used targeted next generation sequencing to sequence cell-free RNA (cfRNA) and cfDNA as new approach in liquid biopsy. We demonstrate that cfRNA is overall more sensitive than cfDNA in detecting mutations. We show that cfRNA is reliable in detecting fusion genes and cfDNA is reliable in detecting chromosomal gains and losses. cfRNA levels of various solid tumor biomarkers were significantly higher (P < 0.0001) in samples from solid tumors as compared with normal control. Similarly, cfRNA lymphoid markers and cfRNA myeloid markers were all higher in lymphoid and myeloid neoplasms, respectively as compared with control (P < 0.0001). Using machine learning we demonstrate cfRNA was highly predictive of diagnosis (AUC >0.98) of solid tumors, B-cell lymphoid neoplasms, T-cell lymphoid neoplasms, and myeloid neoplasms. In evaluating the host immune system, cfRNA CD4:CD8B and CD3D:CD19 ratios in normal controls were as expected (median: 5.92 and 6.87, respectively) and were significantly lower in solid tumors (P < 0.0002). This data suggests that liquid biopsy combining analysis of cfRNA with cfDNA is practical and may provide helpful information in predicting genomic abnormalities, diagnosis of neoplasms and evaluating both the tumor biology and the host response.
9652995 | Effects of androgen administration in men with the AIDS wasting syndrome. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. BACKGROUND: Development of successful anabolic strategies to reverse the loss of lean body mass is of critical importance to increase survival in men with the AIDS wasting syndrome. Hypogonadism, an acquired endocrine deficiency state characterized by loss of testosterone, occurs in more than half of all men with advanced HIV disease. It is unknown whether testosterone deficiency contributes to the profound catabolic state and loss of lean body mass associated with the AIDS wasting syndrome. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of physiologic testosterone administration on body composition, exercise functional capacity, and quality of life in androgen-deficient men with the AIDS wasting syndrome. DESIGN: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. SETTING: University medical center. PATIENTS: 51 HIV-positive men (age 42 +/- 8 years) with wasting (body weight < 90% of ideal body weight or weight loss > 10% of baseline weight) and a free testosterone level less than 42 pmol/L (normal range for men 18 to 49 years of age, 42 to 121 pmol/L [12.0 to 35.0 pg/mL]). INTERVENTION: Patients were randomly assigned to receive testosterone enanthate, 300 mg, or placebo intramuscularly every 3 weeks for 6 months. MEASUREMENTS: Change in fat-free mass was the primary end point. Secondary clinical end points were weight, lean body mass, muscle mass, exercise functional capacity, and change in perceived quality of life. Virologic variables were assessed by CD4 count and viral load. RESULTS: Compared with patients who received placebo, testosterone-treated patients gained fat-free mass (-0.6 kg and 2.0 kg; P = 0.036), lean body mass (0.0 kg and 1.9 kg; P = 0.041), and muscle mass (-0.8 kg and 2.4 kg; P = 0.005). The changes in weight, fat mass, total-body water content, and exercise functional capacity did not significantly differ between the groups. Patients who received testosterone reported benefit from the treatment (P = 0.036), feeling better (P = 0.033), improved quality of life (P = 0.040), and improved appearance (P = 0.021). Testosterone was well tolerated in all patients. CONCLUSIONS: Physiologic testosterone administration increases lean body mass and improves quality of life among androgen-deficient men with the AIDS wasting syndrome.
38405082 | Addressing the Role of Conventional CD8alphabeta+ T Cells and CD4+ T Cells in Intestinal Immunopathology Using a Bone Marrow-Engrafted Model. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is characterized by an aberrant immune response against microbiota. It is well established that T cells play a critical role in mediating the pathology. Assessing the contribution of each subset of T cells in mediating the pathology is crucial in order to design better therapeutic strategies. This protocol presents a method to identify the specific effector T-cell population responsible for intestinal immunopathologies in bone marrow-engrafted mouse models. Here, we used anti-CD4 and anti-CD8beta depleting antibodies in bone marrow-engrafted mouse models to identify the effector T-cell population responsible for intestinal damage in a genetic mouse model of chronic intestinal inflammation. Key features   This protocol allows addressing the role of CD4+ or CD8alphabeta+ in an engrafted model of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).   This protocol can easily be adapted to address the role of other immune cells or molecules that may play a role in IBD.
24681565 | CD4(+) T cell lineage integrity is controlled by the histone deacetylases HDAC1 and HDAC2. Molecular mechanisms that maintain lineage integrity of helper T cells are largely unknown. Here we show histone deacetylases 1 and 2 (HDAC1 and HDAC2) as crucial regulators of this process. Loss of HDAC1 and HDAC2 during late T cell development led to the appearance of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-selected CD4(+) helper T cells that expressed CD8-lineage genes such as Cd8a and Cd8b1. HDAC1 and HDAC2-deficient T helper type 0 (TH0) and TH1 cells further upregulated CD8-lineage genes and acquired a CD8(+) effector T cell program in a manner dependent on Runx-CBFbeta complexes, whereas TH2 cells repressed features of the CD8(+) lineage independently of HDAC1 and HDAC2. These results demonstrate that HDAC1 and HDAC2 maintain integrity of the CD4 lineage by repressing Runx-CBFbeta complexes that otherwise induce a CD8(+) effector T cell-like program in CD4(+) T cells.
2571558 | Dipeptidylaminopeptidase IV activity in T lymphocyte subsets in B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. The total T cell population and T cell subsets in ten lymph nodes with reactive lymphoid hyperplasia (RLH) and 23 specimens (21 lymph nodes, one stomach, and one small bowel) involved by histologically and immunohistologically diagnosed B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs) were determined by reactivity with monoclonal antibodies Leu 4-CD3, Leu 3-CD4, and Leu 2-CD8 in cytospin preparations from cell suspensions. T cell populations were also investigated for the coexpression of dipeptidylaminopeptidase IV (DAP IV) activity, which was visualized simultaneously with cell surface immunostaining by a combined cytochemical and immunocytochemical method. The mean absolute percentage of Leu 4-CD3+ (total T) and Leu 3-CD4+ cell populations was significantly lower in B cell NHL cases than in RLH cases (35% v 54%, P less than .001; 29.5% v 44.4%, P less than .01). No difference in the mean absolute percentage of the Leu 2-CD8+ T cell subset was found between the RLH cases and the B cell NHL cases classified as other than category A as described by the Working Formulation (WF) of NHLs. The relative percentage of Leu 4-CD3+ and Leu 2-CD8+ cells coexpressing DAP IV reactivity was lower in B cell NHL cases than in RLH cases (27.3% v 39.5%, P less than .05; 13.5% v 24.4%, P less than .10). There was no difference in the proportion of Leu 3-CD4+ cells expressing DAP IV reactivity between the NHL and RLH groups (34.5% v 36.1%). Since the mean relative percentage of Leu 2-CD8+ cells expressing DAP IV reactivity in the B cell NHL group in the other than category A according to the WF was lower than that of the RLH group (12.5% v 24.4%), and whereas the mean absolute percentage of total Leu 2-CD8+ cells was similar in the two groups (16.6% and 16.6%), a possible defective role of this Leu 2-CD8+ DAP IV+ subset, at least in B cell NHLs in the other than category A according to the WF, may be hypothesized.
833939 | Suppressors of gene 32 am mutants that specifically overproduce P32 (unwinding protein) in bacteriophage T4. A gene 32 amber (am) mutant, amNG364, fails to grow on Escherichia coli Su3+ high temperatures, suggesting that the tyrosine residue inserted at the am codon by Su3+ leads to a temperature-sensitive gene 32 protein (P32). By plating amNG364 on E. coli Su3+ 45 degrees C, several pseudorevertants were found that proved to contain a suppressor (su) mutant in addition to the original am mutation. Crosses of two of these amNG364su strains to am+ phage indicated that the suppressors themselves are in or close to gene 32. Phage strains carrying either of the two su mutations, without amNG364, grew normally. When cells were infected by these su mutants and the proteins produced were examined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-gel electrophroesis, specific overproduction of P32 was found. Maximum overproduction compared to am+ phage was 6.6-fold for one su mutant and 2.4-fold for the other. Other proteins were produced in normal amounts and in normal time sequence. When amNG364su phage were allowed to infect E. coli S/6/5(Su-), the gene 32 am fragments produced were present at the same derepressed levels as in an infection by amNG364 without a suppressor. The suppressor mutations are interpreted as causing derepression of P32 by altering sites in this autogenously regulated protein involved in template recognition. Previously, specific derepression of gene 32 had only been shown using gene 32 conditional lethal mutants grown under restrictive conditions. We have shown that P32 can also be derepressed under permissive conditions, indicating that loss of P32 function is not necessary for specific derepression.
37577264 | Reduction of Chlamydia pecorum and Koala Retrovirus subtype B expression in wild koalas vaccinated with novel peptide and peptide/recombinant protein formulations. Koalas are an endangered species under threat of extinction from several factors, including infections agents. Chlamydia pecorum infection results in morbidity and mortality from ocular and urogenital diseases while Koala Retrovirus (KoRV) infection has been linked to increased rates of cancer and chlamydiosis. Both C. pecorum and KoRV are endemic in many wild Australian koala populations, with limited treatment options available. Fortunately, vaccines for these pathogens are under development and have generated effective immune responses in multiple trials. The current study aimed to improve vaccine formulations by testing a novel peptide version of the Chlamydia vaccine and a combination Chlamydia - KoRV vaccine. Utilising a monitored wild population in Southeast Queensland, this trial followed koalas given either a 'Chlamydia only' vaccine (utilising four peptides from the chlamydial Major Outer Membrane Protein, MOMP), a combination 'Chlamydia and KoRV' vaccine (comprised of the chlamydial peptides plus a KoRV recombinant envelope protein (rEnv)) or no treatment. Clinical observations, C. pecorum and KoRV gene expression, serum IgG, and mucosal immune gene expression were assessed over a 17-month period. Overall, both vaccine formulations resulted in a decrease in chlamydiosis mortality, with decreases in C. pecorum, CD4, CD8beta and IL-17A gene expression observed. In addition, the combination vaccine group also showed an increase in anti-KoRV IgG production that corresponded to a decrease in detected KoRV-B expression. While these results are favourable, the chlamydial peptide vaccine did not appear to outperform the established recombinant chlamydial vaccine and suggests that a combination vaccine formulated with recombinant MOMP plus KoRV rEnv could capitalize on the demonstrated benefits of both for the betterment of koalas into the future.
3097810 | Flow cytometric analysis of lymphocyte subsets in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and peripheral blood of healthy volunteers. The lymphocyte subsets in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and the peripheral blood of 25 healthy volunteers were examined by analysis with a fluorescence-activated cell sorter. Comparison of the lymphocyte subsets in the BALF with those of the peripheral blood revealed much higher values for the ratios of each Leu 3a+ (CD4), Leu 3+8-, and Leu 2+15- cells, while the ratios of Leu 1+ (CD5), Leu 2a+ (CD8), Leu 7+, Leu 8+, Leu 10+, Leu 11a+ (CD16), Leu 12+, and Leu 2+15+ cells were low in the BALF. The above results indicate that the lymphocyte subsets in the BALF from healthy individuals are mainly composed of cells with surface phenotypes of helper T cells and cytotoxic T cells with virtual absence of cells carrying suppressor T and NK cell phenotypes, and with low B cell ratio. Therefore, it is assumed that the local immune mechanism of the lung is different from that of the peripheral blood.
1519445 | Characteristics of type III iodothyronine deiodinase. Type III iodothyronine deiodinase (ID-III) catalyzes the inner ring deiodination of T4 to rT3 and of T3 to 3,3'-T2, representing an important pathway for the inactivation of thyroid hormone. High activities of this \oncofetal\ enzyme are found in rat brain, skin and fetal intestine, rat and human placenta, chick embryo liver, monkey hepatocarcinoma cells, human colon carcinoma cells, and tadpole liver. ID-III shows substrate preference for T3 over T4; Km values are approximately 10-fold lower for T3 than for T4 but Vmax values are similar. In contrast to the marked ontogenic pattern of ID-III in different tissues, the enzyme shows little change under pathophysiological conditions, such as fasting and thyroid dysfunction. Brain ID-III activity is decreased in hypo- and increased in hyperthyroidism, but the changes are small. Reaction of brain and placenta microsomes with BrAc 125I-T3 results in extensive labeling of a 32 kDa protein (p32). However, the relationship of p32 with ID-III is not clear, since labeling of p32 is also observed in tissues without ID-III activity and is not inhibited with a large excess of substrate.
20826269 | A locus on chromosome 1p36 is associated with thyrotropin and thyroid function as identified by genome-wide association study. Thyroid hormones are key regulators of cellular growth, development, and metabolism, and thyroid disorders are a common cause of ill health in the community. Circulating concentrations of thyrotropin (TSH), thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) have a strong heritable component and are thought to be under polygenic control, but the genes responsible are mostly unknown. In order to identify genetic loci associated with these metabolic phenotypes, we performed a genome-wide association study of 2,120,505 SNPs in 2014 female twins from the TwinsUK study and found a significant association between rs10917469 on chromosome 1p36.13 and serum TSH (p = 3.2 x 10(-8)). The association of rs10917469 with serum TSH was replicated (p = 2.0 x 10(-4)) in an independent community-based sample of 1154 participants in the Busselton Health Study. This SNP is located near CAPZB, which might be a regulator of TSH secretion and thus of pituitary-thyroid axis function. Twenty-nine percent of white individuals carry the variant, and the difference in mean TSH concentrations between wild-type individuals and those homozygous for the minor G allele was 0.5 mU/l, which is likely to be clinically relevant. We also provide evidence of suggestive association (p < 5.0 x 10(-6)) of other SNPs with serum TSH, free T4, and free T3 concentrations, and these SNPs might be good targets for further studies. These results advance understanding of the genetic basis of pituitary-thyroid axis function and metabolic regulation.
6388971 | Effects of thymopoietin pentapeptide (TP-5) on in vitro and in vivo IgE production by atopic dermatitis cell subsets. Atopic dermatitis (AD) patients exhibit multiple immune abnormalities, including T-cell defects that may be partially correctable by the administration of thymic hormones. Our investigations confirmed that peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes obtained from patients with AD spontaneously synthesized markedly elevated amounts of IgE in vitro. The thymic hormone thymopoietin pentapeptide (TP-5) greatly inhibited this synthesis. An antihuman pan-T cell monoclonal antibody (Lyt3) was used to separate T-cell marker-positive (T+) T cells from marker-negative (T-) B-enriched cells. TP-5 pretreatment of T+ cells resulted in significant reduction of in vitro IgE synthesis by recombined T+ and T- cells, whereas pretreatment of T- B-enriched cells resulted in a nonsignificant reduction in in vitro IgE synthesis. Thus, although pretreatment of both subsets resulted in some degree of reduction, TP-5-induced inhibition of in vitro IgE synthesis was primarily mediated via T cells. The majority of patients' untreated T+ and T4+ cells showed enhanced IgE synthesis, but only one patient's T8+ cells were capable of suppressing IgE synthesis. Thus TP-5 may either induce suppressor T-cell activity or reduce helper T-cell activity. A six-week double-blind clinical trial of TP-5 produced evidence of clinical improvement and alterations of abnormalities of OKT8+ cells, although no significant effects on serum IgE were seen.
34925610 | COVID-19 Infection - the Possibility to Involve Oxygen as Immunogen in the ARDS Determinism (Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome). Since its onset, the new coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 has manifested multiple paradoxes related to both complications of the infection and treatment resistance. The experiences in therapy started from the use of neutralizing monoclonal antibodies and anti-cytokine therapy (anti IL-6, anti-TNF-alpha and CCR5) up to experiments of immunomodulation with glucocorticoids and proposal of very powerful immunomodulatory drugs like cyclophosphamide in optimized diagrams in order to induce the depression of the immune hyperergic reaction with the maintenance of TH and TC lymphocyte resistance to keep the anti-viral activity in the absence of an etiological treatment. In this context, also the second major immunologic mechanism could function: the molecular mimicry - cross-reactivity between viral epitopes and various antigenic determinants from the body, other than the tissue structures of the respiratory system. In a similar manner, in the past, genital staphylococcal infections among women wearing tampons, sometimes generated a toxic-septic shock with an unexpected evolution to death. It is also about an atypical cytokine storm, generated by the staphylococcal toxins (super-antigenic) but probably, the aggressiveness was also generated by the cross reactivity with chemical antigens from the cotton fibers, because this disorder generally appeared among women in the menstrual period, sometimes the local genital infection being minor. Moreover, with the lapse of time, the reaction of shock no longer appeared, probable through the increase of immunologic tolerance to cotton fibers. In a similar manner, in COVID-19 a reaction of hyper-sensitivity to a gaseous antigen could overlap, considering the decrease of tolerance at the invasive administration of oxygen (the contact with BALT - the lymphatic system associated to the bronchia, where the resident macrophage is the siderophage) and partial maintenance at the non-invasive administration through mask or extracorporeal, which induces the first contact with the lymphatic elements associated to the oropharyngeal cavity or blood, where the siderophage can no longer be observed. In this context, some adult patients with COVID-19 could manifest an immunologic genetic defect of TS at BALT level, as women with staphylococcal toxic-septic shock had a local defect at the VALT level (lymphatic tissue associated with the genital tract). In children, the syndrome is rare and more multisystem, which rather suggests the breaking of central tolerance through the lack of intra-thymus or intra-medullary deletion of the auto-reactive clones of (Th TC), while among adults the defect seems to be more peripheral, local, with the involvement of TS and resident macrophages (siderophages). This could explain not only the higher level of severity in elder patients and those with cardiac disorders but also the rarity of the pathology in patients aged under nine years.
38928018 | Progressive Evolutionary Dynamics of Gene-Specific omega Led to the Emergence of Novel SARS-CoV-2 Strains Having Super-Infectivity and Virulence with Vaccine Neutralization. An estimation of the proportion of nonsynonymous to synonymous mutation (dn/ds, omega) of the SARS-CoV-2 genome would indicate the evolutionary dynamics necessary to evolve into novel strains with increased infection, virulence, and vaccine neutralization. A temporal estimation of omega of the whole genome, and all twenty-nine SARS-CoV-2 genes of major virulent strains of alpha, delta and omicron demonstrates that the SARS-CoV-2 genome originally emerged (omega ~ 0.04) with a strong purifying selection (omega < 1) and reached (omega ~ 0.85) in omicron towards diversifying selection (omega > 1). A marked increase in the omega occurred in the spike gene from alpha (omega = 0.2) to omicron (omega = 1.97). The omega of the replication machinery genes including RDRP, NSP3, NSP4, NSP7, NSP8, NSP10, NSP13, NSP14, and ORF9 are markedly increased, indicating that these genes/proteins are yet to be evolutionary stabilized and are contributing to the evolution of novel virulent strains. The delta-specific maximum increase in omega in the immunomodulatory genes of NSP8, NSP10, NSP16, ORF4, ORF5, ORF6, ORF7A, and ORF8 compared to alpha or omicron indicates delta-specific vulnerabilities for severe COVID-19 related hospitalization and death. The maximum values of omega are observed for spike (S), NSP4, ORF8 and NSP15, which indicates that the gene-specific temporal estimation of omega identifies specific genes for its super-infectivity and virulency that could be targeted for drug development.
42056906 | Pulmonary complications in people living with HIV: a retrospective evaluation of the etiological spectrum and mortality-associated factors. INTRODUCTION: Pulmonary complications are a major cause of poor outcomes in people living with HIV, yet data on the etiology and mortality predictors remain limited, particularly in middle-income countries. METHODS: In this retrospective cohort study, we reviewed the clinical records of 117 adults living with HIV (PLWH) with documented pulmonary involvement followed at a tertiary care center in Turkey between 2000 and 2024. Baseline immunovirological status was assessed using CD4 + T lymphocyte counts and plasma HIV-1 RNA levels. Clinical, laboratory, radiological, and microbiological data were collected, and predictors of mortality and length of hospital stay were analyzed. RESULTS: A total of 117 PLWH were included; the cohort was predominantly male (91.5%), with a mean age of 44.0 +- 13.7 years, and 45.3% were receiving antiretroviral therapy at presentation. Infectious etiologies, particularly pneumonia (94.9%), predominated. Microbiological confirmation was obtained in 26 patients (22.2%); across the cohort, a total of 39 pathogens were identified (33.3% when counted by pathogen episode), with SARS-CoV-2 (12.8%) and Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (6.0%) being the most common. Non-infectious pulmonary conditions (such as lung cancer, COPD, asthma, and interstitial lung disease) were observed only in a small minority of patients and, owing to their low numbers, were described descriptively but not analyzed in separate outcome subgroups. The overall mortality rate was 24.8% (29/117). The factors significantly associated with mortality included a low CD4 count (160.4 vs. 288.1 cells/mm3; p = 0.014), low albumin level (2.64 vs. 3.13 g/dL; p = 0.003), the need for intubation (OR 70.69, 95% CI 8.63-578.79; p < 0.001), and intensive care unit (ICU) admission (OR 10.71, 95% CI 3.83-29.98; p < 0.001). Pneumococcal vaccination was associated with a reduced mortality risk (OR = 0.20, 95% CI 0.06-0.72; p = 0.008). Higher procalcitonin (beta 0.27, 95% CI 0.04-0.51; p = 0.021) and lower albumin levels (beta - 4.90, 95% CI - 9.43 to - 0.37; p = 0.034) independently predicted longer hospital stays. CONCLUSIONS: Pulmonary involvement in HIV remains a serious clinical issue in our setting and was driven predominantly by infectious pneumonias, whereas non-infectious pulmonary conditions were less frequent and could not be evaluated in detail. Early identification of high-risk patients and increased access to preventive strategies, particularly vaccination, are crucial to improving in-hospital outcomes. CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER: Not applicable.
42039590 | Serial vaccination expands and refines human CD4 + T cell memory. CD4 + T cells coordinate protective immunity against pathogens. However, a major unresolved question is how human CD4 + T cell memory is established and evolves following primary and repeated vaccination. Using COVID-19 mRNA vaccination as a model, we tracked 50 distinct antigen-specific populations directly ex vivo with peptide-MHC class II tetramers in eight SARS-CoV-2-naive individuals from pre-vaccine baseline through memory time points after three mRNA doses. Our findings identify the primary vaccine series as the main driver of memory pool size. It leverages pre-existing memory while preferentially recruiting high-avidity T cells, establishing an immunodominance hierarchy dominated by a small subset of precursors. Booster vaccination refines both the magnitude and quality of T cell memory. It increases select populations and enhances differentiation of subdominant CD4 + T cells. Populations that did not become more abundant after boosting retained their polyfunctional potential. Beyond establishing memory to the ancestral spike, vaccinations broadened responses by recruiting cross-reactive T cells recognizing viral variants. Collectively, these findings reveal how human CD4 + T cell memory evolves through sequential immunizations to generate a functionally diverse and broadly responsive memory repertoire against future viral challenges.
40744845 | Maraviroc treatment for hospitalized participants with non-severe COVID-19 at risk of progression: a randomized, proof-of-concept clinical trial. BACKGROUND: Therapeutic options for hospitalized people with COVID-19 remain limited, especially for people with non-severe COVID-19 at risk of progression. The anti-inflammatory role of maraviroc, a CCR5 antagonists, makes it a good candidate for therapeutic strategies for COVID-19. METHODS: This was a proof-of-concept, phase II, parallel, open label clinical trial, to evaluate the safety and efficacy of maraviroc (300 mg, bid), CCR5 antagonist, combined with standard of care (SoC) treatment compared to SoC alone during 14 days, in hospitalized people with mild COVID-19 with pneumonia and ambient air oxygen saturation >94 %. Demographical, clinical, and analytical data were assayed at day 0, 7, 14 and 28. RESULTS: Thirty-three participants were included, 17 in the control and 16 in the maraviroc group. The proportion of participants who experienced COVID-19 progression was 2.8 times higher in the control group than in the maraviroc group, with three participants admitted in intensive care unit versus none in the maraviroc group. The only variable associated with the time to severe COVID-19 progression was maraviroc treatment. The median time on oxygen therapy was 11 days in the control group, while the two participants in the maraviroc group had oxygen therapy for one and four days. Grade 3-4 events were only present in the control group. Maraviroc treatment was associated with a better neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio and lactate dehydrogenase, IL-6 and TNF-alpha levels at day 7. CONCLUSIONS: We observed a beneficial role of maraviroc in hospitalized participants with mild COVID-19 at risk of progression at admission.
38940584 | Recognition of HIV-1-infected fibrocytes lacking Nef-mediated HLA-B downregulation by HIV-1-specific T cells. Fibrocytes were reported to be host cells for HIV-1, but the immunological recognition of HIV-1-infected fibrocytes has not been studied. Here, we investigated the recognition of HIV-1-infected fibrocytes by HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells. CD8+ T cells specific for five HIV-1 epitopes (HLA-A*24:02-restricted, HLA-B*52:01-restricted, and HLA-C*12:02-restricted epitopes) produced IFN-gamma and expressed CD107a after coculture with HIV-1-infected fibrocytes. HIV-1-infected fibrocytes were effectively killed by HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells. Although it is well known that HIV-1 Nef-mediated downregulation of HLA-A and HLA-B critically affects the T cell recognition of HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells and HIV-1-infected macrophages, Nef downregulated HLA-A, but not HLA-B, in HIV-1-infected fibrocytes. These findings suggested that HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells could recognize HIV-1-infected fibrocytes more strongly than HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells or HIV-1-infected macrophages. HIV-1-infected fibrocytes were also recognized by HIV-1-specific HLA-DR-restricted T cells, indicating that HIV-1-infected fibrocytes can present HIV-1 epitopes to helper T cells. Collectively, these findings suggest that fibrocytes have an important role as antigen-presenting cells during HIV-1 infection. The present study demonstrates effective recognition of HIV-1-infected fibrocytes by HIV-1-specific T cells and suggests possible roles of fibrocytes in the induction and maintenance of HIV-1-specific T cells. IMPORTANCE: Fibrocytes were identified as unique hematopoietic cells with the features of both macrophages and fibroblasts and were demonstrated to be host cells for HIV-1. However, T cell recognition of HIV-1-infected fibrocytes has not been studied. We investigated the recognition of HIV-1-infected fibrocytes by HIV-1-specific T cells. HIV-1-infected fibrocytes were effectively recognized and killed by CD8+ T cells specific for HIV-1 epitopes presented by HLA-A, HLA-B, or HLA-C and were recognized by HIV-1-specific HLA-DR-restricted CD4+ T cells. HIV-1 Nef-mediated downregulation of HLA-A and HLA-B was found in HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells, whereas Nef did not downregulate HLA-B in HIV-1-infected fibrocytes. These results suggest that HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells recognize HIV-1-infected fibrocytes more strongly than HIV-1-infected CD4+ T cells. The present study suggests the importance of fibrocytes in the induction and maintenance of HIV-1-specific T cells.
42120368 | Whole-protein screening and multi-modal profiling of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells at single-cell resolution. Systematic whole-protein screening and comprehensive profiling of antigen-specific CD4+ T cells are crucial for advancing vaccine design and cancer immunotherapies, yet remain technically challenging. Here, we present a high-throughput platform that utilizes large-scale class II single-chain trimer libraries to detect antigen-specific CD4+ T cells, while simultaneously profiling their antigen specificity, TCRalpha/beta sequences, MHC restriction, whole transcriptomes, and patient/timepoint origins at single-cell resolution. Upon rigorous platform validation, we screened the full SARS-CoV-2 spike receptor binding domain in a longitudinal cohort of 22 participants, identifying 2,188 antigen-specific CD4+ T cells and showing key metrics defining the immunogenicity of class II-restricted viral antigens. We further extended the platform to whole-protein screening of HPV-16 E6/E7 in a cohort of precancerous patients, indicating HPV-specific CD4 TCRs that, upon extensive characterization, demonstrate strong therapeutic potential. By integrating high-throughput antigen screening with high-dimensional, multi-modal cellular characterization, our approach provides detailed insight into CD4+ T cell immunity, potentially guiding vaccine design and next-generation TCR-based cancer immunotherapies.
41930968 | Systemic translocation of Staphylococcus aureus promotes autoimmunity: implications in autoantibody-mediated poor immune reconstitution from antiretroviral therapy in HIV. In 2017, our group first demonstrated that autoimmunity contributes to HIV pathogenesis, even without autoimmune disease. This concept is now broadly recognized, exemplified by the role of autoimmunity in severe COVID-19. In people with HIV (PWH) on suppressive antiretroviral therapy (ART), anti-CD4 autoantibodies may impair CD4+ T-cell recovery, though the mechanisms driving their production remain unclear. Building on evidence from our group and others that Staphylococcus aureus and its peptidoglycan (PGN) promote autoimmunity, we investigated their contribution to anti-CD4 IgG in HIV. Plasma from 32 ART-naive PWH, 53 ART-treated PWH, and 32 HIV-negative controls was analyzed for IgG autoantibodies and markers of S. aureus translocation using protein array and ELISA. EcoHIV mice were injected intraperitoneally with saline, S. aureus PGN, or Bacillus subtilis PGN. PGN structures were compared by mass spectrometry. Among 87 autoantibodies, 40% were elevated in ART-naive PWH and largely normalized by ART; however, anti-CD4 IgGs remained elevated in PWH on ART. Anti-CD4 IgG levels inversely correlated with CD4+ T-cell counts in ART-treated PWH and positively with markers of S. aureus translocation. In mice, S. aureus PGN induced anti-CD4 IgGs, reduced frequency of CD4+ T cells among total gut T cells, and promoted surface IgG binding and apoptosis in CD4+ T cells. S. aureus and its PGN translocation may drive anti-CD4 autoimmunity and hinder immune recovery in PWH on suppressive ART, highlighting S. aureus colonization as a therapeutic target and supporting the development of competitive probiotic interventions.IMPORTANCECurrently, no treatment is available for improving CD4+ T-cell recovery in people with HIV (PWH) on suppressive antiretroviral therapy (ART). Up to 20% of PWH on ART fail to restore peripheral CD4+ T-cell counts to levels observed in healthy individuals, a condition associated with increased morbidity and mortality and representing a major unmet challenge in HIV clinical care. Our study demonstrates that systemic Staphylococcus aureus translocation contributes to autoimmunity and impaired immune reconstitution in a subset of PWH on suppressive ART. These findings identify a previously unrecognized mechanism of immune failure and support a novel therapeutic strategy combining probiotics with ART to enhance immune recovery and reduce HIV-associated morbidity and mortality.
34308962 | Genetic mechanisms of COVID-19 and its association with smoking and alcohol consumption. We aimed to investigate the genetic mechanisms associated with coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19) outcomes in the host and to evaluate the possible associations between smoking and drinking behavior and three COVID-19 outcomes: severe COVID-19, hospitalized COVID-19 and COVID-19 infection. We described the genomic loci and risk genes associated with the COVID-19 outcomes, followed by functional analyses of the risk genes. Then, a summary data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) analysis, and a transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) were performed for the severe COVID-19 dataset. A two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis was used to evaluate the causal associations between various measures of smoking and alcohol consumption and the COVID-19 outcomes. A total of 26 protein-coding genes, enriched in chemokine binding, cytokine binding and senescence-related functions, were associated with either severe COVID-19 or hospitalized COVID-19. The SMR and the TWAS analyses highlighted functional implications of some GWAS hits and identified seven novel genes for severe COVID-19, including CCR5, CCR5AS, IL10RB, TAC4, RMI1 and TNFSF15, some of which are targets of approved or experimental drugs. According to our studies, increasing consumption of cigarettes per day by 1 standard deviation is related to a 2.3-fold increase in susceptibility to severe COVID-19 and a 1.6-fold increase in COVID-19-induced hospitalization. Contrarily, no significant links were found between alcohol consumption or binary smoking status and COVID-19 outcomes. Our study revealed some novel COVID-19 related genes and suggested that genetic liability to smoking may quantitatively contribute to an increased risk for a severe course of COVID-19.
39811650 | Yip1 interacting factor homolog B mediates the unconventional secretion of ORF8 during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Severe cases of COVID-19 are associated with immune responses that lead to a surge in inflammatory molecules, resulting in multi-organ failure and death. This significant increase in inflammatory factors is triggered by viral proteins. Open reading frame 8 (ORF8) has received particular attention as a unique accessory protein of SARS-CoV-2. In a previous study, we have examined the role of unconventionally released ORF8 during cytokine storm associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Here, after mass spectrometry analysis and gene knockout/knockdown in cell/hamster models, we further discovered that Yip1 interacting factor homolog B (YIF1B) directly translocates unglycosylated ORF8 into vesicles that mediate cargo transport; specifically, the alpha4 helix of YIF1B interacts with the beta8 sheet. Blocking ORF8 unconventional secretion via YIF1B knockdown attenuates inflammation and yields reduced mortality. Our study suggests that YIF1B directs ORF8 translocation into an unconventional secretion pathway, which has significant implications for the pathogenesis and treatment of COVID-19.
39191745 | Antibody Fc receptor binding and T cell responses to homologous and heterologous immunization with inactivated or mRNA vaccines against SARS-CoV-2. Whole virion inactivated vaccine CoronaVac (C) and Spike (S) mRNA BNT162b2 (B) vaccines differ greatly in their ability to elicit neutralizing antibodies but have somewhat comparable effectiveness in protecting from severe COVID-19. We conducted further analyses for a randomized trial (Cobovax study, NCT05057169) of third dose homologous and heterologous booster vaccination, i.e. four interventions CC-C, CC-B, BB-C and BB-B. Here, we assess vaccine immunogenicity beyond neutralizing function, including S and non-S antibodies with Fc receptor (FcR) binding, antibody avidity and T cell specificity to 6 months post-vaccination. Ancestral and Omicron S-specific IgG and FcR binding are significantly higher by BNT162b2 booster than CoronaVac, regardless of first doses. Nucleocapsid (N) antibodies are only increased in homologous boosted CoronaVac participants (CC-C). CoronaVac primed participants have lower baseline S-specific CD4+ IFNgamma+ cells, but are significantly increased by either CoronaVac or BNT162b2 boosters. Priming vaccine content defined T cell peptide specificity preference, with S-specific T cells dominating B primed groups and non-S structural peptides contributing more in C primed groups, regardless of booster type. S-specific CD4+ T cell responses, N-specific antibodies, and antibody effector functions via Fc receptor binding may contribute to protection and compensate for less potent neutralizing responses in CoronaVac recipients.
39566499 | Hidden evolutionary constraints dictate the retention of coronavirus accessory genes. Coronaviruses exhibit many mechanisms of genetic innovation, including the acquisition of accessory genes that originate by capture of cellular genes or through duplication of existing viral genes. Accessory genes influence viral host range and cellular tropism, but little is known about how selection acts on these variable regions of virus genomes. We used experimental evolution of mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) encoding a cellular AKAP7 phosphodiesterase and an inactive native phosphodiesterase, NS2, to model the evolutionary fate of accessory genes. After courses of serial infection, the gene encoding inactive NS2, ORF2, unexpectedly remained intact, suggesting it is under cryptic constraint uncoupled from the function of NS2. By contrast, AKAP7 was retained under strong selection but rapidly lost under relaxed selection. Experimental evolution also led to altered viral replication in a cell-type-specific manner and changed the relative proportions of subgenomic viral RNA in plaque-purified viral isolates, revealing additional mechanisms of adaptation. Guided by the retention of MHV ORF2 and similar patterns in related betacoronaviruses, we analyzed ORF8 of SARS-CoV-2, which is proposed to have arisen via gene duplication and contains premature stop codons in several globally successful lineages. As with MHV ORF2, the coding-defective SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 gene remained largely intact in these lineages, mirroring patterns observed during MHV experimental evolution, challenging assumptions on the dynamics of gene loss in virus genomes, and extending these findings to viruses currently adapting to humans.
39230170 | Genome-Wide Identification of Cell Type-Specific Susceptibility Genes for SLE Through the Analysis of RNA Modification-Associated SNPs. INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to elucidate the functional genes associated with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in various cell types through the utilization of RNAm-SNPs. METHODS: Utilizing large-scale genetic data, we identified associations between RNAm-SNPs and SLE. The association between RNAm-SNPs and bulk and single-cell mRNA expression (eQTL) and protein levels (pQTL) were examined. Mendelian randomization and differential expression analyses were conducted to explore the links between gene expression, protein levels, and SLE. RESULTS: We identified 41 RNAm-SNPs that were significantly associated with SLE. The GWAS signals exhibited notable enrichment in m6A-SNPs and m7G-SNPs. These RNAm-SNPs showed both eQTL and pQTL effects. In our single-cell analysis, 16 RNAm-SNPs exhibited associations with gene expression levels across 13 distinct cell types, including HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DRB1 and IRF7. We identified 58 noteworthy associations between the expression levels of 20 genes and SLE across 12 distinct immune cell types. Notably, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DRB1 and IRF7 exhibited abnormalities in CD8+ T cells, IRF7 displayed abnormal expression in CD4+ T cells, while HLA-DRB1 and IRF7 were also distinctly perturbed in natural killer cells. DISCUSSION: This study advances our understanding of the genetic basis of SLE by highlighting the significance of RNAm-SNPs and immune cell gene expression in SLE.
35004972 | Regulating monocyte infiltration and differentiation: Providing new therapies for colorectal cancer patients with COVID-19. The outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a significant challenge for clinicians, especially for immunocompromised cancer patients. By analyzing the impact of COVID-19 on the immune microenvironment of colorectal cancer (CRC) patients at the tissue level and single-cell level, we found that CRC patients are more easily infected by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), but promotion of infiltration and differentiation of monocytes makes them more likely to develop severe COVID-19. Because of the continuing activation of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB and C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) signaling pathways in monocytes, imbalance of macrophage polarization can aggravate the cytokine release syndrome. Therefore, regulating the infiltration and differentiation of monocytes is helpful for the treatment of COVID-19 in CRC patients.
40842414 | Maternal-Foetal HLA-DQB1 Incompatibility Is Associated With Pregnancy-Induced Hypertensive Disorders in a Genetically Isolated Population. In pregnancy, semi-allogenic foetal trophoblasts express a specific HLA profile mediating maternal leukocyte contact, crucial for placentation. Paradoxically, maternal immunomodulation requires foetal antigen recognition, especially involving certain HLA molecules. Pre-eclampsia, a severe hypertensive complication, has been linked to antigenic similarity. Previously, we showed no selection for HLA (in)compatibility in uncomplicated naturally conceived pregnancies. However, pre-eclamptic pregnancies were associated with increased total maternal-foetal HLA and HLA-C matching. These associations suggest a role for HLA mismatches in immune regulation leading to an uncomplicated pregnancy. To better understand HLA homozygosity in human reproduction, we aimed to determine if there is a preferential selection for HLA compatibility in a genetically isolated population, and its relation to hypertensive complications. A nested case-control study, comprising 125 uncomplicated pregnancies and 50 with hypertensive complications (29 with pregnancy-induced hypertension, 21 with pre-eclampsia) was conducted in a genetically isolated Dutch population (FROH 1.3-3.1). Maternal and foetal HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, -DQA1, -DQB1 and maternal killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) genotyping were performed. Maternal-foetal HLA (mis)match counts were compared to expected values from randomisation of paternal HLA haplotypes over maternal haplotypes of the foetuses. Mismatched CD4+ T cell epitopes presented by maternal HLA class II were predicted using the PIRCHE-II algorithm. In uncomplicated pregnancies, no difference was found between observed and expected maternal-foetal HLA (mis)matches. However, pregnancies with hypertensive complications showed significantly higher observed HLA-DQB1 mismatches, reflected in PIRCHE-II scores. No significant differences were found in KIR/HLA-C frequencies. Interpretation is limited by the small sample size and the grouping of distinct hypertensive disorders. Nonetheless, maternal-foetal HLA-DQB1 mismatch seems to play a role in the aetiology of hypertensive complications during pregnancy in this population.
39066169 | T-Cell Epitope Mapping of SARS-CoV-2 Reveals Coordinated IFN-gamma Production and Clonal Expansion of T Cells Facilitates Recovery from COVID-19. BACKGROUND: T-cell responses can be protective or detrimental during severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection; however, the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. METHODS: In this study, we screened 144 15-mer peptides spanning the SARS-CoV-2 spike, nucleocapsid (NP), M, ORF8, ORF10, and ORF3a proteins and 39 reported SARS-CoV-1 peptides in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from nine laboratory-confirmed coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients (five moderate and four severe cases) and nine healthy donors (HDs) collected before the COVID-19 pandemic. T-cell responses were monitored by IFN-gamma and IL-17A production using ELISA, and the positive samples were sequenced for the T cell receptor (TCR) beta chain. The positive T-cell responses to individual SARS-CoV-2 peptides were validated by flow cytometry. RESULTS: COVID-19 patients with moderate disease produced more IFN-gamma than HDs and patients with severe disease (moderate vs. HDs, p < 0.0001; moderate vs. severe, p < 0.0001) but less IL-17A than those with severe disease (p < 0.0001). A positive correlation was observed between IFN-gamma production and T-cell clonal expansion in patients with moderate COVID-19 (r = 0.3370, p = 0.0214) but not in those with severe COVID-19 (r = -0.1700, p = 0.2480). Using flow cytometry, we identified that a conserved peptide of the M protein (Peptide-120, P120) was a dominant epitope recognized by CD8+ T cells in patients with moderate disease. CONCLUSION: Coordinated IFN-gamma production and clonal expansion of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells are associated with disease resolution in COVID-19. Our findings contribute to a better understanding of T-cell-mediated immunity in COVID-19 and may inform future strategies for managing and preventing severe outcomes of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
39908288 | Treatment with the CCR5 antagonist OB-002 reduces lung pathology, but does not prevent disease in a Syrian hamster model of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Since the emergence of SARS-CoV-2 and the COVID-19 pandemic, a wide range of treatment options have been evaluated in preclinical studies and clinical trials, with several being approved for use in humans. Immunomodulatory drugs have shown success in dampening the deleterious inflammatory response seen in severe COVID-19 patients, but there remains an urgent need for development of additional therapeutic options for COVID-19 treatment. A potential drug target is the CCR5-CCL5 axis, and blocking this pathway may protect against severe disease. Here we evaluated whether OB-002, an analog of human CCL5 and a potent antagonist of CCR5, provides therapeutic benefit in SARS-CoV-2 infected Syrian hamsters. Daily treatment with OB-002 altered immune gene transcription in the lungs, and reduced pathology following infection, but did not prevent weight loss or viral replication in the lungs of infected animals, even in combination with the antiviral drug remdesivir. Our data suggest that targeting the CCR5-CCL5 pathway in SARS-CoV-2 infection in hamsters is insufficient to significantly impact disease development in this model.
39066171 | SARS-CoV-2 Accessory Protein ORF8 Targets the Dimeric IgA Receptor pIgR. SARS-CoV-2 is a highly pathogenic respiratory virus that successfully initiates and establishes its infection at the respiratory mucosa. However, little is known about how SARS-CoV-2 antagonizes the host's mucosal immunity. Recent findings have shown a marked reduction in the expression of the polymeric Ig receptor (pIgR) in COVID-19 patients. This receptor maintains mucosal homeostasis by transporting the dimeric IgA (dIgA) and pentameric IgM (pIgM) across mucosal epithelial cells to neutralize the invading respiratory pathogens. By studying the interaction between pIgR and SARS-CoV-2 proteins, we discovered that the viral accessory protein Open Reading Frame 8 (ORF8) potently downregulates pIgR expression and that this downregulation activity of ORF8 correlates with its ability to interact with pIgR. Importantly, the ORF8-mediated downregulation of pIgR diminishes the binding of dIgA or pIgM, and the ORF8 proteins of the variants of concern of SARS-CoV-2 preserve the function of downregulating pIgR, indicating the importance of this conserved activity of ORF8 in SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis. We further observed that the secreted ORF8 binds to cell surface pIgR, but that this interaction does not trigger the cellular internalization of ORF8, which requires the binding of dIgA to pIgR. These findings suggest the role of ORF8 in SARS-CoV-2 mucosal immune evasion.
39288391 | An alternative colorimetric RT-LAMP assay for the rapid detection of SARS-CoV-2: development and validation in Thailand. INTRODUCTION: COVID-19, an emerging infectious disease caused by SARS-CoV-2, continues to be a global public health threat. The development of a colorimetric reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) can extend the availability of simple, reliable molecular tests for the rapid detection of COVID-19. METHODOLOGY: The RT-LAMP assay was developed using a new primer set targeting a portion of SARS-CoV-2 orf8. The method was validated at 63 oC for 60 minutes with naked-eye visualization of the color change. The clinical performance was compared to a real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (rtRT-PCR) using 273 RNA samples extracted from nasopharyngeal swab specimens. RESULTS: The developed RT-LAMP was specific to SARS-CoV-2 with a limit of detection at 15 RNA copies per reaction. The assay demonstrated diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of 90.48% (95% CI: 86.36-93.68%), 87.00% (95% CI: 81.53-91.33%), 100% (95% CI: 95.07-100%), 100% (95% CI: not available), and 73.74% (95% CI: 66.22-80.07%), respectively, compared to the rtRT-PCR. The greatest sensitivity of 98.03% (95% CI: 94.34-99.59%) was demonstrated in samples with the cycle threshold (Ct) values < 30 cycles. CONCLUSIONS: The RT-LAMP method in this study showed good performance. The assay can increase the scope of laboratory testing for rapidly detecting SARS-CoV-2 in Thailand. Due to a decrease in COVID-19 cases, its application is beneficial when commercial alternatives are unavailable.
42059501 | Mice on a high-fat diet have reduced immunopathology and an altered immune response during respiratory syncytial virus infection. Obesity has been identified as an independent risk factor for increased morbidity and mortality during pandemic H1N1 influenza and SARS-CoV-2 infections. Various studies have determined that obese hosts have dysregulated antiviral responses driven by systemic low-grade inflammation, resulting in prolonged viral replication, induction of proinflammatory cytokines during the disease resolution phase, and profound lung parenchymal damage. However, the impact of obesity on disease outcomes in the context of other viral respiratory infections remains unclear. In this study, we sought to understand how obesity affects disease progression during respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection using an obese mouse model in which male C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat diet (HFD). Mice fed a standard chow diet served as controls. We found that HFD mice exhibited reduced weight loss, illness scores, and histopathological changes after intranasal inoculation with RSV A2. Investigation of potential mechanisms underlying this reduction in severity revealed reduced viral load in obese mice, along with altered innate and adaptive immune responses. Specifically, HFD mice had reduced proinflammatory cytokines in the lungs early in infection and increased CD4+ T cells late in infection. HFD mice also had reduced M2 macrophages in the lungs at 7 days post-infection. Notably, HFD mice infected with RSV did not exhibit aberrant proinflammatory cytokine secretion late in infection, as seen with influenza, likely due to effective viral control. In conclusion, HFD mice exhibited reduced disease severity during RSV infection, associated with decreased viral load and an attenuated but sufficient antiviral response. IMPORTANCE: Obesity has been shown to induce dysregulated antiviral responses during influenza infections, resulting in extensive morbidity and mortality. No studies to date have investigated how obesity-induced immune dysregulation affects respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) disease progression. RSV has a high global burden, inflicting millions of infections and tens of thousands of deaths yearly, most notably among the very young, the elderly, and those with comorbidities. It is essential to understand how risk factors, such as obesity, affect disease progression to ensure appropriate protection and care for patients. Here, we demonstrate that male C57BL/6 mice fed a high-fat diet had lower viral loads and attenuated inflammatory responses during RSV infection, resulting in reduced morbidity and immunopathology. This pilot study advances our understanding of how obesity affects pulmonary antiviral immunity to RSV and, concurrently, further elucidates RSV pathogenesis.
42112387 | Correction: Persistence of SARS CoV-2 S1 protein in CD16+ monocytes in post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC) up to 15 months post-infection. [This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.746021.].
42069790 | A TRAC-478-adjuvanted recombinant N1 neuraminidase influenza virus vaccine induces balanced and broadly protective immune responses. Licensed influenza vaccines primarily target the variable hemagglutinin protein and provide inadequate cross-protection against mismatched or drifted viral strains. One promising approach to enhance the breadth of protection is to target the viral neuraminidase by incorporating a stable, recombinant neuraminidase protein with an effective adjuvant. We evaluated an intramuscular recombinant neuraminidase vaccine (N1-MPP) adjuvanted with a lipidated toll-like receptor (TLR)7/8 agonist (INI-4001), a synthetic TLR4 agonist (INI-2002), or both (TRAC-478) delivered as aqueous, liposomal, or squalene oil-in-water emulsions in mice. TLR agonists offset the Th2 bias of squalene emulsions and boosted antibody responses. Combining ligands synergistically amplified CD4+ immunity-increasing polyfunctional cytokine-producing T cells in lungs and spleen-while promoting Th1 cytokine production and antibody class switching. Aqueous and emulsion TRAC-478 N1-MPP induced high titers of cross-reactive, functional antibodies that exhibited strong ADCC activity and conferred protection in passive-transfer experiments. TRAC-478 N1-MPP vaccination protected against both H5N1 clade 1 and clade 2.3.4.4b viruses and recent H1N1 isolates, supporting the further development of N1-MPP adjuvanted with TRAC-478 emulsion as a stand-alone vaccine or potentially as a supplement for current vaccination regimens to improve protection against both seasonal influenza virus and strains with pandemic potential.
42022213 | Multistep coevolution of HIV-1 and human leukocyte antigen-C-restricted HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells and the association with disease progression. Disease progression during HIV-1 infection is proposed to correlate with the accumulation of virus variants that have evaded HIV-1-specific T cells; however, the multistep coevolution of HIV-1 with HIV-1-specific T cells has not been well investigated. Here, we analyzed the coevolution of HIV-1 with human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-C*14-restricted HIV-1-specific T cells in treatment-naive HLA-C*14+ people living with HIV-1 (PLWH). The analyses of T cells specific for NefYT9 wild-type (WT) or escape mutant epitopes and HIV-1 sequences in HLA-C*14+ PLWH suggested that NefQ125H was first selected by NefYT9 WT-specific T cells, then NefQ125D was selected by NefYT9-6H-specific T cells. This coevolution was confirmed by longitudinal analysis of HLA-C*14+ PLWH. The CD4 count in NefQ125D virus-infected HLA-C*14+ individuals was significantly lower than that in WT-virus-infected HLA-C*14+ individuals, suggesting that accumulation of the NefQ125D mutant epitope correlates with disease progression. Our findings demonstrate that the multistep coevolution of HIV-1 with HLA-C-restricted HIV-1-specific T cells is associated with disease progression in HIV-1 infection.
40298378 | Targeting CTP synthetase 1 to restore interferon induction and impede nucleotide synthesis in SARS-CoV-2 infection. Despite the global impact caused by the most recent SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, our knowledge of the molecular underpinnings of its highly infectious nature remains incomplete. We report here that SARS-CoV-2 exploits cellular CTP synthetase 1 (CTPS1) to promote CTP synthesis and suppress interferon (IFN) induction. In addition to catalyzing CTP synthesis, CTPS1 also deamidates interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) to dampen interferon induction. Screening a SARS-CoV-2 expression library, we identified several viral proteins that interact with CTPS1. Functional analyses demonstrate that ORF8 and Nsp8 activate CTPS1 to deamidate IRF3 and negate IFN induction, whereas ORF7b and ORF8 activate CTPS1 to promote CTP synthesis. These results highlight CTPS1 as a signaling node that integrates cellular metabolism and innate immune response. Indeed, small-molecule inhibitors of CTPS1 deplete CTP and boost IFN induction in SARS-CoV-2-infected cells, thus effectively impeding SARS-CoV-2 replication and pathogenesis in mouse models. Our work uncovers an intricate mechanism by which a viral pathogen couples immune evasion to metabolic activation to fuel viral replication. Inhibition of the cellular CTPS1 offers an attractive means to develop antiviral therapy against highly mutagenic viruses.IMPORTANCEOur understanding of the underpinnings of highly infectious SARS-CoV-2 is rudimentary at best. We report here that SARS-CoV-2 activates CTPS1 to promote CTP synthesis and suppress IFN induction, thus coupling immune evasion to activated nucleotide synthesis. Inhibition of the key metabolic enzyme not only depletes the nucleotide pool but also boosts host antiviral defense, thereby impeding SARS-CoV-2 replication. Targeting cellular enzymes presents a strategy to counter the rapidly evolving SARS-CoV-2 variants.
24197135 | Regulation of CD4(+)NKG2D(+) Th1 cells in patients with metastatic melanoma treated with sorafenib: role of IL-15Ralpha and NKG2D triggering. Beyond cancer-cell intrinsic factors, the immune status of the host has a prognostic impact on patients with cancer and influences the effects of conventional chemotherapies. Metastatic melanoma is intrinsically immunogenic, thereby facilitating the search for immune biomarkers of clinical responses to cytotoxic agents. Here, we show that a multi-tyrosine kinase inhibitor, sorafenib, upregulates interleukin (IL)-15Ralpha in vitro and in vivo in patients with melanoma, and in conjunction with natural killer (NK) group 2D (NKG2D) ligands, contributes to the Th1 polarization and accumulation of peripheral CD4(+)NKG2D(+) T cells. Hence, the increase of blood CD4(+)NKG2D(+) T cells after two cycles of sorafenib (combined with temozolomide) was associated with prolonged survival in a prospective phase I/II trial enrolling 63 patients with metastatic melanoma who did not receive vemurafenib nor immune checkpoint-blocking antibodies. In contrast, in metastatic melanoma patients treated with classical treatment modalities, this CD4(+)NKG2D(+) subset failed to correlate with prognosis. These findings indicate that sorafenib may be used as an \adjuvant\ molecule capable of inducing or restoring IL-15Ralpha/IL-15 in tumors expressing MHC class I-related chain A/B (MICA/B) and on circulating monocytes of responding patients, hereby contributing to the bioactivity of NKG2D(+) Th1 cells.
40044048 | Prior SARS-Cov-2 infection affects adaptive immune responses to Omicron BA.4/BA.5 mRNA booster. BACKGROUND: Bivalent COVID-19 mRNA vaccines encoding Wuhan-1 and Omicron BA.4/5 spike proteins can prevent SARS-CoV-2 infection, but the quality of adaptive immune responses and the importance of hybrid immunity are not well-documented. OBJECTIVES: Adaptive immune responses to the bivalent vaccine were studied in 40 healthy participants with (COVID+) or without (COVID-) prior history of SARS-CoV-2 infection. METHODS: We analyzed anti-N and anti-S IgG titers and surrogate virus neutralization capacity against variants of concern (VOCs) and assessed SARS-CoV-2 specific B and T cell responses by high-dimensional spectral flow cytometry, intracellular cytokine staining assay upon stimulation with SARS-CoV-2 peptides and TRB and IGH repertoire analysis. RESULTS: The COVID+ group had higher anti-S IgG levels pre- and post-booster and higher neutralization activity against BA.4/5 than the COVID- group. Spike antibody levels positively correlated with neutralizing activity against Omicron VOCs in all participants. For VOCs, lowest neutralization capacity was against XBB1.5. At baseline, the proportion of S1+ RBD+ B cells was higher in COVID+ than in COVID- subjects, but an increase of these cells post-boost was detected only in the COVID- group. Consistent with natural infection, COVID+ subjects had a higher frequency of IgA+ CXCR3+S1+RBD+ B cells at baseline than COVID- subjects. CD4+ memory T cells responses and breath of class II epitope SARS-CoV-2 specific clonotypes were increased post-boost only in COVID- participants. CONCLUSIONS: The bivalent vaccine induces robust adaptive immune responses against the Omicron variant. Prior SARS-CoV-2 infection provides increased protection, but optimal timing of booster administration after natural infection should be defined to maximize benefits.
42105628 | Three-year follow-up of the COVAXID trial: real-world assessment of SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine immunogenicity in immunocompromised individuals highlights increasing roles of hybrid and passive immunity. BACKGROUND: Immunocompromised individuals were identified early in the pandemic as being at increased risk of severe COVID-19 and have demonstrated variable immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination. Although coordinated vaccination programmes are now well established, their long-term effects on sustained immunity in the present patient populations remain insufficiently understood. METHODS: The prospective SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine trial COVAXID was conducted in a well-characterised, real-world cohort of 539 immunocompromised and healthy individuals across 21 subgroups, organised into six main categories. At the 36-month time point, 218 participants remained. Participants provided blood samples for assessment of binding antibody titres and pseudo-neutralisation activity against ancestral SARS-CoV-2 and 21 variants, including Omicron sub-lineages. T cell responses were evaluated in a defined subset of participants. Immunogenicity outcomes were analysed over a three-year period in relation to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, SARS-CoV-2 infection, and immunoglobulin replacement therapy (IGRT). FINDINGS: Between years two and three, antibody titres and neutralisation capacity showed a consistent pattern of maintenance or increase across most study groups and subgroups. These increases were driven by cumulative exposure to vaccine booster doses, SARS-CoV-2 infection, and, in some cases, passive immunisation through IGRT. CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses were detected across all study groups. Early immune responses were primarily vaccine-driven, whereas later immune profiles reflected substantial contributions from natural infection and anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in IGRT products. INTERPRETATION: The findings support continued, tailored vaccination strategies for elderly and immunocompromised individuals. Integrating immune monitoring with infection history and adjunctive therapies may help refine booster policies, optimise protection, and strengthen future vaccination programmes for high-risk populations. FUNDING: The present studies were supported by the European Research Council, Karolinska Institutet, Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation, Nordstjernan AB, Region Stockholm, and the Swedish Research Council.
42060980 | Robust cross-neutralizing antibody responses but variable cellular immunity following either Comirnaty and Spikevax JN.1-adapted mRNA vaccination in the elderly. BACKGROUND: The rapid evolution of SARS-CoV-2 continues to challenge vaccine effectiveness, particularly in elderly individuals at higher risk of severe disease. The World Health Organization has recommended the use of a monovalent JN.1 lineage vaccine antigen for updated COVID-19 vaccines since April 2024. It remains crucial to determine whether these JN.1-adapted vaccines induce cross-protective immunity against emerging variants, including KP.2, KP.3, XEC, XDV, LP.8.1, and NB.1.8.1. METHODS: A cohort of 62 participants (median age 63.5 years; 41 Comirnaty and 21 Spikevax recipients) was studied before and one month after JN.1 mRNA vaccination. Neutralizing antibody titres were assessed by surrogate virus neutralization test (sVNT) or plaque-reduction neutralization test (PRNT). T cell responses were analyzed by intracellular cytokine staining, and S2-specific antibody levels were quantified by ELISA. RESULTS: Both JN.1 vaccines markedly enhanced neutralizing antibodies against wild-type, JN.1, and multiple sublineages. S2-targeting antibodies also increased significantly, indicating recognition of conserved spike regions. Approximately half of the participants showed induction of IFNgamma+CD8+ or CD4+ T cells. CONCLUSIONS: The monovalent JN.1 mRNA vaccines elicit broad cross-neutralizing and S2-directed humoral immunity in the elderly, though cellular responses remain heterogeneous. Continued monitoring and inclusion of conserved T cell epitopes in next-generation vaccine designs are warranted to sustain protection against future variants.
42001311 | Impact of SARS-CoV-2 vaccination on CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocyte profiles in an HIV-positive and HIV-negative female cohort. INTRODUCTION: The COVID-19 pandemic led to rapid global vaccine deployment, especially among high-risk groups, such as individuals living with HIV. Data are limited, however, on the immunologic effects of SARS-CoV-2 vaccination-specifically, on CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocyte levels-in HIV-positive women in South Africa, a population with high HIV prevalence. METHODS: This prospective cross-sectional study included 40 women (aged 14-42 years) admitted to a South African tertiary-care hospital, stratified by HIV and SARS-CoV-2 vaccination status. Flow cytometry (BD Multitest [BD Biosciences]) was used to determine absolute CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell counts. Data were analyzed with GraphPad Prism, version 8, software (GraphPad Software). The Mann-Whitney U test was used for comparisons between 2 independent groups. For comparisons across more than 2 groups, either a 1-way analysis of variance or the Kruskal-Wallis test was applied, with statistically significant results followed by the Dunn multiple comparisons test. Spearman correlation was used to assess relationships between variables. In all cases, statistical significance was defined as P < .05. RESULTS: Of the 40 participants, 27 (68%) were HIV positive and 20 (50%) were vaccinated. CD4+ T-cell counts were statistically significantly higher in HIV-negative women than in HIV-positive women (P = .01), while CD8+ levels did not differ significantly (P = .41). Vaccination status had no statistically significant impact on CD4+ or CD8+ counts. The CD4/CD8 ratio was statistically significantly higher in HIV-positive women (P = .01), especially among the unvaccinated subgroup (P = .002). CONCLUSIONS: SARS-CoV-2 vaccination did not substantially alter CD4+ or CD8+ T lymphocyte levels, regardless of HIV status.
41932347 | Intravenous immunoglobulin treatment for long COVID: a case report of clinical and immunological findings. A previously healthy 39-year-old man developed highly symptomatic post-COVID-19 condition (also known as long COVID) marked by cognitive dysfunction, disabling fatigue, and autonomic symptoms unresponsive to multiple multidisciplinary interventions. Given the presence of markedly elevated serum autoantibodies against G protein-coupled receptors, high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin therapy was initiated at 400 mg/kg per day for 5 consecutive days. After 4 weeks, a maintenance dose of 500 mg/kg was administered for 1 day, followed by two further maintenance cycles consisting of 500 mg/kg per day for 3 consecutive days, each given at 4-week intervals. In parallel, the patient underwent a cognitive stimulation intervention. Neurological symptoms were assessed with the Fatigue Assessment Scale and the WHO Disability Assessment Schedule 2.0, and the immunological profile was longitudinally analysed during intravenous immunoglobulin treatment. Fatigue scores normalised, neurocognitive performance returned to normal value, and quality of life improved after the first infusion and fully recovered within 1 year. Immunological profiling revealed the presence of an inverted CD4 to CD8 T-cell ratio that persisted during the whole follow-up. We also identified a CD8+ T cell-monocyte complex and spontaneous IFNgamma release. Intravenous immunoglobulin therapy was associated with a significant reduction of these complexes, spontaneous IFNgamma and TNF production, markers of endothelial inflammation, and circulating autoantibody titres. This patient provides exploratory evidence that high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin was associated with sustained clinical recovery from long COVID over 1 year of follow-up, accompanied by immunological changes consistent with modulation of post-viral immune dysregulation, including a reduction in pathogenic T cell-monocyte synapses. Although causal inference cannot be established from a single patient, these findings suggest that this cellular interaction can contribute to long COVID and that immunomodulation could represent a rational therapeutic approach to be evaluated in selected patients.
40313948 | Acute COVID-19 and LongCOVID syndrome - molecular implications for therapeutic strategies - review. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has been recognized not only for its acute effects but also for its ability to cause LongCOVID Syndrome (LCS), a condition characterized by persistent symptoms affecting multiple organ systems. This review examines the molecular and immunological mechanisms underlying LCS, with a particular focus on autophagy inhibition, chronic inflammation, oxidative, nitrosative and calcium stress, viral persistence and autoimmunology. Potential pathophysiological mechanisms involved in LCS include (1) autoimmune activation, (2) latent viral persistence, where SARS-CoV-2 continues to influence host metabolism, (3) reactivation of latent pathogens such as Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) or cytomegalovirus (CMV), exacerbating immune and metabolic dysregulation, and (4) possible persistent metabolic and inflammatory dysregulation, where the body fails to restore post-infection homeostasis. The manipulation of cellular pathways by SARS-CoV-2 proteins is a critical aspect of the virus' ability to evade immune clearance and establish long-term dysfunction. Viral proteins such as NSP13, ORF3a and ORF8 have been shown to disrupt autophagy, thereby impairing viral clearance and promoting immune evasion. In addition, mitochondrial dysfunction, dysregulated calcium signaling, oxidative stress, chronic HIF-1alpha activation and Nrf2 inhibition create a self-sustaining inflammatory feedback loop that contributes to tissue damage and persistent symptoms. Therefore understanding the molecular basis of LCS is critical for the development of effective therapeutic strategies. Targeting autophagy and Nrf2 activation, glycolysis inhibition, and restoration calcium homeostasis may provide novel strategies to mitigate the long-term consequences of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Future research should focus on personalized therapeutic interventions based on the dominant molecular perturbations in individual patients.
41981247 | Single-cell mapping of peripheral immune dynamics in pregnant women after Moderna mRNA COVID-19 vaccination. Pregnant individuals are at increased risk of severe outcomes from COVID-19 infection, yet the immune responses elicited by vaccination during pregnancy remain poorly understood. In this study, longitudinal single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from three pregnant women at four time points: before vaccination, one and two weeks after the first dose of the Moderna mRNA vaccine, and after the second dose postpartum. Dynamic immune changes, including a transient increase in inflammatory classical monocytes (cM_1) after the first dose, marked by elevated expression of IL1B, NLRP3 and NFKB1, as well as moderate activation of interferon-stimulated genes were observed. CD4+ T cells exhibited activation and differentiation into memory subsets. By contrast, B cell responses were minimal after the first dose, and enhanced protein synthesis activity emerged only after the second dose, which suggested delayed humoral activation. Although limited by sample size, our findings indicate that vaccination in pregnancy induces a nonexcessive innate immune activation, coordinated T cell responses and attenuated B cell activity that likely reflect pregnancy-driven immunoregulatory adaptations. These findings reveal the immune dynamics following mRNA vaccination during pregnancy and highlight the importance of developing vaccination strategies tailored for pregnant individuals.
40565240 | The Recurring Loss of ORF8 Secretion in Dominant SARS-CoV-2 Variants. The SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 protein is a unique accessory viral protein among human coronaviruses, characterized by recurrent deletions and mutations with functional consequences. In this short report, we demonstrate that several dominant SARS-CoV-2 strains, despite encoding ORF8, fail to secrete the protein, revealing a recurring pattern of ORF8 functional impairment that cannot be detected by sequence analysis alone. In agreement with other studies, several high-frequency mutations were identified using the Nextstrain/augur pipeline, including G8Stop, Q27Stop, D119-/F120- double deletions, and nucleotide substitution C27889U, which occurred in XBB.1.5, Alpha, Delta, and BA.5.2 variants, respectively. Notably, the D119-/F120- deletions and C27889U substitution do not introduce premature stop codons, yet ORF8 secretion was lost in Delta and BA.5.2 virus-infected cultures. This indicates that the extracellular ORF8 function is impaired in these variants, resulting in ORF8 deficiency. Our findings highlight that the impairment of ORF8 secretion arises not only from premature stop codons but also from other mutations. Therefore, the functional validation of ORF8 secretion and activity is essential following sequence analysis to accurately assess ORF8's role in SARS-CoV-2 infection.
42053371 | Immature Neutrophil Programs Associate with Burn Mortality and Extend Across Critical Illnesses. Severe burns provoke a systemic \genomic storm,\ yet cell states associated with divergent outcomes remain unclear. We profiled blood cells by single-cell RNA-Sequencing (73,014 cells) from adult burn patients within post-burn day 17 (n=4) and healthy donors (n=5), integrated data with bulk signatures of burn size, inhalation injury, and mortality, and evaluated clinical associations in the ABA National Burn Repository. Burn was associated with emergency hematopoiesis marked by expansion of hematopoietic stem/progenitor-like cells, immature neutrophils, and plasmablast/plasma cell states, alongside depletion of naive CD4+/CD8+ T cells and dendritic cells. Larger burns (>20% TBSA) showed enrichment of humoral transcriptional programs, including plasmablast/plasma cell activation and suppression of cytotoxic CD8+ T-cell states. In multivariable models, inhalation injury was a stronger predictor of death (adjusted OR 1.9) than burn size (adjusted OR 1.1) and shared greater overlap with the most perturbed single cells in non-survivors; 55% of co-perturbed cells were neutrophils, implicating granulocyte dysregulation as a common lethal axis. We identified a neutrophil-specific 5-gene panel (OLFM4, RETN, LCN2, ARG1, BTNL3) that discriminated survivors vs non-survivors after burns (AUC >0.9) and generalized to trauma (n=158; AUC 0.81) and ICU COVID-19 (n=103; AUC 0.75), providing information orthogonal to conventional biomarkers and severity scores. Cytomorphology corroborated transcriptomic immaturity, with ~2-fold higher band neutrophils and larger neutrophil size in a fatal case. Computational drug-reversal analysis highlighted galectin-1 inhibition as a candidate modulator of mortality-associated neutrophil programs. Together, our findings suggest that immature neutrophils represent a shared immune feature across severe burns and other forms of critical illness. Structured Abstract Objective: To define cell-specific immune programs associated with burn size, severity, inhalation injury, and fatal trajectories. BACKGROUND: Large burns provoke a \genomic storm\ yet cellular drivers of divergent clinical outcomes remain unknown. METHODS: We profiled 73,014 immune cells (scRNA-seq) from 4 adult burn patients and 5 healthy donors, mapping TBSA, inhalation injury, and mortality signatures from bulk datasets onto single-cell atlas. Clinical patterns were validated using ABA NBR. 5-gene neutrophil panel was developed to predict burn mortality and tested in trauma (n=158) and ICU COVID-19 (n=103) cohorts. RESULTS: Burns were associated with emergency hematopoiesis, expanding HSPCs, immature neutrophils, and plasmablasts while depleting naive CD4+/CD8+ T cells. Large burns (>20% TBSA) showed enrichment of humoral responses by activating plasmablasts and plasma cells at the expense of CD8+ T-mediated immunity. While >20% TBSA increased mortality (OR 1.1), inhalation injury was a stronger independent predictor (OR 1.9) and shared 55% of its most perturbed cells with non-survivors, converging on neutrophils as the dominant transcriptional state. 5-gene immature neutrophil signature predicted burn mortality with AUC >0.9, generalized to trauma (AUC 0.81) and COVID-19 (AUC 0.75), and was orthogonal to conventional biomarkers and severity scores. Non-survivor had ~2-fold greater band neutrophils, supporting neutrophil nuclear segmentation and size as potential indicators of burn severity. In silico screening identified galectin-1 inhibition as a potential suppressor of death-associated neutrophil programs. CONCLUSION: Immature neutrophil surges associate with mortality in burns, trauma, and COVID-19. 5-gene panel may identify this risk and therapeutic modulation of these cells will reveal whether they are modifiable features of critical illness.
42041389 | SARS-CoV-2 Infection and COVID-19 Vaccine Antibody Responses in Two Canadian Cohorts of Persons Living with HIV. Objectives: To determine the incidence and outcomes of SARS-CoV-2 infection and to evaluate seroconversion rates and quantify antibody responses to COVID-19 vaccines in two cohorts of persons living with HIV at a possible higher risk of poor outcomes (HCV coinfection and those over the age of 65 years). Methods: We included participants from two established cohorts of persons living with HIV, those who were older than 65 years of age, and those with hepatitis C (HCV) co-infection. Four hundred and seventy-one participants completed questionnaires on SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19 vaccine doses and submitted peripheral blood specimens for measuring antibody levels to COVID-19 antigens, full-length spike trimer, its receptor binding domain (RBD), and nucleocapsid protein (N) at 6-month intervals up to three visits between February 2021 and December 2024. Logistic and ordinal logistic regression models evaluated predictors of seroconversion and antibody levels. Results: Overall, 51% of participants developed a SARS-CoV-2 infection, but it was mild, with only nine requiring hospital admission and no deaths. Overall, 99% of tested specimens had antibodies above threshold to either spike or RBD proteins. Specimens that did not and those with lower antibody levels had testing earlier in the pandemic, and were from participants with fewer vaccine doses, and did not have natural infection. Age, depression, comorbidity, HCV co-infection, current substance use, CD4 count, or HIV viral load were predictive of antibody level. Those with hybrid immunity had higher antibody responses. Conclusions: In cohorts of persons with HIV-HCV coinfection and those who are ageing, we observed high rates of seroconversion to COVID-19 antigens. Antibody levels were higher among those with more vaccine doses, hybrid immunity, and later in the pandemic waves. Although 51% developed a breakthrough infection, outcomes were mild with no deaths.
39213297 | Emergence of crucial evidence catalyzing the origin tracing of SARS-CoV-2. Since the emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), its genetic and geographical origins remain unclear, resulting in suspicions about its natural origin. In one of our previous studies, we reported the presence of a furin cleavage site RRAR in the junction region between S1 and S2 subunits of the spike protein, which was discovered as the first crucial clue for the origin tracing of SARS-CoV-2. In the present study, we conducted an integrative analysis of new genome data from bat Sarbecovirus strains reported after the COVID-19 outbreak. The primary results included the identification of BANAL-20-52, Rp22DB159, and S18CXBatR24 as three close relatives of SARS-CoV-2 and the successful detection of seven out of nine key genomic features (designated as RC0-7 and ORF8) observed in wild types of SARS-CoV-2 in the three close relatives from Laos, Vietnam, and Yunnan province of China, respectively. The most significant contribution of the present study lies in the detection of RC1 in wild genotype in a bat Sarbecovirus population BANAL-20-52 belonging to. Encoding a segment of the NSP3 protein, RC1 was discovered as the second crucial clue for the origin tracing of SARS-CoV-2. Although RC0, encoding the junction furin cleavage site, remains undetected outside of the SARS-CoV-2 genome, Feuang of Laos is the sole place where eight of the nine wild-type features (RC1-7 and ORF8) have been detected.
28031333 | T Cells Infiltrating Diseased Liver Express Ligands for the NKG2D Stress Surveillance System. NK cells, which are highly enriched in the liver, are potent regulators of antiviral T cells and immunopathology in persistent viral infection. We investigated the role of the NKG2D axis in T cell/NK cell interactions in hepatitis B. Activated and hepatitis B virus (HBV)-specific T cells, particularly the CD4 fraction, expressed NKG2D ligands (NKG2DL), which were not found on T cells from healthy controls (p < 0.001). NKG2DL-expressing T cells were strikingly enriched within HBV-infected livers compared with the periphery or to healthy livers (p < 0.001). NKG2D+NK cells were also increased and preferentially activated in the HBV-infected liver (p < 0.001), in direct proportion to the percentage of MICA/B-expressing CD4 T cells colocated within freshly isolated liver tissue (p < 0.001). This suggests that NKG2DL induced on T cells within a diseased organ can calibrate NKG2D-dependent activation of local NK cells; furthermore, NKG2D blockade could rescue HBV-specific and MICA/B-expressing T cells from HBV-infected livers. To our knowledge, this is the first ex vivo demonstration that non-virally infected human T cells can express NKG2DL, with implications for stress surveillance by the large number of NKG2D-expressing NK cells sequestered in the liver.
42030685 | Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on outpatient follow-up among people living with HIV retained in care at a University Center in Brazil. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on outpatient follow-up and clinical outcomes of People Living with HIV (PLHIV) at a specialized infectious diseases clinic in southeastern Brazil. METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted using medical records and responses to a structured questionnaire from PLHIV followed between March 2020 and December 2021. Clinical and laboratory data (CD4 count, viral load, and antiretroviral therapy changes) were reviewed, and questionnaire responses were used to assess COVID-19 history, vaccination, and mental health symptoms. RESULTS: A total of 125 patients were included (mean age 38.6-years; 64.1% male). Prior to the pandemic, 80.3% had CD4 counts > 200 cells/microL and 82.1% had undetectable viral load, increasing to 89.7% and 84.6%, respectively, during the pandemic. Twenty-six patients (22.2%) changed their antiretroviral regimen, mainly due to switching to the nationally recommended first-line therapy. Among the 55 respondents to the questionnaire, 13 (24%) reported confirmed COVID-19 infection; of these, 2 (15.4%) required hospitalization. Overall, 53 (96.4%) reported having received the COVID-19 vaccination. Symptoms of depression and anxiety were reported by 27.7% and 45.4% of participants, respectively. CONCLUSION: Despite the logistic challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, viral suppression, immunologic recovery, and retention in care remained stable in this selected cohort of patients with continuous follow-up, reflecting the resilience of the healthcare service and sustained treatment adherence.
42110410 | Comparative clinical features and outcomes of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis following influenza versus COVID-19: a retrospective cohort study. Background and aim: Patients with influenza or Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) are at risk of developing invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). Whether the clinical profiles and outcomes differ between influenza-associated pulmonary aspergillosis (IAPA) and COVID-19-associated pulmonary aspergillosis (CAPA) remains unclear, hindering efforts to optimize management. This study aimed to compare the demographic, clinical, laboratory characteristics, and outcomes of patients with IPA following influenza A/B versus COVID-19 during the same period. Methods: We conducted a single-center retrospective cohort study in China from December 1, 2022, to September 1, 2024. The study included 45 patients with IAPA and 82 patients with CAPA. We compared demographics, clinical features, management, and mortality between the IAPA and CAPA patients. Group comparisons utilized Student's t-test or the Mann-Whitney U test for continuous variables, the Chi-square or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables, and Kaplan-Meier survival curves, and time-dependent Cox proportional hazards model for survival data. Results: Compared to IAPA patients, CAPA patients had significantly lower lymphocytes, especially in CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, and B cells (all p < 0.05). Corticosteroid use was more frequent among CAPA patients than IAPA patients. The median time from viral diagnosis to IPA detection was longer in CAPA patients than in IAPA patients. Respiratory co-infections (bacterial) were more common in the CAPA group (p = 0.030). After adjusting for confounders, the risk of death within the first 14 days following IPA diagnosis was 4.92 times higher in the CAPA group than in the IAPA group (HR = 4.92, 95% CI: 1.35-18.01, p = 0.016). Conclusion: CAPA was independently associated with an approximately five-fold increase in the risk of death within the first 14 days following IPA diagnosis. This early hazard, together with the higher frequency of corticosteroid use, respiratory co-infections (bacterial), and severe lymphopenia, underscores a critical window for early therapeutic intervention in patients with CAPA.
42085555 | Immune Landscape of COVID-19 recovery: Nucleocapsid as a major target of CD8+ T cell antiviral responses in convalescent HLA-A*2+ individuals from Brazil. Despite advanced knowledge on the SARS-CoV-2-induced immunity, a deeper understanding of how virus-specific responses are assembled upon infection is necessary. Therefore, the present work investigates the MHC-restricted virus-specific responses of acute and post-acute COVID-19 patients. Our results indicate that convalescent individuals displayed and maintained higher counts of effector memory, and TEMRA CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells as compared to severe COVID-19. Mild COVID-19 displayed a higher early activation profile in memory subsets as compared to severe and convalescent individuals. Regarding the virus-specific T cell responses, SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein (N) arose as a major target of CD8+ T cells in convalescent HLA-A*2+ individuals, adding to the specific cellular response mediated by the spike (S) protein. Unsupervised analysis enabled the unbiased clustering of lymphocytes and the assessment of differential expression of CD69, production of intracellular IFN-gamma, and reactivity to HLA-A*02 tetramers bearing N or S peptides. Furthermore, cell clones targeting S and N proteins of SARS-CoV-2 undergo cellular expansion in HLA-A*02+ convalescent individuals following in vitro antigenic recall by stimulation with inactivated SARS-CoV-2 and viral proteins. Convalescent from COVID-19 presents higher connectivity of the overall immune response in comparison to the acute phase, regardless of disease severity. Collectively, our data shed new light on the role of the protein N-mediated immunity against SARS-CoV-2 in patients from one of the most affected areas in Brazil.
42063787 | A phase 1, single-center, randomized, dose finding study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of a prophylactic COVID-19 pDNA vaccine after single ascending doses in healthy adults. Background: SARS-CoV-2 has been responsible for a worldwide public health crisis and a pandemic that began in February 2020, with approximately 679 million cases and over 6.7 million deaths to date. Despite the existence of approved COVID-19 vaccines, these vaccines are either based on mRNA technology or viral vectors. Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University (IAU) has developed a thermally stable plasmid DNA (pDNA)-based vaccine candidate using a platform approach that enables the rapid development of vaccines against emerging viral diseases. The pDNA vaccine developed by IAU encodes the full-length, optimized version of the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein. Key advantages of this pDNA vaccine are that it is cost-effective, thermally stable, and can be used to administer multiple immunizations without incurring anti-vector responses, making it a promising candidate as a vaccine booster dose. Methods: This study aims to investigate the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of this prophylactic pDNA vaccine as a booster vaccine to protect against COVID-19 when administered as an intramuscular injection in a single ascending dose design. In total, 42 eligible healthy subjects will be enrolled in the study. The subjects will be randomized to receive either the investigational vaccine or placebo (Saline) at a 3:1 allocation ratio. Participants will have received two doses of a SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine at least 4 months prior to enrollment. Subjects will be enrolled in a dose-escalating study and assigned to one of the three cohorts (Cohort 1: low-dose; Cohort 2: mid-dose; Cohort 3: high-dose). Primary endpoints will include local reactions and systemic reactions for up to 7 days following vaccination, adverse events from vaccination to 1 month, and serious adverse events from vaccination to 6 months. Secondary endpoints will include the evaluation of binding antibody (bAB) and neutralizing antibody (nAB) responses at vaccination day (Visits 1) and 30 days after vaccination (Visit 4), the ratio of bAB to nAB titers at Visits 1 and 4, and cellular immune responses (CD3, CD4, CD8, CD45RA, CCR7, IFN-gamma, IL-2, IL-4, IL-13, and TNF) at Visits 1 and 4. Discussion: The study will be critical to determine the safety and immunogenicity of the pDNA vaccine in participants who have previously received a COVID-19 mRNA vaccine. This study will also aim to determine the safest maximum tolerated dose in participants receiving the pDNA vaccine. Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov SCTR No 23010802.
42028573 | Influenza B mosaic HA mRNA-LNP vaccines are cross-reactive and protective in mice. Influenza B viruses cause about one-third of annual influenza infections, leading to significant respiratory illness. Vaccination remains the most effective strategy to mitigate the health and socio-economic burdens of influenza. Recent advances focus on developing a universal influenza B vaccine using chimeric hemagglutinin (HA) (cHA) and mosaic HA (mHA) constructs. cHA vaccines are engineered by replacing the entire head domain of influenza B HA with those from exotic avian influenza viruses, while mHA vaccines involve substituting only the immunodominant epitopes in the HA head domain. In this study, we assessed the immunogenicity of cHA and mHA vaccines delivered via the nucleoside-modified mRNA-lipid nanoparticle platform. Sequential immunization with these constructs in murine models stimulated immune responses targeting conserved HA epitopes, enhancing cross-protection against diverse influenza B virus strains. Notably, mHA vaccination induced higher levels of cross-reactive antibodies and antigen-specific CD4+ T cells compared to cHA, resulting in superior protection against the distantly related B/Lee/1940 influenza virus strain in both passive transfer and direct challenge mouse models. These findings highlight the potential of the mHA vaccination strategy and represent a significant step toward the clinical development of broadly protective influenza B vaccines.
39764057 | Same-Slide Spatial Multi-Omics Integration Reveals Tumor Virus-Linked Spatial Reorganization of the Tumor Microenvironment. The advent of spatial transcriptomics and spatial proteomics have enabled profound insights into tissue organization to provide systems-level understanding of diseases. Both technologies currently remain largely independent, and emerging same slide spatial multi-omics approaches are generally limited in plex, spatial resolution, and analytical approaches. We introduce IN-situ DEtailed Phenotyping To High-resolution transcriptomics (IN-DEPTH), a streamlined and resource-effective approach compatible with various spatial platforms. This iterative approach first entails single-cell spatial proteomics and rapid analysis to guide subsequent spatial transcriptomics capture on the same slide without loss in RNA signal. To enable multi-modal insights not possible with current approaches, we introduce k-bandlimited Spectral Graph Cross-Correlation (SGCC) for integrative spatial multi-omics analysis. Application of IN-DEPTH and SGCC on lymphoid tissues demonstrated precise single-cell phenotyping and cell-type specific transcriptome capture, and accurately resolved the local and global transcriptome changes associated with the cellular organization of germinal centers. We then implemented IN-DEPTH and SGCC to dissect the tumor microenvironment (TME) of Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV)-positive and EBV-negative diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Our results identified a key tumor-macrophage-CD4 T-cell immunomodulatory axis differently regulated between EBV-positive and EBV-negative DLBCL, and its central role in coordinating immune dysfunction and suppression. IN-DEPTH enables scalable, resource-efficient, and comprehensive spatial multi-omics dissection of tissues to advance clinically relevant discoveries.
39222660 | Sustained HIV remission after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation with wild-type CCR5 donor cells. HIV cure has been reported for five individuals who received allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (allo-HSCT) from CCR5Delta32 homozygous donors. In contrast, viral rebound has occurred in other people living with HIV who interrupted antiretroviral treatment after receiving allo-HSCT, mostly from wild-type CCR5 donors. Here, we report the case of a male who has achieved durable HIV remission following allo-HSCT from an unrelated HLA-matched (9/10 matching for HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1 and -DQB1 alleles) wild-type CCR5 donor to treat an extramedullary myeloid tumor. To date, plasma viral load has remained undetectable for 32 months after the interruption of antiretroviral treatment. Treatment with ruxolitinib has been maintained during this period to treat chronic graft versus host disease. Low levels of proviral DNA were detected sporadically post-allo-HSCT, including defective but not intact HIV DNA. No virus could be amplified in cultures of CD4 + T cells obtained post antiretroviral treatment interruption, while CD4 + T cells remained susceptible to HIV-1 infection in vitro. Decline of HIV antibodies and undetectable HIV-specific T cell responses further corroborate the absence of viral rebound after antiretroviral treatment interruption. These results suggest that HIV remission could be achieved in the context of allo-HSCT with wild-type CCR5.
42023234 | Cytokine-driven modulation of peripheral immune cell populations in Coronavirus disease 2019 patients. Introduction: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is characterized by a spectrum of immune dysfunction, from mild illness to life-threatening hyper-inflammation. However, the specific relationships between individual cytokine expression profiles and peripheral immune cell distributions remain poorly defined, particularly in African populations. Methods: In this study, we investigated associations between tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), interleukin-10 (IL-10), and interleukin-17A (IL-17A) expression and circulating leucocyte subsets in hospitalised COVID-19 patients. Complete blood counts, C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, and lymphocyte subset profiles were measured, and cytokine concentrations were quantified by cytometric bead array. Results: Compared with controls, COVID-19 patients exhibited marked CD4+ lymphopenia and leucocytosis driven by neutrophilia and elevated immature granulocytes. Significantly higher expression of IFN-gamma (p = 0.0153), IL-6 (p < 0.0001), IL-10 (p < 0.0001), IL-17A (p = 0.0310), and TNF-alpha (p = 0.0034) was observed in COVID-19 patients compared to uninfected participants. Cytokine-based stratification revealed that CRP was negatively associated with TNF-alpha (p = 0.0289) and positively associated with IL-10 (p = 0.0046) expression. Furthermore, TNF-alpha positivity correlated with altered distributions of eosinophils (p = 0.0217), monocytes (p = 0.0063), CD45+ lymphocytes (p = 0.0252), and CD19+ B cells (p = 0.0152). While, IFN-gamma and IL-17A expression was linked to neutrophilia (p = 0.0439 and p = 0.0075 respectively). IL-10 positivity was associated with elevated immature granulocytes (p < 0.0001), CD16+CD56+ natural killer cells (p = 0.0116), and neutrophils (p = 0.0227). Following Benjamini-Hochberg correction for multiple comparisons, immature granulocytes remained the only immune cell subset with a significant distribution difference across IL-10-defined groups (q = 0.001). A Spearman's rank-order correlation analysis was performed to assess the correlation between serum IL-6 levels and peripheral blood leucocyte counts, including platelet counts. Although basophil count showed a moderately positive correlation (rs  = 0.4071, p = 0.0169) and IL-6 and platelet count showed a moderately negative connection (rs = -0.3770, p = 0.0234), these correlations were no longer significant following Benjamini-Hochberg correction for multiple comparisons. Conclusions: These findings reveal distinct cytokine-associated immunotypes marked by cell-specific shifts suggestive of emergency granulopoiesis and myelopoiesis. Our data provide an immunophenotypic framework for understanding COVID-19 pathogenesis and may inform targeted diagnostics and immunomodulatory strategies.
39621955 | Hypoimmunogenic HLA-E Single Chain Inhibits Alloreactive Immune Responses. Chimeric Ag receptor T cells derived from universal donors are susceptible to recipient immunologic rejection, which may limit their in vivo persistence and compromise treatment efficacy. In this study, we generated HLA class I-deficient T cells by disrupting beta2-microglobulin to evade recognition by HLA-mismatched CD8+ T cells, and then restored NK cell tolerance by forced expression of an HLA-E single-chain receptor. We specifically report on an optimized hypoimmunogenic disulfide trap HLA-E4 (dtHLA-E4) molecule that exhibited increased surface expression, enhanced NK cell inhibitory potential, and abrogated CD8-dependent T cell recognition. Our dtHLA-E4 molecule comprised the CD4 (4) transmembrane domain and truncated cytoplasmic region, as well as disulfide trap mutations to anchor an HLA class I signal sequence-derived peptide. Functional comparison of dtHLA-E4 molecules fused to different VL9 epitopes showed that peptides derived from HLA-A and HLA-C allotypes maximized NK cell inhibition and minimized NKG2C+ NK cell activation. Furthermore, incorporation of mutations into the alpha3 domain of HLA-E diminished the immunogenicity of dtHLA-E4 by reducing CD8+ T cell recognition, but crucially, these mutations left NK cell inhibitory function intact. These findings demonstrate the systematic construction of a hypoimmunogenic dtHLA-E4 molecule, which promises to facilitate persistence of allogeneic HLA class I-deficient chimeric Ag receptor T cells by overcoming NK cell missing-self recognition.
42042815 | Antibody Responses After BA.5/BF.7 Breakthrough Infection in People Living with HIV. Background: People living with HIV (PLWH) constitute a vulnerable population during the COVID-19 pandemic; however, it remains uncertain whether long-term suppressive antiretroviral therapy (ART) restores sufficient immune competence to support robust hybrid immunity. While vaccination followed by breakthrough infection-termed hybrid immunity-typically elicits potent humoral responses in immunocompetent individuals, the functional quality and breadth of these responses against evolving Omicron subvariants remain poorly characterized in PLWH. This study aimed to assess functional antibody responses, including neutralizing activity and Fc effector functions, in vaccinated and unvaccinated PLWH who experienced breakthrough infection with Omicron subvariants BA.4/5 or BF.7. Methods: We enrolled three cohorts between December 5 and December 20, 2022: 25 HIV-negative individuals with breakthrough infection (BTI-HC), 20 ART-experienced PLWH with breakthrough infection following three-dose COVID-19 vaccination (BTI-HIV), and 10 ART-experienced PLWH with primary infection without prior vaccination (PI-HIV). All HIV-positive participants were receiving suppressive ART with regimens based on non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors or integrase strand transfer inhibitors for a median of 3.4 years. We measured receptor-binding domain (RBD)-specific IgG, neutralizing antibody titers against ancestral D614G, Delta, BA.1, BA.4/5, BF.7, XDV, KP.2, and KP.3 variants, and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) responses. Results: Despite lower absolute CD4+ T cell counts, BTI-HIV participants mounted RBD-binding IgG, neutralizing antibody, and ADCC responses that were comparable to BTI-HC and significantly exceeded PI-HIV across all tested variants. Both breakthrough infection cohorts exhibited immunological imprinting, with higher neutralizing titers against ancestral D614G than infecting BA.4/5 or BF.7 variants. Emerging variants XDV, KP.2, and KP.3 demonstrated substantial neutralization escape in all groups. PI-HIV showed markedly diminished neutralization breadth and failed to generate enough responses against all tested Omicron strains. Conclusions: Suppressive ART enables PLWH to mount hybrid immunity-conferred by vaccination followed by BF.7 or BA.4/5 breakthrough infection-with neutralizing and ADCC responses comparable to HIV-negative individuals, and significantly exceeding those of unvaccinated PLWH with primary infection. This underscores the critical role of vaccination in establishing effective hybrid immunity in this population. However, we observed immunological imprinting, with higher titers against ancestral strains than against infecting variants, and substantial escape by emerging sublineages XDV, KP.2, and KP.3 across all groups. These findings support prioritizing updated variant-containing vaccines for HIV-positive populations and reinforce the essential role of vaccination in this vulnerable group.
26399429 | Mechanical matching between a ligand and receptor. Interactions between ligands and receptors and subsequent \locking\ must involve some resistance to unbinding, manifesting itself as an interaction force. At body temperature, spontaneous unbinding will occur, however, external forces are required to accelerate this process. Bearing in mind the potential forces that the receptor-ligand complex is likely to be subjected to in a biological environment, it might be hypothesised that there is some mechanical matching between the receptor and ligand. To test this hypothesis, various receptor and ligand pairs were unfolded in their entirety in order to determine their total unfolding force. In this way, the total force to unfold the protein could be determined, allowing a comparison between ligand and receptor pairs. The interest of this work is to examine the interaction between five proteins and a mica surface by AFM without any modification to preserve the natural elastic properties of the protein molecules during the force measurements. The results showed a mechanical matching between GP120 (ligand) and CD4 (receptor) when analysing the total force required to unfold the same number of domains or events shown by the force distance curves of these proteins.
39260938 | Chemokine receptors in COVID-19 infection. Chemokine receptors play diverse roles in the immune response against pathogens by recruiting innate and adaptive immune cells to sites of infection. However, their involvement could also be detrimental, causing tissue damage and exacerbating respiratory diseases by triggering histological alterations such as fibrosis and remodeling. This chapter reviews the role of chemokine receptors in the immune defense against SARS-CoV-2 infection. In COVID-19, CXCR3 is expressed mainly in T cells, and its upregulation is related to an increase in SARS-CoV-2-specific antibodies but also to COVID-19 severity. CCR5 is a key player in T-cell recruitment, and its suppression leads to reduced inflammation and viremia levels. Conversely, CXCR6 is implicated in the aberrant migration of memory T cells within airways. On the other hand, increased CCR4+ cells in the blood and decreased CCR4+ cells in lung cells are associated with severe COVID-19. Additionally, CCR2 is associated with an increase in macrophage recruitment to lung tissues. Elevated levels of CXCR1 and CXCR2, which are predominantly expressed in neutrophils, are associated with the severity of the disease, and finally, the expression of CX3CR1 in cytotoxic T lymphocytes affects the retention of these cells in lung tissues, thereby impacting the severity of COVID-19. Despite the efforts of many clinical trials to find effective therapies for COVID-19 using chemokine receptor inhibitors, no conclusive results have been found due to the small number of patients, redundancy, and co-expression of chemokine receptors by immune cells, which explains the difficulty in finding a single therapeutic target or effective treatment.
42111703 | Parallelised Cloning, Mammalian Cell Expression, and Purification of Nanobodies Identified by Phage Display. Nanobodies are recombinant single-domain antibodies (VHHs) derived from the heavy chain-only subset of camelid immunoglobulins that can be reverse-engineered into bivalent antibodies by fusion to immunoglobulin Fc constant regions. Mammalian cells are the system of choice to produce VHH-Fcs to ensure authentic folding and post-translation glycosylation of the expressed VHH-Fcs. In a recent project to find neutralising VHH-Fc binders to the spike proteins of SARS-CoV-2 viruses, we identified a need for rapid expression and purification of multiple VHH-Fc fusions from nanobodies selected by phage display. Here, we present a protocol for the construction of expression vectors by parallel ligase-independent cloning, transient small-scale expression in mammalian cells (4 mL culture volume), screening antigen-binding activity, and midi-scale purification (30 mL culture volume) for downstream activity assays. The workflow is completely transferable between different vector formats, of which three are described herein: Fc fusion dimers, monomeric CD4 fusions, and His-tagged monomers. Key features   Miniaturised and parallelised methodology for the screening and production of large numbers of VHHs that bind antigens of interest.   Streamlined and unified, high-throughput cloning strategy for use in multiple modular vectors for monomeric and dimeric VHH production in mammalian culture.
41895154 | Long-lasting cross-reactive and polyfunctional SARS-CoV-2 T cell responses in seniors are maintained after repeated vaccination and infections. BACKGROUND: Understanding humoral and T cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 immunisations is important for informing seasonal COVID-19 vaccine recommendations in the elderly. Existing protection against emerging strains may vary based on vaccination and infection history. Using a longitudinal cohort of healthy seniors (65-80 years), we investigated the magnitude and quality of T cell and antibody responses after multiple SARS-CoV-2 vaccine doses and repeated infections. METHODS: Samples were collected at six consecutive time points from Dec 2020 to May 2024, covering up to six doses of mRNA vaccines. Vaccination and infection records were retrieved from national health registries and questionnaires. Frequency and polyfunctionality of T cell responses and neutralising antibodies (NAbs) to the B.1 strain and several Omicron variants were determined, as well as anti-spike, -nucleocapsid, and -membrane protein IgG levels. FINDINGS: After three vaccine doses, the quantity and quality of CD4 and CD8 spike-specific T cell responses remained stable throughout the study period spanning 2.5 years and up to three additional booster doses. About 60% of participants reported at least one infection over this time period. Samples from early 2022 showed cross-reactivity to emerging Omicron variants (XBB.1.5/BA.2.86) and CD4 T cell responses strongly correlated between newer SARS-CoV-2 strains and B.1. By contrast, NAb titres against B.1 remained high but were reduced against newer variants. Spike IgG levels plateaued over time while membrane protein IgG levels revealed unreported infections. INTERPRETATION: The quality and quantity of spike-specific T cell responses were maintained over several years and three doses of the original B.1 vaccine generated good T cell cross-reactivity against future strains. This suggests that overall, healthy older adults have robust cellular protection against severe COVID-19. NAbs were more strain-specific with reduced neutralisation of newer variants, consistent with immune imprinting and antigenic drift, suggesting that updated vaccines may be necessary for vulnerable individuals.
42106820 | Compartment-specific phase compensation between pulmonary T-Cell immunity and waning systemic responses in BA.5 breakthrough infection. BACKGROUND: Spatiotemporal coordination of SARS-CoV-2-specific immunity across pulmonary and systemic compartments is poorly defined, especially how chronic lung diseases modulate this. We hypothesized that profiling virus-specific T cells (VSTs) and antibodies in respiratory vs. blood samples would reveal compartmentalized dynamics critical for viral control. METHODS: In 64 mild Omicron BA.5 breakthrough-infected participants (30 early [D7], 34 later [D14]), we performed: 1) Paired sputum/PBMCs flow cytometry for CD4+/CD8+ VSTs; 2) Systemic antibody titration (NAbs, anti-N IgG); 3) Compartmental cytokine profiling; 4) Stratified analysis of GOLD I-II COPD (n = 28) vs controls (n = 36). RESULTS: Pulmonary CD4+ VSTs increased 2.8-fold from D7 to D14, contrasting with delayed CD8+ VSTs mobilisation, while no sputum-blood VSTs correlations existed in either phase (all P > 0.05). Phase-dependent immune synergy was observed in that early viral control was driven by blood CD8+ VSTs-NAbs coordination (CT value: r = 0.43; NAbs: r = 0.41; both P < 0.05), whereas later-phase pulmonary CD4+ VSTs expanded reciprocally to waning systemic antibodies (NAbs: r = -0.54, P < 0.01), indicating local compensation. Pulmonary cytokine dominance was evident as sputum IL-1beta/IL-6/RANTES inversely correlated with viral titer (CT value) at D7 (all P < 0.05), exhibiting stronger virological associations than their plasma counterparts. Additionally, GOLD I-II COPD patients showed no impairment in viral clearance, NAbs titres, or VSTs magnitudes versus controls (all P > 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Non-invasive sputum analysis reveals dynamic SARS-CoV-2 immunity: systemic effectors dominate early control, while pulmonary CD4+ VSTs compensate during antibody decline, underscoring the need for phase-specific therapeutic regimens targeting distinct compartments.
39415865 | Investigating the Potential Impact of CCR5-Delta32 Variant on COVID-19 Outcome: A Case-Control Study in Iranian Population. Background: The impact of CCR5-Delta32 on COVID-19 outcomes has been the focus of much research. This genetic variant may protect against SARS-CoV-2 infection, while others have produced conflicting results. Given the controversial results of previous research on different populations, we aimed to investigate the possible association between the CCR5-Delta32 variant and COVID-19 severity in an Iranian population. Methods: This case-control study was conducted between 25th of April till 10th of October 2021 at Rasoul Akram Hospital of Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. We investigated the association between CCR5-Delta32 genotype and COVID-19 severity in 200 unrelated Iranian patients. The patients were divided into 2 groups: 100 patients with severe COVID-19 (case group) and 100 patients with mild COVID-19 (control group). Genotyping of CCR5-Delta32 was performed using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique. Results: The frequency of CCR5-Delta32 allele was 11 in the case group and 16 in the control group. However, no significant association was found between this genetic variant and the clinical outcomes of COVID-19. Conclusion: The CCR5-Delta32 variant cannot serve as a reliable predictive factor for identifying individuals prone to developing severe COVID-19 in Iranian population. Additionally, targeting CCR5 would not be a viable treatment approach for COVID-19 in Iranians.
39368662 | Viral coexistence and insertional mutations in the ORF8 region of SARS-CoV-2: A possible mechanism of nucleotide insertion. The virus obtained from a swab sample ID: S66 in Hiroshima was reported to have a single T-base insertion in the ORF8 coding region. However, no T insertion was observed when we determined the genomic sequence using another method. We then extracted RNA from the S66 swab sample and sequenced the insertion site using the Sanger method. The resulting waveform was disrupted beyond the insertion site, suggesting the presence of a mixed population of viruses with different sequences. Through plasmid cloning of RT-PCR amplification fragments and virus cloning by limiting dilution, along with TIDE analysis to determine the ratio of components from the Sanger sequencing waveform, it was confirmed that the sample contained a mixture of viruses with varying numbers of T-base insertions. The virus with one T insertion (T1+) was predominant in 70-75 % of the genomes, and genomes with T0, T2+, T3+, T4+, and T5+ were also detected. No T-base insertion mutations were observed in the ORF8 region in three other SARS-CoV-2 samples. In the S66 sample, a C27911T point mutation near the insertion site in the ORF8 region resulted in a sequence of seven or more consecutive T bases, which was the cause of the T-base insertion. When the cloned S66 virus (T1+) was passaged in cultured cells, there was a tendency for viruses with more insertion bases to become dominant with successive generations, suggesting that the T-base insertion was due to polymerase stuttering. The insertion of T bases resulted in synthesis of deletion mutants of the ORF8 protein, but no significant change was observed in the proliferation of the viruses in cultured cells. A search of the GenBank database using NCBI BLAST for viruses similar to S66 with T-base insertion mutations revealed hundreds of viruses widely distributed on the molecular phylogenetic tree. These base insertion viruses were thought to have occasionally arisen during the virus infection process. This study suggests one mechanism of insertion mutations in SARS-CoV-2, and it is important to consider the emergence of future mutant strains.
25526818 | Targeting ss2 adrenergic receptors regulate human T cell function directly and indirectly. It is well-established that central nervous system activation affects peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMCs) function through the release of the catecholamines (Epi) and norepinephrine (NE), which act on ss2-adrenergic receptors (ss2AR). However, most studies have used non-specific stimulation of cells rather than antigen-specific responses. Likewise, few studies have parsed out the direct effects of ss2AR stimulation on T cells versus indirect effects via adrenergic stimulation of antigen presenting cells (APC). Here we report the effect of salmeterol (Sal), a selective ss2AR agonist, on IFN-gamma(+) CD4 and IFN-gamma(+) CD8 T cells following stimulation with Cytomegalovirus lysate (CMVL-strain AD169) or individual peptides spanning the entire region of the HCMV pp65 protein (pp65). Cells were also stimulated with Staphylococcal enterotoxin B. Additionally, we investigated the effect of Epi and Sal on cytotoxic cell killing of transfected target cells at the single cell level using the CD107a assay. The results show that Sal reduced the percentage of IFN-gamma(+) CD4 and IFN-gamma(+) CD8 T cells both when applied directly to isolated T cells, and indirectly via treatment of APC. These inhibitory effects were mediated via a ss2 adrenergic-dependent pathway and were stronger for CD8 as compared to CD4 T cells. Similarly, the results show that Sal suppressed cytotoxicity of both CD8 T and NK cells in vitro following stimulation with Chinese hamster ovary cell line transfected with MICA(*009) (T-CHO) and the human erythromyeloblastoid leukemic (K562) cell line. The inhibitory effect on cytotoxicity following stimulation with T-CHO was stronger in NK cells compared with CD8 T cells. Thus, targeting the ss2AR on lymphocytes and on APC leads to inhibition of inflammatory cytokine production and target cell killing. Moreover, there is a hierarchy of responses, with CD8 T cells and NK cells inhibited more effectively than CD4 T cells.
40486955 | Correction to \Alignment of Human KAT2A (GCN5) Histone Acetyltransferase and SARS-CoV-2 Orf8 Viral Proteins\. [This corrects the article DOI: 10.1002/cdt3.56.].
40061947 | Impaired immune reconstitution in HIV infection: the role of CD4+ T-cell-associated NKG2D ligands, CD4+ T-cell subsets imbalance, and immune function deficiency. Objective: The role of natural killer (NK) cells, which mediate innate immunity, in the immune reconstitution of people living with HIV (PLWH) remains unclear. Our previous research indicated that early activation of CD56dimCD16dim/- NK cells plays an important role in the recovery of CD4+ T cells in immunological non-responders (INRs) after ART. This study mainly focuses on the profiles of cell receptors and their relative ligands for NK cells and CD4+ T cells exhibited on INRs and immunological responders (IRs) in order to analyze the impact of differential immune status on immune reconstitution in PLWH receiving ART. Methods: This study included 66 PLWH who had been on ART for 4 years, comprising 32 INRs and 34 IRs. Using flow cytometry, we examined the expression of cell receptors and ligands for NK cells and CD4+ T cells in PBMCs, as well as the differentiation of CD4+ T cells. Results: The expression of NKG2D ligands, including MICA/B and ULBP2-5, on CD4+ T cells in INRs is elevated prior to ART. Further research found that the expression of CD95 on MICA/B+CD4+ T cells and ULBP2-5+CD4+ T cells was higher in INRs before ART compared to IRs. Simultaneously, the percentages of death receptor CD95 expression on MICA/B+CD4+ T cells and on ULBP2-5+CD4+ T cells before ART were negatively correlated with CD4+ T-cell counts and DeltaCD4. Among the CD4+ T-cell subsets, an imbalance persists in the CD4+ Tcm and CD4+ Temra subsets in both INRs and IRs, before or after ART. CD4+ T cells exhibit elevated levels of activation, proliferation, exhaustion, and apoptosis prior to ART initiation. However, CD4+ T-cell activation and proliferation normalize post-ART, while apoptosis and exhaustion levels remain significantly elevated. Regardless of ART, the anti-apoptotic capacity of CD4+ T cells in INRs is still lower than that of IRs and healthy controls (HCs). Before ART, the frequency of CD31 expression on naive CD4+ T cells in INRs is lower than that in IRs and HCs. Following ART, the amounts of CD31+ Tn from CD4+ T cells remain impaired in both INRs and IRs compared to HCs. Conclusion: The upregulation of related ligands for the NKG2D receptor on CD4+ T cells in INRs is associated with increased susceptibility of CD4+ T cells to NK cell-mediated killing. CD95 may plays an important role in poor recovery of CD4+ T cells co-expressing NKG2D-related ligands. The imbalance in CD4+ Tcm and CD4+ Temra subset homeostasis and impaired CD31 expression on naive CD4+ T cells in INRs are associated with poor immune reconstitution outcomes.
41909898 | Associations between food consumption with T cell activation and antibody responses following SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccination. COVID-19 mRNA vaccines induce protective immunity, but the factors influencing individual immune responses remain incompletely understood. This study investigated associations between dietary habits, T cell activation, and antibody responses to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination. We analyzed peripheral blood mononuclear cells following spike protein stimulation and measured anti-SARS-CoV-2 S protein antibody levels. We found significant positive correlations between CD4+ activation-induced marker (AIM)+ T cells, CD4+ CD69+ T cells, and anti-SARS-CoV-2 S protein antibody levels. Among various food items, yogurt and bread consumption frequencies showed significant positive correlations with immune parameters. Participants with high yogurt consumption (daily or more) demonstrated significantly higher levels of CD4+ AIM+ T cells, CD4+ CD69+ T cells, and antibody levels compared to low consumption groups. Similar patterns were observed for bread consumption. These associations remained significant after adjusting for age, sex, vaccination count, and prior infection history. Additionally, we observed correlations between serum and fecal anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, with distinct gut microbiota and metabolite profiles associated with antibody levels. Our findings suggest that regular consumption of specific foods may influence vaccine-induced immune responses, potentially through interactions with the gut environment. These results provide a foundation for investigating dietary approaches to optimize vaccine responses.
38734638 | Abrogation of ORF8-IRF3 binding interface with Carbon nanotube derivatives to rescue the host immune system against SARS-CoV-2 by using molecular screening and simulation approaches. The COVID-19 pandemic, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, has led to over six million deaths worldwide. In human immune system, the type 1 interferon (IFN) pathway plays a crucial role in fighting viral infections. However, the ORF8 protein of the virus evade the immune system by interacting with IRF3, hindering its nuclear translocation and consequently downregulate the type I IFN signaling pathway. To block the binding of ORF8-IRF3 and inhibit viral pathogenesis a quick discovery of an inhibitor molecule is needed. Therefore, in the present study, the interface between the ORF8 and IRF3 was targeted on a high-affinity carbon nanotube by using computational tools. After analysis of 62 carbon nanotubes by multiple docking with the induced fit model, the top five compounds with high docking scores of - 7.94 kcal/mol, - 7.92 kcal/mol, - 7.28 kcal/mol, - 7.19 kcal/mol and - 7.09 kcal/mol (top hit1-5) were found to have inhibitory activity against the ORF8-IRF3 complex. Molecular dynamics analysis of the complexes revealed the high compactness of residues, stable binding, and strong hydrogen binding network among the ORF8-nanotubes complexes. Moreover, the total binding free energy for top hit1-5 was calculated to be - 43.21 +- 0.90 kcal/mol, - 41.17 +- 0.99 kcal/mol, - 48.85 +- 0.62 kcal/mol, - 43.49 +- 0.77 kcal/mol, and - 31.18 +- 0.78 kcal/mol respectively. These results strongly suggest that the identified top five nanotubes (hit1-5) possess significant potential for advancing and exploring innovative drug therapies. This underscores their suitability for subsequent in vivo and in vitro experiments, marking them as promising candidates worthy of further investigation.
41997994 | Antiretroviral therapy interferes with pseudovirus neutralization assays while Gag-specific T-cells influence mRNA vaccine outcomes in HIV patients. People living with HIV infection (PLWH) often have attenuated responses to infections and vaccination. This study aimed to better understand how HIV-associated inflammation and chronic T-cell activation influenced the immune responses to mRNA vaccination or neutralization assay analyses. PLWH on ART or healthy donor controls were analyzed using systems serology and viral T-cell phenotyping to Spike or HIV-1 Gag peptide stimulation after primary mRNA COVID-19 vaccination. Neutralization assays using a lentiviral pseudovirus construct were compromised by the presence of integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI) drugs in plasma from HIV + subjects taking certain ART. This combination of lentiviral pseudovirus reporter assays and INSTIs led to false positive neutralization results. Spike-specific IgG1, IgG3, IgA1, IgA2, and antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) were altered post-vaccination in PLWH compared to controls. Network and multivariate analyses revealed post-vaccination outcomes were strongly correlated to CD4 immunodeficiency and Gag-specific T-cells, including effector CD8 T-cells and Th1 CD4 T-cells. Given the growing use of pseudovirus neutralization assays for serological evaluation and mRNA technology in novel vaccines that could be recommended for PLWH Pseudovirus neutralization assays need to be carefully selected to prevent ART drugs in patient samples from impacting results. Spike-specific antibody and CD4 T-cell phenotypes are influenced by both CD4 immunodeficiency and Gag-specific T-cell effector populations. This work has clinical relevance beyond COVID, with future considerations of pseudovirus assay evaluations and mRNA vaccine design for chronically infected hosts.
28500232 | NKG2D Ligand-Targeted Bispecific T-Cell Engagers Lead to Robust Antitumor Activity against Diverse Human Tumors. Two new bispecific T-cell engaging (BiTE) molecules with specificity for NKG2D ligands were developed and functionally characterized. One, huNKG2D-OKT3, was derived from the extracellular portion of the human NKG2D receptor fused to a CD3epsilon binding single-chain variable fragment (scFv), known as OKT3. NKG2D has multiple ligands, including MICA, which are expressed by a variety of malignant cells. A second molecule, B2-OKT3, was created in the tandem scFv BiTE format that targets MICA on tumor cells and CD3epsilon on human T cells. Both BiTEs specifically activated T cells to kill human tumor cell lines. Cytotoxicity by B2-OKT3, but not huNKG2D-OKT3, is blocked by soluble rMICA. The huNKG2D-OKT3 induced greater T-cell cytokine production in comparison with B2-OKT3. No T-cell pretreatment was required for IFNgamma production upon coculture of B2-OKT3 or huNKG2D-OKT3 with T cells and target cells. The effector memory T-cell compartment was the primary source of IFNgamma, and culture of T cells and these BiTEs with plate-bound rMICA showed ligand density-dependent production of IFNgamma from both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. There was 2-fold more IFNgamma produced per CD8+ T cell and 5-fold greater percentage of CD8+ T cells producing IFNgamma compared with CD4+ T cells. In addition, both BiTEs elicited significant antitumor responses against human metastatic melanoma tumor samples using autologous or healthy donor T cells. These data demonstrate the robust antitumor activity of these NKG2D ligand-binding bispecific proteins and support their further development for clinical use. Mol Cancer Ther; 16(7); 1335-46.  2017 AACR.
42075289 | Humoral Immunogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 mRNA Primary Vaccination Among People with HIV. People with HIV (PWH) may exhibit altered immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination due to persistent immune dysregulation despite antiretroviral therapy. We evaluated humoral immunogenicity following mRNA SARS-CoV-2 vaccination in PWH according to CD4 T-cell count and compared responses with HIV-negative controls. The study included 57 PWH stratified by CD4 count (<200 and >=200 cells/microL), alongside 12 HIV-negative controls. Neutralizing antibody titers (NT50) against SARS-CoV-2 pseudoviruses expressing the D614G and Omicron BA.5 spike variants were measured using a luciferase-based neutralization assay one month (M1) and six months (M6) after primary vaccination with BNT162b2 or mRNA-1273. PWH with CD4 counts >= 200 cells/microL demonstrated higher neutralizing titers against D614G at M1 and M6, with significant differences observed between CD4 groups (M1: p = 0.03; M6: p = 0.02). Neutralization of BA.5 was lower overall; while no overall group differences were observed at M1, higher titers were detected among individuals with CD4 >= 200 cells/microL at six months (p = 0.04). Neutralizing titers correlated positively with CD4 counts among PWH. Responses were broadly comparable between PWH and HIV-negative controls and did not differ substantially by vaccine type. These findings indicate that immune status, reflected by CD4 T-cell count, is a key determinant of SARS-CoV-2 vaccine-induced humoral responses in PWH and support prioritizing vaccination strategies for individuals with advanced immunosuppression.
39205305 | Comparative Atlas of SARS-CoV-2 Substitution Mutations: A Focus on Iranian Strains Amidst Global Trends. BACKGROUND: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a new emerging coronavirus that caused coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Whole-genome tracking of SARS-CoV-2 enhanced our understanding of the mechanism of the disease, control, and prevention of COVID-19. METHODS: we analyzed 3368 SARS-CoV-2 protein sequences from Iran and compared them with 15.6 million global sequences in the GISAID database, using the Wuhan-Hu-1 strain as a reference. RESULTS: Our investigation revealed that NSP12-P323L, ORF9c-G50N, NSP14-I42V, membrane-A63T, Q19E, and NSP3-G489S were found to be the most frequent mutations among Iranian SARS-CoV-2 sequences. Furthermore, it was observed that more than 94% of the SARS-CoV-2 genome, including NSP7, NSP8, NSP9, NSP10, NSP11, and ORF8, had no mutations when compared to the Wuhan-Hu-1 strain. Finally, our data indicated that the ORF3a-T24I, NSP3-G489S, NSP5-P132H, NSP14-I42V, envelope-T9I, nucleocapsid-D3L, membrane-Q19E, and membrane-A63T mutations might be responsible factors for the surge in the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant wave in Iran. CONCLUSIONS: real-time genomic surveillance is crucial for detecting new SARS-CoV-2 variants, updating diagnostic tools, designing vaccines, and understanding adaptation to new environments.
42124663 | Characterization of effects of a neurotropic murine coronavirus infection on Alzheimer's disease neuropathology of 5xFAD mice. Background: Recent studies revealed key immunological mechanisms within the central nervous system (CNS) that contribute to Alzheimer's disease pathology. Additionally, analyses of human AD datasets have also associated viral encephalitis exposure (i.e., viral-induced neuroinflammation) with the development of AD and dementia, highlighting the need to better understand how viral encephalitis and neuroimmune mechanisms within the brain may impact AD pathologies such as Abeta plaque deposition. Intracranial infection of susceptible mice with the neurotropic JHM strain of murine coronavirus (JHMV) results in acute encephalomyelitis characterized by viral infection of glia and a robust inflammatory response comprised of monocytes/macrophages and T cells that aid in controlling viral replication. Methods: To determine how coronavirus-induced encephalitis may impact established Abeta plaque deposition, we intracranially inoculated JHMV into aged 5xFAD model of amyloidosis. We utilize immunohistochemical and biochemical analysis to assess the impact on existing Abeta pathology. We also utilize spatial transcriptomic imaging to explore how viral encephalitis affects cellular responses to plaque pathology with single-cell resolution. Results: In aged 5xFAD mice, JHMV-induced encephalitis at 12 days p.i. resulted in minimal changes to overall Abeta protein within the brain. However, viral encephalitis induces CD4 + and CD8 + T cell infiltration and more Lgals3/ MAC2-expressing macrophages surrounding dense-core Abeta plaques, which appear more compacted in JHMV-infected 5xFAD brains compared to uninfected 5xFAD controls. We compared gene expression within JHMV-infected 5xFAD mice and uninfected controls to identify distinct cellular responses to Abeta plaques that differed. Utilizing differential gene expression and pathway analysis, we found that viral encephalitis increased the proportion of myeloid cells in the 5xFAD brain, which also showed down-regulated disease-associated (DAM) pathways involving Abeta clearance, response to lipids, and macrophage activation within the post-encephalitis 5xFAD brains. Conclusions: Together, these findings suggest an attenuated myeloid cell response to Abeta plaque burden in 5xFAD mice following acute viral encephalitis. Future experiments aim to further dissect inflammatory mechanisms between infiltrating myeloid cells, T cells, and the progression of Abeta and tau pathology. Data derived from these experiments will further elucidate the viral-induced neuroimmune mechanisms that affect AD pathology and offer an opportunity to determine how these neuropathologic changes, such as subsequent neuronal damage, occur.
38801408 | Design of multi-epitope chimeric vaccine against Monkeypox virus and SARS-CoV-2: A vaccinomics perspective. The current era we experience is full with pandemic infectious agents that no longer threatens the major local source but the whole globe. Almost the most emerging infectious agents are severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS CoV-2), followed by monkeypox virus (MPXV). Since no approved antiviral drugs nor licensed active vaccines are yet available, we aimed to utilize immunoinformatics approach to design chimeric vaccine against the two mentioned viruses. This is the first study to deal with design divalent vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 and MPXV. ORF8, E and M proteins from Omicron SARS-CoV-2 and gp182 from MPXV were used as the protein precursor from which multi-epitopes (inducing B-cell, helper T cells, cytotoxic T cells and interferon-gamma) chimeric vaccine was contrived. The structure of the vaccine construct was predicted, validated, and docked to toll-like receptor-2 (TLR-2). Moreover, its sequence was also used to examine the immune simulation profile and was then inserted into the pET-28a plasmid for in silico cloning. The vaccine construct was probable antigen (0.543) and safe (non-allergen) with strong binding energy to TLR-2 (-1169.8 kcal/mol) and found to have significant immune simulation profile. In conclusion, the designed chimeric vaccine was potent and safe against SARS-CoV-2 and MPXV, which deserves further consideration.
38742655 | Soluble MIC-A, IPI, and response to treatment strongly predict survival in patients with germinal center diffuse large B cell lymphoma. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most frequent lymphoma. MIC-A and MIC-B are the natural ligands for NKG2D, a receptor expressed in NK cells. MIC-A soluble isoforms (sMICA) have been described in different malignancies. OBJECTIVES: To analyze lymphocyte subsets and sMIC-A in germinal center DLBCL. MATERIALS AND METHODS: sMICA, sMICB, and peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets (CD4+, CD8+, NK, NKT, gammadelta T cells, and dendritic cells) were analyzed in 59 patients and 60 healthy donors. RESULTS: Patients had decreased numbers of type 1 and type 2 dendritic cells, NK, iNKT, CD4 T, and CD8 T cells, and higher levels of sMIC-A. The 2-year PFS for high IPI scores and high sMIC-A was 24% and 28%, respectively. The 2-year OS for high IPI scores and high sMIC-A was 42% and 33%. The 2-year PFS and OS for patients not achieving response to treatment were 0% and 10%, respectively. The MICPI score (one point each for high IPI score and high sMIC-A) showed that those patients summing two points had worse PSF and OS. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with DLBCL have decreased numbers of peripheral lymphocyte subsets and high levels of sMIC-A. The addition of sMIC-A to IPI could improve its prognostic relevance.
39553462 | Development of a rapid LFA test based on direct RT-LAMP for diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2. Introduction: In response to the rapid spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, we developed a rapid molecular approach to diagnose COVID-19 without the need for RNA extraction. Methods: The study utilized two molecular methods, RT-qPCR and colorimetric RT-LAMP, to diagnose the RdRp and ORF8 genes, respectively, in oro-nasopharyngeal swabs. Due to the high sequence diversity of ORF8 in SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2, it has been identified as a suitable target for virus detection. The RT-LAMP method was also carried out directly on heat-treated swab samples. The strip tests were made using gold nanoparticles and combined with the RT-LAMP for further analysis. Results: The results showed that the isothermal amplification method had a sensitivity of 95 % (95 % C.I.: 86.08 %-98.96 %) and a specificity of 75 % (95 % C.I.: 19.41 %-99.37 %). The RT-LAMP-LFA method was able to distinguish positive and negative samples with 100 % sensitivity (95 % C.I.: 91.96-100) and 77.27 % specificity (95 % C.I.: 54.63-92.18). This method only required heating swab samples for 10 min at 65  C before the RT-LAMP reaction. Conclusion: By utilizing the RT-LAMP in combination with the LFA, it is possible to diagnose SARS-CoV-2 rapidly without the need for RNA extraction. The entire process from sample collection to test interpretation takes only 75-90 min, and the results can be interpreted by untrained individuals with the naked eye. By employing the ORF8 gene as a diagnostic target and eliminating the need for RNA extraction, the direct RT-LAMP-LFA method achieves a significant breakthrough that was not previously reported.
42039170 | Long-term immune profiling of COVID-19 recovered patients: effects of disease severity and vaccination. Introduction: The COVID-19 pandemic caused varied disease outcomes globally, with individuals experiencing severe, non-severe, or no disease. Immune responses generated post-exposure to SARS-CoV-2 play a critical role in protecting against severe COVID-19 upon re-infection. This study aimed to analyze immune-cell phenotypes and functions in COVID-19 Recovered Patients (C-19RPs) from varying disease severities. Objective: To compare the immune-cell phenotypes and functions in C-19RPs from different forms of the disease, more than six months post-infection. Methods: Between September 2021 and July 2023, 101 C-19RPs with hospital data (median age 31) were recruited from Mbeya Zonal Referral Hospital, Tanzania. In addition, seven uninfected and 19 Actively Infected Patients (AIPs) (median age 34 and 58.5, respectively) were included as controls. Blood samples were collected for SARS-CoV-2 serology, immune and genomic analysis, whereas demographic and vaccination data were gathered through a questionnaire. Results: Serum anti-SARS-CoV-2 levels were similar between severe and non-severe C-19RPs but significantly higher in vaccinated non-severe cases than in unvaccinated ones. Severe C-19RPs and AIPs showed a trend towards decreased switched memory B cells. Frequencies of T-cell subsets were broadly similar across groups, but AIPs had increased central memory and decreased effector memory and effector CD4 T cells. T-cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid peptides were not affected, but severe C-19RPs had increased CD8 cytokine responses and degranulation upon stimulation with Staphylococcus enterotoxin B (SEB). The frequency of CD56Dim_CD16Bright NK subsets was high in C-19RPs, while CD56Dim_CD16Neg subsets were reduced only in severe C-19RPs. DNA sequence analysis of the HLA from 18 C-19RPs and five uninfected participants revealed 11 and 20 alleles, which were exclusively found in severe and non-severe C-19RPs, respectively. Conclusion: COVID-19 vaccination was particularly beneficial for non-severe C-19RPs, highlighting the benefits of vaccination in this group. Frequencies of B and NK cell subsets were long-term altered in the C-19RPs, while CD4 T-cell subset alterations were only in the AIPs. The enhanced T-cell response to SEB in the severe C-19RPs suggests potential long-term T-cell hyperresponsiveness, warranting further research. The unique HLA alleles exclusively found in either severe or non-severe C-19RPs may require additional exploration to confirm their association with disease severity.
39353749 | A Randomized Placebo-Controlled Trial of Leronlimab in Mild-To-Moderate COVID-19. PURPOSE: Early in the course of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic it was hypothesised that host genetics played a role in the pathophysiology of COVID-19 including a suggestion that the CCR5-Delta32 mutation may be protective in SARS-CoV-2 infection. Leronlimab is an investigational CCR5-specific humanized IgG4 monoclonal antibody currently in development for HIV-1 infection. We aimed to explore the impact of leronlimab on the severity of disease symptoms among participants with mild-to-moderate COVID-19. METHODS: The TEMPEST trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in participants with mild-to-moderate COVID-19. Participants were randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio to receive subcutaneous leronlimab (700 mg) or placebo on days 0 and 7. The primary efficacy endpoint was assessed by change in total symptom score based on fever, myalgia, dyspnea, and cough, at end of treatment (day 14). FINDINGS: Overall, 84 participants were randomized and treated with leronlimab (n = 56) or placebo (n = 28). No difference was observed in change in total symptom score (P = 0.8184) or other pre-specified secondary endpoints between treatments. However, in a post hoc analysis, 50.0% of participants treated with leronlimab demonstrated improvements from baseline in National Early Warning Score 2 (NEWS2) at day 14, compared with 20 8% of participants in the placebo group (post hoc; p = 0.0223). Among participants in this trial with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 adverse events rates were numerically but not statistically significantly lower in leronlimab participants (33.9%) compared with placebo participants (50.0%). IMPLICATIONS: At the time the TEMPEST trial was designed although CCR5 was known to be implicated in COVID-19 disease severity the exact pathophysiology of SARS-CoV-2 infection was poorly understood. Today it is well accepted that SARS-CoV-2 infection in asymptomatic-to-mild cases is primarily characterized by viral replication, with a heightened immune response, accompanied by diminished viral replication in moderate-to-severe disease and a peak in inflammatory responses with excessive production of pro-inflammatory cytokines in critical disease. It is therefore perhaps not surprising that no differences between treatments were observed in the primary endpoint or in pre-specified secondary endpoints among participants with mild-to-moderate COVID-19. However, the results of the exploratory post hoc analysis showing that participants in the leronlimab group had greater improvement in NEWS2 assessment compared to placebo provided a suggestion that leronlimab may be associated with a lower likelihood of people with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 progressing to more severe disease and needs to be confirmed in other appropriately designed clinical trials. CLINICALTRIALS: gov number, NCT04343651 https://classic. CLINICALTRIALS: gov/ct2/show/NCT04343651.
27057443 | Drug-induced hyperploidy stimulates an antitumor NK cell response mediated by NKG2D and DNAM-1 receptors. Formation of polyploid or aneuploid cells is a pathological hallmark of malignant tumors. Cell cycle checkpoint mechanisms play a crucial role in ensuring genomic integrity during mitosis, avoiding the generation of aneuploid cells. Additionally, cancer cell DNA ploidy is subjected to extrinsic controls operated by activation of adaptive immune responses mediated by T cells. NK cells exert a central role in the innate anticancer immunity; however, the mechanisms involved in the recognition of tumor cells by NK cells have not been fully elucidated. Herein, we report that drug-induced polyploidy in cancer cells activates antitumor responses mediated by NK cells. Thus, hyperploidy-inducing chemotherapeutic agents strongly upregulate the tumor expression of ligands for the NK cell activating receptors NKG2D and DNAM-1. Drug-induced hyperploidy modulated the repertoire of activating receptors and the cytokine profile of NK cells, rendering tumor cells more susceptible to NK cell-mediated lysis through the activation of NKG2D and DNAM-1 receptors. In addition, hyperploidization stimulated the production of IL-2 by CD4 T cells, which induced NK cell proliferation and activity. The stimulation of MICA, a key NKG2D ligand, in hyperploid cells was mainly mediated by ATM protein kinase. Likewise, pharmacological inhibition of key regulators of endoplasmic reticulum stress in certain cell models supports a role for this pathway in NKG2D ligand upregulation. Overall, our findings indicate that, besides the cytotoxic effect on tumor cells, the therapeutic activity of anti-mitotic drugs may be mediated by the induction of a coordinated antitumor immune response involving NK and T cells.
42108004 | SARS-CoV-2 spike-directed T cells and anti-receptor-binding-domain antibodies in hematological patients receiving three mRNA COVID-19 vaccine doses. INTRODUCTION: Studies assessing SARS-CoV-2 antibodies and functional T-cell responses in hematological patients following receipt of a three-dose mRNA vaccine schedule have yielded conflicting results. METHODS: We conducted a retrospective observational study in which we measured SARS-CoV-2-S-directed cytokine-producing CD8+ and CD4+ T cells by flow cytometry and anti-receptor-binding domain (RBD) total antibodies in 32 hematological patients, including 10 allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (allo-HCT) recipients and 22 non-transplanted individuals. Immunological testing was performed after the second COVID-19 mRNA vaccine dose (Post-2D), prior to the third dose (Pre-3D), and after the third dose (Post-3D). RESULTS: At Post-2D, 72.4%, 44.8%, and 37.9% of participants had detectable IFN-gamma-, TNF-alpha-, and IFN-gamma/TNF-alpha-producing CD8+ T cells, respectively. A decrease in the rate of detectable and frequencies of monofunctional and bifunctional SARS-CoV-2-S CD8+ T-cell responses was observed at Pre-3D. By contrast, the number of participants displaying detectable cytokine-producing CD4+ T-cell responses and their frequencies were rather conserved at all testing times. Receiving a 3D had no significant impact on the rate of detection and frequencies of monofunctional and bifunctional SARS-CoV-2-S-directed T-cell subsets. Anti-RBD total antibody responses were detected in approximately half of participants at all time points. Overall, anti-RBD antibody levels decreased at Pre-3D and then increased following the 3D. CONCLUSION: Administration of the 3D may have a limited impact on both cellular and humoral immune responses in a substantial proportion of hematological patients. These findings highlight the heterogeneity of vaccine-induced immunity and support the role of combined immune monitoring and alternative protective strategies for selected patients.
38835145 | Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Mutations after Nirmatrelvir Treatment in a Lung Cancer Xenograft Mouse Model. Paxlovid is the first approved oral treatment for coronavirus disease 2019 and includes nirmatrelvir, a protease inhibitor targeting the main protease (Mpro) of SARS-CoV-2, as one of the key components. While some specific mutations emerged in Mpro were revealed to significantly reduce viral susceptibility to nirmatrelvir in vitro, there is no report regarding resistance to nirmatrelvir in patients and animal models for SARS-CoV-2 infection yet. We recently developed xenograft tumors derived from Calu-3 cells in immunodeficient mice and demonstrated extended replication of SARS-CoV-2 in the tumors. In this study, we investigated the effect of nirmatrelvir administration on SARS-CoV-2 replication. Treatment with nirmatrelvir after virus infection significantly reduced the replication of the parental SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV-2 Omicron at 5 days post-infection (dpi). However, the virus titers were completely recovered at the time points of 15 and 30 dpi. The virus genomes in the tumors at 30 dpi were analyzed to investigate whether nirmatrelvir-resistant mutant viruses had emerged during the extended replication of SARS-CoV-2. Various mutations in several genes including ORF1ab, ORF3a, ORF7a, ORF7b, ORF8, and N occurred in the SARS-CoV-2 genome; however, no mutations were induced in the Mpro sequence by a single round of nirmatrelvir treatment, and none were observed even after two rounds of treatment. The parental SARS-CoV-2 and its sublineage isolates showed similar IC50 values of nirmatrelvir in Vero E6 cells. Therefore, it is probable that inducing viral resistance to nirmatrelvir in vivo is challenging differently from in vitro passage.
38781259 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 modulates lung inflammation and clinical disease progression. The virus severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, SARS-CoV-2, is the causative agent of the current COVID-19 pandemic. It possesses a large 30 kilobase (kb) genome that encodes structural, non-structural, and accessory proteins. Although not necessary to cause disease, these accessory proteins are known to influence viral replication and pathogenesis. Through the synthesis of novel infectious clones of SARS-CoV-2 that lack one or more of the accessory proteins of the virus, we have found that one of these accessory proteins, ORF8, is critical for the modulation of the host inflammatory response. Mice infected with a SARS-CoV-2 virus lacking ORF8 exhibit increased weight loss and exacerbated macrophage infiltration into the lungs. Additionally, infection of mice with recombinant SARS-CoV-2 viruses encoding ORF8 mutations found in variants of concern reveal that naturally occurring mutations in this protein influence disease severity. Our studies with a virus lacking this ORF8 protein and viruses possessing naturally occurring point mutations in this protein demonstrate that this protein impacts pathogenesis.
41862531 | Vaccine-derived T-cell responses are insufficient to generate protective immunity to SARS-CoV-2.
41904401 | CD4 T-cell platform for delivering interferons as an antiviral countermeasure with a focus on SARS-CoV-2.
40140496 | Distinct type 1 immune networks underlie the severity of restrictive lung disease after COVID-19. The variable origins of persistent breathlessness after coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) have hindered efforts to decipher the immunopathology of lung sequelae. Here we analyzed hundreds of cellular and molecular features in the context of discrete pulmonary phenotypes to define the systemic immune landscape of post-COVID lung disease. Cluster analysis of lung physiology measures highlighted two phenotypes of restrictive lung disease that differed according to their impaired diffusion and severity of fibrosis. Machine learning revealed marked CCR5+CD95+CD8+ T cell perturbations in milder lung disease but attenuated T cell responses hallmarked by elevated CXCL13 in more severe disease. Distinct sets of cells, mediators and autoantibodies distinguished each restrictive phenotype and differed from those of patients without substantial lung involvement. These differences were reflected in divergent T cell-based type 1 networks according to the severity of lung disease. Our findings, which provide an immunological basis for active lung injury versus advanced disease after COVID-19, might offer new targets for treatment.
39499750 | Outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 variants in Iraqi Kurdistan region. INTRODUCTION: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) first appeared in Iraq, including the Iraqi Kurdistan region governorates, in March 2020. METHODOLOGY: 48,494 samples were collected from public hospitals in the Kurdish governates from February 2021 to May 2022. Viral RNA was extracted, and real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to detect the COVID-19 variants. Statistical analysis of patients' clinical data was performed. RESULTS: The RT-PCR results identified the Alpha (B.1.1.7), Delta (B.1.617.2), and Omicron (B.1.1.529) variants in the Kurdistan governorates. Young adults (20-39 years) had significantly higher rate of infection than children (1-11 months) and older adults (80-89 years). The Delta wave was more contiguous, spread more easily, and more fatal than the Alpha and Omicron waves. The highest number of COVID-19 cases was reported in Sulaymaniyah and Duhok; and the highest death rate was reported in Sulaymaniyah. The death rate in males was higher than in females, especially among older people. Fatigue, cough, and fever were common symptoms among the three variants. The phylogenetic tree revealed that the L-type of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) was a descendant of the S-type at an early stage of evolution. The L-type could spread faster in Kurdistan. Multiple sequence alignment (MSA) confirmed that all L-type variants in different countries were 100% similar in sequence, and all were mutated in the regions 8782: ORF1ab and 28144: ORF8 703. CONCLUSIONS: This study described the COVID-19 waves, pathogenesis, and evolution of the virus in the Iraqi Kurdistan region.
26646698 | The NKG2D-IL-15 signaling pathway contributes to T-cell mediated pathology in inflammatory myopathies. NKG2D is an activating receptor on T cells, which has been implicated in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. T cells are critically involved in idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) and have been proposed as specific therapeutic targets. However, the mechanisms underlying T cell-mediated progressive muscle destruction in IIM remain to be elucidated. We here determined the involvement of the NKG2D - IL-15 signaling pathway. Primary human myoblasts expressed NKG2D ligands, which were further upregulated upon inflammatory stimuli. In parallel, shedding of the soluble NKG2D ligand MICA (sMICA) decreased upon inflammation potentially diminishing inhibition of NKG2D signaling. Membrane-related expression of IL-15 by myoblasts induced differentiation of naive CD8+ T cells into highly activated, cytotoxic CD8+NKG2Dhigh T cells demonstrating NKG2D-dependent lysis of myoblasts in vitro. CD8+NKG2Dhigh T cell frequencies were increased in the peripheral blood of polymyositis (PM) patients and correlated with serum creatinine kinase concentrations, while serum sMICA levels were not significantly changed. In muscle biopsy specimens from PM patients expression of the NKG2D ligand MICA/B was upregulated, IL-15 was expressed by muscle cells, CD68+ macrophages as well as CD4+ T cells, and CD8+NKG2D+ cells were frequently detected within inflammatory infiltrates arguing for a local signaling circuit in the inflammatory muscle milieu. In conclusion, the NKG2D - IL-15 signaling pathway contributes to progressive muscle destruction in IIM potentially opening new therapeutic avenues.
35165525 | Potential Genes Associated with COVID-19 and Comorbidity. Hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and coronary artery disease are common comorbidities and dangerous factors for infection and serious COVID-19. Polymorphisms in genes associated with comorbidities may help observe susceptibility and disease severity variation. However, specific genetic factors and the extent to which they can explain variation in susceptibility of severity are unclear. Therefore, we evaluated candidate genes associated with COVID-19 and hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and coronary artery disease. In particular, we performed searches against OMIM, NCBI, and other databases, protein-protein interaction network construction, and GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses. Results showed that the associated overlapping genes were TLR4, NLRP3, MBL2, IL6, IL1RN, IL1B, CX3CR1, CCR5, AGT, ACE, and F2. GO and KEGG analyses yielded 302 GO terms (q < 0.05) and 29 signaling pathways (q < 0.05), respectively, mainly including coronavirus disease-COVID-19 and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. IL6 and AGT were central in the PPI, with 8 and 5 connections, respectively. In this study, we identified 11 genes associated with both COVID-19 and three comorbidities that may contribute to infection and disease severity. The key genes IL6 and AGT are involved in regulating immune response, cytokine activity, and viral infection. Therefore, RAAS inhibitors, AGT antisense nucleotides, cytokine inhibitors, vitamin D, fenofibrate, and vaccines regulating non-immune and immune factors could be potential strategies to prevent and cure COVID-19. The study provides a basis for further investigation of genes and pathways with predictive value for the risk of infection and prognosis and could help guide drug and vaccine development to improve treatment efficacy and the development of personalised treatments, especially for COVID-19 individuals with common comorbidities.
34667308 | A global effort to dissect the human genetic basis of resistance to SARS-CoV-2 infection. SARS-CoV-2 infections display tremendous interindividual variability, ranging from asymptomatic infections to life-threatening disease. Inborn errors of, and autoantibodies directed against, type I interferons (IFNs) account for about 20% of critical COVID-19 cases among SARS-CoV-2-infected individuals. By contrast, the genetic and immunological determinants of resistance to infection per se remain unknown. Following the discovery that autosomal recessive deficiency in the DARC chemokine receptor confers resistance to Plasmodium vivax, autosomal recessive deficiencies of chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) and the enzyme FUT2 were shown to underlie resistance to HIV-1 and noroviruses, respectively. Along the same lines, we propose a strategy for identifying, recruiting, and genetically analyzing individuals who are naturally resistant to SARS-CoV-2 infection.
34308790 | Design and in silico investigation of novel Maraviroc analogues as dual inhibition of CCR-5/SARS-CoV-2 Mpro. A sudden increase in life-threatening COVID-19 infections around the world inflicts global crisis and emotional trauma. In current study two druggable targets, namely SARS-COV-2 Mpro and CCR-5 were selected due to their significant nature in the viral life cycle and cytokine molecular storm respectively. The systematic drug repurposing strategy has been utilized to recognize inhibitory mechanism through extensive in silico investigation of novel Maraviroc analogues as promising inhibitors against SARS-CoV-2 Mpro and CCR-5. The dual inhibition specificity approach implemented in present study using molecular docking, molecular dynamics (MD), principal component analysis (PCA), free energy landscape (FEL) and MM/PBSA binding energy studies. The proposed Maraviroc analogues obtained from in silico investigation could be easily synthesized and constructive in developing significant drug against COVID-19 pandemic, with essentiality of their in vivo/in vitro evaluation to affirm the conclusions of this study. This will further fortify the concept of single drug targeting dual inhibition mechanism for treatment of COVID-19 infection and complications.
38654668 | Monocyte response to SARS-CoV-2 protein ORF8 is associated with severe COVID-19 infection in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The open reading frame 8 (ORF8) protein, encoded by the SARS-CoV-2 virus after infection, stimulates monocytes/macrophages to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines. We hypothesized that a positive ex vivo monocyte response to ORF8 protein pre-COVID-19 would be associated with subsequent severe COVID-19. We tested ORF8 ex vivo on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 26 anonymous healthy blood donors and measured intracellular cytokine/chemokine levels in monocytes by flow cytometry. The % monocytes staining positive in the sample and change in mean fluorescence intensity (DeltaMFI) after ORF8 were used to calculate the adjusted MFI for each cytokine. We then tested pre-COVID-19 PBMC samples from 60 CLL patients who subsequently developed COVID-19 infection. Severe COVID-19 was defined as hospitalization due to COVID-19. In the 26 normal donor samples, the adjusted MFI for interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, IL-8, and CCL-2 were significantly different with ORF8 stimulation vs controls. We next analyzed monocytes from pre-COVID-19 PBMC samples from 60 CLL patients. The adjusted MFI to ORF8 stimulation of monocyte intracellular IL-1beta was associated with severe COVID-19 and a reactive ORF8 monocyte response was defined as an IL- 1beta adjusted MFI >= 0.18 (sensitivity 67%, specificity 75%). The median time to hospitalization after infection in CLL patients with a reactive ORF8 response was 12 days versus not reached for patients with a non-reactive ORF8 response with a hazard ratio of 7.7 (95% CI: 2.4-132, p=0.005). These results provide new insight on the monocyte inflammatory response to virus with implications in a broad range of disorders involving monocytes.
27783394 | Association of NKG2D gene variants with susceptibility and severity of rheumatoid arthritis. NKG2D (KLRK1) is a C-type lectin receptor present on natural killer (NK) cells, gammadelta, CD8+ and CD4+ T cells. Upon ligand binding, NKG2D mediates activatory and co-stimulatory signals to NK cells and activated CD4+ T cells, respectively. Polymorphisms in NKG2D predispose to infectious diseases, cancer, transplantation and autoimmune disorders. We studied the influence of this NK receptor polymorphism on predisposition to and modification of the disease phenotype in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Eight different single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the NKG2 gene were genotyped in 236 patients with RA and 187 controls using Taqman 5' nuclease assays. NKG2D genotype/allele frequency did not differ between patients and controls. Subgroup analysis showed that the frequency of A allele of NKG2D9 and T allele of NKG2D10 was significantly higher in patients with deformities (a marker of severe disease) [11 versus 5%, Pc = 0 03, odds ratio (OR) = 2 44, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1 09-5 98 and 10 versus 4%, Pc = 0 04, OR = 2 45, 95% CI = 1 05-6 39, respectively], while the frequency of alleles G of NKG2D9 and A of NKG2D10 was greater in patients without deformities (Pc = 0 03, OR = 0 41, 95% CI = 0 17-0 91 and Pc = 0 04, OR = 0 41, 95% CI = 0 16-0 96). Similar trends of association were observed with deforming phenotype of RA in female patients and deforming young onset RA subgroups. Haplotype analysis revealed that the frequency of haplotype G-C-A-G-A-T-C-C was higher in patients than in controls (12 versus 8%, P = 0 04, OR = 1 61, 95% CI = 1 01-2 55), suggesting that it may predispose to RA. Our study suggests that the NKG2D gene polymorphisms may modify the risk of development and severity of RA.
41864365 | Unraveling SOCS-2 as a key mediator of beta-coronavirus infection pathogenesis and co-infection in chronic Chagas Disease. COVID-19 exacerbates pre-existing comorbidities, including Chagas Disease (CD). Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling (SOCS)-2 regulates inflammation, but its role in chronic CD and Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) virus infection is unclear. In a murine model of chronic CD and murine hepatitis virus (MHV-3) infection/co-infection, we found that SOCS-2 expression increased in wild-type target organs in all infection models. SOCS-2 knockout (SO2 KO) mice showed significant cardiac impairment, especially during co-infection, which was associated with heightened parasitism. Additionally, in the absence of SOCS-2 co-infection affect lung function is characterized by a high viral load in the lungs and is associated with an unbalanced immune response. In contrast, WT mice displayed a robust TNF response in macrophages and dendritic cells, leading to more effective viral clearance and preserved lung function. Furthermore, SOCS-2 deficiency resulted in severe intestinal damage, including greater mucosal loss and dysbiosis. In co-infection, increased parasitism in the intestine was observed in SO2 KO mice, accompanied by a higher proportion of IL-10+ innate and adaptive cells, and dendritic cells showed an absolute absence of TNF, along with a reduced proportion of T CD4+IFN-gamma+ and T CD4+IL-17+ cells and lower production of these cytokines by T CD8+ cells in comparison to WT co-infected mice. These findings emphasize the pivotal role of SOCS-2 in modulating immune responses and mitigating disease progression in chronic CD and CD-MHV-3 co-infections.
34543980 | Increased LPS levels coexist with systemic inflammation and result in monocyte activation in severe COVID-19 patients. Mucosal barrier alterations may play a role in the pathogenesis of several diseases, including COVID-19. In this study we evaluate the association between bacterial translocation markers and systemic inflammation at the earliest time-point after hospitalization and at the last 72 h of hospitalization in survivors and non-survivors COVID-19 patients. Sixty-six SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR positive patients and nine non-COVID-19 pneumonia controls were admitted in this study. Blood samples were collected at hospital admission (T1) (Controls and COVID-19 patients) and 0-72 h before hospital discharge (T2, alive or dead) to analyze systemic cytokines and chemokines, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) concentrations and soluble CD14 (sCD14) levels. THP-1 human monocytic cell line was incubated with plasma from survivors and non-survivors COVID-19 patients and their phenotype, activation status, TLR4, and chemokine receptors were analyzed by flow cytometry. COVID-19 patients presented higher IL-6, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, TGF-beta1, CCL2/MCP-1, CCL4/MIP-1beta, and CCL5/RANTES levels than controls. Moreover, LPS and sCD14 were higher at hospital admission in SARS-CoV-2-infected patients. Non-survivors COVID-19 patients had increased LPS levels concomitant with higher IL-6, TNF-alpha, CCL2/MCP-1, and CCL5/RANTES levels at T2. Increased expression of CD16 and CCR5 were identified in THP-1 cells incubated with the plasma of survivor patients obtained at T2. The incubation of THP-1 with T2 plasma of non-survivors COVID-19 leads to higher TLR4, CCR2, CCR5, CCR7, and CD69 expression. In conclusion, the coexistence of increased microbial translocation and hyperinflammation in patients with severe COVID-19 may lead to higher monocyte activation, which may be associated with worsening outcomes, such as death.
28294381 | CD3+ CD8+ NKG2D+ T Lymphocytes Induce Apoptosis and Necroptosis in HLA-Negative Cells via FasL-Fas Interaction. An important problem in cellular immunology is to identify new populations of cytotoxic lymphocytes capable of killing tumor cells that have lost classical components of MHC-machinery and to understand mechanisms of the death of these cells. We have previously found that CD4+ CD25+ lymphocytes appear in the lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell culture, which carry Tag7 (PGRP-S) and FasL proteins on their surface and can kill Hsp70- and Fas-expressing HLA-negative cells. In this work, we have continued to study the mechanisms of killing of the HLA-negative tumor cells, focusing this time on the CD8+ lymphocytes. We show that after a tumor antigen contact the IL-2 activated CD8+ lymphocytes acquire ability to lyse tumor cells bearing this antigen. However, activation of the CD8+ lymphocytes in the absence of antigen causes appearance of a cytotoxic population of CD8+ NKG2D+ lymphocytes, which are able to lyse HLA-negative cancer cells that have lost the classic mechanism of antigen presentation. These cells recognize the noncanonical MicA antigen on the surface of HLA-negative K562 cells but kill them via the FasL-Fas interaction, as do cytotoxic T lymphocytes. FasL presented on the lymphocyte surface can trigger both apoptosis and necroptosis. Unlike in the case of TNFR1, another cell death receptor, no switching to alternative processes has been observed upon induction of Fas-dependent cell death. It may well be that the apoptotic and necroptotic signals are transduced separately in the latter case, with the ability of FasL+ lymphocytes to induce necroptosis allowing them to kill tumor cells that escape apoptosis. J. Cell. Biochem. 118: 3359-3366, 2017.   2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
38889772 | Is preexisting inflamed jaw marrow a \hidden\ co-morbidity affecting outcomes of COVID-19 infections? - Clinical comparative study. Introduction: Exceedingly high levels of the chemokine CCL5/RANTES have been found in fatty degenerated osteonecrotic alveolar bone cavities (FDOJ) and aseptic ischemic osteolysis of the jaw (AIOJ) from toothless regions. Because CCL5/RANTES seems to have a prominent role in creating the COVID-19 \cytokine storm\, some researchers have used the monoclonal antibody Leronlimab to block the CCR5 on inflammatory cells.Objective: Is preexisting FDOJ/AIOJ jaw marrow pathology a \hidden\ co-morbidity affecting some COVID-19 infections? To what extent does the chronic CCL5/RANTES expression from preexisting FDOJ/AIOJ areas contribute to the progression of the acute cytokine storm in COVID-19 patients?Methods: Authors report on reducing the COVID-19 \cytokine storm\ by treating infected patients through targeting the chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) with Leronlimab and interrupting the activation of CCR5 by high CCL5/RANTES signaling, thus dysregulating the inflammatory phase of the viremia. Surgical removal of FDOJ/AIOJ lesions with high CCL5/RANTES from patients with inflammatory diseases may be classified as a co-morbid disease.Results: Both multiplex analysis of 249 FDOJ/AIOJ bone tissue samples as well as serum levels of CCL5/RANTES displayed exceedingly high levels in both specimens.Discussion: By the results the authors hypothesize that chronic CCL5/RANTES induction from FDOJ/AIOJ areas may sensitize CCR5 throughout the immune system, thus, enabling it to amplify its response when confronted with the virus. As conventional intraoral radiography does little to assess the quality of the alveolar bone, ultrasonography units are available to help dentists locate the FDOJ/AIOJ lesions in an office setting.Conclusion: The authors propose a new approach to containment of the COVID-19 cytokine storm by a prophylactic focus for future viral-related pandemics, which may be early surgical clean-up of CCL5/RANTES expression sources in the FDOJ/AIOJ areas, thus diminishing a possible pre-sensitization of CCR5. A more complete dental examination includes trans-alveolar ultrasono-graphy (TAU) for hidden FDOJ/AIOJ lesions.
40392969 | Integrative Immune Signature of Complementary Circulating and Tumoral Biomarkers Maximizes the Predictive Power of Adjuvant Immunotherapeutic Benefits in High-Risk Melanoma. PURPOSE: Ipilimumab (IPI) improved outcomes for high-risk melanoma patients compared to interferon-a2b (IFN) in E1609, a phase III adjuvant trial. We hypothesized that combining candidate immune biomarkers in both tumor and circulating blood could generate a superior predictive biomarker signature. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted gene expression profiling on baseline tumors of patients treated with IPI and IFN. We also performed multicolor flow cytometry to compare cellular marker expressions on thawed peripheral blood mononuclear cells and multiplex Luminex to measure serum biomarkers. We tested the expression levels of 31 genes and 40 circulating biomarkers in relation to survival outcomes. We then developed two separate multivariate Lasso-Cox regression models followed by integrative modeling of risk prediction using the prioritized biomarkers. RESULTS: In blood, enriched populations of CXCR3+CD4+ T cells, CXCR3+CD8+ T cells, CTLA4+IFN-g+CD8+ T cells, and higher levels of CCL3 and CXCL11 were associated with significantly improved overall survival (OS) and relapse-free survival (RFS), while high levels of CTLA4+Treg (CD3+CD4+CD25hi+CD152+) and monocytic (M)-MDSC (Lin-CD33+HLA-DrloCD14+CD15+) cells correlated with worse OS and RFS. In tumor, CXCL9, CD8A, CXCL10, and INPP5D were identified as Tier-1 (P<0.05) and IDO1, IGKC, IL2RB as Tier-2 (P<0.1) biomarkers of survival. Multivariate survival analysis identified that ~50% of the risk groups were defined by circulating and tumor biomarker models, indicating complementary features of defining risk groups in IPI-treated but not in IFN-treated patients. CONCLUSIONS: Integrating candidate blood and tumor immune-related biomarkers generated a baseline signature that maximizes the prediction of immunotherapeutic benefits in reference to the compartmental biomarker signatures.
41194668 | Mapping CMV-related immune signatures in blood, aorta and perivascular mediastinal adipose tissue. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) establishes lifelong latency and is linked to immunosenescence in older and immunocompromised individuals. We hypothesize that CMV drives systemic and tissue-specific immune changes that may contribute to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Thoracic aorta, blood and perivascular mediastinal adipose tissue from cardiac surgery patients (n = 11) were processed within 30-60 min of excision. CMV IgG titres were quantified through ELISA to determine CMV status: CMV(-) (n = 4) and CMV(+) (n = 7). Immune profiling was performed using flow cytometry and single-cell RNA sequencing. Analyses included MiloR and differential gene expression. Participants (mean age 69.7 +- 8.4 years) were 80% male and 70% Caucasian. CMV(-) and CMV(+) participants had mean IgG titres of 0.038 and 13.55 IU ml-1, respectively. CD8+ T-cells expressing CD57+, GPR56+ and CX3CR1+ (CGC) were increased in the blood of CMV(+) participants. In the aorta of CMV(+) participants, CD8+ T cells and CD4+ T cells had decreased HLA-C expression and suppressed interferon-alpha pathways. In contrast, the TNF-alpha signalling pathway was increased. CMV infection shapes immune responses and in this pilot, we observed suppression of interferon-alpha signalling and increased TNF-alpha-associated pathways in the aorta. Larger studies are needed to define how CMV-driven immune remodelling contributes to CVD.This article is part of the discussion meeting issue 'The indirect effects of cytomegalovirus infection: mechanisms and consequences.'
40791414 | Computational Prioritization of T Cell Epitopes to Overcome HLA Restriction and Antigenic Diversity in Plasmodium falciparum. Developing a highly effective malaria vaccine remains challenging due to Plasmodium falciparum 's antigenic diversity and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) polymorphisms, which complicate vaccine antigen selection and limit immune protection. The first recommended malaria vaccine, RTS,S, provides only partial, allele-specific protection with waning immunity over time, and the more recently developed R21 vaccine will likely encounter the same hurdles. To address these challenges, we developed a computational tool that integrates P. falciparum sequence diversity, predicted T cell epitope-HLA binding affinities, and HLA allele frequencies from sub-Saharan Africa to identify conserved, immunogenic epitopes with broad population coverage. We analyzed 42 P. falciparum proteins, previously identified as vaccine candidate antigens, and generated consensus sequences using data from 18 African countries, and then incorporated HLA allele frequencies from 24 sub-Saharan populations. CD8+ and CD4+ T cell epitopes were predicted using NetMHCpan-4.1 and NetMHCIIpan-4.1. Our novel tool, T cell Epitope Nomination (TEpiNom), used greedy optimization to filter and select epitopes based on epitope sequence conservation (>95%), binding affinity (median rank <10%), and broad HLA coverage, minimizing redundancy to reduce immune escape risk. Our tool identified 2,265 MHC I and 1,992 MHC II conserved epitopes spanning pre-erythrocytic, erythrocytic, and sexual stage proteins. Key MHC I epitopes from pre-erythrocytic antigens HSP70-2, SLARP/SAP1, p36, FabZ, LISP1, LSA1, UIS3, p24_2, PL, and FabG achieved near 100% HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C coverage, and MHC II epitopes from pre-erythrocytic, erythrocytic, or sexual antigens provided 98.5%-100% coverage for a given parasite life stage. This strategy advances malaria vaccine design by integrating epitope promiscuity and multistage antigen selection to support broad, durable protection and identify promising multi-epitope malaria vaccine candidates for subsequent experimental validation. Our computational framework is adaptable for vaccine development against other genetically diverse and immunologically evasive pathogens.
42097179 | Chemokine dynamics after mRNA vaccination. AIMS: Since the COVID-19 pandemic, mRNA-based vaccines have gained prominence and opened up new opportunities for vaccine development. Rapid and long-lasting immune responses to antigens are crucial for the success of vaccines. Chemokines, cytokines, and chemokine receptors play an essential role in this process; thus, in this study, we aim to investigate their regulation and the resulting immune cell profile during mRNA-based SARS-CoV2 vaccination. MAIN METHODS: SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibody titers were examined by ELISA. Chemokine abundance before and after 2nd dose of the mRNA-1273 vaccine on time points d-1, d+1/2, d+3/4, and d+7 was examined in serum samples using bead-based immunoassays. In addition, flow cytometric analysis of blood samples was performed to characterize chemokine receptor expression on several immune cell populations associated with vaccination success. KEY FINDINGS: Our results demonstrated that mRNA-1273 vaccination increased serum levels of type 1 (IFNgamma), type 2 (IL-4), other pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1alpha, IL-1beta) and chemokines (CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCL11, CCL2, CCL4) between day 1 and day 4 post vaccination. Vaccination altered chemokine receptor expression on various cell types. Despite high interindividual differences, enhanced expression was observed for CXCR5 on activated CD4 T cells. Furthermore, CCR5 expression was increased on RBD+ B cells after vaccination, while CCR1, CCR2, CCR4, CCR5, and CXCR5 were elevated on different monocyte subsets. A notable finding was the positive correlation between elevated CXCR4 expression on RBD+ B cells and a high SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibody (NAb) titer ratio. SIGNIFICANCE: We here demonstrate a dynamic, cell-specific chemokine regulation early after mRNA booster vaccination. This chemokine modulation likely facilitates an efficient induction of innate immune cell and adaptive T cell responses.
27868339 | FasL and the NKG2D receptor are required for the secretion of the Tag7/PGRP-S-Hsp70 complex by the cytotoxic CD8+ lymphocytes. Tag7 (PGRP-S or PGLYRP1), while possessing an antimicrobial activity, also exhibits an antitumor effect when in complex with the major heat shock protein Hsp70. The cytotoxic Tag7-Hsp70 complex is secreted by lymphocytes after interaction with the HLA-negative tumors. Previously, we have shown that IL-2 induces formation of the CD4+ and CD8+ cytotoxic subpopulations of human lymphocytes, which kill tumor cells through the FasL-Fas interaction. Here, we show that only the CD8+ T cells are able to secrete the Tag7-Hsp70 complex. For its secretion the same proteins on the surface of the lymphocytes and target cells, which are involved in the contact lysis, are necessary as well. The interaction of Fas receptor with FasL leads to an activation of the Tag7-Hsp70 complex in the lymphocyte membrane fraction, and here FasL acts as a receptor that induces intracellular signaling in lymphocytes. An interaction of the MicA stress ligand with the NKG2D receptor is necessary for the release of this cytotoxic complex. It is possible, that CD8+ T lymphocytes interacting with a target cell can both carry out the contact killing of these cells and to secrete the cytotoxic factor.   2016 IUBMB Life, 69(1):30-36, 2017.
40608622 | An alternative real-time fluorescence reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for the rapid detection of SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19, caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus infection, remains a public health concern in many countries. Reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) is a rapid and cost-effective alternative test for COVID-19 diagnosis. In this study, we developed and evaluated a real-time RT-LAMP (rRT-LAMP) assay coupled with a melting curve analysis to detect SARS-CoV-2. The reaction was carried out in a real-time thermal cycler at 63  C for 45 min to amplify the region of SARS-CoV-2 orf8; real-time monitoring of amplification was performed by fluorescence detection. The performance was assessed by comparing it to a real-time reverse transcription-polymerase reaction (rRT-PCR) as a reference. The rRT-LAMP could detect as few as 15 copies of SARS-CoV-2 RNA per reaction. Positive results appeared within 30 min, while the melting-temperature analysis could verify the amplification specificity. No positive results from non-SARS-CoV-2 templates and no mis-amplification were observed. The comparative analysis using 262 RNA extracted from nasopharyngeal swab samples revealed the overall accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive values (NPV) of the rRT-LAMP at 88.55% (95% CI: 77.52-100%), 84.13% (95% CI: 71.56-98.27%), 100% (95% CI: 78.38-100%), 100% (95% CI: 85.06-100%), and 70.87% (95% CI: 55.55-89.11%), respectively. The greatest sensitivity was as high as 98-100% for specimens with threshold rRT-PCR cycle (Ct) values of less than 30 cycles. Overall, this rRT-LAMP showed good performance for the rapid detection of SARS-CoV-2. It is proposed as a potential method for real-time amplification detection, offering increased laboratory capacity for SARS-CoV-2 testing in a cost-effective and timely manner.
41960585 | Comparison of treatment outcomes of adolescents on HIV treatment before and during the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic in Cape Town, South Africa: A retrospective cohort study. Background: The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic disrupted healthcare systems, posing risks for adolescents living with HIV (ALHIV) in resource-limited, high HIV-prevalence settings. These disruptions threatened antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence, viral load suppression (VLS) and retention in care (RiC). Aim: This study aimed to compare treatment outcomes of ALHIV on ART in the Khayelitsha and Eastern Substructure (KESS) before and during the COVID-19 pandemic. Setting: The study was performed in KESS, Cape Town, South Africa. Methods: A retrospective cohort analysis was conducted among ALHIV aged 10-19 years receiving ART at public health facilities, pre-COVID-19 (before 01 March 2020) and during COVID-19 (01 March 2020-31 December 2021). Sociodemographic, clinical, and treatment data were analysed. Descriptive and inferential statistics compared outcomes and determined factors associated with VLS (< 1000 copies/mL) using SPSS v.30. Results: Data from 1702 ALHIV (pre-COVID-19) and 2733 ALHIV (during COVID-19) were analysed. Viral load suppression declined from 82.1% to 64.8%, while full VLS (< 50 copies/mL) from 70.8% to 53.7% (p = 0.065). Antiretroviral therapy adherence fell from 96.4% to 70.0% (p < 0.001), and RiC 80.3% to 76.3% (p < 0.001). In multivariate analysis, higher CD4 count, and consistent ART adherence predicted VLS. Conclusion: Antiretroviral therapy adherence and VLS rates among ALHIV declined during COVID-19. Adolescent-centred healthcare delivery models are needed to ensure continuity of HIV treatment during public health emergencies. Contribution: This study provides local evidence on the pandemic's impact in a high-burden South African context. By quantifying declines in ART adherence, RiC, and VLS, it highlights ALHIV vulnerabilities and the need to strengthen adolescent-responsive, resilient healthcare systems.
39744515 | Non-spike protein inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 by natural products through the key mediator protein ORF8. The recent pernicious COVID-19 pandemic is caused by SARS-CoV-2. While most therapeutic strategies have focused on the viral spike protein, Open Reading Frame 8 (ORF8) plays a critical role in causing the severity of the disease. Nonetheless, there still needs to be more information on the ORF8 binding epitopes and their appropriate safe inhibitors. Herein, the protein binding sites were detected through comprehensive structural analyses. The validation of the binding sites was investigated through protein conservation analysis and blind docking. The potential natural product (NP) inhibitors were selected based on a structure-function approach. The solo and combined inhibition functions of these NPs were examined through molecular docking studies. Two binding epitopes were identified, one between the ORF8 monomers (DGBM) and the other on the surface (Gal1-Like). E92 was predicted to be pivotal for DGBM, and R101 for Gal1-like, which was then confirmed through molecular dockings. The inhibitory effects of selected phytochemical (Artemisinin), bacterial (Ivermectin), and native-liken (DEG-168) NPs were compared with the Remdesivir. Selected NPs showed solo- and co-functionality against Remdesivir to inhibit functional regions of the ORF8 structure. The DGBM is highly engaged in capturing the NPs. Additionally, the co-functionality study of NPs showed that the Ivermectin-DEG168 combination has the strongest mechanism for inhibiting all the predicted binding sites. Ivermectin can interfere with ORF8-MHC-I interaction through inhibition of A51 and F120. Two new binding sites on this non-infusion protein structure were introduced using a combination of approaches. Additionally, three safe and effective were found to inhibit these binding sites.
42085184 | Multivalent nanoparticles activate T-dependent antibody response via antigen presentation by both B cells and dendritic cells. Multivalent nanoparticle vaccines elicit potent T cell-dependent (TD) antibody responses, yet how they initiate CD4+ T cell help remains unclear. Here, we show that antigen-specific B cells function as antigen-presenting cells (APCs) for CD4+ T cell priming across distinct nanoparticle platforms, including AP205 and ferritin. Using SARS-CoV-2 RBD and mpox virus A35 antigens, we demonstrate that B cells and dendritic cells (DCs) act redundantly to initiate early CD4+ T cell activation. In hosts lacking MHC class II expression on non-B cells, B cells alone were sufficient to drive naive CD4+ T cell proliferation. Moreover, B cell-mediated antigen presentation was required for inducing TD responses beyond the draining lymph nodes. These findings reveal a general mechanism by which multivalent nanoparticles engage B cells as APCs and highlight a potential strategy to enhance vaccine-induced immunity.
41827835 | SARS-CoV-2-Induced IgG Repertoires Shape Gamma-Delta T Cell Responses: Evidence for Direct IgG-Membrane Interaction According to Disease Severity. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) is a central component of humoral immunity in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19); however, increasing evidence suggests that infection-induced IgG repertoires exert immunomodulatory effects beyond classical antiviral functions. In this study, we investigated whether IgG from patients with moderate or severe COVID-19 directly modulates human peripheral gammadelta T cells and whether these effects are associated with disease severity-dependent IgG idiotype profiles. Purified IgG from non-exposed healthy controls, moderate COVID-19 patients, or severe COVID-19 patients was incubat-ed with peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy donors. gammadelta T cell phenotype, subset distribution, homing markers, and cytokine production were assessed by flow cytometry, while direct IgG-cell interactions were evaluated using fluorescent IgG binding assays. In parallel, proteomic profiling using human proteome microarrays was performed to identify gammadelta T cell-expressed protein targets recognized by COVID-19-induced IgG. IgG from SARS-CoV-2-infected individuals selectively reduced Vgamma9+Vdelta2+ gammadelta T cells, altered memory differentiation, downregulated CCR5, CCR6, and CD161 expression, and reshaped cytokine production in a severity-dependent manner. COVID-19 IgG bound directly to the gammadelta T cell membrane without inducing apoptosis, indicating a non-cytotoxic mechanism of modulation. Proteomic analysis revealed a marked expansion and diversification of gammadelta T cell-associated IgG targets in COVID-19, particularly in severe disease, with enrichment of pathways related to immune signaling and inflammation. Collectively, these findings identify gammadelta T cells as direct functional targets of SARS-CoV-2-induced IgG repertoires and demonstrate that disease severity shapes IgG idiotype networks with distinct immunomodulatory capacities. This work highlights a previously underappreciated antibody-mediated mechanism contributing to immune dysregulation in COVID-19.
39390219 | Transplacental SARS-CoV-2 protein ORF8 binds to complement C1q to trigger fetal inflammation. Prenatal SARS-CoV-2 infection is associated with higher rates of pregnancy and birth complications, despite that vertical transmission rates are thought to be low. Here, multi-omics analyses of human placental tissues, cord tissues/plasma, and amniotic fluid from 23 COVID-19 mother-infant pairs revealed robust inflammatory responses in both maternal and fetal compartments. Pronounced expression of complement proteins (C1q, C3, C3b, C4, C5) and inflammatory cytokines (TNF, IL-1alpha, and IL-17A/E) was detected in the fetal compartment of COVID-19-affected pregnancies. While ~26% of fetal tissues were positive for SARS-CoV-2 RNA, more than 60% of fetal tissues contained SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 proteins, suggesting transplacental transfer of this viral accessory protein. ORF8-positive fetal compartments exhibited increased inflammation and complement activation compared to ORF8-negative COVID-19 pregnancies. In human placental trophoblasts in vitro, exogenous ORF8 exposure resulted in complement activation and inflammatory responses. Co-immunoprecipitation analysis demonstrated that ORF8 binds to C1q specifically by interacting with a 15-peptide region on ORF8 (C37-A51) and the globular domain of C1q subunit A. In conclusion, an ORF8-C1q-dependent complement activation pathway was identified in COVID-19-affected pregnancies, likely contributing to fetal inflammation independently of fetal virus exposure.
40121473 | Alveolar epithelial type 2 cell specific loss of IGFBP2 activates inflammation in COVID-19. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) global pandemic is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). However, our understanding of SARS-CoV-2-induced inflammation in alveolar epithelial cells remains very limited. The contributions of intracellular insulin-like growth factor binding protein-2 (IGFBP2) to SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis are also unclear. In this study, we have uncovered a critical role for IGFBP2, specifically in alveolar epithelial type 2 cells (AEC2), in the immunopathogenesis of COVID-19. Using bulk RNA sequencing, we show that IGFBP2 mRNA expression is significantly downregulated in primary AEC2 cells isolated from fibrotic lung regions from patients with COVID-19-acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) compared to those with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) alone or IPF with a history of COVID-19. Using multicolor immunohistochemistry, we demonstrated that IGFBP2 and its selective ligands IGF1 and IGF2 were significantly reduced in AEC2 cells from patients with COVID-ARDS, IPF alone, or IPF with COVID history than in those from age-matched donor controls. Further, we demonstrated that lentiviral expression of Igfbp2 significantly reduced mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines-Tnf-alpha, Il1beta, Il6, Stat3, Stat6 and chemokine receptors-Ccr2 and Ccr5-in mouse lung epithelial cells challenged with SARS-CoV-2 spike protein injury (S2; 500 ng/mL). Finally, we demonstrated higher levels of cytokines-TNF-alpha; IL-6 and chemokine receptor-CCR5 in AEC2 cells from COVID-ARDS patients compared to the IPF alone and the IPF with COVID history patients. Altogether, these data suggest that anti-inflammatory properties of IGFBP2 in AEC2 cells and its localized delivery may serve as potential therapeutic strategy for patients with COVID-19.
34753980 | Candidate genes of SARS-CoV-2 gender susceptibility. The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) initiated a global viral pandemic since late 2019. Understanding that Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) disproportionately affects men than women results in great challenges. Although there is a growing body of published study on this topic, effective explanations underlying these sex differences and their effects on the infection outcome still remain uncertain. We applied a holistic bioinformatics method to investigate molecular variations of known SARS-CoV-2 interacting human proteins mainly expressed in gonadal tissues (testis and ovary), allowing for the identification of potential genetic targets for this infection. Functional enrichment and interaction network analyses were also performed to better investigate the biological differences between testicular and ovarian responses in the SARS-CoV-2 infection, paying particular attention to genes linked to immune-related pathways, reactions of host cells after intracellular infection, steroid hormone biosynthesis, receptor signaling, and the complement cascade, in order to evaluate their potential association with sexual difference in the likelihood of infection and severity of symptoms. The analysis revealed that within the testis network TMPRSS2, ADAM10, SERPING1, and CCR5 were present, while within the ovary network we found BST2, GATA1, ENPEP, TLR4, TLR7, IRF1, and IRF2. Our findings could provide potential targets for forthcoming experimental investigation related to SARS-CoV-2 treatment.
35082777 | Persistence of SARS CoV-2 S1 Protein in CD16+ Monocytes in Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC) up to 15 Months Post-Infection. The recent COVID-19 pandemic is a treatment challenge in the acute infection stage but the recognition of chronic COVID-19 symptoms termed post-acute sequelae SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC) may affect up to 30% of all infected individuals. The underlying mechanism and source of this distinct immunologic condition three months or more after initial infection remains elusive. Here, we investigated the presence of SARS-CoV-2 S1 protein in 46 individuals. We analyzed T-cell, B-cell, and monocytic subsets in both severe COVID-19 patients and in patients with post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC). The levels of both intermediate (CD14+, CD16+) and non-classical monocyte (CD14Lo, CD16+) were significantly elevated in PASC patients up to 15 months post-acute infection compared to healthy controls (P=0.002 and P=0.01, respectively). A statistically significant number of non-classical monocytes contained SARS-CoV-2 S1 protein in both severe (P=0.004) and PASC patients (P=0.02) out to 15 months post-infection. Non-classical monocytes were sorted from PASC patients using flow cytometric sorting and the SARS-CoV-2 S1 protein was confirmed by mass spectrometry. Cells from 4 out of 11 severe COVID-19 patients and 1 out of 26 PASC patients contained ddPCR+ peripheral blood mononuclear cells, however, only fragmented SARS-CoV-2 RNA was found in PASC patients. No full length sequences were identified, and no sequences that could account for the observed S1 protein were identified in any patient. That non-classical monocytes may be a source of inflammation in PASC warrants further study.
40607902 | Unravelling relatlimab-specific biology using biomarker analyses in patients with advanced melanoma in RELATIVITY-047. PURPOSE: Administration of the lymphocyte-activation gene-3 (LAG-3) inhibitor relatlimab (RELA) and programmed death-1 (PD-1) inhibitor nivolumab (NIVO) significantly prolonged progression-free survival (PFS) versus NIVO alone in patients with advanced melanoma treated in RELATIVITY-047. This report describes correlative analyses of biospecimens collected within that trial to better understand mechanisms of action and identify patients who could benefit from treatment with NIVO + RELA. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Pre- and on-treatment peripheral blood samples from 563 patients were analyzed by flow cytometry for changes in 77 pre-specified immune cell populations, and by immunoassay for peripheral interferon gamma (IFNgamma). Pre-treatment tumor biopsies were evaluated using immunohistochemistry and RNA sequencing. RESULTS: On-treatment expansion of 25 peripheral immune cell populations was significantly greater with NIVO + RELA versus NIVO alone. Responders to NIVO + RELA had greater on-treatment increases in LAG-3+CD4+ T cells than non-responders. Significantly greater increases in peripheral IFNgamma occurred after treatment with NIVO + RELA versus NIVO alone. A longer PFS was observed in patients treated with NIVO + RELA whose tumors had low CD8 expression compared with the NIVO arm. When evaluating co-expression of CD8 and LAG-3, patients whose tumors had high CD8+LAG-3+ also showed a PFS benefit with NIVO + RELA versus NIVO. RNA sequencing revealed several distinct gene signatures associated with response to NIVO + RELA. CONCLUSIONS: These results highlight the unique biological effects of RELA in combination with NIVO and provide further understanding of the patient characteristics associated with increased benefit from NIVO + RELA.
29394917 | Analysis of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes reveals two new biologically different subgroups of breast ductal carcinoma in situ. BACKGROUND: Tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) have been demonstrated to significantly influence prognosis and response to therapy of invasive breast cancer (IBC). Thus, it has been suggested that TIL density or/and immunophenotype could serve as biomarkers for selection of IBC patients for immunotherapy. However, much less is known about significance of TILs in breast ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). METHODS: We retrospectively investigated TIL density and immunophenotype in 96 pure DCIS and 35 microinvasive carcinomas (miCa). TIL density was assessed on H&E-stained breast biopsy sections as the percentage of tumour stromal area occupied by TILs, and classified into 4 grades: 0 (0%-9%), 1 (10-29%), 2 (30-49%) and 3 (50%-100%). TIL immunophenotype was assessed by immunohistochemistry for CD8, CD4, FoxP3, CD38 or CD20. RESULTS: Compared to pure DCIS, miCa contained significantly more cases with TIL density grade 3 (p = 0.028). Concordantly, CD8+, CD4+ and CD38+ cells were more numerous in miCa than in pure DCIS. In the pure DCIS subgroup with TIL density grades 2 and 3, all TIL subpopulations were more numerous than in the pure DCIS with TIL density grades 0 and 1, however the ratio between T-lymphocytes (CD8+ and CD4+) and B-lymphocytes (CD20+) was significantly lower (p = 0.029). On the other side, this ratio was significantly higher in miCa, in comparison with pure DCIS having TIL density grades 2 and 3 (p = 0.017). By cluster analysis of tumour cell pathobiological features we demonstrated similarity between miCa and the pure DCIS with TIL density grades 2 and 3. The only significant difference between those two categories was in the ratio of T- to B-TILs, higher in miCa. CONCLUSION: Results indicate that TIL density level can distinguish 2 biologically different DCIS subgroups, one of which (DCIS with >=30% TILs, the TIL-rich DCIS) is like miCa. Similarity of TIL-rich pure DCIS and miCa as well as the role of B-lymphocytes in DCIS invasiveness are worth further investigating with regards to the potential development of immunotherapy-based prevention of DCIS progression.
38768163 | Characterization of antibody response to SARS-CoV-2 Orf8 from three waves of COVID-19 outbreak in Thailand. A dynamic of virus adaptation and a mass vaccination campaign could significantly reduce the severity of clinical manifestations of COVID-19 and transmission. Hence, COVID-19 may become an endemic disease globally. Moreover, mass infection as the COVID-19 pandemic progressed affected the serology of the patients as a result of virus mutation and vaccination. Therefore, a need exists to acquire accurate serological testing to monitor the emergence of new outbreaks of COVID-19 to promptly prevent and control the disease spreading. In this study, the anti-Orf8 antibodies among samples collected in Thailand's first, fourth, and fifth waves of COVID-19 outbreaks compared with pre-epidemic sera were determined by indirect ELISA. The diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of the anti-Orf8 IgG ELISA for COVID-19 samples from the first, fourth, and fifth waves of outbreaks was found to be 100% compared with pre-epidemic sera. However, the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of the anti-Orf8 IgG ELISA for a larger number of patient samples and controls from the fifth wave of outbreaks which were collected on day 7 and 14 after an RT-PCR positive result were 58.79 and 58.44% and 89.19 and 58.44%, respectively. Our data indicated that some of the controls might have antibodies from natural past infections. Our study highlighted the potential utility of anti-Orf8 IgG antibody testing for seroprevalence surveys but still warrants further investigations.
38837257 | Involvement of SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins in immunopathogenesis. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the largest single-stranded RNA virus known to date. Its genome contains multiple accessory protein genes that act against host immune responses but are not required for progeny virus production. The functions of the accessory proteins in the viral life cycle have been examined, but their involvement in viral pathogenicity remains unclear. Here, we investigated the roles of the accessory proteins in viral immunopathogenicity. To this end, recombinant SARS-CoV-2 possessing nonsense mutations in the seven accessory protein open reading frames (ORFs) (ORF3a, ORF3b, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF8, ORF9b, and ORF10) was de novo generated using an early pandemic SARS-CoV-2 strain as a backbone. We confirmed that the resultant virus (termed ORF3-10 KO) did not express accessory proteins in infected cells and retained the desired mutations in the viral genome. In cell culture, the ORF3-10 KO virus exhibited similar virus growth kinetics as the parental virus. In hamsters, ORF3-10 KO virus infection resulted in mild weight loss and reduced viral replication in the oral cavity and lung tissue. ORF3-10 KO virus infection led to mild inflammation, indicating that an inability to evade innate immune sensing because of a lack of accessory proteins impairs virus growth in vivo and results in quick elimination from the body. Overall, we showed that SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins are involved in immunopathogenicity.
42099984 | A Self-Amplifying RNA Lipid Nanoparticle (saRNA-LNP) Vaccine Provides Effective Protection Against Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea. The development of vaccine platforms capable of inducing sustained, potent, and cost-effective immunity remains a major challenge in veterinary vaccinology, particularly for coronaviruses, which are often associated with short-lived vaccine-induced protection. Here, we establish a self-amplifying RNA (saRNA) lipid nanoparticle (LNP) vaccine platform and evaluate its application using porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) as a representative coronavirus model. A single vaccination elicited robust specific humoral and cellular immune responses. Vaccinated piglets exhibited significantly higher specific IgG and neutralizing antibody titers of PEDV-S (1:160) at 28 days postvaccination (dpv). Furthermore, elevated levels of serum IFN-gamma and IL-4, along with enhanced CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, were observed. Vaccinated pregnant sows exhibited significantly higher PEDV neutralizing antibody titers (~1:224 or 256) in serum and colostrum samples. The saRNA-LNP vaccine conferred both active immune protection against PED in immunized piglets and passive immunity in neonates via colostrum-derived antibodies from vaccinated sows. Notably, the truncated spike protein antigen outperformed the full-length spike protein in terms of immunogenicity, revealing the importance of careful testing in designing this PEDV saRNA vaccine. The saRNA-LNP system represents a dose-sparing, single-dose vaccine platform with the potential to extend protective immunity, enhance maternal antibody responses, and reduce vaccination costs for PEDV and other veterinary coronaviruses.
39004359 | First reporting of BA.1* and BA.2* recombinant SARS-CoV-2 lineage XAP from Indian wastewaters. Tracking new variants of SARS-CoV-2 is vital for managing COVID-19 spread and allocating resources. Domestic antigen testing has created surveillance gaps that make it hard to identify new viral variants. We conducted whole genome sequencing of wastewater viral genes from major and minor treatment facilities in Dehradun from March 2022 onwards. Based on our analysis, the samples that achieved higher sequencing depth and covered >90 % of the viral genome uncovered a major variant pattern resembling the XAP recombinant lineage that is reported for the first time in the City of Dehradun, Uttrakhand and is the first ever records in India as on date. This novel XAP recombinant lineage had 9, 2, 30, 1, 2, 5, 1, 1, 1 aminoacid changes (total 54 mutations) in Orf1a, Orf1b, S, E, M, N, Orf3a, Orf6 and Orf8 regions of the gene respectively that shares 49 mutations common to the ancestral lineages BA.1* and BA.2*, with 6 unique mutations. Subsequent comparison and analysis of the clinical sequence data from the region post-detection of this rare and unusual variant showed no causalities infected with the newly detected XAP lineage. These findings are indicative of future alarming situation with plausible threats of fresh spur of Omicron variant led infections in the urban community.
25610741 | NK cells and T cells cooperate during the clinical course of colorectal cancer. Recent evidence suggests that natural killer (NK) cells are typically defective in infiltrating solid tumors, with the exception of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). Interestingly, however, infrequently infiltrating NK cells do not appear to have a direct effect on tumor progression. Here, prompted by the recent evidence that NK cell and T cell crosstalk may trigger, or enhance, tumor antigen-specific immune responses, we have tested the clinical significance of this reciprocal signaling. To this end, a tissue microarray constructed with 1410 colorectal carcinoma (CRC) patient specimens was stained with NK and T cell antigen-specific monoclonal antibodies, utilizing the immunoperoxidase staining technique. Cut-off scores for positive (>4 NK cells) and negative (<=4 NK cells) NK cell CRC patient samples were determined using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. Using this approach, NK cells were detected in 423 (30%) of the 1410 CRC specimens evaluated. The number of NK cells was >4 in only 132 (9%) of CRC samples. Correlation of the immunohistochemical staining results together with analysis of the clinical course of the disease revealed that the infiltration of colorectal tumors with both NK cells and CD8+ T cells is associated with prolonged patient survival. In contrast, infiltration of tumors with NK cells in combination with CD3+ and CD4+ T lymphocytes had no detectable effect on the clinical course of the disease. These results suggest that NK cell and CD8+ T cell crosstalk in the tumor microenvironment may benefit patient outcome and further, that the enumeration of infiltrating NK and CD8+ T cells in CRC tumors may provide useful prognostic information.
41894441 | Contrasting effects of SARS-CoV-2 vaccination vs. infection on antibody and TCR repertoires. Antibodies and helper T cells play important roles in SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccination. We sequenced B- and T-cell receptor repertoires (BCR/TCR) from the blood of 251 infectees, vaccinees, and controls to investigate whether features of these repertoires could predict subjects' SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibody titer (NAbs), as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). We sequenced recombined immunoglobulin heavy-chain (IGH), TCRbeta (TRB), and TCRdelta (TRD) genes in parallel from all subjects, including select B- and T-cell subsets in most cases, with a focus on their hypervariable CDR3 regions, and correlated this AIRRseq data with demographics and clinical findings from subjects' electronic health records. We found that age affected NAb levels in vaccinees but not infectees. Intriguingly, we found that vaccination and infection are associated with longer non-productively recombined IGHs, suggesting an effect that precedes clonal selection. We found that TRB repertoires' binding capacity to known SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4+ TRBs performs as well as the best hand-tuned approximate or \fuzzy\ matching at predicting a protective level of NAbs, while also being more robust to repertoire sample size and not requiring hand-tuning. The overall conclusion from this large, unbiased, clinically well annotated dataset is that B- and T-cell adaptive responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccination are surprising, subtle, and diffuse. We discuss methodological and statistical challenges faced in attempting to define and quantify such strong-but-diffuse repertoire signatures and present tools and strategies for addressing these challenges.
39190534 | Immunologic signatures of response and resistance to nivolumab with ipilimumab in advanced metastatic cancer. Identifying pan-tumor biomarkers that predict responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) is critically needed. In the AMADEUS clinical trial (NCT03651271), patients with various advanced solid tumors were assessed for changes in intratumoral CD8 percentages and their response to ICI. Patients were grouped based on tumoral CD8 levels: those with CD8 <15% (CD8-low) received nivolumab (anti-PD-1) plus ipilimumab (anti-CTLA4) and those with CD8 >=15% (CD8-high) received nivolumab monotherapy. 79 patients (72 CD8-low and 7 CD8-high) were treated. The disease control rate was 25.0% (18/72; 95% CI: 15.8-35.2) in CD8-low and 14.3% (1/7; 95% CI: 1.1-43.8) in CD8-high. Tumors from 35.9% (14/39; 95% CI: 21.8-51.4) of patients converted from CD8 <15% pretreatment to >=15% after treatment. Multiomic analyses showed that CD8-low responders had an inflammatory tumor microenvironment pretreatment, enhanced by an influx of CD8 T cells, CD4 T cells, B cells, and macrophages upon treatment. These findings reveal crucial pan-cancer immunological features for ICI response in patients with metastatic disease.
34913355 | Could the CCR5-Delta32 mutation be protective in SARS-CoV-2 infection? Increasing evidence points to host genetics as a factor in COVID-19 prevalence and outcome. CCR5 is a receptor for proinflammatory chemokines that are involved in host responses, especially to viruses. The CCR5-delta32 minor allele is an interesting variant, given the role of CCR5 in some viral infections, particularly HIV-1. Recent studies of the impact of CCR5-delta32 on COVID-19 risk and severity have yielded contradictory results. This ecologic study shows that the CCR5-delta32 allelic frequency in a European population was significantly negatively correlated with the number of COVID-19 cases (p=0.035) and deaths (p=0.006) during the second pandemic wave. These results suggest that CCR5-delta32 may be protective against SARS-CoV-2 infection, as it is against HIV infection, and could be predictive of COVID-19 risk and severity. Further studies based on samples from populations of different genetic backgrounds are needed to validate these statistically obtained findings.
41874448 | Same-Slide Spatial Multi-Omics Integration with IN-DEPTH Reveals Tumor Virus-Linked Spatial Reorganization of the Tumor Microenvironment. Spatial transcriptomics and proteomics have enabled profound insights into tissue organization, yet these technologies remain largely disparate, and emerging same-slide multi-omics approaches are limited in plex, spatial resolution, signal retention, and integrative analytics. We introduce IN-situ DEtailed Phenotyping To High-resolution transcriptomics (IN-DEPTH), a streamlined, resource-efficient, commercially compatible workflow using single-cell spatial proteomics-derived imaging to guide transcriptomic capture on the same slide without RNA signal loss. To integrate modalities beyond niche-level mapping, we developed Spectral Graph Cross-Correlation (SGCC), a proteomic-transcriptomic framework resolving spatially coordinated functional state changes across interacting cell populations. Applied to diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), IN-DEPTH and SGCC enabled stepwise discovery from EBV-positive and EBV-negative tumor comparisons to single-cell resolution, revealing coordinated tumor-macrophage-CD4 T-cell remodeling, immunosuppressive C1Q macrophage enrichment, CD4 T-cell dysfunction, and a candidate IL-27-STAT3 signaling axis. Collectively, IN-DEPTH enables scalable spatial multi-omics to uncover clinically relevant microenvironmental mechanisms and towards robust spatial multi-modal AI models.
40563839 | Role of ACE1, ACE2, and CCR5-D32 Polymorphisms in the Transmission of SARS-CoV-2 to Intimate Contacts. BACKGROUND: Despite the high transmissibility of SARS-CoV-2, some individuals remain uninfected despite prolonged exposure to a high viral load, suggesting the involvement of an innate resistance mechanism, possibly underpinned by the host's genetic factors. The angiotensin-converting enzyme-1 (<i>ACE1</i>), <i>ACE2</i>, and C-C Chemokine Receptor 5 (<i>CCR5</i>) polymorphisms have been shown to influence susceptibility to the infection. In this study, the role of <i>ACE1</i>, <i>ACE2</i>, and <i>CCR5</i> gene polymorphisms in modulating susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection within the context of intimate contact was evaluated. METHODS: A cohort of heterosexual couples from Northern Sardinia, characterized by a homogenous genetic background, was recruited during the initial pandemic wave (March-June 2020). In each couple, one partner (index case) tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 by at least two consecutive independent molecular tests (real-time polymerase chain reaction: RT-PCR) on nasopharyngeal swabs. Bed-sharing partners of SARS-CoV-2 positive index cases, resistant and susceptible to the infection, were genotyped for <i>ACE1</i> 287 bp <i>Alu</i> repeat insertion/deletion (I/D) polymorphism, <i>ACE2</i> G8790A (<i>rs2285666</i>) variant, and a 32-base pair deletion (D32) of <i>CCR5</i>. Resistant and susceptible partners to the infection were compared for polymorphisms. RESULTS: Out of 63 couples, 30 partners acquired SARS-CoV-2 infection, while 33 remained uninfected despite intimate exposure. Clinical history was minimal for current or past illnesses. SARS-CoV-2-infected index spouses and partners who acquired the infection developed a mild disease, not requiring hospitalization. The observed distribution of <i>ACE1</i> I/D and <i>ACE2</i> G8790A genotypes was consistent with previously reported frequencies in Sardinia and across European populations. None of the study participants carried the <i>CCR5-D32</i> variant. No statistically significant differences (<i>p</i> > 0.05) in the allelic or genotypic frequencies of these polymorphisms were observed between the infected and resistant partners. CONCLUSIONS: No differences in the distribution of <i>ACE1</i>, <i>ACE2</i>, and <i>CCR5</i> polymorphisms between the two groups were detected. These findings suggest that resistance is likely multifactorial, involving a complex interplay of genetic, immunological, and environmental factors.
42107895 | Mesenchymal stem cells orchestrate a hypoxic niche that supports the generation of antigen-specific CD8+ tissue-resident memory T cells in bone marrow after vaccination. While the role of bone marrow (BM) microenvironment in long-term humoral immunity is well established, its function in vaccine-induced long-term T-cell memory remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that the BM maintains a robust pool of spike-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells up to 307 days following inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccination. Notably, the frequency of spike-specific CD8+ T cells was significantly higher in the BM than in peripheral blood. Single-cell RNA and TCR sequencing revealed a distinct spike-specific CD8+ tissue-resident memory T (TRM) cell subset within the BM, characterized by a unique transcriptional profile, clonal expansion, and potent cytotoxic potential. Furthermore, we identified that the BM microenvironment is essential for establishing long-term T-cell memory with mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), providing an important niche for the development of antigen-specific CD8+ TRM cells. Mechanistically, MSCs provide a hypoxic niche and promote the differentiation of CD8+ TRM cells via the HIF1 signaling pathway. Our findings establish the BM as a crucial reservoir for durable T-cell memory induced by vaccination, and uncover a previously underappreciated mechanism of long-term protection centered on a stromal cell-guided, niche-adapted TRM compartment. This work redefines the BM as an active site for the establishment of cellular immune memory after vaccination.
25386052 | Immunogenetic biomarkers in inflammatory bowel diseases: role of the IBD3 region. Many studies have demonstrated the linkage between the IBD3 region (6p21.1-23), an area which encompasses the famous human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex, and Crohn's disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC). IBD3 is the only region that meets genome-wide significance, and provides stronger evidence of the linkage than 16p13.1-16q12.2 (IBD1), the locus that contains the susceptibility gene CARD15. However, despite these findings, IBD3 susceptibility genes remain elusive and unclear due to the strong linkage disequilibrium, extensive polymorphism, and high gene density that characterize this area and also due to varying allele frequencies in populations around the world. This area presents an extremely high abundance of genes, including the classical and non-classical major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and II genes, and other genes, namely MHC class III genes tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and -beta, and Hsp, whose proteins play key functions in immunological processes. To date, it is not clear which genes within the MHC family contribute to the IBD pathogenesis, although certain HLA alleles have been associated with IBD. Recent insights into the biological function of other genes encoded within the IBD3 region, such as the MHC class I chain-related (MIC) genes, have led investigators to a more comprehensive exploration of this region. MHC class I chain-related molecule A (MICA) is highly polymorphic and interacts with NKG2D, its receptor on the surface of NK, Tgammadelta and T CD8(+) cells. Increased expression of MICA in intestinal epithelial cells and increased expression of NKG2D in CD4(+) T cells (lamina propria) in patients with CD have also been reported. MICA alleles have also been associated with IBD, and a variation at amino acid position 129 of the alpha2-heavy chain domain seems to categorize MICA alleles into strong and weak binders of NKG2D receptor, thereby influencing the effector cells' function. In this regard, a relevant role of MICA-129-Val/Met single nucleotide polymorphism has recently been implicated in the pathogenesis of IBD. TNF-alpha and -beta also play an important role in inflammatory response. In fact, IBD is commonly treated with TNF-alpha inhibitors. Additionally, polymorphisms of TNF-alpha gene are known to affect the gene expression level and particular TNF-alpha genotypes may influence the response of IBD patients treated with TNF-alpha inhibitors.
41509926 | Myeloid-T cell proximity is prominent in healthy pregnancies with extreme fetal-maternal HLA incompatibility. Pregnancy requires local immune tolerization. Oocyte donation (OD) pregnancies, with extensive fetal-maternal human leukocyte antigen (HLA) mismatching, are at higher risk of pre-eclampsia. We hypothesize that immune adaptations are needed at the fetal-maternal interface to maintain healthy pregnancy despite high HLA dissimilarity. By multispectral imaging, myeloid cells constituted 65% of the decidual immune cells and encompassed 12 distinct clusters. Fully-allogeneic healthy OD pregnancies displayed a higher frequency of CD163+HLA-DR+ myeloid cells and FoxP3+CD4+ Tregs near CD4+ T cells compared to semi-allogeneic healthy pregnancies and pre-eclampsia, together with a Treg-reinforcing gene signature. Contrastingly, pre-eclampsia was characterized by enhanced inflammatory chemokine expression and oxidative-stress-gene imbalance. Pregnancy outcomes were unaffected by decidual pathology, maternal HLA antibodies, or fetal HLA-C/maternal KIR haplotypes. This study highlights the frequency, phenotypic diversity, and T cell proximity of decidual myeloid cells in OD pregnancies and suggests their immune regulatory effects to compensate for higher fetal-maternal HLA mismatch loads.
39560427 | Recombination across distant coronavirid species and genera is a rare event with distinct genomic features. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2; family Coronaviridae, genus Betacoronavirus, subgenus Sarbecovirus) has caused millions of deaths, prompting a need for better understanding of coronavirid emergence and spillover to humans. As an evaluation of how some features of SARS-CoV-2, unique among sarbecoviruses, may have been acquired from related viruses, we conducted phylogenetic and recombination analyses to compare the frequency of recombination among coronavirids across vs within genera, subgenera, and species. Among known betacoronaviruses, we identified 199 (183 intraspecies, 16 interspecies, but no intersubgenera) recombination events. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that the ancestry of interspecies events was limited and less prone to affect 5' regions of coronavirid genome open reading frame 1 (ORF1) than intraspecies events. On the contrary, interspecies events were significantly more prone to impact the 3' end (ORF6-ORF8 and the nucleocapsid protein [N] ORF), suggesting the existence of region-specific constraints on recombination. This work substantiated that recombination among betacoronaviruses is limited by the genome similarity between their parental viruses. We conclude that SARS-CoV-2 likely acquired unique features through recombination with closely related circulating sarbecoviruses (most likely from the same species) that co-existed geographically. IMPORTANCE: Understanding the evolutionary events that led to SARS-CoV-2 emergence, spillover, and spread is crucial to prevent, or at least be prepared for, the same type of occurrence in the future. Given that SARS-CoV-2 has some characteristics not found in other closely related viruses, we aimed to systematically assess how likely these unique features may have been acquired through recombination. We found that, although recombination is a frequent phenomenon among betacoronaviruses, it is mostly limited to closely related members of the same species. Therefore, we conclude that the most likely scenario involved feature acquisition from recombination with a closely related virus that was circulating in a geographically overlapping area or through a different biological process, but not recombination from a virus of a different species, genus, or subgenus.
10951564 | Nuclear import and subnuclear localization of the proto-oncoprotein ETO (MTG8). ETO (MTG8) was first described due to its involvement in the (8;21) translocation frequently observed in acute myeloid leukemias. In the t(8;21) the AML1 gene on chromosome 21 is fused to ETO on chromosome 8. The resultant hybrid protein is comprised of the DNA binding domain of AML-1 and the majority of ETO. This study examines the subnuclear distributions of ETO, AML-1B and AML-1/ETO proteins fused to green fluorescence protein in living cells using fluorescence microscopy. Further, we identified a 40 amino acid portion of ETO (amino acids 241-280) that was sufficient to cause nuclear import of green fluorescent protein. Mutational analysis demonstrated that lysine 265 and/or arginine 266 were required for nuclear import of ETO, but that the surrounding basic residues were not critical. ETO interacted with the nuclear import proteins importin-alpha and beta in vitro, and mutations in ETO that abolish nuclear localization also abolished the in vitro interaction with importin-alpha and beta. These data suggest that ETO enters the nucleus via an importin-mediated pathway. Additionally, ETO and AML-1/ETO co-localized to punctate nuclear bodies distinct from those containing promyelocytic leukemia protein. Nuclear body formation was dependent upon a region of ETO N-terminal to the nuclear localization signal. Thus, ETO and AML-1/ETO reside in potentially novel subnuclear compartments.
39399151 | Intrahost evolution leading to distinct lineages in the upper and lower respiratory tracts during SARS-CoV-2 prolonged infection. Accumulating evidence points to persistent severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infections in immunocompromised individuals as a source of novel lineages. While intrahost evolution of the virus in chronically infected patients has previously been reported, existing knowledge is primarily based on samples from the nasopharynx. In this study, we investigate the intrahost evolution and genetic diversity that accumulated during a prolonged SARS-CoV-2 infection with the Omicron BF.7 sublineage, which is estimated to have persisted for >1 year in an immunosuppressed patient. Based on the sequencing of eight samples collected at six time points, we identified 87 intrahost single-nucleotide variants, 2 indels, and a 362-bp deletion. Our analysis revealed distinct viral genotypes in the nasopharyngeal (NP), endotracheal aspirate, and bronchoalveolar lavage samples. This suggests that NP samples may not offer a comprehensive representation of the overall intrahost viral diversity. Our findings not only demonstrate that the Omicron BF.7 sublineage can further diverge from its already exceptionally mutated state but also highlight that patients chronically infected with SARS-CoV-2 can develop genetically specific viral populations across distinct anatomic compartments. This provides novel insights into the intricate nature of viral diversity and evolution dynamics in persistent infections.
42094618 | Viral Mechanisms and Drug Influences on Janus Kinase/Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription (JAK/STAT) Pathway in Human Coronaviruses Infection: A Systematic Review. Background and Aim: Janus kinases/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway is crucial for various stages of immunity, from innate to adaptive responses. Type 1 IFNs activate JAK/STAT pathway by binding to receptors on JAK, phosphorylating STAT and upregulating interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) leading to cytokines production. Viruses, however, have developed mechanisms to prevent antiviral type I IFNs induction, resulting in active viral replication. This study seeks to review viral mechanisms, drug influences, and vitamin D supplements affecting the JAK/STAT pathway in human coronavirus infection. Methods: Literature searches were conducted across Google Scholar, Scopus, PubMed, and ScienceDirect in accordance with the PRISMA guidelines. The study included all publications that satisfied the PRISMA criteria, were written in English, and fell within a 10-year window from July 2014 to June 2024. Forty-seven (47) studies satisfied the requirement for selection, out of which 31 studies were on viral mechanism, 12 were on drug interaction, and 2 were on vitamin D supplements. Results: There is consistent evidence of viral proteins, including ORF6, ORF8, spike, NSP14, NSP 1, and N of human coronaviruses disrupting the JAK/STAT pathway. Ruxolitinib, baricitinib, and Liantua Qingwen capsules have, however, been shown to stabilize the pathway by attacking viral proteins, inhibiting some pro-inflammatory cytokines, and downregulating STAT components to lessen cytokine storm, during hyperinflammation. Conclusion: This finding emphasizes the need for controlled regulation of JAK/STAT pathway to address coronavirus infections and immune disruptions, with continued research essential in developing targeted treatment against present and future viral threats.
41980033 | T cells dressed up with a dual HLA-restricted TCR targeting cathepsin G drive effective AML eradication. Despite immunosensitivity, genetic heterogeneity, low mutational burden and lack of tumor-specific antigens hinder immunotherapy success for acute myeloid leukemia (AML). T cell receptors (TCRs) offer a promising route by targeting tumor-relevant extra- and intracellular antigens shared across AML subtypes; however human leukocyte antigen (HLA) restriction limits their potential. We identified a potent TCR capable of recognizing peptides of Cathepsin G (CTSG), a serine protease confined to neutrophil granules but aberrantly localized in the cytoplasm of blasts, when presented by HLA-A*24:02 and HLA-C*07:02, highly frequent alleles. Leveraging TCR gene-editing and CD8 co-receptor transduction, we engineered a robust T cell population, comprising CD4+ CD8+ T lymphocytes with enhanced functionality, without altering subset identity. T cells expressing the CTSG-TCR exhibited strong and specific cytotoxicity against primary blasts, in vitro and in vivo. Noticeably, no alterations in peripheral blood cell populations, bone marrow hematopoiesis, or extramedullary hematopoietic organs (spleen and liver) were observed, demonstrating optimal on-target/off-tumor safety profile. Moreover, the absence of off-target cross-reactivity was proved by peptide mutagenesis, highlighting the specificity of the TCR for CTSG. These results reveal the potential of dual restricted TCRs, and of CTSG-TCR T cells as powerful therapeutics for a broad AML patient population.
42057644 | Safety and efficacy of nirmatrelvir and ritonavir in kidney transplant recipients with COVID-19. Kidney transplant recipients (KTRs) are at an elevated risks for severe COVID-19 due to immunosuppression and comorbidities. This study retrospectively evaluated the safety and efficacy of nirmatrelvir-ritonavir (NR) in 42 KTRs with COVID-19, adjusting dosages based on estimated glomerular filtration rates. Over a 1-year follow-up, renal and hepatic functions, inflammatory markers, and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) incidence were monitored. Within the studied cohort, oxygen therapy was required in 64% of patients, with 19% necessitating mechanical ventilation; 21% developed ARDS. Multivariate analysis identified higher albumin levels (odds ratio (OR) = 0.696, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.515 - 0.940) and CD4+ T-cell counts (OR = 0.982, 95% CI 0.968 - 0.998) as protective against ARDS, with an AUC of 0.859. Significant reductions in serum creatinine (p < 0.001) and aspartate aminotransferase (p = 0.01) were observed from admission to discharge, while alanine aminotransferase and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) remained stable. Complications were rare, occurring in only 2 patients. NR therapy demonstrated safety and effectiveness in KTRs, evidenced by improvements in renal and hepatic function as well as stable graft outcomes. CD4+ T-cell counts and albumin levels were identified as potential predictors of ARDS. These findings underscore the significance of early antiviral intervention and meticulous optimization of immunosuppressive management. However, further validation through larger multicenter prospective studies is necessary.
41911534 | Combination mRNA Vaccine Adjuvanted with CpG Oligodeoxynucleotides Enhances Protection against Respiratory Virus Infection. The concurrent circulation of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), influenza virus, and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) has caused severe coinfections, posing significant public health threats. Developing individual vaccines for these respiratory viruses is hindered by waning immunity and rapid viral mutations. A combination mRNA vaccine streamlines development and administration, reduces healthcare burdens, and offers convenient, compliance-enhancing protection against seasonal illnesses. Here, we present SIR, an 8-valent combination mRNA vaccine designed to simultaneously target SARS-CoV-2, influenza, and RSV. SIR was further optimized into SIRC by incorporating the TLR-9 agonist CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG-ODN) 1018. SIRC induces robust binding and neutralizing antibodies against all three viruses, stimulates Th1-biased antigen-specific T-cell responses, and generates CD4+ and CD8+ memory T cells. In mice model, SIRC effectively protects against four influenza subtypes (H1N1, H3N2, B/V, and B/Y) and the RSV. Overall, SIRC demonstrates superior antibodies and T cell responses, and provides greater protection in vivo compared to both the individual and SIR vaccines, without causing immune interference. It also maintains a favorable safety and development potential. These findings establish the SIRC as a promising candidate for preventing coinfections involving SARS-CoV-2, influenza, and RSV.
38792736 | Selective Pressure and Evolution of SARS-CoV-2 Lineages BF.7 and BQ.1.1 Circulating in Italy from July to December 2022. In this work, we studied the selective pressure and evolutionary analysis on the SARS-CoV-2 BF.7 and BQ.1.1 lineages circulating in Italy from July to December 2022. Two different datasets were constructed: the first comprised 694 SARS-CoV-2 BF.7 lineage sequences and the second comprised 734 BQ.1.1 sequences, available in the Italian COVID-19 Genomic (I-Co-Gen) platform and GISAID (last access date 15 December 2022). Alignments were performed with MAFFT v.7 under the Galaxy platform. The HYPHY software was used to study the selective pressure. Four positively selected sites (two in nsp3 and two in the spike) were identified in the BF.7 dataset, and two (one in ORF8 and one in the spike gene) were identified in the BQ.1.1 dataset. Mutation analysis revealed that R408S and N440K are very common in the spike of the BF.7 genomes, as well as L452R among BQ.1.1. N1329D and Q180H in nsp3 were found, respectively, at low and rare frequencies in BF.7, while I121L and I121T were found to be rare in ORF8 for BQ.1.1. The positively selected sites may have been driven by the selection for increased viral fitness, under circumstances of defined selective pressure, as well by host genetic factors.
42098175 | Multi-omics atlas of the bovine coronavirus-infected calf jejunum: reduction of Phocaeicola coprophilus and deoxycholic acid linked to Th17/Treg imbalance. Optimal calf rearing is fundamental for ensuring efficient milk production. Bovine coronavirus (BCoV) poses a significant threat to calf health and leads to substantial economic losses in the dairy industry. However, the mechanisms by which the intestinal mucosal microbiome regulates the host immune response during infection remain unclear. In this study, we constructed a high-resolution map of the jejunal mucosal microenvironment in BCoV-infected calves. Our findings revealed that BCoV infection led to severe microbial dysbiosis, characterized by a marked reduction in Phocaeicola coprophilus (formerly known as Bacteroides coprophilus) and decreased secondary bile acid, especially deoxycholic acid (DCA). Concurrently, enrichment of harmful microbiota correlated with increased arachidonic acid metabolites. At the host level, BCoV infection altered the composition of jejunal mucosal cells and affected metabolic and immune-related pathways. The differentiation of CD4+ T cells played a central role in the jejunum's response to BCoV infection. By integrating these metabolic alterations with dynamic host cellular responses, we suggested a putative that DCA deficiency might contribute to the pathological polarization of CD4+ T cells toward a Th17 phenotype while suppressing Treg differentiation. These findings suggest that restoring the Phocaeicola coprophilus-affected bile acid transformation might represent a promising therapeutic strategy for BCoV infection.
42055480 | Recombinant human interleukin-7 for patients with infection-associated lymphopenia: a systematic review and meta-analysis. PURPOSE: This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of recombinant human interleukin-7 (rhIL-7) in treating lymphopenia and related clinical outcomes in patients with infection-associated lymphopenia through a meta-analysis. METHODS: A Literature retrieval was conducted across databases, including the Cochrane Library, Web of Science, PubMed, Embase, SinoMed, CNKI, Wanfang, and VIP from the inception until October 2025. Randomized controlled trials of rhIL-7 for the treatment of lymphopenia were screened and identified for eligibility. Primary outcomes included absolute lymphocyte counts (ALC), mortality, intensive care unit (ICU) length of stay, and incidence of secondary infections. RESULTS: Four studies were included, covering sepsis and COVID-19. In septic patients, rhIL-7 significantly increased ALC (MD = 1.33 at 3 weeks; 95% CI [0.29, 2.38]; MD = 1.14 at 4 weeks; 95% CI [0.02, 2.25]), CD4+ T-cell counts (MD = 0.56 at 3 weeks; 95% CI [0.08, 1.05]) and CD8+ T-cell counts (MD = 0.40 at 2 weeks; 95% CI [0.05, 0.76]). However, rhIL-7 failed to reduce mortality (RR = 1.01; 95% CI [0.36, 2.81]) or the incidence of secondary infections (RR = 1.05; 95% CI [0.48, 2.30]) in patients with sepsis. In patients with COVID-19, rhIL-7 did not significantly increase ALC at 30 days (MD = 0.46; 95% CI [-0.15, 1.08]) or reduce mortality (RR = 0.85; 95% CI [0.55, 1.33]), but it did significantly reduce the incidence of secondary infections (RR = 0.58; 95% CI [0.46, 0.74]; p < 0.0001). A combined analysis revealed that rhIL-7 significantly increased ALC (MD = 1.15 at 3 weeks; 95% CI [0.47, 1.84]; MD = 0.80 at 4 weeks; 95% CI [0.24, 1.36]) and reduced the risk of secondary infections (RR = 0.64; 95% CI [0.50, 0.81]), but had no effect on mortality or ICU length of stay. CONCLUSION: RhIL-7 effectively ameliorates sepsis-associated lymphopenia but does not improve prognosis. Although rhIL-7 reduces the incidence of secondary infections in COVID-19 patients, confounding factors related to the pandemic context must be taken into account.
26122035 | Release of Soluble Ligands for the Activating NKG2D Receptor: One More Immune Evasion Strategy Evolved by HIV-1 ? Increasing lines of evidence indicate that NKG2D, an activating receptor of natural killer (NK) and CD8(+) T cells, plays an important role in immune responses against HIV-1. Through its ability to recognize a diverse array of ligands (NKG2DLs) induced by cell 'stress' such as viral infection, NKG2D delivers activating and co-stimulatory signals resulting in cytotoxicity and release of cytokines. Therefore, HIV-1 and other viruses have evolved clever mechanisms to counteract NKG2D-dependent immune responses. While, on one hand, the HIV-1 Vpr protein up-regulates NKG2DLs expression by activating the DNA damage response (DDR) pathway, other viral proteins (Nef and Vif) have developed the capacity to reduce NKG2DLs expression levels. In addition, recent evidences suggest that HIV-1-infected CD4(+) T cells may release NKG2DLs, particularly MICA, in soluble form, a phenomenon that has the potential to down-modulate NKG2D on circulating lymphocytes and allow evasion of NKG2D-mediated immune responses. Indeed, despite controversial, lower NKG2D expression was found on both NK and CD8(+) T cells in HIV-1-infected patients. This review discusses recent advances in the understanding of how HIV-1 affects the NKG2D/NKG2DLs system, with a special focus on virus-induced release of soluble NKG2DLs and its functional implications for the immune surveillance of the infected host.
40358138 | Detection of S1 spike protein in CD16+ monocytes up to 245 days in SARS-CoV-2-negative post-COVID-19 vaccine syndrome (PCVS) individuals. Despite over 13 billion SARS-CoV-2 vaccine doses administered globally, persistent post-vaccination symptoms, termed post-COVID-19 vaccine syndrome (PCVS), resemble post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC). Symptoms like cardiac, vascular, and neurological issues often emerge shortly after vaccination and persist for months to years, mirroring PASC. We previously showed the S1 subunit of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein persists in CD16+ monocytes after infection, potentially driving PASC. Approved vaccines (Pfizer, Moderna, Janssen, AstraZeneca) deliver synthetic S1 to elicit immunity, suggesting a shared mechanism. We hypothesized that vaccine-derived S1 persistence in CD16+ monocytes sustains inflammation akin to PASC, contributing to PCVS. We studied 50 individuals with PCVS symptoms lasting over 30 days post-vaccination and 26 asymptomatic controls, using (1) machine learning-based immune profiling to compare cytokine signatures with PASC, (2) flow cytometry to detect S1 in CD16+ monocytes, and (3) LC-MS to confirm S1 across vaccine types. We correlated S1 persistence with symptom duration and inflammation. Prior infection was excluded via clinical history, anti-nucleocapsid antibody tests, and T-detect assays, though definitive tests are lacking. Preliminary findings suggest S1 persistence in CD16+ monocytes and an associated inflammatory profile may contribute to PCVS. Further studies are needed to confirm causality and prevalence.
39294153 | Author Correction: Positive selection underlies repeated knockout of ORF8 in SARS-CoV-2 evolution.
38976510 | Severe West Nile virus and Sars-CoV-2 infections in a patient with thymoma and anti-type I IFN antibodies. The current study aimed to investigate determinants of severity in a previously healthy patient who experienced two life-threatening infections, from West Nile Virus and SARS-CoV2. During COVID19 hospitalization he was diagnosed with a thymoma, retrospectively identified as already present at the time of WNV infection. Heterozygosity for p.Pro554Ser in the TLR3 gene, which increases susceptibility to severe COVID-19, and homozygosity for CCR5 c.554_585del, associated to severe WNV infection, were found. Neutralizing anti-IFN-alpha and anti-IFN-omega auto-antibodies were detected, likely induced by the underlying thymoma and increasing susceptibility to both severe COVID-19 pneumonia and West Nile encephalitis.
42064338 | Effect of PEI25k/DOTAP/cholesterol liposomal formulation on the immunogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein-encoding DNA vaccine. Background: The Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has highlighted the need to upgrade vaccine strategies. DNA vaccines are advantageous because of their stability and ease of large-scale production; however, they often require adjuvants to boost immune response. Liposomal adjuvants have emerged as effective immune response enhancers, offering efficient delivery and compatibility with biological systems. This study evaluated the immune response induced by a Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) spike protein-encoding DNA vaccine formulated with various liposome adjuvants in mice. Materials and methods: The interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) mRNA expression levels were analyzed by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Flow cytometry was conducted to characterize leukocyte populations and assess immune activation status. Five target cell surface markers were analyzed in this study: CD4+ T, CD8+ T, CD11b+, CD14+, and CD45+ leukocytes, along with their corresponding detected cell types. Result: Among the tested formulations, the PEI25k : DOTAP : cholesterol (2 : 1 : 1) combination showed the most significant immunostimulatory effect. This formulation induced the lowest expression levels of IL-6 (0.17 +- 0.01) and TNF-alpha (0.25 +- 0.01) mRNAs in the treatment groups; furthermore, flow cytometry revealed robust activation of both adaptive and innate immune subsets, with an increase in CD4+ (44.00 +- 1.00), CD8+ (40.00 +- 1.00), CD11b+ (50.00 +- 2.00), CD14+ (42.00 +- 2.000), and CD45+ (29.00 +- 1.00) T cell populations. These results demonstrate an integrated immune response characterized by strong T cell activation, myeloid engagement, and recruitment of a broad leukocyte population, indicating balanced immunity with reduced inflammation risk. Conclusions: The PEI25k : DOTAP : cholesterol (2 : 1 : 1) formulation has high potential as a liposome-based adjuvant for enhancing the immunogenicity of DNA vaccines. The findings of this study support its suitability for further development as a potential adjuvant candidate, particularly for improving DNA vaccine delivery and immunogenicity against SARS-CoV-2.
42095075 | Single-cell transcriptomics reveal altered B cell responses and T cell senescence in geriatric non-responders to COVID-19 mRNA vaccination. The immune response to COVID-19 vaccines is diminished in older individuals. To understand the underlying immunobiology, we analyzed single-cell RNA-seq data from PBMCs of SARS-CoV-2 naive nursing home residents with varying humoral responses following BNT162b2 vaccination and validated via flow cytometry. Responders (R) (>4500 AU/mL anti-spike titers) showed enrichment for naive B cell (IGHD, BACH2, CD22) and naive CD4 T cell and early T follicular helper (Tfh)-related genes (CCR7, TCF7, LEF1, IL6ST, and TGFBR2). Non-responders (NR) (<20 AU/mL) displayed elevated markers of T cell senescence (KLRG1, CCL4, CCL5, and IL32), immune exhaustion (PD-1), and inflammation (TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma). Flow cytometry revealed reduced CD4 T and B cell frequencies but higher CD8 T and NK cells in NR. Despite reduced B cell frequency, NR upregulated plasma B cell genes (PRDM1, XPB1, IRF4), suggesting dysregulated B cell differentiation. Our findings point to impaired lymphocyte responses and increased immunosenescence in NR, emphasizing the need for enhanced vaccine strategies in aging populations.
41906594 | Post-Acute Sequelae Patients with Severe COVID-19 History Show a Prolonged Inflammatory, Vascular Injury Pattern. SARS-CoV-2 infection can lead to persistent symptoms (i.e., long/post-COVID), especially in unvaccinated individuals. Little is known about the sustained impact of acute severe COVID-19 on immune signatures and long/post-COVID symptoms, often associated with cardiovascular events and pulmonary impairment. The longitudinal cohort (LC) was obtained from N = 46 patients with previous severe COVID-19 and prior to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, collected over 5 visits up to 12 months after discharge (n = 139). Long/post-COVID status was assessed by lung function and fatigue scores. Blood was analysed regarding immune cell profiles, SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, and autoantigens. LC patients were compared with 39 acute severe COVID-19 ICU patients and 28 unexposed pre-pandemic donors (UE) and correlated with clinical parameters. LC patients exhibited long-term decreased CD4+/CD8+ T cell ratio, differentiation from naive to TEMRA, CD57+CCR7- memory, and HLA-DR+CD38+ activated CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. LC plasma profiles displayed elevated levels of markers for chronic inflammation and endothelial injury. Chronic inflammatory chemokines and cardiovascular markers remained high. These markers and autoantibodies against centromere structures negatively correlated with lung function. At 1-year post-discharge, LC patients with a COVID-19 ICU history displayed sustained significant changes in their immune profile at cellular and inflammatory levels, revealing signatures of persistent inflammation and endothelial injury.
26859597 | Stromal Cell-Derived Factor-1-3'A Polymorphism Favors HIV-1 Infection in Mexican Women. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the association of the stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF1)-3'A polymorphism to HIV-1 infection, CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts, and viral load levels in a northwestern Mexican population. METHODS: We investigated allele and genotype frequencies of the SDF1-3'A polymorphism in 634 mestizo individuals from Northwest Mexico (204 HIV-1 infected persons, 256 uninfected blood donors, and 174 uninfected female sex workers) by the PCR- RFLP method and compared them using a x(2) test. We also searched for correlations between the polymorphism and CD4+ T lymphocyte and viral load counts. RESULTS: No differences were observed in the frequencies of alleles and genotypes between patients and controls. However, in female patients we found a significantly increased prevalence of both the A allele and GA heterozygous genotype compared to male patients, female blood donors, and female sex workers. CONCLUSION: Here we describe the association of the SDF1-3'A polymorphism with HIV-1 infection only in women, but not to CD4+ T-lymphocyte categories, viral load levels in patients with HIV-1/AIDS, or to exposure levels in female sex workers.
