26106076 | Nonblocking Monoclonal Antibody Targeting Soluble MIC Revamps Endogenous Innate and Adaptive Antitumor Responses and Eliminates Primary and Metastatic Tumors. PURPOSE: The human tumor-derived soluble MHC I-chain-related molecule (sMIC) is highly immune suppressive in cancer patients and correlates with poor prognosis. However, the therapeutic effect of targeting sMIC has not been determined, due to the limitation that mice do not express homologs of human MIC. This study is to evaluate the therapeutic effect of a monoclonal antibody (mAb) targeting sMIC in a clinically relevant transgenic animal model. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We treated the engineered MIC-expressing \humanized\ TRAMP/MIC bitransgenic mice at advanced disease stages with a sMIC-neutralizing nonblocking anti-MIC mAb and assessed the therapeutic efficacy and associated mechanisms. RESULTS: A sMIC-neutralizing nonblocking anti-MIC mAb effectively induced regression of primary tumors and eliminated metastasis without inducing systemic toxicity. The therapeutic effect is conferred by revamping endogenous antitumor immune responses, exemplified by restoring natural killer (NK) cell homeostasis and function, enhancing susceptibility of MIC(+)-tumor cells to NK cell killing, reviving and sustaining antigen-specific CD8 T-cell responses, augmenting CD4 T cells to Th1 responses, priming dendritic cells for antigen presentation, and remodeling tumor microenvironment to be more immune reactive. CONCLUSIONS: Therapy with a sMIC-neutralizing nonblocking anti-MIC mAb can effectuate antitumor immune responses against advanced MIC(+) tumors. Our study provided strong rationale for translating sMIC-neutralizing therapeutic mAb into clinics, either alone or in combination with current ongoing standard immunotherapies.
16792726 | Oral candidosis and oral hairy leukoplakia as predictors of HAART failure in Brazilian HIV-infected patients. INTRODUCTION: Oral candidosis (OC) and hairy leukoplakia (OHL) are important markers of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection immune status. OBJECTIVES: to evaluate if OC and/or OHL should be considered clinical predictors of immune and virologic failure on HIV-infected Brazilian adults undergoing Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART). METHODS: 124 HIV-infected patients who used HAART for a minimum of six months were prospectively evaluated. All of them under-took oral examination and serum CD4+ count and viral load (VL), being divided in two groups, P and A, respectively according to the presence or absence of OC and/or OHL. During a six month period, patients belonging to group A were followed. They were re-examined for new oral lesions. New blood samples were collected and they were subdivided into groups P6 and A6. CD4+ count and VL were compared between groups at baseline and after the six months period. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV) and relative risk (RR) were obtained in order to assess the accuracy of using OC and OHL as predictors of immune and virologic failure, at baseline and after a six month period. RESULTS: At baseline and after six months, patients with OC and OHL have mean CD4+ count lower and mean VL higher than patients of group A and A6 (p < 0.001). OC had high PPV for immune failure and a moderated PPV for virologic failure. OHL had low PPVs for both measures. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: OC and OHL still indicate low serum CD4+ count and high VL, but OC seems to be a better predictor of immune and virologic failure in patients undergoing HAART than OHL.
16406081 | Oral lesions in Brazilian HIV-infected children undergoing HAART. INTRODUCTION: The advent of new antiretroviral drugs such as protease inhibitors (PI) has generated sensible changes in oral manifestation patterns in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected adult patients. OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the present study was to assess whether the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has brought changes to pattern and prevalence of oral lesions related to HIV in the HIV-infected pediatric population. CASUISTIC AND METHOD: We analyzed medical charts of 471 children aged zero to 12 years and 11 months with HIV infection and followed up by the Ambulatory of AIDS, Clinical Otorhinolaryngology, Hospital das Clinicas, Medical School, Sao Paulo University, from January 1990 to December 2004. Four hundred and fifty-nine children were divided into two groups, according to age range: X (0-5 years and 11 months) and Y (6-12 years and 11 months). These groups were subdivided into four subgroups, according to use of ART (antiretroviral therapy without PI) or HAART. We recorded data related to type of oral lesion presented, as well as serum CD4+ lymphocyte count. The groups were compared concerning prevalence and presentation pattern of oral manifestations. RESULTS: Out of 459 children, 144 (31.4%) had oral lesions. We observed that in children aged 6-12 years and 11 months who were taking HAART, there was lower prevalence of oral lesions (p=0.005), specially hairy leukoplakia (p<0.02), without any affection to the common presentation pattern of these lesions. The same subgroup also had higher serum CD4+ lymphocyte counts (p<0.001). CONCLUSION: We concluded that use of HAART could lead to reduction in prevalence of oral lesions in HIV-infected children.
38519850 | Depression and anxiety among nurses during the COVID-19 pandemic: Longitudinal results over 2 years from the multicentre VOICE-EgePan study. AIMS: To examine symptoms of depression and generalised anxiety among nurses over 2 years during the pandemic and compare them to the general population. BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a significant increase in mental stress among the population worldwide. Nursing staff have been identified as being under remarkable strain. DESIGN: A multicentre prospective longitudinal study. METHODS: Symptoms of depression and generalised anxiety in 507 nurses were examined at four different time points (T1: April-July 2020, T2: November 2020-January 2021, T3: May-July 2021, T4: February-May 2022). Results were compared with values of the German general population, presence of gender-specific differences was analysed and frequencies of clinically relevant levels of depression and anxiety were determined. RESULTS: Throughout the study (T1-T4), a significant increase in depressive and anxiety symptoms was observed. At all four measurement time points, nurses showed significantly higher prevalence for depression and anxiety compared to the German general population. No significant gender differences were found. Frequencies for probable depression and generalised anxiety disorder among nurses were: 21.6% and 18.5% (T1), 31.4% and 29.2% (T2), 29.5% and 26.2% (T3), 33.7% and 26.4% (T4). CONCLUSION: During the pandemic, symptoms of depression and generalised anxiety among nurses increased significantly and remained elevated. Their symptom levels were permanently higher than in the general population. These findings strongly suggest that the circumstances of the pandemic severely affected nurses  mental health. RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: The COVID-19 pandemic caused a great mental strain on caregivers. This study was able to demonstrate the significant increase in depression and anxiety among nurses during the pandemic. It highlights the urgent need for prevention, screening and support systems in hospitals. IMPLICATIONS FOR THE PROFESSION: Supportive programmes and preventive services should be developed, not least to prevent the growing shortage of nurses in the health care systems. REPORTING METHOD: The study adhered to relevant EQUATOR guidelines. The STROBE checklist for cohort study was used as the reporting method. PATIENT CONTRIBUTION: Five hundred and seven nurses completed the questionnaire and provided data for analysis. TRIAL AND PROTOCOL REGISTRATION: The study was registered with the German Clinical Trials Register (https://drks.de/search/en) under the following ID: DRKS00021268.
35173763 | Downregulation of MARC2 Promotes Immune Escape and Is Associated With Immunosuppression of Hepatocellular Carcinoma. The N-reductive enzyme system (NRES), composed of MARC1, MARC2, CYB5, and CYB5R, is responsible for the reduction of N-oxygenated compounds and participates in several physiological processes. For example, MARC2 serves as an important prognostic indicator and is downregulated in hepatocellular carcinoma, and the downregulation of MARC2 is critical to the regulation of lipid metabolism and cell cycle progression. However, the role of MARC2 in tumor immune microenvironment modification had not previously been investigated. In this study, we found that downregulation of MARC2 was associated with the differentiation of CD4+T cells into regulatory T cells (Tregs). Furthermore, restoring the expression of MARC2 could increase the expression of HLA-C and B2M via PPARA-related lipid metabolism signaling pathways, which could facilitate tumor antigen presentation to the tumor-infiltrating T cells. Additionally, MARC2 expression negatively correlated with several immune checkpoints. The immune checkpoint burden was generated based on 28 MARC2-related immune checkpoints. Patients with a higher immune checkpoint burden were predicted to have a poorer prognosis and a lower level of activated CD8+ T cells. The results showed that expression of the NRES is a prognostic indicator of hepatocellular carcinoma and MARC2 contributes significantly to predict the prognosis. Finally, loss of MARC2 in HCC patients was found to facilitate immune escape and was associated with immunosuppression.
9394455 | Electron microscopy of biological specimens by the plasma-polymerization rapid-freeze replica method. The plasma-polymerization replica method is a unique replica technique for transmission electron microscopy. In the present study, we used this method in combination with a rapid-freeze technique to observe T4 bacteriophages and hepatitis B virus core particles. The heads of T4 bacteriophages appeared hexagonal and measured approximately 110 nm in length. Striations in their tails were also visible, indicating that the resolution of the present method is better than 4 nm. The images corresponded well with those obtained by ice-embedding and negative staining methods, with respect to both morphology and size of the phage particle. Hepatitis B virus core particles observed by the present method appeared round, approximately 30 nm in diameter, with hollow centres. Again, the morphology and size of the particles corresponded well with those obtained by ice-embedding, negative staining, and ultrathin sectioning. From these results, we conclude that the plasma-polymerization rapid-freeze replica method provides a useful technique for observation of biological specimens in a natural state and at high resolution.
9842722 | Vertical Pt-C replication for TEM, a revolution in imaging non-periodic macromolecules, biological gels and low-density polymer networks. Vertical replication for TEM is ideal for studying non-periodic specimens from 0.7 to 3 nm, a resolution mid-range difficult to attain by any other technique. This paper discusses the importance of vertical replication, its methods and hardware for high-resolution TEM. Evidence from diverse published research will demonstrate vertical replication's versatility in imaging the molecular level normally unattainable in freeze-dried polymers, polyethylene tribological wear on surfaces, low-density polymer networks or biological gels. Vertical platinum-carbon (Pt-C) replication minimizes the horizontal movement of Pt-C on a surface. Surface objects are symmetrically enlarged by a vertically deposited Pt-C film. To estimate real size in replicas, 16-25 particles or filaments need to be measured in calibrated transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images and reduced by a value less than the Pt-C film thickness measured with a quartz monitor. Continuous, vertically deposited Pt-C films are formed on mica at a deposition thickness of around 1.0 nm and on silver at a thickness of 0.4-0.5 nm. The distance between helical turns in poly(1-tetradecene sulfone) of 0.7 nm is the highest resolution achieved with vertical replication. Two polysulfones freeze-dried and vertically replicated on mica contained structures are predicted by indirect physical chemical methods to be present in solution. Polymer chains are fully Pt-C coated, with no uncoated gaps along chains. Some side-chains on the extended non-helical poly(1-tetradecene sulfone) are also detected. To estimate the real chain width, polymer chains measured in images are reduced by the Pt-C film thickness minus 0.5 nm. The polymer chain widths estimated from molecular models are in the same range of widths as those measured using the image size correction method. Also, it is possible to distinguish random coil proteins (chain width of around 0.5 nm) from an alpha-helix (chain diameter of about 1 nm) in vertically replicated samples on silver substrates. In the future, subnanometer resolutions below 0.7 nm should be possible. The resolution of vertical replication depends on the thickness of a continuous, amorphous Pt-C film. That thin, continuous 0.4-0.5 nm Pt-C films on silver substrates can be made suggests that a point-to-point resolution limit of around 0.28 nm in TEM may ultimately be approachable with replication.
33457075 | Anti-NKG2D single domain-based antibodies for the modulation of anti-tumor immune response. The natural killer group 2 member D (NKG2D) receptor is a C-type lectin-like activating receptor mainly expressed by cytotoxic immune cells including NK, CD8+ T, gammadelta T and NKT cells and in some pathological conditions by a subset of CD4+ T cells. It binds a variety of ligands (NKG2DL) whose expressions is finely regulated by stress-related conditions. The NKG2DL/NKG2D axis plays a central and complex role in the regulation of immune responses against diverse cellular threats such as oncogene-mediated transformations or infections. We generated a panel of seven highly specific anti-human NKG2D single-domain antibodies targeting various epitopes. These single-domain antibodies were integrated into bivalent and bispecific antibodies using a versatile plug-and-play Fab-like format. Depending on the context, these Fab-like antibodies exhibited activating or inhibitory effects on the immune response mediated by the NKG2DL/NKG2D axis. In solution, the bivalent anti-NKG2D antibodies that compete with NKG2DL potently blocked the activation of NK cells seeded on immobilized MICA, thus constituting antagonizing candidates. Bispecific anti-NKG2DxHER2 antibodies that concomitantly engage HER2 on tumor cells and NKG2D on NK cells elicited cytotoxicity of unstimulated NK in a tumor-specific manner, regardless of their apparent affinities and epitopes. Importantly, the bispecific antibodies that do not compete with ligands binding retained their full cytotoxic activity in the presence of ligands, a valuable property to circumvent immunosuppressive effects induced by soluble ligands in the microenvironment.
31611641 | Transportin-1 binds to the HIV-1 capsid via a nuclear localization signal and triggers uncoating. The initial steps of HIV replication in host cells prime the virus for passage through the nuclear pore and drive the establishment of a productive and irreparable infection1,2. The timely release of the viral genome from the capsid-referred to as uncoating-is emerging as a critical parameter for nuclear import, but the triggers and mechanisms that orchestrate these steps are unknown. Here, we identify beta-karyopherin Transportin-1 (TRN-1) as a cellular co-factor of HIV-1 infection, which binds to incoming capsids, triggers their uncoating and promotes viral nuclear import. Depletion of TRN-1, which we characterized by mass spectrometry, significantly reduced the early steps of HIV-1 infection in target cells, including primary CD4+ T cells. TRN-1 bound directly to capsid nanotubes and induced dramatic structural damage, indicating that TRN-1 is necessary and sufficient for uncoating in vitro. Glycine 89 on the capsid protein, which is positioned within a nuclear localization signal in the cyclophilin A-binding loop, is critical for engaging the hydrophobic pocket of TRN-1 at position W730. In addition, TRN-1 promotes the efficient nuclear import of both viral DNA and capsid protein. Our study suggests that TRN-1 mediates the timely release of the HIV-1 genome from the capsid protein shell and efficient viral nuclear import.
37454198 | Association of killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors and their cognate HLA class I ligands with susceptibility to acute myeloid leukemia in Iranian patients. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is one of the most prevalent leukemia in adults. Among the various NK receptors, killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) carry out indispensable roles in NK cell development and function through engaging with class I human leukocyte antigens (HLA-I) as their ligands. Besides divergent KIR and HLA loci, KIR/HLA-I combinations have a significant effect on NK cell response. In this case-control study, we aimed to verify the association of KIR/HLA-I combinations with susceptibility to AML in the Southwestern Iranian population. KIR and HLA genotyping was performed with PCR-SSP by some novel primers for 181 patients with AML and 181 healthy controls. According to our results, the frequencies of KIR3DS1 (p = 0.0001, OR = 2.32, 95% CI 1.51-3.58), KIR2DS4fl (p = 0.02, OR = 1.53, 95% CI 1.05-2.21), CxT4 genotypes (p = 0.03, OR = 2.0, 95% CI 1.05-3.82), and T4 gene cluster (p = 0.01, OR = 1.99, 95% CI 1.17-3.41) were significantly higher in patients than controls, while C1/C2 genotype (p = 0.00002, OR = 0.39, 95% CI 0.25-0.61), HLA-A Bw4 (p = 0.02, OR = 0.6, 95% CI 0.38-0.94), and HLA-A*11 (p = 0.03, OR = 0.57, 95% CI 0.34-0.95) alleles were more frequent in controls. In addition, inhibitory (i)KIR/HLA-I combinations analysis revealed higher frequencies of KIR2DL1( +)/HLA-C2( +), KIR2DL2/3( +)/HLA-C1( +), KIR3DL1( +)/HLA-A Bw4( +), and KIR3DL2( +)/HLA-A*03/11( +) in the control group (p = 0.002, OR = 0.49, 95% CI 0.3-0.78; p = 0.04, OR = 0.62, 95% CI 0.39-0.99; p = 0.04, OR = 0.63, 95% CI 0.4-0.99; and p = 0.03, OR = 0.62, 95% CI 0.4-0.95, respectively). Overall, the number of iKIR/HLA-I combinations was more in the control group. Moreover, KIR3DS1( +)/HLA-B Bw4Ile80( +) and the sum of HLA-B Bw4/A Bw4 combined with KIR3DS1 as activating KIR/HLA-I combinations were more frequent among patients than controls (p = 0.01, OR = 1.99, 95% CI 1.14-3.49 and p = 0.005, OR = 1.97, 95% CI 1.22-3.19, respectively). In conclusion, our results postulate that inhibitory combinations play a protective role against AML by developing potent NK cells during education. It is noteworthy that KIR/HLA-I combination studies can be applicable in donor selection for allogeneic NK cell therapy in hematological malignancies.
34188163 | Bevacizumab improves tumor infiltration of mature dendritic cells and effector T-cells in triple-negative breast cancer patients. A single dose of bevacizumab reduced the density of angiopoietin-2-positive vessels while improving the infiltration of CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells, and mature dendritic cells in patients with primary triple-negative breast cancer. Our findings provide a rationale for including bevacizumab during neoadjuvant treatment to enhance the efficacy of immune checkpoint blockers in this disease.
27004748 | Thiodigalactoside shows antitumour activity by beta-galactoside-binding protein and regulatory T cells inhibition in oral squamous cell carcinoma. OBJECTIVE: Thiodigalactoside (TDG), a synthetic inhibitor of beta-galactoside-binding protein (beta-GBP) suppresses tumour growth by inhibiting multiple cancer enhancing activities of beta-GBP. Hence, we attempted to understand whether disruption of beta-GBP functions and indirect inhibition of Treg cells by TDG affect the growth and establishment of oral cancer cells. METHOD: The growth, morphology, cell cycle regulation, apoptosis induction and angiogenesis of oral cancer cell lines (SCC-4, SCC-9, SCC-25) via MACS-purified Treg cells were performed by MTT, propidium iodide (PI) staining, annexin-V-binding assay and ELISA respectively. RESULTS: Treatment with beta-GBP showed growth-promoting effects on Tregs and oral cancer cells. However, the treatment with its inhibitor TDG resulted in inhibition of Treg subsets and also decreased the frequency of IL10(+) and IL35(+) Tregs indicating its immunomodulatory effects. Additionally, TDG treatment significantly (P < 0.001) inhibited the growth of OSCC cells with a concomitant induction of apoptosis, cell cycle arrest and anti-angiogenesis. CONCLUSION: It appears that TDG concurrently prevents many tumour-promoting effects of beta-GBP in oral cancer cells possibly by Treg inhibition. This offers a preclinical proof of the concept that therapeutic targeting of beta-GBP can overcome Treg -mediated tumour promotion and immunosuppression in oral cancer patients.
35474089 | Blockade of inhibitory killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors and IL-2 triggering reverses the functional hypoactivity of tumor-derived NK-cells in glioblastomas. Killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) comprise a group of highly polymorphic inhibitory receptors which are specific for classical HLA class-I molecules. Peripheral blood and freshly prepared tumor cell suspensions (n = 60) as well as control samples (n = 32) were investigated for the distribution, phenotype, and functional relevance of CD158ab/KIR2DL1,-2/3 expressing NK-cells in glioblastoma (GBM) patients. We found that GBM were scarcely infiltrated by NK-cells that preferentially expressed CD158ab/KIR2DL1,-2/3 as inhibitory receptors, displayed reduced levels of the activating receptors CD335/NKp46, CD226/DNAM-1, CD159c/NKG2C, and showed diminished capacity to produce IFN-gamma and perforin. Functional hypoactivity of GBM-derived NK-cells persisted despite IL-2 preactivation. Blockade with a specific KIR2DL-1,2/3 monoclonal antibody reversed NK-cell inhibition and significantly enhanced degranulation and IFN-gamma production of IL-2 preactivated NK-cells in the presence of primary GBM cells and HLA-C expressing but not HLA class-I deficient K562 cells. Additional analysis revealed that significant amounts of IL-2 could be produced by tumor-derived CD4+ and CD8+CD45RA- memory T-cells after combined anti-CD3/anti-CD28 stimulation. Our data indicate that both blockade of inhibitory KIR and IL-2 triggering of tumor-derived NK-cells are necessary to enhance NK-cell responsiveness in GBM.
25916677 | In vitro evaluation of the biological effect of SOFAT on osteoblasts. Osteoclastogenesis is regulated by osteoblasts especially through the production of receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL). Immune cells present in inflamed tissues markedly increase this process by upregulating RANKL directly or by secreting proinflammatory cytokines, which stimulate RANKL expression by osteoblasts. A novel T-cell-secreted cytokine, termed secreted osteoclastogenic factor of activated T cells (SOFAT) was recently described. To better understand how SOFAT affects bone metabolism, we investigated its effect on osteoblastic cells. We demonstrate here that SOFAT did not influence MC3T3 cells viability and proliferation, evaluated by trypan blue exclusion and MTT tests, respectively. SOFAT stimulated the secretion of IL-6, IL-10 and GM-CSF in MC3T3 cells, as shown by the analysis of an inflammatory cytokines ELISA array. The upregulation of the corresponding genes was checked by qPCR. Both RANKL mRNA and protein levels did not significantly change in the presence of SOFAT, evaluated by qPCR and western blotting, respectively. In addition, analysis of a PCR array for IL6/STAT3 pathway demonstrated that SOFAT induced the expression of BCL2, IL1B, IL10, IL22, IL2RA, IL4, IL6, TNFSF10 and PIAS3, while IL2, IL21, CD4, CSF3R and TNF were repressed. Our results confirm that the SOFAT mechanism of action is RANKL-independent and indicate that, by co-opting osteoblasts to increase the production of osteoclastogenic cytokines, SOFAT may exacerbate inflammation and support osteoclast formation and bone destruction.
31597697 | NLRP3 negatively regulates Treg differentiation through Kpna2-mediated nuclear translocation. Naive CD4+ T cells in the periphery differentiate into regulatory T cells (Tregs) in which Foxp3 is expressed for their suppressive function. NLRP3, a pro-inflammatory molecule, is known to be involved in inflammasome activation associated with several diseases. Recently, the expression of NLRP3 in CD4+ T cells, as well as in myeloid cells, has been described; however, a role of T cell-intrinsic NLRP3 in Treg differentiation remains unknown. Here, we report that NLRP3 impeded the expression of Foxp3 independent of inflammasome activation in Tregs. NLRP3-deficient mice elevate Treg generation in various organs in the de novo pathway. NLRP3 deficiency increased the amount and suppressive activity of Treg populations, whereas NLRP3 overexpression reduced Foxp3 expression and Treg abundance. Importantly, NLRP3 interacted with Kpna2 and translocated to the nucleus from the cytoplasm under Treg-polarizing conditions. Taken together, our results identify a novel role for NLRP3 as a new negative regulator of Treg differentiation, mediated via its interaction with Kpna2 for nuclear translocation.
3485020 | Immune abnormalities associated with HLA-B8: lymphocyte subsets and functional correlates. Mononuclear cell populations were enumerated in healthy young adults with or without the histocompatibility antigen HLA-B8. Mononuclear cell counts were lower in subjects with HLA-B8, as was reflected in lower absolute numbers of the cell subsets. When cell populations were compared as percentages of total mononuclear cells, subjects with HLA-B8 had significantly more B lymphocytes bearing IgM than did subjects without HLA-B8. The T4/T8 ratio was significantly increased in subjects with HLA-B8. due both to increases in OKT4+ cells and to decrease in OKT8+ cells. B-Lymphocyte function was compared in subjects with and without HLA-B8 by measuring pokeweed mitogen driven differentiation of B cells to IgM bearing blasts, and was significantly greater in subjects with HLA-B8. Subjects with HLA-B8. Subjects with HLA-B8 were also found to have decreased Con A-induced suppression. Alterations in lymphocyte subsets and lymphocyte functions may underlie the predisposition to autoimmunity associated with HLA-B8.
15888249 | HLA-E up-regulation induced by HIV infection may directly contribute to CD94-mediated impairment of NK cells. Alterations in NK cell numbers and function have been repeatedly shown during HIV infection. In this study, NK cell number and MHC class I expression on CD4+ T cells were studied in HIV patients at different stages of disease progression. An increased expression of HLA-E was seen on CD4+ T cells. In parallel, a reduced number of CD94+ NK cells was observed in advanced disease stages. Moreover, a decline in CD94 expression on NK cells was observed at the HIV replication peak in patients undergoing antiretroviral treatment interruption, suggesting a role of viral replication on NK cells alterations. In vitro HIV infection induced a rapid down-regulation of HLA-A,B,C expression, paralleled by an increased expression of HLA-E surface molecules, the formal ligands of CD94 NK receptors. HIV-infected HLA-E expressing cells were able to inhibit NK cell cytotoxicity through HLA-E expression, since cytotoxicity was restored by antibody masking experiments. These data indicate that the CD94/HLA-E interaction may contribute to NK cell dysfunction in HIV infection, suggesting a role of HIV replication in this process.
34791493 | Neurodegenerative disease in association with sexual transmission of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 2 subtype b in Argentina. BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to show that human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 2 (HTLV-2) infection produces symptoms resembling those described for HTLV-1-associated myeloneuropathy and to highlight the role of sexual transmission in the silent dissemination of HTLV-2. METHODS: Patient samples were tested by particle agglutination and indirect immunofluorescence assay. The HTLV type was defined by molecular techniques. Nucleotide sequence analysis of HTLV-2 long terminal repeat region, T cell CD3/CD4 and T cell CD3/CD8 counts and typing of human leucocyte antigen (HLA) alleles A, B, C and DRB1 were also performed. RESULTS: HTLV-2 subtype b infection was confirmed in two blood donors and their sexual partners. Two patients exhibited distinctive signs and symptoms of progressive neurological disease. Three infected patients carried HLA-C*04. Both patients with neurological disease also carried HLA-A*31 and HLA-DRB1*07 alleles. CONCLUSIONS: Herein we describe for the first time sexual transmission of HTLV-2 in a non-endemic region of Argentina, highlighting the relevance of this transmission route in HTLV-2 silent dissemination out of the clusters of endemicity. We also provide evidence that HTLV-2 infection causes symptoms resembling those described for HTLV-1-associated myeloneuropathy. The evidence presented herein points to the critical need for public health strategies to reduce the spread of this neglected infection.
33459635 | Weight gain during pregnancy in women with HIV receiving different antiretroviral regimens. BACKGROUND: No published studies have evaluated in pregnant women with HIV weight gain with different antiretroviral drug classes. METHODS: Data from a national cohort study were used. We compared absolute weight gain and occurrence of excessive weight gain in women with HIV who received during pregnancy integrase inhibitors (INSTI), protease inhibitors (PI), or non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTI). Excessive weight gain was defined according to the Institute of Medicine recommendations. Possible predictors of weight gain were assessed using univariate and multivariate analyses. RESULTS: Among 273 cases (PI: 191, NNRTI: 43, INSTI: 39), the mean weight increase was 11.3 kg, and 25.4% of the mothers had an excessive weight increase. No significant differences were found among the three treatment groups for absolute weight increase, occurrence of excessive weight gain, infant birthweight, and other pregnancy and laboratory outcomes. The comparisons of individual drugs, although based on a limited number of cases, suggested no major differences. A significant positive correlation was found between weight gain and CD4+ T-cell increase during pregnancy. In multivariate analyses, drug class and nucleoside backbone were not associated with absolute or excessive weight increase. Excessive weight increase was significantly associated with week of delivery (adjusted odds ratio: 1.74, 95% CI 1.15, 2.63), obesity (5.21, 95% CI 1.85, 14.64), overweight (7.95, 95% CI 3.26, 19.39), recent substance use (5.96, 95% CI 1.13, 31.40) and fasting 2nd trimester hyperglycaemia (3.94, 95% CI 1.14, 13.65). CONCLUSIONS: No significant differences in absolute weight change or occurrence of excessive weight gain were found among women with HIV who received during pregnancy different classes of antiretroviral drugs.
26782362 | Correlation Between the Expression of MicroRNA-301a-3p and the Proportion of Th17 Cells in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by chronic synovial inflammation and subsequent joint destruction. Previous studies have confirmed that Th17 cells play a critical role in the pathogenesis of RA. MicroRNA (miR)-301a-3p is a regulatory factor for Th17 cells differentiation that contributes to the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. The purposes of this study were to identify the alteration of Th17 cells and analyze the correlation between the expression of the miR-301a-3p and the proportion of Th17 cells in RA patients. The results showed that the frequency of Th17 cells and the expression of transcription factors (RORgammat and STAT3) significantly increased in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from RA patients, and the associated proinflammatory cytokines were also upregulated. We also observed that the expression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3), the main cellular inhibitor of STAT3, was attenuated in RA patients and negatively correlated with the percentage of Th17 cells in RA. Interestingly, miR-301a-3p, an inhibitor of PIAS3 expression, was overexpressed in the PBMCs from RA patients and positively correlated with the frequency of Th17 cells in patients with RA. Taken together, these data indicated that miR-301a-3p and Th17 cells were augmented in peripheral blood, which may play an important role in the process of RA.
36465028 | HLA-B*57 and B*58 Associate with Predictors of Reservoir Size in an Acutely Treated HIV Cohort. Much has been learnt about the role of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles during natural infection of HIV-1, but far less is known about their role in people living with HIV (PLWH) on suppressive antiretroviral therapy (ART). In this study we used variable selection to identify predictors of HIV reservoir size, as measured by total HIV DNA in 192 participants in an acute HIV infection (AHI) cohort. Baseline clinical data including pre-ART CD4 T cell counts and plasma viral load (VL) were available from all participants along with longitudinal measurements after ART initiation during AHI. Time to VL suppression, time to CD4 reconstitution, and pre-ART viremia were the strongest predictors of undetectable total HIV DNA at 24 weeks after ART initiation. We next performed HLA typing in 526 participants from the same cohort and investigated associations with the three predictors of reservoir size. HLA-B*57 and B*58 both associated significantly with time to VL suppression, which was one of the predictors of the size of the HIV reservoir. These findings are significant in PLWH and have to be considered in the context of therapeutic intervention when conducting analytic treatment interruption studies as participants with these alleles could impact clinical findings given the small sizes of these studies.
23417963 | NKG2D stimulated T-cell autoreactivity in giant cell arteritis and polymyalgia rheumatica. OBJECTIVE: To investigate functional expression of NKG2D on CD4 and CD8 T-cells in patients with giant cell arteritis (GCA) and polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR). METHODS: Peripheral blood was drawn from patients with GCA (n=16), PMR (n=78) and healthy controls (HC, n=64). Tissue samples were obtained from GCA patients and controls. Proliferation and cytokine production assays were performed using CFSE and intracellular IFN-gamma or TNF-alpha staining, respectively, and flow cytometry analysis. Immunofluorescence and immunohistology were applied to analyse the presence of NKG2D-expressing T-cells and NKG2D-ligands in temporal arteries, respectively. mRNA levels of NKG2D-ligands were determined by RT-PCR. RESULTS: In both GCA and PMR patients, NKG2D was preferentially expressed on senescent CD4CD28(-) and CD8CD28(-), as well as on CD8CD28 T-cells. Frequencies of senescent T-cells were increased in GCA and PMR patients compared to HC. In GCA tissue samples, infiltrating T-cells were predominately CD28(-). NKG2D expressing T-cells concentrated around the vasa vasorum of the adventitia. Antigenic stimulation induced rapid up-regulation of NKG2D on CD4CD28(-) and CD4CD28 T-cells, whereas TNF-alpha and interleukin-15 enhanced NKG2D expression on senescent CD4 and CD8 T-cells only. NKG2D cross-linkage augmented anti-CD3 triggered proliferation, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha production of CD8 T-cells. In CD4CD28(-) T-cells, NKG2D ligation resulted in increased IFN-gamma production only. NKG2D ligands were expressed in temporal arteries from GCA patients, particularly in the adventitial and medial layers of affected vessels. CONCLUSIONS: NKG2D is functionally expressed on CD4CD28(-) and CD8 T-cells in GCA and PMR. NKG2D-ligands are present in temporal arteries and may co-stimulate NKG2D expressing T-cells.
23947399 | Substantial increase in the frequency of circulating CD4+NKG2D+ T cells in patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 1. BACKGROUND: The NKG2D receptor confers important activating signals to NK cells via ligands expressed during cellular stress and viral infection. This receptor has generated great interest because not only is it expressed on NK cells, but it is also seen in virtually all CD8+ cytotoxic T cells and is classically considered absent in CD4+ T cells. However, recent studies have identified a distinctive population of CD4+ T cells that do express NKG2D, which could represent a particular cytotoxic effector population involved in viral infections and chronic diseases. On the other hand, increased incidence of human papillomavirus-associated lesions in CD4+ T cell-immunocompromised individuals suggests that CD4+ T cells play a key role in controlling the viral infection. Therefore, this study was focused on identifying the frequency of NKG2D-expressing CD4+ T cells in patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 1. Additionally, factors influencing CD4+NKG2D+ T cell expansion were also measured. RESULTS: Close to 50% of patients with CIN 1 contained at least one of the 37 HPV types detected by our genotyping system. A tendency for increased CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells and decreased NK cells was found in CIN 1 patients. The percentage of circulating CD4+ T cells co-expressing the NKG2D receptor significantly increased in women with CIN 1 versus control group. Interestingly, the increase of CD4+NKG2D+ T cells was seen in patients with CIN 1, despite the overall levels of CD4+ T cells did not significantly increase. We also found a significant increase of soluble MICB in CIN 1 patients; however, no correlation with the presence of CD4+NKG2D+ T cells was seen. While TGF-beta was significantly decreased in the group of CIN 1 patients, both TNF-alpha and IL-15 showed a tendency to increase in this group. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our results suggest that the significant increase within the CD4+NKG2D+ T cell population in CIN 1 patients might be the result of a chronic exposure to viral and/or pro-inflammatory factors, and concomitantly might also influence the clearance of CIN 1-type lesion.
32665270 | Convergent Evolution of HLA-C Downmodulation in HIV-1 and HIV-2. HLA-C-mediated antigen presentation induces the killing of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected CD4+ T cells by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). To evade killing, many HIV-1 group M strains decrease HLA-C surface levels using their accessory protein Vpu. However, some HIV-1 group M isolates lack this activity, possibly to prevent the activation of natural killer (NK) cells. Analyzing diverse primate lentiviruses, we found that Vpu-mediated HLA-C downregulation is not limited to pandemic group M but is also found in HIV-1 groups O and P as well as several simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIVs). We show that Vpu targets HLA-C primarily at the protein level, independently of its ability to suppress NF-kappaB-driven gene expression, and that in some viral lineages, HLA-C downregulation may come at the cost of efficient counteraction of the restriction factor tetherin. Remarkably, HIV-2, which does not carry a vpu gene, uses its accessory protein Vif to decrease HLA-C surface expression. This Vif activity requires intact binding sites for the Cullin5/Elongin ubiquitin ligase complex but is separable from its ability to counteract APOBEC3G. Similar to HIV-1 Vpu, the degree of HIV-2 Vif-mediated HLA-C downregulation varies considerably among different virus isolates. In agreement with opposing selection pressures in vivo, we show that the reduction of HLA-C surface levels by HIV-2 Vif is accompanied by increased NK cell-mediated killing. In summary, our results highlight the complex role of HLA-C in lentiviral infections and demonstrate that HIV-1 and HIV-2 have evolved at least two independent mechanisms to decrease HLA-C levels on infected cells.IMPORTANCE Genome-wide association studies suggest that HLA-C expression is a major determinant of viral load set points and CD4+ T cell counts in HIV-infected individuals. On the one hand, efficient HLA-C expression enables the killing of infected cells by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). On the other hand, HLA-C sends inhibitory signals to natural killer (NK) cells and enhances the infectivity of newly produced HIV particles. HIV-1 group M viruses modulate HLA-C expression using the accessory protein Vpu, possibly to balance CTL- and NK cell-mediated immune responses. Here, we show that the second human immunodeficiency virus, HIV-2, can use its accessory protein Vif to evade HLA-C-mediated restriction. Furthermore, our mutational analyses provide insights into the underlying molecular mechanisms. In summary, our results reveal how the two human AIDS viruses modulate HLA-C, a key component of the antiviral immune response.
32724101 | Neonatal genetics of gene expression reveal potential origins of autoimmune and allergic disease risk. Chronic immune-mediated diseases of adulthood often originate in early childhood. To investigate genetic associations between neonatal immunity and disease, we map expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) in resting myeloid cells and CD4+ T cells from cord blood samples, as well as in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or phytohemagglutinin (PHA) stimulation, respectively. Cis-eQTLs are largely specific to cell type or stimulation, and 31% and 52% of genes with cis-eQTLs have response eQTLs (reQTLs) in myeloid cells and T cells, respectively. We identified cis regulatory factors acting as mediators of trans effects. There is extensive colocalisation between condition-specific neonatal cis-eQTLs and variants associated with immune-mediated diseases, in particular CTSH had widespread colocalisation across diseases. Mendelian randomisation shows causal neonatal gene expression effects on disease risk for BTN3A2, HLA-C and others. Our study elucidates the genetics of gene expression in neonatal immune cells, and aetiological origins of autoimmune and allergic diseases.
34341013 | Immune Responses Vary in Preinvasive Colorectal Lesions by Tumor Location and Histology. Immune responses vary in colorectal cancers, which strongly influence prognosis. However, little is known about the variance in immune response within preinvasive lesions. The study aims to investigate how the immune contexture differs by clinicopathologic features (location, histology, dysplasia) associated with progression and recurrence in early carcinogenesis. We performed a cross-sectional study using preinvasive lesions from the surgical pathology laboratory at the Medical University of South Carolina. We stained the tissues with immunofluorescence antibodies, then scanned and analyzed expression using automated image analysis software. We stained CD117 as a marker of mast cells, CD4/RORC to indicate Th17 cells, MICA/B as a marker of NK-cell ligands, and also used antibodies directed against cytokines IL6, IL17A, and IFNgamma. We used negative binomial regression analysis to compare analyte density counts by location, histology, degree of dysplasia adjusted for age, sex, race, and batch. All immune markers studied (except IL17a) had significantly higher density counts in the proximal colon than distal colon and rectum. Increases in villous histology were associated with significant decreases in immune responses for IL6, IL17a, NK ligand, and mast cells. No differences were observed in lesions with low- and high-grade dysplasia, except in mast cells. The lesions of the proximal colon were rich in immune infiltrate, paralleling the responses observed in normal mucosa and invasive disease. The diminishing immune response with increasing villous histology suggests an immunologically suppressive tumor environment. Our findings highlight the heterogeneity of the immune responses in preinvasive lesions, which may have implications for prevention strategies. PREVENTION RELEVANCE: Our study is focused on immune infiltrate expression in preinvasive colorectal lesions; our results suggest important differences by clinicopathologic features that have implications for immune prevention research.
26041808 | NKG2D Receptor and Its Ligands in Host Defense. NKG2D is an activating receptor expressed on the surface of natural killer (NK) cells, CD8(+) T cells, and subsets of CD4(+) T cells, invariant NKT cells (iNKT), and gammadelta T cells. In humans, NKG2D transmits signals by its association with the DAP10 adapter subunit, and in mice alternatively spliced isoforms transmit signals either using DAP10 or DAP12 adapter subunits. Although NKG2D is encoded by a highly conserved gene (KLRK1) with limited polymorphism, the receptor recognizes an extensive repertoire of ligands, encoded by at least eight genes in humans (MICA, MICB, RAET1E, RAET1G, RAET1H, RAET1I, RAET1L, and RAET1N), some with extensive allelic polymorphism. Expression of the NKG2D ligands is tightly regulated at the level of transcription, translation, and posttranslation. In general, healthy adult tissues do not express NKG2D glycoproteins on the cell surface, but these ligands can be induced by hyperproliferation and transformation, as well as when cells are infected by pathogens. Thus, the NKG2D pathway serves as a mechanism for the immune system to detect and eliminate cells that have undergone \stress.\ Viruses and tumor cells have devised numerous strategies to evade detection by the NKG2D surveillance system, and diversification of the NKG2D ligand genes likely has been driven by selective pressures imposed by pathogens. NKG2D provides an attractive target for therapeutics in the treatment of infectious diseases, cancer, and autoimmune diseases.
37063893 | Uncovering the significance of expanded CD8+ large granular lymphocytes in inclusion body myositis: Insights into T cell phenotype and functional alterations, and disease severity. Introduction: Inclusion body myositis (IBM) is a progressive inflammatory myopathy characterised by skeletal muscle infiltration and myofibre invasion by CD8+ T lymphocytes. In some cases, IBM has been reported to be associated with a systemic lymphoproliferative disorder of CD8+ T cells exhibiting a highly differentiated effector phenotype known as T cell Large Granular Lymphocytic Leukemia (T-LGLL). Methods: We investigated the incidence of a CD8+ T-LGL lymphoproliferative disorder in 85 IBM patients and an aged-matched group of 56 Healthy Controls (HC). Further, we analysed the phenotypical characteristics of the expanded T-LGLs and investigated whether their occurrence was associated with any particular HLA alleles or clinical characteristics. Results: Blood cell analysis by flow cytometry revealed expansion of T-LGLs in 34 of the 85 (40%) IBM patients. The T cell immunophenotype of T-LGLHIGH patients was characterised by increased expression of surface molecules including CD57 and KLRG1, and to a lesser extent of CD94 and CD56 predominantly in CD8+ T cells, although we also observed modest changes in CD4+ T cells and gammadelta T cells. Analysis of Ki67 in CD57+ KLRG1+ T cells revealed that only a small proportion of these cells was proliferating. Comparative analysis of CD8+ and CD4+ T cells isolated from matched blood and muscle samples donated by three patients indicated a consistent pattern of more pronounced alterations in muscles, although not significant due to small sample size. In the T-LGLHIGH patient group, we found increased frequencies of perforin-producing CD8+ and CD4+ T cells that were moderately correlated to combined CD57 and KLRG1 expression. Investigation of the HLA haplotypes of 75 IBM patients identified that carriage of the HLA-C*14:02:01 allele was significantly higher in T-LGLHIGH compared to T-LGLLOW individuals. Expansion of T-LGL was not significantly associated with seropositivity patient status for anti-cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase 1A autoantibodies. Clinically, the age at disease onset and disease duration were similar in the T-LGLHIGH and T-LGLLOW patient groups. However, metadata analysis of functional alterations indicated that patients with expanded T-LGL more frequently relied on mobility aids than T-LGLLOW patients indicating greater disease severity. Conclusion: Altogether, these results suggest that T-LGL expansion occurring in IBM patients is correlated with exacerbated immune dysregulation and increased disease burden.
38345618 | The COVID-19 lockdown experience suggests that restricting the supply of gambling can reduce gambling problems: An Australian prospective study. Background and aims: COVID-19 lockdowns limited access to gambling but simultaneously elevated psychosocial stressors. This study assessed the relative effects of these changes on gambling risk status during and after the Australian COVID-19 lockdown from late-March to late-May 2020. Methods: The study administered three surveys to people who had gambled within the past year at T1. Wave 1 asked about before (T1, N = 2,125) and during lockdown (T2, N = 2,125). Subsequent surveys focused on one year (T3; N = 649) and two years after lockdown (T4, N = 458). The dependent variable was changes in reporting any problem gambling symptoms (PGSI 0 vs 1+). Bivariate analyses and multinomial logistic regression tested for significant associations with: demographics, psychosocial stressors (perceived stress, psychological distress, loneliness, health anxiety about COVID, financial hardship, stressful life events), gambling participation and gambling frequency. Results: Gambling participation and at-risk gambling decreased between T1 and T2, increased at T3, with little further change at T4. When gambling availability was curtailed, decreased gambling frequency on EGMs, casino games, sports betting or race betting, and lower psychosocial stress, were associated with transitions from at-risk to non-problem gambling. When gambling availability resumed, increased EGM gambling frequency, decreased online gambling frequency, and higher psychosocial stress were associated with transitions from non-problem to at-risk gambling. Discussion and conclusions: Gambling availability appears a stronger influence on gambling problems, at the population level, than psychosocial risk factors. Reducing the supply of high-risk gambling products, particularly EGMs, is likely to reduce gambling harm.
25353832 | Interplay between the mechanics of bacteriophage fibers and the strength of virus-host links. Viral fibers play a central role in many virus infection mechanisms since they recognize the corresponding host and establish a mechanical link to its surface. Specifically, bacteriophages have to anchor to bacteria through the fibers surrounding the tail before starting the viral DNA translocation into the host. The protein gene product (gp) 37 from bacteriophage T4 long tail fibers forms a fibrous parallel homotrimer located at the distal end of the long tail fibers. Biochemical data indicate that, at least, three of these fibers are required for initial host cell interaction but do not reveal why three and no other numbers are required. By using atomic force microscopy, we obtained high-resolution images of gp37 fibers adsorbed on a mica substrate in buffer conditions and probed their local mechanical properties. Our experiments of radial indentation at the nanometer scale provided a radial stiffness of ~ 0.08 N/m and a breaking force of ~ 120 pN. In addition, we performed finite element analysis and determined a Young's modulus of ~ 20 MPa. From these mechanical parameters, we hypothesize that three viral fibers provide enough mechanical strength to prevent a T4 virus from being detached from the bacteria by the viral particle Brownian motion, delivering a biophysical justification for the previous biochemical data.
16803194 | Size effects under a strong magnetic field: Hall effect induced by electron-surface scattering on thin gold films deposited onto mica substrates under high vacuum. We report measurements of the Hall effect performed on 4 gold films evaporated onto mica substrates where the signal arises primarily from electron-surface scattering. The measurements were performed at low temperatures T (4 K < or = T < or = 50 K) under high magnetic field strengths B (1.5 T < or = B < or = 9 T), with B oriented perpendicular to the films.
28169232 | Membrane-bound versus soluble major histocompatibility complex Class I-related chain A and major histocompatibility complex Class I-related chain B differential expression: Mechanisms of tumor eradication versus evasion and current drug development strategies. Major histocompatibility complex Class I-related chain A/chain B (MICA/MICB) is stress-inducible, highly polymorphic ligands whose expression at the transcript level has been detected in all tissues except the central nervous system. However, their restricted protein expression is due to their regulation at the posttranslational level. Its levels are elevated in virally infected and neoplastically transformed cells. Membrane expression of this NKG2DL marks the aberrant cells for elimination by those immune effector cells that express the cognate NKG2D receptor. Among the evasion strategies developed by tumors, the metalloprotease-dependent shedding of MICA/MICB from tumors (either the free or the exosome form) can contribute to the inhibition of cytolysis by the immune effector cells (all NK cells, most NKT cells; gammadelta CD8+ T cells and alphabeta CD8+ T cells, as well as some alphabeta CD4+ T cells). There are micro-RNA clusters that regulate surface expression and shedding. Polymorphic variants can be used as susceptibility/associative markers and can also possibly be used to correlate with tumor survival as well as staging/grading of tumors. Variations in the expression level require quantification of this marker for diagnostic/prognostic and therapeutic purposes. Mechanism-based studies would provide a better tumor-specific understanding of their relative roles in the processes of tumor cell elimination versus growth and progression. Last but not least, conventional, interlaboratory validated assays (for, e.g., antibody-based methods) should be replaced by robust, reproducible, feasible biophysics-based methods using tumor biopsies. Further, correlative DNA polymorphism-based studies can be done using biological fluids (for, e.g., human saliva) that can be sampled by minimally invasive means.
25754473 | Cell-specific RNA aptamer against human CCR5 specifically targets HIV-1 susceptible cells and inhibits HIV-1 infectivity. The C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) is a receptor expressed by T cells and macrophages that serves as a coreceptor for macrophage-tropic HIV-1. Loss of CCR5 is associated with resistance to HIV-1. Here, we combine the live-cell-based SELEX with high-throughput sequencing technology to generate CCR5 RNA aptamers capable of specifically targeting HIV-1 susceptible cells (as small interfering RNA [siRNA] delivery agent) and inhibiting HIV-1 infectivity (as antiviral agent) via block of the CCR5 required for HIV-1 to enter cells. One of the best candidates, G-3, efficiently bound and was internalized into human CCR5-expressing cells. The G-3 specifically neutralized R5 virus infection in primary peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and in vivo generated human CD4(+) T cells with a nanomolar inhibitory concentration 50%. G-3 was also capable of transferring functional siRNAs to CCR5-expressing cells. Collectively, the cell-specific, internalizing, CCR5-targeted aptamers and aptamer-siRNA conjugates offer promise for overcoming some of the current challenges of drug resistance in HIV-1 by providing cell-type- or tissue-specific delivery of various therapeutic moieties.
35074904 | Improved prognosis and evidence of enhanced immunogenicity in tumor and circulation of high-risk melanoma patients with unknown primary. BACKGROUND: Melanoma of unknown primary (MUP) represents a poorly understood group of patients both clinically and immunologically. We investigated differences in prognosis and candidate immune biomarkers in patients with unknown compared with those with known primary melanoma enrolled in the E1609 adjuvant trial that tested ipilimumab at 3 and 10 mg/kg vs high-dose interferon-alfa (HDI). PATIENTS AND METHODS: MUP status was defined as initial presentation with cutaneous, nodal or distant metastasis without a known primary. Relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) rates were estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Stratified (by stage) log-rank test was used to compare RFS and OS by primary tumor status. Gene expression profiling (GEP) was performed on the tumor biopsies of a subset of patients. Similarly, peripheral blood samples were tested for candidate soluble and cellular immune biomarkers. RESULTS: MUP cases represented 12.8% of the total population (N=1699) including 11.7% on the ipilimumab arms and 14.7% on the HDI arm. Stratifying by stage, RFS (p=0.001) and overall survival (OS) (p=0.009) showed outcomes significantly better for patients with unknown primary. The primary tumor status remained prognostically significant after adjusting for treatment and stage in multivariate Cox proportional hazards models. Including only ipilimumab-treated patients, RFS (p=0.005) and OS (p=0.023) were significantly better in favor of those with unknown primary. Among patients with GEP data (n=718; 102 MUP, 616 known), GEP identified pathways and genes related to autoimmunity, inflammation, immune cell infiltration and immune activation that were significantly enriched in the MUP tumors compared with known primaries. Further investigation into infiltrating immune cell types estimated significant enrichment with CD8 +and CD4+T cells, B cells and NK cells as well as significantly higher major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-I and MHC-II scores in MUP compared with known primary. Among patients tested for circulating biomarkers (n=321; 66 unknown and 255 known), patients with MUP had significantly higher circulating levels of IL-2R (p=0.04). CONCLUSION: Patients with MUP and high-risk melanoma had significantly better prognosis and evidence of significantly enhanced immune activation within the TME and the circulation, supporting the designation of MUP as a distinct prognostic marker in patients with high-risk melanoma.
35730281 | Triclustering method for finding biomarkers in human immunodeficiency virus-1 gene expression data. HIV-1 is a virus that destroys CD4 + cells in the body's immune system, causing a drastic decline in immune system performance. Analysis of HIV-1 gene expression data is urgently needed. Microarray technology is used to analyze gene expression data by measuring the expression of thousands of genes in various conditions. The gene expression series data, which are formed in three dimensions, are analyzed using triclustering. Triclustering is an analysis technique for 3D data that aims to group data simultaneously into rows and columns across different times/conditions. The result of this technique is called a tricluster. A tricluster is a subspace in the form of a subset of rows, columns, and time/conditions. In this study, we used the delta-Trimax, THD Tricluster, and MOEA methods by applying different measures, namely, transposed virtual error, the New Residue Score, and the Multi Slope Measure. The gene expression data consisted of 22,283 probe gene IDs, 40 observations, and four conditions: normal, acute, chronic, and non-progressor. Tricluster evaluation was carried out based on intertemporal homogeneity. An analysis of the probe ID gene that affects AIDS was carried out through this triclustering process. Based on this analysis, a gene symbol which is biomarkers associated with AIDS due to HIV-1, HLA-C, was found in every condition for normal, acute, chronic, and non-progressive HIV-1 patients.
24718277 | PIAS3 suppresses acute graft-versus-host disease by modulating effector T and B cell subsets through inhibition of STAT3 activation. Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) caused by transplanted donor T cells remains the major obstacle of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Previous reports have suggested that IL-17-producing helper T (Th17) cells mediate the development of acute GVHD (aGVHD). Protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS) inhibits the activity of the transcription factor STAT3, which is a pivotal transcription factor for Th17 differentiation. To elucidate whether PIAS3 could inhibit the development of aGVHD, pcDNA-PIAS3 or mock vector was administered in a murine model of aGVHD by intramuscular injection and subsequent electroporation. The results demonstrated that PIAS3 overexpression by pcDNA-vector administration significantly attenuated the clinical severity and histopathological severities of aGHVD involving the skin, liver, intestine, and lung. Additionally, the STAT3 activities in aGVHD target organs were suppressed by PIAS3 overexpression. Furthermore, phosphorylated (p) STAT3 activity in the spleen was profoundly attenuated in PIAS3-overexpressing GVHD mice. Interestingly, flow cytometric analysis demonstrated that the populations of CD21(high)CD23(low) marginal zone B cells were dramatically expanded in PIAS3-overexpressing mice. PIAS3-induced inhibition of aGVHD was largely related to the downregulation of Th1 and Th17 and the upregulation of Th2 and Treg populations. Both populations of pSTAT3(Tyr705)-expressing Th17 cells and B cells were significantly reduced in the spleens of PIAS3-overexpressing mice, whereas pSTAT5 activity was increased. In addition to CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) Treg cells, the populations of CD8(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) Treg cells were also expanded by treatment with PIAS3. These data suggest the therapeutic potential of PIAS3 in the development of aGVHD through reciprocal regulation of Th17/Treg lineages.
38465618 | Implementing Longitudinal Wellbeing Interventions and Evaluation Among Midwestern Healthcare Workers During COVID-19. BACKGROUND: The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the mental health of healthcare workers throughout the world has been reported, but most studies have been cross-sectional and excluded the Midwestern U.S. healthcare workforce. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to longitudinally assess the psychological wellbeing and wellness strategies used by a Midwestern academic health system's workforce at multiple points throughout waves of the COVID-19 pandemic to inform ongoing implementation of appropriate wellness activities. METHODS: An anonymous REDCap survey linked within our team-developed wellness education was posted in the employee online newsletter in April (T1), July (T2), October 2020 (T3), and May 2021 (T4). Surveys were open to all employees (approx. 9000) for approximately 12 days at each time point. Anxiety, depressive symptoms, stress, self-efficacy, and self-care activities were assessed. Following each data collection, team members discussed findings and planned wellness education implementation. RESULTS: Response ranged from n = 731 (T1) to n = 172 (T4). Moderate to severe stress was reported by 29.5% (n = 203) of respondents at T1 and 34.0% (n = 108) at T2. At T3, all psychological symptoms significantly increased (p < .001) as COVID-19 surged, with 48.5% (n = 141) of respondents reporting moderate to severe stress. At T4, stress significantly declined (p < .001). Exercise was the most frequently reported coping strategy. CONCLUSIONS: Mental health symptoms reported by a Midwestern healthcare workforce increased during surges of COVID-19 hospitalizations. Individuals in non-patient contact roles experienced symptom levels similar to and at times with greater severity than healthcare personnel with patient contact roles.
21841135 | Miz-1 is required to coordinate the expression of TCRbeta and p53 effector genes at the pre-TCR \beta-selection\ checkpoint. Miz-1 is a Broad-complex, Tramtrack and Bric-a-brac/pox virus zinc finger domain (BTB/POZ)-containing protein expressed in lymphoid precursors that can activate or repress transcription. We report in this article that mice expressing a nonfunctional Miz-1 protein lacking the BTB/POZ domain (Miz-1(DeltaPOZ)) have a severe differentiation block at the pre-T cell \beta-selection\ checkpoint, evident by a drastic reduction of CD4(-)CD8(-) double-negative-3 (DN3) and DN4 cell numbers. T cell-specific genes including Rag-1, Rag-2, CD3epsilon, pTalpha, and TCRbeta are expressed in Miz-1-deficient cells and V(D)J recombination is intact, but few DN3/DN4 cells express a surface pre-TCR. Miz-1-deficient DN3 cells are highly apoptotic and do not divide, which is consistent with enhanced expression of p53 target genes such as Cdkn1a, PUMA, and Noxa. However, neither coexpression of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl2 nor the deletion of p21(CIP1) nor the combination of both relieved Miz-1-deficient DN3/DN4 cells from their differentiation block. Only the coexpression of rearranged TCRalphabeta and Bcl2 fully rescued Miz-1-deficient DN3/DN4 cell numbers and enabled them to differentiate into DN4TCRbeta(+) and double-positive cells. We propose that Miz-1 is a critical factor for the beta-selection checkpoint and is required for both the regulation of p53 target genes and proper expression of the pre-TCR to support the proliferative burst of DN3 cells during T cell development.
31759187 | PACS1 is an HIV-1 cofactor that functions in Rev-mediated nuclear export of viral RNA. HIV-1 is dependent upon cellular proteins to mediate the many processes required for viral replication. One such protein, PACS1, functions to localize Furin to the trans-Golgi network where Furin cleaves HIV-1 gp160 Envelope into gp41 and gp120. We show here that PACS1 also shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm, associates with the viral Rev protein and its cofactor CRM1, and contributes to nuclear export of viral transcripts. PACS1 appears specific to the Rev-CRM1 pathway and not other retroviral RNA export pathways. Over-expression of PACS1 increases nuclear export of unspliced viral RNA and significantly increases p24 expression in HIV-1-infected Jurkat CD4+ T cells. SiRNA depletion and over-expression experiments suggest that PACS1 may promote trafficking of HIV-1 GagPol RNA to a pathway distinct from that of translation on polyribosomes.
37766162 | CD4+ T Cell Responses to Toxoplasma gondii Are a Double-Edged Sword. CD4+ T cells have been found to play critical roles in the control of both acute and chronic Toxoplasma infection. Previous studies identified a protective role for the Toxoplasma CD4+ T cell-eliciting peptide AS15 (AVEIHRPVPGTAPPS) in C57BL/6J mice. Herein, we found that immunizing mice with AS15 combined with GLA-SE, a TLR-4 agonist in emulsion adjuvant, can be either helpful in protecting male and female mice at early stages against Type I and Type II Toxoplasma parasites or harmful (lethal with intestinal, hepatic, and spleen pathology associated with a storm of IL6). Introducing the universal CD4+ T cell epitope PADRE abrogates the harmful phenotype of AS15. Our findings demonstrate quantitative and qualitative features of an effective Toxoplasma-specific CD4+ T cell response that should be considered in testing next-generation vaccines against toxoplasmosis. Our results also are cautionary that individual vaccine constituents can cause severe harm depending on the company they keep.
37456859 | A metagenome-wide association study of HIV disease progression in HIV controllers. Some HIV controllers experience immunologic progression with CD4+ T cell decline. We aimed to identify genetic factors associated with CD4+ T cell lost in HIV controllers. A total of 561 HIV controllers were included, 442 and 119 from the International HIV controllers Study Cohort and the Swiss HIV Cohort Study, respectively. No SNP or gene was associated with the long-term non-progressor HIV spontaneous control phenotype in the individual GWAS or in the meta-analysis. However, SNPs previously associated with natural HIV control linked to HLA-B (rs2395029 [p = 0.005; OR = 1.70], rs59440261 [p = 0.003; OR = 1.78]), MICA (rs112243036 [p = 0.011; OR = 1.45]), and PSORS1C1 loci (rs3815087 [p = 0.017; OR = 1.39]) showed nominal association with this phenotype. Genetic factors associated with the long-term HIV controllers without risk of immunologic progression are those previously related to the overall HIV controller phenotype.
35659704 | Enhanced immune activation within the tumor microenvironment and circulation of female high-risk melanoma patients and improved survival with adjuvant CTLA4 blockade compared to males. BACKGROUND: We hypothesized that a gender difference in clinical response may exist to adjuvant CTLA4 blockade with ipilimumab versus high-dose IFNalpha (HDI). We investigated differences in candidate immune biomarkers in the circulation and tumor microenvironment (TME). PATIENTS AND METHODS: This gender-based analysis was nested within the E1609 trial that tested adjuvant therapy with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg (ipi3) and 10 mg/kg (ipi10) versus HDI in high risk resected melanoma. We investigated gender differences in treatment efficacy with ipi3 and ipi10 versus HDI while adjusting for age, stage, ECOG performance (PS), ulceration, primary tumor status and lymph node number. Forest plots were created to compare overall survival (OS) and relapse free survival (RFS) between ipi and HDI. Gene expression profiling (GEP) was performed on tumors of 718 (454 male, 264 female) patients. Similarly, serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) samples were tested for soluble and cellular biomarkers (N = 321 patients; 109 female and 212 male). RESULTS: The subgroups of female, stage IIIC, PS = 1, ulcerated primary, in-transit metastasis demonstrated significant improvement in RFS and/or OS with ipi3 versus HDI. Female gender was significant for both OS and RFS and was further explored. In the RFS comparison, a multivariate Cox regression model including significant variables indicated a significant interaction between gender and treatment (P = 0.024). In peripheral blood, percentages of CD3+ T cells (P = 0.024) and CD3+ CD4+ helper T cells (P = 0.0001) were higher in females compared to males. Trends toward higher circulating levels of IL1beta (P = 0.07) and IL6 (P = 0.06) were also found in females. Males had higher percentages of monocytes (P = 0.03) with trends toward higher percentages of regulatory T cells (T-reg). Tumor GEP analysis supported enhanced infiltration with immune cells including gammadelta T cells (P = 0.005), NK cells (P = 0.01), dendritic cells (P = 0.01), CD4+ T cells (P = 0.03), CD8+ T cells (P = 0.03) and T-reg (P = 0.008) in the tumors of females compared to males and a higher T-effector and IFNgamma gene signature score (P = 0.0244). CONCLUSION: Female gender was associated with adjuvant CTLA4 blockade clinical benefits and female patients were more likely to have evidence of type1 immune activation within the TME and the circulation. Trial registration ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01274338. Registered 11 January 2011, https://www. CLINICALTRIALS: gov/ct2/show/NCT01274338.
33535183 | Value of KPNA4 as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for hepatocellular carcinoma. It is important to identify novel biomarkers to improve hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) diagnosis and treatment. Herein, we reported the role of karyopherin alpha4 (KPNA4) in HCC patients through public data mining and examined the results using clinical samples in our center. Our results revealed that KPNA4 expression level was positively correlated with the infiltration of CD8+ T cells, B cells, dendritic cells, CD4+ T cells, neutrophils and macrophages. In addition, KPNA4 expression was significantly associated with T cell exhaustion. KPNA4 mRNA and protein expression levels were significantly higher in cancerous tissue than in normal tissue. Besides, the increased expression of KPNA4 indicated poor overall survival. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses showed KPNA4 could be viewed as an independent risk factor for HCC patients. Moreover, our experimental results were consistent with those obtained from bioinformatic results. These findings revealed KPNA4 may serve as a novel prognostic biomarker and a potential therapeutic target for HCC.
38488328 | Dandruff lesional scalp skin exhibits epidermal T cell infiltration and a weakened hair follicle immune privilege. OBJECTIVE: Dandruff is characterised by the presence of perivascular leukocytes and mild inflammation; however, the immune microenvironment of dandruff-affected scalp skin and the potential changes to the hair follicle's (HF) physiological immune privilege (HF IP) remain unknown. Here, we characterised the HF immune microenvironment and immune privilege status in dandruff-affected scalp skin. METHODS: We assessed relevant key parameters in healthy versus dandruff-affected human scalp biopsies using quantitative immunohistomorphometry, laser capture microdissection, and RNA sequencing. RESULTS: The number of epidermal CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was increased in lesional dandruff scalp skin, while the number of MHC class II+ /CD1a+ Langerhans cells was decreased in the infundibulum. The number of intrafollicular and perifollicular CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells, perifollicular CD68+ macrophages, and tryptase+ mast cells remained unchanged. Interestingly, MHC class Ia and ss2-microglobulin protein expression were significantly increased specifically in the suprabulbar outer root sheath (ORS) compartment of dandruff-associated HFs. RNAseq analysis of laser capture micro-dissected suprabulbar ORS compartment revealed antigen presentation pathway as the top regulated canonical pathway, along with the upregulation of HF-IP genes such as HLA-C, HLA-DP, and TAP1, which are normally down-regulated in healthy HFs. Intrafollicular protein expression of known HF IP guardians (CD200 and alpha-MSH) and 'danger signals' (MICA and CXCL10) remained unaltered at the IP sites of dandruff lesional HFs compared to non-lesional and healthy HFs. Instead, the expression of macrophage migration inhibiting factor (MIF), another HF IP guardian, was reduced. CONCLUSION: Together, this work shows that dandruff is associated with epidermal T-cell infiltration and a weakened HF IP in the suprabulbar ORS of HFs in dandruff lesional scalp.
23596301 | Suppressed Th17 levels correlate with elevated PIAS3, SHP2, and SOCS3 expression in CD4 T cells during acute simian immunodeficiency virus infection. T helper 17 (Th17) cells play an important role in mucosal immune homeostasis and maintaining the integrity of the mucosal epithelial barrier. Loss of Th17 cells has been extensively documented during human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infections. The lack of effective repopulation of Th17 cells has been associated with chronic immune activation mediated by the translocation of microbial products. Using ex vivo analysis of purified peripheral blood CD4 T cells from SIV-infected rhesus macaques, we show that the suppression of interleukin-17 (IL-17) expression correlated with upregulated expression of negative regulatory genes PIAS3, SHP2, and SOCS3 in CD4 T cells. Suppressed Th17 expression was accompanied by elevated levels of soluble CD14 (sCD14) and lipopolysaccharide binding protein (LBP) in the plasma during early stages of infection. Plasma viral loads rather than sCD14 or LBP levels correlated with acute immune activation. Additionally, we observed a significant increase in the expression of CD14 on peripheral blood monocytes that correlated with IL-23 expression and markers of microbial translocation. Taken together, our results provide new insights into the early events associated with acute SIV pathogenesis and suggest additional mechanisms playing a role in suppression of Th17 cells.
17319998 | Otitis media in Brazilian human immunodeficiency virus infected children undergoing antiretroviral therapy. OBJECTIVE: To assess changes in the prevalence of otitis media, associated with the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy, in Brazilian human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected children. SETTING: Division of otorhinolaryngology, Hospital das Clinicas, Sao Paulo University Medical School, Brazil. PATIENTS: A cohort of 459 HIV-infected children aged below 13 years. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The prevalence of otitis media and the serum cluster of differentiation four glycoprotein T lymphocyte count were compared for children receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (with protease inhibitors) and those receiving standard antiretroviral therapy (without protease inhibitors). RESULTS: Otitis media was present in 33.1 per cent of the children. Children aged from zero years to five years 11 months receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy had a higher prevalence of acute otitis media (p=0.02) and a lower prevalence of chronic otitis media (p=0.02). Children who were receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy had a mean serum cluster of differentiation four glycoprotein T lymphocyte count greater than that of those who were receiving standard antiretroviral therapy (p<0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The use of highly active antiretroviral therapy in Brazilian HIV-infected children was associated with a lower prevalence of chronic otitis media.
38492406 | In silico prediction of CD8+ and CD4+ T cell epitopes in Leishmania major proteome: Using immunoinformatics. The leishmaniases are NDTs (neglected tropical diseases) that affect people all over the world. They are brought on by protozoans from the genus Leishmania and disseminated by phlebotomine flies that are afflicted with the disease. The best option to manage and lower the incidence of these diseases has been thought by the creation of a safe and effective vaccination. This research used an in silico based mining approach to look for high potential epitopes that might bind to MHC Class I and MHC Class II molecules (mainly; HLA-A*02:01 & HLA-DRB1*03:01) from human population in order to promote vaccine development. Based on the presence of signal peptides, GPI anchors, antigenicity predictions, and a subtractive proteomic technique, we have screened 17 putative antigenic proteins from the 8083 total proteins of L. major. After that thorough immunogenic epitope prediction were done using IEDB-AR tools. We isolated five immunogenic epitopes (three 9-mer & two 15-mer) from five antigenic proteins through docking and MD simulation analysis. Finally, these five anticipated epitopes, viz., TLPEIPVNV, ELMAPVFGL, TLAAAVALL, NSINIRLDGVTSAGF and NVPLVVDASSLFRVA have considerably stronger binding potential with their respective alleles and may trigger immunological responses. The goal of this work was to identify MHC restricted epitopes for CD8+ and CD4+ T cells activation using immunoinformatics in order to identify potential vaccine candidates against L. major parasites.
20351144 | Role of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in clearance of primary pulmonary infection with Coxiella burnetii. The mechanisms of the primary adaptive immune response to Coxiella burnetii are not well known. Following inoculation of the lungs with C. burnetii Nine Mile phase I (NMI), SCID mice developed pneumonia and splenomegaly and succumbed to infection, whereas wild-type mice cleared the infection by 24 days. SCID mice reconstituted with either CD4+ T cells or CD8+ T cells alone were able to control the infection, indicating that the presence of either type of T cells was sufficient to control infection, and B cells were not necessary for primary immunity. Similarly, wild-type mice depleted of either CD4+ T cells or CD8+ T cells controlled infections in their lungs, but these mice were highly susceptible if they were depleted of both types of T cells. However, compared to CD4+ T-cell-dependent protection, CD8+ T-cell-dependent protection resulted in less inflammation in the lungs and less growth of bacteria in the spleens.
36734675 | Design of a Hierarchical Assembly at a Solid-Liquid Interface Using an Asymmetric Protein Needle. Design and control of processes for a hierarchical assembly of proteins remain challenging because it requires consideration of design principles with atomic-level accuracy. Previous studies have adopted symmetry-based strategies to minimize the complexity of protein-protein interactions and this has placed constraints on the structures of the resulting protein assemblies. In the present work, we used an anisotropic-shaped protein needle, gene product 5 (gp5) from bacteriophage T4 with a C-terminal hexahistidine-tag (His-tag) (gp5_CHis), to construct a hierarchical assembly with two distinct protein-protein interaction sites. High-speed atomic force microscopy (HS-AFM) measurements reveal that it forms unique tetrameric clusters through its N-terminal head on a mica surface. The clusters further self-assemble into a monolayer through the C-terminal His-tag. The HS-AFM images and displacement analyses show that the monolayer is a network-like structure rather than a crystalline lattice. Our results expand the toolbox for constructing hierarchical protein assemblies based on structural anisotropy.
24266436 | Inhibition of R5-tropic HIV type-1 replication in CD4+ natural killer T cells by gammadelta T lymphocytes. After the development of highly active anti-retroviral therapy, it became clear that the majority of emergent HIV-1 is macrophage-tropic and infects CD4+, CCR5-expressing cells (R5-tropic). There are three distinct cell populations, R5-tropic, HIV-1-susceptible CD4+ cells: (i) natural killer T (NKT) cells, (ii) dendritic cells and macrophages, and (iii) tissue-associated T cells residing primarily at mucosal surfaces. We have confirmed that CD4+ NKT cells derived from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) predominantly express CCR5 rather than CXCR4, whereas the reverse is true for CD4+ T cells derived from circulating PBMCs, and that R5-tropic HIV-1 expands efficiently in the CD4+ NKT cells. Moreover, when PBMCs depleted of CD8alpha+ cells were stimulated in the presence of alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GalCer) and R5-tropic HIV-1 [NL(AD8)], the production of HIV-1 virions was not suppressed, whereas, similar to the untreated PBMCs, depletion of CD8beta+ cells from PBMCs significantly inhibited virion production. These findings suggest that CD8alphaalpha+ but not CD8alphabeta+ cells may have the ability to inhibit R5-tropic HIV-1 replication in CD4+ NKT cells. Here, we show that co-culturing R5-tropic HIV-1-infected CD4+ NKT cells with CD8alphaalpha+ gammadelta T cells, in particular Vgamma1Vdelta1 cells, but not with CD8alphaalpha+ NKT cells or CD8alphaalpha+ dendritic cells, inhibits HIV-1 replication mainly by secreting chemokines, such as macrophage inflammatory proteins 1alpha and 1beta and RANTES. Collectively, these results indicate the importance of CD8alphaalpha+ gammadelta T cells in the control of R5-tropic HIV-1 replication and persistence in CD4+ NKT cells.
31411976 | Immunological Risk Stratification of Bladder Cancer Based on Peripheral Blood Natural Killer Cell Biomarkers. BACKGROUND: Bladder cancer (BC) is highly immunogenic. Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) immunotherapy offers the best results in non-muscle-invasive BC (NMIBC). Natural killer cells (NKcs) play decisive roles in BCG-mediated immune response and in general cancer immune-surveillance. OBJECTIVE: To analyze killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs), their human leukocyte antigen class-I (HLA-I) ligands, and the expression of DNAX Accessory Molecule-1 (DNAM-1/CD226) on peripheral blood (PB) NKcs, to identify useful predictive biomarkers in BC. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: KIR/HLA-ligand genotypes were compared between 132 BC, 201 other solid cancers, 164 plasma cell disorders, and 615 healthy Caucasoid controls. CD226 expression was evaluated by flow cytometry. OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: KIR/HLA-I interactions and CD226 expression on NKcs (CD226high or CD226low) were compared across study groups, cancer stages, treatments, and progression-free and overall survival of patients, using chi-square, analysis of variance/post hoc, Kaplan-Meier/log-rank, and regression analyses. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Three immunological risk groups were identified: low risk (KIR2DL1-L2+L3-/C1C1- and KIR2DL1+L2+L3+/C1C1+), intermediate risk (rest), and high risk (KIR2DL5+/HLA-C*16+ and KIR2DL1+L2+L3-), which displayed different 10-yr progression-free rates (83.3%, 48.6%, and 0%, respectively; p<0.001) and survival rates (83.3%, 54.3%, and 6.2%, respectively; p<0.001) for muscle-invasive T2/T4, and 10-yr progression-free rates (100%, 81.6%, and 50%, respectively; p<0.05) for NMIBC-T1 treated with BCG. Immunological risk stratification had an independent prognostic value to just histological staging for survival (hazard ratio=2.93, p<0.00001, Harrell C-statistic=0.779). CD226 expression on PB NKcs improved immunological stratification in intermediate-risk T1-T4 BC patients, with survival rates of 94.1% and 66.7% for CD226high and CD226low (p<0.05), respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Immunological risk stratification will complement BC histopathology to improve risk stratification and guide the selection of personalized treatments. Understanding of the molecular mechanisms of NKc tumor immune surveillance will enable the development of future NKc-based therapies. PATIENT SUMMARY: This work describes a peripheral blood test that aids in our understanding of the immune defense mechanisms against bladder cancer, is useful for classifying patient risk, and will guide personalized treatments.
20966256 | The ligase PIAS1 restricts natural regulatory T cell differentiation by epigenetic repression. CD4(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T (T(reg)) cells are important for maintaining immune tolerance. Understanding the molecular mechanism that regulates T(reg) differentiation will facilitate the development of effective therapeutic strategies against autoimmune diseases. We report here that the SUMO E3 ligase PIAS1 restricts the differentiation of natural T(reg) cells by maintaining a repressive chromatin state of the Foxp3 promoter. PIAS1 acts by binding to the Foxp3 promoter to recruit DNA methyltransferases and heterochromatin protein 1 for epigenetic modifications. Pias1 deletion caused promoter demethylation, reduced histone H3 methylation at Lys(9), and enhanced promoter accessibility. Consistently, Pias1(-/-) mice displayed an increased natural T(reg) cell population and were resistant to the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Our studies have identified an epigenetic mechanism that negatively regulates the differentiation of natural T(reg) cells.
16037775 | Tuberculosis affecting the oral cavity in Brazilian HIV-infected patients. OBJECTIVE: Tuberculosis (TB) affecting the oral cavity is a very rare disease. We reviewed the medical data of 18 HIV(1)-infected patients referred to the Stomatology Group, Ear, Nose, and Throat Department, Sao Paulo University Medical School, who had a diagnosis of oral tuberculosis, between 1991 and 2002. This retrospective study aimed to analyze the relationship between oral tuberculosis and HIV infection. STUDY DESIGN: The clinical records of the patients were reviewed to note age and gender, symptoms, and site and type of the lesions in the oral mucosa. Results of CD4+ T-lymphocyte count, sputum analysis, tuberculin skin test, histopathologic characteristics, cultures of the specimens (that were taken during the biopsy), chest x-ray findings, and the type of treatment they received were also reviewed. RESULTS: The most affected sites were palate and tongue. All patients had culture confirming tuberculosis. CONCLUSION: Patients with HIV and nonhealing oral lesions or papillomatous masses in the oral mucosa should be screened for the presence of pulmonary tuberculosis.
35388299 | Mechanism of Sishen-Pill-Regulated Special Memory T and mTfh Cell via Involving JAK/STAT5 Pathway in Colitis Mice. It is known that memory T cells (mT cell) and memory T follicular cells (mTfh) play vital roles in the IBD pathogenesis. Sishen Pill (SSP) is a classic prescription used to treat chronic ulcerative colitis (UC). However, it is still unclear whether SSP can regulate immune homeostasis induced by mT cell and mTfh to treat IBD. In this study, we measured mT cell and mTfh level to explore the conceivable mechanism of SSP-treated IBD. The mice colitis were induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) and were treated by SSP for 7 days. The therapeutic effect of SSP was evaluated by macroscopic and microscopic observation; the mT cell, mTfh, and their subsets were analyzed by flow cytometry. Activation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway was analyzed by using a Western blot. In the present study, SSP significantly reversed weight loss and colonic injury (colon weight increase and colonic length shortening) caused by 3% DSS in physiological saline solution. Flow cytometry showed that the percentages of CD4+ and CD8+ expressions on central memory T cells were enhanced after SSP treatment, while the CD4+ T cm, CD4+ mTfh (memory T follicular helper) cells and their subpopulations were also significantly increased. Moreover, SSP inhibited the expression of JAK/STAT signaling pathway proteins JAK1, PIAS3, STAT5, p-STAT5, BIM, BAX, caspase-3, and beta-casein and promoted the expression of JAK3, PISA1, Bcl-2, and caveolin-1. In summary, SSP can regulate immune homeostasis induced by mT cell and mTfh in DSS-induced colitis, which is potentially correlated with JAK/STAT signaling pathway activation.
2415591 | Cell surface molecular changes on the activation of human thymocytes. The changes in the expression of antigen molecules on the cell surface membranes of uncultured (nonactivated) and activated human thymocytes have been studied by flow cytometry and immunoprecipitation techniques. Nonactivated thymocytes do not have the phenotypic profile of a resting population because they express cell proliferation molecules such as the transferrin receptor and the 4F2 antigens (mainly the 100,000 dalton subunit). After activation with IL 2-containing supernatants, mature T3+, T6- thymocytes proliferate and are able to nonspecifically kill different target cells. The activated thymocytes are T3+, T11+, T6-, OKM1- and bear T4 or T8 antigens in mutually exclusive cell subpopulations. They also \de novo\ express the IL 2 receptor, and the 210.000/130.000 molecular complex defined by the TS2/7 MAb. Activated human thymocytes express higher amounts of class I and class II MHC antigens, equal T3 and LFA-1, and lower quantities of T11 and T4 molecules than nonactivated thymocytes. Furthermore, activated thymocytes only express the T8 34,000 dalton polypeptide subunit, whereas the nonactivated thymocyte population expressed the T8 34,000 dalton associated with a 46,000 glycoprotein. We have demonstrated that this structural change in the T8 molecule from a complex of two polypeptide subunits of 46,000 and 32,000 does not indeed occur in the activation process but rather in the maturation from T6+ to T6- thymocytes.
37008329 | Genetic deficiency of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 suppresses experimental abdominal aortic aneurysms. Aim: Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling is critical for the pathogenesis of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). Though protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) negatively modulates STAT3 activity, but its role in AAA disease remains undefined. Method: AAAs were induced in PIAS3 deficient (PIAS3-/-) and wild type (PIAS3+/+) male mice via transient intra-aortic elastase infusion. AAAs were assessed by in situ measurements of infrarenal aortic external diameters prior to (day 0) and 14 days after elastase infusion. Characteristic aneurysmal pathologies were evaluated by histopathology. Results: Fourteen days following elastase infusion, aneurysmal aortic diameter was reduced by an approximately 50% in PIAS3-/- as compared to PIAS3+/+ mice. On histological analyses, PIAS3-/- mice showed less medial elastin degradation (media score: 2.5) and smooth muscle cell loss (media score: 3.0) than those in PIAS3+/+ mice (media score: 4 for both elastin and SMC destruction). Aortic wall leukocyte accumulation including macrophages, CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells and B cells as well as mural neovessel formation were significantly reduced in PIAS3-/- as compared to PIAS3+/+ mice. Additionally, PIAS3 deficiency also downregulated the expression levels of matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9 by 61% and 70%, respectively, in aneurysmal lesion. Conclusion: PIAS3 deficiency ameliorated experimental AAAs in conjunction with reduced medial elastin degradation and smooth muscle cell depletion, mural leukocyte accumulation and angiogenesis.
17142760 | Differential IFN-gamma stimulation of HLA-A gene expression through CRM-1-dependent nuclear RNA export. IFNs regulate most MHC class I genes by stimulating transcription initiation. As shown previously, IFN-gamma controls HLA-A expression primarily at the posttranscriptional level. We have defined two 8-base sequences in a 39-nucleotide region in the 3'-transcribed region of the HLA-A gene that are required for the posttranscriptional response to IFN-gamma. Stimulation of HLA-A expression by IFN-gamma requires nuclear export of HLA-A mRNA by chromosome maintenance region 1 (CRM-1). Treatment of cells with leptomycin B, a specific inhibitor of CRM-1, completely inhibited IFN-gamma induction of HLA-A. Expression of a truncated, dominant-negative form of the nucleoporin NUP214/CAN, DeltaCAN, that specifically interacts with CRM-1, also prevented IFN-gamma stimulation of HLA-A, providing confirmation of the role of CRM-1. Increased expression of HLA-A induced by IFN-gamma also requires protein methylation, as shown by the fact that treatment of SK-N-MC cells or HeLa cells with the PRMT1 inhibitor 5'-methyl-5'-thioadenosine abolished the cellular response to IFN-gamma. In contrast with HLA-A, IFN-gamma-induced expression of the HLA class Ib gene, HLA-E, was not affected by either 5'-methyl-5'-thioadenosine or leptomycin B. These results provide proof of principle that it is possible to differentially modulate the IFN-gamma-induced expression of the HLA-E and HLA-A genes, whose products often mediate opposing effects on cellular immunity to tumor cells, pathogens, and autoantigens.
36599262 | The impact of killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) genes and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I ligands on predisposition or protection against prostate cancer. Natural killer (NK) cell development largely depends on killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I ligands. In the current study, we investigated the role of KIR genes, HLA ligands, and KIR-HLA combinations in vulnerability or protection against prostate cancer (PC). To analyze the frequency of 16 KIR genes and 5 HLA ligands, polymerase chain reaction with sequence-specific primers (PCR-SSP) was conducted in 150 PC patients and 200 healthy controls (CNs). KIR2DL5 (p = 0.0346, OR = 0.606, CI = 0.3916-0.9336), KIR2DS5 (p = 0.0227, OR = 0.587, CI = 0.3793-0.9139), HLA-B Bw4Thr80 (p = 0.0401, OR = 0.3552, CI = 0.1466-0.9059), HLA Bw4 (p = 0.0190, OR = 0.4744, CI = 0.2656-0.8521), and T4 gene cluster (including KIR2DS5-2DL5-3DS1-2DS1 genes) (p = 0.0194, OR = 0.5575, CI = 0.3449-0.8938) had a lower frequency in the PC patients compared to the control group. Moreover, a lower frequency of the genotypes contacting activating KIR (aKIR) > inhibitory KIR (iKIR) (p = 0.0298, OR = 0.5291, CI = 0.3056-0.9174) and iKIR + HLA < aKIR + HLA (p = 0.0183, OR = 0.2197, CI = 0.0672-0.7001) in PC patients compared to the CNs implies a protective role for aKIR genes. In the case of KIR-HLA interactions, we detected a significant association between KIR3DS1+ + HLA-A Bw4+ (p = 0.0113, OR = 0.5093, CI = 0.3124-0.8416) and KIR3DL1- + HLA-A Bw4+ (p = 0.0306, OR = 0.1153, CI = 0.0106-0.6537) combinations and resistance to prostate cancer. In contrast, the presence of KIR3DL1 in the absence of HLA-A Bw4 (p = 0.0040, OR = 2.00, CI = 1.264-3.111), HLA Bw4 (p = 0.0296, OR = 2.066, CI = 1.094-3.906), and HLA-Bw4Thr80 (p = 0.0071, OR = 2.505, CI = 1.319-4.703) genes probably predisposes to prostate cancer. Carrying the CxT4 genotype in PC patients was positively associated with lower tumor grades (Gleason score <= 6) (p = 0.0331, OR = 3.290, and CI = 1.181-8.395). Altogether, our data suggest a protective role for aKIRs, HLA-B Bw4Thr80, and HLA Bw4 ligands as well as a predisposing role for certain KIR-HLA combinations in prostate cancer. The findings of this study offer new insight into the population's risk assessment for prostate cancer in men. Additionally, predicting immunotherapy response based on KIR-HLA combinations aids in implementing the most effective therapeutic approach in the early stages of the disease.
35186822 | Circulating Immune Cell Profile and Changes in Intravenous Immunoglobulin Responsiveness Over the Disease Course in Children With Kawasaki Disease. Kawasaki disease (KD) is an acute, self-limited febrile illness of young children. The etiology of KD remains to be poorly understood. There has been limited research on longitudinal examination of peripheral blood leukocytes for immune profiling particularly in relation to treatment response with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG). This study profiles immune cells at the time of diagnosis and over the disease course. In addition, we identified the characteristics of the immune cells in IVIG-responsive patients with KD. We enrolled patients diagnosed with KD between May 1, 2017, and January 1, 2020. Blood was taken at least three times from all enrolled patients: at diagnosis (before IVIG infusion) and immediately and 2 weeks after IVIG infusion. We evaluated the laboratory findings and results of flow cytometry analysis of immune cells at all stages, focusing on CD4+ T lymphocytes, CD8+ T lymphocytes, CD19+ B lymphocytes, granulocytes, classical monocytes, and natural killer (NK) cells. Non-febrile healthy controls (NFCs) and other febrile controls (OFCs) were also enrolled. A total of 68 patients were enrolled and divided into two groups according to IVIG resistance status: IVIG-responsive (n = 55) and IVIG-resistant (n = 13). The total fever duration was significantly longer in the IVIG-resistant group (9.7 +- 5.3 days) than in the IVIG-responsive group (6.7 +- 3.0 days; P = 0.02). There was a significant difference in intermediate CD14+CD16+ monocytes between KD patients and both NFC and OFCs; they were significantly higher and lower in KD patients than NFC and OFCs, respectively (P < 0.001). The levels of all three subtypes of NK cells were significantly lower in KD patients than in both NFC and OFCs (P < 0.001). Regarding IVIG responsiveness, CD14+CD16+ intermediate monocyte levels were significantly lower in the IVIG-resistant group (P < 0.001). In addition, CD56-CD16+ NK cell expression was significantly lower in the IVIG-resistant group than in the IVIG-responsive group (P = 0.002). In conclusion, our results suggest CD56-CD16+N NK cells and CD14+CD16+ intermediate monocytes might play an essential role in immunopathogenesis of KD. Further studies are warranted to explore the role of these subpopulations particularly for the observed association with coronary artery lesions (CAL) and treatment response.
37857526 | Vaccination with post-translational modified, homocitrullinated peptides induces CD8 T-cell responses that mediate antitumor immunity. BACKGROUND: Post-translational modification of proteins has the potential to alter the ability of T cells to recognize major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class -I and class-II restricted antigens, thereby resulting in altered immune responses. One such modification is carbamylation (homocitrullination) that results in the formation of homocitrulline (Hcit) residues in a non-enzymatic reaction of cyanate with the lysine residues in the polypeptide chain. Homocitrullination occurs in the tumor microenvironment and CD4-mediated immune responses to Hcit epitopes can target stressed tumor cells and provide a potent antitumor response in mouse models. METHODS: Homocitrullinated peptides were identified and assessed in vitro for HLA-A2 binding and in vivo in human leukocyte antigen (HLA) transgenic mouse models for immunogenicity. CD8 responses were assessed in vitro for cytotoxicity and in vivo tumor therapy. Human tumor samples were analyzed by targeted mass spectrometry for presence of homocitrullinated peptides. RESULTS: Homocitrullinated peptides from aldolase and cytokeratin were identified, that stimulated CD8-mediated responses in vivo. Modified peptides showed enhanced binding to HLA-A2 compared with the native sequences and immunization of HLA-A2 transgenic mice generated high avidity modification specific CD8 responses that killed peptide expressing target cells. Importantly, in vivo the homocitrullinated aldolase specific response was associated with efficient CD8 dependent antitumor therapy of the aggressive murine B16 tumor model indicating that this epitope is naturally presented in the tumor. In addition, the homocitrullinated aldolase epitope was also detected in human tumor samples. CONCLUSION: This is the first evidence that homocitrullinated peptides can be processed and presented via MHC-I and targeted for tumor therapy. Thus, Hcit-specific CD8 T-cell responses have potential in the development of future anticancer therapy.
3487021 | Characterization of effector cells in lymphocytotoxicity to autologous hepatocytes in HBsAg-positive and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis (CAH). Peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets involved in cytotoxicity to autologous hepatocytes have been characterized by isolation on antibody-coated Petri dishes in autoimmune and HBsAg-positive chronic active hepatitis (CAH). In autoimmune CAH and in HBsAg-positive CAH without HBcAg in liver tissue, cytotoxicity is sustained by non-T lymphocytes and is confined to M1-positive cells bearing Fc receptors: M1 cytotoxicity inhibition by adding aggregated IgG suggests that these cells are responsible for an antibody-dependent cell-mediated mechanism (ADCC). Moreover, when T-enriched fractions were separated in T4, T8 and 5/9 positive subsets, only the first one showed a significant cytotoxicity: T4 positive cells might act as cytotoxic T cells or might be involved in delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) reactions. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes in HBsAg-positive CAH with HBcAg in liver tissue are confined in T8 positive subset, while helper/inducer T cells (T4 positive or 5/9 positive) seem to play an important role only in the induction of cell-mediated injury against hepatocytes. The inhibition of T cell-cytotoxicity by preincubating liver cells with monoclonal antibody (Mab) anti-HLA AB and not with Mab anti-HLA DR or aggregated IgG supports the involvement of the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) expressed on the hepatocyte surface.
38038432 | A multi-epitope/CXCL11 prime/pull coronavirus mucosal vaccine boosts the frequency and the function of lung-resident memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and enhanced protection against COVID-19-like symptoms and death caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection. IMPORTANCE: Although the current rate of SARS-CoV-2 infections has decreased significantly, COVID-19 still ranks very high as a cause of death worldwide. As of October 2023, the weekly mortality rate is still at 600 deaths in the United States alone, which surpasses even the worst mortality rates recorded for influenza. Thus, the long-term outlook of COVID-19 is still a serious concern outlining the need for the next-generation vaccine. This study found that a prime/pull coronavirus vaccine strategy increased the frequency of functional SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4+ and CD8+ memory T cells in the lungs of SARS-CoV-2-infected triple transgenic HLA-DR*0101/HLA-A*0201/hACE2 mouse model, thereby resulting in low viral titer and reduced COVID-19-like symptoms.
34083274 | HLA-DR and CD74 Expression and the Immune Microenvironment in Renal Cell Carcinoma. BACKGROUND/AIM: Expression of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I and II and CD74, which functions as a chaperone of MHC class II, play essential roles in T-cell recognition. The aim of this study was to elucidate the association between the HLAs and CD74, and their correlation with the infiltrated immune cells in renal cell carcinoma (RCC). MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively investigated the expression of HLA-A/B/C, HLA-DR, and CD74 in 38 patients with advanced RCC (T3/T4), and evaluated their correlations with CD4 and CD8-positive T-cell infiltration using immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: The expression of HLA-A/B/C, HLA-DR, and CD74 on cancer cells was observed in 37, 20, and 31 patients, respectively. The density of CD8- and CD4-positive T cells showed a positive correlation with HLA-DR expression. The density of CD4-positive lymphocytes was significantly associated with CD74 expression. CONCLUSION: The expression of HLA-DR, rather than CD74, on cancer cells was potentially associated with the anti-cancer immune microenvironment.
12173433 | [Detection of DNA packing density in bacteriophages Phi KZ and T4 by atomic force microscopy]. Comparative analysis of DNA packing density in Phi KZ and T4 bacteriophages was carried out by atomic force microscopy. Irrespective of the support (mica or highly ordered pyrrolytic graphite), Phi KZ bacteriophage was compressed stronger than T4. The most probable causes of this difference are analyzed.
34928979 | Improved targeting of human CD4+ T cells by nanobody-modified AAV2 gene therapy vectors. Adeno-associated viruses (AAV) are considered non-pathogenic in humans, and thus have been developed into powerful vector platforms for in vivo gene therapy. Although the various AAV serotypes display broad tropism, frequently infecting multiple tissues and cell types, vectors for specific and efficient targeting of human CD4+ T lymphocytes are largely missing. In fact, a substantial translational bottleneck exists in the field of therapeutic gene transfer that would require in vivo delivery into peripheral disease-related lymphocytes for subsequent genome editing. To solve this issue, capsid modification for retargeting AAV tropism, and in turn improving vector potency, is considered a promising strategy. Here, we genetically modified the minor AAV2 capsid proteins, VP1 and VP2, with a set of novel nanobodies with high-affinity for the human CD4 receptor. These novel vector variants demonstrated improved targeting of human CD4+ cells, including primary human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and purified human CD4+ T lymphocytes. Thus, the technical approach presented here provides a promising strategy for developing specific gene therapy vectors, particularly targeting disease-related peripheral blood CD4+ leukocytes.
37398940 | Epithelioid inflammatory myofibroblastic sarcoma: a pitfall in the differential diagnosis of ALK-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma. An 18-year-old female presented with a 4.5 cm abdominal mass. Biopsy showed sheet-like growth of large tumor cells with round to oval nuclei, 1-2 nucleoli, and abundant cytoplasm. Immunohistochemistry showed strong, uniform CD30 staining and cytoplasmic ALK staining. B-cell markers (CD20, CD79a, PAX5, kappa/lambda) and T-cell markers (CD2, CD3, CD4, CD5, CD43, granzyme B, T-cell receptor-beta) were negative. Other hematopoietic markers (CD45, CD34, CD117, CD56, CD163, EBV) were negative, but CD138 was positive. Non-hematopoietic markers showed desmin positivity and negativity for S100, melan A, HBM45, PAX8, PAX2, WT1, MYO-D1, myogenin, pancytokeratin, and CAM5.2. Sequencing identified PRRC2B::ALK fusion. A diagnosis of epithelioid inflammatory myofibroblastic sarcoma (EIMS) was made. EIMS is a rare, aggressive form of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor typically presenting in children and young adults. The tumor comprises large epithelioid cells that express ALK and often CD30. ALK-positive ALCL has a similar age range and also is a large-cell tumor expressing CD30 and ALK. Other ALK-positive neoplasms (e.g., carcinomas, ALK-positive large B-cell lymphoma, ALK-positive histiocytosis) typically lack CD30 and have distinct clinicopathologic features that aid diagnosis. Hematopathologists need to distinguish EIMS from ALK-positive ALCL, which frequently shows loss of pan-T-cell antigens. Careful morphologic evaluation for the hallmark cells of ALCL and comprehensive phenotyping are critical to avoid this diagnostic pitfall. If known, the ALK rearrangement partner gene may also provide diagnostic clues; for example PRRC2B::ALK and RANBP2::ALK occur in EIMS but not ALCL.
37074725 | Characterization of Drug-Specific CD4+ T-Cells Reveals Possible Roles of HLA Class II in the Pathogenesis of Carbamazepine Hypersensitivity Reactions. Carbamazepine (CBZ) is an aromatic anticonvulsant known to cause drug hypersensitivity reactions, which range in severity from relatively mild maculopapular exanthema to potentially fatal Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS-TEN). These reactions are known to be associated with human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I alleles, and CBZ interacts preferentially with the related HLA proteins to activate CD8+ T-cells. This study aimed to evaluate the contribution of HLA class II in the effector mechanism(s) of CBZ hypersensitivity. CBZ-specific T-cells clones were generated from two healthy donors and two hypersensitive patients with high-risk HLA class I markers. Phenotype, function, HLA allele restriction, response pathways, and cross-reactivity of CBZ-specific T-cells were assessed using flow cytometry, proliferation analysis, enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The association between HLA class II allele restriction and CBZ hypersensitivity was reviewed using Allele Frequency Net Database. Forty-four polyclonal CD4+ CBZ-specific T-cell clones were generated and found to be restricted to HLA-DR, particularly HLA-DRB1*07:01. This CD4+-mediated response proceeded through a direct pharmacological interaction between CBZ and HLA-DR molecules. Similar to the CD8+ response, CBZ-stimulated CD4+ clones secreted granulysin, a key mediator of SJS-TEN. Our database review revealed an association between HLA-DRB1*07:01 and CBZ-induced SJS-TEN. These findings implicate HLA class II antigen presentation as an additional pathogenic factor for CBZ hypersensitivity reactions. Both HLA class II molecules and drug-responsive CD4+ T-cells should be evaluated further to gain better insights into the pathogenesis of drug hypersensitivity reactions.
36968223 | A Phase I Trial of VEGF-A Inhibition Combined with PD-L1 Blockade for Recurrent Glioblastoma. Purpose: The treatment of glioblastoma (GBM) poses challenges. The use of immune checkpoint inhibition (ICI) has been disappointing as GBM is characterized by low mutational burden and low T-cell infiltration. The combination of ICI with other treatment modalities may improve efficacy. Patient and Methods: Patients with recurrent GBM were treated with avelumab, a human IgG1 antibody directed against PD-L1 (part A), or avelumab within a week after laser interstitial thermal therapy (LITT) and continuation of avelumab (part B). Bevacizumab was allowed to be combined with ICI to spare steroid use. The primary objective was to characterize the tolerability and safety of the regimens. The secondary objectives included overall survival, progression-free survival (PFS), signatures of plasma analytes, and immune cells. Results: A total of 12 patients (median age 64; range, 37-73) enrolled, five in part A and seven in part B. Two serious adverse events occurred in the same patient, LITT treated, not leading to death. The median survival from enrollment was 13 months [95% confidence interval (CI), 4-16 months] with no differences for part A or B. The median PFS was 3 months (95% CI, 1.5-4.5 months). The decrease in MICA/MICB, gammadeltaT cells, and CD4+ T cell EMRA correlated with prolonged survival. Conclusions: Avelumab was generally well tolerated. Adding bevacizumab to ICI may be beneficial by lowering cytokine and immune cell expression. The development of this combinatorial treatment warrants further investigation. Exploring the modulation of adaptive and innate immune cells and plasma analytes as biomarker signatures may instruct future studies in this dismal refractory disease. Significance: Our phase I of PD-L1 inhibition combined with LITT and using bevacizumab to spare steroids had a good safety profile for recurrent GBM. Developing combinatory treatment may help outcomes. In addition, we found significant immune modulation of cytokines and immune cells by bevacizumab, which may enhance the effect of ICI.
36326273 | Immunological Control of HIV-1 Disease Progression by Rare Protective HLA Allele. Rare HLA alleles such as HLA-B57 are associated with slow progression to AIDS. However, the evidence for the advantage of rare protective alleles is limited, and the mechanism is still unclear. Although the prevalence of HLA-B*67:01 is only 1.2% in Japan, HLA-B*67:01-positive (HLA-B*67:01+) individuals had the lowest plasma viral load (pVL) and highest CD4 count in HIV-1 clade B-infected Japanese individuals. We investigated the mechanism of immunological control of HIV-1 by a rare protective allele, HLA-B*67:01. We identified six novel HLA-B*67:01-restricted epitopes and found that T cells specific for four epitopes were significantly associated with good clinical outcomes, pVL and/or CD4 count. The wild type or cross-reactive sequences of three protective and immunodominant Pol and Gag epitopes were found in around 95% of the circulating HIV-1, indicating that T cells specific for three conserved or cross-reactive epitopes contributed to good clinical outcomes. One escape mutation (Nef71K) in the Nef protective epitope, which was selected by T cells restricted by either HLA allele in the HLA-B*67:01-C*07:02 haplotype, affected the HLA-B*67:01-restricted RY11-specific T-cell recognition. These results imply that the further accumulation of the Nef71K mutation in the population will negatively affect the control of HIV-1 replication by RY11-specific CD8+ T cells in HIV-1-infected HLA-B*67:01+ individuals. The present study demonstrated that conserved or cross-reactive epitope-specific T cells mainly contribute to control of HIV-1 by a rare protective allele, HLA-B*67:01. IMPORTANCE HLA-B57 is a relatively rare allele around world and the strongest protective HLA allele in Caucasians and African black individuals infected with HIV-1. Previous studies suggested that the advantage of this allele in HIV-1 disease progression is due to a strong functional ability of HLA-B57-restricted Gag-specific T cells and lower fitness of mutant viruses selected by the T cells. HLA-B*57 is a very rare allele and has not been reported as a protective allele in Asian countries, whereas a rare allele, HLA-B*67:01, was shown to be a protective allele in Japan. Therefore, the analysis of HLA-B*67:01-restricted T cells is important to clarify the mechanism of immunological control of HIV-1 by a rare protective HLA allele in Asia. We found that HLA-B*67:01-restricted T cells specific for three conserved or cross-reactive Gag and Pol epitopes are associated with good clinical outcomes in HLA-B*67:01+ individuals. It is expected that T cells specific for conserved or cross-reactive epitopes contribute to a curing treatment.
38518705 | It's all in the hair: Association between changes in hair cortisol concentrations in reaction to the COVID-19 pandemic and post-traumatic stress symptoms in children over time. After exposure to a stressful/traumatic event, some individuals will develop post-traumatic stress symptoms (PTSS). In adults, low cortisol levels appear to be a risk factor for the development of PTSS. Indeed, both lower pre-trauma cortisol levels and low cortisol levels in the aftermath of a traumatic event have been associated with greater PTSS. In contrast, studies conducted in children showed that elevated cortisol levels shortly after trauma exposure are associated with more severe post-traumatic stress symptomatology. The few studies that have examined how pre-trauma cortisol levels predict PTSS in children have found no effect. Given that a pandemic can induce PTSS in certain individuals, we investigated whether cortisol secretion prior to and in the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic in Quebec (Canada) predicted PTSS in children. In June 2020, we collected a hair sample from 71 children (8-15 y/o, M = 11.65; 54.93% girls) without a history of psychopathology or exposure to previous traumatic events. Hair samples allowed us to derive cumulative measures of cortisol levels for the months prior to (from mid-December 2019 to mid-March 2020) and at the beginning of the pandemic (from mid-March 2020 to mid-June 2020). PTSS were assessed every 3 months between June 2020 (T1) and March 2021 (T4). The results showed that a greater increase in hair cortisol at the beginning of the pandemic predicted less PTSS at T1, with an increase in these symptoms over time. This study highlights the utility of using hair cortisol during future chronic stressful events to better understand its association with the evolution of distress.
28559015 | HLA traits linked to development of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma affect the progression-free survival of patients. BACKGROUND: Personalized medicine and treatment stratification of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) today mostly ignore genetic heterogeneity in HNSCC but especially the patient's genetic background. We hypothesized that particular human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I (HLA-A, B, Cw) and II proteins (DR, DQ) confer susceptibility for and influence development of HNSCC and may be prognostic factors for progression-free survival (PFS). METHODS: 90 consecutive HNSCC patients of the prospective observational cohort study LIFE treated between 08/2010 and 05/2011 at the University Leipzig underwent low resolution typing of HLA-A, B, Cw, DR, and DQ. Antigen and haplotype frequencies were compared to those in German blood donors. Effects on PFS were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves and Cox models. RESULTS: HNSCC patients had overall altered HLA-B frequencies (P<0.05); frequencies of B*44 were lower, those of B*13, B*52, and B*57 increased (P<0.05). Almost all other antigen frequencies showed no deviation. Homozygous HLA-Cw and DRB4 were frequent and associated with reduced PFS (P<0.05). Altered haplotype frequencies were common and particular haplotypes accompanied by differing PFS. B*13/Cw*06 carriers had poorest outcome (P=0.011). However, multivariate Cox proportional hazard models revealed 3 clinical covariates (localization oropharynx, loco-regional metastasis, and T4 category), HPV16-DNA positivity, and 10 HLA traits as independent predictors for PFS. CONCLUSIONS: The relevance of the genetic background of HNSCC patients calls for future research to clarify the role of HLA traits in HNSCC and if PFS depends on HLA.
24968746 | Sleeve gastrectomy is a safe and efficient procedure in HIV patients with morbid obesity: a case series with results in weight loss, comorbidity evolution, CD4 count, and viral load. BACKGROUND: The efficacy and safety of bariatric surgery have been poorly studied in patients affected with HIV. Although sleeve gastrectomy (SG) is the most widely used procedure in many countries, most of the published literature reported results with the gastric bypass (GBP) procedure on morbidly obese HIV patients. METHODS: We have evaluated retrospectively, in eight consecutive patients who underwent a SG, its effect in weight loss and its impact on the treatment and on the markers of HIV infection. RESULTS: Seven out of eight patients were females. The mean age was 46 years, with a median preoperative BMI of 42 kg/m(2). The mean duration of HIV infection and CD4 cell count were 13.4 years and 457 cells/mm(3), respectively. The mean weight loss was 37 kg in 20 months, the excess BMI loss was 80.8 +- 30.9 %, and the excess weight loss is 81.5 +- 28.9 % with one minor complication. CD4 counts were unchanged. Three patients had therapy modifications that were unrelated to bariatric surgery. Two patients had a therapeutic drug monitoring before and after the intervention. Plasma concentrations remained in therapeutic levels after the SG. Most comorbidities disappeared postoperatively, decreasing the cardiovascular risk. CONCLUSIONS: The sleeve gastrectomy was safe and effective with no consequences on CD4 counts and viral load in HIV-affected obese patients. It should be considered as a part of the treatment in morbidly obese HIV patients.
20855355 | Characterization of immune cell subsets during the active phase of multiple sclerosis reveals disease and c-Jun N-terminal kinase pathway biomarkers. BACKGROUND: Autoimmune activation and deregulated apoptosis of T lymphocytes are involved in multiple sclerosis (MS). c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) plays a role in T-cell survival and apoptosis. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this work was to investigate the role of the JNK-dependent apoptosis pathway in relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). METHODS: The immunomodulatory effect of AS602801, a JNK inhibitor, was firstly evaluated on activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from healthy volunteers (HVs) and secondly in unstimulated purified CD4+, CD8+ and CD11b+ cells from RRMS patients and HVs. Moreover JNK/inflammation/apoptosis related genes were investigated in RRMS and HV samples. RESULTS: In activated PBMCs from HVs, we showed that AS602801 blocked T-lymphocyte proliferation and induced apoptosis. In RRMS CD4+ and CD8+ cells, AS602801 induced apoptosis genes and expression of surface markers, while in RRMS CD11b+ cells it induced expression of innate immunity receptors and co-stimulatory molecules. Untreated cells from RRMS active-phase patients significantly released interleukin-23 (IL-23) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and expressed less apoptosis markers compared to the cells of HVs. Moreover, gene expression was significantly different in cells from RRMS active-phase patients vs. HVs. By comparing RRMS PBMCs in the active and stable phases, a specific genomic signature for RRMS was indentified. Additionally, CASP8AP2, CD36, ITGAL, NUMB, OLR1, PIAS-1, RNASEL, RTN4RL2 and THBS1 were identified for the first time as being associated to the active phase of RRMS. CONCLUSIONS: The analysis of the JNK-dependent apoptosis pathway can provide biomarkers for activated lymphocytes in the active phase of RRMS and a gene expression signature for disease status. The reported results might be useful to stratify patients, thereby supporting the development of novel therapies.
1433943 | [Cyclic thrombocytopenia with chronic thyroiditis and ankylosing spondylitis]. A 58-year-old man with cyclic thrombocytopenia who was initially diagnosed as idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), concomitant with chronic thyroiditis and ankylosing spondylitis, was reported. Serum level of T 3 (0.48 ng/ml) and T 4 (2.1 micrograms/ml) were both subnormal and that of TSH (257.1 microU/ml) was markedly elevated. Thyroid test (6400X) and microsome test (6400X) was both positive, but anti-nuclear antibodies were negative. Radiographic findings of lumbar spine showed the typical \bamboo spine\ and HLA B 27 was positive. Therapies for ITP, such as adrenocorticosteroids including steroid pulse therapy, high-dose intravenous gamma-globulin, danazol, slow infusion of vinca alkaloids and splenectomy, were only effective transiently. After these therapies platelet counts began to fluctuate from 0.4 X 10(10)/L to 34.4 X 10(10/L, therefore the diagnosis of cyclic thrombocytopenia was done. Interestingly low-dose methotrexate (MTX) was effective, and the cyclic fluctuation of platelet counts disappeared. These observations in this case were very suggestive of the pathogenesis of cyclic thrombocytopenia and mechanisms of cyclic change of platelet counts.
38343619 | The association between Long-COVID symptomology, perceived symptom burden and mental health in COVID-19 patients in Shijiazhuang, China: a population-based health survey. Background: Long-COVID (LC) refers to post-acute COVID-19 symptoms that can last for months or longer after the initial infection, affecting the physical health of infected patients. This study aims to investigate the association between the symptomology of LC and the mental health of patients in China. It also aims to examine the relationship between the perceived symptom burden and mental health of these patients. Methods: A population-based stratified cluster sample was recruited, using a standard sampling procedure, from a prefecture-level city in Northern China. Participants included patients who had tested positive for COVID-19 after December 2022. LC symptomology was assessed using a LC symptoms checklist where the perceived symptom burden was measured by the included 5-point Likert scales. Mental health of patients was measured using the Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scale (DASS), the original Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC), and the Duke-UNC Functional Social Support Questionnaire (DUFSS). Data were analysed using multiple linear regression models. Results: About 25% of respondents, experienced COVID symptoms lasting longer than two months that could only be explained by the infection. Post-exertional malaise (22.2%) and fatigue (21.2%) were the most common symptoms. After controlling for potential confounding variables, LC symptomology was significantly and positively associated with depression (t=2.09, p=0.037) and anxiety (t=4.51, p<0.001), but not stress. Perceived symptoms burden was also positively and significantly related to depression (beta=0.35, p<0.001), anxiety (beta=0.54, p<0.001), and stress (beta=0.35, p<0.001), suggesting a dose-response relationship between perceived symptom burden and mental ill health. Conclusion: This study highlights the importance of recognising the risk of LC, patients' perception of the symptom burden and its potential impact on mental health. Healthcare professionals should be aware of the complexity of psychological comorbidities among infected patients reporting prolonged symptoms, and be able to give advice regarding long-term management of the symptoms.
13678465 | Neurocognitive performance and quality of life in patients with HIV infection. We examined the relationship of HIV-related cognitive impairment and health-related quality of life (QoL). Subjects were administered measures of cognitive function (a battery of 17 neuropsychological tests) and of QoL (the MOS-HIV questionnaire). Study measures also included comprehensive clinical and neurological evaluation, laboratory testing, and brain imaging studies in patients with impaired neuropsychological evaluation. One-hundred and eleven subjects were examined. Cognitively impaired patients (33.3%) reported poorer QoL scores in all domains (p < 0.05): physical health summary score (PHS) (44.6 vs. 49.9), mental health summary score (MHS) (37.7 vs. 44.4), pain (67.6 vs. 79.4), physical functioning (75.9 vs. 87.7), role functioning (32.4 vs. 41.5), social functioning (70.3 vs. 83.5), mental health (48.2 vs. 61.0), energy (53.1 vs. 63.0), health distress (60.8 vs. 75.5), cognitive functioning (CF) (60.5 vs. 71.8), general health perceptions (29.2 vs. 43.4), and QoL (36.5 vs. 47.0). The number of altered neuropsychological tests correlated significantly with MHS (p < 0.001), PHS (p < 0.03), CF (p < 0.02), and QoL (p < 0.02) scores. A correlation between seven of seven neuropsychological measures exploring speed of mental processing, three of four exploring mental flexibility, four of six exploring memory, and two of two exploring fine motor functioning and MHS, PHS, CF, or QoL scores was also found. Poor performance on the Digit Symbol test was most strongly associated with poor MHS (OR 1.04, 95% CI 1.01-1.08, p < 0.009) and PHS (OR 1.04, 95% CI 1.01-1.08, p < 0.01) scores, controlling for CD4 count, previous AIDS diagnosis, receiving HAART, and drug abuse. Cognitive impairment is associated with poor QoL. People with more severe cognitive impairment have the highest probability of having a poor QoL. Cognitive impairment in any cognitive domain explored in our battery is also associated with poor QoL. Poor performance on the Digit Symbol Test is the strongest predictor of poor QoL.
38263938 | [Distribution of the Prevalence of Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-B*57:01 Positivity in HIV-1 Infected Individuals and Its Effects on Treatment: Turkiye Map-Buhasder Working Group]. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immundeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a critical global public health problem that significantly affects both life expectancy and the overall quality of life of individuals in all age groups. The landscape of HIV infection has changed significantly in recent years due to the introduction of effective combination antiretroviral therapies (ART). A key component of first-line ART regimens for HIV treatment is abacavir, a nucleoside HIV reverse transcriptase inhibitor. Although abacavir is effective in suppressing viral replication and managing disease, its clinical utility is overshadowed by the potential for life-threatening hypersensitivity reactions in HLA-B*57:01-positive patients. In our country, local data obtained from various centers regarding the prevalence of HLA-B*57:01 in HIV-1-infected patients are available. In this study, it was aimed to determine the prevalence of the HLA-B*57:01 genotype in HIV-infected patients who were followed up and treated in many regions of our country. This retrospective study consists of the data of the patients aged 18 years and over diagnosed with HIV-1 infection between 01.01.2019 and 31.07.2022. Age, gender, place of birth, mode of transmission of the disease, death status, CD4+ T cell count and HIV RNA levels at the first clinical presentation, HLA-B*57:01 positivity, and the method used, clinical stage of the disease, virological response time with the treatment they received were recorded from the patient files. Data were collected from 16 centers and each center used different methods to detect HLA-B*57:01. These methods were sequence-specific oligonucleotide probe hybridization (SSOP), DNA sequence-based typing (SBT), single-specific primer-polymerase chain reaction (SSP-PCR), allele-specific PCR (AS-PCR) and quantitative PCR (Q-PCR). A total of 608 HIV-infected individuals, 523 males (86%) and 85 females (14%), were included in the study. The mean age of the patients was 36.9 +- 11.9 (18-73) years. The prevalence of HLA-B*57:01 allele was found to be 3.6% (22 patients). The number of CD4+ T lymphocytes in HLA-B*57:01 allele-positive patients was > 500/ mm3 in 10 patients (45.5%), while the number of CD4+ T lymphocytes in HLA-B*57:01 negative patients was > 500/mm3 in 216 patients (36.9%) (p> 0.05). Viral load at the time of diagnosis was found to be lower in patients with positive HLA-B*57:01 allele but it was not statistically significant (p> 0.05). Although different treatment algorithms were used in the centers following the patients, it was observed that the duration of virological response was shorter in HLA-B*57:01 positive patients (p= 0.006). Although the presence of the HLA-B*57:01 allele has a negative impact due to its association with hypersensitivity, it is likely to continue to attract interest due to its association with slower progression of HIV infection and reduced risk of developing AIDS. In addition, although the answer to the question of whether it is cost-effective to screen patients for HLA-B*57:01 before starting an abacavir-containing ART regimen for the treatment of HIV infection is being sought, it seems that HIV treatment guidelines will continue to recommend screening to identify patients at risk in this regard.
28608409 | Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy of pancreatic cancer induces a favorable immunogenic tumor microenvironment associated with increased major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain A/B expression. BACKGROUND: Damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) are related to immune responses in malignant tumors including tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). The aim of the present study was to determine the relationship between expression of components of DAMPs and TILs in pancreatic cancer patients who underwent neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (NACRT) versus those who did not. METHODS: NACRT was administered to 51 patients with borderline-resectable pancreatic cancer and not to 33 patients with resectable pancreatic cancer. Resected specimens were analyzed for the presence of DAMPs, major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain A/B (MICA/B), and CD8+ TILs, CD4+ TILs, and forkhead box P3 positive (Foxp3+ ) TILs. The Treg/TIL ratio was obtained by dividing the number of Foxp3+ TILs, a surrogate for regulatory T cells, by the sum of CD8+ and CD4+ TILs. RESULTS: Overexpression of calreticulin, Hsp70, and MICA/B were all significantly correlated with NACRT administration. In the NACRT group, high MICA/B expression was associated with a low Treg/TIL ratio, indicating a favorable immunogenic tumor microenvironment. Patients with a lower Treg/TIL ratio had longer survival. CONCLUSIONS: Overexpression of MICA/B, a component of DAMPs induced by NACRT, may play an important role in acquiring a favorable immune response for pancreatic cancer which contributes to longer survival, suggesting the potential of immunotherapy of this recalcitrant disease, especially for patients with overexpression of DAMPs.
37179751 | Comprehensive Analysis of Epstein-Barr Virus LMP2A-Specific CD8+ and CD4+ T Cell Responses Restricted to Each HLA Class I and II Allotype Within an Individual. Latent membrane protein 2A (LMP2A), a latent Ag commonly expressed in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-infected host cells, is a target for adoptive T cell therapy in EBV-associated malignancies. To define whether individual human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allotypes are used preferentially in EBV-specific T lymphocyte responses, LMP2A-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cell responses in 50 healthy donors were analyzed by ELISPOT assay using artificial Ag-presenting cells expressing a single allotype. CD8+ T cell responses were significantly higher than CD4+ T cell responses. CD8+ T cell responses were ranked from highest to lowest in the order HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C loci, and CD4+ T cell responses were ranked in the order HLA-DR, HLA-DP, and HLA-DQ loci. Among the 32 HLA class I and 56 HLA class II allotypes, 6 HLA-A, 7 HLA-B, 5 HLA-C, 10 HLA-DR, 2 HLA-DQ, and 2 HLA-DP allotypes showed T cell responses higher than 50 spot-forming cells (SFCs)/5x105 CD8+ or CD4+ T cells. Twenty-nine donors (58%) showed a high T cell response to at least one allotype of HLA class I or class II, and 4 donors (8%) had a high response to both HLA class I and class II allotypes. Interestingly, we observed an inverse correlation between the proportion of LMP2A-specific T cell responses and the frequency of HLA class I and II allotypes. These data demonstrate the allele dominance of LMP2A-specific T cell responses among HLA allotypes and their intra-individual dominance in response to only a few allotypes in an individual, which may provide useful information for genetic, pathogenic, and immunotherapeutic approaches to EBV-associated diseases.
37859369 | [Antifungal susceptibility of clinically isolated invasive Candida tropicalis in East China from 2017 to 2021]. Objective: To explore the epidemiological characteristics of sample distribution and antifungal susceptibilities of clinically invasive C. tropicalis isolates from 2017 to 2021 in East China. Methods: Using a retrospective analysis, the East China Invasive Fungal Infection Group (ECIFIG) collected C. tropicalis clinically isolated from 32 hospitals in East China between January 2017 and December 2021. The identification results of the strains were reviewed using mass spectrometry by the central laboratory of the Shanghai East Hospital. The minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of the strains against fluconazole (FLU), voriconazole (VOR), itraconazole (ITR), Posaconazole (POS), isavuconazole (ISA), anidulafungin (ANI), caspofungin (CAS), micafungin (MICA) and 5-fluorocytosine (FCT) were tested by the ThermoFisher CMC1JHY colorimetric microdilution method. The MIC of amphotericin B (AMB) was tested by the broth microdilution method. The MIC results were analyzed based on the clinical breakpoints and epidemiological cutoff values (ECV) published by the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) M27 Ed3 and M57 Ed4 documents. Data analysis was conducted using the Kruskal-Wallis test and paired t-test. Results: In total, 305 C. tropicalis isolates were collected. There were 38.0% (116/305) strains isolated from blood, 11.5% (35/305) ascites, 8.9% (27/305) catheter and 8.9% (27/305) drainage fluid. The resistance rate of C. tropicalis to FLU was 32.5%, to VOR was 28.5%, and the cross-resistance rate to FLU and VOR was 28.5%. The wild-type proportions for ITR and POS were 79.3% and 29.2% respectively. There was no significant difference in resistance rates, MIC50, and MIC90 of FLU and VOR, or in the wild-type rates of ITR and POS over five years. More than 95.0% of the isolates were susceptible to echinocandins. However, one strain was identified as being multi-drug resistant. In azole antifungals, voriconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, and isavuconazole have similar GM MIC values. The GM MIC of fluconazole is significantly higher than that of itraconazole (t=9.95, P<0.05), posaconazole (t=9.99, P<0.05), and voriconazole (t=10.01, P<0.05), Meanwhile, among echinocandins, the GM MIC of ANI was comparable to that of CAS (t=1.17, P>0.05), both of which were significantly higher than MICA (t=11.56, P<0.05; t=4.15, P<0.05). Conclusion: The clinical isolates of C. tropicalis in East China from 2017 to 2021 were relatively susceptible to echinocandins. However, there was consistently high resistance to fluconazole and voriconazole. More intensive efforts should be made on the monitoring of drug resistance in C. tropicalis.
30026546 | Interactions of bacteriophage T4 adhesin with selected lipopolysaccharides studied using atomic force microscopy. The interaction between the T4 bacteriophage gp37 adhesin and the bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a well-studied system, however, the affinity and strength of the interaction haven't been analyzed so far. Here, we use atomic force microscopy to determine the strength of the interaction between the adhesin and its receptor, namely LPS taken from a wild strain of E. coli B. As negative controls we used LPSs of E. coli O111:B and Hafnia alvei. To study the interaction an AFM tip modified with the gp37 adhesin was used to scan surfaces of mica covered with one of the three different LPSs. Using the correlation between the surface topography images and the tip-surface interaction we could verify the binding between the specific LPS and the tip in contrast to the very weak interaction between the tip and the non-binding LPSs. Using force spectroscopy we could then measure the binding strength by pulling on the AFM tip until it lifted off from the surface. The force necessary to break the interaction between gp37 and LPS from E. coli B, LPS from E. coli O111:B and LPS from H. alvei were measured to be 70 +- 29 pN, 46 +- 13 pN and 45 +- 14 pN, respectively. The latter values are likely partially due to non-specific interaction between the gp37 and the solid surface, as LPS from E. coli O111:B and LPS from H. alvei have been shown to not bind to gp37, which is confirmed by the low correlation between binding and topography for these samples.
9058754 | Identification of an epitope derived from human proteolipid protein that can induce autoreactive CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes restricted by HLA-A3: evidence for cross-reactivity with an environmental microorganism. The demyelination process that occurs in the central nervous system (CNS) of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) is in part due to an inflammatory response in which CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and macrophages infiltrate white matter. In this study, we have identified a peptide sequence derived from the CNS-specific myelin protein proteolipid protein (PLP) which could bind to HLA-A3 and induce a HLA-A3-restricted CD8+ CTL response from HLA-A3+ donors. These PLP peptide-specific CTL could lyse HLA-A3+ target cells pulsed with a homologous peptide derived from the CRM1 protein of Saccharomyces cerevisae. These findings demonstrate the immunogenic potential of a PLP-derived peptide for generation of autoreactive HLA-A3-restricted CD8+ CTL, and further show that these CTL can be activated by a peptide derived from a common environmental microorganism.
11810515 | HIV infection and oligosaccharides: a novel approach to preventing HIV infection and the onset of AIDS. Infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV) is triggered by binding of a glycoprotein called gp120 on the viral surface to CD4 molecules on the surface of target cells. Half of the gp120 glycoprotein is composed of oligosaccharides. It has been found that the gp120 oligosaccharides are essential in HIV infection and that high-mannose type oligosaccharides present in the gp120 molecule are especially critical. Investigation of gp120 oligosaccharides not only clarified the roles of oligosaccharides in HIV infection but also indicated a way to create novel anti-HIV agents by focusing on oligosaccharides. This review introduces the significance of oligosaccharides of the viral glycoprotein in HIV infection and our novel approach to preventing HIV infection and the onset of AIDS by targeting HIV oligosaccharides.
2482475 | [Natural cytotoxic function and ankylosing spondylitis]. Natural Killer (NK) cell function was evaluated in 28 ankylosing spondylitis (AS) patients (21 B27 positive), at one hand by the use of a Leu7 (HNK-1) monoclonal antibody, at the other hand by spontaneous cytotoxicity against a K562 cell line (preincubated with a fluorogenic substrate) evaluated by a flow cytometric assay. There is no difference in NK cell activity neither between AS patients and controls nor between B27 positive and negative AS. The study brings no evidence for a NK function control by the B27 gene. There is no correlation between NK activity and each of the other parameters investigated (ESR, B2m, IgA, Leu7, T4/T8). At the opposite, NK activity is significantly decreased (p = 0,006) in AS patients under NSAIDs treatment compared with non treated patients. NSAIDs rather enhance NK activity, the decrease observed in the present study could be due to evolution of the disease itself, and may be a pathogenetic factor contributing to remaining of bacterial antigens according to the current hypothesis of the disease's aetiology.
11794617 | Atomic force microscopy analysis of bacteriophages phiKZ and T4. Bacteriophage phiKZ was investigated by atomic force microscopy (AFM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The well-known phage T4 was used as a reference sample. Reproducible contact mode AFM images of native and partially disintegrated particles of bacteriophage phiKZ in air were obtained. It was demonstrated that the heads of phiKZ and T4 phages were compressed differently and depended on adsorption onto highly ordered pyrolytic graphite and mica. We have established a procedure to partially disintegrate the viral particles after which the internal protein body, which is a helical structure with a cylinder-like form, was easily observable inside the bacteriophage phiKZ head.
2957346 | Development of class I-specific helper-inducer T-cell clone. A unique alloreactive human helper-inducer T-cell clone which reacts with the class I HLA antigen was characterized. The clone was derived from a mixed lymphocyte culture between cells from a HLA-A2-; B35,w51; Bw4,Bw6; Cw4,-; DR1,4; DQw1,-; DRw53 responder and a HLA-A2,3; B7,14; Bw6; Cw8,-; DR7,-; DQw2,w3; DRw52 stimulator. When screened against a panel of stimulator cells, this clone was found to have a specificity towards a stimulator HLA-B14 and consisted entirely of Leu-4, Leu-3, and 4B4 positive T cells, which is a T helper-inducer phenotype. Using monoclonal antibodies directed towards various monomorphic class I and II HLA epitopes in an inhibition experiment, it was found that both monoclonal antibodies w6/32 and 4E (recognizing class I monomorphic and HLA-B epitopes, respectively) inhibited proliferation. However, monoclonal antibodies BBm.1 and L227 (directed against beta 2-microglobulin and Ia-like molecule, respectively) had no inhibitory effect. Functional evaluation of this clone demonstrated helper activity on the proliferation of MLC response. The helper-induction effect on MLC cultures remained intact following irradiation of the clone for either 500 or 2000 rad suggesting that helper function of the clone was radiation resistant. The helper activity of this clone was MHC nonrestricted since it enhanced proliferation of the original responder and stimulator MLC as well as third and fourth party individuals. By CTLL cell line proliferation assay, this clone was found to release IL-2. When assayed (day 1 to 7) for class II HLA products expression following stimulation, HLA-DRw53 was consistently expressed by the clone. However, HLA-DR1, DQw1 were found to be expressed simultaneously on day 2 through day 7 and HLA-DR4, DQw3 on day 2 and 3. These data demonstrate, for the first time, the generation of a class I specific helper-inducer T-cell clone in MLC response.
31477625 | CD8+CD28- T cells: key cytotoxic players impacting disease pathogenesis in chronic HBV infection. During chronic hepatitis B (CHB), CD8+ T cells down-regulate CD28, the primary co-stimulation molecule for T-cell activation. Diverse functional attributes of CD8+CD28- T cells are suggested in various disease contexts. The present study aimed to characterize CD8+CD28- T cells in different phases of chronic Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection (CHI)- Immune-tolerance (IT), Hepatitis B e-antigen-positive CHB (EP-CHB), Inactive carriers (IC) and Hepatitis B e-antigen-negative CHB (EN-CHB), to appraise their contribution in HBV-related disease pathophysiology. Flow cytometry analysis of T cells in peripheral blood of study subjects revealed enhanced CD8+CD28- T-cell accumulation in EP-/EN-CHB, compared with IT/IC and they expanded equivalently in HBV-specific and non-specific CD8+ T-cell compartments. Profound increase in CD8+CD28- T cells expressing perforin/granzyme-B/CD57/IFN-gamma/TNF-alpha and markers of terminal differentiation were observed exclusively in EP-/EN-CHB. Further, activation with anti-NKG2D resulted in heightened IFN-gamma/TNF-alpha production selectively from CD8+CD28- T cells, suggesting NKG2D-mediated alternative co-stimulation. CD8+CD28- T cells sorted from CHB patients induced enhanced apoptosis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), including CD4+ T cells. However, NKG2D-ligand (major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related molecule A/B (MICA/B)) was preferentially expressed by HBV-specific CD4+ T cells of CHB patients, making these cells a potential target to NKG2D-dependent CD8+CD28- T-cell killing. Both CD28+ and CD28- T cells in CHB expressed CXCR3 at similar levels and thus capable of homing to the liver. A positive correlation was seen between CD8+CD28- T-cell frequency and serum-alanine transaminase (ALT) levels and CHB-derived CD8+CD28- T cells caused pronounced cell death in HBV-transfected Huh7 cells. Immunofluorescence staining identified greater intrahepatic incidence of CD8+CD28- T cells but decline in CD4+ T cells in CHB than IC. Collectively, CD8+CD28- T cells demonstrated differential distribution and phenotypic/functional skewing in different CHI phases and contribute to disease progression by Perforin-Granzyme- or IFN-gamma-TNF-alpha-mediated cytotoxicity while restraining antiviral immunity through NKG2D-dependent HBV-specific CD4+ T-cell depletion.
26194464 | Phosphorylation status determines the opposing functions of Smad2/Smad3 as STAT3 cofactors in TH17 differentiation. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) are the pivotal cytokines to induce IL-17-producing CD4(+) T helper cells (TH17); yet their signalling network remains largely unknown. Here we show that the highly homologous TGF-beta receptor-regulated Smads (R-Smads): Smad2 and Smad3 oppositely modify STAT3-induced transcription of IL-17A and retinoic acid receptor-related orphan nuclear receptor, RORgammat encoded by Rorc, by acting as a co-activator and co-repressor of STAT3, respectively. Smad2 linker phosphorylated by extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) at the serine 255 residue interacts with STAT3 and p300 to transactivate, whereas carboxy-terminal unphosphorylated Smad3 interacts with STAT3 and protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) to repress the Rorc and Il17a genes. Our work uncovers carboxy-terminal phosphorylation-independent noncanonical R-Smad-STAT3 signalling network in TH17 differentiation.
22591364 | Modulation of intracellular restriction factors contributes to methamphetamine-mediated enhancement of acquired immune deficiency syndrome virus infection of macrophages. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated that the use of methamphetamine (METH), a sympathomimetic stimulant, is particularly common among patients infected with HIV. In vitro studies have determined that METH enhances HIV infection of CD4+ T cells, monocyte-derived dendritic cells, and macrophages. In addition, animal studies have also showed that METH treatment increases brain viral load of SIV-infected monkeys and promotes HIV replication and viremia in HIV/hu-CycT1 transgenic mice. However, the mechanisms (s) of METH actions on HIV remain to be determined. In this study, we investigated the impact of METH on intracellular restriction factors against HIV and SIV. We demonstrated that METH treatment of human blood mononuclear phagocytes significantly affected the expression of anti-HIV microRNAs and several key elements (RIG-I, IRF-3/5, SOCS-2, 3 and PIAS-1, 3, X, Y) in the type I IFN pathway. The suppression of these innate restriction factors was associated with a reduced production of type I IFNs and the enhancement of HIV or SIV infection of macrophages. These findings indicate that METH use impairs intracellular innate antiviral mechanism(s) in macrophages, contributing to cell susceptibility to the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) virus infection.
24712655 | Nuclear import of SAMHD1 is mediated by a classical karyopherin alpha/beta1 dependent pathway and confers sensitivity to VpxMAC induced ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. BACKGROUND: The deoxynucleotide-triphosphate (dNTP) hydrolase sterile alpha motif domain and HD domain 1 (SAMHD1) is a nuclear protein that inhibits HIV-1 infection in myeloid cells as well as quiescent CD4 T-cells, by decreasing the intracellular dNTP concentration below a level that is required for efficient reverse transcription. The Vpx proteins of the SIVSMM/HIV-2 lineage of lentiviruses bind SAMHD1 and recruit an ubiquitin ligase, leading to polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. RESULTS: Here, we have investigated the importance of nuclear localization for SAMHD1's antiviral function as well as its sensitivity to the Vpx protein of SIVMAC. Using GST pull down assays, as well as RNA silencing approaches, we show that SAMHD1 preferentially uses karyopherin alpha2 (KPNA2) and a classical N-terminal nuclear localization signal (14KRPR17) to enter the nucleus. Reduction of karyopherin beta1 (KPNB1) or KPNA2 by RNAi also led to cytoplasmic re-distribution of SAMHD1. Using primary human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM), a cell type in which SAMHD1 is naturally expressed to high levels, we demonstrate that nuclear localization is not required for its antiviral activity. Cytoplasmic SAMHD1 still binds to VpxMAC, is efficiently polyubiquitinated, but is not degraded. We also find that VpxMAC-induced SAMHD1 degradation was partially reversed by ubiquitin carrying the K48R or K11R substitution mutations, suggesting involvement of K48 and K11 linkages in SAMHD1 polyubiquitination. Using ubiquitin K-R mutants also revealed differences in the ubiquitin linkages between wild type and cytoplasmic forms of SAMHD1, suggesting a potential association with the resistance of cytoplasmic SAMHD1 to VpxMAC induced degradation. CONCLUSIONS: Our work extends published observations on SAMHD1 nuclear localization to a natural cell type for HIV-1 infection, identifies KPNA2/KPNB1 as cellular proteins important for SAMHD1 nuclear import, and indicates that components of the nuclear proteasomal degradation machinery are required for SAMHD1 degradation.
38321374 | Construction and evaluation of immune-related diagnostic model in patients with heart failure caused by idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to construct the potential diagnostic model of immune-related genes during the development of heart failure caused by idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. METHOD: GSE5406 and GSE57338 were downloaded from the GEO website ( https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/ ). CIBERSORT was used for the evaluation of immune infiltration in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) of GSE5406. Differently expressed genes were calculated by the limma R package and visualized by the volcano plot. The immune-related genes were downloaded from Immport, TISIDB, and InnateDB. Then the immune-related differential genes (IRDGs) were acquired from the intersection. Protein-protein interaction network (PPI) and Cytoscape were used to visualize the hub genes. Three machine learning methods such as random forest, logical regression, and elastic network regression model were adopted to construct the prediction model. The diagnostic value was also validated in GSE57338. RESULTS: Our study demonstrated the obvious different ratio of T cell CD4 memory activated, T cell regulatory Tregs, and neutrophils between DCM and control donors. As many as 2139 differential genes and 274 immune-related different genes were identified. These genes were mainly enriched in lipid and atherosclerosis, human cytomegalovirus infection, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. At the same time, as many as fifteen hub genes were identified as the IRDGs (IFITM3, IFITM2, IFITM1, IFIT3, IFIT1, HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, ADAR, STAT1, SAMHD1, RSAD2, MX1, ISG20, IRF2). Moreover, we also discovered that the elastic network and logistic regression models had a higher diagnostic value than that of random forest models based on these hub genes. CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated the pivotal role of immune function during the development of heart failure caused by DCM. This study may offer new opportunities for the detection and intervention of immune-related DCM.
31758014 | A mass spectrometry guided approach for the identification of novel vaccine candidates in gram-negative pathogens. Vaccination is the most effective method to prevent infectious diseases. However, approaches to identify novel vaccine candidates are commonly laborious and protracted. While surface proteins are suitable vaccine candidates and can elicit antibacterial antibody responses, systematic approaches to define surfomes from gram-negatives have rarely been successful. Here we developed a combined discovery-driven mass spectrometry and computational strategy to identify bacterial vaccine candidates and validate their immunogenicity using a highly prevalent gram-negative pathogen, Helicobacter pylori, as a model organism. We efficiently isolated surface antigens by enzymatic cleavage, with a design of experiment based strategy to experimentally dissect cell surface-exposed from cytosolic proteins. From a total of 1,153 quantified bacterial proteins, we thereby identified 72 surface exposed antigens and further prioritized candidates by computational homology inference within and across species. We next tested candidate-specific immune responses. All candidates were recognized in sera from infected patients, and readily induced antibody responses after vaccination of mice. The candidate jhp_0775 induced specific B and T cell responses and significantly reduced colonization levels in mouse therapeutic vaccination studies. In infected humans, we further show that jhp_0775 is immunogenic and activates IFNgamma secretion from peripheral CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Our strategy provides a generic preclinical screening, selection and validation process for novel vaccine candidates against gram-negative bacteria, which could be employed to other gram-negative pathogens.
8247028 | Enhancement of HIV-1 gp41 binding to Raji cells by PWM, LPS, interferon-gamma and interleukin-6. Based on our finding that HIV-1 gp41 independently of CD4 can bind to several proteins (gp41 binding protein: GBP) on the human T-cell line H9, B-cell line Raji and monocyte-cell line U937, we examined the effect of mitogens and cytokines on binding of gp41 to H9, Raji and U937 cells. Flow cytometry (FACS) analysis demonstrated that PWM and LPS, IFN-gamma and IL-6, but not Con A, IFN-alpha, -beta, -omega and IL-2, could increase gp41 binding to Raji cells. In controls, none of the regulators (IFN-alpha, -beta, -gamma, -omega, IL-2, IL-6, Con A, PWM, LPS) could modify the binding potential of H9 and U937 cells. Our data suggest that the expression of HIV-1 binding proteins is subject to regulation by PWM, LPS, IFN-gamma and IL-6 in the case of B-cells, while on T-cells and macrophages, the binding proteins may be constitutively expressed.
28148715 | The Exportin-1 Inhibitor Selinexor Exerts Superior Antitumor Activity when Combined with T-Cell Checkpoint Inhibitors. Selinexor, a selective inhibitor of nuclear export (SINE) compound targeting exportin-1, has previously been shown to inhibit melanoma cell growth in vivo We hypothesized that combining selinexor with antibodies that block or disrupt T-cell checkpoint molecule signaling would exert superior antimelanoma activity. In vitro, selinexor increased PDCD1 and CTLA4 gene expression in leukocytes and induced CD274 gene expression in human melanoma cell lines. Mice bearing syngeneic B16F10 melanoma tumors demonstrated a significant reduction in tumor growth rate in response to the combination of selinexor and anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 antibodies (P < 0.05). Similar results were obtained in B16F10-bearing mice treated with selinexor combined with anti-CTLA4 antibody. Immunophenotypic analysis of splenocytes by flow cytometry revealed that selinexor alone or in combination with anti-PD-L1 antibody significantly increased the frequency of both natural killer cells (P <= 0.050) and CD4+ T cells with a Th1 phenotype (P <= 0.050). Further experiments indicated that the antitumor effect of selinexor in combination with anti-PD-1 therapy persisted under an alternative dosing schedule but was lost when selinexor was administered daily. These data indicate that the efficacy of selinexor against melanoma may be enhanced by disrupting immune checkpoint activity. Mol Cancer Ther; 16(3); 417-27.  2017 AACRSee related article by Tyler et al., p. 428.
25402416 | Selective, efficient modulation of activated CD4+ alphabetaT cells by the novel humanized antibody GZ-alphabetaTCR targeting human alphabetaTCR. Allograft rejection and immunosuppression are two major issues in transplantation medicine. The specific targeting of alloreactive T cells, the initiators and promoters of allograft rejection, would be a promising strategy to reduce unwanted T-cell responses and side effects of lifelong immunosuppression. The novel humanized monoclonal antibody GZ-alphabetaTCR, specific for the human alphabetaT-cell receptor, was tested in vitro and in vivo for its specificity and efficacy to modulate the alphabetaT-cell compartment. GZ-alphabetaTCR moderately induced apoptosis in resting alphabetaT cells in vitro, an effect considerably amplified in activated T cells. A single dose of GZ-alphabetaTCR significantly reduced human CD45(+)CD3(+) T cells in vivo, with a preferential modulation of CD4(+) alphabetaT cells. Importantly, naive T cells, the T-cell subset from which alloreactivity emanates, were significantly reduced. Simultaneously, a significant, compensatory increase of gammadelta T cells was observed in vitro and in vivo in both humanized mouse models examined. GZ-alphabetaTCR did not induce cytokines and was well tolerated. Thus, specificity and high efficacy make GZ-alphabetaTCR a powerful tool to selectively eliminate putatively detrimental T-cell subsets, a major goal in transplantation medicine. At the same time, GZ-alphabetaTCR spares gammadelta and natural killer cells, thus leaving the recipient's immune system competent for cell-mediated immunoregulation and cell-mediated immunity.
30867508 | Hexamethylene bisacetamide impairs NK cell-mediated clearance of acute T lymphoblastic leukemia cells and HIV-1-infected T cells that exit viral latency. The hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA) anticancer drug was dismissed due to limited efficacy in leukemic patients but it may re-enter into the clinics in HIV-1 eradication strategies because of its recently disclosed capacity to reactivate latent virus. Here, we investigated the impact of HMBA on the cytotoxicity of natural killer (NK) cells against acute T lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cells or HIV-1-infected T cells that exit from latency. We show that in T-ALL cells HMBA upmodulated MICB and ULBP2 ligands for the NKG2D activating receptor. In a primary CD4+ T cell-based latency model, HMBA did not reactivate HIV-1, yet enhanced ULBP2 expression on cells harboring virus reactivated by prostratin (PRO). However, HMBA reduced the expression of NKG2D and its DAP10 adaptor in NK cells, hence impairing NKG2D-mediated cytotoxicity and DAP10-dependent response to IL-15 stimulation. Alongside, HMBA dampened killing of T-ALL targets by IL-15-activated NK cells and impaired NK cell-mediated clearance of PRO-reactivated HIV-1+ cells. Overall, our results demonstrate a dominant detrimental effect of HMBA on the NKG2D pathway that crucially controls NK cell-mediated killing of tumors and virus-infected cells, providing one possible explanation for poor clinical outcome in HMBA-treated cancer patients and raising concerns for future therapeutic application of this drug.
37177979 | RNA-seq analysis identifies transcriptomic profiles associated with anal cancer recurrence among people living with HIV. BACKGROUND: Chemoradiation therapy (CRT) is the standard of care for squamous cell carcinoma of the anus (SCCA), the most common type of anal cancer. However, approximately one fourth of patients still relapse after CRT. METHODS: We used RNA-sequencing technology to characterize coding and non-coding transcripts in tumor tissues from CRT-treated SCCA patients and compare them between 9 non-recurrent and 3 recurrent cases. RNA was extracted from FFPE tissues. Library preparations for RNA-sequencing were created using SMARTer Stranded Total RNA-Seq Kit. All libraries were pooled and sequenced on a NovaSeq 6000. Function and pathway enrichment analysis was performed with Metascape and enrichment of gene ontology (GO) was performed with Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). RESULTS: There were 449 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) observed (390 mRNA, 12 miRNA, 17 lincRNA and 18 snRNA) between the two groups. We identified a core of upregulated genes (IL4, CD40LG, ICAM2, HLA-I (HLA-A, HLA-C) and HLA-II (HLA-DQA1, HLA-DRB5) in the non-recurrent SCCA tissue enriching to the gene ontology term 'allograft rejection', which suggests a CD4+ T cell driven immune response. Conversely, in the recurrent tissues, keratin (KRT1, 10, 12, 20) and hedgehog signaling pathway (PTCH2) genes involved in 'Epidermis Development,', were significantly upregulated. We identified miR-4316, that inhibit tumor proliferation and migration by repressing vascular endothelial growth factors, as being upregulated in non-recurrent SCCA. On the contrary, lncRNA-SOX21-AS1, implicated in the progression of many other cancers, was also found to be more common in our recurrent compared to non-recurrent SCCA. Our study identified key host factors which may drive the recurrence of SCCA and warrants further studies to understand the mechanism and evaluate their potential use in personalized treatment.Key MessageOur study used RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to identify pivotal factors in coding and non-coding transcripts which differentiate between patients at risk for recurrent anal cancer after treatment. There were 449 differentially expressed genes (390 mRNA, 12 miRNA, 17 lincRNA and 18 snRNA) between 9 non-recurrent and 3 recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of anus (SCCA) tissues. The enrichment of genes related to allograft rejection was observed in the non-recurrent SCCA tissues, while the enrichment of genes related to epidermis development was positively linked with recurrent SCCA tissues.
3291524 | The sonographical and functional sequelae of de Quervain's subacute thyroiditis: long-term follow-up. Fifty-three patients with subacute thyroiditis (SAT) were seen during the acute stage of the disease. HLA-Bw 35 was positive in 33 out of 39 tested patients. At first presentation, all examined patients (N = 23) had ultrasound abnormalities (generalized hypodensity, single or multiple hypodense areas). Serum T4 and/or T3 were increased in 24/52, free T4 in 11/23, and the TSH response to TRH was flat in 8/11 patients. Six of 12 in whom volumetry was performed had goitres. Thirty-seven patients were re-examined after a mean follow-up interval of 46.5 months. At this follow-up, serum T4, free T4 and T3 levels as well as the sonographically determined thyroid volume had decreased, but there was still abnormalities by ultrasound detected in 14/36 patients; 19.4% had focal sonolucent lesions, whereas the prevalence of such lesions was only 3.1% in asymptomatic controls. Three patients were subclinically hypothyroid at the follow-up, whereas all others were euthyroid. Patients with abnormal ultrasound findings were of the same age and had a similar thyroid size, but a slightly higher TSH and a significantly (P less than 0.02) lower free T4 than those with normal ultrasound findings. They also had a higher prevalence of thyroid autoantibodies in low titres. Serum thyroglobulin was elevated in more than half of the patients during the acute phase, but only in 1 out of 11 patients during follow-up. Thyroglobulin at the follow-up was not related to TSH, but there was a correlation with thyroid volume (r = 0.57).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
10557076 | Co-occupancy of the interferon regulatory element of the class II transactivator (CIITA) type IV promoter by interferon regulatory factors 1 and 2. Class II transactivator (CIITA) activates the expression of major histocompatibility class II genes, which encode antigen-presenting molecules recognized by the T-cell receptor of CD4+ T cells. IFN-gamma induced CIITA transcription in many cell types is directed by the CIITA Type IV promoter. Here we report that the human CIITA Type IV promoter IRF-E binds IRF-1 and can be activated by exogenous expression of IRF-1. Surprisingly, the CIITA Type IV promoter IRF-E is also activated by IRF-2, another member of the IRF family that generally acts as a transcriptional repressor. In addition, we found that IRF-1 and IRF-2 synergistically activate the CIITA Type IV promoter. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that IRF-1 and IRF-2 can simultaneously occupy the IRF-E of the CIITA Type IV promoter, suggesting a novel mechanism for the role of these two proteins in promoter activation. Our results also indicate that IRF-1 and IRF-2 can cooperatively activate and co-occupy the IRF-E of the guanylate binding protein (GBP) promoter. Finally, CIITA induction by IFN-gamma does not occur in a pancreatic tumor cell line that expresses a mutated IRF-2, representing the first IRF-2 mutation identified in a human tumor cell line.
37380166 | Orthopoxvirus-Specific T Cell Responses in Convalescent MPOX Patients. Orthopoxvirus-specific T cell responses were analyzed in 10 patients who had recovered from MPOX including 7 people with HIV (PWH). Eight participants had detectable virus-specific T cell responses, including a PWH who was not on antiretroviral therapy and a PWH on immunosuppressive therapy. These two participants had robust polyfunctional CD4+ T cell responses to peptides from the 121L vaccinia virus (VACV) protein. T cells from 4 out of 5 HLA-A2 positive participants targeted at least one previously described HLA-A2 restricted VACV epitope, including an epitope targeted by two participants. These results advance our understanding of immunity in convalescent MPOX patients.
37710038 | HLA-C*15:02 and epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor-induced erosive pustular dermatosis of the scalp. Epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFRIs) are widely used to treat various types of malignancies. One of the common adverse reactions is cutaneous toxicity, mostly presenting as acneiform eruptions, paronychia and xerosis. Erosive pustular dermatosis of the scalp (EPDS) is a rare cutaneous adverse reaction that develops during treatment with EGFRIs. The pathogenesis of EGFRI-induced EPDS is poorly understood. Here we present three cases of EPDS induced by EGFRIs. The proteins LTA4H (leukotriene A-4 hydrolase), METAP1 (methionine aminopeptidase 1), BID (BH3-interacting domain death agonist), SMAD1 (mothers against decapentaplegic homologue), PRKRA (interferon-inducible double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase activator A), YES1 (tyrosine-protein kinase Yes) and EGFL7 (epidermal growth factor-like protein 7) were significantly upregulated in EGFRI-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures, and validated in the lesions. All of the proteins colocalized with CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell expression. Next-generation-based human leucocyte antigen (HLA) typing showed all patients carried HLA-C*15:02, and modelling studies showed that afatinib and erlotinib bound well within the E/F binding pockets of HLA-C*15:02. Moreover, T cells were preferentially activated by EGFRIs in individuals carrying HLA-C*15:02. The case series revealed that EGFRI-induced EPDS may be mediated by drug-specific T cells.
37895076 | Association of HLA-A*11:01, -A*24:02, and -B*18:01 with Prostate Cancer Risk: A Case-Control Study. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) loci, the most polymorphic regions within the human genome, encode protein complexes responsible for antigen presentation and CD4+ and CD8+ cell activation. In prostate cancer (PCa), the second most diagnosed cancer in the male population, MHC loci undergo significant changes in their expression patterns, which affect the ability of the immune system to attack and eliminate malignant cells. The purpose of this study was to explore the genetic diversity of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A and HLA-B in patients with PCa and healthy controls (HCs) by performing HLA genotyping using NGS technology. The analysis highlighted statistically significant differences (p < 0.05) in the prevalence of three alleles (A*11:01, A*24:02, and B*18:01). Among the HCs analyzed, 14.89% had A*11:01, 20.21% had A*24:02, and 30.61% had B*18:01; while 5.21% of patients with PCa presented A*11:01, 9.38% presented A*24:02, 18.08% presented B*18:01. Odds ratio (OR) calculations underlined a negative association between the three alleles and the risk of PCa (OR < 1). The results presented in this study suggest a protective role of A*11:01, A*24:02, and B*18:01 in PCa.
35797509 | Multidimensional Molecular Profiling of Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Cancer and Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Benefit. PURPOSE: In metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC), consistent biomarkers of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy benefit remain elusive. We evaluated the immune, genomic, and transcriptomic landscape of mTNBC in patients treated with ICIs. METHODS: We identified 29 patients with mTNBC treated with pembrolizumab or atezolizumab, either alone (n = 9) or in combination with chemotherapy (n = 14) or targeted therapy (n = 6), who had tumor tissue and/or blood available before ICI therapy for whole-exome sequencing. RNA sequencing and CIBERSORTx-inferred immune population analyses were performed (n = 20). Immune cell populations and programmed death-ligand 1 expression were assessed using multiplexed immunofluorescence (n = 18). Clonal trajectories were evaluated via serial tumor/circulating tumor DNA whole-exome sequencing (n = 4). Association of biomarkers with progression-free survival and overall survival (OS) was assessed. RESULTS: Progression-free survival and OS were longer in patients with high programmed death-ligand 1 expression and tumor mutational burden. Patients with longer survival also had a higher relative inferred fraction of CD8+ T cells, activated CD4+ memory T cells, M1 macrophages, and follicular helper T cells and enrichment of inflammatory gene expression pathways. A mutational signature of defective repair of DNA damage by homologous recombination was enriched in patients with both shorter OS and primary resistance. Exploratory analysis of clonal evolution among four patients treated with programmed cell death protein 1 blockade and a tyrosine kinase inhibitor suggested that clonal stability post-treatment was associated with short time to progression. CONCLUSION: This study identified potential biomarkers of response to ICIs among patients with mTNBC: high tumor mutational burden; presence of CD8+, CD4 memory T cells, follicular helper T cells, and M1 macrophages; and inflammatory gene expression pathways. Pretreatment deficiencies in the homologous recombination DNA damage repair pathway and the absence of or minimal clonal evolution post-treatment may be associated with worse outcomes.
36059511 | PSEN1 is associated with colon cancer development via potential influences on PD-L1 nuclear translocation and tumor-immune interactions. Presenilin 1 (PSEN1), as a catalytical core of the gamma-secretase complex, plays multiple actions through mediating transmembrane domain shedding of the substrates. Unlike extensive studies performed on investigating the functions of gamma-secretase substrates or the effects of gamma-secretase inhibitors, our findings uncover a potential action of PSEN1 on PD-L1 alternative truncation and nuclear translocation, broadening our understanding on how the gamma-secretase contributes to colon cancer development as well as suggesting a potential strategy to improve the efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 blockade. Immunohistochemical data showed loss of PD-L1 protein expression in all the primary colon adenocarcioma (COAD) cases in the HPA collection, while PSEN1 was scored to be highly expressed, indicating their converse expression patterns (p<0.001). Meanwhile a strongly positive gene correlation was explored by TIMER2 and GEPIA (p<0.001). Up-regulated PSEN1 expression in COAD might facilitate liberating a C-terminal PD-L1 truncation via proteolytic processing. Then following an established regulatory pathway of PD-L1 nuclear translocation, we found that PSEN1 showed significant correlations with multiple components in HDAC2-mediated deacetylation, clathrin-dependent endocytosis, vimentin-associated nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and importin family-mediated nuclear import. Moreover, connections of PSEN1 to the immune response genes transactivated by nuclear PD-L1 were tested. Additionally, contributions of PSEN1 to the tumor invasiveness (p<0.05) and the tumor infiltrating cell enrichments (p<0.001) were investigated by cBioportal and the ESTIMATE algorithm. Levels of PSEN1 were negatively correlated with infiltrating CD8+ T (p<0.05) and CD4+ T helper (Th) 1 cells (p<0.001), while positively correlated with regulatory T cells (Tregs) (p<0.001) and cancer associated fibroblasts (CAFs) (p<0.001). It also displayed significant associations with diverse immune metagenes characteristic of T cell exhaustion, Tregs and CAFs, indicating possible actions in immune escape. Despite still a preliminary stage of this study, we anticipate to deciphering a novel function of PSEN1, and supporting more researchers toward the elucidations of the mechanisms linking the gamma-secretase to cancers, which has yet to be fully addressed.
35614223 | A vaccine targeting resistant tumours by dual T cell plus NK cell attack. Most cancer vaccines target peptide antigens, necessitating personalization owing to the vast inter-individual diversity in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules that present peptides to T cells. Furthermore, tumours frequently escape T cell-mediated immunity through mechanisms that interfere with peptide presentation1. Here we report a cancer vaccine that induces a coordinated attack by diverse T cell and natural killer (NK) cell populations. The vaccine targets the MICA and MICB (MICA/B) stress proteins expressed by many human cancers as a result of DNA damage2. MICA/B serve as ligands for the activating NKG2D receptor on T cells and NK cells, but tumours evade immune recognition by proteolytic MICA/B cleavage3,4. Vaccine-induced antibodies increase the density of MICA/B proteins on the surface of tumour cells by inhibiting proteolytic shedding, enhance presentation of tumour antigens by dendritic cells to T cells and augment the cytotoxic function of NK cells. Notably, this vaccine maintains efficacy against MHC class I-deficient tumours resistant to cytotoxic T cells through the coordinated action of NK cells and CD4+ T cells. The vaccine is also efficacious in a clinically important setting: immunization following surgical removal of primary, highly metastatic tumours inhibits the later outgrowth of metastases. This vaccine design enables protective immunity even against tumours with common escape mutations.
3519831 | A lymphokine that activates the cytolytic program of both cytotoxic T lymphocyte and natural killer clones. A 10-12 kD lymphokine, herein termed TCAF, was recently shown to be secreted from Th after crosslinking of their antigen/MHC (T3-Ti) receptors. TCAF stimulates resting T lymphocyte proliferation via binding to surface components of the T11 pathway. To determine whether TCAF could induce antigen-independent activation of the lytic machinery of cytotoxic cells, the present studies were conducted. In the presence of TCAF, both T8+ class I MHC-specific and T4+ class II MHC-specific cytotoxic T cell clones were induced to kill targets, including those lacking the appropriate MHC molecules. This effect was unique to TCAF, since IL-1, IL-2, IFN-gamma could not stimulate lytic activity. Furthermore, both T3+T11+ and T3-T11+ NK clones were triggered to lyse NK-resistant target cells. These findings suggest that TCAF can function in an antigen-independent fashion to amplify cytotoxic effector responses.
36706355 | Mechanisms of response and resistance to combined decitabine and ipilimumab for advanced myeloid disease. The challenge of eradicating leukemia for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) following initial cytoreduction has motivated modern efforts to combine synergistic active modalities including immunotherapy. Recently, the ETCTN/CTEP 10026 (NCT02890329) study tested the combination of the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor decitabine together with the immune checkpoint inhibitor ipilimumab for AML/myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) either following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) or in the HSCT-naive setting. Integrative transcriptome-based analysis of 304,961 individual marrow-infiltrating cells for 18 of 48 subjects treated on study revealed the strong association of response with a high baseline ratio of T to AML cells. Clinical responses were predominantly driven by decitabine-induced cytoreduction. Evidence of immune activation was only apparent following ipilimumab exposure, which altered CD4+ T cell gene expression, in line with ongoing T cell differentiation and increased frequency of marrow-infiltrating regulatory T cells. For post-HSCT samples, relapse could be attributed to insufficient clearing of malignant clones in progenitor cell populations. In contrast to AML/MDS bone marrow, the transcriptomes of leukemia cutis samples from patients with durable remission after ipilimumab monotherapy showed evidence of increased infiltration with antigen-experienced resident memory T cells and higher expression of CTLA-4 and FOXP3. Altogether, activity of combined decitabine and ipilimumab is impacted by cellular expression states within the microenvironmental niche of leukemia cells. The inadequate elimination of leukemic progenitors mandates urgent development of novel approaches for targeting these cell populations to generate long-lasting responses.
17399805 | Identification of gene expression indicators for thyroid axis disruption in a Xenopus laevis metamorphosis screening assay. Part 2. Effects on the tail and hindlimb. Thyroid hormones (TH), thyroxine (T(4)) and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T(3)), play crucial roles in regulation of growth, development and metabolism in vertebrates and are targets for endocrine disruptive agents. Perturbations in TH action can contribute to the development of disease states and the US Environmental Protection Agency is developing a high throughput screen using TH-dependent metamorphosis of the Xenopus laevis tadpole as an assay platform. Currently this methodology relies on external morphological endpoints and changes in central thyroid axis parameters. However, exposure-related changes in gene expression in TH-sensitive tissue types that occur over shorter time frames have the potential to augment this screen. Using a combination of cDNA array and real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) analyses, this study identifies molecular markers in tissues peripheral to the central thyroid axis. We examine the hindlimb and tail of tadpoles up to 96 h of continuous exposure to T(3), T(4), methimazole, propylthiouracil, or perchlorate. Several novel biomarker candidates are indicated that include transcripts encoding importin, RNA helicase II/Gu, and defender against death protein, DAD1. In combination with previously-identified biomarker candidates, these transcripts will greatly augment the predictive and diagnostic power of the Xenopus metamorphosis assay for perturbation of TH action.
29311245 | Both Major Histocompatibility Complex Class I (MHC-I) and MHC-II Molecules Are Required, while MHC-I Appears To Play a Critical Role in Host Defense against Primary Coxiella burnetii Infection. To understand the role of class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I) and class II MHC (MHC-II) antigen presentation pathways in host defense against Coxiella burnetii infection, we examined whether MHC-I or MHC-II deficiency in mice would significantly influence their susceptibility to virulent C. burnetii Nine Mile phase I (NMI) infection. The results indicate that NMI infection induced more severe disease in both MHC-I-deficient and MHC-II-deficient mice than in wild-type (WT) mice, while only MHC-I-deficient mice developed a severe persistent infection and were unable to control bacterial replication. These results suggest that both MHC-I-restricted CD8+ T cells and MHC-II-restricted CD4+ T cells contribute to host defense against primary C. burnetii infection, while MHC-I-restricted CD8+ T cells appear to play a more critical role in controlling bacterial replication. Additionally, although NMI infection induced more severe disease in TAP1-deficient mice than in their WT counterparts, TAP1 deficiency in mice did not significantly influence their ability to eliminate C. burnetii This suggests that C. burnetii antigen presentation to CD8+ T cells by the MHC-I classical pathway may depend only partially on TAP1. Furthermore, granzyme B deficiency in mice did not significantly alter their susceptibility to C. burnetii infection, but perforin-deficient mice were unable to control host inflammatory responses during primary C. burnetii infection. These results suggest that perforin, but not granzyme B, is required for C. burnetii antigen-specific cytotoxic CD8+ T cells to control primary C. burnetii infection.
36520384 | Correlation analysis of lipid metabolism genes with the immune microenvironment in gastric cancer and the construction of a novel gene signature. BACKGROUND: Lipid metabolism reprogramming plays an important role in cell growth, proliferation, angiogenesis and invasion of cancer. However, the prognostic value of lipid metabolism during gastric cancer (GC) progression and the relationship with the immune microenvironment are still unclear. The aim of this study was to clarify the correlation between lipid metabolism genes and GC immunity. METHOD: We obtained 350 patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and 355 patients from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Lipid metabolism-related gene datasets were obtained from the Reactome and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases. Molecular subtypes were obtained by Consensus clustering, and subtype immune status was analyzed using ESTIMATE, TIMER and microenvironmental cell population counter (MCP Counter) algorithm for immune analysis. Functional analyses included the application of Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), KEGG, gene ontology (GO), and Protein-Protein Interaction Networks (PPI) to evaluate the molecular mechanisms of different subtypes. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to identify genes associated with immunity. The LASSO algorithm and multivariate Cox regression analysis were used to construct prognostic risk models. RESULT: Based on the lipid metabolism genes found in GC, patients with GC can be divided into two subgroups with significantly different survival. The subgroup with a better prognosis presented higher immune scores and immune infiltrating cell abundance. 1170 immune-related genes were screened by WGCNA, and further screening by PPI network analysis revealed that PTPRC, CD4, ITGB2 and LCP2 were closely associated with immune cells. Combined with the TIDE score results, it was found that the population with high expression of the above genes might be more sensitive to immunotherapy. In addition, a survival prediction model for GC was developed based on five survival-related lipid metabolism genes, PIAS4, PLA2R1, PRKACA, SLCO1A2 and STARD4. The ROC analysis over time showed that the risk prediction score model had good stability. CONCLUSION: Lipid metabolism gene expression is correlated with the immune microenvironment in GC patients and can accurately predict their prognosis. Studies on lipid metabolism and GC immunity can help to screen the population for immunotherapy benefits.
2413111 | One allogeneic cytolytic T lymphocyte clone distinguishes three different HLA-B27 subtypes: identification of amino acid residues influencing the specificity and avidity of recognition. The HLA-B27 antigen may be divided into at least three subgroups, designated HLA-B27.1, -B27.2, and -B27.3, by specific cytolytic T lymphocytes. In an attempt to explore the functional relevance of HLA polymorphism, an alloimmune cytolytic T cell clone T3+, T8+, T4- has been characterized, which displays a distinct reactivity pattern with each one of the three HLA-B27 subtypes. This cell kills both B27.1- and B27.2- but not B27.3-positive targets. Its lytic efficiency is greater with B27.1 than with B27.2 cells. The clone does not recognize either B7-positive targets or most B27-negative cells. But HLA-B40-bearing cells are lysed, albeit with significantly less efficiency than any B27-positive targets. The differences in killing ability for B27.1, B27.2, and B40 are also evident in cold-target inhibition studies, indicating that a) B27.1 cells can efficiently inhibit lysis of B27.2 and B40 targets, b) B27.2 cells inhibit the lysis of B40 but not of B27.1 targets, and c) B40 cells do not inhibit B27.1 or B27.2 target lysis. In addition, anti-T3 and anti-T8 antibodies are much more effective in inhibiting the lysis of B27.2 targets than that of B27.1-positive cells, suggesting that the observed differences in killing efficiency of the various targets are due to the fact that the tightness of the effector-target interaction is affected by the structural changes between the different HLA antigens. A correlation of the reactivity pattern of this T cell clone with the known amino acid sequences of the HLA-B27, HLA-B40, and HLA-B7 antigens suggests that the clone recognizes a conformational determinant contributed to by residues within the segments 149-156 and 67-83. Those in the former segment appear to be an essential portion of this determinant, whereas polymorphism in the region 67-83 has a modulating effect on the reactivity of the effector but does not abrogate recognition.
24244437 | An improved method for surface immobilisation of RNA: application to small non-coding RNA-mRNA pairing. Characterisation of RNA and its intermolecular interactions is increasing in importance as the inventory of known RNA functions continues to expand. RNA-RNA interactions are central to post-transcriptional gene regulation mechanisms in bacteria, and the interactions of bacterial small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) with their mRNA targets are the subject of much current research. The technology of surface plasmon resonance (SPR) is an attractive approach to studying these interactions since it is highly sensitive, and allows interaction measurements to be recorded in real-time. Whilst a number of approaches exist to label RNAs for surface-immobilisation, the method documented here is simple, quick, efficient, and utilises the high-affinity streptavidin-biotin interaction. Specifically, we ligate a biotinylated nucleotide to the 3' end of RNA using T4 RNA ligase. Although this is a previously recognised approach, we have optimised the method by our discovery that the incorporation of four or more adenine nucleotides at the 3' end of the RNA (a poly-A-tail) is required in order to achieve high ligation efficiencies. We use this method within the context of investigating small non-coding RNA (sRNA)-mRNA interactions through the application of surface technologies, including quantitative SPR assays. We first focus on validating the method using the recently characterised Escherichia coli sRNA-mRNA pair, MicA-ompA, specifically demonstrating that the addition of the poly-A-tail to either RNA does not affect its subsequent binding interactions with partner molecules. We then apply this method to investigate the novel interactions of a Vibrio cholerae Qrr sRNA with partner mRNAs, hapR and vca0939; RNA-RNA pairings that are important in mediating pathogenic virulence. The calculated binding parameters allow insights to be drawn regarding sRNA-mRNA interaction mechanisms.
38278784 | Human coronavirus OC43-elicited CD4+ T cells protect against SARS-CoV-2 in HLA transgenic mice. SARS-CoV-2-reactive T cells are detected in some healthy unexposed individuals. Human studies indicate these T cells could be elicited by the common cold coronavirus OC43. To directly test this assumption and define the role of OC43-elicited T cells that are cross-reactive with SARS-CoV-2, we develop a model of sequential infections with OC43 followed by SARS-CoV-2 in HLA-B*0702 and HLA-DRB1*0101 Ifnar1-/- transgenic mice. We find that OC43 infection can elicit polyfunctional CD8+ and CD4+ effector T cells that cross-react with SARS-CoV-2 peptides. Furthermore, pre-exposure to OC43 reduces subsequent SARS-CoV-2 infection and disease in the lung for a short-term in HLA-DRB1*0101 Ifnar1-/- transgenic mice, and a longer-term in HLA-B*0702 Ifnar1-/- transgenic mice. Depletion of CD4+ T cells in HLA-DRB1*0101 Ifnar1-/- transgenic mice with prior OC43 exposure results in increased viral burden in the lung but no change in virus-induced lung damage following infection with SARS-CoV-2 (versus CD4+ T cell-sufficient mice), demonstrating that the OC43-elicited SARS-CoV-2 cross-reactive T cell-mediated cross-protection against SARS-CoV-2 is partially dependent on CD4+ T cells. These findings contribute to our understanding of the origin of pre-existing SARS-CoV-2-reactive T cells and their effects on SARS-CoV-2 clinical outcomes, and also carry implications for development of broadly protective betacoronavirus vaccines.
38035132 | Dynamics of T-cell Responses Following COVID-19 mRNA Vaccination and Breakthrough Infection in Older Adults. Introduction: While older adults generally mount weaker antibody responses to a primary COVID-19 vaccine series, T-cell responses remain less well characterized in this population. We compared SARS-CoV-2 spike-specific T-cell responses after 2- and 3-dose COVID-19 mRNA vaccination and subsequent breakthrough infection in older and younger adults. Methods: We quantified CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells reactive to overlapping peptides spanning the ancestral SARS-CoV-2 spike protein in 40 older adults (median age 79) and 50 younger health care workers (median age 39), all COVID-19 naive, using an activation-induced marker assay. T-cell responses were further assessed in 24 participants, including 8 older adults, who subsequently experienced their first SARS-CoV-2 breakthrough infection. Results: A third COVID-19 mRNA vaccine dose significantly boosted spike-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell frequencies to above 2-dose levels in older and younger adults. T-cell frequencies did not significantly differ between older and younger adults after either dose. Multivariable analyses adjusting for sociodemographic, health, and vaccine-related variables confirmed that older age was not associated with impaired cellular responses. Instead, the strongest predictors of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell frequencies post-third-dose were their corresponding post-second-dose frequencies. Breakthrough infection significantly increased both CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell frequencies, to comparable levels in older and younger adults. Exploratory analyses revealed an association between HLA-A*02:03 and higher post-vaccination CD8+ T-cell frequencies, which may be attributable to numerous strong-binding HLA-A*02:03-specific CD8+ T-cell epitopes in the spike protein. Conclusion: Older adults mount robust T-cell responses to 2- and 3-dose COVID-19 mRNA vaccination, which are further boosted following breakthrough infection.
36851781 | Definition of a New HLA B*52-Restricted Rev CTL Epitope Targeted by an HIV-1-Infected Controller. The analysis of T-cell responses in HIV-1-infected controllers may contribute to a better understanding of the protective components of the immune system. Here, we analyzed the HIV-1-specific T-cell response in a 59-year-old HIV-1-infected controller, infected for at least seven years, who presented with low viral loads ranging from <20 copies/mL to 200 copies/mL and normal CD4 counts of >800 cells/microL. In gamma-IFN-ELISpot assays using freshly isolated PBMCs, he displayed a very strong polyclonal T-cell response to eight epitopes in Gag, Nef and Rev; with the dominant responses directed against the HLA-B*57-epitope AISPRTLNAW and against a so-far-unknown epitope within Rev. Further analyses using peptide-stimulated T-cell lines in gamma-IFN-ELISpot assays delineated the peptide RQRQIRSI (Rev-RI8) as a newly defined HLA-B*52-restricted epitope located within a functionally important region of Rev. Peptide-stimulation assays in 15 HLA-B*52-positive HIV-1-infected subjects, including the controller, demonstrated recognition of the Rev-RI8 epitope in 6/15 subjects. CD4 counts before the start of antiviral therapy were significantly higher in subjects with recognition of the Rev-RI8 epitope. Targeting of the Rev-RI8 epitope in Rev by CTL could contribute to the positive association of HLA-B*52 with a more favorable course of HIV-1-infection.
37528526 | Human A2-CAR T Cells Reject HLA-A2+ Human Islets Transplanted Into Mice Without Inducing Graft-Versus-Host Disease. BACKGROUND: Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease characterized by T-cell-mediated destruction of pancreatic beta-cells. Islet transplantation is an effective therapy, but its success is limited by islet quality and availability along with the need for immunosuppression. New approaches include the use of stem cell-derived insulin-producing cells and immunomodulatory therapies, but a limitation is the paucity of reproducible animal models in which interactions between human immune cells and insulin-producing cells can be studied without the complication of xenogeneic graft-versus-host disease (xGVHD). METHODS: We expressed an HLA-A2-specific chimeric antigen receptor (A2-CAR) in human CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and tested their ability to reject HLA-A2+ islets transplanted under the kidney capsule or anterior chamber of the eye of immunodeficient mice. T-cell engraftment, islet function, and xGVHD were assessed longitudinally. RESULTS: The speed and consistency of A2-CAR T-cell-mediated islet rejection varied depending on the number of A2-CAR T cells and the absence/presence of coinjected peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). When <3 million A2-CAR T cells were injected, coinjection of PBMCs accelerated islet rejection but also induced xGVHD. In the absence of PBMCs, injection of 3 million A2-CAR T cells caused synchronous rejection of A2+ human islets within 1 wk and without xGVHD for 12 wk. CONCLUSIONS: Injection of A2-CAR T cells can be used to study rejection of human insulin-producing cells without the complication of xGVHD. The rapidity and synchrony of rejection will facilitate in vivo screening of new therapies designed to improve the success of islet-replacement therapies.
34843601 | A combined EM and proteomic analysis places HIV-1 Vpu at the crossroads of retromer and ESCRT complexes: PTPN23 is a Vpu-cofactor. The HIV-1 accessory protein Vpu modulates membrane protein trafficking and degradation to provide evasion of immune surveillance. Targets of Vpu include CD4, HLAs, and BST-2. Several cellular pathways co-opted by Vpu have been identified, but the picture of Vpu's itinerary and activities within membrane systems remains incomplete. Here, we used fusion proteins of Vpu and the enzyme ascorbate peroxidase (APEX2) to compare the ultrastructural locations and the proximal proteomes of wild type Vpu and Vpu-mutants. The proximity-omes of the proteins correlated with their ultrastructural locations and placed wild type Vpu near both retromer and ESCRT-0 complexes. Hierarchical clustering of protein abundances across the mutants was essential to interpreting the data and identified Vpu degradation-targets including CD4, HLA-C, and SEC12 as well as Vpu-cofactors including HGS, STAM, clathrin, and PTPN23, an ALIX-like protein. The Vpu-directed degradation of BST-2 was supported by STAM and PTPN23 and to a much lesser extent by the retromer subunits Vps35 and SNX3. PTPN23 also supported the Vpu-directed decrease in CD4 at the cell surface. These data suggest that Vpu directs targets from sorting endosomes to degradation at multi-vesicular bodies via ESCRT-0 and PTPN23.
36331825 | Human leukocyte antigens class I and class II alleles associated with vertical human immunodeficiency virus transmission - an exploratory study from Mumbai, India. Background Human leukocyte antigens (HLA) an important host genetic factor is responsible for influencing human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) transmission and disease progression. Contributions of HLA I and II alleles have not been reported in the Indian population with respect to vertical HIV transmission. Aim In the current study we determined the frequencies of HLA class I and class II alleles in a cohort of children exposed to HIV through their mothers. Method In this exploratory study children perinatally exposed to HIV-1 who fit the study criteria and had completed 18 month follow-up were typed for HLA class I and class II alleles using polymerase chain reaction combined with sequence-specific oligonucleotides probes (PCR-SSOP) and sequence-specific primer (SSP) method. HLA typing was done in 30 positive and 60 HIV negative children along with confounding factors such as treatment regimens, viral load and CD4 count of the mother, feeding option, etc. SPSS software was used for statistical analysis and online docking tools for in-silico analysis. Results HLA-B*40 (p = 0.018) was significantly higher in negative children and was associated with protection, whereas HLA-A*01 (p = 0.05), HLA-B*37 (p = 0.032) and HLA-DRB1*09 (p = 0.017) were associated with transmission. Known protective allele HLA-B*27 was only present in negative children. Many specific haplotypes were exclusively present in the negative children or the positive ones. In-silico analysis was performed to predict the ability of HLA-B*40 to bind to antigenic peptides obtained from HIV-1 sequences in our study group. Limitations Small sample size is a concerning limitation of the study. Nonetheless this is a comprehensive study on HLA alleles in HIV exposed Indian children Conclusion Our study highlights the contribution of HLA class I and II alleles in the Indian children and further adds to understanding the immunogenetic mechanisms. These can be developed as markers for prediction of infection transmission. The observations also contribute to the database of genetic makeup of our population and can help in designing vaccine strategies.
23687071 | A versatile approach towards the compaction, decompaction, and immobilization of DNA at interfaces by using cyclodextrins. We investigate the temperature dependence of interactions of beta-cyclodextrin (CD)/hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) self-assemblies with DNA during the decompaction of DNA/CTAB complexes. By combining direct imaging techniques with density and sound-velocity measurements, we can explain the decompaction process and suggest a suitable model. The DNA-decompaction process by using CDs is accompanied by interactions with surfaces, such as glass or mica. The mechanism of beta-CD/CTAB self-assembly is elucidated and the immobilization of DNA onto negatively charged surfaces is explained. Differences between the fractal dimensions of DNA that is adsorbed onto the surfaces are related to strong and weak binding, which permit the partial relaxation of DNA on the surfaces. The beta-CD/CTAB self-assembled monolayers are demonstrated to be a facile and efficient route for surface functionalization, which allows for the immobilization of biomacromolecules in close proximity without any intermediate binding or deprotection steps. Moreover, this route is expected to show several advantages that might contribute to improving the performance of future biosensors as gentle immobilization-limiting alteration of the protein structure, oriented immobilization, thereby allowing homogeneous accessibility, reversible immobilization, thereby allowing reutilizations, and high compatibility with various types of biomacromolecules.
34015361 | Rapamycin delays allograft rejection in obese graft recipients through induction of myeloid-derived suppressor cells. Obesity has become a relevant problem in transplantation medicine with steadily increasing numbers of obese graft recipients. However, the effect of immunomodulatory drugs on transplant-related outcomes among obese patients are unknown. Therefore, we evaluated the impact of rapamycin on allograft rejection and alloimmune response in a murine model of diet-induced obesity and fully-mismatched skin transplantation. Rapamycin significantly delayed allograft rejection in obese recipient mice compared to treated lean mice (14.5 days vs. 10.7 days, p = 0.005). Treatment with rapamycin increased frequencies of monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSCs), augmented the immunosuppressive activity of M-MDSCs on T cells through indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase pathway and shifted CD4+T cells towards regulatory T cells in obese graft recipients. In summary, our results demonstrate that rapamycin delays allograft rejection in obese graft recipients by enhancing suppressive immune cell function and shifting immune cell subsets towards anti-inflammatory conditions.
34772758 | Combining CTLA-4 and angiopoietin-2 blockade in patients with advanced melanoma: a phase I trial. BACKGROUND: Angiogenic factors promote the growth of tumor vasculature, modulate lymphocyte trafficking into tumors, and inhibit maturation of dendritic cells. We hypothesized that MEDI3617, a human IgG1 kappa monoclonal antibody directed against human angiopoietin-2, in combination with tremelimumab (treme), an IgG2 monoclonal antibody blocking cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein- (CTLA-4), is safe in patients with advanced melanoma. METHODS: In a phase I, 3+3 dose escalation trial, patients with metastatic or unresectable melanoma received treme in combination with MEDI3617. The primary objectives of the study were safety and determination of recommended phase II dose (RP2D). The secondary objectives included determination of 6-month and 1-year overall survival and best overall response rate. Immune cell populations and soluble factors were assessed in peripheral blood and metastatic tumors using Fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS), Luminex, and multiplexed immunofluorescence. RESULTS: Fifteen patients (median age: 62) were enrolled in the study (3 patients in cohort 1: treme at 10 mg/kg and MEDI3617 at 200 mg; and 12 patients in cohort 2: treme at 10 mg/kg and MEDI3617 at 600 mg). The most common all-grade treatment-related adverse events were rash, pruritus, fatigue, and extremity edema. No dose-limiting toxicities were observed. Cohort 2 was determined to be the RP2D. There were no patients with confirmed immune-related complete response or immune-related partial response. Six of 15 patients had immune-related stable disease, resulting in a disease control rate of 0.40 (95% CI 0.16 to 0.68). An increase in frequencies of circulating inducible T-cell costimulator (ICOS)+ and human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR+ CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and production of Interleukin-2 and Interleukin-10 was observed post therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Tremelimumab in combination with MEDI3617 is safe in patients with advanced melanoma. Angiopoietin-2 inhibition in combination with immune checkpoint inhibition warrants further exploration. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02141542.
38573736 | Quality of Life and Loneliness Among American Military Veterans. ABSTRACT: Quality of life and loneliness are closely associated with mental and physical health outcomes. This relationship is particularly important in Veterans who experience elevated rates of disabilities, comorbidities, and chronic health conditions as compared with non-Veterans. In the present project, we use data from the Military Health and Well-Being Project (n = 1469, 67.2% men, 32.3% women, 0.5% transgender, nonbinary, prefer not to say) to investigate the link between five domains of quality of life (i.e., general quality of life, physical health, psychological health, social relationships, and environment) with loneliness in American Military Veterans. Findings indicated that every domain of quality of life was negatively and significantly associated with loneliness (r's < -0.45, p's < 0.001), such that quality of life decreased as loneliness increased. We further found, using linear regression, that quality social relationships (beta = -0.385, t = -13.23), psychological functioning (beta = -0.196, t = -5.28), and physical health (beta = -0.133, t = -4.174) were related to low levels of loneliness. Taken together, these findings indicate that in this sample of Veterans 1) general quality of life, physical health, psychological health, social relationships, and environment are all strongly connected with loneliness, and 2) of these, social relationships, psychological health, and physical health seem to protect most against loneliness, with large robust effect sizes. We recommend that intervention and policy researchers continue to investigate and develop feasible, acceptable, and cost-effective ways to promote social relationships, psychological health, and physical health among Veterans. Data were collected during the COVID-19 pandemic, which may limit generalizability of these findings.
36549550 | Impaired protective role of HLA-B*57:01/58:01 in HIV-1 CRF01_AE infection: a cohort study in Vietnam. OBJECTIVES: Human Leukocyte Antigen HLA-B*57:01 and B*58:01 are considered anti-HIV-1 protective alleles. HLA-B*57:01/58:01-restricted HIV-1 Gag TW10 (TSTLQEQIGW, Gag residues 240-249) epitope-specific CD8+ T cell responses that frequently select for a Gag escape mutation, T242N, with viral fitness cost are crucial for HIV-1 control. Although this finding has been observed in cohorts where HIV-1 subtype B or C predominates, the protective impact of HLA-B*57:01/58:01 has not been reported in Southeast Asian countries where HIV-1 CRF01_AE is the major circulating strain. Here, the effect of HLA-B*57:01/58:01 on CRF01_AE infection was investigated. METHODS: The correlation of HLA-B*57:01/58:01 with viral load and CD4 counts were analyzed in the CRF01_AE-infected Vietnamese cohort (N = 280). The impact of the T242N mutation on CRF01_AE replication capacity was assessed. RESULTS: HLA-B*57:01/58:01-positive individuals mostly had HIV-1 with T242N (62/63) but showed neither a significant reduction in viral load nor increased CD4 counts relative to B*57:01/58:01-negative participants. In vitro and in vivo analyses revealed a significant reduction in viral fitness of CRF01_AE with T242N. In silico analysis indicated reduced presentation of epitopes in the context of CRF01_AE compared to subtype B or C in 10/16 HLA-B*57:01/58:01-restricted HIV-1 epitopes. CONCLUSION: The protective impact of HLA-B*57:01/58:01 on CRF01_AE infection is impaired despite strong suppressive pressure by TW10-specific CD8+ T cells.
38552918 | Trajectories of depressive and anxiety symptoms and associated risk factors during the COVID-19 pandemic in Germany: A longitudinal cohort study. BACKGROUND: Most COVID-19-related mental health research focused on average levels of mental health parameters in the general population. However, considering heterogeneous groups and their long-term responses could deepen our understanding of mental health during community crises. This four-wave study aimed to (1) identify subgroups with different trajectories of depressive and anxiety symptoms in the German general population, and (2) investigate associated risk factors. METHODS: We analyzed self-report data from N = 1257 German adults participating in a European cohort study, assessed in summer 2020 (T1), and at 6 (T2), 12 (T3), and 30 months (T4). Depressive and anxiety symptoms were measured using the PHQ-4. Sociodemographic, health-related, and pandemic-related variables were assessed at baseline. We applied growth mixture modeling to identify subgroups of symptom trajectories and conducted multinomial logistic regression to examine factors associated with class membership. RESULTS: We identified six symptom trajectories: Low-stable (n = 971, 77.2 %), Continuous deterioration (n = 30, 2.4 %), Transient deterioration (n = 75, 6.0 %), Continuous improvement (n = 97, 7.7 %), Transient improvement (n = 38, 3.0 %) and Chronicity (n = 46, 3.7 %). Age, education, work status, mental health diagnoses, self-reported health, and pandemic-related news consumption were significantly associated with subgroup membership. LIMITATIONS: The generalizability of the study is constrained by an unrepresentative sampling method, a notable dropout rate, and limited consideration of risk factors. CONCLUSION: Most people experienced low symptoms or improvement during the pandemic, while others experienced chronic or transient symptoms. Specific risk factors were associated with these trajectories, revealing nuanced mental health dynamics.
31226136 | Phosphodiesterase 4D, miR-203 and selected cytokines in the peripheral blood are associated with canine atopic dermatitis. Canine Atopic Dermatitis (AD) is a common complex and multifactorial disease involving immune dysregulation, genetic predisposition, skin barrier defects, environmental factors and allergic sensitization. To date, diagnosis of canine AD relies on a combination of patient history, clinical examination, allergy testing and response to diet trials/therapies with no reliable biomarkers available to distinguish AD from other diseases with similar clinical presentations. A handful of studies to identify potential biomarkers in the peripheral blood of AD dogs and healthy controls have been performed with some showing inconsistent and contradictory results. In this study, we, for the first time, report statistically significant increases in expression of phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D) gene in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and miR-203 in plasma from AD dogs compared to healthy controls. In addition, we report a statistically non-significant change of the CD4+/CD8+ ratio, a dramatic decrease of three gene markers (PIAS1, RORA and SH2B1) as well as a panel of differential expression of cytokines in AD dogs in comparison to the healthy controls. Our study provides important insight into the complexities of canine AD, and further studies to verify the specificity of these findings for canine AD at a larger-scale are warranted.
37626903 | Skin-Grafting and Dendritic Cell \Boosted\ Humanized Mouse Models Allow the Pre-Clinical Evaluation of Therapeutic Cancer Vaccines. Vaccines have been hailed as one of the most remarkable medical advancements in human history, and their potential for treating cancer by generating or expanding anti-tumor T cells has garnered significant interest in recent years. However, the limited efficacy of therapeutic cancer vaccines in clinical trials can be partially attributed to the inadequacy of current preclinical mouse models in recapitulating the complexities of the human immune system. In this study, we developed two innovative humanized mouse models to assess the immunogenicity and therapeutic effectiveness of vaccines targeting human papillomavirus (HPV16) antigens and delivering tumor antigens to human CD141+ dendritic cells (DCs). Both models were based on the transference of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) into immunocompromised HLA-A*02-NSG mice (NSG-A2), where the use of fresh PBMCs boosted the engraftment of human cells up to 80%. The dynamics of immune cells in the PBMC-hu-NSG-A2 mice demonstrated that T cells constituted the vast majority of engrafted cells, which progressively expanded over time and retained their responsiveness to ex vivo stimulation. Using the PBMC-hu-NSG-A2 system, we generated a hyperplastic skin graft model expressing the HPV16-E7 oncogene. Remarkably, human cells populated the skin grafts, and upon vaccination with a DNA vaccine encoding an HPV16-E6/E7 protein, rapid rejection targeted to the E7-expressing skin was detected, underscoring the capacity of the model to mount a vaccine-specific response. To overcome the decline in DC numbers observed over time in PBMC-hu-NSG-A2 animals, we augmented the abundance of CD141+ DCs, the specific targets of our tailored nanoemulsions (TNEs), by transferring additional autologous PBMCs pre-treated in vitro with the growth factor Flt3-L. The Flt3-L treatment bolstered CD141+ DC numbers, leading to potent antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses in vivo, which caused the regression of pre-established triple-negative breast cancer and melanoma tumors following CD141+ DC-targeting TNE vaccination. Notably, using HLA-A*02-matching PBMCs for humanizing NSG-A2 mice resulted in a delayed onset of graft-versus-host disease and enhanced the efficacy of the TNE vaccination compared with the parental NSG strain. In conclusion, we successfully established two humanized mouse models that exhibited strong antigen-specific responses and demonstrated tumor regression following vaccination. These models serve as valuable platforms for assessing the efficacy of therapeutic cancer vaccines targeting HPV16-dysplastic skin and diverse tumor antigens specifically delivered to CD141+ DCs.
37711200 | Pan-cancer analysis of kinesin family members with potential implications in prognosis and immunological role in human cancer. Background: Kinesin is a molecular motor for transporting \goods\ within cells and plays a key role in many types of tumors. The multi-angle study of kinesin at the pan-cancer level is conducive to understanding its role in tumorigenesis and development and clinical treatment potential. Methods: We evaluated the expression of KIF genes, performed differential analysis by using the R package limma, and explored the pan-cancer prognosis of KIF genes by univariate Cox regression analysis. To evaluate the pan-cancer role of KIF genes as a whole, we defined the KIFscore with the help of gene set variation analysis (GSVA) and explored the KIFscores across normal tissues, tumor cell lines, and 33 tumor types in TCGA. Next, we used spearman correlation analysis to extensively study the correlation between the KIFscore and tumor prognosis and be-tween the KIFscore and clinical indicators. We also identified the relationship between the KIFscore and genomic variation and immune molecular signatures by multiplatform analysis. Finally, we identified the key genes in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) through machine learning algorithms and verified the candidate genes by CCK8, wound healing assay, Transwell assay, and flow cytometry. Results: In most cancers, KIFscores are high and they act as a risk factor for cancer. The KIFscore was significantly associated with copy number variation (CNV), tumor mutation burden (TMB), immune subtypes, DNA repair deficiency, and tumor stemness indexes. Moreover, in almost all cancer species, the KIFscore was positively correlated with T cell CD4+ TH2, the common lymphoid pro-genitor, and the T cell follicular helper. In addition, it was negatively correlated with CXCL16, CCL14, TNFSF13, and TNFRSF14 and positively correlated with ULBP1, MICB, and CD276. Machine learning helped us to identify four hub-genes in ccRCC. The suitable gene, KIF14, is highly expressed in ccRCC and promotes tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Conclusion: Our study shows that the KIF genes play an important pan-cancer role and may become a potential new target for a variety of tumor treatments in the future. Furthermore, KIF14, a key molecule in the KIF genes, can provide a new idea for the ccRCC treatment.
14630083 | Down-regulation of SHP1 and up-regulation of negative regulators of JAK/STAT signaling in HTLV-1 transformed cell lines and freshly transformed human peripheral blood CD4+ T-cells. Adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) is an aggressive malignancy that is associated with human T-cell lymphotropic virus I (HTLV-I) infection. HTLV-I transformed T-cell lines and fresh ATL cells are characterized by constitutive activation of the interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R) signaling pathway however, the mechanism(s) responsible for constitutive IL-2R activation are unknown. To further examine the cause of this signaling pathway deregulation, we measured mRNA and protein expression levels by real-time PCR and Western blots, respectively, of four negative regulators of the IL-2R signaling pathway including src homology 2 (SH2)-containing phosphatase (SHP1), cytokine-inducible (CIS) SH2-containing protein, suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 (SOCS1) and protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) (PIAS3) in six HTLV-1 negative and seven HTLV-1 positive T-cell leukemia lines. The activation status of the JAK/STAT pathway was also examined. SHP1 mRNA and protein expression levels were selectively down regulated in all HTLV-1-infected transformed cell lines, while CIS, SOCS1, and PIAS3 protein expression were markedly but variably upregulated and the cells showed evidence of constitutive STAT3 activation. In acutely HTLV-1 infected primary CD4+ T-cells there was a gradual loss of SHP1 expression over 10 weeks in culture which correlated with progression from immortalization to transformation and loss of IL-2 dependence for growth. Two transformed cell lines that were established following HTLV-1 infection showed loss of SHP1 expression and overexpression of CIS, SOCS1, PIAS3. However, this overexpression was not adequate to block constitutive activation of the JAK/STAT pathway. Thus, multiple levels of IL-2 receptor signal deregulation are found in HTLV-1 transformed cells, which may be a result of early loss of SHP1 expression.
18197855 | Oral lesions as predictors of highly active antiretroviral therapy failure in Brazilian HIV-infected children. OBJECTIVES: Evaluate the accuracy of HIV-related oral lesions to predict immune and virologic failure on HIV-infected children in use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). STUDY DESIGN: Data for this cross-sectional analysis come from a longitudinal study being conducted through the HIV-AIDS Outpatient Unit, ENT Division, Hospital das Clinicas, Sao Paulo University Medical School. The study began in January 1990 and is still ongoing. The cut-off point for analyses purposes was December 2004. Subjects were 471 HIV-infected consecutive children attending the outpatient unit during this period, who enrolled regardless of medical or immunological status. The children have undertaken oral cavity examination, serum CD4(+) T-lymphocyte count, and, 271 of them, viral load measurement. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and relative risk were calculated. RESULTS: Oral lesions had moderate sensitivity, high specificity and positive predictive value to predict immune failure. It had low sensitivity and positive predictive value, and high specificity to predict virologic failure. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Oral manifestations of HIV can be important markers for immune suppression and for virologic failure, in Brazilian children undergoing HAART.
3871932 | [HLA and myasthenia. Subdivision in 3 categories]. Genetic susceptibility (HLA types), clinical and pathological findings, amount of acetylcholine receptor antibodies and T lymphocyte subpopulations were studied in 63 patients with Myasthenia Gravis (MG). The frequency of HLA-DR5 was increased among patients (0.50 versus 0.23 in controls, pc less than 0.01, relative risk 3.3) and that of HLA-DR3 previously described as associated with MG was slightly increased (0.31 versus 0.20 in controls). The relative frequencies of two T cell subpopulations (T4 helper and T8 suppressor/cytotoxic lymphocytes) were normal in HLA-DR5 positive patients while the ratio T4/T8 was increased in other MG patients, who were HLA-DR3 (p less than 0.005). The high rate was due to an increase in the absolute number of T4 lymphocytes (p less than 0.001). HLA-DR3 patients were mostly women with early onset of a severe form of the disease, marked by the presence of thymic follicular lymphoid hyperplasia. A third genetic susceptibility to this disease was recently described in patients treated with D-penicillamine, the antigenic frequency of HLA-Bw35, DR1 is significantly increased. These 3 types of association between HLA and myasthenia gravis can be related to three different physiopathological mechanisms: the first two are probably linked to individual immunity (inductor/suppressor disequilibrium), in the third association, the mechanism is immunopharmacological.
18056374 | Interaction between GATA-3 and the transcriptional coregulator Pias1 is important for the regulation of Th2 immune responses. Th2 cytokine expression is dependent on the transcription factor GATA-3. However, the molecular interactions of GATA-3 leading to Th2 cytokine gene activation have not been well characterized. Here, we reported a number of GATA-3 associated proteins in Th2 cells, and one of such proteins Pias1 functioned as a positive transcriptional coregulator for GATA-3. When overexpressed in Th2 cells, Pias1 enhanced the expression of IL-13, and to lesser degrees, IL-4 and -5. Conversely, Pias1 siRNA down-regulated the Th2 cytokine expression. In Leishmania major infection, manipulating Pias1 expression in parasite-reactive CD4 T cells altered severity of disease caused by Th2 responses. Mechanistically, Pias1 markedly potentiated GATA-3-mediated activation of the IL-13 promoter by facilitating the recruitment of GATA-3 to the promoter. In contrast, IL-5 promoter was modestly enhanced by Pias1 and no effect was observed on IL-4 promoter. Thus, both promoter activation and additional mechanisms are responsible for regulation by Pias1.
37333490 | Nanoliposomal VEGF-R2 peptide vaccine acts as an effective therapeutic vaccine in a murine B16F10 model of melanoma. Background: The vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) plays an important role in melanoma development and progression. Peptide vaccines have shown great potential in cancer immunotherapy by targeting VEGFR-2 as a tumor-associated antigen and boosting the immune response against both tumor cells and tumor endothelial cells. Despite this, the low efficiency of peptide vaccines has resulted in moderate therapeutic results in the majority of studies. Enhancing the delivery of peptide vaccines using nanoliposomes is an important strategy for improving the efficacy of peptide vaccines. In this regard, we designed VEGFR-2-derived peptides restricted to both mouse MHC I and human HLA-A*02:01 using immunoinformatic tools and selected three peptides representing the highest binding affinities. The peptides were encapsulated in nanoliposomal formulations using the film method plus bath sonication and characterized for their colloidal properties. Results: The mean diameter of peptide-encapsulated liposomes was around 135 nm, zeta potential of - 17 mV, and encapsulation efficiency of approximately 70%. Then, vaccine formulations were injected subcutaneously in mice bearing B16F10-established melanoma tumors and their efficiency in triggering immunological, and anti-tumor responses was evaluated. Our results represented that one of our designed VEGFR-2 peptide nanoliposomal formulations (Lip-V1) substantially activated CD4+ (p < 0.0001) and CD8+ (P < 0.001) T cell responses and significantly boosted the production of IFN-gamma (P < 0.0001) and IL-4 (P < 0.0001). Furthermore, this formulation led to a significant decrease in tumor volume (P < 0.0001) and enhanced survival (P < 0.05) in mice. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that the nanoliposomal formulation containing VEGFR-2 peptides could be a promising therapeutic vaccination approach capable of eliciting strong antigen-specific immunologic and anti-tumor responses. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12645-023-00213-7.
14611728 | Different cytokine production and effector/memory dynamics of alpha beta+ or gamma delta+ T-cell subsets in the peripheral blood of patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis. Immunity to M.tuberculosis (MTB) infection consists of interactions between various T-cell subsets that control the infection and prevent further reactivation. We analysed the effector/memory T-cell dynamics and cytokines production in the peripheral blood of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). We observed that the frequency of CD4+ T-cell effectors was significantly increased during active TB, confirming a major role of this T-cell subset in TB immunity. Pre-terminally differentiated CD8+ T-lymphocytes were increased in the peripheral blood as well. In contrast, we observed a reduced number of effector mycobacteria-reactive gammadelta+ T-lymphocytes with a specific defects in reacting to mycobacterial nonpeptidic antigens, suggesting that this innate response is rapidly lost during TB infection. Nevertheless, the frequency of gammadelta+ T-cells effectors in TB patients was higher than the alphabeta+ T-cell response to peptide from MTB-ESAT-6 protein and quantitatively similar to PPD reactivity. Thus, alphabeta+ and gammadelta+ T-cell differentiation and function are differently triggered by active TB infection.
10795530 | The nucleotide sequence and genome organization of Japanese iris necrotic ring virus, a new species in the genus Carmovirus. The genome of Japanese iris necrotic ring virus (JINRV) consists of a positive-sense ssRNA of 4014 nucleotides with six major open reading frames (ORFs). A 5'-non-coding region of 31 nucleotides precedes the first initiation codon. Like Carnation mottle virus (CarMV), the 5'-proximal three ORFs encode a 26 kDa protein (p26) and two readthrough proteins, i.e. an 85 kDa putative RNA replicase (p85) and a 99 kDa protein (p99). The central ORF encodes a small 8 kDa protein (p8). The 3'-proximal ORF encodes a 38 kDa capsid protein (p38). Another ORF encoding a 12 kDa protein (p12) overlaps the p99 ORF.JINRV RNA treated with bacterial alkaline phosphatase and tobacco acid pyrophosphatase could not be ligated to an oligoribonucleotide using T4 RNA ligase, indicating that the 5' end of the viral RNA is uncapped. The 3' end is not polyadenylated. Comparison of the genomic organization and the predicted amino acid sequences with those of other viruses confirmed that JINRV should be classified as a member of the genus Carmovirus, family Tombusviridae.
6410385 | Immunogenetics and immunopathology of human membranous glomerulonephritis. In most of our membranous glomerulonephritis (MGN) patients, we have studied the HLA-A, B, DR phenotype, the clearance of anti-D rhesus coated 51Cr-labelled autologous erythrocytes, and T-lymphocyte subpopulations with monoclonal antibodies (OKT3, T4, T8). The frequency of B8 antigen in 28 patients with MGN (five cases associated with lupus excluded) is 57.14 per cent versus 14.42 per cent in controls (Pc = 0.0002). In 26 patients the frequency of DR3 antigen is 65.38 per cent versus 20.27 per cent in controls (Pc = 0.00008). The half-life of sensitised erythrocytes is respectively 35.36 +/- 8.50 minutes in nine controls and 67.05 +/- 69.64 min in 18 patients with MGN. The half-life is significantly prolonged in one-third of the patients at time of exacerbation. The peripheral blood T-lymphocyte subsets study showed a significant decrease of OKT3 and OKT4 positive cell subsets. T4/T8 ratio is high during exacerbation of disease and diminishes in remission. Our data are consistent with a latent subtle genetic immunodeficiency, only expressed during acute phases of the disease.
37451415 | SARS-COV-2 specific t-cells in patients with thyroid disorders related to COVID-19 are enriched in the thyroid and acquire a tissue-resident memory phenotype. BACKGROUND: SARS-CoV-2 infections have been associated with the onset of thyroid disorders like classic subacute thyroiditis (SAT) or atypical SAT upon severe COVID disease (COV-A-SAT). Little is known about thyroid anti-viral immune responses. OBJECTIVES: To define the role of T-cells in COV-A-SAT. METHODS: T-cells from COV-A-SAT patients were analyzed by multi-dimensional flow cytometry, UMAP and DiffusionMap dimensionality reduction and FlowSOM clustering. T-cells from COVID-naive healthy donors, patients with autoimmune thyroiditis (ATD) and with SAT following COVID vaccination were analyzed as controls. T-cells were analyzed four and eight months post-infection in peripheral blood and in thyroid specimen obtained by ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration. SARS-COV2-specific T-cells were identified by cytokine production induced by SARS-COV2-derived peptides and with COVID peptide-loaded HLA multimers after HLA haplotyping. RESULTS: COV-A-SAT was associated with HLA-DRB1*13 and HLA-B*57. COV-A-SAT patients contained activated Th1- and cytotoxic CD4+ and CD8+ effector cells four months post-infection, which acquired a quiescent memory phenotype after eight months. Anti-SARS-CoV-2-specific T-cell responses were readily detectable in peripheral blood four months post-infection, but were reduced after eight months. CD4+ and CD8+ tissue-resident memory cells (TRM) were present in the thyroid, and circulating CXCR3+T-cells identified as their putative precursors. SARS-CoV-2-specific T-cells were enriched in the thyroid, and acquired a TRM phenotype eight months post-infection. CONCLUSIONS: The association of COV-A-SAT with specific HLA haplotypes suggests a genetic predisposition and a key role for T-cells. COV-A-SAT is characterized by a prolonged systemic anti-viral effector T-cell response and the late generation of COVID-specific TRM in the thyroid target tissue.
34956237 | Single-Domain Antibodies for Targeting, Detection, and In Vivo Imaging of Human CD4+ Cells. The advancement of new immunotherapies necessitates appropriate probes to monitor the presence and distribution of distinct immune cell populations. Considering the key role of CD4+ cells in regulating immunological processes, we generated novel single-domain antibodies [nanobodies (Nbs)] that specifically recognize human CD4. After in-depth analysis of their binding properties, recognized epitopes, and effects on T-cell proliferation, activation, and cytokine release, we selected CD4-specific Nbs that did not interfere with crucial T-cell processes in vitro and converted them into immune tracers for noninvasive molecular imaging. By optical imaging, we demonstrated the ability of a high-affinity CD4-Nb to specifically visualize CD4+ cells in vivo using a xenograft model. Furthermore, quantitative high-resolution immune positron emission tomography (immunoPET)/MR of a human CD4 knock-in mouse model showed rapid accumulation of 64Cu-radiolabeled CD4-Nb1 in CD4+ T cell-rich tissues. We propose that the CD4-Nbs presented here could serve as versatile probes for stratifying patients and monitoring individual immune responses during personalized immunotherapy in both cancer and inflammatory diseases.
38630135 | Intratumor injection of BCG Ag85A high-affinity peptides enhanced anti-tumor efficacy in PPD-positive melanoma. As one of the scheduled immunization vaccines worldwide, virtually all individuals have been vaccinated with BCG vaccine. In order to verify the hypothesis that delivering BCG high-affinity peptides to tumor areas could activate the existing BCG memory T cells to attack tumor, we firstly predicted the HLA-A*0201 high-affinity peptides of BCG Ag85A protein (KLIANNTRV, GLPVEYLQV), and then, A375 melanoma cells and HLA-A*0201 PBMCs (from PPD-positive adults) were added to co-incubated with the predicted peptides in vitro. We found that the predicted BCG high-affinity peptides could be directly loaded onto the surface of tumor cells, enhancing the tumor-killing efficacy of PBMCs from PPD-positive volunteer. Then, we constructed PPD-positive mice model bearing B16F10 subcutaneous tumors and found that intratumor injection of BCG Ag85A high-affinity peptides (SGGANSPAL, YHPQQFVYAGAMSGLLD) enhanced the anti-tumor efficacy in PPD-positive melanoma mice. Along with the better anti-tumor efficacy, the expression of PDL1 on tumor cell surface was also increased, and stronger antitumor effects occurred when further combined with anti-PD1 antibody. For microenvironment analysis, the proportion of effector memory T cells was increased and the better treatment efficacy may be attributed to the elevated effector memory CD4 + T cells within the tumor. In conclusion, using the existing immune response of BCG vaccine by delivering high-affinity peptides of BCG to tumor area is a safe and promising therapy for cancer.
21258009 | IL-7R-dependent survival and differentiation of early T-lineage progenitors is regulated by the BTB/POZ domain transcription factor Miz-1. T cells originate from early T lineage precursors that have entered the thymus and differentiate through well-defined steps. Mice deficient for the BTB/POZ domain of zinc finger protein-1 (Miz-1) almost entirely lack early T lineage precursors and have a CD4(-)CD8(-) to CD4(+)CD8(+) block causing a strong reduction in thymic cellularity. Miz-1(DeltaPOZ) pro-T cells cannot differentiate in vitro and are unable to relay signals from the interleukin-7R (IL-7R). Both STAT5 phosphorylation and Bcl-2 up-regulation are perturbed. The high expression levels of SOCS1 found in Miz-1(DeltaPOZ) cells probably cause these alterations. Moreover, Miz-1 can bind to the SOCS1 promoter, suggesting that Miz-1 deficiency causes a deregulation of SOCS1. Transgenic overexpression of Bcl-2 or inhibition of SOCS1 restored pro-T cell numbers and their ability to differentiate, supporting the hypothesis that Miz-1 is required for the regulation of the IL-7/IL-7R/STAT5/Bcl-2 signaling pathway by monitoring the expression levels of SOCS1.
25024379 | The NKG2D ligand ULBP2 is specifically regulated through an invariant chain-dependent endosomal pathway. Soluble ULBP2 is a marker for poor prognosis in several types of cancer. In this study we demonstrate that both soluble and cell surface-bound ULBP2 is transported via a so far unrecognized endosomal pathway. ULBP2 surface expression, but not MICA/B, could specifically be targeted and retained by affecting endosomal/lysosomal integrity and protein kinase C activity. The invariant chain was further essential for endosomal transport of ULBP2. This novel pathway was identified through screening experiments by which methylselenic acid was found to possess notable NKG2D ligand regulatory properties. The protein kinase C inhibitor methylselenic acid induced MICA/B surface expression but dominantly blocked ULBP2 surface transport. Remarkably, by targeting this novel pathway we could specifically block the production of soluble ULBP2 from different, primary melanomas. Our findings strongly suggest that the endosomal transport pathway constitutes a novel therapeutic target for ULBP2-producing tumors.
25448495 | Gabapentin-induced changes of plasma cortisol level and immune status in hysterectomized women. AIM: We have examined the effects of gabapentin (GBP) on stress-related changes of cortisol and catecholamines in patients who underwent hysterectomy because of uterine fibrinoids. Additionally, we have observed the effect of GBP on the immune status in the acute stress response to surgery. METHODS: Sixty patients scheduled for an abdominal hysterectomy were randomly assigned to the GBP administration 1h before surgery (n=30 pts), or to the placebo group (n=30 pts). Blood samples were collected before and 24h after the surgery. The intensity of pain was assessed by a visual analogue scale (VAS) every 8h at rest. Immunomodulatory effects of GBP were determined by flow cytometry. We followed the total proportion of CD3(+) lymphocytes, CD3(+)CD4(+), CD3(+)CD8(+), CD19(+) B lymphocytes, CD16(+)CD56(+)CD3(-)NK cells and CD16(+)CD56(+)CD3(+) NKT cells before and 24h after hysterectomy. The plasma cortisol and catecholamines concentration was used to estimate the level of the stress response. RESULTS: VAS pain score at rest was significantly lower in the GBP group than in the placebo group (P=0.003). Application of GBP significantly decreased the plasma cortisol level 24h after the operation in comparison to the placebo group (P<0,001). We found significant positive correlation between the VAS pain score and concentration of cortisol in all patients (P=0.025). GBP reduced the concentration of catecholamines (p<0.05). The proportion of CD3(+) (P=0.027) and CD3(+)CD4(+)cells (P=0.006) was significantly lower in the GBP group 24h after operation, while the contribution of CD19(+) (P=0.033) was significantly higher. CONCLUSION: Preoperative administration of GBP reduced the pain scores at rest in patients at 0, 16 and 24h after abdominal hysterectomy. Additionally, GBP reduced the stress response and changed immune parameters in the reaction to surgery.
12732362 | Effect of in vivo administered hexachlorobenzene on epidermal growth factor receptor levels, protein tyrosine kinase activity, and phosphotyrosine content in rat liver. In the present study, the effects of hexachlorobenzene (HCB) on epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) content of liver microsomes and plasma membrane, and on EGFR-tyrosine kinase activity in the microsomal fraction were investigated. In addition, we studied the parameters of the tyrosine kinase signalling pathway such as protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) activity and phosphotyrosine content in microsomal and cytosolic protein. To determine whether the observed alterations were correlated with a manifestation of overt toxicity, a single very low dose of HCB (1mg/kg body wt) and two much higher doses (100 and 1000 mg/kg body wt), the highest being toxicologically significant in that it reduced serum thyroxine (T(4)) and inhibited uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (URO-D) (EC 4.1.1.37) activity, were tested. Our results demonstrated that liver microsomes of rats treated with HCB had higher levels of EGFR than untreated rats; treated rats also had less EGFR present in hepatocyte plasma membrane fractions than did untreated rats. HCB altered the phosphotyrosine content and protein phosphorylation of some microsomal and cytosolic proteins in a biphasic dose-response relationship. At the low dose, phosphorylation and phosphotyrosine content of several microsomal proteins were increased; however, these effects were diminished or reversed at the higher doses. Our results suggest that chronic HCB treatment produces a down-regulation of the EGFR and a dose-dependent increase in EGFR-tyrosine kinase activity in the microsomal fraction. This effect may contribute to the alteration of membrane and cytosolic protein tyrosine phosphorylation. The level of sensitivity encountered in our studies is extraordinary, occurring at 1/10 to 1/1000 the doses of HCB known to cause other toxicological lesions.
36969239 | A pan-variant mRNA-LNP T cell vaccine protects HLA transgenic mice from mortality after infection with SARS-CoV-2 Beta. Licensed COVID-19 vaccines ameliorate viral infection by inducing production of neutralizing antibodies that bind the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein and inhibit viral cellular entry. However, the clinical effectiveness of these vaccines is transitory as viral variants escape antibody neutralization. Effective vaccines that solely rely upon a T cell response to combat SARS-CoV-2 infection could be transformational because they can utilize highly conserved short pan-variant peptide epitopes, but a mRNA-LNP T cell vaccine has not been shown to provide effective anti-SARS-CoV-2 prophylaxis. Here we show a mRNA-LNP vaccine (MIT-T-COVID) based on highly conserved short peptide epitopes activates CD8+ and CD4+ T cell responses that attenuate morbidity and prevent mortality in HLA-A*02:01 transgenic mice infected with SARS-CoV-2 Beta (B.1.351). We found CD8+ T cells in mice immunized with MIT-T-COVID vaccine significantly increased from 1.1% to 24.0% of total pulmonary nucleated cells prior to and at 7 days post infection (dpi), respectively, indicating dynamic recruitment of circulating specific T cells into the infected lungs. Mice immunized with MIT-T-COVID had 2.8 (2 dpi) and 3.3 (7 dpi) times more lung infiltrating CD8+ T cells than unimmunized mice. Mice immunized with MIT-T-COVID had 17.4 times more lung infiltrating CD4+ T cells than unimmunized mice (7 dpi). The undetectable specific antibody response in MIT-T-COVID-immunized mice demonstrates specific T cell responses alone can effectively attenuate the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Our results suggest further study is merited for pan-variant T cell vaccines, including for individuals that cannot produce neutralizing antibodies or to help mitigate Long COVID.
35841889 | HLA-B*46 associates with rapid HIV disease progression in Asian cohorts and prominent differences in NK cell phenotype. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles have been linked to HIV disease progression and attributed to differences in cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) epitope representation. These findings are largely based on treatment-naive individuals of European and African ancestry. We assessed HLA associations with HIV-1 outcomes in 1,318 individuals from Thailand and found HLA-B*46:01 (B*46) associated with accelerated disease in three independent cohorts. B*46 had no detectable effect on HIV-specific T cell responses, but this allele is unusual in containing an HLA-C epitope that binds inhibitory receptors on natural killer (NK) cells. Unbiased transcriptomic screens showed increased NK cell activation in people with HIV, without B*46, and simultaneous single-cell profiling of surface proteins and transcriptomes revealed a NK cell subset primed for increased responses in the absence of B*46. These findings support a role for NK cells in HIV pathogenesis, revealed by the unique properties of the B*46 allele common only in Asia.
36996809 | Spheromers reveal robust T cell responses to the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and attenuated peripheral CD8+ T cell responses post SARS-CoV-2 infection. T cells are a critical component of the response to SARS-CoV-2, but their kinetics after infection and vaccination are insufficiently understood. Using \spheromer\ peptide-MHC multimer reagents, we analyzed healthy subjects receiving two doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech BNT162b2 vaccine. Vaccination resulted in robust spike-specific T cell responses for the dominant CD4+ (HLA-DRB1*15:01/S191) and CD8+ (HLA-A*02/S691) T cell epitopes. Antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses were asynchronous, with the peak CD4+ T cell responses occurring 1 week post the second vaccination (boost), whereas CD8+ T cells peaked 2 weeks later. These peripheral T cell responses were elevated compared with COVID-19 patients. We also found that previous SARS-CoV-2 infection resulted in decreased CD8+ T cell activation and expansion, suggesting that previous infection can influence the T cell response to vaccination.
32508820 | Dendritic Epidermal T Cells in Allergic Contact Dermatitis. Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a common inflammatory skin disease with a prevalence of approximately 20% in the European population. ACD is caused by contact allergens that are reactive chemicals able to modify non-immunogenic self-proteins to become immunogenic proteins. The most frequent contact allergens are metals, fragrances, and preservatives. ACD clinically manifests as pruritic eczematous lesions, erythema, local papules, and oedema. ACD is a T cell-mediated disease, involving both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. In addition, gammadelta T cells appear to play an important role in the immune response to contact allergens. However, it is debated whether gammadelta T cells act in a pro- or anti-inflammatory manner. A special subset of gammadelta T cells, named dendritic epidermal T cells (DETC), is found in the epidermis of mice and it plays an important role in immunosurveillance of the skin. DETC are essential in sensing the contact allergen-induced stressed environment. Thus, allergen-induced activation of DETC is partly mediated by numerous allergen-induced stress proteins expressed on the keratinocytes (KC). Several stress proteins, like mouse UL-16-binding protein-like transcript 1 (Mult-1), histocompatibility 60 (H60) and retinoic acid early inducible-1 (Rae-1) alpha-epsilon family in mice and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-chain-related A (MICA) in humans, are upregulated on allergen-exposed KC. Allergen-induced stress proteins expressed on the KC are consequently recognized by NKG2D receptor on DETC. This review focuses on the role of gammadelta T cells in ACD, with DETC in the spotlight, and on the role of stress proteins in contact allergen-induced activation of DETC.
33597887 | Curcumin Regulated the Homeostasis of Memory T Cell and Ameliorated Dextran Sulfate Sodium-Induced Experimental Colitis. Immune memory is protective against reinvasion by pathogens in the homeostatic state, while immune memory disorders can cause autoimmune disease, including inflammatory bowel disease. Curcumin is a natural compound shown to be effective against human inflammatory bowel disease and experimental colitis, but the underlying mechanism is unclear. Here, experimental colitis was induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) in this study. Significant changes in the percentages of naive, central memory T (TCM), and effector memory (TEM) cells and their CD4+ and CD8+ subsets were found in the peripheral blood of mice with colitis using flow cytometry. After 7 days of continuous curcumin (100 mg/kg/day) administration, the DSS-induced experimental colitis was effectively relieved, with significant decreases in the ratio of day weight to initial body weight, colonic weight, pathological injury score, levels of proinflammatory cytokines IL-7, IL-15, and IL-21, colonic mucosal ulceration, and amount of inflammatory infiltrate. Importantly, curcumin significantly restored the percentages of naive, TCM, and TEM cells and their CD4+ and CD8+ subpopulations. In addition, curcumin significantly inhibited the activation of the JAK1/STAT5 signaling pathway, downregulation of JAK1, STAT5, and p-STAT5 proteins in colon tissue, and upregulation of PIAS1 proteins. These results suggested that curcumin effectively regulated the differentiation of naive, TCM, and TEM cells in the peripheral blood to alleviate DSS-induced experimental colitis, which might be related to the inhibition of JAK1/STAT5 signaling activity.
38470627 | Associations between Parental Educational Attainment, Children's 24-h Behaviors and Children's Hyperactivity Behavior in the COVID-19 Pandemic. BACKGROUND: Parental Educational Attainment and children's 24-h behaviors significantly influenced children's hyperactivity symptoms. This study aimed to examine the mediating role of children's 24-h behavior changes due to the COVID-19 pandemic between Parental Educational Attainment and children's hyperactivity index. It also aimed to investigate the associations between Children's Physical Activity, digital media use, sleep, and hyperactivity index between two clusters of Parental Educational Attainments. The goal was to provide targeted behavioral optimization recommendations for caregivers to reduce the risk of children's hyperactivity. METHODS: The study was a collaborative extension of the International iPreschooler Surveillance Study Among Asians and otheRs project and the Chinese Children and Adolescent Sports Health Promotion Action Project. The Parent-Surveillance of Digital Media in Childhood Questionnaire  and the Abbreviated Rating Scales from the Conners Parent Symptom Questionnaire were used to measure Parental Educational Attainment, children's behavior changes during the COVID-19 pandemic, and hyperactivity indexes. A total of 11,190 parents of 6-to-12-year-old children completed the online surveys in mainland China. A structural equation model was established by using Smart-PLS, and the linear regression model, and isotemporal substitution models were established by using a Compositional Data Analysis package with R program to achieve the research objectives. RESULTS: Changes in children's 24-h behaviors due to the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant mediation effect on the negative associations between Parental Educational Attainment and children's hyperactivity index (beta = 0.018, T = 4.521, p < 0.001) with a total effect (beta = -0.046, T = 4.521, p < 0.001) and a direct effect (beta = -0.064, T = 6.330, p < 0.001). Children's Digital Media use was significantly and negatively associated with hyperactivity index among all children. Reallocated time from digital media use to both sleep and physical activity decreased the hyperactivity index, and vice-versa. For parents without tertiary education (R2 = 0.09, p < 0.001), sleep was significantly and negatively associated with the hyperactivity index (betailr-CSL = -0.06, p < 0.001); for parents with tertiary education (R2 = 0.07, p < 0.001), physical activity was significantly and negatively associated with the hyperactivity index (betailr-CPA = -0.05, p < 0.001), and sleep was significantly and positively associated with the hyperactivity index (betailr-CSL = 0.03, p < 0.001). A significant increase in the hyperactivity index was detected when physical activity time was reallocated to sleep, with a significant decrease in the opposite direction. CONCLUSIONS: Parental Educational Attainment and children's 24-h behaviors directly influenced children's hyperactivity index. However, a purposeful and targeted optimization of children's 24-h behaviors-namely, physical activity, digital media use, and sleep-could assist parents with different educational attainments to reduce their children's hyperactivity index and mitigate the risk of hyperactivity.
38514776 | Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on stage and incidence of head and neck cancer: A rapid review and meta-analysis. OBJECTIVES: This rapid review aims to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on incidence of head and neck cancer (HNC) and stage distribution at diagnosis. DESIGN: Rapid review and meta-analysis. PARTICIPANTS: Comparative data for new HNC patients between a pre-pandemic cohort (before March 2020) and a pandemic cohort (after March 2020 during the lockdown period). MAIN OUTCOMES MEASURED: Data on tumour stage, incidence, referral pathway (number of new patient referrals), or workload levels (number of HNC treatments). Data on stage were summarised as odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI), and data related to changes in numbers of diagnoses, referrals, and workload levels were summarised as a narrative synthesis. RESULTS: A total of 31 reports were included in this review. Individually 16 out of 23 studies did not show a significant impact on stage relative to the pre-pandemic period. However, the meta-analysis revealed that patients diagnosed with HNC during the pandemic were 16% more likely to have nodal involvement (OR = 1.16; 95% CI 1.00-1.35), 17% more likely to have a late overall stage (OR = 1.17; 95% CI 1.01-1.36), and 32% more likely to present with advanced tumour extent (T3 and T4 stage) (OR = 1.32; 95% CI 1.08-1.62). Data on incidence was extremely limited and not currently sufficient to assess trends in burden of disease. CONCLUSIONS: This review indicates that during the COVID-19 pandemic, there was upstaging of HNC at diagnosis, suggesting the provision of care to HNC patients was significantly affected.
28056393 | Increased expression of negative regulators of cytokine signaling during chronic HIV disease cause functionally exhausted state of dendritic cells. Mechanisms of functional impairment of dendritic cells (DCs) during chronic HIV-1 infection are not well understood. In order to understand this phenomenon, we aimed to study the expression of negative regulators of cytokine signaling and correlate with DC exhaustion during chronic HIV-1 disease. Monocyte-derived DCs (mo-DCs) from 27 HIV-1 infected patients (CD4+ T-cell counts: 429+-44 cells/muL, plasma viral load: Log103.9+-1.0copies/ml) and 19 healthy controls (HCs) were stimulated ex vivo with TLR4 agonist, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for 2days to evaluate their functional fitness. The expression of a set of genes associated with cytokine signaling was evaluated in a custom designed PCR array by Real-Time PCR. The mo-DCs from HIV-1 infected patients depicted functional exhaustion as evident by decreased allo-stimulation index (mean+-SD: 10+-6 vs. 24+-16) (p<0.05), decreased cytokine production (pg/ml) (IL-12: 4.6+-16 vs. 25+-85; TNF-alpha: 128+-279 vs. 286+-544; IL-10: 6+-12 vs. 13+-20; IL-8: 10,688+-11,748 vs. 17,470+-125,049) and retained endocytosis (1.1+-0.3 vs. 1.0+-0.29) (p<0.05) even after LPS-stimulation, as compared to HCs. Significantly upregulated expression of SOCS-1 (mean+-SD fold change: 2.2+-2vs.0.8+-0.6), SOCS-3 (6.3+-7.4vs.1.4+-0.4), PIAS-1 (1.6+-0.1vs.1.0+-0.3) and SHP-1 (0.8+-0.4vs.0.4+-0.2) correlated positively with PD-L1 expression in these DCs (Spearman's coefficient, SOCS-1: 0.63, SOCS-3: 1.0 and PIAS-1: 0.7) (p<0.05). The expression of these molecules trended positively with plasma viral load and negatively with CD4+ T-cell counts. These findings suggest that the upregulation of negative regulatory factors during chronic HIV disease have profound down-modulatory effects on DC functions and establishment of an overall exhausted state. Understanding mechanisms causing upregulation of these factors may lead to the design of new generation therapeutics based on silencing of their gene expression.
37254791 | IRF5-TNOP3 polymorphisms are associated with elite control of HIV infection: A retrospective study. IRF5-TNPO3 polymorphisms have previously been related to immune response, and TNPO3 plays a role in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 infection after nuclear import. Therefore, we analyzed the genetic association between IRF5-TNPO3 polymorphisms and the HIV elite control in long-term nonprogressors (LTNPs). We performed a retrospective cohort study on 183 LTNPs, who were antiretroviral therapy-naive with CD4+  >= 500 cells/mm3 , viral load <=10 000 copies/mL, and asymptomatic over 10 years after HIV seroconversion. The primary outcome variable was HIV elite control (undetectable viral load in at least 90% of the measurements for at least 1 year). Seven IRF5-TNPO3 polymorphisms were genotyped using Agena Bioscience's MassARRAY platform. We found a significant association between specific IRF5-TNPO3 genotypes and HIV elite control: rs2004640 TT (aOR = 2.05; p = 0.041), rs10954213 AA (aOR = 1.95; p = 0.035), rs2280714 TT (aOR = 2.02; p = 0.031), and rs10279821 CC (aOR = 2.12; p = 0.017). We also found a significant association between IRF5-TNPO3 haplotype TATC composed of the favorable significant polymorphisms (rs2004640, rs10954213, rs2280714, and rs10279821) and the HIV elite control (aOR = 1.59; p = 0.048). IRF5-TNPO3 rs2004640, rs10954213, rs2280714, and rs10279821 polymorphisms were related to HIV elite control in LTNPs. Our data provide new knowledge about the impact of IRF5-TNPO3 polymorphisms on HIV pathogenesis to understand the phenomenon of natural HIV control.
36408799 | SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses can originate from cross-reactive CMV-specific T cells. Detection of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in SARS-CoV-2-unexposed donors has been explained by the presence of T cells primed by other coronaviruses. However, based on the relatively high frequency and prevalence of cross-reactive T cells, we hypothesized cytomegalovirus (CMV) may induce these cross-reactive T cells. Stimulation of pre-pandemic cryo-preserved peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) with SARS-CoV-2 peptides revealed that frequencies of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells were higher in CMV-seropositive donors. Characterization of these T cells demonstrated that membrane-specific CD4+ and spike-specific CD8+ T cells originate from cross-reactive CMV-specific T cells. Spike-specific CD8+ T cells recognize SARS-CoV-2 spike peptide FVSNGTHWF (FVS) and dissimilar CMV pp65 peptide IPSINVHHY (IPS) presented by HLA-B*35:01. These dual IPS/FVS-reactive CD8+ T cells were found in multiple donors as well as severe COVID-19 patients and shared a common T cell receptor (TCR), illustrating that IPS/FVS-cross-reactivity is caused by a public TCR. In conclusion, CMV-specific T cells cross-react with SARS-CoV-2, despite low sequence homology between the two viruses, and may contribute to the pre-existing immunity against SARS-CoV-2.
26109731 | HIV-1 Resistance to the Capsid-Targeting Inhibitor PF74 Results in Altered Dependence on Host Factors Required for Virus Nuclear Entry. UNLABELLED: During HIV-1 infection of cells, the viral capsid plays critical roles in reverse transcription and nuclear entry of the virus. The capsid-targeting small molecule PF74 inhibits HIV-1 at early stages of infection. HIV-1 resistance to PF74 is complex, requiring multiple amino acid substitutions in the viral CA protein. Here we report the identification and analysis of a novel PF74-resistant mutant encoding amino acid changes in both domains of CA, three of which are near the pocket where PF74 binds. Interestingly, the mutant virus retained partial PF74 binding, and its replication was stimulated by the compound. The mutant capsid structure was not significantly perturbed by binding of PF74; rather, the mutations inhibited capsid interactions with CPSF6 and Nup153 and altered HIV-1 dependence on these host factors and on TNPO3. Moreover, the replication of the mutant virus was markedly impaired in activated primary CD4(+) T cells and macrophages. Our results suggest that HIV-1 escapes a capsid-targeting small molecule inhibitor by altering the virus's dependence on host factors normally required for entry into the nucleus. They further imply that clinical resistance to inhibitors targeting the PF74 binding pocket is likely to be strongly limited by functional constraints on HIV-1 evolution. IMPORTANCE: The HIV-1 capsid plays critical roles in early steps of infection and is an attractive target for therapy. Here we show that selection for resistance to a capsid-targeting small molecule inhibitor can result in viral dependence on the compound. The mutant virus was debilitated in primary T cells and macrophages--cellular targets of infection in vivo. The mutations also altered the virus's dependence on cellular factors that are normally required for HIV-1 entry into the nucleus. This work provides new information regarding mechanisms of HIV-1 resistance that should be useful in efforts to develop clinically useful drugs targeting the HIV-1 capsid.
15871129 | Alterations in the profile of blood cell types during malaria in previously unexposed primigravid monkeys. Malaria in nonimmune, primigravid women threatens both mother and fetus. We used the Plasmodium coatneyi/rhesus monkey model to examine factors associated with this. Clinical and immunologic responses during the blood stage of chronic malaria (4 months) were evaluated in 8 malaria-naive primigravid (PMI) and 8 age-matched nulligravid (NMI) infected monkeys, compared with those in 8 primigravid, noninfected control monkeys. Although parasitemia levels were similar, recrudescence was more frequent and prolonged, and anemia was more severe in PMI than in NMI monkeys. During infection, CD2+, CD4+, and CD8+ lymphocyte levels were higher in NMI than in PMI monkeys. Monocyte and neutrophil levels were lower in PMI than in NMI monkeys. During chronic, untreated malaria, NMI monkeys had a B lymphocyte count 23 times greater than that of PMI monkeys. Pregnancy-induced immunomodulation, defined as a lack of appropriate cellular responses to malaria, was indiscernible until the immune system was challenged by a pathogen.
33101298 | High Abundance of Intratumoral gammadelta T Cells Favors a Better Prognosis in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Bioinformatic Analysis. gammadelta T cells are a small subset of unconventional T cells that are enriched in the mucosal areas, and are responsible for pathogen clearance and maintaining integrity. However, the role of gammadelta T cells in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is largely unknown. Here, by using RNA-seq data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), we discovered that HNSCC patients with higher levels of gammadelta T cells were positively associated with lower clinical stages and better overall survival, and high abundance of gammadelta T cells was positively correlated with CD8+/CD4+ T cell infiltration. Gene ontology and pathway analyses showed that genes associated with T cell activation, proliferation, effector functions, cytotoxicity, and chemokine production were enriched in the group with a higher gammadelta T cell abundance. Furthermore, we found that the abundance of gammadelta T cells was positively associated with the expression of the butyrophilin (BTN) family proteins BTN3A1/BTN3A2/BTN3A3 and BTN2A1, but only MICB, one of the ligands of NKG2D, was involved in the activation of gammadelta T cells, indicating that the BTN family proteins might be involved in the activation and proliferation of gammadelta T cells in the tumor microenvironment of HNSCC. Our results indicated that gammadelta T cells, along with their ligands, are promising targets in HNSCC with great prognostic values and treatment potentials.
37351013 | Human adenovirus DNA polymerase is evolutionarily and functionally associated with human telomerase reverse transcriptase based on in silico molecular characterization that implicate abacavir and zidovudine. Human adenoviruses (HAdVs) are non-enveloped, small double stranded DNA (dsDNA) viruses that cause asymptomatic infections, clinical syndromes and significant susceptibility to infections in immunocompromised people. The aim of the present study was to identify critical host proteins and HAdV hypothetical proteins that could be developed as potential host-viral targets for antiHAdV therapy. Here, the function of selected hypothetical proteins of HAdV based on phylogenetic relationship with the therapeutic targets of antiretroviral drugs of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) was predicted computationally, and characterized the molecular dynamics and binding affinity of DNA polymerase of HAdV. Thirty-eight hypothetical proteins (HPs) of human adenovirus (HAdV) were used in this study. The results showed that HAdV DNA polymerase (P03261) is related to Human TERT (O14746) and HLA-B (P01889) genes. The protein-protein interaction of human five molecular targets (PNP, TERT, CCR5, HLA-B, and NR1I2) of ARVDs are well-coordinated/networked with CD4, AHR, FKBP4, NR3C1, HSP90AA1, and STUB1 proteins in the anti-HIV infection mechanism. The results showed that the free energy score of abacavir and zidovudine binding to HAdV DNA polymerase are -5.8 and -5.4 kcal mol-1 respectively. Also, the control drug, cidofovir and ganciclovir have less binding affinity for DNA polymerase of HAdV when compare to that of abacavir and zidovudine. Similarity was observed in the binding of abacavir and zidovudine to HAdV DNA polymerase (ASP742, ALA743, LEU772, ARG773 and VAL776). In conclusion, combination of abacavir and zidovudine was predicted to be potential therapy for controlling HAdV infection targeting HAdV DNA polymerase.
27057436 | Immunological markers and clinical outcome of advanced melanoma patients receiving ipilimumab plus fotemustine in the NIBIT-M1 study. Clinical activity was observed in metastatic melanoma (MM) patients treated with ipilimumab (IPI) combined with fotemustine (FTM) in the phase II NIBIT-M1 study. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and serum were collected from MM patients at pre- and at weeks 12 and 24 post-treatment. A comprehensive phenotypic and functional immunomonitoring of circulating T cells, and the detection of soluble immunoregulatory molecules was carried out and correlated with clinical outcome. The frequency at baseline and along the treatment of circulating T central memory cells expressing activation/differentiation markers, such as CD3+CD4+CD45RO+BTLA+, CD3+CD4+4-1BB or Th17 lymphocytes correlated with the clinical outcome of MM patients. Moreover, either the absence or the presence of soluble NKG2D ligands (ULBP-1 or -2) at baseline in the serum of MM patients enabled to discriminate subjects with long-term survival (median overall survival, (OS) = 33.6 mo for ULBP-1 and -2) from poor survivors (OS = 9.8 or 6.6 mo, respectively). Conversely, no significant association between the levels of soluble MICA, MICB and ULBP-3 and the clinical outcome of patients was observed. An inverse correlation between circulating levels of these molecules at baseline and frequency of either CD3+CD4+CD45RO+BTLA+ or Th17 or CD3+CD4+4-1BB+ T cells occurred in patients with a favorable clinical outcome. The simultaneous monitoring of different immune parameters, though validation in a large cohort of patients is needed, allowed to identify an association between phenotypic and soluble markers representing a possible predictive immunological signature for the clinical activity of IPI plus FTM.
38091053 | Lymphocyte subsets and soluble forms of MIC-A and MIC-B are prognostic factors in non-Hodgkin lymphoma patients. MIC-A and MIC-B are the natural ligands for NKG2D, an activator receptor expressed in NK cells. Soluble isoforms of MIC-A and MIC-B (sMICA, sMICB) have been identified in different malignancies, affecting NK cells' cytotoxicity. The study was performed to determine the levels of sMICA, sMICB, the expression of MIC-A, and MIC-B on tumor tissues, and lymphocyte subpopulations (CD4 + , CD8 + , NK, NKT, Tgammadelta cells, B cells, monocytes) in 94 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and 72 healthy donors.The most frequent lymphoma was diffuse large B cell lymphoma (48%). Patients with NHL had decreased numbers of CD4 T cells, CD8 T cells, B cells, monocytes, NK cells, type 1 dendritic cells, gammadelta T cells, and increased iNKT cells. Patients showed higher levels of sMIC-A and similar serum levels of sMIC-B.Survival was poorer in patients having higher LDH values and lower numbers of CD4 T cells, type 1 dendritic cells, gamma-delta T cells, and high levels of sMIC-A.In conclusion, high levels of sMIC and decreased numbers in circulating lymphocyte subsets are related to poor outcomes in NHL.
22517757 | MicroRNA-301a regulation of a T-helper 17 immune response controls autoimmune demyelination. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an emerging group of short, noncoding RNAs that play an important role in regulating expression of classical genes. Thus far little is known about their role in autoimmune demyelination. In this study, we analyzed changes in the miRNA profile in CD4(+) T cells that occurred during the recognition of the myelin autoantigen, MOG(35-55). We found that, both in vivo and in vitro, myelin antigen stimulation resulted in significant up-regulation of miR-301a, miR-21, and miR-155. Furthermore, these three miRNAs were overexpressed in T cells infiltrating the CNS in animals with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Use of specific miRNA antagonists, antagomirs, revealed that miR-301a contributed to the development of the T-helper type 17 subset via targeting the IL-6/23-STAT3 pathway. This contribution appeared to be mediated by the miR-301a effect on the expression of the PIAS3, a potent inhibitor of the STAT3 pathway. Manipulation of miR-301a levels or PIAS3 expression in myelin-specific CD4(+) T cells led to significant changes in the severity of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Thus, we have identified a role of miR-301a in regulating the function of myelin-reactive T-helper type 17 cells, supporting a role for miR-301a and PIAS3 as candidates for therapeutic targets for controlling of autoimmune demyelination.
33175614 | COVID-19 coronavirus vaccine T cell epitope prediction analysis based on distributions of HLA class I loci (HLA-A, -B, -C) across global populations. T cell immunity, such as CD4 and/or CD8 T cell responses, plays a vital role in controlling the virus infection and pathological damage. Several studies have reported SARS-CoV-2 proteins could serve as ideal vaccine candidates against SARS-CoV-2 infection by activating the T cell responses. In the current study, based on the SARS-CoV-2 sequence and distribution of host human leukocyte antigen (HLA), we predicted the possible epitopes for the vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 infections. Firstly, the current study retrieved the SARS-CoV-2 S and N protein sequences from the NCBI Database. Then, using the Immune Epitope Database Analysis Resource, we predicted the CTL epitopes of the SARS-CoV-2 S and N proteins according to worldwide frequency distributions of HLA-A, -B, and -C alleles (>1%). Our results predicted 90 and 106 epitopes of N and S proteins, respectively. Epitope cluster analysis showed 16 and 34 respective clusters of SARS-CoV-2 N and S proteins, which covered 95.91% and 96.14% of the global population, respectively. After epitope conservancy analysis, 8 N protein epitopes and 6 S protein epitopes showed conservancy within two SARS-CoV-2 types. Of these 14 epitopes, 13 could cover SARS coronavirus and Bat SARS-like coronavirus. The remaining epitope (KWPWYIWLGF1211-1220) could cover MERS coronavirus. Finally, the 14-epitope combination could vaccinate 89.60% of all individuals worldwide. Our results propose single or combined CTL epitopes predicted in the current study as candidates for vaccines to effectively control SARS-CoV-2 infection and development.
38450623 | Human Umbilical Cord-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in the Treatment of Multiple Sclerosis Patients: Phase I/II Dose-Finding Clinical Study. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic neuro-inflammatory disease resulting in disabilities that negatively impact patients' life quality. While current treatment options do not reverse the course of the disease, treatment using mesenchymal stromal/stem cells (MSC) is promising. There has yet to be a consensus on the type and dose of MSC to be used in MS. This work aims to study the safety and efficacy of two treatment protocols of MSCs derived from the umbilical cord (UC-MSCs) and their secretome. The study included two groups of MS patients; Group A received two intrathecal doses of UC-MSCs, and Group B received a single dose. Both groups received UC-MSCs conditioned media 3 months post-treatment. Adverse events in the form of a clinical checklist and extensive laboratory tests were performed. Whole transcriptome analysis was performed on patients' cells at baseline and post-treatment. Results showed that all patients tolerated the cellular therapy without serious adverse events. The general disability scale improved significantly in both groups at 6 months post-treatment. Examining specific aspects of the disease revealed more parameters that improved in Group A compared to Group B patients, including a significant increase in the (CD3+CD4+) expressing lymphocytes at 12 months post-treatment. In addition, better outcomes were noted regarding lesion load, cortical thickness, manual dexterity, and information processing speed. Both protocols impacted the transcriptome of treated participants with genes, transcription factors, and microRNAs (miRNAs) differentially expressed compared to baseline. Inflammation-related and antigen-presenting (HLA-B) genes were downregulated in both groups. In contrast, TNF-alpha, TAP-1, and miR142 were downregulated only in Group A. The data presented indicate that both protocols are safe. Furthermore, it suggests that administering two doses of stem cells can be more beneficial to MS patients. Larger multisite studies should be initiated to further examine similar or higher doses of MSCs.
27275775 | Guanylate binding protein 5: Impairing virion infectivity by targeting retroviral envelope glycoproteins. Guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are interferon-inducible cellular factors that belong to the superfamily of guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases) and play important roles in the cell-intrinsic defense against bacteria, protozoa and viruses. In a recent report in Cell Host & Microbe, we identify GBP5 as novel restriction factor of HIV-1 that reduces the infectivity of progeny virions by interfering with processing and incorporation of the viral envelope (Env) glycoprotein. The inhibitory activity of GBP5 requires C-terminal isoprenylation, mediating Golgi-association, but not its GTPase function. Notably, GBP5 expression levels vary considerably in human macrophages and inversely correlate with infectious virus yield. We demonstrate that GBP5 can be evaded by an unusual tradeoff mechanism: Naturally occurring mutations in the start codon of the viral accessory gene vpu attenuate GBP5 inhibition by increasing Env expression at the cost of Vpu function. Whether direct counteraction mechanisms or more subtle changes balancing Vpu and Env expression also affect HIV-1 inhibition by GBP5 remains to be clarified. Other open questions are whether GBP5 restricts HIV-1 in CD4+ T cells and if other GBP family members also decrease infectivity of HIV and/or additional enveloped viruses.
38055372 | Investigating the Immune Basis of Green Tea Extract Induced Liver Injury in Healthy Donors Expressing HLA-B*35:01. Epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate (EGCG) is the major component of green tea extract, commonly found in dietary supplements, and has been associated with immune-mediated liver injury. The purpose of this study was to investigate the immunogenicity of EGCG in healthy donors expressing HLA-B*35:01, and characterize EGCG responsive T-cell clones. We have shown that EGCG can prime peripheral blood mononuclear cells and T-cells from donors with and without the HLA-B*35:01 allele. T-cell clones were CD4+ve and capable of secreting Th1, Th2, and cytolytic molecules. These data demonstrate that EGCG can activate T-cells in vitro, suggesting a significant role in the pathogenesis of green tea extract induced liver injury.
34795669 | The Feasibility of Using Coxiella burnetii Avirulent Nine Mile Phase II Viable Bacteria as a Live Attenuated Vaccine Against Q fever. This study aimed to explore if viable C. burnetii avirulent Nine Mile phase II (NMII) can elicit protective immunity against virulent NM phase I (NMI) infection. Interestingly, mice immunized with viable NMII elicited significant protection against NMI infection at different time points post-immunization. Viable NMII induced a dose-dependent NMI-specific IgG response in mice, but all doses of NMII-immunized mice conferred a similar level of protection. Comparing different routes of immunization indicated that intranasally immunized mice showed significantly higher levels of protection than other immunization routes. The observation that viable NMII induced a similar level of long-term protection against NMI challenge as the formalin-inactivated NMI vaccine (PIV) suggests that viable NMII bacteria can induce a similar level of long-term protection against virulent NMI challenge as the PIV. Viable NMII also induced significant protection against challenge with virulent Priscilla and Scurry strains, suggesting that viable NMII can elicit broad protection. Immune sera and splenocytes from viable NMII-immunized mice are protective against NMI infection, but immune serum-receiving mice did not control NMI replication. Additionally, viable NMII conferred a comparable level of protection in wild-type, CD4+ T cell-deficient, and CD8+ T cell-deficient mice, and partial protection in B cell-deficient mice. However, NMII-immunized T cell-deficient mice were unable to prevent C. burnetii replication. Thus, both B cells and T cells are required for viable NMII-induced protective immunity but T cells may play a critical role. Collectively, this study demonstrates the feasibility of using avirulent NMII as a live attenuated vaccine against human Q fever.
33987094 | Preinvasive Colorectal Lesions of African Americans Display an Immunosuppressive Signature Compared to Caucasian Americans. BACKGROUND: African Americans (AAs) have higher colorectal cancer (CRC) incidence and mortality rate than Caucasian Americans (CAs). Recent studies suggest that immune responses within CRCs contribute to the disparities. If racially distinct immune signatures are present in the early phases of carcinogenesis, they could be used to develop interventions to prevent or slow disease. METHODS: We selected a convenience sample of 95 patients (48 CAs, 47 AAs) with preinvasive colorectal adenomas from the surgical pathology laboratory at the Medical University of South Carolina. Using immunofluorescent-conjugated antibodies on tissue slides from the lesions, we quantified specific immune cell populations: mast cells (CD117+), Th17 cells (CD4+RORC+), and NK cell ligand (MICA/B) and inflammatory cytokines, including IL-6, IL-17A, and IFN-gamma. We compared the mean density counts (MDCs) and density rate ratios (RR) and 95% CI of immune markers between AAs to CAs using negative binomial regression analysis. We adjusted our models for age, sex, clinicopathologic characteristics (histology, location, dysplasia), and batch. RESULTS: We observed no racial differences in age or sex at the baseline endoscopic exam. AAs compared to CAs had a higher prevalence of proximal adenomas (66% vs. 40%) and a lower prevalence of rectal adenomas (11% vs. 23%) (p =0.04) but no other differences in pathologic characteristics. In age, sex, and batch adjusted models, AAs vs. CAs had lower RRs for cells labeled with IFNgamma (RR 0.50 (95% CI 0.32-0.81); p=0.004) and NK cell ligand (RR 0.67 (0.43-1.04); p=0.07). In models adjusted for age, sex, and clinicopathologic variables, AAs had reduced RRs relative to CAs for CD4 (p=0.02), NK cell ligands (p=0.01), Th17 (p=0.005), mast cells (p=0.04) and IFN-gamma (p< 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the lower RRs in AAs vs. CAs suggests reduced effector response capacity and an immunosuppressive ('cold') tumor environment. Our results also highlight the importance of colonic location of adenoma in influencing these differences; the reduced immune responses in AAs relative to CAs may indicate impaired immune surveillance in early carcinogenesis. Future studies are needed to understand the role of risk factors (such as obesity) in influencing differences in immune responses by race.
16834415 | Sturdier DNA nanotubes via ligation. DNA nanotubes are crystalline self-assemblies of DNA tiles approximately 10 nm in diameter that readily grow tens of micrometers in length. Easy assembly, programmability, and stiffness make them interesting for many applications, but DNA nanotubes begin to melt at temperatures below 40 degrees C, break open when deposited on mica or scanned by AFM, and disintegrate in deionized water. These weaknesses can be traced to the presence of discontinuities in the phosphate backbone, called nicks. The nanotubes studied here have five nicks, one in the core of a tile and one at each corner. We report the successful ligation of all four corner nicks by T4 DNA ligase. Although ligation does not change the nanotubes' stiffness, ligated nanotubes withstand temperatures over 70 degrees C, resist breaking during AFM, and are stable in pure water for over a month. Ligated DNA nanotubes are thus physically and chemically sturdy enough to withstand the manipulations necessary for many technological applications.
29690759 | Self-Assembling Supramolecular Nanostructures Constructed from de Novo Extender Protein Nanobuilding Blocks. The design of novel proteins that self-assemble into supramolecular complexes is important for development in nanobiotechnology and synthetic biology. Recently, we designed and created a protein nanobuilding block (PN-Block), WA20-foldon, by fusing an intermolecularly folded dimeric de novo WA20 protein and a trimeric foldon domain of T4 phage fibritin (Kobayashi et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 11285). WA20-foldon formed several types of self-assembling nanoarchitectures in multiples of 6-mers, including a barrel-like hexamer and a tetrahedron-like dodecamer. In this study, to construct chain-like polymeric nanostructures, we designed de novo extender protein nanobuilding blocks (ePN-Blocks) by tandemly fusing two de novo binary-patterned WA20 proteins with various linkers. The ePN-Blocks with long helical linkers or flexible linkers were expressed in soluble fractions of Escherichia coli, and the purified ePN-Blocks were analyzed by native PAGE, size exclusion chromatography-multiangle light scattering (SEC-MALS), small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS), and transmission electron microscopy. These results suggest formation of various structural homo-oligomers. Subsequently, we reconstructed hetero-oligomeric complexes from extender and stopper PN-Blocks by denaturation and refolding. The present SEC-MALS and SAXS analyses show that extender and stopper PN-Block (esPN-Block) heterocomplexes formed different types of extended chain-like conformations depending on their linker types. Moreover, atomic force microscopy imaging in liquid suggests that the esPN-Block heterocomplexes with metal ions further self-assembled into supramolecular nanostructures on mica surfaces. Taken together, the present data demonstrate that the design and construction of self-assembling PN-Blocks using de novo proteins is a useful strategy for building polymeric nanoarchitectures of supramolecular protein complexes.
28621822 | cDNA microarray analysis identifies NR4A2 as a novel molecule involved in the pathogenesis of Sjogren's syndrome. To examine genes expressed specifically in labial salivary glands (LSGs) of patients with Sjogren's syndrome (SS) in comparison with those of patients with immunoglobulin (Ig)G4-related disease (IgG4-RD), and to identify the genes involved in the pathogenesis of SS. Gene expression in LSGs of SS patients, IgG4-RD patients and healthy controls (HC) was analysed by cDNA microarray. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was used to validate the up-regulation of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in SS. Protein production of the validated gene in LSGs was examined by immunofluorescence (IF) assay. The association of molecular functions of the gene with the pathological conditions in SS was examined using peripheral blood lymphocytes. Among 1320 DEGs up-regulated in SS, qPCR confirmed the up-regulation of NR4A2 in LSGs of SS compared with IgG4-RD. IF staining showed higher production of NR4A2 in nuclei of CD4+ T cells and interleukin (IL)-17-producing cells in LSGs of SS, compared with IgG4-RD. Over-expression of NR4A2 mRNA was observed in peripheral CD4+ T cells of SS patients, compared with HC. Nuclear NR4A2 expression in T helper type 17 (Th17)-polarized CD4+ T cells determined by cellular IF was significantly higher in SS than in HC. Importazole, an inhibitor of importin-beta, inhibited nuclear transport of NR4A2 and Th17 polarization along with IL-21 expression in naive CD4+ T cells under Th17-polarizing conditions, but did not alter retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor C (RORC) expression. NR4A2 seems to promote Th17 polarization via increased expression and intranuclear localization in CD4+ T cells of SS patients, which could play a critical role in the pathogenesis of SS.
27107455 | Induction of immunogenic cell death by radiation-upregulated karyopherin alpha 2 in vitro. Accumulating evidence suggests the potential for radiation therapy to generate antitumor immune responses against tumor cells by inducing immunogenic cell death and phenotypic changes. We recently found that ionizing radiation upregulated karyopherin alpha2 (KPNA2) in HT-29 colorectal tumor cells using quantitative proteomic analysis. To determine whether this increased KPNA2 could function as a damage-associated molecular pattern to induce antitumor immune responses, mouse bone-marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) were treated with KPNA2. KPNA2 enhanced the surface expression of CD40, CD54, CD80, CD86, and MHC class I/II on BMDCs. DCs treated with KPNA2 exhibited increased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-12, IL-23, and TNF-alpha. Co-culture of CD4(+) T cells and KPNA2-treated DCs resulted in induction of Th1/17 cytokines (IFN-gamma and IL-17) and reduction of TGF-beta production. Moreover, KPNA2-treated DCs were capable of increasing granzyme B and perforin expression in cytotoxic T lymphocytes. These results demonstrated that radiation-induced dying colorectal cancer cells released considerable amounts of KPNA2 that induce the maturation and activation of DCs for synergistic antitumor effect of radiation.
29023371 | Expression Profiles of Ligands for Activating Natural Killer Cell Receptors on HIV Infected and Uninfected CD4+ T Cells. Natural Killer (NK) cell responses to HIV-infected CD4 T cells (iCD4) depend on the integration of signals received through inhibitory (iNKR) and activating NK receptors (aNKR). iCD4 activate NK cells to inhibit HIV replication. HIV infection-dependent changes in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligands for iNKR on iCD4 are well documented. By contrast, less is known regarding the HIV infection related changes in ligands for aNKR on iCD4. We examined the aNKR ligand profiles HIV p24+ HIV iCD4s that maintained cell surface CD4 (iCD4+), did not maintain CD4 (iCD4-) and uninfected CD4 (unCD4) T cells for expression of unique long (UL)-16 binding proteins-1 (ULBP-1), ULBP-2/5/6, ULBP-3, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 1-related (MIC)-A, MIC-B, CD48, CD80, CD86, CD112, CD155, Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, ICAM-2, HLA-E, HLA-F, HLA-A2, HLA-C, and the ligands to NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, and killer immunoglobulin-like receptor 3DS1 (KIR3DS1) by flow cytometry on CD4 T cells from 17 HIV-1 seronegative donors activated and infected with HIV. iCD4+ cells had higher expression of aNKR ligands than did unCD4. However, the expression of aNKR ligands on iCD4 where CD4 was downregulated (iCD4-) was similar to (ULBP-1, ULBP-2/5/6, ULBP-3, MIC-A, CD48, CD80, CD86 and CD155) or significantly lower than (MIC-B, CD112 and ICAM-2) what was observed on unCD4. Thus, HIV infection can be associated with increased expression of aNKR ligands or either baseline or lower than baseline levels of aNKR ligands, concomitantly with the HIV-mediated downregulation of cell surface CD4 on infected cells.
31317218 | Immunity to X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) in malignant melanoma and check-point blockade. Expression of inhibitors of apoptosis protein (IAP) family members is associated with poor prognosis in cancer patients. Immunity to ML-IAP (livin) and survivin has been well studied in patients with a variety of tumors. XIAP, the most potent inhibitor of apoptosis, is widely expressed in melanoma. To better define its potential role as an immunogenic target, cellular and humoral responses to XIAP were investigated in patients with advanced melanoma. An overlapping peptide library covering the full length of the XIAP protein was used to screen T cell responses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from stage-IV melanoma patients treated with or without anti-CTLA4 (ipilimumab). The screen identified an array of peptides that predominantly induced CD4+ T cell responses. XIAP epitope-specific CD4+ T cells revealed proliferative responses to melanoma cells that express XIAP. Humoral responses to XIAP were also explored. Cellular and humoral responses to XIAP were associated with beneficial clinical outcomes after ipilimumab-based treatment, supporting XIAP as a potential therapeutic target.
33963983 | CD4/CD8 ratio in pregnant women with HIV and its association with pregnancy outcome: data from a national study in Italy. PURPOSE: To evaluate associations between CD4/CD8 ratio and pregnancy outcomes in women with HIV. METHODS: We evaluated, in a national study of pregnant women with HIV receiving antiretroviral treatment (ART), values of CD4/CD8 ratio at entry in pregnancy, changes between first and third trimester, and possible associations with preterm delivery, low birthweight, and HIV-RNA < 50 copies/ml at third trimester in univariate and multivariate analyses. RESULTS: Among 934 women, 536 (57.4%) were already on ART at conception. CD4/CD8 ratio (baseline value 0.570) increased significantly between the first and third trimesters, particularly in women who started ART in pregnancy (+ 0.163, vs. + 0.036 in women already on treatment). The rate of CD4/CD8 ratio normalization, defined by achieving a ratio >= 1 at the third trimester, was 13.2%. In multivariable analyses, women who entered pregnancy with a CD4/CD8 ratio < 0.3, compared to women with ratio >= 1, were almost four-times less likely to have third-trimester HIV-RNA < 50 copies/ml (AOR 0.258, 95%CI 0.111-0.601), and more than twice as likely to have preterm delivery (AOR 2.379, 95%CI 1.082-5.232). For preterm delivery, also a baseline CD4/CD8 ratio between 0.3 and 0.45 was significantly associated with an increased risk (AOR: 3.415, 95%CI 1.690-6.900). CONCLUSION: We described for the first time independent associations of low CD4/CD8 ratio with preterm delivery and HIV-RNA suppression.
1382298 | Escherichia coli MutY protein has both N-glycosylase and apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease activities on A.C and A.G mispairs. In Escherichia coli the mutY (or micA)-dependent DNA mismatch repair pathway can convert A degrees G and A degrees C mismatches to C.G and G.C base pairs, respectively, through a short repair-tract mechanism. The MutY protein has been purified to near homogeneity from an E. coli overproducer strain. Purified MutY has been shown to contain both N-glycosylase and 3' apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) endonuclease activities. The N-glycosylase removes the mispaired adenines of A degrees G and A degrees C mismatches, and the AP endonuclease acts on the first phosphodiester bond 3' to the AP sites. The N-glycosylase and the nicking (combined N-glycosylase and AP endonuclease) activities copurified through multiple chromatographic steps without a change in relative specific activities. Furthermore, both N-glycosylase and AP endonuclease activities can be recovered by renaturation of a single polypeptide band from an SDS/polyacrylamide gel. Renaturation required the presence of iron and sulfide. These findings suggest that the MutY protein, like endonuclease III, is an iron-sulfur protein. DNA fragments with A degrees C mismatches were 20-fold less active than DNA with A degrees G mispairs as a substrate for purified MutY.
38427376 | Response to the Commentary on: \Pectoralis muscle area measured at T4 level is closely associated with adverse COVID-19 outcomes in hospitalized patients\.
38368501 | The effect of human leukocyte antigen genotype on survival in advanced prostate cancer treated with primary androgen deprivation therapy: the KYUCOG-1401-A study. BACKGROUND: Immune editing, in which human leukocyte antigens (HLA) have critical roles, has been suggested to shape the landscape of human cancer. This study prospectively investigated whether HLA gene zygosity is associated with the prognosis of primary androgen deprivation therapy in advanced prostate cancer. METHODS: KYUCOG-1401-A was conducted in conjunction with a prospective clinical trial (KYUCOG-1401). Among the patients enrolled in KYUCOG-1401 and treated with primary androgen deprivation therapy, only Japanese patients were included. HLA genotypes of HLA-A, B, C, DRB1, DQB1, and DPB1 were determined. The effect of divergence of HLA genotypes on time to progression, prostate cancer-specific survival, and overall survival was evaluated. RESULTS: Among 127 patients, homozygosity for HLA-DRB1 (HR, 95% CI; 4.05, 1.54-10.7, P = 0.0047) and HLA-DQB1 (HR, 95% CI; 3.75, 1.47-9.58, P = 0.0058) was associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer-specific mortality. Patients with higher HLA evolutionary divergence scores at HLA-DQB1 (HR, 95% CI; 0.90, 0.82-0.97, P = 0.0093) had lower risks of prostate cancer-specific mortality. Androgen-responsive gene sets were upregulated in CD4low and CD8low tumors in the prostate cancer cohort, but not in the bladder and kidney cancer cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggested that the diversity of HLA-II loci including HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQB1 plays an important role in advanced prostate cancer survival, contributing to improved risk stratification in advanced prostate cancer. Moreover, it was shown that CD4+ T cells play an important role in androgen deprivation therapy, suggesting that immunotherapy targeting CD4+ T cells is promising for prostate cancer.
12853482 | Nuclear import of HIV-1 intracellular reverse transcription complexes is mediated by importin 7. Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), like other lentiviruses, can infect non-dividing cells. This property depends on the active nuclear import of its intracellular reverse transcription complex (RTC). We have studied nuclear import of purified HIV-1 RTCs in primary macrophages and found that importin 7, an import receptor for ribosomal proteins and histone H1, is involved in the process. Nuclear import of RTCs requires, in addition, energy and the components of the Ran system. Depletion of importin 7 from cultured cells by small interfering RNA inhibits HIV-1 infection. These results provide a new insight into the molecular mechanism for HIV-1 nuclear import and reveal potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
25078269 | Human CD56+ cytotoxic lung lymphocytes kill autologous lung cells in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. UNLABELLED: CD56+ natural killer (NK) and CD56+ T cells, from sputum or bronchoalveolar lavage of subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are more cytotoxic to highly susceptible NK targets than those from control subjects. Whether the same is true in lung parenchyma, and if NK activity actually contributes to emphysema progression are unknown. To address these questions, we performed two types of experiments on lung tissue from clinically-indicated resections (n = 60). First, we used flow cytometry on fresh single-cell suspension to measure expression of cell-surface molecules (CD56, CD16, CD8, NKG2D and NKp44) on lung lymphocytes and of the 6D4 epitope common to MICA and MICB on lung epithelial (CD326+) cells. Second, we sequentially isolated CD56+, CD8+ and CD4+ lung lymphocytes, co-cultured each with autologous lung target cells, then determined apoptosis of individual target cells using Annexin-V and 7-AAD staining. Lung NK cells (CD56+ CD3-) and CD56+ T cells (CD56+ CD3+) were present in a range of frequencies that did not differ significantly between smokers without COPD and subjects with COPD. Lung NK cells had a predominantly \cytotoxic\ CD56+ CD16+ phenotype; their co-expression of CD8 was common, but the percentage expressing CD8 fell as FEV1 % predicted decreased. Greater expression by autologous lung epithelial cells of the NKG2D ligands, MICA/MICB, but not expression by lung CD56+ cells of the activating receptor NKG2D, correlated inversely with FEV1 % predicted. Lung CD56+ lymphocytes, but not CD4+ or CD8+ conventional lung T cells, rapidly killed autologous lung cells without additional stimulation. Such natural cytotoxicity was increased in subjects with severe COPD and was unexplained in multiple regression analysis by age or cancer as indication for surgery. These data show that as spirometry worsens in COPD, CD56+ lung lymphocytes exhibit spontaneous cytotoxicity of autologous structural lung cells, supporting their potential role in emphysema progression. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00281229.
29381435 | Selective Inhibition of Nuclear Export With Oral Selinexor for Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma. Purpose Selinexor, a first-in-class, oral, selective exportin 1 (XPO1) inhibitor, induces apoptosis in cancer cells through nuclear retention of tumor suppressor proteins and the glucocorticoid receptor, along with inhibition of translation of oncoprotein mRNAs. We studied selinexor in combination with low-dose dexamethasone in patients with multiple myeloma refractory to the most active available agents. Patients and Methods This phase II trial evaluated selinexor 80 mg and dexamethasone 20 mg, both orally and twice weekly, in patients with myeloma refractory to bortezomib, carfilzomib, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide (quad-refractory disease), with a subset also refractory to an anti-CD38 antibody (penta-refractory disease). The primary end point was overall response rate (ORR). Results Of 79 patients, 48 had quad-refractory and 31 had penta-refractory myeloma. Patients had received a median of seven prior regimens. The ORR was 21% and was similar for patients with quad-refractory (21%) and penta-refractory (20%) disease. Among patients with high-risk cytogenetics, including t(4;14), t(14;16), and del(17p), the ORR was 35% (six of 17 patients). The median duration of response was 5 months, and 65% of responding patients were alive at 12 months. The most common grade >= 3 adverse events were thrombocytopenia (59%), anemia (28%), neutropenia (23%), hyponatremia (22%), leukopenia (15%), and fatigue (15%). Dose interruptions for adverse events occurred in 41 patients (52%), dose reductions occurred in 29 patients (37%), and treatment discontinuation occurred in 14 patients (18%). Conclusion The combination of selinexor and dexamethasone has an ORR of 21% in patients with heavily pretreated, refractory myeloma with limited therapeutic options.
33284055 | Clinical relevance of NKT cells and soluble MIC-A in Hodgkin lymphoma. Previous studies demonstrated that the majority of Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) patients achieve response after treatment, while 5% become refractory. Studies analyzing the role of lymphocyte subsets in peripheral blood are limited. This investigation sought to evaluate peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets and soluble MHC class I chain-related proteins A and B (sMIC-A/B) and their correlation with survival in patients with newly diagnosed HL. The study recruited 36 patients and 72 healthy donors. HL patients showed a decrease in CD4, B, monocytes, NK, and NKT cells; and an increase in gamma-delta T cells and soluble MIC-A serum levels. Higher values of s-MIC-A  >100 ng/mL and NKT cells >40 microL correlated with poor overall survival (OS). In conclusion, in HL peripheral blood CD4 T and B cells, monocytes, NK, and NKT cells were decreased, while s-MIC-A and gamma-delta T cells increased. Higher values of s-MIC-A and NKT cells correlated with poor survival.
28944101 | Soluble MICB in Plasma and Urine Explains Population Expansions of NKG2D+CD4 T Cells Inpatients with Juvenile-Onset Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. Abnormal NKG2D ligand expression has been implicated in the initiation and maintenance of various auto-inflammatory disorders including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). This study's goal was to identify the cellular contexts providing NKG2D ligands for stimulation of the immunosuppressive NKG2D+CD4 T cell subset that has been implicated in modulating juvenile-onset SLE disease activity. Although previous observations with NKG2D+CD4 T cells in healthy individuals pointed towards peripheral B cell and myeloid cell compartments as possible sites of enhanced NKG2DL presence, we found no evidence for a disease-associated increase of NKG2DL-positivity among juvenile-onset SLE B cells and monocytes. However, juvenile-onset SLE patient plasma and matched urine samples were positive by ELISA for the soluble form of the NKG2D ligands MICA and MICB, suggesting that kidney and/or peripheral blood may constitute the NKG2DL positive microenvironments driving NKG2D+CD4 T cell population expansions in this disease.
23874389 | Identification of critical regions in human SAMHD1 required for nuclear localization and Vpx-mediated degradation. The sterile alpha motif (SAM) and HD domain-containing protein-1 (SAMHD1) inhibits the infection of resting CD4+ T cells and myeloid cells by human and related simian immunodeficiency viruses (HIV and SIV). Vpx inactivates SAMHD1 by promoting its proteasome-dependent degradation through an interaction with CRL4 (DCAF1) E3 ubiquitin ligase and the C-terminal region of SAMHD1. However, the determinants in SAMHD1 that are required for Vpx-mediated degradation have not been well characterized. SAMHD1 contains a classical nuclear localization signal (NLS), and NLS point mutants are cytoplasmic and resistant to Vpx-mediated degradation. Here, we demonstrate that NLS-mutant SAMHD1 K11A can be rescued by wild-type SAMHD1, restoring its nuclear localization; consequently, SAMHD1 K11A became sensitive to Vpx-mediated degradation in the presence of wild-type SAMHD1. Surprisingly, deletion of N-terminal regions of SAMHD1, including the classical NLS, generated mutant SAMHD1 proteins that were again sensitive to Vpx-mediated degradation. Unlike SAMHD1 K11A, these deletion mutants could be detected in the nucleus. Interestingly, NLS-defective SAMHD1 could still bind to karyopherin-beta1 and other nuclear proteins. We also determined that the linker region between the SAM and HD domain and the HD domain itself is important for Vpx-mediated degradation but not Vpx interaction. Thus, SAMHD1 contains an additional nuclear targeting mechanism in addition to the classical NLS. Our data indicate that multiple regions in SAMHD1 are critical for Vpx-mediated nuclear degradation and that association with Vpx is not sufficient for Vpx-mediated degradation of SAMHD1. Since the linker region and HD domain may be involved in SAMHD1 multimerization, our results suggest that SAMHD1 multimerization may be required for Vpx-mediation degradation.
29217617 | Two-Step Coimmunoprecipitation (TIP) Enables Efficient and Highly Selective Isolation of Native Protein Complexes. Coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP) is one of the most frequently used techniques to study protein-protein (PPIs) or protein-nucleic acid interactions (PNIs). However, the presence of coprecipitated contaminants is a well-recognized issue associated with single-step co-IPs. To overcome this limitation, we developed the two-step co-IP (TIP) strategy that enables sequential coimmunoprecipitations of endogenous protein complexes. TIP can be performed with a broad range of mono- and polyclonal antibodies targeting a single protein or different components of a given complex. TIP results in a highly selective enrichment of protein complexes and thus outperforms single-step co-IPs for downstream applications such as mass spectrometry for the identification of PPIs and quantitative PCR for the analysis of PNIs. We benchmarked TIP for the identification of CD95/FAS-interacting proteins in primary human CD4+ T cells, which recapitulated all major known interactors, but also enabled the proteomics discovery of PPM1G and IPO7 as new interaction partners. For its feasibility and high performance, we propose TIP as an advanced tool for the isolation of highly purified protein-protein and protein-nucleic acid complexes under native expression conditions.
6572032 | Properdin factor B (Bf) and glyoxalase in Graves' disease. Patients with Graves' disease were phenotyped for properdin factor B (Bf) and glyoxalase, which are coded for by genes mapping close to the HLA region on the sixth chromosome. Frequency data were analysed in relation to HLA-A, -B and -DR typing data. Diagnosis of Graves' disease was based on the usual criteria including elevated T3 and T4 levels and free T4 index and a homogeneous thyroid scan. Ninety-four patients with Graves' disease were phenotyped for properdin factor B (Bf) and 37 for red cells glyoxalase (GLO). HLA-A, -B and -DR antigens were typed in 94 patients using a lymphocyte microcytotoxicity assay. The frequency distribution of Bf and GLO alleles showed no significant differences from control subjects. This finding contrasts with the reports of an increased frequency of BfF1 in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. The difference in the two diseases which are both associated with an increased frequency of the antigen combination D8-DR3, is accounted for by linkage disequilibrium between B18 and BfF1.
16164833 | T-Cell response profiling to biological threat agents including the SARS coronavirus. The emergence of pathogens such as SARS and the increased threat of bioterrorism has stimulated the development of novel diagnostic assays for differential diagnosis. Rather than focusing on the detection of an individual pathogen component, we have developed a T cell profiling system to monitor responses to the pathogens in an array format. Using a matrix of antigens specific for different pathogens, a specific T cell profile was generated for each individual by monitoring the intracellular production of interferon-gamma by flow cytometry. This assay allows for the testing of multiple proteins or peptides at a single time and provides a quantitative and phenotypic assessment of CD4(+) and CD8(+) responding cells. We present profiling examples for several positive individuals, including those vaccinated with the smallpox and anthrax vaccines. We also show antigen optimization for the SARS-hCoV, as studies revealed that these proteins contain peptides which cross-react with more common coronaviruses, a cause of the common cold. The T cell array is an early and sensitive multiplex measure of active infection, exposure to a pathogen, or effective, recent vaccination.
33906789 | Lack of association of KIR2DL1-R245 and KIR2DL1-C245 with HIV-1 control in black South Africans with HLA-C2. Activating/inhibitory Killer-cell Immunoglobulin-like Receptors (KIRs) partly regulate Natural Killer (NK) cells. KIR2DL1 allotypes with cysteine at position-245 (KIR2DL1-C245) express at lower levels and demonstrate weaker inhibitory signaling compared to allotypes with arginine at position-245 (KIR2DL1-R245). The functional consequence of either allotype in infectious diseases is unknown. Since NK cells mediate antiviral immunity, we investigated KIR2DL1-R245 and KIR2DL1-C245 in association with HIV-1 virological control in untreated immunocompetent black South Africans. Allotype carriage, determined by KIR2DL1 sequencing, was similar between uninfected South Africans (n = 104) and other black African populations, but differed significantly from Europeans, while no significant differences were noted between uninfected and HIV-1-infected individuals (n = 52). KIR2DL1 expression, measured by flow cytometry, in uninfected individuals showed higher KIR2DL1-R245 expression compared to KIR2DL1-C245 in white donors (n = 27), while black donors (n = 21) generally expressed lower levels of both allotypes. KIR2DL1 expression was reduced in HLA-C2 carriers, most evident in black HLA-C2/C2 donors. KIR2DL1-R245 and KIR2DL1-C245 did not associate with viral load when HLA-C2 ligands were present, however in HLA-C1 homozygotes, individuals with only KIR2DL1-R245, showed lower viral loads compared to carriers of both allotypes. The lack of association of KIR2DL1-R245 or KIR2DL1-C245 with HIV-1 control in HLA-C2 carriers may relate to lower KIR2DL1 expression levels in a population with high HLA-C2 prevalence.
31341054 | Interferon-Inducible MicroRNA miR-128 Modulates HIV-1 Replication by Targeting TNPO3 mRNA. The HIV/AIDS pandemic remains an important threat to human health. We have recently demonstrated that a novel microRNA (miR), miR-128, represses retrotransposon long interspaced element 1 (L1) by a dual mechanism, namely, by directly targeting the coding region of the L1 RNA and by repressing a required nuclear import factor (TNPO1). We have further determined that miR-128 represses the expression of all three TNPO proteins (transportins TNPO1, TNPO2, and TNPO3). Here, we establish that miR-128 also influences HIV-1 replication by repressing TNPO3, a factor that regulates HIV-1 nuclear import and viral; replication of TNPO3 is well established to regulate HIV-1 nuclear import and viral replication. Here, we report that type I interferon (IFN)-inducible miR-128 directly targets two sites in the TNPO3 mRNA, significantly downregulating TNPO3 mRNA and protein expression levels. Challenging miR-modulated Jurkat cells or primary CD4+ T-cells with wild-type (WT), replication-competent HIV-1 demonstrated that miR-128 reduces viral replication and delays spreading of infection. Manipulation of miR-128 levels in HIV-1 target cell lines and in primary CD4+ T-cells by overexpression or knockdown showed that reduction of TNPO3 levels by miR-128 significantly affects HIV-1 replication but not murine leukemia virus (MLV) infection and that miR-128 modulation of HIV-1 replication is reduced with TNPO3-independent HIV-1 virus, suggesting that miR-128-indued TNPO3 repression contributes to the inhibition of HIV-1 replication. Finally, we determine that anti-miR-128 partly neutralizes the IFN-mediated block of HIV-1. Thus, we have established a novel role of miR-128 in antiviral defense in human cells, namely inhibiting HIV-1 replication by altering the cellular milieu through targeting factors that include TNPO3.IMPORTANCE HIV-1 is the causative agent of AIDS. During HIV-1 infection, type I interferons (IFNs) are induced, and their effectors limit HIV-1 replication at multiple steps in its life cycle. However, the cellular targets of INFs are still largely unknown. In this study, we identified the interferon-inducible microRNA (miR) miR-128, a novel antiviral mediator that suppresses the expression of the host gene TNPO3, which is known to modulate HIV-1 replication. Notably, we observe that anti-miR-128 partly neutralizes the IFN-mediated block of HIV-1. Elucidation of the mechanisms through which miR-128 impairs HIV-1 replication may provide novel candidates for the development of therapeutic interventions.
37047435 | Uncovering the Underworld of Axial Spondyloarthritis. Axial spondyloarthritis (axial-SpA) is a multifactorial disease characterized by inflammation in sacroiliac joints and spine, bone reabsorption, and aberrant bone deposition, which may lead to ankylosis. Disease pathogenesis depends on genetic, immunological, mechanical, and bioenvironmental factors. HLA-B27 represents the most important genetic factor, although the disease may also develop in its absence. This MHC class I molecule has been deeply studied from a molecular point of view. Different theories, including the arthritogenic peptide, the unfolded protein response, and HLA-B27 homodimers formation, have been proposed to explain its role. From an immunological point of view, a complex interplay between the innate and adaptive immune system is involved in disease onset. Unlike other systemic autoimmune diseases, the innate immune system in axial-SpA has a crucial role marked by abnormal activity of innate immune cells, including gammadelta T cells, type 3 innate lymphoid cells, neutrophils, and mucosal-associated invariant T cells, at tissue-specific sites prone to the disease. On the other hand, a T cell adaptive response would seem involved in axial-SpA pathogenesis as emphasized by several studies focusing on TCR low clonal heterogeneity and clonal expansions as well as an interindividual sharing of CD4/8 T cell receptors. As a result of this immune dysregulation, several proinflammatory molecules are produced following the activation of tangled intracellular pathways involved in pathomechanisms of axial-SpA. This review aims to expand the current understanding of axial-SpA pathogenesis, pointing out novel molecular mechanisms leading to disease development and to further investigate potential therapeutic targets.
31528316 | Pregnancy Loss in Women with HIV is not Associated with HIV Markers: Data from a National Study in Italy, 2001-2018. BACKGROUND: There is limited information on pregnancy loss in women with HIV, and it is still debated whether HIV-related markers may play a role.Objectives: To explore potential risk factors for pregnancy loss in women with HIV, with particular reference to modifiable risk factors and markers of HIV disease. METHODS: Multicenter observational study of HIV-positive pregnant women. The main outcome measure was pregnancy loss, including both miscarriage (<22 weeks) and stillbirth (>=22 weeks). Possible associations of pregnancy loss were evaluated in univariate and multivariate analyses. RESULTS: Among 2696 eligible pregnancies reported between 2001 and 2018, 226 (8.4%) ended in pregnancy loss (miscarriage 198, 7.3%; stillbirth 28, 1.0%). In multivariate analyses, only older age (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] per additional year of age: 1.079, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.046-1.113), HIV diagnosis before pregnancy (AOR: 2.533, 95%CI 1.407-4.561) and history of pregnancy loss (AOR: 1.625, 95%CI 1.178-2.243) were significantly associated with pregnancy loss. No significant association with pregnancy loss was found for parity, coinfections, sexually transmitted diseases, hypertension, smoking, alcohol and substance use, CD4 cell count, HIV-RNA viral load, and CDC HIV stage. CONCLUSIONS: Older women and those with a previous history of pregnancy loss should be considered at higher risk of pregnancy loss. The severity of HIV disease and potentially modifiable risk factors did not increase the risk of pregnancy loss.
38514021 | Pandemic Effects on Stability of End-of-Life Preferences and Patient-Surrogate Dyad Congruence. CONTEXT: Whether a largescale disaster alters people's previous decisions about their end-of-life care is unknown. OBJECTIVES: We examined the effects of a disaster, the COVID-19 pandemic, on stability of end-of-life care preferences among dialysis patients and on patient-surrogate goals-of-care congruence. METHODS: We used a natural experimental design to examine goals-of-care preferences pre- and post-exposure to the pandemic during a pragmatic trial testing SPIRIT (Sharing Patient's Illness Representations to Increase Trust), an evidence-based advance care planning (ACP) intervention. There were 151 patient-surrogate dyads who prior to the pandemic lockdown had completed baseline (T1) and post-intervention assessments (T2) regarding their goals-of-care preferences in two end-of-life scenarios. Of those 151 dyads, 59 intervention and 51 usual care dyads consented to be in the present study and completed the goals-of-care tool two additional times, at enrollment (T3) and 6 months later (T4), along with the COVID Stress Scale (CSS). Dyad congruence was ascertained by comparing patient and surrogate responses to the goals-of-care tool. RESULTS: There were no changes over time in the proportions of patients who chose comfort-care-only in the goals-of-care tool. The proportion of patients who chose comfort-care-only and dyad congruence were higher in SPIRIT compared to usual care, but there was no interaction between that treatment effect and exposure to the pandemic. CSS was associated with neither patients' preferences nor dyad congruence. CONCLUSIONS: The pandemic alone did not appear to influence patients' goals-of-care preferences or dyad congruence. This finding supports the stability of value-based end-of-life preferences in general, even during a disaster.
35653364 | Super high-resolution single-molecule sequence-based typing of HLA class I alleles in HIV-1 infected individuals in Ghana. Polymorphisms in human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I loci are known to have a great impact on disease progression in HIV-1 infection. Prevailing HIV-1 subtypes and HLA genotype distribution are different all over the world, and the HIV-1 and host HLA interaction could be specific to individual areas. Data on the HIV-1 and HLA interaction have been accumulated in HIV-1 subtype B- and C-predominant populations but not fully obtained in West Africa where HIV-1 subtype CRF02_AG is predominant. In the present study, to obtain accurate HLA typing data for analysis of HLA association with disease progression in HIV-1 infection in West African populations, HLA class I (HLA-A, -B, and -C) four-digit allele typing was performed in treatment-naive HIV-1 infected individuals in Ghana (n = 324) by a super high-resolution single-molecule sequence-based typing (SS-SBT) using next-generation sequencing. Comparison of the SS-SBT-based data with those obtained by a conventional sequencing-based typing (SBT) revealed incorrect assignment of several alleles by SBT. Indeed, HLA-A*23:17, HLA-B*07:06, HLA-C*07:18, and HLA-C*18:02 whose allele frequencies were 2.5%, 0.9%, 4.3%, and 3.7%, respectively, were not determined by SBT. Several HLA alleles were associated with clinical markers, viral load and CD4+ T-cell count. Of note, the impact of HLA-B*57:03 and HLA-B*58:01, known as protective alleles against HIV-1 subtype B and C infection, on clinical markers was not observed in our cohort. This study for the first time presents SS-SBT-based four-digit typing data on HLA-A, -B, and -C alleles in Ghana, describing impact of HLA on viral load and CD4 count in HIV-1 infection. Accumulation of these data would facilitate high-resolution HLA genotyping, contributing to our understanding of the HIV-1 and host HLA interaction in Ghana, West Africa.
7605779 | Study of HLA class I/IL and T lymphocyte subsets in Kuwaiti vitiligo patients. HLA polymorphisms of class I and class II MHC were investigated in 40 Kuwaiti vitiligo patients and in 40 controls using microcytotoxicity assay. HLA-B21, Cw6 and DR53 were increased significantly in patients compared to controls (P = 0.00001, 0.00001 and P = 0.0053 respectively) while HLA-A19, DR52, were significantly decreased (P = 0.00236, 0.05, respectively). Total T-cells, T4 and T8 were measured as CD2, CD4 and CD8 respectively by flow cytometry. Vitiligo patients showed significant increase in CD4 compared to controls (P = 0.03). Our findings suggest that HLA-B21 and Cw6 and DR53, are susceptible genes of vitiligo, while A19 and DR52 are protective genes in the Kuwaiti population.
34012432 | Increased Concentrations of Circulating Soluble MHC Class I-Related Chain A (sMICA) and sMICB and Modulation of Plasma Membrane MICA Expression: Potential Mechanisms and Correlation With Natural Killer Cell Activity in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a severe autoimmune disease of unknown etiology. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-related chain A (MICA) and B (MICB) are stress-inducible cell surface molecules. MICA and MICB label malfunctioning cells for their recognition by cytotoxic lymphocytes such as natural killer (NK) cells. Alterations in this recognition have been found in SLE. MICA/MICB can be shed from the cell surface, subsequently acting either as a soluble decoy receptor (sMICA/sMICB) or in CD4+ T-cell expansion. Conversely, NK cells are frequently defective in SLE and lower NK cell numbers have been reported in patients with active SLE. However, these cells are also thought to exert regulatory functions and to prevent autoimmunity. We therefore investigated whether, and how, plasma membrane and soluble MICA/B are modulated in SLE and whether they influence NK cell activity, in order to better understand how MICA/B may participate in disease development. We report significantly elevated concentrations of circulating sMICA/B in SLE patients compared with healthy individuals or a control patient group. In SLE patients, sMICA concentrations were significantly higher in patients positive for anti-SSB and anti-RNP autoantibodies. In order to study the mechanism and the potential source of sMICA, we analyzed circulating sMICA concentration in Behcet patients before and after interferon (IFN)-alpha therapy: no modulation was observed, suggesting that IFN-alpha is not intrinsically crucial for sMICA release in vivo. We also show that monocytes and neutrophils stimulated in vitro with cytokines or extracellular chromatin up-regulate plasma membrane MICA expression, without releasing sMICA. Importantly, in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy individuals stimulated in vitro by cell-free chromatin, NK cells up-regulate CD69 and CD107 in a monocyte-dependent manner and at least partly via MICA-NKG2D interaction, whereas NK cells were exhausted in SLE patients. In conclusion, sMICA concentrations are elevated in SLE patients, whereas plasma membrane MICA is up-regulated in response to some lupus stimuli and triggers NK cell activation. Those results suggest the requirement for a tight control in vivo and highlight the complex role of the MICA/sMICA system in SLE.
24084690 | Systemic delivery of microRNA-181b inhibits nuclear factor-kappaB activation, vascular inflammation, and atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. RATIONALE: Activated nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB signaling in the vascular endothelium promotes the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis. Targeting endothelial NF-kappaB may provide a novel strategy to limit chronic inflammation. OBJECTIVE: To examine the role of microRNA-181b (miR-181b) in endothelial NF-kappaB signaling and effects on atherosclerosis. METHODS AND RESULTS: MiR-181b expression was reduced in the aortic intima and plasma in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice fed a high-fat diet. Correspondingly, circulating miR-181b in the plasma was markedly reduced in human subjects with coronary artery disease. Systemic delivery of miR-181b resulted in a 2.3-fold overexpression of miR-181b in the aortic intima of apolipoprotein E-deficient mice and suppressed NF-kappaB signaling revealed by bioluminescence imaging and reduced target gene expression in the aortic arch in apolipoprotein E-deficient/NF-kappaB-luciferase transgenic mice. MiR-181b significantly inhibited atherosclerotic lesion formation, proinflammatory gene expression and the influx of lesional macrophages and CD4+ T cells in the vessel wall. Mechanistically, miR-181b inhibited the expression of the target gene importin-alpha3, an effect that reduced NF-kappaB nuclear translocation specifically in the vascular endothelium of lesions, whereas surprisingly leukocyte NF-kappaB signaling was unaffected despite a 7-fold overexpression of miR-181b. Our findings uncover that NF-kappaB nuclear translocation in leukocytes does not involve importin-alpha3, but rather importin-alpha5, which miR-181b does not target, highlighting that inhibition of NF-kappaB signaling in the endothelium is sufficient to mediate miR-181b's protective effects. CONCLUSIONS: Systemic delivery of miR-181b inhibits the activation of NF-kappaB and atherosclerosis through cell-specific mechanisms in the vascular endothelium. These findings support the rationale that delivery of miR-181b may provide a novel therapeutic approach to treat chronic inflammatory diseases such as atherosclerosis.
31730025 | A new synthetic toll-like receptor 1/2 ligand is an efficient adjuvant for peptide vaccination in a human volunteer. BACKGROUND: We previously showed that the bacterial lipopeptide Pam3Cys-Ser-Ser, meanwhile established as a toll-like receptor (TLR) 1/2 ligand, acts as a strong adjuvant for the induction of virus specific CD8+ T cells in mice, when covalently coupled to a synthetic peptide. CASE PRESENTATION: We now designed a new water-soluble synthetic Pam3Cys-derivative, named XS15 and characterized it in vitro by a TLR2 NF-kappaB luciferase reporter assay. Further, the capacity of XS15 to activate immune cells and stimulate peptide-specific CD8+ T and NK cells by 6-sulfo LacNAc+ monocytes was assessed by flow cytometry as well as cytokine induction using immunoassays. The induction of a functional immune response after vaccination of a volunteer with viral peptides was assessed by ELISpot assay and flow cytometry in peripheral blood cells and infiltrating cells at the vaccination site, as well as by immunohistochemistry and imaging. XS15 induced strong ex vivo CD8+ and TH1 CD4+ responses in a human volunteer upon a single injection of XS15 mixed to uncoupled peptides in a water-in-oil emulsion (Montanide  ISA51 VG). A granuloma formed locally at the injection site containing highly activated functional CD4+ and CD8+ effector memory T cells. The total number of vaccine peptide-specific functional T cells was experimentally assessed and estimated to be 3.0 x 105 in the granuloma and 20.5 x 106 in peripheral blood. CONCLUSION: Thus, in one volunteer we show a granuloma forming by peptides combined with an efficient adjuvant in a water-in-oil-emulsion, inducing antigen specific T cells detectable in circulation and at the vaccination site, after one single vaccination only. The ex vivo T cell responses in peripheral blood were detectable for more than one year and could be strongly boosted by a second vaccination. Hence, XS15 is a promising adjuvant candidate for peptide vaccination, in particular for tumor peptide vaccines in a personalized setting.
37741520 | NKG2D receptor regulates CD4+T cell differentiation via interaction with dendritic cells in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis. NKG2D provides a costimulatory signal for activation of CD4+ T cells. We explored its role in interactions of CD4+ T cells and dendritic cells (DCs) in juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) patients by using NKG2D genetically modified CD4+ T cells. We found active JIA patients had significantly higher content of CD4 + NKG2D+ T cells than healthy controls. Expression of NKG2D on CD4+ T cells, and MICA and MICB on DCs were significantly greater in articular JIA than systemic JIA. NKG2D induced IL- 12 and suppressed IL-10 and TGF-beta from CD4+ T cells, increased IFN-gamma + CD4+ T and IL-17+ CD4+ T cells, RORc and T-bet, but reduced CD25+ Foxp3+ CD4+ T cells, IL-4+ CD4+ T cells, Foxp3, and GATA3 in JIA patients. NKG2D decreased IL-10 and increased CD83, MICA, and MICB of DCs in JIA and controls. So NKG2D regulates differentiation of CD4+ T cells directly and the maturation of DCs indirectly.
37168557 | HLA-DP diversity is associated with improved response to SARS-Cov-2 vaccine in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) recipients show lower humoral vaccine responsiveness than immunocompetent individuals. HLA diversity, measured by the HLA evolutionary divergence (HED) metrics, reflects the diversity of the antigenic repertoire presented to T cells, and has been shown to predict response to cancer immunotherapy. We retrospectively investigated the association of HED with humoral response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccine in allo-HSCT recipients. HED was calculated as pairwise genetic distance between alleles at HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, -DQB1, and -DPB1 loci in recipients and their donors. Low anti-spike IgG levels (<30 BAU/mL) were associated with short time from allo-SCT and low donor DPB1-HED, mostly related to donor DPB1 homozygosity. The diversity of donor HLA-DP molecules, assessed by heterozygosity or sequence divergence, may thus impact the efficacy of donor-derived CD4 T cells to sustain vaccine-mediated antibody response in allo-HSCT recipients.
38177093 | Glycolysis: An early marker for vancomycin-specific T-cell activation. BACKGROUND: Vancomycin, a glycopeptide antibiotic used for Gram-positive bacterial infections, has been linked with drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) in HLA-A*32:01-expressing individuals. This is associated with activation of T lymphocytes, for which glycolysis has been isolated as a fuel pathway following antigenic stimulation. However, the metabolic processes that underpin drug-reactive T-cell activation are currently undefined and may shed light on the energetic conditions needed for the elicitation of drug hypersensitivity or tolerogenic pathways. Here, we sought to characterise the immunological and metabolic pathways involved in drug-specific T-cell activation within the context of DRESS pathogenesis using vancomycin as model compound and drug-reactive T-cell clones (TCCs) generated from healthy donors and vancomycin-hypersensitive patients. METHODS: CD4+ and CD8+ vancomycin-responsive TCCs were generated by serial dilution. The Seahorse XFe96 Analyzer was used to measure the extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) as an indicator of glycolytic function. Additionally, T-cell proliferation and cytokine release (IFN-gamma) assay were utilised to correlate the bioenergetic characteristics of T-cell activation with in vitro assays. RESULTS: Model T-cell stimulants induced non-specific T-cell activation, characterised by immediate augmentation of ECAR and rate of ATP production (JATPglyc). There was a dose-dependent and drug-specific glycolytic shift when vancomycin-reactive TCCs were exposed to the drug. Vancomycin-reactive TCCs did not exhibit T-cell cross-reactivity with structurally similar compounds within proliferative and cytokine readouts. However, cross-reactivity was observed when analysing energetic responses; TCCs with prior specificity for vancomycin were also found to exhibit glycolytic switching after exposure to teicoplanin. Glycolytic activation of TCC was HLA restricted, as exposure to HLA blockade attenuated the glycolytic induction. CONCLUSION: These studies describe the glycolytic shift of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells following vancomycin exposure. Since similar glycolytic switching is observed with teicoplanin, which did not activate T cells, it is possible the master switch for T-cell activation is located upstream of metabolic signalling.
33031103 | Critical effect of Pol escape mutations associated with detrimental allele HLA-C*15: 05 on clinical outcome in HIV-1 subtype A/E infection. OBJECTIVE: The mechanism explaining the role of detrimental HLA alleles in HIV-1 infections has been investigated in very few studies. HLA-A*29:01-B*07:05-C*15:05 is a detrimental haplotype in HIV-1 subtype A/E-infected Vietnamese individuals. The accumulation of mutations at Pol 653/657 is associated with a poor clinical outcome in these individuals. However, the detrimental HLA allele and the mechanism responsible for its detrimental effect remains unknown. Therefore, in this current study we identified the detrimental HLA allele and investigated the mechanism responsible for the detrimental effect. DESIGN AND METHODS: A T-cell epitope including Pol 653/657 and its HLA restriction were identified by using overlapping HIV-1 peptides and cell lines expressing a single HLA. The effect of the mutations on the T-cell recognition of HIV-1-infected cells was investigated by using target cells infected with the mutant viruses. The effect of these mutations on the clinical outcome was analyzed in 74 HLA-C*15:05 Vietnamese infected with the subtype A/E virus. RESULTS: We identified HLA-C*15:05-restricted SL9 epitope including Pol 653/657. PolS653A/T/L mutations within this epitope critically impaired the T-cell recognition of HIV-1-infected cells, indicating that these mutations had escaped from the T cells. T-cell responders infected with these mutants showed significantly lower CD4 T-cell counts than those with the wild-type virus or Pol S653K/Q mutants, which are not associated with HLA-C*15:05. CONCLUSION: The accumulation of Pol S653A/T/L escape mutants critically affected the control of HIV-1 by SL9-specific T cells and led to a poor clinical outcome in the subtype A/E-infected individuals having the detrimental HLA-C*15:05 allele.
29406430 | Brief Report: Abacavir/Lamivudine and Tenofovir/Emtricitabine in Pregnant Women With HIV: Laboratory and Clinical Outcomes in an Observational National Study. BACKGROUND: Abacavir-lamivudine (ABC/3TC) and tenofovir-emtricitabine (TDF/FTC) represent in the guidelines of several countries, including Italy and United States, the preferred nucleoside/nucleotide backbones of antiretroviral regimens. We assessed their profile in pregnancy using data from a national observational study. METHODS: Laboratory measures (CD4, HIV-RNA, lipid profile, glucose, hemoglobin, and alanine transferase) and pregnancy outcomes (preterm delivery, low birthweight, nonelective cesarean section, birthweight Z-score, congenital defects, HIV transmission, maternal weight gain, and pregnancy complications) were compared after prenatal exposure to ABC/3TC or TDF/FTC. RESULTS: The study evaluated 913 pregnancies (ABC/3TC: 252; TDF/FTC: 661). At entry in pregnancy, women on TDF/FTC were older (33.6 vs. 32.4 years, P = 0.005), less frequently on treatment (66.9% vs. 80.2%, P < 0.001), and had lower CD4 counts (475/mm vs. 533/mm, P = 0.003) and higher plasma HIV-RNA levels (2.48 vs. 2.22 log10 copies/mL, P = 0.003). Women on ABC/3TC had more commonly hypertension/nephropathy (5.2% vs. 2.0%, P = 0.013). No major differences were observed in the main pregnancy outcomes and in rates of undetectable HIV-RNA at third trimester. In a subgroup analysis that evaluated at third trimester only cases with regular 3-drug treatment during pregnancy, women on TDF/FTC had lower hemoglobin levels (median: 11.1 vs. 11.8 g/dL, P = 0.002) and women on ABC/3TC had higher levels of total cholesterol (median: 230 vs. 216 mg/dL, P = 0.023) and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (133 vs. 111 mg/dL, P = 0.030). CONCLUSIONS: In this study, use of TDF/FTC and ABC/3TC in pregnancy was associated with similar pregnancy outcomes and with some differences in laboratory measures that might guide physicians' prescriptions in mothers with hematologic or metabolic risk factors.
33815410 | HLA Alleles B*53:01 and C*06:02 Are Associated With Higher Risk of P. falciparum Parasitemia in a Cohort in Uganda. Variation within the HLA locus been shown to play an important role in the susceptibility to and outcomes of numerous infections, but its influence on immunity to P. falciparum malaria is unclear. Increasing evidence indicates that acquired immunity to P. falciparum is mediated in part by the cellular immune response, including NK cells, CD4 and CD8 T cells, and semi-invariant gammadelta T cells. HLA molecules expressed by these lymphocytes influence the epitopes recognized by P. falciparum-specific T cells, and class I HLA molecules also serve as ligands for inhibitory receptors including KIR. Here we assessed the relationship of HLA class I and II alleles to the risk of P. falciparum infection and symptomatic malaria in a cohort of 892 Ugandan children and adults followed prospectively via both active and passive surveillance. We identified two HLA class I alleles, HLA-B*53:01 and HLA-C*06:02, that were associated with a higher prevalence of P. falciparum infection. Notably, no class I or II HLA alleles were found to be associated with protection from P. falciparum parasitemia or symptomatic malaria. These findings suggest that class I HLA plays a role in the ability to restrict parasitemia, supporting an essential role for the cellular immune response in P. falciparum immunity. Our findings underscore the need for better tools to enable mechanistic studies of the T cell response to P. falciparum at the epitope level and suggest that further study of the role of HLA in regulating pre-erythrocytic stages of the P. falciparum life cycle is warranted.
39623156 | HLA-B27 and spondyloarthritis: at the crossroads of innate and adaptive immunity. HLA-B*27 confers a strong risk of developing spondyloarthritis (SpA), which includes axial SpA with or without peripheral arthritis, enthesitis, acute anterior uveitis and gastrointestinal inflammation. Although no definitive mechanism has been established to explain the role of this HLA class I protein in the pathogenesis of SpA, three main hypotheses have emerged. First is the idea that self-peptides displayed by HLA-B27 resemble microorganism-derived peptides, leading to the expansion of autoreactive CD8+ T cells that trigger disease. The second and third hypotheses focus on aberrant properties of HLA-B27, including its tendency to form cell-surface dimers that can activate innate killer immunoglobulin-like receptors on CD4+ T helper 17 cells, triggering the production of pathogenic cytokines. HLA-B27 also misfolds in the endoplasmic reticulum, which can activate the unfolded protein response, increasing IL-23 expression and thereby promoting the production of type 17 cytokines. HLA-B27 misfolding in mesenchymal stem cells has also been linked to enhanced bone formation by mesenchymal stem cell-derived osteoblasts, which could contribute to structural damage in axial SpA. In this Review we summarize prevailing ideas about the role of HLA-B27 in SpA, discuss the latest developments as well as the gaps in current knowledge, and provide recommendations for future research to address these unmet needs.
19200602 | Mutual activation of CD4+ T cells and monocytes mediated by NKG2D-MIC interaction requires IFN-gamma production in systemic lupus erythematosus. The activating receptor NKG2D is mainly expressed by human CD8(+) T cells and NK cells but normally absent on CD4(+) T cells. However, a subset of autoreactive NKG2D(+)CD4(+) T cells has been found to exist in some autoimmune disease such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and to participate in the imbalance of immune response and inflammation. Up to date this observation has been extended to some autoimmune diseases such as RA and Crohn's disease and the mechanism underlying the presence of this type of NKG2D(+)CD4(+) T cells has not been delineated yet. In this study, we found that a substantial proportion of CD4(+) T cells expressed NKG2D in the PBMC of SLE patients. We also found that monocytes in SLE aberrantly expressed the NKG2D ligand of MHC class I chain-related (MIC) molecules and membrane-bound IL-15 (mIL-15) at the cell surface. When cultured with the sera from SLE patients, the monocytes from healthy volunteers could be induced to express MIC and mIL-15. However, this induced expression of MIC and mIL-15 could be blocked with anti-IFN-gamma receptor (anti-IFN-gammaR) antibody. We further demonstrated that NKG2D could be induced on normal CD4(+) T cells either cocultured with monocytes from patients with SLE, or monocytes from healthy volunteers but pretreated with IFN-gamma. Moreover, Th1 cytokines were found to be produced by NKG2D(+)CD4(+) T cells in the coculture system. By transwell assay, we found that both NKG2D expression and Th1 cytokines production depended on the cell-cell contact. These results indicate that the elevated sera IFN-gamma may be responsible for MIC and mIL-15 induction on monocytes in SLE; mIL-15 on monocytes contribute to NKG2D receptor induction on a subset of CD4(+) T cells. Moreover, CD14(+) monocytes promote NKG2D(+)CD4(+) T cells activation through the NKG2D-MIC engagement in the pathogenesis of SLE.
41840532 | Immune-inflammatory mediators of frailty and long COVID in older adults: a prospective cohort study.
37284777 | Transgenic murine models for the study of drug hypersensitivity reactions linked to HLA-I molecules. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Immune-mediated drug hypersensitivity reactions (DHRs) can be life-threatening and an impediment to drug development. Mechanism of disease studies are difficult to perform in humans. Here we review human leukocyte antigens class I (HLA-I) transgenic murine models and highlight how these systems have helped to elucidate drug-specific and host immune factors that initiate, propagate and control severe drug toxicities to skin and liver. RECENT FINDINGS: HLA transgenic mice have been developed and used to study immune-mediated drug reactions in vitro and in vivo. CD8+ T cells from HLA-B*57:01-expressing mice respond strongly to abacavir (ABC) in vitro but have self-limited responses to drug exposure in vivo. Immune tolerance can be overcome by depleting regulatory T cells (Treg) allowing antigen-presenting dendritic cells to express CD80/86 costimulatory molecules and signal through CD28 on the CD8+ T cell. Depletion of Treg also removes competition for interleukin 2 (IL-2) to allow T cell expansion and differentiation. Fine tuning of responses depends on inhibitory checkpoint molecules such as PD-1. Improved mouse models express only HLA in the absence of PD-1. These models show enhanced liver injury to flucloxacillin (FLX) which depends on drug priming, CD4+ T cell depletion, and lack of PD-1 expression. Drug-specific HLA-restricted cytotoxic CD8+ T cells can infiltrate the liver but are suppressed by Kupffer and liver sinusoidal endothelial cells. SUMMARY: HLA-I transgenic mouse models are now available to study ABC, FLX and carbamazepine-induced adverse reactions. In vivo studies range from characterizing drug-antigen presentation, T cell activation, immune-regulatory molecules and cell-cell interaction pathways that are specifically involved in causing or controlling unwanted DHRs.
17565371 | In vivo expression pattern of MICA and MICB and its relevance to auto-immunity and cancer. Non-conventional MHC class I MIC molecules interact not with the TCR, but with NKG2D, a C-type lectin activatory receptor present on most NK, gammadelta and CD8(+) alphabeta T cells. While this interaction is critical in triggering/calibrating the cytotoxic activity of these cells, the actual extent of its in vivo involvement, in man, in infection, cancer or autoimmunity, needs further assessment. The latter has gained momentum along with the reported expansion of peripheral CD4(+)CD28(-)NKG2D(+) T cells in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We first initiated to extend this report to a larger cohort of not only RA patients, but also those affected by systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and Sjogren's syndrome (SS). In RA and SS, this initial observation was further tested in target tissues: the joint and the salivary glands, respectively. In conclusion and despite occasional and indiscriminate expansion of the previously incriminated T cell subpopulation, no correlation could be observed between the CD4(+)CD28(-)NKG2D(+) and auto-immunity. Moreover, in situ, the presence of NKG2D matched that of CD8(+), but not that of CD4(+) T cells. In parallel, a total body tissue scan of both MICA and MICB transcription clearly shows that despite original presumptions, and with the exception of the central nervous system, both genes are widely transcribed and therefore possibly translated and membrane-bound. Extending this analysis to a number of human tumors did not reveal a coherent pattern of expression vs. normal tissues. Collectively these data question previous assumptions, correlating a tissue-specific expression/induction of MIC in relevance to auto-immune or tumor processes.
42018655 | Endothelial MHC expression is required to initiate T cell-mediated rejection of 3D-printed skin grafts. Vascularized skins were 3D printed using single donor human fibroblasts, pericytes, keratinocytes, and endothelial cells (ECs), the latter either unmodified (WT-ECs) or deleted of MHC molecules (KO-ECs). Adult MISTRG6 immunodeficient mice neonatally inoculated with adult human hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) received printed skin allogeneic to the HSCs and were boosted 3 weeks after grafting with human PBMCs autologous to the HSCs. HSC inoculation alone produced low levels of circulating human myeloid and lymphoid cells without affecting grafts; PBMC boosting dramatically increased circulating human CD4+ T cells and boosted CD8+ T cells only in mice with WT-EC grafts. These grafts became infiltrated by human macrophages, dendritic cells, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and showed evidence of rejection. Shared T cell clones were present in skin and spleen. KO-EC grafts had minimal infiltration of graft or spleen without rejection, despite MHC molecule expression on other graft cell types.
41933199 | Lipid accumulation in tuberculosis granulomas inhibits macrophage-CD4+ T cell interactions and infection control. Granulomas form to contain Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection in the lung. What constitutes protective or detrimental responses is poorly understood. Here, using spatial transcriptomics and immunofluorescence microscopy of human lung samples and mouse models, we characterize the spatial structure and transcriptome of macrophage and T cell populations in tuberculosis granulomas. We identify signatures of reduced major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II levels on macrophages and reduced CD4+ T cell activation, particularly in necrotic granulomas, suggesting a compromised interaction between innate and adaptive responses. Further analyses in mouse models and human cells reveal that infection of macrophages, or exposure to mycolic acids, disrupt cholesterol trafficking, leading to cholesterol accumulation and MHC class II sequestration in lysosomes. This inhibits antigen presentation and impairs anti-Mtb CD4+ T cell responses. Pharmacological restoration of cholesterol homeostasis during late-stage infection improves control of Mtb in mice. This study reveals an infection-driven mechanism of cholesterol overload, which impairs control of tuberculosis and could be targeted therapeutically.
40547023 | Insights into regulatory T-cell and type-I interferon roles in determining abacavir-induced hypersensitivity or immune tolerance. Introduction: Clinical use of several small molecule drugs may lead to severe T-cell-mediated idiosyncratic drug hypersensitivity reactions (iDHR) linked to HLA alleles, including abacavir (ABC) with HLA-B*57:01. Due to study limitations in humans, pathogenic networks in iDHR remain elusive. HLA transgenic murine models have been proposed to bridge knowledge gaps in tolerance and susceptibility to drugs. Methods: Mice expressing HLA-B*57:01 and Foxp3-DTR/EGFP were generated to selectively deplete regulatory T-cells (Treg) with diphtheria toxin. ABC was administered for 8 days alone or together with cell- and cytokine-depleting antibodies. Cellular and transcriptomic responses were analyzed by RNA, flow cytometry and fluorescence methods. Results: While CD8+ T-cell responses to ABC require HLA presentation, ABC also triggered mitochondrial stress in macrophages in vitro, independently of HLA. In vivo, Treg were the primary mechanism of drug tolerance controlling HLA presentation and costimulation by antigen presenting cells. Treg ablation uncovered immune adverse events linked to activation and proliferation of both drug-specific and bystander CD8+ T-cells through CD28-mediated pathways with support from CD4+ non-Treg. Type-I interferon (IFN-I) and cellular-stress pathways influenced the fate of lymph node cells responding to ABC, implicating innate immune cells such as macrophages and plasmacytoid dendritic cells in the development of T-cell responses against the drug. IFN-I and IL-2 were necessary for CD8+ T-cell differentiation and ABC-induced adverse reactions. Conclusions: This study unveils novel immune mechanisms driven by drug and host-related factors required for in vivo reactions and sheds light on potential biomarker and therapeutic targets for managing and preventing severe and life-threatening iDHR.
42025778 | Immunomodulatory Effect of Traditional Chinese Medicine in Infectious Diseases. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Infectious diseases remain a major global public health challenge. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) embodies the medical wisdom of the Chinese nation, developed through thousands of years of practice in combating epidemics and infections. Guided by its unique theoretical system, centered on \Fuzheng Quxie\ (Reinforcing Healthy qi and eliminating pathogenic factors, ), TCM approaches health and disease from a holistic and dialectical perspective, which differs fundamentally from conventional Western medicine. Its application reflects distinct ethnic medical characteristics rooted in Chinese philosophy and cosmology, and refined through long-term clinical observation. A growing body of evidence suggests that specific Chinese herbal medicines, traditional Chinese medicinal formulas and their active components exhibit various immunomodulatory properties. Nevertheless, a systematic analysis that considers these effects in the context of both traditional Chinese theory and modern immunology is still required. AIM OF THE REVIEW: This review aims to provide a comprehensive analysis of the immunomodulatory effects of specific Chinese herbal medicines, traditional Chinese medicinal formulas and their active components on infectious diseases. It seeks to bridge the underlying theory of these medicines with modern immunology and to evaluate their potential as therapeutic agents and vaccine adjuvants. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted in academic databases, including PubMed and CNKI, to identify relevant studies published in English and Chinese. Articles were selected based on their focus on TCM formulations or natural products used in infectious disease models, with an emphasis on immune-related outcomes. RESULTS: Preclinical and emerging clinical evidence suggests that many Chinese herbal medicines, traditional Chinese medicinal formulas and their active components exert multifaceted immunomodulatory effects by regulating key immune pathways and molecular targets, thereby maintaining the body's immune homeostasis and demonstrating promising, yet still largely exploratory, potential for clinical translation. In terms of innate immunity, some TCM formulas can inhibit signaling pathways such as NF-kappaB/MAPK, reducing the excessive release of inflammatory cytokines including IL-6 and TNF-alpha, thereby alleviating infection-induced cytokine storms. At the same time, some TCM and their active components can modulate the balance of macrophage M1/M2 polarization, synergistically promoting pathogen clearance and tissue repair. Furthermore, specific TCM helps restore the balance between Th1/Th2 and Th17/Treg, mitigating excessive inflammation or immune dysregulation during infection. In adaptive immunity, specific TCM formulas and active ingredients can upregulate the expression of MHC-II and co-stimulatory molecules such as CD80/86 on dendritic cells, enhancing antigen-presentation efficiency and thereby facilitating pathogen elimination. Some TCM formulas can also increase the CD4+/CD8+ T-cell ratio, promote the secretion of cytokines such as IL-2 and IFN-gamma, and improve T-cell function by modulating immune checkpoint pathways such as PD-1/PD-L1. Meanwhile, specific TCM formulas stimulate B-lymphocyte proliferation and antibody class switching, promoting the production of IgM, IgA, and IgG and thereby enhancing humoral immune responses. Notably, some TCM formulations appear to exhibit bidirectional immunomodulatory properties. These properties suppress excessive inflammatory responses during infection while preserving certain aspects of adaptive immune function. This mechanism may contribute to the therapeutic effects of TCM in combating infections. Some TCM formulas and active ingredients also contribute to post-infection immune reconstruction and can act as a vaccine adjuvant to enhance immunogenicity. Guided by the TCM theory of \Fuzheng Quxie\, the immunomodulatory role of TCM and its formulations in infection provide new perspectives and strategies for the clinical prevention and treatment of infectious diseases, holding important scientific exploration value and practical application prospects. CONCLUSIONS: The multidimensional immunomodulatory effects of TCM are one of the key mechanisms that make it effective against infections. This review helps clarify the multiple immunomodulatory mechanisms of some TCM formulas and their active components in the prevention and control of infectious diseases, and discusses its potential as a source of novel strategies for addressing major challenges such as antibiotic resistance and emerging infectious diseases.
41851274 | Renaissance of antiviral CD8+ T cell immunity in vaccination and disease. Over the past 20 years, the limited efficacy of CD8+ T cell-based vaccines against viruses in clinical trials has shifted attention away from such strategies. However, recent findings have brought renewed appreciation for the central importance of CD8+ T cells in controlling both acute and chronic viral infections and in preventing severe or progressive disease. This work highlights shared features, such as effector functions and stemness properties, of effective CD8+ T cell responses against diverse viruses such as SARS-CoV-2 and HIV. A deeper understanding and simpler interpretation of the functional workings of CD8+ T cell-mediated immunity, combined with advances in immunological and biotechnological tools, are opening new avenues for eliciting optimal T cell responses, both for prophylactic and for therapeutic applications. Collectively, these developments revive optimism that vaccines and immunotherapies designed to harness robust CD8+ T cell responses could have a major role in combating emerging viral threats and in achieving long-term suppression of persistent infections such as HIV-1 to undetectable levels.
22355347 | Redirecting T cells to Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors by a chimeric NKG2D receptor expressed by lentiviral transduction or mRNA transfection. We explored the possibility to target Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors (ESFT) by redirecting T cells. To this aim, we considered NKG2D-ligands (NKG2D-Ls) as possible target antigens. Detailed analysis of the expression of MICA, MICB, ULBP-1, -2, and -3 in fourteen ESFT cell lines revealed consistent expression of at least one NKG2D-L. Thus, for redirecting T cells, we fused a CD3zeta/CD28-derived signaling domain to the ectodomain of NKG2D, however, opposite transmembrane orientation of this signaling domain and NKG2D required inverse orientation fusion of either of them. We hypothesized that the particularly located C-terminus of the NKG2D ectodomain should allow reengineering of the membrane anchoring from a native N-terminal to an artificial C-terminal linkage. Indeed, the resulting chimeric NKG2D receptor (chNKG2D) was functional and efficiently mediated ESFT cell death triggered by activated T cells. Notably, ESFT cells with even low NKG2D-L expression were killed by CD8(pos) and also CD4(pos) cells. Both, mRNA transfection and lentiviral transduction resulted in high level surface expression of chNKG2D. However, upon target-cell recognition receptor surface levels were maintained by tranfected RNA only during the first couple of hours after transfection. Later, target-cell contact resulted in strong and irreversible receptor down-modulation, whereas lentivirally mediated expression of chNKG2D remained constant under these conditions. Together, our study defines NKG2D-Ls as targets for a CAR-mediated T cell based immunotherapy of ESFT. A comparison of two different methods of gene transfer reveals strong differences in the susceptibility to ligand-induced receptor down-modulation with possible implications for the applicability of RNA transfection.
42095629 | The Phase Ib IMPACT Trial of Intramuscular Personalized Neoantigen Synthetic Long Peptide Vaccines in Patients with Advanced Melanoma and Renal Cell Carcinoma. PURPOSE: To evaluate safety and immunogenicity of intramuscularly delivered personalized neoantigen synthetic long peptide (SLP) vaccines in patients with advanced solid tumors. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this Phase I trial, 12 patients with advanced melanoma (n=9) or renal cell carcinoma (n=3) who lacked access to further reimbursed standard therapies at enrollment received intramuscular neoantigen SLP vaccines with poly-ICLC. Each vaccine contained ~20 predicted neoantigen peptides. Adverse events were monitored throughout vaccination and follow-up. Immune profiling was performed at baseline and predefined post-vaccination time points. RESULTS: Intramuscular neoantigen vaccination was well tolerated, with only grade 1-2 local pain or fever and no immune-mediated toxicities. All participants developed de novo T-cell responses, which were detectable as early as one week post-vaccination in most patients. On average, 53% of peptides per patient were immunogenic, inducing both CD8+ and CD4+ neoantigen-specific responses. Patients previously treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) had higher baseline immunity but achieved comparable post-vaccination responses to ICI-naive patients. IFN-gamma-dominant CD8+ and TNF-alpha-dominant CD4+ responses were observed, along with increased effector memory differentiation. Two patients with higher CD8+ TEMRA proportions were the longest survivors. Tumor biopsies revealed enhanced CD8+ infiltration, and epitope spreading occurred in two evaluable cases. Analysis of 239 peptides showed greater immunogenicity for dual MHC I/II-binding, cysteine-containing, and in-frame indel- or low-VAF- derived mutations, while proline substitutions reduced responses. CONCLUSIONS: Intramuscular neoantigen SLP vaccination with poly-ICLC is safe and induces rapid, mutation-specific T-cell immunity with robust CD8+ effector responses. These findings support intramuscular administration as a promising strategy for peptide-based cancer vaccines.
29705741 | Imputation-based analysis of MICA alleles in the susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis.
40939143 | Heterogeneous Evolution Among SARS-CoV-2 Genes and Variants of Concern. Challenges persist regarding the influence of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) on public health, with growing interest in future viral molecular variants. In this context, accurate predictions demand a thorough understanding of the virus's molecular evolution, especially proteins targeted by therapies, where certain discrepancies among studies exist. We analyzed thousands of SARS-CoV-2 genomes to assess the rate of evolution and molecular adaptation in the various SARS-CoV-2 coding regions. We found an overall low genetic diversity along the genome, with fluctuations over time and among genomic regions, and a notable increase in the Omicron variant, especially in the S and ORF6 genes. We also estimated an overall rate of molecular evolution of approximately 10-3 substitutions per site per year, though it varied among genomic regions and over time. Actually, most genomic regions did not follow the strict molecular clock. Regarding selective pressures, the protein-coding regions of SARS-CoV-2 generally exhibited evidence of purifying selection, with local diversifying selection associated with virus transmission and replication. Overall, the molecular evolution of SARS-CoV-2 displays heterogeneity among genomic regions and over time. These findings suggest that forecasting SARS-CoV-2 molecular evolution is not straightforward and remark the importance of continuing to monitor SARS-CoV-2 evolution.
42002663 | Acute COVID-19 is associated with altered CD8 T-cells indicative of impaired ability to control Epstein-Barr virus reactivation.
39596210 | Gene Expression Profiling of the Peritumoral Immune Cell Infiltrate of Penile Squamous Cell Carcinomas. Penile carcinomas are rare tumors in Europe and need further investigations due to their inferior prognosis in late tumor stages. The presence of disparate immune cell infiltrates was observed in these tumors, which were subsequently demonstrated to give rise to divergent tumor prognoses. The objective was to further characterize this immune cell infiltrate with the use of immunohistochemistry and RNA expression. A total of twelve well-characterized cases of penile squamous cell carcinomas with known infection status by human papillomavirus (HPV) and p16 status were assessed. The cases were classified according to their morphological characteristics, including those exhibiting a pronounced peritumoral immune cell infiltrate and those with less peritumoral immune cell infiltration. The generation of RNA expression data was conducted using the nCounter  PanCancer Immune Profiling Panel. Computational models were employed to calculate the proportions of immune cells. To corroborate the findings, an immunohistochemical analysis was conducted using antibodies against CD20, CD3, CD4, CD8, MUM1, CD68, and CD117. Our cases were clustered according to the immune cell infiltrate detected via histology in a group with less immune cell infiltrate density and in a group with increased immune cell infiltrate density. Generally, all immune cells showed an increased amount in the group with pronounced immune cell infiltrate density. The clusters were found to relate to cell functions, the complement system, cytotoxicity, pathogen defense, regulation, and T-cell functions. In cases exhibiting a pronounced immune cell infiltrate, the top three genes that exhibited the greatest upregulation were GZMA, MICB, and GNLY. No relationship to HPV infection status was demonstrated. Immunohistochemistry validated the data gained via RNA expression and showed a correlation with EPIC and Cibersort. The clustering of cases based on immune cell infiltrate density revealed significant distinctions between groups with lower and higher immune cell infiltrate density. The group with increased immune cel infiltrate density showed a greater abundance of immune cells, aligning with key functions like cytotoxicity, pathogen defense, and T-cell regulation. Among these cases, the genes GZMA, MICB, and GNLY were significantly upregulated, suggesting their involvement in an increased immune response. The role of HPV infection status in our cases with regard to the peritumoral immune cell infiltrate remains inconclusive.
42088486 | The impact of beta-glucan yeast extract treatment on melanoma development, tumor-cell deposit infiltration, and immune response. Introduction: Melanoma is one of the most aggressive types of tumors, and strategies for modulating the immune response have been explored as adjuvant therapies. One notable candidate is beta-glucan, a polysaccharide derived from Saccharomyces cerevisiae (S. cerevisiae), known for its immunomodulatory properties. However, its effects on experimental melanoma have not yet been fully understood. Objective: This study aims to evaluate the treatment effects of beta-glucan contained in an extract from S. c. (beta-GESc) in the B16F10 melanoma model to assess its impact on tumor development. Methods: C57BL/6 mice were treated with beta-GESc, and evaluations were conducted at different time points during tumor progression (days post-inoculation, or d.p.i). Flow cytometry was used to characterize splenic cell populations and cytokines, and histopathological assessments were performed to evaluate spleen structure. Hematological analysis was performed to assess the peripheral blood. Results: beta-GESc-treatment increased spleen size and the absolute number of splenocytes, including macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs), NK cells, and NKT cells. Additionally, it enhanced MHC class II expression by DCs and promoted the formation of germinal centers, indicating immune activation in the spleen. The treatment also increased monocyte and lymphocyte counts, improved survival rates, and reduced tumor growth. Treated animals preserved the white pulp region of the spleen and showed an expansion of the T-cell zone (PALS) at 18 d.p.i., whereas untreated mice exhibited tumor cell infiltration in the spleen at 24 d.p.i. Furthermore, treated animals displayed higher absolute numbers of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells producing IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha, particularly after anti-CD3 stimulation. Conclusions: Treatment with beta-GESc demonstrates immunomodulatory potential by increasing both splenic and systemic cell frequencies, contributing to the control of experimental melanoma.
42125284 | From the NOD Mouse to Patients: Type 1 Conventional Dendritic Cells as a Therapeutic Target in Type 1 Diabetes. Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease characterized by CD8+ T cell mediated destruction of pancreatic beta cells, leading to insulin deficiency. The non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse is widely used as an experimental model for T1D because it closely mirrors the genetic and immune characteristics of the human disease. One key similarity between human T1D and the NOD mouse model is the associated HLA/MHC class II variant that alters the repertoire of CD4+ T cells potentially leading to the initiation of disease. In addition, type 1 conventional dendritic cells (cDC1s) play an essential role in disease development through cross-presentation of beta-cell antigens to CD8+ and CD4+ T cells. Notably, inhibiting this cross-presentation has been shown to prevent T1D in NOD mice. Therefore, as we strive to find strategies to inhibit T1D onset and progression, insights from NOD mice provide important guidance for understanding human T1D and for developing targeted immunotherapies.
41757964 | The ORF6 accessory protein contributes to SARS-CoV-2 virulence and pathogenicity in the naturally susceptible feline model of infection. In this study, the infection dynamics, replication, and pathogenicity of a recombinant virus containing a deletion of ORF6 (rWA1DeltaORF6) on the backbone of the highly virulent SARS-CoV-2 WA1 virus (rWA1) were investigated and compared to the parental rWA1 virus. While both rWA1 and rWA1DeltaORF6 viruses replicated efficiently in cultured cells, the rWA1DeltaORF6 virus produced smaller plaques, suggesting reduced cell-to-cell spread. Luciferase reporter assays revealed immune-suppressing effects of ORF6 on interferon (IFN) and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) signaling pathways. Pathogenesis assessment in cats revealed that animals inoculated with rWA1 were lethargic and presented with fever on days 2 and 4 post-infection (pi), whereas rWA1DeltaORF6-inoculated animals developed subclinical infection. Additionally, animals inoculated with rWA1DeltaORF6 presented reduced infectious virus shedding in nasal and oral secretions and broncho-alveolar lavage fluid when compared with the rWA1-inoculated cats. Similarly, the rWA1DeltaORF6-inoculated cats presented reduced virus replication in the respiratory tract as evidenced by lower viral loads and reduced lung inflammation on days 3 and 5 pi when compared to rWA1-inoculated animals. Host gene transcriptomic analysis revealed distinct differentially expressed gene (DEG) profiles in the nasal turbinate of animals infected with rWA1 when compared to rWA1DeltaORF6. Importantly, type I IFN signaling was significantly upregulated in rWA1DeltaORF6-infected cats when compared to rWA1-inoculated animals, which could potentially contribute to the reduced replication of rWA1DeltaORF6 in the upper and lower respiratory tracts of infected animals. Collectively, these results demonstrate that the SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 is an important virulence determinant of the virus, contributing to the modulation of host antiviral immune responses.IMPORTANCESARS-CoV-2 encodes several proteins that inhibit host IFN responses. The accessory protein ORF6 antagonizes IFN signaling by blocking the nucleocytoplasmic trafficking of key transcription factors. In this study, we showed that ORF6 plays an important role in SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis. While both rWA1 and rWA1DeltaORF6 viruses replicated efficiently in cell culture, the rWA1DeltaORF6 presented impaired cell-to-cell spread and reduced innate immune inhibition compared to the parental rWA1. A pathogenesis study in the feline model revealed an attenuated phenotype of the rWA1DeltaORF6, indicating that ORF6 is a major virulence determinant of SARS-CoV-2.
41821008 | A comprehensive analysis of the interaction network of immunomodulatory-related differentially expressed genes, aiming to identify biomarkers associated with Parkinson's disease.
39340152 | An integrative characterisation of proline cis and trans conformers in a disordered peptide. Intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) often contain proline residues, which undergo cis/trans isomerisation. While molecular dynamics (MD) simulations have the potential to fully characterise the proline cis and trans sub-ensembles, they are limited by the slow timescales of isomerisation and force field inaccuracies. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy can report on ensemble-averaged observables for both the cis-proline and trans-proline states, but a full atomistic characterisation of these conformers is challenging. Given the importance of proline cis/trans isomerisation for influencing the conformational sampling of disordered proteins, we employed a combination of all-atom MD simulations with enhanced sampling (metadynamics), NMR, and small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) to characterise the two sub-ensembles of the ORF6 C-terminal region (ORF6CTR) from SARS-CoV-2 corresponding to the proline-57 (P57) cis and trans states. We performed MD simulations in three distinct force fields: AMBER03ws, AMBER99SB-disp, and CHARMM36m, which are all optimised for disordered proteins. Each simulation was run for an accumulated time of 180-220 mus until convergence was reached, as assessed by blocking analysis. A good agreement between the cis-P57 populations predicted from metadynamic simulations in AMBER03ws was observed with populations obtained from experimental NMR data. Moreover, we observed good agreement between the radius of gyration predicted from the metadynamic simulations in AMBER03ws and that measured using SAXS. Our findings suggest that both the cis-P57 and trans-P57 conformations of ORF6CTR are extremely dynamic and that interdisciplinary approaches combining both multi-scale computations and experiments offer avenues to explore highly dynamic states that cannot be reliably characterised by either approach in isolation.
40972103 | The association of class II HLA alleles with tuberculosis-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome. Genetic associations within the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene complex and linked genes in TB-IRIS outcomes remains population specific and not well understood. Here, we conducted a study including well characterised HIV-TB coinfected patients with (n = 86) and without (n = 124) TB-IRIS from the randomized, double-blind, prophylactic prednisone trial (PredART study) with HLA, ERAP and KIR genotyping data. We confirmed the association of TB-IRIS with lower CD4 counts pre-ART initiation. We identified nine classical class I and II HLA alleles protective against TB-IRIS, while four alleles were linked to increased risk. Associations ranged from strongly protective (HLA-DQB1*05:01, OR: 0.07, 95%CI: 0.02-0.28, Pc < 0.001) to strongly risk associated (notably DRB1*01:02, OR: 5.92, 95%CI: 1.36-26.7, Pc = 0.028), with conflicting signals at the HLA-DRB1 locus. Conditional regression analysis revealed that residue E71 at the polymorphic position 71 within the HLA-DRB1 peptide-binding groove was critical, and grouping of HLA-DRB1 alleles by the residue at position 71 corresponded with differential TB-IRIS association. In conclusion, this study identifies population-specific genetic factors influencing TB-IRIS susceptibility and highlights a potential mechanistic role for specific HLA-DRB1 residues in modulating immune responses during ART.
42099591 | Clinical, immunological, treatment characteristics, and outcomes in 22 patients with major histocompatibility complex class II deficiency. Background: Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II deficiency is a rare, life-threatening primary immunodeficiency that presents in early infancy with a SCID phenotype. However, emerging data indicate substantial clinical and immunological heterogeneity, including atypical presentations and neurological involvement. Methods: We retrospectively evaluated the clinical, immunological, genetic, and treatment-related characteristics and outcomes of 22 patients from 19 unrelated families diagnosed with MHC class II deficiency at a single referral center (2000-2019). Ten patients underwent HSCT at our center; transplant-related outcomes were evaluated, and long-term follow-up data were available for the six surviving patients through 2025. Results: The median age at symptom onset and diagnosis was 9 and 12 months, respectively. Pneumonia, chronic diarrhea, and failure to thrive were the most common presenting features; neurological manifestations and developmental delay were observed in a subset of patients. Two patients showed residual HLA-DR expression and survived with a milder clinical course. CD4+ T cell lymphopenia and humoral dysfunction were consistent, while total lymphocyte counts were variable. RTE levels were mildly to moderately reduced in all tested patients, suggesting impaired thymic output. Severe viral infections were frequent and could be rapidly fatal. Fourteen patients required PICU admission, associated with high mortality. Genetic analysis (n:15) identified homozygous pathogenic variants in RFXANK (n=5), RFXAP (n=4), RFX5 (n=3), and CIITA (n=3). Ten patients underwent HSCT, with superior survival compared to non-transplanted patients (60% vs. 18%). Among transplanted patients, survival appeared higher following RTC than MAC (75% vs. 50%). Post-transplant mortality was observed in association with severe pre-transplant disease, delayed diagnosis, graft failure, and infectious complications. At >=10 years post-HSCT, all survivors were IVIG-independent; CD4+ T cell recovery was higher after MAC than RTC, while T-cell chimerism remained mixed in both groups. Conclusion: MHC class II deficiency is a SCID-like pediatric immunological emergency that is fatal without HSCT in most patients. Early diagnosis is critical, as initial infections may be rapidly progressive. HSCT provides durable engraftment and sustained clinical stability in long-term survivors. Incorporating HLA-DR expression analysis into first-line immunological screening, even in the absence of profound lymphopenia, may facilitate earlier diagnosis, prompt HSCT referral, and improve survival.
41930101 | ALDH5A1 as a key in osteonecrosis of the femoral head: Insights from bioinformatics and experimental validation. The present study aims to identify key genes and elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH), with the goal of discovering effective diagnostic and therapeutic targets. Microarray data were sourced from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the Limma method. Feature genes were selected through Support Vector Machine, Random Forest and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator algorithms. Diagnostic performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Functional enrichment and immune infiltration analyses were performed. Experimental validation included RT-qPCR, western blotting and immunofluorescence in ONFH bone tissue. Additionally, a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network was constructed using Cytoscape (v3.10.1). A total of 51 DEGs were identified, comprising 33 downregulated and 18 upregulated genes. Aldehyde dehydrogenase 5 family member A1 (ALDH5A1) consistently emerged as a key gene across all machine learning models, demonstrating high diagnostic value according to ROC analysis. Enrichment analysis indicated that ALDH5A1-related DEGs were predominantly involved in 'Toll-like receptor signaling', 'RIG-like receptor signaling', 'Leishmania infection' and 'Cytosolic DNA sensing'. Immune analysis revealed associations between ONFH and HLA/MHC-I molecules, neutrophils and regulatory T cells, with ALDH5A1 showing a negative correlation with activated CD4+ memory T cells. Experimental validation confirmed significant downregulation of ALDH5A1 in ONFH samples. Overall, ALDH5A1 represents a promising prognostic biomarker and potential therapeutic target for ONFH. The interaction between immune cells and the ceRNA network may play a critical role in the pathogenesis of ONFH, providing valuable insights for molecular mechanisms and clinical intervention strategies.
9643569 | Minimal residual disease in acute myelogenous leukemia with PML/RAR alpha or AML1/ETO mRNA and phenotypic analysis of possible T and natural killer cells in bone marrow. Here we studied minimal residual disease (MRD) of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who have PML/RAR alpha or AML1/ETO as well as the phenotypic analysis of lymphocyte subsets involved in antitumor immunity. Eight patients in long-term (LT; 3 to 15 years) and 15 patients in short-term (ST; up to 3 years) remission were studied. Using the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT) assay, the limit of detection was 10(-5) to 10(-6) for PML/RAR alpha transcript and 10(-4) to 10(-5) for the AML1/ETO transcript. Simultaneously, T lymphocyte subsets and NK cells from the peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow (BM) were investigated by flow cytometric analysis. Four of the eight patients in LT and 7 of the 15 patients in ST remission were MRD-positive. Although all MRD-positive patients in LT remission are still until now event-free, 3 of the 7 MRD-positive (MRD+) patients in ST remission soon relapsed. The total populations of CD4+, CD8+ and CD56+ [possible T-cell and natural killer (T/NK) populations] in the BM of ST patients and MRD+/LT patients were significantly (p < .01) low. The CD8+ CD28+ population showed the same tendency (p < .01-.02). The T/NK subsets in the BM of MRD-negative (MRD-) LT (MRD-/LT) patients showed similar numbers of cells as normal volunteers. Basically, the total percentage of the CD4+, CD8+ and CD56+ cell populations in the BM was increased and in the following order: MRD-/LT patients, normal volunteers, MRD+/LT patients and MRD+ or -/ST patients. The percentages of the T/NK-cell subsets in the PB were not significantly different among these groups. Thus, the difference of the possible T/NK-cell phenotype in the BM may strongly influence clinical and molecular remission. These results still remain to be confirmed by further studies of the functional anti-tumor immunity of T/NK cells of AML in remission.
30659049 | Imputation-based analysis of MICA alleles in the susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis.
31350414 | MICA*049, not MICA*009, is associated with Behcet's disease in a Chinese population. Behcet's disease (BD) is a multi-systemic inflammatory disease. Previous reports indicated that MICA*009 confers susceptibility to BD. MICA*049 differs from MICA*009:01, a major MICA*009 subtype, only at codon 335 in exon 6. However, the potential association of MICA*049 with BD  has not been addressed. In this study, we differentiated association among MICA*049, MICA*009 and HLA-B*51 with BD. A Han Chinese cohort consisting of 41 BD patients and 197 ethnically matched controls were examined with sequencing and T-ARMS-PCR for genotyping of MICA, and ARMS-PCR for HLA-B*51. The phenotype frequency of MICA*049 (41.5% versus 8.1%, OR = 8.01, P = 1.91 x 10-8) and HLA-B*51 (46.3% versus 15.7%, OR = 4.62, P = 1.21 x 10-5) were significantly higher in BD patients than those in controls, whereas MICA*009 showed no significant difference between the two groups (17.1% versus 13.2%, OR = 1.35, P = 0.51). After stratification for the effect of HLA-B*51, MICA*049 was still associated with BD in HLA-B*51 negative patients (OR = 40.61, P = 0.02). Our results indicate that MICA*049, not MICA*009, is a risk factor to BD, and that is independent from HLA-B*51 in the Han Chinese cohort.
16568261 | Immunostimulation by induced expression of NKG2D and its MIC ligands in HTLV-1-associated neurologic disease. The NKG2D receptor costimulates effector/memory CD8 T cells and is normally absent on CD4 T cells but can be induced by T cell antigen receptor complex stimulation and interleukin-15 (IL-15). Among its ligands are the human major histocompatibility complex class I-related MICA and MICB, which have a restricted tissue distribution but are frequently associated with malignancies and some microbial infections. Moreover, aberrant expression of MIC may promote autoimmune disease progression. Human T cell lymphotropic virus type I (HTLV-1)-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system that resembles multiple sclerosis. Disease progression involves production of IL-15 and its receptor through transactivation by the viral Tax regulator protein, an activated immune response state, and local cytokine production and T cell fratricide by Tax-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL). This study shows that as with CD8 T cells, substantial proportions of HAM/TSP patient CD4 T cells are positive for NKG2D and that large numbers of T cells from both subsets express MIC, which can be transactivated by Tax independent of nuclear factor kappaB. Engagement of MIC by NKG2D promotes spontaneous HAM/TSP T cell proliferation and, apparently, CTL activities against HTLV-1-infected T cells. These results reveal a viral strategy that may exploit immune stimulatory mechanisms to negotiate a balance between promotion and limitation of infected host T cell expansions.
39178263 | CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are required to prevent SARS-CoV-2 persistence in the nasal compartment. SARS-CoV-2 infection induces the generation of virus-specific CD4+ and CD8+ effector and memory T cells. However, the contribution of T cells in controlling SARS-CoV-2 during infection is not well understood. Following infection of C57BL/6 mice, SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are recruited to the respiratory tract, and a vast proportion secrete the cytotoxic molecule granzyme B. Using depleting antibodies, we found that T cells within the lungs play a minimal role in viral control, and viral clearance occurs in the absence of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells through 28 days postinfection. In the nasal compartment, depletion of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, but not individually, results in persistent, culturable virus replicating in the nasal epithelial layer through 28 days postinfection. Viral sequencing analysis revealed adapted mutations across the SARS-CoV-2 genome, including a large deletion in ORF6. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of T cells in controlling virus replication within the respiratory tract during SARS-CoV-2 infection.
29311362 | - No Title -
40285011 | Impact of SARS-CoV-2 Wuhan and Omicron Variant Proteins on Type I Interferon Response. SARS-CoV-2 has demonstrated a remarkable capacity for immune evasion. While initial studies focused on the Wuhan variant and adaptive immunity, later emerging strains such as Omicron exhibit mutations that may alter their immune-modulatory properties. We performed a comprehensive review of immune evasion mechanisms associated with SARS-CoV-2 viral proteins to focus on the evolutionary dynamics of immune modulation. We systematically analyzed and compared the impact of all currently known Wuhan and Omicron SARS-CoV-2 proteins on type I interferon (IFN) responses using a dual-luciferase reporter assay carrying an interferon-inducible promoter. Results revealed that Nsp1, Nsp5, Nsp14, and ORF6 are potent type I IFN inhibitors conserved across Wuhan and Omicron strains. Notably, we identified strain-specific differences, with Nsp6 and Spike proteins exhibiting enhanced IFN suppression in Omicron, whereas the Envelope protein largely retained this function. To extend these findings, we investigated selected proteins in primary human endothelial cells and also observed strain-specific differences in immune response with higher type I IFN response in cells expressing the Wuhan strain variant, suggesting that Omicron's adaptational mutations may contribute to a damped type I IFN response in the course of the pandemic's trajectory.
37030592 | Development of mouse models with restricted HLA-B*57:01 presentation for the study of flucloxacillin-driven T-cell activation and tolerance in liver injury. BACKGROUND: Flucloxacillin (FLX)-induced liver injury is immune-mediated and highly associated to HLA-B*57:01 expression. Host factors leading to drug-induced liver injury (DILI) are not yet well understood. OBJECTIVE: Characterize in vivo immune mechanisms determining the development of CD8+ T-cells reactive to FLX in animals expressing the risk HLA allotype. METHODS: HLA-B*57:01 transgenic mice (Tg) or Tg strains with H2-KbDb knockout (Tg/KO) or H2-KbDb/PD-1 double-knockout (Tg/DKO) were treated with drug and/or anti-CD4 antibody (aCD4 Ab). DILI was evaluated based on liver enzyme and histological changes at day 10 of treatment. FLX-reactive CD8+ T-cells were characterized in vitro by release of effector molecules upon drug re-stimulation, gene expression and flow cytometry analysis, and functionality tested for hepatic cytotoxicity. RESULTS: CD8+ T-cell responses to FLX in Tg were dependent on both HLA and mouse MHC-I presentation and in vivo priming. Eliminating H2-KbDb in Tg/KO to allow exclusive presentation of FLX by HLA resulted in a less robust drug-specific CD8+ T-cell response unless CD4+ cells, including regulatory T-cells (Treg), were depleted. Treatment of Tg/KO with aCD4 Ab and FLX led to subclinical liver inflammation associated with an increase in PD1+CD8+ T-cells in the lymphoid organs and liver. Impaired PD-1 expression in Tg/DKO led to liver histopathological and transcriptional alterations but without hepatic enzyme elevations. Moreover, effector lymphocytes accumulated in the liver and showed FLX-dependent hepatic cytotoxicity in vitro when tolerogenic liver cells were depleted. CONCLUSIONS: In our in vivo models, FLX primes CD8+ T-cells to recognize drug presented by HLA-B*57:01 and murine MHC-I. HLA-B*57:01-dependent CD8+ T-cell reaction to FLX is limited by the presence of CD4+ cells, presumably Treg, and PD-1 expression. Tolerogenic hepatic cells limit clinical disease through PD-L1 or additional unexplored mechanisms.
38997518 | A safe, effective and adaptable live-attenuated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine to reduce disease and transmission using one-to-stop genome modifications. Approved vaccines are effective against severe COVID-19, but broader immunity is needed against new variants and transmission. Therefore, we developed genome-modified live-attenuated vaccines (LAV) by recoding the SARS-CoV-2 genome, including 'one-to-stop' (OTS) codons, disabling Nsp1 translational repression and removing ORF6, 7ab and 8 to boost host immune responses, as well as the spike polybasic cleavage site to optimize the safety profile. The resulting OTS-modified SARS-CoV-2 LAVs, designated as OTS-206 and OTS-228, are genetically stable and can be intranasally administered, while being adjustable and sustainable regarding the level of attenuation. OTS-228 exhibits an optimal safety profile in preclinical animal models, with no side effects or detectable transmission. A single-dose vaccination induces a sterilizing immunity in vivo against homologous WT SARS-CoV-2 challenge infection and a broad protection against Omicron BA.2, BA.5 and XBB.1.5, with reduced transmission. Finally, this promising LAV approach could be applicable to other emerging viruses.
30659051 | Response to: Imputation-based analysis of MICA alleles in the susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis by Zhou et al.
39306854 | IL23R mutations associated with decreased risk of psoriasis lead to the differential expression of genes implicated in the disease. Psoriasis is an incurable immune-mediated skin disease, affecting around 1%-3% of the population. Various lines of evidence implicate IL23 as being pivotal in disease. Genetic variants within the IL23 receptor (IL23R) increase the risk of developing psoriasis, and biologic therapies specifically targeting IL23 demonstrated high efficacy in treating disease. IL23 acts via the IL23R, signalling through the STAT3 pathway, mediating the cascade of events that ultimately results in the clinical presentation of psoriasis. Given the essential role of IL23R in disease, it is important to understand the impact of genetic variants on receptor function with respect to downstream gene regulation. Here we developed model systems in CD4+ (Jurkat) and CD8+ (MyLa) T cells to express either the wild type risk or mutant (R381Q) protective form of IL23R. After confirmation that the model system expressed the genes/proteins and had a differential effect on the phosphorylation of STAT3, we used RNAseq to explore differential gene regulation, in particular for genes implicated with risk to psoriasis, at a single time point for both cell types, and in a time course experiment for Jurkat CD4+ T cells. These experiments discovered differentially regulated genes in the cells expressing wild type and mutant IL23R, including HLA-B, SOCS1, RUNX3, CCR5, CXCR3, CCR9, KLF3, CD28, IRF, SOCS6, TNFAIP and ICAM5, that have been implicated in both the IL23 pathway and psoriasis. These genes have the potential to define a IL23/psoriasis pathway in disease, advancing our understanding of the biology behind the disease.
41949052 | Manganese-activatable nano-hydroxyapatite nanoparticles as self-adjuvanting STING activators for synergistic melanoma therapy. The immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment in malignant melanoma presents a major therapeutic challenge, often leading to treatment failure of conventional monotherapies. This critical limitation underscores the urgent need for innovative biocompatible and robust adjuvants capable of locally reactivating anti-tumor immunity while overcoming tumor heterogeneity and minimizing systemic toxicity. Here we develop a manganese-activatable nano-hydroxyapatite platform (nHA-Mn) that functions as a self-adjuvanting STING activator for synergistic melanoma therapy. By employing a surface complexation strategy that preserves nHA's inherent crystalline structure and biocompatibility, we successfully constructed a nanoplatform with pH-responsive ion-release characteristics, enabling targeted delivery of both Ca2+ and Mn2+ specifically within acidic tumor microenvironments. This sophisticated design enables Mn2+ to synergistically enhance the induction of mitochondrial dysfunction-mediated apoptosis through nHA and the potentiation of robust anti-tumor immunity via an ICD response. Furthermore, nHA-Mn can enhance anti-tumor immunity through activation of the STING pathway. The coordinated immunomodulatory response significantly enhances tumor immunogenicity through MHC molecule upregulation, promotes dendritic cell maturation, and facilitates substantial infiltration of CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells accompanied by elevated IFN-gamma production. Importantly, nHA-Mn demonstrates potent tumor growth suppression and induces immune memory T cell formation while maintaining excellent biosafety profiles in vivo. Hence, this study establishes a broadly applicable therapeutic platform that uniquely integrates direct tumor cytotoxicity with self-adjuvanting immune activation, highlighting the promising potential of rational metal ion engineering in advancing next-generation cancer immunotherapy.
42105078 | Molecular characteristics, clonal relatedness and surgical outcomes of pulmonary mixed invasive mucinous and non-mucinous adenocarcinoma: a retrospective cohort study. Mixed invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma and non-mucinous adenocarcinoma (mixed IMA/NMA) is a rare subtype of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) with limited available data. This study aimed to comprehensively analyze the characteristics of this rare entity. A total of 738 surgical cases were enrolled, including 349 pure invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma (IMA), 61 mixed IMA/NMA and 328 pure non-mucinous adenocarcinoma (NMA) cases. Using amplification refractory mutation system, immunohistochemistry, and DNA-/RNA-based next-generation sequencing (DNA and RNA NGS), distinct molecular features were identified in mixed IMA/NMA cases compared with IMA and NMA cases, particularly in EGFR, KRAS, and ALK alterations and PD-L1 expression status. Paired analysis of the IMA and NMA components within mixed IMA/NMA cases using DNA and RNA NGS revealed one to three shared genomic alterations between the two components in the same tumor. However, significant differences were observed in the levels of cancer-associated fibroblasts, protumor cytokines, MHC-II, coactivation molecules, T cells, and effector cells between the components. Similarly, multiplex immunofluorescence assay demonstrated that immune cell infiltration, including CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, was significantly higher in the NMA components compared to the IMA components. Postoperative follow-up revealed no significant difference in disease-free survival (DFS) or overall survival (OS) between NMA and mixed IMA/NMA cases; however, both groups showed significantly shorter DFS (P = 0.011) and OS (P = 0.027) compared to IMA cases. Together, this study provides a comprehensive characterization of the molecular profiles, clonal relatedness, tumor heterogeneity, and surgical outcomes of mixed IMA/NMA, which may inform diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for this rare LUAD subtype.
42102812 | Dendritic cell redundancy enables priming of anti-tumor CD4+ T cells in pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is resistant to current immunotherapies and lacks effective anti-tumor CD8+ T cells, which is potentially due to insufficient cross-presentation by cDC1s. Here, we combine a STING agonist with anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1 to achieve durable remissions and immunologic memory in multiple mouse models of poorly immunogenic PDAC. We find that tumor control does not depend on CD8+ T cells or tumor cell MHC expression but instead requires IFNgamma-producing CD4+ T cells (Th1s) that are primed by dendritic cells in lymph nodes. The triple combination immunotherapy induces an accumulation of activated cDC2s carrying tumor antigen into tumor-draining lymph nodes; cDC2s are required for orthotopic tumor clearance. Intratumoral CD4+ T cells and cDC2s remain present in treatment-naive and chemotherapy-exposed human PDAC. In chemotherapy-exposed patients' blood, cDC2s outnumber cDC1s by 10-fold. Therefore, therapeutic targeting of the cDC2-CD4+ T cell-IFNgamma axis could be efficacious in PDAC.
41368623 | The genetic architecture of HIV-1 virulence. The virulence of Human Immunodeficiency Virus-1 (HIV-1) is partly determined by viral genetic variation. Finding individual genetic variants affecting virulence is important for our understanding of HIV pathogenesis and evolution of virulence; however, very few have been identified. To this end, within the \Bridging the Evolution and Epidemiology of HIV in Europe\ (BEEHIVE) collaboration, we produced whole-genome HIV sequence data for 2294 seroconverters from European countries for a genome-wide association study (GWAS). We considered two phenotypes: (i) set-point viral load (SPVL), the approximately stable viral load from 6 to 24 months after infection, and (ii) the rate of CD4 cell count decline. We developed a GWAS method that corrects for population structure with random effects, accounts for two or more alleles at each locus, and tests for the effect of multiple genetic variants including single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), k-mers, insertions and deletions, within-host variant frequency, the number of rare point mutations, and drug resistance. We confirmed with this new approach that viral genomes explained 26% [95% CI 17%-35%] of the variance in SPVL, while they explained only 0.9% [0.0%-2.1%] of the variance in the rate of CD4 cell count decline. After correction for multiple testing, among all tested variants, only two significantly explained SPVL: an epitope mutation allowing escape from the host HLA-B*57 allele and lowering SPVL by -0.26 [Formula: see text] copies/ml and an epitope mutation allowing escape from the host HLA-B*35 allele and increasing SPVL by +0.22 [Formula: see text] copies/ml. We attempted to replicate these two large effects in two additional independent datasets together encompassing 2445 seroconverters, with mixed results. Overall, the inferred effects of all SNPs and amino-acid variants weakly correlated (R 2 ranging from 0.08 to 0.87%, P-values from 0.001 to 0.32) between our main dataset and these two additional datasets. Lastly, a lasso regression of phenotypes on genetic variants confirmed the heritability of SPVL and explained up to 6% of variance in SPVL in cross-validation datasets. These findings suggest that HIV SPVL is determined by viral genomes through HLA escape variants with potentially large, host-dependent effects that may not always be detected at the population level and many other variants with effects too weak to reach genome-wide significance in our GWAS.
42062456 | Tick saliva reprograms macrophages into immunosuppressive hubs that regulate T-cell immunity in Rhipicephalus microplus infestation. Ticks transmit diverse pathogens and secrete saliva with immunomodulatory properties that facilitates blood feeding. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying saliva-mediated immune suppression remain poorly defined. Here, we identify macrophages as the central hub through which saliva from the cattle tick Rhipicephalus microplus suppresses T-cell mediated immunity. Tick saliva inhibited IFN-gamma and TNF production by CD4+ and CD8+ T cells while enhancing IL-10 and TGF-beta expression, particularly in regulatory T cells. These effects were lost upon removal of CD14+ cells, underscoring the importance of macrophage-lineage cells in saliva-induced immunosuppression. Transcriptomic and functional analyses showed that tick saliva reprograms macrophages into an immunosuppressive state with reduced MHC class II, attenuated proinflammatory signaling, and suppressed chemokine production. Consistent with these findings, immunofluorescence analysis of tick-feeding sites showed an increased presence of IL-10-expressing macrophages and T cells. Our findings highlight a strategy by which arthropod saliva suppresses host immunity to facilitate pathogen transmission.
42038771 | Systems Vaccinology-Integrated Proteomics to Develop a Novel Prophylactic and Therapeutic Vaccine Against Human Papillomavirus 16. Cervical cancer remains a major global health burden, with high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV), particularly HPV-16, responsible for most cases. While licensed prophylactic HPV vaccines are effective, their type-restricted coverage and lack of therapeutic activity highlight the need for next-generation vaccine strategies. In this study, a systems vaccinology-based approach was used to design a multi-epitope vaccine with both prophylactic and therapeutic potential against HPV-16. Immunodominant epitopes eliciting immune responses from HPV-16 E5, E6, E7, and L2 proteins were identified using immunoinformatics methods. Transcriptomic and pathway enrichment analysis of cervical cancer data sets identified interleukin-17A (IL-17A) signaling as a favorable immune axis, supporting its inclusion as a cytokine adjuvant. Population coverage evaluation demonstrated broad global applicability, with a predicted coverage of 99.98% across MHC class I and II alleles. Among 7 designed constructs, 1 candidate (model D) exhibited favorable physicochemical and structural properties, including high predicted solubility (73%), strong model quality, and antigenic potential. Docking analyses indicated strong correlations between native complexes and the corresponding vaccine-IL-17 receptor A and C complexes (Pearson r = .98 and .88, respectively). Molecular dynamics simulations over 500 ns confirmed structural stability, with favorable MM/PBSA binding free energies (DeltaG_total   -31 kJ/mol). Immune response simulations demonstrated activation of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells, memory B-cell formation, and a predominantly IFN-gamma immune response. These findings demonstrate that the proposed construct is a promising HPV-16 vaccine candidate; nevertheless, targeted in vitro and in vivo studies are essential to confirm its immunogenicity, efficacy, and safety prior to further clinical developments.
42004970 | Neoantigen-based cancer vaccines: a mechanistic and clinical review of personalised melanoma immunotherapy. Melanoma, owing to its high tumour mutational burden (TMB) and inherent immunogenicity, has emerged as a prime target for neoantigen-based customised cancer vaccines. Such vaccines may synergise with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) by harnessing patient-specific mutations to trigger targeted T-cell responses. This review systematically summarises and evaluates the clinical evidence and molecular mechanisms underlying customised neoantigen vaccines in melanoma, based on key clinical trial data. A central finding is that vaccine platform choice strongly influences, rather than rigidly determines, the dominant immunological pathway. Messenger RNA (mRNA) platforms generally favour endogenous antigen expression and MHC class I presentation, often eliciting robust CD8+ cytotoxic T-cell responses. By contrast, synthetic long peptide (SLP) platforms are typically processed as exogenous antigens and frequently engage MHC class II presentation, thereby promoting substantial CD4+ T-helper responses. However, this distinction is not absolute, because exogenous peptides can also be cross-presented on MHC class I by professional antigen-presenting cells, enabling CD8+ T-cell priming under appropriate conditions. Clinical data reflects this, with the mRNA vaccine mRNA-4157 (KEYNOTE-942) demonstrating a significant recurrence-free survival (RFS) benefit in the adjuvant setting. This efficacy, however, is contingent on the \hot\ tumour microenvironment (TME) of melanoma; \cold\ tumours like glioblastoma (GBM) and ovarian cancer (OvCa) present TME-specific barriers (e.g., the Blood-Brain Barrier, immune exclusion) that demand distinct, combination-based vaccine strategies. This review deconstructs this heterogeneity and defines the primary bottlenecks to broad clinical adoption: (1) the need to bridge the \validation gap\ by correlating AI prediction accuracy with clinical outcomes; (2) the formidable economic and logistical barriers, including a clinically vulnerable 8-16 week manufacturing wait that poses psychological and clinical risks to patients; and (3) navigating adaptive regulatory pathways for \n-of-1\ therapeutics. The field awaits the pivotal Phase III clinical trial of V940-001 (NCT05933577), whose timeline has been extended to 2029. This reflects the logistical and biological complexities inherent in developing personalised vaccines, highlighting challenges in both manufacturing and subject recruitment. These remain key obstacles impeding the widespread clinical application of such vaccines.
38911767 | SARS-CoV-2 Protein Nsp9 Is Involved in Viral Evasion through Interactions with Innate Immune Pathways. The suppression of the host's innate antiviral immune response by SARS-CoV-2, a contributing factor to the severity of disease, has been considerably studied in recent years. Many of these studies have focused on the actions of the structural proteins of the virus because of their accessibility to host immunological components. However, less is known about SARS-CoV-2 nonstructural and accessory proteins in relation to viral evasion. Herein, we study SARS-CoV-2 nonstructural proteins Orf3a, Orf6, and Nsp9 in a mimicked virus-infected state using poly(I:C), a synthetic analog of viral dsRNA, that elicits the antiviral immune response. Through genome-wide expression profiling, we determined that Orf3a, Orf6, and Nsp9 all modulate the host antiviral signaling transcriptome to varying extents, uniquely suppressing aspects of innate immune signaling. Our data suggest that SARS-CoV-2 Nsp9 hinders viral detection through suppression of RIG-I expression and antagonizes the interferon antiviral cascade by downregulating NF-kB and TBK1. Our data point to unique molecular mechanisms through which the different SARS-CoV-2 proteins suppress immune signaling and promote viral evasion. Nsp9 in particular acts on major elements of the host antiviral pathways to impair the antiviral immune response.
12884870 | NKG2D engagement of colorectal cancer-specific T cells strengthens TCR-mediated antigen stimulation and elicits TCR independent anti-tumor activity. The NKG2D receptor is expressed by human NK, gammadelta T and alpha/beta T lymphocytes and its engagement results in the stimulation of effector cells. We evaluated the role of NKG2D receptor in anti-colorectal cancer (CRC) immune response. The cell surface expression of stress-inducible NKG2D ligands MICA/B (MHC class I-related chain molecules A/B) and ULBP (UL16 binding protein) by a panel of CRC lines was evaluated by flow cytometry. MICA and ULBP2/3 were widely expressed by the analyzed lines, with a minority of them being also ULBP-1+, whereas MICB was undetectable. CD8+ and CD4+ HLA-restricted anti-tumor T cell clones of a CRC patient were used to evaluate whether NKG2D engagement could mediate tumor recognition. Three out of four CD8+ T cell clones recognized the autologous tumor with a marginal NKG2D engagement, a finding that was correlated with the weak expression of NKG2D ligands by the autologous tumor. On the contrary, NKG2D triggering of these CD8+ T cell clones induced recognition of allogeneic CRC lines showing high expression of MICA and ULBP. A costimulatory role of NKG2D was observed with one CD4+/NKG2D+ T cell clone when stimulated by tumors sharing the HLA class II alleles and expressing NKG2D ligands. Taken together these data indicate that the engagement of NKG2D, depending on the expression of its ligands by target cells, can influence the pattern of anti-tumor reactivity by T lymphocytes.
38653235 | Evasion of NKG2D-mediated cytotoxic immunity by sarbecoviruses. SARS-CoV-2 and other sarbecoviruses continue to threaten humanity, highlighting the need to characterize common mechanisms of viral immune evasion for pandemic preparedness. Cytotoxic lymphocytes are vital for antiviral immunity and express NKG2D, an activating receptor conserved among mammals that recognizes infection-induced stress ligands (e.g., MIC-A/B). We found that SARS-CoV-2 evades NKG2D recognition by surface downregulation of MIC-A/B via shedding, observed in human lung tissue and COVID-19 patient serum. Systematic testing of SARS-CoV-2 proteins revealed that ORF6, an accessory protein uniquely conserved among sarbecoviruses, was responsible for MIC-A/B downregulation via shedding. Further investigation demonstrated that natural killer (NK) cells efficiently killed SARS-CoV-2-infected cells and limited viral spread. However, inhibition of MIC-A/B shedding with a monoclonal antibody, 7C6, further enhanced NK-cell activity toward SARS-CoV-2-infected cells. Our findings unveil a strategy employed by SARS-CoV-2 to evade cytotoxic immunity, identify the culprit immunevasin shared among sarbecoviruses, and suggest a potential novel antiviral immunotherapy.
41468644 | Leveraging genomic conservation in emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants for precision diagnostics, vaccines, and RNAi therapeutics. BACKGROUND: The ongoing evolution of SARS-CoV-2 has led to the emergence of numerous variants, challenging the efficacy of existing diagnostics, vaccines, and therapeutics. Despite this genomic variability, several regions of the viral genome remain highly conserved, offering stable targets for pan-variant intervention strategies. METHODS: This study employed a multi-pronged approach integrating immunoinformatics, RNA interference (RNAi), and molecular diagnostics to design mutation-resilient tools against SARS-CoV-2. Conserved genomic regions-including NSP7-NSP16 (except NSP15), ORF6, E, M, N, untranslated regions (UTRs), and the S2 subunit of the spike protein-were identified through comparative genomic analysis of over 10 million sequences. Epitope prediction was performed using IEDB and NetMHCpan to identify B-cell and T-cell epitopes with strong HLA binding and broad immunogenicity. siRNA sequences were designed using the Ui-Tei rule and siDirect 2.0, targeting conserved viral elements with minimized off-target effects. RT-qPCR primers were developed via Primer-BLAST, anchored to conserved loci to enhance diagnostic robustness. RESULTS: Selected epitopes demonstrated >99 % conservation and high immunogenicity, supporting their inclusion in a multi-epitope vaccine construct. Designed siRNAs exhibited strong theoretical binding affinity and low thermal stability, ensuring specificity and adaptability to emerging variants. Primers targeting conserved regions showed optimal RT-qPCR parameters and broad variant coverage, reducing the risk of false negatives. CONCLUSION: This integrative framework highlights the strategic value of conserved genomic regions for developing resilient diagnostics, vaccines, and RNAi-based therapeutics. The proposed tools offer broad-spectrum applicability across SARS-CoV-2 variants and lay the foundation for precision medicine approaches in pandemic response.
42014349 | Restorative effect of Rehmanniae radix praeparata on T-cell and NK-cell-mediated immune reconstitution in mice following radiation-induced injury. Functional impairment of T and NK cells following irradiation (IR) undermine anti-tumor immune responses. This study aimed to investigate the characteristics of T-cell and NK-cell reconstitution in mice following low-dose radiation-induced injury and the restorative effects of Rehmanniae Radix Praeparata (RRP). At various time points post-IR, splenic/thymic indices, complete blood count and CD3+ T, CD4+ T, CD8+ T and NK cells, as well as CD80, CD86, MHC-I and MHC-II were assessed. Type 1 T helper (Th1), Type 1 cytotoxic (Tc1), Type 1 NK (NK1), regulatory T (Treg) and Th17 cells along with IL-12, IL-15, T-bet and foxP3 were also evaluated with or without RRP treatment. Additionally, a B16 melanoma lung metastasis model in irradiated mice was used to confirm the restorative effects of RRP. CD3+, CD4+, CD8+ T and NK cells decreased significantly on Days 4 to 6 and largely recovered by Days 9 to 11 post-IR. The expression of CD80, CD86 and MHC-II reduced on Day 6 and recovered by Day 11. However, interferon (IFN)-gamma production by Th1, Tc1 and NK1 cells remained lower, whereas Tregs were elevated. RRP effectively enhanced IFN-gamma production from Th1, Tc1 and NK1 cells and suppressed Tregs by increasing T-bet and decreasing foxP3 expression, thereby significantly reduced the tumor burden. These findings suggest that T-Cell and NK-Cell-mediated inefficient reconstitution following IR was characterized by an decrease of Th1, Tc1 and NK1 cells and an increase of Tregs, RRP effectively promoted the functional reconstitution of T-cell and NK-cell subsets, thereby enhancing anti-tumor immunity after IR.
41596537 | Molecular Aspects of Viral Pathogenesis in Emerging SARS-CoV-2 Variants: Evolving Mechanisms of Infection and Host Response. Although the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic no longer poses a global emergency, the virus continues to diversify and acquire immunoevasive properties. Understanding the molecular pathways that shape SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis has become essential. In this paper, we summarize the most recent current evidence on how the spike protein structurally evolves, on changes in key non-structural proteins, such as nsp14, and on host factors, such as TMPRSS2 and neuropilin-1. These changes, together, shape viral entry, replication fidelity and interferon antagonism. Given the emerging Omicron variants of SARS-CoV-2, recent articles in the literature, cryo-EM analyses, and artificial intelligence-assisted mutational modeling were analyzed to infer and contextualize mutation-driven mechanisms. It is through these changes that the virus adapts and evolves, such as optimizing angiotensin-converting enzyme binding, modifying antigenic surfaces, and accumulating mutations that affect CD8+ T-cell recognition. Multi-omics data studies further support SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis through convergent evidence linking viral adaptation to host immune and metabolic reprogramming, as occurs in myocarditis, liver injury, and acute kidney injury. By integrating proteomic, transcriptomic, and structural findings, this work presents how the virus persists and dictates disease severity through interferon antagonism (ORF6, ORF9b, and nsp1), adaptive immune evasion, and metabolic rewiring. All these insights underscore the need for next-generation interventions that provide a multidimensional framework for understanding the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 and guiding future antiviral strategies.
39480836 | The SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 protein inhibits nuclear export of mRNA and spliceosomal U snRNA. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the causative agent of coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19). SARS-CoV-2 infection suppresses host innate immunity and impairs cell viability. Among the viral proteins, ORF6 exhibits potent interferon (IFN) antagonistic activity and cellular toxicity. It also interacts with the RNA export factor RAE1, which bridges the nuclear pore complex and nuclear export receptors, suggesting an effect on RNA export. Using the Xenopus oocyte microinjection system, I found that ORF6 blocked the export of not only mRNA but also spliceosomal U snRNA. I further demonstrated that ORF6 affects the interaction between RAE1 and nuclear export receptors and inhibits the RNA binding of RAE1. These effects of ORF6 may cumulatively block the export of several classes of RNA. I also found that ORF6 binds RNA and forms oligomers. These findings provide insights into the suppression of innate immune responses and the reduction in cell viability caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection, contributing to the development of antiviral drugs targeting ORF6.
41893817 | Structural Design of T-Cell Epitope-Based mRNA Vaccine Constructs Determines the Quality of T-Cell Immunity and Protective Efficacy Against SARS-CoV-2 in Mice. BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Epitope-based mRNA vaccines represent a promising strategy for eliciting protective T-cell immunity against SARS-CoV-2 and as well as for non-infectious mRNA-based vaccines. However, how the structural architecture of vaccine constructs (including epitope arrangement, linker composition, signal peptide presence, and the combination of MHC class I and II epitopes) shapes the quality of T-cell responses remains poorly understood. METHODS: Ten tandem minigene mRNA constructs (Cons1-10) encoding different combinations of MHC class I and class II epitopes from SARS-CoV-2 proteins (S, N, M, ORF3a) were designed, encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles, and administered to C57BL/6 mice. Immunogenicity was assessed by cytokine profiling (IFN-gamma, IL-2, IL-4, IL-10) and T-cell proliferation assays. Protective efficacy was evaluated in K18-hACE2 transgenic mice challenged with SARS-CoV-2. RESULTS: Constructs lacking a signal peptide and enriched in MHC class I-restricted epitopes induced robust Th1 responses and strong CD8+ T-cell proliferation, achieving up to 66% survival following lethal challenge. In contrast, constructs associated with elevated IL-10 and IL-4 production conferred limited protection (11-33%), consistent with functional skewing towards regulatory or Th2-associated immune profiles. CONCLUSIONS: These findings establish a direct link between construct design parameters and T-cell polarization quality, and provide a rational framework for next-generation epitope-based mRNA vaccine development.
39196452 | Profile of immunological biomarkers in Behcet's syndrome: a large-scale single-center real-world study. Behcet's syndrome (BS) is a vasculitis characterized by immune dysregulation. Biomarkers are valuable for assessing clinically atypical pathogenesis. We aimed to investigate the distribution of different biomarkers and their effects on the clinical features of patients with BS in a large-scale, real-world study. This is a retrospective, single-center study. In total, 502 patients diagnosed with BS were enrolled in this study. We analyzed the clinical features of this cohort and divided patients' symptoms into six categories, including mucocutaneous, articular, neurological, gastrointestinal, vascular, and ocular involvements. HLA-B51 cells, autoantibodies, and subsets of immune cells from the patients were tested. Pearson's correlation, Wilcoxon rank sum test and multivariate logistic regression were used for data analysis. Various autoantibodies were detected in the serum of 40.8% of patients with BS. The positivity rate of anti-endothelial cell antibodies (AECA) was the highest among autoantibodies and was found in 23.5% (118/502) of patients with BS. The positivity rate of HLA-B51 in patients with BS was 27.1%. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, IL-2, and IL-4 producing CD4+ T cells were positively correlated with the gastrointestinal BS. Increased IL-4+CD4+ T cell was a risk factor for gastrointestinal BS (P = 0.006, Overall rate [OR] = 2.491, 95% Confidence interval [CI]: [1.317, 5.100]). Various autoantibodies can be detected in patients with BS. HLA-B51 and AECA are the most common biomarkers. Increased IL-4+ CD4+ T cell was a risk factor for gastrointestinal involvement in BS.
19798433 | HIV-1 Vpr triggers natural killer cell-mediated lysis of infected cells through activation of the ATR-mediated DNA damage response. Natural killer (NK) cells are stimulated by ligands on virus-infected cells. We have recently demonstrated that NK cells respond to human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1)-infected autologous T-cells, in part, through the recognition of ligands for the NK cell activating receptor NKG2D on the surface of the infected cells. Uninfected primary CD4(pos) T-cell blasts express little, if any, NKG2D ligands. In the present study we determined the mechanism through which ligands for NKG2D are induced on HIV-1-infected cells. Our studies reveal that expression of vpr is necessary and sufficient to elicit the expression of NKG2D ligands in the context of HIV-1 infection. Vpr specifically induces surface expression of the unique-long 16 binding proteins (ULBP)-1 and ULBP-2, but not ULBP-3, MHC class I-related chain molecules (MIC)-A or MIC-B. In these studies we also demonstrated that Vpr increases the level of ULBP-1 and ULBP-2 mRNA in primary CD4(pos) T-cell blasts. The presence of ULBP-1 and ULBP-2 on HIV-1 infected cells is dependent on the ability of Vpr to associate with a protein complex know as Cullin 4a (Cul4a)/damaged DNA binding protein 1 (DDB1) and Cul4a-associated factor-1(DCAF-1) E3 ubiquitin ligase (Cul4a(DCAF-1)). ULBP-1 and -2 expression by Vpr is also dependent on activation of the DNA damage sensor, ataxia telangiectasia and rad-3-related kinase (ATR). When T-cell blasts are infected with a vpr-deficient HIV-1, NK cells are impaired in killing the infected cells. Thus, HIV-1 Vpr actively triggers the expression of the ligands to the NK cell activation receptor.
41961946 | Intratumoral Treg cell ablation elicits NK cell-mediated control of CD8 T cell-resistant tumors. Cancer cells frequently lose major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) to evade CD8 T cell recognition. Natural killer (NK) cells are poised to target MHC I-deficient cancer cells, but MHC I loss alone is often insufficient to unleash fully effective NK cell responses. Here, we show that selective intratumoral (IT) ablation of regulatory T cells (Treg cells) elicited potent antitumor NK cell responses that controlled MHC I-deficient and even MHC I+ cancers that expressed NKG2D ligands. Treg cells controlled the activation, maturation, and antitumor cytotoxic activity of NK cells within the tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, depletion of IT-Treg cells relieved the inhibition of cDC2-dependent induction of IL-2 production by conventional CD4 T cells that was necessary for NK cell activation. Systemically administered antibodies that selectively depleted IT-Treg cells similarly empowered NK cell-dependent tumor control. These findings expand the breadth of Treg cell-mediated cancer immunosuppression to encompass antitumor NK cells and suggest that therapeutic targeting of Treg cells in tumors can control CD8 T cell-resistant cancers.
20008788 | HIV-1 Vpr up-regulates expression of ligands for the activating NKG2D receptor and promotes NK cell-mediated killing. HIV up-regulates cell-surface expression of specific ligands for the activating NKG2D receptor, including ULBP-1, -2, and -3, but not MICA or MICB, in infected cells both in vitro and in vivo. However, the viral factor(s) involved in NKG2D ligand expression still remains undefined. HIV-1 Vpr activates the DNA damage/stress-sensing ATR kinase and promotes G(2) cell-cycle arrest, conditions known to up-regulate NKG2D ligands. We report here that HIV-1 selectively induces cell-surface expression of ULBP-2 in primary CD4(+) T lymphocytes by a process that is Vpr dependent. Importantly, Vpr enhanced the susceptibility of HIV-1-infected cells to NK cell-mediated killing. Strikingly, Vpr alone was sufficient to up-regulate expression of all NKG2D ligands and thus promoted efficient NKG2D-dependent NK cell-mediated killing. Delivery of virion-associated Vpr via defective HIV-1 particles induced analogous biologic effects in noninfected target cells, suggesting that Vpr may act similarly beyond infected cells. All these activities relied on Vpr ability to activate the ATR-mediated DNA damage/stress checkpoint. Overall, these results indicate that Vpr is a key determinant responsible for HIV-1-induced up-regulation of NKG2D ligands and further suggest an immunomodulatory role for Vpr that may not only contribute to HIV-1-induced CD4(+) T-lymphocyte depletion but may also take part in HIV-1-induced NK-cell dysfunction.
41005335 | Therapeutic potential of targeting ORF6 in persistent SARS-CoV-2 infections.
28419176 | MICA diversity and linkage disequilibrium with HLA-B alleles in renal-transplant candidates in southern Brazil. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related gene A (MICA) is located centromerically to the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B. The short distance between these loci in the MHC indicates the presence of linkage disequilibrium (LD). Similarly to the HLA, the MICA is highly polymorphic, and this polymorphism has not been well documented in different populations. In this study, we estimated the allelic frequencies of MICA and the linkage disequilibrium with HLA-B alleles in 346 renal-transplant candidates in southern Brazil. MICA and HLA were typed using the polymerase chain reaction-sequence-specific primer method (PCR-SSO), combined with the Luminex technology. A total of 19 MICA allele groups were identified. The most frequent allele groups were MICA*008 (21.6%), MICA*002 (17.0%) and MICA*004 (14.8%). The most common haplotypes were MICA*009-B*51 (7.8%), MICA*004-B*44 (6.06%) and MICA*002-B*35 (5.63%). As expected from the proximity of the MICA and HLA-B loci, most haplotypes showed strong LD. Renal patients and healthy subjects in the same region of Brazil showed statistically significant differences in their MICA polymorphisms. The MICA*027 allele group was more frequent in renal patients (Pc = 0.018, OR: 3.421, 95% CI: 1.516-7.722), while the MICA*019 allele group was more frequent in healthy subjects (Pc = 0.001, OR: 0.027, 95% CI: 0.002-0.469). This study provided information on the distribution of MICA polymorphisms and linkage disequilibrium with HLA-B alleles in Brazilian renal-transplant candidates. This information should help to determine the mechanisms of susceptibility to different diseases in patients with chronic kidney disease, and to elucidate the mechanisms involved in allograft rejection associated with MICA polymorphisms in a Brazilian population.
42139752 | PTPRN2-mediated silencing of tumor-intrinsic MHC-II promotes immune-excluded tumor microenvironment in colorectal cancer. Colorectal cancer (CRC) frequently exhibits an immune-excluded tumor microenvironment that limits the efficacy of PD-1 blockade. Through systematic profiling of 106 protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs), we identify three PTP-based molecular subtypes, among which the immune-excluded Cluster 2 is highly resistant to immunotherapy. Integrative analyses across patient cohorts highlight PTPRN2 as a prominent PTP enriched in immune-excluded tumors and strongly associated with anti-PD-1 non-response. Functional studies demonstrate that PTPRN2 promotes CRC cell proliferation and invasion, and more importantly, suppresses tumor-intrinsic MHC-II expression. Mechanistically, PTPRN2 may promote STAT1 Y701 dephosphorylation and inhibit STAT1 activation, thereby downregulating CIITA expression and impairing antigen presentation. PTPRN2 knockdown restores MHC-II, enhances CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell activation in organoid co-culture, and increases T-cell infiltration in vivo. Therapeutically, PTPRN2 knockdown combined with PD-1 blockade achieves more effective tumor suppression than either treatment alone. Furthermore, IL-15 rescues STAT1 phosphorylation and MHC-II expression in PTPRN2-overexpressing cells, revealing a cytokine-sensitive regulatory axis. Collectively, our study identifies PTPRN2 as a potential regulator of immune exclusion and a candidate therapeutic target to improve immunotherapy efficacy in CRC.
40608562 | SARS-CoV-2 structural proteins affect the expression of <i>IL-8</i> and <i>TNF-a</i> cytokines and <i>APOBEC</i> genes in human lung A549 and liver Huh-7 cells. The apolipoprotein B mRNA editing catalytic polypeptide-like (APOBEC) proteins belong to a family of cytidine deami nases responsible for DNA and RNA sequence editing, playing pivotal roles in a wide range of biological processes, including immune responses, antiviral properties, and genetic mutations. In this work, we investigated the effect of SARS-CoV-2 structural proteins - Envelope (E), Spike (S), Nucleocapsid (N), Membrane (M) and protein ORF6 - on the expression of cytokines Interleukin 8 (IL-8) and Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-a), and APOBEC3s proteins (APOBEC3B and APOBEC3F) genes in Huh-7 and A549 human cell lines. While there is plenty of scientific evidence about the effects of SARS-CoV-2 on the inflammatory cascade, the current literature regarding the impact of SARS-CoV-2 on APOBEC expression is scarce. Our findings reveal a complex relationship between SARS-CoV-2 structural proteins and the host immune response, as certain viral structural proteins (S, M, E) modulate cytokine expression, potentially contributing to the dysregulated immune responses seen in COVID-19 patients. Additionally, our research uncovered interactions between viral proteins and <i>APOBEC</i> genes. This study contributes to a better understanding of the host-virus interactions in the context of SARS-CoV-2 infection and provides some insights into potential therapeutic targets for mitigating the immunopathological consequences of the disease.
23395909 | Soluble ligands for the NKG2D receptor are released during HIV-1 infection and impair NKG2D expression and cytotoxicity of NK cells. In humans, the interaction of the natural killer group 2 member D (NKG2D)-activating receptor on natural killer (NK) and CD8(+) T cells with its major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain (MIC) and UL16 binding protein (ULBP) ligands (NKG2DLs) promotes recognition and elimination of stressed cells, such as tumor or infected cells. Here, we investigated the capacity of HIV-1 to modulate NKG2DL expression and escape NGK2D-mediated immunosurveillance. In CD4(+) T lymphocytes, both cell surface expression and release of MICA, MICB, and ULBP2 were up-regulated >2-fold by HIV-1 infection. In HIV-infected CD4(+) T lymphocytes or Jurkat T-cell lines, increased shedding of soluble NKG2DLs (sNKG2DLs) was impaired by a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor (MMPI). Moreover, naive HIV(+) patients displayed increased plasma sMICA and sULBP2 levels and reduced NKG2D expression on NK and CD8(+) T cells compared to patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) or healthy donors. In individual patients, HAART uptake resulted in the drop of sNKG2DL and recovery of NKG2D expression. Finally, sNKG2DLs in patients' plasma down-regulated NKG2D on NK and CD8(+) T cells and impaired NKG2D-mediated cytotoxicity of NK cells. Thus, NKG2D detuning by sNKG2DLs may promote HIV-1 immune evasion and compromise host resistance to opportunistic infections, but HAART and MMPI have the potential to avoid such immune dysfunction.
17109473 | Expression and function of NKG2D in CD4+ T cells specific for human cytomegalovirus. The human NKG2D killer lectin-like receptor (KLR) is coupled by the DAP10 adapter to phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3 K) and specifically interacts with different stress-inducible molecules (i.e. MICA, MICB, ULBP) displayed by some tumour and virus-infected cells. This KLR is commonly expressed by human NK cells as well as TCRgammadelta(+) and TCRalphabeta(+)CD8(+) T lymphocytes, but it has been also detected in CD4(+) T cells from rheumatoid arthritis and cancer patients. In the present study, we analysed NKG2D expression in human cytomegalovirus (HCMV)-specific CD4(+) T lymphocytes. In vitro stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from healthy seropositive individuals with HCMV promoted variable expansion of CD4(+)NKG2D(+) T lymphocytes that coexpressed perforin. NKG2D was detected in CD28(-) and CD28(dull )subsets and was not systematically associated with the expression of other NK cell receptors (i.e. KIR, CD94/NKG2 and ILT2). Engagement of NKG2D with specific mAb synergized with TCR-dependent activation of CD4(+) T cells, triggering proliferation and cytokine production (i.e. IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha). Altogether, the data support the notion that NKG2D functions as a prototypic costimulatory receptor in a subset of HCMV-specific CD4(+) T lymphocytes and thus may have a role in the response against infected HLA class II(+) cells displaying NKG2D ligands.
29417746 | Nomenclature for factors of the HLA system, update November 2017.
41973998 | Epigenetic imprinting bridges infection and lung cancer. The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the long-term impact of viral infections on health, yet the impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on lung cancer development has remained unclear. In a recent study published in Cell, Qian, Wei and colleagues describe an increased risk for the development of lung cancer in patients who suffered from past severe COVID-19. To dissect the mechanisms underlying the epidemiologic evidence, the authors used multiple murine cancer models to demonstrate that respiratory infections, including flu and SARS-CoV-2 infections, remodel the lung tissue microenvironment, leading to an accumulation of neutrophils and immunosuppressive cytokines that promote and sustain a tumor-prone environment. Tumors from previously infected mice contained not only increased numbers of pro-tumorigenic neutrophils but also CD8+ T cells that showed more pronounced signs of immune exhaustion. SARS-CoV-2 vaccination reduced the increase in cancer growth, and blocking neutrophil infiltration combined with immune checkpoint blockade reversed the increase in lung tumor burden. This study demonstrates a long-term molecular memory, or epigenetic imprinting, induced by viral infections in both epithelial and immune cells that can accelerate oncogenesis, and highlights how vaccination protects not only against acute viral infections but also limits the long-term impact of infection on future cancer development.
42090447 | SARS-CoV-2 Triggers an NF-kB-Driven Proliferative Response in Epididymal Clear Cells of K18-hACE2 Mice. Abstract: We examined SARS-CoV-2 infection in the epididymis of K18-hACE2 mice, focusing on the cauda region. Thirty mice were divided into control (CG), 2-day infection (2D), and 5-day infection (5D) groups. The animals were intranasally infected with SARS-CoV-2. The 5D group showed a significant increase in IL-6, TNF-a, and IL-1b, high mRNA levels of Ifna, Ifnb, and Ifng, and infiltration of CD8+ T cells. SARS-CoV-2 directly infects smooth muscle cells, leading to atrophy of the smooth muscle layer. The infection impaired the basement membrane and downregulated blood-epididymis barrier-related genes Ocln and Jam-a. Clear cells exhibited increased apical V-ATPase and immunoexpression of hACE2, spike, and nucleocapsid. Interestingly, the infected groups showed a greater number of juxtaposed clear cells with PCNA- and Ki67-positive nuclei. The findings also revealed a newly identified NF-kB-driven inflammatory-proliferative response in clear cells. By combining in vivo and in silico analysis of a parallel LPS-stimulation RNA-seq dataset, we uncovered significant co-enrichment of the TNF-a_NF-kB pathway alongside cell cycle pathways (G2/M, E2F). The protein-protein interaction network identified key nodes linking the inflammatory NF-kB pathway to the cell cycle machinery. This in silico model was confirmed in vivo, demonstrating co-localization of phosphorylated NF-kB and PCNA in the CC rows. Alterations in spermatozoa, including decreased PNA labeling, ultrastructural changes, and reduced Crisp1 mRNA, were also observed. Therefore, SARS-CoV-2 infection causes structural and functional changes in the epididymal cauda, leading to smooth muscle cell death and basement membrane disruption. Overall, the results suggest that SARS-CoV-2 infection induces dysfunction in the cauda, a microenvironment essential for sperm maturation and storage. Lay Summary: SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, can reach many organs beyond the lungs, including the male reproductive tract. We studied how this virus affects epididymis, a sperm- carrying tube where sperm are mature and stored, in a genetically modified mouse model that expresses the human ACE2 receptor, which allows SARS-CoV-2 infection. We demonstrated that infection triggers a strong local inflammatory response and impairs the muscular wall and spermatozoa. The virus also infects specialized clear cells that control the epididymal fluid pH where sperm are stored. Following infection, clear cell groups showed proliferation and possible acidification of the sperm storage microenvironment. All these combined changes suggest that the normal environment required for sperm maturation is disrupted. Our findings raise concern that severe COVID-19 may have lasting effects on male fertility and highlight the epididymis as an important but overlooked target organ of this infection.
39724814 | Met58 and di-acidic motif located at C-terminal region of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 plays a crucial role in its structural conformations. Despite being mostly neglected in structural biology, the C-terminal Regions (CTRs) are studied to be multifunctional in humans as well as in viruses. Previously, SARS-CoV-2 Spike and NSP1 proteins' CTRs are observed to be disordered, and experimental evidence showed a gain of structure properties in different physiological environments. In this line, we have investigated the structural dynamics of CTR (residues 38-61) of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 protein, disrupting bidirectional transport between the nucleus and cytoplasm. ORF6-CTR is disordered in nature but doesn't gain any structure in most conditions. As per studies, residue such as Methionine at 58th position in ORF6 is critical for interaction with Rae1-Nup98. Therefore, along with M58, we have identified a few other mutations from the literature and performed extensive structure modelling and dynamics studies using computational simulations. The exciting revelations in CTR models provide evidence of its structural flexibility and possible capabilities to perform multifunctionality inside the host.
42102414 | The CLEC-2-podoplanin axis inhibits dendritic cells migration and prolongs allograft survival in mice. BACKGROUND: Dendritic cell (DC) migration-triggered T cell activation is a pivotal event in transplant rejection. Previous studies have established a critical role of the C-type lectin receptor 2(CLEC-2)and podoplanin (PDPN) axis in regulating DC migration. We therefore hypothesized that targeting CLEC-2-PDPN axis could prolong allograft survival in mice by impairing DC migration. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Bioinformatics analysis was performed to assess differential CLEC-2 expression between allograft and isograft tissues and to identify potential associated biological processes. Bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) were generated from donor mice and treated with anti-CLEC-2 to inhibit CLEC-2 function. After LPS stimulation, surface expression of costimulatory molecules and MHC class II, as well as phagocytic capacity, were analyzed. Migration in response to PDPN and CCL19 gradients and the ability to stimulate T cell proliferation were evaluated using a Transwell assay. A murine skin allograft model (BALB/c to C57BL/6) was established. Then anti-PDPN was injected into recipient mice during transplantation. Graft survival was monitored, and pathological examination of grafts, flow cytometric analysis of draining lymph nodes (assessing DC migration and T cell activation/proliferation), and serum cytokine detection by ELISA were performed. RESULTS: Bioinformatics analysis revealed that CLEC-2 was significantly upregulated in the allograft group. In vitro, CLEC-2 suppression had no significant effect on the expression of costimulatory molecules or phagocytosis in dendritic cells. However, it specifically inhibited PDPN-mediated migration and suppressed T cell proliferation in the Transwell assay. Anti-PDPN treatment significantly prolonged skin allograft survival and attenuated rejection in mice. Flow cytometry revealed a reduced proportion of migratory DCs, particularly of the cDC2 subset in the draining lymph nodes of treated mice. Furthermore, both CD4 + and CD8 +T cell proliferation and activation were markedly suppressed. ELISA results showed decreased serum levels of IL-18 and IL-1beta, while elevated IL-10. CONCLUSION: Targeting the CLEC-2-PDPN axis significantly prolongs murine allograft survival via the inhibiting DC migration and subsequent T-cell proliferative responses.
41079618 | NKp30 and NKG2D contribute to natural killer cell-mediated recognition of HIV-infected cells. Natural killer (NK) cells respond rapidly in early HIV-1 infection. HIV-1 prevention and control strategies harnessing NK cells could be enabled by mechanistic understanding of how NK cells recognize HIV-infected T cells. Here, we profiled the phenotype of human primary NK cells responsive to autologous newly HIV-infected CD4 T cells in vitro. We characterized the patterns of NK cell ligand expression on CD4 T cells at baseline and after infection with a panel of transmitted/founder HIV-1 strains to identify key receptor-ligand pairings. CRISPR editing of CD4 T cells to knock out the NKp30 ligand B7-H6, or the NKG2D ligand MICB reduced NK cell responses to HIV-infected cells in some donors. Blockade of NKp30 or NKG2D on NK cells compromised their specificity of killing HIV-infected cells. Collectively, we identified receptor-ligand pairs including NKp30:B7-H6 and NKG2D:MICB that contribute to NK cell recognition of HIV-infected cells.
38837862 | A multi-ethnic reference panel to impute HLA classical and non-classical class I alleles in admixed samples: Testing imputation accuracy in an admixed sample from Brazil. The MHC class I region contains crucial genes for the innate and adaptive immune response, playing a key role in susceptibility to many autoimmune and infectious diseases. Genome-wide association studies have identified numerous disease-associated SNPs within this region. However, these associations do not fully capture the immune-biological relevance of specific HLA alleles. HLA imputation techniques may leverage available SNP arrays by predicting allele genotypes based on the linkage disequilibrium between SNPs and specific HLA alleles. Successful imputation requires diverse and large reference panels, especially for admixed populations. This study employed a bioinformatics approach to call SNPs and HLA alleles in multi-ethnic samples from the 1000 genomes (1KG) dataset and admixed individuals from Brazil (SABE), utilising 30X whole-genome sequencing data. Using HIBAG, we created three reference panels: 1KG (n = 2504), SABE (n = 1171), and the full model (n = 3675) encompassing all samples. In extensive cross-validation of these reference panels, the multi-ethnic 1KG reference exhibited overall superior performance than the reference with only Brazilian samples. However, the best results were achieved with the full model. Additionally, we expanded the scope of imputation by developing reference panels for non-classical, MICA, MICB and HLA-H genes, previously unavailable for multi-ethnic populations. Validation in an independent Brazilian dataset showcased the superiority of our reference panels over the Michigan Imputation Server, particularly in predicting HLA-B alleles among Brazilians. Our investigations underscored the need to enhance or adapt reference panels to encompass the target population's genetic diversity, emphasising the significance of multiethnic references for accurate imputation across different populations.
42079603 | Poly(allylamine)/tripolyphosphate nanocomplex coacervate as a NLRP3-dependent systemic and mucosal adjuvant for vaccines. Nanotechnology plays a crucial role in vaccine development, enabling the design of functional nanoparticles (NPs) that act as both antigen carriers and adjuvants to enhance immune responses. In this study, we evaluated complex coacervate-like NPs composed of poly(allylamine hydrochloride) (PAH) and tripolyphosphate (TPP) as a biocompatible and biosafe platform for systemic and mucosal subunit vaccines. We assessed NP-induced activation of antigen-presenting cells and their adjuvanticity in BALB/c and knockout mice immunized intraperitoneally and intranasally with NP-OVA. In vitro, NPs increased CD86 and MHC II expression and promoted interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and IL-18 secretion via NLRP3 inflammasome activation in macrophages and dendritic cells co-incubated with LPS. Cytokine release occurred through an unconventional autophagosome-dependent pathway, as inhibition of autophagy with 3-methyladenine reduced LPS/NP-induced IL-1beta secretion. In vivo, NP-OVA administration induced robust OVA-specific IgG and IgG2a responses, increased IFN-gamma secretion by splenocytes, and elevated frequencies of CD4+IFN-gamma+ and CD8+IFN-gamma+ T cells. Comparable responses were observed following intranasal immunization, highlighting the versatility of these NPs as vaccine platforms. Overall, PAH/TPP NPs activate the NLRP3 inflammasome in innate immune cells, promote antigen-presenting cell maturation, enhance cytokine secretion, and induce strong Th1-biased humoral and cellular immune responses. These findings support their potential as a safe dual-function nanoplatform for preventive and therapeutic vaccines against infectious and non-infectious diseases.
42114415 | Rational design and sequence optimization of an mRNA-LNP vaccine elicits protective immunity against infectious bronchitis virus in chickens. Infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) severely threatens the global poultry industry due to constant genetic variation and broad serotype diversity. Traditional live-attenuated vaccines often lack sufficient cross-protection and carry the risk of virulence reversion, necessitating safer alternatives. Here, we developed and evaluated a novel lipid nanoparticle-encapsulated mRNA (mRNA-LNP) vaccine against IBV. To maximize avian expression, we identified a chicken-derived Hsp70 5'-untranslated region that strongly drives translation. Using this backbone, we stabilized the spike (S) protein in its prefusion conformation by introducing diproline substitutions (2P) and mutating the furin cleavage site (FCSmut). We then optimized the mRNA secondary structure using the LinearDesign algorithm, which yielded superior in vitro translation efficiency and structural stability. Intramuscular vaccination of chickens rapidly elicited potent humoral and cellular immune responses, characterized by high-titer neutralizing antibodies and robust expansion of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells. Following homologous challenge with a virulent IBV strain, the vaccine effectively alleviated clinical symptoms and reduced tracheal ciliary damage. It also drastically reduced viral replication in primary target organs and lowered respiratory viral shedding. Integrating avian-specific regulatory elements, conformational stabilization, and structural RNA optimization provides a highly effective framework for next-generation avian coronavirus vaccines.
18754036 | NKG2D ligands expression and NKG2D-mediated NK activity in Sezary patients. Sezary syndrome (SS) is a rare lymphoma characterized by the clonal expansion in the skin and in blood of CD4(+)CD158k(+) T cells. Natural killer (NK) activation against tumors in leukemia models is partly based on the recognition of the target through the NKG2D/NKG2D ligands interactions. We analyzed ex vivo SS malignant lymphocytes for the expression of the NKG2D ligands such as the major histocompatibility complex class I-related molecules (MIC) A and B and the UL16 binding proteins (ULBP). The expressions of NKG2D, the natural cytotoxicity receptors (NKp30, NKp44, and NKp46) and the activating receptor DNAM-1 were simultaneously investigated on circulating patients NK and CD8(+) nonmalignant lymphocytes. Interestingly, although at least one of the NKG2D ligands was expressed on the circulating malignant lymphocytes of 9 out of 10 patients, NKG2D was expressed on effector lymphocytes. We found that soluble MICA in patient's sera was increased, which may constitute a mechanism to escape the immune response. In vitro, SS tumor lymphocytes induced the degranulation of perforin by the NKL cell line. More importantly, NKG2D expressed on SS patients NK cells is functional and capable to induce degranulation. Altogether, these data could suggest that stimulating NK function in SS patients may be a promising strategy to reduce tumor invasion.
40514729 | Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor may contribute to spondyloarthritis development in HLA-B27 transgenic rat by affecting conventional dendritic cells function. BACKGROUND: Spondyloarthritis (SpA) is a chronic inflammatory disorder with axial and peripheral manifestations. A strong association between HLA-B27 and SpA has been known for more than 50 years. Remarkably, HLA-B27 and human b2-microglubulin transgenic rats (B27 rat) develop manifestations recapitulating SpA, referred to as rat SpA. Antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells (DC) and CD4 T cells are mandatory to develop rat SpA. Serum levels of granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), a key growth factor for DC generation and functions, are significantly increased during SpA. Conventional (c)DCs can be divided in two subsets implicated either in immune tolerance (cDC1) or in adaptive immune responses induction (cDC2). In this study, we aimed to determine the influence of GM-CSF on cDC subsets functions linked to T cell activation and differentiation, in the B27 rat model. METHODS: cDC subsets were isolated from spleens of B27 and nontransgenic (NTG) rats, primed with GM-CSF and tested for their ability to support CD4h T cell differentiation. RNA sequencing was performed on GM-CSF-primed cDC subsets. RESULTS: GM-CSF-primed cDC2 from B27 rat were strong inducers of TNF-producing proinflammatory CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells. In contrast, whereas control cDC1 required GM-CSF to support T cell proliferation, HLA-B27<sup>+</sup> cDC1 primed with GM-CSF failed to do so. RNA sequencing analysis demonstrated that HLA-B27 expression promoted endoplasmic reticulum stress and unfolded protein response in both cDC subsets. In addition, HLA-B27 expression promoted inflammatory cytokine synthesis by cDC2 and a signature interfering with regulation of cell adhesion and activation in cDC1. CONCLUSION: Altogether, our study reveals a dual role of GM-CSF during SpA. In one hand, GM-CSF promotes proinflammatory functions of cDC2. On the other hand, GM-CSF is required for cDC1 to induce T cell proliferation, and those functions are blunted by HLA-B27 expression.
41999654 | Leveraging a naturally occurring IgM autoantibody to target diabetogenic T cells: a precision medicine approach to type 1 diabetes. Current immunotherapies for autoimmune diseases lack sufficient specificity and often compromise protective immunity, underscoring the need for precision-based approaches. Here, we identify x-mAb, a germline-encoded IgM autoantibody derived from dual-expresser lymphocytes of patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D), as a potent agent for precision immunotherapy. In the nonobese diabetic mouse model, x-mAb prevents disease onset, induces durable remission, and preserves functional pancreatic islets without disrupting systemic immune homeostasis. Mechanistically, x-mAb selectively targets islet-reactive CD4 and CD8 tissue-resident memory (Trm) T cells in pancreas and pancreatic lymph nodes, as shown by MHC tetramer staining and in vivo tracking. x-mAb engagement downregulates CD69, a key Trm retention molecule, resulting in a marked reduction of pathogenic pancreatic T cells. Critically, x-mAb recognizes analogous CD69+ Trm-like peripheral T cells in T1D patients and downregulates CD69 ex vivo, indicating a conserved and therapeutically targetable mechanism across species. Structural modeling revealed that x-mAb engages TCRalphabeta through multiple contact sites, with the most stable interactions targeting a conserved CDR3alpha SGGGGS motif shared by diabetogenic human and mouse clonotypes. Based on these findings, we propose natural IgM autoantibodies as a previously unrecognized reservoir for precision biologics that selectively target autoreactive T cells while preserving immune competence.
16698443 | How NKG2D ligands trigger autoimmunity? The function of NK and CD8 T cells in the elimination of infected, transformed, or stressed cells occurs together with tolerance to self, a property that is essential to prevent autoimmunity. Inappropriate expression of NK receptor ligands, leading to activation of autoreactive effector cells, might therefore trigger or exacerbate autoimmunity. We review here some recent data on the activating receptor NKG2D and its MIC ligand, which are indicative of their detrimental roles in some autoimmune disorders.
39010723 | Elucidating the causal nexus and immune mediation between frailty and chronic kidney disease: integrative multi-omics analysis. BACKGROUND: Empirical research has consistently documented the concurrent manifestation of frailty and chronic kidney disease (CKD). However, the existence of a reverse causal association or the influence of confounding variables on these correlations remains ambiguous. METHODS: Our analysis of 7,078 participants from National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey(NHANES) (1999-2018) applied weighted logistic regression and Mendelian Randomization (MR) to investigate the correlation between the frailty index (FI) and renal function. The multivariate MR analysis was specifically adjusted for type 2 diabetes and hypertension. Further analysis explored 3282 plasma proteins to link FI to CKD. A two-step network MR highlighted immune cells' mediating roles in the FI-CKD relationship. RESULT: Genetically inferred FI and various renal function markers are significantly correlated, as supported by NHANES analyses. Multivariate MR analysis revealed a direct causal association between the FI and CKD. Additionally, our investigation into plasma proteins identified Tmprss11D and MICB correlated with FI and CKD, respectively. A two-step network MR to reveal 15 immune cell types, notably Central Memory CD4+ T cells and Lymphocytes, as crucial mediators between FI and CKD. CONCLUSION: Our work establishes a causal connection between frailty and CKD, mediated by specific immune cell profiles. These findings highlight the importance of immune mechanisms in the frailty-CKD interplay and suggest that targeting shared risk factors and immune pathways could improve management strategies for these conditions. Our research contributes to a more nuanced understanding of frailty and CKD, offering new avenues for intervention and patient care in an aging population.
30252881 | AIF-1 gene does not confer susceptibility to Behcet's disease: Analysis of extended haplotypes in Sardinian population. BACKGROUND: Behcet's disease (BD) is a polygenic immune-mediated disorder characterized by a close association with the HLA-B*51 allele. The HLA region has a strong linkage disequilibrium (LD) and carries several genetic variants (e.g. MIC-A, TNF-alpha genes) identified as associated to BD because of their LD with HLA-B*51. In fact, the HLA-B*51 is inherited as part of extended HLA haplotypes which are well preserved in patients with BD. Sardinian population is highly differentiated from other Mediterranean populations because of a distinctive genetic structure with very highly preserved HLA haplotypes. PATIENTS AND METHODS: In order to identify other genes of susceptibility to BD within the HLA region we investigated the distribution of human Allograft Inflammatory Factor-1 (AIF-1) gene variants among BD patients and healthy controls from Sardinia. Six (rs2736182; rs2259571; rs2269475; rs2857597; rs13195276; rs4711274) AIF-1 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and related extended haplotypes have been investigated as well as their LD within the HLA region and with HLA-B*51. Overall, 64 BD patients, 43 HLA-B*51 positive healthy controls (HC) and 70 random HC were enrolled in the study. RESULTS: HLA-B*51 was the only allele with significantly higher frequency (pc = 0.0021) in BD patients (40.6%) than in HC (9.8%). The rs2259571T AIF-1 variant had a significantly reduced phenotypic, but not allelic frequency in BD patients (72.1%; pc = 0.014) compared to healthy population (91.3%). That was likely due to the LD between HLA-B*51 and rs2259571G (pc = 9E-5), even though the rs2259571G distribution did not significantly differ between BD patients and HC. CONCLUSION: No significant difference in distribution of AIF-1 SNPs haplotypes was observed between BD patients and HC and between HLA-B*51 positive BD patients and HLA-B*51 positive HC. Taken together, these results suggest that AIF-1 gene is not associated with susceptibility to BD in Sardinia.
38790160 | The Immune Microenvironment Landscape of Pituitary NeuroEndocrine Tumors, a Transcriptomic Approach. Pituitary neuroendocrine tumors (PitNET) are known to be variably infiltrated by different immune cells. Nonetheless, their role in pituitary oncogenesis has only begun to be unveiled. The immune microenvironment could determine the biological and clinical behavior of a neoplasm and may have prognostic implications. To evaluate the expression of immune-related genes and to correlate such expression with the presence of infiltrating immune cells in forty-two PitNETs of different lineages, we performed whole transcriptome analysis and RT-qPCR. Deconvolution analysis was carried out to infer the immune cell types present in each tumor and the presence of immune cells was confirmed by immunofluorescence. We found characteristic expression profiles of immune-related genes including those encoding interleukins and chemokines for each tumor lineage. Genes such as IL4-I1, IL-36A, TIRAP, IL-17REL, and CCL5 were upregulated in all PitNETS, whereas IL34, IL20RA, and IL-2RB characterize the NR5A1-, TBX19-, and POU1F1-derived tumors, respectively. Transcriptome deconvolution analysis showed that M2 macrophages, CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, NK cells, and neutrophils can potentially infiltrate PitNET. Furthermore, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and NK cells infiltration was validated by immunofluorescence. Expression of CCL18, IL-5RA, and HLA-B as well as macrophage tumor infiltration could identify patients who can potentially benefit from treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors.
40810650 | The NSP5, ORF6 and NSP13 of SARS-CoV-2 Cooperate to Modulate Inflammatory Cell Death Activation. Programmed cell death is a pivotal mechanism of cell-autonomous immune defense against viral infections. Recent studies indicate that both blocking and promoting cell death negatively affect coronavirus replication, implying that coronaviruses may fine-tune cell death pathways to optimize their propagation. However, the mechanisms underlying this remain poorly understood. Here, it is verified that coronaviruses induce the formation of a Z-DNA-binding protein 1 (ZBP1)-initiated cell death complex involving ZBP1, Z-RNA, receptor-interacting serine/threonine-protein kinase 3 (RIPK3), and caspase-8, thereby triggering apoptosis, pyroptosis, and necroptosis in human bronchial epithelial cells. To impede the activation of apoptosis and pyroptosis, NSP5 and ORF6 of SARS-CoV-2 concurrently inhibit caspase-8 activity by targeting its large and small subunits, respectively. Additionally, NSP13, the viral helicase, interacts with RIPK3 to impair its binding to ZBP1, thus suppressing ZBP1-initiated necroptosis. This inhibitory effect on cell death is likely conserved across beta-coronaviruses. Furthermore, co-infection of influenza A virus and SARS-CoV-2 is demonstrated to exacerbate disease severity, although the mechanisms remain unclear. These findings suggest that beta-coronavirus-induced inhibition of cell death enhances influenza A virus replication and worsens inflammation during their co-infection, ultimately increasing mortality in mice. This research provides valuable insights into the regulation of coronavirus-induced cell death, offering potential therapeutic strategies for combating highly pathogenic coronavirus infections.
42140163 | Selective JAK3 inhibition by J1f prolongs cardiac allograft survival in mice and suppresses alloimmune responses. BACKGROUND: Achieving potent immunosuppression while minimizing off-target and exposure-limiting toxicities remains a key goal in organ transplantation. JAK3 is a nonredundant mediator of gammac-cytokine signaling and an attractive target for lymphocyte-restricted immunomodulation; however, existing JAK3 inhibitors may show incomplete isoform selectivity and/or uncertain durability of cellular pathway suppression. We therefore developed a novel JAK3 inhibitor, J1f, and performed a preclinical evaluation of its selectivity and immunosuppressive efficacy. METHODS: J1f was evaluated by biochemical kinase profiling, cellular signaling analyses, and ex vivo studies of activated splenocytes and one-way mixed lymphocyte reactions. In vivo efficacy was assessed in a fully MHC-mismatched heterotopic cervical cardiac transplant model with graft survival, histology, intragraft cytokine expression, and systemic T-cell profiling. Safety was evaluated in OECD-aligned acute and subacute toxicity studies. RESULTS: J1f potently inhibited JAK3 (IC50 6.6 +- 1.4 nM) with >1200-fold selectivity over JAK1 and JAK2 and negligible activity against TYK2. In washout assays, p-STAT5 suppression persisted after washout up to 6 h under the tested ex vivo conditions. J1f dose-dependently reduced ConA-induced T-cell proliferation and increased apoptosis ex vivo. In vivo, vehicle-treated allografts were rejected rapidly (median survival time [MST] 7 days), whereas J1f prolonged graft survival (MST 9.5 days at 30 mg/kg q.d.; MST 30.5 days at 30 mg/kg b.i.d.; n = 6/group) and reduced intragraft CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell infiltration and IFN-gamma mRNA. No overt hematologic, hepatic, or renal toxicity signals were observed under the tested regimens. CONCLUSIONS: J1f provides preclinical proof-of-concept for selective JAK3 inhibition in organ transplantation; further PK/PD, target-occupancy, and comparator studies are warranted.
41972181 | The dual role of T cells in solid organ transplant rejection and immune tolerance. Solid organ transplantation, a major breakthrough in modern medicine, has saved countless patients with end-stage organ failure. However, immune rejection remains the primary obstacle to transplant success. As the central effector cells of adaptive immunity, T cells drive acute rejection by directly recognizing donor alloantigens (such as MHC molecules) or indirectly recognizing processed donor antigens presented by antigen-presenting cells. Recent studies have revealed the dual roles of distinct T cell subsets in rejection or tolerance: pro-inflammatory Th1, Th2, Th17, and CD8+ cytotoxic T cells(CTLs) exacerbate tissue damage by secreting cytokines such as IFN-gamma and IL-17, whereas regulatory T cells(Tregs) promote graft tolerance by suppressing effector T cell activation and maintaining immune homeostasis. This article systematically reviews the molecular mechanisms of T cell-mediated rejection, functional heterogeneity among T cell subsets, and their differential impacts on various types of solid organ transplants.
42133438 | A Probiotic Approach Targeting Hypersialylation Revives CD8+ T-cell Immunity and Boosts Photodynamic Therapy Efficacy in Solid Tumors. Excess terminal sialic acids on tumor glycans engage inhibitory Siglec receptors and mask peptide and glycan epitopes, including major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I), thereby reducing antigen visibility and dampening cytotoxic T-cell surveillance. In this study, we showed that a compact, lectin-free Salmonella typhimurium sialidase (Sia) efficiently desialylated melanoma and colorectal carcinoma cells, abolished Siglec-E binding, and spared MHC-I from lysosomal degradation. Functionally, Sia treatment enhanced dendritic cell phagocytosis and tumor antigen presentation, expanded IFNgamma+/granzyme B+ CD8+ T cells, and slowed tumor growth in a CD8+ T cell-dependent manner without systemic toxicity. Engineering the probiotic Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 to coexpress the photosensitizer KillerRed (KR) and Sia (ProKR/Sia) enabled localized targeting. Following intratumoral delivery, ProKR/Sia selectively colonized hypoxic tumor cores while sparing healthy tissues; no off-target desialylation or organ colonization was detected. Brief white-light irradiation lysed the bacteria, synchronously releasing Sia to remodel tumor glycans and activating KR to generate reactive oxygen species that drive immunogenic cell death. In syngeneic murine tumor models, ProKR/Sia photodynamic therapy (PDT) outperformed either monotherapy and induced robust cellular immunity with expansion of cytotoxic CD8+ and CD4+ T cells and multiple innate responses, including natural killer cell activation and M1-like macrophage polarization. Furthermore, ProKR/Sia PDT established antigen-specific memory that rejected rechallenge. These data define a spatially confined, antigen-agnostic strategy that restores MHC-I visibility and activates antitumor immunity in immunologically \cold\ tumors, leading to a durable response. Rational combinations with immunotherapy, deep-tissue illumination, and programmable biosafety switches may further overcome tumor antigen heterogeneity and broaden clinical applicability. SIGNIFICANCE: Probiotic sialidase-KillerRed photodynamic therapy overcomes hypersialylation-mediated immunosuppression by restoring antigen visibility and igniting durable antitumor T-cell responses, offering an antigen agnostic platform for treating solid tumors.
30632534 | Association of MICA Alleles and Human Leukocyte Antigen B in Turkish Patients Diagnosed With Behcet's Disease. OBJECTIVES: This study aims to investigate whether or not MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence A (MICA) polymorphisms are associated with the susceptibility to Behcet's disease (BD) in a Turkish population. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 38 Turkish BD patients (20 males, 18 females; mean age 34+-10.9 years) and 51 ethnically matched healthy controls (30 males, 21 females; mean age 36+-12.8 years). MICA and human leukocyte antigen B (HLA-B) alleles were determined in all subjects by using the Luminex technology. LABType sequence-specific oligonucleotide MICA test (One Lambda) and sequence-specific oligonucleotide B locus tests (Gene-Probe) were used for the typing studies. RESULTS: A total of 16 MICA alleles were found in BD patients as well as in control subjects. The gene frequency of MICA*006 was significantly higher in the BD patients compared to controls (14.5% vs. 0.9%; odds ratio [OR]: 17.092 95% confidence interval [CI] [2.155~135.554]; p<0.05). When haplotypes were evaluated, an association was found between the haplotypes HLA-B*51-MICA*006 (11.8% and 0.9%; OR: 13.567 95% CI [1.679~109.577]; p<0.001) and HLA-B*51-MICA*009 (27.6% and 13.7%; OR: 2.4 95% CI [1.127~5.109]; p<0.05). Frequencies of HLA-B*49-MICA*004 (0% and 6.8%) and HLA-B*52- MICA*009 (0% and 10.7%) were significantly higher in controls compared to BD patients (p<0.05). CONCLUSION: Our study shows that the MICA*006 (MICA-A6) and the MICA*009 alleles are associated with BD susceptibility in HLA-B*51 positive Turkish population, particularly in HLA-B*51 patients with MICA*006, which might be considered as a diagnostic biomarker for BD in the future.
42075886 | (5R)-5-Hydroxytriptolide (LLDT-8) Ameliorates Experimental Autoimmune Myositis via Suppression of the NLRC5/MHC-I Signaling Pathway. Background: Idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIMs), characterized by muscle weakness and chronic inflammation, currently lack highly effective therapies. This study investigated the therapeutic potential and underlying mechanism of (5R)-5-hydroxytriptolide (LLDT-8), a triptolide derivative with reduced toxicity, using an experimental autoimmune myositis (EAM) mouse model and in vitro assays. Methods: Forty female BALB/c mice were randomly assigned to five groups: normal, vehicle, methylprednisolone (MP), LLDT-8 (0.0625 mg/kg), and LLDT-8 (0.125 mg/kg). EAM mice were treated with LLDT-8 (0.0625 or 0.125 mg/kg) or methylprednisolone as a positive control. Cellular experiments and molecular docking were performed to investigate potential mechanisms of LLDT-8. Results: LLDT-8 significantly attenuated clinicopathological features, including muscle weakness and pain sensitivity, while reducing serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase and lactate dehydrogenase. Histological analysis revealed that LLDT-8 reduced inflammatory cell infiltration and the presence of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in muscle tissues. Mechanistically, LLDT-8 inhibited the expression of nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain receptor caspase recruitment domain 5 (NLRC5), a key transcriptional regulator of major histocompatibility complex-I (MHC-I). This suppression extended to downstream antigen presentation-related molecules, including the transporter associated with antigen processing and proteasome 20S subunit beta. Molecular docking further confirmed the high binding affinity of LLDT-8 to both NLRC5 and MHC-I. Conclusions: LLDT-8 alleviates inflammatory muscle injury by targeting the NLRC5/MHC-I signaling axis, suggesting it may be a promising therapeutic candidate for IIMs.
41966782 | Aminopeptides ameliorate long COVID symptoms in immunocompromised rheumatic patients through immune reconstitution. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of aminopeptide nutritional support on immune reconstitution and antiviral capacity in immunocompromised patients with rheumatic diseases. METHODS: This single-center, retrospective cohort study included patients with rheumatic diseases and concomitant immunocompromised conditions who received treatments at the outpatient department of Peking Union Medical College Hospital between December 2021 and October 2024. Participants were divided into an experimental group (aminopeptide supplementation) and a control group according to whether they received aminopeptide treatment, with a treatment duration of 2-3 months. Data regarding SARS-CoV-2 virus infection, specific Long COVID symptoms, and outcomes were collected via questionnaire. TB lymphocyte subsets were recorded before and after treatment or at 3-6-month intervals. RESULTS: A total of 171 patients with rheumatic diseases were enrolled, including 102 in the experimental group and 69 in the control group. Eighty-eight patients exhibited Long COVID symptoms, with fatigue being the most prevalent (67%). The experimental group showed a significantly higher rate of Long COVID symptom remission compared to the control group (64.2% vs. 22.9%), with a notable improvement in fatigue (68.3% vs. 27.8). Significant post-treatment increases were observed in peripheral blood CD3+ T cells and CD8+ T cells. Multivariate logistic regression analysis indicated that aminopeptide supplementation increased the rate of Long COVID symptom remission by 8.46-fold and the rate of fatigue improvement by 9.19-fold. CONCLUSION: Supplementation with aminopeptides may improve nutritional status and enhance TB lymphocyte subsets levels in immunocompromised patients with rheumatic diseases, potentially contributing to better antiviral immunity and alleviation of Long COVID symptoms.
23235109 | DNA demethylation and histone H3K9 acetylation determine the active transcription of the NKG2D gene in human CD8+ T and NK cells. The human activating receptor NKG2D is mainly expressed by NK, NKT, gammadelta T and CD8(+) T cells and, under certain conditions, by CD4(+) T cells. This receptor recognizes a diverse family of ligands (MICA, MICB and ULBPs 1-6) leading to the activation of effector cells and triggering the lysis of target cells. The NKG2D receptor-ligand system plays an important role in the immune response to infections, tumors, transplanted graft and autoantigens. Elucidation of the regulatory mechanisms of NKG2D is therefore essential for therapeutic purposes. In this study, we speculate whether epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation and histone acetylation, participate in NKG2D gene regulation in T lymphocytes and NK cells. DNA methylation in the NKG2D gene was observed in CD4(+) T lymphocytes and T cell lines (Jurkat and HUT78), while this gene was unmethylated in NKG2D-positive cells (CD8(+) T lymphocytes, NK cells and NKL cell line) and associated with high levels of histone H3 lysine 9 acetylation (H3K9Ac). Treatment with the histone acetyltransferase (HAT) inhibitor curcumin reduces H3K9Ac levels in the NKG2D gene, downregulates NKG2D transcription and leads to a marked reduction in the lytic capacity of NKG2D-mediated NKL cells. These findings suggest that differential NKG2D expression in the different cell subsets is regulated by epigenetic mechanisms and that its modulation by epigenetic treatments might provide a new strategy for treating several pathologies.
30069262 | Immune Regulatory Genes Are Major Genetic Factors to Behcet Disease: Systematic Review. Behcet's disease (BD) is a chronic refractory multi-system autoimmune disorder that occurs in a genetically susceptible host. Multiple genetic factors have been identified that may contribute to the pathogenesis of BD. The major genes with polymorphisms associated with BD include HLA-B and -A, CIITA, ERAP1, MICA, IL10, IL12A, IL12RB2, IL23R, MEFV, IRF8, TNFAIP3, REL, TLR4, NOD1,2, CCR1,CCR3, GIMAP1,2,4, KLRC4, STAT4, NCOA5, FOXP3, PSORS1C1, FUT2, UBAC2, SUMO4, ADO-EGR2, CEBPB-PTPN1, and JPKL-CNTN5. These genes encode proteins involved mainly in immune regulation and inflammation, and some in transcription and post-translational modification. A complete view of these BD-associated genes may provide a clue to this complex disease in terms of its pathogenesis and exploring potentially targeted therapies for BD.
41559442 | Immune effects of trichloroethylene: key findings of occupational hypersensitivity syndrome and its pathogenesis. Trichloroethylene (TCE) remains a versatile organic solvent used globally. In recent years, immunological occupational diseases such as hypersensitivity syndrome (HS) and systemic sclerosis (SSc) have attracted attention in terms of the number of patients and the life-threatening consequences. This review summarizes mechanisms underlying HS pathogenesis based on the available literature. TCE-HS is a disease attributable to anti-CYP2E1 autoantibodies and HLA-B13:01 as susceptibility gene and is characterized by systemic skin lesions, severe-to-moderate liver damage, fever above 38  C, leukocytosis, lymphadenopathy, and human herpesvirus 6 (HHV6) reactivation with elevated inflammatory cytokines, which are all similar to the characteristics of drug-induced HS. TCE-HS occurs on average 1 month after the commencement of exposure to TCE, which is shorter than the corresponding period for SSc. Recent epidemiological and animal studies have clarified the mechanism of pathogenesis: the oxidative metabolites chloral hydrate, dichloroacetyl chloride, and trichloroethanol, which are produced by CYP2E1, amplify the methylation of CD4+ T cells and activate them, resulting in the upregulation of cytokines such as TNF-alpha. Subsequently, some unidentified but oxidized metabolite haptens are assumed to activate CD8+ T cells with HLA-B*13:01, resulting in the production of anti-CYP2E1 autoantibodies. Subsequently, HHV6 is reactivated, leading to the development of skin and hepatic injuries. Whether skin lesions develop through a pathophysiological mechanism originating from hepatic lesions or by the same mechanism as the development of hepatic lesions remains unclear. Although disease contours have been clarified, further studies are required to elucidate its pathogenesis.
42092363 | Reprogramming T cell-myeloid crosstalk overcomes immune resistance in colorectal cancer. Colorectal cancer (CRC) accounts for 10% of cancer cases and is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths. Although anti-PD-1 therapy improves outcomes, 50% of advanced mismatch repair-deficient (MMRd) and most mismatch repair-proficient (MMRp) CRC cases fail to respond. Using orthotopic and patient-derived CRC models with single-cell and spatial analyses, we show that tumor control during anti-PD-1 treatment associates with colocalization of MHC+ C1Q+ CXCL9+ macrophages and TCF+ PRF1+ T cells. Resistance correlates with increased TIM3, LAG3, TIGIT, and PD-1 expression on T cells and enrichment of TREM2+ macrophages in T cell-excluded regions. A combinatorial blockade targeting TREM2, LAG3, CTLA4, and PD-1 induces up to 100% tumor clearance in MMRd and >70% in MMRp models. This strategy promotes immune memory mediated by interactions among MHC+ macrophages and CD4+/CD8+/TCF+ T cells, while reducing immunosuppressive myeloid infiltration and T cell exhaustion, identifying key cellular programs that overcome immune escape in CRC.
40372136 | NMR Structural Characterization of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 Reveals an N-Terminal Membrane Anchor. SARS-CoV-2, the virus responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic, encodes several accessory proteins, among which ORF6, a potent interferon inhibitor, is recognized as one of the most cytotoxic. Here, we investigated the structure, oligomeric state, and membrane interactions of ORF6 using NMR spectroscopy and molecular dynamics simulations. Using chemical-shift-ROSETTA, we show that ORF6 in proteoliposomes adopts a straight a-helical structure with an extended, rigid N-terminal part and flexible C-terminal residues. Cross-linking experiments indicate that ORF6 forms oligomers within lipid bilayers, and paramagnetic spin labeling suggests an antiparallel arrangement in its multimers. The amphipathic ORF6 helix establishes multiple contacts with the membrane surface with its N-terminal residues acting as membrane anchors. Our work demonstrates that ORF6 is an integral monotopic membrane protein and provides key insights into its conformation and the importance of the N-terminal region for the interaction with the membrane.
41540405 | Single-cell sequencing-based analysis of CD4 + T-cell and B-cell heterogeneity in patients with lupus nephritis.
41946315 | Nanoparticle-mediated dual delivery of MHC class I and II antigens enhances T cell immunity and anti-tumor potency. Nanoparticle (NP)-based cancer vaccine therapies conventionally incorporate tumor-associated antigens or neoantigens that are major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-restricted, an approach that educates cytotoxic CD8+ T cells to respond to tumors. Helper CD4+ T cells can support CD8+ T cell-mediated responses and are activated by MHC class II-presented peptides. However, strategies to deliver MHC class I and II antigens using NPs as vehicles have not been systematically examined for anti-cancer immunity. In melanoma and colon carcinoma murine models, we evaluated the effects of transporting MHC class I and class II antigens using different NP-based approaches, with the NPs being within the optimal size range for uptake by antigen-presenting dendritic cells. We found that co-delivering MHC class I and II peptides on dual-antigen NPs increased proliferation of cytotoxic and helper T cells relative to single-antigen NPs alone (i.e., either MHC class I or II peptide on a NP) and to mixtures of the single-antigen NPs. For both tumor models, dual-antigen NPs also elicited higher antigen-specific Th1 responses, including up to 8-fold higher interferon (IFN)-gamma secretion. Significantly, immunization with the dual-antigen NPs prolonged survival, with 40% of melanoma- and 71% of colon carcinoma-bearing mice surviving, compared to 0% and 13%, respectively, of those treated with component- and dose-equivalent mixtures of single-antigen NPs. This highlights the importance of the antigen delivery strategy and locale with respect to the NP, with the simultaneous co-delivery of both MHC class I and II antigens on the same NP being critical for anti-tumor potency.
40928249 | The leader proteins of Theiler's virus and Boone cardiovirus use a combination of short linear motifs (SLiMs) to target RSK kinases to the nuclear pore complex. Unrelated pathogens, including viruses and bacteria, use a common short linear motif (SLiM) to interact with cellular kinases of the RSK (p90 S6 ribosomal kinase) family. Such a \DDVF\ (D/E-D/E-V-F) SLiM occurs in the leader (L) protein encoded by picornaviruses of the genus Cardiovirus, including Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV), Boone cardiovirus (BCV), and Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV). The L-RSK complex is targeted to the nuclear pore, where RSK triggers FG-nucleoporins hyperphosphorylation, thereby causing nucleocytoplasmic trafficking disruption. In this work, we identified a second SLiM in the L proteins of TMEV and BCV, which enables the L-RSK complex to interact with RAE1 at the level of the nuclear pore complex. AlphaFold predictions suggest that the RAE1-interacting SLiM of L proteins is analogous to that found in unrelated viral proteins such as ORF6 of SARS-CoV-1/2, ORF10 of Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpes virus (KSHV), and the matrix (M) protein of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV). Co-immunoprecipitations confirmed the interaction between BCV L and RAE1 and competition experiments revealed that L can compete with ORF6 for RAE1 binding, suggesting that BCV and TMEV L proteins interact with RAE1 via the same docking site as M, ORF6, or ORF10. This RAE1-binding SLiM, tentatively named \M-acidic,\ is predicted to occur in other viral proteins such as Rift valley fever virus NSs as well as in cell proteins such as NXF1. BCV and TMEV L proteins use a combination of two independent SLiMs to hijack cellular kinases and retarget those kinases toward the nuclear pore complex.IMPORTANCEProtein-protein interactions are critical to regulate cell physiology. Short linear motifs (SLiMs) are unstructured protein sequences, which usually bind to structured domains of partner proteins. They typically mediate low affinity, transient interactions, which are particularly suitable for fine-tuning cell physiology or helping cells to react promptly to stress situations. Owing to their fast replication and to the high error rate of their polymerases, viruses, particularly RNA viruses are prone to acquire SLiMs that mimic cellular SLiMs and thereby interfere with host cell signaling. In this work, we show that the leader (L) protein expressed by some cardioviruses (Picornaviridae family) uses two SLiMs in combination, which are individually shared by other pathogens: the first one, described previously, enables the L protein to hijack cellular kinases named RSKs, and the second one described in this work enables the L-RSK complex to target proteins RAE1 and NUP98 in the nuclear pore complex.
41958674 | TCR repertoire shaping of naive T cell subsets in human ontogeny. T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire analysis provides crucial insight into the maturation of the adaptive immune system. In this study, we examined the diversity and structure of TCRbeta repertoire in the sorted naive CD4+, naive CD8+ and naive regulatory T cell (Treg) subsets from umbilical cord blood (UCB) at early gestation (24-29 weeks), term (38-39 weeks), and late-born neonates (40-42 weeks), as well as from peripheral blood of children, adults, and older individuals. UCB TCRbeta repertoires were characterized by shorter CDR3 regions, increased repertoire convergence, and a higher abundance of public clonotypes, consistent with limited junctional diversity in early development. Our data suggest progressive maturation of the UCB TCRbeta repertoire with noticeable changes by late gestation (~29 weeks). Notably, UCB-derived naive Treg cells displayed distinct TCRbeta repertoire features compared with adult Treg cells, indicating subset-specific differences in TCRbeta repertoire shaping. Across age groups, we observed an age-dependent shift in TCRbeta repertoire structure associated with changes in TRBV gene usage with a progressive decrease in the predicted binding strength of CDR2, particularly in repertoires of naive Treg and naive CD8+; T cells. Together, these results provide insights into TCRbeta repertoire formation during human ontogeny and highlight subset-specific trajectories during early life.
42009010 | Identification of genetic risk loci associated with aquaporin 4-positive neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder: a genome-wide association study. BACKGROUND: Little is known about the causes of serum aquaporin 4 (AQP4) antibody-positive neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (AQP4-positive NMOSD) or how its pathophysiology differs from other demyelinating autoimmune diseases, which limits therapeutic and preventative opportunities despite available diagnostic biomarkers. By performing a pan-ancestry genome-wide association study (GWAS), we aimed to deepen our understanding of the genetic architecture of AQP4-positive NMOSD and to explore shared heritability with other autoimmune diseases. METHODS: We performed a pan-ancestry GWAS in 2833 individuals, including 1573 AQP4-positive NMOSD cases and 1260 controls (comprising non-affected relatives, healthy non-relatives, and those with other autoimmune diseases). Samples were collected from the International NMOSD Genetics Consortium, comprising 36 hospitals and research facilities across the world. All individuals with AQP4-positive NMOSD fulfilled the 2015 international consensus diagnostic criteria for NMOSD, including positive AQP4-IgG status. We also performed a second GWAS with only the 1857 samples of European ancestry (803 cases and 1054 controls). We then compared our GWAS findings to those from other autoimmune diseases. FINDINGS: We found three independent associations with AQP4-positive NMOSD that reached genome-wide significance: two within the MHC and a third within an intron of the STAT4 gene. In the pan-ancestry study, we identified a complement C4A-associatied variant, rs1150753 (chr6:32092090:A>G, p=1 61 x 10-29, odds ratio [OR] 2 95, 95% CI 2 44-3 56), rs607929 (chr6:32619221:C>G, p=2 87 x 10-24, OR 1 93, 95% CI 1 70-2 20), and a STAT4-associated variant, rs35593987 (chr2:191051800:AC>A, p=8 49 x 10-14, OR 1 75, 95% CI 1 51-2 03). In Europeans, we identified variants that were either in linkage disequilibrium with or the same as those from the pan-ancestry study: rs1270942 (chr6:31951083:A>G, p=2 52 x 10-28, OR 3 01, 95% CI 2 47-3 66), rs607929 (p=1 12 x 10-20, OR 1 99, 95% CI 1 72-2 30), and rs3821236 (chr2:191038032:G>A, p=1 20 x 10-10, OR 1 74, 95% CI 1 47-2 06). rs1270942 is in linkage disequilibrium with rs1150753 (r2=0 96) as well as two AQP4-positive NMOSD-associated HLA alleles, HLA-DRB1*03:01 (p=2 80 x 10-26, OR 2 79, 95% CI 2 30-3 37) and HLA-B*08:01 (p=1 02 x 10-24, OR 2 68, 95% CI 2 22-3 24). A priori testing of the P1104A variant (rs34536443, chr19:10352442:G>C) within the TYK2 gene, which acts upstream in the STAT4 pathway, found it to be protective (p=0 0008, OR 0 52, 95% CI 0 35-0 76 in the pan-ancestry study). Genetic sharing was observed with several comorbid autoimmune diseases for both the complement C4A-associated and STAT4-associated variants, including Sjogren's syndrome and systemic lupus erythematosus. INTERPRETATION: AQP4-positive NMOSD is more genetically similar to systemic autoimmune diseases than to multiple sclerosis, despite sharing overlapping clinical phenotypes. Specifically, a polymorphism associated with reduced complement C4 was identified as the biggest disease genetic risk factor, which has been shown to facilitate the development of autoantibody-producing B cells. Our findings also support a pathogenic role of HLA-restricted CD4+ T cells, owing to both a genome-wide significant association of HLA-DRB1*03:01 as well as heritable risk within the TYK2-STAT4 signalling pathway. Having already been shown to be a successful target for treating psoriatic arthritis and, potentially, systemic lupus erythematosus, we propose the TYK2-STAT4 pathway as a possible therapeutic target in AQP4-positive NMOSD. FUNDING: The OAK Foundation, The Guthy Jackson Charitable Trust Foundation, and the UK Medical Research Council.
40705924 | SARS-CoV-2 Nsp2 recruits GIGYF2 near viral replication sites and supports viral protein production. The SARS-CoV-2 genome encodes 16 nonstructural proteins (Nsps), with Nsp2 being the least conserved and understood. This study highlights a crucial role for Nsp2 in the early phase of the viral life cycle, particularly its interaction with GIGYF2, which relocates near double-membrane vesicles (DMVs) and enhances viral protein production. Deletion of the Nsp2-coding region from the viral genome led to a drastic reduction in viral RNA synthesis early in infection (3-4 h after infection). Interactome analysis in virus-infected cells identified GIGYF2, a host-encoded translational regulation protein, as a key Nsp2 partner. This interaction was confirmed for both SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2. Depletion of GIGYF2 or its cofactor ZNF598 phenocopied the replication defects observed with Nsp2 deletion, suggesting their critical roles in viral reproduction. Upon infection, GIGYF2 and ZNF598 relocate to areas near DMVs, viral replication sites. This relocation does not occur with the Nsp2-deleted virus, indicating Nsp2's role in directing GIGYF2 to DMVs. Formaldehyde crosslinking and immunoprecipitation sequencing (fCLIP-seq) identified regions within viral RNAs that potentially interact with GIGYF2, including those encoding M and Orf6. Depletion of GIGYF2 resulted in decreased protein expression of M and Orf6. Our findings reveal the function of Nsp2 in supporting viral protein production by exploiting GIGYF2 as a host factor.
41955174 | Cell-free RNA reveals host and microbial correlates of broadly neutralizing antibody development against HIV. A small number of people living with HIV (PLWH) develop broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) targeting multiple HIV strains. Although several viral and immune factors contribute to bNAb development, the genetic and environmental factors driving this response remain largely unknown. We performed combined cell-free DNA (cfDNA) and cell-free RNA (cfRNA) sequencing in 42 plasma samples from a longitudinal cohort of 14 PLWH (7 who develop bNAbs and 7 matched controls). This approach enabled us to non-invasively monitor the host transcriptome, viral genetic variation, and microbiome composition during HIV infection, and to identify molecular correlates of bNAb development. We find that development of bNAbs is associated with a transcriptomic signature of early immune activation characterized by elevated levels of MHC class I antigen presentation genes. This signature is independent of viral load or CD4 count and declines over time. In addition to host features, we recovered sufficient viral reads to reconstruct HIV consensus sequences, supporting the utility of cfRNA for viral genotyping. Finally, we also identified an enrichment of several microbial taxa in bNAb producers and increased levels of GB virus C (GBV-C), a non-pathogenic lymphotropic virus. Our findings suggest a distinct early immune activation profile in PLWH who develop bNAbs. More broadly, we show that combined cfDNA/cfRNA sequencing can reveal relationships between a protective immunogenic response to HIV infection, the host immune system, and microbiome, highlighting its potential for biomarker discovery in future vaccine and therapeutic studies.
42066066 | HTLV-1-Driven Clonal Evolution and Immune Escape in Adult T-Cell Leukaemia: From Viral Persistence to Therapeutic Failure. Adult T-cell leukaemia/lymphoma (ATL) is an aggressive CD4 +T-cell malignancy caused by the human T-cell leukaemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1). Approximately 3%-5% of infected individuals develop ATL after a prolonged latency of 30-50 years, during which a complex interplay between viral oncoproteins and host genomic alterations drives the transition from viral persistence to overt malignancy. This transformation is orchestrated by the viral transactivator Tax, which initiates cellular transformation, and the HTLV-1 basic leucine zipper factor (HBZ), which maintains the malignant phenotype and promotes survival through immune evasion. Genomic profiling has revealed that over 90% of ATL cases harbour activating mutations in the T-cell receptor (TCR)-NF-kappaB signalling pathway, enabling the malignant clone to bypass viral dependency. Furthermore, ATL cells survive host immunosurveillance through sophisticated escape mechanisms, including the loss of MHC class I presentation and programed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) overexpression via 3'-untranslated region (UTR) disruption. Despite the use of antiviral therapies and targeted monoclonal antibodies, therapeutic failure is common due to genomic instability-specifically TP53 mutations compromising Zidovudine/Interferon efficacy and CCR4 antigenic variations leading to mogamulizumab resistance. This review delineates the multi-step journey of HTLV-1-driven clonal evolution and evaluates the molecular barriers to effective clinical management.
41822518 | Single-cell analysis reveals immune remodeling of monocytes, NK cells, T cell exhaustion, and Galectin-9-associated depletion of gamma delta and mucosal-associated invariant T cells in Long COVID with ME/CFS. Introduction: The cellular mechanisms underlying Long COVID (LC) associated with myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) remain poorly understood. Methods: We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on peripheral blood mononuclear cells collected 12 months after acute COVID-19 infection from female individuals with LC-ME/CFS and recovered (R) individuals. Comparative analysis was also performed using publicly available scRNA-seq datasets from idiopathic ME/CFS patients. Results: Based on transcriptional signatures, LC-ME/CFS patients exhibited a marked reduction in naive CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, regulatory T cells, MAIT cells, and gammadelta T cells, accompanied by an expansion of effector T cells. NK cells displayed reduced frequency and altered activation-associated transcriptional factors, consistent with impaired cytotoxic potentials. B cells in LC patients exhibited gene expression profiles indicative of heightened activation, while plasma cells revealed a distinct transcriptional subset expressing NK-associated genes. Platelets and low-density neutrophils were expanded and exhibited enrichment of activated-related transcripts. Monocyte subsets demonstrated transcriptional skewing characterized by reduced expression of phagocytosis-associated genes and increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokine-related genes/pathways. In contrast, idiopathic ME/CFS patients exhibited less pronounced immune alterations at the transcriptional level: while T cell activation was evident, there was no reduction in MAIT or NK cells, nor signs of T cell exhaustion. Notably, FOXP3 expression was upregulated, and B cells and platelets demonstrated dysregulated signatures in idiopathic ME/CFS. Mechanistically, we identify Galectin-9-TIM-3 interaction as a potential pathway driving gammadelta and MAIT cell depletion in LC. Conclusion: Our results reveal extensive peripheral immune remodeling in LC-ME/CFS, distinct from idiopathic ME/CFS, and support a model of chronic immune activation and dysregulation. Our findings offer a cellular framework for understanding LC pathogenesis and point to potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for intervention.
40437225 | Wastewater sequencing from a rural community enables identification of widespread adaptive mutations in a SARS-CoV-2 alpha variant. Central Michigan University (CMU) participated in a state-wide wastewater monitoring program starting in 2021. One rural site consistently produced higher concentrations of SARS-CoV-2 genome copies. Samples from this site were sequenced retrospectively and exclusively contained a derivative of Alpha variant lineage B.1.1.7 that shed from the same site for 20-28 months. Complete reconstruction of each SARS-CoV-2 open reading frame (ORF) and alignment to an early B.1.1.7 clinical isolate identified novel mutations that were selected in non-structural (nsp1, nsp2, nsp3, nsp4, nsp5/3CLpro, nsp6, RdRp, nsp15, nsp16, ORF3a, ORF6, ORF7a, and ORF7b) and structural genes (Spike, M, and N). These were rare mutations that have not accumulated in clinical samples worldwide. Mutational analysis revealed divergence from the reference Alpha variant lineage sequence over time. We present each of the mutations on available structural models and discuss the potential role of these mutations during a chronic infection. This study further supports that small wastewater treatment plants can enhance resolution of rare events and facilitate reconstruction of viral genomes due to the relative lack of contaminating sequences and identifies mutations that may be associated with chronic infections.
41000818 | Methionine matters: a common mechanism of viral inhibition of host defense identified via AI-assisted molecular dynamics. Diverse groups of viruses infecting higher eukaryotes inhibit mRNA export via physical blockage of the Rae1-Nup98 complex within the host cell's nucleopore. This is thought to most often involve the critical placement of hydrophilic flanked single methionine residues along polypeptide extensions that reach into the nucleopore. However, it is unknown how this presumably conserved mechanism might function across diverse viral taxa. Here we employ a comparative molecular dynamics (MD) approach comparing motions of wild-type and mutant viral proteins in Rae-Nup98 bound vs. unbound states. Our comparisons of MD simulations are enhanced by kernel-based denoising allowing the isolation of non-random functional dynamics from random thermal noise. We demonstrate that despite large structural differences, three evolutionarily distinct viral systems (i.e. VSV M protein, SARS-CoV2 ORF 6, and KSHV ORF 10) share nearly identical single methionine-dependent functional dynamics related to the host cell inhibition of nuclear transport. This finding strongly supports a convergently-evolved common functional mechanism across viruses involving specific structural placement of non-polar residues like methionine and potentially providing a common therapeutic target for broad spectrum anti-viral treatment.
39075611 | Human leukocyte antigen HLA-B*57:01 status in HIV-1 patients developing hypersensitivity reactions in Benin: a pilot study. BACKGROUND: Antiretroviral drugs in people living with HIV-1 (PLHIV-1) often trigger side effects which may lead to discontinuation or failure of treatment. Human Leukocyte Antigen B*57:01 (HLA-B*57:01) allele is known to predict hypersensitivity reactions to Abacavir. Very few data are available on the prevalence of HLA-B*57:01 allele in PLHIV-1 in African countries. This study aimed to screen for HLA-B*57:01 allele in PLHIV-1 in Benin. METHODS: This pilot study was carried out on one hundred ten PLHIV-1 enrolled in two health facilities in Benin. Socio-demographic and clinical data were collected. Biological data were determined and HLA-B*57:01 allele was genotyped, using Single Specific Primer-Polymerase Chain Reaction in blood samples. RESULTS: 70% of participants were female. PLHIV-1 were under TDF + 3TC + DTG (47.2%) or TDF + 3TC + EFV (57.3%). Their median age was 41 [36-48.75] years and the average CD4 + T cell count was 249 [130-381.25] cells/microl. The average viral load in treatment failure PLHIV-1 was 4.7 [3.9-5.2] Log10. At the inclusion date, twenty-nine (26.4%) PLHIV-1 under TDF + 3TC + EFV have developed hypersensitivity reactions. None of 110 patients had shown HLA-B*5701 allele. CONCLUSION: Our study revealed that HLA-B*57:01 allele was very rare in PLHIV-1 in Benin, suggesting that its screening before starting the Abacavir regimen did not seem necessary.
30177859 | MICA and NKG2D variants as risk factors in spondyloarthritis: a case-control study. The major histocompatibility complex class I polypeptide-related sequence A (MICA) glycoprotein mediates the activation of the natural killer group 2D receptor (NKG2D) expressed on NK and CD8+ T cells. A methionine or valine at position 129 in exon 3 results in strong (MICA129 met) or weak (MICA129 val) binding to NKG2D. The MICA A5.1 allele causes a premature stop codon. Various NKG2D polymorphisms are associated with low (NKC3 C/C and NKC4 C/C) or high (NKC3 G/G and NKC4 T/T) levels of NK cell cytotoxic activity. In 162 patients with spondyloarthritis (115 with ankylosing spondyloarthritis, 46 with psoriatic arthritis and 1 with reactive arthritis) compared to 124 healthy controls, MICA-129 with methionine allele was more frequent in patients with spondyloarthritis (odds ratio (OR) (95% confidence interval) = 4.84 (2.75-8.67)), whereas MICA-129 val/val, MICA A5.1 and NKC3 C/C variants were less frequent (OR = 0.20 (0.11-0.37), 0.15 (0.06-0.36) and 0.24 (0.13-0.44), respectively). After adjustment for HLA-B*27 status, only NKC3 C/C remained linked to spondyloarthritis (adjusted OR = 0.14 (0.06-0.33)). Homozygosity for MICA A5.1 is linked to ankylosing spondyloarthritis, and NKC3 C/C and MICA-129 val/val to psoriatic arthritis. MICA and NKC3 polymorphisms (related to a low NK cell cytotoxic activity) constituted a genetic association with spondyloarthritis.
41998713 | Covalent conjugation of TLR9 agonists to phospholipids enhances mRNA-LNP delivery efficiency and dendritic cell cross-priming. Current mRNA-LNP systems face challenges in efficient co-delivery of nucleic acid adjuvants, limiting their capacity to elicit robust cellular immunity. To overcome the dissociation limitations of physically admixed CpG in conventional lipid nanoparticles, we developed a covalent conjugation platform that integrates TLR9 agonists with phospholipids via amide bonding. We synthesized a DSPE-CpG conjugate, which exhibited high loading efficiency (97.1%) onto mRNA-LNPs. The immune activation efficacy was evaluated in models encoding SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and HBV antigens. The DSPE-CpG-mRNA LNP system demonstrated enhanced cellular uptake via clathrin-mediated endocytosis, superior lymph node targeting of the adjuvant, and improved antigen expression in vivo. In the SARS-CoV-2 model, it induced high levels of IFN-gamma+CD8+ T cells and elicited higher titers of specific IgG and neutralizing antibodies. In the HBV model, it significantly enhanced antigen-specific CD107a+ and FasL+ CTLs. Acute toxicity tests revealed no significant adverse effects. This covalent conjugation strategy, by ensuring co-localized delivery of antigen and adjuvant, provides an innovative and translatable platform for enhancing mRNA vaccine efficacy.
42120180 | CXCL16-driven CD4+ T cells orchestrate immunosurveillance against MHC-I-deficient hepatocellular tumors. BACKGROUND: Major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC)-I loss is a prevalent mechanism for immune evasion and resistance to immunotherapy. However, how MHC-I loss shapes the tumor microenvironment and influences immune cell interactions, ultimately affecting tumor growth, remains largely unknown. METHODS: We established B2m knockout (MHC-I-deficient) tumor cells using CRISPR/Cas9 and evaluated their growth in subcutaneous and orthotopic mouse models. Immune profiling was performed using flow cytometry and single-cell RNA sequencing. Antibody-mediated cell depletion was used to assess the functional contributions of specific immune subsets. Chemokine expression was analyzed by bulk RNA sequencing, quantitative PCR, ELISA and western blotting, and its functional relevance was determined using knockout or overexpression in tumor cells implanted in vivo. Signaling pathways were interrogated using pharmacological inhibition, RNA interference and western blotting. RESULTS: MHC-I loss promoted tumor growth in MC38, AKR, and LLC1 models, but unexpectedly suppressed Hepa1-6 and orthotopic MYC;Trp53 -/- hepatocarcinoma growth. This differential effect correlated with changes in immune infiltrates. CD4+ T cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and macrophages were required for suppression of MHC-I-deficient Hepa1-6 tumors. CD4+ T cells were essential for recruiting NK cells and monocytes/macrophages and for inducing their tumoricidal phenotypes, including iNOS (inducible nitric oxide synthase) expression in macrophages. The differential infiltration of CD4+ T cells was driven by opposite regulation of CXCL16 on B2m knockout: upregulation in Hepa1-6 cells and downregulation in other models. CXCL16 exerted potent antitumor effects by recruiting CD4+ T cells. Mechanistically, B2M loss regulated CXCL16 via suppression of Akt in MC38 and AKR cells, but via activation of NF-kappaB in Hepa1-6 cells. CONCLUSION: CXCL16-driven CD4+ T cells are central regulators of antitumor immunity against MHC-I-deficient tumors. The context-dependent regulation of CXCL16 by MHC-I loss determines the immune landscape and tumor outcome, highlighting a potential therapeutic avenue for targeting MHC-I-deficient cancers.
42111272 | Divergent immuno-landscapes: comparing the tumor microenvironment of Indian and Western HNSCC patients. Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is a highly dynamic and heterogeneous cancer where the tumor microenvironment (TME) and immune landscape differ across populations. Western groups often show an \immune-hot\ profile with infiltration by various immune cells, including cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, helper CD4+ T cells, and regulatory T cells. In contrast, Indian groups frequently display an inflammation-rich yet immunosuppressive microenvironment dominated by myeloid cells. The Asian population, particularly Indian patients, often exhibits distinct immune subtypes influenced by region-specific factors such as tobacco and areca nut use, rather than smoking and alcohol. Indian oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) of the gingivobuccal region shows unique distributions and functional states of antitumor immune populations, with differences in activation and suppression signatures that impact prognosis, metastasis, and treatment response. Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) molecules are essential for the immunotherapeutic response, and studies have reported the influence of specific Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) class I and II gene variants on antigen presentation and T cell activation. These allelic variants may serve as indicators of tumor microenvironment (TME) involvement and could affect the effectiveness of immunotherapy. Recognizing population-specific variations in immune cell infiltration highlights biological differences in carcinogenesis and offers opportunities to discover new biomarkers and stratify patients for personalized treatment strategies.
42113451 | Tumor cell-intrinsic TET3 restrains type I interferon signaling and anti-tumor immunity. The ten-eleven translocation (TET) family genes, which encode 5-methylcytosine (5mC) dioxygenases, play a \double-edged sword\ role in tumor initiation and progression. However, the functional role and molecular mechanism of tumor cell-intrinsic TET3 in anti-tumor immunity remain incompletely understood. Here, we uncover that TET3 mRNA expression was aberrantly elevated in multiple cancer types and correlated with poor overall survival. Transcriptomic analysis reveals that TET3 depletion upregulated the expression of innate immune response genes, including numerous interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), in cancer cells. The expression levels of dsRNA sensors (i.e., MDA5 and RIG-I) were increased in TET3 KO or KD cells, while the biogenesis of endogenous dsRNA was not affected. Mechanistically, TET3 regulates type I interferon signaling by inhibiting STAT1 activation. Importantly, depletion of TET3 in B16F10 melanoma cells significantly curbed the synergistic tumor growth, accompanied by increased tumor-infiltrating CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, and dendritic cells. Notably, analysis of the TCGA dataset also shows that TET3 expression levels were negatively correlated with tumor-infiltrating cytotoxic CD8+ T cells and MHC-I expression across multiple cancer types. Taken together, our findings identify TET3 as a new negative regulator of the type I interferon signaling in cancer cells. We envisage that targeting the tumor cell-intrinsic TET3 could reduce tumor immune evasion and promote anti-tumor immunity.
40163937 | Interleukin 17-producing C-C motif chemokine receptor 6 + conventional CD4+ T cells are arthritogenic in an animal model of spondyloarthritis. OBJECTIVE: Spondyloarthritis (SpA) is a group of chronic inflammatory disorders associated with the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I allele HLA-B27. Transgenic rats expressing HLA-B27 and human beta2-microglobulin (B27 rats) develop clinical manifestations resembling SpA called rat SpA. IL-17 and TNF are key proinflammatory cytokines implicated in both human and rat SpA. We aimed to determine which T cell subset(s) produce IL-17 and TNF during rat SpA, characterize their tissue distribution and tested their pathogenicity in vivo. METHODS: Cytokine production by T cell subsets was evaluated in target tissues and lymphoid organs during rat SpA. Pathogenicity of purified IL-17+ cells was assessed in vivo by cell transfer. Blood samples were used to translate B27 rats findings to SpA patients. RESULTS: Conventional CD4+ T cells (Foxp3-; Tconv) and gammadelta T cells were the main producers of both IL-17 and TNF in B27 rats. IL-17-producing Tconv and gammadelta T cells were expanded in the colon of premorbid 3-weeks-old B27 rats. C-C motif chemokine receptor 6 (CCR6) allowed the isolation of IL-17+ Tconv (Th17) in rat. Transfer of B27 rat IL-17-producing CCR6+ Tconv but not of gammadelta T cells into disease-free nude B27 rats induced arthritis, directly demonstrating for the first time the arthritogenic potential of Th17 cells in SpA. Finally, a CCR6+ IL-17+ Tconv expansion enriched for IL-17F production was evidenced in SpA patients. CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates that IL-17+TNF+CCR6+ Th17 cells and IL-17+ gammadelta T cells are expanded preceding SpA onset in B27 rats and that only IL-17+TNF+CCR6+ Th17 cells can trigger arthritis.
7862157 | Expression of the Runt domain-encoding PEBP2 alpha genes in T cells during thymic development. The PEBP2 alpha A and PEBP2 alpha B genes encode the DNA-binding subunit of a murine transcription factor, PEBP2, which is implicated as a T-cell-specific transcriptional regulator. These two related genes share the evolutionarily conserved region encoding the Runt domain. PEBP2 alpha B is the murine counterpart of human AML1, which is located at the breakpoints of the 8;21 and 3;21 chromosome translocations associated with acute myeloid leukemia. Northern (RNA) blots of various adult mouse tissues revealed that the levels of expression of both genes were most prominent in the thymus. Furthermore, transcripts of PEBP2 alpha A and mouse AML1/PEBP2 alpha B were detected in T lymphocytes in the thymuses from day 16 embryos and newborns, as well as 4-week-old adult mice, by in situ hybridization. The expression of the genes persisted in peripheral lymph nodes of adult mice. The transcripts were detected in all the CD4- CD8-, CD4+ CD8+, CD4+ CD8-, and CD4- CD8+ cell populations. The results indicated that both genes are expressed in T cells throughout their development, supporting the notion that PEBP2 is a T-cell-specific transcription factor. Transcripts of mouse AML1/PEBP2 alpha B were also detected in day 12 fetal hematopoietic liver and in the bone marrow cells of newborn mice. The implication of mouse AML1/PEBP2 alpha B expression in hematopoietic cells other than those of T-cell lineage is discussed in relation to myeloid leukemogenesis.
40390705 | Dolutegravir/Abacavir/Lamivudine in Acute HIV-1 Results in Rapid Suppression and Restoration of CD4 T-cell Subsets Without Accelerated Decay of Latent HIV-1. BACKGROUND: We evaluated rapid start of integrase-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) during acute HIV-1. METHODS: Adult participants initiated co-formulated dolutegravir/abacavir/lamivudine within 30 days of acute HIV-1 diagnosis. HLA-B*57-positive participants were excluded by rapid, flow cytometry screening. We evaluated HIV-1 RNA levels, CD4+ T-cell subsets, and change in replication competent HIV-1. RESULTS: Forty adults screened with 3 excluded due to positive HLA-B*57:01 or hepatitis B surface antigen results. All 37 participants starting study treatment suppressed to <200 copies/mL by week 24 (median of 4 weeks, interquartile range 3.4-5.1); 86% and 95% were <50 copies/mL at weeks 48 and 96, respectively. We observed a median 2.4-fold decline in frequency of resting CD4+ T-cell infection in a subset of participants providing 96 week samples. ART in acute HIV-1 resulted in CD4+ T-cell memory subpopulations similar to people without HIV-1 and preserved CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell frequencies compared to people starting ART in chronic HIV. Thirty-four participants required rapid HLA-B*57 testing at screening; 97% resulted  24 hours, and 71% started ART  24 hours. CONCLUSIONS: Integrase-based ART during acute HIV-1 resulted in brisk viral suppression, preservation of CD4+ T-cell subsets, and decline in resting CD4+ T-cell infection.
41984049 | Targeting JAK2: Genetic and Pharmacological Inhibition Attenuates Immune-Mediated Liver Injury by Suppressing Proinflammatory Macrophage. Effective therapeutic targets for immune-mediated liver injury remain insufficient, necessitating the urgent development of novel therapeutic agents. Baricitinib is a selective Janus kinase (JAK) 1/2 inhibitor that shows promise in autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. However, its efficacy in immune-mediated liver injury has not been fully elucidated. In this study, we found that JAK2 inhibitors fedratinib and baricitinib significantly mitigated liver damage, as evidenced by reduced serum transaminase levels, diminished histopathological injury, and suppressed inflammatory responses in concanavalin A (ConA)-induced liver injury, a classic animal model of immune-mediated liver injury. Mechanistic studies revealed that baricitinib's protective effects were mediated through JAK2 inhibition in macrophages. Myeloid-specific JAK2 knockout mice exhibited blunted activation of macrophages and CD4+ T cells, conferring resistance to immune-mediated liver injury induction. In vitro, macrophages isolated from baricitinib-treated or JAK2-deficient mice displayed less mature and activated phenotypes as evidenced by lower expressions of major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II), inflammatory marker Ly6C, inflammatory cytokine production, and higher phagocytic capacity, which subsequently resulted in lower levels of CD4+ T cell activation. These findings collectively underscore baricitinib's therapeutic potential in modulating immune responses and restoring hepatic homeostasis in immune-mediated liver injury, positioning it as a promising therapeutic candidate for this challenging condition. Further clinical validation is warranted to translate these preclinical insights into patient care.
37707320 | Nanoscopic Elucidation of Spontaneous Self-Assembly of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) Open Reading Frame 6 (ORF6) Protein. Open reading frame 6 (ORF6), the accessory protein of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) that suppresses host type-I interferon signaling, possesses amyloidogenic sequences. ORF6 amyloidogenic peptides self-assemble to produce cytotoxic amyloid fibrils. Currently, the molecular properties of the ORF6 remain elusive. Here, we investigate the structural dynamics of the full-length ORF6 protein in a near-physiological environment using high-speed atomic force microscopy. ORF6 oligomers were ellipsoidal and readily assembled into ORF6 protofilaments in either a circular or a linear pattern. The formation of ORF6 protofilaments was enhanced at higher temperatures or on a lipid substrate. ORF6 filaments were sensitive to aliphatic alcohols, urea, and SDS, indicating that the filaments were predominantly maintained by hydrophobic interactions. In summary, ORF6 self-assembly could be necessary to sequester host factors and causes collateral damage to cells via amyloid aggregates. Nanoscopic imaging unveiled the innate molecular behavior of ORF6 and provides insight into drug repurposing to treat amyloid-related coronavirus disease 2019 complications.
18809410 | Generation, affinity maturation, and characterization of a human anti-human NKG2D monoclonal antibody with dual antagonistic and agonistic activity. In humans, NKG2D is an activating receptor on natural killer (NK) cells and a costimulatory receptor on certain T cells and plays a central role in mediating immune responses in autoimmune diseases, infectious diseases, and cancer. Monoclonal antibodies that antagonize or agonize immune responses mediated by human NKG2D are considered to be of broad and potent therapeutic utility. Nonetheless, monoclonal antibodies to NKG2D that are suitable for clinical investigations have not been published yet. Here, we describe the generation, affinity maturation, and characterization of a fully human monoclonal antibody to human NKG2D. Using phage display technology based on a newly generated naive human Fab library in phage display vector pC3C followed by a tandem chain shuffling process designed for minimal deviation from natural human antibody sequences, we selected a human Fab, designated KYK-2.0, with high specificity and affinity to human NKG2D. KYK-2.0 Fab blocked the binding of the natural human NKG2D ligands MICA, MICB, and ULBP2 as potently as a commercially available mouse anti-human NKG2D monoclonal antibody in immunoglobulin G (IgG) format. Conversion of KYK-2.0 Fab to IgG1 resulted in subnanomolar avidity for human NKG2D. KYK-2.0 IgG1 was found to selectively recognize defined subpopulations of human lymphocytes known to express NKG2D, that is, the majority of human CD8+, CD16+, and CD56+ cells as well as a small fraction of human CD4+ cells. In solution, KYK-2.0 IgG1 interfered with the cytolytic activity of ex vivo expanded human NK cells. By contrast, immobilized KYK-2.0 IgG1 was found to strongly induce human NK cell activation. The dual antagonistic and agonistic activity promises a wide range of therapeutic applications for KYK-2.0 IgG1 and its derivatives.
42039429 | Loss of Vpr-driven TRAIL-R2 expression protects HIV-infected cells from non-canonical NK cell TRAIL attack. HIV escapes sterilizing immunity through a variety of mechanisms, including the downregulation of MHC-I expression by HIV Nef and Vpu to counteract CD8 + T cell responses. While reduced MHC-I expression would be expected to support targeting by NK cells, a subpopulation of infected CD4 + T cells consistently resists multiple rounds of NK cell natural and antibody-dependent cytotoxicity. Studies further reveal that the HIV accessory protein Vpr induces expression of TNFRSF10B (TRAIL-R2) in CD4 + T cells, with 'survivors' of NK cell targeting exhibiting relatively higher MHC-I and weaker expression of TRAIL-R2. In fact, reverse TRAIL signaling in NK cells leads to the release of perforin and granzymes, a pathway limited when TRAIL-R2 expression is diminished. Thus, independent of canonical death receptor signaling, TRAIL-R2 serves as an activating ligand that augments NK cell killing. These observations demonstrate that through Vpr, HIV can regulate the TRAIL/TRAIL-R2 axis to control NK cell functionality.
42051541 | Comparing CD8+ T cell ENV epitopes of two HLA class I alleles associated with different outcomes of HIV-1 infection with broadly neutralizing antibodies epitope targets discovered to date. The HIV vaccine field has swung between humoral-based to cell-mediated approaches; however the consensus has evolved toward the understanding that an induction of both may be important for optimal protection. HLA class I molecules present viral epitopes to initiate CD8+ T cell responses to HIV-infected cells while broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) primarily target free virions. In this study, we systematically compared HIV-1 ENV CD8+ T cell epitopes restricted by two HLA class I alleles associated with divergent HIV-1 infection outcomes with bNAb epitopes reported to date in the literature. To our knowledge, this represents one of the first attempts of examining and reconciling the targets of cellular and humoral immunity in the context of differing HIV infection outcomes. Among 1820 peptides overlapping HIV-1 clades A and D ENV, A*01:01 (associated with slower HIV-1 acquisition) bound to 20, while B*07:02 (associated with susceptibility) bound to 64. No significant differences in affinity or off-rate were noted between A*01:01 and B*07:02 epitopes, and a higher proportion of A*01:01 epitopes are located within constant ENV regions than B*07:02 epitopes (C:V ratio 3:1 versus 2:1, respectively). Of the epitopes and variants discovered in this study, 7 of 20 (35%) A*01:01 and 11 of 64 (17%) B*07:02 binders overlapped with known bNAb target sites. All CD8+ T cell epitopes overlapping CD4-binding site clusters were also bNAbs targets. Notably, all A*01:01 T cell epitopes overlapping bNAb epitopes were within conserved ENV regions, and all but one involved glycan-dependent bNAb binding. The epitope landscape analysis therefore showed the allele associated with slower HIV-1 infection rates presents a narrower repertoire of ENV CD8+ T cell epitopes, that preferentially overlaps bNAb target sites, consistent with coordinated immune targeting between cellular and humoral arms of immunity.
42035083 | Analysis of the tumor reactivity of autologous TILs and allogeneic gammadelta T cells via tumor organoid-immune cell coculture.
30298511 | [Polymorphisms of MICA gene and their linkage disequilibrium with HLA-B among ethnic Han Chinese from Shenzhen]. OBJECTIVE: To study the distribution of MICA alleles among ethnic Han Chinese blood donors from Shenzhen and their linkage disequilibrium with HLA-B gene. METHODS: For 143 randomly selected blood donors, the MICA and HLA-B alleles were determined with a PCR-sequence based typing (SBT) method. Allelic frequency, haplotypic diversity and linkage disequilibrium were analyzed with a Pypop software. RESULTS: Thirteen MICA and 35 HLA-B alleles were identified among the 143 blood donors, among which MICA*008:01 had the highest frequency (76/286), whilst MICA*008:01-HLA-B*40:01 and MICA*010-HLA-B*46:01 were the most common haplotypes. No novel allele was identified. CONCLUSION: The allele frequencies, haplotype diversities and linkage disequilibrium parameters under a high resolution can facilitate further studies and applications of the MICA and HLA-B genes.
29295563 | Structural Analysis and Epitope Prediction of MHC Class-1-Chain Related Protein-A for Cancer Vaccine Development. Major histocompatibility complex class 1 chain-related gene sequence A is a polymorphic gene found at about 46.6 kb centromeric to HLA-B. It encodes a transmembrane protein, which is a non-classical human leukocyte antigen whose expression is normally induced by stress conditions like cancer and viral infections. The expression of MIC-A leads to the activation of NKG2D receptors of natural killer and T cells, leading to the generation of innate immune response that can easily eliminate/cleanse tumour cells and other cells that express the protein. Several bioinformatics and immunoinformatics tools were used to analyse the sequence and structure of the MIC-A protein. These tools were used in building and evaluating modelled structure of MIC-A, and to predict several antigenic determinant sites on the protein. The MIC-A protein structure generated an average antigenic propensity of 1.0289. Additionally, the hydrophilic regions on the surface of the MIC-A protein where antibodies can be attached were revealed. A total of fourteen antigenic epitopes were predicted, with six found in the transmembrane protein topology, and are predicted to play a role in the development of vaccines that can reactivate the functionalities of the MIC-A protein on the surface of cancer cells in order to elicit a desired immune response.
41784664 | Mechanistic Insights from Human Studies in Axial Spondyloarthritis: A T Cell Story.
11120804 | Diminution of the AML1 transcription factor function causes differential effects on the fates of CD4 and CD8 single-positive T cells. In the thymic cortex, T lymphocytes are positively selected to survive and committed either to the CD4 single-positive (SP) or the CD8 SP lineage. The SP cells then pass through a step of maturation in the medulla and are delivered to peripheral lymphoid tissues. We examined the role of AML1, the gene encoding a transcription factor, in the above processes by using the transgenic mice expressing a dominant interfering form of AML1 as well as mice targeted heterozygously for AML1. One phenotypic change seen in the AML1-diminished mice was the reduction in the numbers of both CD4 SP and CD8 SP thymocytes, reflecting the partial impairment of the transition from the double-positive to SP stage. In addition, distinct from the above abnormality, perturbed were several aspects of SP cells, including the maturation of SP thymocytes, the recent thymic emigration, and the proliferative responsiveness of peripheral T cells to TCR stimulation. Interestingly, the AML1 diminution caused inhibitory and enhancing effects on the CD4 SP and CD8 SP cells, respectively. These differential effects are most likely related to the reduction in the peripheral CD4 SP/CD8 SP ratio observed in the AML1-diminished mice. The AML1 transcription factor thus maintains the homeostasis of each SP subset by functioning at the later stages of T lymphocyte differentiation.
42107445 | Mahuang Fuzi Xixin decoction attenuates allergic rhinitis by suppressing MHC-II-mediated antigen presentation in ovalbumin induced murine model. BACKGROUND: Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a chronic condition that impairs daily life and imposes economic burdens. Mahuang Fuzi Xixin Decoction (MFXD) is a commonly employed herbal formula in China for treating AR, owing to its established clinical efficacy. However, investigations into its underlying mechanisms remain limited. PURPOSE: To evaluate the therapeutic effects of MFXD in a mouse model of AR and to investigate its influence on antigen presentation, thereby elucidating potential mechanisms of action. MATERIALS AND METHODS: An ovalbumin (OVA)-induced murine AR model was established to assess the efficacy of MFXD. Subsequently, data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics characterized differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the nasal mucosa following MFXD treatment, followed by pathway enrichment analysis. Guided by the proteomic findings, we examined the regulatory effects of MFXD on antigen presentation molecules in AR mice. Finally, human nasal epithelial cells (HNEpCs), dendritic cells (DC2.4), and Naive CD4+ T cells isolated from OT-II mice were used to confirm the inhibitory effect of MFXD on the antigen presentation pathway. Additionally, chemical characterization of MFXD was performed. RESULTS: MFXD alleviated AR symptoms, mitigated histopathological alterations, and regulated plasma histamine and IgE levels, as well as IL-4, IL-13, and IFN-gamma levels in the nasal lavage fluid (NLF) in AR mice. MFXD significantly reduced the number of nasal DEPs between AR and control groups, with the antigen processing and presentation pathway being the most prominently enriched. MFXD modulated splenic histopathology and spleen index, and decreased major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) expression in both the nasal mucosa and spleen of AR mice. In vitro, MFXD diminished the antigen phagocytic capacity of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated DC2.4 cells and lowered MHC-II and CD86 expression on both HNEpCs and DC2.4 cells; It also suppressed DC2.4-induced proliferation and differentiation of naive OT-II CD4+ T cells. MFXD also downregulated CD74, cathepsin S (CTSS), and MHC-II; this effect was partially reversed by the CD74 agonist MIF and by CD74 overexpression. CONCLUSIONS: This study explores one potential therapeutic mechanism of MFXD in AR. The findings suggests that MFXD may exert its therapeutic effect against AR by suppressing CD74/CTSS/MHC-II axis, thereby inhibiting antigen presentation. This work provides mechanistic insights that could inform the clinical use of MFXD and highlights potential targets for future AR drug development. COMPOUND: Ephedrine, Pseudoephedrine, Methylephedrine, Benzoylmesaconine, Benzoylhypacoitine, Benzoylaconine, Asarone.
42143505 | Subconjunctival administration of allogeneic TNF-alpha/IL-1beta licensed MSCs promotes an anti-inflammatory microenvironment in a murine model of severe alkali burn. BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have shown enhanced therapeutic efficacy by cytokine pre-activation or licensing. Previous research has shown subconjunctival administration of low-dose allogeneic MSCs can significantly promote an anti-inflammatory phenotype. We report the effects of pro-inflammatory TNF-alpha/IL-1beta MSC licensing, evaluating therapeutic potency in vitro and in a preclinical model of corneal alkali chemical burn. METHODS: FVB MSCs were cultured with recombinant TNF-alpha/IL-1beta for 72 h. MSCTNF-alpha/IL-1beta were characterised via flow cytometry for marker expression against untreated MSCs (MSCUTR). To evaluate immunomodulatory potential, MSCUTR and MSCTNF-alpha/IL-1beta were tested in in vitro T cell and macrophage assays and in a preclinical corneal chemical injury model. RESULTS: TNF-alpha/IL-1beta licensing significantly upregulated MSC surface expression of CD73, CD44 and PD-L1. In vitro, MSCTNF-alpha/IL-1beta showed significant suppression of proliferative CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, promoting an increase in CD4+CD25+CD69+ populations. MSCTNF-alpha/IL-1beta significantly suppressed secretion of pro-inflammatory markers TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, IL-2 and, IL-17A. MSCTNF-alpha/IL-1beta significantly enhanced CD11b+CD206+ macrophage populations, significantly upregulating G-CSF. In vivo, MSCTNF-alpha/IL-1beta were administered via subconjunctival injection (day 0, day 3) and mice were monitored for 14 days. MSCTNF-alpha/IL-1beta did not have a restorative effect on corneal stroma compared to PBS-treated controls, these cells did encourage an anti-inflammatory phenotype within the draining lymph nodes (dLN). MSCTNF-alpha/IL-1beta promoted upregulation of CD4+CTLA-4+, CD8+CTLA-4+ and CD4+CD25++FOXP3+ populations. MSCTNF-alpha/IL-1beta suppressed expression of pro-inflammatory macrophage and dendritic cell markers MHC-I, MHC-II, CD80, CD86, and promoted anti-inflammatory CD11b+CD206+ macrophage expression. CONCLUSIONS: TNF-alpha/IL-1beta licensing of MSCs significantly enhanced their immunomodulatory properties in vitro and in vivo.
42118109 | The subset of M1-paired MHC class II conformers is critical for CD4+ T cell activation. Major histocompatibility complex class II molecules present exogenous antigen-derived peptide to CD4+ T cells leading to T cell activation as well as signaling into the antigen-presenting cell. Class II is an alphabeta heterodimer that forms 2 distinct conformers via differential pairing of transmembrane domain GxxxG motifs (i.e. M1- and M2-paired class II). Previous studies with mouse I-Ak and human HLA-DR class II used conformer-specific monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to define unique immunobiological properties of each conformer. Here, we report that AMS-32.1, a widely used anti-I-Ad mAb, is-specific for the 20% of M1-paired I-Ad class II expressed by the cell, and 34-5-3S anti-I-Ad mAb is non-conformer specific. While AMS-32.1 engagement of M1-paired I-Ad elicits B cell calcium signaling, 34-5-3S coengagement of M1 and M2-paired I-Ad blocks this response, indicating M2-paired class II inhibits M1-paired class II signaling. In vitro, AMS-32.1 blocks >90% of T cell activation by ovalbumin peptide-I-Ad complexes, even under conditions where peptide is loaded onto both conformers. In vivo, AMS-32.1 blocks accumulation of ovalbumin-specific CD4+ T cells in the spleen and lymph nodes. In a murine model of hepatitis B virus replication, in which major histocompatibility complex class II-restricted T cell-dependent humoral responses are key to antigen clearance, AMS-32.1 blocks hepatitis B surface antigen seroconversion, indicating that M1-paired class II is central to the in vivo development of CD4+ T cell-dependent antibody responses. Overall, this study reveals that AMS-32.1 is specific for M1-paired I-Ad class II and that M1-paired class II is critical for CD4+ T cell activation both in vitro and in vivo.
41984833 | Self-adjuvanting alpha-helical polypeptide simultaneously delivers neoantigen mRNAs and activates dendritic cells to eradicate tumors. mRNA-based vaccines have demonstrated tremendous success during the era of COVID-19, but its therapeutic potential for treating cancer, especially poorly immunogenic solid tumors, remains largely underachieved. Herein, we report a class of self-adjuvanting alpha-helical polypeptides that can dramatically improve the antitumor efficacy of tumor neoantigen-encoding mRNAs. The alpha-helical polypeptides can facilitate the intracellular delivery of mRNAs into dendritic cells (DCs), simultaneously activate DCs by regulating NF-kappaB and IRF pathways, and improve the ability of dendritic cells to process and present mRNA-encoded neoantigens. Molecular docking and simulation results also confirm the stable complexation between mRNA and alpha-helical polypeptides. The conceived polyplex, upon subcutaneous administration, can migrate to the draining lymph nodes and transfect and activate DCs in the lymph nodes, resulting in superior neoantigen-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte response in vivo. Compared to conventional lipoplexes or SM102 lipid nanoparticle-based mRNA vaccines that yield 0% tumor-free survival, the polyplex yields 83.3% and 33.3% tumor-free survival against E.G7-OVA lymphoma and 4T1 triple negative breast cancer, respectively, among the best antitumor efficacy reported to date for mRNA cancer vaccines. The polyplex also reprograms the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, by stimulating and enriching DCs, M1-phenotype CD86+ macrophages, and CD8+ T cells in the tumors. We also observed the upregulated expression of Programmed Death-1 (PD-1) by intratumoral CD8+ T cells and PD-L1 by 4T1 tumor cells after polyplex treatment and further demonstrated the synergistic effect between polyplex vaccine and anti-PD-1 therapy. Our polyplex system provides a facile and generalizable approach to developing robust mRNA-based cancer vaccines.
41959408 | Intranasal immunization with live-attenuated RSV-vectored SARS-CoV-2 vaccines elicits antigen-specific systemic and mucosal immunity and protects against viral challenge and natural infection. The emergence of new SARS-CoV-2 variants and breakthrough infections underscores the need for next-generation vaccines capable of protecting from natural infection and/or preventing virus transmission to others. Intranasal vaccination offers a promising approach by eliciting local immune responses in the nasal mucosa, the primary site of infection and reservoir for transmissible virus. We evaluated two live-attenuated, respiratory syncytial virus vectored vaccines in which the RSV F and G surface glycoproteins were replaced with a chimeric SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein from either the ancestral USA/WA-1/2020 strain (MV-014-212) or the Delta variant (MV-014-212-delta). A single intranasal dose of either vaccine elicited systemic and mucosal immunity in K18-hACE2 mice, including serum neutralizing antibodies, Spike-specific memory B cells and plasmablasts, and Spike-specific CD8+ lung-resident memory T cells. Although MV-014-212-delta vaccination provided the best protection against Delta variant virus challenge, both vaccines decreased viral loads in nasal discharge, lung and brain, and reduced weight loss and mortality. In naturally acquired infection studies, vaccinated hamsters exposed to infected cagemates exhibited minimal weight loss, limited viral replication within the nasal mucosa, and attenuated lung pathology. Therefore, intranasal RSV-vectored vaccines can elicit broad protective respiratory immunity, suggesting that this platform could be leveraged for other respiratory pathogens.
38979175 | NKp30 and NKG2D contribute to natural killer recognition of HIV-infected cells. Natural killer (NK) cells respond rapidly in early HIV-1 infection. HIV-1 prevention and control strategies harnessing NK cells could be enabled by mechanistic understanding of how NK cells recognize HIV-infected T cells. Here, we profiled the phenotype of human primary NK cells responsive to autologous HIV-1-infected CD4 + T cells in vitro. We characterized the patterns of NK cell ligand expression on CD4 + T cells at baseline and after infection with a panel of transmitted/founder HIV-1 strains to identify key receptor-ligand pairings. CRISPR editing of CD4 + T cells to knockout the NKp30 ligand B7-H6, or the NKG2D ligands MICB or ULBP2 reduced NK cell responses to HIV-infected cells in some donors. In contrast, overexpression of NKp30 or NKG2D in NK cells enhanced their targeting of HIV-infected cells. Collectively, we identified receptor-ligand pairs including NKp30:B7-H6 and NKG2D:MICB/ULBP2 that contribute to NK cell recognition of HIV-infected cells.
37702421 | Virological and immunological correlates of HIV post-treatment control after temporal antiretroviral therapy during acute HIV infection. OBJECTIVE: People with HIV rarely control viral replication after cessation of antiretroviral therapy (ART). We present a person with HIV with extraordinary post-treatment control (PTC) for over 23 years after temporary ART during acute HIV infection (AHI) leading to a new insight in factors contributing to PTC. DESIGN/METHODS: Viral reservoir was determined by HIV qPCR, Intact Proviral DNA Assay and quantitative viral outgrowth assay. Viral replication kinetics were determined in autologous and donor PBMC. IgG levels directed against HIV envelope and neutralizing antibodies were measured. Immune phenotyping of T-cells and HIV-specific T-cell responses were analyzed by flow cytometry. RESULTS: The case presented with AHI and a plasma viral load of 2.7 million copies/mL. ART was initiated 2 weeks after diagnosis and interrupted after 26 months. Replicating virus was isolated shortly after start ART. At 18 years after treatment interruption HIV-DNA in CD4+ T-cells and low levels of HIV-RNA in plasma (<5 copies/ml) were detectable. Stable HIV envelope glycoprotein-directed IgG was present during follow-up, but lacked neutralizing activity. Strong antiviral CD8+ T-cell responses, in particular targeting HIV-gag, were detected during 25 years follow-up. Moreover, we found a P255A mutation in an HLA-B*44:02 restricted gag-epitope, which was associated with decreased replication. CONCLUSION: We describe an exceptional case of post-treatment control, which is likely associated with sustained potent gag-specific CD8+ T-cell responses in combination with a replication attenuating escape mutation in gag. Understanding the initiation and preservation of the HIV-specific T-cell responses could guide the development of strategies to induce HIV control.
41980007 | Gene-environment interactions in celiac disease: the role of the intestinal epithelium. BACKGROUND: Celiac disease (CeD) is a chronic, immune-mediated condition driven by dietary gluten in genetically predisposed individuals, primarily those carrying HLA-DQ2 and HLA-DQ8. Unlike other autoimmune diseases, CeD offers an exceptional degree of mechanistic clarity, stemming from the identification of the main environmental driver, gluten, and its link with genetic susceptibility. SUMMARY: While gluten and HLA genotype are necessary for developing CeD, they are not sufficient. Emerging research highlights that environmental and lifestyle factors, including early-life ecosystem, infections, and gut microbiota, critically modulate CeD risk and severity. This review synthesizes emerging insights and focusses on the role of the intestinal epithelium not just as target of immune-mediated injury, but as an active interface integrating genetic susceptibility with environmental cues. Recent data reveal that intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) can release tissue transglutaminase 2 (TG2) that modifies gluten peptide antigenicity, participate in antigen presentation and immune signaling and respond to microbial and dietary factors, positioning them as contributors CeD initiation and progression. The review also highlights knowledge gaps and areas of active debate in CeD. KEY MESSAGES: CeD has a main environmental driver (gluten) and a defined genetic susceptibility, linked to MHC class II DQ2 and DQ8. Activation of the CD4+ T cell response by gluten and cytotoxic transformation of intraepithelial lymphocytes culminate in villus atrophy of the proximal small intestine. In this opinion-based perspective we integrate and review recent evidence suggesting the intestinal epithelium plays an active role in CeD initiation and, or progression, which could lead to strategies to prevent or better treat this condition.
41373788 | Antibody-Dependent Cytotoxicity of Monocytes in Preeclampsia Is Associated with Soluble Forms of HLA. Preeclampsia (PE) is a serious gestational complication that affects the lives of the mother and the child. Women with PE showed higher levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines secreted by leukocytes compared with women with normal pregnancies. The differences are most noticeable in the percentage of CD16+ monocytes, although the mechanism underlying this increase remains unclear. The CD16 receptor is critical for antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity, and by binding to antibodies on the surface of target cells, it activates their death. In this study, we examined the effect of soluble placental factors on the expression of CD16 monocytes and the potential role the soluble form of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) has on CD16 monocyte expression. At the first stage of our study, we collected samples of placental villi fragments from 58 pregnant women (38 women with PE and 20 with a healthy pregnancy). Then we studied the effect of placental villus-conditioned culture medium on CD16 expression by monocytes derived from the same women. It was shown that the content of CD16+ monocytes increased significantly in women with PE within 3 h and to a lesser extent in women with a healthy pregnancy (p = 0.009). Also, the addition of the recombinant histocompatibility HLA-B to the placental villus-conditioned culture medium blocks the induction of CD16 expression on monocytes. At the second stage of our study, we typed HLA class I and class II alleles in the umbilical cord blood samples and the venous blood samples taken from 38 women with PE and 40 women with a normal pregnancy. It was found that certain HLA class II alleles predominate in women with preeclampsia. The DRB1*01:01:01G allele showed the greatest difference (p < 0.001). Analyzing five alleles simultaneously makes it possible to predict the PE with AUC = 0.76. Evaluation of unique children's alleles also showed that class II alleles have greater differences among them than class I alleles. The DQB1*06:03:01G allele had the greatest differences with p = 0.03 (the number was higher in the control group). Performing an analysis of four alleles of children simultaneously allowed us to predict PE with an AUC of 0.64. This work suggests that the activation of CD16+ monocyte expression occurs due to the interaction of soluble placental antigens with monocytes. The most likely way to activate CD16 expression on monocytes is by HLA class II (both maternal and fetal) interaction with CD4 receptors on the surface of monocytes, whereas HLA class I is capable of blocking this process. Evaluation of maternal HLA alleles may be a significant marker for predicting PE.
41907060 | Informing the Value of \Boosting\ Immunocompetent Adults based on Immune Responses Among US Service Members to SARS-CoV-2 Variants in Late 2024. Background: COVID-19 remains a global biothreat because of new immune-evasive SARS-CoV-2 variants, heterogeneous immunity, and evolving vaccine recommendations. Methods: In this cross-sectional study conducted in September 2024, we evaluated the adaptive immune responses in immunocompetent US active-duty personnel who completed a COVID-19 primary vaccine series but had variable subsequent vaccination and infection histories. We compared responses to 4 circulating variants (JN.1, KP.2, KP.3, LB.1) versus 2 previous dominant vaccine variants (BA.5, XBB.1.5). Analyses were performed based on timing (within or beyond 12 months from enrollment) and type of the most recent exposure, defined as either a COVID-19 vaccination or natural infection. Results: A total of 317 participants were enrolled over 4 weeks in Japan. Significant reduction was observed in receptor binding domain- and spike-specific binding antibodies, neutralization antibodies, antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity activity, memory B cells, and CD8+ T cells against circulating variants compared to previous variants. The reduction in humoral responses was more pronounced in those whose most recent exposure was greater than 12 months from enrollment. In contrast, cell-mediated T-cell responses were largely consistent regardless of the timing of the most recent exposure. The type of most recent exposure was not a significant factor in determining the magnitude of current immune responses. Conclusions: Administration of COVID-19 boosters is likely to enhance cross-reactive humoral responses against SARS-CoV-2 circulating variants, potentially facilitating protection from infection and fewer missed work days among military populations. Ongoing surveillance is needed to inform future vaccine composition, timing of administration, and targeted populations to maximize protective benefits.
19124832 | Detuning CD8+ T lymphocytes by down-regulation of the activating receptor NKG2D: role of NKG2D ligands released by activated T cells. NKG2D is an activating receptor expressed on CD8(+)alphabeta(+) T cells, gammadelta(+) T cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and some CD4(+) T cells. For a long time, the interaction of NKG2D with its ligands (NKG2DLs) MICA, MICB, and ULBP1-3 has been considered a mechanism for recognition and elimination of tumor, infected, or otherwise \stressed\ cells. However, a new role for NKG2D as an immunoregulatory receptor is emerging. Here, we show that NKG2D is strongly down-modulated on antigen-activated CD8(+) T cells but only if CD4(+) T cells are present. Down-modulation was caused by soluble factors produced by CD4(+) T cells, and in particular soluble NKG2DLs were found in the supernatants of antigen-activated T-cell cultures. MICB was the ligand released at higher levels when CD4(+) T cells were present in the cell cultures, suggesting that it could be the major player of NKG2D down-modulation. CD8(+) T cells expressing low levels of NKG2D had impaired effector functions, as evaluated by proliferation, cytokine production, and cytotoxicity assays after combined triggering of NKG2D and TCR-CD3 complex. These findings show that activated CD4(+) T cells expressing NKG2DLs can efficiently prevent NKG2D-mediated CD8(+) T-cell functions, and suggest that the NKG2D/NKG2DL interaction can regulate immune responses.
42011487 | Vaccination with cationic liposome-encapsulated CD4 and CD8 T cell neoepitopes induces superior tumor control. Therapeutic cancer vaccines represent a promising new development in the field of cancer immunotherapy, aiming to elicit T cell responses targeting tumor antigens. Cancer vaccines consisting of multiple tumor-specific T cell peptide epitopes require optimal formulation, as peptides by themself are poorly immunogenic. In this study, we report the development of a novel multi-epitope cationic liposomal cancer vaccine utilizing real neoepitopes and evaluated the efficacy in a murine colorectal cancer model for personalized vaccination. MHC class I and class II neoepitope peptides were successfully individually encapsulated into cationic liposomes. Upon intradermal vaccination significantly higher neoepitope-specific CD8 and CD4 T cells were induced, compared to vaccination with soluble peptides or peptides mixed with empty liposomes. Moreover, this liposomal neoepitope vaccine was highly effective in preventing MC38 tumor outgrowth and cured 60% of mice bearing a lethal tumor. In conclusion, this study shows that cationic liposomal multi-epitope peptide formulations are a promising strategy for personalized cancer immunotherapy.
39010233 | TGFbeta signaling pathway is altered by HLA-B27 expression, resulting in pathogenic consequences relevant for spondyloarthritis. BACKGROUND: Association of HLA-B27 with spondyloarthritis (SpA) has been known for 50 years, but still remains unexplained. We recently showed that HLA-B27 expressed in wing imaginal disc from HLA-B27/human-beta2 microglobulin (hbeta2m) transgenic Drosophila deregulated bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) pathway by interacting physically with type I BMP receptor (BMPR1) Saxophone (Sax), leading to crossveinless phenotype. METHODS: Genetic interaction was studied between activin/transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) pathway and HLA-B27/hbeta2m in transgenic Drosophila wings. The HLA-B27-bound peptidome was characterized in wing imaginal discs. In mesenteric lymph node (mLN) T cells from HLA-B27/hbeta2m rat (B27 rat), physical interaction between HLA-B27 and activin receptor-like kinase-2 (ALK2), ALK3 and ALK5 BMPR1s, phosphorylation of small mothers against decapentaplegic (SMADs) and proteins of the non-canonical BMP/TGFbeta pathways induced by its ligands, and the transcript level of target genes of the TGFbeta pathway, were evaluated. RESULTS: In HLA-B27/hbeta2m transgenic Drosophila, inappropriate signalling through the activin/TGFbeta pathway, involving Baboon (Babo), the type I activin/TGFbeta receptor, contributed to the crossveinless phenotype, in addition to deregulated BMP pathway. We identified peptides bound to HLA-B27 with the canonical binding motif in HLA-B27/hbeta2m transgenic Drosophila wing imaginal disc. We demonstrated specific physical interaction, between HLA-B27/hbeta2m and mammalian orthologs of Sax and Babo, i.e. ALK2 and ALK5 (i.e. TGFbeta receptor I), in the mLN cells from B27 rat. The magnitude of phosphorylation of SMAD2/3 in response to TGFbeta1 was increased in T cells from B27 rats, showing evidence for deregulated TGFbeta pathway. Accordingly, expression of several target genes of the pathway was increased in T cells from B27 rats, in basal conditions and/or after TGFbeta exposure, including Foxp3, Rorc, Runx1 and Maf. Interestingly, Tgfb1 expression was reduced in naive T cells from B27 rats, even premorbid, an observation consistent with a pro-inflammatory pattern. CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that HLA-B27 alters the TGFbeta pathways in Drosophila and B27 rat. Given the importance of this pathway in CD4 + T cells differentiation and regulation, its disturbance could contribute to the abnormal expansion of pro-inflammatory T helper 17 cells and altered regulatory T cell phenotype observed in B27 rats.
41948324 | Extracellular vesicles as key biomarkers in COVID-19: insights into disease severity and mortality through CD86 and other immune markers. This study explores the concentration, size, and epitope profiles of extracellular vesicles (EVs) as biomarkers for COVID-19 outcomes. CD86 stood out as a key predictor of mortality, suggesting that EV profiling could help assess disease severity and guide treatment decisions. Background: SARS-CoV-2 infection triggers a complex array of immune and vascular responses. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have emerged as critical players in the disease's progression and potential biomarkers for assessing severity. Aim: To explore the concentration, size, and epitope profiles of EVs in COVID-19 patients and correlate these findings with clinical outcomes. Methods: We analyzed EVs from 80 COVID-19 patients (critical or non-critical). EV concentration and size were measured using Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis (NTA) and Videodrop, while antigen expression was assessed via a 37-marker MACSPlex bead assay. Results: Our findings reveal a significant elevation in circulating EV concentration in critical COVID-19 patients as measured by Videodrop (p = 0.007), though not by NTA (p = 0.063), highlighting method-specific sensitivities. Key EV surface markers, including CD86, CD8, CD326, CD209, and CD9, were significantly higher in critical patients, while CD19 was reduced. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that higher expression levels of several EV markers, including CD86, were associated with decreased survival. Among these, CD86 emerged as the most potent independent predictor of in-hospital mortality, regardless of inflammatory status. Conclusion: This study highlights the importance of CD86-expressing EVs as biomarkers for COVID-19 severity and mortality, suggesting that EV profiling could inform personalized therapies for severe cases.
39588700 | Differential Gene Expression and Transcriptomics Reveal High M-Gene Expression in JN.1 and KP.1/2 Omicron Sub-Variants of SARS-CoV-2: Implications for Developing More Sensitive Diagnostic Tests. SARS-CoV-2, a positive-strand RNA virus, utilizes both genomic replication and subgenomic mRNA transcription. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) from clinical samples can estimate viral gene expression levels. WGS was conducted on 529 SARS-CoV-2 positive clinical samples from Assam and northeastern India to track viral emergence and assess gene expression patterns. The results reveal differential expression across structural, non-structural, and accessory genes, with notable upregulation of the M gene, especially in the Omicron variant, followed by E and ORF6. The mean transcript per million (TPM) expression levels of the M gene were significantly higher in Omicron variants (175 611 +- 46 921), peaking in the KP.1/KP.2 sublineage (220 493 +- 34 917), compared to the Delta variant (129 717 +- 33 773). The relative fold change of M gene expression between Delta and Omicron 2024 subvariants showed a 1.6-fold change. Variant-wise gene expression analysis suggests a correlation between gene expression and viral mutation, impacting replication. As anticipated, the expression levels of genes surge with the increase in the virus mutation. The Chi-square trend for average substitution count versus average TPM of the M gene was highly significant (72.78., p < 0.0001). The M gene's high expression and low mutation rate make it an ideal target for designing a real-time RT-PCR kit assay. These findings highlight the need for continuous surveillance and understanding of viral gene expression dynamics for effective COVID-19 management. Further studies are necessary to elucidate the significance of these observations in viral pathogenesis and transmission dynamics.
28470127 | Polymorphisms associated with etanercept response in moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis. AIM: Few studies have evaluated the influence of pharmacogenetics in psoriatic patients treated with etanercept. MATERIALS & METHODS: We evaluated the association between 124 polymorphisms with the response to etanercept in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis at 3 months (n = 78) and 6 months of treatment (n = 68). RESULTS: The results of the multivariate analysis showed an association between polymorphisms rs13437088 (HLA-B/MICA), rs96844 (MAP3K1), rs2431697 (PTTG1), rs9304742 (ZNF816A) and the response to etanercept at 3 months. Besides polymorphisms rs928655 (GBP6) and rs2546890 (IL12B) were associated to response at 6 months. CONCLUSIONS: Nevertheless, these biomarkers should be validated in large-scale studies before its implementation in clinical practice.
18490724 | Human tumor-derived exosomes down-modulate NKG2D expression. NKG2D is an activating receptor for NK, NKT, CD8(+), and gammadelta(+) T cells, whose aberrant loss in cancer is a key mechanism of immune evasion. Soluble NKG2D ligands and growth factors, such as TGFbeta1 emanating from tumors, are mechanisms for down-regulating NKG2D expression. Cancers thereby impair the capacity of lymphocytes to recognize and destroy them. In this study, we show that exosomes derived from cancer cells express ligands for NKG2D and express TGFbeta1, and we investigate the impact of such exosomes on CD8(+) T and NK cell NKG2D expression and on NKG2D-dependent functions. Exosomes produced by various cancer cell lines in vitro, or isolated from pleural effusions of mesothelioma patients triggered down-regulation of surface NKG2D expression by NK cells and CD8(+) T cells. This decrease was rapid, sustained, and resulted from direct interactions between exosomes and NK cells or CD8(+) T cells. Other markers (CD4, CD8, CD56, CD16, CD94, or CD69) remained unchanged, indicating the selectivity and nonactivatory nature of the response. Exosomal NKG2D ligands were partially responsible for this effect, as down-modulation of NKG2D was slightly attenuated in the presence of MICA-specific Ab. In contrast, TGFbeta1-neutralizing Ab strongly abrogated NKG2D down-modulation, suggesting exosomally expressed TGFbeta as the principal mechanism. Lymphocyte effector function was impaired by pretreatment with tumor exosomes, as these cells exhibited poor NKG2D-dependent production of IFN-gamma and poor NKG2D-dependent killing function. This hyporesponsiveness was evident even in the presence of IL-15, a strong inducer of NKG2D. Our data show that NKG2D is a likely physiological target for exosome-mediated immune evasion in cancer.
40402297 | SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins ORF3a and ORF6 alter the miRNome of human lung epithelial cells. BACKGROUND: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the causative agent of COVID-19. The accessory proteins of SARS-CoV-2 have been reported to attune host immune responses and viral pathogenicity. We have studied the effect of SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins ORF3a and ORF6 on the expression pattern of miRNAs and their impact on cell signaling pathways in human lung epithelial cells. METHODS AND RESULTS: The miRNA expression profiling of human lung epithelial cells revealed a subset of 14 and 19 differentially expressed miRNAs (DEMs) in response to SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a and ORF6, respectively. Target prediction tools and subsequent bioinformatic analysis revealed the involvement of DEMs in key signaling pathways like PI3K/AKT, TNF, MAPK, TGF-b, and NF-kB, as a bystander effect of SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a and ORF6. The target genes were validated using real-time PCR and immunoblotting techniques. The results demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a and ORF6 exploit host cellular miRNAs such as hsa-miR-101-3p, hsa-miR-4455, hsa-miR-10b-5p, hsa-miR-940, and hsa-miR-4483, etc. to modulate the key cellular signaling pathways like NF-kB, TGF-b, Ras, IL-17, MAPK, and TNF signaling pathways. CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrates that SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a and ORF6 modulate the miRNA expression pattern in human lung epithelial cells. ORF3a exploits miRNAs to trigger a pro-inflammatory response, while ORF6 antagonizes IFN signaling via miRNA dysregulations to help SARS-CoV-2 in evading the host's immune response.
38763300 | Associations between genetic mutations in different SARS-CoV-2 strains and negative conversion time of viral RNA among imported cases in Hangzhou: a cross-sectional study. PURPOSE: Previous studies on severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) have focused on factors that influence the achievement of negative conversion of viral RNA. This study aimed to investigate the effects of the genetic mutations in different SARS-CoV-2 strains on the negative conversion time (NCT) among imported cases in Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China, in order to provide valuable insights for developing targeted epidemic prevention guidelines. METHODS: This retrospective study involved 146 imported SARS-CoV-2 cases in Hangzhou from 8 April 2021 to 11 June 2022. We compared the SARS-CoV-2-specific indicators, clinical indexes, and NCT among the wild-type (WT), Delta, and Omicron groups. Spearman correlation analysis was used to identify the correlations of NCT with mutation types/frequencies. RESULTS: The mean age of the imported cases was 35.3 (SD: 12.3) years, with 71.92% males and 28.08% females. The mean cycle threshold (Ct) values of open reading frame 1ab (ORF1ab) and nucleocapsid (N) RNA were 25.17 (SD: 6.44) and 23.4 (SD: 6.76), respectively. The mutations of SARS-CoV-2 strains were mainly located in N, membrane (M), spike (S), ORF1a, ORF1b, ORF3a, ORF6, and ORF9b genes among the WT, Delta, and Omicron groups. NCT was significantly prolonged in the WT and Delta groups compared to the Omicron group. T lymphocyte, white blood cell, eosinophil, and basophil counts were dramatically higher in the WT group than the Delta group. White blood cell, red blood cell, and basophil counts were significantly lower in the Delta group than the Omicron group. Spearman correlation analysis revealed a significant correlation between the NCT of viral RNA and mutation types of viral genes of WT and Omicron strains. Additionally, NCT was markedly negatively correlated with the frequencies of five mutations in Omicron strains (ORF1b:P1223L, ORF1b:R1315C, ORF1b:T2163I, ORF3a:T223I, and ORF6:D61L). CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates that five mutations in Omicron strains (ORF1b:P1223L/R1315C/T2163I, ORF3a:T223I and ORF6:D61L) shortened NCT in imported SARS-CoV-2 cases.
41979099 | Hybrid Systems Modeling of Donor T-Cell Responses and Graft-Versus-Host-Disease After Posttransplantation Cyclophosphamide Administration. The optimal post-transplant cyclophosphamide (PTCy) dose to prevent graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) is undefined. Data from a novel murine HLA-haploidentical HCT model suggested that PTCy has a dose-dependent effect associated with its efficacy in preventing GVHD, including reduced proliferation of conventional CD4+Foxp3- T-helper cells (Th) at Day 7, followed by the preferential expansion of regulatory CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ T cells (Tregs) at Day 21 after HCT. To better quantify the impact of the PTCy dose, we built a hybrid quantitative systems pharmacology (hybrid systems) model consisting of: (1) simulated pharmacokinetics of PTCy and its metabolites; (2) the donor immune system; and (3) a neural network mapping drug exposure and T-cell profiles to clinical scores of acute GVHD. Data were collected from murine MHC-haploidentical HCT studies of PTCy from 0 to 100 mg/kg/day on Days 3 and 4 after transplantation of donor cells. The final model successfully captured time-varying changes in donor Tcytotoxic CD8+ T cells (Tc), Th, and Tregs up to Day 21. The clinical score for GVHD was associated with numerous descriptors, with the immediately preceding GVHD score, body weight, PTCy dose, and donor Treg concentration in the blood and in the liver having the greatest contribution. This hybrid systems model quantitatively captures the beneficial impact of PTCy on Tc, Th, Tregs, and acute GVHD after HCT. The mediation through PTCy and metabolite concentrations and Tc, Th, and Treg numbers is underlined, and the model may be further used to refine and improve PTCy regimens.
41959035 | HLA-DRB1*15:01 drives sex- and age-dependent microglial activation and neuroimmune signaling. Introduction: The major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) pathway is central to adaptive immunity and immune tolerance, and age-related erosion of these mechanisms is increasingly recognized as a driver of chronic neuroinflammation. The HLA-DRB1*15:01 allele-the strongest genetic risk factor for multiple sclerosis in Caucasians-has been implicated in shaping pathogenic CD4+ T-cell responses and broader neuroimmune vulnerability, yet how this allele modulates age- and sex-dependent neuroimmune processes within the central nervous system (CNS) remains poorly defined. Methods: We investigated the impact of HLA-DRB1*15:01 expression using a humanized mouse model (HLA mice) and wild-type (WT) controls. Male and female mice were analyzed at 6, 9, and 15 months of age, with endocrine stratification in females. Behavioral testing, flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, and multiplex cytokine analyses were used to assess cognitive performance, glial activation and oxidative stress, astrocyte-microglia IL-3/IL-3R signaling, endothelial activation, selective immune cell accumulation at CNS borders, tissue organization, and hippocampal cytokine profiles. Results: HLA mice developed age- and sex-dependent cognitive impairment, most pronounced in aged females. HLA-DRB1*15:01 expression promoted progressive microglial activation, characterized by increased CD14 and CD68 expression, elevated mitochondrial oxidative stress, altered astrocyte phenotypes, and enhanced IL-3/IL-3R signaling. Hippocampal axonal and myelin organization was disrupted in aged HLA mice, and this disruption was spatially associated with increased microglial presence. At CNS interfaces, HLA mice exhibited selective immune remodeling, including increased accumulation of CD4+ T cells and NK1.1+CD3+ natural killer T (NKT) cells, particularly in females, accompanied by endothelial activation, as evidenced by elevated ICAM-1 and E-selectin expression. Hippocampal cytokine profiling revealed selective, sex-biased alterations, including increased IL-12p70 and reduced IL-10 and IL-2, without broad induction of classical inflammatory cytokines. Conclusion: Together, these findings demonstrate that HLA-DRB1*15:01 drives a coordinated, age- and sex-dependent neuroinflammatory program linking behavioral dysfunction, glial activation and oxidative stress, selective immune cell recruitment, endothelial activation, tissue remodeling, and targeted cytokine imbalance. This integrated phenotype provides mechanistic insight into how this major MS risk allele confers vulnerability to chronic neuroinflammation during aging, with heightened impact in females.
42095078 | Single-cell transcriptomics reveals pediatric immune responses to COVID-19 vaccination. Inactivated vaccines are critical to COVID-19 immunization, yet the cellular and molecular mechanisms driving pediatric responses warrant detailed characterization. We use single-cell transcriptomics to delineate the immune landscape of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in children vaccinated with CoronaVac. We uncovered a two-phase program: the primary dose establishes a memory foundation via expansion of survival-programmed memory B cells and a shift in CD8+ T cells toward stress adaptation. The booster triggers an effector response marked by plasma cell differentiation, class-switching, and a pan-B cell type I interferon signature. Concurrently, vaccination reprograms monocytes into a pro-inflammatory, antigen-presenting state enriched for interferon-stimulated genes. This activation is counterbalanced by expanded myeloid-derived suppressor cells and FOXP3 + regulatory T cells, which employ PGE2 signaling to restrain excessive cytotoxicity and orchestrate helper T cell differentiation. Together, our atlas demonstrates that pediatric immunity to inactivated vaccines is tightly orchestrated, balancing antiviral programs with regulatory mechanisms to ensure safe protection.
42050192 | The immunogenic potential of AZD1402 (Elarekibep) T-cell epitopes in healthy volunteers and drug-exposed clinical trial participants. AZD1402 (Elarekibep) is a novel anticalin with engineered IL-4Ralpha antagonist binding properties that was under development for inhaled treatment of asthma. Structural similarity to tear-lipocalin is thought to limit immunogenicity risk; however, a range of treatment-emergent hypersensitivity-like adverse events were observed in a clinical study. This study aimed to (i) explore the activation of drug-exposed human T-cells with AZD1402- and tear lipocalin-derived peptides, (ii) characterise any T-cell epitopes contained within AZD1402 and (iii) define the nature of any response. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from AZD1402-exposed study participants, alongside AZD1402-naive donors, were cultured with AZD1402 and AZD1402-derived overlapping 18mer peptides. Proliferation and cytokine secretion were measured. T-cell clones were generated to characterise the diversity of T-cell epitopes and reactivity against equivalent tear-lipocalin peptides. AZD1402 contained multiple epitopes located in engineered \hotspot\ regions of the molecule that activated PBMC and MHC class II-restricted CD4 + T-cell clones from both study participants and AZD1402-naive donors. T-cell stimulatory peptides contained amino acid substitutions generated through mutagenesis to create AZD1402 target binding properties; similar T-cell epitopes were not found in tear-lipocalin. Detection of T-cell clones responsive towards AZD1402 and AZD1402-derived peptides provides evidence that immunogenic epitopes are formed naturally through processing of the AZD1402. These data describe a recall immunogenicity risk associated with AZD1402 and provide a framework by which to explore the immunogenic potential of modified sequences within anticalin or other large molecule therapeutics.
40431609 | A Novel Toolkit of SARS-CoV-2 Sub-Genomic Replicons for Efficient Antiviral Screening. SARS-CoV-2 is classified as a containment level 3 (CL3) pathogen, limiting research access and antiviral testing. To address this, we developed a non-infectious viral surrogate system using reverse genetics to generate sub-genomic replicons. These replicons contained the nsp1 mutations K164A and H165A and had the spike, membrane, ORF6, and ORF7a coding sequences replaced with various reporter and selectable marker genes. Replicons based on the ancestral Wuhan Hu-1 strain and the Delta variant of concern were replication-competent in multiple cell lines, as assessed by <i>Renilla</i> luciferase activity, fluorescence, immunofluorescence staining, and single-molecule fluorescent in situ hybridization. Antiviral assays using transient replicon expression showed that remdesivir effectively inhibited both replicon and viral replication. Ritonavir and cobicistat inhibited Delta variant replicons similarly to wild-type virus but did not inhibit Wuhan Hu-1 replicon replication. To further investigate the impact of nsp1 mutations, we generated a recombinant SARS-CoV-2 virus carrying the K164A and H165A mutations. The virus exhibited attenuated replication across a range of mammalian cell lines, was restricted by the type I interferon response, and showed reduced cytopathic effects. These findings highlight the utility of sub-genomic replicons as reliable CL2-compatible surrogates for studying SARS-CoV-2 replication and drug activity mechanisms.
41951100 | Differential effects of SARS-CoV-2-targeted infection of ATII, club cells, and macrophages on lung immunopathology and antiviral responses. The specific contributions of lung epithelial and immune cells to SARS-CoV-2-induced immunopathology and antiviral responses remain unclear. To address this, we generated mouse models with inducible expression of human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) in specific lung cell types. Infection of mice expressing hACE2 on club cells triggered early type I interferon responses, limited viral replication, and caused transient, mild lung pathology. In contrast, hACE2-driven infection of type II alveolar epithelial cells (ATIIs) resulted in higher viral loads and moderate lung damage, accompanied by expansion of interstitial macrophages, virus-specific CD8+ T cell responses, and production of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG. Additionally, infection of mice expressing hACE2 on ATIIs increased CD11c+ CD8+ effector T cells and proinflammatory cytokines in the lungs, including IFN-gamma, CXCL9, and CXCL10. However, neutralization of CXCL9 and CXCL10 exacerbated disease severity. Moreover, infection of mice with hACE2 targeted to ATIIs and macrophages led to severe lung injury, increased viral burden, enhanced T-cell and neutrophil infiltration, higher IgG responses, and sustained lung pathology. In contrast, hACE2 expression limited to endothelial cells was insufficient to promote SARS-CoV-2 replication in the lung or cause pathology. Together, these findings demonstrate that ACE2-driven infection of ATIIs, club cells, and macrophages plays distinct but cooperative roles in driving SARS-CoV-2-induced lung immunopathology and antiviral immunity.
42140929 | Naive CD4+ T-cells and disease status at CART infusion correlate with clinical outcomes in real-world large B-cell lymphoma patients receiving second-line CAR T therapy. Axicabtagene ciloleucel (axi-cel) and lisocabtagene maraleucel (liso-cel) are standard-of-care second-line therapies for relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphomas, yet clinical and immunological predictors of durable benefit remain poorly defined. Here, we retrospectively analyze 64 patients treated with second-line commercial axi-cel (n = 35) or liso-cel (n = 29). Overall (66%) and complete (55%) response rates are similar between CART products. The 24-month progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival rates are 46% and 76%, respectively. Primary refractory disease and progressive disease at infusion are associated with inferior response rates on multivariate analysis. Importantly, toxicity rate is relatively low, with 3% of patients experiencing Grade 3-4 cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS). Furthermore, lower CD4+ T-cell counts at apheresis correlate with inferior PFS. Immunophenotyping reveals that higher naive CD4+ T-cell counts at apheresis predict durable response in axi-cel-treated patients. Greater CART expansion, enrichment for naive CD8+ CAR+ T-cells, and lower PD1 expression at day 7 post-infusion are associated with response. Thus, these findings highlight the efficacy of second-line CART and identify disease and immune-related predictors of long-term response.
