11937547 | Identification of a candidate regulatory region in the human CD8 gene complex by colocalization of DNase I hypersensitive sites and matrix attachment regions which bind SATB1 and GATA-3. To locate elements regulating the human CD8 gene complex, we mapped nuclear matrix attachment regions (MARs) and DNase I hypersensitive (HS) sites over a 100-kb region that included the CD8B gene, the intergenic region, and the CD8A gene. MARs facilitate long-range chromatin remodeling required for enhancer activity and have been found closely linked to several lymphoid enhancers. Within the human CD8 gene complex, we identified six DNase HS clusters, four strong MARs, and several weaker MARs. Three of the strong MARs were closely linked to two tissue-specific DNase HS clusters (III and IV) at the 3' end of the CD8B gene. To further establish the importance of this region, we obtained 19 kb of sequence and screened for potential binding sites for the MAR-binding protein, SATB1, and for GATA-3, both of which are critical for T cell development. By gel shift analysis we identified two strong SATB1 binding sites, located 4.5 kb apart, in strong MARs. We also detected strong GATA-3 binding to an oligonucleotide containing two GATA-3 motifs located at an HS site in cluster IV. This clustering of DNase HS sites and MARs capable of binding SATB1 and GATA-3 at the 3' end of the CD8B gene suggests that this region is an epigenetic regulator of CD8 expression.
37122697 | The first crystal structure of CD8alphaalpha from a cartilaginous fish. Introduction: Cartilaginous fishes are the most evolutionary-distant vertebrates from mammals and possess an immunoglobulin (Ig)- and T cell-mediated adaptive immunity. CD8 is the hallmark receptor of cytotoxic T cells and is required for the formation of T cell receptor-major histocompatibility complex (TCR-MHC) class I complexes. Methods: RACE PCR was used to obtain gene sequences. Direct dilution was applied for the refolding of denatured recombinant CD8 protein. Hanging-drop vapor diffusion method was performed for protein crystallization. Results: In this study, CD8alpha and CD8beta orthologues (termed ScCD8alpha and ScCD8beta) were identified in small-spotted catshark (Scyliorhinus canicula). Both ScCD8alpha and ScCD8beta possess an extracellular immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF) V domain as in previously identified CD8 proteins. The genes encoding CD8alpha and CD8beta are tandemly linked in the genomes of all jawed vertebrates studied, suggesting that they were duplicated from a common ancestral gene before the divergence of cartilaginous fishes and other vertebrates. We determined the crystal structure of the ScCD8alpha ectodomain homodimer at a resolution of 1.35 A and show that it exhibits the typical topological structure of CD8alpha from endotherms. As in mammals, the homodimer formation of ScCD8alphaalpha relies upon interactions within a hydrophobic core although this differs in position and amino acid composition. Importantly, ScCD8alphaalpha shares the canonical cavity required for interaction with peptide-loaded MHC I in mammals. Furthermore, it was found that ScCD8alpha can co-immunoprecipitate with ScCD8beta, indicating that it can form both homodimeric and heterodimeric complexes. Conclusion: Our results expand the current knowledge of vertebrate CD8 dimerization and the interaction between CD8alpha with p/MHC I from an evolutionary perspective.
17264113 | Translational control and target recognition by Escherichia coli small RNAs in vivo. Small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) are an emerging class of regulators of bacterial gene expression. Most of the regulatory Escherichia coli sRNAs known to date modulate translation of trans-encoded target mRNAs. We studied the specificity of sRNA target interactions using gene fusions to green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a novel reporter of translational control by bacterial sRNAs in vivo. Target sequences were selected from both monocistronic and polycistronic mRNAs. Upon expression of the cognate sRNA (DsrA, GcvB, MicA, MicC, MicF, RprA, RyhB, SgrS and Spot42), we observed highly specific translation repression/activation of target fusions under various growth conditions. Target regulation was also tested in mutants that lacked Hfq or RNase III, or which expressed a truncated RNase E (rne701). We found that translational regulation by these sRNAs was largely independent of full-length RNase E, e.g. despite the fact that ompA fusion mRNA decay could no longer be promoted by MicA. This is the first study in which multiple well-defined E.coli sRNA target pairs have been studied in a uniform manner in vivo. We expect our GFP fusion approach to be applicable to sRNA targets of other bacteria, and also demonstrate that Vibrio RyhB sRNA represses a Vibrio sodB fusion when co-expressed in E.coli.
17940119 | Genetic variants within the LPIN1 gene, encoding lipin, are influencing phenotypes of the metabolic syndrome in humans. OBJECTIVE: Lipin, a novel molecular protein expressed by adipocytes, has marked effects on adipose tissue mass, insulin sensitivity, and glucose homeostasis. Thus, we hypothesized that genetic variants within LPIN1 are associated with traits of the metabolic syndrome. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A total of 15 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) covering the LPIN1 gene region were genotyped in an age- and sex-stratified sample of the general population (Monitoring Trends and Determinants on Cardiovascular Diseases Study Augsburg; DNA and phenotypes of 1,416 Caucasians). Ten SNPs were also genotyped for replication in an independent sample of 1,030 subjects recruited throughout Germany. The metabolic syndrome was defined via the sum of its core components and, additionally, by a factor score derived from factor analysis. Permutation-based methods were used to test the association between genetic LPIN1 variants and metabolic traits for empirical significance. RESULTS: Linkage disequilibrium (LD) analysis revealed three LD blocks encompassing LPIN1. We identified three associated three-marker haplotypes: one common haplotype (26.8% frequency) increases the risk for the metabolic syndrome (odds ratio 1.6 [95% CI 1.2-2.2]), while the other two, being less common (5.7 and 4.0%), are strongly associated with lower blood pressure levels (systolic blood pressure 127 +/- 18 vs. 135 +/- 20 mmHg; P = 0.0001), a lower BMI (24.6 +/- 3.6 vs. 26.9 +/- 4.1 kg/m(2); P = 3.7 x 10(-7)) and waist circumference (82 +/- 12 vs. 90 +/- 12 cm; P = 3.2 x 10(-8)), lower A1C levels (5.1 +/- 0.7 vs. 5.3 +/- 0.9%; P = 0.0002), as well as a lower metabolic syndrome factor score (-0.67 +/- 1.00 vs. 0.04 +/- 1.24; P = 1.4 x 10(-7)). Furthermore, the frequencies of arterial hypertension (23.7 vs. 46.4%; P = 0.00001), obesity (12.9 vs. 30.8%; P = 0.0003), diabetes (2.2 vs. 8.2%; P = 0.041), and the presence of three or more metabolic syndrome components (3.3 vs. 13.7%; P = 0.002) were significantly lower than in subjects not carrying one of these protective haplotypes. Strong associations were also observed in the replication sample using the same haplotypes but with effects in the opposite direction. CONCLUSIONS These data suggest that allelic variants of the LPIN1 gene have significant effects in human metabolic traits and thus implicate lipin in the pathophysiology of the metabolic syndrome.
698930 | Human lymphoblastoid cell lines as effector cells in mitogen-dependent and antibody-dependent cell-mediated lysis. Based on reports that both human and murine lymphoblastoid cell lines can effect lysis in antibody-dependent (ADCC) and mitogen-induced (MICC) cell-mediated cytotoxicity, 10 human lymphoblastoid cell lines were investigated for their ability to act as effector cells in these lytic reactions. Four cell lines promoted MICC and ADCC of chicken erythrocytes. MICC was inhibited by subjecting the effector cells to gamma-irradiation, and ADCC was partially inhibited by treating antibody-coated target cells with Protein A from Staphylococcus aureus. The latter finding suggests that antibody plays a role in the cytotoxic reaction. The lytic activity of cultured human lymphoid cells in both MICC and ADCC reactions was, however, quite variable for unknown reasons. Because of this instability human lymphoblastoid cell lines are not a suitable source of effector cells for studying the biological and molecular properties of structures responsible for the lytic reaction.
27454254 | Abstracts from the 3rd International Genomic Medicine Conference (3rd IGMC 2015) : Jeddah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 30 November - 3 December 2015.
38609844 | Biomarker discovery with quantum neural networks: a case-study in CTLA4-activation pathways. BACKGROUND: Biomarker discovery is a challenging task due to the massive search space. Quantum computing and quantum Artificial Intelligence (quantum AI) can be used to address the computational problem of biomarker discovery from genetic data. METHOD: We propose a Quantum Neural Networks architecture to discover genetic biomarkers for input activation pathways. The Maximum Relevance-Minimum Redundancy criteria score biomarker candidate sets. Our proposed model is economical since the neural solution can be delivered on constrained hardware. RESULTS: We demonstrate the proof of concept on four activation pathways associated with CTLA4, including (1) CTLA4-activation stand-alone, (2) CTLA4-CD8A-CD8B co-activation, (3) CTLA4-CD2 co-activation, and (4) CTLA4-CD2-CD48-CD53-CD58-CD84 co-activation. CONCLUSION: The model indicates new genetic biomarkers associated with the mutational activation of CLTA4-associated pathways, including 20 genes: CLIC4, CPE, ETS2, FAM107A, GPR116, HYOU1, LCN2, MACF1, MT1G, NAPA, NDUFS5, PAK1, PFN1, PGAP3, PPM1G, PSMD8, RNF213, SLC25A3, UBA1, and WLS. We open source the implementation at: https://github.com/namnguyen0510/Biomarker-Discovery-with-Quantum-Neural-Networks .
28455446 | Enterovirus 71 suppresses interferon responses by blocking Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling through inducing karyopherin-alpha1 degradation. Enterovirus 71 (EV71) has emerged as one of the most important enteroviruses since the eradication of poliovirus, and it causes severe neurological symptoms for which no effective antiviral drugs are available. Type I interferons (IFN) alpha/beta have been used clinically as antiviral therapy as the first line of defense against virus infections successfully for decades. However, treatment with type I interferons has not been effective in patients with EV71 infection. In this study, we found that in cells pretreated with IFN-beta, EV71 infection could still lead to a cytopathic effect, and the viral replication was not affected. The mechanism by which EV71 antagonizes interferon signaling, however, has been controversial. Our study indicated that EV71 infection did not inhibit phosphorylation of STAT1/2 induced by IFN-beta stimulation, but p-STAT1/2 transport into the nucleus was significantly blocked. We showed that EV71 infection reduced the formation of STAT/karyopherin-alpha1 (KPNA1) complex upon interferon stimulation and that the virus down-regulated the expression of KPNA1, a nuclear localization signal receptor for p-STAT1. Using specific caspase inhibitors and siRNA for caspase-3, we demonstrated that EV71 infection induced degradation of cellular KPNA1 in a caspase-3-dependent manner, which led to decreased induction of interferon-inducible genes and IFN response. Viral 2A and 3C proteases did not degrade KPNA1, inhibit the activity of ISRE or suppress the transcription of interferon-inducible genes induced by IFN-beta. Our study demonstrates a novel mechanism by which antiviral signaling is suppressed through degradation of KPNA1 by activated caspase-3 induced in an enteroviral infection.
22399799 | A short Gfi-1B isoform controls erythroid differentiation by recruiting the LSD1-CoREST complex through the dimethylation of its SNAG domain. Gfi-1B is a transcriptional repressor essential for the regulation of erythropoiesis and megakaryopoiesis. Here we identify Gfi-1B p32, a Gfi-1B isoform, as essential for erythroid differentiation. Gfi-1B p32 is generated by alternative splicing and lacks the two first zinc finger domains of the protein. Selective knock down of Gfi-1B p32 compromises erythroid differentiation, whereas its ectopic expression induces erythropoiesis in the absence of erythropoietin. Gfi-1B p32 isoform binds to Gfi-1B target gene promoters and associates with the LSD1-CoREST repressor complex more efficiently than the major Gfi-1B p37 isoform. Furthermore, we show that Gfi-1B includes a KSKK motif in its SNAG domain, which recruits the repressor complex only when dimethylated on lysine 8. Mutation of lysine 8 prevents Gfi-1B p32-induced erythroid development. Our results thus highlight a key role for the alternatively spliced Gfi-1B p32 isoform in erythroid development.
29679717 | STAT-3 regulation of CXCR4 is necessary for the prenylflavonoid Icaritin to enhance mesenchymal stem cell proliferation, migration and osteogenic differentiation. Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) dysfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of osteoporosis. MSCs derived from osteoporotic subjects demonstrate significant impairment in proliferation, adhesion and chemotaxis, and osteogenic differentiation, leading to reduced functional bone-forming osteoblasts and ultimately nett bone loss and osteoporosis. Epimedium herbs and its active compound Icaritin (ICT) have been used in Chinese ethnopharmacology for the treatment of metabolic bone diseases. Using an in-vitro cell culture model, we investigated the benefits of ICT treatment in enhancing MSC proliferation, migration and osteogenic differentiation, and provide novel data to describe its mechanism of action. ICT enhances MSC proliferation, chemotaxis to stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) and osteogenic differentiation through the activation of signal transduction activator transcription factor 3 (STAT-3), with a consequential up-regulation in the expression and activity of cysteine (C)-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4). These findings provide a strong basis for future clinical studies to confirm the therapeutic potential of ICT for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and fragility fractures.
33843403 | CXCR4 allows T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia to escape from JAK1/2 and BCL2 inhibition through CNS infiltration. Targeting the JAK/STAT and BCL2 pathways in patients with relapsed/refractory T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) may provide an alternative approach to achieve clinical remissions. Ruxolitinib and venetoclax show a dose-dependent effect on T-ALL individually, but combination treatment reduces survival and proliferation of T-ALL in vitro. Using a xenograft model, the combination treatment fails to improve survival, with death from hind limb paralysis. Despite on-target inhibition by the drugs, histopathology demonstrates increased leukemic infiltration into the central nervous system (CNS) as compared to liver or bone marrow. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectroscopy shows that ruxolitinib and venetoclax insufficiently cross into the CNS. The addition of the CXCR4 inhibitor plerixafor with ruxolitinib and venetoclax reduces clinical scores and enhances survival. While combination therapy with ruxolitinib and venetoclax shows promise for treating T-ALL, additional inhibition of the CXCR4-CXCL12 axis may be needed to maximize the possibility of complete remission.
8436166 | Transcriptional diversity at the duplicated human CD8 beta loci. In order to understand the structural organization of the human CD8 beta locus, genomic clones containing CD8 beta sequences were isolated and analyzed. Physical linkage of these clones with the CD8 alpha locus using pulsed-field electrophoresis revealed a duplication of the CD8 beta locus. CD8B-1 lies 35 kb upstream from the CD8 alpha locus and contains eight exons, including four alternatively spliced cytoplasmic exons. The CD8B-2 gene contains six exons and is at present unlinked to CD8B-1. Analysis of sequences upstream to the leader exon of the CD8B-1 and CD8B-2 genes revealed a GC-rich promoter which lacks canonical \CCAAT\ and \TATA\ motifs, but which has sites for multiple transcriptional activators and three additional elements which are conserved in the murine CD8 beta promoter. Seven unique CD8 beta cDNA isoforms were isolated and characterized, which derive from alternative splicing of the transmembrane and/or cytoplasmic exons. Three cDNA are membrane spanning, while the remaining four isoforms lack a transmembrane region and are potentially secreted. These transcripts are differentially expressed in the thymus and in the periphery. Transfection experiments in murine fibroblasts confirmed that the membrane CD8 beta isoforms could be expressed as heterodimers with the CD8 alpha chain. The regulated expression of multiple CD8 beta cytoplasmic isoforms and their potential role in T lymphocyte signal transduction is discussed.
35943359 | CD8 T cells contribute to vaccine protection against SARS-CoV-2 in macaques. Spike-specific neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) are generally considered key correlates of vaccine protection against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. Recently, robust vaccine prevention of severe disease with SARS-CoV-2 variants that largely escape NAb responses has been reported, suggesting a role for other immune parameters for virologic control. However, direct data demonstrating a role of CD8+ T cells in vaccine protection have not yet been reported. In this study, we show that vaccine-elicited CD8+ T cells contribute substantially to virologic control after SARS-CoV-2 challenge in rhesus macaques. We vaccinated 30 macaques with a single immunization of the adenovirus vector-based vaccine Ad26.COV2.S or sham and then challenged them with 5 x 105 median tissue culture infectious dose SARS-CoV-2 B.1.617.2 (Delta) by the intranasal and intratracheal routes. All vaccinated animals were infected by this high-dose challenge but showed rapid virologic control in nasal swabs and bronchoalveolar lavage by day 4 after challenge. However, administration of an anti-CD8alpha- or anti-CD8beta-depleting monoclonal antibody in vaccinated animals before SARS-CoV-2 challenge resulted in higher levels of peak and day 4 virus in both the upper and lower respiratory tracts. These data demonstrate that CD8+ T cells contribute substantially to vaccine protection against SARS-CoV-2 replication in macaques.
34928779 | Expression and polymorphisms of CD8B gene and its associations with body weight and size traits in sheep. The growth traits are economically important traits in sheep. Improving growth rates will increase the profitability of producers. The aim of this study was to identify alleles of CD8B (encoding T-cell surface glycoprotein CD8 beta chain) that are aberrantly expressed in different tissues and to assess the effects and associations of its different genotypes on weight and size traits in sheep. Using quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR arrays, expression profiling of CD8B was performed in various organs and tissues. CD8B was ubiquitously expressed, with very high expression in the lung, spleen, lymph, duodenum, and liver. One intronic mutation (chr3:62,718,030 (Oar_rambouillet_v1.0, same below) G > A) was identified using pooled DNA sequencing. Subsequently, the variants (AA, AG, and GG) were genotyped using the KASPar  PCR single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping system. The results of association analysis with body weight and body size traits in 1304 sheep showed that increases in multiple phenotypic traits correlated with the AA genotype (body weight, p < 0.05; body length, p < 0.05). Thus, SNP chr3:62,718,030 G > A is a promising molecular marker for marker-assisted selection in sheep breeding.
37205446 | Boosting Live Malaria Vaccine with Cytomegalovirus Vector Can Prolong Immunity through Innate and Adaptive Mechanisms. Vaccines to persistent parasite infections have been challenging, and current iterations lack long-term protection. Cytomegalovirus ( CMV) chronic vaccine vectors drive protection against SIV, tuberculosis and liver-stage malaria correlated with antigen-specific CD8 T cells with a Tem phenotype. This phenotype is likely driven by a combination of antigen-specific and innate adjuvanting effects of the vector, though these mechanisms are less well understood. Sterilizing immunity from live Plasmodium chabaudi vaccination lasts less than 200 days. While P. chabaudi -specific antibody levels remain stable after vaccination, the decay of parasite-specific T cells correlates with loss of challenge protection. Therefore, we enlisted murine CMV as a booster strategy to prolong T cell responses against malaria. To study induced T cell responses, we included P. chabaudi MSP-1 epitope B5 (MCMV-B5). We found that MCMV vector alone significantly protected against a challenge P. chabaudi infection 40-60 days later, and that MCMV-B5 was able to make B5-specific Teff, in addition to previously-reported Tem, that survive to the challenge timepoint. Used as a booster, MCMV-B5 prolonged protection from heterologous infection beyond day 200, and increased B5 TCR Tg T cell numbers, including both a highly-differentiated Tem phenotype and Teff, both previously reported to protect. B5 epitope expression was responsible for maintenance of Th1 and Tfh B5 T cells. In addition, the MCMV vector had adjuvant properties, contributing non-specifically through prolonged stimulation of IFN-gamma. In vivo neutralization of IFN-gamma, but not IL-12 and IL-18, late in the course of MCMV, led to loss of the adjuvant effect. Mechanistically, sustained IFN-gamma from MCMV increased CD8alpha + dendritic cell numbers, and led to increased IL-12 production upon Plasmodium challenge. In addition, neutralization of IFN-gamma before challenge reduced the polyclonal Teff response to challenge. Our findings suggest that, as protective epitopes are defined, an MCMV vectored booster can prolong protection through the innate effects of IFN-gamma. Authors' summary: Malaria represents a challenging target for vaccination. This is in part because of the requirement for CD4 T cell immunity in addition to the standard B cell responses current vaccines induce. However, human malaria vaccine approaches thus far have limited longevity of protection due to decay of T cell responses. This includes the most advanced malaria vaccine, a virus-like particle expressing one recombinant liver-stage antigen (RTS,S), and liver-stage parasites attenuated by radiation (PfSPZ), as well as live vaccination with drug-treatment. Our work seeks to prolong this protection using MCMV, a promising vaccine vector known to promote CD8 T cell responses. We observed that boosting the live malaria vaccine with MCMV including a Plasmodium antigen led to longer protection from P. chabaudi parasitemia, and can be used to promote maintenance of antigen-specific CD4 T cells. In investigating the mechanisms of the MCMV booster, we found that the cytokine IFN-gamma is required for prolonged protection and enhances priming of the innate immune system for prolonged protection from malaria. Our research informs both the quest for a longer-lived malaria vaccine and that to understand mechanisms of protection from persistent infection.
26846139 | Reperfusion in non-occlusive mesenteric ischaemia (NOMI): effectiveness of CT in an emergency setting. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the CT features of reperfusion (presence/absence) in non-occlusive mesenteric ischaemia (NOMI) and their prognostic value in an emergency setting. METHODS: A revision was undertaken of imaging from 20 patients (16 males/4 females) with a dismissal summary of NOMI. All patients had previously undergone a minimum of one multidetector CT examination, and consequently underwent surgery (n = 8), autopsy (n = 2), angiography (n = 1) or endoscopy (n = 9). An evaluation of the CT scans was conducted to determine vessels, mesentery, bowel and peritoneal cavity features. The superior mesenteric artery (SMA) average diameter of NOMI cases were compared with 30 controlled cases. Kappa, Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) and Fisher's exact tests were used for statistical analysis. RESULTS: A mean SMA diameter significantly smaller than that of the controlled cases was found for patients with NOMI (K-S test: D = 0.75, p = 3.7 x 10-08). Fisher's exact tests showed a strong connection between the presence of reperfusion and mesenteric fat stranding (p = 0.026), bowel wall thickening (p = 3.2 x 10-05) and a high attenuation of the bowel wall on unenhanced CT images (p = 2.8 x 10-04). A reduction in mortality was significantly linked to the combination of normal mesenteric vessels and wall thickening (p = 0.034). CONCLUSION: Analysis of not only vessels findings but also mesentery and bowel CT features will support the identification of NOMI with or without a reperfusion event in an emergency setting. A strong correlation between some CT features and lower mortality exists. ADVANCES IN KNOWLEDGE: CT features of NOMI with or without reperfusion are demonstrated. Correctly assessing the presence of reperfusion in NOMI, may allow better management of these conditions in the emergency setting.
31301483 | Overcoming multiple drug resistance in lung cancer using siRNA targeted therapy. Among cancers, lung cancer is the most morbidity and mortality disease that is remaining the fatalist. Generally, there are multiple treatment procedures for lung cancer, such as surgery, immunotherapy, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. There is, therefore, an urgent need for more specified and efficient methods for treatment of lung cancer such as RNAi, which in combination with traditional therapies could silence genes that are involved in the drug resistance. These genes may either be motivators of apoptosis inhibition, EMT and DNA repair system promoters or a member of intracellular signaling pathways, such as JAK/STAT, RAS/RAF/MEK, PI3K/AKT, NICD, B-catenin/TCF/LEF and their stimulator receptors including IGFR, EGFR, FGFR, VEGFR, CXCR4, MET, INTEGRINS, NOTCH1 and FRIZZLED, so could be considered as appropriate targets. In current review, the results of multiple studies which have employed drug application after one specific gene silencing or more than one gene from distinct pathways also simultaneous drug and RNAi usage in vitro and in vivo in lung cancer were summarized.
38259290 | Network pharmacology and experiment validation investigate the potential mechanism of triptolide in oral squamous cell carcinoma. Objective: This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanism of triptolide in the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) via network pharmacology and experimental validation. Methods: The network pharmacological method was used to predict the key targets, detect the signal pathways for the treatment of OSCC, and screen the critical components and targets for molecular docking. Predicted targets were validated in cellular and xenograft mouse model. Results: In this study, we predicted action on 17 relevant targets of OSCC by network pharmacology. PPI network demonstrated that Jun, MAPK8, TP53, STAT3, VEGFA, IL2, CXCR4, PTGS2, IL4 might be the critical targets of triptolide in the treatment of OSCC. These potential targets are mainly closely related to JAK-STAT and MAPK signaling pathways. The analysis of molecular docking showed that triptolide has high affinity with Jun, MAPK8 and TP53. Triptolide can suppress the growth of OSCC cells and xenograft mice tumor, and downregulate the expression of Jun, MAPK8, TP53, STAT3, VEGFA, IL2, CXCR4, PTGS2 to achieve the therapeutic effect of OSCC. Conclusion: Through network pharmacological methods and experimental studies, we predicted and validated the potential targets and related pathways of triptolide for OSCC treatment. The results suggest that triptolide can inhibit the growth of OSCC via several key targets.
28863947 | The prenylflavonoid Icaritin enhances osteoblast proliferation and function by signal transducer and activator of transcription factor 3 (STAT-3) regulation of C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) expression. In this study, we examined the effects of a natural prenylflavonoid Icaritin (ICT), on human osteoblast proliferation and osteogenic function. We observed that ICT dose-dependently enhanced osteoblast proliferation by ~15% over a 7day period. This increase in cell proliferation was associated with corresponding increases in osteoblast functions as measured by ALP secretion, intracellular calcium ions influx and calcium deposition. These anabolic effects were associated with a 4-fold increase in CXCR4 mRNA and protein expression. Silencing of CXCR4 protein expression using small interfering RNA reversed ICT-induced increase in cell proliferation, ALP activity and calcium deposition. Interestingly, we observed that ICT dose-dependently increased STAT-3 phosphorylation; and this resulted in increased binding of phosphorylated STAT-3 to the promoter region of the CXCR4 gene, to increase CXCR4 protein expression. Furthermore, we found that inhibition of STAT-3 phosphorylation resulted in a decrease in CXCR4 protein expression; whilst increasing phosphorylation of STAT-3 using a constitutive active STAT-3 vector significantly increased CXCR4 levels. Moreover, the chemical inhibition of STAT-3 phosphorylation annulled our previously observed ICT-induced increases of osteoblast proliferation and function. Finally, in a rat model of estrogen-deficient osteoporosis, ICT restored both osteoblasts numbers and CXCR4 expression. Taken together, both cellular and animal models support the novel findings that ICT; through the phosphorylation of STAT-3, up-regulated CXCR4, to increase osteoblast proliferation and function.
37310382 | CD8+ T cell depletion prevents neuropathology in a mouse model of globoid cell leukodystrophy. Globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD) or Krabbe's disease is a fatal genetic demyelinating disease of the central nervous system caused by loss-of-function mutations in the galactosylceramidase (galc) gene. While the metabolic basis for disease is known, the understanding of how this results in neuropathology is not well understood. Herein, we report that the rapid and protracted elevation of CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes occurs coincident with clinical disease in a mouse model of GLD. Administration of a function-blocking antibody against CD8alpha effectively prevented disease onset, reduced morbidity and mortality, and prevented CNS demyelination in mice. These data indicate that subsequent to the genetic cause of disease, neuropathology is driven by pathogenic CD8+ T cells, thus offering novel therapeutic potential for treatment of GLD.
35095831 | CD209/CD14+ Dendritic Cells Characterization in Rheumatoid and Psoriatic Arthritis Patients: Activation, Synovial Infiltration, and Therapeutic Targeting. Dendritic cells (DC) have a key role in the initiation and progression of inflammatory arthritis (IA). In this study, we identified a DC population that derive from monocytes, characterized as CD209/CD14+ DC, expressing classical DC markers (HLADR, CD11c) and the Mo-DC marker (CD209), while also retaining the monocytic marker CD14. This CD209/CD14+ DC population is present in the circulation of Healthy Control (HC), with increased frequency in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) and Psoriatic arthritic (PsA) patients. We demonstrate, for the first time, that circulatory IA CD209/CD14+ DC express more cytokines (IL1beta/IL6/IL12/TNFalpha) and display a unique chemokine receptor expression and co-expression profiles compared to HC. We demonstrated that CD209/CD14+ DC are enriched in the inflamed joint where they display a unique inflammatory and maturation phenotype, with increased CD40 and CD80 and co-expression of specific chemokine receptors, displaying unique patterns between PsA and RA. We developed a new protocol of magnetic isolation and expansion for CD209+ DC from blood and identified transcriptional differences involved in endocytosis/antigen presentation between RA and PsA CD209+ DC. In addition, we observed that culture of healthy CD209+ DC with IA synovial fluid (SF), but not Osteoarthritis (OA) SF, was sufficient to induce the development of CD209/CD14+ DC, leading to a poly-mature DC phenotype. In addition, differential effects were observed in terms of chemokine receptor and chemokine expression, with healthy CD209+ DC displaying increased expression/co-expression of CCR6, CCR7, CXCR3, CXCR4 and CXCR5 when cultured with RA SF, while an increase in the chemokines CCR3, CXCL10 and CXCL11 was observed when cultured with PsA SF. This effect may be mediated in part by the observed differential increase in chemokines expressed in RA vs PsA SF. Finally, we observed that the JAK/STAT pathway, but not the NF-kappaB pathway (driven by TNFalpha), regulated CD209/CD14+ DC function in terms of activation, inflammatory state, and migratory capacity. In conclusion, we identified a novel CD209/CD14+ DC population, which is active in the circulation of RA and PsA, an effect potentiated once they enter the joint. Furthermore, we demonstrated that JAK/STAT inhibition can be used as a therapeutic strategy to decrease the inflammatory state of the pathogenic CD209/CD14+ DC.
34923792 | [Characteristics of CD8+ T cell infiltration in colorectal cancer and their correlation with prognosis]. Objective: As cytotoxic T cells, CD8+ T lymphocytes can kill tumor cells by releasing perforin and other effector molecules, but the correlation between their infiltration level and the prognosis of colorectal cancer varies in previous studies. This study aims to explore the distribution of CD8+T cells in tumor center and invasive margin of colorectal cancer, and to analyze their correlation with the prognosis of patients. Methods: A retrospective cohort study was used to analyze the clinicopathological features of 221 patients with colorectal cancer from the colorectal cancer pathological database of the Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University between 2009 and 2012. Case inclusion criteria: (1) colorectal cancers confirmed by postoperative pathology; (2) patients with follow-up data. Exclusion criteria: (1) multiple primary cancers; (2) inflammatory bowel disease, Lynch syndrome or familial adenomatous polyposis; (3) no available paraffin slides; (4) patients receiving preoperative radiotherapy or chemotherapy. A total of 221 patients met the criteria. Immunohistochemical staining was used to count the CD8+ T cells in tumor center and invasive margin in the paraffin slides. Meanwhile the relative expression of CD8B gene in 22 fresh freeze samples of colorectal cancer was detected. Then the correlation of the expression with CD8+T cell density was examined. The patients were divided into high and low infiltration groups according to the level of CD8+T cells. Log-rank test was applied to compare the overall survival of the two groups of patients, and Cox regression analysis was used to adjust the prognostic significance of CD8+T cell infiltration. Results: There were 118 males and 103 females. In 221 slides, CD8+T cells infiltrating in invasive margin were more than those in tumor center [median (range): 37(0-141) / field vs. 14(0-106) / field, Z=-11.985, P<0.001], and the number of CD8+T cell in the tumor center was positively correlated with those in invasive margin (r=0.610, P<0.001). The number of CD8+ T cell in tumor center was positively correlated with the relative expression of CD8B gene (r=0.524, P=0.012). Survival analysis showed that the overall survival of the high infiltration group was better than that of the low infiltration group both in tumor center and invasive margin (median survival: 84.1 months vs. 73.5 months, P<0.001; 84.2 months vs. 75.9 months, P=0.002). Cox regression analysis revealed that high CD8+T cell infiltration in tumor center was an independent protective factor of overall survival (HR=0.369, 95% CI: 0.168-0.812, P=0.013). Conclusions: The infiltration level of CD8+T cells in tumor center is lower than that in invasive margin, and they are positively correlated. The level of CD8+ T cell infiltration in tumor center is related to overall survival and can be used as a potential pronostic marker.
38377192 | Diverse cytomegalovirus US11 antagonism and MHC-A evasion strategies reveal a tit-for-tat coevolutionary arms race in hominids. Recurrent, ancient arms races between viruses and hosts have shaped both host immunological defense strategies as well as viral countermeasures. One such battle is waged by the glycoprotein US11 encoded by the persisting human cytomegalovirus. US11 mediates degradation of major histocompatibility class I (MHC-I) molecules to prevent CD8+ T-cell activation. Here, we studied the consequences of the arms race between US11 and primate MHC-A proteins, leading us to uncover a tit-for-tat coevolution and its impact on MHC-A diversification. We found that US11 spurred MHC-A adaptation to evade viral antagonism: In an ancestor of great apes, the MHC-A A2 lineage acquired a Pro184Ala mutation, which confers resistance against the ancestral US11 targeting strategy. In response, US11 deployed a unique low-complexity region (LCR), which exploits the MHC-I peptide loading complex to target the MHC-A2 peptide-binding groove. In addition, the global spread of the human HLA-A*02 allelic family prompted US11 to employ a superior LCR strategy with an optimally fitting peptide mimetic that specifically antagonizes HLA-A*02. Thus, despite cytomegaloviruses low pathogenic potential, the increasing commitment of US11 to MHC-A has significantly promoted diversification of MHC-A in hominids.
22025728 | Cd8 enhancer E8I and Runx factors regulate CD8alpha expression in activated CD8+ T cells. Cd8a and Cd8b1 coreceptor gene (Cd8) expression is tightly controlled during T-cell development by the activity of five Cd8 enhancers (E8(I)-E8(V)). Here we demonstrate a unique transcriptional program regulating CD8 expression during CD8(+) effector T-cell differentiation. The Cd8 enhancer E8(I) and Runx/core-binding factor-beta (CBFbeta) complexes were required for the establishment of this regulatory circuit, because E8(I)-, Runx3-, or CBFbeta-deficient CD8(+) T cells down-regulated CD8alpha expression during activation. This finding correlated with enhanced repressive histone marks at the Cd8a promoter in the absence of E8(I), and the down-regulation of CD8alpha expression could be blocked by treating E8(I)-, Runx3-, or CBFbeta-deficient CD8(+) T cells with the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A. Moreover, Runx/CBFbeta complexes bound the Cd8ab gene cluster in activated CD8(+) T cells, suggesting direct control of the Cd8a locus. However, CD8(+) effector T cells maintained high levels of CD8alpha when CBFbeta was conditionally deleted after activation. Thus, our data suggest an E8(I)- and Runx3/CBFbeta-dependent epigenetic programming of the Cd8a locus during T-cell activation, leading to Runx/CBFbeta complex-independent maintenance of CD8alpha expression in effector T cells.
16894629 | Morphological and molecular course of mitochondrial pathology in cultured human cells exposed long-term to Zidovudine. Long-term use of antiretroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) as therapy for human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection is limited by mitochondrial toxicity. Here we document mitochondrial pathology during the long-term culture of human HeLa cells in the presence or absence of the NRTI Zidovudine(R) (AZT, 800 muM) for up to 77-passages (p), with samples taken at early (p5-p11), middle (p36 and p37), and late (p70-p77) passages. Samples were analyzed for changes in mitochondrial morphology, mitochondrial (mt)DNA quantity, nuclear and mitochondrial gene expression, and mitochondrial membrane potential. Mitochondria showed abnormal proliferation at p5 and abnormal morphology >/=p36. mtDNA quantity was increased at p5 and p11, and 65% depleted at p71. Hierarchical clustering of nuclear gene expression, examined at p37 by the NCI cDNA microarray in AZT-exposed cells, showed down-regulation of 13 out of 16 lipid-metabolizing genes, and up-regulation of most oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) genes. OXPHOS genes encoded by mtDNA, examined at p5, p36, and p75 using the Mitochondrial Gene Mini Array, revealed up-regulation of genes coding for polypeptides of NADH dehydrogenase, ATP synthase, and cytochrome c oxidase. Mitochondrial membrane potential, monitored by JC1 staining, was elevated at p10 and p32, and essentially completely absent at p71. The data show that during chronic exposure of HeLa cells to AZT, a compensatory response was induced at the earlier passages (p5-p37), and by p71 there was widespread mitochondrial morphological damage, severe mtDNA depletion, and a substantial loss of mitochondrial membrane potential.
1898906 | Limited clonal heterogeneity of antigen-specific T cells localizing in the pleural space during mycobacterial infection. To detect possible differences in phenotype and fine specificity for mycobacterial antigens between CD4-positive T cells from peripheral blood (PB) and from inflammatory sites, we identified four patients presenting with a mycobacterial pleural exudate (PE) rich in PPD-specific lymphocytes and with a negative skin test to tuberculin purified protein derivative (PPD) and a negative proliferative response of PB lymphocytes to PPD at the same time. Several weeks after chemotherapy, these patients converted to PPD responsiveness in the periphery, and PPD-specific clones could be generated from PB at this stage. The phenotypic comparison of PE lymphocytes and concomitant PB lymphocytes obtained before treatment showed an increase of CD8 cells and a high frequency of HLA-DR-positive activated T cells in PE. The frequency of tetanus toxoid-specific and Candida albicans-specific proliferating T cells was lower than that of PPD-specific cells in PE but not in PB. PPD-specific clones were derived initially from PE and from PB once the patients had converted to PPD responsiveness. The two sets of clones from each patient were compared for proliferative response to mycobacterial antigen clusters of defined molecular weight ranges. A large number of PE-derived clones (36%) responded to a fraction of 27 to 35 kDa, whereas only one clone from PB responded to the same fraction. The purified antigen P32 (32 kDa), a soluble mycobacterial protein, stimulated PE-derived clones that were responsive to the 37- to 27-kDa fraction but did not stimulate PB-derived clones. The data demonstrate that PE- and PB-derived lymphocytes differ both in phenotype and in fine specificity, suggesting a limited clonal heterogeneity of T cells localizing at the inflammatory site in tuberculous patients without a PPD response in the periphery. Therefore T cells compartmentalized at inflammatory sites provide information that is different from that provided by T cells in the periphery.
34412704 | Experimental colitis promotes sustained, sex-dependent, T-cell-associated neuroinflammation and parkinsonian neuropathology. BACKGROUND: The etiology of sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD) remains uncertain, but genetic, epidemiological, and physiological overlap between PD and inflammatory bowel disease suggests that gut inflammation could promote dysfunction of dopamine-producing neurons in the brain. Mechanisms behind this pathological gut-brain effect and their interactions with sex and with environmental factors are not well understood but may represent targets for therapeutic intervention. METHODS: We sought to identify active inflammatory mechanisms which could potentially contribute to neuroinflammation and neurological disease in colon biopsies and peripheral blood immune cells from PD patients. Then, in mouse models, we assessed whether dextran sodium sulfate-mediated colitis could exert lingering effects on dopaminergic pathways in the brain and whether colitis increased vulnerability to a subsequent exposure to the dopaminergic neurotoxicant 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). We assessed the involvement of inflammatory mechanisms identified in the PD patients in colitis-related neurological dysfunction in male and female mice, utilizing mice lacking the Regulator of G-Protein Signaling 10 (RGS10)-an inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB)-to model enhanced NFkappaB activity, and mice in which CD8+ T-cells were depleted. RESULTS: High levels of inflammatory markers including CD8B and NFkappaB p65 were found in colon biopsies from PD patients, and reduced levels of RGS10 were found in immune cells in the blood. Male mice that experienced colitis exhibited sustained reductions in tyrosine hydroxylase but not in dopamine as well as sustained CD8+ T-cell infiltration and elevated Ifng expression in the brain. CD8+ T-cell depletion prevented colitis-associated reductions in dopaminergic markers in males. In both sexes, colitis potentiated the effects of MPTP. RGS10 deficiency increased baseline intestinal inflammation, colitis severity, and neuropathology. CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies peripheral inflammatory mechanisms in PD patients and explores their potential to impact central dopaminergic pathways in mice. Our findings implicate a sex-specific interaction between gastrointestinal inflammation and neurologic vulnerability that could contribute to PD pathogenesis, and they establish the importance of CD8+ T-cells in this process in male mice.
36294807 | Quantifying Intracellular Viral Pathogen: Specimen Preparation, Visualization and Quantification of Multiple Immunofluorescent Signals in Fixed Human Airway Epithelium Cultured at Air-Liquid Interface. Infection control and aggressive antibiotic therapy play an important role in the management of airway infections in individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF). The responses of airway epithelial cells to pathogens are likely to contribute to the pathobiology of CF lung disease. Primary airway epithelial cells obtained from individuals with CF, cultured and differentiated at air-liquid interface (ALI), effectively mimic the structure and function of the in vivo airway epithelium. With the recent respiratory viral pandemics, ALI cultures were extensively used to model respiratory infections in vitro to facilitate physiologically relevant respiratory research. Immunofluorescence staining and imaging were used as an effective tool to provide a fundamental understanding of host-pathogen interactions and for exploring the therapeutic potential of novel or repurposed drugs. Therefore, we described an optimized quantitative fluorescence microscopy assay for the wholemount staining and imaging of epithelial cell markers to identify distinct cell populations and pathogen-specific targets in ALI cultures of human airway epithelial cells grown on permeable support insert membranes. We present a detailed methodology using a graphical user interface (GUI) package to quantify the detected signals on a tiled whole membrane. Our method provided an imaging strategy of the entire membrane, overcoming the common issue of undersampling and enabling unbiased quantitative analysis.
35069519 | Filovirus VP24 Proteins Differentially Regulate RIG-I and MDA5-Dependent Type I and III Interferon Promoter Activation. Filovirus family consists of highly pathogenic viruses that have caused fatal outbreaks especially in many African countries. Previously, research focus has been on Ebola, Sudan and Marburg viruses leaving other filoviruses less well studied. Filoviruses, in general, pose a significant global threat since they are highly virulent and potentially transmissible between humans causing sporadic infections and local or widespread epidemics. Filoviruses have the ability to downregulate innate immunity, and especially viral protein 24 (VP24), VP35 and VP40 have variably been shown to interfere with interferon (IFN) gene expression and signaling. Here we systematically analyzed the ability of VP24 proteins of nine filovirus family members to interfere with retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and melanoma differentiation-associated antigen 5 (MDA5) induced IFN-beta and IFN-lambda1 promoter activation. All VP24 proteins were localized both in the cell cytoplasm and nucleus in variable amounts. VP24 proteins of Zaire and Sudan ebolaviruses, Lloviu, Tai Forest, Reston, Marburg and Bundibugyo viruses (EBOV, SUDV, LLOV, TAFV, RESTV, MARV and BDBV, respectively) were found to inhibit both RIG-I and MDA5 stimulated IFN-beta and IFN-lambda1 promoter activation. The inhibition takes place downstream of interferon regulatory factor 3 phosphorylation suggesting the inhibition to occur in the nucleus. VP24 proteins of Mengla (MLAV) or Bombali viruses (BOMV) did not inhibit IFN-beta or IFN-lambda1 promoter activation. Six ebolavirus VP24s and Lloviu VP24 bound tightly, whereas MARV and MLAV VP24s bound weakly, to importin alpha5, the subtype that regulates the nuclear import of STAT complexes. MARV and MLAV VP24 binding to importin alpha5 was very weak. Our data provides new information on the innate immune inhibitory mechanisms of filovirus VP24 proteins, which may contribute to the pathogenesis of filovirus infections.
25121743 | How a virus blocks a cellular emergency access lane to the nucleus, STAT! Early in viral infection, the STAT1 transcription factor is rapidly transported into the nucleus using a nonconventional import mechanism to establish an antiviral state. In this issue, Xu et al. (2014) show how the Ebola virus VP24 protein precisely blocks specialized STAT1 import while leaving other cellular import processes intact.
37819133 | Seneca Valley virus 3Cpro antagonizes type I interferon response by targeting STAT1-STAT2-IRF9 and KPNA1 signals. The Seneca Valley virus (SVV) is an emerging pathogen that causes vesicular disease in pigs, posing a threat to the pork industry. The type I interferon (IFN) signaling pathway is the major defense mechanism of host innate immune responses, and SVV has developed numerous strategies to antagonize the IFN signaling and promote viral replication. However, the molecular mechanisms by which SVV affects IFN signaling components have not been fully elucidated. Here, we revealed that SVV proteinase (3Cpro) inhibited IFN-alpha signaling by degrading signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1, STAT2, and interferon regulatory factor 9 (IRF9) through its protease activity, which is dependent on the caspase pathway. 3Cpro was further found to cleave STAT2 at glutamine 758 (Q758) within the transactivation domain, and the cleaved STAT2 products attenuated its ability to activate IFN-stimulated responsive element activity and induce the production of IFN-stimulated genes. Additionally, 3Cpro impaired the nuclear import and formation of the IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 complex. 3Cpro also induced karyopherin 1 degradation to block STAT1/STAT2 nuclear localization. Collectively, SVV 3Cpro is capable of subverting the type I IFN response by targeting STAT1-STAT2-IRF9 and karyopherin alpha1 signals, which uncovers a novel mechanism exploited by SVV to evade host type I IFN response for efficient replication. IMPORTANCE Type I interferon (IFN) signaling plays a principal role in host innate immune responses against invading viruses. Viruses have evolved diverse mechanisms that target the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway to modulate IFN response negatively. Seneca Valley virus (SVV), an emerging porcine picornavirus, has received great interest recently because it poses a great threat to the global pork industry. However, the molecular mechanism by which SVV evades host innate immunity remains incompletely clear. Our results revealed that SVV proteinase (3Cpro) antagonizes IFN signaling by degrading STAT1, STAT2, and IRF9, and cleaving STAT2 to escape host immunity. SVV 3Cpro also degrades karyopherin 1 to block IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 nuclear translocation. Our results reveal a novel molecular mechanism by which SVV 3Cpro antagonizes the type I IFN response pathway by targeting STAT1-STAT2-IRF9 and karyopherin alpha1 signals, which has important implications for our understanding of SVV-evaded host innate immune responses.
37586771 | Personalized neoantigen viro-immunotherapy platform for triple-negative breast cancer. BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) corresponds to approximately 20% of all breast tumors, with a high propensity for metastasis and a poor prognosis. Because TNBC displays a high mutational load compared with other breast cancer types, a neoantigen-based immunotherapy strategy could be effective. One major bottleneck in the development of a neoantigen-based vaccine for TNBC is the selection of the best targets, that is, tumor-specific neoantigens which are presented at the surface of tumor cells and capable of eliciting robust immune responses. In this study, we aimed to set up a platform for identification and delivery of immunogenic neoantigens in a vaccine regimen for TNBC using oncolytic vaccinia virus (VV). METHODS: We used bioinformatic tools and cell-based assays to identify immunogenic neoantigens in TNBC patients' samples, human and murine cell lines. Immunogenicity of the neoantigens was tested in vitro (human) and ex vivo (murine) in T-cell assays. To assess the efficacy of our regimen, we used a preclinical model of TNBC where we treated tumor-bearing mice with neoantigens together with oncolytic VV and evaluated the effect on induction of neoantigen-specific CD8+T cells, tumor growth and survival. RESULTS: We successfully identified immunogenic neoantigens and generated neoantigen-specific CD8+T cells capable of recognizing a human TNBC cell line expressing the mutated gene. Using a preclinical model of TNBC, we showed that our tumor-specific oncolytic VV was able to change the tumor microenvironment, attracting and maintaining mature cross-presenting CD8alpha+dendritic cells and effector T-cells. Moreover, when delivered in a prime/boost regimen together with oncolytic VV, long peptides encompassing neoantigens were able to induce neoantigen-specific CD8+T cells, slow tumor growth and increase survival. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a promising approach for the development of neoantigen-based immunotherapies for TNBC. By identifying immunogenic neoantigens and developing a delivery system through tumor-specific oncolytic VV, we have demonstrated that neoantigen-based vaccines could be effective in inducing neoantigen-specific CD8+T cells response with significant impact on tumor growth. Further studies are needed to determine the safety and efficacy of this approach in clinical trials.
37844994 | C-reactive protein impairs immune response of CD8+ T cells via FcgammaRIIb-p38MAPK-ROS axis in multiple myeloma. BACKGROUND: C-reactive protein (CRP) is a prototypical acute phase protein in humans with the function of regulating immune cells. Serum CRP levels are elevated in multiple myeloma (MM), associated with MM cell proliferation and bone destruction. However, its direct effects on T lymphocytes in MM have not been elucidated. METHODS: Public data sets were used to explore the correlation of CRP levels with immune cell infiltration and cytotoxicity score of CD8+ T cells in MM. In vitro, repeated freeze-thaw myeloma cell lines were taken as tumor antigens to load dendritic cells (DCs) derived from HLA-A*0201-positive healthy donors. MM-specific cytotoxic T cells (MM-CTL) were obtained from T lymphocytes of the corresponding donors pulsed with these DCs. B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA)-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells were manipulated by transfecting with lentivirus encoding an anti-BCMA single-chain variable fragment. Then T cells from healthy controls, MM-CTLs and BCMA CAR-T cells were exposed to CRP and analyzed for cell proliferation, cytotoxicity, immunophenotypes. CRP binding capacity to T cells before and after Fc gamma receptors IIb (FcgammaRIIb) blockage, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and the downstream molecules were also detected. In vivo, both normal C57BL/6J mice and the Vk*MYC myeloma mouse models were applied to confirm the impact of CRP on T cells. RESULTS: CRP levels were negatively correlated with cell-infiltration and cytotoxicity score of CD8+ T cells in MM. In vitro experiments showed that CRP inhibited T-cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner, impaired the cytotoxic activity and upregulated expression of senescent markers in CD8+ T cells. In vivo results validated the suppressive role of CRP in CD8+ T cells. CRP could bind to CD8+ T cells, mainly to the naive T subset, while the binding was dramatically decreased by FcgammaRIIb blockage. Furthermore, CRP resulted in increased phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, elevated levels of reactive oxygen species and oxidized glutathione in CD8+ T cells. CONCLUSIONS: We found that CRP impaired immune response of CD8+ T cells via FcgammaRIIb-p38MAPK-ROS signaling pathway. The study casted new insights into the role of CRP in anti-myeloma immunity, providing implications for future immunotherapy in MM.
24695099 | Immune subversion by Mycobacterium tuberculosis through CCR5 mediated signaling: involvement of IL-10. Tuberculosis is characterized by severe immunosuppression of the host macrophages, resulting in the loss of the host protective immune responses. During Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, the pathogen modulates C-C Chemokine Receptor 5 (CCR5) to enhance IL-10 production, indicating the possible involvement of CCR5 in regulation of the host immune response. Here, we found that Mycobacterium infection significantly increased CCR5 expression in macrophages there by facilitating the activation of its downstream signaling. These events culminated in up-regulation of the immunosuppressive cytokine IL-10 production, which was further associated with the down-regulation of macrophage MHC-II expression along with the up-regulation of CCR5 expression via engagement of STAT-3 in a positive feedback loop. Treatment of macrophages with CCR5 specific siRNA abrogated the IL-10 production and restored MHCII expression. While, in vivo CCR5 silencing was also effective for the restoration of host immune responses against tuberculosis. This study demonstrated that CCR5 played a very critical role for the immune subversion mechanism employed by the pathogen.
34153324 | Effects of high-intensity interval exercise and moderate-intensity continuous exercise on executive function of healthy young males. PURPOSE: This study compared the executive function (EF) performance induced by moderate-intensity continuous exercise (MICE) versus high-intensity interval exercise (HIIE), under two exercise modalities (i.e., running vs. cycling), and explored whether the changes in EF performance were related to the hemodynamics response of the cerebral prefrontal area of the brain. METHODS: In a randomized cross-over design, 16 male participants completed 4 main trials, i.e., 40 min of moderate-intensity continuous running (MICR) or cycling (MICC) with 60% maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max), 33 min of high-intensity interval running (HIIR) or cycling (HIIC). For HIIR or HIIC trials, the exercise intensity was 60% VO2max for the first 5 min, followed by four 4-minute bouts of exercise at 90% VO2max, separated by 3-minute active recovery at 60% VO2max. EF was assessed via the Eriksen Flanker task (EFT) before (Pre), immediately after (Post 0), and 10 min after exercise (Post 10). Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) measured oxygenated hemoglobin (O2Hb) and deoxygenated hemoglobin (HHb) concentrations in the prefrontal area. Each main trial measured the concentrations of blood glucose and lactate, heart rate, and rate of perceived exertion. RESULTS: (1) Compared to the reaction time in EFT during the pretest, the corresponding reaction time was shorter at Post 10 (P < 0.01) but not at Post 0 (P = 0.06). Specifically, reaction time was shorter at Post 10 than in the pretest in HIIC (P = 0.04), MICC (P = 0.01), and HIIR (P < 0.01) but not MICR. (2) The fNIRS results revealed that O2Hb concentrations in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex area were much lower during Post 10 than during the pretest. (3) The blood lactate concentrations were not associated with EF performance regarding both accuracy and reaction time. CONCLUSION: Compared to the pretest, EF was greater after the 10-minute rest during recovery but not immediately after exercise. The different HIIE or MICE protocols adopted in the present study may elicit minor differences regarding their effects on EF.
1825123 | Activation and in vitro expansion of tumor-reactive T lymphocytes from lymph nodes draining human primary breast cancers. The feasibility of in vitro activation of lymphocytes from the draining lymph nodes (DLN) of breast cancer patients was examined. Lymphocytes isolated from 48 DLN from 12 patients were examined for their proliferative responses to rIL-2, autologous tumor cells, or rIL-2 plus tumor cells. Three general patterns of cellular responses were observed. Cells from some DLN (17%) were unresponsive to any stimuli. Lymphocytes from 52% of the DLN responded moderately to rIL-2 alone. The combination of rIL-2 and tumor antigen had a synergistic effect on the proliferation of cells from 31% of the DLN assayed. Phorbol dibutyrate and ionomycin plus rIL-2 stimulated expansion of DLN lymphocytes by up to 850-fold after 35 days. These expanded cell populations, as well as those stimulated with antigen plus rIL-2, were predominantly CD3+ and CD16- cells, varying in proportions of CD4+ and CD8+ subsets. Both populations were cytotoxic against autologous tumor, MCF-7, and K562 target cells.
26331426 | Hirsutinolide Series Inhibit Stat3 Activity, Alter GCN1, MAP1B, Hsp105, G6PD, Vimentin, TrxR1, and Importin alpha-2 Expression, and Induce Antitumor Effects against Human Glioma. We report that hirsutinolide series, 6, 7, 10, 11, 20, and 22, and the semisynthetic analogues, 30, 31, 33, and 36, inhibit constitutively active signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat)3 and malignant glioma phenotype. A position 13 lipophilic ester group is required for activity. Molecular modeling and nuclear magnetic resonance structural analyses reveal direct hirsutinolide:Stat3 binding. One-hour treatment of cells with 6 and 22 also upregulated importin subunit alpha-2 levels and repressed translational activator GCN1, microtubule-associated protein (MAP)1B, thioredoxin reductase (TrxR)1 cytoplasmic isoform 3, glucose-6-phosphate 1-dehydrogenase isoform a, Hsp105, vimentin, and tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein (TNAP)2 expression. Active hirsutinolides inhibited anchorage-dependent and three-dimensional spheroid growth, survival, and migration of human glioma lines and glioma patients' tumor-derived xenograft cells harboring constitutively active Stat3. Oral gavage delivery of 6 or 22 inhibited human glioma tumor growth in subcutaneous mouse xenografts. The inhibition of Stat3 signaling represents part of the hirsutinolide-mediated mechanisms to induce antitumor effects.
33586704 | A non-coding small RNA MicC contributes to virulence in outer membrane proteins in Salmonella Enteritidis. A non-coding small RNA (sRNA) is a new factor to regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. A kind of sRNA MicC, known in Escherichia coli and Salmonella Typhimurium, could repress the expression of outer membrane proteins. To further investigate the regulation function of micC in Salmonella Enteritidis, we cloned the micC gene in the Salmonella Enteritidis strain 50336, and then constructed the mutant 50336DeltamicC by the lambda Red-based recombination system and the complemented mutant 50336DeltamicC/pmicC carrying recombinant plasmid pBR322 expressing micC. qRT-PCR results demonstrated that transcription of ompD in 50336DeltamicC was 1.3-fold higher than that in the wild type strain, while the transcription of ompA and ompC in 50336DeltamicC were 2.2-fold and 3-fold higher than those in the wild type strain. These indicated that micC represses the expression of ompA and ompC. In the following study, the pathogenicity of 50336DeltamicC was detected by both infecting 6-week-old Balb/c mice and 1-day-old chickens. The result showed that the LD50 of the wild type strain 50336, the mutants 50336DeltamicC and 50336DeltamicC/pmicC for 6-week-old Balb/c mice were 12.59 CFU, 5.01 CFU, and 19.95 CFU, respectively. The LD50 of the strains for 1-day-old chickens were 1.13 x 109 CFU, 1.55 x 108 CFU, and 2.54 x 108 CFU, respectively. It indicated that deletion of micC enhanced virulence of S. Enteritidis in mice and chickens by regulating expression of outer membrane proteins.
34772449 | Route of infectious bronchitis virus vaccination determines the type and magnitude of immune responses in table egg laying hens. Chicken immune responses to infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) vaccination can depend on route of administration, vaccine strain and bird age. Typically for layer chickens, IBV vaccinations are administered by spray in the hatchery at day-old and boosted at intervals with live vaccines via drinking water (DW). Knowledge of live attenuated IBV vaccine virus kinetics and the immune response in egg-laying hens is exceptionally limited. Here, we demonstrated dissemination of vaccine viruses and differences in hen innate, mucosal, cellular and humoral immune responses following vaccination with Massachusetts or 793B strains, administered by DW or oculonasal (ON) routes. Detection of IBV in the Mass-vaccinated groups was greater during early time-points, however, 793B was detected more frequently at later timepoints. Viral RNA loads in the Harderian gland and turbinate tissues were significantly higher for ON-Mass compared to all other vaccinated groups. Lachrymal fluid IgY levels were significantly greater than the control at 14 days post-vaccination (dpv) for both vaccine serotypes, and IgA mRNA levels were significantly greater in ON-vaccinated groups compared to DW-vaccinated groups, demonstrating robust mucosal immune responses. Cell mediated immune gene transcripts (CD8-alpha and CD8-beta) were up-regulated in turbinate and trachea tissues. For both vaccines, dissemination and vaccine virus clearance was slower when given by DW compared to the ON route. For ON administration, both vaccines induced comparable levels of mucosal immunity. The Mass vaccine induced cellular immunity to similar levels regardless of vaccination method. When given either by ON or DW, 793B vaccination induced significantly higher levels of humoral immunity.
36281585 | Tumor immune microenvironment in therapy-naive esophageal adenocarcinoma could predict the nodal status. BACKGROUND: Currently, preoperative staging of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) has modest reliability and accuracy for pT and pN stages prediction, which heavily affects overall survival. The interplay among immune checkpoints, oncogenes, and intratumoral and peritumoral immune infiltrating cells could be used to predict loco-regional metastatic disease in early EAC. METHODS: We prospectively evaluated immune markers expression and oncogenes status as well as intratumoral and peritumoral immune infiltrating cells populations in esophageal mucosa samples obtained from neoadjuvant therapy-naive patients who had esophagectomy for EAC. RESULTS: Vascular invasion and high infiltration of lamina propria mononuclear cells resulted associated with nodal metastasis. Low infiltration of activated CD8+ CD28+ T cells was observed in both intratumoral and peritumoral mucosa of patients with nodal metastasis. Low levels of CD69, MYD88, and TLR4 transcripts were detected in the intratumoral specimen of patients with lymph node involvement. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed good accuracy for detecting nodal metastasis for all the markers tested. Significant lower infiltration of CD8 T cells and M1 macrophages and a lower expression of CD8A, CD8B, and TBX21 were found also in Esophageal Adenocarcinoma TCGA panCancer Atlas in the normal tissue of patients with nodal metastasis. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that immune surveillance failure is the main driver of nodal metastasis onset. Moreover, nodal metastasis containment also involves the immune microenvironment of the peritumoral healthy tissue.
16716220 | Outer membrane protein genes and their small non-coding RNA regulator genes in Photorhabdus luminescens. INTRODUCTION: Three major outer membrane protein genes of Escherichia coli, ompF, ompC, and ompA respond to stress factors. Transcripts from these genes are regulated by the small non-coding RNAs micF, micC, and micA, respectively. Here we examine Photorhabdus luminescens, an organism that has a different habitat from E. coli for outer membrane protein genes and their regulatory RNA genes. RESULTS: By bioinformatics analysis of conserved genetic loci, mRNA 5'UTR sequences, RNA secondary structure motifs, upstream promoter regions and protein sequence homologies, an ompF -like porin gene in P. luminescens as well as a duplication of this gene have been predicted. Gene loci for micF RNA, as well as OmpC protein and its associated regulatory micC RNA, were not found. Significantly, a sequence bearing the appropriate signatures of the E. coli micA RNA was located. The ompA homolog was previously annotated in P. luminescens. CONCLUSION: Presence of an ompF-like porin in P. luminescens is in keeping with the necessity to allow for passage of small molecules into the cell. The apparent lack of ompC, micC and micF suggests that these genes are not essential to P. luminescens and ompC and micF in particular may have been lost when the organism entered its defined life cycle and partially protected habitat. Control of porin gene expression by RNA may be more prevalent in free- living cells where survival is dependent on the ability to make rapid adjustments in response to environmental stress. Regulation of ompA by micA may have been retained due to a necessity for ompA control during one or both stages of the P. luminescens life cycle.
17903297 | Genetic correlates of brain aging on MRI and cognitive test measures: a genome-wide association and linkage analysis in the Framingham Study. BACKGROUND: Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cognitive tests can identify heritable endophenotypes associated with an increased risk of developing stroke, dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). We conducted a genome-wide association (GWA) and linkage analysis exploring the genetic basis of these endophenotypes in a community-based sample. METHODS: A total of 705 stroke- and dementia-free Framingham participants (age 62 +9 yrs, 50% male) who underwent volumetric brain MRI and cognitive testing (1999-2002) were genotyped. We used linear models adjusting for first degree relationships via generalized estimating equations (GEE) and family based association tests (FBAT) in additive models to relate qualifying single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs, 70,987 autosomal on Affymetrix 100K Human Gene Chip with minor allele frequency > or = 0.10, genotypic call rate > or = 0.80, and Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium p-value > or = 0.001) to multivariable-adjusted residuals of 9 MRI measures including total cerebral brain (TCBV), lobar, ventricular and white matter hyperintensity (WMH) volumes, and 6 cognitive factors/tests assessing verbal and visuospatial memory, visual scanning and motor speed, reading, abstract reasoning and naming. We determined multipoint identity-by-descent utilizing 10,592 informative SNPs and 613 short tandem repeats and used variance component analyses to compute LOD scores. RESULTS: The strongest gene-phenotype association in FBAT analyses was between SORL1 (rs1131497; p = 3.2 x 10(-6)) and abstract reasoning, and in GEE analyses between CDH4 (rs1970546; p = 3.7 x 10(-8)) and TCBV. SORL1 plays a role in amyloid precursor protein processing and has been associated with the risk of AD. Among the 50 strongest associations (25 each by GEE and FBAT) were other biologically interesting genes. Polymorphisms within 28 of 163 candidate genes for stroke, AD and memory impairment were associated with the endophenotypes studied at p < 0.001. We confirmed our previously reported linkage of WMH on chromosome 4 and describe linkage of reading performance to a marker on chromosome 18 (GATA11A06), previously linked to dyslexia (LOD scores = 2.2 and 5.1). CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that genes associated with clinical neurological disease also have detectable effects on subclinical phenotypes. These hypothesis generating data illustrate the use of an unbiased approach to discover novel pathways that may be involved in brain aging, and could be used to replicate observations made in other studies.
35354951 | The transcription factor LRF promotes integrin beta7 expression by and gut homing of CD8alphaalpha+ intraepithelial lymphocyte precursors. While T cell receptor (TCR) alphabeta+CD8alpha+CD8beta- intraepithelial lymphocytes (CD8alphaalpha+ IELs) differentiate from thymic IEL precursors (IELps) and contribute to gut homeostasis, the transcriptional control of their development remains poorly understood. In the present study we showed that mouse thymocytes deficient for the transcription factor leukemia/lymphoma-related factor (LRF) failed to generate TCRalphabeta+CD8alphaalpha+ IELs and their CD8beta-expressing counterparts, despite giving rise to thymus and spleen CD8alphabeta+ T cells. LRF-deficient IELps failed to migrate to the intestine and to protect against T cell-induced colitis, and had impaired expression of the gut-homing integrin alpha4beta7. Single-cell RNA-sequencing found that LRF was necessary for the expression of genes characteristic of the most mature IELps, including Itgb7, encoding the beta7 subunit of alpha4beta7. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and gene-regulatory network analyses both defined Itgb7 as an LRF target. Our study identifies LRF as an essential transcriptional regulator of IELp maturation in the thymus and subsequent migration to the intestinal epithelium.
24814927 | Rotavirus inhibits IFN-induced STAT nuclear translocation by a mechanism that acts after STAT binding to importin-alpha. The importance of innate immunity to rotaviruses is exemplified by the range of strategies evolved by rotaviruses to interfere with the IFN response. We showed previously that rotaviruses block gene expression induced by type I and II IFNs, through a mechanism allowing activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1 and STAT2 but preventing their nuclear accumulation. This normally occurs through activated STAT1/2 dimerization, enabling an interaction with importin alpha5 that mediates transport into the nucleus. In rotavirus-infected cells, STAT1/2 inhibition may limit the antiviral actions of IFN produced early in infection. Here we further analysed the block to STAT1/2 nuclear accumulation, showing that activated STAT1 accumulates in the cytoplasm in rotavirus-infected cells. STAT1/2 nuclear accumulation was inhibited by rotavirus even in the presence of the nuclear export inhibitor Leptomycin B, demonstrating that enhanced nuclear export is not involved in STAT1/2 cytoplasmic retention. The ability to inhibit STAT nuclear translocation was completely conserved amongst the group A rotaviruses tested, including a divergent avian strain. Analysis of mutant rotaviruses indicated that residues after amino acid 47 of NSP1 are dispensable for STAT inhibition. Furthermore, expression of any of the 12 Rhesus monkey rotavirus proteins did not inhibit IFN-stimulated STAT1 nuclear translocation. Finally, co-immunoprecipitation experiments from transfected epithelial cells showed that STAT1/2 binds importin alpha5 normally following rotavirus infection. These findings demonstrate that rotavirus probably employs a novel strategy to inhibit IFN-induced STAT signalling, which acts after STAT activation and binding to the nuclear import machinery.
37828002 | KRAS G12V neoantigen specific T cell receptor for adoptive T cell therapy against tumors. KRAS mutations are broadly recognized as promising targets for tumor therapy. T cell receptors (TCRs) can specifically recognize KRAS mutant neoantigens presented by human lymphocyte antigen (HLA) and mediate T cell responses to eliminate tumor cells. In the present study, we identify two TCRs specific for the 9-mer KRAS-G12V mutant neoantigen in the context of HLA-A*11:01. The TCR-T cells are constructed and display cytokine secretion and cytotoxicity upon co-culturing with varied tumor cells expressing the KRAS-G12V mutation. Moreover, 1-2C TCR-T cells show anti-tumor activity in preclinical models in female mice. The 9-mer KRAS-G12V mutant peptide exhibits a distinct conformation from the 9-mer wildtype peptide and its 10-mer counterparts. Specific recognition of the G12V mutant by TCR depends both on distinct conformation from wildtype peptide and on direct interaction with residues from TCRs. Our study reveals the mechanisms of presentation and TCR recognition of KRAS-G12V mutant peptide and describes TCRs with therapeutic potency for tumor immunotherapy.
453656 | Suppression of mitogen-induced, cell-mediated cytotoxicity by prostaglandin F2 alpha in bronchial asthma. Prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF 2 alpha) has a bronchoconstrictive effect on the smooth muscles of the bronchial tree, while a prostaglandin of the E series (PGE) provokes bronchodilatation in bronchial asthma (BA). The PGE series can suppress cytotoxic T lymphocytes and it was expected that PGF2 alpha would have the opposite effect, since similarities exist between microvilli of circulating blood lymphocytes and bronchial smooth muscles. Pharmacological modulation of lymphocytes, using a mitogen-induced, cell-mediated cytotoxicity assay (MICC), showed that PGF2 alpha suppresses cytotoxic activity of lymphocytes in BA patients and normal controls. This observation provides evidence that the spasmogenic effect of inhaled PGF2 alpha on the smooth muscles of the airways does not correspond to expected increased cytotoxicity of the circulating blood lymphocytes in vitro.
29925658 | The Methyltransferase-Like Domain of Chikungunya Virus nsP2 Inhibits the Interferon Response by Promoting the Nuclear Export of STAT1. Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a mosquito-borne alphavirus that has evolved effective mechanisms to counteract the type I interferon (IFN) response. Upon recognition of the virus, cells secrete IFNs, which signal through transmembrane receptors (IFNAR) to phosphorylate STAT proteins (pSTAT). pSTAT dimers are transported into the nucleus by importin-alpha5 and activate the transcription of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs), increasing cellular resistance to infection. Subsequently, STAT proteins are shuttled back into the cytoplasm by the exportin CRM1. CHIKV nonstructural protein 2 (nsP2) reduces ISG expression by inhibiting general host cell transcription and by specifically reducing the levels of nuclear pSTAT1 via an unknown mechanism. To systematically examine where nsP2 acts within the JAK/STAT signaling cascade, we used two well-characterized mutants of nsP2, P718S and KR649AA. Both mutations abrogate nsP2's ability to shut off host transcription, but only the KR649AA mutant localizes exclusively to the cytoplasm and no longer specifically inhibits JAK/STAT signaling. These mutant nsP2 proteins did not differentially affect IFNAR expression levels or STAT1 phosphorylation in response to IFNs. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments showed that in the presence of nsP2, STAT1 still effectively bound importin-alpha5. Chemically blocking CRM1-mediated nuclear export in the presence of nsP2 additionally showed that nuclear translocation of STAT1 is not affected by nsP2. nsP2 putatively has five domains. Redirecting the nsP2 KR649AA mutant or just nsP2's C-terminal methyltransferase-like domain into the nucleus strongly reduced nuclear pSTAT in response to IFN stimulation. This demonstrates that the C-terminal domain of nuclear nsP2 specifically inhibits the IFN response by promoting the nuclear export of STAT1.IMPORTANCE Chikungunya virus is an emerging pathogen associated with large outbreaks on the African, Asian, European, and both American continents. In most patients, infection results in high fever, rash, and incapacitating (chronic) arthralgia. CHIKV effectively inhibits the first line of defense, the innate immune response. As a result, stimulation of the innate immune response with interferons (IFNs) is ineffective as a treatment for CHIKV disease. The IFN response requires an intact downstream signaling cascade called the JAK/STAT signaling pathway, which is effectively inhibited by CHIKV nonstructural protein 2 (nsP2) via an unknown mechanism. The research described here specifies where in the JAK/STAT signaling cascade the IFN response is inhibited and which protein domain of nsP2 is responsible for IFN inhibition. The results illuminate new aspects of antiviral defense and CHIKV counterdefense strategies and will direct the search for novel antiviral compounds.
35588138 | A novel four-gene signature predicts immunotherapy response of patients with different cancers. BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has demonstrated favorable clinical efficacy, particularly for advanced or difficult-to-treat cancer types. However, this therapy is ineffective for many patients displaying lack of immune response or resistance to ICB. This study aimed to establish a novel four-gene signature (CD8A, CD8B, TCF7, and LEF1) to provide a prognostic immunotherapy biomarker for different cancers. METHODS: Transcriptome profiles and clinical data were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas database. Multivariate Cox regression analysis was used to establish a four-gene signature. The R package estimate was used to obtain the immune score for every patient. RESULTS: Risk scores of the novel four-gene signature could effectively divided all patients into high- and low-risk groups, with distinct outcomes. The immune score calculated via the estimate package demonstrated that the four-gene signature was significantly associated with the immune infiltration level. Furthermore, the four-gene signature could predict the response to atezolizumab immunotherapy in patients with metastatic urothelial cancer. CONCLUSIONS: The novel four-gene signature developed in this study is a good prognostic biomarker, as it could identify many kinds of patients with cancer who are likely to respond to and benefit from immunotherapy.
1406695 | A Raf-1-related p110 polypeptide associates with the CD4-p56lck complex in T cells. The CD4 and CD8 antigens on T cells have been shown to associate with the Src family member p56lck and a GTP-binding protein, p32. The identification of receptor interactions with intracellular mediators is essential in the elucidation of downstream signals mediated by engagement of these receptor complexes. In this study, we report the detection of an additional 110-kDa polypeptide (p110) associated with the CD4-p56lck complex in human peripheral blood T lymphocytes and leukemic T-cell lines. p110 bound preferentially to CD4-p56lck as an assembled complex and poorly, if at all, to the individual components. p110 was recognized directly by an antiserum to the C-terminal region of the serine/threonine kinase Raf-1 and is related to a p110 polypeptide detected in anti-Raf-1 immunoprecipitates. Despite its association with the CD4-p56lck complex, p110 was found to be phosphorylated predominantly on serine residues. Furthermore, phorbol ester treatment of cells resulted in a transient increase in the detection of p110 associated with CD4-p56lck, concomitant with the modulation of CD4-p56lck from the cell surface. This Raf-1-related p110 is therefore likely to play a role in signals generated from the CD4-p56lck complex. p110 may serve as a bridge between the CD4-p56lck complex and the serine/threonine kinase pathways of T-cell activation.
34688302 | Comparative genome analysis of colistin-resistant OXA-48-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae clinical strains isolated from two Iranian hospitals. BACKGROUND: Carbapenemase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae (CP-KP) is becoming extensively disseminated in Iranian medical centers. Colistin is among the few agents that retains its activity against CP-KP. However, the administration of colistin for treatment of carbapenem-resistant infections has increased resistance against this antibiotic. Therefore, the identification of genetic background of co-carbapenem, colistin-resistance K. pneumoniae (Co-CCRKp) is urgent for implementation of serious infection control strategies. METHODS: Fourteen Co-CCRKp strains obtained from routine microbiological examinations were subjected to molecular analysis of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) using whole genome sequencing (WGS). RESULTS: Nine of 14 K. pneumoniae strains belonged to sequence type (ST)-11 and 50% of the isolates had K-locus type 15. All strains carried blaOXA-48 except for P26. blaNDM-1 was detected in only two plasmids associated with P6 and P26 strains belonging to incompatibility (Inc) groups; IncFIB, IncHI1B and IncFII. No blaKPC, blaVIM and blaIMP were identified. Multi-drug resistant (MDR) conjugative plasmids were identified in strains P6, P31, P35, P38 and P40. MICcolistin of K. pneumoniae strains ranged from 4 to 32 microg/ml. Modification of PmrA, PmrB, PhoQ, RamA and CrrB regulators as well as MgrB was identified as the mechanism of colistin resistance in our isolates. Single amino acid polymorphysims (SAPs) in PhoQ (D150G) and PmrB (R256G) were identified in all strains except for P35 and P38. CrrB was absent in P37 and modified in P7 (A200E). Insertion of ISKpn72 (P32), establishment of stop codon (Q30*) (P35 and P38), nucleotides deletion (P37), and amino acid substitution at position 28 were identified in MgrB (P33 and P42). None of the isolates were positive for plasmid-mediated colistin resistance (mcr) genes. P35 and P38 strains carried iutA, iucD, iucC, iucB and iucA genes and are considered as MDR-hypervirulent strains. P6, P7 and P43 had ICEKp4 variant and ICEKp3 was identified in 78% of the strains with specific carriage in ST11. CONCLUSION: In our study, different genetic modifications in chromosomal coding regions of some regulator genes resulted in phenotypic resistance to colistin. However, the extra-chromosomal colistin resistance through mcr genes was not detected. Continuous genomic investigations need to be conducted to accurately depict the status of colistin resistance in clinical settings.
37674082 | Thymic mimetic cells function beyond self-tolerance. Development of immunocompetent T cells in the thymus is required for effective defence against all types of pathogens, including viruses, bacteria and fungi. To this end, T cells undergo a very strict educational program in the thymus, during which both non-functional and self-reactive T cell clones are eliminated by means of positive and negative selection1.Thymic epithelial cells (TECs) have an indispensable role in these processes, and previous studies have shown the notable heterogeneity of these cells2-7. Here, using multiomic analysis, we provide further insights into the functional and developmental diversity of TECs in mice, and reveal a detailed atlas of the TEC compartment according to cell transcriptional states and chromatin landscapes. Our analysis highlights unconventional TEC subsets that are similar to functionally well-defined parenchymal populations, including endocrine cells, microfold cells and myocytes. By focusing on the endocrine and microfold TEC populations, we show that endocrine TECs require Insm1 for their development and are crucial to maintaining thymus cellularity in a ghrelin-dependent manner; by contrast, microfold TECs require Spib for their development and are essential for the generation of thymic IgA+ plasma cells. Collectively, our study reveals that medullary TECs have the potential to differentiate into various types of molecularly distinct and functionally defined cells, which not only contribute to the induction of central tolerance, but also regulate the homeostasis of other thymus-resident populations.
36707041 | Potential function of loliolide as a novel blocker of epithelial-mesenchymal transition in colorectal and breast cancer cells. Loliolide (LL), a naturally occurring monoterpenoid lactone isolated from Vicia tenuifolia Roth, can exhibit numerous pharmacological effects such as those related to anti-Parkinson, anti-oxidant, anti-cholinesterase, and anti-depressant. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays a pivotal role in regulating tumor metastasis. CXCR4 and CXCR7 are G-protein-coupled receptors (GPRs), which can be stimulated by CXCL12. CXCL12/CXCR4/CXCXR7 axis can cause activation of multiple pathways including MAPKs, JAK/STAT pathway, and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) signaling. These events can initiate EMT process and induce cell invasion and migration. Here, we investigated whether LL can modulate the CXCR4 and CXCR7 and EMT process in colon cancer and breast cancer cells. We found that LL suppressed levels of CXCR4 and CXCR7, and exerted an inhibitory effect on these chemokines even after stimulation by CXCL12. LL suppressed expression of MnSOD and mesenchymal markers, whereas induced epithelial markers. In addition, LL significantly attenuated cellular invasion, migration, and metastasis. We noted that LL inhibited CXCR4/7 and EMT process even after stimulation of CXCL12 and MnSOD overexpression. Therefore, in this study, we provide evidences that targeting CXCR4/7 and MnSOD could inhibit the invasion, migration, and metastasis of cancer cells as well as negatively regulate the EMT process. Overall, our study suggested that LL might act as a potent suppressor of EMT process against colon and breast cancer cells.
15466019 | MicC, a second small-RNA regulator of Omp protein expression in Escherichia coli. In a previous bioinformatics-based search for novel small-RNA genes encoded by the Escherichia coli genome, we identified a region, IS063, located between the ompN and ydbK genes, that encodes an approximately 100-nucleotide small-RNA transcript. Here we show that the expression of this small RNA is increased at a low temperature and in minimal medium. Twenty-two nucleotides at the 5' end of this transcript have the potential to form base pairs with the leader sequence of the mRNA encoding the outer membrane protein OmpC. The deletion of IS063 increased the expression of an ompC-luc translational fusion 1.5- to 2-fold, and a 10-fold overexpression of the small RNA led to a 2- to 3-fold repression of the fusion. Deletion and overexpression of the IS063 RNA also resulted in increases and decreases, respectively, in OmpC protein levels. Taken together, these results suggest that IS063 is a regulator of OmpC expression; thus, the small RNA has been renamed MicC. The antisense regulation was further demonstrated by the finding that micC mutations were suppressed by compensatory mutations in the ompC mRNA. MicC was also shown to inhibit ribosome binding to the ompC mRNA leader in vitro and to require the Hfq RNA chaperone for its function. We suggest that the MicF and MicC RNAs act in conjunction with the EnvZ-OmpR two-component system to control the OmpF/OmpC protein ratio in response to a variety of environmental stimuli.
30387832 | Classification of tumor microenvironment immune types based on immune response-associated gene expression. In 2014, the Shizuoka Cancer Center launched project High-tech Omics-based Patient Evaluation (HOPE), which features whole exome sequencing (WES) and gene expression profiling (GEP) of fresh surgical specimens from cancer patients. With the development of clinical trials of programmed death-1 (PD-1)/PD-ligand 1 (PD-L1) blockade, PD-L1 expression and a high tumor mutation burden become possible biomarkers that could be used to predict immune responses. In this study, based on WES and GEP data from 1,734 tumors from the HOPE project, we established a tumor microenvironment (TME) immune-type classification consisting of 4 types to evaluate the immunological status of cancer patients and analyze immunological pathways specific for immune types. Project HOPE was conducted in accordance with the Ethical Guidelines for Human Genome and Genetic Analysis Research with the approval of the Institutional Review Board. Based on the expression level of the PD-L1 and CD8B genes, the immunological status was divided into 4 types as follows: A, PD-L1+CD8B+; B, PD-L1+CD8B-; C, PD-L1-CD8B-; and D, PD-L1-CD8B+. Type A, with PD-L1+ and CD8B+, exhibited an upregulation of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) killing-associated genes, T-cell activation genes, antigen-presentation and dendritic cell (DC) maturation genes, and T-cell-attracting chemokine genes, which promoted Th1 antitumor responses. By contrast, type C, with PD-L1- and CD8B-, exhibited a low expression of T-cell-activating genes and an upregulation of cancer driver gene signaling, which suggested an immune-suppressive status. With regard to hypermutator tumors, PD-L1+ hypermutator cases exhibited a specific upregulation of the IL6 gene compared with the PD-L1- cases. On the whole, our data indicate that the classification of the TME immune types may prove to be a useful tool for evaluating the immunological status and predicting antitumor responses and prognosis.
35099352 | Avian metapneumovirus subtype B vaccination in commercial broiler chicks: heterologous protection and selected host transcription responses to subtype A or B challenge. Avian metapneumovirus (aMPV) causes respiratory disease and drops in egg production in chickens, and is routinely controlled by vaccination. However, the host's immune response to virulent challenge in vaccinated or unvaccinated broiler chickens is poorly characterized. We show that subtype B vaccination offers heterologous (subtype A challenge) and homologous (subtype B challenge) protection. Subtype B challenge caused significantly greater humoral antibody titres in vaccinated and unvaccinated chickens. In turbinate and lung tissues of unvaccinated-challenged chickens, IgA and IgY mRNA transcription was significantly up-regulated after subtype B challenge compared to subtype A. Cellular immunity (CD8-alpha and CD8-beta) gene transcripts were significantly up-regulated during early and later stages of infection from subtype B or subtype A, respectively. Immune gene transcriptional responses (IL-1beta, IL-6 and IL-18) were significantly up-regulated after challenge. Gene transcription results showed that mRNA expression levels of CD8-alpha, CD8-beta, TLR3 and IL-6, particularly in turbinate and trachea tissues, are useful parameters to include in future aMPV vaccination-challenge studies.
17590231 | RNase E-dependent processing stabilizes MicX, a Vibrio cholerae sRNA. In Vibrio cholerae, bioinformatic approaches have been used to predict the locations of numerous small RNA (sRNA)-encoding genes, but biological roles have been determined for very few. Here, we describe the expression, processing and biological role of an sRNA (previously known as A10) that was identified through such analyses. We have renamed this sRNA MicX as, like the Escherichia coli sRNAs MicA, MicC and MicF, it regulates expression of an outer membrane protein (OMP). MicX appears to be a direct negative regulator of vc0972, which encodes an uncharacterized OMP, and vc0620, which encodes the periplasmic component of a peptide ABC transporter. Hfq is apparently not required for MicX's interactions with and regulation of these targets. The sequence encoding MicX overlaps with vca0943; however, primary transcripts of MicX are processed in an RNase E- and Hfq-dependent fashion to a shorter, still active and much more stable form consisting largely of the vca0943 3' untranslated region. Our data suggest that processing of MicX enhances its effectiveness, and that sRNA cleavage is not simply a means to sRNA inactivation and clearance.
36949176 | Bioinformatics-based investigation on the genetic influence between SARS-CoV-2 infections and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) diseases, and drug repurposing. Some recent studies showed that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infections and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) disease might stimulate each other through the shared genes. Therefore, in this study, an attempt was made to explore common genomic biomarkers for SARS-CoV-2 infections and IPF disease highlighting their functions, pathways, regulators and associated drug molecules. At first, we identified 32 statistically significant common differentially expressed genes (cDEGs) between disease (SARS-CoV-2 and IPF) and control samples of RNA-Seq profiles by using a statistical r-package (edgeR). Then we detected 10 cDEGs (CXCR4, TNFAIP3, VCAM1, NLRP3, TNFAIP6, SELE, MX2, IRF4, UBD and CH25H) out of 32 as the common hub genes (cHubGs) by the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis. The cHubGs regulatory network analysis detected few key TFs-proteins and miRNAs as the transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulators of cHubGs. The cDEGs-set enrichment analysis identified some crucial SARS-CoV-2 and IPF causing common molecular mechanisms including biological processes, molecular functions, cellular components and signaling pathways. Then, we suggested the cHubGs-guided top-ranked 10 candidate drug molecules (Tegobuvir, Nilotinib, Digoxin, Proscillaridin, Simeprevir, Sorafenib, Torin 2, Rapamycin, Vancomycin and Hesperidin) for the treatment against SARS-CoV-2 infections with IFP diseases as comorbidity. Finally, we investigated the resistance performance of our proposed drug molecules compare to the already published molecules, against the state-of-the-art alternatives publicly available top-ranked independent receptors by molecular docking analysis. Molecular docking results suggested that our proposed drug molecules would be more effective compare to the already published drug molecules. Thus, the findings of this study might be played a vital role for diagnosis and therapies of SARS-CoV-2 infections with IPF disease as comorbidity risk.
31934908 | Exogenous GM1 Ganglioside Attenuates Ketamine-Induced Neurocognitive Impairment in the Developing Rat Brain. BACKGROUND: A prolonged exposure to ketamine triggers significant neurodegeneration and long-term neurocognitive deficits in the developing brain. Monosialotetrahexosylganglioside (GM1) can limit the neuronal damage from necrosis and apoptosis in neurodegenerative conditions. We aimed to assess whether GM1 can prevent ketamine-induced developmental neurotoxicity. METHODS: Postnatal day 7 (P7) rat pups received 5 doses of intraperitoneal ketamine (20 mg/kg per dose) at 90-minute intervals for 6 hours. Cognitive functions, determined by using Morris water maze (MWM) including escape latency (at P32-36) and platform crossing (at P37), were compared among the ketamine-exposed pups treated with or without exogenous GM1 (30 mg/kg; n = 12/group). The effect of GM1 on apoptosis in hippocampus was determined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated 2'-deoxyuridine 5'-triphosphate nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining and activated caspase 3 measurement. The hippocampal expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), along with the phosphorylation of protein kinase B (AKT) and extracellular signal-related kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), was detected by western blotting (n = 6/group). Anti-BDNF antibody (2 mug per rat) administered before GM1 treatment was applied to determine the neuroprotective mechanisms of GM1. RESULTS: The rats receiving ketamine exposure experinced cognitive impairment in MWM test compared to the control rats, indicated by prolonged escape latency at P34 (P = .006), P35 (P = .002), and P36 (P = .005). However, in GM1-pretreated rats, ketamine exposure did not induce prolonged escape latency. The exogenous GM1 increased the platform-crossing times at P37 (3.00 +- 2.22 times vs 5.40 +- 1.53 times, mean +- standard deviation; P = .041) and reduced the hippocampal TUNEL-positive cells and cleaved-caspase 3 expression in ketamine-exposed young rats. Ketamine decreased BDNF expression and phosphorylation of AKT and ERK in the hippocampus, whereas exogenous GM1 blocked these ketamine-caused effects. However, for the ketamine-exposed rat pups receiving exogenous GM1, compared to immunoglobulin Y (IgY) isotype control, the BDNF-neutralizing antibody treatment counteracted the exogenous GM1-induced improvement of the escape latency at P36 (41.32 +- 12.37 seconds vs 25.14 +- 8.97 seconds, mean +- standard deviation; P = .036), platform-crossing times at P37 (2.16 +- 1.12 times vs 3.92 +- 1.97 times, mean +- standard deviation; P < .036), apoptotic activity, as well as AKT and ERK1/2 phosphorylation in the hippocampus of ketamine-challenged young rats. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that the exogenous GM1 acts on BDNF signaling pathway to ameliorate the cognitive impairment and hippocampal apoptosis induced by ketamine in young rats. Our study may indicate a potential use of GM1 in preventing the cognitive deficits induced by ketamine in the young per se.
18978792 | Meta-analysis of genome-wide association study data identifies additional type 1 diabetes risk loci. We carried out a meta-analysis of data from three genome-wide association (GWA) studies of type 1 diabetes (T1D), testing 305,090 SNPs in 3,561 T1D cases and 4,646 controls of European ancestry. We obtained further support for 4q27 (IL2-IL21, P = 1.9 x 10(-8)) and, after genotyping an additional 6,225 cases, 6,946 controls and 2,828 families, convincing evidence for four previously unknown and distinct risk loci in chromosome regions 6q15 (BACH2, P = 4.7 x 10(-12)), 10p15 (PRKCQ, P = 3.7 x 10(-9)), 15q24 (CTSH, P = 3.2 x 10(-15)) and 22q13 (C1QTNF6, P = 2.0 x 10(-8)).
19088062 | CD8beta knockout mice mount normal anti-viral CD8+ T cell responses--but why? It has been shown previously that CD8beta in vitro increases the range and the sensitivity of antigen recognition and in vivo plays an important role in the thymic selection of CD8+ T cells. Consistent with this, we report here that CD8+ T cells from CD8beta knockout (KO) P14 TCR transgenic mice proliferate inefficiently in vitro. In contrast to these findings, we also show that CD8beta KO mice mount normal CD8 primary, secondary and memory responses to acute infection with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus. Tetramer staining and cytotoxic experiments revealed a predominance of CD8-independent CTL in CD8beta KO mice. The TCR repertoire, especially the one of the TCRalpha chain, was different in CD8beta KO mice as compared with B6 mice. Our results indicate that in the absence of CD8beta, CD8-independent TCRs are preferentially selected, which in vivo effectively compensates for the reduced co-receptor function of CD8alphaalpha.
20068355 | The complexities of porin genetic regulation. Our understanding of porin regulation has revealed not only increasing complexity in the regulatory mechanisms, but also that the porin repertoire is more extensive than previously conceived. Initially, the OmpR response regulator was described as the master regulator of porin genes, but many more regulators are involved such as CpxR, PhoB, Lrp, Rob, MarA, SoxS, CadC, CRP, Fnr, ToxR, H-NS, StpA, IHF, HU and LeuO. In addition to MicF, the first small RNA (sRNA) that was proposed to regulate porin expression, porins are post-transcriptionally regulated by a variety of other sRNAs, namely, MicC, MicA, IpeX, RseX, InvR, CyaR and RybB. Future challenges include the full integration of all the regulatory circuitries. Whether quiescent porins are merely replacements of the major porins or are part of novel metabolic programs has yet to be elucidated. The comprehensive exploration of the environmental determinants that affect porin gene expression should yield valuable new information about the functions of these important proteins.
38243600 | Preclinical evaluation of a novel CAR-T therapy utilizing a scFv antibody highly specific to MAGE-A4p230-239/HLA-A*02:01 complex. Despite the revolutionary success of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T therapy for hematological malignancies, successful CAR-T therapies for solid tumors remain limited. One major obstacle is the scarcity of tumor-specific cell-surface molecules. One potential solution to overcome this barrier is to utilize antibodies that recognize peptide/major histocompatibility complex (MHCs) in a T cell receptor (TCR)-like fashion, allowing CAR-T cells to recognize intracellular tumor antigens. This study reports a highly specific single-chain variable fragment (scFv) antibody against the MAGE-A4p230-239/human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*02:01 complex (MAGE-A4 pMHC), screened from a human scFv phage display library. Indeed, retroviral vectors encoding CAR, utilizing this scFv antibody as a recognition component, efficiently recognized and lysed MAGA-A4+ tumor cells in an HLA-A*02:01-restricted manner. Additionally, the adoptive transfer of T cells modified by the CAR-containing glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR)-related receptor (GITR) intracellular domain (ICD), but not CD28 or 4-1BB ICD, significantly suppressed the growth of MAGE-A4+ HLA-A*02:01+ tumors in an immunocompromised mouse model. Of note, a comprehensive analysis revealed that a broad range of amino acid sequences of the MAGE-A4p230-239 peptide were critical for the recognition of MAGE-A4 pMHC by these CAR-T cells, and no cross-reactivity to analogous peptides was observed. Thus, MAGE-A4-targeted CAR-T therapy using this scFv antibody may be a promising and safe treatment for solid tumors.
33521937 | MHC Class I on murine hematopoietic APC selects Type A IEL precursors in the thymus. TCRalphabeta+ CD8alpha+ CD8beta- intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes (CD8alphaalpha IEL) are gut T cells that maintain barrier surface homeostasis. Most CD8alphaalpha IEL are derived from thymic precursors (IELp) through a mechanism referred to as clonal diversion. In this model, self-reactive thymocytes undergo deletion in the presence of CD28 costimulation, but in its absence undergo diversion to the IEL fate. While previous reports showed that IELp were largely beta2m dependent, the APC that drive the development of these cells are poorly defined. We found that both CD80 and CD86 restrain IELp development, and conventional DCs play a prominent role. We sought to define a CD80/86 negative, MHCI positive APC that supports the development to the IEL lineage. Chimera studies showed that MHCI needs to be expressed on hematopoietic APC for selection. As thymic hematopoietic APC are heterogeneous in their expression of MHCI and costimulatory molecules, we identified four thymic APC types that were CD80/86neg/low and MHCI+ . However, selective depletion of beta2m in individual APC suggested functional redundancy. Thus, while hematopoietic APC play a critical role in clonal diversion, no single APC subset is specialized to promote the CD8alphaalpha IEL fate.
38010064 | Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals immune microenvironment of small cell lung cancer-associated malignant pleural effusion. We used 10 x genomics single-cell transcriptome sequencing technology to reveal the tumor immune microenvironment characteristics of small cell lung cancer (SCLC) in a patient with malignant pleural effusion (MPE). A total of 8008 high-quality cells were finally obtained for subsequent bioinformatic analysis, which were divided into 10 cell clusters further identified as B cells, T cells, myeloid cells, NK cells, and cancer cells. Such SCLC related genes as NOTCH1, MYC, TSC22D1, SOX4, BLNK, YBX3, VIM, CD8A, CD8B, and KLF6 were expressed in different degrees during differentiation of T and B cells. Different ligands and receptors between T, B and tumor cells almost interact through MHC II, IL-16, galectin, and APP signaling pathway.
34422829 | The Prognosis and Immune Checkpoint Blockade Efficacy Prediction of Tumor-Infiltrating Immune Cells in Lung Cancer. BACKGROUNDS: The high morbidity and mortality of lung cancer are serious public health problems. The prognosis of lung cancer and whether to apply immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) are currently urgent problems to be solved. METHODS: Using R software, we performed Kaplan-Meier (K-M) analysis, Cox regression analysis, functional enrichment analysis, Spearman correlation analysis, and the single-sample gene set enrichment analysis. RESULTS: On the Tumor IMmune Estimation Resource (TIMER2.0) website, we calculated the abundance of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs) of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) patients. B cell and myeloid dendritic cell (DC1) were independent prognostic factors for LUAD and LUSC patients, respectively. Enrichment analysis confirmed that genes highly related to B cell or DC1 were closely related to the immune activation of lung cancer patients. In terms of adaptive immune resistance markers, CD8A, CD8B, immunomodulators (immunostimulants, major histocompatibility complex, receptors, and chemokines), immune-related pathways, tumor microenvironment score, and TIICs, high B cell/DC1 infiltration tissue was inflamed and immune-activated and might benefit more from the ICB. Genes most related to B cell [CD19, toll-like receptor 10 (TLR10), and Fc receptor-like A (FCRLA)] and DC1 (ITGB2, LAPTM5, and SLC7A7) partially clarified the roles of B cell/DC1 in predicting ICB efficacy. Among the 186 Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways, there were three and four KEGG pathways, which partially explained the molecular mechanisms by which B cell and DC1 simultaneously predicted the prognosis and efficacy of immunotherapy, respectively. Among five immune subtypes, the abundance of B cell/DC1 and expression of six hub genes were higher in immune C2, C3, and C6. CONCLUSION: B cell and DC1 could predict the prognosis and ICB efficacy of LUAD and LUSC patients, respectively. The six hub genes and seven KEGG pathways might be novel immunotherapy targets. Immune C2, C3, and C6 subtypes of lung cancer patients might benefit more from ICB therapy.
23533620 | The human CD8beta M-4 isoform dominant in effector memory T cells has distinct cytoplasmic motifs that confer unique properties. The CD8 co-receptor influences T cell recognition and responses in both anti-tumor and anti-viral immunity. During evolution in the ancestor of humans and chimpanzees, the CD8B gene acquired two additional exons. As a result, in humans, there are four CD8beta splice variants (M1 to M4) that differ in their cytoplasmic tails. The M-1 isoform which is the equivalent of murine CD8beta, is predominantly expressed in naive T cells, whereas, the M-4 isoform is predominantly expressed in effector memory T cells. The characteristics of the M-4 isoform conferred by its unique 36 amino acid cytoplasmic tail are not known. In this study, we identified a dihydrophobic leucine-based receptor internalization motif in the cytoplasmic tail of M-4 that regulated its cell surface expression and downregulation after activation. Further the M-4 cytoplasmic tail was able to associate with ubiquitinated targets in 293T cells and mutations in the amino acids NPW, a potential EH domain binding site, either enhanced or inhibited the interaction. In addition, the M-4 tail was itself mono-ubiquitinated on a lysine residue in both 293T cells and a human T cell line. When peripheral blood human T cells expressed CD8alphabeta M-4, the frequency of MIP-1beta secreting cells responding to antigen presenting cells was two-fold higher as compared to CD8alphabeta M-1 expressing T cells. Thus, the cytoplasmic tail of the CD8beta M-4 isoform has unique characteristics, which likely contributed to its selective expression and function in human effector memory T cells.
23141574 | [The variation characters of EPSC-IPSC in rat visual cortex II/III pyramidal neurons during critical period of visual development]. OBJECTIVE: To observe the characters of EPSC-IPSC induced by paired-pulse stimulation of rat visual cortex layer II/III pyramidal neurons during critical period of visual development, and discuss their relationships, to discuss the role of short-term synaptic plasticity in the critical period of visual development of rats. METHODS: Thirty Wistar rats were used, they were divided into P10-P12, P14-P16, P21-P23, P28-P30, P35-P37 five groups, n = 6. Whole-cell voltage clamp recording was performed, the membrane potential was clamped on -50 mV, 0 mV respectively to separate EPSC and IPSC. We set the PPR as the observation indicator, analyzed the developmental features of EPSC and IPSC induced by paired-pulse stimulation of different groups. RESULTS: The PPR of layer II/III pyramidal neurons in group P10-P12, P14-P16, P21-P23, P28-P30, P35-P37 was 0.43 +- 0.08, 0.07 +- 0.08, 0.10 +- 0.10, 0.20 +- 0.07, 0.22 +- 0.12 respectively. The PPR of group P14-P16 decreased, the difference was statistically significant compared with the group before eyes open (t = -3.13, P = 0.04). The PPR of corresponding groups was 0.6036 +- 0.3021, 0.2830 +- 0.0504, 0.0287 +- 0.0907, -0.0449 +- 0.1443, -0.3089 +- 0.05553 respectively (F = 5.0799, P = 0.0037), the PPR of IPSC gradually reduced with age, and turned negative from the P28-P30 group, changed from PPF to PPD. CONCLUSIONS: The PPR of EPSC response to visual stimuli rapidly, but did not change significantly in the critical period of visual development (P19-P32). The short-term depression of IPSC increased gradually from the eyes open to the end of the critical period of visual development, which may play a more important role in the process of layer II/III pyramidal neurons maturation and the critical period of visual development ending.
37285884 | Wedelolactone induces natural killer cell activity and the improvement to bioavailability using polysaccharides from Ligustri Lucidi Fructus. Wedelolactone (WDL) is the major bioactive component in Ecliptae Herba. This present study investigated the effects of WDL on natural killer cell functions and possible underlying mechanisms. It was proved that wedelolactone enhanced the killing ability of NK92-MI by upregulating the expression of perforin and granzyme B through the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. Additionally, wedelolactone could induce the migration of NK-92MI cells by promoting CCR7 and CXCR4 expressions. However, the application of WDL is limited due to poor solubility and bioavailability. Accordingly, this study investigated the impact of polysaccharides from Ligustri Lucidi Fructus (LLFPs) on WDL. The biopharmaceutical properties and pharmacokinetic characteristics were determined to compare WDL individually and in combination with LLFPs. The results showed that LLFPs could benefit the biopharmaceutical properties of WDL. Specifically, stability, solubility, and permeability were increased by 1.19-1.82-fold, 3.22-fold, and 1.08-fold higher than those of WDL alone, respectively. Furthermore, the pharmacokinetic study revealed that LLFPs could remarkably improve AUC(0-t) (150.34 vs. 50.47 ng/mL * h), t1/2 (40.78 vs. 2.81 h), and MRT(0- ) (46.64 vs. 5.05 h) for WDL. In conclusion, WDL would be considered a potential immunopotentiator, and LLFPs could overcome the instability and insolubility, ultimately improving the bioavailability of this plant-derived phenolic coumestan.
36656397 | CXCR4 as possible druggable target linking inflammatory bowel disease and Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic, progressive, and second most prevalent neurological disorder affecting the motor system. It has been found that people suffering with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are at 22% more risk for PD. In the current study, we have established a molecular link between gut and brain. The microarray gene expression datasets of Homo sapiens were obtained from Gene Expression Omnibus Database. Major genes involved in gut-brain connection were found to be CXCR4, LRRK2, APOE, SNCA, IL6, HIF-1alpha, ABCA1 etc. The common biological pathways linking both the pathologies were found to be HIF-signaling, cytokines interactions, JAK-STAT pathway, cholesterol metabolism, apoptosis and CXCR4 signaling which modulates the synaptic function and neuronal survival in the mature brain. It is known that flavonoid-rich foods throughout life hold the potential to limit the inflammation, neurodegeneration and, to prevent the age-dependent cognitive impairment. Therefore, the potential receptor, CXCR4 was used further for docking with twenty-seven phytochemicals from 5 different classes of Flavonoids found in several dietary items. Docking studies of the top scoring compounds were compared with a known inhibitor (BPRCX807) of receptor CXCR4 (IC50 = 40.4 +- 8.0 nM). The study indicates that Flavan-3-ol families of flavonoids are the best fit and finest dietary supplements for improving brain health. Hence the food items like Pistachio nuts, hazelnuts, Green Tea, walnuts, etc. should be incorporated more in the diet of healthy people as well as in IBD and PD patients to prevent inflammation in gut and brain damage from oxidative stress.
36369345 | Ensemble machine learning identifies genetic loci associated with future worsening of disability in people with multiple sclerosis. Limited studies have been conducted to identify and validate multiple sclerosis (MS) genetic loci associated with disability progression. We aimed to identify MS genetic loci associated with worsening of disability over time, and to develop and validate ensemble genetic learning model(s) to identify people with MS (PwMS) at risk of future worsening. We examined associations of 208 previously established MS genetic loci with the risk of worsening of disability; we learned ensemble genetic decision rules and validated the predictions in an external dataset. We found 7 genetic loci (rs7731626: HR 0.92, P = 2.4 x 10-5; rs12211604: HR 1.16, P = 3.2 x 10-7; rs55858457: HR 0.93, P = 3.7 x 10-7; rs10271373: HR 0.90, P = 1.1 x 10-7; rs11256593: HR 1.13, P = 5.1 x 10-57; rs12588969: HR = 1.10, P = 2.1 x 10-10; rs1465697: HR 1.09, P = 1.7 x 10-128) associated with risk worsening of disability; most of which were located near or tagged to 13 genomic regions enriched in peptide hormones and steroids biosynthesis pathways by positional and eQTL mapping. The derived ensembles produced a set of genetic decision rules that can be translated to provide additional prognostic values to existing clinical predictions, with the additional benefit of incorporating relevant genetic information into clinical decision making for PwMS. The present study extends our knowledge of MS progression genetics and provides the basis of future studies regarding the functional significance of the identified loci.
38455061 | Tumor beta2-microglobulin and HLA-A expression is increased by immunotherapy and can predict response to CIT in association with other biomarkers. Background: Downregulation of MHC class I expression and/or defects in the antigen presentation pathways are commonly reported in human cancers. Numerous studies previously have explored extensively the molecular mechanisms that underlie HLA-class I and Beta2-Microglobulin (B2M) downregulation. However, the techniques presently available to detect expression of MHC class I proteins lack the robustness, specificity and sensitivity needed for systematic integration and analysis in clinical trials. Furthermore, the dynamics of HLA-class I and B2M expression have not been comprehensively studied as a potential biomarker for immunotherapy. Methods: Using novel, validated, immunohistochemistry (IHC)-based methods for quantifying B2M and HLA-A in tumor samples from diverse cancer types, we have determined loss of B2M and HLA-A proteins in 336 archived, primary specimens and 329 biopsies from metastatic patients collected during Roche-sponsored Phase 1 clinical trials investigating novel immunotherapy candidates as monotherapy or in combination with CPI. Results: Up to 56% of cases with B2M or HLA-A loss were noted in the investigated tumor types. The frequency of loss was dependent on indication and stage of disease and revealed heterogeneous expression patterns across patients. B2M and HLA-A loss was increased in metastatic lesions compared to primary tumors, indicating selection of MHC class I low clones in metastatic and refractory tumor cells. High on-treatment B2M expression correlated with successful clinical outcome (RECIST), while high baseline B2M did not. A treatment-induced increase of B2M expression was noted in most of the patients with low B2M levels at baseline. The triple biomarker combination of B2M, CD8 and PDL1 strongly improved response prediction to cancer immunotherapy. Conclusion: Our results indicate that B2M and HLA-A loss occurs frequently in tumors and is reversed in most instances following immunotherapy which supports the conclusion that MHC class I loss is not the dominant resistance mechanism to CPI treatment. This investigation reveals a highly dynamic expression of HLA-A and B2M in tumors affected by indication, metastatic status, immunophenotype and immunotherapy treatment. Baseline expression levels of B2M on tumors may be of utility as a constituent of a biomarker panel used for selecting patients for immunotherapy clinical trials.
36901957 | Overexpression of Potential Markers of Regulatory and Exhausted CD8+ T Cells in the Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells of Patients with B-Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is one of the most common pediatric cancers, wherein regulatory T cells (Treg) and exhausted CD8+ T cells may be important in its development and maintenance. In this bioinformatics study, we evaluated the expression of 20 Treg/CD8 exhaustion markers and their possible roles in patients with B-ALL. The mRNA expression values of peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 25 patients with B-ALL and 93 healthy subjects (HSs) were downloaded from publicly available datasets. Treg/CD8 exhaustion marker expression was normalized with that of the T cell signature and correlated with the expression of Ki-67, regulatory transcription factors (FoxP3, Helios), cytokines (IL-10, TGF-beta), CD8+ markers (CD8alpha chain, CD8beta chain), and CD8+ activation markers (Granzyme B, Granulysin). The mean expression level of 19 Treg/CD8 exhaustion markers was higher in the patients than in the HSs. In patients, the expression of five markers (CD39, CTLA-4, TNFR2, TIGIT, and TIM-3) correlated positively with Ki-67, FoxP3, and IL-10 expression. Moreover, the expression of some of them correlated positively with Helios or TGF-beta. Our results suggested that Treg/CD8+ T cells expressing CD39, CTLA-4, TNFR2, TIGIT, and TIM-3 favor B-ALL progression, and targeted immunotherapy against these markers could be a promising approach for treating B-ALL.
10331162 | MIC genes in non-human primates. MIC molecules belong to the immunoglobulin superfamily, are encoded within the MHC region and are recognized by gamma/delta T-cell receptors. In humans, at least two functional genes (MIC-A* and MIC-B*) and two pseudogenes (MIC-C* and MIC-D*) exist. Functional MIC gene copies are characterized by a high degree of polymorphism, while pseudogenes bear several debilitating mutations either in the putative extracellular region or in the transmembrane region of the molecule. In this study we sequenced these segments of MIC genes in seven non-human primates in order to determine whether debilitating mutations were present. All the MIC primate genes studied were highly homologous to their human counterparts, and cystein residues involved in the maintenance of the immunoglobulin-like structure were highly conserved. Furthermore, none of the MIC genes studied contained stop codons in the extracellular or transmembrane segments of the molecule, which suggests that at least one functional gene copy exists in non-human primates. A distinct family of MHC immunoglobulin-like genes was recently identified within the MHC class I region in humans (Bahram et al., 1994; Leelayuwat et al., 1994). Members of this MIC (MHC class I chain related) gene family belong to the immunoglobulin superfamily. Similar to classical class I MHC genes, they are characterized by three distinct extracellular domains (alpha 1-3), a transmembrane (TM) segment and a cytoplasmic segment, each encoded by a separate exon (Bahram et al., 1994; Bahram et al., 1996). Other similarities between MIC genes and classical MHC genes include a high degree of polymorphism (Fodil et al., 1996; Pellet et al., 1997) and recognition by T-cell receptors (Groh et al., 1998). These findings suggest that the putative MIC-A* chain has evolved for a function that is related to, but quite distinct from, that of typical MHC class I chains.
37758652 | Identification of neoepitope reactive T-cell receptors guided by HLA-A*03:01 and HLA-A*11:01 immunopeptidomics. BACKGROUND: Tumor-specific mutated proteins can create immunogenic non-self, mutation-containing 'neoepitopes' that are attractive targets for adoptive T-cell therapies. To avoid the complexity of defining patient-specific, private neoepitopes, there has been major interest in targeting common shared mutations in driver genes using off-the-shelf T-cell receptors (TCRs) engineered into autologous lymphocytes. However, identifying the precise naturally processed neoepitopes to pursue is a complex and challenging process. One method to definitively demonstrate whether an epitope is presented at the cell surface is to elute peptides bound to a specific major histocompatibility complex (MHC) allele and analyze them by mass spectrometry (MS). These MS data can then be prospectively applied to isolate TCRs specific to the neoepitope. METHODS: We created mono-allelic cell lines expressing one class I HLA allele and one common mutated oncogene in order to eliminate HLA deconvolution requirements and increase the signal of recovered peptides. MHC-bound peptides on the surface of these cell lines were immunoprecipitated, purified, and analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, producing a list of mutation-containing minimal epitopes. To validate the immunogenicity of these neoepitopes, HLA-transgenic mice were vaccinated using the minimal peptides identified by MS in order to generate neoepitope-reactive TCRs. Specificity of these candidate TCRs was confirmed by peptide titration and recognition of transduced targets. RESULTS: We identified precise neoepitopes derived from mutated isoforms of KRAS, EGFR, BRAF, and PIK3CA presented by HLA-A*03:01 and/or HLA-A*11:01 across multiple biological replicates. From our MS data, we were able to successfully isolate murine TCRs that specifically recognize four HLA-A*11:01 restricted neoepitopes (KRAS G13D, PIK3CA E545K, EGFR L858R and BRAF V600E) and three HLA-A*03:01 restricted neoepitopes (KRAS G12V, EGFR L858R and BRAF V600E). CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that an MS approach can be used to demonstrate which shared oncogene-derived neoepitopes are processed and presented by common HLA alleles, and those MS data can rapidly be used to develop TCRs against these common tumor-specific antigens. Although further characterization of these neoepitope-specific murine TCRs is required, ultimately, they have the potential to be used clinically for adoptive cell therapy.
10835481 | Using alu J elements as molecular clocks to trace the evolutionary relationships between duplicated HLA class I genomic segments. The class I region of the major histocompatibility complex contains two subgenomic blocks (250-350 kb each), known as the alpha and beta blocks. These blocks contain members of multicopy gene families including HLA class I, HERV-16 (previously called P5 sequences), and PERB11 (MIC). We have previously shown that each block consists of imperfect duplicated segments (duplicons) containing linked members of different gene families, retroelements and transposons that have coevolved as part of two separate evolutionary events. Another region provisionally designated here as the kappa block is located between the alpha and the beta blocks and contains HLA-E, -30, and -92, HERV-16 (P5.3), and PERB11.3 (MICC) within about 250 kb of sequence. Using Alu elements to trace the evolutionary relationships between different class I duplicons, we have found that (a) the kappa block contains paralogous (duplicated) Alu J sequences and other retroelement patterns more in common with the beta than the alpha block; (b) the retroelement pattern associated with the HLA-E duplicon is different from all other HLA class I duplicons, indicating a more complex evolution; (c) the HLA-92 duplicon, although substantially shorter, is closely related in sequence to the HLA-B and -C duplicons; (d) two of the six paralogous Alu J elements within the HLA-B and -C duplicons are associated with the HLA-X duplicon, confirming their evolutionary relationships within the beta block; and (e) the paralogous Alu J elements within the alpha block are distinctly different from those identified within the beta and kappa blocks. The sequence conservation and location of duplicated (paralogous) Alu J elements in the MHC class I region show that the beta and kappa blocks have evolved separately from the alpha block beginning at a time before or during the evolution of Alu J elements in primates.
15948181 | Myelin deterioration in Twitcher mice: motor evoked potentials and magnetic resonance imaging as in vivo monitoring tools. We have used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and motor evoked potentials (MEPs) for monitoring disease progression within the CNS of the Twitcher mouse, the murine model for globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD). GLD is a lysosomal storage disorder, resulting from galactocerebrosidase deficiency, causing central and peripheral myelin impairment, leading to death, usually during early infancy. Neuroradiological, electrophysiological, and pathological parameters of myelin maturation were evaluated in Twitcher mice between postnatal days 20 and 45. Healthy controls showed a gradual-appearance MRI T2-weighted hypointensity of the corpus callosum (CC) starting at about P30 and ending at about P37, whereas MRI of age-matched Twitcher mice showed a complete loss of the CC-related MRI signal. MEPs allowed the functional assessment of myelin maturation within corticospinal motor pathways and showed a progressive deterioration of MEPs in Twitcher mice with increased central conduction time (CCT; 5.12 +/- 0.49 msec at P27 to 6.45 +/- 1.96 msec at P32), whereas physiological CCT shortening was found in healthy controls (3.01 +/- 0.81 msec at P27 to 2.5 +/- 0.27 msec at P32). These findings were not paralleled by traditional histological stainings. Optical observation of Bielchowsky and Luxol fast blue-PAS stainings showed mild axonal/myelin deterioration of the Twitcher brain within this time frame. Our results demonstrate that serial MRI and MEP readings are sensitive evaluation tools for in vivo monitoring of dysmyelination in Twitcher mice and underscore their potential use for longitudinal evaluation of the therapeutic impact of gene and cell therapies on these animals.
38035330 | Human HLA prolongs the host inflammatory response in Streptococcus suis serotype 2 infection compared to mouse H2 molecules. Streptococcus suis (S. suis) is widely acknowledged as a significant zoonotic pathogen in Southeast Asia and China, which has led to a substantial number of fatalities in both swine and humans. Despite the prevalent use of mice as the primary animal model to study S. suis pathogenesis, the substantial differences in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) between humans and mice underscore the ongoing exploration for a more suitable and effective animal model. In this study, humanized transgenic HLA-A11/DR1 genotypes mice were used to evaluate the differences between humanized HLA and murine H2 in S. suis infection. Following intravenous administration of S. suis suspensions, we investigated bacterial load, cytokine profiles, pathological alterations, and immune cell recruitment in both Wild-type (WT) and humanized mice across different post-infection time points. Relative to WT mice, humanized mice exhibited heightened pro-inflammatory cytokines, exacerbated tissue damage, increased granulocyte recruitment with impaired resolution, notably more pronounced during the late infection stage. Additionally, our examination of bacterial clearance rates suggests that HLA-A11/DR1 primarily influences cell recruitment and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, which affects the bacterial killing capacity of macrophages in the late stage of infection. The reduced IL-10 production and lower levels of regulatory T cells in humanized mice could underlie their compromised resolution ability. Intervention with IL-10 promotes bacterial clearance and inflammatory regression in the late stages of infection in transgenic mice. Our findings underscore the heightened sensitivity of HLA-A11/DR1 mice with impaired resolution to S. suis infection, effectively mirroring the immune response seen in humans during infection. The humanized HLA-A11/DR1 mice could serve as an optimal animal model for investigating the pathogenic and therapeutic mechanisms associated with sepsis and other infectious diseases.
27409075 | Proceedings of the 3rd IPLeiria's International Health Congress : Leiria, Portugal. 6-7 May 2016.
27294413 | Human genome meeting 2016 : Houston, TX, USA. 28 February - 2 March 2016.
37713206 | Therapeutic Effects of Upadacitinib on Experimental Autoimmune Uveitis: Insights From Single-Cell Analysis. Purpose: This study aimed to elucidate the impact of upadacitinib, a Janus kinase 1 (JAK1)-specific inhibitor, on experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) and explore its underlying mechanisms. Methods: We utilized single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and single-cell assay for transposase-accessible chromatin sequencing (scATAC-seq) to investigate the JAK/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 12 patients with Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) disease and cervical draining lymph node (CDLN) cells of EAU. After treating EAU with upadacitinib, we analyzed immune cell gene expression and cell-cell communication by integrating scRNA data. Additionally, we applied flow cytometry and western blot to analyze the CDLN cells. Results: The JAK/STAT pathway was found to be upregulated in patients with VKH disease and EAU. Upadacitinib effectively alleviated EAU symptoms, reduced JAK1 protein expression, and suppressed pathogenic CD4 T cell (CD4TC) proliferation and pathogenicity while promoting Treg proliferation. The inhibition of pathogenic CD4TCs by upadacitinib was observed in both flow cytometry and scRNA data. Additionally, upadacitinib was found to rescue the interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15)+ CD4TCs and CD8 T and B cell ratios and reduce expression of inflammatory-related genes. Upadacitinib demonstrated the ability to inhibit abnormally activated cell-cell communication, particularly the CXCR4-mediated migration pathway, which has been implicated in EAU pathogenesis. CXCR4 inhibitors showed promising therapeutic effects in EAU. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that the JAK1-mediated signaling pathway is significantly upregulated in uveitis, and upadacitinib exhibits therapeutic efficacy against EAU. Furthermore, targeting the CXCR4-mediated migration pathway could be a promising therapeutic strategy.
24631022 | The fungal metabolite galiellalactone interferes with the nuclear import of NF-kappaB and inhibits HIV-1 replication. Galiellalactone (GL) is a metabolite produced by the fungus Galiella rufa that presents antitumor and immunomodulatory activities. GL interferes with the binding to DNA of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-3 and also inhibits other signal pathways such as NF-kappaB, but the mechanism of action in this pathway remains unknown. In this study we report that GL inhibits vesicular stomatitis virus-recombinant HIV-1 infection and the NF-kappaB-dependent transcriptional activity of the HIV-LTR promoter. We found that GL prevents the binding of NF-kappaB to DNA but neither affects the phosphorylation and degradation of NF-kappaB inhibitory protein, IkappaBalpha, nor the phosphorylation and acetylation of the NF-kappaB p65 subunit. However, GL prevents the association of p65 with the importin alpha3 impairing the nuclear translocation of this transcription factor. Using a biotinylated probe we found that GL binds to p65 but not to importin alpha3. Therefore, GL is a dual NF-kappaB/STAT3 inhibitor that could serve as a lead compound for the development of novel drugs against HIV-1, cancer and inflammatory diseases.
38450191 | Cancer cell immunity-related protein co-expression networks are associated with early-stage solid-predominant lung adenocarcinoma. Background: Solid-predominant lung adenocarcinoma (SPA), which is one of the high-risk subtypes with poor prognosis and unsatisfactory response to chemotherapy and targeted therapy in lung adenocarcinoma, remains molecular profile unclarified. Weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) was used for data mining, especially for studying biological networks based on pairwise correlations between variables. This study aimed to identify disease-related protein co-expression networks associated with early-stage SPA. Methods: We assessed cancerous cells laser-microdissected from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues of a SPA group (n = 5), referencing a low-risk subtype, a lepidic predominant subtype group (LPA) (n = 4), and another high-risk subtype, micropapillary predominant subtype (MPA) group (n = 3) and performed mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis. Disease-related co-expression networks associated with the SPA subtype were identified by WGCNA and their upstream regulators and causal networks were predicted by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. Results: Among the forty WGCNA network modules identified, two network modules were found to be associated significantly with the SPA subtype. Canonical enriched pathways were highly associated with cellular growth, proliferation, and immune response. Upregulated HLA class I molecules HLA-G and HLA-B implicated high mutation burden and T cell activation in the SPA subtype. Upstream analysis implicated the involvement of highly activated oncogenic regulators, MYC, MLXIPL, MYCN, the redox master regulator NFE2L2, and the highly inhibited LARP1, leading to oncogenic IRES-dependent translation, and also regulators of the adaptive immune response, including highly activated IFNG, TCRD, CD3-TCR, CD8A, CD8B, CD3, CD80/CD86, and highly inhibited LILRB2. Interestingly, the immune checkpoint molecule HLA-G, which is the counterpart of LILRB2, was highly expressed characteristically in the SPA subtype and might be associated with antitumor immunity. Conclusion: Our findings provide a disease molecular profile based on protein co-expression networks identified for the high-risk solid predominant adenocarcinoma, which will help develop future therapeutic strategies.
38292493 | Evaluating NetMHCpan performance on non-European HLA alleles not present in training data. Bias in neural network model training datasets has been observed to decrease prediction accuracy for groups underrepresented in training data. Thus, investigating the composition of training datasets used in machine learning models with healthcare applications is vital to ensure equity. Two such machine learning models are NetMHCpan-4.1 and NetMHCIIpan-4.0, used to predict antigen binding scores to major histocompatibility complex class I and II molecules, respectively. As antigen presentation is a critical step in mounting the adaptive immune response, previous work has used these or similar predictions models in a broad array of applications, from explaining asymptomatic viral infection to cancer neoantigen prediction. However, these models have also been shown to be biased toward hydrophobic peptides, suggesting the network could also contain other sources of bias. Here, we report the composition of the networks' training datasets are heavily biased toward European Caucasian individuals and against Asian and Pacific Islander individuals. We test the ability of NetMHCpan-4.1 and NetMHCpan-4.0 to distinguish true binders from randomly generated peptides on alleles not included in the training datasets. Unexpectedly, we fail to find evidence that the disparities in training data lead to a meaningful difference in prediction quality for alleles not present in the training data. We attempt to explain this result by mapping the HLA sequence space to determine the sequence diversity of the training dataset. Furthermore, we link the residues which have the greatest impact on NetMHCpan predictions to structural features for three alleles (HLA-A*34:01, HLA-C*04:03, HLA-DRB1*12:02).
35867785 | Spatiotemporal gating of Stat nuclear influx by Drosophila Npas4 in collective cell migration. Collective migration is important to embryonic development and cancer metastasis, but migratory and nonmigratory cell fate discrimination by differential activity of signal pathways remains elusive. In Drosophila oogenesis, Jak/Stat signaling patterns the epithelial cell fates in early egg chambers but later renders motility to clustered border cells. How Jak/Stat signal spatiotemporally switches static epithelia to motile cells is largely unknown. We report that a nuclear protein, Dysfusion, resides on the inner nuclear membrane and interacts with importin alpha/beta and Nup153 to modulate Jak/Stat signal by attenuating Stat nuclear import. Dysfusion is ubiquitously expressed in oogenesis but specifically down-regulated in border cells when migrating. Increase of nuclear Stat by Dysfusion down-regulation triggers invasive cell behavior and maintains persistent motility. Mammalian homolog of Dysfusion (NPAS4) also negatively regulates the nuclear accumulation of STAT3 and cancer cell migration. Thus, our finding demonstrates that Dysfusion-dependent gating mechanism is conserved and may serve as a therapeutic target for Stat-mediated cancer metastasis.
33468709 | A pro-diabetogenic mtDNA polymorphism in the mitochondrial-derived peptide, MOTS-c. Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) is an emerging public health problem in Asia. Although ethnic specific mtDNA polymorphisms have been shown to contribute to T2D risk, the functional effects of the mtDNA polymorphisms and the therapeutic potential of mitochondrial-derived peptides at the mtDNA polymorphisms are underexplored. Here, we showed an Asian-specific mitochondrial DNA variation m.1382A>C (rs111033358) leads to a K14Q amino acid replacement in MOTS-c, an insulin sensitizing mitochondrial-derived peptide. Meta-analysis of three cohorts (n = 27,527, J-MICC, MEC, and TMM) show that males but not females with the C-allele exhibit a higher prevalence of T2D. In J-MICC, only males with the C-allele in the lowest tertile of physical activity increased their prevalence of T2D, demonstrating a kinesio-genomic interaction. High-fat fed, male mice injected with MOTS-c showed reduced weight and improved glucose tolerance, but not K14Q-MOTS-c treated mice. Like the human data, female mice were unaffected. Mechanistically, K14Q-MOTS-c leads to diminished insulin-sensitization in vitro. Thus, the m.1382A>C polymorphism is associated with susceptibility to T2D in men, possibly interacting with exercise, and contributing to the risk of T2D in sedentary males by reducing the activity of MOTS-c.
38390869 | Diversity in the HLA-I Recognition of HLA-F Monoclonal Antibodies: HLA-F or HLA-Ib Monospecific, HLA-E or HLA-G Bispecific Antibodies with or without HLA-Ia Reactivity. Previous investigators have used various anti-HLA-F monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to demonstrate that the tissue distribution of HLA-F is highly restricted. Notably, these mAbs differed in their immunodiagnostic capabilities. Specifically, mAbs Fpep1.1 and FG1 detected HLA-F intracellularly in B cells but not on the cell surface, whereas mAb 3D11 detected HLA-F on the cell surface. The presence of HLA-F on T cells was recognized by mAb FG1 but not by mAb Fpep1.1. mAb 3D11 detected HLA-F on the cell surface of activated B cells and on peripheral blood lymphocytes, but not on the normal cells. Importantly, mAb 3D11 revealed that HLA-F exists as a heavy chain (HC) monomer, rather than as an HC associated with B2m. Although these mAbs are believed to be specific to HLA-F, their monospecificity has not been formally established, which is critical for immunodiagnostic and therapeutic purposes. Previously, we investigated the diversity of HLA class I reactivities of anti-HLA-E mAbs using HLA-I coated multiplex bead assays on a Luminex platform. We reported that more than 80% of the HLA-E mAbs were cross-reactive with other HLA-I molecules, with exceptionally few truly HLA-E-monospecific mAbs. In the present investigation, we generated IgG mAbs against HCs of HLA-F in Balb/C mice and examined the cross-reactivity of anti-HLA-F mAbs with other HLA-I alleles using a multiplex bead assay on the Luminex platform. Beads coated with an array of HLA homo- and heterodimers of different HLA-Ia (HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C) and Ib (HLA-E, HLA-F, and HLA-G) alleles were used to examine the binding of the anti-HLA-F mAbs. Only two mAbs were HLA-F monospecific, and five were HLA-Ib restricted. Several anti-HLA-F mAbs cross-reacted with HLA-E (n = 4), HLA-G (n = 3), HLA-Ia alleles (n = 9), HLA-G and HLA-Ia (n = 2), and HLA-Ib and HLA-Ia (n = 6). This monospecificity and polyreactivity were corroborated by the presence of HLA-F monospecific and HLA-I-shared sequences. This study emphasizes the need to monitor the mono-specificity of HLA-F for reliable immunodiagnostics and passive immunotherapy.
33959497 | GEO Data Mining Identifies OLR1 as a Potential Biomarker in NSCLC Immunotherapy. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer. The tumor immune microenvironment (TME) in NSCLC is closely correlated to tumor initiation, progression, and prognosis. TME failure impedes the generation of an effective antitumor immune response. In this study, we attempted to explore TME and identify a potential biomarker for NSCLC immunotherapy. 48 potential immune-related genes were identified from 11 eligible Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) data sets. We applied the CIBERSORT computational approach to quantify bulk gene expression profiles and thereby infer the proportions of 22 subsets of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TICs); 16 kinds of TICs showed differential distributions between the tumor and control tissue samples. Multiple linear regression analysis was used to determine the correlation between TICs and 48 potential immune-related genes. Nine differential immune-related genes showed statistical significance. We analyzed the influence of nine differential immune-related genes on NSCLC immunotherapy, and OLR1 exhibited the strongest correlation with four well-recognized biomarkers (PD-L1, CD8A, GZMB, and NOS2) of immunotherapy. Differential expression of OLR1 showed its considerable potential to divide TICs distribution, as determined by non-linear dimensionality reduction analysis. In immunotherapy prediction analysis with the comparatively reliable tool TIDE, patients with higher OLR1 expression were predicted to have better immunotherapy outcomes, and OLR1 expression was potentially highly correlated with PD-L1 expression, the average of CD8A and CD8B, IFNG, and Merck18 expression, T cell dysfunction and exclusion potential, and other significant immunotherapy predictors. These findings contribute to the current understanding of TME with immunotherapy. OLR1 also shows potential as a predictor or a regulator in NSCLC immunotherapy.
27534393 | 25th Annual Computational Neuroscience Meeting: CNS-2016.
35462338 | CXCL12 inhibits hair growth through CXCR4. CXCL12 and its receptors, which are highly expressed in the skin, are associated with various cutaneous diseases, including androgenic alopecia. However, their expression and role during the hair cycle are unknown. This study aims to investigate the expression of CXCL12 and its receptor, CXCR4, in the vicinity of hair follicles and their effect on hair growth. CXCL12 was highly expressed in dermal fibroblasts (DFs) and its level was elevated throughout the catagen and telogen phases of the hair cycle. CXCR4 is expressed in the dermal papilla (DP) and outer root sheath (ORS). In hair organ culture, hair loss was induced by recombinant CXCL12 therapy, which delayed the telogen-to-anagen transition and decreased hair length. In contrast, the suppression of CXCL12 using a neutralizing antibody and siRNA triggered the telogen-to-anagen transition and increased hair length in hair organ culture. Neutralization of CXCR7, one of the two receptors for CXCL12, only slightly affected hair growth. However, inhibition of CXCR4, the other receptor for CXCL12, increased hair growth to a considerable extent. In addition, in hair organ culture, the conditioned medium from DFs with CXCL12 siRNA considerably increased the hair length and induced proliferation of DP and ORS cells. CXCL12, through CXCR4 activation, increased STAT3 and STAT5 phosphorylation in DP and ORS cells. In contrast, blocking CXCL12 and CXCR4 decreased the phosphorylation of STAT3 and STAT5. In summary, these findings suggest that CXCL12 inhibits hair growth via the CXCR4/STAT signaling pathway and that CXCL12/CXCR4 pathway inhibitors are a promising treatment option for hair growth.
22457935 | Construction and properties of new Lyt-congenic strains and anti-Lyt-2.2 and anti-Lyt-3.1 monoclonal antibodies. Hybridomas producing mouse monoclonal IgM antibodies specific for Lyt-2.2 and Lyt-3.1 T-cell surface alloantigens have been constructed. Cytotoxic titers of ascites fluids were found to be 10(-6) or greater and no lysis of thymocytes of congenic strains bearing the alternative allele was observed at the lowest dilutions tested (1:2). The anti-Lyt-2.2 monoclonal antibody (HO-2.2) specifically precipiated from extracts of Lyt-2.2-positive thymocytes molecular species indistinguishable from those precipitated by conventional anti-Lyt-2.2 sera. However, by immunoprecipitation criteria (though not by cytotoxicity), the anti-Lyt-3.1 antibody (HO-3.1) demonstrated some cross-reactivity with similar molecular species from Lyt-3.1-negative thymocytes. In addition, three new strains of mice differing from existing strains in the region of the Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 loci have been constructed. They are: C.C58-Lyt-2a, Lyt-3a and C.AKR-Lyt-2a, Lyt-3a, congenic with Balb/cAn and bearing Lyt-2a and Lyt-3a alleles of C58/J and AKR/J, respectively; and AKR.C-Lyt-2b, Lyt-3b congenic with AKR/J and bearing the Lyt-2b and Lyt-3b alleles of Balb/cJ.
29137641 | Improving E. coli growth performance by manipulating small RNA expression. Efficient growth of E. coli, especially for production of recombinant proteins, has been a challenge for the biotechnological industry since the early 1970s. By employing multiple approaches, such as different media composition, various growth strategies and specific genetic manipulations, it is now possible to grow bacteria to concentrations exceeding 100 g/L and to achieve high concentrations of recombinant proteins. Although the growth conditions are carefully monitored and maintained, it is likely that during the growth process cells are exposed to periodic stress conditions, created by fluctuations in pH, dissolved oxygen, temperature, glucose, and salt concentration. These stress circumstances which can occur especially in large volume bioreactors, may affect the growth and production process. In the last several years, it has been recognized that small non-coding RNAs can act as regulators of bacterial gene expression. These molecules are found to be specifically involved in E. coli response to different environmental stress conditions; but so far, have not been used for improving production strains. The review provides summary of small RNAs identified on petri dish or in shake flask culture that can potentially affect growth characteristics of E. coli grown in bioreactor. Among them MicC and MicF that are involved in response to temperature changes, RyhB that responds to iron concentration, Gady which is associated with lower pH, Sgrs that is coupled with glucose transport and OxyS that responds to oxygen concentration. The manipulation of some of these small RNAs for improving growth of E. coli in Bioreactor is described in the last part of the review. Overexpression of SgrS was associated with improved growth and reduced acetate expression, over expression of GadY improved cell growth at acidic conditions and over expression of OxyS reduced the effect of oxidative stress. One of the possible advantages of manipulating sRNAs for improving cell growth is that the modifications occur at a post-translational level. Therefore, the use of sRNAs may exert minimal effect on the overall bacterial metabolism. The elucidation of the physiological role of newly discovered sRNAs will open new possibilities for creating strains with improved growth and production capabilities.
36979667 | Prognostic Value of Liver Kinase B1 (LKB1) in Gastric Cancer-Associated Tumor Microenvironment Immunity. Liver kinase B1 (LKB1) is a tumor suppressor gene, the inactivation of which occurs frequently in different tumor types. However, whether LKB1 is associated with the clinical features of gastric cancer (GC) and regulating tumor immunity is unknown. In this study, we showed that LKB1 is highly expressed in the serum of healthy individuals (n = 176) compared to GC patients (n = 416) and is also associated with clinical outcomes and good survival rates in GC patients. Furthermore, genes associated with immune checkpoints and T cell activation, such as PD-1, PD-L1, CD8A, CD8B, CD28, and GZMM, were shown to be highly expressed in GC subgroups with high LKB1 expression. Compared with fresh gastric cancerous tissues, LKB1 was highly expressed in CD3+CD8+ and CD3+CD8+CD28+ T cells in fresh adjacent non-cancerous tissues. CD3+CD8+ T cells produced an IFN-gamma anti-cancer immune response. Furthermore, the proportion of CD3+CD8+ T cells that expressed LKB had a positive correlation with IFN-gamma expression. Moreover, GC patients with low LKB1 expression had a poor objective response rate, and worse progression-free survival and overall survival when treated with pembrolizumab. In conclusion, LKB1 may be a potential immune checkpoint in GC patients.
26819451 | Next-Generation Sequencing in Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Highlights Molecular Divergence and Therapeutic Opportunities: a LYSA Study. PURPOSE: Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has detailed the genomic characterization of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) by identifying recurrent somatic mutations. We set out to design a clinically feasible NGS panel focusing on genes whose mutations hold potential therapeutic impact. Furthermore, for the first time, we evaluated the prognostic value of these mutations in prospective clinical trials. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A Lymphopanel was designed to identify mutations in 34 genes, selected according to literature and a whole exome sequencing study of relapsed/refractory DLBCL patients. The tumor DNA of 215 patients with CD20(+)de novo DLBCL in the prospective, multicenter, and randomized LNH-03B LYSA clinical trials was sequenced to deep, uniform coverage with the Lymphopanel. Cell-of-origin molecular classification was obtained through gene expression profiling with HGU133+2.0 Affymetrix GeneChip arrays. RESULTS: The Lymphopanel was informative for 96% of patients. A clear depiction of DLBCL subtype molecular heterogeneity was uncovered with the Lymphopanel, confirming that activated B-cell-like (ABC), germinal center B-cell like (GCB), and primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma (PMBL) are frequently affected by mutations in NF-kappaB, epigenetic, and JAK-STAT pathways, respectively. Novel truncating immunity pathway, ITPKB, MFHAS1, and XPO1 mutations were identified as highly enriched in PMBL. Notably, TNFAIP3 and GNA13 mutations in ABC patients treated with R-CHOP were associated with significantly less favorable prognoses. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the contribution of NGS with a consensus gene panel to personalized therapy in DLBCL, highlighting the molecular heterogeneity of subtypes and identifying somatic mutations with therapeutic and prognostic impact. Clin Cancer Res; 22(12); 2919-28.  2016 AACRSee related commentary by Lim and Elenitoba-Johnson, p. 2829.
37938771 | Targeting of intracellular oncoproteins with peptide-centric CARs. The majority of oncogenic drivers are intracellular proteins, constraining their immunotherapeutic targeting to mutated peptides (neoantigens) presented by individual human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allotypes1. However, most cancers have a modest mutational burden that is insufficient for generating responses using neoantigen-based therapies2,3. Neuroblastoma is a paediatric cancer that harbours few mutations and is instead driven by epigenetically deregulated transcriptional networks4. Here we show that the neuroblastoma immunopeptidome is enriched with peptides derived from proteins essential for tumorigenesis. We focused on targeting the unmutated peptide QYNPIRTTF discovered on HLA-A*24:02, which is derived from the neuroblastoma-dependency gene and master transcriptional regulator PHOX2B. To target QYNPIRTTF, we developed peptide-centric chimeric antigen receptors (PC-CARs) through a counter panning strategy using predicted potentially cross-reactive peptides. We further proposed that PC-CARs can recognize peptides on additional HLA allotypes when presenting a similar overall molecular surface. Informed by our computational modelling results, we show that PHOX2B PC-CARs also recognize QYNPIRTTF presented by HLA-A*23:01, the most common non-A2 allele in people with African ancestry. Finally, we demonstrate potent and specific killing of neuroblastoma cells expressing these HLAs in vitro and complete tumour regression in mice. These data suggest that PC-CARs have the potential to expand the pool of immunotherapeutic targets to include non-immunogenic intracellular oncoproteins and allow targeting through additional HLA allotypes in a clinical setting.
29211019 | Dual Regulation of the Small RNA MicC and the Quiescent Porin OmpN in Response to Antibiotic Stress in Escherichia coli. Antibiotic resistant Gram-negative bacteria are a serious threat for public health. The permeation of antibiotics through their outer membrane is largely dependent on porin, changes in which cause reduced drug uptake and efficacy. Escherichia coli produces two major porins, OmpF and OmpC. MicF and MicC are small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) that modulate the expression of OmpF and OmpC, respectively. In this work, we investigated factors that lead to increased production of MicC. micC promoter region was fused to lacZ, and the reporter plasmid was transformed into E. coli MC4100 and derivative mutants. The response of micC-lacZ to antimicrobials was measured during growth over a 6 h time period. The data showed that the expression of micC was increased in the presence of beta-lactam antibiotics and in an rpoE depleted mutant. Interestingly, the same conditions enhanced the activity of an ompN-lacZ fusion, suggesting a dual transcriptional regulation of micC and the quiescent adjacent ompN. Increased levels of OmpN in the presence of sub-inhibitory concentrations of chemicals could not be confirmed by Western blot analysis, except when analyzed in the absence of the sigma factor sigmaE. We suggest that the MicC sRNA acts together with the sigmaE envelope stress response pathway to control the OmpC/N levels in response to beta-lactam antibiotics.
29653477 | Porin Deficiency in Carbapenem-Resistant Enterobacter aerogenes Strains. PURPOSE: The more frequent reports of carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae have raised the alarm for public health. Apart from the production of carbapenemases, deficiency (decreased or loss of expression) of outer membrane proteins (OMPs) has been proposed as a potentially important mechanism of carbapenem resistance. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the contribution of the major OMPs to carbapenem resistance in Enterobacter aerogenes (CREA) isolates and also investigate the role of small RNAs (sRNAs) in inducing porin-associated permeability defects. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The differential expression of OMPs was analyzed in four clinical CREA isolates. omp35 and omp36 genes were further investigated by whole-genome sequencing, induction of meropenem resistance, sRNA overexpression, OMP complementation assays, and reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. RESULTS: All four isolates examined were deficient in omp35 and omp36. Functional restoration of these two genes confirmed their contribution to carbapenem resistance. The meropenem induction assay further revealed that porin deficiency plays a role in carbapenem resistance under antibiotic selection pressure. Single-point mutations in omp36 leading to premature stop codons were detected in two of the isolates. Elevated expression levels of the sRNAs micF and micC were detected in the other two porin-deficient isolates, which were predicted to be potential porin regulators from whole-genome sequencing. Overexpression of micF and micC downregulated the expression of Omp35 and Omp36, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Porin deficiency plays an important role in carbapenem resistance among clinical E. aerogenes isolates under regulation of the sRNAs micC and micF. Furthermore, overexpression of micC and micF had a minor to no impact on carbapenem minimum inhibitory concentrations, and thus, the regulatory mechanism is likely to be complex.
30283452 | Redox-Mediated Mechanisms Fuel Monocyte Responses to CXCL12/HMGB1 in Active Rheumatoid Arthritis. Chemokine synergy-inducing molecules are emerging as regulating factors in cell migration. The alarmin HMGB1, in its reduced form, can complex with CXCL12 enhancing its activity on monocytes via the chemokine receptor CXCR4, while the form containing a disulfide bond, by binding to TLR2 or TLR4, initiates a cascade of events leading to production of cytokines and chemokines. So far, the possibility that the CXCL12/HMGB1 heterocomplex could be maintained in chronic inflammation was debated, due to the release of reactive oxygen species. Therefore, we have assessed if the heterocomplex could remain active in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) and its relevance in the disease assessment. Monocytes from RA patients with active disease require a low concentration of HMGB1 to enhance CXCL12-induced migration, in comparison to monocytes from patients in clinical remission or healthy donors. The activity of the heterocomplex depends on disease activity, on the COX2 and JAK/STAT pathways, and is determined by the redox potential of the microenvironment. In RA, the presence of an active thioredoxin system correlates with the enhanced cell migration, and with the presence of the heterocomplex in the synovial fluid. The present study highlights how, in an unbalanced microenvironment, the activity of the thioredoxin system plays a crucial role in sustaining inflammation. Prostaglandin E2 stimulation of monocytes from healthy donors is sufficient to recapitulate the response observed in patients with active RA. The activation of mechanisms counteracting the oxidative stress in the extracellular compartment preserves HMGB1 in its reduced form, and contributes to fuel the influx of inflammatory cells. Targeting the heterocomplex formation and its activity could thus be an additional tool for dampening the inflammation sustained by cell recruitment, for those patients with chronic inflammatory conditions who poorly respond to current therapies.
37924979 | Exopolysaccharide-treated Dendritic Cells Effectively Ameliorate Acute Graft vs Host Disease. Graft versus host disease (GvHD) is one of the primary and often lethal complications of allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Prophylactic regimens for GvHD are given as standard pre-transplantation therapy; however, up to 50% of these patients develop acute GvHD (aGvHD) and require additional immunosuppressive intervention. Using a mouse GvHD model, we previously showed that injecting mice with exopolysaccharide (EPS) from Bacillus subtilis prior to GvHD induction significantly increased 80-day survival after transplantation of complete allo-MHC mismatched cells. To ask whether EPS might also ameliorate GvHD in humans, we used humanized NSG-HLA-A2 mice and induced GvHD by i.v. injecting A2neg human PBMC. Because we could not inject human donors with EPS, we transferred EPS-pretreated dendritic cells (DC) to inhibit aGvHD. We derived DC from CD34+ human cord blood cells, treated them with EPS, and then injected them together with PBMC into the NSG-HLA-A2 mice. We found that all mice that received untreated DC were dead by day 35, whereas 25% of mice receiving EPS-treated DC survived. This DC cell therapy could be readily translatable to humans because we can generate large numbers of human EPS-DC and use them as an \off the shelf\ treatment for patients undergoing HSCT.
23575529 | CD8-beta ADP-ribosylation affects CD8(+) T-cell function. The CD8alphabeta coreceptor is crucial for effective peptide: MHC-I recognition by the TCR of CD8(+) T cells. Adenosine diphosphate ribosyl transferase 2.2 (ART2.2) utilizes extracellular NAD(+) to transfer ADP-ribose to arginine residues of extracellular domains of surface proteins. Here, we show that in the presence of extracellular NAD(+) , ART2.2 caused ADP-ribosylation of CD8-beta on murine CD8(+) T cells in vitro and in vivo. Treatment with NAD(+) prevented binding of anti-CD8-beta mAb YTS156.7.7 but not of mAb H35-17.2, indicating that NAD(+) caused modification of certain epitopes and not a general loss of CD8-beta. Loss of antibody binding was strictly dependent on ART2.2, because it was not observed on ART2-deficient T cells or in the presence of inhibitory anti-ART2.2 single-domain antibodies. ADP-ribosylation of CD8-beta occurred during cell isolation, particularly when cells were isolated from CD38-deficient mice. Incubation of ART2-expressing, but not of ART2-deficient, OVA-specific CD8(+) T cells with NAD(+) interfered with binding of OVA257-264 :MHC-I tetramers. In line with this result, treatment of WT mice with NAD(+) resulted in reduced CD8(+) T-cell mediated cytotoxicity in vivo. We propose that ADP-ribosylation of CD8-beta can regulate the coreceptor function of CD8 in the presence of elevated levels of extracellular NAD(+) .
38547417 | Pathologic Features of Anti-Ku Myositis. OBJECTIVE: Characteristics of myositis with anti-Ku antibodies are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the pathologic features of myositis associated with anti-Ku antibodies, compared with immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM) with anti-signal recognition particle (SRP) and anti-3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR) antibodies, in muscle biopsy-oriented registration cohorts in Japan and Germany. METHODS: We performed a retrospective pathology review of patients with anti-Ku myositis samples diagnosed in the Japanese and German cohorts. We evaluated histologic features and performed HLA phenotyping. RESULTS: Fifty biopsied muscle samples in the Japanese cohort and 10 in the German cohort were obtained. After exclusion of myositis-specific autoantibodies or other autoimmune connective tissue diseases, 26 samples (43%) of anti-Ku antibody-positive myositis were analyzed. All the samples shared some common features with IMNM, whereas they showed expression of MHC class II and clusters of perivascular inflammatory cells more frequently than the anti-SRP/HMGCR IMNM samples (71% vs 7%/16%; p < 0.005/<0.005; 64% vs 0%/0%; p < 0.005/<0.005). Anti-Ku myositis biopsies could be divided into 2 subgroups based on the extent of necrosis and regeneration. The group with more abundant necrosis and regeneration showed a higher frequency of MHC class II expression and perivascular inflammatory cell clusters. HLA phenotyping in the 44 available patients showed possible associations of HLA-DRB1*03:01, HLA-DRB1*11:01, and HLA-DQB1*03:01 (p = 0.0045, 0.019, and 0.027; odds ratio [OR] 50.2, 4.6, and 2.8; 95% CI 2.6-2942.1, 1.1-14.5, and 1.0-7.0) in the group with less conspicuous necrosis and regeneration. On the contrary, in the group of more abundant necrosis and regeneration, the allele frequencies of HLA-A*24:02, HLA-B*52:01, HLA-C*12:02, and HLA-DRB1*15:02 were lower than those of healthy controls (p = 0.0036, 0.027, 0.016, and 0.026; OR = 0.27, 0, 0, and 0; 95% CI 0.1-0.7, 0-0.8, 0-0.8, and 0-0.8). However, these HLA associations did not remain significant after statistical correction for multiple testing. DISCUSSION: While anti-Ku myositis shows necrotizing myopathy features, they can be distinguished from anti-SRP/HMGCR IMNM by their MHC class II expression and clusters of perivascular inflammatory cells. The HLA analyses suggest that anti-Ku myositis may have different subsets associated with myopathologic subgroups.
17055775 | Small non-coding RNAs and the bacterial outer membrane. Recent systematic genome searches revealed that bacteria encode a tremendous number of small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs). Whereas most of these molecules remain of unknown function, it has become increasingly clear that many of them will act to modulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. Where studied in more detail, sRNAs have often been found to control the expression of outer membrane proteins (OMPs). Enterobacteria such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella are now known to encode at least eight OMP-regulating sRNAs (InvR, MicA, MicC, MicF, OmrAB, RseX and RybB). These sRNAs exert their functions under a variety of growth and stress conditions, including the sigmaE-mediated envelope stress response. An sRNA-OMP network is emerging in which some sRNAs act specifically on a single omp mRNA, whereas others control multiple omp mRNA targets.
38524775 | Cold Tumour Phenotype Explained Through Whole Genome Sequencing in Clinical Nasopharyngeal Cancer: A Preliminary Study. Introduction: Nasopharyngeal cancer (NPC) is a complex cancer due to its unique genomic features and association with the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Despite therapeutic advancements, NPC prognosis remains poor, necessitating a deeper understanding of its genomics. Here, we present a comprehensive whole genome sequencing (WGS) view of NPC genomics and its correlation with the phenotype. Methods: This study involved WGS of a clinical NPC biopsy specimen. Sequencing was carried out using a long read sequencer from Oxford Nanopore. Analysis of the variants involved correlation with the phenotype of NPC. Results: A loss of genes within chromosome 6 from copy number variation (CNV) was found. The lost genes included HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C, which work in the antigen presentation process. This loss of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) apparatus resulted in the tumour's ability to evade immune recognition. The tumour exhibited an immunologically \cold\ phenotype, with mild tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes, supporting the possible etiology of loss of antigen presentation capability. Furthermore, the driver mutation PIK3CA gene was identified along with various other gene variants affecting numerous signaling pathways. Discussion: Comprehensive WGS was able to detect various mutations and genomic losses, which could explain tumour progression and immune evasion ability. Furthermore, the study identified the loss of other genes related to cancer and immune pathways, emphasizing the complexity of NPC genomics. In conclusion, this study underscores the significance of MHC class I gene loss and its probable correlation with the cold tumour phenotype observed in NPC.
34493195 | Computational Analysis Illustrates the Mechanism of Qingfei Paidu Decoction in Blocking the Transition of COVID-19 Patients from Mild to Severe Stage. BACKGROUND: The epidemic of SARS-CoV-2 has made COVID-19 a serious threat to human health around the world. The severe infections of SARS-CoV-2 are usually accompanied by higher mortality. Although the Qingfei Paidu Decoction (QFPDD) has been proved to be effective in blocking the transition of COVID-19 patients from mild to severe stage, its mechanism remains unclear. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to explore the mechanism of QFPDD in blocking the transition of COVID- 19 patients from mild to severe stage. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the process of screening active ingredients, oral bioavailability (OB) and drug likeness (DL) are key indicators, which can help to screen out pivotal compounds. Therefore, with the criteria of OB>=30% and DL>=0.18, we searched active ingredients of QFPDD in the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP, https://tcmspw.com/) by using its 21 herbs as keywords. RESULTS: We filtered out 6 pivotal ingredients from QFPDD by using the bioinformatics method, namely quercetin, luteolin, berberine, hederagenin, shionone and kaempferol, which can inhibit the highly expressed genes (i.e. CXCR4, ICAM1, CXCL8, CXCL10, IL6, IL2, CCL2, IL1B, IL4, IFNG) in severe COVID-19 patients. By performing KEGG enrichment analysis, we found seven pathways, namely TNF signaling pathway, IL-17 signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, NFkappa B signaling pathway, HIF-1 signaling pathway, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, and Th17 cell differentiation, by which QFPDD could block the transition of COVID-19 patients from mild to severe stage. CONCLUSION: QFPDD can prevent the deterioration of COVID-19 in the following mechanisms, i.e. inhibiting SARS-CoV-2 invasion and replication, anti-inflammatory and immune regulation, and repairing body damage. These results will be helpful for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19.
36595044 | Genome-wide DNA methylation profile analysis identifies an individualized predictive signature for melanoma immune response. PURPOSE: The current evaluation methods for tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), particularly CD8 + TILs, mainly rely on semiquantitative immunohistochemistry with high variability. We aimed to construct an individualized DNA methylation-based signature for CD8 + TILs (CD8 + MeTIL) that may characterize melanoma immune microenvironment and guide therapeutic selection. METHODS: The transcriptome profiles and DNA methylation data of 457 melanoma patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database were analyzed. Differential methylation analysis between groups with high and low CD8 + TILs was performed to select differentially methylated positions (DMPs) and define CD8 + MeTIL. The prognostic value of CD8 + MeTIL and its predictive value for immunotherapy response were investigated using multiple melanoma cohorts. RESULTS: We successfully constructed the CD8 + MeTIL signature based on four DMPs. The survival analyses showed that higher CD8 + MeTIL score was associated with worse survival outcomes in TCGA-SKCM and GSE144487 cohorts. The ROC curve for the predictive analysis revealed that the survival prediction of CD8 + MeTIL score was superior compared with CD8 + TILs (CIBERSORT) and CD8B mRNA expression. Furthermore, we founded that tumors with higher CD8 + MeTIL score were marked with immunosuppressive characteristics, including low immune score and downregulated immune-related pathways. More importantly, the CD8 + MeTIL score showed a potential predictive value for the benefit from immunotherapy in two published cohorts. When combined CD8 + MeTIL with PD-L1 expression, the patient classification showed significantly different immunotherapy response rates and long-term survival outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: The CD8 + MeTIL signature might be as a novel method to evaluate CD8 + TILs and guide immunotherapy approaches.
36816742 | The Prognostic Model Established by the Differential Expression Genes Based on CD8+ T Cells to Evaluate the Prognosis and the Response to Immunotherapy in Osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant tumor with an extremely poor prognosis, especially in progressive patients. Immunotherapy based on immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) is considered to be a promising treatment option for OS. Due to tumor heterogeneity, only a minority of patients benefit from immunotherapy. Therefore, it is urgent to explore a model that can accurately assess the response of OS to immunotherapy. In this study, we obtained the single-cell RNA sequencing datasets of OS patients from public databases and defined 34 cell clusters by dimensional reduction and clustering analysis. PTPRC was applied to identify immune cell clusters and nonimmune cell clusters. Next, we performed clustering analysis on the immune cell clusters and obtained 25 immune cell subclusters. Immune cells were labeled with CD8A and CD8B to obtain CD8+ T cell clusters. Meanwhile, we extracted the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of CD8+ T cell clusters and other immune cell clusters. Furthermore, we constructed a prognostic model (CD8-DEG model) based on the obtained DEGs of CD8+ T cells, and verified the excellent predictive ability of this model for the prognosis of OS. Moreover, we further investigated the value of the CD8-DEG model. The results indicated that the risk score of the CD8-DEG model was an independent risk factor for OS patients. Finally, we revealed that the risk score of the CD8-DEG model correlates with the immune profile of OS and can be used to evaluate the response of OS to immunotherapy. In conclusion, our study revealed the critical role of CD8 cells in OS. The risk score model based on CD8-DEGs can provide guidance for prognosis and immunotherapy of OS.
30540814 | Fingerprints of CD8+ T cells on human pre-plasma and memory B cells. Differentiation of B cells is a stringently controlled multi-step process, which is still incompletely understood. Here we identify and characterize a rare population of human B cells, which surprisingly carry CD8AB on their surface. Existence of such cells was demonstrated both in tonsils and in human apheresis material. Gene expression profiling and real time PCR detected however no CD8A or CD8B message in these cells. Instead, we found that surface CD8 was hijacked from activated CD8+ T cells by a transfer process that required direct cell-to-cell contact. A focused transcriptome analysis at single cell level allowed the dissection of the CD8 positive B cell population. We found that the affected cells are characteristically of the CD27+CD200- phenotype, and consist of two discrete late-stage subpopulations that carry signatures of activated memory B like cells, and early plasmablasts. Thus, there is only a restricted time window in the differentiation process during which B cells can intimately interact with CD8+ T cells. The findings point to a novel link between the T and B arms of the adaptive immune system, and suggest that CD8+ T cells have the capability to directly shape the global antibody repertoire.
25557799 | Sex differences in sensitivity to the social consequences of acute ethanol and social drinking during adolescence. In human adolescents, sociable males frequently drink to enhance positive emotional states, whereas anxious females often drink to avoid negative affective states. This study used a rat model of adolescence to provide information regarding possible sex differences in contributors to social drinking. The effects of ethanol (0, 0.5, and 0.75g/kg) on play fighting and social preference were assessed on P30, P32, and P34 using a within-subject design. Then animals were tested in a social drinking paradigm (P37-P40), with this testing revealing high drinkers and low drinkers. Sex differences in sensitivity to ethanol emerged among high and low drinkers. High socially drinking males, but not females, when tested prior to drinking sessions, showed significant increases in play fighting at both doses. In low drinking males, play fighting was increased by 0.5g/kg ethanol, whereas the higher dose of 0.75g/kg produced significant decreases in play fighting. High drinking females initially showed low levels of social preference than high drinking males and low drinking females and were extremely sensitive to ethanol-induced enhancement of this social measure. Low social drinkers, both males and females, were more sensitive to the suppressing effects of ethanol on social preference following 0.75g/kg ethanol. These findings indicate that during adolescence enhanced sensitivity to the facilitating effects of ethanol on play fighting is associated with heavy drinking among males, whereas low social preference together with high sensitivity to ethanol-induced enhancement of social preference is related to high social drinking in females.
1824857 | Two gut intraepithelial CD8+ lymphocyte populations with different T cell receptors: a role for the gut epithelium in T cell differentiation. Mouse gut intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) consist mainly (90%) of two populations of CD8+ T cells. One bears heterodimeric alpha/beta CD8 chains (Lyt-2+, Lyt-3+), a T cell receptor (TCR) made of alpha/beta chains, and is Thy-1+; it represents the progeny of T blasts elicited in Peyer's patches by antigenic stimulation. The other bears homodimeric alpha/alpha CD8+ chains, contains no beta chain mRNA, and is mostly Thy-1- and TCR-gamma/delta + or -alpha/beta +; it is thymo-independent and does not require antigenic stimulation, as shown by its presence: (a) in nude and scid mice; (b) in irradiated and thymectomized mice repopulated by T-depleted bone marrow cells bearing an identifiable marker; (c) in thymectomized mice treated by injections of monoclonal anti-CD8 antibody, which lead to total depletion of peripheral CD8+ T lymphocytes; and (d) in germ-free mice and in suckling mice. In young nude mice, alpha/alpha CD8 chains, CD3-TCR complexes, and TCR mRNAs (first gamma/delta) are found on IEL, while they are not detectable on or in peripheral or circulating lymphocytes or bone marrow cells. IEL, in contrast to mature T cells, contain mRNA for the RAG protein, which is required for the rearrangement of TCR and Ig genes. We propose that the gut epithelium (an endoderm derivative, as the thymic epithelium) has an inductive property, attracting progenitors of bone marrow origin, and triggering their TCR rearrangement and alpha/alpha CD8 chains expression, thus giving rise to a T cell population that appears to belong to the same lineage as gamma/delta thymocytes and to recognize an antigenic repertoire different from that of alpha/beta CD8+ IEL.
38575482 | Validation of tag SNPs for multiple sclerosis HLA risk alleles across the 1000 genomes panel. Currently, the genetic variants strongly associated with risk for Multiple Sclerosis (MS) are located in the Major Histocompatibility Complex. This includes DRB1*15:01 and DRB1*15:03 alleles at the HLA-DRB1 locus, the latter restricted to African populations; the DQB1*06:02 allele at the HLA-DQB1 locus which is in high linkage disequilibrium (LD) with DRB1*15:01; and protective allele A*02:01 at the HLA-A locus. HLA allele identification is facilitated by co-inherited ('tag') single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs); however, SNP validation is not typically done outside of the discovery population. We examined 19 SNPs reported to be in high LD with these alleles in 2,502 healthy subjects included in the 1000 Genomes panel having typed HLA data. Examination of 3 indices (LD R2 values, sensitivity and specificity, minor allele frequency) revealed few SNPs with high tagging performance. All SNPs examined that tag DRB1*15:01 were in perfect LD in the British population; three showed high tagging performance in 4 of the 5 European, and 2 of the 4 American populations. For DQB1*06:02, with no previously validated tag SNPs, we show that rs3135388 has high tagging performance in one South Asian, one American, and one European population. We identify for the first time that rs2844821 has high tagging performance for A*02:01 in 5 of 7 African populations including African Americans, and 4 of the 5 European populations. These results provide a basis for selecting SNPs with high tagging performance to assess HLA alleles across diverse populations, for MS risk as well as for other diseases and conditions.
23055271 | Risk for myasthenia gravis maps to a (151) Pro Ala change in TNIP1 and to human leukocyte antigen-B*08. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to comprehensively define the genetic basis of early onset myasthenia gravis (EOMG). METHODS: We have carried out a 2-stage genome-wide association study on a total of 649 North European EOMG patients. Cases were matched 1:4 with controls of European ancestry. We performed imputation and conditional analyses across the major histocompatibility complex, as well as in the top regions of association outside the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region. RESULTS: We observed the strongest association in the HLA class I region at rs7750641 (p = 1.2 x 10(-92) ; odds ratio [OR], 6.25). By imputation and conditional analyses, HLA-B*08 proves to be the major associated allele (p = 2.87 x 10(-113) ; OR, 6.41). In addition to the expected association with PTPN22 (rs2476601; OR, 1.71; p = 8.2 x 10(-10) ), an imputed coding variant (rs2233290) at position 151 (Pro Ala) in the TNFAIP3-interacting protein 1, TNIP1, confers even stronger risk than PTPN22 (OR, 1.91; p = 3.2 x 10(-10) ). INTERPRETATION: The association at TNIP1 in EOMG implies disease mechanisms involving ubiquitin-dependent dysregulation of NF-kappaB signaling. The localization of the major HLA signal to the HLA-B*08 allele suggests that CD8(+) T cells may play a key role in disease initiation or pathogenesis.
37058845 | Directed targeting of B-cell maturation antigen-specific CAR T cells by bioinformatic approaches: From in-silico to in-vitro. AIMS: Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T-cell is a breakthrough in cancer immunotherapy. The primary step of successful CAR T cell therapy is designing a specific single-chain fragment variable (scFv). This study aims to verify the designed anti-BCMA (B cell maturation antigen) CAR using bioinformatic techniques with the following experimental evaluations. MAIN METHODS: Following the second generation of anti-BCMA CAR designing, the protein structure, function prediction, physicochemical complementarity at the ligand-receptor interface, and biding sites analysis of anti-BCMA CAR construct were confirmed using different modeling and docking server, including Expasy, I-TASSER, HDock, and PyMOL software. To generate CAR T-cells, isolated T cells were transduced. Then, anti-BCMA CAR mRNA and its surface expression were confirmed by real-time -PCR and flow cytometry methods, respectively. To evaluate the surface expression of anti-BCMA CAR, anti-(Fab')2 and anti-CD8 antibodies were employed. Finally, anti-BCMA CAR T cells were co-cultured with BCMA+/- cell lines to assess the expression of CD69 and CD107a as activation and cytotoxicity markers. KEY FINDINGS: In-silico results approved the suitable protein folding, perfect orientation, and correct locating of functional domains at the receptor-ligand binding site. The in-vitro results confirmed high expression of scFv (89 +- 1.15% (and CD8alpha (54 +- 2.88%). The expression of CD69 (91.97 +- 1.7%) and CD107a (92.05 +- 1.29%) were significantly increased, indicating appropriate activation and cytotoxicity. SIGNIFICANCE: In-silico studies before experimental assessments are crucial for state-of-art CAR designing. Highly activation and cytotoxicity of anti-BCMA CAR T-cell revealed that our CAR construct methodology would be applicable to define the road map of CAR T cell therapy.
35116714 | Pan-cancer analysis of CXCR4 carcinogenesis in human tumors. BACKGROUND: C-X-C chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) is a specific receptor of stromal cell-derived factor-1, also known as CXCL12. The interaction between CXCL12 and its receptor CXCR4 can activate various signaling pathways, including gene expression, cell proliferation, migration, tumorigenesis, angiogenesis, etc. Although there is evidence to support the association between CXCR4 and some cancers, there is no pan-cancer analysis. To fill this gap, we analyzed the role of CXCR4 in cancer-based on The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). METHODS: We used TCGA, Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) and Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) databases to analyze the expression, variation and phosphorylation of CXCR4 in different cancers. At the same time, we also carried out Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis. RESULTS: We found that CXCR4 expression was significantly increased in bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA) and other cancers, and CXCR4 expression in BLCA, cervical squamous cell carcinoma (CESC) and other cancers was related to tumor stage. CXCR4 expression was positively correlated with tumor-associated fibroblasts in BLCA, breast adenocarcinoma (BRCA), CESC and other cancers. GO analysis showed that CXCR4-related genes were mainly enriched in biological processes (BPs) and cellular components (CCs). KEGG analysis showed that CXCR4 was mainly involved in \chemokine signaling pathway\, \natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity\, and \JAK-STAT signaling pathway\. CONCLUSIONS: The expression of CXCR4 in different cancers has different effects on the prognosis of patients and the infiltration of immune cells.
33007914 | Transcriptome Response of Atlantic Salmon (Salmo salar) to a New Piscine Orthomyxovirus. Pilchard orthomyxovirus (POMV) is an emerging pathogen of concern to the salmon industry in Australia. To explore the molecular events that underpin POMV infection, we challenged Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) post-smolts in seawater via cohabitation. Tissue samples of the head kidney and liver were collected from moribund and surviving individuals and analyzed using transcriptome sequencing. Viral loads were higher in the head kidney compared to the liver, yet the liver presented more upregulated genes. Fish infected with POMV showed a strong innate immune response that included the upregulation of pathogen recognition receptors such as RIG-I and Toll-like receptors as well as the induction of interferon-stimulated genes (MX, ISG15). Moribund fish also presented a dramatic induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines, contributing to severe tissue damage and morbidity. An induction of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I genes (B2M) and markers of T cell-mediated immunity (CD8-alpha, CD8-beta, Perforin-1, Granzyme-A) was observed in both moribund fish and survivors. In addition, differential connectivity analysis showed that three key regulators (RELA/p65, PRDM1, and HLF) related to cell-mediated immunity had significant differences in connectivity in \clinically healthy\ versus \clinically affected\ or moribund fish. Collectively, our results show that T cell-mediated immunity plays a central role in the response of Atlantic salmon to the infection with POMV.
2452747 | Gene transfer of the Ly-3 chain gene of the mouse CD8 molecular complex: co-transfer with the Ly-2 polypeptide gene results in detectable cell surface expression of the Ly-3 antigenic determinants. The CD8 molecule is a glycoprotein expressed on a subset of mature T lymphocytes. It has been postulated to be a receptor for class I major histocompatibility complex molecules. In the mouse, CD8 is a heterodimer composed of Ly-2 and Ly-3 chains. We have isolated and analyzed cDNA and cosmid clones corresponding to the Ly-3 subunit. One of the isolated, cosmid clones was subsequently transfected, alone or in combination with the Ly-2 gene, into mouse Ltk- cells. Analysis of the Ly-2,3 molecules expressed at the surface of the double transfectants indicated that they are serologically and biochemically indistinguishable from their normal counterparts expressed on lymphoid cells. Ltk- cells transfected with the Ly-2 gene alone were shown to react with a subset of anti-CD8 monoclonal antibodies whereas Ly-3 transfectants did not stain with any of the anti-Ly-3 antibodies employed in this study. Since at least one of these antibodies (53-5.8) has been previously shown to recognize an epitope which is retained on the Ly-3 subunit after dissociation of the heterodimeric Ly-2,3 complex, these observations suggest that the expression of the Ly-2 polypeptide is required to permit the detectable cell surface expression of the antigenic determinants carried by the Ly-3 subunit.
27121061 | Differential expression of major histocompatibility complex class I in subtypes of breast cancer is associated with estrogen receptor and interferon signaling. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) have a strong prognostic and predictive significance. However, the mechanism of TIL influx in TNBC is unclear. Expression of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) on the tumor cell is essential for the effective killing of tumor by cytotoxic TILs. In our current study, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) expression was inversely correlated with estrogen receptor (ER) expression in normal and cancerous breast tissue and positively correlated with TILs in breast cancer. The ER score was inversely correlated with TILs in breast cancer. HLA-A and CD8B gene expression was negatively correlated with ESR1 and positively correlated with interferon-associated gene expression in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data. Negative correlation between ESR1 and HLA and positive correlation between interferon-associated and HLA gene expression were also confirmed in Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE) data. Taken together, our data suggest that a lower expression of HLA in luminal-type tumors might be associated with low level of TILs in those tumors. Further investigation of the mechanism of higher HLA expression and TIL influx in TNBC may help to boost the host immune response.
34467524 | Patients with systemic sclerosis show phenotypic and functional defects in neutrophils. BACKGROUND: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a multiorgan autoimmune disease characterized by inflammation, vascular modification, and progressive fibrosis of the skin and several visceral organs. Innate and adaptive immune cells, including myeloid, B and T cells, are believed to be central to the pathogenesis of SSc. However, the role and functional state of neutrophil granulocytes (neutrophils) are ill-defined in SSc. METHODS: We performed a prospective study of neutrophils freshly isolated from SSc patients and healthy donors (HD) by measuring in these neutrophils (i) functional cell surface markers, including CD16, CD62L, CD66b, CD66c, CXCR1, CXCR2, and CXCR4; (ii) cytokine-activated intracellular signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathways, such as phosphorylated STAT3 (pSTAT3), pSTAT5, and pSTAT6; (iii) production of neutrophil extracellular traps (NET) and intracellular myeloperoxidase (MPO); and (iv) phagocytosis of bacteria by the neutrophils. RESULTS: Neutrophils of SSc patients expressed lower CD16 and CD62L and higher pSTAT3 and pSTAT6 compared to HD. Moreover, neutrophils of SSc patients lacked CXCR1 and CXCR2, the receptors responding to the potent neutrophil chemoattractant CXCL8. Neutrophils of SSc patients were also deficient in MPO levels, NET formation, and phagocytosis of bacteria. CONCLUSIONS: Neutrophils of patients with SSc display several functional defects affecting cell migration, NET formation, and phagocytosis of bacteria.
31372333 | The role of CXCR4 in multiple myeloma: Cells' journey from bone marrow to beyond. CXCR4 is a pleiotropic chemokine receptor which acts through its ligand CXCL12 to regulate diverse physiological processes. CXCR4/CXCL12 axis plays a pivotal role in proliferation, invasion, dissemination and drug resistance in multiple myeloma (MM). Apart from its role in homing, CXCR4 also affects MM cell mobilization and egression out of the bone marrow (BM) which is correlated with distant organ metastasis. Aberrant CXCR4 expression pattern is associated with osteoclastogenesis and tumor growth in MM through its cross talk with various important cell signalling pathways. A deeper insight into understanding of CXCR4 mediated signalling pathways and its role in MM is essential to identify potential therapeutic interventions. The current therapeutic focus is on disrupting the interaction of MM cells with its protective tumor microenvironment where CXCR4 axis plays an essential role. There are still multiple challenges that need to be overcome to target CXCR4 axis more efficiently and to identify novel combination therapies with existing strategies. This review highlights the role of CXCR4 along with its significant interacting partners as a mediator of MM pathogenesis and summarizes the targeted therapies carried out so far.
24047902 | cAMP-responsive element modulator alpha (CREMalpha) trans-represses the transmembrane glycoprotein CD8 and contributes to the generation of CD3+CD4-CD8- T cells in health and disease. T cell receptor-alphabeta(+) CD3(+)CD4(-)CD8(-) \double-negative\ T cells are expanded in the peripheral blood of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome. In both disorders, double-negative T cells infiltrate tissues, induce immunoglobulin production, and secrete proinflammatory cytokines. Double-negative T cells derive from CD8(+) T cells through down-regulation of CD8 surface co-receptors. However, the molecular mechanisms orchestrating this process remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that the transcription factor cAMP-responsive element modulator alpha (CREMalpha), which is expressed at increased levels in T cells from systemic lupus erythematosus patients, contributes to transcriptional silencing of CD8A and CD8B. We provide the first evidence that CREMalpha trans-represses a regulatory element 5' of the CD8B gene. Therefore, CREMalpha represents a promising candidate in the search for biomarkers and treatment options in diseases in which double-negative T cells contribute to the pathogenesis.
31575039 | STAT3 Regulates the Type I IFN-Mediated Antiviral Response by Interfering with the Nuclear Entry of STAT1. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is a multifunctional factor that regulates inflammation and immunity. Knowledge of its regulatory mechanisms is very limited. Here, we showed that enterovirus 71 (EV71) infection induced the phosphorylation of STAT3 and the expression of its downstream inflammatory regulators. Knockdown of STAT3 with siRNAs significantly restricted viral RNA and protein levels, and also reduced viral titers. With further investigation, we found that importin alpha family member Karyopherin-alpha1 (KPNA1) was employed by both STAT1 and STAT3 for their nuclear import. The phosphorylated and un-phosphorylated STAT3 competed with STAT1 for binding to the decreased KPNA1 post infection and repressed downstream ISG expression. STAT3 knockdown alleviated the repressed type I IFN-mediated antiviral response upon infection and led to decreased viral replication. Taken together, our data suggested the role of STAT3 in maintaining the balance of inflammation and antiviral responses in the central nervous system (CNS) upon infection.
31980555 | Constitutive CD8 expression drives innate CD8+ T-cell differentiation via induction of iNKT2 cells. Temporal down-regulation of the CD8 co-receptor after receiving positive-selection signals has been proposed to serve as an important determinant to segregate helper versus cytotoxic lineages by generating differences in the duration of TCR signaling between MHC-I and MHC-II selected thymocytes. By contrast, little is known about whether CD8 also modulates TCR signaling engaged by the non-classical MHC-I-like molecule, CD1d, during development of invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells. Here, we show that constitutive transgenic CD8 expression resulted in enhanced differentiation of innate memory-like CD8+ thymocytes in both a cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic manner, the latter being accomplished by an increase in the IL-4-producing iNKT2 subset. Skewed iNKT2 differentiation requires cysteine residues in the intracellular domain of CD8alpha that are essential for transmitting cellular signaling. Collectively, these findings shed a new light on the relevance of CD8 down-regulation in shaping the balance of iNKT-cell subsets by modulating TCR signaling.
15661911 | Functional and molecular analysis of the double-positive stage-specific CD8 enhancer E8III during thymocyte development. Several developmental stage-, subset-, and lineage-specific Cd8 cis-regulatory regions have been identified. These include the E8(III) enhancer, which directs expression in double-positive (DP) thymocytes, and E8(II), which is active in DP cells and CD8(+) T cells. Using a transgenic reporter expression assay, we identified a 285-bp core fragment of the E8(III) enhancer that retains activity in DP thymocytes. In vitro characterization of the core enhancer revealed five regulatory elements that are required for full enhancer activity, suggesting that multiple factors contribute to the developmental stage-specific activity. Furthermore, deletion of E8(III) in the mouse germline showed that this enhancer is required for nonvariegated expression of CD8 in DP thymocytes when E8(II) is also deleted. These results indicate that E8(III) is one of the cis-elements that contribute to the activation of the Cd8a and Cd8b gene complex during T cell development.
31532792 | Hypertensive APOL1 risk allele carriers demonstrate greater blood pressure reduction with angiotensin receptor blockade compared to low risk carriers. BACKGROUND: Hypertension (HTN) disproportionately affects African Americans (AAs), who respond better to thiazide diuretics than other antihypertensives. Variants of the APOL1 gene found in AAs are associated with a higher rate of kidney disease and play a complex role in cardiovascular disease. METHODS: AA subjects from four HTN trials (n = 961) (GERA1, GERA2, PEAR1, and PEAR2) were evaluated for blood pressure (BP) response based on APOL1 genotype after 4-9 weeks of monotherapy with thiazides, beta blockers, or candesartan. APOL1 G1 and G2 variants were determined by direct sequencing or imputation. RESULTS: Baseline systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP) levels did not differ based on APOL1 genotype. Subjects with 1-2 APOL1 risk alleles had a greater SBP response to candesartan (-12.2 +/- 1.2 vs -7.5 +/- 1.8 mmHg, p = 0.03; GERA2), and a greater decline in albuminuria with candesartan (-8.3 +/- 3.1 vs +3.7 +/- 4.3 mg/day, p = 0.02). APOL1 genotype did not associate with BP response to thiazides or beta blockers. GWAS was performed to determine associations with BP response to candesartan depending on APOL1 genotype. While no SNPs reached genome wide significance, SNP rs10113352, intronic in CSMD1, predicted greater office SBP response to candesartan (p = 3.7 x 10-7) in those with 1-2 risk alleles, while SNP rs286856, intronic in DPP6, predicted greater office SBP response (p = 3.2 x 10-7) in those with 0 risk alleles. CONCLUSIONS: Hypertensive AAs without overt kidney disease who carry 1 or more APOL1 risk variants have a greater BP and albuminuria reduction in response to candesartan therapy. BP response to thiazides or beta blockers did not differ by APOL1 genotype. Future studies confirming this initial finding in an independent cohort are required.
33810944 | Cyanidin attenuates IL-17A cytokine signaling mediated monocyte migration and differentiation into mature osteoclasts in rheumatoid arthritis. Interleukin (IL)-17A signaling pathway plays a critical role in the initiation and progression of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and represents a viable target for RA therapy. Cyanidin, a flavonoid compound, is a novel inhibitor of IL-17A/IL-17RA (receptor subunit A) interaction in several inflammatory diseases. However, the therapeutic efficacy of cyanidin on IL-17A cytokine signaling induced monocyte migration and fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) released RANKL mediated osteoclastogenesis in RA has not yet been deciphered. In the present study, cyanidin impeded IL-17A induced migration of monocytes isolated from adjuvant-induced arthritic (AA) rats. At the molecular level, cyanidin blocked the activation of p38MAPK signaling in response to IL-17A. Importantly, cyanidin downregulated IL-17A induced expression of HSP27, CXCR4, and CCR7 in AA monocytes via modulating IL-17/p38 MAPK signaling axis. Alternatively, cyanidin significantly suppressed the formation of matured osteoclasts and bone resorption in a coculture system consisting of IL-17 treated AA-FLS and rat bone marrow-derived monocytes/macrophages. Further, cyanidin significantly inhibited the expression of RANKL and increased the expression of OPG in AA-FLS via blunted activation of IL-17A/STAT-3 signaling cascade. Interestingly, cyanidin impaired IL-17A induced overexpression of IL-17RA. Taken together, our study proposes a novel therapeutic function of cyanidin towards targeted inhibition of IL-17A/IL-17RA signaling mediated disease severity and bone erosion in RA.
25688078 | Chitinase 3-like 1: prognostic biomarker in clinically isolated syndromes. Chitinase 3-like 1 (CHI3L1) has been proposed as a biomarker associated with the conversion to clinically definite multiple sclerosis in patients with clinically isolated syndromes, based on the finding of increased cerebrospinal fluid CHI3L1 levels in clinically isolated syndrome patients who later converted to multiple sclerosis compared to those who remained as clinically isolated syndrome. Here, we aimed to validate CHI3L1 as a prognostic biomarker in a large cohort of patients with clinically isolated syndrome. This is a longitudinal cohort study of clinically isolated syndrome patients with clinical, magnetic resonance imaging, and cerebrospinal fluid data prospectively acquired. A total of 813 cerebrospinal fluid samples from patients with clinically isolated syndrome were recruited from 15 European multiple sclerosis centres. Cerebrospinal fluid CHI3L1 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Multivariable Cox regression models were used to investigate the association between cerebrospinal fluid CHI3L1 levels and time to conversion to multiple sclerosis and time to reach Expanded Disability Status Scale 3.0. CHI3L1 levels were higher in patients who converted to clinically definite multiple sclerosis compared to patients who continued as clinically isolated syndrome (P = 8.1 x 10(-11)). In the Cox regression analysis, CHI3L1 levels were a risk factor for conversion to multiple sclerosis (hazard ratio = 1.7; P = 1.1 x 10(-5) using Poser criteria; hazard ratio = 1.6; P = 3.7 x 10(-6) for McDonald criteria) independent of other covariates such as brain magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities and presence of cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal bands, and were the only significant independent risk factor associated with the development of disability (hazard ratio = 3.8; P = 2.5 x 10(-8)). High CHI3L1 levels were associated with shorter time to multiple sclerosis (P = 3.2 x 10(-9) using Poser criteria; P = 5.6 x 10(-11) for McDonald criteria) and more rapid development of disability (P = 1.8 x 10(-10)). These findings validate cerebrospinal fluid CHI3L1 as a biomarker associated with the conversion to multiple sclerosis and development of disability and reinforce the prognostic role of CHI3L1 in patients with clinically isolated syndrome. We propose that determining cerebrospinal fluid chitinase 3-like 1 levels at the time of a clinically isolated syndrome event will help identify those patients with worse disease prognosis.
38398632 | An Efficient Approach to the Accurate Prediction of Mutational Effects in Antigen Binding to the MHC1. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) can recognize and bind to external peptides to generate effective immune responses by presenting the peptides to T cells. Therefore, understanding the binding modes of peptide-MHC complexes (pMHC) and predicting the binding affinity of pMHCs play a crucial role in the rational design of peptide vaccines. In this study, we employed molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and free energy calculations with an Alanine Scanning with Generalized Born and Interaction Entropy (ASGBIE) method to investigate the protein-peptide interaction between HLA-A*02:01 and the G9209 peptide derived from the melanoma antigen gp100. The energy contribution of individual residue was calculated using alanine scanning, and hotspots on both the MHC and the peptides were identified. Our study shows that the pMHC binding is dominated by the van der Waals interactions. Furthermore, we optimized the ASGBIE method, achieving a Pearson correlation coefficient of 0.91 between predicted and experimental binding affinity for mutated antigens. This represents a significant improvement over the conventional MM/GBSA method, which yields a Pearson correlation coefficient of 0.22. The computational protocol developed in this study can be applied to the computational screening of antigens for the MHC1 as well as other protein-peptide binding systems.
38267222 | Development of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies against DKK1 peptide-HLA-A2 complex to treat human cancers. BACKGROUND: Targeted immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) is an effective and safe method for the treatment of malignancies. Development of mAbs with improved cytotoxicity, targeting new and known tumor-associated antigens, therefore continues to be an active research area. We reported that Dickkopf-1 (DKK1) is a good target for immunotherapy of human cancers based on its wide expression in different cancers but not in normal tissues. As DKK1 is a secreted protein, mAbs binding directly to DKK1 have limited effects on cancer cells in vivo. METHODS: The specificity and antibody-binding capacity of DKK1-A2 mAbs were determined using indirect ELISA, confocal imaging, QIFIKIT antibody-binding capacity and cell surface binding assays. The affinity of mAbs was determined using a surface plasmon resonance biosensor. A flow cytometry-based cell death was performed to detect tumor cell apoptosis. Antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) assays were used to evaluate the ability of DKK1-A2 mAbs to mediate ADCC and CDC activities against tumor cells in vitro. Flow cytometry data were collected with an FACSymphony A3 cell analyzer and analyzed with FlowJo V.10.1 software. Human cancer xenograft mouse models were used to determine the in vivo therapeutic efficacy and the potential safety and toxicity of DKK1-A2 mAbs. In situ TUNEL assay was performed to detect apoptosis in tumors and mouse organs. RESULTS: We generated novel DKK1-A2 mAbs that recognize the DKK1 P20 peptide presented by human HLA-A*0201 (HLA-A2) molecules (DKK1-A2 complexes) that are naturally expressed by HLA-A2+DKK1+ cancer cells. These mAbs directly induced apoptosis in HLA-A2+DKK1+ hematologic and solid cancer cells by activating the caspase-9 cascade, effectively lysed the cancer cells in vitro by mediating CDC and ADCC and were therapeutic against established cancers in their xenograft mouse models. As DKK1 is not detected in most human tissues, DKK1-A2 mAbs neither bound to or killed HLA-A2+ blood cells in vitro nor caused tissue damage in tumor-free or tumor-bearing HLA-A2-transgenic mice. CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that DKK1-A2 mAbs may be a promising therapeutic agent to treat human cancers.
38243290 | Expression profile analysis of LncRNAs and mRNAs in pre-receptive endometrium of women with polycystic ovary syndrome undergoing in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer. BACKGROUND: To compare the expression levels of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) and messenger RNA (mRNA) in pre-receptive endometrium between patients with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)and normal ovulation undergoing in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET). METHODS: Endometrial tissues were collected with endometrial vacuum curette in pre-receptive phase (3 days after oocytes retrieval) from PCOS and control groups. LncRNAs and mRNAs of endometrium were identified via RNA sequencing and alignments. A subset of 9 differentially expressed lncRNAs and 11 mRNAs were validated by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction(qRT-PCR)in 22 PCOS patients and 18 ovulation patients. The function of mRNAs with differential expression patterns were explored using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). RESULTS: We found out 687 up-regulated and 680 down-regulated mRNAs, as well as 345 up-regulated and 63 down-regulated lncRNAs in the PCOS patients in contrast to normal ovulation patients. qRT-PCR was used to detect the expression of 11 mRNAs, and validated that the expression of these 6 mRNAs CXCR4, RABL6, OPN3, SYBU, IDH1, NOP10 were significantly elevated among PCOS patients, and the expression of ZEB1 was significantly decreased. qRT-PCR was performed to detect the expression of 9 lncRNAs, and validated that the expression of these 7 lncRNAs IDH1-AS1, PCAT14, FTX, DANCR, PRKCQ-AS1, SNHG8, TPT1-AS1 were significantly enhanced among PCOS patients. Bioinformatics analysis showed that differentially expressed genes (DEGs) involved KEGG pathway were tyrosine metabolism, PI3K-Akt pathway, metabolic pathway, Jak-STAT pathway, pyruvate metabolism, protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum, oxidative phosphorylation and proteasome. The up-regulation of GO classification was involved in ATP metabolic process, oxidative phosphorylation, RNA catabolic process, and down-regulation of GO classification was response to corticosteroid, steroid hormone, and T cell activation. CONCLUSION: Our results determined the characteristics and expression profile of endometrial lncRNAs and mRNAs in PCOS patients in pre-receptive phase, which is the day 3 after oocytes retrival. The possible pathways and related genes of endometrial receptivity disorders were found, and those lncRNAs may be developed as a predictive biomarker of endometrium in pre-receptive phase.
29312248 | Autoinducer-2 Quorum Sensing Contributes to Regulation of Microcin PDI in Escherichia coli. The Escherichia coli quorum sensing (QS) signal molecule, autoinducer-2 (AI-2), reaches its maximum concentration during mid-to-late growth phase after which it quickly degrades during stationary phase. This pattern of AI-2 concentration coincides with the up- then down-regulation of a recently described microcin PDI (mccPDI) effector protein (McpM). To determine if there is a functional relationship between these systems, a prototypical mccPDI-expressing strain of E. coli 25 was used to generate DeltaluxS, DeltalsrACDBFG (Deltalsr), and DeltalsrR mutant strains that are deficient in AI-2 production, transportation, and AI-2 transport regulation, respectively. Trans-complementation, RT-qPCR, and western blot assays were used to detect changes of microcin expression and synthesis under co-culture and monoculture conditions. Compared to the wild-type strain, the AI-2-deficient strain (DeltaluxS) and -uptake negative strain (Deltalsr) were >1,000-fold less inhibitory to susceptible bacteria (P < 0.05). With in trans complementation of luxS, the AI-2 deficient mutant reduced the susceptible E. coli population by 4-log, which was within 1-log of the wild-type phenotype. RT-qPCR and western blot results for the AI-2 deficient E. coli 25 showed a 5-fold reduction in mcpM transcription with an average 2-h delay in McpM synthesis. Furthermore, overexpression of sRNA micC and micF (both involved in porin protein regulation) was correlated with mcpM regulation, consistent with a possible link between QS and mcpM regulation. This is the direct first evidence that microcin regulation can be linked to quorum sensing in a Gram-negative bacterium.
36077241 | Potential Application of Leelamine as a Novel Regulator of Chemokine-Induced Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition in Breast Cancer Cells. CXCR7 and CXCR4 are G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that can be stimulated by CXCL12 in various human cancers. CXCR7/4-CXCL12 binding can initiate activation of multiple pathways including JAK/STAT and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) signaling, and initiate epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process. It is established that cancer cell invasion and migration are caused because of these events. In particular, the EMT process is an important process that can determine the prognosis for cancer. Since the antitumor effect of leelamine (LEE) has been reported in various previous studies, here, we have evaluated the influence of LEE on the CXCR7/4 signaling axis and EMT processes. We first found that LEE suppressed expression of CXCR7 and CXCR4 both at the protein and mRNA levels, and showed inhibitory effects on these chemokines even after stimulation by CXCL12 ligand. In addition, LEE also reduced the level of MnSOD and inhibited the EMT process to attenuate the invasion and migration of breast cancer cells. In addition, phosphorylation of the JAK/STAT pathway, which acts down-stream of these chemokines, was also abrogated by LEE. It was also confirmed that LEE can induce an imbalance of GSH/GSSG and increases ROS, thereby resulting in antitumor activity. Thus, we establish that targeting CXCR7/4 in breast cancer cells can not only inhibit the invasion and migration of cancer cells but also can affect JAK/STAT, EMT process, and production of ROS. Overall, the findings suggest that LEE can function as a novel agent affecting the breast cancer.
7461704 | The detection and identification of subpopulations of circulating human lymphocytes, monocytes and neutrophils capable of effecting a mitogen-induced cell-mediated cytotoxic reaction towards erythrocytes of various species. The mitogen-induced cell-mediated cytotoxic (MICC) reaction was evaluated in terms of its capacity to identify cytotoxic cells among normal human blood leucocytes. Three conventional mitogens were used (phytohaemagglutinin, pokeweed and concanavalin A) and nine different erythrocyte target cells (chicken, horse, human, ox, rabbit, sheep, mouse, rat and guinea-pig). The effector cells investigated were mononuclear cells, monocyte-depleted mononuclear cells and polymorphonuclear leucocytes. Phytohaemagglutinin consistently mediated the lysis of only chicken erythrocytes whereas pokeweed consistently mediated the lysis of rabbit erythrocytes and, to a much lesser degree, chicken and rat erythrocytes. Con A consistently mediated the lysis of chicken, horse, rabbit, guinea-pig and sheep erythrocytes. Irrespective of the target cell used, PHA and Con A facilitated target cell lysis by monocytes and polymorphs and not by lymphocytes which displayed no cytotoxic activity in the presence of these two mitogens. On the other hand, pokeweed-mediated cytolysis of rabbit erythrocyte target cells was induced by lymphocytes in addition to monocytes and polymorphs. Only monocytes were able to lyse chicken erythrocytes in the presence of pokeweed; polymorphs and lymphocytes were inactive. Agglutination or aggregation of the target cells by the mitogen is not a mandatory concomitant of the MICC reaction. Some RBC may be agglutinated by the mitogen without being lysed by effector cells in the presence of the mitogen. The mechanism of mitogen-mediated cytolysis of target cells remains to be elucidated. These results suggest that the MICC assay can be utilized as a probe to permit the selective detection of functionally distinct subpopulations of cytotoxic monocytes, lymphocytes and polymorphs. Whether these cytotoxic cells are identical to, overlap or are distinct from those cells which mediate the NOCC and ADCC cytotoxic reactions remains to be determined.
15183000 | Identification of key immune mediators regulating T helper 1 responses in swine. This publication describes the cloning of full or partial length sequences for pig TBX21 (T-bet), MYD88, ICSBP1, CD8A (CD8alpha), CD8B (CD8beta), and CD28 cDNAs. Real-time PCR assays have been developed for the relative quantitation of these products as well as previously characterized transcripts that encode exon A-containing CD45, HLX1, IRF1, STAT1 and RPL32. When used for examining temporal immune gene expression in the liver of Toxoplasma gondii infected pigs, the positive regulators of Th1 responses, IRF1, MYD88, and STAT1, were found to be expressed prior to the simultaneous upregulation of interferon gamma (IFNG), HLX1 and TBX21 gene expression. In contrast, in the mesenteric lymph node (MLN), only expression of IRF1 and IFNG was significantly upregulated. Based on their demonstrated utility in establishing an immune response pathway, these PCR assays should be valuable additions to our swine immune toolkit.
29467745 | Small Non-coding RNA RyhB Mediates Persistence to Multiple Antibiotics and Stresses in Uropathogenic Escherichia coli by Reducing Cellular Metabolism. As dormant phenotypic variants of bacteria, persisters account for many chronic infections affecting human health. Despite numerous studies, the role of small non-coding RNA (sRNA) in bacterial persistence has not been reported. To investigate the role of Hfq-interacting sRNA in persistence, we constructed the deletion mutants of 20 Hfq-interacting sRNAs (RyhB, GcvB, MgrR, RybB, MicF, SgrS, RprA, DicF, SsrS, FnrS, GadY, DsrA, OmrB, ArcZ, RyeB, RydC, OmrA, MicA, MicC, and ChiX) to assess their persistence capacity in uropathogenic Escherichia coli strain UTI89 and identified a new sRNA RyhB being involved in persister formation. The ryhB-knockout mutant had significant defect in persistence to a diverse range of antibiotics (levofloxacin, cefotaxime, gentamicin) and stresses (hyperosmosis, acid, and heat) in both exponential phase and stationary phase. In addition, the effect of RyhB on persistence was synergistic with ppGpp and Fur protein. RNA-Seq analysis indicated that the ryhB-knockout mutant had a hyperactive metabolic state compared with the parent strain. Interestingly, increased adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels and altered NAD+/NADH ratios were observed in the ryhB-knockout mutant. Our findings represent a new level of persistence regulation via sRNA and may provide novel therapeutic targets for interventions.
32733468 | Monocyte-Derived Dendritic Cell Differentiation in Inflammatory Arthritis Is Regulated by the JAK/STAT Axis via NADPH Oxidase Regulation. Monocyte-derived Dendritic cells (Mo-DC) are a distinct DC subset, involved in inflammation and infection, they originate from monocytes upon stimulation in the circulation and their activation and function may vary in autoimmune diseases. In this study we investigate the differences in Mo-DC differentiation and function in patients with Rheumatoid (RA) compared to Psoriatic arthritis (PsA). A significant increase in the Mo-DC differentiation marker CD209, paralleled by a corresponding decrease in the monocytic marker CD14, was demonstrated in RA compared to PsA, as early as 1 day post Mo-DC differentiation. RA monocytes ex-vivo were phenotypically different to PsA, displaying a more mature phenotype associated with altered cellular-morphology, early dendrite formation, and a significant increase in the CD40 marker. In addition, SPICE algorithm flow cytometric analysis showed distinct differences in chemokine receptors distribution in HC compared to PsA and RA CD14+ cells in the blood, with increased expression of the chemokine receptors CCR7 and CXCR4 observed in PsA and RA. In addition CD14+ cells at the site of inflammation showed a different chemokine receptor pattern between PsA and RA patients, with higher expression of CXCR3 and CXCR5 in RA when compared to PsA. The early priming observed in RA resulted in monocyte-endocytosis and antigen-uptake mechanisms to be impaired, effects that were not observed in PsA where phagocytosis capacity remained highly functional. Tofacitinib inhibited early Mo-DC differentiation, decreasing both CD209 and CD40 activation markers in RA. Inhibition of Mo-DC differentiation in response to Tofacitinib was mediated via an imbalance in the activation of NADPH-oxidases NOX5 and NOX2. This effect was reversed by NOX5 inhibition, but not NOX2, resulting in suppression of NOX5-dependent ROS production. In conclusion, RA monocytes are already primed ex vivo to become DC, evident by increased expression of activation markers, morphological appearance and impaired endocytosis capacity. Furthermore, we demonstrated for the first time that NOX5 mediates Mo-DC differentiation and function in response to Tofacitinib, which may alter DC functions.
34419959 | Anticancer properties of novel zinc oxide quantum dot nanoparticles against breast cancer stem-like cells. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) play an essential role in cancer development, metastasis, relapse, and resistance to treatment. In this article, the effects of three synthesized ZnO nanofluids on proliferation, apoptosis, and stemness markers of breast cancer stem-like cells are reported. The antiproliferative and apoptotic properties of ZnO nanoparticles were evaluated on breast cancer stem-like cell-enriched mammospheres by MTS assay and flowcytometry, respectively. The expression of stemness markers, including WNT1, NOTCH1, beta-catenin, CXCR4, SOX2, and ALDH3A1 was assessed by real-time PCR. Western blotting was used to analyze the phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3). Markers of stemness were significantly decreased by ZnO nanofluids, especially sample (c) with code ZnO-148 with a different order of addition of polyethylene glycol solution at the end of formulation, which considerably decreased all the markers compared to the controls. All the studied ZnO nanofluids considerably reduced viability and induced apoptosis of spheroidal and parental cells, with ZnO-148 presenting the most effective activity. Using CD95L as a death ligand and ZB4 as an extrinsic apoptotic pathway blocker, it was revealed that none of the nanoparticles induced apoptosis through the extrinsic pathway. Results also showed a marked inhibition of the JAK/STAT pathway by ZnO nanoparticles; confirmed by downregulation of Mcl-1 and Bcl-XL expression. The present data demonstrated that ZnO nanofluids could combat breast CSCs via decreasing stemness markers, stimulating apoptosis, and suppressing JAK/STAT activity.
29162878 | Comparative analysis of cytokine/chemokine regulatory networks in patients with hippocampal sclerosis (HS) and focal cortical dysplasia (FCD). Experimental and clinical evidence have demonstrated aberrant expression of cytokines/chemokines and their receptors in patients with hippocampal sclerosis (HS) and focal cortical dysplasia (FCD). However, there is limited information regarding the modulation of cytokine/chemokine-regulatory networks, suggesting contribution of miRNAs and downstream transcription factors/receptors in these pathologies. Hence, we studied the levels of multiple inflammatory mediators (IL1beta, IL1Ra, IL6, IL10, CCL3, CCL4, TNFalpha and VEGF) along with transcriptional changes of nine related miRNAs and mRNA levels of downstream effectors of significantly altered cytokines/chemokines in brain tissues obtained from patients with HS (n = 26) and FCD (n = 26). Up regulation of IL1beta, IL6, CCL3, CCL4, STAT-3, C-JUN and CCR5, and down regulation of IL 10 were observed in both HS and FCD cases (p < 0.05). CCR5 was significantly up regulated in FCD as compared to HS (p < 0.001). Both, HS and FCD presented decreased miR-223-3p, miR-21-5p, miR-204-5p and let-7a-5p and increased miR-155-5p expression (p < 0.05). As compared to HS, miR-204-5p (upstream to CCR5 and IL1beta) and miR-195-5p (upstream to CCL4) were significantly decreased in FCD patients (p < 0.01). Our results suggest differential alteration of cytokine/chemokine regulatory networks in HS and FCD and provide a rationale for developing pathology specific therapy.
35680032 | Combinational silencing of components involved in JAK/STAT signaling pathway. Combinatorial silencing of more than one protein via small interfering RNA (siRNA) is a new strategy that can enhance the effect of RNA interference on cell function. To explore this strategy, we selected JAK/STAT axis as a major signaling pathway that contributes to several mechanisms involved in cancer cell proliferation and survival. We focused on four proteins involved in this pathway to explore the possibility of identifying a combinatorial targeting strategy (as the proof of concept) with enhanced efficiency: gp 130 (a co-receptor for IL6 cytokines), JAK2, STAT3, and importin alpha3 (the nuclear transporter reportedly involved in translocation of activated STAT3 to nucleus). Selected proteins were targeted by siRNA in two selected Triple Negative Breast Cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-468). The effect of individual and selected combinations of siRNAs on selected downstream antiapoptotic proteins, pro-apoptosis proteins, and cell-cycle regulating proteins was explored. Combinatorial silencing of JAK2/gp 130 enhanced the effect of RNA interference on downstream proteins significantly, and demonstrated enhanced effect in reducing cell viability, cell migration, and the level of activation of STAT3. In conclusion, the promising results of simultaneous targeting of JAK2 and gp 130 might be an example for potential combinatorial silencing strategies in cancer treatment.
17005822 | High-level carbapenem resistance in a Klebsiella pneumoniae clinical isolate is due to the combination of bla(ACT-1) beta-lactamase production, porin OmpK35/36 insertional inactivation, and down-regulation of the phosphate transport porin phoe. Clinical isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae resistant to carbapenems and essentially all other antibiotics (multidrug resistant) are being isolated from some hospitals in New York City with increasing frequency. A highly related pair of K. pneumoniae strains isolated on the same day from one patient in a hospital in New York City were studied for antibiotic resistance. One (KP-2) was resistant to imipenem, meropenem, and sulopenem (MICs of 16 to 32 microg/ml) while the other (KP-1) was susceptible (MIC of 0.5 microg/ml); both contained the bla(ACT-1), bla(SHV-1), and bla(TEM-1) beta-lactamases. bla(ACT-1) in both strains was encoded on a large approximately 150-kb plasmid. Both isolates contained an identical class 1 integron encoding resistance to aminoglycosides and chloramphenicol. They each had identical insertions in ompK35 and ompK36, resulting in disruption of these key porin genes. The carbapenem-resistant and -susceptible isolates were extensively studied for differences in the structural and regulatory genes for the operons acrRAB, marORAB, romA-ramA, soxRS, micF, micC, phoE, phoBR, rpoS, and hfq. No changes were detected between the isolates except for a significant down-regulation of ompK37, phoB, and phoE in KP-2 as deduced from reverse transcription-PCR analysis of mRNA and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis separation of outer membrane proteins. Backcross analysis was conducted using the wild-type phoE gene cloned into the vector pGEM under regulation of its native promoter as well as the lacZ promoter following transformation into the resistant KP-2 isolate. The wild-type gene reversed carbapenem resistance only when under control of the heterologous lacZ promoter. In the background of ompK35-ompK36 gene disruption, the up-regulation of phoE in KP-1 apparently compensated for porin loss and conferred carbapenem susceptibility. Down-regulation of phoE in KP-2 may represent the normal state of this gene, or it may have been selected from KP-1 in vivo under antibiotic pressure, generating the carbapenem-resistant clone. This is the first study in the Enterobacteriaceae where expression of the phosphate-regulated PhoE porin has been associated with resistance to antimicrobials. Our results with this pair of Klebsiella clinical isolates highlight the complex and evolving nature of multiple drug resistance in this species.
2107551 | A signaling role for the cytoplasmic segment of the CD8 alpha chain detected under limiting stimulatory conditions. To test for the functional importance of the cytoplasmic segment of the CD8 molecule, a mouse T-cell hybridoma expressing a T-cell receptor specific for the class I major histocompatibility complex product H-2Kb was transfected with a set of CD8 alpha-chain (Ly-2) and/or beta-chain (Ly-3) genes encoding polypeptides with carboxyl-terminal truncations or substitutions. When challenged with Kb-positive splenocytes, transfectants expressing Ly-2 homodimers that lacked cytoplasmic tails responded nearly as effectively as wild-type Ly-2 transfectants. However in marked contrast to the wild-type Ly-2 transfectants, tailless Ly-2 transfectants were greatly impaired in their ability to respond to Kb-transfected L cells. Coexpression of the Ly-3 gene did not restore this impaired response. The unique functional property of the Ly-2 alpha cytoplasmic segment was further supported by the analysis of a chimeric Ly-3 subunit in which the cytoplasmic segment was replaced by the one from the Ly-2 alpha subunit. When associated with a soluble Ly-2 subunit lacking a transmembrane segment, the chimeric Ly-3 was indeed sufficient to restore the response to Kb-transfected L cells. Since the lateral mobility of the tailless Ly-2 molecules on the cell surface was nearly identical to that of the wild-type Ly-2 molecules, their partially impaired function may indicate that they have lost their cis-acting signaling properties but retained their ability to bind class I products of the major histocompatibility complex.
38200815 | Transcriptome Analysis Revealed the Early Heat Stress Response in the Brain of Chinese Tongue Sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis). As a common influencing factor in the environment, temperature greatly influences the fish that live in the water all their life. The essential economic fish Chinese tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis), a benthic fish, will experience both physiological and behavioral changes due to increases in temperature. The brain, as the central hub of fish and a crucial regulatory organ, is particularly sensitive to temperature changes and will be affected. However, previous research has mainly concentrated on the impact of temperature on the gonads of C. semilaevis. Instead, our study examines the brain using transcriptomics to investigate specific genes and pathways that can quickly respond to temperature changes. The fish were subjected to various periods of heat stress (1 h, 2 h, 3 h, and 5 h) before extracting the brain for transcriptome analysis. After conducting transcriptomic analyses, we identified distinct genes and pathways in males and females. The pathways were mainly related to cortisol synthesis and secretion, neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions, TGF beta signaling pathway, and JAK/STAT signaling pathway, while the genes included the HSP family, tshr, c-fos, c-jun, cxcr4, camk2b, and igf2. Our study offers valuable insights into the regulation mechanisms of the brain's response to temperature stress.
2128468 | Transfection of the CD8 alpha gene restores specific target cell lysis: factors that determine the function and the expression of CD8 in a cytotoxic T cell clone. We investigated the functional role of CD8 and the control of CD8 expression in a constitutively activated murine cytotoxic T cell clone (C196), in CD8 deficient variants of this clone, and in cell lines derived by transfecting such variants with the CD8 alpha (Lyt-2) gene. CD8 deficient variants of C196 are deficient in specific target cell lysis but retain the ability to perform anti-CD3 induced cytolytic function. Following transfection with the Lyt-2 gene, specific target cell lysis was restored in some but not all CD8 positive transfectants whereas no alteration of anti-CD3 induced lysis was observed. All CD8 deficient variants studied lost the surface expression of both Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 polypeptide chains. However, while Lyt-2 mRNA was abolished as well, typical CD8 deficient variants retained wild type levels at Lyt-3 mRNA. Moreover, a low level of cytoplasmic Lyt-3 protein was demonstrable. Following transfection with the Lyt-2 gene, both Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 polypeptide chains reappeared on the membrane. In one atypical CD8 deficient variant that carries a mutated Lyt-3 gene and fails to express Lyt-3 mRNA, Lyt-2 transfection causes membrane-reappearance of Lyt-2 only. These results may reflect the occurrence on normal T cells of Lyt-2/Lyt-3 heterodimers and of Lyt-2/Lyt-2 homodimers, whereas surface expression of Lyt-3 alone has not been observed. In CD8 deficient variant, a particular restriction site 5' at the Lyt-2 gene is methylated which is undermethylated in the wild type C196. Culture of such variants in 5-azacytidine partially restored CD8 expression. This suggests a negative correlation of Lyt-2 transcription with site-specific DNA methylation in the C196 system. However, results on T cells unrelated to C196 suggests that the site whose methylation appears to be critical in C196 is not responsible for Lyt-2 transcription in all T cells.
1268947 | The nature of the effector cells mediating mitogen-induced cellular cytotoxicity (MICC) and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC).
38345137 | Structural, functional, molecular docking analysis of a hypothetical protein from Talaromyces marneffei and its molecular dynamic simulation: an in-silico approach. Telaromyces marneffei (formerly Penicillium marneffei) is an endemic pathogenic fungus in Southern China and Southeast Asia. It can cause disease in patients with travel-related exposure to this organism and high morbidity and mortality in acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). In this study, we analyzed the structure and function of a hypothetical protein from T. marneffei using several bioinformatics tools and servers to unveil novel pharmacological targets and design a peptide vaccine against specific epitopes. A total of seven functional epitopes were screened on the protein, and 'STGVDMWSV' was the most antigenic, non-allergenic and non-toxic. Molecular docking showed stronger affinity between the CTL epitope 'STGVDMWSV' and the MHC I allele HLA-A*02:01, a higher docking score -234.98 kcal/mol, revealed stable interactions during a 100 ns molecular dynamic simulation. Overall, the results of this study revealed that this hypothetical protein is crucial for comprehending biochemical, physiological pathways and identifying novel therapeutic targets for human health. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
34082024 | ATR inhibition amplifies antitumor effects of olaparib in biliary tract cancer. Olaparib, a potent PARP inhibitor, has been shown to have great anti-tumor effects in some tumor types. Although biliary tract cancer (BTC) is a good candidate for DNA damage response (DDR)-targeted agents, targeted DDR inhibitors, including olaparib, are currently rarely evaluated in BTC. In our project, a total of ten BTC cell lines were used to assess the efficacy of olaparib. Olaparib alone showed moderate anti-proliferative effects in BTC cells and increased p-ATR and PD-L1 expression levels. In combination with an ATR inhibitor (AZD6738, ceralasertib) showed synergistic anti-proliferative effects and increased DNA strand breaks in vitro. PD-L1 induced by olaparib was also downregulated by ceralasertib through p-STAT-3 and YAP reduction with or without human primary peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In SNU478-xenograft models, the combination treatment significantly suppressed tumor growth. PD-L1 and YAP were strongly downregulated, similar to in vitro conditions, and expression of CXCR2 and CXCR4 was further reduced. In the current ongoing clinical trial (NCT04298021), BTC patients treated with olaparib and ceralasertib combination have shown tumor response. In conclusion, co-targeting of PARP and ATR might be a potential therapeutic approach for patients with BTC.
36780103 | The Bone Marrow Immune Microenvironment in CML: Treatment Responses, Treatment-Free Remission, and Therapeutic Vulnerabilities. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are very successful for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) but are not curative in most patients due to persistence of TKI-resistant leukaemia stem cells (LSCs). The bone marrow immune microenvironment (BME) provides protection to the LSC through multidimensional interactions, driving therapy resistance, and highlighting the need to circumvent these protective niches therapeutically. This review updates the evidence for interactions between CML cells and the immune microenvironment with a view to identifying targetable therapeutic vulnerabilities and describes what is known about the role of immune regulation in treatment-free remission (TFR). RECENT FINDINGS: Intracellular signalling downstream of the chemotactic CXCL12-CXCR4 axis, responsible for disrupted homing in CML, has been elucidated in LSCs, highlighting novel therapeutic opportunities. In addition, LSCs expressing CXCL12-cleaving surface protein CD26 were highly correlated with CML burden, building on existing evidence. Newer findings implicate the adhesion molecule CD44 in TKI resistance, while JAK/STAT-mediated resistance to TKIs may occur downstream of extrinsic signalling in the BME. Exosomal BME-LSC cross-communication has also been explored. Finally, further detail on the phenotypes of natural killer (NK) cells putatively involved in maintaining successful TFR has been published, and NK-based immunotherapies are discussed. Recent studies highlight and build on our understanding of the BME in CML persistence and TKI resistance, pinpointing therapeutically vulnerable interactions. Repurposing existing drugs and/or the development of novel inhibitors targeting these relationships may help to overcome these issues in TKI-resistant CML and be used as adjuvant therapy for sustained TFR.
34631056 | Identification of tumor microenvironment-associated immunological genes as potent prognostic markers in the cancer genome analysis project HOPE. Project High-tech Omics-based Patient Evaluation (HOPE), which used whole-exome sequencing and gene expression profiling, was launched in 2014. A total of ~2,000 patients were enrolled until March 2016, and the survival time was observed up to July 2019. In our previous study, a tumor microenvironment immune type classification based on the expression levels of the programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) and CD8B genes was performed based on four types: A, adaptive immune resistance; B, intrinsic induction; C, immunological ignorance; and D, tolerance. Type A (PD-L1+ and CD8B+) exhibited upregulated features of T helper 1 antitumor responses. In the present study, survival time analysis at 5 years revealed that patients in type A had a better prognosis than those in other categories [5 year survival rate (%); A (80.5) vs. B (73.9), C (73.4) and D (72.6), P=0.0005]. Based on the expression data of 293 immune response-associated genes, 62 specific genes were upregulated in the type A group. Among these genes, 18 specific genes, such as activated effector T-cell markers (CD8/CD40LG/GZMB), effector memory T-cell markers (PD-1/CD27/ICOS), chemokine markers (CXCL9/CXCL10) and activated dendritic cell markers (CD80/CD274/SLAMF1), were significantly associated with a good prognosis using overall survival time analysis. Finally, multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression analyses of overall survival demonstrated that four genes (GZMB, HAVCR2, CXCL9 and CD40LG) were independent prognostic markers, and GZMB, CXCL9 and CD40LG may contribute to the survival benefit of patients in the immune type A group.
38579189 | Genome-Wide Association Study Identifies IFIH1 and HLA-DQB1*05:02 Loci Associated With Anti-NMDAR Encephalitis. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis is a rare autoimmune neurologic disorder, the genetic etiology of which remains poorly understood. Our study aims to investigate the genetic basis of this disease in the Chinese Han population. METHODS: We performed a genome-wide association study and fine-mapping study within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region of 413 Chinese patients with anti-NMDAR encephalitis recruited from 6 large tertiary hospitals and 7,127 healthy controls. RESULTS: Our genome-wide association analysis identified a strong association at the IFIH1 locus on chromosome 2q24.2 (rs3747517, p = 1.06 x 10-8, OR = 1.55, 95% CI, 1.34-1.80), outside of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region. Furthermore, through a fine-mapping study of the MHC region, we discovered associations for 3 specific HLA class I and II alleles. Notably, HLA-DQB1*05:02 (p = 1.43 x 10-12; OR, 2.10; 95% CI 1.70-2.59) demonstrates the strongest association among classical HLA alleles, closely followed by HLA-A*11:01 (p = 4.36 x 10-7; OR, 1.52; 95% CI 1.29-1.79) and HLA-A*02:07 (p = 1.28 x 10-8; OR, 1.87; 95% CI 1.50-2.31). In addition, we uncovered 2 main HLA amino acid variation associated with anti-NMDAR encephalitis including HLA-DQbeta1-126H (p = 1.43 x 10-12; OR, 2.10; 95% CI 1.70-2.59), exhibiting a predisposing effect, and HLA-B-97R (p = 3.40 x 10-8; OR, 0.63; 95% CI 0.53-0.74), conferring a protective effect. Computational docking analysis suggested a close relationship between the NR1 subunit of NMDAR and DQB1*05:02. DISCUSSION: Our findings indicate that genetic variation in IFIH1, involved in the type I interferon signaling pathway and innate immunity, along with variations in the HLA class I and class II genes, has substantial implications for the susceptibility to anti-NMDAR encephalitis in the Chinese Han population.
2498201 | Phylogeny and structure of the Ly-2 and Ly-3 (CD8) complex.
1925604 | A 32-kD GTP-binding protein associated with the CD4-p56lck and CD8-p56lck T cell receptor complexes. The guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-binding proteins include signal-transducing heterotrimeric G proteins (for example, Gs, Gi), smaller GTP-binding proteins that function in protein sorting, and the oncogenic protein p21ras. The T cell receptor complexes CD4-p56lck and CD8-p56lck were found to include a 32- to 33-kilodalton phosphoprotein (p32) that was recognized by an antiserum to a consensus GTP-binding region in G proteins. Immunoprecipitated CD4 and CD8 complexes bound GTP and hydrolyzed it to guanosine diphosphate (GDP). The p32 protein was covalently linked to [alpha-32P]GTP by ultraviolet photoaffinity labeling. These results demonstrate an interaction between T cell receptor complexes and an intracellular GTP-binding protein.
34359727 | Biomarkers and Gene Signatures to Predict Durable Response to Pembrolizumab in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Pembrolizumab has been approved as first-line treatment for advanced Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with tumors expressing PD-L1 and in the absence of other targetable alterations. However, not all patients that meet these criteria have a durable benefit. In this monocentric study, we aimed at refining the selection of patients based on the expression of immune genes. Forty-six consecutive advanced NSCLC patients treated with pembrolizumab in first-line setting were enrolled. The expression levels of 770 genes involved in the regulation of the immune system was analysed by the nanoString system. PD-L1 expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Patients with durable clinical benefit had a greater infiltration of cytotoxic cells, exhausted CD8, B-cells, CD45, T-cells, CD8 T-cells and NK cells. Immune cell scores such as CD8 T-cell and NK cell were good predictors of durable response with an AUC of 0.82. Among the immune cell markers, XCL1/2 showed the better performance in predicting durable benefit to pembrolizumab, with an AUC of 0.85. Additionally, CD8A, CD8B and EOMES showed a high specificity (>0.86) in identifying patients with a good response to treatment. In the same series, PD-L1 expression levels had an AUC of 0.61. The characterization of tumor microenvironment, even with the use of single markers, can improve patients' selection for pembrolizumab treatment.
33637560 | A Basomedial Amygdala to Intercalated Cells Microcircuit Expressing PACAP and Its Receptor PAC1 Regulates Contextual Fear. Trauma can cause dysfunctional fear regulation leading some people to develop disorders, such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The amygdala regulates fear, whereas PACAP (pituitary adenylate activating peptide) and PAC1 receptors are linked to PTSD symptom severity at genetic/epigenetic levels, with a strong link in females with PTSD. We discovered a PACAPergic projection from the basomedial amygdala (BMA) to the medial intercalated cells (mICCs) in adult mice. In vivo optogenetic stimulation of this pathway increased CFOS expression in mICCs, decreased fear recall, and increased fear extinction. Selective deletion of PAC1 receptors from the mICCs in females reduced fear acquisition, but enhanced fear generalization and reduced fear extinction in males. Optogenetic stimulation of the BMA-mICC PACAPergic pathway produced EPSCs in mICC neurons, which were enhanced by the PAC1 receptor antagonist, PACAP 6-38. Our findings show that mICCs modulate contextual fear in a dynamic and sex-dependent manner via a microcircuit containing the BMA and mICCs, and in a manner that was dependent on behavioral state.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Traumatic stress can affect different aspects of fear behaviors, including fear learning, generalization of learned fear to novel contexts, how the fear of the original context is recalled, and how fear is reduced over time. While the amygdala has been studied for its role in regulation of different aspects of fear, the molecular circuitry of this structure is quite complex. In addition, aspects of fear can be modulated differently in males and females. Our findings show that a specific circuitry containing the neuropeptide PACAP and its receptor, PAC1, regulates various aspects of fear, including acquisition, generalization, recall, and extinction in a sexually dimorphic manner, characterizing a novel pathway that modulates traumatic fear.
37781365 | High CD8+tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes indicate severe exhaustion and poor prognosis in angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma. Background: Exhaustion of CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), characterized by the overexpression of immune checkpoints (IC), is a major impediment to anti-tumor immunity. However, the exhaustion status of CD8+TILs in angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma (AITL) remains unclear. Therefore, we aimed to elucidate the exhaustion status of CD8+TILs in AITL and its influence on prognosis. Methods: The correlation between CD8+TILs and IC expression in AITL was analyzed using single-cell RNA sequencing (n = 2), flow cytometry (n = 20), and RNA sequencing (n = 20). Biological changes related to CD8+TILs exhaustion at different cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) levels (mean expression levels of CD8A, CD8B, GZMA, GZMB, and PRF1) in AITL were evaluated using RNA sequencing (n = 20) and further validated using the GEO dataset (n = 51). The impact of CD8 protein expression and CTL levels on patient prognosis was analyzed using flow cytometry and RNA sequencing, respectively. Results: Our findings demonstrated that the higher the infiltration of CD8+TILs, the higher was the proportion of exhausted CD8+TILs characterized by the overexpression of multiple IC. This was accompanied by extensive exhaustion-related biological changes, which suggested severe exhaustion in CD8+TILs and may be one of the main reasons for the poor prognosis of patients with high CD8+TILs and CTL. Conclusion: Our study comprehensively reveals the exhaustion status of CD8+TILs and their potential negative impact on AITL prognosis, which facilitates further mechanistic studies and is valuable for guiding immunotherapy strategies.
33013914 | Dynamic and Differential Expression of Duplicated Cxcr4/Cxcl12 Genes Facilitates Antiviral Response in Hexaploid Gibel Carp. Chemokine receptor cxcr4 and its ligand cxcl12 have evolved two paralogs in the teleost lineage. In this study, we have identified four duplicated cxcr4 and cxcl12 genes from hexaploid gibel carp, Carassius gibelio, respectively. Cgcxcr4bs and Cgcxcl12as were dynamically and differentially expressed in immune-related tissues, and significantly up-regulated in head kidney and spleen after crucian carp herpesvirus (CaHV) infection. Blocking Cxcr4/Cxcl12 axis by injecting AMD3100 brought more severe bleeding symptom and lower survival rate in CaHV-infected fish. AMD3100 treatment also suppressed the up-regulation of key antiviral genes in head kidney and spleen, and resulted in more acute replication of CaHV in vivo. Consistently, the similar suppression of up-regulated expression of key antiviral genes were also observed in CAB cells treated by AMD3100 after poly(I:C) stimulation. Finally, MAPK3 and JAK/STAT were identified as the possible pathways that CgCxcr4s and CgCxcl12s participate in to promote the antiviral response in vitro.
23364441 | Isotype-switched immunoglobulin G antibodies to HIV Gag proteins may provide alternative or additional immune responses to 'protective' human leukocyte antigen-B alleles in HIV controllers. BACKGROUND: Natural control of HIV infection is associated with CD8 T-cell responses to Gag-encoded antigens of the HIV core and carriage of 'protective' human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B alleles, but some HIV controllers do not possess these attributes. As slower HIV disease progression is associated with high levels of antibodies to HIV Gag proteins, we have examined antibodies to HIV proteins in controllers with and without 'protective' HLA-B alleles. METHODS: Plasma from 32 HIV controllers and 21 noncontrollers was examined for immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) and IgG2 antibodies to HIV proteins in virus lysates by western blot assay and to recombinant (r) p55 and gp140 by ELISA. Natural killer (NK) cell-activating antibodies and FcgammaRIIa-binding immune complexes were also assessed. RESULTS: Plasma levels of IgG1 antibodies to HIV Gag (p18, p24, rp55) and Pol-encoded (p32, p51, p66) proteins were higher in HIV controllers. In contrast, IgG1 antibodies to Env proteins were less discriminatory, with only antigp120 levels being higher in controllers. High-level IgG2 antibodies to any Gag protein were most common in HIV controllers not carrying a 'protective' HLA-B allele, particularly HLA-B*57 (P = 0.016). HIV controllers without 'protective' HLA-B alleles also had higher plasma levels of IgG1 antip32 (P = 0.04). NK cell-activating antibodies to gp140 Env protein were higher in elite controllers but did not differentiate HIV controllers with or without 'protective' HLA-B alleles. IgG1 was increased in FcgammaRIIa-binding immune complexes from noncontrollers. CONCLUSION: We hypothesize that isotype-switched (IgG2+) antibodies to HIV Gag proteins and possibly IgG1 antip32 may provide alternative or additional immune control mechanisms to HLA-restricted CD8 T-cell responses in HIV controllers.
30703969 | First Report of Maize chlorotic mottle virus Infecting Maize in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Maize (Zea mays L.) is a major food and fodder crop cultivated on 1.54 million ha in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). In December 2013, unusually severe chlorotic mottle symptoms and pale green streaks were observed in local varieties (Mudishi 1 and 2, Bambou, Kasayi, H614, H613, and Mugamba) and exotic varieties (H520, H624, H403, HDK8031, and ZM607) in Beni, Lubero, and Rutshuru territories at 1,015 to 1,748 m elevation in North Kivu Province. Symptoms were prominent on newly emerging leaves that later developed marginal necrosis resembling the symptoms of maize lethal necrosis (MLN), caused by a dual infection of Maize chlorotic mottle virus (MCMV, genus Machlomovirus) and Sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV, genus Potyvirus). Each of these viruses, but particularly MCMV, is also known to cause severe mosaic and mottling symptoms in maize (4). In January 2014, symptomatic and asymptomatic samples (n = 20) from disease-affected fields in Beni and Lubero provinces were collected for virus testing using Whatman FTA Classic Cards (1) and analyzed for MCMV (2681F: 5'-ATGAGAGCAGTTGGGGAATGCG and 3226R: 5'-CGAATCTACACACACACACTCCAGC) and SCMV (8679F: 5'-GCAATGTCGAAGAAAATGCG and 9595R: 5'-GTCTCTCACCAAGAGACTCGCAGC) by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR (4). Samples were also analyzed for Maize streak virus (MSV, genus Mastrevirus), an endemic virus in DRC, by PCR using MSV specific primers (MSV215-234: CCAAAKDTCAGCTCCTCCG and MSV1770-1792: TTGGVCCGMVGATGTASAG) (3). A DNA product of expected size (~520 bp) resulted only for MCMV in all the symptomatic plant samples. None of the samples tested positive for SCMV or MSV. RT-PCR analyses were performed to ascertain the absence of potyviruses using the degenerate potyvirus primers (CIFor: 5'GGIVVIGTIGGIWSIGGIAARTCIAC and CIRev: 5'ACICCRTTYTCDATDATRTTIGTIGC3') (2) were also negative. Occurrence of MCMV in symptomatic samples was further confirmed by antigen-coated plate (ACP)-ELISA using anti-MCMV rabbit polyclonal antibodies produced at the Virology Unit, IITA, Ibadan, Nigeria. The RT-PCR product of MCMV was purified and sequenced in both directions (GenBank Accession No. KJ699379). Pairwise comparison of 518 bp nucleotide sequence corresponding to p32 and p37 open reading frames of MCMV by BLASTn search revealed 99.8% nucleotide sequence identity with an MCMV isolate from Kenya (JX286709), 98 to 99% identity with the isolates from China (JQ982468 and KF010583), and 96% identity with the isolates from the United States (X14736 and EU358605). MCMV is a newly emerging virus in Africa, first detected during a severe MLND outbreak in 2011 in Kenya (4). This disease has since become a serious threat to maize production in East Africa. MCMV has been reported in maize from Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda. To our knowledge, this is the first report of MCMV occurrence in DRC. This finding confirms the further geographic expansion of MCMV and illustrates the need for further studies to identify vectors and also create awareness about the disease and to strengthen surveillance to prevent its further spread in the continent. References: (1) O. J. Alabi et al. J. Virol. Met. 154:111, 2008. (2) C. Ha et al. Arch. Virol. 153:25, 2008. (3) K. E. Palmer and E. P. Rybicki. Arch. Virol. 146:1089, 2001. (4) A. Wangai et al. Plant Dis. 96:1582, 2012.
17257226 | Commonly used reference genes are actively regulated in in vitro stimulated lymphocytes. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR) studies of urine sediments have demonstrated an increased expression of cytotoxin genes during episodes of acute rejection of renal allografts. To compensate for differences in initial sample size and cDNA preparation, standard Q-PCR experiments involve normalization to a reference gene. Although stable expression of reference genes is a prerequisite for any Q-PCR analysis, commonly used reference genes have demonstrated a varying expression across tissues and various stimuli. In this study, cellular expression of several reference genes was investigated in a mixed lymphocyte reaction as a model of gene expression during alloreactive T-lymphocyte activation and acute rejection. Gene expression was quantified using Q-PCR, normalized to cell counts obtained by DNA quantification and corrected for cell polyploidy using flow cytometry. Examined reference genes were 18S rRNA, beta-actin (ACTB), hydroxymethylbilane synthase (HMBS), hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT1) and peptidylprolyle isomerase B (PPIB). This study also examined two novel T-lymphocyte-specific reference genes: CD3E and CD8B. HMBS and HPRT were 18.8- and 7.4-fold upregulated, respectively, ACTB was 5.3-fold upregulated, PPIB was 3.2-fold upregulated while 18S rRNA remained stably expressed. The T-lymphocyte-specific reference gene CD3E remained stable while CD8B was upregulated 2.3-fold. In conclusion, several commonly used reference genes were actively regulated during alloreactive T-lymphocyte activation. Additionally, we introduce two stable T-lymphocyte-specific reference genes that might be useful in a Q-PCR analysis of T-lymphocyte-specific cytotoxin genes in urine sediments, as they overcome the contribution of reference gene mRNA from cells irrelevant for diagnosis.
26745853 | RUNX1 haploinsufficiency results in granulocyte colony-stimulating factor hypersensitivity. RUNX1/AML1 is among the most commonly mutated genes in human leukemia. Haploinsufficiency of RUNX1 causes familial platelet disorder with predisposition to myeloid malignancies (FPD/MM). However, the molecular mechanism of FPD/MM remains unknown. Here we show that murine Runx1(+/-) hematopoietic cells are hypersensitive to granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), leading to enhanced expansion and mobilization of stem/progenitor cells and myeloid differentiation block. Upon G-CSF stimulation, Runx1(+/-) cells exhibited a more pronounced phosphorylation of STAT3 as compared with Runx1(+/+) cells, which may be due to reduced expression of Pias3, a key negative regulator of STAT3 signaling, and reduced physical sequestration of STAT3 by RUNX1. Most importantly, blood cells from a FPD patient with RUNX1 mutation exhibited similar G-CSF hypersensitivity. Taken together, Runx1 haploinsufficiency appears to predispose FPD patients to MM by expanding the pool of stem/progenitor cells and blocking myeloid differentiation in response to G-CSF.
24297179 | cAMP responsive element modulator (CREM) alpha mediates chromatin remodeling of CD8 during the generation of CD3+ CD4- CD8- T cells. TCR-alphabeta(+)CD3(+)CD4(-)CD8(-) \double negative\ T cells are expanded in the peripheral blood of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and lupus-prone mice. Double negative T cells have been claimed to derive from CD8(+) cells that down-regulate CD8 co-receptors and acquire a distinct effector phenotype that includes the expression of proinflammatory cytokines. This, along with the fact that double negative T cells have been documented in inflamed organs, suggests that they may contribute to disease expression and tissue damage. We recently linked the transcription factor cAMP responsive element modulator (CREM) alpha, which is expressed at increased levels in T cells from SLE patients and lupus prone MRL/lpr mice, with trans-repression of a region syntenic to the murine CD8b promoter. However, the exact molecular mechanisms that result in a stable silencing of both CD8A and CD8B genes remain elusive. Here, we demonstrate that CREMalpha orchestrates epigenetic remodeling of the CD8 cluster through the recruitment of DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) 3a and histone methyltransferase G9a. Thus, we propose that CREMalpha is essential for the expansion of double negative T cells in SLE. CREMalpha blockade may have therapeutic value in autoimmune disorders with DN T cell expansion.
37227160 | CD49d Expression Identifies a Biologically Distinct Subtype of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia with Inferior Progression-Free Survival on BTK Inhibitor Therapy. PURPOSE: To determine the role of CD49d for response to Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitors (BTKi) in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: In patients treated with acalabrutinib (n = 48), CD49d expression, VLA-4 integrin activation, and tumor transcriptomes of CLL cells were assessed. Clinical responses to BTKis were investigated in acalabrutinib- (n = 48; NCT02337829) and ibrutinib-treated (n = 73; NCT01500733) patients. RESULTS: In patients treated with acalabrutinib, treatment-induced lymphocytosis was comparable for both subgroups but resolved more rapidly for CD49d+ cases. Acalabrutinib inhibited constitutive VLA-4 activation but was insufficient to block BCR and CXCR4-mediated inside-out activation. Transcriptomes of CD49d+ and CD49d- cases were compared using RNA sequencing at baseline and at 1 and 6 months on treatment. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed increased constitutive NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT signaling, enhanced survival, adhesion, and migratory capacity in CD49d+ over CD49d- CLL that was maintained during therapy. In the combined cohorts of 121 BTKi-treated patients, 48 (39.7%) progressed on treatment with BTK and/or PLCG2 mutations detected in 87% of CLL progressions. Consistent with a recent report, homogeneous and bimodal CD49d-positive cases (the latter having concurrent CD49d+ and CD49d- CLL subpopulations, irrespective of the traditional 30% cutoff value) had a shorter time to progression of 6.6 years, whereas 90% of cases homogenously CD49d- were estimated progression-free at 8 years (P = 0.0004). CONCLUSIONS: CD49d/VLA-4 emerges as a microenvironmental factor that contributes to BTKi resistance in CLL. The prognostic value of CD49d is improved by considering bimodal CD49d expression.
30735510 | Anti-CD8 monoclonal antibody-mediated depletion alters the phenotype and behavior of surviving CD8+ T cells. It is common practice for researchers to use antibodies to remove a specific cell type to infer its function. However, it is difficult to completely eliminate a cell type and there is often limited or no information as to how the cells which survive depletion are affected. This is particularly important for CD8+ T cells for two reasons. First, they are more resistant to mAb-mediated depletion than other lymphocytes. Second, targeting either the CD8alpha or CD8beta chain could induce differential effects. We show here that two commonly used mAbs, against either the CD8alpha or CD8beta subunit, can differentially affect cellular metabolism. Further, in vivo treatment leaves behind a population of CD8+ T cells with different phenotypic and functional attributes relative to each other or control CD8+ T cells. The impact of anti-CD8 antibodies on CD8+ T cell phenotype and function indicates the need to carefully consider the use of these, and possibly other \depleting\ antibodies, as they could significantly complicate the interpretation of results or change the outcome of an experiment. These observations could impact how immunotherapy and modulation of CD8+ T cell activation is pursued.
12133983 | Bystander CD8 T cell-mediated demyelination after viral infection of the central nervous system. Multiple sclerosis, a chronic inflammatory disease of the CNS, is characterized by immune-mediated demyelination. Many patients have a remitting-relapsing course of disease with exacerbations often following unrelated microbial illnesses. The relationship between the two events remains obscure. One possibility is that T cells specific for the inciting microbial pathogen are able to effect demyelination at a site of ongoing inflammation within the CNS. This possibility was examined in mice infected with mouse hepatitis virus, a well-described model of virus-induced demyelination. Using transgenic TCR/recombination activation gene 2(-/-) mice with only non-mouse hepatitis virus-specific T cells, we show that CD8 T cells are able to cause demyelination in the absence of cognate Ag in the CNS, but only if specifically activated. These findings demonstrate a novel mechanism for immune-mediated neuropathology and show that activated CD8 T cells may serve as important mediators of bystander demyelination during times of infection, including in patients with multiple sclerosis.
37879364 | Development of T cell receptor-engineered T cells targeting the sarcoma-associated antigen papillomavirus binding factor. We previously identified papillomavirus binding factor (PBF) as an osteosarcoma antigen recognized by an autologous cytotoxic T lymphocyte clone. Vaccination with PBF-derived peptide presented by HLA-A24 (PBF peptide) elicited strong immune responses. In the present study, we generated T cell receptor-engineered T cells (TCR-T cells) directed against the PBF peptide (PBF TCR-T cells). PBF TCR was successfully transduced into T cells and detected using HLA-A*24:02/PBF peptide tetramer. PBF TCR-T cells generated from a healthy donor were highly expanded and recognized T2-A24 cells pulsed with PBF peptide, HLA-A24+ 293T cells transfected with PBF cDNA, and sarcoma cell lines. To establish an adoptive cell therapy model, we modified the PBF TCR by replacing both alpha and beta constant regions with those of mice (hybrid PBF TCR). Hybrid PBF TCR-T cells also showed reactivity against T2-A24 cells pulsed with PBF peptide and to HLA-A24+ 293T cells transfected with various lengths of PBF cDNA including the PBF peptide sequence. Subsequently, we generated target cell lines highly expressing PBF (MFH03-PBF [short] epitope [+]) containing PBF peptide with in vivo tumorigenicity. Hybrid PBF TCR-T cells exhibited antitumor effects compared with mock T cells in NSG mice xenografted with MFH03-PBF (short) epitope (+) cells. CD45+ T cells significantly infiltrated xenografted tumors only in the hybrid PBF TCR T cell group and most of these cells were CD8-positive. CD8+ T cells also showed Ki-67 expression and surrounded the CD8-negative tumor cells expressing Ki-67. These findings suggest that PBF TCR-T cell therapy might be a candidate immunotherapy for sarcoma highly expressing PBF.
32824665 | The Intrinsically Disordered W Protein Is Multifunctional during Henipavirus Infection, Disrupting Host Signalling Pathways and Nuclear Import. Nipah and Hendra viruses are highly pathogenic, zoonotic henipaviruses that encode proteins that inhibit the host's innate immune response. The W protein is one of four products encoded from the P gene and binds a number of host proteins to regulate signalling pathways. The W protein is intrinsically disordered, a structural attribute that contributes to its diverse host protein interactions. Here, we review the role of W in innate immune suppression through inhibition of both pattern recognition receptor (PRR) pathways and interferon (IFN)-responsive signalling. PRR stimulation leading to activation of IRF-3 and IFN release is blocked by henipavirus W, and unphosphorylated STAT proteins are sequestered within the nucleus of host cells by W, thereby inhibiting the induction of IFN stimulated genes. We examine the critical role of nuclear transport in multiple functions of W and how specific binding of importin-alpha (Impalpha) isoforms, and the 14-3-3 group of regulatory proteins suggests further modulation of these processes. Overall, the disordered nature and multiple functions of W warrant further investigation to understand henipavirus pathogenesis and may reveal insights aiding the development of novel therapeutics.
38372631 | Association of HLA gene polymorphisms with Helicobacter pylori related gastric cancer-a systematic review. The appropriate host cell immune responses for the progression of several diseases, including gastric or stomach cancer (GC), are significantly influenced by HLA polymorphisms. Our objective was to systematically review the evidence linking HLA polymorphisms with the risk of Helicobacter. pylori related GC. We conducted a comprehensive literature search to identify studies published between 2000 and April 2023 on the association of HLA polymorphisms with H. pylori related GC using databases such as Medline through PubMed, Embase, Web of Science (core collection), The Cochrane Library, and Scopus. Two authors independently screened articles, extracted data, and assessed the risk of bias using the Risk of Bias Assessment tool for Non-randomized Studies. From 7872 retrieved studies, 19 met inclusion criteria, encompassing 1656 cases and 16,787 controls across four World Health Organization regions, with Japan contributing the most studies. We explored HLA-A/B/C, HLA-DRB1/DQA1/DQB1, HLA-G, and MICA alleles. Of 29 significant HLA polymorphisms identified, 18 showed a positive association with GC, whereas 11 were negatively associated. HLA-DQB1*06 allele was most frequently associated to susceptibility, as reported in four studies, followed by HLA-DRB1*04 and HLA-DQA1*01, each reported in two studies. Conversely, HLA-G*01, HLA-DQA1*01, HLA-DQA1*05, and HLA-DQB1*03 were identified as protective in two studies each. Additionally, five genotypes and six haplotypes were reported as positive, whereas three genotypes and two haplotypes were negative factors for the disease incidence or mortality. Despite heterogeneity in the study population and types of HLA polymorphisms examined, our analysis indicates certain polymorphisms are associated with H. pylori related GC progression and mortality in specific populations.
33097660 | SARS-CoV-2 Orf6 hijacks Nup98 to block STAT nuclear import and antagonize interferon signaling. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the causative agent of the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic that is a serious global health problem. Evasion of IFN-mediated antiviral signaling is a common defense strategy that pathogenic viruses use to replicate and propagate in their host. In this study, we show that SARS-CoV-2 is able to efficiently block STAT1 and STAT2 nuclear translocation in order to impair transcriptional induction of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs). Our results demonstrate that the viral accessory protein Orf6 exerts this anti-IFN activity. We found that SARS-CoV-2 Orf6 localizes at the nuclear pore complex (NPC) and directly interacts with Nup98-Rae1 via its C-terminal domain to impair docking of cargo-receptor (karyopherin/importin) complex and disrupt nuclear import. In addition, we show that a methionine-to-arginine substitution at residue 58 impairs Orf6 binding to the Nup98-Rae1 complex and abolishes its IFN antagonistic function. All together our data unravel a mechanism of viral antagonism in which a virus hijacks the Nup98-Rae1 complex to overcome the antiviral action of IFN.
18074794 | [Dynamics of food intake and blood level of hormones regulating appetite in pregnant and lactating mice]. Leptin, insulin, corticosterone regulate food intake. Hyperphagia and hormonal rearrangement are typical for pregnancy and lactation. The aim of the study is to correlate food intake with blood levels of these hormones in pregnant and lactating mice. Food intake, body weight, blood glucose, insulin, leptin and corticosterone levels were measured in virgin C57B1/6J micc and on the day 7, 13,17 of pregnancy, and day 1, 7, 14, 30 postpartum. Insulin sensitivity was measured at the day 7, 17 of pregnancy. Food intake and body weight increased towards the second postpartum week and then decreased. Insulin sensitivity decreased towards the end of the pregnancy. Mothers differed from virgin females in hormones and glucose levels only during pregnancy. Leptin level was decreased at the day 7 of gestation, insulin level - during whole gestation. Glucose fell, and leptin and corticosterone increased from the day 7 to 17. Probably, these hormones affect food intake only in pregnant females and do not influence appetite during lactation.
36316447 | A new protocol for whole-brain biodistribution analysis of AAVs by tissue clearing, light-sheet microscopy and semi-automated spatial quantification. Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) has become one of the most promising gene delivery systems for both in vitro and in vivo applications. However, a key challenge is the lack of suitable imaging technologies to evaluate delivery, biodistribution and tropism of rAAVs and efficiently monitor disease amelioration promoted by AAV-based therapies at a whole-organ level with single-cell resolution. Therefore, we aimed to establish a new pipeline for the biodistribution analysis of natural and new variants of AAVs at a whole-brain level by tissue clearing and light-sheet fluorescence microscopy (LSFM). To test this platform, neonatal C57BL/6 mice were intravenously injected with rAAV9 encoding EGFP and, after sacrifice, brains were processed by standard immunohistochemistry and a recently released aqueous-based clearing procedure. This clearing technique required no dedicated equipment and rendered highly cleared brains, while simultaneously preserving endogenous fluorescence. Moreover, three-dimensional imaging by LSFM allowed the quantitative analysis of EGFP at a whole-brain level, as well as the reconstruction of Purkinje cells for the retrieval of valuable morphological information inaccessible by standard immunohistochemistry. In conclusion, the pipeline herein described takes the AAVs to a new level when coupled to LSFM, proving its worth as a bioimaging tool in tropism and gene therapy studies.
38363779 | Evaluation of the anti-cancer efficacy of lipid nanoparticles containing siRNA against HPV16 E6/E7 combined with cisplatin in a xenograft model of cervical cancer. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the anti-cancer efficacy of ENB101-LNP, an ionizable lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) encapsulating siRNA against E6/E7 of HPV 16, in combination therapy with cisplatin in cervical cancer in vitro and in vivo. METHODS: CaSki cells were treated with ENB101-LNP, cisplatin, or combination. Cell viability assessed the cytotoxicity of the treatment. HPV16 E6/E7 gene knockdown was verified with RT-PCR both in vitro and in vivo. HLA class I and PD-L1 were checked by flow cytometry. A xenograft model was made using CaSki cells in BALB/c nude mice. To evaluate anticancer efficacy, mice were grouped. ENB101-LNP was given three times weekly for 3 weeks intravenously, and cisplatin was given once weekly intraperitoneally. Tumor growth was monitored. On day 25, mice were euthanized; tumors were collected, weighed, and imaged. Tumor samples were analyzed through histopathology, immunostaining, and western blot. RESULTS: ENB101-LNP and cisplatin synergistically inhibit CaSki cell growth. The combination reduces HPV 16 E6/E7 mRNA and boosts p21 mRNA, p53, p21, and HLA class I proteins. In mice, the treatment significantly blocked tumor growth and promoted apoptosis. Tumor inhibition rates were 29.7% (1 mpk ENB101-LNP), 29.6% (3 mpk), 34.0% (cisplatin), 47.0% (1 mpk ENB101-LNP-cisplatin), and 68.8% (3 mpk ENB101-LNP-cisplatin). RT-PCR confirmed up to 80% knockdown of HPV16 E6/E7 in the ENB101-LNP groups. Immunohistochemistry revealed increased p53, p21, and HLA-A expression with ENB101-LNP treatments, alone or combined. CONCLUSION: The combination of ENB101-LNP, which inhibits E6/E7 of HPV 16, with cisplatin, demonstrated significant anticancer activity in the xenograft mouse model of cervical cancer.
36410569 | Intestinal location- and age-specific variation of intraepithelial T lymphocytes and mucosal microbiota in pigs. Intraepithelial T lymphocytes (T-IELs) are T cells located within the epithelium that provide a critical line of immune defense in the intestinal tract. In pigs, T-IEL abundances and phenotypes are used to infer putative T-IEL functions and vary by intestinal location and age, though investigations regarding porcine T-IELs are relatively limited. In this study, we expand on analyses of porcine intestinal T-IELs to include additional phenotypic designations not previously recognized in pigs. We describe non-conventional CD8alpha+CD8beta- alphabeta T-IELs that were most prevalent in the distal intestinal tract and primarily CD16+CD27-, a phenotype suggestive of innate-like activation and an activated cell state. Additional T-IEL populations included CD8alpha+CD8beta+ alphabeta, CD2+CD8alpha+ gammadelta, and CD2+CD8alpha- gammadelta T-IELs, with increasing proportions of CD16+CD27- phenotype in the distal intestine. Thus, putative non-conventional, activated T-IELs were most abundant in the distal intestine within multiple gammadelta and alphabeta T-IEL populations. A comparison of T-IEL and respective mucosal microbial community structures across jejunum, ileum, and cecum of 5- and 7-week-old pigs revealed largest community differences were tissue-dependent for both T-IELs and the microbiota. Between 5 and 7 weeks of age, the largest shifts in microbial community compositions occurred in the large intestine, while the largest shifts in T-IEL communities were in the small intestine. Therefore, results indicate different rates of community maturation and stabilization for porcine T-IELs and the mucosal microbiota for proximal versus distal intestinal locations between 5 and 7 weeks of age. Collectively, data emphasize the intestinal tract as a site of location- and age-specific T-IEL and microbial communities that have important implications for understanding intestinal health in pigs.
1384049 | CD5 acts as a tyrosine kinase substrate within a receptor complex comprising T-cell receptor zeta chain/CD3 and protein-tyrosine kinases p56lck and p59fyn. T-cell antigens including CD2, CD4, CD6, CD8, and CD28 serve as coreceptors with the T-cell receptor (TCR)/CD3 complex in control of T-cell growth. The molecular basis by which these antigens fulfill this role has remained a major issue. An initial clue to this question came with our finding that the sensitivity of in vitro kinase labeling (specifically using protein-tyrosine kinase p56lck) allowed detection of a physical association between CD4-p56lck and the TCR/CD3 complexes. Another T-cell antigen, CD5, is structurally related to the macrophage scavenger receptor family and, as such, can directly stimulate and/or potentiate T-cell proliferation. In this study, we reveal that in Brij 96-based cell lysates, anti-CD5 antibodies coprecipitated TCR zeta chain (TCR zeta)/CD3 subunits as well as the protein-tyrosine kinases p56lck and p59fyn. Conversely, anti-CD3 antibody coprecipitated CD5, p56lck, and p59fyn. Indeed, anti-CD5 and anti-CD3 gel patterns were virtually identical, except for a difference in relative intensity of polypeptides. Anti-CD4 coprecipitated p56lck, p32, and CD3/TCR zeta subunits but precipitated less CD5, suggesting the existence of CD4-TCR zeta/CD3 complexes distinct from the CD5-TCR zeta/CD3 complexes. Consistent with the formation of a multimeric CD5-TCR zeta/CD3 complex, anti-CD5 crosslinking induced tyrosine phosphorylation of numerous T-cell substrates, similar to those phosphorylated by TCR zeta/CD3 ligation. Significantly, as for TCR zeta, CD5 was found to act as a tyrosine kinase substrate induced by TCR/CD3 ligation. The kinetics of phosphorylation of CD5 (t1/2 = 20 sec) was among the earliest of activation events, more rapid than seen for TCR zeta (t1/2 = 1 min). CD5 represents a likely TCR/CD3-associated substrate for protein-tyrosine kinases (p56lck or p59fyn) and an alternative signaling pathway within a multimeric TCR complex.
3257101 | CD8B, the human equivalent of the mouse Ly-3 gene is localized on chromosome 2.
9271629 | Polymorphism of chicken CD8-alpha, but not CD8-beta. We report here the structural basis of CD8 polymorphism in the chicken. Three chicken strains (RPRL Line 7, H.B15.H7, and H.B15. H12) have 14 nucleotide differences in the CD8A cDNA sequence causing eight amino acid replacements in the extracellular part of the molecule. Only two amino acid replacements and four silent mutations were observed in the CD8B cDNA sequence in one (H7) of the strains. Substitutions in CD8alpha were solely responsible for the binding of CD8-specific monoclonal antibodies, as detected by cDNA expression in COS cells. The majority of the amino acid substitutions are located in the immunoglobulin V-like domain and three of the changes (residues 30, 34, and 58) are situated in the putative major histocompatibility complex class I binding CDR1 and CDR2 regions of the chicken CD8alpha. CD8A polymorphism has not been reported in other species and this suggests that CD8A and CD8B have evolved under different selective pressures in the chicken.
26000204 | Immunosuppressive mechanisms of human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stromal cells in BALB/c host graft versus host disease murine models. BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) are proven to have immunosuppressive functions via various mechanisms. These mechanisms were demonstrated by administering bone marrow derived human MSCs (hMSCs) to graft versus host disease (GVHD) murine models. METHODS: BALB/c host mice were irradiated prior to receiving C57BL/6 donor T cell depleted bone marrow (TCDBM) cells (negative control) and donor CD4+ T lymphocyte with (treatment group) or without hMSCs (positive control). The presence of hMSCs in target tissues and lymphoid organs was documented by using in vivo imaging and measuring the expression of EphB2 and ephrin-B2 by RTqPCR. Survival rate and GVHD score were also monitored. Tissue sections were obtained for histopathologic analysis. Flow cytometry was used to document donor T cell alloreactivity and expression of CCR5, CXCR3 and CCR7. ELISA was utilized to determine levels of proinflammatory cytokines, RANTES (CCL5) and phosphorylated STAT 5A/B. RTqPCR was performed to quantify expression of CCL3 and CXCL9. Western blotting was performed to qualitatively measure iNOS expression. RESULTS: Survival rate and GVHD score improved with hMSC treatment. Pathologic changes of GVHD were abrogated. Documentation of suppression of RANTES, CCL3, CXCL9, CCR5 and CXCR3 with simultaneous decrease of donor T cell alloreactivity was demonstrated 6 days after transplantation, along with reduction of levels of inflammatory cytokines, suppression of STAT 5A/B phosphorylation, increased expression of CCR7 and increased production of nitrous oxide by hMSCs. Documentation of homing of hMSCs to lymphoid organs and target tissues was also performed. CONCLUSIONS: These mechanisms contribute to the current understanding of MSC mechanisms of immunosuppression and forms a comprehensive picture of how they exert immunosuppression in an in vivo model of immune dysregulation.
32979938 | Evasion of Type I Interferon by SARS-CoV-2. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) replication and host immune response determine coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), but studies evaluating viral evasion of immune response are lacking. Here, we use unbiased screening to identify SARS-CoV-2 proteins that antagonize type I interferon (IFN-I) response. We found three proteins that antagonize IFN-I production via distinct mechanisms: nonstructural protein 6 (nsp6) binds TANK binding kinase 1 (TBK1) to suppress interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) phosphorylation, nsp13 binds and blocks TBK1 phosphorylation, and open reading frame 6 (ORF6) binds importin Karyopherin alpha 2 (KPNA2) to inhibit IRF3 nuclear translocation. We identify two sets of viral proteins that antagonize IFN-I signaling through blocking signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1)/STAT2 phosphorylation or nuclear translocation. Remarkably, SARS-CoV-2 nsp1 and nsp6 suppress IFN-I signaling more efficiently than SARS-CoV and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). Thus, when treated with IFN-I, a SARS-CoV-2 replicon replicates to a higher level than chimeric replicons containing nsp1 or nsp6 from SARS-CoV or MERS-CoV. Altogether, the study provides insights on SARS-CoV-2 evasion of IFN-I response and its potential impact on viral transmission and pathogenesis.
305045 | Enrichment of the murine natural killer (NK) and mitogen induced cellular cytotoxicity (MICC) cells using preparative free-flow high voltage electrophoresis. A procedure using preparative free-flow high voltage electrophoresis is described for the fractionation of murine spleen and bone marrow cells so as to obtain cell subpopulations that are either enriched in or depleted of \natural killer\ (NK) cells and \mitogen-induced cellular cytotoxicity\ (MICC) effector cells. A nearly three fold enrichment in the NK and MICC activities of spleen cells was achieved. The enrichment in these cells could be further increased if the phagocytic cells were removed prior to electrophoresis. When bone marrow cells were fractionated a two and a half fold increase of NK activity, and a one and a half fold enrichment of MICC activity was achieved. In both cases, other fractions were nearly devoid of NK and MICC activity. The cell recovery after electrophoresis averages 70% of the cells applied, and at least 90% of these cells were viable. MICC and NK effector cells could not be separated to a useful extent electrophoretically but were found to be separable using Sephadex C-10 gel filtration columns. The MICC but not the NK cells were retained on these columns.
32296428 | CD3epsilon+ Cells in Pigs With Severe Combined Immunodeficiency Due to Defects in ARTEMIS. Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) is described as the lack of functional T and B cells. In some cases, mutant genes encoding proteins involved in the process of VDJ recombination retain partial activity and are classified as hypomorphs. Hypomorphic activity in the products from these genes can function in the development of T and B cells and is referred to as a leaky phenotype in patients and animals diagnosed with SCID. We previously described two natural, single nucleotide variants in ARTEMIS (DCLR1EC) in a line of Yorkshire pigs that resulted in SCID. One allele contains a splice site mutation within intron 8 of the ARTEMIS gene (ART16), while the other mutation is within exon 10 that results in a premature stop codon (ART12). While initially characterized as SCID and lacking normal levels of circulating lymphoid cells, low levels of CD3epsilon+ cells can be detected in most SCID animals. Upon further assessment, we found that ART16/16, and ART12/12 SCID pigs had abnormally small populations of CD3epsilon+ cells, but not CD79alpha+ cells, in circulation and lymph nodes. Newborn pigs (0 days of age) had CD3epsilon+ cells within lymph nodes prior to any environmental exposure. CD3epsilon+ cells in SCID pigs appeared to have a skewed CD4alpha+CD8alpha+CD8beta- T helper memory phenotype. Additionally, in some pigs, rearranged VDJ joints were detected in lymph node cells as probed by PCR amplification of TCRdelta V5 and J1 genomic loci, as well as TCRbeta V20 and J1.1, providing molecular evidence of residual Artemis activity. We additionally confirmed that TCRalpha and TCRdelta constant region transcripts were expressed in the thymic and lymph node tissues of SCID pigs; although the expression pattern was abnormal compared to carrier animals. The leaky phenotype is important to characterize, as SCID pigs are an important tool for biomedical research and this additional phenotype may need to be considered. The pig model also provides a relevant model for hypomorphic human SCID patients.
36035168 | The epiphany derived from T-cell-inflamed profiles: Pan-cancer characterization of CD8A as a biomarker spanning clinical relevance, cancer prognosis, immunosuppressive environment, and treatment responses. CD8A encodes the CD8 alpha chain of alphabetaT cells, which has been proposed as a quantifiable indicator for the assessment of CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) recruitment or activity and a robust biomarker for anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy responses. Nonetheless, the lack of research into the role of CD8A in tumor microenvironment predisposes to limitations in its clinical utilization. In the presented study, multiple computational tools were used to investigate the roles of CD8A in the pan-cancer study, revealing its essential associations with tumor immune infiltration, immunosuppressive environment formation, cancer progression, and therapy responses. Based on the pan-cancer cohorts of the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, our results demonstrated the distinctive CD8A expression patterns in cancer tissues and its close associations with the prognosis and disease stage of cancer. We then found that CD8A was correlated with six major immune cell types, and immunosuppressive cells in multiple cancer types. Besides, epigenetic modifications of CD8A were related to CTL levels and T cell dysfunctional states, thereby affecting survival outcomes of specific cancer types. After that, we explored the co-occurrence patterns of CD8A mutation, thus identifying RMND5A, RNF103-CHMP3, CHMP3, CD8B, MRPL35, MAT2A, RGPD1, RGPD2, REEP1, and ANAPC1P1 genes, which co-occurred mutations with CD8A, and are concomitantly implicated in the regulation of cancer-related pathways. Finally, we tested CD8A as a therapeutic biomarker for multiple antitumor agents' or compounds' responsiveness on various cancer cell lines and cancer cohorts. Our findings denoted the underlying mechanics of CD8A in reflecting the T-cell-inflamed profiles, which has potential as a biomarker in cancer diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic responses.
32119183 | C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 aggravates renal fibrosis through activating JAK/STAT/GSK3beta/beta-catenin pathway. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) has a high prevalence worldwide. Renal fibrosis is the common pathological feature in various types of CKD. However, the underlying mechanisms are not determined. Here, we adopted different CKD mouse models and cultured human proximal tubular cell line (HKC-8) to examine the expression of C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) and beta-catenin signalling, as well as their relationship in renal fibrosis. In CKD mice and humans with a variety of nephropathies, CXCR4 was dramatically up-regulated in tubules, with a concomitant activation of beta-catenin. CXCR4 expression level was positively correlated with the expression of beta-catenin target MMP-7. AMD3100, a CXCR4 receptor blocker, and gene knockdown of CXCR4 significantly inhibited the activation of JAK/STAT and beta-catenin signalling, protected against tubular injury and renal fibrosis. CXCR4-induced renal fibrosis was inhibited by treatment with ICG-001, an inhibitor of beta-catenin signalling. In HKC-8 cells, overexpression of CXCR4 induced activation of beta-catenin and deteriorated cell injury. These effects were inhibited by ICG-001. Stromal cell-derived factor (SDF)-1alpha, the ligand of CXCR4, stimulated the activation of JAK2/STAT3 and JAK3/STAT6 signalling in HKC-8 cells. Overexpression of STAT3 or STAT6 decreased the abundance of GSK3beta mRNA. Silencing of STAT3 or STAT6 significantly blocked SDF-1alpha-induced activation of beta-catenin and fibrotic lesions. These results uncover a novel mechanistic linkage between CXCR4 and beta-catenin activation in renal fibrosis in association with JAK/STAT/GSK3beta pathway. Our studies also suggest that targeted inhibition of CXCR4 may provide better therapeutic effects on renal fibrosis by inhibiting multiple downstream signalling cascades.
34478713 | Ribosylation of the CD8alphabeta heterodimer permits binding of the nonclassical major histocompatibility molecule, H2-Q10. The CD8alphabeta heterodimer plays a crucial role in the stabilization between major histocompatibility complex class I molecules (MHC-I) and the T cell receptor (TCR). The interaction between CD8 and MHC-I can be regulated by posttranslational modifications, which are proposed to play an important role in the development of CD8 T cells. One modification that has been proposed to control CD8 coreceptor function is ribosylation. Utilizing NAD+, the ecto-enzyme adenosine diphosphate (ADP) ribosyl transferase 2.2 (ART2.2) catalyzes the addition of ADP-ribosyl groups onto arginine residues of CD8alpha or beta chains and alters the interaction between the MHC and TCR complexes. To date, only interactions between modified CD8 and classical MHC-I (MHC-Ia), have been investigated and the interaction with non-classical MHC (MHC-Ib) has not been explored. Here, we show that ADP-ribosylation of CD8 facilitates the binding of the liver-restricted nonclassical MHC, H2-Q10, independent of the associated TCR or presented peptide, and propose that this highly regulated binding imposes an additional inhibitory leash on the activation of CD8-expressing cells in the presence of NAD+. These findings highlight additional important roles for nonclassical MHC-I in the regulation of immune responses.
37385350 | Coenzyme Q10 exhibits anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory thereby decelerating the occurrence of experimental cerebral malaria. Cerebral Malaria (CM) is associated with the complex neurological syndrome, whose pathology is mediated by severe inflammatory processes following infection with Plasmodium falciparum. Coenzyme-Q10 (Co-Q10) is a potent anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, and anti-apoptotic agent with numerous clinical applications. The aim of this study was to elucidate the role of oral administration of Co-Q10 on the initiation or regulation of inflammatory immune response during experimental cerebral malaria (ECM). For this purpose, the pre-clinical effect of Co-Q10 was evaluated in C57BL/6J mice infected with Plasmodium berghei ANKA (PbA). Treatment with Co-Q10 resulted in the reduction of infiltrating parasite load, greatly improved the survival rate of PbA-infected mice that occurred independent of parasitaemia and prevented PbA-induced disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity. Exposure to Co-Q10 resulted in the reduction of infiltration of effector CD8+ T cells in the brain and secretion of cytolytic Granzyme B molecules. Notably, Co-Q10-treated mice had reduced levels of CD8+T cell chemokines CXCR3, CCR2, and CCR5 in the brain following PbA-infection. Brain tissue analysis showed a reduction in the levels of inflammatory mediators TNF- alpha, CCL3, and RANTES in Co-Q10 administered mice. In addition, Co-Q10 modulated the differentiation and maturation of both splenic and brain dendritic cells and cross-presentation (CD8alpha+DCs) during ECM. Remarkably, Co-Q10 was very effective in decreasing levels of CD86, MHC-II, and CD40 in macrophages associated with ECM pathology. Exposure to Co-Q10 resulted in increased expression levels of Arginase-1 and Ym1/chitinase 3-like 3, which is linked to ECM protection. Furthermore, Co-Q10 supplementation prevented PbA-induced depletion of Arginase and CD206 mannose receptor levels. Co-Q10 abrogated PbA-driven elevation in pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-18, and IL-6 levels. In conclusion, the oral supplementation with Co-Q10 decelerates the occurrence of ECM by preventing lethal inflammatory immune responses and dampening genes associated with inflammation and immune-pathology during ECM, and offers an inimitable opening for developing an anti-inflammatory agent against cerebral malaria.
29171984 | MicroRNA-1246 inhibits cell invasion and epithelial mesenchymal transition process by targeting CXCR4 in lung cancer cells. BACKGROUND: Recent studies have indicated that microRNAs (miRNAs) are closely related to lung cancer. However, the effects of miR-1246 on lung cancer are still elusive. In this study, we aimed to explore the molecular mechanisms of miR-1246 in lung cancer. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using RT-qPCR assay, we analyzed the expression of miR-1246 in lung cancer cell lines and lung epithelial cell line. Using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), flow cytometry, Transwell, RT-qPCR and western blot assays, we investigated cell viability, apoptosis, invasion and epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) process. Using luciferase reporter assay, we confirmed a target of miR-1246. Using western blot assay, we detected the protein mechanisms of Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) and phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT) signal pathways. RESULTS: Our results showed that miR-1246 was down-regulated in lung cancer cell lines (A549, H1650 and H1299) compared to in lung epithelial cell line (16HBE14o). MiR-1246 overexpression remarkably inhibited cell invasion as well as up-regulated E-cadherin expression and down-regulated N-cadherin, Vimentin, ZEB1 and Snail expressions in A549 cells. Further studies have confirmed CXCR4 as a target gene of miR-1246, and CXCR4 silence significantly abolished the promotion effect of miR-1246 suppression on cell invasion and EMT process in A549 cells. Besides, miR-1246 blocked JAK/STAT and PI3K/AKT signal pathways by regulation of CXCR4. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrated that miR-1246 inhibited cell invasion and EMT process by targeting CXCR4 and blocking JAK/STAT and PI3K/AKT signal pathways in lung cancer cells.
38405923 | Canine major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) diversity landscape. The genes of the Major Histocompatibility Complex class I (MHC-I) are among the most diverse in the mammalian genome, playing a crucial role in immunology. Understanding the diversity landscape of MHC-I is therefore of paramount importance. The dog is a key translational model in various biomedical fields. However, our understanding of the canine MHC-I diversity landscape lags significantly behind that of humans. To address this deficiency, we used our newly developed software, KPR de novo assembler and genotyper, to genotype 1,325 samples from 1,025 dogs with paired-end RNA-seq data from 43 BioProjects, after extensive quality control. Among 926 dogs that pass the QC, 591 dogs (64%) have at least one allele genotyped, and a total of 97 known alleles and 52 putative new alleles were identified. Further analysis reveals that DLA-I gene expression levels vary among the tissues, with lowest for testis and brain tissues and highest for blood, corpus luteum, and spleen. We identified dominant alleles in each of the 17 canine breeds, as well as among the entire canine population. Furthermore, our analysis also identifies breed-specific alleles and mutually co-occurred/exclusive alleles. Our study indicates that canine DLA-88 is as diversified as human HLA-A/B/C genes within the entire population, but less diversified within a breed than with HLA-A/B/C within an ethnic group. Lastly, we examined the hypervariable regions (HVR) within or across human/canine MHC-I alleles and found that 80% of the HVRs overlap between the two species. We further noted that 80% of the HVRs are within 4A contact with the peptides, and that the dog-human difference overlaps with only 20% HVRs. Our research offers valuable insights for immunological studies involving dogs.
38338657 | Combined Use of Tocilizumab and Mesenchymal Stem Cells Attenuate the Development of an Anti-HLA-A2.1 Antibody in a Highly Sensitized Mouse Model. Sensitization to HLA can result in allograft loss for kidney transplantation (KT) patients. Therefore, it is required to develop an appropriate desensitization (DSZ) technique to remove HLA-donor-specific anti-HLA antibody (DSA) before KT. The aim of this research was to investigate whether combined use of the IL-6 receptor-blocking antibody, tocilizumab (TCZ), and bone-marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) could attenuate humoral immune responses in an allo-sensitized mouse model developed using HLA.A2 transgenic mice. Wild-type C57BL/6 mice were sensitized with skin allografts from C57BL/6-Tg (HLA-A2.1)1Enge/J mice and treated with TCZ, BM-MSC, or both TCZ and BM-MSC. We compared HLA.A2-specific IgG levels and subsets of T cells and B cells using flow cytometry among groups. HLA.A2-specific IgG level was decreased in all treated groups in comparison with that in the allo-sensitized control (Allo-CONT) group. Its decrease was the most significant in the TCZ + BM-MSC group. Regarding the B cell subset, combined use of TCZ and BM-MSC increased proportions of pre-pro B cells but decreased proportions of mature B cells in BM (p < 0.05 vs. control). In the spleen, an increase in transitional memory was observed with a significant decrease in marginal, follicular, and long-lived plasma B cells (p < 0.05 vs. control) in the TCZ + BM-MSC group. In T cell subsets, Th2 and Th17 cells were significantly decreased, but Treg cells were significantly increased in the TCZ+BM-MSC group compared to those in the Allo-CONT group in the spleen. Regarding RNA levels, IL-10 and Foxp3 showed increased expression, whereas IL-23 and IFN-gamma showed decreased expression in the TCZ + BM-MSC group. In conclusion, combined use of TCZ and BM-MSC can inhibit B cell maturation and up-regulate Treg cells, finally resulting in the reduction of HLA.A2-specific IgG in a highly sensitized mouse model. This study suggests that the combined use of TCZ and BM-MSC can be proposed as a novel strategy in a desensitization protocol for highly sensitized patients.
34837284 | Decreased expression of T-cell-associated immune markers predicts poor prognosis in patients with follicular lymphoma. We previously examined the utility of rituximab-bendamustine (RB) in patients with follicular lymphoma (FL) exhibiting less than optimal responses to 2 cycles of the R-CHOP chemotherapy regimen. The aim of this study was to identify molecular biomarkers that can predict prognosis in RB-treated patients in the context of the prospective cohort. We first analyzed the mutational status of 410 genes in diagnostic tumor specimens by target capture and Sanger sequencing. CREBBP, KMT2D, MEF2B, BCL2, EZH2, and CARD11 were recurrently mutated as reported before, however none was predictive for progression-free survival (PFS) in the RB-treated patients (n = 34). A gene expression analysis by nCounter including 800 genes associated with carcinogenesis and/or the immune response showed that expression levels of CD8+ T-cell markers and half of the genes regulating Th1 and Th2 responses were significantly lower in progression of disease within the 24-mo (POD24) group (n = 8) than in the no POD24 group (n = 31). Collectively, we selected 10 genes (TBX21, CXCR3, CCR4, CD8A, CD8B, GZMM, FLT3LG, CD3E, EOMES, GZMK), and generated an immune infiltration score (IIS) for predicting PFS using principal component analysis, which dichotomized the RB-treated patients into immune IIShigh (n = 19) and IISlow (n = 20) groups. The 3-y PFS rate was significantly lower in the IISlow group than in the IIShigh group (50.0% [95% CI: 27.1-69.2%] vs. 84.2% [95% CI: 58.7-94.6%], P = .0237). Furthermore, the IIS was correlates with absolute lymphocyte counts at diagnosis (r = 0.460, P = .00355). These results suggest that the T-cell-associated immune markers could be useful to predict prognosis in RB-treated FL patients. (UMIN:000 013 795, jRCT:051 180 181).
38583422 | Intradermal naked DNA vaccination by DNA tattooing for mounting tumor-specific immunity in stage IV melanoma patients: a phase I clinical trial. INTRODUCTION: Naked DNA vaccination could be a powerful and safe strategy to mount antigen-specific cellular immunity. We designed a phase I clinical trial to investigate the toxicity of naked DNA vaccines encoding CD8+ T-cell epitope from tumor-associated antigen MART-1 in patients with advanced melanoma. METHODS: This dose escalating phase Ia clinical trial investigates the toxicity and immunological response upon naked DNA vaccines encoding a CD8+ T-cell epitope from the tumor-associated antigen MART-1, genetically linked to the gene encoding domain 1 of subunit-tetanus toxin fragment C in patients with advanced melanoma (inoperable stage IIIC-IV, AJCC 7th edition). The vaccine was administrated via intradermal application using a permanent make-up or tattoo device. Safety was monitored according to CTCAE v.3.0 and skin biopsies and blood samples were obtained for immunologic monitoring. RESULTS: Nine pretreated, HLA-A*0201-positive patients with advanced melanoma expressing MART-1 and MHC class I, with a good performance status, and adequate organ function, were included. With a median follow-up of 5.9 months, DNA vaccination was safe, without treatment-related deaths. Common treatment-emergent adverse events of any grade were dermatologic reactions at the vaccination site (100%) and pain (56%). One patient experienced grade 4 toxicity, most likely related to tumor progression. One patient (11%) achieved stable disease, lasting 353 days. Immune analysis showed no increase in vaccine-induced T cell response in peripheral blood of five patients, but did show a MART-1 specific CD8+ T cell response at the tattoo administration site. The maximum dose administered was 2 mg due to lack of clinical activity. CONCLUSION: We showed that the developed DNA vaccine, applied using a novel intradermal application strategy, can be administered safely. Further research with improved vaccine formats is required to show possible clinical benefit of DNA vaccination.
33499345 | Clonal Expansion of Tumor-Infiltrating T Cells and Analysis of the Tumor Microenvironment within Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Relapsed after Definitive Chemoradiation Therapy. (1) Background: Comparable prognoses after definitive chemoradiation therapy (CRT) to surgery alone for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) have been previously reported; however, no robust prognostic markers have been established. The clonality of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and tumor microenvironments (TMEs) in ESCC relapsed after CRT were examined to explore prognostic markers. (2) Methods: Clonality of TIL and TME were examined in ESCC with and without preceding CRT, as well as oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and healthy volunteers as controls. The clonality of TIL was assessed by T-cell receptor (TCR) alpha and beta repertoire analyses and evaluated by diversity indices. The TME was assessed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction evaluating PD-L1 and CD8B. (3) Results: The clonal expansion of TIL was significantly induced within ESCCs and OSCCs, when compared to healthy volunteers, and was mostly induced within ESCCs after definitive CRT. Diversity indices of TIL were not associated with the prognosis, but the ratio of PD-L1 mRNA to CD8B mRNA in TME was significantly associated with a poor prognosis after salvage surgery (p = 0.007). (4) Conclusions: The clonal expansion of TIL is induced after definitive CRT for ESCC, and the ratio of PD-L1 mRNA to CD8B mRNA within tumor tissues is a prognostic marker candidate for salvage esophagectomy after CRT.
36822100 | Retraction notice to \Down-regulated microRNA-195-5p and up-regulated CXCR4 attenuates the heart function injury of heart failure mice via inactivating JAK/STAT pathway\ [Int. Immunopharmacol. 82 (2020) 106225].
31629729 | Caveolin-1 as a critical component in the pathogenesis of lung fibrosis of different etiology: Evidences and mechanisms. Caveolin is a structural protein of flask-shaped invaginations of the plasma membrane termed as caveolae and is widely expressed on the endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells and fibroblasts in the different parts of the body including the lung tissues. The expression of caveolin-1 in the lung tissues is important to prevent the fibrogenic actions of TGF-beta1 in lung fibrosis of different etiology including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease and allergen-induced airway remodeling. Caveolin-1-mediated internalization and degradation of TGF-beta1 receptors may possibly account for the decreased actions of TGF-beta1. Studies have shown that the deficiency of caveolin-1 is very important in inducing lung fibrosis and its upregulation is reported to prevent lung fibrosis. The biological actions of caveolin-1 involve signaling pathways including JNK signaling, IL-4, STAT-3, miR199a-5p, CXCR4+ and CXCL12. The present review discusses the key role of caveolin and associated signaling pathways in the pathogenesis of lung fibrosis of different etiology.
38295891 | Enhancing antigenic peptide discovery: Improved MHC-I binding prediction and methodology. The Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) is a critical element of the vertebrate cellular immune system, responsible for presenting peptides derived from intracellular proteins. MHC-I presentation is pivotal in the immune response and holds considerable potential in the realms of vaccine development and cancer immunotherapy. This study delves into the limitations of current methods and benchmarks for MHC-I presentation. We introduce a novel benchmark designed to assess generalization properties and the reliability of models on unseen MHC molecules and peptides, with a focus on the Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-a specific subset of MHC genes present in humans. Finally, we introduce HLABERT, a pretrained language model that outperforms previous methods significantly on our benchmark and establishes a new state-of-the-art on existing benchmarks.
21677135 | Anti-CD8 antibodies can trigger CD8+ T cell effector function in the absence of TCR engagement and improve peptide-MHCI tetramer staining. CD8(+) T cells recognize immunogenic peptides presented at the cell surface bound to MHCI molecules. Ag recognition involves the binding of both TCR and CD8 coreceptor to the same peptide-MHCI (pMHCI) ligand. Specificity is determined by the TCR, whereas CD8 mediates effects on Ag sensitivity. Anti-CD8 Abs have been used extensively to examine the role of CD8 in CD8(+) T cell activation. However, as previous studies have yielded conflicting results, it is unclear from the literature whether anti-CD8 Abs per se are capable of inducing effector function. In this article, we report on the ability of seven monoclonal anti-human CD8 Abs to activate six human CD8(+) T cell clones with a total of five different specificities. Six of seven anti-human CD8 Abs tested did not activate CD8(+) T cells. In contrast, one anti-human CD8 Ab, OKT8, induced effector function in all CD8(+) T cells examined. Moreover, OKT8 was found to enhance TCR/pMHCI on-rates and, as a consequence, could be used to improve pMHCI tetramer staining and the visualization of Ag-specific CD8(+) T cells. The anti-mouse CD8 Abs, CT-CD8a and CT-CD8b, also activated CD8(+) T cells despite opposing effects on pMHCI tetramer staining. The observed heterogeneity in the ability of anti-CD8 Abs to trigger T cell effector function provides an explanation for the apparent incongruity observed in previous studies and should be taken into consideration when interpreting results generated with these reagents. Furthermore, the ability of Ab-mediated CD8 engagement to deliver an activation signal underscores the importance of CD8 in CD8(+) T cell signaling.
32669328 | Combination of CD8beta Depletion and Interleukin-15 Superagonist N-803 Induces Virus Reactivation in Simian-Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Infected, Long-Term ART-Treated Rhesus Macaques. The \shock and kill\ strategy predicates that virus reactivation in latently infected cells is required to eliminate the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reservoir. In a recent study, we showed robust and persistent induction of plasma viremia in antiretroviral therapy (ART)-treated simian immunodeficiency virus-infected rhesus macaques (RMs) undergoing CD8alpha depletion and treated with the interleukin-15 (IL-15) superagonist N-803 (J. B. McBrien et al., Nature 578:154-159, 2020, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-1946-0). Of note, in that study we used an antibody targeting CD8alpha, thereby depleting NK cells, NKT cells, and gammadelta T cells, in addition to CD8+ T cells. In the current proof-of-concept study, we tested whether virus reactivation can be induced by administration of N-803 to simian-human chimeric immunodeficiency virus-infected, ART-treated RMs that are selectively depleted of CD8+ T cells via the CD8beta-targeting antibody CD8b255R1. CD8beta depletion was performed in five SHIVSF162P3-infected RMs treated with ART for 12 months and with plasma viremia consistently below 3 copies/ml. All animals received four weekly doses of N-803 starting at the time of CD8b255R1 administration. The induction of detectable plasma viremia was observed in three out of five RMs, with the level of virus reactivation seemingly correlated with the frequency of CD8+ T cells following CD8beta depletion as well as the level of virus reactivation observed when the same animals underwent CD8alpha depletion and N-803 administration after 24 weeks of ART. These data indicate that CD8beta depletion and N-803 administration can induce virus reactivation in SHIVSF162P3-infected RMs despite suboptimal depletion of CD8+ T cells and profound ART-induced suppression of virus replication, confirming a critical role for these cells in suppressing virus production and/or reactivation in vivo under ART.IMPORTANCE The \shock and kill\ HIV cure strategy attempts to reverse and eliminate the latent viral infection that prevents eradication of the virus. Latency-reversing agents tested in clinical trials to date have failed to affect the HIV viral reservoir. IL-15 superagonist N-803, currently involved in a clinical trial for HIV cure, was recently shown by our laboratory to induce robust and persistent induction of plasma viremia during ART in three in vivo animal models of HIV infection. These results suggest a substantial role for CD8+ lymphocytes in suppressing the latency reversal effect of N-803 by promoting the maintenance of viral latency. In this study, we tested whether the use of a CD8beta-targeting antibody, which would specifically deplete CD8+ T cells, would yield similar levels of virus reactivation. We observed the induction of plasma viremia, which correlated with the efficacy of the CD8 depletion strategy.
36609711 | Breast tumor metastasis following filgrastim administration due to the SDF-1/CXCR4 pathway. Filgrastim, a recombinant type of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), has a high potential to manage chemotherapy-induced leukopenia. It can increase stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1) which may stimulate C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) to migrate bone marrow-derived stem/progenitor cells to the bloodstream. Here, we aimed to investigate in vitro and in vivo effects of filgrastim on cell migration, invasion, and metastasis. A lentivirus vector of the anti-CXCR4 receptor was first used for the CXCR4 knockout. Effects of filgrastim on cell proliferation and migration were then investigated on 4T1 cells by Transwell migration and wound healing assay. At last, the effects of filgrastim on cell metastasis and the possible involved mechanisms have been investigated in a metastatic murine breast tumor. The knockout of the CXCR4 receptor could lead to a decrease in cell proliferation, migration, and invasion of the 4T1 cells. Filgrastim could directly target SDF-1 and upregulate the expression of the CXCR4 receptor. The knockout of the CXCR4 receptor reduced cell metastasis in an animal model of breast cancer. CXCR4 receptor stimulation by the filgrastim-affected pathways is a conserved evolutionary response that could increase cancer cell proliferation and consequent cell metastasis. Our results suggest that the activation of the CXCR4 receptor is a conserved evolutionary response that can increase cell proliferation, migration, and consequent metastasis. It seems that filgrastim may increase the chance of cancer cell metastasis in people continuously receiving it to increase the number of neutrophils. Filgrastim induces the SDF-1/CXCR4 axis on tumor cell growth. SDF-1 and its receptor CXCR4 are vital targets for filgrastim. The CXCR4 can stimulate the PI3K/AKT, NF-kappaB, and JAK/STAT signaling pathways. The SDF-1/CXCR4 pathway promotes cell chemotaxis and proliferation via MAPKs signaling. It also enhances cell survival, proliferation, and angiogenesis, increasing tumor cell metastasis. The STAT3-mediated inflammation is essential for tumorigenesis processes, and Akt, Wnt, STAT3, and CXCR4 signaling pathways are all correlated. CXCR4 = C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4, SDF-1 = stromal-derived-factor-1, MAPK = mitogen activated protein kinase; NF-kappaB = nuclear factor-kappaB, PI3K = phosphoinositide 3-kinase, JAK = Janus kinase, STAT = signal transducer and activator of transcription, PLC = phospholipase C, PKC = Protein kinase C, GRK = G protein-coupled receptor kinase.
19565478 | Spondylarthritis in HLA-B27/human beta2-microglobulin-transgenic rats is not prevented by lack of CD8. OBJECTIVE: HLA-B27 predisposes to spondylarthritis by an unknown mechanism. A logical candidate mechanism is through recognition of B27 by CD8+ T cells. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a lack of CD8 on the spondylarthritis that develops in B27/human beta(2)-microglobulin (Hubeta(2)m)-transgenic rats. METHODS: A missense mutation in the CD8a gene that causes a loss of CD8alpha expression was identified in offspring of a male Sprague-Dawley rat that had been treated with the mutagen N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea. The mutation was crossed into B27/Hubeta(2)m-transgenic lines on the Lewis background. CD8a(-/-) and CD8a(+/-) progeny were compared on a mixed SD-LEW background as well as after at least 10 backcrosses to LEW rats. CD8 function was assessed by generating cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTLs) against allogeneic DA strain antigens. RESULTS: Homozygous mutant rats showed normal CD8a and CD8b messenger RNA levels but no detectable expression of either protein and an almost complete abrogation of the allogeneic CTL response. Two disease phenotypes previously observed in different B27/Hubeta(2)m-transgenic lines also occurred in the respective CD8a(-/-)-transgenic rat lines. There was no significant difference in disease prevalence or severity between CD8a(-/-) rats and CD8a(+/-) rats. CONCLUSION: All of the previously described disease manifestations in HLA-B27/Hubeta(2)m-transgenic rats arise in the absence of any functional CD8+ T cells. It thus seems unlikely that classic T cell recognition of HLA-B27 is of primary importance in this animal model. The possibility of a secondary role of a CD8-dependent mechanism cannot be entirely excluded.
37877672 | HLA-DQ8 Supports Development of Insulitis Mediated by Insulin-Reactive Human TCR-Transgenic T Cells in Nonobese Diabetic Mice. In an effort to improve HLA-\humanized\ mouse models for type 1 diabetes (T1D) therapy development, we previously generated directly in the NOD strain CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletions of various combinations of murine MHC genes. These new models improved upon previously available platforms by retaining beta2-microglobulin functionality in FcRn and nonclassical MHC class I formation. As proof of concept, we generated H2-Db/H2-Kd double knockout NOD mice expressing human HLA-A*0201 or HLA-B*3906 class I variants that both supported autoreactive diabetogenic CD8+ T cell responses. In this follow-up work, we now describe the creation of 10 new NOD-based mouse models expressing various combinations of HLA genes with and without chimeric transgenic human TCRs reactive to proinsulin/insulin. The new TCR-transgenic models develop differing levels of insulitis mediated by HLA-DQ8-restricted insulin-reactive T cells. Additionally, these transgenic T cells can transfer insulitis to newly developed NSG mice lacking classical murine MHC molecules, but expressing HLA-DQ8. These new models can be used to test potential therapeutics for a possible capacity to reduce islet infiltration or change the phenotype of T cells expressing type 1 diabetes patient-derived beta cell autoantigen-specific TCRs.
38378602 | Ageing on the impact of distribution about preformed anti-HLA and anti-MICA antibody specificities in recipients prior to initial HSCT from East China. BACKGROUND: With the development of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) technology, increasing numbers of elderly patients were undergoing allogeneic HSCT and elderly patients with hematologic malignancies could benefit most from it. Preformed donor-specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) antibodies (DSA) were associated with graft failure in HLA-mismatched allogeneic HSCT and the absence of DSA was the main criterion of selecting the donor. Except for sensitization events such as transfusion, pregnancy or previous transplantation, ageing affects the humoral immune response both quantitatively and qualitatively. To evaluate the prevalence and distribution of anti-HLA and antibodies of MHC class I chain related antigens A (MICA) specificities in different age groups before initial HSCT would provide HLA and MICA specific antibody profiles under the impact of ageing, which could provide meaningful information in the process of selecting suitable HLA-mismatched donors by avoiding preformed DSA. RESULTS: There were no significant differences in the distribution of anti-HLA class I, class II and anti-MICA antibodies among the three age groups in this study except that a significant lower negative ratio of anti-HLA class I, class II antibodies and higher positive rate of MICA antibodies with maximum mean fluorescent intensity (MFI) > 5000 in the elderly than in young age group. The distribution of antibody specificities against HLA -A, -B, -C, -DR, -DQ, -DP and MICA antigens in the three age groups were generally consistent. The anti-HLA class I antibody specificities with higher frequencies were A80,A68;B76,B45;Cw17, which were unlikely to become DSA in Chinese. Anti-HLA class II antibody specificities were more likely to become potential DSA than class I.DR7, DR9, DQ7, DQ8 and DQ9 were most likely to become potential DSA. CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of anti-HLA and anti-MICA antibodies increased slightly as age increased. While ageing had a small impact on the distribution of antibody specificity frequencies against HLA-A, -B, -C, -DR,-DQ, -DP and MICA antigens in recipients awaiting initial HSCT from East China. The risk of developing preformed DSA was basically consistent in the three age groups and the elderly group might be more favorable in HLA-mismatched HSCT due to higher positive rate of anti-MICA antibody.
1587551 | Activation of Lyt-2 associated with distant upstream insertion of an SL3-3 provirus. Two Lyt-2+ mutants of the T-cell lymphoma SL12.4.10 were selected by fluorescence activated cell sorting. Both mutants expressed Lyt-2 (CD8 alpha-chain) but not Lyt-3 (CD8 beta-chain). Derivatives of one Lyt-2+ mutant that expressed Lyt-3 could be isolated by sorting for Lyt-3+ cells. Southern blotting analysis indicated that both mutants had structural rearrangements within or immediately 3' of the Lyt-3 gene, accompanied by demethylation of at least one Hpa II site within the Lyt-2 gene. Gene cloning analysis of one mutant demonstrated that the structural rearrangement was due to insertion of an SL3-3 provirus 35 kb 5' to the Lyt-2 gene. It is likely that Lyt-2 gene activation is a direct or indirect consequence of proviral insertion at this site.
29501729 | STAT6 is a cargo of exportin 1: Biological relevance in primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma. Primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma (PMBL) is a distinct B-cell lymphoma subtype with unique clinicopathological and molecular features. PMBL cells are characterised by several genetic abnormalities that conduct to the constitutive activation of the Janus kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (JAK2/STAT6) signalling pathway. Among recurrent genetic changes in PMBL, we previously reported that the XPO1 gene encoding exportin 1 that controls the nuclear export of cargo proteins and RNAs, is mutated (p.E571K) in about 25% of PMBL cases. We therefore hypothesized that STAT6 could be a cargo of XPO1 and that STAT6 cytoplasm/nucleus shuttle could be altered in a subset of PMBL cells. Using immunocytochemistry techniques as well as the proximity ligation assay, we showed that STAT6 bound XPO1 in PBML cell lines and in HEK-293 cells genetically engineered to produce STAT6. Moreover, XPO1-mediated export of STAT6 occurs in cells expressing either a wild-type or the E571K mutated XPO1 protein.
38263419 | Immunogenic cell death-related classification reveals prognosis and effectiveness of immunotherapy in breast cancer. Lack of specific biomarkers and effective drug targets constrains therapeutic research in breast cancer (BC). In this regard, therapeutic modulation of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs)-induced immunogenic cell death (ICD) may help improve the effect of immunotherapy in individuals with BC. The aim of this investigation was to develop biomarkers for ICD and to construct ICD-related risk estimation models to predict prognosis and immunotherapy outcomes of BC. RNA-seq transcriptome information and medical data from individuals with BC (n = 943) were obtained from TCGA. Expression data from a separate BC cohort (GEO: GSE20685) were used for validation. We identified subtypes of high and low ICD gene expression by consensus clustering and assessed the connection between ICD subtypes and tumor microenvironment (TME). In addition, different algorithms were used to construct ICD-based prognostic models of BC. BC samples were categorized into subtypes of high and low ICD expression depending on the expression of genes correlated with ICD. The subtype of ICD high-expression subtypes are correlated with poor prognosis in breast cancer, while ICD low-expression subtypes may predict better clinical outcomes. We also created and verified a predictive signature model depending on four ICD-related genes (ATG5, CD8A, CD8B, and HSP90AA1), which correlates with TME status and predicts clinical outcomes of BC patients. We highlight the connection of ICD subtypes with the dynamic evolution of TME in BC and present a novel ICD-based prognostic model of BC. In clinical practice, distinction of ICD subtype and assessment of ICD-related biomarkers should help guide treatment planning and improve the effectiveness of tumor immunotherapy.
17573935 | Expression patterns and role of the CadF protein in Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter coli. Binding of Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter coli to host fibronectin is mediated by the 37 kDa outer membrane protein CadF. Immunoblot analysis of 58 C. jejuni and C. coli isolates of human and animal origin showed that CadF is expressed in every strain. In most C. jejuni isolates, a 37 kDa band (p37) and a less-prominent 32 kDa band (p32) reacted with the antibodies. In C. coli isolates, CadF was consistently larger with sizes of 39 kDa (p39) and 34 kDa (p34), respectively. PCR analysis and sequencing revealed the presence of a 39-bp insertion sequence in the cadF gene of C. coli strains, explaining the increased molecular size. Infection assays revealed that C. jejuni bound and invaded INT-407 epithelial cells much more efficiently than C. coli and that this difference was considerably reduced in isogenic cadF mutants. These results demonstrate that CadF is an important pathogenicity factor. The difference between CadF of C. jejuni and C. coli may potentially be exploited to discriminate these species in food and clinical specimens.
18490743 | Differential expression of the human CD8beta splice variants and regulation of the M-2 isoform by ubiquitination. The CD8alphabeta heterodimer functions as a coreceptor with the TCR, influencing the outcome of CD8(+) T cell responses to pathogen-infected and tumor cells. In contrast to the murine CD8B gene, the human gene encodes alternatively spliced variants with different cytoplasmic tails (M-1, M-2, M-3, and M-4). At present, little is known about the expression patterns and functional significance of such variants. We used quantitative RT-PCR to demonstrate differential mRNA expression patterns of these splice variants in thymocytes and in resting, memory, and activated primary human CD8(+) T cells. In total CD8(+) T cells, mRNA levels of the M-1 variant were the most predominant and levels of M-3 were the least detected. The M-4 isoform was predominant in effector memory CD8(+) T cells. Upon stimulation of CD8(+) T cells, the M-2 variant mRNA levels were elevated 10-20-fold relative to resting cells in contrast to the other isoforms. Curiously, the M-2 isoform was not expressed on the cell surface in transfected cell lines. Using fluorescent chimeras of the extracellular domain of mouse CD8beta fused to the cytoplasmic tails of each isoform, the M-2 isoform was localized in a lysosomal compartment regulated by ubiquitination of a lysine residue (K215) in its cytoplasmic tail. In contrast, upon short-term stimulation, the M-2 protein localized to the cell surface with the TCR complex. The relatively recent evolution of CD8B gene splice variants in the chimpanzee/human lineage is most likely important for fine-tuning the CD8(+) T cell responses.
38509571 | Cross-reactive CD8+ T cell responses to tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) and homologous microbiota-derived antigens (MoAs). BACKGROUND: We have recently shown extensive sequence and conformational homology between tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) and antigens derived from microorganisms (MoAs). The present study aimed to assess the breadth of T-cell recognition specific to MoAs and the corresponding TAAs in healthy subjects (HS) and patients with cancer (CP). METHOD: A library of > 100 peptide-MHC (pMHC) combinations was used to generate DNA-barcode labelled multimers. Homologous peptides were selected from the Cancer Antigenic Peptide Database, as well as Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes-derived peptides. They were incubated with CD8 + T cells from the peripheral blood of HLA-A*02:01 healthy individuals (n = 10) and cancer patients (n = 16). T cell recognition was identified using tetramer-staining analysis. Cytotoxicity assay was performed using as target cells TAP-deficient T2 cells loaded with MoA or the paired TuA. RESULTS: A total of 66 unique pMHC recognized by CD8+ T cells across all groups were identified. Of these, 21 epitopes from microbiota were identified as novel immunological targets. Reactivity against selected TAAs was observed for both HS and CP. pMHC tetramer staining confirmed CD8+ T cell populations cross-reacting with CTA SSX2 and paired microbiota epitopes. Moreover, PBMCs activated with the MoA where shown to release IFNgamma as well as to exert cytotoxic activity against cells presenting the paired TuA. CONCLUSIONS: Several predicted microbiota-derived MoAs are recognized by T cells in HS and CP. Reactivity against TAAs was observed also in HS, primed by the homologous bacterial antigens. CD8+ T cells cross-reacting with MAGE-A1 and paired microbiota epitopes were identified in three subjects. Therefore, the microbiota can elicit an extensive repertoire of natural memory T cells to TAAs, possibly able to control tumor growth (\natural anti-cancer vaccination\). In addition, non-self MoAs can be included in preventive/therapeutic off-the-shelf cancer vaccines with more potent anti-tumor efficacy than those based on TAAs.
39710929 | The Severity of COVID-19 in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Patient. As of early October 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic, caused by the novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, resulted in approximately 35 million cases and one million fatalities worldwide. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease marked by the generation of pathogenic autoantibodies and a lack of tolerance to nuclear self-antigens. Hypocomple-mentemia, or an abnormal blood complement deficit, is a reliable predictor of infection in SLE patients. Moreover, it has been found that immunoglobulin (Ig), particularly IgG and IgM, is lowered in SLE patients, which may be a factor in their heightened susceptibility to infection. Bloodstream autoantibodies, lymphopenia, aberrant T cells, proinflammatory cytokines, and impaired regulatory systems all lead to an immune response that is aberrant in lupus patients. SLE patients exhibit impaired CD8 T cell responses, including abnormal phagocytosis and chemotaxis. Recent study has shown that COVID-19 infections significantly boost type I inter-feron responses. Patients with SLE and Covid-19 infection typically get immune-suppressing drugs viz corticosteroids, Janus kinase inhibitors (JAK), and tocilizumab, which improve their immune systems and diminution susceptible to Covid-19 infections.
39731852 | Safety of baricitinib in vaccinated patients with severe and critical COVID-19 sub study of the randomised Bari-SolidAct trial. BACKGROUND: The Bari-SolidAct randomized controlled trial compared baricitinib with placebo in patients with severe COVID-19. A post hoc analysis revealed a higher incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs) among SARS-CoV-2-vaccinated participants who had received baricitinib. This sub-study aimed to investigate whether vaccination influences the safety profile of baricitinib in patients with severe COVID-19. METHODS: Biobanked samples from 146 participants (55 vaccinated vs. 91 unvaccinated) were analysed longitudinally for inflammation markers, humoral responses, tissue viral loads, and plasma viral antigens on days 1, 3, and 8. High-dimensional analyses, including RNA sequencing and flow cytometry, were performed on available samples. Mediation analyses were used to assess relationships between SAEs, baseline-adjusted biomarkers, and treatment-vaccination status. FINDINGS: Vaccinated participants were older, more frequently hospitalized, had more comorbidities, and exhibited higher nasopharyngeal viral loads. Baricitinib treatment did not affect antibody responses or viral clearance, but reduced markers of T-cell and monocyte activation compared to placebo (sCD25, sCD14, sCD163, sTIM-3). Age, baseline levels of plasma viral antigen, and several inflammatory markers, as well as IL-2, IL-6, Neopterin, CXCL16, sCD14, and suPAR on day 8 were associated with the occurrence of SAEs. However, mediation analyses of markers linked to SAEs, baricitinib treatment, or vaccination status did not reveal statistically significant interactions between vaccination status and SAEs. INTERPRETATION: This sub-study did not identify any virus- or host-related biomarkers significantly associated with the interaction between SARS-CoV-2 vaccination status and the safety of baricitinib. However, caution should be exercised due to the moderate sample size. FUNDING: EU Horizon 2020 (grant number 101015736).
39480504 | Tofacitinib alleviated salivary gland inflammation and reduced the percentages of effector T cells in murine Sjogren's disease. OBJECTIVES: The Janus kinases-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signalling pathway plays a crucial role in autoimmunity and the signalling pathways of many cytokines in Sjogren's disease (SjD). Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate both the therapeutic and immunomodulatory effects of the oral JAK3/JAK2/JAK1 inhibitor tofacitinib in a murine model of SjD. METHODS: Tofacitinib or vehicle was administered orally to the mice with SjD for 6 weeks. Salivary flow rate was measured every three weeks. Pathological changes of salivary gland were detected by haematoxylin-eosin staining, and the percentages of subsets of CD4+ T cells and B cells in the cervical lymph nodes (cLNs) and spleen was determined by flow cytometry. RESULTS: Tofacitinib significantly ameliorated submandibular gland inflammation compared to the control group, as evidenced by reduced lymphocytic infiltration. Salivary flow rates improved significantly in tofacitinib treated mice compared to controls, indicating restored salivary gland function. The treatment also led to a substantial decrease in follicular helper T (Tfh) cells and the Tfh/Treg ratio in both the spleen and cLNs. Additionally, the frequencies of T helper 1 (Th1) and T helper 17 (Th17) cells were reduced in the spleen and cLNs. CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicated that tofacitinib reduced percentages of effector T cells in an animal model of SjD. In addition, tofacitinib alleviated salivary gland inflammation and hypofunction, offering new insights into the clinical management of SjD.
42142526 | Systemic BCG administration induces transcription factor signature in CD4+ T cells that cooperates with IL-12 signaling to drive antiviral Th1 differentiation. Mycobacterium bovis bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) is a form of live attenuated M. bovis-based vaccine used to prevent tuberculosis and other mycobacterial infections. BCG immunization also provides cross-protection against a broad range of viral pathogens. Recent studies show that a coordinated induction of innate and adaptive immune responses is involved, though the mechanisms are less defined. To investigate the cross-protection of BCG against virus infection, we used a mouse model of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection and demonstrated that systemic administration of live BCG altered chromatin accessibility for transcriptional factor expression favoring Th1 response. Specifically, BCG-IV immunization protected mice against RSV infection. BCG immunization caused metabolic reprogramming in monocytes and neutrophils and innate immune response, leading to IL12/IL12R-mediated naive CD4+ T cell differentiation to the Th1 cell population. Integrated analysis of chromatin openness and transcriptomic data revealed that BCG administration upregulated transcription factors including interferon regulatory factors (IRF1) and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT1 and STAT2), a signature for interferon signaling and antiviral response. This work highlights a crucial role for the adaptive immune response in mediating naive CD4+ T cell differentiation and cross-protection through epigenetic remodeling for antiviral response against pathogens in an antigen-agnostic manner.
9321430 | Allelic variants of the human MHC class I chain-related B gene (MICB). The human major histocompatibility complex (MHC) is located within a 4 megabase segment on chromosome 6p21.3. Recently, a highly divergent MHC class I chain-related gene family, MIC was identified within the class I region. The MICA and MICB genes in this family have unique patterns of tissue expression. The MICA gene is highly polymorphic, with more than 20 alleles identified to date. To elucidate the extent of MICB allelic variations, we sequenced exons 2 (alpha 1), 3 (alpha 2), 4 (alpha 3), and 5 (transmembrane) as well as introns 2 and 4 of this gene in 46 HLA homozygous B-cell lines. We report the identification of eleven alleles based on seven non-synonymous, two synonymous, and four intronic nucleotide variations. Interestingly, one allele has a nonsense mutation resulting in a premature termination codon in the alpha 2 domain. Thus, MICB appears to have fewer alleles than MICA, not unlike the allelic ratio between the HLA-C and -B loci. A preliminary linkage analysis of the MICB alleles with those of the closely located MICA and HLA-B genes revealed no conspicuous linkage disequilibrium between them, implying the presence of a potential recombination hotspot between the MICB and MICA genes.
41393140 | Therapeutic potential of peptidomimetics of suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) proteins in rheumatic disorders. Dysregulation of the Janus Kinase (JAK)/Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription (STAT) pathway is increasingly recognized as a central molecular hallmark in the pathogenesis of multiple rheumatic diseases. Suppressors of cytokine signaling (SOCS) proteins function as critical intracellular inhibitors of JAK/STAT signaling through a classical negative feedback mechanism. In Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), aberrant upregulation of SOCS1 and SOCS3 has been documented in peripheral blood T lymphocytes, monocytes, and synovial tissues, with expression levels correlating with disease activity and progression. Notably, diminished basal expression of SOCS1 mRNA is associated with poor therapeutic response to methotrexate or rituximab, and specific SOCS1 polymorphisms have been genetically linked to RA susceptibility. In Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS), enhanced SOCS3 expression in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs), CD4+ T cells, and monocytes show positive correlation with systemic inflammatory markers such as Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR) and C-Reactive Protein (CRP), as well as with clinical indices of functional impairment. Conversely, SOCS1 expression is attenuated in T cells during phases of low-grade inflammation, suggesting context-dependent regulatory dynamics. In drug discovery for inflammatory diseases, recent advances have focused on the development of SOCS peptidomimetics, particularly those derived from the Kinase Inhibitory Region (KIR) of SOCS1, as novel immunomodulatory agents. These compounds have been shown to modulate hyperactive JAK/STAT signaling in autoimmune conditions. In this perspective article, we analyze current progress in the development and preclinical evaluation of mimetics of SOCS proteins and discuss their prospective role in the treatment paradigm for rheumatic disorders. Herein, we propose that peptidomimetics of SOCSs may represent a new frontier in the precise modulation of JAK/STAT signaling, offering a promising avenue toward personalized prevention and treatment of rheumatic pathologies.
42149143 | Phenotypic and Functional Characteristics of CD8+ T cells Predict Clinical Outcome Following TIL Therapy in a Randomized Phase III Trial in Advanced Melanoma. PURPOSE: Adoptive cell therapy with tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) is a highly personalized cancer immunotherapy. In the randomized Phase III clinical trial (TIL-NKI/CCIT), TIL therapy significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS) compared with ipilimumab in patients with unresectable stage IIIC and IV cutaneous melanoma. This study aimed to define phenotypic and functional characteristics of the infused TIL associated with the best overall response (BOR) and PFS. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Using flow cytometry, we profiled infusion products from all 80 patients treated with TIL in the TIL-NKI/CCIT trial and correlated the results with BOR and PFS. We established autologous tumor cell lines from 24 patients and assessed the anti-tumor reactivity of the infused CD4+ and CD8+ T cells through co-culture assays and intracellular cytokine staining. We quantified tumor-reactive TIL relative to baseline tumor volume and monitored their persistence in the peripheral blood for up to 24 months after infusion. RESULTS: Responding patients received a higher absolute number of CD8+TCRalphabeta+ T cells than non-responders (p=0.0290). The frequency of infusion product CD8+TCRalphabeta+ T cells was strongly associated with PFS at six months (p<0.0001). The number of tumor-reactive CD8+ T cells infused, normalized to baseline tumor burden, correlated with BOR (p=0.0352) and PFS at six months (p=0.0007), with sustained peripheral blood persistence of tumor-reactive CD4+ and CD8+ T cells predictive of durable clinical response. CONCLUSION: CD8+ T cell phenotype, tumor reactivity, and in vivo persistence emerged as strong predictors of clinical outcome. Our data identify CD8+ T cells as a key determinant of therapeutic efficacy.
39433797 | Disease progression associated cytokines in COVID-19 patients with deteriorating and recovering health conditions. Understanding the immune response to COVID-19 is challenging due to its high variability among individuals. To identify differentially expressed cytokines between the deteriorating and recovering phases, we analyzed the Electronic Health Records (EHR) and cytokine profile data in a COVID-19 cohort of 444 infected patients and 145 non-infected healthy individuals. We categorized each patient's progression into Deterioration Phase (DP) and Recovery Phase (RP) using longitudinal neutrophil, lymphocyte and lactate dehydrogenase levels. A random forest model was built using healthy and severe patients to compute the contribution of each cytokine toward disease progression using Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP). SHAP values were used for supervised clustering to identify DP and RP-related samples and their associated cytokines. The identified clusters effectively discriminated DP and RP samples, suggesting that the cytokine profiles differed between deteriorating and recovering health conditions. Especially, CXCL10, GDF15, PTX3, and TNFSF10 were differentially expressed between the DP and RP samples, which are involved in the JAK-STAT, NF- kappa B, and MAPK signaling pathways contributing to the inflammatory response. Collectively, we characterized the immune response in terms of disease progression of COVID-19 with deteriorating and recovering health conditions.
41647941 | Optimizing personalized screening intervals for clinical biomarkers using extended joint models. This research advances joint modeling and personalized scheduling for HIV and TB by incorporating censored longitudinal outcomes in multivariate joint models, providing a more flexible and accurate approach for complex data scenarios. Inspired by the SAPiT study, we deviate from standard model selection procedures by using super learning techniques to identify the optimal model for predicting future events in event-free subjects. Specifically, the Integrated Brier score and Expected Predictive Cross-Entropy (EPCE) identified the multivariate joint model with the parameterization of the area under the longitudinal profiles of CD4 count and viral load as optimal and strong predictors of death. Integrating this model with a risk-based screening strategy, we recommend extending intervals to 10.3 months for stable patients, with additional measurements every 12 months. For patients with deteriorating health, we suggest a 3.5-month interval, followed by 6.2 months, and then annual screenings. These findings refine patient care protocols and advance personalized medicine in HIV/TB co-infected individuals. Furthermore, our approach is adaptable, allowing adjustments based on patients' evolving health status. While focused on HIV/TB co-infection, this method has broader applicability, offering a promising avenue for biomarker studies across various disease populations and potential for future clinical trials and biomarker-guided therapies.
39765290 | Identification of a dual JAK3/TEC family kinase inhibitor for atopic dermatitis therapy. Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic inflammatory skin disorder characterized by recurrent eczematous lesions and severe itching, for which clinical treatments are limited. Selectively inhibiting Janus Kinase 3 (JAK3) and tyrosine kinase expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (TEC) family kinases is proposed as a promising strategy to treat AD with possible reduced side effects and enhanced efficacy. In this study, we developed a dual JAK3/TEC family kinase inhibitor ZZB, which demonstrated potent inhibitory activity with IC50 values of 0.89 nM against JAK3 and 11.56 nM against TEC kinase interleukin-2-inducible T-cell kinase (ITK). Docking studies revealed that ZZB forms a covalent bond with the unique cysteine residue at position 909 (Cys909) in JAK3 and Cys442 in ITK. Utilizing human peripheral blood mononuclear cells, we discovered ZZB selectively inhibits JAK3-dependent cytokines signaling and ITK-mediated CD4+ T cell activation. Moreover, in vitro studies indicated ZZB significantly suppresses the proliferation and differentiation of CD4+ T cells, as well as the cytolytic function of CD8+ T cells and NK cells. We then conducted a pharmacokinetic study in mice and observed a favorable pharmacokinetic profile for ZZB. In a mouse model of AD induced by repeated application of 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene to the shaved dorsal skin, oral administration of ZZB (100 mg/kg) markedly improved skin condition and reduced immune cell infiltration, matching the efficacy of the positive drug dexamethasone. We conclude that the JAK3/TEC kinase inhibitor ZZB is a highly promising candidate for the treatment of AD.
42105147 | Tofacitinib as a Successful Treatment for Hyper-IgE Syndrome and Autoimmunity Associated with Constitutive Activation of JAK3. The Janus Kinase 3 (JAK3) germline gain-of-function (GOF) mutation is a rare inborn error of immunity, first reported in 2020, characterized by lymphopenia and chronic NK-cell proliferation. However, its role in autoimmunity remains unclear, and no direct association with hyper-IgE syndrome (HIES) has been established. In this study, we describe a patient presenting with HIES, myositis, lymphopenia, and autoimmune hypothyroidism. Whole-exome sequencing identified a novel compound heterozygous JAK3 mutation (c.2524_2525delinsTT and c.2805G > C), predicted to be deleterious. Flow cytometry and RNA sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells revealed a significant reduction in T cells and NK cells, particularly naive CD4+ T cells, accompanied by a marked imbalance in T cell subsets. This led to constitutive activation of JAK1 and JAK3, along with increased STAT3 and STAT5 phosphorylation. Tofacitinib treatment significantly improved the patient's symptoms. Our findings expand the clinical spectrum of JAK3-associated immune dysregulation, linking it for the first time to HIES and multiple autoimmune manifestations. Furthermore, this study suggests that tofacitinib may be a potential therapeutic option for JAK3 signaling-associated immune dysregulation.
42028851 | PDLIM4 promotes dephosphorylation of STAT transcription factors by recruiting PTP-BL and inhibits Th1, Th2, and Th17 cell differentiation. STAT transcription factors are activated by tyrosine phosphorylation after cytokine stimulation and are critical for the differentiation of T-helper (Th) cells into particular Th lineage subsets. How STAT-mediated Th cell differentiation is negatively regulated, however, is not fully understood. Here, we report that PDLIM4 binds to STAT3, 4, and 6 and suppresses gene activation mediated by these STATs. PDLIM4 acts as an adaptor that recruits PTP-BL, a protein tyrosine phosphatase, through its LIM domain, facilitating dephosphorylation of STAT proteins. PDLIM4-deficiency in CD4+ T cells resulted in augmented tyrosine phosphorylation of these STAT proteins and consequently enhanced Th1, Th2 and Th17 cell differentiation, suggesting that PDLIM4 regulates the differentiation of multiple lineages of Th cells by suppressing STAT signaling. We further found that a non-synonymous single-nucleotide polymorphism (nsSNP) in PDLIM4, which causes the substitution of a glycine residue with a cysteine in the LIM domain, is associated with susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis and Graves' disease, both of which are known to be Th17 cell-driven autoimmune diseases. Notably, PDLIM4 containing this amino acid substitution in the LIM domain showed reduced binding to PTP-BL and was therefore partially impaired in its ability to dephosphorylate STAT3 and suppress STAT3 signaling. Our findings define an essential role of PDLIM4 in negatively regulating STAT-mediated T helper cell differentiation and preventing the onset of human autoimmune diseases.
39391317 | Exploring common pathogenic association between Epstein Barr virus infection and long-COVID by integrating RNA-Seq and molecular dynamics simulations. The term \Long-COVID\ (LC) is characterized by the aftereffects of COVID-19 infection. Various studies have suggested that Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) reactivation is among the significant reported causes of LC. However, there is a lack of in-depth research that could largely explore the pathogenic mechanism and pinpoint the key genes in the EBV and LC context. This study mainly aimed to predict the potential disease-associated common genes between EBV reactivation and LC condition using next-generation sequencing (NGS) data and reported naturally occurring biomolecules as inhibitors. We applied the bulk RNA-Seq from LC and EBV-infected peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), identified the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and the Protein-Protein interaction (PPI) network using the STRING database, identified hub genes using the cytoscape plugins CytoHubba and MCODE, and performed enrichment analysis using ClueGO. The interaction analysis of a hub gene was performed against naturally occurring bioflavonoid molecules using molecular docking and the molecular dynamics (MD) simulation method. Out of 357 common genes, 22 genes (CCL2, CCL20, CDCA2, CEP55, CHI3L1, CKAP2L, DEPDC1, DIAPH3, DLGAP5, E2F8, FGF1, NEK2, PBK, TOP2A, CCL3, CXCL8, DEPDC1, IL6, RETN, MMP2, LCN2, and OLR1) were classified as hub genes, and the remaining ones were classified as neighboring genes. Enrichment analysis showed the role of hub genes in various pathways such as immune-signaling pathways, including JAK-STAT signaling, interleukin signaling, protein kinase signaling, and toll-like receptor pathways associated with the symptoms reported in the LC condition. ZNF and MYBL TF-family were predicted as abundant TFs controlling hub genes' transcriptional machinery. Furthermore, OLR1 (PDB: 7XMP) showed stable interactions with the five shortlisted refined naturally occurring bioflavonoids, i.e., apigenin, amentoflavone, ilexgenin A, myricetin, and orientin compounds. The total binding energy pattern was observed, with amentoflavone being the top docked molecule (with a binding affinity of -8.3 kcal/mol) with the lowest total binding energy of -18.48 kcal/mol. In conclusion, our research has predicted the hub genes, their molecular pathways, and the potential inhibitors between EBV and LC potential pathogenic association. The in vivo or in vitro experimental methods could be utilized to functionally validate our findings, which would be helpful to cure LC or to prevent EBV reactivation.
41371249 | An Unusual Case of Primary Mucocutaneous Cytotoxic T-Cell Lymphoma With Epidermotropism and Phenotype Switch: Diagnostic and Molecular Insights. Primary cutaneous aggressive epidermotropic CD8+ cytotoxic T-cell lymphoma (PCAECTCL) is a rare, rapidly progressive cutaneous T-cell lymphoma that poses significant diagnostic challenges, particularly in mucocutaneous variants. We report a case in a 49-year-old man who presented with upper lip swelling initially misdiagnosed as angioedema and cheilitis granulomatosa. A lip biopsy revealed atypical CD4/CD8 double-negative T cells with marked epidermotropism, initially interpreted as pagetoid mycosis fungoides. Subsequent immunophenotyping demonstrated a cytotoxic profile (CD3+, CD2+, CD7+, CD5-, CD4-, CD8+, CD20+, perforin+, granzyme B+, TCRBF1+, CD56-, and TCRdelta-). Imaging later identified tongue involvement with a similar phenotype, though CD8 expression was weak and CD20 expression was absent. The disease progressed to lymph nodes, oropharynx, and stomach, with an eventual phenotypic switch to CD8+. Molecular testing confirmed similar clonal T-cell rearrangements across all sites. Sequencing identified JAK3 and TP53 mutations, while chromosomal microarray revealed recurrent losses (1p, 2q, 3p, 4p, 11q, 13q, and 17q) and gains (7q, 17p), without JAK2 fusion. Despite aggressive therapy, the patient died 21 months after diagnosis. This case delineates the importance of early biopsy, integration of molecular studies, and the urgent need for therapies to improve outcomes in this aggressive lymphoma.
41595740 | Der p1 Dendritic Cells Promote Regulatory B Cell Induced Immunotolerance Through IL-10/STAT3 in Allergic Rhinitis. Background/Objectives: Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a complex immune-mediated disorder characterized by defective regulatory mechanisms. Emerging evidence suggests that impaired immune tolerance mediated by regulatory B cell (Breg) plays a pivotal role in AR pathogenesis. This study investigates the therapeutic potential of Der p1 allergen-modified dendritic cells (DC) in enhancing Breg-mediated immunotherapy and explores novel mechanisms underlying AR immunomodulation. Methods: Breg and the inflammatory cytokines were detected before and after allergen immunotherapy (AIT) in AR patients. Dust mite gene-derived dendritic cells were used to induce Breg. AR mice were treated with Der p1-DCs, and changes in Breg and related inflammatory indicators, as well as the impact of the IL-10/STAT pathway on DC vaccine treatment, were observed. Results: Following 6-month AIT, AR patients exhibited significant alleviation of nasal symptoms alongside restored peripheral Breg and Treg. In vitro co-culture of Der p1-DC-induced Bregs with CD4+CD25-T cells revealed that IL-10 blockade markedly increased Th cell. In AR murine models, intraperitoneal Der p1-DC administration suppressed allergic symptoms, upregulated nasal mucosal IL-10 expression, and attenuated STAT3 phosphorylation via IL-10 overexpression. Conclusions: AIT establishes immune tolerance through Breg-mediated regulatory mechanisms, while Der p1-DCs potently induce Breg differentiation and drive tolerance induction via the IL-10/STAT3 signaling axis.
39763816 | PPARdelta restrains the suppression function of intra-tumoral Tregs by limiting CIITA-MHC II expression. Regulatory T cells (T reg cells) play a critical role in suppressing anti-tumor immunity, often resulting in unfavorable clinical outcomes across numerous cancers. However, systemic T reg depletion, while augmenting anti-tumor responses, also triggers detrimental autoimmune disorders. Thus, dissecting the mechanisms by which T reg cells navigate and exert their functions within the tumor microenvironment (TME) is pivotal for devising innovative T reg -centric cancer therapies. Our study highlights the role of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor beta/delta (PPARdelta), a nuclear hormone receptor involved in fatty acid metabolism. Remarkably, PPARdelta ablation in T reg escalated tumor growth and augmented the immunosuppressive characteristics of the TME. This absence of PPARdelta spurred an increased expression of genes central to antigen presentation, notably CIITA and MHC II. Our results showcase a novel association where the absence of CIITA in PPARdelta-deficient T reg bolsters anti-tumor responses, casting CIITA as a pivotal downstream regulator of PPARdelta within T reg . In vitro assays demonstrated that elevated CIITA levels enhance the suppressive capacity of T reg , facilitated by an antigen-independent interaction between T reg -MHC II and T conv -TCR/CD4/Lag3. A significant revelation was the role of type 1 interferon as a TME signal that promotes the genesis of MHC II + T reg ; PPARdelta deficiency intensifies this phenomenon by amplifying type 1 interferon signaling, mediated by a notable upsurge in JAK3 transcription and an increase of pSTAT1-Y701. In conclusion, the co-regulation between TME cues and PPARdelta signaling shapes the adaptive and suppressive roles of T reg cells through the CIITA-MHC II pathway. Strategically targeting the potent MHC II + T reg population could open a new avenue for cancer therapies by boosting anti-tumor defenses while curbing autoimmune threats. Highlights: PPARdelta T reg conditional knockout mice show accelerated tumor growth due to increased expression of CIITA-MHC II. Type I interferon signal regulates T reg CIITA-MHC II axis in vitro and in vivo . PPARdelta attenuates Type I interferon response and restrains CIITA-MHC II expression in T reg cells. T reg suppressive function is enhanced by T reg MHC II's direct interaction with TCR/CD4/Lag3 on T eff cells.
39085621 | Decoding the genetic landscape of juvenile dermatomyositis: insights from phosphorylation-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms. Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified genetic susceptibility loci associated with juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM). Single nucleotide polymorphisms related to phosphorylation (phosSNPs) are critical nonsynonymous mutations exerting substantial influence on gene expression regulation. The aim of this study was to identify JDM susceptibility genes in the GWAS loci by the use of phosSNPs. We explored quantitative trait loci (QTLs) among the phosSNPs associated with JDM using data from eQTL (bulk tissues and single-cell) and pQTL studies. For gene expression and protein levels significantly influenced by JDM-associated phosSNPs, we assessed their associations with JDM through MR analyses. Additionally, we conducted differential expression gene analyses, incorporating single-cell transcriptomic profiling of 6 JDM cases and 11 juvenile controls (99,396 cells). We identified 31 phosSNPs situated in the 6p21 locus that were associated with JDM. Half of these phosSNPs showed effects on gene expression in various cells and circulating protein levels. In MR analyses, we established associations between the expression levels of pivotal JDM-associated genes, including MICB, C4A, HLA-DRB1, HLA-DRB5, and PSMB9, in skin, muscle, or blood cells and circulating levels of C4A, with JDM. Utilizing single-cell eQTL data, we identified a total of 276 association signals across 14 distinct immune cell types for 28 phosSNPs. Further insights were gained through single-cell differential expression analysis, revealing differential expression of PSMB9, HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DPB1, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB1, and HLA-DRB1 in immune cells. The present study pinpointed phosSNPs within susceptibility genes for JDM and unraveled the intricate relationships among these SNPs, gene expression levels, and JDM.
42034607 | Stringent selection drives convergence toward omicron-like SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding motifs. In vitro protein evolution can provide powerful insights into the amino acid sequences that underlie key biological functions. Here, we use this to explore the evolutionary trajectories of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein receptor-binding motif (RBM) binding the human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), an essential first step in viral infection. Applying stringent selection pressures starting from the Wuhan or another non-Omicron variant protein-coding sequence results in rapid convergence towards Omicron characteristic mutations and its sub-lineages. Conversely, under mild selection, only some Omicron-like mutations are selected, however at lower frequencies and with incomplete representation. Stringent selection results in fewer, but dominant, non-synonymous mutations mirroring Omicron mutations and their variations within its sub-lineages. Notably, initiating evolution from Omicron itself results in maintenance of Omicron-defining mutations under both conditions. This evolutionary pattern parallels global SARS-CoV-2 mutation trends as well as in silico simulations, emphasizing the critical role of receptor-binding constraints in shaping viral adaptation. Mutations primarily associated with immune evasion are not selected by in vitro evolution. Our findings demonstrate the predictive capacity of in vitro evolution, suggesting Omicron RBM to be the humanized binding motif, emerging from high-stringency selection, superimposed on milder background pressures.
42148745 | Functional dynamics of water in New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase catalysis. Water plays a critical role in the hydrolysis of antibiotics by New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamases (NDMs). The reaction proceeds through a nucleophilic attack on the beta-lactam ring, followed by cleavage of the C-N bond and formation of an anionic nitrogen intermediate. This intermediate is then protonated by a water molecule diffusing from the bulk solvent. Although the catalytic mechanism of NDMs has been extensively studied, the molecular mechanism governing water entry into the active site during hydrolysis remains poorly understood. Here, we use molecular dynamics simulations to characterize the dynamics of catalytic water molecules during NDM-mediated hydrolysis. We examine the NDM-1, substrate-bound, intermediate, and product states of the NDM-1-cefiderocol system. In the enzyme-intermediate state, conformational rearrangements of loops L3 and L10, together with cefiderocol coordination to Zn2, expand the active site and increase the Zn1-Zn2 separation to ~4.5 A. These changes promote formation of a water channel toward Zn2, allowing water to enter the active site and protonate the anionic nitrogen, thereby completing hydrolysis. Concurrently, structural changes restrict the water-entry pathway associated with Zn1. These findings reveal how local protein dynamics and water influx couple to catalysis, providing mechanistic insights into NDM function and informing strategies to inhibit these enzymes.
42146538 | HIV-1 interactions with sialic acid-binding bacterial lectins promote virus infectivity in vitro and mucosal transmission in humanized mice. Most HIV-1 transmission occurs at mucosal surfaces, which are colonized by the host microbiota. However, interactions between HIV and bacteria or bacterial products derived from the human microbiome are poorly characterized, and their biological consequences are largely unexplored. Here, we evaluated the effects of sialic acid-binding lectins expressed by bacterial species ubiquitous in the human microbiota on HIV-1 infectivity using viruses produced in 293T cells and human primary cells. We demonstrated that these bacterial lectins enhanced HIV-1 infectivity in a sialoglycan-dependent manner. Specifically, Siglec-like binding region lectins (SLBR-N, SLBR-H, and SLBR-B) from Streptococcus gordonii and Staphylococcal superantigen-like lectins (SSL3, SSL4, and SSL11) from Staphylococcus aureus increased HIV-1 infectivity to varying extents, depending on lectin type and virus strain. Among these lectins, SLBR-N exhibited the greatest potency, corresponding with its superior ability to bind virions and promote virus-cell attachment. This enhancing activity was observed for direct infection of TZM-bl reporter cells and primary CD4+ T cells, as well as trans-infection in the presence or absence of the mannose-binding host lectin DC-SIGN. Importantly, these findings were corroborated in vivo using humanized mice, in which pre-exposure to SLBR-N promoted rectal HIV-1 transmission and increased viral burdens in plasma and splenic cells. Collectively, the data show sialoglycan-binding bacterial lectins as microbial factors that can enhance HIV-1 transmission at mucosal surfaces, highlighting a potential direct role for the microbiota in modulating HIV-1 acquisition risk. Author Summary: HIV is commonly transmitted from one person to another across mucosal surfaces, such as those lining the genital and rectal tracts, which are densely populated by bacteria that make up the human microbiota. Yet, surprisingly little is known about how these bacteria and the molecules they produce influence HIV infection. In this study, we investigated a group of bacterial proteins known as sialic acid-binding lectins that are expressed by common members of the human microbiome: Siglec-like binding region lectins from Streptococcus gordonii and superantigen-like lectins from Staphylococcus aureus . Using multiple HIV strains and several types of target cells, we demonstrate that lectin binding to HIV can increase virus attachment to target cells and thereby enhance infection, although the magnitude of this effect varies among lectins and virus strains. Lectin binding also facilitates HIV spread from cell to cell and promotes mucosal HIV infection in a humanized mouse model, resulting in a higher viral burden in the blood and tissues. These findings identify bacterial lectins as important factors that can influence HIV infection and implicate a potential role for the human microbiota in determining susceptibility to HIV infection.
42034636 | RAISE: A computational tool for evaluating sarbecovirus spillover potential. Animal sarbecoviruses, relatives of SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-2, pose a significant zoonotic threat driven by their ability to bind the human ACE2 (hACE2) receptor. To address challenges in evaluating these threats, we developed RAISE (Receptor binding domain-hACE2 Interaction Scoring Evaluation), a computational framework that integrates structural predictions with interaction scoring. By scoring predicted hACE2 interactions, our RAISE model categorized sarbecoviruses into three groups: high potential (hACE2-binding), negligible potential (hACE2-nonbinding), and an intermediate \poised\ state (a state defined by either weak binding activity or a high potential to evolve it). Mutation screening of two \hACE2-poised\ sarbecoviruses, PDF-2370 and Khosta-1 using RAISE, revealed mutations such as T498Y/W that enabled human ACE2 utilization and expanded their ability to bind to ACE2 receptors from a broader range of species. The model's generalizability was further demonstrated through prospective application to merbecoviruses, highlighting its utility in preemptively assessing zoonotic threats across coronavirus lineages. RAISE provides a predictive roadmap for prioritizing risk viruses and guiding pandemic preparedness.
39319193 | Cytokine Storm-Induced Thyroid Dysfunction in COVID-19: Insights into Pathogenesis and Therapeutic Approaches. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 receptors (ACE2R) are requisite to enter the host cells for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). ACE2R is constitutive and functions as a type I transmembrane metallo-carboxypeptidase in the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). On thyroid follicular cells, ACE2R allows SARS-CoV-2 to invade the thyroid gland, impose cytopathic effects and produce endocrine abnormalities, including stiff back, neck pain, muscle ache, lethargy, and enlarged, inflamed thyroid gland in COVID-19 patients. Further damage is perpetuated by the sudden bursts of pro-inflammatory cytokines, which is suggestive of a life-threatening syndrome known as a \cytokine storm\. IL-1beta, IL-6, IFN-gamma, and TNF-alpha are identified as the key orchestrators of the cytokine storm. These inflammatory mediators upregulate transcriptional turnover of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB), Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT), and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), paving the pathway for cytokine storm-induced thyroid dysfunctions including euthyroid sick syndrome, autoimmune thyroid diseases, and thyrotoxicosis in COVID-19 patients. Targeted therapies with corticosteroids (dexamethasone), JAK inhibitor (baricitinib), nucleotide analogue (remdesivir) and N-acetyl-cysteine have demonstrated effectiveness in terms of attenuating the severity and frequency of cytokine storm-induced thyroid dysfunctions, morbidity and mortality in severe COVID-19 patients. Here, we review the pathogenesis of cytokine storms and the mechanisms and pathways that establish the connection between thyroid disorder and COVID-19. Moreover, cross-talk interactions of signalling pathways and therapeutic strategies to address COVID-19-associated thyroid diseases are also discussed herein.
39884914 | The immunopathogenesis of a cytokine storm: The key mechanisms underlying severe COVID-19. A cytokine storm is marked by excessive pro-inflammatory cytokine release, and has emerged as a key factor in severe COVID-19 cases - making it a critical therapeutic target. However, its pathophysiology was poorly understood, which hindered effective treatment. SARS-CoV-2 initially disrupts angiotensin signalling, promoting inflammation through ACE-2 downregulation. Some patients' immune systems then fail to shift from innate to adaptive immunity, suppressing interferon responses and leading to excessive pyroptosis and neutrophil activation. This amplifies tissue damage and inflammation, creating a pro-inflammatory loop. The result is the disruption of Th1/Th2 and Th17/Treg balances, lymphocyte exhaustion, and extensive blood clotting. Cytokine storm treatments include glucocorticoids to suppress the immune system, monoclonal antibodies to neutralize specific cytokines, and JAK inhibitors to block cytokine receptor signalling. However, the most effective treatment options for mitigating SARS-CoV-2 infection remain vaccines as a preventive measure and antiviral drugs for the early stages of infection. This article synthesizes insights into immune dysregulation in COVID-19, offering a framework to better understand cytokine storms and to improve monitoring, biomarker discovery, and treatment strategies for COVID-19 and other conditions involving cytokine storms.
42095196 | Development and structure-guided characterization of a novel ACE2-binding macrocyclic peptide. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is a key node in the protective axis of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) for blood pressure and hydroelectrolyte regulation and the receptor recognized by the spike glycoproteins of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronaviruses (CoV) SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2. We identified the macrocyclic peptide WJL-63 by mRNA display and characterized it biochemically and with respect to ACE2-binding. The crystal structure of the extracellular region of ACE2 in complex with the peptide at 2.2 A resolution was elucidated. The structure revealed a binding mode in which WJL-63 is accommodated towards one side of the catalytic cleft of the peptidase domain, without contacting the conserved zinc ion site. WJL-63 residues Q4, R7, R11, and R14 anchor the peptide in the binding pocket. The peptide contacts both peptidase subdomains. The upright binding mode requires an open ACE2 conformation, in contrast to small-molecule carboxypeptidase inhibitors, which typically bind to the closed conformation. One side of WJL-63 is accessible for modification such as the herein reported conjugation of a chelator for radiometal labeling. The radiolabeled DOTA-WJL-63 was evaluated on ACE2-transfected HEK cells, where it exhibited binding with a KD value of 90 +- 28 nM. The ACE2 - WJL-63 complex structure provides a basis for the development of compounds that modulate ACE2 conformation and for the development of imaging agents for visualization of ACE2, including fluorescence or electron microscopy and positron emission tomography (PET).
40739030 | A multi-omics approach reveals dysregulated TNF-related signaling pathways in circulating NK and T cell subsets of young children with autism. Peripheral immune dysregulation is frequently reported in autism spectrum disorder (ASD); however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. We recruited a well-defined cohort of young Arab children with ASD, aged 2-4 years, along with matched controls in Qatar. Using a multimodal approach, we integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and single-cell RNA-seq data analyses from this cohort. Targeted transcriptomic profiling identified differential expression of 50 immune-related genes in the circulating PBMCs of children with ASD, three of which (JAK3, CUL2, and CARD11) negatively correlated with ASD symptom severity. These gene signatures were validated in independent studies using blood and brain tissues from individuals with ASD. Enrichment analysis revealed involvement of these genes in immune function, particularly through TNF signaling pathway. Proteomic analysis highlighted disrupted TNF signaling and upregulated levels of TNFSF10 (TRAIL), TNFSF11 (RANKL), and TNFSF12 (TWEAK) in plasma of individuals with ASD. Single-cell RNA-seq revealed that B cells, CD4 T cells, and NK cells potentially contributed to these upregulations in ASD. Dysregulated TRAIL, RANKL, and TWEAK signaling pathways were specifically observed in CD8 T cells, CD4 T cells, and NK cells of individuals with ASD. These findings provide new insights into immune dysregulation mechanisms in ASD and highlight potential therapeutic targets.
42065320 | Non-Engineered Physiologically Modulated Nanovesicles Augment Antitumor Immune Responses via Dual-Pathway T Cell Activation. The therapeutic efficacy of cancer vaccines is critically contingent upon CD8+ T cell-mediated antitumor immunity, but the effectiveness is hindered due to insufficient T cell activation. Inspired by the close interplay between cellular physiological states and immunoregulatory functions, we propose ASCENT, a nanovaccine platform integrating nanovesicles derived from activated platelets and senescent tumor cells to naturally co-present antigens and co-stimulatory molecules, thereby enabling dual-pathway T cell activation. Specifically, senescent tumor cells promote antigen presentation via upregulated major histocompatibility complex-I (MHC-I) molecules, whereas activated platelets increase the surface expression of CD40L and OX40L, thereby enhancing immune activation. Thus, without genetic or chemical engineering, ASCENT can effectively stimulate CD8+ T cells through both antigen self-presentation and dendritic cell-mediated antigen presentation, ultimately eliciting robust immune responses. This non-engineered, physiologically modulated nanovaccine exhibits broad-spectrum antitumor activity while simultaneously inducing durable systemic immune memory to effectively suppress tumor recurrence and metastasis. Overall, the ASCENT nanovaccine provides new perspectives on rational vaccine design, emphasizing the importance of engaging both direct and indirect T cell activation in reinforcing cancer immunotherapy.
42146104 | Multiparameter antigen-specific immunoprofiling in subjects with negative IGRA and TST results with potential M. tuberculosis exposures. Introduction: Asymptomatic individuals with negative Interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA) and tuberculin skin test (TST) results are often labeled as tuberculosis-unexposed individuals. We hypothesize that flow cytometric (FC) detection of antigen-stimulated T-cells in peripheral blood can differentiate IGRA(-)/TST(-) individuals with and without prior potential M. tuberculosis (Mtb) exposure. Methods: We used FC multiparameter profiling of T-cell activation markers in TST/IGRA-negative individuals at risk for Mtb exposure and in unexposed controls. Results: We studied 54 IGRA(-)/TST(-) subjects, including 27 individuals at risk for prior Mtb exposure. While quantitative IGRA results were negative in all patients, FC profiling of CD3/CD4+IFN-gamma+HLA-DR+ T-cells after stimulation with a pool of Mtb-specific region of difference-1 (RD1) peptides, mycobacterial (PPD and MTB300), or Candida antigens, statistically differentiated between unexposed and potentially exposed individuals (P<0.05). ROC analysis showed PPD and RD1 peptides responses had AUCs >0.7 (sensitivity of 55.5-74% and specificity of 66.6-85.1%). The presence of a polyfunctional RD1-reactive CD3/CD8+IFN-gamma+TNF-alpha+ T-cell subset also significantly differentiated these groups (AUC 0.66). Other T-cell markers demonstrated no significant differences. Conclusions: FC detection of antigen-specific IFN-gamma+HLA-DR+ CD4+T-cells and IFN-gamma+TNF-alpha+ CD8+ T-cells can differentiate IGRA(-)/TST(-) individuals at risk of Mtb exposure from unexposed controls. Further validation is needed to determine whether this immunoprofiling approach can improve detection of Mtb infections and identification of unexposed individuals for future biomarker studies and vaccine trails.
42147443 | A single-cell multi-omics assay for simultaneous measurement of vector copy number and protein expression in CAR T cells. Chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR T) immunotherapies have transformed cancer treatment. These therapies typically involve lentiviral vector-mediated CAR gene integration, followed by reinfusion into patients, necessitating rigorous quality control. Critical parameters, including transduction efficiency and vector copy number (VCN), must be accurately quantified. However, conventional gene transfer assays lack the resolution to capture cellular heterogeneity, relying on bulk population averages or labor-intensive clonal outgrowth methods. In order to address these limitations, we have developed an end-to-end solution from panel design to data analysis pipeline for targeted single-cell interrogation of transgene copy number. We applied this single-cell protein + DNA multi-omics VCN workflow to analyze a bi-cistronic CD19xCD22 CAR T product. Our VCN analysis exhibited high sensitivity, specificity, and average VCN linearity, as validated by an orthogonal method. Additionally, it uniquely revealed the unprecedented single-cell resolution of the VCN distribution profile. Furthermore, we quantitatively measured surface protein expression for lineage assignment, which revealed differential transduction percentages and VCN distribution patterns across cell lineages (e.g., CD4+ and CD8+ T cells), providing insights into factors potentially influencing treatment outcomes. This single-cell genomic/proteomic workflow could be a powerful research tool with potential clinical applications to enhance our ability to deliver optimal CAR T products to patients.
42146590 | CD1a-Mediated Presentation of Canonical Microbial Peptides to T Cells. Langerhans cells express the nonpolymorphic antigen-presenting molecule CD1a, positioning them as contributors to host immunity against Mycobacterium leprae in human leprosy. CD1a was originally shown to present non-canonical lipopeptide antigens such as dideoxymycobactin and chemically diverse hydrophobic ligands. Here, we generated CD4+ T cell lines from leprosy lesions that recognized M. leprae in a CD1a-restricted manner. Unexpectedly, antigen recognition was protease-sensitive, prompting biochemical purification that identified two microbial protein antigens: LppX, a 25-kDa lipoglycoprotein, and Ag85A, a 30-kDa secreted protein with no known lipid modification. Recombinant proteins activated the corresponding T cell lines in a CD1a-dependent manner. Epitope mapping identified 12-mer peptides that fully reconstituted antigenicity, were conserved between M. leprae and M. tuberculosis , and elicited robust, dose-dependent IFN-gamma production and T cell proliferation, establishing that DNA-encoded, ribosomally translated peptides serve as CD1a-restricted cognate antigens. Biochemical analyses showed peptide binding to CD1a, supported by isoelectric focusing and surface plasmon resonance ( K D ~75 muM for Ag85A). CD1a-peptide tetramers specifically stained cognate T cells, soluble CD1a was sufficient to present peptide antigen, and transfer of the LppX-specific TCR into naive T cells restored antigen responsiveness. Using CD1a-peptide tetramers, we identified antigen-specific T cells enriched in patients undergoing reversal reactions compared with patients with lepromatous leprosy and healthy donors. The CD1a-restricted T cell lines secreted IFN-gamma and IL-26, cytokines with established antimicrobial activity. Together, these findings demonstrate that CD1a can present canonical microbial peptides as part of a cell-mediated immune response in leprosy, extending the known spectrum of CD1a ligands. Because CD1a is nonpolymorphic and presents antigens to antimicrobial T cells, CD1a-peptide complexes may provide a broadly applicable platform for studying, detecting, and potentially targeting mycobacterial immunity.
42038386 | Case Report: durable response to pulsed electric field ablation in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors in HER2-low breast cancer through activation of interferon signaling. Pulsed Electric Field (PEF) ablation is a non-thermal cancer treatment that disrupts tumor cell membranes while preserving the immune microenvironment and promoting immunogenic cell death. We present a case of a patient with metastatic hormone receptor-positive, HER2-low breast cancer who achieved a durable clinical response after PEF in combination with an immune checkpoint inhibitor (pembrolizumab). The patient remained off systemic therapy for 14 months without disease progression. Single-cell spatial molecular imaging (SMI) and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) were performed to evaluate immune microenvironment changes pre- and post-PEF treatment. Spatial transcriptomics of the tumor cell compartment revealed a post-PEF enrichment of immune-related pathways, including interferon alpha/beta and gamma signaling and MHC class I antigen processing and presentation, alongside increased infiltration of immune cells: CD8+ T cells, plasmablasts, and monocytes within the tumor neighborhood. This hypothesis-generating case suggests PEF's potential to reshape the tumor-immune microenvironment when combined with immune checkpoint blockade, warranting further studies on its role in combination immunotherapy strategies.
32265901 | EuroFlow Standardized Approach to Diagnostic Immunopheneotyping of Severe PID in Newborns and Young Children. The EuroFlow PID consortium developed a set of flow cytometry tests for evaluation of patients with suspicion of primary immunodeficiency (PID). In this technical report we evaluate the performance of the SCID-RTE tube that explores the presence of recent thymic emigrants (RTE) together with T-cell activation status and maturation stages and discuss its applicability in the context of the broader EuroFlow PID flow cytometry testing algorithm for diagnostic orientation of PID of the lymphoid system. We have analyzed peripheral blood cells of 26 patients diagnosed between birth and 2 years of age with a genetically defined primary immunodeficiency disorder: 15 severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) patients had disease-causing mutations in RAG1 or RAG2 (n = 4, two of them presented with Omenn syndrome), IL2RG (n = 4, one of them with confirmed maternal engraftment), NHEJ1 (n = 1), CD3E (n = 1), ADA (n = 1), JAK3 (n = 3, two of them with maternal engraftment) and DCLRE1C (n = 1) and 11 other PID patients had diverse molecular defects [ZAP70 (n = 1), WAS (n = 2), PNP (n = 1), FOXP3 (n = 1), del22q11.2 (DiGeorge n = 4), CDC42 (n = 1) and FAS (n = 1)]. In addition, 44 healthy controls in the same age group were analyzed using the SCID-RTE tube in four EuroFlow laboratories using a standardized 8-color approach. RTE were defined as CD62L+CD45RO-HLA-DR-CD31+ and the activation status was assessed by the expression of HLA-DR+. Naive CD8+ T-lymphocytes and naive CD4+ T-lymphocytes were defined as CD62L+CD45RO-HLA-DR-. With the SCID-RTE tube, we identified patients with PID by low levels or absence of RTE in comparison to controls as well as low levels of naive CD4+ and naive CD8+ lymphocytes. These parameters yielded 100% sensitivity for SCID. All SCID patients had absence of RTE, including the patients with confirmed maternal engraftment or oligoclonally expanded T-cells characteristic for Omenn syndrome. Another dominant finding was the increased numbers of activated CD4+HLA-DR+ and CD8+HLA-DR+ lymphocytes. Therefore, the EuroFlow SCID-RTE tube together with the previously published PIDOT tube form a sensitive and complete cytometric diagnostic test suitable for patients suspected of severe PID (SCID or CID) as well as for children identified via newborn screening programs for SCID with low or absent T-cell receptor excision circles (TRECs).
42145973 | CDCA7 Promotes Neuroblastoma Proliferation via Regulating the Cell Cycle. Background: Cell division cycle-associated 7 (CDCA7) is overexpressed in several malignant cancers and promotes tumorigenesis. However, the clinical and biological functions of CDCA7 in neuroblastoma (NB) are unclear. Objectives: This study aimed to investigate the expression pattern, clinical significance, and biological functions of CDCA7 in neuroblastoma, and to elucidate its potential molecular mechanisms in regulating cell proliferation and cell cycle progression. Materials and Methods: The NB database was used to evaluate the predictive significance of CDCA7 and its correlation with clinical features of NB. The prognostic significance of mRNA expression of CDCA7 in lung cancer was evaluated using Kaplan-Meier Analysis. Stable knockdown of CDCA7 was achieved using shRNA and cell proliferation was evaluated using the CCK8 assay. Flow cytometry was used to analyze the cell cycle distribution. The effects of CDCA7 interference on cell cycle-related proteins in NB cells were measured by fluorescence quantitative PCR and Western blotting. Additionally, the role of CDCA7 in human immunity was examined. Results: In this study, we screened NB datasets and found that CDCA7 was highly expressed in NB tissues and cell lines compared with normal tissues and cell lines. CDCA7 expression was notably higher in MYCN-amplified NB tissues than that in their non-MYCN-amplified counterparts. Furthermore, increased CDCA7 expression was significantly associated with advanced tumor stages. Additionally, high CDCA7 expression may predict poor overall survival (OS) and event-free survival (EFS) in patients with NB. Moreover, Silencing CDCA7 effectively reduced cell proliferation, increased the proportion of cells in G1 phase, and lowered cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6) expression. CDCA7 is closely associated with immune cell infiltration by B cells, CD4+ T cells, and macrophages. Conclusion: CDCA7 may serve as a prognostic marker for neuroblastoma. Its silencing leads to G1 cell cycle arrest and a reduction in CDK6 expression, ultimately inhibiting NB cell proliferation.
42094059 | Dual-stress-responsive-pathways prevent HCC initiation via p53 suppression of MTHFD1L-RNA m6A-elicited autonomous growth and immune evasion. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) originates from damaged hepatocytes in chronic liver injury. Though HCC development requires oncoproteins-mediated p53 inhibition, both genetic deletion and continous activation of p53 specifically in mouse hepatocytes are shown to promote liver tumorigenesis, suggesting that chronic liver injury firstly activates p53, and p53 activity needs to be dynamically regulated for preventing hepatocarcinogenesis. Yet, it remains unaddressed how liver injury stresses trigger signaling pathways to rapidly activate p53 prior to its inactivation in a physiological setting. Two pathways, ribosomal proteins (RPs)-MDM2 and 14-3-3-MDMX, are shown to activate p53 upon stresses, and mutations of MDM2 or MDMX that may disrupt these pathways have been found in human cancers including HCC. Using our unique double knock-in (DKI) mice that contain wild-type p53 while harbor defects in these two pathways, we unveiled that basal level of p53 in DKI mice is sufficient for maintaining liver function, however, carcinogen- or unhealthy diet-induced HCC initiation is accelerated in DKI mice. The two p53-pathways are also activated in human cirrhotic livers. We futher identified a one-carbon metabolism (1CM) enzyme methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase 1 like (MTHFD1L) as the p53-suppressed player in HCC initiation. We found that MTHFD1L is upregulated in human early HCC and correlated with p53 status, and promotes mouse HCC initiation by enhancing autonomous growth and immune evasion of HCC initiating cells (HCICs). With Nanopore RNA-m 6 A-sequencing, we unveiled that MTHFD1L fulfills these bi-functions by fueling methionine cycle that produces methyl groups to maintain the mRNA m 6 A of Snail (an HCC early tumorigenesis driver) and B2m (a light chain of MHC-I required for antigen presentation to CD8+ T) in HCICs. Our findings demonstrate that the two stress-triggered p53-pathways are crucial for preventing liver early tumorigenesis by reversing MTHFD1L upregulation-associated 1CM reprogramming and subsequent Snail and B2m mRNA-m 6 A-mediated cell autonomous growth and immune evasion.
42042830 | Autoimmune Features of Post-COVID-19 Vaccination Syndrome and Their Impacts on the Renin-Angiotensin System. One of the most critical aspects of post-acute COVID-19 syndrome (PACS) and post-acute COVID-19 vaccination syndrome (PACVS) is the presence of autoantibodies. These autoantibodies are directed against various receptors in the autonomic and cardiovascular systems, including those targeting proteins of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS). The RAS plays a central role in regulating vascular homeostasis, inflammation, and endothelial function. During SARS-CoV-2 infection, the interaction of the spike (S) protein with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) can alter the balance of the RAS, favoring an imbalance towards the ACE/Angiotensin II/AT1R axis, known for its pro-inflammatory, pro-thrombotic, and vasoconstrictive properties. Similar pathological mechanisms also come into play in response to vaccinations that use the S protein as an antigen. Studies conducted by other groups and us on patients with PACS and PACVS have revealed the presence of autoantibodies directed against these RAS components and the mechanisms by which these antibodies can worsen the clinical situation. In particular, anti-ACE2, presumably formed by the anti-idiotype network or molecular mimicry, is correlated with PACVS symptoms in many patients. Furthermore, the presence of anti-MAS1 antibodies can reduce the efficiency of the ACE2/Angiotensin-(1-7)/MAS1 axis, which normally acts as a counter-regulator. Considering this evidence, an analysis of RAS molecules and the autoantibodies implicated in reactions to them may be useful for evaluating a state of persistent dysregulation associated with post-vaccination symptoms such as asthenia, headache, skin edema and bruising, cardiovascular alterations, and neurovegetative manifestations. Finally, we offer insights into diagnosing these multifaceted syndromes and working hypotheses to guide research into possible therapeutic approaches.
42085538 | Protein phosphatase 2A regulates senescence and immunogenicity in medulloblastoma models. Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common malignant pediatric brain tumor. Current therapies are associated with substantial morbidity, and prognosis remains poor in high-risk subgroups, particularly those with TP53 mutations or relapsed disease. Cellular senescence is a tumor-suppressive program implicated in MB, but its role in anti-tumor immunity remains incompletely understood. We found that protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) regulated immunogenic senescence in MB. Genetic ablation of the PP2A catalytic subunit, PP2Ac, or depletion of the regulatory subunit PP2A-B56alpha induced senescence in MB models. PP2Ac-deficient senescent cells exhibited increased MHC-I expression and enhanced immunogenicity. In syngeneic orthotopic models, PP2Ac loss prolonged survival in an immune- and CD8+ T cell-dependent manner. Analysis of patient datasets showed that senescence-associated gene signatures correlated with improved survival. Single-cell transcriptomic analysis further revealed that senescent MB cells were heterogeneous and that reduced PP2A activity was associated with an immunogenic senescence state. Because the PP2A inhibitor LB-100 has limited potency and off-target effects, we developed a lipid nanoparticle platform to deliver siRNA targeting PPP2CA. LNP-siPP2Ac efficiently silenced PP2Ac in vitro and, when delivered locally in vivo, prolonged survival in a CD8+ T cell-dependent manner. Together, these findings identify PP2A as a regulator of immunogenic senescence in MB and support PP2Ac targeting as a therapeutic strategy.
42143353 | A multi-omics dissection of INHBA+ CAF-mediated epithelial-mesenchymal transition and immune suppression in colorectal cancer. BACKGROUND: The progression of colorectal cancer (CRC) is profoundly influenced by the tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the spatial functional specialization of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in driving malignancy and immune evasion remains poorly defined. This study aims to delineate the spatial and functional heterogeneity of specific CAF subpopulations in CRC. METHODS: We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on CRC tissues and integrated public datasets to map the stromal landscape. Key cellular interactions inferred from scRNA-seq were validated using high-resolution Xenium in situ transcriptomics and further corroborated by public spatial transcriptomics (ST) data and immunohistochemistry (IHC). RESULTS: ScRNA-seq identified two distinct, tumor-enriched CAF subpopulations: INHBA+ SULF1+ CAFs, associated with an epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) signature, and INHBA+ BNIP3+ CAFs, which exhibited an immunoregulatory phenotype. Xenium spatial mapping localized these transcriptional identities to spatially segregated populations of INHBA+ myofibroblastic CAFs (myCAFs) and INHBA+ inflammatory CAFs (iCAFs), respectively. Both subsets localized to 'Invasive Tumor-Enriched Regions' alongside EMT+ malignant epithelial cells. Spatial analysis further revealed that INHBA+ myCAFs frequently clustered adjacent to SPP1+ macrophages, whereas INHBA+ iCAFs resided within specialized immunosuppressive niches. Orthogonal validation using ST and IHC confirmed that INHBA+ SULF1+ CAFs directly colocalized with the Malignant C2 (characterized by an EMT signature), while INHBA+ BNIP3+ CAFs were closely associated with CD4+ regulatory T cells (Tregs). These findings suggest that two spatially and functionally distinct INHBA+ CAF lineages coexist: one orchestrating EMT-driven invasion and the other fostering local immunosuppression via Treg recruitment. CONCLUSION: Our study reveals a spatial division of labor among CAFs in CRC. The conserved expression of INHBA across both pro-tumorigenic lineages positions it as a central stromal regulator and a promising therapeutic target for simultaneously disrupting tumor invasion and immune evasion. These findings highlight the potential of stroma-targeted strategies in advancing CRC treatment.
42142877 | Safety of short-course weekly rifapentine and isoniazid (3HP) for TB preventive treatment at conception and during first trimester in women living with HIV: a secondary analysis of WHIP3TB trial. BACKGROUND: The safety of a 3-month weekly rifapentine-isoniazid (3HP) for tuberculosis prevention in HIV-positive pregnant women on antiretroviral treatment (ART) is unknown. As part of the WHIP3TB trial, 3HP administered once or annually for two years was compared to six months of isoniazid (6H). We report outcomes among women who became pregnant, with drug exposure in early pregnancy. METHODS: Women were classified as exposed if conception occurred while taking study drug, and unexposed if conception occurred after the last dose. Outcomes included live birth, stillbirth or abortion. A composite adverse pregnancy outcome was defined as any of the following: stillbirth, spontaneous abortion, low birth weight (<2500g), preterm delivery (<37 weeks gestation), or major congenital anomalies. Outcomes were compared between exposed and unexposed groups. RESULTS: Among 2207 women aged 15-49 years enrolled between November 2016-November 2017, 236 pregnancies occurred in 222 participants. Fifty-seven (24%) were exposed to study drug (51 in 3HP arm, 6 in 6H arm) and 179 were unexposed. Median age was 32 years, median ART duration 2.9 years (interquartile range [IQR]; 1.2-4.9 years) and median CD4 count 522 cells/L; [IQR, 345-684). Of 219 pregnancies with known outcomes, 162(74%) were live births, 51(23%) abortions and 6(3%) stillbirths. Spontaneous abortions occurred at similar frequencies among exposed (12% [7/57]) and unexposed (14% [22/162]) groups with comparable rates of composite adverse outcomes (33% [19/57] vs 35% [56/162]). CONCLUSIONS: Spontaneous abortion and composite adverse pregnancy outcomes, following first-trimester exposure to 3HP were comparable between exposed and unexposed groups, supporting the safety of 3HP in pregnancy.
11175747 | RANTES promotes growth and survival of human first-trimester forebrain astrocytes. We have examined the role of alpha and beta chemokines in the promotion of the ontogenetic development of the brain. RANTES was expressed preferentially in human fetal astrocytes in an age-dependent manner. Astrocytes from 5-week-old brains showed high proliferation and reduced survival, whereas 10-week-old astrocytes exhibited opposite effects. These effects were suppressed by anti-RANTES or anti-RANTES receptor antibodies and were enhanced by recombinant RANTES. RANTES induced tyrosine phosphorylation of several cellular proteins and nuclear translocation of STAT-1 in astrocytes. Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) was required for RANTES effects because RANTES induced IFN-gamma and only 10-week-old astrocytes expressed the IFN-gamma receptor. Blocking of IFN-gamma with antibody reversed the effects of RANTES, indicating that cytokine/chemokine networks are critically involved in brain development.
10942783 | Effects of treatment or/and vaccination on HIV transmission in homosexuals with genetic heterogeneity. Several mutant genes in HIV co-receptors (e.g., CCR5, CCR2 and CXCR4) have been correlated with susceptibility to HIV or/and rate of progression to AIDS. Some of these genes have high allele frequencies in general populations. Their effects on the HIV/AIDS dynamics may be significant. To study such genetic heterogeneity, Hsu Schmitz [S.-F. Hsu Schmitz, A mathematical model of HIV transmission in homosexuals with genetic heterogeneity, J. Theoret. Med. (to appear)] proposed a one-sex model with susceptibles classified by genotype as having no, partial or full natural resistance to HIV infection and infecteds classified as rapid, normal or slow progressors. The example of CCR5-Delta32 mutation in San Francisco gay men indicated that the normal progressors are most responsible for disease spread. The per-partnership transmission rates of rapid and slow progressors are identified as key parameters. The present manuscript extends the previous one by considering the intervention of treatment or/and vaccination. Detailed investigations are illustrated by using the same example of CCR5-Delta32 mutation in San Francisco gay men. Treating only newly infected individuals or vaccinating only newly recruited susceptibles is not effective enough for disease control. When both measures are applied, the epidemic may be eradicated if the transmission rate of slow progressors is not too large, and treatments and vaccines in use are of decent quality.
42079262 | Long-range allosteric communication, double mutant cycles, and energetic coupling in SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. SARS-CoV-2 spike protein is continuously evolving, leading to new variants. While mutations in the receptor-binding domain (RBD) enhance binding to the ACE2 receptor and evade neutralizing antibodies, the function of mutations in the N-terminal domain (NTD) remains poorly understood. Using two independent methods, surface plasmon resonance (SPR) and cryo-EM, we show that NTD mutations increase the population of spike protein with the RBD in the \up\ conformational state. SPR association and dissociation kinetics of spike binding to ACE2 and antibodies, analyzed using a coupled equilibrium model, determined the relative populations and indicated that the RBD-up-to-down transition is rate-limiting relative to the RBD-down-to-up transition. Advanced model fitting of cryo-EM Coulomb potential maps confirmed the populations. The combined effect of NTD and RBD mutations exceeds the sum of their individual effects, indicating long-range allosteric communication and energetic coupling within the spike protein.
39743087 | Interaction between interleukin-12 (IL-12) and its receptor (IL-12Rbeta2) mediates CD4+ T cell subsets activation in flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus). Interleukin-12 (IL-12) regulates the differentiation of CD4+ T lymphocytes into Th1 cells by binding to its receptor, thereby promoting cellular immunity. This study characterized IL-12 and its receptor beta2 (IL-12Rbeta2) in flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus) and investigated their interaction, effects on T cell proliferation and differentiation, and the adjuvant effects of IL-12. The recombinant IL-12 was successfully expressed, and the IL-12Rbeta2 antibody was confirmed to specifically recognize IL-12Rbeta2. IL-12 bound to IL-12Rbeta2 at the cellular level. IL-12 stimulation increased leukocyte proliferation and the proportion of CD4+/IL-12Rbeta2+ cells. Moreover, blocking IL-12Rbeta2 with antibody reduced Th1 markers (STAT4, T-bet, IFN-gamma) and increased Th2 markers (JAK3, STAT6, GATA3). Immunization with rOmpV+IL-12 significantly upregulated CD4+/IFN-gamma+ cells on day seven, peaked the sIgM+ B lymphocyte response in the fourth week, and enhanced survival after Edwardsiella tarda challenge. In conclusion, IL-12 signaling effectively facilitates the differentiation of Th1 cells and negatively impacts the function of Th2 cells in flounder. This study provides new insights into the immune regulation of CD4+ T cells in teleosts and lays the foundation for understanding the cellular immune mechanisms of vaccines in aquaculture.
42128157 | Increased circulating ACE2 and GAS6 are independent predictors of COVID-19 severity. OBJECTIVES: ACE2 and AXL are the main cell entry receptors for SARS-COV-2. Both receptors can be cleaved by the action of specific metalloproteases. Our study aims to evaluate the association between circulating ACE2, AXL and its ligand GAS6 with COVID-19 severity at first attendance to the emergency room. METHODS: We collected serum samples from two large cohorts of patients (study n=1,652, and external validation, n=468) who were diagnosed of COVID-19 during 2020-2021. Data from all included patients were used to classify the patients' COVID-19 disease severity, defined as death or admission to intensive care unit. We measured ACE2 activity by an enzymatic assay and levels of sAXL and GAS6 by ELISA and we built a multivariate Cox model to predict COVID-19 severity. RESULTS: Circulating ACE2 activity and GAS6 levels were significantly increased in severe COVID-19. Moreover, both biomarkers were independently associated with COVID-19 severity in a multivariate Cox proportional hazards model. Our model showed high capacity to predict COVID-19 severity (best sensitivity-specificity relation of 82.1%-65.8% and AUC of 0.81) which was validated in the external cohort (best sensitivity-specificity relation of 90.9% - 51.7% and AUC of 0.76). CONCLUSION: Increased levels ofACE2 and GAS6 at admission are independently associated with COVID-19 severity supporting its value as early biomarkers to predict worse disease outcome.
41376629 | Immune-related RELT drives clear cell renal cell carcinoma progression through JAK/STAT signaling pathway activation. Objective: The experiment aims to verify the function of Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor Superfamily Member 19L (RELT) in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC). Methods: The relationship between differential expression of RELT in ccRCC and clinical prognosis was investigated based on data from the Gene Expression Omnibus database (GEO) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) databases. Ex vivo and in vivo experiments were applied to validate the function of RELT in ccRCC. The pathways through which RELT exerts its function were explored using analyses such as Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes Enrichment Analysis (KEGG), and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). In addition, we applied the algorithms xCELL, Estimating the Proportion of Immune and Cancer cells (EPIC), CIBERSORT, Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER), and Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion (TIDE) to analyze the effect of RELT on the ccRCC tumor immune microenvironment. Results: RELT is highly expressed in ccRCC tissues and portends poor prognosis. Functional assays indicate that RELT promotes malignant biological behavior in ccRCC cells. Subsequently, enrichment analysis revealed that RELT functions mainly through humoral immunity, cellular chemotaxis, and cytokine regulation and may serve as a molecule for predicting prognosis in ccRCC. Immune infiltration analysis showed that RELT was significantly associated with immune cells such as B Cells, CD8+ T Cells, CD4+ T Cells, and Macrophages and may affect the tumor immune microenvironment of ccRCC by influencing macrophages. Conclusion: RELT promotes the development of ccRCC and may play a role in regulating the tumor immune microenvironment, which affects the prognosis of ccRCC patients, and RELT may become a new biomarker associated with immune infiltration in ccRCC.
42094418 | BAG2 Condensates Couple Proteostasis to CD8 + T Cell Surveillance. Protein aggregation, impaired degradation, and immune activation are central hallmarks of neurodegenerative diseases, yet how these processes are coordinated remains unclear. Here, we identify Immune-Protein Degradation Bodies (I-PDBs), a previously unrecognized class of BAG2-driven, phase-separated organelles that integrate protein quality control with adaptive immunity. IFNgamma induce I-PDB formation at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), where they concentrate immunoproteasome components, MHC-I peptide-loading machinery, and ER-associated chaperones. I-PDBs redirect proteostatic cargo from centrosomal aggregation pathways to spatially restricted degradation sites optimized for antigenic peptide generation, coupling selective substrate clearance to CD8+ T cell engagement. Using a cellular model of aggregation-prone tau, we show that I-PDBs capture pathological tau fibrils at ER-microtubule interfaces and process them into potentially antigenic peptides, thus reducing the load of aggregation-prone tau peptides. We term this mechanism the Proteostasis-Associated Immune Relay (PAIR), establishing I-PDBs as critical hubs linking proteostasis to immune surveillance with broad implications for disease. Highlights: IFNgamma drives BAG2-dependent Immune-Protein Degradation Bodies (I-PDBs)I-PDBs assemble at the endoplasmic reticulum and are enriched in immunoproteasome and MHC-I machineryI-PDBs shunt misfolded proteins, including pathological tau, away from aggresomesI-PDBs couple proteostasis to antigen presentation, enhancing CD8+ T cell recognitionThe Proteostasis-Associated Immune Relay (PAIR) defines a pathway linking proteostasis to adaptive immunity.
42147369 | Integrating AI-driven single-cell analysis to decode epithelial heterogeneity: A prognostic signature and translational immunotherapy strategy targeting KRT18-induced PD-L1 in lung adenocarcinoma. Objective: The heterogeneity of epithelial cells and their interaction with the immune microenvironment play crucial roles in tumor progression, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Methods: We analyzed single-cell transcriptomic data from normal and tumor tissues to characterize epithelial cells and their microenvironment. Key genes were identified and used, via survival analysis and multiple machine learning methods, to construct a prognostic model termed the Epithelial Signature (EpiSig). We further validated, through a series of experiments, the critical immunological roles of the key genes incorporated into the EpiSig model. Results: Tumor tissues showed a marked increase in epithelial cells, a reduction in natural killer (NK)/T cells, and cell co-occurrence patterns distinct from normal tissues. We identified differentially expressed genes in tumor epithelial cells and integrated multiple machine-learning algorithms to construct the EpiSig model. This model effectively stratified patient prognosis, with the high-EpiSig group exhibiting significantly worse survival; receiver operator characteristic curve (ROC) and principal component analysis (PCA) analyses further supported its accuracy and robustness. Immune analyses indicated lower immune cell infiltration, decreased human leukocyte antigen (HLA) expression, and elevated programmed cell death ligand 1/programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-L1/PD-1) in the high-EpiSig group, reflecting a more pronounced immunosuppressive microenvironment. The core gene KRT18 correlated strongly with EpiSig scores (R=0.65) and promoted lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) cell proliferation in functional assays. Further, low KRT18 tumors showed higher CD4+/CD8+ T cell and CD20+ B cell infiltration; in a mouse LLC subcutaneous tumor model, both Krt18 knockdown and PD-1 blockade suppressed tumor growth, with greater efficacy in combination. Mechanistically, KRT18 activated NF-kB/p65 to upregulate PD-L1, promoting immune exclusion and impairing T-cell effector function. Conclusions: This study highlights the close relationship between epithelial cell heterogeneity and immune microenvironment alterations in tumors, and presents the EpiSig as a robust tool for prognostic prediction. KRT18 may serve as a promising therapeutic target in LUAD.
42146058 | A porcine circovirus type 2d-based virus-like particle subunit vaccine effectively protects pigs against homologous challenge. Porcine circovirus-associated disease (PCVAD), caused by pathogenic porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2), remains one of the most economically devastating diseases in the global swine industry, and the continued emergence and predominance of the PCV2d genotype have raised concerns regarding the efficacy of currently available vaccine. In this study, a virus-like particle (VLP) subunit vaccine based on the PCV2d capsid protein was developed using a prokaryotic expression system, and its immunogenicity and protective efficacy were systematically evaluated in pigs. Following immunization and subsequent homologous PCV2d challenge, vaccinated pigs exhibited significantly attenuated clinical manifestations, including reduced rectal temperature elevation and less impairment of average daily weight gain during the early phase of infection. Moreover, vaccination resulted in markedly decreased viral DNA loads in serum and multiple tissues, including the lungs, spleen, kidneys, and inguinal and mesenteric lymph nodes, compared with unvaccinated challenged controls. The VLP vaccine also induced robust humoral immune responses, characterized by elevated PCV2-specific IgG and neutralizing antibody titers, and effectively mitigated PCV2d-associated histopathological lesions in the lungs and lymph nodes. Importantly, immunized pigs showed alleviation of peripheral T-lymphocyte depletion, with higher levels of CD3+, CD4+, and CD8+ T cells following challenge. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that the PCV2d capsid-based VLP subunit vaccine confers effective protection against PCV2d infection and represents a promising candidate for the prevention and control of PCVAD.
39574357 | Cancer Cell-Derived Exosomal miR-500a-3p Modulates Hepatic Stellate Cell Activation and the Immunosuppressive Microenvironment. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) mainly depends on liver fibrosis/cirrhosis, which is regulated by tumor cells and the tumor microenvironment (TME), and is a crucial factor in tumor progression. This study aimed to identify abnormally expressed miR-500a-3p in the hepatitis-cirrhosis-HCC pathway and explored the roles of miR-500a-3p in HCC progression. A clinical cohort of patients with HCC is studied retrospectively. Subsequently, the role of miR-500a-3p transported by HCC exosomes in hepatic stellate cell (HSC) activation, hepatoma growth and invasion, and immune cell differentiation is determined by in vitro and in vivo experiments. In clinical tissues, miR-500a-3p is significantly enriched in HCC and cirrhosis tissues, and co-expression of the immune marker CD4 or PD-L1 significantly correlates with low survival rates in patients. Extracellular miR-500a-3p is taken up by HSC and PBMC, which promotes the secretion of the cytokines TGF-beta1 and IL-10, increases PD-L1 expression in HSC, and stabilizes PD-1 expression in PBMC to affect the TME. Moreover, miR-500a-3p is associated with CD4+ T-cell exhaustion and Treg differentiation and is significantly associated with increased tumorigenicity in in situ mouse HCC models. Mechanistically, HCC-derived exosomal miR-500a-3p directly influences SOCS2 to regulate the JAK3/STAT5A/STAT5B signaling pathway. MiR-500a-3p promotes the growth and migration of HCC through the SOCS2/JAK3/STAT5A/STAT5B axis.
42093998 | Loss of SHP-1 in CD11c+ cells impairs anti-tumor immunity. Background: Tyrosine kinases and phosphatases regulate protein phosphorylation and maintain cellular homeostasis. The phosphoprotein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1 (encoded by the Ptpn6 gene) has been proposed as an immune checkpoint in CD8+ T cells in preclinical models, yet its pharmacological inhibition has shown no efficacy against tumor growth in clinical trials. This suggests that SHP-1 may play opposing roles in different cell types within the tumor microenvironment. Here, we investigated the effect of depleting SHP-1 in CD11c+ cells on the anti-tumoral response. Methods: To dissect the specific role of SHP1 in CD11c+ antigen-presenting cells, or specifically in conventional type 1 dendritic cells (cDC1s) or macrophages, we subcutaneously inoculated different tumors in ItgaxDeltaPtpn6, Xcr1DeltaPtpn6 and Lyz2DeltaPtpn6 mice, respectively. Tumor growth and survival were monitored, and immune infiltrates were analyzed using flow cytometry or scRNA-seq. Results: Tumor rejection was impaired when SHP-1 was depleted in CD11c+ cells, as well as in XCR1+ or Lyz2+ cells. scRNA-seq analysis revealed that both tumor-associated macrophages and cDC1s exhibited downregulation of interferon response pathways in tumor-bearing ItgaxDeltaPtpn6 mice compared with controls. Reduced MHC-II expression in tumor-associated macrophages was validated by flow cytometry, supporting impaired antigen presentation in these cells, whereas cDC subsets displayed heterogeneous alterations in co-stimulatory marker expression rather than a defect. Consistent with these findings, flow cytometry analysis showed that ItgaxDeltaPtpn6 mice injected with MC38 tumor and treated with anti-PD1 displayed a reduction in CD8+ IFN-gamma cells in comparison with Ptpn6 f/f littermates. Conclusions: These results show that SHP-1 depletion in CD11c+ cells impairs anti-tumor immunity and suggest that both cDC1s and macrophages contribute to this effect.
42102000 | MiR-155-driven loss of ICOSL and SOCS1 in EBV+ gastric cancers renders abundant cytotoxic T cells ineffective, enabling immune evasion. Poorly differentiated gastric carcinomas (PDGC) comprise 30% of gastric cancers and are associated with poor prognosis, correlating with tumor size and microvascular invasion. PDGC may be subcategorized as Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive or EBV-negative. Based on prior work with EBV-positive nasopharyngeal carcinomas, we interrogated 33 PDGC samples for EBV DNA/RNA/protein, CD8, PDL1, PD1, Inducible T cell Co-Stimulator Ligand (ICOSL), ICOS, MHC-I, Suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (SOCS1), and miR-155. The 13 EBV-positive tumors each showed intense PD1, PDL1, and CD8+ T cell responses that were largely absent in EBV-negative tumors. EBV EBER-1/2 RNA strongly colocalized with miR-155 in cancer cells with a concomitant loss of ICOSL expression as well as downregulation of cytokine signaling suppressor, SOCS1. In contrast, the 20 EBV-negative PDGCs showed weak to no miR-155 expression, with strong ICOSL and SOCS1 expression. On the other hand, the MHC-I expression was lost in both PDGC types. These data suggest that, despite the similar histological patterns of the cancer cells, EBV-driven induction of miR-155 suppresses SOCS1 expression, resulting in intense cytotoxic T cell infiltration, but also loss of the other miR-155 target, ICOSL, making tumor cells invisible to the surrounding intense T cell infiltration. Conversely, EBV-negative tumors retain ICOSL/SOCS1 expression, but exhibit minimal T cell infiltration, partly due to high SOCS1 expression, preventing immune-mediated clearance. Overall, our data indicate that SOCS1 expression, regulated by EBV-induced miR-155, along with ICOSL status determines whether tumors attract T cells and whether those T cells can effectively eradicate cancer cells.
41375725 | The Inflammatory Role of Serum Amyloid A in the Pathogenesis and Progression of Diabetic Nephropathy. Diabetic nephropathy (DN) remains the leading cause of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) worldwide, primarily affecting individuals with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM). While traditional risk factors-such as hypertension, poor glycemic control, and dyslipidemia-are well known, recent research has illuminated the pivotal role of inflammation in DN pathogenesis. Inflammatory processes involving chemokines, cytokines, immune cell infiltration, and pro-fibrotic signaling pathways (e.g., NFkappaB, JAK/STAT) contribute significantly to glomerular and tubulointerstitial damage. Key immune players include macrophages and T lymphocytes, particularly CD4+ T cells, which correlate with disease severity and progression. Serum Amyloid A (SAA), an acute-phase reactant traditionally associated with Serum Amyloid A Amyloidosis (AA amyloidosis), has emerged as both a biomarker and active mediator of renal inflammation in DN. SAA promotes cytokine release, leukocyte recruitment, and extracellular matrix remodeling, contributing to glomerular and tubular injury. Elevated Saa3 expression in experimental models correlates with DN progression, while activation of the advanced glycation end products and the receptors for advanced glycation end products (AGE-RAGE) axis in podocytes enhances SAA upregulation and inflammatory signaling. Increasing evidence now indicates that SAA functions, not only as a marker of systemic inflammation, but also as a mechanistically significant driver of intrarenal injury, bridging metabolic dysregulation with sustained inflammatory and fibrotic signaling. Emerging therapeutic approaches-including interleukin 6 (IL-6) blockade, inhibition of AGE formation, targeted anti-fibrotic agents, and recently developed SAA-directed RNA or peptide therapeutics-underscore the therapeutic potential of modulating SAA activity in DN. Preclinical evidence further supports the efficacy of monoclonal antibodies, signaling inhibitors, and dietary anti-inflammatory compounds in mitigating renal injury. Collectively, these developments position SAA as a central mediator at the intersection of metabolic, inflammatory, and fibrotic pathways, highlighting its promise as both a diagnostic biomarker and a therapeutic target for early intervention in diabetic kidney disease.
42036944 | Mapping the Peptide Interaction Fingerprint of the Behcet's disease associated HLA-B*51. The strongest genetic risk factor for Behcet's disease, a relapsing inflammatory disorder marked by recurrent mucocutaneous ulcers and uveitis, is HLA-B*51:01, a class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I) allele that presents intracellular peptides to CD8+ T cells. The molecular mechanisms linking the peptide preferences of this allele to dysregulated immunity remain unclear, limiting efforts to design peptide-based modulators of antigen presentation. Here, we define HLA-B*51:01's peptide selection rules by mapping the \interaction fingerprint\ of 36 self-peptides using an extensive set of all-atom molecular dynamics simulations. These uncovered a conserved hydrophobic-polar blueprint that is tuned by peptide length. In silico pulling experiments performed at high-speed atomic force microscopy-like loading rates suggest a three-tier hierarchy of mechanical resilience: 9-mers resist the highest forces, 8-mers exhibit intermediate resistance, and 10/11-mers rupture most easily. Our comprehensive analysis provides an atomistic framework for understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying HLA-B*51:01 pathobiology and offers quantitative parameters to guide the design of therapeutic peptides or small molecules to modulate antigen presentation in Behcet's disease.
41449178 | Transcriptomics-based analysis of key genes and potential mechanism and therapeutic agents in cadmium-induced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma progression.
42089465 | Machine Learning-Driven Simulations of the SARS-CoV-2 Fitness Landscape from Deep Mutational Scanning Experiments. Predicting protein variant effects is a key challenge in preparing for pathogenic viral strains, understanding mutation-linked diseases, and designing new proteins. Protein sequence-structure-function relationships are difficult to model due to complex allosteric and epistatic effects. To investigate efficient modeling strategies, we trained supervised machine learning (ML) models with deep mutational scanning (DMS) libraries of SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding domain (RBD) sequences labeled with angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) binding affinity. These models demonstrate superior performance predicting combinatorial mutation effects compared to adding or averaging the effects of point mutations and exhibit strong extrapolative performance ranking omicron variants when training only near wild type (WT) variants. We characterize the RBD fitness landscape by combining ML with Markov Chain Monte Carlo simulations to predict evolutionary patterns from the WT sequence. These generate comparable sequence profiles to high-fitness sequences in DMS data and predict mutations in unseen omicron variants. These models provide insight into the relationship between RBD sequence elements and offer a new perspective on the use of DMS to predict emerging viral strains, which we anticipate will be applicable to other evolutionary prediction tasks. To facilitate application and future development of this strategy, we introduce Mavenets: https://github.com/SztainLab/mavenets.
42131824 | Characterisation of tumor-infiltrating gamma-delta T cells in human colorectal cancer with MHC-I loss. Objectives: Gamma-delta (gammadelta) T cells have been associated with favorable prognoses across several malignancies, underscoring their potential as targets for novel immunotherapies. These unconventional T lymphocytes exhibit an intrinsic tropism for the tumor microenvironment, largely driven by their capacity to recognize stress-induced antigens characteristic of metabolically dysregulated tumors. Unlike the mechanism governing conventional cytotoxic CD8+ alpha-beta (alphabeta) T cells, gammadelta T-cell receptors can engage tumor cell moieties independent of major histocompatibility complex class-I (MHC-I) and human leukocyte class-I molecules. Therefore, gammadelta T cells may have a pivotal role in the immune response to beta-2 microglobulin-mutated MHC-I negative (MHC-I-) colorectal cancers (CRCs) with deficient mismatch repair. Methods: To determine whether gammadelta T-cell mobilisation extends to diverse aetiologies of MHC-I loss, we used multispectral immunohistochemistry to stain 150 stage I-IV primary CRC tissues, across eight tissue microarrays. Results: Our investigation revealed MHC-I loss in ~30% of CRC primary tumors across all disease stages, with a notable increase in stromal gammadelta T-cell frequency and activation status among stage III cases. Importantly, these findings extend previous observations largely confined to mismatch repair-deficient CRC by demonstrating that stromal gammadelta T-cell enrichment associated with MHC-I loss also occurs in mismatch repair-proficient tumors, suggesting a broader role for gammadelta T cells in immune surveillance of MHC-I-deficient CRC. Conclusion: These data highlight the potential of gammadelta T cells in counteracting immune evasive MHC-I- tumors, thereby offering a robust rationale for their strategic deployment in next-generation immunotherapy regimens.
42135777 | The adult nasal mucosa is defined by distinct immune profiles that modulate in-vitro SARS-CoV-2 infection. BACKGROUND: The nasal mucosa is the primary entry site for many respiratory viruses, and immune molecules present at the time of exposure may dictate if infection occurs. However, the baseline immune state in healthy adults - and how it influences susceptibility to viruses - remains poorly defined. METHODS: Levels of 16 immune molecules were measured in nasal secretions from two independent cohorts of healthy adults (total n = 166, Luminex). Participants were clustered based on normalized concentrations of immune analytes to identify profiles. An in vitro organotypic model of the nasal epithelium was used to examine the effect of immune profiles on SARS-CoV-2 infection: primary human nasal epithelial cells (n = 9 donors) were grown at air-liquid interface to induce mucociliary differentiation (42 days), treated with recombinant human cytokines (72 h), and then challenged with wildtype SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.1 (24 h). SARS-CoV-2 entry factor expression (post-cytokines, pre-challenge) and viral infection (N gene) were measured by qRT-PCR. RESULTS: In both cohorts, a unique cluster was observed, characterized by distinctly high levels of antiviral interferons - particularly IFN-lambda3 - with comparatively low levels of inflammatory chemokines and cytokines. In contrast, individuals with high overall levels of inflammatory mediators had absent IFN-lambda3. In vitro, pretreatment with IFN-lambda3 and IFN-alpha2, but not with pro-inflammatory cytokines, significantly reduced SARS-CoV-2 replication in differentiated nasal epithelial cultures, despite upregulating ACE2 expression. CONCLUSIONS: Healthy adults exhibit distinct nasal immune profiles, with an exogenous IFN-lambda3-dominant, low-inflammatory state conferring resistance to SARS-CoV-2 in an in vitro primary nasal epithelial model. The nasal immune milieu may influence susceptibility to respiratory viruses and the efficacy of mucosally administered vaccines.
41801310 | Altered Cytokine-Induced STAT3 and STAT5 Activation of Peripheral T Follicular Helper Cells Contributes to Vaccine-Non-Responsiveness in Aging and HIV. Previous studies from our lab identified functional defects in antigen-specific peripheral T follicular helper cells (pTfh), characterized by low IL-21 and high IL-2 production, contributing to non-responsiveness to the influenza vaccine in both aging and HIV. This study investigated how IL-21-induced STAT3 and IL-2-induced STAT5 activation in pTfh cells affects vaccine responses in aging people with HIV (PWH) and those without HIV (PWoH). Ninety participants, including young (Y, <= 40 years) and old (O, >= 65 years) PWoH (YPWoH, n = 23; OPWoH, n = 25) and virally suppressed PWH (YPWH, n = 19; OPWH, n = 23), received the seasonal quadrivalent influenza vaccine. Samples were collected at pre-vaccination (day 0) and at days 14 and 28 post-vaccination. Participants were classified as vaccine responders (VR) or non-responders (VNR) based on serum antibody titers against vaccine antigens using the hemagglutination inhibition assay. Phosphoflow cytometry was performed on pre-vaccination PBMCs stimulated with IL-21 or IL-2, and high-dimensional analysis was performed using OMIQ software. Peripheral Tfh cells of young individuals showed greater IL-21-induced STAT3, reduced IL-2-induced STAT5 activity, and a reduced frequency of IL-2R+ pTfh cells compared to older individuals. IL-21-induced STAT3 in naive CD4+ T cells in young participants correlated with the frequency of pTfh cells. Among VNR, IL-2-induced STAT5 in pTfh cells inversely correlated with day 28 vaccine titers. Our findings emphasize the essential role of IL-21 and IL-2-induced STAT signaling in orchestrating the immune response to vaccination. As individuals age, IL-2-induced STAT5 signaling in pTfh increases, potentially hindering Tfh cell differentiation and function, which may result in weaker vaccine responses.
41392616 | Single-cell RNA sequencing informs precision targeting of monogenic lupus associated with IKZF1 haploinsufficiency. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the mechanisms of immune dysregulation in a pediatric patient with monogenic lupus driven by IKZF1-haploinsufficiency. METHODS: Peripheral immune cells from patient with IKZF1-haploinsufficiency, lupus cases with no currently known genetic mutations, and healthy controls were analyzed using single-cell RNA sequencing. Bioinformatic analyses, including pseudotime trajectory and network reconstruction were performed. Activation of type I interferon (IFN) pathway was evaluated by measuring serum cytokine levels, IFN signatures, and the phosphorylation status of Janus kinase (JAK) and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT). RESULTS: The patient with IKZF1-haploinsufficiency exhibited notable B cell and T cell dysregulation, with nearly total absence of regulatory B cells (Bregs) and increased percentage of naive CD4+ T cells. Pseudotime analysis in this patient suggested simplified B cell differentiation trajectories with arrested maturation and naive-like cell resurgence. WGCNA identified a lupus-linked gene module (IKZF1, DUSP1, JUN, FOS), with inferred networks suggesting compensatory stress circuits (DUSP1, DDX17). Over-activation of IFN-JAK-STAT signaling pathway was observed in the patient with IKZF1-haploinsufficiency. Given persistent thrombocytopenia, baricitinib combined with mycophenolate mofetil was administered based on these findings. Her platelet count returned to normal in a month after combination therapy with baricitinib. CONCLUSION: IKZF1 haploinsufficiency disrupted lymphocyte homeostasis, especially Bregs and naive CD4+ T cells, highlighting these as key IKZF1-functional targets. A phenotype- and single-cell-based approach may offer a pathway toward more precise diagnosis and personalized treatment strategies for monogenic lupus.
42147341 | Efficacy of Yupingfeng powder in the treatment of bronchial asthma in adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Background: Yupingfeng Powder (YPF), a classical Chinese herbal formula composed of Astragalus membranaceus, Atractylodes macrocephala, and Saposhnikovia divaricata, has demonstrated potential efficacy in the treatment of adult bronchial asthma when combined with conventional biomedical therapy (CBT), as indicated by multiple recent clinical studies. However, existing research is limited by small sample sizes, inconsistent methodological quality, and non-uniform syndrome differentiation, resulting in insufficient evidence strength. Moreover, traditional meta-analysis methods struggle to address study heterogeneity, and its definitive efficacy remains inadequately validated. Objective: To systematically evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of YPF combined with CBT in the treatment of adult bronchial asthma, and to clarify the heterogeneity sources. Methods: Strictly adhering to the PRISMA 2020 guidelines, the study protocol was registered in PROSPERO (registration number: CRD420251172600). A systematic search was conducted in seven databases (PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, China, etc., up to 20 October 2025), and randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing YPF+CBT with CBT alone in adults with bronchial asthma were included. The Cochrane ROB 2.0 tool was used to assess the risk of bias, and meta-analysis was performed using RevMan 5.4 and Stata 18 software. Subgroup analysis and Meta regression were employed to explore the sources of heterogeneity. Results: A total of 20 RCTs were ultimately included, involving 1,896 participants (950 in the intervention group and 946 in the control group). The meta-analysis revealed that the YPF+CBT group demonstrated significantly higher clinical overall response rate compared to the CBT group [risk ratio (RR) = 1.20, 95% CI (1.16, 1.25), P < 0.001, I2 = 0.0%]. Significant improvements were observed in pulmonary function parameters (FEV1, FVC, FEV1/FVC, PEF) and asthma control test (ACT) scores [SMD were 1.32, 1.78, 1.09, 1.15, and 1.80, respectively, all P < 0.05]. No statistically significant difference was found in the CD4+/CD8+T lymphocyte subset ratio between the two groups [SMD = 0.50, 95%CI(-0.44, 1.44), P = 0.301]. Subgroup analysis and meta-regression confirmed that treatment duration (P = 0.03) and study year (P = 0.043) were the primary sources of heterogeneity. In terms of safety, only two studies reported mild adverse events (e.g., gastrointestinal discomfort, dry mouth), with no significant difference in incidence between the groups and no serious adverse events. Clinical significance analysis showed that the clinical overall response rate in the YPF+CBT group was 86.8%, which was compared to 72.3% in the CBT group, with an absolute risk reduction (ARR) of 14.5%, indicating clear clinical benefits of this combination therapy. Conclusion: YPF combined with CBT can significantly improve clinical efficacy, pulmonary function, and symptom control in adult bronchial asthma patients. However, due to limitations such as moderate methodological quality of the included studies, geographical constraints, and insufficient adverse event data, the conclusions require further validation through high-quality RCTs with large sample sizes, double-blind design, and placebo control. Systematic Review Registration: https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/display_record.php?RecordID=1172600, identifier CRD420251172600.
42146495 | Identification of the cellular transcription factor KLF16 as a novel repressive epigenetic repressor of HIV-1 transcription. Despite antiretroviral therapy, human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) persists in latently-infected cells through epigenetic and transcriptional mechanisms. Latency-reversing agents have failed clinically, partly due to incomplete understanding of HIV-1 latency reversal. Here, using DNA-affinity capture and mass spectrometry on the HIV-1 5' long terminal repeat (5'LTR) enhancer-core promoter, we identify KLF16 (Kruppel-like Factor 16) as a novel regulator of HIV-1 gene expression. KLF16 binds to the HIV-1 5'LTR in vivo at Sp1 binding sites, and KLF16 depletion reactivates latent HIV-1 in T-lymphoid and monocytic cell models. Mechanistically, KLF16 represses HIV-1 transcription by competing with Sp1 for promoter binding and by recruiting the Sin3A/HDAC1 and HP1alpha/Suv39H1 repressive epigenetic complexes. KLF16 is also upregulated in CD4 + T cells from ART-treated people with HIV-1 upon T-cell activation. Additionally, All-Trans retinoic acid (ATRA) reactivates latent HIV-1 in myeloid cells, partly by downregulating KLF16. These findings establish KLF16 as a novel transcriptional repressor of HIV-1, identifying it as a potential promising therapeutic target for cure strategies. Graphical abstract:
41925073 | Non-Classical HLA and MIC Risk Score Is Associated With Acute Kidney Transplant Rejection Beyond Classical HLA Matching. Matching of HLA-A, -B and -DRB1 is the gold standard in histocompatibility testing for kidney transplantation. A good HLA match reduces the risk of alloimmunisation, thereby decreasing the likelihood of graft failure and potentially enabling reduced immunosuppression therapy. However, the role of the non-classical HLA and MIC genes is not well established. We hypothesised that polymorphisms in these genes contribute additional risk of acute rejection after kidney transplantation, beyond what is explained by classical HLA mismatching. We developed and validated an oligogenic risk score based on ten polymorphisms in the HLA-E, -F, -G, MICA and MICB genes associated with time to acute rejection using Cox proportional hazards analysis in a single centre retrospective cohort of 1025 Finnish adult kidney transplant recipient-donor pairs. The score, particularly at the extreme ends, that is, the 1st and 10th deciles, was associated with rejection-free survival in both the discovery cohort (Cox multivariable model HR 1.20, 95% CI 1.08-1.33, p-value 4.350 x 10-4) and the replication cohort (HR 1.33, 1.10-1.62, p-value 0.004). The score added value beyond the standard HLA-A, -B, -DRB1 matching or HLA class I and II eplet matching, differentiating high and low-risk patient groups. The association remained when adding HLA-C and HLA-DQB1 matching to the analysis. The results demonstrate the value of considering the non-classical HLA and MIC genes in risk assessment and even graft allocation in kidney transplantation, and the potential of using oligogenic and polygenic summary scores to predict transplant outcomes.
42097490 | CircSPECC1 attenuates sensitivity to PD-1 blockade through impaired antigen presentation in hepatocellular carcinoma. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) demonstrate therapeutic benefits in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), yet most patients exhibit limited responses to anti-PD-1 therapy and the molecular basis underlying this resistance remains largely undefined. Here, we identified the circular RNA SPECC1 (circSPECC1) as a regulator of antigen presentation and a crucial factor influencing the efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy. circSPECC1 was significantly elevated in tumor tissues of HCC patients showing resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy and correlated with diminished intratumoral CD8+ T-cell infiltration. Elevated circSPECC1 levels facilitated tumor progression and impaired the therapeutic efficacy of anti-PD-1 treatment. Overexpression of circSPECC1 in cancer cells suppressed the proliferation and cytotoxic activity of CD8+ T cells both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, circSPECC1 bound to the peptide-loading complex (PLC) chaperone ERP57 and disrupted its interaction with TAPBP (TAP binding Protein), thereby destabilizing PLC integrity. This aberrant interaction redirected MHC-I toward ER-associated degradation (ERAD), suppressing surface antigen presentation and impairing CD8+ T-cell activation. Importantly, targeted silencing of circSPECC1 using a PEG-PEI-folate nanosystem encapsulating si-circSPECC1 significantly restored sensitivity both murine and patient-derived xenograft HCC models to PD-1 blockade. In summary, these findings uncover a novel circRNA-guided ERAD of MHC-I mechanism that impairs antitumor immunity and highlight circSPECC1 as a promising therapeutic target to overcome immunotherapy resistance.
42145868 | Bidirectional Mendelian Randomization Suggests Causal Effects of 731 Immunophenotypes on Vitiligo Pathogenesis. Purpose: This two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) study aimed to investigate the causal relationship between 731 immune cell traits and vitiligo. Patients and Methods: Genetic variants with genome-wide suggestive significance (P < 1x10-5) were used as instrumental variables (IVs). Immune phenotype data were sourced from 3757 European individuals (SardiNIA study), while vitiligo data included 385,538 samples (292 cases, 385,509 controls) from FinnGen (Release 9). Primary causal inference utilized inverse-variance weighted (IVW) regression, supplemented by weighted median, mode-based, and MR-Egger methods for sensitivity analyses. Horizontal pleiotropy and heterogeneity were assessed via MR-Egger intercept and Cochran's Q tests. False discovery rate (FDR) correction was applied, with PFDR < 0.05 considered significant and PFDR < 0.20 considered suggestive. Results: The onset of vitiligo was significantly associated with reduced levels of TD CD4+ %T cells (OR = 0.63, 95% CI: 0.51-0.78; PFDR = 0.015, significant) and showed a suggestive association with decreased CD4 expression on HLA DR+ CD4+ cells (OR = 0.65, 95% CI: 0.50-0.85; PFDR = 0.166, suggestive). Conversely, suggestive evidence was found for an association between vitiligo and increased CD28 expression on CD28+ CD45RA+ CD8br cells (OR = 1.37, 95% CI: 1.13-1.65; PFDR = 0.166, suggestive) and with elevated CD8 expression on EM CD8br cells (OR = 1.46, 95% CI: 1.19-1.79; PFDR = 0.091, suggestive). Sensitivity analyses confirmed robustness (P pleiotropy > 0.05). Conclusion: We suggest novel causal links between vitiligo and specific immune cell dysregulation, highlighting the pivotal role of adaptive immunity in pathogenesis and informing potential therapeutic targets such as TD CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cell subsets.
39865264 | Elevated LIF and JAK-STAT activation drive severe COVID-19 in myeloma patients receiving the BCMA-CD3 bispecific antibody Elranatamab. BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy is a significant risk factor for severe COVID-19 in multiple myeloma (MM) patients. Understanding how immunotherapies lead to severe COVID-19 is crucial for improving patient outcomes. METHODS: Human protein microarrays were used to examine the expression of 440 protein molecules in MM patients treated with bispecific T-cell engagers (BiTe) (n = 9), anti-CD38 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) (n = 10), and proteasome inhibitor (PI)-based regimens (n = 10). Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified and analyzed using bioinformatics. RESULTS: BiTe therapy was associated with a higher incidence of severe COVID-19. We identified 21 and 29 DEPs between BiTe and anti-CD38 mAbs group, and BiTe and PI-based group, respectively, along with 25 DEPs between the anti-CD38 and PI groups. Principal component analysis and clustering showed distinct protein expression profiles between the BiTe and PI groups. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis revealed that DEPs between the BiTe and PI groups were related to cytokine activity and leukocyte migration. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis showed that these DEPs were enriched in cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is the most correlated with other DEPs and thus may play a key role in both enriched pathways, and the level of LIF protein was highest in the BiTe group. CONCLUSIONS: BiTe therapy is linked to a higher risk of severe COVID-19 due to an inflammatory cytokine storm, with LIF and the JAK-STAT pathway playing key roles. Targeting LIF and JAK-STAT pathway may help reduce severe COVID-19 in MM patients treated with BiTe.
38997291 | Loss of tumor suppressors promotes inflammatory tumor microenvironment and enhances LAG3+T cell mediated immune suppression. Low response rate, treatment relapse, and resistance remain key challenges for cancer treatment with immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). Here we report that loss of specific tumor suppressors (TS) induces an inflammatory response and promotes an immune suppressive tumor microenvironment. Importantly, low expression of these TSs is associated with a higher expression of immune checkpoint inhibitory mediators. Here we identify, by using in vivo CRISPR/Cas9 based loss-of-function screening, that NF1, TSC1, and TGF-beta RII as TSs regulating immune composition. Loss of each of these three TSs leads to alterations in chromatin accessibility and enhances IL6-JAK3-STAT3/6 inflammatory pathways. This results in an immune suppressive landscape, characterized by increased numbers of LAG3+ CD8 and CD4 T cells. ICB targeting LAG3 and PD-L1 simultaneously inhibits metastatic progression in preclinical triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) mouse models of NF1-, TSC1- or TGF-beta RII- deficient tumors. Our study thus reveals a role of TSs in regulating metastasis via non-cell-autonomous modulation of the immune compartment and provides proof-of-principle for ICB targeting LAG3 for patients with NF1-, TSC1- or TGF-beta RII-inactivated cancers.
42086546 | NCOR2 represses MHC class I molecule expression to drive metastatic progression of breast cancer. Metastatic progression depends upon the ability of disseminated tumor cells to evade immune surveillance. Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC)-mediated antigen presentation facilitates T cell-dependent eradication of metastatic tumor cells. Here, we show that nuclear corepressor 2 (NCOR2) is an epigenetic regulator of MHC class I molecule presentation on breast tumor cells. Patients with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) that express high levels of NCOR2 also exhibit reduced metastasis-free survival and decreased MHC class I expression, and the metastatic lesions in patients with TNBC have high nuclear NCOR2 and reduced Cluster of Differentiation (CD)8+ T cells. Reducing NCOR2 expression or preventing its interaction with Histone Deacetylase, HDAC3, enhances innate immune cell recruitment and activity, and elevates MHC class I levels on disseminated cancer cells to potentiate CD8+ T cell activity and apoptosis induction that prevents metastatic progression. The studies provide evidence to support NCOR2 as a targetable epigenetic regulator of metastasis towards which therapies could be developed to reduce patient mortality.
42069195 | LILRB2+ monocytes reshape the immune activation landscape in immunotherapy with non-small cell lung cancer: Evidence from real-world cohorts and single-cell analyses. The role of monocytes in tumor progression is controversial, especially in immune response. LILRB2 expression can reprogram the immunosuppressive phenotype of monocytes to enhance the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). However, the single-cell-level resolution of LILRB2 and its impact on the PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy are not fully explored. We used transcriptomic and clinical data from OAK, POPLAR and ORIENT-11 trials to determine the predictive value of LILRB2 expression in patients with NSCLC treated with ICIs. Deconvolution of pre-treatment non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) transcriptomes using single-cell sequencing identified LILRB2+ and S100A8+ monocyte subsets. Following ICIs treatment, lower LILRB2 expression levels were linked to poor PFS (P = 0.020), while high LILRB2+ monocyte abundance was associated with prolonged OS (P = 0.004) and PFS (P = 0.0003) in the OAK ICI cohort. And the LILRB2+/S100A8+ monocyte ratio (L/S ratio) showed significantly better OS (P = 0.0013) and PFS (P = 0.01) than those with a low L/S ratio. LILRB2+ monocytes promoted the activation of CD8+ T cells, further enhanced the anti-tumor efficacy of PD-1 blockade. And S100A8+ monocytes were enriched in NMPR patients, while LILRB2+ monocytes had higher MHC-I expression and higher density of CD8+ T cells, and were significantly increased in MPR patients. These findings demonstrated that LILRB2+ monocyte reversed the immunosuppressive phenotype, and is positively associated with greater benefits from ICIs.
42143223 | Concomitant cytomegalovirus DNAemia is associated with sustained TNF-alpha elevation in HIV/AIDS: a multivariable and longitudinal analysis of immune restoration. BACKGROUND: Despite successful viral suppression with antiretroviral therapy (ART), incomplete immune reconstitution and chronic inflammation persist in people with HIV, contributing to an increased burden of non-AIDS-defining comorbidities. Emerging evidence points to cytomegalovirus (CMV) co-infection as a critical driver of this residual inflammation. Consequently, this study aims to elucidate the specific role of CMV in sustaining inflammatory pathways in the context of HIV. METHODS: This prospective observational study included 200 participants divided into three groups: 50 with HIV/CMV co-infection, 100 with HIV mono-infection, and 50 healthy controls. Baseline immunophenotyping and cytokine profiling were assessed using flow cytometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. To account for baseline HIV disease severity and demographic imbalances, cross-sectional comparisons were evaluated using multivariable linear regression adjusted for age, sex, and baseline absolute CD4+ T-cell counts, supplemented by CD4-stratified analyses (< 100 and > 200 cells/microL). To evaluate the longitudinal impact of CMV viral load dynamics, co-infected participants were classified after 6 months follow-up into \CMV responders\ (>= 68% reduction in CMV DNA load) and \CMV non-responders\ (< 68% reduction or increase). RESULTS: The overall cohort was predominantly CMV IgG positive (97.5%). At baseline, the unadjusted expansion of CD8+ T-cells observed in HIV/CMV co-infected patients lost statistical significance after multivariable adjustment for baseline CD4+ counts (adjusted p = 0.150), indicating this was primarily related to advanced HIV immunosuppression. In contrast, CMV DNAemia remained independently associated with significantly elevated systemic TNF-alpha levels (adjusted p = 0.043). Stratified analysis revealed that this independent TNF-alpha elevation was particularly pronounced in patients with relatively preserved immune function (CD4 > 200 cells/microL; adjusted p = 0.042), whereas these differences were obscured in severe immunosuppression (CD4 < 100 cells/microL). Longitudinal analysis revealed that effective reduction of CMV viral load was associated with significant HIV viral suppression in responders (p = 0.0039), whereas no significant reduction was observed in non-responders (p = 0.3894), and seemingly facilitated the resolution of systemic TNF-alpha levels. In contrast, significant recovery of CD4+ T-cell absolute counts occurred in both groups (p < 0.01) and the rate of recovery did not differ significantly between CMV responders and non-responders. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that CMV DNAemia is independently associated with persistent TNF-alpha elevation in PLWH, particularly in those with preserved CD4 + counts. Rather than directly causing broad T-cell exhaustion, CMV appears to act as a specific driver of the TNF-alpha inflammatory pathway. Addressing adherence to anti-CMV interventions alongside ART may offer a potential strategy for reducing long-term inflammatory risks.
41408493 | Senescent CD4+ T Cells Drive Diabetic Periodontitis via JAK-STAT-ROS-p38 MAPK. Diabetic periodontitis (DPD) is recognized as a common complication of diabetes mellitus. It progresses rapidly and causes severe destruction of periodontal tissues. The condition often leads to a poor prognosis for affected patients. CD4+ T lymphocytes-pivotal effector cells in adaptive immunity-play a central role in driving DPD pathogenesis through immunometabolic dysregulation. The functional dynamics and contributions of CD4+ T cells to DPD pathogenesis remain insufficiently investigated. To investigate this, single-cell RNA sequencing data from the gingival tissues of DPD mice in the Gene Expression Omnibus database were analyzed, identifying significant CD4+ T cell senescence in DPD. This finding was experimentally confirmed using a DPD mouse model. Furthermore, through adoptive transfer experiments, we demonstrated that in DPD, senescent CD4+ T cells exacerbate the release of senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). SASP chemokines recruit immune cells, which in turn release additional inflammatory factors, creating a self-amplifying cycle that disrupts the Th17/Treg balance and worsens bone loss. This reveals the pathogenic role of senescent CD4+ T cells, whereas adoptive transfer of normal CD4+ T cells rescues this pathological process. Bioinformatics analysis linked CD4+ T cell senescence to the JAK-STAT and p38 MAPK signaling pathways. Subsequent experimental validation detected upregulated JAK-STAT and p38 MAPK activity in DPD gingival tissues. Pharmacological inhibition of these pathways in vitro markedly reduced CD4+ T cell senescence. Mechanistically, JAK-STAT activation elevated mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS), subsequently triggering the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha)-p38 MAPK axis. This cascade led to p53 upregulation and enhanced cellular senescence. This study clarifies the immunopathological mechanisms underlying CD4+ T cell senescence in DPD, emphasizing the crosstalk between metabolic dysregulation via JAK-STAT-mtROS and inflammatory signaling through TNF-alpha-p38 MAPK (proinflammatory signaling cascade). These findings provide novel perspectives for developing therapeutic strategies targeting CD4+ T cell senescence in DPD, thereby mitigating inflammatory factor release and inhibiting alveolar bone resorption.
42148061 | Context-dependent functions of ALKBH5: a mechanistic framework linking cellular stress responses, immune regulation, viral infection, and therapeutic vulnerabilities. N6 -methyladenosine (m6A) is a major post-transcriptional RNA modification, and the demethylase ALKBH5 has emerged as a versatile but highly context-dependent regulator of RNA fate. This review integrates current evidence showing that ALKBH5 links epitranscriptomic control to cellular stress adaptation, genome maintenance, immune-cell function, viral infection, and therapeutic response. In DNA damage and cell-cycle regulation, ALKBH5 modulates checkpoint, repair, and apoptotic pathways, thereby influencing genome stability and sensitivity to radiotherapy or chemotherapy. In immune biology, it shapes gammadelta T-cell development, CD4+ T-cell pathogenicity, CD8+ T-cell infiltration, and tumor-immune crosstalk. In host-pathogen interactions, ALKBH5 can either enhance antiviral defense or promote viral persistence and latency, including HIV-1 reactivation, depending on the regulated transcript network. We propose that the biological output of ALKBH5 is determined by target transcript identity, cellular context, reader environment, and upstream regulatory signals. This framework positions ALKBH5 as both a mechanistic hub and a context-guided therapeutic target.
42045195 | Proteasome alteration between epithelial and hematopoietic cells facilitates positive selection of CD8 T cells. The thymoproteasome, a proteolytic complex uniquely expressed in cortical thymic epithelial cells (cTECs), governs the positive selection of CD8 T cells. It has been hypothesized that the thymoproteasome promotes CD8 T cell development by forging a sequential switch in proteasome species between cTECs and medullary antigen-presenting cells (APCs), which generates a stepwise difference in MHC-I-associated peptides between cTECs and medullary APCs, thereby sparing positively selected thymocytes from subsequent negative selection. In this study, we engineer mice ectopically expressing thymoproteasomes in various APCs including medullary TECs (mTECs), eliminating the proposed proteasome switch. Surprisingly, we find that the proteasome switch between cTECs and mTECs is dispensable for thymoproteasome-dependent CD8 T cell development. Instead, we find that ectopic thymoproteasomes in hematopoietic cells impair CD8 T cell development by hindering cortical positive selection. Our findings reveal that the proteasome difference between cTECs and hematopoietic cells in the thymic cortex facilitates thymoproteasome-dependent positive selection.
42148076 | ID93 + GLA-3M-052-LS vaccine candidate administered by heterologous routes improves BCG efficacy against TB. Background: New vaccine approaches are needed against tuberculosis (TB). We sought to optimize mucosal immunogenicity and protective efficacy by modulating the adjuvant component and route of immunization of a next-generation TB vaccine using the recombinant TB vaccine antigen (Ag) ID93. Methods: ID93-specific mucosal and systemic immunogenicity and protective efficacy were assessed in the Collaborative Cross 004 mouse strain, a mouse strain susceptible to Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection, as a suitable model of Mtb susceptible populations. Results: Immunogenicity data from various vaccine candidates were used to select lead vaccine candidates with the most preferred immunostimulatory profiles using a pre-determined desirability index. A liposomal adjuvant system containing synthetic TLR4 and TLR7/8 ligands (GLA-3M-052-LS), administered by a heterologous intramuscular-intranasal regimen, induced an optimal comprehensive immune response profile including high levels of mucosal antibody and Th1 CD4+ T cells in the lungs. Conclusions: In BCG-primed mice, immunization with intramuscular followed by intranasal ID93 + GLA-3M-052-LS boosts significantly reduced Mtb burden in the lungs after challenge vs. BCG vaccinated mice alone. Thus, ID93 + GLA-3M-052-LS represents a promising next-generation TB vaccine candidate suitable for testing in additional preclinical models.
42094569 | Naturally occurring ACE2 stalk variants are differentially released from the cell. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is a key regulator of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS). It also acts as a receptor for SARS-CoV-2 and stabilises the B0AT1 amino acid transporter at the cell surface. Therefore, surface expression of ACE2 is crucial for these physiological processes. ACE2 is released as a soluble, catalytically active form, partly through ectodomain shedding. This process mainly involves the sheddases ADAM10 and ADAM17, but the exact regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. We assessed 11 naturally occurring single-point mutations in the ACE2 stalk region. Most variants showed significantly reduced release compared to wild-type (WT) ACE2; however, the single point mutations P734L and G726R significantly increased their release. ACE2_P734L also exhibits higher surface expression, directly increasing the surface levels of B0AT1. Despite B0AT1 and ACE2 forming a tight tetrameric complex, this did not affect ACE2 shedding. This suggests that complex formation does not restrict sheddase access. Overall, these data identify the ACE2 stalk region as a major determinant of shedding efficiency. Naturally occurring variants in this region can substantially affect the release of soluble ACE2, potentially contributing to interindividual differences that are relevant for pathophysiological processes.
42141897 | CD4+ T cells promote fibrosis during metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Unresolved inflammation and fibrosis are defining features of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH), a progressive form of steatotic liver disease that can advance to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. While innate immune mechanisms in MASH have been extensively characterized, the role of CD4+ T cells remains poorly understood despite their central function in orchestrating immune responses through effector and regulatory mechanisms. APPROACH AND RESULTS: Integrated single-cell proteomic, transcriptomic, and functional analyses were used to investigate the CD4+ T-cell landscape in murine and human MASH. We delineated a profound shift in the differentiation of intrahepatic and peripheral CD4+ T cells toward Th1, regulatory, and cytotoxic phenotypes in murine and human MASH. Notably, hepatic CD4+ T cells exhibited heightened effector activity and elevated secretion of proinflammatory cytokines, thus amplifying inflammatory signaling cascades. The CD4+ T-cell reprogramming in MASH also included the induction of the co-stimulatory receptor OX40. In parallel, OX40 ligand (OX40L)-expressing monocyte-derived macrophages and dendritic cells accumulated in MASH livers, establishing a feed-forward CD4+ T cell-myeloid activation loop. Therapeutic blockade of the OX40-OX40L axis, in turn, reversed liver pathology in mice with established MASH and reduced disease markers in an ex vivo human liver model. Furthermore, genetic depletion or functional inhibition of CD4+ T cells attenuated fibrosis, accompanied by decreased infiltration of monocyte-derived macrophages. CONCLUSIONS: These studies provide a comprehensive single-cell proteogenomic atlas of CD4+ T cells in MASH and identify an OX40-dependent CD4+ T cell-macrophage axis as a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of MASH and liver fibrosis.
42030951 | Dissecting serum polyclonal antibody escape to SARS-CoV-2 variants by deep mutational learning. Deep mutational scanning (DMS) has been extensively used to investigate how single-position mutations in the receptor-binding domain (RBD) affect binding of ACE2 and neutralizing antibodies, thus revealing mutations that drive immune escape. However, these mutations represent only a small fraction of the combinatorial mutational space. Here, we present deep mutational learning (DML), a method integrating combinatorial mutagenesis, yeast surface display, deep sequencing, and machine learning (ML), to analyze serum polyclonal antibody escape. Sera from coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)-vaccinated individuals were screened against diverse RBD variant libraries, validating 300 serum-variant interactions across 10 individuals. Performance remained consistent across ML architectures, suggesting that serum binding and escape are governed by distinct, localized RBD sequence features. Notably, escape profiles were highly individualized, whereas binding signatures were more conserved, reflecting convergent epitope targeting. Thus, DML can be used to generalize beyond observed RBD variants, assess cohort-specific immune breadth, and inform vaccine design in the face of viral evolution.
38936745 | CS12192: A novel selective and potent JAK3 inhibitor mitigates acute graft-versus-host disease in bone marrow transplantation. BACKGROUND: Despite the significant role of JAK3 in various autoimmune diseases, including graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), there has been a lack of potent and selective JAK3 inhibitors specifically studied for GVHD. In our preclinical investigations, we evaluated a novel JAK3 inhibitor called CS12192, which is already undergoing clinical investigation in autoimmune diseases. METHODS: We evaluated the efficacy of CS12192 in GVHD through mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) in both mouse and human cells, as well as allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in a murine model. RESULTS: CS12192, starting at a concentration of 0.5 muM, dose-dependently reduced the intracellular positivity for cytokines TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma in CD4+ T cells (p < 0.05 to p < 0.0001) and CD8+ T cells (p < 0.01 to p < 0.0001) during mouse allogeneic MLR assays. This effect was observed for both single and double positivity of the cytokines. Moreover, In MLR assays with three different human donors, CS12192 also demonstrated a dose-dependent reduction in the proportion of IFN-gamma positive CD4+ T cells (p < 0.0001) and CD8+ T cells (p < 0.01 to p < 0.0001). Additionally, it suppressed T cell proliferation in the mouse MLR (p < 0.05 to p < 0.0001), but this effect was observed in only one human donor (p < 0.001 to p < 0.0001). Furthermore, the administration of CS12192 at 40 and 80 mg/kg BID significantly improved the survival rate in the BMT model, resulting in cumulative 62-day survival rates of 88.89% (p < 0.01) and 100% (p < 0.001), respectively, compared with prednisolone (p < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: CS12192 is a novel, potent and selective JAK3 inhibitor demonstrating great potential to mitigate acute GVHD.
42098914 | Avian lung single-cell atlas elucidates evolutionary divergence in endothermic respiration. The evolution of distinct lung architectures in birds (tubular air capillaries) and mammals (alveoli) represents a classic example of convergent evolution, yet their cellular differences remain poorly characterized. We present the comparative single-cell atlas of avian and mammalian lungs, revealing four key findings. First, we discover a persistent hybrid cell population (AT1/AT2) in neonatal and adult birds that disappears postnatally in mice, uncovering distinct strategies for lung maintenance. Second, cross-species comparisons highlight striking divergence in alveolar cell types, reflecting specialized adaptations to different respiratory demands. Third, avian lungs show unique molecular signatures in proliferation and saccular development pathways, potentially explaining their superior respiratory efficiency. Fourth, our viral receptor analysis uncovered differential ACE2 (SARS-CoV-2 receptor) expression but conserved EGFR (influenza A receptor), suggesting species-specific disease vulnerabilities. This work provides unprecedented insights into the evolutionary and developmental mechanisms shaping lung diversity in endotherms, with implications for respiratory biology, regenerative medicine, and zoonotic disease research.
42045172 | Targeting GPR34 in damage-associated macrophages enhances anti-tumor immunity and the efficacy of Surufatinib in pancreatic cancer. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are pivotal in the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). The efficacy of targeting the CSF-1/CSF-1R axis in PDAC remains uncertain. Using single-cell RNA sequencing on specimens from patients treated with Surufatinib plus chemotherapy, we identified a distinct subset of damage-associated macrophages (DAMs) characterized by high GPR34 expression. In Gpr34DeltaLyz2 mouse models and in vitro co-cultures, GPR34+ macrophages responded to tissue damage by releasing lysophosphatidylserine (LysoPS), which enhanced CXCL16 secretion and efferocytosis. This efferocytosis promoted MHC-I degradation via the macrophage lysosomal pathway, leading to CD8+ T cell exhaustion. Combining a GPR34 antagonist with chemotherapy and surufatinib significantly enhanced anti-tumor responses in preclinical models. These findings identify GPR34 as a promising immune therapeutic target.
42148101 | A Chlamydia trachomatis CPAF-STING agonist conjugate vaccine administered intramuscularly and intradermally is immunogenic in the pig model. Introduction: Chlamydia trachomatis (Ct) is the most common bacterial cause of sexually transmitted infection worldwide. Given the limited effectiveness of current Ct screening and treatment programs, alongside the lack of lasting immunity from natural infection, developing an effective vaccine is crucial. Pigs serve as a valuable model for chlamydia research due to their physiological similarity to humans and natural susceptibility to Chlamydia suis (Cs), a close relative of Ct. Thus, we utilized the pig model to evaluate the immunogenicity of three Chlamydial Protease-like Activity Factor (CPAF)-based vaccine candidates. Because stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway agonists have shown promise as adjuvants for subunit vaccines but are limited by rapid diffusion from the injection site and poor cellular uptake, we evaluated two improved STING agonist formulations: direct conjugation of the agonist to CPAF (CPAF-STG1151) and adsorption onto phytoglycogen nanoparticles (CPAF/NanoST), and compared their performance to a conventional oil-in-water microemulsion adjuvant (CPAF/IMS1313). Methods: Pigs received two intramuscular (IM) or two intradermal (ID) doses and adaptive immune responses were assessed weekly by three-color FluoroSpot assays, multi-parameter flow cytometry and anti-CPAF ELISAs. Results: Among the vaccine candidates tested, the novel CPAF-STG1151 conjugate elicited the strongest systemic T cell response. It induced a robust cell-mediated immune response characterized by IFNgamma production with or without TNFalpha coproduction and this response was equally mediated by all T cell subsets (CD4, CD8 and gammadelta T cells). The route of administration (IM vs. ID) had no significant effect on either the magnitude or the cytokine profile of the cell-mediated immune response. The highest anti-CPAF IgG serum levels were also observed following vaccination with the CPAF-STG1151 conjugate vaccine candidate. Discussion: Thus, conjugation of the STING pathway agonist STG1151 to the Chlamydia protein CPAF resulted in a highly immunogenic subunit vaccine. Future studies will determine mucosal administration routes and assess the vaccine efficacy of this promising Ct vaccine candidate.
42148100 | Proteomic insights into aprotinin's immunomodulatory effects in attenuating renal fibrosis in a unilateral ureteral obstruction model. Background: Chronic kidney disease involves progressive fibrosis and immune dysregulation. Aprotinin, a broad-spectrum serine protease inhibitor, has shown dose-dependent renal effects, but its role in obstructive nephropathy is unclear. Methods: A unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) mouse model was used to assess aprotinin at 0.5 mg/day and 1 mg/day delivered via osmotic pumps for 7 days. Renal injury and fibrosis was evaluated by histology, serum markers, and expression of inflammation- and fibrosis-related genes. Mechanistic insights were obtained through LC-MS/MS proteomic profiling, functional enrichment analysis, and CIBERSORT-based immune deconvolution. Key proteins, signaling pathways, and immune cell infiltration were validated by Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry. Results: Aprotinin at 1 mg/day significantly reduced tubular injury and interstitial fibrosis, whereas the 0.5 mg/day dose showed minimal benefit. The higher dose caused mild increases in serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. Proteomic analysis identified differentially expressed proteins enriched in immune regulatory pathways. Cathepsin S (CTSS), a protease involved in antigen presentation, was markedly decreased by aprotinin. CIBERSORT revealed reduced follicular helper T cells and partial restoration of naive CD4+ T cells following treatment. These changes were further confirmed by flow cytometry. Western blotting and immunohistochemistry confirmed reduced CTSS and CD4 expression, along with decreased CD4+ T-cell infiltration and inhibition of ERK signaling. Conclusions: Aprotinin attenuates renal fibrosis in UUO in a dose-dependent manner. Its effects are associated with suppression of CTSS, inhibition of ERK signaling, and modulation of CD4+ T-cell subsets, and reduced immune cell infiltration. These findings indicate that aprotinin attenuates renal fibrosis through immunomodulatory mechanisms and support further investigation of serine protease inhibitors in immune-mediated kidney injury.
42148102 | In silico design and experimental validation of a multi-epitope vaccine candidate against Helicobacter hepaticus associated chronic liver inflammation. Background: Helicobacter hepaticus is an emerging enterohepatic pathogen associated with chronic gastrointestinal and hepatic inflammatory disorders. Despite its clinical relevance, effective vaccination strategies remain unavailable due to antigenic variability, immune evasion, and limited induction of durable cellular immunity. Methods: An integrated reverse vaccinology and experimental validation approach was employed to design a multi-epitope vaccine against H. hepaticus. Two conserved outer membrane proteins, BamA and an organic solvent tolerance protein, were selected based on antigenicity, surface exposure, and safety profiling. Immunodominant cytotoxic and helper T-cell epitopes were predicted, screened for immunogenicity, allergenicity, and toxicity, and assembled into a rationally designed construct incorporating human beta-defensin-3 as an adjuvant. Structural modeling, conformational B-cell epitope mapping, molecular docking, molecular dynamics simulations, and in silico immune simulations were performed. The construct was recombinantly expressed in Escherichia coli and evaluated through biophysical, antibacterial, and immunological assays. Results: The vaccine candidate exhibited favorable physicochemical properties, structural stability, and strong binding affinity toward Toll-like receptor 2. In silico immune simulations predicted robust Th1-biased immune responses with effective memory formation. Recombinant expression yielded a soluble, monodisperse protein. Functional assays demonstrated significant inhibition of H. hepaticus growth and host cell adhesion. In vitro immunogenicity studies revealed strong peripheral blood mononuclear cell proliferation, enhanced CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell activation, elevated Th1 cytokine secretion, and antigen-specific antibody production. Conclusion: The proposed multi-epitope vaccine candidate induces coordinated innate and adaptive immune responses and exhibits promising antibacterial activity against H. hepaticus. This study provides a comprehensive and translational framework for epitope-based vaccine development and supports further in vivo evaluation of the candidate vaccine.
42148108 | Interplay between microRNAs and TGF-beta signaling in T cells: implications for Th9 differentiation and immune pathogenesis. Since the discovery of microRNAs (miRNAs) in 1993, they have been established as key post-transcriptional regulators of immune cell function. In particular, miRNAs have emerged as key modulators of CD4+ T cell activation and differentiation. Accumulating evidence indicates that miRNAs influence CD4+ T cell fate through modulating transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) signaling, which negatively regulates T helper (Th) 1 and Th2 cell differentiation, while promoting the generation of regulatory T (Treg) cells, Th17 as well as Th9 cells. Despite these advances, our understanding of specific roles of miRNAs and their target molecules in CD4+ T cells remains limited, particularly in Th9 cells. In this review, we discuss the regulatory networks of miRNAs targeting the TGF-beta signaling pathway in CD4+ T cells, with a special focus on their roles in Th9 cell differentiation and function.
41418349 | Exploring shared diagnostic genes and molecular mechanisms in multiple sclerosis and psoriasis through bioinformatics analysis and machine learning. BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) and psoriasis are both immune-mediated inflammatory diseases. Previous studies have reported comorbidity between MS and psoriasis, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study aims to elucidate the shared pathogenesis and core genes underlying MS and psoriasis. METHODS: Microarray data for MS and psoriasis were downloaded from the GEO database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were analyzed using \limma\ package. Functional enrichment analyses were conducted to elucidate biological functions of common DEGs. PPI analysis and machine learning were used to select core genes, and the diagnostic efficacy was evaluated using nomograms. Single-cell analysis and CeRNA network construction were performed. Immune cell infiltration was assessed by single-sample gene set enrichment. Drug prediction, molecular docking and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations identified potential therapeutic drugs. RESULTS: 89 DEGs identified in MS and psoriasis datasets were enriched in the NOD-like receptor, NF-kappaB, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. IL7R and IRF8 were determined as core genes with good diagnostic performance (AUC >0.7). Immune infiltration analysis showed dysregulation of activated CD4 T cells, activated dendritic cells, and gamma delta T cells in both diseases. Single-cell analysis suggested that IL7R and IRF8 were mainly expressed in immune cells. Molecular docking and MD simulations revealed that parthenolide is a potential therapeutic agent. CONCLUSION: This study highlights the critical role of immune dysregulation and chronic inflammation in MS and psoriasis comorbidity. IL7R and IRF8 were identified as core genes and novel intervention targets for both diseases. These findings provide new insights for future research.
42138792 | BCMA-Engineered Dendritic Cell-Derived Exosomes as Bi-Functional Therapeutics Orchestrating Cytokine Sequestration and Immune Activation for Multiple Myeloma. The immunosuppressive bone marrow microenvironment (BMM) and cytokine dysregulation remain major barriers to curing multiple myeloma (MM). Despite the promise of B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA)-targeted therapies, their clinical utility is often limited by antigen escape and insufficient immune activation. Here, we developed DB Exo, a cell-free therapeutic platform utilizing allogeneic dendritic cell-derived exosomes engineered to surface display BCMA. Mechanistically, DB Exo act as molecular decoys that predominantly sequester soluble APRIL with partial BAFF attenuation, thereby effectively disrupting NF-kappaB pro-survival signaling in MM cells. Concurrently, DB Exo retain inherited costimulatory molecules (CD80, CD86, and MHC-II) to trigger strong host immune activation, expanding CD8+ T cells and enhancing the secretion of cytotoxic effector molecules. In an orthotopic murine model, DB Exo suppress tumor burden by ~72% and remodel the BMM by increasing cytotoxic T-lymphocyte infiltration and elevating serum IFN-gamma and Granzyme B levels. The robust antitumor efficacy was further validated in a subcutaneous model, with DB Exo achieving a ~75% reduction in tumor weight. Our findings establish DB Exo as a potent bi-functional exosome platform that integrates targeted cytokine blockade with in situ immune activation, offering a promising cell-free strategy for MM treatment.
39641280 | From SMILES to Enhanced Molecular Property Prediction: A Unified Multimodal Framework with Predicted 3D Conformers and Contrastive Learning Techniques. We present a novel molecular property prediction framework that requires only the SMILES format as input but is designed to be multimodal by incorporating predicted 3D conformer representations. Our model captures comprehensive molecular features by leveraging both the sequential character structure of SMILES and the three-dimensional spatial structure of conformers. The framework employs contrastive learning techniques, utilizing InfoNCE loss to align SMILES and conformer embeddings, along with task-specific loss functions, such as ConR for regression and SupCon for classification. To address data imbalance, we incorporate feature distribution smoothing (FDS), a common challenge in drug discovery. We evaluated the framework through multiple case studies, including SARS-CoV-2 drug docking score prediction, molecular property prediction using MoleculeNet data sets, and kinase inhibitor prediction for JAK-1, JAK-2, and MAPK-14 using custom data sets curated from PubChem. The results consistently outperformed state-of-the-art methods, with ConR and FDS significantly improving regression tasks and SupCon enhancing classification performance. These findings highlight the flexibility and robustness of our multimodal model, demonstrating its effectiveness across diverse molecular property prediction tasks, with promising applications in drug discovery and molecular analysis.
41452274 | Ex vivo air-liquid interface respiratory mucosa platform to study type 2-driven Asthma. Asthma is a heterogeneous disorder in which a subset of patients exhibits a type 2 (Th2- or T2-high) endotype driven by eosinophilic, IL-4/IL-13-mediated inflammation. Traditional animal and 2D cell-based models incompletely reproduce human airway immune responses, particularly the Th2 phenotype. To address this gap, we developed a three-dimensional (3D) ex vivo model of human nasal respiratory mucosa incorporating type-2-biased immune stimulation. Primary nasal mucosal biopsies were expanded under air-liquid interface (ALI) conditions and either exposed to IL-4/IL-13 or co-cultured with autologous polarized CD4+ Th2 lymphocytes and dendritic cells to generate a Th2-dominated microenvironment. Tissue morphology and barrier function were monitored longitudinally by phase-contrast microscopy and transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER). Induction of a type-2 inflammatory state was confirmed by increased secretion of periostin, STAT-6, IL-4 and IL-13 in apical and basal compartments, together with modest TEER reduction and evidence of epithelial remodeling, whereas IL-8 and chitinase family proteins did not increase, thereby excluding a COPD-like or type-2-low phenotype. Rather than fully recapitulating clinical asthma, this methodological model reproduces key immunopathologic features of T2-high airway inflammation in a patient-derived 3D context. It provides a stable, human-relevant platform for mechanistic studies and for future preclinical screening of targeted anti-inflammatory therapies.
39930897 | Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibition enhances platelet production and megakaryocyte maturation in patients with COVID-19. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a systemic infection frequently involving the haematopoietic system. Thrombocytopenia is associated with increased risks of severe disease progression and mortality. Antiviral agents have shown much promise in decreasing viral load and shortening the time to the resolution of symptoms. However, their effect on platelet counts in patients with COVID-19 remains unexplored. Therefore, we first performed a retrospective study to evaluate the variation in platelet mass of hospitalized patients with high-risk COVID-19 who were given either SARS-CoV-2 main protease inhibitor, nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor or no antiviral agents. A total of 177 patients were included, among which 64 received azvudine, 12 received nirmatrelvir-ritonavir and 101 patients received none. Compared to those without antiviral treatment, significantly higher platelet counts' increments were observed in patients receiving azvudine or nirmatrelvir-ritonavir (p = 0.001). Of note, this elevation was significantly more profound in the azvudine group than that in the control group (p < 0.001) or the nirmatrelvir-ritonavir group (p = 0.042). Subsequently, in vitro experiments were conducted to investigate the mechanism of platelet elevation underlying the activity of azvudine. Results showed that azvudine promoted the polyploidization and platelet production of the MEG-01 cell line. Although azvudine had minimal effect on megakaryopoiesis, it could significantly trigger platelet release of megakaryocytes in the presence of SARS-CoV-2 spike-membrane recombinant fusion protein or not. Finally, RNA-sequencing demonstrated that azvudine-treated MEG-01 exhibited a marked increase in VWF, TUBB1 and GP1BA, and upregulated genes associated with the PI3K/AKT and JAK/STAT signalling pathways. In conclusion, our findings indicated that nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibition potentially enhances platelet production and megakaryocyte maturation in patients with COVID-19, suggesting a new therapeutic option for thrombocytopenia.
39770330 | Equivocating and Deliberating on the Probability of COVID-19 Infection Serving as a Risk Factor for Lung Cancer and Common Molecular Pathways Serving as a Link. The COVID-19 infection caused by SARS-CoV-2 in late 2019 posed unprecedented global health challenges of massive proportions. The persistent effects of COVID-19 have become a subject of significant concern amongst the medical and scientific community. This article aims to explore the probability of a link between the COVID-19 infection and the risk of lung cancer development. First, this article reports that SARS-CoV-2 induces severe inflammatory response and cellular stress, potentially leading to tumorigenesis through common pathways between SARS-CoV-2 infection and cancer. These pathways include the JAK/STAT3 pathway which is activated after the initiation of cytokine storm following SARS-CoV-2 infection. This pathway is involved in cellular proliferation, differentiation, and immune homeostasis. The JAK/STAT3 pathway is also hyperactivated in lung cancer which serves as a link thereof. It predisposes patients to lung cancer through myriad molecular mechanisms such as DNA damage, genomic instability, and cell cycle dysregulation. Another probable pathway to tumorigenesis is based on the possibility of an oncogenic nature of SARS-CoV-2 through hijacking the p53 protein, leading to cell oxidative stress and interfering with the DNA repair mechanisms. Finally, this article highlights the overexpression of the SLC22A18 gene in lung cancer. This gene can be overexpressed by the ZEB1 transcription factor, which was found to be highly expressed during COVID-19 infection.
39724969 | Update on inborn errors of immunity. Ever since the first description of an inherited immunodeficiency in 1952 in a boy with gammaglobulin deficiency, new insights have progressed rapidly in disorders that are now referred to as inborn errors of immunity (IEI). In a field where fundamental molecular biology, genetics, immune signaling and clinical care are tightly intertwined, 2022-2024 saw a multitude of advances. Here we report a selection of research updates with a main focus on (1) diagnosis and screening, (2) new genetic defects, (3) susceptibility to severe COVID-19 infection and impact of vaccination, and (4) treatment. Importantly, new pathogenic insights more rapidly impact on treatment outcomes, either through an earlier and more precise diagnosis, or through implementation of novel, personalized treatment. As the field is growing rapidly, awareness, communication and collaboration are key to improving treatment outcomes.
40921667 | [Monomorphic epitheliotropic intestinal T-cell lymphoma: a clinicopathological and genetic mutation characteristics analysis of forty-two cases]. Objective: To investigate the clinicopathological and genetic characteristics of monomorphic epitheliotropic intestinal T-cell lymphoma (MEITL). Methods: The forty-two MEITL cases diagnosed in the Department of Pathology, Ruijin Hospital affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China from 2016 to 2022 was retrospectively analyzed. Clinical data were collected, and follow-up was performed. Morphological characteristics were observed. Immunohistochemistry, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in situ hybridization, clonal rearrangement analysis of T-cell receptor (TCR) genes, and targeted next-generation sequencing (NGS) were performed. Results: Among the 42 patients (male/female ratio of 2.8:1.0), the age range was 32-77 years with a median age of 59.5 (52.0-65.0) years. Grossly, the tumors were presented as ulcerative or exophytic lesions, with a maximum diameter of 2-18 cm. There were 34 cases with a single lesion and 8 cases with more than 1 lesion. The tumor cells in all 42 cases were relatively monotonous in histology and small or medium in size. They had round or oval nuclei, moderately pale or clear cytoplasm, evenly distributed nuclear chromatin, inconspicuous nucleoli, and frequent mitotic figures. In one of the cases, there were moderately large cells, vacuolated nuclei, and clear nucleoli. Lymphoepithelial lesions were observed in 36 (85.7%) of the 42 cases, tumor necrosis in 4 (9.5%) cases, scattered eosinophils and/or plasma cell infiltration in the background in 9 (21.4%) cases, and a \starry sky\ phenomenon in 1 (2.4%) case. The tumor cells in all cases exhibited high expression of CD3, CD2, CD7, CD8, CD56, TIA1, Granzyme B, and Perforin, while some also expressed CD4 (5/41, 12.2%), CD5 (3/41, 7.3%), CD20 (4/41, 11.9%), CD79alpha (2/37, 5.4%), and CD30 (1/34, 2.9%). The Ki-67 proliferation index ranged from 40% to 90%. EBER in situ hybridization tests were negative in all cases. TCR gene clonal rearrangement was detected in 96.4% (27/28) of the tested cases. Targeted NGS revealed commonly mutated genes including SETD2, STAT5B, JAK3, TP53, and CREBBP. The primary treatment was chemotherapy, with 2 cases undergoing autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Follow-up information was obtained for 29 cases, with a follow-up period of 1-73 months. The mortality was 93.1% (27/29). Conclusions: MEITL is a rare and highly aggressive peripheral T-cell lymphoma. Its clinical manifestations are diverse, and diagnosis primarily relies on a comprehensive assessment of pathological morphology, immunohistochemical profiles, and EBV infection status, supplemented by genetic testing if necessary. At present, there is no effective treatment, and its overall prognosis is poor.
38755432 | Establishment and characterization of TK-ALCL1: a novel NPM-ALK-positive anaplastic large-cell lymphoma cell line. TK-ALCL1, a novel anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive anaplastic large-cell lymphoma (ALK+ ALCL) cell line, was established from the primary tumor site of a 59-year-old Japanese male patient. The immune profile of TK-ALCL1 corresponds to that seen typically in primary ALCL cells, i.e., positive for ALK, CD30, EMA, and CD4, but negative for CD2, CD3, CD5, CD8a, and EBV-related antigens. The rearrangement of the T cell receptor-gamma locus shows that TK-ALCL1 is clonally derived from T-lineage lymphoid cells. FISH and RT-PCR analysis revealed that TK-ALCL1 has the nucleophosmin (NPM)-ALK fusion transcript, which is typical for ALK+ ALCL cell lines. When TK-ALCL1 was subcutaneously inoculated into 6-week-old BALB/c Rag2-/-/Jak3-/- (BRJ) mice, it formed tumor masses within 4-6 weeks. Morphological, immunohistochemical, and molecular genetic investigations confirmed that the xenograft and the original ALCL tumor were identical. The ALK inhibitors Alectinib and Lorlatinib suppressed proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. Thus, TK-ALCL1 provides a useful in vitro and in vivo model for investigation of the biology of ALK+ ALCL and of novel therapeutic approaches targeting ALK.
42134328 | Coronavirus protein interaction mapping in bat and human cells reveals network rewiring governing immune evasion and zoonotic potential. Coronaviruses, including severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), can cause severe disease in humans, whereas reservoir hosts such as horseshoe bats remain asymptomatic. To investigate how host-specific protein-protein interactions (PPIs) influence infection, we generated comparative PPI maps for SARS-CoV-2 and its bat progenitor RaTG13, using affinity purification mass spectrometry (AP-MS) in human and greater horseshoe bat cells. We identify both conserved and virus- and host-specific interactions that regulate infection dynamics. Notably, SARS-CoV-2 requires a nonsynonymous mutation in the nucleocapsid to replicate in bat cells expressing human ACE2 and TMPRSS2. Strikingly, a single amino acid difference in Orf9b between viruses acts as a molecular switch that reprograms mitochondrial targeting: in human cells, enhanced translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 70 (Tom70) binding promotes immune evasion, whereas in bat cells, strengthened interaction with the bat-enriched restriction factor mitochondrial amidoxime reducing component 2 (MTARC2) limits infection. These findings establish a general principle by which minimal sequence variation can reshape virus-host interactions and contribute to immune antagonism, host adaptation, and species barriers.
11244042 | Chemokine signaling and functional responses: the role of receptor dimerization and TK pathway activation. A broad array of biological responses, including cell polarization, movement, immune and inflammatory responses, and prevention of HIV-1 infection, are triggered by the chemokines, a family of structurally related chemoattractant proteins that bind to specific seven-transmembrane receptors linked to G proteins. Here we discuss one of the early signaling pathways activated by chemokines, the JAK/STAT pathway. Through this pathway, and possibly in conjunction with other signaling pathways, the chemokines promote changes in cellular morphology, collectively known as polarization, required for chemotactic responses. The polarized cell expresses the chemokine receptors at the leading cell edge, to which they are conveyed by rafts, a cholesterol-enriched membrane fraction fundamental to the lateral organization of the plasma membrane. Finally, the mechanisms through which the chemokines promote their effect are discussed in the context of the prevention of HIV-1 infection.
42147630 | Tuberculosis Peritonitis in an Undiagnosed HIV-Positive Patient: A Case Report. This case highlights the multidisciplinary coordination required to manage perforation peritonitis in a young patient with disseminated tuberculosis, undiagnosed human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH). A 29-year-old woman presented to the hospital at midnight in septic shock, requiring inotropic support. Collateral history revealed a one-year history of significant weight loss. On examination, the patient appeared cachectic with a grossly distended and tender abdomen. CT imaging showed free fluid, locules of free air, and clustered small bowel loops in the mid-abdomen. Following resuscitation in line with the sepsis-6 protocol, the patient underwent emergency laparotomy. Intraoperatively, matted and dusky small bowel loops were observed, along with 2.5 litres of purulent fluid and widespread white nodules on both visceral and parietal peritoneal surfaces. A damage control approach was adopted: the abdomen was extensively lavaged, biopsies were taken, and drains were inserted, while bowel dissection was deliberately avoided to prevent further injury. Cultures later confirmed atypical mycobacteria and polymicrobial flora. Histology demonstrated caseating granulomas, and further testing revealed newly diagnosed HIV with a high viral load and a severely depleted CD4 count. In the postoperative period, the patient developed migrating enterocutaneous fistulas, which were managed through an intestinal failure protocol alongside anti-tuberculosis therapy. A concurrent diagnosis of HLH delayed the initiation of antiretroviral therapy, necessitating a carefully sequenced treatment approach. Despite the high predicted mortality and complexity of presentation, the patient gradually improved, transitioned to oral feeding, regained weight, and resumed full-time work within a year. This case underscores the importance of early damage control surgery, prompt microbiological and histological sampling, and coordinated multidisciplinary care. Lessons from this case may help inform the management of similarly complex presentations in time-critical and resource-constrained settings.
41577662 | The E3 ligases Itch and WWP2 regulate autoimmune neuroinflammation by controlling TH2 to TH17 cell conversion via interleukin-4-STAT5 axis in mice. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurodegenerative autoimmune disease primarily mediated by T helper 17 (TH17) cells. We previously showed that Itch/WWP2 double knockout (DKO) T cells produce high levels of type 2 cytokines, driving spontaneous autoinflammation. Here, we report that DKO TH2-high carrying autoantigen-specific TCR (2D2) develop atypical spontaneous experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), with CD4+ T cells simultaneously producing IL-4 and GM-CSF, directly causing neuroinflammation. Unexpectedly, IL-4 deletion in DKO TH2-high 2D2 mice exacerbates TH17-driven classical EAE, indicating a TH2 to TH17 conversion. Furthermore, we show that the JAK3/STAT5 signaling pathway is critical for maintaining TH2 lineage stability by modulating Blimp1 and c-Maf thereby suppressing TH17 differentiation. Importantly, we find that this phenomenon can also be observed in dupilumab-treated patients with atopic dermatitis who develop psoriasis. Thus, our findings uncover the molecular antagonism and plasticity in the TH2 and TH17 cell programs and identify potential therapeutic targets for modulating TH2 and TH17 cell responses in autoimmune diseases.
42091852 | Low-dose radiotherapy synergizes with PD-1 blockade to achieve durable survival in advanced NSCLC through antitumor neutrophil programming. The optimal strategy for combining radiotherapy (RT) and immunotherapy remains under intensive investigation. Here we developed TRIDENT (Triple Radio-Immunotherapy-Driven ENhanced Therapy), a novel triple-modality regimen combining immunomodulatory low-dose RT (LDRT) to large tumor(s), immunogenic high-dose RT (HDRT) to small tumor(s), and PD-1 blockade. In our phase I trial of 29 patients with treatment-naive, PD-L1-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), TRIDENT achieved a median overall survival (mOS) of 51.3 months (95% CI, 20.7-not reached), higher than outcomes typically reported with contemporary standard (chemo)immunotherapy. This durable survival signal was corroborated in an independent real-world cohort of 97 patients with advanced lung cancer (mOS: 41.5 months; 95% CI, 26.3-63.7). Mechanistically, TRIDENT elicited neutrophil-dependent, systemic antitumor immunity and induced a distinct population of antitumor TNF-alpha+ neutrophils marked by increased MHC and costimulatory molecule expression. Neutrophil recruitment was driven by the CXCL-CXCR2 axis, and polarization toward an antitumor state was programmed by treatment-induced IFN-gamma and GM-CSF. TNF-alpha+ neutrophils enhanced CD8+ T-cell function via ICAM-1-LFA-1 interactions, and adoptive transfer confirmed their intrinsic antitumor activity in vivo. Spatial transcriptomics of patient tumor tissues further identified a TNF-alpha+ neutrophil-effector CD8+ T-cell niche after TRIDENT, providing a stimulatory signal to effector CD8+ T cells. In line with these mechanistic findings, clinical biomarker analyses linked neutrophil number with prolonged survival. TRIDENT activates an RT-driven neutrophil-CD8+ T-cell axis and promotes survival-associated neutrophil activation. These mechanistic insights, coupled with durable survival in our phase I trial, position TRIDENT as a promising strategy for metastatic NSCLC currently undergoing randomized phase II evaluation. Our study also highlights TNF-alpha+ neutrophils as a promising therapeutic strategy to enhance antitumor efficacy.
42068630 | Integrative multi-omics analysis identifies stromal-immune crosstalk as a determinant of immunotherapy efficacy and establishes a prognostic signature in gastric cancer. Immune checkpoint inhibitors like pembrolizumab exhibit variable efficacy in metastatic gastric cancer (GC). This study aimed to identify molecular drivers of pembrolizumab response, explore mechanisms of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) efficacy, and develop a prognostic signature. Transcriptomic analysis of pembrolizumab-treated GC (TIGER database) identified 165 response-associated differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Functional annotation and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) revealed that responder-upregulated genes (R-DEGs) were enriched in immune activation pathways and mainly localized to CD8 + T/NK cells. In contrast, non-responder-upregulated genes (D-DEGs) were linked to extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and mainly expressed in fibroblasts/endothelial cells. CellChat analysis demonstrated that key DEGs mediate immune-stromal crosstalk via MHC-I and collagen/laminin signaling. A prognostic signature (Lasso-StepCox[forward] Riskscore; LSR: APOD, APOH, BATF2, GJA1, MAGED1, SLC5A1, SLCO2A1, VWF, VCAN) was derived and validated in four independent GC cohorts from the GEO and Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Multi-omics analyses showed that LSR-high tumors exhibited aggressive clinicopathological features, increased stromal components, reduced cytotoxic immune infiltration, diminished tumor mutational burden (TMB), and poorer prognosis. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and spatial transcriptomics in GC showed that stromal VWF/VCAN expression correlates with reduced CD8+ T cell granzyme B expression, suggesting T cell dysfunction. High VWF expression in GC predicted poor survival, and a combined VWF/VCAN score showed enhanced prognostic stratification. This study highlights stromal-immune crosstalk as a driver of pembrolizumab resistance and provides a signature as a clinical tool for prognosis and personalized therapy in metastatic GC.
42097139 | Virological characteristics of SARS-CoV-2-related coronaviruses dynamically circulating in Southeast Asia. By sampling horseshoe bats-the reservoir hosts of SARS-CoV-2-related coronaviruses (SC2r-CoVs)-in Thailand, we present two clades of SC2r-CoVs co-circulating in the same bat population. Through a comprehensive set of experimental approaches, including cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM), pseudovirus and live virus assays, and hamster experiments, we characterize the virological properties of these new viruses. We show that one of the two clades discovered in this study is able to bind the human angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor; however, it exhibits reduced fusogenicity and replication in vitro and lower pathogenicity and transmissibility compared with SARS-CoV-2. Phylogeography and recombination analyses reveal a complex evolutionary history for these viruses characterized by extensive, recent geographic movement and recombination with co-circulating virus lineages. Our findings provide new insights into the diversity of SC2r-CoVs dynamically co-circulating in Southeast Asia as well as the virological characteristics of these viruses relative to SARS-CoV-2.
42086498 | Lupus Panniculitis Immunoprofiling Reveals a Cytotoxic, Type 1-Skewed T-Cell Response With Signs of Metabolic Alteration. Lupus panniculitis (LP) is a neglected, often treatment-refractory subtype of cutaneous lupus erythematosus. It is characterized by inflammation of subcutaneous adipose tissue, and the pathomechanisms are poorly understood. We sought to explore the cellular and molecular signatures of LP and their relationship to systemic lupus erythematosus. We performed imaging mass cytometry (IMC; LP n = 8, Healthy Control (HC) n = 6) and targeted transcript profiling by NanoString nCounter (Human Immunology Panel, 579 genes; LP n = 9, HC n = 9). LP lesions showed extensive septal leukocyte infiltration. The infiltrate consisted predominantly of T cells (48%), followed by B cells (14%) and antigen-presenting cells (APCs). T cells exhibited a cytotoxic (CD8+, GranzymeB+) and skin-homing (CLA+) phenotype, with upregulation of Th1 markers. They closely interacted with M1 macrophages. B cells displayed strong spatial interactions with naive T cells. NanoString analyses revealed upregulation of T- and B-cell receptor signaling pathway genes, antigen presentation-related genes (MHC-I/II), and Th1 associated programs (STAT1/IRF1), together with activation of innate immune, complement, and pattern-recognition receptor pathways. This was paralleled by strong upregulation of IDO1, a key enzyme in tryptophan metabolism, and inversely correlated, reduced AHR expression. Our data provide new pathomechanistic insights into LP, highlighting overlaps with systemic lupus, but also LP-specific features. This may pave the way for adopting more targeted treatment approaches for LP.
42144192 | Impact of Renal Impairment and Lymphodepletion Regimen on Outcomes after CAR T Cell Therapy in Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma. BACKGROUND: Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T cell therapy revolutionized treatment for relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). The standard lymphodepletion (LDP) regimen is fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (Flu/Cy), but bendamustine has shown comparable efficacy with lower toxicity and is a potentially safer option for patients with renal impairment. OBJECTIVES: This study retrospectively analyzes clinical outcomes and CAR T-cell dynamics in patients with RRMM receiving idecabtagene vicleucel (Ide-cel) or ciltacabtagene autoleucel (Cilta-cel), with a particular focus on the impact of renal function and LDP regimen. STUDY DESIGN: We included a total of 87 patients who received CAR T-cell therapy: 53 with none/mild chronic kidney disease (CKD) and 34 with moderate/severe CKD. LDP consisted of standard-dose Flu/Cy in 67 patients, reduced-dose Flu/Cy in 11 patients, and bendamustine in 9 patients. Toxicity outcomes were monitored over more than 2,000 patient-days, capturing over 20,000 individual data points. RESULTS: Patients with moderate/severe CKD received standard Flu/Cy conditioning less frequently (55.9% vs. 96.2%, p<0.001) and bendamustine-based LDP more often (26.5% vs. 0%, p<0.001). In the survival analysis, we found that CKD status alone did not significantly impact outcomes (OS: p=0.93; PFS: p=0.82). Similarly, when stratified by CAR T-cell product, CKD status did not impact PFS in Ide-cel recipients (p=0.46). In contrast, among Cilta-cel-treated patients, those with none/mild CKD demonstrated significantly improved PFS (p=0.026). LDP regimen had no effect on PFS (p=0.21). In Firth's penalized Cox model, neither CKD nor LDP independently predicted PFS; however, a significant interaction between CKD status and CAR T product was observed (HR 19.32, 95% CI 1.25-2176, p=0.03). Subgroup analyses confirmed that Cilta-cel conferred superior PFS compared with Ide-cel in patients with none/mild CKD (p<0.001), whereas no benefit was seen in those with moderate/severe CKD. The median absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) nadir was observed on day -1 in patients receiving Flu/Cy (0.033 x 109/L) and on day +1 in those receiving bendamustine (0.059 x 109/L). At the time of CAR T-cell infusion, median ALC was significantly higher in the bendamustine group compared to the complete dosage Flu/Cy cohort (p = 0.03). Overall CAR T-cell expansion kinetics did not differ according to CKD status or LDP regimen. Notably, at day 7, Cilta-Cel patients had significantly higher CD4 CAR T cell percentages (of total CD3 CAR T cells) compared to Ide-Cel in the none/mild CKD group (p < 0.001), a difference that persisted through days 14 (p<0.001) and 30 (p<0.001). Analysis of hematologic toxicities showed that bendamustine-based LDP was associated with lower rates of early N-ICAHT (p=0.002) and a higher ANC nadir (p<0.001), while rates of CRS and ICANS were similar between groups. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide a signal supporting the feasibility and safety of bendamustine-based lymphodepletion and highlight the prognostic relevance of renal function in Cilta-Cel-treated patients. While Cilta-Cel generally confers superior efficacy compared with Ide-Cel, this advantage may be attenuated in patients with moderate/severe CKD, potentially due to competing risks such as frailty, early toxicity, or impaired cellular fitness.
42141919 | The in utero experience of NOD fetuses imprints disposition of B- and T-cell populations, autoantibody patterns, and diabetes development. Maternal factors during fetal development may influence the onset and progression of autoimmune diseases such as type 1 diabetes (T1D). Using the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse model, we investigated whether the in utero environment affects diabetes incidence, pancreatic insulitis, autoantibody profiles, and lymphocyte composition. NOD embryos were transferred to C57BL/6 (B6) females, generating NOD/B6 offspring, and reciprocal transfers produced B6/NOD mice. Diabetes incidence was monitored for 52 weeks, and immune parameters were analyzed at 7-11 weeks of age using immunofluorescence, ELISA, and flow cytometry. NOD/B6 mice exhibited a ~50% reduction in cumulative diabetes incidence compared to NOD controls, despite similar insulitis severity. Serum analysis revealed significantly increased IgM titers against insulin, DNA, and GAD65 in NOD/B6 mice relative to NOD mice, along with altered IgG subclass distributions, including elevated IgG1 and IgG2c levels. UMAP and ROC analyses confirmed that distinct IgG subclass patterns were influenced by the maternal environment. Furthermore, NOD/B6 mice displayed an intermediate phenotype in B cell subset distribution and a notable increase in CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the blood and spleen, with restored CD25 expression compared to NOD mice. Marginal zone B cells as well as thymic B cell proportions were reduced in NOD/B6 relative to NOD, whereas bone marrow B cell development remained unaffected. These findings demonstrate that maternal factors imprint long-term changes in adaptive immunity and modulate diabetes susceptibility in NOD mice. The observed alterations in antibody profiles and the Treg population suggest that transplacental influences contributed to immune regulation beyond genetic predisposition, highlighting a potential non-genetic contributing factor in T1D pathogenesis.
42112122 | Effects of Korean Red ginseng on the regulation of inflammation, cell death, and fibrosis in a mouse model of rheumatoid arthritis featuring spike protein overexpression. Background: COVID-19 causes inflammation, autoantibody production, and thrombosis-features commonly observed in autoimmune diseases like rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In RA patients infected with COVID-19, immunosuppressive treatments can weaken viral defenses and worsen inflammation. The effects of red ginseng on these patients remain unexplored. We investigated the therapeutic potential of red ginseng extract (RGE) in an RA model with SARS-CoV-2 spike protein overexpression. Materials and methods: Plasmids expressing the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and ACE2 were delivered into mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA). They were orally administered RGE, and effects were assessed via immunohistochemistry, confocal analysis, and ELISA. We analyzed the regulation of Th17 and Treg cells and related cytokines, as well as markers of inflammation, cell death, and fibrosis in splenocytes and fibroblasts. We also examined the combined effects of RGE and methotrexate (MTX). Results: Oral RGE supplementation improved joint inflammation and damage, increasing Treg cells in the spleen. RGE reduced the expression of inflammatory cytokines (IL-17, IL-6, MCP-1, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha), cell death markers (pMLKL, Caspase1), and fibrosis markers (alpha-SMA, Col1A1) in synovial tissue. In vitro, RGE decreased the expression of these markers in fibroblasts and splenocytes. RGE and MTX had inhibitory effects in the CIA model, with regulatory effects on immune cells, suppressing Th17 cells and enhancing Treg cells. Conclusion: RGE inhibits inflammatory cell death, fibrosis, and modulates immune cells. Its inhibitory effect with MTX suggests therapeutic benefits for RA patients co-infected with COVID-19.
40055791 | Link of TMPRSS2 expression with tumor immunogenicity and response to immune checkpoint inhibitors in cancers. BACKGROUND: SARS-CoV-2 and other viruses rely on the protease function of the TMPRSS2 protein to invade host cells. Despite cancer patients often experience poorer outcomes following SARS-CoV-2 infection, the role of TMPRSS2 in different cancer types has not yet been analyzed in detail. Therefore, the aim of the study was to determine the expression, function and clinical relevance of TMPRSS2 in tumors. METHODS: Publicly accessible RNA sequencing data from tumors, adjacent tissues and whole blood samples of COVID-19 patients as well as data from human tumor epithelial and endothelial cells infected with SARS-CoV-2 were analyzed for TMPRSS2 expression and correlated to the expression of immune-relevant genes and clinical parameters. In vitro models of cells transfected with TMPRSS2 (TMPRSS2high), siTMPRSS2 or mock controls (TMPRSS2low cells) were analyzed by qPCR, flow cytometry, ELISA and Western blot for the expression of immune response-relevant molecules. Co-cultures of TMPRSS2 model systems with blood peripheral mononuclear cells were employed to evaluate immune cell migration, cytotoxicity and cytokine release. RESULTS: Higher expression levels of TMPRSS2 were found in blood from patients infected with SARS-CoV-2, while TMPRSS2 expression levels significantly varied between the tumor types analyzed. TMPRSS2high tumor cells exhibit increased activity of the interferon (IFN) signal pathway accompanied by an increased expression of class I human leukocyte antigens (HLA-I) and programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) elevated interleukin 6 (IL-6) secretion and reduced NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity compared to TMPRSS2low mock controls. Treatment with a Janus kinase (JAK) 2 inhibitor or TMPRSS2-specific siRNA decreased TMPRSS2 expression. Co-cultures of the in vitro TMPRSS2 models with peripheral blood mononuclear cells in the presence of the immune checkpoint inhibitor nivolumab resulted in a significantly increased migration and infiltration of immune cells towards TMPRSS2high cells and a reduced release of the innate immunity-related cytokines CCL2 and CCL3. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides novel insights into the role of TMPRSS2 in various tumor systems and the impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on the host immunogenicity via the activation of immune-relevant pathways. These findings were linked to the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy, offering a potential alternative strategy to mitigate the severity of COVID-19.
42104510 | Mesenchymal stem cell derived exosomes mitigate COVID-19 cytokine storm via Annexin A1 and TGF-beta mediated MAPK pathway inhibition. BACKGROUND: Severe COVID-19 is marked by a dysregulated inflammatory response, known as a cytokine storm, resulting in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and multiple organ failure. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes (MSC-Exos) have demonstrated potential as immunomodulatory agents. This work investigates the possibility of MSC-Exos to mitigate excessive inflammation in COVID-19 by targeting the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling pathway. METHODOLOGY: We integrated molecular docking analysis between TGF-beta and Annexin A1 as exosomal proteins and key component proteins of the MAPK pathway (p38, ERK1/2, JNK1). The in-silico results were then validated in vivo using a Syrian hamster model of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Quantitative PCR (qPCR), western blotting, and histological examination were employed to evaluate the effects of MSC-Exos therapy on MAPK pathway activation, cytokine production, and lung tissue pathology. RESULTS: The in-silico study revealed extensive hydrogen bonding and hydrophobic interactions at the protein-protein interfaces between exosomal proteins and MAPK components. These interactions suggest that exosomal proteins may modulate MAPK signaling pathways. In vivo, MSC-Exos administration led to marked downregulation of pivotal genes in the MAPK signaling pathway (MEKK1, MEKK2, MEKK3), diminished phosphorylation of JNK1, p38, and ERK1/2, and lowered production of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha). Histopathological examination demonstrated ameliorated lung tissue structure, characterized by diminished alveolar wall thickness and decreased immune cell infiltration. CONCLUSION: MSC-Exos elicit immunomodulatory effects in SARS-CoV-2-Infected hamsters, partially by directly targeting and blocking the MAPK signaling pathway. These findings offer a compelling justification for the clinical assessment of MSC-Exos as a therapeutic approach to alleviate the cytokine storm and enhance outcomes in severe COVID-19 by targeting the ACE2-Independent pathway.
42078867 | SARS-CoV-2 infection reduces the number of spermatogonial stem cells and dysregulates the transcriptional landscape of the human testis. SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus emerged in 2019, leading to the Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Expression of viral entry factors such as ACE2 and TMPRSS2 is higher in the testis, particularly in Sertoli cells, Leydig cells, and spermatogonia. To understand COVID-19's impact on testicular cell populations and gene expression, we analyzed testicular tissue samples from 28 COVID-19 patients and compared them with 23 non-diseased controls. COVID-19 samples showed increased immune cell infiltration, thrombosis, and reduced numbers of testicular cells. There was a significant decrease in Sertoli cells and spermatogonial stem cells (SSC) among COVID-19 patients, associated with high levels of DNA damage and apoptosis in these cell types. To explore the pathways through which the virus affects testicular function, we profiled 112,657 single-nucleus transcriptomes from the testes of 4 COVID-19 patients and 4 controls. We found that COVID-19 infection alters multiple transcriptome clusters and induces a new COVID-19-specific cluster. To confirm that these transcriptome changes are COVID-19-specific, we compared our results with those from the brains of patients with COVID-19 and influenza. We observed an average of 144 dysregulated genes unique to COVID-19, regardless of tissue type. Lastly, we examined whether the SSC phenotype seen in fatal COVID-19 cases was also present in recovered patients. Indeed, recovered patients also exhibited high DNA damage and a reduced SSC population at 3, 6, and 12 months post-infection. Additionally, embryos derived from recovered patients' sperm showed lower fertilization rates compared to control-derived embryos and fewer live births. Overall, our findings demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 disrupts spermatogenesis, alters the transcriptional landscape, and affects human testicular architecture and function well after the acute phase of infection, with potential long-term consequences for male fertility.
39637679 | The development of therapeutics and vaccines against COVID-19. Since the COVID-19 pandemic, it has caused a great threat to the global economy and public health, initiatives have been launched to control the spread of the virus. To explore the efficacy of drugs, a large number of clinical trials have been carried out, with the purpose of providing guidelines based on high-quality evidence for clinicians. We mainly discuss therapeutic agents for COVID-19 and explain the mechanism, including antiviral agents, tocilizumab, Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors, neutralizing antibody therapies and corticosteroids. In addition, the COVID-19 vaccine has been proven to be efficacious in preventing SARS-CoV-2 infection. We systematically analyzed four mainstream vaccine platforms: messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccines, viral vector vaccines, inactivated vaccines and protein subunit vaccines. We evaluated the therapeutic effects of drugs and vaccines through enumerating the most typical clinical trials. However, the emergence of novel variants has further complicated the interpretation of the available clinical data, especially vaccines and antibody therapies. In the post-epidemic era, therapeutic agents are still the first choice for controlling the progression of disease, whereas the protective effect of vaccines against different strains should be assessed comprehensively.
9712354 | Microsatellite polymorphism within the MICB gene among Japanese patients with Behcet's disease. Behcet's disease (BD) is known to be associated with HLA-B51. In order to investigate the influence of the MICB gene, located about 120 kb centromeric of the HLA-B gene, on the susceptibility to BD, (CA/TG) dinucleotide repeat microsatellite polymorphism in intron 1 of the MICB gene was investigated among 77 Japanese patients with BD, 60 randomly selected controls and 28 HLA-B51-positive unrelated healthy controls. There was no significant difference in the phenotype frequency of the microsatellite polymorphism between the BD patients and controls. This result suggests that the MICB gene itself is not responsible for the development of BD, and that the candidate gene(s) for BD is located between the MICA and HLA-C genes.
42142240 | Food-Derived Limosilactobacillus fermentum GR-3 Enhances Anti-PD-1 Immunotherapy Efficacy. Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has improved the cancer treatment, its application remains constrained by heterogeneous response rates and immune-related adverse events. While gut microbiome modulation represents a promising avenue to optimize ICB, rationally selected probiotics with defined mechanistic actions are critically lacking. Here, we selected Lactobacillus fermentum GR-3 (L. fermentum GR-3), a food-derived strain pre-screened for exceptional gastrointestinal resilience (maintaining > 107 CFU/mL), antioxidant activity (87.4% DPPH-Scavenging efficiency), and immunomodulatory potential, as an oral combination strategy to enhance anti-PD-1 therapy. In the MC38 murine colorectal cancer model, oral L. fermentum GR-3 synergistically enhanced ICB efficacy, yielding significantly greater tumor suppression than anti-PD-1 monotherapy (51.7% volume reduction vs. untreated controls), while attenuating therapy-associated weight loss. Locally within the tumor microenvironment (TME), the combination therapy promoted dendritic cell maturation (MHC-II+ DCs reaching 56.0%), favored pro-inflammatory macrophage polarization (M1 increased to 20.8%, while M2 reduced to 2.57%), and suppressed regulatory T cell infiltration (Tregs decreased to 2.32%). These shifts strongly correlated with enhanced cytotoxic responses, with Granzyme B+ CD8+ T cells reaching 40.4% (doubling the effect of PD-1 monotherapy). Mechanistically, L. fermentum GR-3 colonization partially reversed tumor-associated gut dysbiosis, enriching short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing consortia (e.g., Lachnospiraceae and Bacteroides) and increasing intestinal SCFA concentrations (e.g., propionic and butyric acids recovering to 70.13 and 26.07 muM/g, respectively)). This microbial-metabolic shift was accompanied by upregulated expression of mucosal tight junction genes (ZO-1, Occludin). Furthermore, L. fermentum GR-3 facilitated a balanced immune response. Systemically, it alleviated oxidative stress and buffered peripheral inflammatory signals, contributing to immune homeostasis in non-tumor tissues (spleen and colon). Collectively, these findings position L. fermentum GR-3 as a grounded, translatable strategy to simultaneously enhance ICB efficacy and improve therapeutic tolerability.
42145723 | Epstein-Barr virus-associated smooth muscle tumor of the lung in a child: a case report and literature review. Background: Pulmonary Epstein-Barr virus-associated smooth muscle tumor (EBV-SMT) is extremely rare in children with congenital immunodeficiency. This case report describes the clinical details of a pediatric pulmonary EBV-SMT case. Case presentation: A 10-year-old boy presented with a three-year history of persistent cough and intermittent fever. Chest computed tomography (CT) revealed multiple nodules in both lungs. Histopathological examination of bronchoscopic excision specimens revealed spindle cell proliferation with a preliminary diagnosis of myofibromatosis, followed by immunohistochemical analysis showing positivity for smooth muscle actin (SMA), Ki-67 (5-8%), and calponin, while in situ hybridization showed diffuse positivity for Epstein-Barr virus-encoded RNA (EBER), confirming the diagnosis of EBV-SMT. Further immunological evaluation revealed suspected underlying immune dysfunction, characterized by persistently low CD4 + T-cell counts. The patient underwent multiple bronchoscopic interventions, including electrosnaring and forceps excision, as well as laser therapy, high-frequency electrocautery, and cryotherapy, to manage the largest pulmonary and intrabronchial lesions. He was also managed with regular intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) therapy and close clinical monitoring. Conclusion: Pulmonary EBV-SMT should be considered in pediatric patients with unexplained pulmonary nodules and underlying immunodeficiency. Early diagnosis is essential, and a combination of local tumor control with surgical or bronchoscopic interventions and immunomodulatory therapy may be necessary. However, these treatments may not prevent tumor recurrence and progression, highlighting the challenges in long-term management.
42117299 | Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron Improves Colorectal Cancer Prognosis by Remodeling the Immune Microenvironment. BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) progression is closely associated with gut microbiota. Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron (B.theta), a key species in the human cecal and colonic microbiota, plays an incompletely defined role in CRC progression. METHODS: CRC animal models were established utilizing immunocompetent C57BL/6 mice and immunodeficient BALB/C nude mice. Histopathological changes were assessed by H&E staining. Immune cell infiltration was evaluated by IHC. CD8+ T cells and cancer cells were treated with B.theta culture supernatant. Cytokine secretion was measured by ELISA. Surface protein expression levels on CD8+ T cells and cancer cell apoptosis were analyzed by flow cytometry. CD8+ T cell proliferation was determined by the CFSE assay. Tumor-killing activity of CD8+ T cells was assessed by LDH release assay. RESULTS: In C57BL/6 mice, B.theta suppressed tumor development and promoted T cell infiltration. However, B.theta had no significant impact on CRC progression in BALB/C nude mice. B.theta supernatant treatment did not affect CRC cell phenotypes, including viability, apoptosis, MHC-I expression, and extracellular ATP levels. Conversely, B.theta supernatant upregulated CD69 and CD44 expression on CD8+ T cells, promoted IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha secretion, enhanced proliferation, and consequently augmented their cytotoxicity against CRC cells. CONCLUSION: B.theta suppresses malignant CRC progression by modulating host immune responses.
42040467 | Blood Coagulation in COVID-19: Systems-Biology Evidence, Clinical Implications, and Therapeutic Opportunities in an Evolving Pandemic. Background: SARS-CoV-2 continues to cause substantial morbidity, with COVID-19-associated coagulopathy driving complications across acute and postacute stages. Host-targeted therapies that address this systemic pathology are urgently needed. Objective: To delineate the network pharmacology of COVID-19 and prioritize drug targets and repurposing candidates using disease-associated transcriptomic signatures and clinical biomarkers. Methods: We implemented an integrative biochem-informatics workflow. Bioinformatics analysis of COVID-19 transcriptomics defined severity-specific gene signatures and dysregulated pathways. A binary scoring matrix prioritized high-confidence drug targets by integrating differential expression, pathway enrichment, biomarker validity, and druggability. Finally, cheminformatics analysis with chemical similarity searching identified potential therapeutic compounds against these top-ranked candidates. Results: Enrichment analysis highlighted blood coagulation as the most significantly dysregulated pathway (FDR = 1.89 x 10-16), with COVID-19-associated coagulopathy also highly enriched (FDR = 6.48 x 10-7). Target prioritization ranked von Willebrand factor (VWF) as the top candidate. Drug screening identified 35 known VWF-targeting compounds, including the small molecule SP-8008. A subsequent similarity search identified 17 structural analogs of SP-8008, including CID 16204324, which has been independently reported as a SARS-CoV-2 main protease (Mpro/3CLpro) inhibitor. Additional high-confidence host targets spanned the RAAS/ACE2, complement (C5a), chemokine signaling (CCL2), and fibrinolysis/coagulation (PAI-1, F2/F3, PLG) regulators, supported by clinical biomarker evidence. Conclusion: Our integrative informatics analysis computationally prioritized coagulation-related pathways as prominent severity-associated host-response signatures in COVID-19. These systems-level findings position coagulation as a transcriptomically supported, central disease program rather than solely a secondary complication. The prioritization of VWF and additional host targets provides a data-driven framework for repositioning therapeutics against the coagulopathic sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
34490415 | Increased risk of severe clinical course of COVID-19 in carriers of HLA-C*04:01. BACKGROUND: Since the beginning of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, there has been increasing urgency to identify pathophysiological characteristics leading to severe clinical course in patients infected with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Human leukocyte antigen alleles (HLA) have been suggested as potential genetic host factors that affect individual immune response to SARS-CoV-2. We sought to evaluate this hypothesis by conducting a multicenter study using HLA sequencing. METHODS: We analyzed the association between COVID-19 severity and HLAs in 435 individuals from Germany (n = 135), Spain (n = 133), Switzerland (n = 20) and the United States (n = 147), who had been enrolled from March 2020 to August 2020. This study included patients older than 18 years, diagnosed with COVID-19 and representing the full spectrum of the disease. Finally, we tested our results by meta-analysing data from prior genome-wide association studies (GWAS). FINDINGS: We describe a potential association of HLA-C*04:01 with severe clinical course of COVID-19. Carriers of HLA-C*04:01 had twice the risk of intubation when infected with SARS-CoV-2 (risk ratio 1.5 [95% CI 1.1-2.1], odds ratio 3.5 [95% CI 1.9-6.6], adjusted p-value = 0.0074). These findings are based on data from four countries and corroborated by independent results from GWAS. Our findings are biologically plausible, as HLA-C*04:01 has fewer predicted bindings sites for relevant SARS-CoV-2 peptides compared to other HLA alleles. INTERPRETATION: HLA-C*04:01 carrier state is associated with severe clinical course in SARS-CoV-2. Our findings suggest that HLA class I alleles have a relevant role in immune defense against SARS-CoV-2. FUNDING: Funded by Roche Sequencing Solutions, Inc.
42144402 | Transcriptomic and proteomic evidence for noncanonical hydrogen sulfide metabolism and immune dysregulation in Down Syndrome. Accelerated immune cell aging is well-recognized feature of Down Syndrome (DS), a condition caused by trisomy of human chromosome 21 (Hsa21). DS predisposes individuals to recurrent infections, autoimmunity, low bone mass and leukemia. To investigate potential connections between immune cell dysfunction or disruption in DS, transcriptomic and plasma proteomic datasets from DS and euploid individuals were examined. High DS superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) mRNA expression was consistently found and was strongly associated with an increased odds of inflammatory co-occurring conditions such as pharyngitis. Higher SOD1 mRNA expression was also associated with increased resting-memory CD4 + T cells, elevated plasma interleukin-16 levels and interferon-gamma protein levels, indicative of pathological pro-inflammatory immune dysregulation. Higher SOD1 mRNA was correlated with increased expression of glutathione and thioredoxin-dependent pathways, both integral to antioxidative responses and the generation of hydrogen sulfide (H2S). Although H2S overproduction in DS has been attributed to higher expression of cystathionine-beta-synthase (CBS), no consistent CBS mRNA elevation was observed in this study. Conversely, the increased expression of a thioredoxin-dependent cysteine catabolism pathway suggests a noncanonical route for H2S overproduction in DS distinct from CBS. Our findings highlight the unexpected relationship between oxidative stress homeostasis and H2S overproduction in DS, extending beyond Hsa21 trisomy.
42147912 | Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-associated cytomegalovirus encephalitis: clinical, imaging, and follow-up characteristics of 11 cases. Background: Patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) are susceptible to cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection due to compromised immune function, with CMV encephalitis carrying high mortality especially in those with extremely low CD4+ T-lymphocyte counts (<50 cells/microL). Current literature consists primarily of case reports and small cross-sectional studies, lacking large-scale systematic analyses and longitudinal follow-up. This study aims to investigate the clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) characteristics of AIDS patients with CMV encephalitis, providing evidence for early diagnosis and treatment. Methods: A retrospective analysis was conducted to evaluate the clinical presentations and MRI imaging characteristics of AIDS patients with CMV encephalitis. Results: Eleven patients (8 males, 3 females; median age 45 years, range, 25-59 years) were included in the study. The median peripheral CD4+ T-lymphocyte count was 18 (interquartile range, 8-53) cells/microL; eight patients (72.7%) had <50 cells/microL. MRI features: lesions were solitary in 4 (36.4%) and multiple in 7 (63.6%) patients, yielding a total of 51 intracranial foci. In terms of distribution, there were 15 lesions in the cerebellum (29.4%), eight lesions in the frontal lobe (15.7%), five lesions each in the brainstem, basal ganglia, and ependyma (9.8% each), three lesions each in the occipital lobe, parietal lobe, thalamus, and corpus callosum (5.9% each), and one lesion in the insula (2.0%). In terms of the signal characteristics, on T1-weighted imaging (T1WI), the lesions were iso- and hypointense in 11 (21.6%) and 40 (78.4%) cases, respectively; on T2-weighted imaging (T2WI)/fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR), the lesions were iso- and hyperintense in 5 (9.8%) and 46 (90.2%) cases, respectively; and on diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), the lesions were hyperintense in 48 lesions (94.1%). The apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values were low in 31 (60.8%) lesions, isointense in 8 (15.7%), and high in 8 (15.7%). Among the 8 patients (33 lesions) who underwent contrast-enhanced MRI, 18 lesions (54.5%) showed no enhancement, while nodular and ring-like enhancements were observed in 6 (18.2%) and 9 (27.3%) lesions, respectively. Four-year post-discharge follow-up: at discharge, eight patients showed improvement, one was discharged against medical advice, and two died. During the 4-year post-discharge follow-up, five patients were lost, and four developed immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS). Conclusions: MRI provides excellent visualization of intracranial lesions in AIDS patients with CMV encephalitis, and exhibits disease-specific imaging characteristics. Beyond its diagnostic value, MRI serves as a reliable non-invasive tool for the longitudinal monitoring of therapeutic response and immune reconstitution events.
39625254 | Identification of RdRp-NiRAN/JAK1 Dual-Target Drugs for COVID-19 Treatment. Inhibition of virus replication and inflammatory response is important for the treatment of severe COVID-19 patients. RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) is indispensable for SARS-CoV-2 replication, and Janus kinase (JAK) 1 inhibitors exert immunosuppressive effects. RdRp/JAK1 dual-target drugs are expected to ameliorate the severity of the COVID-19 disease. The N-terminal nidovirus RdRp-associated nucleotidyltransferase (NiRAN) domain of RdRp is a pseudokinase, and it has structural similarities with JAK1. Herein, we evaluated the inhibitory effects of triphosphate forms of 31 nucleoside drugs in the DrugBank database on the NiRAN domain and JAK1 through a combination of theoretical and experimental methods. By analyzing the three properties of 31 nucleoside drugs (total hydrophobic surface area, number of hydrophobic atoms, and molecular weight), these drugs met the application rule of our developed molecular docking with conformer-dependent charges (MDCC). Based on the MDCC method combined with molecular dynamics simulations, Azvudine and Citicoline among these 31 drugs showed stronger predicted binding affinities with the NiRAN domain as well as JAK1 compared to the reference drug Remdesivir. Further experimental verification, including a thermal shift assay and homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence assay, demonstrated that Azvudine was an RdRp-NiRAN/JAK1 dual-target drug. This work provided a previously unexplored mechanism of Azvudine for COVID-19 treatment and proposed a design concept for RdRp-NiRAN/JAK1 dual-target nucleoside drugs.
42146636 | Stromal Gasdermin D-mediated Pyroptosis Drives Maladaptive CD4+ T-cell Remodeling in Tet2-Deficient Hematopoiesis. An inflammatory bone marrow microenvironment is increasingly recognized as critical in myeloid disease evolution, yet how stromal inflammation interfaces with adaptive immunity remains poorly defined. Here, we show that stromal pyroptosis drives mutation-specific myeloid expansion by coordinating monocytic remodeling and CD4+ T-cell activation. Genetic ablation of gasdermin D in the bone marrow stroma suppressed stromal pyroptosis and attenuated Tet2-deficient myeloid expansion. Tet2 deficiency skewed monocyte and macrophage differentiation toward an activated, antigen-presenting state that interacted with pyroptotic stromal cells to promote expansion of a distinct CD4+ T-cell population. These cells expressed canonical T follicular helper markers ( Bcl6 , Cxcr5 , Il21 , and Cd40l ) together with interferon-responsive and tissue-interaction programs, consistent with an inflammation-adapted T FH -like state. CD40L produced by these cells reinforced the expansion of Tet2-deficient monocytes and macrophages, establishing a feed-forward stromal-immune circuit. Disruption of this axis through stromal gasdermin D deficiency or CD40L blockade attenuated myeloid expansion in vivo. Consistent with these findings, patients with isolated TET2 loss-of-function mutations exhibited CD4+ T-cell skewing and CD40L + T-cell-rich tertiary lymphoid structures in the bone marrow. Together, these data identify a pyroptosis-dependent stromal-immune axis that links early myeloid inflammation to maladaptive remodeling of adaptive immunity and reveals a context-dependent therapeutic vulnerability in Tet2-deficient hematopoiesis.
42031958 | A macrophage MHC-I axis links intratumoral heterogeneity to terminal CD8+ T cell exhaustion in lung adenocarcinoma. We integrated bulk, single-cell, and spatial transcriptomics to test whether intratumoral heterogeneity (ITH) aggravates CD8+ T-cell exhaustion (TEX) in lung adenocarcinoma. In bulk cohorts, ITH and TEX were tightly coupled, with ITH-High tumors preferentially exhibiting deeper TEX phenotypes. This dually adverse (high ITH/high TEX) context was associated with increased antigenicity (higher TMB, predicted neoantigen and cancer/testis antigen scores) but reduced TCR diversity, lower global immune/stromal infiltration, more aggressive clinicogenomic features, and poorer survival. Joint ITH-TEX stratification further revealed an additive prognostic effect, with dual-low (low ITH/low TEX) best and dual-high (high ITH/high TEX) worst outcomes. Single-cell analyses implicated macrophages: ITH-High tumors exhibited coordinated upregulation of classical MHC-I antigen-presentation programs (processing/loading; HLA-A/B/C signaling), stronger macrophage TEX communication, and enrichment of terminal TEX states. Spatially, in ITH-High tumors, TEX co-localized more closely with MHC-Ihigh macrophage niches than with macrophages overall, whereas in ITH-Low tumors this proximity was attenuated. B cells showed increased TEX communication but inconsistent MHC-I state spatial coupling, while dendritic cells showed high proximity without ITH-dependent communication increases and weakened colocalization when restricted to MHC-Ihigh. We also derived a six-gene decision-tree classifier (CDC45, CENPF, PCLAF, SCGB3A1, CDCA8, and NDC80) predicting ITH/TEX phenotypes. These data support a macrophage MHC-I axis linking ITH to terminal TEX and motivate combining checkpoint blockade with macrophage reprogramming or modulation of antigen-processing and presentation.
42145770 | Toxicity reduction and immune reconstitution with adjuvant traditional Chinese medicine for postoperative ovarian cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Objective: To systematically evaluate the efficacy of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) as an adjunctive modality in postoperative ovarian cancer management, specifically focusing on its capacity for toxicity reduction and immune reconstitution. Methods: Literature was systematically searched across six databases (China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), Wanfang Database, VIP Database, SinoMed, PubMed, and the Cochrane Library.) for literature published between January 2018 and June 2025. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were included if they compared integrative therapy (TCM plus conventional platinum-based chemotherapy) to conventional therapy alone in postoperative patients with ovarian cancer. The primary endpoint was the incidence of chemotherapy-related adverse events (AEs), while secondary endpoints included immune cell subsets (CD3+, CD4+, CD4+/CD8+ ratio), and Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS). Data were synthesized using random- or fixed-effect models based on heterogeneity ( I 2  ). Results: Twenty-two RCTs (n = 1719) met inclusion criteria. Adjunctive TCM significantly reduced chemotherapy-related AEs (RR = 0.35, 95% CI 0.27-0.46; I 2  =0%), and increased T-cell subsets: CD3+ levels improved (MD = 11.74, 95% CI 10.62-12.85; I 2  =0%) and CD4+ levels increased (MD = 10.04, 95% CI 7.31-12.78; I 2  =93%), whereas the CD4+/CD8+ ratio did not show a statistically significant difference (SMD = 3.22, 95% CI 2.41-4.04; I 2  =90%). KPS scores were higher in the TCM group (MD = 13.06, 95% CI 11.97-14.15; I 2  =93%). Conclusion: The integration of TCM with postoperative chemotherapy provided dual benefit of reducing treatment toxicity and enhancing cellular immune recovery in patients with ovarian cancer. Due to limitations in study quality and heterogeneity, further high-quality RCTs are needed to validate these findings and establish standardized TCM protocols. Systematci review registration: https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD420251242407, CRD420251242407.
42085301 | UBA2-High Osteosarcoma Suppresses Immune Infiltration by Autophagy-Mediated MHC-I Degradation. Osteosarcoma (OS) responds poorly to immune-checkpoint blockade (ICB), and the molecular drivers of its immune-cold state remain unclear. Using multi-omics analyses, we identified an immune-cold OS subtype characterized by enrichment of protein SUMOylation and found the SUMO E1 subunit UBA2 as a key driver. UBA2 was anomalously upregulated in OS cohorts and linked to worse outcomes. Functionally, UBA2 promoted autophagy, thereby exerting noncanonical pro-tumor and immunosuppressive effects. Mechanistically, UBA2 catalyzed SUMO2-dependent SUMOylation of SESN2, enhancing autophagic flux. At the immune interface, UBA2 did not alter the expression of immune checkpoint molecules but reduced surface MHC-I through NBR1-mediated autophagy-lysosomal degradation, thereby limiting CD8+ T-cell infiltration. In vivo, pharmacologic UBA2 inhibition with ML-792 slowed tumor growth and sensitized tumors to ICB therapy. Together, these findings show that UBA2 links SUMOylation to autophagy-driven loss of antigen presentation and immune exclusion, highlighting the UBA2-autophagy-MHC-I axis as a therapeutic target and potential biomarker in OS.
42136834 | Resident T cell activation leads to human hair follicle immune privilege loss ex vivo, which is prevented by the DHODH inhibitor farudodstat: relevance for alopecia areata. The autoimmune hair loss disorder alopecia areata (AA), is characterized by immune privilege (IP) collapse of the hair follicle (HF) bulb resulting from a Th1-dependent inflammatory response. Although CD8+ T cells are recognized key drivers of the disease, it remains to be clarified whether the activation of HF resident T cells suffice to initiate IP loss and thus elicit the cascade of events leading to AA. Here, we utilized the human microdissected HF organ culture model to answer this question by activating intra- and peri-follicular HF resident T cells with alphaCD3/alphaCD28 antibodies. TCR stimulation indeed resulted in enhanced resident T cell proliferation, as indicated by significantly increased CD3+Ki-67+ cells, and higher intrafollicular CD3+ T cell numbers. Furthermore, alphaCD3/alphaCD28 stimulation promoted key signs of HF IP collapse, by increasing bulbar MHC class I and II expression and elevating MHC class II+ cells numbers. We next sought to investigate whether T cell proliferation plays a central role in the TCR activation-dependent collapse of the bulb IP. To test this, we co-administered the DHODH inhibitor farudodstat 1 day prior and during the stimulation with alphaCD3/alphaCD28 in HF organ culture. Short-term treatment with farudodstat reduced the increase in T cell proliferation and significantly decreased the upregulated MHC class I and II expression induced by TCR stimulation with alphaCD3/alphaCD28. Our results show that stimulation of HF resident T cells via TCR engagement induces an AA-like phenotype in healthy human HFs ex vivo, characterized by T cell proliferation and subsequent IP collapse. DHODH inhibition with farudodstat only partially reduces T cell numbers but prevented HF IP collapse induction.
42098610 | Epigenetic and microRNA-mediated regulation of pulmonary fibrosis and immune dysregulation in fatal COVID-19. BACKGROUND: Severe cases of COVID-19 can result in acute respiratory distress syndrome, extensive lung damage, and long-term structural changes, particularly extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling. ECM remodeling is characterized by excessive collagen deposition and imbalanced activity of enzymes, such as matrix metalloproteinases. Although immune and inflammatory pathways in patients with COVID-19 are well understood, the epigenetic and post-transcriptional regulation is not well understood. In this exploratory study, we examined DNA methylation and miRNA-mediated regulation in lung tissues from fatal cases of COVID-19. METHODS: Methods included gene and protein expression analyses, DNA methylation assays, evaluation of DNMT activity, MSP-dPCR, miRNA profiling and pathway enrichment analysis. RESULTS: We observed altered expression of ECM regulators, such as MMP2, MMP9 and ADAM33, as well as molecules related to SARS-CoV-2 infection, including ADAM17 and ACE2. Evidence of methylation-mediated regulation was observed for ADAM33 and ACE2. Two miRNAs were significantly downregulated (miR-16-5p and miR-30d-5p), whereas miR-19a-3p/19b-3p and miR-21-5p were upregulated. Pathway analysis revealed activation of p53, apoptosis, and growth factor related pathways, as well as the suppression of vascular, interferon and T-cell activation signaling pathways. CONCLUSION: Overall, these findings suggest that, in this cohort of fatal COVID-19 cases, lung tissue exhibits features consistent with ECM remodeling, epithelial fibrosis, and immune dysregulation. Additionally, the results raise the possibility that epigenetic alterations and miRNA-mediated regulatory mechanisms may be associated with disease progression in severe cases.
34205992 | An Immunoinformatics Approach for SARS-CoV-2 in Latam Populations and Multi-Epitope Vaccine Candidate Directed towards the World's Population. The coronavirus pandemic is a major public health crisis affecting global health systems with dire socioeconomic consequences, especially in vulnerable regions such as Latin America (LATAM). There is an urgent need for a vaccine to help control contagion, reduce mortality and alleviate social costs. In this study, we propose a rational multi-epitope candidate vaccine against SARS-CoV-2. Using bioinformatics, we constructed a library of potential vaccine peptides, based on the affinity of the most common major human histocompatibility complex (HLA) I and II molecules in the LATAM population to predict immunological complexes among antigenic, non-toxic and non-allergenic peptides extracted from the conserved regions of 92 proteomes. Although HLA-C, had the greatest antigenic peptide capacity from SARS-CoV-2, HLA-B and HLA-A, could be more relevant based on COVID-19 risk of infection in LATAM countries. We also used three-dimensional structures of SARS-CoV-2 proteins to identify potential regions for antibody production. The best HLA-I and II predictions (with increased coverage in common alleles and regions evoking B lymphocyte responses) were grouped into an optimized final multi-epitope construct containing the adjuvants Beta defensin-3, TpD, and PADRE, which are recognized for invoking a safe and specific immune response. Finally, we used Molecular Dynamics to identify the multi-epitope construct which may be a stable target for TLR-4/MD-2. This would prove to be safe and provide the physicochemical requirements for conducting experimental tests around the world.
42143940 | Discovery of novel anthraquinone-based P2X7R antagonist that reinvigorates anti-tumor immunity and overcomes PD-1 resistance in breast cancer. The P2X7 receptor (P2X7R) is critically involved in tumor progression by promoting cancer cell proliferation, invasion, metastasis, and immune evasion. Through structure-based virtual screening of the TOPSCIENCE L1000 library, we identified pixantrone - an FDA-approved agent - as a promising lead compound targeting P2X7R. Leveraging its well-established safety profile and anthraquinone scaffold, we designed and synthesized a novel series of P2X7R antagonists. Among them, the optimized compound 17d displayed potent antagonistic activity (IC50 = 3.57 muM) and specific binding to P2X7R. In addition, 17d exhibited significant antiproliferative activity against MCF-7 cells (IC50 = 0.42 muM) and effectively inhibited their invasive and metastatic capabilities. Compound 17d also demonstrated favorable oral bioavailability and pharmacokinetic properties. Moveover, in a murine breast cancer model, 17d significantly suppressed tumor growth and metastasis while promoting the activation of CD4 and CD8 T cells to enhance antitumor immunity. Notably, 17d acted synergistically with anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody, overcoming resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy. These findings highlight 17d as a promising candidate for P2X7R-targeted cancer therapy and underscore the value of repurposing FDA-approved drugs using structure-based approaches to accelerate the development of safer and more effective anticancer agents.
42117695 | Altered infectivity, cell-cell fusion, and immune evasion of SARS-CoV-2 BA.3.2 and LP.8.1 variants. The continued evolution of SARS-CoV-2 has yielded highly immune-evasive Omicron subvariants that challenge existing population immunity. In late 2024, a novel subvariant designated BA.3.2 emerged independently from the BA.3 lineage, carrying over 50 spike mutations, and representing a distinct evolutionary branch with unclear biological properties. Here, we characterize the BA.3.2 spike-mediated entry, fusogenicity, antigenicity, and neutralization in comparison to its parental BA.3- and JN.1-derived co-circulating LP.8.1 subvariants. Using lentiviral pseudotyping assays, we show that BA.3.2 exhibits significantly reduced infectivity in both 293T-ACE2 and CaLu-3 cells relative to BA.3, accompanied by attenuated spike-mediated cell-cell fusion. Despite its impaired entry, BA.3.2 evades neutralizing antibodies (nAbs) elicited by bivalent mRNA vaccination, Omicron BA.1-wave, and JN.1-wave infection, with a > 25-fold reduction in nAb titers compared to BA.3 in both bivalent mRNA vaccination and Omicron BA.1-wave cohorts. Antigenic mapping confirms remarkable divergences of BA.3.2 and LP.8.1 from the ancestral D614G, Omicron BA.3, and JN.1. Mechanistically, BA.3.2 acquires four new N-linked glycosylation sites in the N-terminal domain (NTD) and receptor-binding domain (RBD) of spike; disruption of which enhances viral infectivity and restores sensitivity to nAbs, suggesting a functional trade-off between immune evasion and spike functionality. Together, our findings define BA.3.2 as a highly immune-evasive variant with altered spike properties, shaped in part by glycan alteration. These results underscore the ongoing antigenic diversification of SARS-CoV-2 and highlight the importance of monitoring independent evolutionary trajectories outside the dominant JN.1 lineage. IMPORTANCE: The Omicron subvariant BA.3.2 has independently evolved from an early BA.3 lineage, carrying over 50 amino acid substitutions in its spike protein. Our study demonstrates that BA.3.2 exhibits markedly reduced infectivity and fusion activity but strong resistance to neutralizing antibodies elicited by vaccination or prior Omicron infection. We further show that newly acquired N-linked glycans in both the N-terminal and receptor-binding domains of BA.3.2 contribute to immune escape, while impairing spike-mediated entry. These findings reveal that glycan remodeling represents a key mechanism driving SARS-CoV-2 antigenic diversification and functional trade-offs between immune evasion and infectivity. Monitoring such independently evolving Omicron lineages is essential for understanding ongoing viral adaptation and for guiding future vaccine design.
42051518 | Bacillus Calmette-Guerin immunotherapy-induced extracellular vesicles promote antitumor immunity in bladder cancer. Background: Intravesical Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) immunotherapy remains one of the most effective treatments for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). However, a substantial proportion of patients fail to respond, and the precise mechanisms underlying BCG's therapeutic effects remain incompletely understood. While extracellular vesicles (EVs) can modulate a range of biological processes, their relevance in this context is also poorly understood. Methods: To investigate the interplay between BCG, EVs, and bladder cancer, bladder cancer (BC) cell lines, dendritic cell (DC) and T cell co-culture systems, nanoparticle tracking analysis, molecular profiling, and Western blotting approaches were employed in vitro. Subcutaneous MB49 tumor models in mice were additionally used to assess the impact of exogenously administered BCG-induced EVs on DC activation, T cell proliferation, and antitumor efficacy in vivo. Results: We identified a novel mechanism of action involving BCG-induced EVs (EVsBCG). Following BCG internalization by bladder cancer (BC) cells, a robust immune cascade is triggered, accompanied by a surge in EV secretion and altered cargo composition. These EVsBCG were found to be enriched with key immunomodulatory proteins, including MHC class I and II molecules as well as co-stimulatory molecules CD80 and CD86. Functionally, we found that EVsBCG were capable of activating DCs, thereby enhancing T cell activity in vitro. Moreover, pre-treatment of mice with EVsBCG significantly potentiated the therapeutic efficacy of BCG in a syngeneic murine bladder cancer model. Conclusion: These findings implicate EVsBCG as critical intermediaries in the anti-tumor immune response and suggest their potential utility as mediators and/or predictive biomarkers for therapeutic efficacy. In summary, we propose a previously unrecognized mechanism of BCG immunotherapy mediated by EVs, establishing them as pivotal components of the immune signaling network driving effective treatment outcomes.
40066904 | IKZF1 and Ikaros Overexpression Results in Alopecia Areata-Like Phenotype in Mice. Ikaros, which is encoded by the Ikaros family zinc finger 1 (IKZF1) gene, is a zinc finger transcription factor. We have previously generated K5-Ikzf1-EGFP transgenic mice (Ikzf1 Tg) by introducing the IKZF1 isoform into epithelial cells expressing keratin 5, which develop patchy alopecia. However, there has been no detailed in vivo investigation of the function of IKZF1 in alopecia or of Ikaros expression in hair follicles of alopecia patients. Our aim was to investigate whether IKZF1 overexpression is involved in the pathogenesis of alopecia areata (AA) using Ikzf1 Tg and to examine Ikaros expression in human scalp skin. We grossly and histologically examined the alopecic lesions of Ikzf1 Tg and the skin of wild-type (WT) mice and the associated mRNA expression of inflammatory mediators. We also examined Ikaros' expression in human scalp skin. Grossly and histologically, we found that the Ikzf1 Tg developed AA-like lesions. Immunohistochemically, the hair follicles of the Ikzf1 Tg expressed high levels of the NKG2D ligand H60 and contained infiltrating CD8+NKG2D+ T cells. Interleukin 15, tumour necrosis factor-alpha, CXC chemokine ligand (Cxcl)1, Cxcl10, Cxcl11, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)1, STAT3, Janus kinase (JAK)1 and JAK3 mRNA expression were significantly higher in the alopecic lesions of the Ikzf1 Tg than in the WT mice. Ikzf1 Tg given corticosteroid injections exhibited hair regrowth. Immunohistochemical analysis of scalp hair follicles showed that Ikaros was more highly expressed in AA patients than in non-AA controls. Our study suggests that IKZF1 and Ikaros are involved in the pathogenesis of AA.
42142688 | A Cascade-Responsive Nanoplatform for cyclooxygenase-2 Inhibition and Inflammation Regulation to Enhance Photoimmunotherapy. Photodynamic immunotherapy (PIT) has emerged as a promising cancer treatment by photo-activating host immune system to eliminate tumor. However, excessive oxidative stress generated during PIT often induces uncontrolled inflammatory responses and activates immunosuppressive pathways to determine the efficacy of PIT. Herein, we developed a cascade responsive nanoplatform (FBC@PTI) to reduce the inflammation level by co-assembly of an indomethacin-based amphiphilic block copolymer and photosensitizer tetrafluorophenyl bacterial chlorophyll (FBC). Under acidic TME conditions, FBC@PTI underwent surface charge reversal to facilitate tumor penetration and cell internalization. Upon 750 nm light irradiation, FBC could not only generate robust reactive oxygen species (ROS) to induce immunogenic cell death (ICD), but also trigger the disassociation of FBC@PTI to release indomethacin, and inhibit cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) to reduce inflammatory level. In vivo experiments demonstrated that the released indomethacin can effectively suppress the expression level of COX-2 (61.1%) and PGE2 (66.5%), and then reduce the inflammatory factor level of TNF-alpha (25.8%) and IL-6 (74.0%) from macrophages. As a result, immune activity could further elevate to enhance CD4+ and CD8+ T cell infiltration and reduce Treg accumulation under controllable inflammatory level. This strategy of regulating inflammation in PIT would offer a potential path for improving the efficacy of PIT. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: We developed a cascade responsive nanoplatform (FBC@PTI) that integrates photoimmunotherapy with programmable inflammation modulation. Enabled by pH-triggered charge reversal and light-induced ROS generation, this system enhances tumor-targeted delivery, induces immunogenic cell death, and simultaneously releases indomethacin to inhibit COX-2-mediated inflammatory signaling. By coordinating immune activation with precise inflammation regulation, this strategy offers a promising approach to improve the therapeutic efficacy of photoimmunotherapy.
42143504 | Targeting CXCR6 suppresses granuloma formation and pulmonary fibrosis through inhibiting Th17 responses in sarcoidosis. Sarcoidosis is a systemic granulomatous disease that often affects the lungs, lymph nodes, and skin. The pathological hallmark of sarcoidosis is the formation of epithelioid, non-necrotizing granulomas, with CD4+ T-helper (Th) type 1 (Th1), Th17, and Th17.1 cells scattering throughout the granuloma. The CXCL16-CXCR6 axis plays a crucial role in the development of inflammatory diseases. However, the precise role of CXCR6+ CD4+ T cells in sarcoidosis pathogenesis and their therapeutic potential remain unclear. In this study, we confirmed the enrichment of CXCR6+ CD4+ T cells in the lesional tissue of sarcoidosis patients and Propionibacterium acnes-induced sarcoidosis-like model mice. Flow cytometric analysis and single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that CXCR6+ CD4+ T cells exhibited a Th17/Th17.1 phenotype and displayed pro-inflammatory characteristics. By performing cell-cell communication analysis and validating the findings with flow cytometry and CXCL16-blockade experiments, we demonstrated an active crosstalk between CXCR6+ CD4+ T cells and CXCL16+ macrophages in mice. Furthermore, treating mice with an anti-CXCR6 monoclonal antibody effectively reduced the mRNA levels of pro-inflammatory genes, including Nos2, Cxcl9, Cxcl10, Il17a, Tnf, and Ifng. In addition, anti-CXCR6 treatment reduced the abundance of Th17 and Th17.1 cells, which was associated with inhibition of downstream mTORC1 signaling. Finally, anti-CXCR6 treatment suppressed granuloma formation and attenuated collagen deposition in the lungs. Taken together, our findings highlight CXCR6 as a promising therapeutic target for inhibiting granuloma formation and pulmonary fibrosis in sarcoidosis.
41699454 | HLA-C-derived peptide MH-1 as an early-stage intervention against SARS-CoV-2 infection.
42106139 | Heparin interactions with phospholipid and cholesterol monolayers mimicking SARS-CoV-2 envelope and host membranes: A Langmuir film approach. Understanding how heparin modulates membrane interactions relevant to SARS-CoV-2 entry is essential for elucidating its antiviral mechanisms. Here, Langmuir monolayers were used as biomimetic models of viral and host membranes to investigate interactions with the spike receptor-binding domain (RBD), ACE2, and heparin. Surface pressure-area isotherms, dilatational rheology, Brewster angle microscopy, and PM-IRRAS revealed lipid-dependent effects. In viral-model monolayers, RBD and heparin significantly disrupted film organization, decreasing elasticity and increasing dissipative behavior, with the RBD-heparin complex producing the most pronounced fluidization despite increased local chain order. In host-model monolayers, ACE2 was the main perturbing agent, while heparin primarily interacted with ACE2 without major additional disruption; subsequent RBD addition induced moderate structural reorganization. Notably, opposing trends between compressional and dynamic moduli highlight distinct relaxation regimes governing interfacial mechanics. Overall, heparin acts as a membrane-active modulator, altering interfacial organization and mechanics in a lipid-dependent manner. These findings suggest that, beyond direct protein binding, heparin may interfere with SARS-CoV-2 infection through membrane-mediated mechanisms.
33102814 | Cucurbitacin E and I target the JAK/STAT pathway and induce apoptosis in Sezary cells. Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas and leukemias (CTCLs) are a heterogeneous group of extranodal non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. These are characterized by an accumulation of malignant CD4+ T-lymphocytes in the skin, lymph nodes, and peripheral blood. Novel treatment options are needed for patients who progress to advanced stage disease. Cucurbitacin I has previously shown promising results in Sezary syndrome (Sz). A plethora of cucurbitacins, however, have not yet been tested in CTCL. Herein, we investigated the effect of cucurbitacin E and I in two CTCL cell lines. We show that both cucurbitacins decrease viability and cause apoptosis in these cell lines, although HuT-78 was more affected than SeAx (IC50 of 17.38 versus 22.01 muM for cucurbitacin E and 13.36 versus 24.47 muM for cucurbitacin I). Moreover, both cucurbitacins decrease viability of primary cells of a Sz patient (56.46% for cucurbitacin E and 59.07% for cucurbitacin I). Furthermore, while JAK2 inhibition leads to decreased viability in SeAx cells (IC50 of 9.98 and 29.15 muM for AZD1480 and ruxolitinib respectively), both JAK1 and JAK3 do not. This suggests that JAK2 has a preferential role in promoting survival. Western blotting in SeAx cells revealed that both cucurbitacins inhibit STAT3 activation (P < 0.0001), while only cucurbitacin I inhibits STAT5 activation (P = 0.05). This suggests that STAT3 plays a preferential role in the mechanism of action of these cucurbitacins. Nevertheless, a role of STAT5 and JAK2 cannot be excluded and should be explored further. This knowledge could contribute to the development of effective therapies for CTCL and other malignancies involving dysfunction of the JAK/STAT pathway.
42035896 | Robust HLA-B-restricted CD8+ T cell responses in chronic HBV infection. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Function and quantity of CD8+ T cell responses is superior in acute versus chronic HBV infection. Whether different HBV-derived epitopes are targeted in these distinct courses of HBV infection remains, however, incompletely understood. METHODS: PBMC from 56 patients with chronic HBV infection genotype D and 32 patients with acute or resolved HBV infection were screened for responses to overlapping peptides (18mers) covering the full HBV genotype D proteome with subsequent comprehensive experimental fine-mapping of the minimal optimal epitopes. RESULTS: Patients with acute HBV infection showed a broad HBV-specific CD8+ T cell epitope repertoire. After spontaneous resolution, the strength of HBV-specific CD8 T cell responses decreased, while the broad epitope landscape was preserved. In chronic HBV infection, the specificity of HBV-specific CD8+ T cell responses to HBV antigens was shifted, with a lack of functional HBsAg-specific CD8+ T cell responses (p=0.0007), as recently described. Interestingly, in patients with chronic HBV infection significantly more HLA-B- than HLA-A-restricted HBV-specific CD8+ T cell responses were detectable (33 and 19 responses, respectively), while this distribution was balanced in acute/resolved HBV infection (16 and 27 responses, respectively; p=0.0364). Most (79.6%) of the detected responses showed conserved autologous viral sequences. This observation was confirmed in a broader sequence dataset with no evidence for HLA-B driven CD8+ T cell selection pressure. CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to acute/resolved infection, conserved HLA-B-restricted epitopes are dominant in chronic HBV infection, making them interesting candidates for immunotherapeutic approaches towards functional cure of chronic HBV infection. IMPACT AND IMPLICATIONS: To date, there is no treatment to achieve functional cure of chronic HBV infection. Immunotherapy boosting dysfunctional HBV-specific CD8+ T cells is an interesting approach, but relies on selection of optimal target epitopes. Using an unbiased approach, we found that the HBV-specific CD8+ T cell epitope repertoire in chronic HBV infection is not well covered by previously described epitopes. We characterized 28 novel, primarily HLA-B-restricted epitopes that are dominantly targeted in chronic HBV infection and might be used as a \toolbox\ for immunological studies and the development of immunotherapeutic approaches.
42046553 | B2M drives PD-1 inhibitor resistance in DLBCL through independent dual immune escape mechanisms. PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) demonstrate promising therapeutic potential in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). However, a subset of DLBCL patients exhibits primary or acquired resistance to PD-1 blockade. This study investigated the mechanistic role of beta2-microglobulin (B2M) mutations in modulating PD-L1 expression and their contribution to ICI resistance in DLBCL. The association between B2M mutations and PD-L1 expression in DLBCL patient samples was analyzed via immunohistochemistry. A B2M-knockout DLBCL cell line model was established, followed by evaluation of PD-L1 and MHC-I expression changes through qRT-PCR, western blot, and flow cytometry. T cell activation (CD69/CD25 markers) and cytotoxic activity (lactate dehydrogenase release) were assessed in PBMC co-culture experiments. Mechanistic studies employing MHC-I inhibitors and IFN-gamma stimulation were conducted to dissect the regulatory relationship between MHC-I and PD-L1. Co-culture systems with PD-1 blockade was performed to validate the impact of B2M on PD-1 inhibitor resistance. The results demonstrated that B2M knockout significantly downregulated both PD-L1 mRNA and protein levels, concomitant with impaired MHC-I complex assembly and reduced TAP1/2 expression. B2M-deficient cells failed to activate CD8+ T cells, evidenced by diminished CD69+/CD25+ surface expression and reduced cytotoxic efficiency. Notably, B2M ablation abolished IFN-gamma-induced PD-L1 upregulation (p < 0.05), demonstrating that intact MHC-I functionality is a prerequisite for PD-L1 expression. Further co-culture systems with PD-1 blockade validated the functional roles of MHC-I and PD-L1 in modulating PD-1 inhibitor resistance mediated by B2M. In conclusion, this work indicated that B2M mutations synergistically drive DLBCL resistance to PD-1 inhibitors through dual mechanisms-suppressing PD-L1 expression and completely disabling antigen presentation. The study highlights that combined strategies restoring MHC-I expression and targeting PD-L1 may overcome immunotherapy resistance, offering a novel direction for precision therapy in DLBCL.
42099041 | Kidney Transplant Recipients Develop Nasal Mucosal Antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 With ACE2-Inhibiting Activity Following mRNA Vaccination. BACKGROUND: Less than 60% of kidney transplant recipients (KTRs) become IgG seropositive for the viral spike (S) antigen following two COVID-19 vaccine doses, with a third dose increasing these numbers further. Mucosal antibodies play a critical role in protection against SARS-CoV-2 (re)infection; however, the presence and functionality of these antibodies after vaccination have not been well-studied in high-risk groups with reduced vaccine immunogenicity. METHODS: We assessed the concentration of ancestral S-specific antibodies in the nasal mucosa and in serum as well as their capacity to neutralize binding of the receptor-binding domain (RBD) to the ACE2 receptor in KTRs after two, three, and/or four vaccinations, compared with an age-matched control group after two vaccine doses. RESULTS: KTRs showed an increase in nasal and serum S-specific IgG and S-specific IgA geometric mean concentrations (GMCs) as well as ACE2 binding inhibition at 28 days after both two-dose and additional vaccinations compared to baseline, although postvaccination GMCs remained lower than in the control group. We observed a high correlation between nasal and serum antibody levels (rS > 0.63) and ACE2 inhibiting capacity (rS > 0.65). Furthermore, nasal S-specific IgG, and to a lesser extent IgA, was correlated with nasal ACE2 binding inhibition (rS > 0.64 and 0.5). CONCLUSIONS: KTRs develop nasal mucosal antibodies, which are able to inhibit binding to ACE2 after COVID-19 vaccination, but at a lower concentration than controls. Mucosal sampling provides an accessible and minimally invasive addition to measuring serum antibodies for monitoring the response to vaccination at a population level.
42091566 | Molecular screening for active Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 infections among non-human primates in Indonesia. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) poses an ongoing public health concern, and its zoonotic nature increases the risk of cross-species transmission between humans and animals. Non-human primates (NHPs) are particularly susceptible because of the high similarity in angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) critical residues compared to those in humans, especially among catarrhine species. Therefore, surveillance of NHP populations is essential, particularly in Indonesia, a megadiverse nation hosting numerous primate species that frequently interact with humans. In this study, 237 NHPs representing multiple species, including long-tailed macaques (Macaca fascicularis), langurs (Trachypithecus spp.), gibbons (Hylobates spp.), and orangutans (Pongo pygmaeus), were sampled from both in situ and ex situ conservation settings across five provinces (Bali, East Java, West Java, Central Kalimantan, and West Sumatra). Paired nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal swabs were tested for SARS-CoV-2 RNA using quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). No molecular evidence of active SARS-CoV-2 infection was detected in any of the individuals sampled. None of the samples showed amplification of either the N1 or N2 gene targets, and no borderline Ct values (all Ct >35 or undetermined) or single-target reactivity was observed. These findings highlight the importance of ongoing surveillance of Indonesian NHP populations by expanding geographical coverage, increasing the sample sizes, incorporating serological testing, and evaluating additional sample types to better assess potential spillover and spillback risks.
42126250 | Inorganic Antibody-Mimetic H-Zeolite Blocks Airborne Viruses via E340-Targeted Biorecognition. Respiratory viruses pose a persistent threat to human health, demanding effective strategies to block airborne transmission at the individual protection level. Traditional personal protective materials often lack intrinsic virucidal activity or suffer from cytotoxicity, failing to address the risk of secondary transmission. Herein, we highlight an H-type zeolite (H-Zeo) as a cost-effective, biocompatible, and inorganic antibody-mimetic inhibitor that efficiently inactivates SARS-CoV-2. The core antiviral mechanism relies on E340-targeted zeolite-protein biorecognition (ZPB): surface-localized H+ ions of H-Zeo form stable coordination bonds with the E340 residue of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein receptor-binding domain (RBD), with an interaction energy (-1080.2 +- 66.7 kJ mol-1) far exceeding that of the RBD-angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) interaction (-570.7 +- 69.4 kJ mol-1). This strong competitive binding potently blocks the RBD-ACE2 protein-protein interaction, the initial step of viral entry into host cells. Based on this mechanism, we developed an H-Zeo-based antiviral gauze (H-ZG) for personal protection, which achieves >99.99% inactivation of authentic SARS-CoV-2. Notably, H-Zeo maintains >90% cell viability across all tested concentrations, overcoming the cytotoxicity limitations of metal-exchanged zeolites (e.g., Cu-zeolite). As a low-cost, scalable, and biocompatible material, H-Zeo provides a practical solution for mitigating airborne SARS-CoV-2 transmission, with broad potential for application in personal protective equipment and public health interventions.
42079448 | An infection and pathogenesis mouse model of SARS-CoV-2-related pangolin coronavirus GX_P2V(short_3UTR). SARS-CoV-2-related pangolin coronavirus GX_P2V(short_3UTR) is highly attenuated, but can cause mortality in a specifically designed human ACE2-transgenic mouse model, making it a surrogate model for evaluating the efficacy of vaccines and drugs against SARS-CoV-2.
41424060 | A novel multi-omics-machine learning pipeline reveals immune and metabolic links between type 2 diabetes and atherosclerosis. BackgroundAtherosclerosis (AS) and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) frequently coexist, jointly accelerating cardiovascular complications through shared inflammatory and metabolic pathways. Despite extensive research, the molecular mechanisms linking these chronic diseases remain incompletely defined.PurposeThis study aimed to delineate the shared transcriptional signatures and identify candidate biomarkers contributing to T2DM-associated AS progression using an integrative multi-omics strategy.Research DesignA retrospective bioinformatics investigation integrating differential expression analysis, co-expression network modeling, protein-interaction profiling, immune deconvolution, and machine-learning-based biomarker prioritization was conducted.Study Sample: Publicly available transcriptomic datasets were obtained from the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus, including AS tissue samples (GSE100927), pancreatic islet samples from individuals with T2DM (GSE25724), and two independent datasets for external validation (GSE30169 and GSE26168).Data Collection and/or AnalysisDifferentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified for AS (n = 3,368) and T2DM (n = 4,553). DEG intersection and Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) revealed 443 shared crosstalk genes. Enrichment analyses highlighted immune activation processes (e.g., leukocyte-mediated immunity, lysosomal pathways) and metabolic dysregulation (e.g., mitochondrial-mediated apoptosis, TGF-beta signaling). A protein-protein interaction network was constructed, identifying high-degree hub genes such as HLA-DRB1, JAK3, and MFN1. Immune cell profiling using CIBERSORTx compared disease microenvironments, demonstrating increased M1 macrophages and helper T cells in AS, and elevated monocytes and B cells in T2DM (p < 0.05). A fine-tuned TabNet model ranked predictive biomarkers (e.g., BTK, ZAP70, CD4) showing strong diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.85 for AS; 0.79 for T2DM).ResultsThe integrative multi-omics workflow uncovered a robust set of immune-metabolic crosstalk genes shared between AS and T2DM. Hub-gene analysis and immune infiltration patterns demonstrated convergent dysregulation in lysosomal activity, mitochondrial integrity, and adaptive immune signaling. Machine-learning prioritization further identified a subset of biomarkers capable of discriminating disease states with high accuracy, strengthening their translational potential.ConclusionsThis study provides a comprehensive molecular framework linking T2DM and AS, revealing previously unrecognized lysosomal and mitochondrial pathways that may drive their synergistic pathology. The identified biomarkers and immune signatures offer promising avenues for early diagnosis and targeted therapeutic development in patients with comorbid T2DM and atherosclerosis.
41893671 | CD4 Molecule Plays an Important Role in the Inflammatory Response Induced by Japanese Encephalitis Virus Infection. Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) is an important flavivirus that causes zoonotic and arboviral diseases. Infection with JEV not only induces acute central nervous system (CNS) infectious diseases but also leads to reproductive disorders. Currently, research on the pathogenic mechanism of JEV has mainly focused on CNS inflammation caused by infection, while studies on the pathogenic mechanism of JEV targeting the reproductive system are relatively scarce. This study used TM3 cells as a model to investigate the regulatory role of the CD4 molecule in JEV infection, the STAT1 signaling pathway, and inflammatory factors. Firstly, we found that CD4 knockdown significantly inhibited JEV replication in TM3 cells. Further virus adsorption and internalization experiments confirmed that CD4 knockdown specifically impaired the early stages of JEV invasion into cells. Additionally, CD4 knockdown also drastically attenuated JEV infection-induced STAT1 phosphorylation (p-STAT1) and the production of downstream inflammatory factors. To distinguish whether CD4 affects p-STAT1 through an indirect effect of reduced viral load or its direct involvement in signal transduction, we performed experiments using RO8191, a specific agonist of the STAT1 signaling pathway. The results showed that RO8191 treatment increased the expression levels of p-STAT1 protein and inflammatory factor mRNA in both normal cells and CD4 knockdown cells, but the recovery amplitude in the CD4 knockdown group was significantly lower. In contrast, CD4 complementation significantly elevated the expression levels of p-STAT1 protein and inflammatory factor mRNA. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that the CD4 molecule positively regulates JEV proliferation in TM3 cells, while also modulating STAT1-a key factor in the STAT signaling pathway-and downstream inflammatory cytokines. Notably, this regulatory effect operates independently of viral replication. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for further elucidation of JEV pathogenic mechanisms and offer a scientific basis for the prevention and control of JEV.
42148869 | Immunopathophysiology of immune checkpoint inhibitor-related pneumonitis: insights from multi-omics and immune profiling. Although immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have demonstrated groundbreaking effectiveness in cancer treatment, they carry the risk of immune-related adverse events, including interstitial pneumonia (ICI-pneumonitis), a potentially life-threatening pulmonary complication. Comprehensive immune analyses of peripheral blood, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, and lung tissue have demonstrated that ICI-pneumonitis results from excessive activation and proliferation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes and helper T cells, suppression of regulatory T cells, and increased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. The dysregulation of innate immune cells also contributes to the formation of a complex immune microenvironment. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid analyses revealed a lymphocyte-rich cell population dominated by CD8+ T cells and CD4+ types 1 and 17 helper T cells. Studies on lung tissues using spatial transcriptomics and imaging mass cytometry have provided detailed insights into the inflammatory microenvironment. These studies enhance our understanding of the intricate relationships between immune cells and the mechanisms underlying pulmonary tissue injury. Integrating multi-omics data will provide new insights into the immuno-pathophysiology of ICI-pneumonitis, deepening our understanding of this condition. These insights will enable more precise individual risk assessments and facilitate the development of safer immunotherapeutic strategies. This review highlights the recent research findings and provides an overview of the immunopathophysiology of ICI-pneumonitis.
10093221 | Genomic organization around the centromeric end of the HLA class I region: large-scale sequence analysis. We previously sequenced two regions around the centromeric end of HLA class I and the boundary between class I and class III. In this paper we analyze the two regions of about 385 kb and confirm, giving a new line of evidence, that the following two pairs of the genomic segments were duplicated in evolution: (i) a 43-kb genomic segment including the HLA-B gene showing the highest polymorphism among the classical HLA class I loci (class Ia) and a 40-kb segment including the HLA-C locus showing the lowest polymorphism and (ii) a 52-kb segment including the MIC (MHC class I chain related gene) B and a 35-kb segment including MICA. We also found that repetitive elements such as SINEs, LINEs, and LTRs occupy as much as 47% of nucleotides in this 385-kb region. This unusually high content of repetitive elements indicates that repeat-mediated rearrangements have frequently occurred in the evolutionary history of the HLA class Ia region. Analysis of LINE compositions within the two pairs of duplicated segments revealed that (i) LINEs in these regions had been dispersed prior to both the duplication of the HLA-B and -C loci and the duplication of the MICB and MICA loci, and (ii) the divergence of the HLA-B and -C loci occurred prior to the duplication of the MICA and MICB loci. To find novel genes responsible for HLA class I-associated or other diseases, we performed computer analysis applying GenScan and GRAIL to GenBank's dbEST. As a result, at least five as yet uncharacterized genes were newly mapped on the HLA class I centromeric region studied. These novel genes should be analyzed further to determine their relationships to diseases associated with this region.
42146659 | Coincident epithelial signals restrain commensal-specific CD8alphabeta + T cells in the intestine. The intestinal epithelium harbors a large population of microbiota-dependent CD8alphabeta + T cells whose antigen specificity and regulation are ill-defined. By identifying MHCIa-restricted TCRs and generating tetramers against the gut commensal Segmented Filamentous Bacteria, we demonstrate that a single commensal species drives a clonally expanded, antigen-specific CD8alphabeta + T cell within the intraepithelial lymphocyte compartment. Mechanistically, the intestinal epithelium coordinates coincident signals governing this population: peptide:MHC-dependent TCR engagement drives pIEL accumulation, while alphavbeta6-mediated TGFbeta activation restraints effector cell differentiation. Perturbation of epithelial cell-mediated TGFbeta activation diverts commensal-specific CD8 + T cells toward inflammatory differentiation states transcriptionally convergent with those observed in ulcerative colitis. The intestinal epithelium thus functions as a dual-signal organizer of commensal-specific CD8 + T cell responses, coupling differentiation to restraint through spatially coincident molecular cues.
39647533 | Association Study of the JAK/STAT Signaling Pathway with Susceptibility to COVID-19 in Moroccan patient and In-Silico Analysis of Rare Variants. The goal of our study was to explore the association of the polymorphisms in the JAK/STAT pathway among Moroccan COVID-19 patients, using a case-control approach. Next-generation sequencing was employed to investigate the IFNAR1, IFNAR2, JAK1, TYK2, STAT2, and IRF9 genes within the JAK/STAT pathway. We also performed an in silico study to examine the rare variants in this pathway. Statistical analyses were conducted using MedCalc software. Protein 3D structures were determined via the I-TASSER server, with variant structures generated using PyMOL. YASARA View allowed local 3D analysis comparing native and variant structures for pathogenic rare variants. The study encompassed 206 COVID-19 patients, averaging 45.70 +- 12.73 years and a control group (N=118). Among the examined genes, 15 common polymorphisms and 7 rare variants were identified. Adjustment for age and gender revealed a significant association between TYK2 p.Gly363Ser (p=0.036) and COVID-19 infection, where the GA variant exhibited protective effects (0.6361 [0.3405-1.1884], p=0.035). Additionally, STAT2 p.Met594Ile showed an association to COVID-19 risk (p=0.042), with heterozygous GC being linked to infection (p=0.037, OR=2.7135 [0.5684 -12.9532]). Notably, IFNAR1 p.Val168Leu mutated C allele was significantly associated with reduced susceptibility to COVID-19 severity (p=0.028, OR=0.5936 [0.3725 - 0.9461]), under the additive model (p=0.045, OR=0.626 [0.3958 - 0.9899]). Rare variants IFNAR1 p.Trp318Cys, p.Ser476Phe, and IFNAR2 p.Cys271Tyr were predicted deleterious, impacting protein structure via hydrogen bond and hydrophobic interaction alterations. Burden analysis of rare variants revealed a protective cumulative effect against COVID-19 severity for TYK2 (p=0.0013, OR=0.1438 [0.04237 - 0.4803]) under the dominant model. This study underscores the role of genetic factors in COVID-19 susceptibility and advocates further explorations regarding functional impacts of JAK/STAT pathway rare variants.
42143164 | CTMP-REV7 axis modulates MHC-I antigen presentation via CDK1-AKT crosstalk in MSI-L/MSS colorectal cancer. PURPOSE: Microsatellite instability-low/microsatellite stable (MSI-L/MSS) colorectal cancer (CRC) exhibits limited responsiveness to immune checkpoint inhibitors due to low tumor mutational burden and insufficient neoantigen generation. Carboxyl-terminal modulator protein (CTMP) is a potential regulatory molecule that may reshape tumor immunogenicity and metabolic patterns, yet its mechanisms in MSI-L/MSS CRC remain poorly understood. METHODS: We systematically investigated CTMP function by integrating clinical sample analysis (GEO database, n = 71 paired tissue microarray, and pretreatment specimens from 11 refractory patients receiving anti-PD-1 plus fruquintinib), in vitro experiments (MSS CRC cells with CTMP knockdown/overexpression, assessed for proliferation, mitochondrial function, lipid metabolism, AKT/PD-L1 signaling, and MHC-I/HLA-B expression), proteomic screening (immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry to identify CTMP-interacting proteins), structural validation (co-immunoprecipitation, AlphaFold Multimer, GST pulldown with truncation/point mutations), and in vivo studies (immunocompetent BALB/c mice with CT26 syngeneic tumors). RESULTS: High CTMP expression and low HLA-B expression were significantly associated with shortened overall survival in patients with MSI-L/MSS colon adenocarcinoma, as well as with progressive disease in an anti-PD-1/fruquintinib resistance cohort. Mechanistically, CTMP orchestrated an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment by sustaining AKT/PD L1 signaling, suppressing HLA B expression, and promoting fatty acid metabolism. Proteomic screening identified a previously unreported high-affinity interaction between CTMP and REV7, which facilitated CDK1 mediated G2/M progression and further repressed HLA B expression. CTMP knockdown or REV7 overexpression diminished CDK1 activity, induced G2/M phase arrest, and restored HLA B expression in a cGAS signaling-relevant manner, while also reversing the IFN gamma enhanced CTMP-REV7 interaction. In immunocompetent murine models, CTMP knockdown or REV7 overexpression suppressed tumor growth, upregulated HLA B expression, and enhanced intratumoral CD8+ T cell infiltration. Moreover, REV7 overexpression synergized with IFN-gamma to promote the release of chemokines (CXCL9, CXCL10, TNF alpha), leading to marked tumor regression in CTMP-KD tumors. CONCLUSIONS: We delineate that CTMP drives immune evasion in MSI-L/MSS CRC through a novel CTMP-REV7-CDK1 axis that couples metabolic reprogramming, cell cycle control, and MHC-I antigen presentation, with AKT signaling serving as a critical crosstalk node. These findings implicate this integrated axis as a therapeutic target to restore tumor immunogenicity and overcome immunotherapy resistance in immunologically \cold\ MSI-L/MSS colorectal cancer.
42050172 | TMPRSS2-mediated coronavirus spike activation and inhibition. The protease TMPRSS2 facilitates coronavirus infections, yet its mechanism of viral glycoprotein recognition remains unclear. Here we show that, following ACE2 engagement of the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) inducing the early fusion intermediate conformation (E-FIC), TMPRSS2 cleaves the R815 S2' site and promotes fusogenic conformational changes leading to viral entry. We unveil TMPRSS2 recognition of S2', identify key residues modulating binding specificity and demonstrate that S2' site-directed broadly neutralizing antibodies target E-FIC and inhibit viral entry by blocking TMPRSS2 access. We computationally designed stabilized E-FIC as a vaccine candidate, overcoming the transient nature of this state. We describe a TMPRSS2-directed monoclonal antibody inhibiting several coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2 variants and protecting mice against SARS-CoV-2 challenge. These results outline the mechanistic role of TMPRSS2 and S2' site-directed antibodies in coronavirus entry.
39699185 | SARS-CoV-2 S protein disrupts the formation of ISGF3 complex through conserved S2 subunit to antagonize type I interferon response. Viral immunosuppression substantially affects the host immune response of infected patients and the protective efficacy of vaccines. Here, we found that the spike (S) protein, the major vaccine antigen of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), strongly suppresses host innate immunity by inhibiting interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) expression through both S1 and S2 subunits. Mechanistically, the S protein inhibited the formation of the classic interferon-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) complex composed of STAT1, STAT2, and IRF9 by competing with STAT2 for binding to IRF9, thereby impeding the transcription of ISGs. A strong interaction between S and the STAT1/STAT2 proteins further traps the ISGF3 complex in the endoplasmic reticulum and hinders the nuclear translocation of ISGF3. Notably, the interferon-inhibitory mechanism of the S protein was universal among SARS-CoV-2 variants and other human coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV, Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), human coronavirus 229E (HCoV-229E), human coronavirus NL63 (HCoV-NL63), and human coronavirus HKU1 (HCoV-HKU1), through the most evolutionarily conserved region of S2 subunit. Taken together, the findings of this study reveal a new mechanism by which the coronavirus S protein attenuates the host antiviral immune response and provides new insights into the proper design of coronavirus S-based vaccines to prevent immunosuppressive effects. IMPORTANCE: This study unveils a new mechanism by which the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) spike (S) protein attenuates the host's antiviral immune response. The interferon-inhibitory mechanism of the S protein was universal among SARS-CoV-2 variants and other human coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, HCoV-229E, HCoV-NL63, and HCoV-HKU1, through conserved S2 domains. Our study expands the understanding of SARS-CoV-2 and other human coronaviruses in evading antiviral immune strategies, which is very important for the design and optimization of vaccine antigens, thus providing a theoretical basis for human anti-coronavirus immunity and understanding the interaction between the host and coronavirus.
42148884 | Incidence of B cell malignancies in patients with lung cancer receiving PD-1 blockade therapy. PURPOSE: Many patients with various cancers have received immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) worldwide since their approval, and novel unexpected complications from their long-term use are apparent. We identified some cases of B cell lymphoma occurring during PD-1 blockade therapy as such unexpected complications. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the incidence of hematological malignancies in patients with lung cancer receiving PD-1 blockade therapy and to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the progression of these malignancies. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We performed immunohistochemical staining on the clinical samples from patients with B cell lymphoma that developed during PD-1 blockade therapy and analyzed large-scale real-world datasets. We further investigated the underlying mechanisms through in vitro and in vivo experiments. RESULTS: A higher incidence of B cell malignancies has been observed in patients with lung cancer treated with PD-1 blockade therapies based on large-scale real-world data analyses (n = 15,670). Our identified lymphomas had a large amount of CD4+ T follicular helper (TFH)-cell infiltration. In addition, PD-1 blockade activated PD-1+ TFH cells, which promoted lymphoma proliferation via the IL-4/IL-4R, IL-21/IL-21R, and CD40L/CD40 axes. Notably, the lymphomas exhibited high expression of IL-4R, IL-21R, and CD40. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight the need for careful monitoring and consideration of the potential B-cell malignancy complications in clinical settings where ICIs are used.
40416001 | Biological and Clinical Relevance of Genetic Alterations in Peripheral T-cell Lymphomas. Peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) is a heterogeneous group of mature T-cell neoplasms with different clinical, biological, and molecular features. These include PTCL, not otherwise specified, nodal T follicular helper cell lymphomas (nTFHLs), anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL), extranodal natural killer (NK)/T-cell lymphoma (ENKTL), and adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL). Over the past decade, several genetic studies using targeted, whole-exome, and more recently whole-genome sequencing have identified numerous driver alterations in PTCLs. These alterations include mutations, copy number alterations, and structural variations (SVs) involving T-cell receptor/NF-kB (such as <i>PLCG1</i>, <i>VAV1</i>, and <i>CD28</i>) and JAK/STAT (<i>JAK3</i> and <i>STAT3</i>) pathway components, epigenetic regulators (<i>TET2</i>, <i>DNMT3A</i>, and <i>ARID1A</i>), immune-associated molecules (<i>HLA-A/B</i>, <i>CD58</i>, and <i>PD-L1</i>), and tumor suppressors (<i>TP53</i> and <i>CDKN2A</i>), which are shared among various PTCL subtypes. Conversely, subtype-specific alterations, such as <i>RHO</i>A G17V and <i>IDH2</i> R172 mutations in nTFHLs; <i>ALK</i> fusions in ALCL; <i>DDX3X</i> and <i>MSN</i> mutations in ENKTL; and <i>PRKCB</i>, <i>CIC,</i> and <i>CCR4</i> mutations in ATLL. Regarding the clinical relevance of genetic alterations, combining genetic information with clinical factors has been reported to improve prognostic stratification in several subtypes of PTCLs, such as ENKTL and ATLL. Additionally, several genetic alterations may have the potential to predict a response to a specific molecularly targeted agent, such as <i>ALK</i> fusions for ALK inhibitors, <i>PD-L1</i> SVs for immune checkpoint inhibitors (including anti-PD-1 antibodies), and mutations in epigenetic regulators for histone deacetylase inhibitors and hypomethylating agents. In this study, we summarize the current understanding of somatic alterations in various subtypes of PTCLs and highlight their clinical utility.
