38541797 | Characteristics Associated with COVID-19 Breakthrough Infections after Booster Vaccinations in Healthcare Workers: Insights from the TuSeRe:exact Study. Background: The prevalence of COVID-19 breakthrough infections in healthcare workers (HCWs) remains an issue of concern. This study examines the different characteristics associated with breakthrough infections in HCWs. Methods: From the total participants in the TuSeRe:exact study (n = 1046), we specifically included study participants who had received three vaccinations and were not infected prior to the third vaccination. Participants were invited to complete an online questionnaire, which included inquiries about any breakthrough infections they might have experienced. Univariate Cox regression analysis was used to investigate the association between participant characteristics and breakthrough infections. Results: Among 629 HCWs (497 female and 132 male), 241 (38%) experienced breakthrough infections during the follow-up period. The frequency of breakthrough infections was 39.2% (195/497) among female participants and 34.8% (46/132) among male participants (p = 0.357). The Cox regression model adjusted for age and sex showed that participants with cardiovascular disease (hazard ratio (95%CI) = 0.621 (0.392-0.985); p = 0.043) and those taking antihypertensives (hazard ratio (95%CI) = 0.551 (0.331-0.915); p = 0.021) had a significantly lower hazard ratio for breakthrough infections. The use of analgesics after the first vaccine (hazard ratio (95%CI) = 1.343 (1.025-1.759); p = 0.032) was associated with an increased risk of breakthrough infections. Conclusions: These findings can inform targeted preventive measures and risk management strategies to protect frontline workers and maintain a resilient healthcare system during the ongoing pandemic.
24625024 | Karyopherins: potential biological elements involved in the delayed graft function in renal transplant recipients. BACKGROUND: Immediately after renal transplantation, patients experience rapid and significant improvement of their clinical conditions and undergo considerable systemic and cellular modifications. However, some patients present a slow recovery of the renal function commonly defined as delayed graft function (DGF). Although clinically well characterized, the molecular mechanisms underlying this condition are not totally defined, thus, we are currently missing specific clinical markers to predict and to make early diagnosis of this event. METHODS: We investigated, using a pathway analysis approach, the transcriptomic profile of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from renal transplant recipients with DGF and with early graft function (EGF), before (T0) and 24 hours (T24) after transplantation. RESULTS: Bioinformatics/statistical analysis showed that 15 pathways (8 up-regulated and 7 down-regulated) and 11 pathways (5 up-regulated and 6 down-regulated) were able to identify DGF patients at T0 and T24, respectively. Interestingly, the most up-regulated pathway at both time points was NLS-bearing substrate import into nucleus, which includes genes encoding for several subtypes of karyopherins, a group of proteins involved in nucleocytoplasmic transport. Signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) utilize karyopherins-alpha (KPNA) for their passage from cytoplasm into the nucleus. In vitro functional analysis demonstrated that in PBMCs of DGF patients, there was a significant KPNA-mediated nuclear translocation of the phosphorylated form of STAT3 (pSTAT3) after short-time stimulation (2 and 5 minutes) with interleukin-6. CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests the involvement, immediately before transplantation, of karyopherin-mediated nuclear transport in the onset and development of DGF. Additionally, it reveals that karyopherins could be good candidates as potential DGF predictive clinical biomarkers and targets for pharmacological interventions in renal transplantation. However, because of the low number of patients analyzed and some methodological limitations, additional studies are needed to validate and to better address these points.
33643791 | Nidogen-1 Mitigates Ischemia and Promotes Tissue Survival and Regeneration. Ischemia impacts multiple organ systems and is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in the developed world. Ischemia disrupts tissue homeostasis, driving cell death, and damages tissue structure integrity. Strategies to heal organs, like the infarcted heart, or to replace cells, as done in pancreatic islet beta-cell transplantations, are often hindered by ischemic conditions. Here, it is discovered that the basement membrane glycoprotein nidogen-1 attenuates the apoptotic effect of hypoxia in cardiomyocytes and pancreatic beta-cells via the alphavbeta3 integrin and beneficially modulates immune responses in vitro. It is shown that nidogen-1 significantly increases heart function and angiogenesis, while reducing fibrosis, in a mouse postmyocardial infarction model. These results demonstrate the protective and regenerative potential of nidogen-1 in ischemic conditions.
23004588 | Observation of a new Xib baryon. The observation of a new b baryon via its strong decay into Xi(b)(-) pi(+) (plus charge conjugates) is reported. The measurement uses a data sample of pp collisions at sqrt[s] = 7 TeV collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 5.3 fb(-1). The known Xi(b)(-) baryon is reconstructed via the decay chain Xi(b)(-)   J/psiXi(-)   mu(+) mu(-) Lambda(0) pi(-), with Lambda(0)   ppi(-). A peak is observed in the distribution of the difference between the mass of the Xi(b)(-) pi(+) system and the sum of the masses of the Xi(b)(-) and pi(+), with a significance exceeding 5 standard deviations. The mass difference of the peak is 14.84 +- 0.74(stat) +- 0.28(syst) MeV. The new state most likely corresponds to the J(P) = 3/2(+) companion of the Xi(b).
38289898 | Distribution, Chemical Constituents and Biological Properties of Genus Malaxis. The genus Malaxis (family Orchidaceae), comprises nearly 183 species available across the globe. The plants of this genus have long been employed in traditional medical practices because of their numerous biological properties, like the treatment of infertility, hemostasis, burning sensation, bleeding diathesis, fever, diarrhea, dysentery, febrifuge, tuberculosis, etc. Various reports highlight their phytochemical composition and biological activities. However, there is a lack of systematic review on the distribution, phytochemistry, and biological properties of this genus. Hence, this study aims to conduct a thorough and critical review of Malaxis species, covering data published from 1965 to 2022 with nearly 90 articles. Also, it examines different bioactive compounds, their chemistry, and pharmacotherapeutics as well as their traditional uses. A total of 191 unique compounds, including the oil constituents were recorded from Malaxis species. The highest active ingredients were obtained from Malaxis acuminata (103) followed by Malaxis muscifera (50) and Malaxis rheedei (33). In conclusion, this review offers an overview of the current state of knowledge on Malaxis species and highlights prospects for future research projects on them. Additionally, it recommends the promotion of domestication studies for rare medicinal orchids like Malaxis and the prompt implementation of conservation measures.
33726611 | Environmental impact of personal protective equipment distributed for use by health and social care services in England in the first six months of the COVID-19 pandemic. OBJECTIVE: To quantify the environmental impact of personal protective equipment (PPE) distributed for use by the health and social care system to control the spread of SARS-CoV-2 in England, and model strategies for mitigating the environmental impact. DESIGN: Life cycle assessment was used to determine environmental impacts of PPE distributed to health and social care in England during the first six months of the COVID-19 pandemic. The base scenario assumed all products were single-use and disposed of via clinical waste. Scenario modelling was used to determine the effect of environmental mitigation strategies: (1) eliminating international travel during supply; (2) eliminating glove use; (3) reusing gowns and face shields; and (4) maximal recycling. SETTING: Royal Sussex County Hospital, Brighton, UK. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The carbon footprint of PPE distributed during the study period totalled 106,478 tonnes CO2e, with greatest contributions from gloves, aprons, face shields and Type IIR surgical masks. The estimated damage to human health was 239 DALYs (disability-adjusted life years), impact on ecosystems was 0.47 species.year (loss of local species per year), and impact on resource depletion was costed at US $12.7m (GBP $9.3m). Scenario modelling indicated UK manufacture would have reduced the carbon footprint by 12%, eliminating gloves by 45%, reusing gowns and gloves by 10% and maximal recycling by 35%. RESULTS: A combination of strategies may have reduced the carbon footprint by 75% compared with the base scenario, and saved an estimated 183 DALYS, 0.34 species.year and US $7.4m (GBP $5.4m) due to resource depletion. CONCLUSION: The environmental impact of PPE is large and could be reduced through domestic manufacture, rationalising glove use, using reusables where possible and optimising waste management.
37353464 | Multi-stage image registration based on list-mode proton radiographies for small animal proton irradiation: A simulation study. We present a multi-stage and multi-resolution deformable image registration framework for image-guidance at a small animal proton irradiation platform. The framework is based on list-mode proton radiographies acquired at different angles, which are used to deform a 3D treatment planning CT relying on normalized mutual information (NMI) or root mean square error (RMSE) in the projection domain. We utilized a mouse X-ray micro-CT expressed in relative stopping power (RSP), and obtained Monte Carlo simulations of proton images in list-mode for three different treatment sites (brain, head and neck, lung). Rigid transformations and controlled artificial deformation were applied to mimic position misalignments, weight loss and breathing changes. Results were evaluated based on the residual RMSE of RSP in the image domain including the comparison of extracted local features, i.e. between the reference micro-CT and the one transformed taking into account the calculated deformation. The residual RMSE of the RSP showed that the accuracy of the registration framework is promising for compensating rigid (>97% accuracy) and non-rigid (~95% accuracy) transformations with respect to a conventional 3D-3D registration. Results showed that the registration accuracy is degraded when considering the realistic detector performance and NMI as a metric, whereas the RMSE in projection domain is rather insensitive. This work demonstrates the pre-clinical feasibility of the registration framework on different treatment sites and its use for small animal imaging with a realistic detector. Further computational optimization of the framework is required to enable the use of this tool for online estimation of the deformation.
31714156 | NK cell-based therapeutics for lung cancer. Introduction: Lung cancer is a devastating disease with poor overall survival. Despite significant advances in the treatment of lung cancers using radiochemotherapy, targeted therapies and/or immune therapies prognosis remains poor. The capacity of natural killer (NK) cells to provide a first line of defense that can bridge and orchestrate innate and 'downstream' adaptive immune responses renders them to be an ideal platform on which to base new cancer therapeutics.Areas covered: We provide an overview of the mechanisms controlling the effector functions of NK cells, tumor-directed immune escape, the impact and influence of NK cells on the development of effective, protective anti-tumor immunity and the therapeutic potential of combined cytokine-, complement-dependent- and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (CDC/ADCC), NK-92-, KIR mismatch- and CAR-NK cell-based therapies.Expert opinion: Despite promising results of immuno-oncological approaches, a relevant proportion of patients do not profit from these therapies, partly due to an ineffective NK cell activation, a lack of tumor-specific NK cells, an upregulated expression of checkpoint pathways, and a low mutational burden, which hinders the development of long-term adaptive immunity. Strategies that re-activate NK cells in combination with other therapies are therefore likely to be beneficial for the clinical outcome of patients with lung cancer.Abbreviations: ADCC: antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity; ALK: anaplastic lymphoma kinase; CAR: chimeric antigen receptor; CDC: complement-dependent cytotoxicity; CEACAM-1: carcinoembryonic antigen-related cell adhesion molecule 1; DC: dendritic cell; DNAM: activating, maturation receptor; EGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor; EMT: epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition; EpCAM: epithelial cell adhesion molecule; GM-CSF: granulocyte monocyte colony stimulating factor; HIF: hypoxia inducible factor; IDO, indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase; IFN: interferon; IL: interleukin; ITIM/ITAM: immune tyrosine-based inhibitory/activatory motif; KIR: killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor; LAG-3: lymphocyte activation gene 3; MDSC: myeloid derived suppressor cells; MICA/B: MHC class I-related proteins A/B; MHC: major histocompatibility complex; mTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin; NCAM: neuronal adhesion molecule; NCR: natural cytotoxicity receptor; NK: natural killer; NSCLC: non-small cell lung cancer; PD-1: programmed cell death 1; PS: phosphatidylserine; SCLC: small cell lung cancer; STAT: signal transducer and activator of transcription; TAM: tumor-associated M2 macrophages; TCR: T cell receptor; TIGIT: T cell immunoglobulin and ITIM domain; Tim-3: T cell immunoglobulin- and mucin domain-containing 3; TNF: tumor necrosis factor; ULBP: UL16-binding protein.
31741759 | T cell recognition of novel shared breast cancer antigens is frequently observed in peripheral blood of breast cancer patients. Advances within cancer immunotherapy have fueled a paradigm shift in cancer treatment, resulting in increasing numbers of cancer types benefitting from novel treatment options. Despite originally being considered an immunologically silent malignancy, recent studies encourage the research of breast cancer immunogenicity to evaluate immunotherapy as a treatment strategy. However, the epitope landscape in breast cancer is minimally described, limiting the options for antigen-specific, targeted strategies. Aromatase, never in mitosis A-related kinase 3 (NEK3), protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3), and prolactin are known as upregulated proteins in breast cancer. In the present study, these four proteins are identified as novel T cell targets in breast cancer. From the four proteins, 147 peptides were determined to bind HLA-A*0201 and -B*0702 using a combined in silico/in vitro affinity screening. T cell recognition of all 147 peptide-HLA-A*0201/-B*0702 combinations was assessed through the use of a novel high-throughput method utilizing DNA barcode labeled multimers. T cell recognition of sequences within all four proteins was demonstrated in peripheral blood of patients, and significantly more T cell responses were detected in patients compared to healthy donors for both HLA-A*0201 and -B*0702. Notably, several of the identified responses were directed toward peptides, with a predicted low or intermediate binding affinity. This demonstrates the importance of including low-affinity binders in the search for epitopes within shared tumor associated antigens (TAAs), as these might be less subject to immune tolerance mechanisms. The study presents four novel TAAs containing multiple possible targets for immunotherapy of breast cancer.
24641908 | Interactions in lipid stabilised foam films. The interaction between lipid bilayers in water has been intensively studied over the last decades. Osmotic stress was applied to evaluate the forces between two approaching lipid bilayers in aqueous solution. The force-distance relation between lipid mono- or bilayers deposited on mica sheets using a surface force apparatus (SFA) was also measured. Lipid stabilised foam films offer another possibility to study the interactions between lipid monolayers. These films can be prepared comparatively easy with very good reproducibility. Foam films consist usually of two adsorbed surfactant monolayers separated by a layer of the aqueous solution from which the film is created. Their thickness can be conveniently measured using microinterferometric techniques. Studies with foam films deliver valuable information on the interactions between lipid membranes and especially their stability and permeability. Presenting inverse black lipid membrane (BLM) foam films supply information about the properties of the lipid self-organisation in bilayers. The present paper summarises results on microscopic lipid stabilised foam films by measuring their thickness and contact angle. Most of the presented results concern foam films prepared from dispersions of the zwitterionic lipid 1,2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphorylcholine (DMPC) and some of its mixtures with the anionic lipid -- 1,2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3-[phospho-rac-(1-glycerol)] (DMPG). The strength of the long range and short range forces between the lipid layers is discussed. The van der Waals attractive force is calculated. The electrostatic repulsive force is estimated from experiments at different electrolyte concentrations (NaCl, CaCl2) or by modification of the electrostatic double layer surface potential by incorporating charged lipids in the lipid monolayers. The short range interactions are studied and modified by using small carbohydrates (fructose and sucrose), ethanol (EtOH) or dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). Some results are compared with the structure of lipid monolayers deposited at the liquid/air interface (monolayers spread in Langmuir trough), which are one of most studied biomembrane model system. The comparison between the film thickness and the free energy of film formation is used to estimate the contribution of the different components of the disjoining pressure to the total interaction in the film and their dependence on the composition of the film forming solution.
33958760 | LIMIT is an immunogenic lncRNA in cancer immunity and immunotherapy. Major histocompatibility complex-I (MHC-I) presents tumour antigens to CD8+ T cells and triggers anti-tumour immunity. Humans may have 30,000-60,000 long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs). However, it remains poorly understood whether lncRNAs affect tumour immunity. Here, we identify a lncRNA, lncRNA inducing MHC-I and immunogenicity of tumour (LIMIT), in humans and mice. We found that IFNgamma stimulated LIMIT, LIMIT cis-activated the guanylate-binding protein (GBP) gene cluster and GBPs disrupted the association between HSP90 and heat shock factor-1 (HSF1), thereby resulting in HSF1 activation and transcription of MHC-I machinery, but not PD-L1. RNA-guided CRISPR activation of LIMIT boosted GBPs and MHC-I, and potentiated tumour immunogenicity and checkpoint therapy. Silencing LIMIT, GBPs and/or HSF1 diminished MHC-I, impaired antitumour immunity and blunted immunotherapy efficacy. Clinically, LIMIT, GBP- and HSF1-signalling transcripts and proteins correlated with MHC-I, tumour-infiltrating T cells and checkpoint blockade response in patients with cancer. Together, we demonstrate that LIMIT is a cancer immunogenic lncRNA and the LIMIT-GBP-HSF1 axis may be targetable for cancer immunotherapy.
36407092 | Efficacy and Safety of Obinutuzumab-chemotherapy Combinations in Front-line Treatment of Follicular Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma During the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Study of KROHEM, the Croatian Cooperative Group for Hematologic Diseases. Obinutuzumab (G) has become part of front-line treatment of follicular lymphoma (FL) based on results of a large randomized study. Data on patients treated outside of clinical trials are lacking. We have retrospectively investigated efficacy and safety of G-based immunochemotherapy regimens in 114 patients treated in a real-life setting during a period of 2 years, largely coinciding with the COVID-19 pandemic. The response rate was 93.8%; 18-months overall (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were 88% and 84%, respectively. Patients treated with G-cyclophosphamide, vincristine and glucocorticoid + doxorubicine (CHOP) had statistically significantly superior OS and PFS compared to patients treated with G-bendamustine (G-B) (P = 0.002 and P = 0.006, respectively) due to an increase in lethal infections, most notably COVID-19, in the latter group. A total of 12 patients died during follow-up; 9 of 61 treated with G-B, 1 of 49 treated with G-CHOP and 2 of 4 treated with G-cyclophosphamide, vincristine and glucocorticoid (CVP). SARS-CoV-2 infection was diagnosed in 20 (17.5%) patients. All of the 7 treated with G-CHOP recovered, while 4 of 12 treated with G-B died. Immunoglobulin levels and severity of neutropenia were similar between the groups. In multivariate analysis, G-B in comparison to G-CHOP was an independent prognostic factor (P = 0.044, hazard ratio = 9.81) after adjustment for age, sex and Follicular Lymphoma International Prognostic Index (FLIPI). Based on our experience G has excellent antilymphoma activity in patients receiving front-line treatment for FL in real-life setting, but during the COVID-19 pandemic, it should be preferentially combined with CHOP, at least in patients younger than 65.
37072753 | The effect of medical innovation on the cost-effectiveness of Covid 19-related policies in the United States using a SIR model. BACKGROUND: During 2020-21, the United States used a multifaceted approach to control SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) and reduce mortality and morbidity. This included non-medical interventions (NMIs), aggressive vaccine development and deployment, and research into more effective approaches to medically treat Covid-19. Each approach had both costs and benefits. The objective of this study was to calculate the Incremental Cost Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) for three major Covid-19 policies: NMIs, vaccine development and deployment (Vaccines), and therapeutics and care improvements within the hospital setting (HTCI). METHODS: To simulate the number of QALYs lost per scenario, we developed a multi-risk Susceptible-Infected-Recovered (SIR) model where infection and fatality rates vary between regions. We use a two equation SIR model. The first equation represents changes in the number of infections and is a function of the susceptible population, the infection rate and the recovery rate. The second equation shows the changes in the susceptible population as people recover. Key costs included loss of economic productivity, reduced future earnings due to educational closures, inpatient spending and the cost of vaccine development. Benefits included reductions in Covid-19 related deaths, which were offset in some models by additional cancer deaths due to care delays. RESULTS: The largest cost is the reduction in economic output associated with NMI ($1.7 trillion); the second most significant cost is the educational shutdowns, with estimated reduced lifetime earnings of $523B. The total estimated cost of vaccine development is $55B. HTCI had the lowest cost per QALY gained vs \do nothing\ with a cost of $2,089 per QALY gained. Vaccines cost $34,777 per QALY gained in isolation, while NMIs alone were dominated by other options. HTCI alone dominated most alternatives, except the combination of HTCI and Vaccines ($58,528 per QALY gained) and HTCI, Vaccines and NMIs ($3.4 m per QALY gained). CONCLUSIONS: HTCI was the most cost effective and was well justified under any standard cost effectiveness threshold. The cost per QALY gained for vaccine development, either alone or in concert with other approaches, is well within the standard for cost effectiveness. NMIs reduced deaths and saved QALYs, but the cost per QALY gained is well outside the usual accepted limits.
33633563 | Different Modular Organization Between Early Onset and Late Onset Depression: A Study Base on Granger Causality Analysis. Background: Modular organization reflects the activity patterns of our brain. Different disease states may lead to different activity patterns and clinical features. Early onset depression (EOD) and late onset depression (LOD) share the same clinical symptoms, but have different treatment strategies and prognosis. Thus, explored the modular organization of EOD and LOD might help us understand their pathogenesis. Method: The study included 82 patients with late life depression (EOD 40, LOD 42) and 90 healthy controls. We evaluated the memory, executive function and processing speed and performed resting-stage functional MRI for all participants. We constructed a functional network based on Granger causality analysis and carried out modularity, normalized mutual information (NMI), Phi coefficient, within module degree z-score, and participation coefficient analyses for all the participants. Result: The Granger function network analysis suggested that the functional modularity was different among the three groups (P auc = 0.0300), and NMI analysis confirmed that the partition of EOD was different from that of LOD (P auc = 0.0190). Rh.10d.ROI (polar frontal cortex) and Rh.IPS1.ROI (dorsal stream visual cortex) were shown to be the potential specific nodes in the modular assignment according to the Phi coefficient (P = 0.0002, P fdr = 0.0744 & P = 0.0004, P fdr = 0.0744). Conclusion: This study reveal that the functional modularity and partition were different between EOD and LOD in Granger function network. These findings support the hypothesis that different pathological changes might exist in EOD and LOD.
38396379 | Regression analysis of longitudinal data with random change point. A great deal of literature has been established for regression analysis of longitudinal data and in particular, many methods have been proposed for the situation where there exist some change points. However, most of these methods only apply to continuous response and focus on the situations where the change point only occurs on the response or the trend of the individual trajectory. In this article, we propose a new joint modeling approach that allows not only the change point to vary for different subjects or be subject-specific but also the effect heterogeneity of the covariates before and after the change point. The method combines a generalized linear mixed effect model with a random change point for the longitudinal response and a log-linear regression model for the random change point. For inference, a maximum likelihood estimation procedure is developed and the asymptotic properties of the resulting estimators, which differ from the standard asymptotic results, are established. A simulation study is conducted and suggests that the proposed method works well for practical situations. An application to a set of real data on COVID-19 is provided.
31743425 | Glycogen synthetase kinase 3 inhibition drives MIC-A/B to promote cytokine production by human natural killer cells in Dengue virus type 2 infection. Dengue virus (DENV) is the most widespread arbovirus worldwide and is responsible for major outbreaks. The host's immune response plays a crucial role in controlling this infection but might also contribute to the promotion of viral spread and immunopathology. In response to DENV infection, NK cells preferentially produce cytokines and are cytotoxic in the presence of specific antibodies. Here, we identified that DENV-2 inhibits glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) activity to subsequently induce MHC class-1-related chain (MIC) A and MIC-B expression and IL-12 production in monocyte-derived DCs, independently of the STAT-3 pathway. The inhibition of GSK-3 by DENV-2 or small molecules induced MIC-A/B expression on monocyte-derived DCs, resulting in autologous NK cells of a specific increase in IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha production, in the absence of direct cytotoxicity. Together, these findings identified GSK-3 as a regulator of MIC-A/B expression and suggested its role in DENV-2 infection to specifically induce cytokine production by NK cells.
36043467 | Design, Synthesis, and Application of Chiral Bicyclic Imidazole Catalysts. Asymmetric organocatalysis has been considered to be an efficient and reliable strategy for the stereoselective preparation of optically active chemicals. In particular, chiral tertiary amines as Lewis base organocatalysts bearing core structures including quinuclidine, dimethylaminopyridine (DMAP), N-methylimidazole (NMI), amidine, etc. have provided new and powerful tools for various chemical transformations. However, due to the limitations in structural complexity, synthetic difficulty, low catalytic efficiency, and high cost, the industrial application of such catalysts is still far from being widely adopted. Therefore, the development of new chiral tertiary amine catalysts with higher activity and selectivity is greatly desired.In order to address the contradiction between activity and selectivity caused by the ortho group, a bicyclic imidazole structure bearing a relatively large bond angle  theta was designed as the skeleton of our new catalysts. 6,7-Dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[1,2-a]imidazole (abbreviated as DPI) and 5,6,7,8-tetrahydroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine (abbreviated as TIP) are two of the utilized skeletons. In addition to obtaining satisfactory catalytic activity, excellent enantioselectivity would also be expected because the stereocontrol R group is neither far nor close to the catalytic active site (sp2-N atom) and is adjustable. Based on this skeleton, a family of chiral bicyclic imidazole catalysts were easily prepared and successfully applied in several enantioselective reactions for the synthesis of a variety of valuable chiral compounds.6,7-Dihydro-5H-pyrrolo[1,2-a]imidazole (abbreviated as DPI) is the predominantly utilized skeleton. First, HO-DPI, the key intermediate of the designed chiral bicyclic imidazole catalysts, could be efficiently synthesized from imidazole and acrolein, then separated by kinetic resolution or optical resolution. Second, Alkoxy-DPI, the alkyloxy-substituted chiral bicyclic imidazole catalysts, were synthesized by a one-step alkylation from HO-DPI. This type of catalyst has been successfully applied in asymmetric Steglich rearrangement (C-acylation rearrangement of O-acylated azlactones), asymmetric phosphorylation of lactams, and a sequential four-step acylation reaction. Third, Acyloxy-DPI, the acyloxy-substituted chiral bicyclic imidazole catalysts, were synthesized with a one-step acetylative kinetic resolution from racemic HO-DPI or acylation from enantiopure HO-DPI. The catalyst AcO-DPI has been successfully applied in enantioselective Black rearrangement and in direct enantioselective C-acylation of 3-substituted benzofuran-2(3H)-ones and 2-oxindoles. Fourth, Alkyl-DPI was synthesized via a two-step reaction from racemic HO-DPI and separated easily by resolution. The catalyst Cy-DPI has been successfully applied in dynamic kinetic resolution of 3-hydroxyphthalides through enantioselective O-acylation. Cy-PDPI was synthesized through a Cu-catalyzed amidation from Cy-DPI and successfully applied in the kinetic resolution of secondary alcohols with good to excellent enantioselectivities. Finally, the carbamate type chiral bicyclic imidazole catalysts, Carbamate-DPI, were readily synthesized from HO-DPI, and the catalyst Ad-DPI bearing a bulky adamantyl group was successfully applied in the synthesis of the anti-COVID-19 drug remdesivir via asymmetric phosphorylation. Alongside our initial work, this Account also introduces four elegant studies by other groups concerning asymmetric phosphorylation utilizing chiral bicyclic imidazole catalysts.In summary, this Account focuses on the chiral bicyclic imidazole catalysts developed in our group and provides an overview on their design, synthesis, and application that will serve as inspiration for the exploration of new organocatalysts and related reactions.
36127702 | The UK Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme and smoking, alcohol consumption and vaping during the COVID-19 pandemic: evidence from eight longitudinal population surveys. BACKGROUND: Employment disruptions can impact smoking and alcohol consumption. During the COVID-19 pandemic, many countries implemented furlough schemes to prevent job loss. We examine how furlough was associated with smoking, vaping and alcohol consumption in the UK. METHODS: Data from 27,841 participants in eight UK adult longitudinal surveys were analysed. Participants self-reported employment status and current smoking, current vaping and alcohol consumption (>4 days/week or 5+ drinks per typical occasion) both before and during the early stages of the pandemic (April-July 2020). Risk ratios were estimated within each study using modified Poisson regression, adjusting for a range of potential confounders, including pre-pandemic behaviour. Findings were synthesised using random effects meta-analysis. RESULTS: Compared to stable employment and after adjustment for pre-pandemic characteristics, furlough was not associated with smoking (ARR = 1.05; 95% CI: 0.95-1.16; I2: 10%), vaping (ARR = 0.89; 95% CI: 0.74-1.08; I2: 0%) or drinking (ARR = 1.03; 95% CI: 0.94-1.13; I2: 48%). There were similar findings for no longer being employed, and stable unemployment, though this varied by sex: stable unemployment was associated with smoking for women (ARR = 1.35; 95% CI: 1.00-1.82; I2: 47%) but not men (0.84; 95% CI: 0.67-1.05; I2: 0%). No longer being employed was associated with vaping among women (ARR = 2.74; 95% CI: 1.59-4.72; I2: 0%) but not men (ARR = 1.25; 95% CI: 0.83-1.87; I2: 0%). CONCLUSIONS: We found no clear evidence of furlough or unemployment having adverse impacts on smoking, vaping or drinking behaviours during the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic in the UK. Differences in risk compared to those who remained employed were largely explained by pre-pandemic characteristics.
12925327 | Proper multivariate conditional autoregressive models for spatial data analysis. In the past decade conditional autoregressive modelling specifications have found considerable application for the analysis of spatial data. Nearly all of this work is done in the univariate case and employs an improper specification. Our contribution here is to move to multivariate conditional autoregressive models and to provide rich, flexible classes which yield proper distributions. Our approach is to introduce spatial autoregression parameters. We first clarify what classes can be developed from the family of Mardia (1988) and contrast with recent work of Kim et al. (2000). We then present a novel parametric linear transformation which provides an extension with attractive interpretation. We propose to employ these models as specifications for second-stage spatial effects in hierarchical models. Two applications are discussed; one for the two-dimensional case modelling spatial patterns of child growth, the other for a four-dimensional situation modelling spatial variation in HLA-B allele frequencies. In each case, full Bayesian inference is carried out using Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation.
36927880 | Systematic Review of Cost-Effectiveness Analysis for Surgical and Neurostimulation Treatments for Drug-Resistant Epilepsy in Adults. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Surgical and neurostimulator treatments are effective for reducing seizure burden in selected individuals living with drug resistant epilepsy (DRE). We aimed to determine the presence and key model determinants for cost-effectiveness of these interventions, compared to medical management alone, to assist with decisions about resource allocation. METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted on June 1, 2022, using Medline, Embase, NHS Economic Evaluation Database, and the Cost-Effectiveness Analysis database. Included studies were economic evaluations in adult DRE cohorts; comparing surgical and neurostimulator treatments (vagus nerve stimulation (VNS), responsive neurostimulation (RNS), and deep brain stimulation (DBS)) vs medical management alone; and reporting cost-benefit analysis, cost-utility, or cost-effectiveness. Exclusion criteria were studies with pediatric cohorts and those published in a language other than English. Three independent reviewers screened, extracted, and assessed data against the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) checklist, and a fourth reviewer adjudicated discrepancies. RESULTS: Ten studies met inclusion criteria. Seven studies evaluated epilepsy surgery, and three evaluated neurostimulation treatments. All relevant studies established that epilepsy surgery is a cost-effective intervention compared to medical management alone, with regards to quality adjusted life years (QALYs), and seizure freedom at 2- and 5 years. All relevant studies found neurostimulator treatments to be potentially cost-effective. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), with lower ICER indicating greater cost-effectiveness, was reported for nine studies, and varied between GBP $3,013 and US $61,333. Cost adaptation revealed ICERs from US $170 to US $121,726. Key model determinants included, but were not limited to, improved surgical outcomes and quality of life, reduced surgical and presurgical evaluation costs, higher rates of surgical eligibility after referral and evaluation, epilepsy subtype, less expensive neurostimulator devices with improved longevity, and cost analysis strategy used in the analysis. DISCUSSION: There is consistent evidence that epilepsy surgery is a cost-effective treatment for eligible candidates with DRE. Limited evidence suggests that VNS, RNS, and DBS may be cost-effective therapies for DRE, although more health economic evaluations alongside prospective clinical trials are needed to validate these findings.
29263266 | GalNAc-Specific Soybean Lectin Inhibits HIV Infection of Macrophages through Induction of Antiviral Factors. Although it has been shown that some mannose-binding lectins (MBLs) exhibit significant activity against HIV infection, little is known about whether N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc)-binding lectins have the ability to inhibit HIV infection. Here, we demonstrate that a soybean-derived lectin (SBL) with GalNAc-binding affinity could potently suppress HIV infection of macrophages in a dose-dependent fashion. Unlike the MBLs, which block HIV only through binding to the glycosylated envelope proteins (gp120 and gp41) of the virus, SBL inhibited HIV at multiple steps of the virus infection/replication cycle. SBL could activate the beta interferon (IFN-beta)-STAT signaling pathway, resulting in the upregulation of a number of antiviral interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) in macrophages. In addition, SBL treatment of macrophages induced the production of C-C chemokines, which bind to HIV entry coreceptor CCR5. Deglycosylation of cell surface galactosyl moieties or presaturation of GalNAc-binding capacity could compromise SBL-mediated induction of the antiviral factors. Furthermore, SBL exerted its anti-HIV activity in the low nanomolar range with no mitogenic effect on CD4+ T cells, a major advantage in the development of SBL as a potential anti-HIV agent compared with MBLs. These data indicate a necessity to further investigate SBL as an alternative and cost-effective anti-HIV natural product.IMPORTANCE Mannose-binding lectins (MBLs) can block the attachment of HIV to target cells and have been suggested as anti-HIV microbicides. However, the mitogenic effect of MBLs on CD4+ T cells limits this potential in clinical settings. Lectins with galactose (Gal)- or N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc)-binding specificity are another important category of carbohydrate-binding proteins (CBP). Compared to high-mannose N-linked glycans, GalNAc-type glycans present much less in HIV gp120 or gp41 glycosylation. Here, we demonstrate that GalNAc-specific soybean lectin (SBL) triggers antiviral signaling via recognition of the cell surface galactosyl group of macrophages, which results in the suppression of HIV at multiple steps. More importantly, SBL has no mitogenic effect on the activation of CD4+ T cells, a major advantage in the development of Gal/GalNAc-specific lectins as naturopathic anti-HIV agents.
31633964 | Application of the Continuous Stern-Gerlach Effect for Laser Spectroscopy of the ^{40}Ar^{13+} Fine Structure in a Penning Trap. We report on the successful demonstration of a novel scheme for detecting optical transitions in highly charged ions. We applied it to determine the frequency of the dipole-forbidden 2p ^{2}P_{1/2}-^{2}P_{3/2} transition in the fine structure of ^{40}Ar^{13+} using a single ion stored in the harmonic potential of a Penning trap. Our measurement scheme does not require detection of fluorescence, instead it makes use of the continuous Stern-Gerlach effect. Our value of 679.216464(4)_{stat}(5)_{syst}  THz is in reasonable agreement with the current best literature values and improves its uncertainty by a factor of 24.
36301637 | Stabilized recombinant SARS-CoV-2 spike antigen enhances vaccine immunogenicity and protective capacity. The SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) glycoprotein is synthesized as a large precursor protein and must be activated by proteolytic cleavage into S1 and S2. A recombinant modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) expressing native, full-length S protein (MVA-SARS-2-S) is currently under investigation as a candidate vaccine in phase I clinical studies. Initial results from immunogenicity monitoring revealed induction of S-specific antibodies binding to S2, but low-level antibody responses to the S1 domain. Follow-up investigations of native S antigen synthesis in MVA-SARS-2-S-infected cells revealed limited levels of S1 protein on the cell surface. In contrast, we found superior S1 cell surface presentation upon infection with a recombinant MVA expressing a stabilized version of SARS-CoV-2 S protein with an inactivated S1/S2 cleavage site and K986P and V987P mutations (MVA-SARS-2-ST). When comparing immunogenicity of MVA vector vaccines, mice vaccinated with MVA-SARS-2-ST mounted substantial levels of broadly reactive anti-S antibodies that effectively neutralized different SARS-CoV-2 variants. Importantly, intramuscular MVA-SARS-2-ST immunization of hamsters and mice resulted in potent immune responses upon challenge infection and protected from disease and severe lung pathology. Our results suggest that MVA-SARS-2-ST represents an improved clinical candidate vaccine and that the presence of plasma membrane-bound S1 is highly beneficial to induce protective antibody levels.
38458291 | Porcine deltacoronavirus NS7a antagonizes JAK/STAT pathway by inhibiting the interferon-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) formation. The accessory proteins of coronaviruses play a crucial role in facilitating virus-host interactions and modulating host immune responses. Previous study demonstrated that the NS7a protein of porcine deltacoronavirus (PDCoV) partially hindered the host immune response by impeding the induction of IFN-alpha/beta. However, the potential additional functions of NS7a protein in evading innate immunity have yet to be elucidated. This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of PDCoV NS7a protein regulating the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. We presented evidence that NS7a effectively inhibited ISRE promoter activity and ISGs transcription. NS7a hindered STAT1 phosphorylation, interacted with STAT2 and IRF9, and further impeded the formation and nuclear accumulation of ISGF3. Furthermore, comparative analysis of NS7a across different PDCoV strains revealed that the mutation of Leu4 to Pro4 led to an increase in the molecular weights of NS7a and disrupted its inhibition on the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. This finding implied that NS7a with key amino acids may be an indicator of virulence for PDCoV strains. Taken together, this study revealed a novel role of NS7a in antagonizing the IFN-I signaling pathway.
30859354 | Regulatory network reconstruction of five essential microRNAs for survival analysis in breast cancer by integrating miRNA and mRNA expression datasets. Although many of the genetic loci associated with breast cancer risk have been reported, there is a lack of systematic analysis of regulatory networks composed of different miRNAs and mRNAs on survival analysis in breast cancer. To reconstruct the microRNAs-genes regulatory network in breast cancer, we employed the expression data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) related to five essential miRNAs including miR-21, miR-22, miR-210, miR-221, and miR-222, and their associated functional genomics data from the GEO database. Then, we performed an integration analysis to identify the essential target factors and interactions for the next survival analysis in breast cancer. Based on the results of our integrated analysis, we have identified significant common regulatory signatures including differentially expressed genes, enriched pathways, and transcriptional regulation such as interferon regulatory factors (IRFs) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1). Finally, a reconstructed regulatory network of five miRNAs and 34 target factors was established and then applied to survival analysis in breast cancer. When we used expression data for individual miRNAs, only miR-21 and miR-22 were significantly associated with a survival change. However, we identified 45 significant miRNA-gene pairs that predict overall survival in breast cancer out of 170 one-on-one interactions in our reconstructed network covering all of five miRNAs, and several essential factors such as PSMB9, HLA-C, RARRES3, UBE2L6, and NMI. In our study, we reconstructed regulatory network of five essential microRNAs for survival analysis in breast cancer by integrating miRNA and mRNA expression datasets. These results may provide new insights into regulatory network-based precision medicine for breast cancer.
33250058 | Machine learning approaches classify clinical malaria outcomes based on haematological parameters. BACKGROUND: Malaria is still a major global health burden, with more than 3.2 billion people in 91 countries remaining at risk of the disease. Accurately distinguishing malaria from other diseases, especially uncomplicated malaria (UM) from non-malarial infections (nMI), remains a challenge. Furthermore, the success of rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) is threatened by Pfhrp2/3 deletions and decreased sensitivity at low parasitaemia. Analysis of haematological indices can be used to support the identification of possible malaria cases for further diagnosis, especially in travellers returning from endemic areas. As a new application for precision medicine, we aimed to evaluate machine learning (ML) approaches that can accurately classify nMI, UM, and severe malaria (SM) using haematological parameters. METHODS: We obtained haematological data from 2,207 participants collected in Ghana: nMI (n = 978), SM (n = 526), and UM (n = 703). Six different ML approaches were tested, to select the best approach. An artificial neural network (ANN) with three hidden layers was used for multi-classification of UM, SM, and uMI. Binary classifiers were developed to further identify the parameters that can distinguish UM or SM from nMI. Local interpretable model-agnostic explanations (LIME) were used to explain the binary classifiers. RESULTS: The multi-classification model had greater than 85% training and testing accuracy to distinguish clinical malaria from nMI. To distinguish UM from nMI, our approach identified platelet counts, red blood cell (RBC) counts, lymphocyte counts, and percentages as the top classifiers of UM with 0.801 test accuracy (AUC = 0.866 and F1 score = 0.747). To distinguish SM from nMI, the classifier had a test accuracy of 0.96 (AUC = 0.983 and F1 score = 0.944) with mean platelet volume and mean cell volume being the unique classifiers of SM. Random forest was used to confirm the classifications, and it showed that platelet and RBC counts were the major classifiers of UM, regardless of possible confounders such as patient age and sampling location. CONCLUSION: The study provides proof of concept methods that classify UM and SM from nMI, showing that the ML approach is a feasible tool for clinical decision support. In the future, ML approaches could be incorporated into clinical decision-support algorithms for the diagnosis of acute febrile illness and monitoring response to acute SM treatment particularly in endemic settings.
35221819 | Understanding exchange rate shocks during COVID-19. Using a dynamic VAR model fitted to hourly data, we evaluate the evolution of spillover shocks from exchange rates returns of EURO, Yen, CAD and GBP. We find that over the COVID-19 sample: (a) total exchange rate shock spillovers explain around 37.7% of the forecast error variance in the exchange rate market compared to only 26.1% in the pre-COVID-19 period; and (b) exchange rate own shocks explain between 56% to 75% of own exchange rate movements. These results hold in multiple robustness tests. The implication is that exchange rates predict most of their own changes. We confirm this through an economic significance test where we show that the shock spillovers predict exchange rate returns and these predicted exchange rates can be useful in extracting buy and sell trading signals.
33349924 | Mimicking Behcet's disease: GM-CSF gain of function mutation in a family suffering from a Behcet's disease-like disorder marked by extreme pathergy. Behcet's disease (BD) is an inflammatory disease mainly affecting men along the ancient Silk Route. In the present study we describe a Dutch family suffering from BD-like disease with extreme pathergic responses, but without systemic inflammation. Genetic assessment revealed a combination of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B*51 risk-allele together with a rare heterozygous variant in the CSF2 gene (c.130A>C, p.N44H) encoding for granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) found by whole exome sequencing. We utilized an over-expression vector system in a human hepatocyte cell line to produce the aberrant variant of GM-CSF. Biological activity of the protein was measured by signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT-5) phosphorylation, a downstream molecule of the GM-CSF receptor, in wild-type peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) using flow cytometry. Increased STAT-5 phosphorylation was observed in response to mutated GM-CSF when compared to the wild-type or recombinant protein. CSF2 p.N44H results in disruption of one of the protein's two N-glycosylation sites. Enzymatically deglycosylated wild-type GM-CSF also enhanced STAT-5 phosphorylation. The patient responded well to anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha treatment, which may be linked to the capacity of TNF-alpha to induce GM-CSF in phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-treated PBMCs, while GM-CSF itself only induced dose-dependent interleukin (IL)-1Ra production. The identified CSF2 pathway could provide novel insights into the pathergic response of BD-like disease and offer new opportunities for personalized treatment.
22400575 | Langevin equations for competitive growth models. Langevin equations for several competitive growth models in one dimension are derived. For models with crossover from random deposition (RD) to some correlated deposition (CD) dynamics, with small probability p of CD, the surface tension nu and the nonlinear coefficient lambda of the associated equations have linear dependence on p due solely to this random choice. However, they also depend on the regularized step functions present in the analytical representations of the CD, whose expansion coefficients scale with p according to the divergence of local height differences when p 0. The superposition of those scaling factors gives nu~p(2) for random deposition with surface relaxation (RDSR) as the CD, and nu~p, lambda~p(3/2) for ballistic deposition (BD) as the CD, in agreement with simulation and other scaling approaches. For bidisperse ballistic deposition (BBD), the same scaling of RD-BD model is found. The Langevin equation for the model with competing RDSR and BD, with probability p for the latter, is also constructed. It shows linear p dependence of lambda, while the quadratic dependence observed in previous simulations is explained by an additional crossover before the asymptotic regime. The results highlight the relevance of scaling of the coefficients of step function expansions in systems with steep surfaces, which is responsible for noninteger exponents in some p-dependent stochastic equations, and the importance of the physical correspondence of aggregation rules and equation coefficients.
37586765 | TCR-engaging scaffolds selectively expand antigen-specific T-cells with a favorable phenotype for adoptive cell therapy. BACKGROUND: Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) has shown promising results for the treatment of cancer and viral infections. Successful ACT relies on ex vivo expansion of large numbers of desired T-cells with strong cytotoxic capacity and in vivo persistence, which constitutes the greatest challenge to current ACT strategies. Here, in this study, we present a novel technology for ex vivo expansion of antigen-specific T-cells; artificial antigen-presenting scaffolds (Ag-scaffolds) consisting of a dextran-polysaccharide backbone, decorated with combinations of peptide-Major Histocompatibility Complex (pMHC), cytokines and co-stimulatory molecules, enabling coordinated stimulation of antigen-specific T-cells. METHODS: The capacity of Ag-scaffolds to expand antigen-specific T-cells was explored in ex vivo cultures with peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy donors and patients with metastatic melanoma. The resulting T-cell products were assessed for phenotypic and functional characteristics. RESULTS: We identified an optimal Ag-scaffold for expansion of T-cells for ACT, carrying pMHC and interleukin-2 (IL-2) and IL-21, with which we efficiently expanded both virus-specific and tumor-specific CD8+ T cells from peripheral blood of healthy donors and patients, respectively. The resulting T-cell products were characterized by a high frequency of antigen-specific cells with high self-renewal capacity, low exhaustion, a multifunctional cytokine profile upon antigen-challenge and superior tumor killing capacity. This demonstrates that the coordinated stimuli provided by an optimized stoichiometry of TCR engaging (pMHC) and stimulatory (cytokine) moieties is essential to obtain desired T-cell characteristics. To generate an 'off-the-shelf' multitargeting Ag-scaffold product of relevance to patients with metastatic melanoma, we identified the 30 most frequently recognized shared HLA-A0201-restricted melanoma epitopes in a cohort of 87 patients. By combining these in an Ag-scaffold product, we were able to expand tumor-specific T-cells from 60-70% of patients with melanoma, yielding a multitargeted T-cell product with up to 25% specific and phenotypically and functionally improved T cells. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, the Ag-scaffold represents a promising new technology for selective expansion of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells directly from blood, yielding a highly specific and functionally enhanced T-cell product for ACT.
19391757 | Viscous fingering in volatile thin films. A thin water film on a cleaved mica substrate undergoes a first-order phase transition between two values of film thickness. By inducing a finite evaporation rate of the water, the interface between the two phases develops a fingering instability similar to that observed in the Saffman-Taylor problem. We draw the connection between the two problems, and construct solutions describing the dynamics of evaporation in this system.
35728817 | A novel digital rectoscope for the triage of lower gastrointestinal symptoms in primary care: a prospective multicentre feasibility study. BACKGROUND: Access to community rectoscopy might help to ease the burden on hospital services and reduce costs for the NHS. To assess this, a prospective multicentre observational phase I feasibility study of a novel digital rectoscope and telestration software for the triage of lower gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms was undertaken. AIM: To determine if digital rectoscopy is feasible, acceptable, and clinically safe. DESIGN & SETTING: Evaluation of clinician case reports and patient questionnaires from patients recruited from five primary care centres. METHOD: Adults meeting 2-week wait (2WW) criteria for suspected lower GI cancer, suspected new diagnosis, or flare-up of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) were enrolled. Examinations were performed by primary care practitioners using the LumenEye rectoscope. The CHiP platform allowed immediate remote review by secondary care. A prospective analysis was performed of patient and clinician experiences, diagnostic accuracy, and cost. RESULTS: A total of 114 patients were recruited and 110 underwent the procedure (46 [42%] females and 64 [58%] males). No serious adverse events were reported. Eighty-two (74.5%) patients reported that examination was more comfortable than expected, while 104 (94.5%) felt the intervention was most convenient if delivered in the community. Clinicians were confident of their assessment in 100 (87.7%) examinations. Forty-eight (42.1%) patients subsequently underwent colonoscopy, flexible sigmoidoscopy, or computed tomography virtual colonoscopy (CTVC). The overall sensitivity and specificity of LumenEye in identifying rectal pathology was 90.0% and 88.9%. It was 100% and 100% for cancer, and 83.3% and 97.8% for polyps. Following LumenEye examination, 19 (17.3%) patients were discharged, with projected savings of 11 305 GBP. CONCLUSION: Digital rectoscopy in primary care is safe, acceptable, and can reduce referrals. A phase III randomised controlled trial is indicated to define its utility in reducing the burden on hospital diagnostic services.
38617598 | Incorporating testing volume into estimation of effective reproduction number dynamics. Branching process inspired models are widely used to estimate the effective reproduction number-a useful summary statistic describing an infectious disease outbreak-using counts of new cases. Case data is a real-time indicator of changes in the reproduction number, but is challenging to work with because cases fluctuate due to factors unrelated to the number of new infections. We develop a new model that incorporates the number of diagnostic tests as a surveillance model covariate. Using simulated data and data from the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic in California, we demonstrate that incorporating tests leads to improved performance over the state of the art.
35210294 | Cerebrovascular Reactivity Across the Entire Brain in Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Reduced cerebrovascular reactivity is proposed to be a feature of cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) but has not been measured directly. Employing a global vasodilatory stimulus (hypercapnia), this study assessed the relationships between cerebrovascular reactivity and MRI markers of CAA and cognitive function. METHODS: In a cross-sectional study, individuals with probable CAA, mild cognitive impairment, or dementia due to Alzheimer disease and healthy controls underwent neuropsychological testing and an MRI that included a 5% carbon dioxide challenge. Cerebrovascular reactivity was compared across groups controlling for age, sex, and the presence of hypertension, and its associations with MRI markers of CAA in participants with CAA and with cognition across all participants were determined using multivariable linear regression adjusting for group, age, sex, education, and the presence of hypertension. RESULTS: Cerebrovascular reactivity data (mean +- SD) were available for 26 participants with CAA (9 female; 74.4 +- 7.7 years), 19 participants with mild cognitive impairment (5 female; 72.1 +- 8.5 years), 12 participants with dementia due to Alzheimer disease (4 female; 69.4 +- 6.6 years), and 39 healthy controls (30 female; 68.8 +- 5.4 years). Gray and whiter matter reactivity averaged across the entire brain was lower in participants with CAA and Alzheimer disease dementia compared to healthy controls, with a predominantly posterior distribution of lower reactivity in both groups. Higher white matter hyperintensity volume was associated with lower white matter reactivity (standardized coefficient [beta], 95% CI -0.48, -0.90 to -0.01). Higher gray matter reactivity was associated with better global cognitive function (beta 0.19, 0.03-0.36), memory (beta 0.21, 0.07-0.36), executive function (beta 0.20, 0.02-0.39), and processing speed (beta 0.27, 0.10-0.45) and higher white matter reactivity was associated with higher memory (beta 0.22, 0.08-0.36) and processing speed (beta 0.23, 0.06-0.40). CONCLUSIONS: Reduced cerebrovascular reactivity is a core feature of CAA and its assessment may provide an additional biomarker for disease severity and cognitive impairment.
22238455 | IL-21 can supplement suboptimal Lck-independent MAPK activation in a STAT-3-dependent manner in human CD8(+) T cells. Although both MHC class II/CD8alpha double-knockout and CD8beta null mice show a defect in the development of MHC class I-restricted CD8(+) T cells in the thymus, they possess low numbers of high-avidity peripheral CTL with limited clonality and are able to contain acute and chronic infections. These in vivo data suggest that the CD8 coreceptor is not absolutely necessary for the generation of Ag-specific CTL. Lack of CD8 association causes partial TCR signaling because of the absence of CD8/Lck recruitment to the proximity of the MHC/TCR complex, resulting in suboptimal MAPK activation. Therefore, there should exist a signaling mechanism that can supplement partial TCR activation caused by the lack of CD8 association. In this human study, we have shown that CD8-independent stimulation of Ag-specific CTL previously primed in the presence of CD8 coligation, either in vivo or in vitro, induced severely impaired in vitro proliferation. When naive CD8(+) T cells were primed in the absence of CD8 binding and subsequently restimulated in the presence of CD8 coligation, the proliferation of Ag-specific CTL was also severely hampered. However, when CD8-independent T cell priming and restimulation were supplemented with IL-21, Ag-specific CD8(+) CTL expanded in two of six individuals tested. We found that IL-21 rescued partial MAPK activation in a STAT3- but not STAT1-dependent manner. These results suggest that CD8 coligation is critical for the expansion of postthymic peripheral Ag-specific CTL in humans. However, STAT3-mediated IL-21 signaling can supplement partial TCR signaling caused by the lack of CD8 association.
38298716 | HIF-1A as a prognostic biomarker related to invasion, migration and immunosuppression of cervical cancer. Background: The incidence of cervical cancer ranks second among malignant tumors in women, exerting a significant impact on their quality of life and overall well-being. The hypoxic microenvironment plays a pivotal role in the initiation and progression of tumorigenesis. The present study aims to investigate the fundamental genes and pathways associated with the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1A) in cervical cancer, aiming to identify potential downstream targets for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes. Methods: We obtained dataset GSE63514 from the Comprehensive Gene Expression Database (GEO). The dataset comprised of 24 patients in the normal group and 28 patients in the tumor group. Gene set difference analysis (GSVA) and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) were used to identify the genes related to HIF-1A expression and the specific signaling pathways involved.The association between HIF-1A and tumor immune infiltration was examined in the TCGA dataset. The WGCAN network was constructed to identify key genes within the blue module, and subsequent gene ontology (GO) function and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to determine the pathways and functional annotations associated with HIF-1A. The protein interaction network of the HIF-1A gene was obtained from the STRING database and visualized using Cytoscape in the meantime.The function of HIF-1A and its related gene expression were verified in vivo. Results: HIF-1A was a risk factor in both univariate and multivariate Cox regression analysis of cervical cancer patients. A total of 344 genes significantly correlated with the expression of HIF-1A were identified through correlation analysis, and the genes exhibiting the strongest correlation were obtained. The major signaling pathways involved in HIF-1A encompass TNF-alpha/NF-kappaB, PI3K/AKT/MTOR, TGF-beta, JAK-STAT, and various other signaling cascades. Reinforced by qRT-PCR, we identified Integrin beta-1 (ITGB1), C-C motif chemokine ligand 2 (CCL2), striatin 3 (STRN3), and endothelin-1 (EDN1) as pivotal downstream genes influenced by HIF-1A. HIF-1A is associated with immune infiltration of natural killer (NK) cells, mast cells, CD4+T cells, M0 macrophages, neutrophils, follicular helper T cells, CD8+T cells, and regulatory T cells (Treg). HIF-1A is associated with sensitivity to chemotherapy drugs. The identification of the HIF-1A pathway and its function primarily focuses on cytoplasmic translation, aerobic respiration, cellular respiration, oxidative phosphorylation, thermogenesis, among others. The results of in vivo experiments have confirmed that HIF-1A plays a crucial role in promoting the migration and invasion of cervical cancer cells. Moreover, the overexpression of HIF-1A led to an upregulation in the expressions of ITGB1, CCL2, STRN3, and EDN1. Conclusions: The role of HIF-1A in cervical cancer was determined through a combination of bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation. The genes potentially implicated in the tumorigenesis mechanism of HIF-1A were identified. These findings has the potential to enhance our comprehension of the progression of cervical cancer and offer promising therapeutic targets for its clinical management.
33806292 | Potential Therapeutic Applications of Hydrogen in Chronic Inflammatory Diseases: Possible Inhibiting Role on Mitochondrial Stress. Mitochondria are the largest source of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and are intracellular organelles that produce large amounts of the most potent hydroxyl radical ( OH). Molecular hydrogen (H2) can selectively eliminate  OH generated inside of the mitochondria. Inflammation is induced by the release of proinflammatory cytokines produced by macrophages and neutrophils. However, an uncontrolled or exaggerated response often occurs, resulting in severe inflammation that can lead to acute or chronic inflammatory diseases. Recent studies have reported that ROS activate NLRP3 inflammasomes, and that this stimulation triggers the production of proinflammatory cytokines. It has been shown in literature that H2 can be based on the mechanisms that inhibit mitochondrial ROS. However, the ability for H2 to inhibit NLRP3 inflammasome activation via mitochondrial oxidation is poorly understood. In this review, we hypothesize a possible mechanism by which H2 inhibits mitochondrial oxidation. Medical applications of H2 may solve the problem of many chronic inflammation-based diseases, including coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).
15089362 | Self-affine crossover length in a layered silicate deposit. Self-affine dehydrated colloidal deposits on fresh mica surfaces of the synthetic layered silicate 2:1 smectite clay laponite have been studied by means of atomic force microscopy (AFM). AFM images of these prepared assemblies of sol and gel aggregates have been analyzed both by means of standard AFM Fourier software and a wavelet method. The deposited surfaces show a persistence to antipersistent crossover with a clay concentration dependent crossover length. It is concluded that the crossover length is associated with aggregate size, and further that the persistent roughness at small length scales signals near compact clusters of fractal dimension three, whereas the antipersistent roughness at large length scales signals a sedimentation process.
33397652 | Axial spondyloarthritis: new advances in diagnosis and management. Axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA) is an inflammatory disease of the axial skeleton associated with significant pain and disability. Previously, the diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis required advanced changes on plain radiographs of the sacroiliac joints. Classification criteria released in 2009, however, identified a subset of patients, under the age of 45, with back pain for more than three months in the absence of radiographic sacroiliitis who were classified as axSpA based on a positive magnetic resonance imaging or HLAB27 positivity and specific clinical features. This subgroup was labeled non-radiographic (nr)-axSpA. These patients, compared with those identified by the older New York criteria, contained a larger percentage of women and demonstrated less structural damage. However, their clinical manifestations and response to biologics were similar to radiographic axSpA. The discovery of the interleukin (IL) IL-23/IL-17 pathway revealed key molecules involved in the pathophysiology of axSpA. This discovery propelled the generation of antibodies directed toward IL-17A, which are highly effective and demonstrate treatment responses in axSpA that are similar to those observed with anti-TNF agents. The finding that agents that block IL-23 were not effective in axSpA came as a surprise and the potential underlying mechanisms underlying this lack of response are discussed. New agents with dual inhibition of the IL-17A and F isoforms and some oral small molecule agents that target the Jak-STAT pathway, have also shown efficacy in axSpA.
35672711 | Synergistic anti-proliferative activity of JQ1 and GSK2801 in triple-negative breast cancer. BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) constitutes 10-20% of breast cancers and is challenging to treat due to a lack of effective targeted therapies. Previous studies in TNBC cell lines showed in vitro growth inhibition when JQ1 or GSK2801 were administered alone, and enhanced activity when co-administered. Given their respective mechanisms of actions, we hypothesized the combinatorial effect could be due to the target genes affected. Hence the target genes were characterized for their expression in the TNBC cell lines to prove the combinatorial effect of JQ1 and GSK2801. METHODS: RNASeq data sets of TNBC cell lines (MDA-MB-231, HCC-1806 and SUM-159) were analyzed to identify the differentially expressed genes in single and combined treatments. The topmost downregulated genes were characterized for their downregulated expression in the TNBC cell lines treated with JQ1 and GSK2801 under different dose concentrations and combinations. The optimal lethal doses were determined by cytotoxicity assays. The inhibitory activity of the drugs was further characterized by molecular modelling studies. RESULTS: Global expression profiling of TNBC cell lines using RNASeq revealed different expression patterns when JQ1 and GSK2801 were co-administered. Functional enrichment analyses identified several metabolic pathways (i.e., systemic lupus erythematosus, PI3K-Akt, TNF, JAK-STAT, IL-17, MAPK, Rap1 and signaling pathways) enriched with upregulated and downregulated genes when combined JQ1 and GSK2801 treatment was administered. RNASeq identified downregulation of PTPRC, MUC19, RNA5-8S5, KCNB1, RMRP, KISS1 and TAGLN (validated by RT-qPCR) and upregulation of GPR146, SCARA5, HIST2H4A, CDRT4, AQP3, MSH5-SAPCD1, SENP3-EIF4A1, CTAGE4 and RNASEK-C17orf49 when cells received both drugs. In addition to differential gene regulation, molecular modelling predicted binding of JQ1 and GSK2801 with PTPRC, MUC19, KCNB1, TAGLN and KISS1 proteins, adding another mechanism by which JQ1 and GSK2801 could elicit changes in metabolism and proliferation. CONCLUSION: JQ1-GSK2801 synergistically inhibits proliferation and results in selective gene regulation. Besides suggesting that combinatorial use could be useful therapeutics for the treatment of TNBC, the findings provide a glimpse into potential mechanisms of action for this combination therapy approach.
30046007 | The mutational landscape of recurrent versus nonrecurrent human papillomavirus-related oropharyngeal cancer. BACKGROUND: Human papillomavirus-related (HPV-related) oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas (OPSCCs) have an excellent response rate to platinum-based chemoradiotherapy. Genomic differences between primary HPV-related OPSCCs that do or do not recur are unknown. Furthermore, it is unclear if HPV-related OPSCCs that recur share a genomic landscape with HPV-negative head and neck cancers (HNCs). METHODS: We utilized whole exome sequencing to analyze somatic nucleotide (SNVs) and copy number variants (CNVs) among a unique set of 51 primary HPV-related OPSCCs, including 35 that did not recur and 16 that recurred. We evaluated 12 metachronous recurrent OPSCCs (7 with paired primary OPSCCs) and 33 primary HPV-unrelated oral cavity and OPSCCs. RESULTS: KMT2D was the most frequently mutated gene among primary HPV-related OPSCCs (n = 51; 14%) and among metachronous recurrent OPSCCs (n = 12; 42%). Primary HPV-related OPSCCs that recurred shared a genomic landscape with primary HPV-related OPSCCs that did not recur. However, TSC2, BRIP1, NBN, and NFE2L2 mutations occurred in primary OPSCCs that recurred but not in those that did not recur. Moreover, primary HPV-related OPSCCs that recur harbor features of HPV-unrelated HNCs, notably including MAPK, JAK/STAT, and differentiation signaling pathway aberrations. Metachronous recurrent OPSCCs shared a genomic landscape with HPV-unrelated HNCs, including a high frequency of TP53, CASP8, FAT1, HLA-A, AJUBA, and NSD1 genomic alterations. CONCLUSION: Overall, primary HPV-related OPSCCs that recur share a genomic landscape with nonrecurrent OPSCCs. Metachronous recurrent OPSCCs share genomic features with HPV-negative HNCs. These data aim to guide future deescalation endeavors and functional experiments. FUNDING: This study is supported by the American Cancer Society (RSG TBG-123653), funding support for RAH (T32DC00018, Research Training in Otolaryngology, University of Washington), funds to EM from Seattle Translational Tumor Research (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center), and center funds from the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center to EM. UD is supported by the Department of Veterans Affairs, Biomedical Laboratory Research and Development (BLR&D), grant IO1-oo23456, and funds from the Pittsburgh Foundation and PNC Foundation.
15697418 | Finite-size effects in biomimetic smectic films. Thin stacks of lipid multibilayers supported on rigid silicon and mica substrates are found to exhibit finite-size effects. Using neutron diffraction we find that the repeat spacing (d) of stacks containing up to a few tens of bilayers depends on their thickness (D), with d increasing with decreasing D. Differences in d are larger in the low-temperature Lbeta' phase consisting of rigid bilayers than in the high-temperature Lalpha phase where the bilayers are more flexible. Various scenarios that may be responsible for this counterintuitive observation are discussed.
32964767 | Frequent mutations in HLA and related genes in extranodal NK/T cell lymphomas. Extranodal NK/T cell lymphomas (ENKTCLs) are aggressive Epstein-Barr virus-associated T/NK neoplasms that predominantly affect Asians. To explore the causative somatic events, we conducted a comprehensive genetic analysis of 19 ENKTCL patients by whole-genome (N = 2), whole-exome (N = 16), and targeted sequencing (N = 15). Commonly deregulated gene pathways in ENKTCLs included epigenetic modifiers (58%, 11/19) followed by human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) and related genes including HLA-A, B2M, TAP1, CD274, and PDCD1LG2 (32%, 6/19), and JAK-STAT pathway (26%, 5/19). Conspicuously, loss-of-function mutations in HLA-A were recurrently identified in ENKTCLs (16%, 3/19). HLA protein expression was examined by immunohistochemistry in 16 patients and lower expression was associated with advanced stages at presentation (p = .007). In conclusion, the defective antigen presenting pathway is common and related to disease progression, suggesting immune escape as a pathogenic mechanism of ENKTCLs.
37272165 | STAT1 is required to establish but not maintain interferon-gamma-induced transcriptional memory. Exposure of human cells to interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) results in a mitotically heritable yet reversible state called long-term transcriptional memory. We previously identified the clustered GBP genes as strongly primed by IFNgamma. Here, we discovered that in primed cells, both interferon-responsive transcription factors STAT1 and IRF1 target chromatin with accelerated kinetics upon re-exposure to IFNgamma, specifically at promotors of primed genes. Priming does not alter the degree of IFNgamma-induced STAT1 activation or nuclear import, indicating that memory does not alter upstream JAK-STAT signaling. We found STAT1 to be critical to establish transcriptional memory but in a manner that is independent of mere transcription activation. Interestingly, while Serine 727 phosphorylation of STAT1 was maintained during the primed state, STAT1 is not required for the heritability of GBP gene memory. Our results suggest that the memory of interferon exposure constitutes a STAT1-mediated, heritable state that is established during priming. This renders GBP genes poised for subsequent STAT1 and IRF1 binding and accelerated gene activation upon a secondary interferon exposure.
38332255 | Development and validation of a respiratory syncytial virus multiplex immunoassay. PURPOSE: Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is one of the leading causes of severe respiratory disease in infants and adults. While vaccines and monoclonal therapeutic antibodies either are or will shortly become available, correlates of protection remain unclear. For this purpose, we developed an RSV multiplex immunoassay that analyses antibody titers toward the post-F, Nucleoprotein, and a diverse mix of G proteins. METHODS: A bead-based multiplex RSV immunoassay was developed, technically validated to standard FDA bioanalytical guidelines, and clinically validated using samples from human challenge studies. RSV antibody titers were then investigated in children aged under 2 and a population-based cohort. RESULTS: Technical and clinical validation showed outstanding performance, while methodological developments enabled identification of the subtype of previous infections through use of the diverse G proteins for approximately 50% of samples. As a proof of concept to show the suitability of the assay in serosurveillance studies, we then evaluated titer decay and age-dependent antibody responses within population cohorts. CONCLUSION: Overall, the developed assay shows robust performance, is scalable, provides additional information on infection subtype, and is therefore ideally suited to be used in future population cohort studies.
30558329 | Epigallocatechin-3 Gallate Inhibits STAT-1/JAK2/IRF-1/HLA-DR/HLA-B and Reduces CD8 MKG2D Lymphocytes of Alopecia Areata Patients. BACKGROUND: Alopecia areata (AA) is associated with Interferon- gamma (IFN-gamma) mediated T-lymphocyte dysfunction and increased circulating Interleukine-17 (IL-17) levels. Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) specifically inhibits IFN-gamma pathways and unlike Janus Kinase 1 and 2 (JAK1/JAK2) inhibitors (tofacitinib, ruxolitinib), EGCG is safer, more cost-effective, and is a topically active agent. Our objective is to test the mode of action of EGCG in vitro and ex vivo using HaCat, Jurkat cell lines, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of AA patients and healthy controls (HCs), respectively. METHODS: distribution of T helper cells (Th1, Th17), and cytotoxic cells (CD8) in PBMCs isolated from 30 AA patients and 30 HCs was investigated by flowcytomterty. In vitro treatment of HaCat and Jurkat cells with 40 mum EGCG for 48 h was performed to measure the level of phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription protein STAT1, and replicated in ex vivo model using PBMCs of AA patients. RESULTS: Interestingly, 40 mum EGCG is capable of completely inhibiting phosphorylation of STAT1 after 48 h in HaCat and Jurkat cells and ex vivo in PBMCs of AA patients. Based on QPCR data, the action of EGCG on p-STAT1 seems to be mediated via downregulation of the expression of JAK2 but not JAK1 leading to the inhibition of human leukocyte antigens (HLA-DR and HLA-B) expression probably via IRF-1. On the other hand, AA patients have significantly increased levels of Th1, Th17, and CD8 cells and the production of IFN-gamma and IL-17 by PBMCs in AA patients was significantly higher compared to HC; p = 0.008 and p = 0.006, respectively. Total numbers of CD8+ cells were not significantly different between treated and untreated samples. However, CD8+ cells with positive Natural killer group 2 member D (NKG2D) transmembrane receptor (CD8+ NKG2D+ subset) was significantly reduced when PBMCs were treated with 20 mum EGCG for 48 h. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that EGCG has a synergistic action that inhibits expression of HLA-DR and HLA-B molecules via the IFN-gamma pathway to maintain immune privilege in HF; also it reduces CD8+ NKG2D+ subset.
38389037 | Kinome and phosphoproteome reprogramming underlies the aberrant immune responses in critically ill COVID-19 patients. SARS-CoV-2 infection triggers extensive host immune reactions, leading to severe diseases in certain individuals. However, the molecular basis underlying the excessive yet non-productive immune responses in severe COVID-19 remains incompletely understood. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of the peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) proteome and phosphoproteome in sepsis patients positive or negative for SARS-CoV-2 infection, as well as healthy subjects, using quantitative mass spectrometry. Our findings demonstrate dynamic changes in the COVID-19 PBMC proteome and phosphoproteome during disease progression, with distinctive protein or phosphoprotein signatures capable of distinguishing longitudinal disease states. Furthermore, SARS-CoV-2 infection induces a global reprogramming of the kinome and phosphoproteome, resulting in defective adaptive immune response mediated by the B and T lymphocytes, compromised innate immune responses involving the SIGLEC and SLAM family of immunoreceptors, and excessive cytokine-JAK-STAT signaling. In addition to uncovering host proteome and phosphoproteome aberrations caused by SARS-CoV-2, our work recapitulates several reported therapeutic targets for COVID-19 and identified numerous new candidates, including the kinases PKG1, CK2, ROCK1/2, GRK2, SYK, JAK2/3, TYK2, DNA-PK, PKCdelta, and the cytokine IL-12.
30742113 | Landscape of B cell immunity and related immune evasion in human cancers. Tumor-infiltrating B cells are an important component in the microenvironment but have unclear anti-tumor effects. We enhanced our previous computational algorithm TRUST to extract the B cell immunoglobulin hypervariable regions from bulk tumor RNA-sequencing data. TRUST assembled more than 30 million complementarity-determining region 3 sequences of the B cell heavy chain (IgH) from The Cancer Genome Atlas. Widespread B cell clonal expansions and immunoglobulin subclass switch events were observed in diverse human cancers. Prevalent somatic copy number alterations in the MICA and MICB genes related to antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity were identified in tumors with elevated B cell activity. The IgG3-1 subclass switch interacts with B cell-receptor affinity maturation and defects in the antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity pathway. Comprehensive pancancer analyses of tumor-infiltrating B cell-receptor repertoires identified novel tumor immune evasion mechanisms through genetic alterations. The IgH sequences identified here are potentially useful resources for future development of immunotherapies.
21728668 | Gas flow near a smooth plate. We examine gas flow adjacent to a molecularly smooth, solid, muscovite mica. The fluctuations in force acting on a glass sphere as a function of proximity to a mica plate were measured in air and were used to obtain the damping. The damping was interpreted as a lubrication force. The measured damping as a function of separation in the slip-flow regime corresponds to a slip length of 480 +- 70 nm, which is equivalent to highly specular gas molecule collisions. A slip-flow model fits the data for separations as small as one mean free path.
27965977 | Lack of Association between Genetic Polymorphisms of JAK-STAT Signaling Pathway Genes and Acute Anterior Uveitis in Han Chinese. Purpose. This study aimed to investigate the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of JAK-STAT signaling pathway genes and acute anterior uveitis (AAU) with or without ankylosing spondylitis (AS) in the Han Chinese population. Methods. Eleven SNPs of the JAK1, JAK2, STAT1, IRF1, and NOS2 genes were analyzed in 443 AAU patients with AS, 486 AAU patients without AS, and 714 healthy controls. Genotyping was performed by PCR-RFLP assay or TaqMan  probe assay. The Chi-squared (chi2) test and multivariate logistic regression analysis were used to compare the distributions of alleles and genotypes between patients and controls. P values were adjusted using Bonferroni correction. Results. We did not observe significant differences in the genotype and allele frequencies of any SNP between AAU patients with or without AS and healthy controls. Stratification analyses by gender and HLA-B27 status showed a boundary significant association between two SNPs (rs10975003 and rs10758669) in JAK2 and AAU (P = 0.052 and P = 0.053, resp.). Conclusions. Our results indicated that genetic polymorphisms of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway genes may not be associated with AAU in the Han Chinese population.
38370415 | Cytotoxic CD8+ Temra cells show loss of chromatin accessibility at genes associated with T cell activation. As humans age, their memory T cell compartment expands due to the lifelong exposure to antigens. This expansion is characterized by terminally differentiated CD8+ T cells (Temra), which possess NK cell-like phenotype and are associated with chronic inflammatory conditions. Temra cells are predominantly driven by the sporadic reactivation of cytomegalovirus (CMV), yet their epigenomic patterns and cellular heterogeneity remain understudied. To address this gap, we correlated their gene expression profiles with chromatin openness and conducted single-cell transcriptome analysis, comparing them to other CD8+ subsets and CMV-responses. We confirmed that Temra cells exhibit high expression of genes associated with cytotoxicity and lower expression of costimulatory and chemokine genes. The data revealed that CMV-responsive CD8+ T cells (Tcmv) were predominantly derived from a mixed population of Temra and memory cells (Tcm/em) and shared their transcriptomic profiles. Using ATAC-seq analysis, we identified 1449 differentially accessible chromatin regions between CD8+ Temra and Tcm/em cells, of which only 127 sites gained chromatin accessibility in Temra cells. We further identified 51 gene loci, including costimulatory CD27, CD28, and ICOS genes, whose chromatin accessibility correlated with their gene expression. The differential chromatin regions Tcm/em cells were enriched in motifs that bind multiple transcriptional activators, such as Jun/Fos, NFkappaB, and STAT, whereas the open regions in Temra cells mainly contained binding sites of T-box transcription factors. Our single-cell analysis of CD8+CCR7loCD45RAhi sorted Temra population showed several subsets of Temra and NKT-like cells and CMC1+ Temra populations in older individuals that were shifted towards decreased cytotoxicity. Among CD8+CCR7loCD45RAhi sorted cells, we found a decreased proportion of IL7R+ Tcm/em-like and MAIT cells in individuals with high levels of CMV antibodies (CMVhi). These results shed new light on the molecular and cellular heterogeneity of CD8+ Temra cells and their relationship to aging and CMV infection.
38542436 | IRF1 Mediates Growth Arrest and the Induction of a Secretory Phenotype in Alveolar Epithelial Cells in Response to Inflammatory Cytokines IFNgamma/TNFalpha. In COVID-19, cytokine release syndrome can cause severe lung tissue damage leading to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Here, we address the effects of IFNgamma, TNFalpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 on the growth arrest of alveolar A549 cells, focusing on the role of the IFN regulatory factor 1 (IRF1) transcription factor. The efficacy of JAK1/2 inhibitor baricitinib has also been tested. A549 WT and IRF1 KO cells were exposed to cytokines for up to 72 h. Cell proliferation and death were evaluated with the resazurin assay, analysis of cell cycle and cycle-regulator proteins, LDH release and Annexin-V positivity; the induction of senescence and senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) was evaluated through beta-galactosidase staining and the quantitation of secreted inflammatory mediators. While IL-1 and IL-6 proved ineffective, IFNgamma plus TNFalpha caused a proliferative arrest in A549 WT cells with alterations in cell morphology, along with the acquisition of a secretory phenotype. These effects were STAT and IRF1-dependent since they were prevented by baricitinib and much less evident in IRF1 KO than in WT cells. In alveolar cells, STATs/IRF1 axis is required for cytokine-induced proliferative arrest and the induction of a secretory phenotype. Hence, baricitininb is a promising therapeutic strategy for the attenuation of senescence-associated inflammation.
38487994 | Monitoring epidemic processes under political measures. Statistical modeling of epidemiological curves to capture the course of epidemic processes and to implement a signaling system for detecting significant changes in the process is a challenging task, especially when the process is affected by political measures. As previous monitoring approaches are subject to various problems, we develop a practical and flexible tool that is well suited for monitoring epidemic processes under political measures. This tool enables monitoring across different epochs using a single statistical model that constantly adapts to the underlying process, and therefore allows both retrospective and on-line monitoring of epidemic processes. It is able to detect essential shifts and to identify anomaly conditions in the epidemic process, and it provides decision-makers a reliable method for rapidly learning from trends in the epidemiological curves. Moreover, it is a tool to evaluate the effectivity of political measures and to detect the transition from pandemic to endemic. This research is based on a comprehensive COVID-19 study on infection rates under political measures in line with the reporting of the Robert Koch Institute covering the entire period of the pandemic in Germany.
15783332 | Sampling-time effects for persistence and survival in step structural fluctuations. The effects of sampling rate and total measurement time have been determined for single-point measurements of step fluctuations within the context of first-passage properties. Time dependent scanning tunneling microscopy has been used to evaluate step fluctuations on Ag(111) films grown on mica as a function of temperature (300-410 K) , on screw dislocations on the facets of Pb crystallites at 320 K , and on Al-terminated Si(111) over the temperature range 770-970 K . Although the fundamental time constant for step fluctuations on Ag and Al/Si varies by orders of magnitude over the temperature ranges of measurement, no dependence of the persistence amplitude on temperature is observed. Instead, the persistence probability is found to scale directly with t/delta t where delta t is the time interval used for sampling. Survival probabilities show a more complex scaling dependence, which includes both the sampling interval and the total measurement time t(m) . Scaling with t/delta t occurs only when delta t/ t(m) is a constant. We show that this observation is equivalent to theoretical predictions that the survival probability will scale as delta t/ L(z) , where L is the effective length of a step. This implies that the survival probability for large systems, when measured with fixed values of t(m) or delta t , should also show little or no temperature dependence.
35732391 | Correlates of and changes in aerobic physical activity and strength training before and after the onset of COVID-19 pandemic in the UK: findings from the HEBECO study. OBJECTIVES: Understanding changes in moderate to vigorous aerobic physical activity (MVPA) and muscle-strengthening activity (MSA) at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic and their correlates (socio-demographics, health characteristics, living and exercise conditions and pre-pandemic MVPA/MSA) can inform interventions. DESIGN: A cross-sectional analysis of retrospective and concurrent data on MVPA/MSA. SETTING: An online survey in the UK. PARTICIPANTS: 2657 adults (weighted n=2442, 53.6% women) participating in the baseline survey (29 April 2020-14 June 2020) of the HEalth BEhaviours during the COVID-19 pandemic (HEBECO) study. PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Meeting WHO-recommended levels for MVPA/MSA/both (vs meeting neither) during the first lockdown and changes in MVPA/MSA from before to since the COVID-19 pandemic following stratification for pre-pandemic MVPA/MSA. RESULTS: A third of adults maintained (30.4%), decreased (36.2%) or increased (33.4%) MVPA. For MSA, the percentages were 61.6%, 18.2% and 20.2%, respectively. MVPA increased or decreased by an average of 150 min/week and 219 min/week, respectively, and MSA by 2 days/week. Meeting both MSA+MVPA recommendations since COVID-19 (vs meeting neither) was positively associated with meeting MVPA+MSA before COVID-19 (adjusted OR (aOR)=16.11, 95% CI 11.24 to 23.07) and education: post-16 years of age (aOR=1.57, 95% CI 1.14 to 2.17), and negatively associated with having obesity (aOR=0.49, 95% CI 0.33 to 0.73), older age (65+ years vs <=34 years; aOR=0.53, 95% CI 0.32 to 0.87) and annual household income of <50 000 GBP (aOR=0.65, 95% CI 0.46 to 0.91). The odds for decreasing MVPA were lower for white ethnicity (aOR=0.62, 95% CI 0.44 to 0.86), education: post-16 years of age (aOR=0.73, 95% CI 0.58 to 0.91) and access to garden/balcony (aOR=0.75, 95% CI 0.60 to 0.94), and were higher for those living in total isolation (aOR=3.81, 95% CI 2.33 to 6.23), with deteriorated psychological well-being (aOR=1.40, 95% CI 1.15 to 1.71) and conditions limiting physical activity (aOR=1.74, 95% CI 1.27 to 2.39). The odds for decreasing MSA were higher for having overweight (aOR=1.88, 95% CI 1.39 to 2.55), obesity (aOR=23.38, 95% CI 2.23 to 5.14) and being employed (aOR=1.81, 95% CI 1.34 to 2.46). CONCLUSION: Aerobic and strength training were differently impacted during the first UK lockdown, with poorer outcomes associated with older age, lower education and higher body mass index. Targeted interventions may be required to avoid pandemic-related inequities in physical activity.
34658451 | The impact of COVID-19-related media coverage on the return and volatility connectedness of cryptocurrencies and fiat currencies. This research explores the impact of COVID-19-related media coverage on the dynamic return and volatility connectedness of the three dominant cryptocurrencies (Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH) and Ripple (XRP)) and the fiat currencies of the euro, GBP and Chinese yuan. The sample period covers the first and second devasting waves of the COVID-19 pandemic crisis and ranges from January 1, 2020, to December 31, 2020. The dynamic return and volatility connectedness measures are estimated using the time varying parameter-VAR approach. Our return connectedness analysis shows that the media coverage index (only before the first wave) and the cryptocurrencies are the net transmitters of shocks while the fiat currencies are the net receivers of shocks. Similar results are obtained in terms of volatility, except for the euro, which shows a clear net receiver profile in January and February. This fiat currency (the euro) became a net transmitter in March and during the first wave of the COVID-19 crisis, which possibly shows the virulence of the pandemic on the European continent. Moreover, the most relevant differences between the net dynamic (return and volatility) connectedness of these two groups of currencies are focused on the beginning of the sample period, just before the first wave of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic crisis, although some differences are observed during the first and second waves of the coronavirus outbreak.
36095336 | Check list of jumping plant-lice (Hemiptera: Psylloidea) of the Korean Peninsula. An updated check list of Psylloidea from the Korean Peninsula is provided with information on the distribution of each species within the Peninsula and host plants based on published records and our own extensive field surveys. Five species (Calophya phellodendri Loginova, Calophya rhopenjabensis Li, Cacopsylla initialis (Loginova), Cacopsylla sibirica (Loginova) and Cacopsylla viburnicola (Li Yang)) are reported for the first time from Korea, bringing the number to 130 species in 32 genera and six families. Three generic and subgeneric names are synonymised: Bactericera Puton, 1876 = Spinotrioza Kwon Kwon, 2020, syn. nov.; Cacopsylla Ossiannisson, 1970 = Psylla (Koreopsylla) Kwon Kwon, 2020, syn. nov. = Cacopsylla (Megapteripsylla) Kwon Kwon, 2020, syn. nov. Three genera of Triozidae are redefined, viz. Dyspersa Klimaszewsi, 1968, Spanioza Enderlein, 1926 and Trichochermes Kirkaldy, 1904. Sixteen nominal species are synonymised: Celtisaspis japonica (Miyatake, 1968), nomen protectum = Arytaina cornicola Frauenfeld, 1869, nomen oblitum, syn. nov. = Celtisaspis guizhouana Yang Li, 1982, syn. nov. = Celtisaspis sinica Yang Li, 1982, syn. nov. = Celtisaspis zhejiangana Yang Li, 1982, syn. nov.; Celtisaspis usubai (Miyatake, 1980) = Celtisaspis beijingana Yang Li, 1982, syn. nov.; Calophya rhopenjabensis Li, 2011 = Calophya elaeocarpae Li, 2011, syn. nov.; Calophya verticornis Kwon, 1983 = Calophya melanocephala Li, 1997, syn. nov.; Cacopsylla araliae (Konovalova, 1981) = Cacopsylla (Hepatopsylla) aralicola Kwon Kwon, 2020, syn. nov.; Cacopsylla diaphana (Konovalova, 1981) = Psylla (Cacopsylla) peninsularis Kwon, 1983, syn. nov.; Cacopsylla moiwasana (Kuwayama, 1908) = Psylla micromeli Konovalova, 1981, syn. nov.; Cacopsylla nigella (Konovalova, 1979) = Psylla liaoli Yang Li, 1981, syn. nov. = Psylla sandolbaea Park Lee, 1982, syn. nov.; Livia jesoensis Matsumura, 1908 = Livia baegunsana Kwon Kwon, 2020, syn. nov.; Trichochermes grandis Loginova, 1965 = Trichochermes gemellus Loginova, 1974, syn. nov.; Trichochermes rhamnisugus (Li, 1994) = Trioza naria Kwon, Suh, An Huh, 1996, syn. nov.; Trioza quercicola Shinji, 1944 = Dyspersa hambaeksana Kwon Kwon, 2020, syn. nov. Five species are removed from synonymy: Cacopsylla cyphospila Li, 2011, stat. rev.; Cacopsylla fluctimaculata Li, 2005, stat. rev.; Cacopsylla gossypinmaculosa Li, 2011, stat. rev.; Cacopsylla nigrigenimacula Li, 2011, stat. rev.; Trioza chilgia Park Lee, 1980, stat. rev. Twenty five new combinations are proposed: Cacopsylla diaphana (Konovalova), comb. nov., Cacopsylla initialis (Loginova), comb. nov., Cacopsylla sibirica (Loginova), comb. nov., Cacopsylla silvestris (Bajeva), comb. nov.; all from Psylla; Dyspersa abdominalis (Flor), comb. nov.; Dyspersa achilleae (Wagner), comb. nov.; Dyspersa agrophila (Lw), comb. nov.; Dyspersa carpathica (Dobreanu Manolache), comb. nov.; Dyspersa chrysanthemi (Lw), comb. nov.; Dyspersa cirsii (Lw), comb. nov.; Dyspersa flixiana (Burckhardt Lauterer), comb. nov.; Dyspersa kantshavelii (Gegechkori), comb. nov.; Dyspersa liberta (Loginova), comb. nov.; Dyspersa mica (Loginova), comb. nov.; Dyspersa munda (Foerster), comb. nov.; Dyspersa schrankii (Flor), comb. nov.; Dyspersa senecionis (Scopoli), comb. nov.; Dyspersa stugma (Tuthill, 1939), comb. nov.; Dyspersa viridula (Zetterstedt), comb. nov.; Spanioza cocquempoti (Burckhardt Lauterer), comb. nov., Spanioza drosopouli (Burckhardt Lauterer), comb. nov.; Trichochermes marginepunctatus (Flor), comb. nov.; Trichochermes rhamni (Schrank), comb. nov.; all from Trioza; Triochochermes rhamnisugus Li, comb. nov. from Triozopsis; Trioza jejuensis (Kwon Kwon), comb. nov. from Dyspersa. Twelve previous combinations are reinstated: Bactericera calcarata (Schaefer), comb. rev. from Spinotrioza; Cacopsylla moiwasana (Kuwayama), comb. rev. from Acizzia; Dyspersa laserpitii (Burckhardt Lauterer), comb. rev.; D. lautereriella (Burckhardt), comb. rev.; D. mesembrina (Burckhardt), comb. rev.; D. pallida (Haupt), comb. rev.; all from Trioza; Togepsylla matsumurana Kuwayama, comb. rev. from Hemipteripsylla; Trioza camphorae Sasaki, comb. rev.; T. cinnamomi Boselli, comb. rev.; T. machilicola Miyatake, comb. rev.; T. quercicola Shinji, comb. rev.; T. usubai Matsumoto, comb. rev.; all from Dyspersa. One new replacement name, Cacopsylla kwonorum Cho Burckhardt, nom. nov., is proposed for Cacopsylla silvestris (Kwon, 1983), nec Cacopsylla silvestris (Bajeva, 1969). Comments are provided for some species.
30412405 | Acyclic Remote 1,5- and 1,4,5-Stereocontrol in the Catalytic Stereoselective Reactions of beta-Lactams with Aldehydes: The Effect of the N-Methylimidazole Ligand. The application of the N-methylimidazole ( N-MI) ligand in the Pd(0)/InI-promoted allylations of aldehydes with beta-lactam-derived organoindiums enables the reaction of azetidin-2-ones with diversely substituted allyl moieties, inert under previously reported conditions. As a result, allylations and crotylations of a variety of aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes with previously unavailable chiral epsilon-amido-allylindiums bearing alpha-, beta-, or gamma-substituted allyl fragments were developed. The reactions occur under thermodynamic control with a highly efficient remote 1,5- or 1,4,5-stereocontrol to afford a diversity of (3 Z)-2,5- anti-2,6- syn- or (3 Z)-2,5- syn-2,6- anti-substituted enediols, aminoalcohols, and homoallylic alcohols in moderate to high yields and with an excellent diastereoselectivity. A detailed study on the effect of the beta-lactam and aldehyde structures and chirality on the yield and stereochemistry in the products was carried out.
35400859 | Preferences for using the London Underground during the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has drastically impacted people's travel behaviour and introduced uncertainty in the demand for public transport. To investigate user preferences for travel by London Underground during the pandemic, we conducted a stated choice experiment among its pre-pandemic users (N = 961). We analysed the collected data using multinomial and latent class logit models. Our discrete choice analysis provides two sets of results. First, we derive the crowding multiplier estimate of travel time valuation (i.e., the ratio of the value of travel time in uncrowded and crowded situations) for London underground users. The results indicate that travel time valuation of Underground users increases by 73% when it operates at technical capacity. Second, we estimate the sensitivity of the preference for the London Underground relative to the epidemic situation (confirmed new COVID-19 cases) and interventions (vaccination rates and mandatory face masks). The sensitivity analysis suggests that making face masks mandatory is a main driver for recovering the demand for the London underground. The latent class model reveals substantial preference heterogeneity. For instance, while the average effect of mandatory face masks is positive, the preferences of 30% of pre-pandemic users for travel by the Underground are negatively affected. The positive effect of mandatory face masks on the likelihood of taking the Underground is less pronounced among males with age below 40 years, and a monthly income below 10,000 GBP. The estimated preference sensitivities and crowding multipliers are relevant for supply-demand management in transit systems and the calibration of advanced epidemiological models.
34330207 | A chromosome-level genome assembly of Cairina moschata and comparative genomic analyses. BACKGROUND: The Muscovy duck (Cairina moschata) is an economically important duck species, with favourable growth and carcass composition parameters in comparison to other ducks. However, limited genomic resources for Muscovy duck hinder our understanding of its evolution and genetic diversity. RESULTS: We combined linked-reads sequencing technology and reference-guided methods for de novo genome assembly. The final draft assembly was 1.12 Gbp with 29 autosomes, one sex chromosome and 4,583 unlocalized scaffolds with an N50 size of 77.35 Mb. Based on universal single-copy orthologues (BUSCO), the draft genome assembly completeness was estimated to be 93.30 %. Genome annotation identified 15,580 genes, with 15,537 (99.72 %) genes annotated in public databases. We conducted comparative genomic analyses and found that species-specific and rapidly expanding gene families (compared to other birds) in Muscovy duck are mainly involved in Calcium signaling, Adrenergic signaling in cardiomyocytes, and GnRH signaling pathways. In comparison to the common domestic duck (Anas platyrhynchos), we identified 104 genes exhibiting strong signals of adaptive evolution (Ka/Ks > 1). Most of these genes were associated with immune defence pathways (e.g. IFNAR1 and TLR5). This is indicative of the existence of differences in the immune responses between the two species. Additionally, we combined divergence and polymorphism data to demonstrate the \faster-Z effect\ of chromosome evolution. CONCLUSIONS: The chromosome-level genome assembly of Muscovy duck and comparative genomic analyses provide valuable resources for future molecular ecology studies, as well as the evolutionary arms race between the host and influenza viruses.
36155957 | Long COVID symptoms in exposed and infected children, adolescents and their parents one year after SARS-CoV-2 infection: A prospective observational cohort study. BACKGROUND: Long COVID in children and adolescents remains poorly understood due to a lack of well-controlled studies with long-term follow-up. In particular, the impact of the family context on persistent symptoms following SARS-CoV-2 infection remains unknown. We examined long COVID symptoms in a cohort of infected children, adolescents, and adults and their exposed but non-infected household members approximately 1 year after infection and investigated clustering of persistent symptoms within households. METHODS: 1267 members of 341 households (404 children aged <14 years, 140 adolescents aged 14-18 years and 723 adults) were categorized as having had either a SARS-CoV-2 infection or household exposure to SARS-CoV-2 without infection, based on three serological assays and history of laboratory-confirmed infection. Participants completed questionnaires assessing the presence of long COVID symptoms 11-12 months after infection in the household using online questionnaires. FINDINGS: The prevalence of moderate or severe persistent symptoms was statistically significantly higher in infected than in exposed women (36.4% [95% CI: 30.7-42.4%] vs 14.2% [95% CI: 8.7-21.5%]), infected men (22.9% [95% CI: 17.9-28.5%] vs 10.3% [95% CI: 5.8-16.9%]) and infected adolescent girls (32.1% 95% CI: 17.2-50.5%] vs 8.9% [95%CI: 3.1-19.8%]). However, moderate or severe persistent symptoms were not statistically more common in infected adolescent boys aged 14-18 (9.7% [95% CI: 2.8-23.6%] or in infected children <14 years (girls: 4.3% [95% CI: 1.2-11.0%]; boys: 3.7% [95% CI: 1.1-9.6%]) than in their exposed counterparts (adolescent boys: 0.0% [95% CI: 0.0-6.7%]; girls < 14 years: 2.3% [95% CI: 0 7-6 1%]; boys < 14 years: 0.0% [95% CI: 0.0-2.0%]). The number of persistent symptoms reported by individuals was associated with the number of persistent symptoms reported by their household members (IRR=1 11, p= 005, 95% CI [1.03-1.20]). INTERPRETATION: In this controlled, multi-centre study, infected men, women and adolescent girls were at increased risk of negative outcomes 11-12 months after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Amongst non-infected adults, prevalence of negative outcomes was also high. Prolonged symptoms tended to cluster within families, suggesting family-level interventions for long COVID could prove useful. FUNDING: Ministry of Science, Research and the Arts, Baden-Wurttemberg, Germany.
17534855 | PREDICT-1 (CNA106030): the first powered, prospective trial of pharmacogenetic screening to reduce drug adverse events. Pharmacogenetics (PGx) - the study of DNA variation in the human genome and the way this impacts the efficacy and safety of medicines - is becoming an increasingly important research tool as physicians, patients, regulatory authorities and payers look for innovative ways to improve the risk:benefit ratio of medicines. While scientific knowledge about PGx is rapidly increasing, implementation of PGx findings to patient care has yet to be fully achieved. One area where significant progress has been made is in the identification of PGx markers associated with variable response to antiretroviral medicines. For example, the major histocompatibility complex HLA-B*5701 allele has been associated with hypersensitivity to abacavir (ABC) by several independent researchers. While PGx associations have been identified largely through retrospective examination, the clinical utility of these PGx markers in patient care has not been prospectively determined in a randomized study. This paper outlines the design of a study to evaluate the utility of prospective screening for HLA-B*5701 to reduce the incidence of ABC hypersensitivity in an ABC-naive population of HIV-infected subjects. This represents the first fully powered, randomized, blinded, prospective study to determine the clinical utility of PGx screening to reduce drug-associated adverse events in any patient population. This type of trial design may have utility for other important medicines which have treatment-limiting side effects.
33687107 | NKG2D and its ligands as cytotoxic factors in cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE) is an autoimmune skin disorder that is characterized by an anti-epidermal lymphocytic infiltrate invading the dermo-epidermal junction, causing an interface dermatitis (ID). Pathogenesis of CLE has been linked to activation of innate immunity. NKG2D is an innate immune receptor on NK cells and distinct T-cell populations. The NKG2D ligands MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence A and B (MICA, MICB) have been associated to CLE susceptibility. Our gene microarray analyses of chronic discoid lupus erythematosus (CDLE) skin lesions, separated in epidermal, junctional and dermal skin areas via laser microdissection, revealed a high expression of NKG2D in the lymphocytic infiltrate and led us to further investigate the role of NKG2D in CLE. Pathway analyses showed a strong \interferon (IFN) signature\ and vast activation of innate immune response pathways (TLR, RIG-I, cytosolic DNA sensing, JAK/STAT) in CDLE, that expressed the high NKG2D signal. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) confirmed the presence of NKG2D and its ligand MICB in CDLE and subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (SCLE) lesions. Finally, HaCaT cells were stimulated with nucleic acids and extracted RNA was sequenced with Illumina HiSeq and showed that stressed keratinocytes express typical NKG2D ligands MICA/B and ULBP2. This study provides first evidence that NKG2D is present in CDLE and SCLE skin lesions and could be relevant for cytotoxicity in IFN-driven skin lesions with upregulated innate immune response pathways present in CLE. It could furthermore play a role in CLE inflammation promoted by keratinocytes under cell stress.
38615084 | Identifying and overcoming COVID-19 vaccination impediments using Bayesian data mining techniques. The COVID-19 pandemic has profoundly reshaped human life. The development of COVID-19 vaccines has offered a semblance of normalcy. However, obstacles to vaccination have led to substantial loss of life and economic burdens. In this study, we analyze data from a prominent health insurance provider in the United States to uncover the underlying reasons behind the inability, refusal, or hesitancy to receive vaccinations. Our research proposes a methodology for pinpointing affected population groups and suggests strategies to mitigate vaccination barriers and hesitations. Furthermore, we estimate potential cost savings resulting from the implementation of these strategies. To achieve our objectives, we employed Bayesian data mining methods to streamline data dimensions and identify significant variables (features) influencing vaccination decisions. Comparative analysis reveals that the Bayesian method outperforms cutting-edge alternatives, demonstrating superior performance.
30291166 | IL-4 and IL-13 Guide Early Thymic Progenitors To Mature toward Dendritic Cells. Recently we reported that IL-4 and IL-13 signaling in murine early thymic progenitors (ETPs) expressing the heteroreceptor (HR) comprising IL-4 receptor alpha (IL-4Ralpha) and IL-13 receptor alpha 1 (IL-13Ralpha1) activate STAT6 and inhibit ETP maturation potential toward T cells. In this study, we asked whether IL-4 and IL-13 signaling through the HR mobilizes other STAT molecules to shape ETP fate decision. The findings indicate that HR+ ETPs undergoing cytokine signaling display increased STAT1, but not STAT3, phosphorylation in addition to STAT6 activation. In parallel, the ETPs had a STAT1-dependent heightened expression of IRF-8, a transcription factor essential for development of CD8alpha+ dendritic cells (DCs). Interestingly, STAT1 phosphorylation and IRF-8 upregulation, which are independent of STAT6 activation, guided ETP maturation toward myeloid cells with a CD8alpha+ DC phenotype. Furthermore, these CD8alpha+ DCs display a thymic resident phenotype, as they did not express SIRPalpha, a molecule presumed to be involved in cell migration. These findings suggest that IL-4 and IL-13 cytokine-induced HR signaling provides a double-edged sword that simultaneously blocks T cell lineage potential but advances myeloid maturation that could impact T cell selection and central tolerance.
20465573 | High content cellular immune profiling reveals differences between rhesus monkeys and men. A better understanding of similarities and differences in the composition of the cellular immune system in non-human primates (NHPs) compared with human subjects will improve the interpretation of preclinical studies. It will also aid in addressing the usefulness of NHPs as subjects for studying chronic diseases, vaccine development and immune reconstitution. We employed high content colour flow cytometry and analysed simultaneously the expression of CD3, CD4, CD8alpha, CD8beta, CD16/CD56, CD45RA, CCR7, CD27, CD28, CD107a and the interleukin-7 receptor alpha-chain (IL-7Ralpha) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 27 rhesus macaques and 16 healthy human subjects. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) were identified using anti-CD3, -CD4, -CD25, -FoxP3, and -IL-7Ralpha monoclonal antibodies. Responsiveness to IL-7 was gauged in a signal transducer and activation of transcription 5 (STAT-5) phosphorylation assay. Human and NHP PBMCs showed a similar T-cell composition pattern with some remarkable differences. Similarities: human and NHP CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells showed a similar STAT-5 phosphorylation pattern in response to IL-7. Multicolour flow cytometric analysis identified a CD4(+) CD8alphaalpha(+) CD8alphabeta(+) T-cell population in NHPs as well as in human subjects that expressed the degranulation marker CD107a and may represent a unique CD4(+) T-cell subset endowed with cytotoxic capacity. Differences: we identified in PBMCs from NHPs a higher proportion (5.16% in CD3(+) T cells) of CD8alphaalpha(+) T cells when compared with human donors (1.22% in CD3(+) T cells). NHP CD8alphaalpha(+) T cells produced tumour necrosis factor-alpha / interferon-gamma (TNF-alpha/IFN-gamma) or TNF-alpha, whereas human CD8alphaalpha(+) T cells produced simultaneously TNF-alpha/IFN-gamma and IL-2. A minor percentage of human CD8(+) T cells expressed CD25(bright) and FoxP3 (0.01%). In contrast, 0.07% of NHP CD8(+) T cells exhibited the CD25(bright) FoxP3(+) phenotype. PBMCs from NHPs showed less IL-7Ralpha-positive events in all T-cell subsets including CD4(+) Tregs (median 5%) as compared with human (median 12%). The data visualize commonalities and differences in immune cell subsets in humans and NHPs, most of them in long-lived memory cells and cells with suppressive functions. This provides a matrix to assess future efforts to study diseases and vaccines in NHPs.
38613283 | Study of High-Transverse-Momentum Higgs Boson Production in Association with a Vector Boson in the qqbb Final State with the ATLAS Detector. This Letter presents the first study of Higgs boson production in association with a vector boson (V=W or Z) in the fully hadronic qqbb final state using data recorded by the ATLAS detector at the LHC in proton-proton collisions at sqrt[s]=13  TeV and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 137  fb^{-1}. The vector bosons and Higgs bosons are each reconstructed as large-radius jets and tagged using jet substructure techniques. Dedicated tagging algorithms exploiting b-tagging properties are used to identify jets consistent with Higgs bosons decaying into bb[over  ]. Dominant backgrounds from multijet production are determined directly from the data, and a likelihood fit to the jet mass distribution of Higgs boson candidates is used to extract the number of signal events. The VH production cross section is measured inclusively and differentially in several ranges of Higgs boson transverse momentum: 250-450, 450-650, and greater than 650 GeV. The inclusive signal yield relative to the standard model expectation is observed to be mu=1.4_{-0.9}^{+1.0} and the corresponding cross section is 3.1+-1.3(stat)_{-1.4}^{+1.8}(syst)  pb.
38422989 | Inference under superspreading: Determinants of SARS-CoV-2 transmission in Germany. Superspreading, under-reporting, reporting delay, and confounding complicate statistical inference on determinants of disease transmission. A model that accounts for these factors within a Bayesian framework is estimated using German Covid-19 surveillance data. Compartments based on date of symptom onset, location, and age group allow to identify age-specific changes in transmission, adjusting for weather, reported prevalence, and testing and tracing. Several factors were associated with a reduction in transmission: public awareness rising, information on local prevalence, testing and tracing, high temperature, stay-at-home orders, and restaurant closures. However, substantial uncertainty remains for other interventions including school closures and mandatory face coverings. The challenge of disentangling the effects of different determinants is discussed and examined through a simulation study. On a broader perspective, the study illustrates the potential of surveillance data with demographic information and date of symptom onset to improve inference in the presence of under-reporting and reporting delay.
21964766 | Regression of melanoma metastases after immunotherapy is associated with activation of antigen presentation and interferon-mediated rejection genes. We present the results of a comparative gene expression analysis of 15 metastases (10 regressing and 5 progressing) obtained from 2 melanoma patients with mixed response following different forms of immunotherapy. Whole genome transcriptional analysis clearly indicate that regression of melanoma metastases is due to an acute immune rejection mediated by the upregulation of genes involved in antigen presentation and interferon mediated response (STAT-1/IRF-1) in all the regressing metastases from both patients. In contrast, progressing metastases showed low transcription levels of genes involved in these pathways. Histological analysis showed T cells and HLA-DR positive infiltrating cells in the regressing but not in the progressing metastases. Quantitative expression analysis of HLA-A,B and C genes on microdisected tumoral regions indicate higher HLA expression in regressing than in progressing metastases. The molecular signature obtained in melanoma rejection appeared to be similar to that observed in other forms of immune-mediated tissue-specific rejection such as allograft, pathogen clearance, graft versus host or autoimmune disease, supporting the immunological constant of rejection. We favor the idea that the major factor determining the success or failure of immunotherapy is the nature of HLA Class I alterations in tumor cells and not the type of immunotherapy used. If the molecular alteration is reversible by the immunotherapy, the HLA expression will be upregulated and the lesion will be recognized and rejected. In contrast, if the defect is structural the MHC Class I expression will remain unchanged and the lesion will progress.
37551111 | Guanylate-binding proteins signature predicts favorable prognosis, immune-hot microenvironment, and immunotherapy response in hepatocellular carcinoma. BACKGROUND: The role of guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) in various cancers has been elucidated recently. However, our knowledge of the clinical relevance and biological characteristics of GBPs in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains limited. METHODS: A total of 955 HCC patients were enrolled from five independent public HCC cohorts. The role of GBP molecules in HCC was preliminarily investigated, and a GBP family signature, termed GBPs-score, was constructed by principal component analysis to combine the GBP molecule values. We revealed the effects of GBP genes and GBPs-score in HCC via well-established bioinformatics methods and validated GBP1-5 experimentally in a tissue microarray (TMA) cohort. RESULTS: GBPs molecules were closely associated with the prognosis of patients with HCC, and a high GBPs-score highly inferred a favorable survival outcome. We also revealed high GBPs-score was related to anti-tumor immunity, the immune-hot tumor microenvironment (TME), and immunotherapy response. Among the GBPs members, GBP1-5 rather than GBP6/7 may be dominant in these fields. The TMA analysis based on immunohistochemistry showed positive correlations between GBP1-5 and the immune-hot TME with abundant infiltration of CD8+ T cells in HCC. CONCLUSIONS: Our integrative study revealed the genetic and immunologic characterizations of GBPs in HCC and highlighted their potential values as promising biomarkers for prognosis and immunotherapy.
27256105 | Ablation of Adenosine Monophosphate-Activated Protein Kinase alpha1 in Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells Promotes Diet-Induced Atherosclerotic Calcification In Vivo. RATIONALE: Atherosclerotic calcification is highly linked with plaque rapture. How calcification is regulated is poorly characterized. OBJECTIVE: We sought to determine the contributions of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) in atherosclerotic calcification. METHODS AND RESULTS: Aortic calcification was evaluated in aortic roots and brachiocephalic arteries of atherosclerotic prone ApoE(-/-) mice or in mice with dual deficiencies of ApoE and AMPKalpha isoforms in whole body (ApoE(-/-)/AMPKalpha1(-/-) and ApoE(-/-)/AMPKalpha2(-/-)) or vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC)-specific or macrophage-specific knockout of AMPKalpha1 fed with Western diet for 24 weeks. Genetic deficiency of AMPKalpha1 but not of AMPKalpha2 promoted atherosclerotic calcification and the expression of Runx2 (Runt-related transcription factor). Conversely, chronic administration of metformin, which activated AMPK, markedly reduced atherosclerotic calcification and Runx2 expression in ApoE(-/-) mice but had less effects in ApoE(-/-)/AMPKalpha1(-/-) mice. Furthermore, VSMC-specific but not macrophage-specific ablation of AMPKalpha1 promoted aortic calcification in vivo. Ablation of AMPKalpha1 in VSMC prevented Runx2 from proteasome degradation in parallel with aberrant osteoblastic differentiation of VSMC, whereas AMPK activation promoted Runx2 post-translational modification by small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO, SUMOylation), which is associated with its instability. Mechanically, we found that AMPKalpha1 directly phosphorylated protein inhibitor of activated STAT-1 (PIAS1), the SUMO E3-ligase of Runx2, at serine 510, to promote its SUMO E3-ligase activity. Finally, mutation of protein inhibitor of activated STAT-1 at serine 510 suppressed metformin-induced Runx2 SUMOylation and subsequently prevented metformin's effect on reducing oxidized low-density lipoprotein-triggered Runx2 expression in VSMC. CONCLUSIONS: AMPKalpha1 phosphorylated protein inhibitor of activated STAT-1 to promote Runx2 SUMOylation and subsequently lead to its instability. AMPKalpha1 deficiency in VSMC increased Runx2 expression and promoted atherosclerotic calcification in vivo.
34241504 | Observation of a New Excited Beauty Strange Baryon Decaying to Xi_{b}^{-}pi^{+}pi^{-}. The Xi_{b}^{-}pi^{+}pi^{-} invariant mass spectrum is investigated with an event sample of proton-proton collisions at sqrt[s]=13  TeV, collected by the CMS experiment at the LHC in 2016-2018 and corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 140  fb^{-1}. The ground state Xi_{b}^{-} is reconstructed via its decays to J/psiXi^{-} and J/psiLambdaK^{-}. A narrow resonance, labeled Xi_{b}(6100)^{-}, is observed at a Xi_{b}^{-}pi^{+}pi^{-} invariant mass of 6100.3+-0.2(stat)+-0.1(syst)+-0.6(Xi_{b}^{-})  MeV, where the last uncertainty reflects the precision of the Xi_{b}^{-} baryon mass. The upper limit on the Xi_{b}(6100)^{-} natural width is determined to be 1.9  MeV at 95% confidence level. The low Xi_{b}(6100)^{-} signal yield observed in data does not allow a measurement of the quantum numbers of the new state. However, following analogies with the established excited Xi_{c} baryon states, the new Xi_{b}(6100)^{-} resonance and its decay sequence are consistent with the orbitally excited Xi_{b}^{-} baryon, with spin and parity quantum numbers J^{P}=3/2^{-}.
35766501 | Attenuated Viral Replication of Avian Infectious Bronchitis Virus with a Novel 82-Nucleotide Deletion in the 5a Gene Indicates a Critical Role for 5a in Virus-Host Interactions. We previously found that a deletion in gamma-coronavirus Infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) accessory gene 5a is critical for decreased viral pathogenicity in chickens. Here, we systematically analyzed IBV virus infection: invasion, genome replication, subgenomic mRNA (sgmRNA) synthesis, protein synthesis, and virion release. The ability of the mutant IBV strain rYN-Delta5a to invade susceptible cells was not significantly different from that of parental rYN. However, compared with rYN, the level of sgmRNA synthesis and genome replication after cell entry by rYN-Delta5a was significantly lower in the early stage, resulting in a significantly lower level of nucleoprotein (N) synthesis and a consequent significantly lower number of offspring viruses released into the supernatant. The detected 5a protein was diffusely distributed in the cytoplasm and perinuclear area. We identified 16 differentially expressed host proteins, 8 of which were found to be host nuclear and cytoplasmic transport-related proteins. Coimmunoprecipitation revealed an interaction between hemagglutinin (HA)-tagged TNPO1, TNPO3, XPO1, XPOT, RanBP1, and EIF2B4 proteins and Flag-tagged 5a protein, and laser confocal microscopy confirmed 5a protein colocalization with these proteins, indicating that 5a protein can cause changes in the host protein localization. These host proteins promote the nuclear localization of N proteins, so we believe that 5a protein can hijack host nucleoplasmic transport-related proteins to help N enter the nucleus. This may involve regulating the cell cycle to promote the optimal intracellular conditions for virus assembly or by participating in the regulation of nucleolar function as a strategy to optimize virus replication. IMPORTANCE Coronaviruses (CoVs) have a huge impact on humans and animals. It is important for the prevention and control of the viruses to assess the molecular mechanisms related to virulence attenuation. Here, we systematically analyzed a single cycle of virus infection by gamma-CoV IBV lacking accessory protein 5a. We observed that a 5a deletion in the IBV genome affected virus replication and sgmRNA synthesis early in the virus life cycle, leading to decreases in protein synthesis, offspring virus assembly, and virion release in chicken embryonic kidney cells. IBV 5a protein was found to interact with multiple host nuclear and cytoplasmic transport- and translation-related proteins, which can also interact with IBV N and relocate it into the cell nucleus. These findings provide a comprehensive view regarding the importance of IBV accessory protein 5a and an important theoretical basis for studying the interaction between coronavirus and host cell proteins.
36832091 | Potential of Unenhanced Ultra-Low-Dose Abdominal Photon-Counting CT with Tin Filtration: A Cadaveric Study. OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the feasibility and image quality of ultra-low-dose unenhanced abdominal CT using photon-counting detector technology and tin prefiltration. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Employing a first-generation photon-counting CT scanner, eight cadaveric specimens were examined both with tin prefiltration (Sn 100 kVp) and polychromatic (120 kVp) scan protocols matched for radiation dose at three different levels: standard-dose (3 mGy), low-dose (1 mGy) and ultra-low-dose (0.5 mGy). Image quality was evaluated quantitatively by means of contrast-to-noise-ratios (CNR) with regions of interest placed in the renal cortex and subcutaneous fat. Additionally, three independent radiologists performed subjective evaluation of image quality. The intraclass correlation coefficient was calculated as a measure of interrater reliability. RESULTS: Irrespective of scan mode, CNR in the renal cortex decreased with lower radiation dose. Despite similar mean energy of the applied x-ray spectrum, CNR was superior for Sn 100 kVp over 120 kVp at standard-dose (17.75 +- 3.51 vs. 14.13 +- 4.02), low-dose (13.99 +- 2.6 vs. 10.68 +- 2.17) and ultra-low-dose levels (8.88 +- 2.01 vs. 11.06 +- 1.74) (all p <= 0.05). Subjective image quality was highest for both standard-dose protocols (score 5; interquartile range 5-5). While no difference was ascertained between Sn 100 kVp and 120 kVp examinations at standard and low-dose levels, the subjective image quality of tin-filtered scans was superior to 120 kVp with ultra-low radiation dose (p < 0.05). An intraclass correlation coefficient of 0.844 (95% confidence interval 0.763-0.906; p < 0.001) indicated good interrater reliability. CONCLUSIONS: Photon-counting detector CT permits excellent image quality in unenhanced abdominal CT with very low radiation dose. Employment of tin prefiltration at 100 kVp instead of polychromatic imaging at 120 kVp increases the image quality even further in the ultra-low-dose range of 0.5 mGy.
38123577 | SARS-CoV-2 specific sIgA in saliva increases after disease-related video stimulation. Secretory immunoglobulin A (sIgA) in saliva is the most important immunoglobulin fighting pathogens in the respiratory tract and may thus play a role in preventing SARS-CoV-2 infections. To gain a better understanding of the plasticity in the mucosal antibody, we investigated the proactive change in secretion of salivary SARS-CoV-2-specific sIgA in 45 vaccinated and/or previously infected, generally healthy persons (18 to 35 years, 22 women). Participants were exposed to a disease video displaying humans with several respiratory symptoms typical for COVID-19 in realistic situations of increased contagion risk. The disease video triggered an increase in spike-specific sIgA, which was absent after a similar control video with healthy people. The increase further correlated inversely with revulsion and aversive feelings while watching sick people. In contrast, the receptor binding domain-specific sIgA did not increase after the disease video. This may indicate differential roles of the two salivary antibodies in response to predictors of airborne contagion. The observed plasticity of spike-specific salivary antibody release after visual simulation of enhanced contagion risk suggests a role in immune exclusion.
36680106 | Vaccine Side Effects in Health Care Workers after Vaccination against SARS-CoV-2: Data from TuSeRe:exact Study. As the Corona Disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by SARS-CoV-2 persists, vaccination is one of the key measures to contain the spread. Side effects (SE) from vaccination are one of the reasons for reluctance to vaccinate. We systematically investigated self-reported SE after the first, second, and booster vaccinations. The data were collected during the TuSeRe: exact study (Tubinger Monitoring Studie zur exakten Analyse der Immunantwort nach Vakzinierung). Employees of health and research institutions were invited to participate. Study participants were asked to fill out an online questionnaire and report their SE after each dose of SARS-CoV-2 vaccination. A total of 1046 participants (mean age: 44 +- 12.9 years; female, n = 815 (78%); male, n = 231 (22%)) were included in the analysis. Local and systemic SE were more frequent after receiving the vector-based vaccine ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 in the first vaccination. However, local and systemic SE were more common after receiving mRNA vaccines (BNT162b2, mRNA-1273) in the second vaccination. Compared to the BNT162b2 vaccine, more SE have been observed after receiving the mRNA-1273 vaccine in the booster vaccination. In multivariate analysis, local and systemic side effects were associated with vaccine type, age and gender. Local and systemic SE are common after SARS-CoV-2 vaccines. The frequency of self-reported local and systemic SE differ significantly between mRNA and vector-based vaccines.
36539061 | Best practices to reduce COVID-19 in group homes for individuals with serious mental illness and intellectual and developmental disabilities: Protocol for a hybrid type 1 effectiveness-implementation cluster randomized trial. BACKGROUND: People with serious mental illness (SMI) and intellectual disabilities and/or developmental disabilities (ID/DD) living in group homes (GHs) and residential staff are at higher risk for COVID-19 infection, hospitalization, and death compared with the general population. METHODS: We describe a hybrid type 1 effectiveness-implementation cluster randomized trial to assess evidence-based infection prevention practices to prevent COVID-19 for residents with SMI or ID/DD and the staff in GHs. The trial will use a cluster randomized design in 400 state-funded GHs in Massachusetts for adults with SMI or ID/DD to compare effectiveness and implementation of \Tailored Best Practices\ (TBP) consisting of evidence-based COVID-19 infection prevention practices adapted for residents with SMI and ID/DD and GH staff; to \General Best Practices\ (GBP), consisting of required standard of care reflecting state and federal standard general guidelines for COVID-19 prevention in GHs. External (i.e., community-based research staff) and internal (i.e., GH staff leadership) personnel will facilitate implementation of TBP. The primary effectiveness outcome is incident SARS-CoV-2 infection and secondary effectiveness outcomes include COVID-19-related hospitalizations and mortality in GHs. The primary implementation outcomes are fidelity to TBP and rates of COVID-19 vaccination. Secondary implementation outcomes are adoption, adaptation, reach, and maintenance. Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 3-, 6-, 9-, 12-, and 15-months post-randomization. CONCLUSIONS: This study will advance knowledge on comparative effectiveness and implementation of two different strategies to prevent COVID-19-related infection, morbidity, and mortality and promote fidelity and adoption of these interventions in high-risk GHs for residents with SMI or ID/DD and staff. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT04726371.
37478010 | Super-resolution proximity labeling reveals anti-viral protein network and its structural changes against SARS-CoV-2 viral proteins. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) replicates in human cells by interacting with host factors following infection. To understand the virus and host interactome proximity, we introduce a super-resolution proximity labeling (SR-PL) method with a \plug-and-playable\ PL enzyme, TurboID-GBP (GFP-binding nanobody protein), and we apply it for interactome mapping of SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a and membrane protein (M), which generates highly perturbed endoplasmic reticulum (ER) structures. Through SR-PL analysis of the biotinylated interactome, 224 and 272 peptides are robustly identified as ORF3a and M interactomes, respectively. Within the ORF3a interactome, RNF5 co-localizes with ORF3a and generates ubiquitin modifications of ORF3a that can be involved in protein degradation. We also observe that the SARS-CoV-2 infection rate is efficiently reduced by the overexpression of RNF5 in host cells. The interactome data obtained using the SR-PL method are presented at https://sarscov2.spatiomics.org. We hope that our method will contribute to revealing virus-host interactions of other viruses in an efficient manner.
30487281 | Unique Type I Interferon, Expansion/Survival Cytokines, and JAK/STAT Gene Signatures of Multifunctional Herpes Simplex Virus-Specific Effector Memory CD8+ TEM Cells Are Associated with Asymptomatic Herpes in Humans. A large proportion of the world population harbors herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1), a major cause of infectious corneal blindness. HSV-specific CD8+ T cells protect from herpesvirus infection and disease. However, the genomic, phenotypic, and functional characteristics of CD8+ T cells associated with the protection seen in asymptomatic (ASYMP) individuals, who, despite being infected, never experienced any recurrent herpetic disease, remains to be fully elucidated. In this investigation, we compared the phenotype, function, and level of expression of a comprehensive panel of 579 immune genes of memory CD8+ T cells, sharing the same HSV-1 epitope specificities, and freshly isolated peripheral blood from well-characterized cohorts of protected ASYMP and nonprotected symptomatic (SYMP) individuals, with a history of numerous episodes of recurrent herpetic disease, using the high-throughput digital NanoString nCounter system and flow cytometry. Interestingly, our results demonstrated that memory CD8+ T cells from ASYMP individuals expressed a unique set of genes involved in expansion and survival, type I interferon (IFN-I), and JAK/STAT pathways. Frequent multifunctional HSV-specific effector memory CD62Llow CD44high CD8+ TEM cells were detected in ASYMP individuals compared to more of monofunctional central memory CD62Lhigh CD44high CD8+ TCM cells in SYMP individuals. Shedding light on the genotype, phenotype, and function of antiviral CD8+ T cells from \naturally protected\ ASYMP individuals will help design future T-cell-based ocular herpes immunotherapeutic vaccines.IMPORTANCE A staggering number of the world population harbors herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) potentially leading to blinding recurrent herpetic disease. While the majority are asymptomatic (ASYMP) individuals who never experienced any recurrent herpetic disease, symptomatic (SYMP) individuals have a history of numerous episodes of recurrent ocular herpetic disease. This study elucidates the phenotype, the effector function, and the gene signatures of memory CD8+ T-cell populations associated with protection seen in ASYMP individuals. Frequent multifunctional HSV-specific effector memory CD8+ TEM cells were detected in ASYMP individuals. In contrast, nonprotected SYMP individuals had more central memory CD8+ TCM cells. The memory CD8+ TEM cells from ASYMP individuals expressed unique gene signatures characterized by higher levels of type I interferon (IFN), expansion and expansion/survival cytokines, and JAK/STAT pathways. Future studies on the genotype, phenotype, and function of antiviral CD8+ T cells from \naturally protected\ ASYMP individuals will help in the potential design of T-cell-based ocular herpes vaccines.
35141876 | Cost-effectiveness of a policy-based intervention to reduce melanoma and other skin cancers associated with indoor tanning. BACKGROUND: The use of indoor tanning devices causes melanoma and other skin cancers with resulting morbidity, mortality and increased healthcare costs. Policymakers require robust economic evidence to inform decisions about a possible ban of such devices to mitigate these burdens. OBJECTIVES: To assess the health costs and consequences of introducing a policy-based intervention across England to ban commercial indoor tanning with an accompanying public information campaign. METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis, adopting a healthcare system perspective, was conducted using a decision model to track a national cohort of 18-year-olds over a lifetime time horizon. A nationwide ban on commercial indoor tanning combined with a public information campaign (the policy-based intervention) was compared with the status quo of availability of commercial indoor tanning. The expected costs (currency, GBP; price year, 2019) and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated. Net monetary benefit (NMB) (net benefit measured in cost compared with an accepted threshold) and net health benefit (NHB) (net gain in QALYs compared with an accepted threshold) of implementation were calculated. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis was used to calculate the probability that the intervention was cost-effective. RESULTS: Compared with the current situation, a ban on commercial indoor tanning combined with a public information campaign would result in 1206 avoided cases of melanoma, 207 fewer melanoma deaths and 3987 averted cases of keratinocyte cancers over the lifetime of all 18-year-olds (n = 618 873) living in England in 2019. An additional 497 QALYs would be realized along with healthcare cost-savings of $697 858. This intervention would result in an NMB of $10.6m and an NHB of 530 QALYS. Multiple sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of the findings. At a cost-effectiveness threshold of $20 000, there is a 99% likelihood of this policy-based intervention being cost-effective. CONCLUSIONS: The implementation of a ban on commercial indoor tanning across England with an accompanying public information campaign would be an effective use of healthcare resources.
36742975 | Antibody Responses of SARS-CoV-2 Vaccines amongst Health Care Workers in a Tertiary Care Hospital in Tripura, India: A Cross-Sectional Study. Background: Vaccines against COVID-19 plays an important role in limiting the spread of SARS-CoV-2 infections and also in curbing mortality and morbidity due to COVID-19. Objective: To estimate the anti-spike antibody response after receiving the second dose of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines amongst health care workers of a tertiary care hospital in Tripura, India. Materials and Method: A cross- sectional study was conducted from 1 July to 20 August 2021 at Agartala Government Medical College and GBP Hospital, Agartala among 561 health care workers who had received first and second doses of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines and had completed 14 days after receiving the second dose. Results: The present study showed that health care workers who had received both doses of COVID-19 vaccine had 99.5% seropositivity to anti-spike antibody. The median SARS-CoV-2 anti-spike antibody titter was 250 with an IQR (211.55-250). Seropositivity rate was higher among Covishield recipients (99.8% [550/551]) as compared to Covaxin recipients (80% [8/10]) and it was found to be statistically significant (P = 0.000). Conclusion: The present study suggests that a good immune response was elicited against spike antigen of SARS-CoV-2 after two complete doses of Covishield (ChAdOx1-nCoV-19) or Covaxin (BBV152).
36899812 | HLA-B*57:01/Carbamazepine-10,11-Epoxide Association Triggers Upregulation of the NFkappaB and JAK/STAT Pathways. Measure of drug-mediated immune reactions that are dependent on the patient's genotype determine individual medication protocols. Despite extensive clinical trials prior to the license of a specific drug, certain patient-specific immune reactions cannot be reliably predicted. The need for acknowledgement of the actual proteomic state for selected individuals under drug administration becomes obvious. The well-established association between certain HLA molecules and drugs or their metabolites has been analyzed in recent years, yet the polymorphic nature of HLA makes a broad prediction unfeasible. Dependent on the patient's genotype, carbamazepine (CBZ) hypersensitivities can cause diverse disease symptoms as maculopapular exanthema, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms or the more severe diseases Stevens-Johnson-Syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis. Not only the association between HLA-B*15:02 or HLA-A*31:01 but also between HLA-B*57:01 and CBZ administration could be demonstrated. This study aimed to illuminate the mechanism of HLA-B*57:01-mediated CBZ hypersensitivity by full proteome analysis. The main CBZ metabolite EPX introduced drastic proteomic alterations as the induction of inflammatory processes through the upstream kinase ERBB2 and the upregulation of NFkappaB and JAK/STAT pathway implying a pro-apoptotic, pro-necrotic shift in the cellular response. Anti-inflammatory pathways and associated effector proteins were downregulated. This disequilibrium of pro- and anti-inflammatory processes clearly explain fatal immune reactions following CBZ administration.
25008924 | HIV-1 gp120 activates the STAT3/interleukin-6 axis in primary human monocyte-derived dendritic cells. UNLABELLED: Dendritic cells (DCs) are fundamental for the initiation of immune responses and are important players in AIDS immunopathogenesis. The modulation of DC functional activities represents a strategic mechanism for HIV-1 to evade immune surveillance. Impairment of DC function may result from bystander effects of HIV-1 envelope proteins independently of direct HIV-1 infection. In this study, we report that exposure of immature monocyte-derived DCs (MDDCs) to HIV-1 R5 gp120 resulted in the CCR5-dependent production of interleukin-6 (IL-6) via mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/NF-kappaB pathways. IL-6 in turn activated STAT3 by an autocrine loop. Concomitantly, gp120 promoted an early activation of STAT3 that further contributed to IL-6 induction. This activation paralleled a concomitant upregulation of the STAT3 inhibitor PIAS3. Notably, STAT3/IL-6 pathway activation was not affected by the CCR5-specific ligand CCL4. These results identify STAT3 as a key signaling intermediate activated by gp120 in MDDCs and highlight the existence of a virus-induced dysregulation of the IL-6/STAT3 axis. HIV-1 gp120 signaling through STAT3 may provide an explanation for the impairment of DC function observed upon HIV exposure. IMPORTANCE: This study provides new evidence for the molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways triggered by HIV-1 gp120 in human DCs in the absence of productive infection, emphasizing a role of aberrant signaling in early virus-host interaction, contributing to viral pathogenesis. We identified STAT3 as a key component in the gp120-mediated signaling cascade involving MAPK and NF-kappaB components and ultimately leading to IL-6 secretion. STAT3 now is recognized as a key regulator of DC functions. Thus, the identification of this transcription factor as a signaling molecule mediating some of gp120's biological effects unveils a new mechanism by which HIV-1 may deregulate DC functions and contribute to AIDS pathogenesis.
3476226 | HLA and survival in lung cancer. HLA A and B antigens were determined in a study of 125 patients with lung cancer. Differences between antigen frequencies in cancer and control populations were determined by chi 2 analysis or Fisher's exact test. Survival data were analyzed using the Cox model for censored data. Cancer patients had an increased frequency of the antigen Aw33 (relative risk = 10.5, P less than 0.016). The Cox model (D. R. Cox, J. R. Stat. Soc. B, 34, 187, 1972) indicated that four covariates had a significant effect on mean survival time independently: the presence of A3 (P less than 0.005) and of Aw33 (P less than 0.05) increased mean survival time of the cancer population; patients with anaplastic carcinoma and stage three of any histological type of cancer had a decreased mean survival time. The determination of HLA phenotypes, cancer type, and the stage of the disease can provide the expected mean survival time of any particular patient. This could be of importance for evaluating prognosis. The effect of Aw33 and A3 on survival time may be related to HLA closely linked genes, possibly coding for resistance to the disease.
38600959 | Family matters inside the order Agaricales: systematic reorganization and classification of incertae sedis clitocyboid, pleurotoid and tricholomatoid taxa based on an updated 6-gene phylogeny. The phylogenetic position of several clitocyboid/pleurotoid/tricholomatoid genera previously considered incertae sedis is here resolved using an updated 6-gene dataset of Agaricales including newly sequenced lineages and more complete data from those already analyzed before. Results allowed to infer new phylogenetic relationships, and propose taxonomic novelties to accommodate them, including up to ten new families and a new suborder. Giacomia (for which a new species from China is here described) forms a monophyletic clade with Melanoleuca (Melanoleucaceae) nested inside suborder Pluteineae, together with the families Pluteaceae, Amanitaceae (including Leucocortinarius), Limnoperdaceae and Volvariellaceae. The recently described family Asproinocybaceae is shown to be a later synonym of Lyophyllaceae (which includes also Omphaliaster and Trichocybe) within suborder Tricholomatineae. The families Biannulariaceae, Callistosporiaceae, Clitocybaceae, Fayodiaceae, Macrocystidiaceae (which includes Pseudoclitopilus), Entolomataceae, Pseudoclitocybaceae (which includes Aspropaxillus), Omphalinaceae (Infundibulicybe and Omphalina) and the new families Paralepistaceae and Pseudoomphalinaceae belong also to Tricholomatineae. The delimitation of the suborder Pleurotineae (= Schizophyllineae) is discussed and revised, accepting five distinct families within it, viz. Pleurotaceae, Cyphellopsidaceae, Fistulinaceae, Resupinataceae and Schizophyllaceae. The recently proposed suborder Phyllotopsidineae (= Sarcomyxineae) is found to encompass the families Aphroditeolaceae, Pterulaceae, Phyllotopsidaceae, Radulomycetaceae, Sarcomyxaceae (which includes Tectella), and Stephanosporaceae, all of them unrelated to Pleurotaceae (suborder Pleurotineae) or Typhulaceae (suborder Typhulineae). The new family Xeromphalinaceae, encompassing the genera Xeromphalina and Heimiomyces, is proposed within Marasmiineae. The suborder Hygrophorineae is here reorganized into the families Hygrophoraceae, Cantharellulaceae, Cuphophyllaceae, Hygrocybaceae and Lichenomphaliaceae, to homogenize the taxonomic rank of the main clades inside all suborders of Agaricales. Finally, the genus Hygrophorocybe is shown to represent a distinct clade inside Cuphophyllaceae, and the new combination H. carolinensis is proposed. Taxonomic novelties: New suborder: Typhulineae Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado. New families: Aphroditeolaceae Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado, Melanoleucaceae Locq. ex Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado, Paralepistaceae Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado, Pseudoomphalinaceae Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado, Volvariellaceae Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado, Xeromphalinaceae Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado. New species: Giacomia sinensis J.Z. Xu. Stat. nov.: Cantharellulaceae (Lodge, Redhead, Norvell & Desjardin) Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado, Cuphophyllaceae (Z.M. He & Zhu L. Yang) Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado, Hygrocybaceae (Padamsee & Lodge) Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado, Lichenomphaliaceae (Lucking & Redhead) Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado. New combination: Hygrophorocybe carolinensis (H.E. Bigelow & Hesler) Vizzini, Consiglio & P. Alvarado. New synonyms: Sarcomyxineae Zhu L. Yang & G.S. Wang, Schizophyllineae Aime, Dentinger & Gaya, Asproinocybaceae T. Bau & G.F. Mou. Incertae sedis taxa placed at family level: Aphroditeola Redhead & Manfr. Binder, Giacomia Vizzini & Contu, Hygrophorocybe Vizzini & Contu, Leucocortinarius (J.E. Lange) Singer, Omphaliaster Lamoure, Pseudoclitopilus Vizzini & Contu, Resupinatus Nees ex Gray, Tectella Earle, Trichocybe Vizzini. New delimitations of taxa: Hygrophorineae Aime, Dentinger & Gaya, Phyllotopsidineae Zhu L. Yang & G.S. Wang, Pleurotineae Aime, Dentinger & Gaya, Pluteineae Aime, Dentinger & Gaya, Tricholomatineae Aime, Dentinger & Gaya. Resurrected taxa: Fayodiaceae Julich, Resupinataceae Julich. Citation: Vizzini A, Alvarado P, Consiglio G, Marchetti M, Xu J (2024). Family matters inside the order Agaricales: systematic reorganization and classification of incertae sedis clitocyboid, pleurotoid and tricholomatoid taxa based on an updated 6-gene phylogeny. Studies in Mycology 107: 67-148. doi: 10.3114/sim.2024.107.02.
31786976 | Adenosine, Via A2B Receptors, Inhibits Human (P-SMC) Progenitor Smooth Muscle Cell Growth. c-Kit+ progenitor smooth muscle cells (P-SMCs) can develop into SMCs that contribute to injury-induced neointimal thickening. Here, we investigated whether adenosine reduces P-SMC migration and proliferation and whether this contributes to adenosine's inhibitory actions on neointima formation. In human P-SMCs, 2-chloroadenosine (stable adenosine analogue) and BAY60-6583 (A2B agonist) inhibited P-SMC proliferation and migration. Likewise, increasing endogenous adenosine by blocking adenosine metabolism with erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl) adenine (inhibits adenosine deaminase) and 5-iodotubercidin (inhibits adenosine kinase) attenuated P-SMC proliferation and migration. Neither N6-cyclopentyladenosine (A1 agonist), CGS21680 (A2A agonist), nor N6-(3-iodobenzyl)-adenosine-5'-N-methyluronamide (A3 agonist) affected P-SMC proliferation or migration. 2-Chloroadenosine increased cyclic AMP, reduced Akt phosphorylation (activates cyclin D expression), and reduced levels of cyclin D1 (promotes cell-cycle progression). Moreover, 2-chloroadenosine inhibited expression of Skp2 (promotes proteolysis of p27Kip1) and upregulated levels of p27Kip1 (negative cell-cycle regulator). A2B receptor knockdown prevented the effects of 2-chloroadenosine on cyclic AMP production and P-SMC proliferation and migration. Likewise, inhibition of adenylyl cyclase and protein kinase A rescued P-SMCs from the inhibitory effects of 2-chloroadenosine. The inhibitory effects of adenosine were similar in male and female P-SMCs. In vivo, peri-arterial (rat carotid artery) 2-chloroadenosine (20 mumol/L for 7 days) reduced neointimal hyperplasia by 64.5% (P<0.05; intima/media ratio: control, 1.4+-0.02; treated, 0.53+-0.012) and reduced neointimal c-Kit+ cells. Adenosine inhibits P-SMC migration and proliferation via the A2B receptor/cyclic AMP/protein kinase A axis, which reduces cyclin D1 expression and activity via inhibiting Akt phosphorylation and Skp2 expression and upregulating p27kip1 levels. Adenosine attenuates neointima formation in part by inhibiting infiltration and proliferation of c-Kit+ P-SMCs.
35387639 | The UK Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme and diet, physical activity, and sleep during the COVID-19 pandemic: evidence from eight longitudinal population surveys. BACKGROUND: In March 2020, the UK implemented the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (furlough) to minimise job losses. Our aim was to investigate associations between furlough and diet, physical activity, and sleep during the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: We analysed data on 25,092 participants aged 16-66 years from eight UK longitudinal studies. Changes in employment, including being furloughed, were based on employment status before and during the first lockdown. Health behaviours included fruit and vegetable consumption, physical activity, and sleep. Study-specific estimates obtained using modified Poisson regression, adjusting for socio-demographic characteristics and pre-pandemic health and health behaviours, were statistically pooled using random effects meta-analysis. Associations were also stratified by sex, age, and education. RESULTS: Across studies, between 8 and 25% of participants were furloughed. Compared to those who remained working, furloughed workers were slightly less likely to be physically inactive (RR = 0.85; [95% CI 0.75-0.97]; I 2 = 59%) and did not differ overall with respect to low fruit and vegetable consumption or atypical sleep, although findings for sleep were heterogenous (I 2 = 85%). In stratified analyses, furlough was associated with lower fruit and vegetable consumption among males (RR = 1.11; [1.01-1.22]; I 2 = 0%) but not females (RR = 0.84; [0.68-1.04]; I 2 = 65%). Considering changes in quantity, furloughed workers were more likely than those who remained working to report increases in fruit and vegetable consumption, exercise, and hours of sleep. CONCLUSIONS: Those furloughed exhibited similar health behaviours to those who remained in employment during the initial stages of the pandemic. There was little evidence to suggest that adoption of such social protection policies in the post-pandemic recovery period and during future economic crises had adverse effects on population health behaviours.
14524981 | Transitions between smooth and complex stick-slip sliding of surfaces. Shear measurements were performed on mica surfaces with molecularly thin films of squalane (C30H62) confined between them. Squalane is a branched hydrocarbon liquid that can be in the liquid, glassy, or liquid-crystalline state under confinement. The friction forces, especially the transitions between smooth and intermittent (e.g., stick-slip) sliding, were measured over a wider range of applied loads (pressures), sliding velocities (shear rates), and temperatures than in previous studies. The results reveal that, depending on the conditions, qualitatively different behavior can arise in the same system. These include both abrupt and continuous transitions, both upper and lower critical transition temperatures, short and very long transient effects, and chaotic, sawtooth, or sinusoidal stick-slip that can slowly decay with time or distance sheared. The differences between these branched and simpler, e.g., spherical, unbranched molecules are compared, as well as with unlubricated (dry) surfaces and macroscopic (geological) systems.
34537242 | Linking nuclear matrix-localized PIAS1 to chromatin SUMOylation via direct binding of histones H3 and H2A.Z. As a conserved posttranslational modification, SUMOylation has been shown to play important roles in chromatin-related biological processes including transcription. However, how the SUMOylation machinery associates with chromatin is not clear. Here, we present evidence that multiple SUMOylation machinery components, including SUMO E1 proteins SAE1 and SAE2 and the PIAS (protein inhibitor of activated STAT) family SUMO E3 ligases, are primarily associated with the nuclear matrix rather than with chromatin. We show using nuclease digestion that all PIAS family proteins maintain nuclear matrix association in the absence of chromatin. Of importance, we identify multiple histones including H3 and H2A.Z as directly interacting with PIAS1 and demonstrate that this interaction requires the PIAS1 SAP (SAF-A/B, Acinus, and PIAS) domain. We demonstrate that PIAS1 promotes SUMOylation of histones H3 and H2B in both a SAP domain- and an E3 ligase activity-dependent manner. Furthermore, we show that PIAS1 binds to heat shock-induced genes and represses their expression and that this function also requires the SAP domain. Altogether, our study reveals for the first time the nuclear matrix as the compartment most enriched in SUMO E1 and PIAS family E3 ligases. Our finding that PIAS1 interacts directly with histone proteins also suggests a molecular mechanism as to how nuclear matrix-associated PIAS1 is able to regulate transcription and other chromatin-related processes.
31237117 | Comparison of sequence-specific oligonucleotide probe vs next generation sequencing for HLA-A, B, C, DRB1, DRB3/B4/B5, DQA1, DQB1, DPA1, and DPB1 typing: Toward single-pass high-resolution HLA typing in support of solid organ and hematopoietic cell transplant programs. Many clinical laboratories supporting solid organ transplant programs use multiple HLA genotyping technologies, depending on individual laboratory needs. Sequence-specific primers and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) serve the rapid turnaround necessary for deceased donor workup, while sequence-specific oligonucleotide probe (SSOP) technology is widely employed for higher volumes. When clinical need mandates high-resolution data, Sanger sequencing-based typing (SBT) has been the \gold standard.\ However, all those methods commonly yield ambiguous typing results that utilize valuable laboratory resources when resolution is required. In solid organ transplantation, high-resolution typing may provide critical information for highly sensitized patients with donor-specific anti-HLA antibodies (DSA), particularly when DSA involve HLA alleles not discriminated by SSOP typing. Arguments against routine use of SBT include assay complexity, long turnaround times (TAT), and increased costs. Here, we compare a next generation sequencing (NGS) technology with SSOP for accuracy, effort, turnaround time, and level of resolution for genotyping of 11 HLA loci among 289 specimens from five clinical laboratories. Results were concordant except for SSOP misassignments in eight specimens and 21 novel sequences uniquely identified by NGS. With few exceptions, SSOP generated ambiguous results while NGS provided unambiguous three-field allele assignments. For complete HLA genotyping of up to 24 samples by either SSOP or NGS, bench work was completed on day 1 and typing results were available on day 2. This study provides compelling evidence that, although not viable for STAT typing of deceased donors, a single-pass NGS HLA typing method has direct application for solid organ transplantation.
28798155 | IFN-gamma aggravates neointimal hyperplasia by inducing endoplasmic reticulum stress and apoptosis in macrophages by promoting ubiquitin-dependent liver X receptor-alpha degradation. Neointimal hyperplasia is the main cause of restenosis after percutaneous coronary interventions (PCIs). Both IFN-gamma and macrophages play nonredundant roles in the pathogenesis of vascular intimal hyperplasia; however, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive and must be further investigated. In mouse peritoneal macrophages, IFN-gamma significantly accelerated degradation and up-regulated polyubiquitination of liver X receptor (LXR)-alpha. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) inhibitor, fludarabine, and PIAS1 knockdown reduced ubiquitination and increased the expression of LXR-alpha in IFN-gamma-treated macrophages. IFN-gamma also increased the expression of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-related proteins, including p-PERK, p-eIIF2alpha, and CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein homologous protein (CHOP), as well as apoptosis of macrophages. Treatment with ER stress inhibitor, 4-phenylbutyric acid (4-PBA), and LXR agonist, T0901317 (T0), alleviated IFN-gamma-induced apoptosis in macrophages. Neointimal hyperplasia was significant after carotid ligation for 4 wk in ApoE-/- mice. IFN-gamma mAb, T0, and 4-PBA treatment not only significantly attenuated neointimal hyperplasia but also decreased CD68+TUNEL+ double-positive macrophages in the hyperplastic neointima. Moreover, after 4-PBA or T0 administration, the number of CD68+p-eIIF2alpha+ and CD68+CHOP+ double-positive cells in neointimal was also apparently decreased. Taken together, these results defined an unexpected role of IFN-gamma and LXR-alpha in the development of neointimal hyperplasia. The PIAS1/STAT1-dependent LXR-alpha degradation induced by IFN-gamma promoted ER stress and apoptosis in macrophages, which leads to aggravated neointimal hyperplasia. LXR agonist efficiently improved neointimal hyperplasia, which may be a promising new strategy to ameliorate restenosis and vascular remodeling after PCI.-Zhao, Q., Zhou, D., You, H., Lou, B., Zhang, Y., Tian, Y., Guo, N., Chen, X., Liu, Y., Wu, Y., Yuan, Z., Zhou, J. IFN-gamma aggravates neointimal hyperplasia by inducing endoplasmic reticulum stress and apoptosis in macrophages by promoting ubiquitin-dependent liver X receptor-alpha degradation.
35379174 | Identification and functional validation of HLA-C as a potential gene involved in colorectal cancer in the Korean population. BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer worldwide and is influenced by environmental and genetic factors. Although numerous genetic loci for CRC have been identified, the overall understanding of the genetic factors is yet to be elucidated. We sought to discover new genes involved in CRC applying genetic association analysis and functional study. RESULTS: We conducted exome array analysis on 194 CRC and 600 control subjects for discovering new candidate CRC genes. Fisher's exact test detected one exome-wide significant functional locus for CRC on SMCO1 (P < 10-6) and two suggestive functional loci on HLA-C and NUTM1 (10-6 <= P < 10-4). To evaluate the biological role of three candidate CRC genes, the differential expression of these genes between CRC and non-cancer colorectal cells was analyzed using qRT-PCR and publicly available gene expression data. Of three genes, HLA-C consistently revealed the significant down-regulation in CRC cells. In addition, we detected a reduction in cell viability in the HLA-C overexpression CRC cell line, implying the functional relevance of HLA-C in CRC. To understand the underlying mechanism exerted by HLA-C in CRC development, we conducted RNA sequencing analyses of HLA-C overexpression CRC cells and non-cancer colorectal cells. Pathway analysis detected that significantly down-regulated genes in HLA-C overexpression CRC cells were highly enriched in cancer-related signaling pathways such as JAK/STAT, ErbB, and Hedgehog signaling pathways. CONCLUSIONS: Exome array CRC case-control analysis followed by functional validation demonstrated that HLA-C likely exerts its influence on CRC development via cancer-related signaling pathways.
37786862 | Persistence of neuropsychiatric symptoms and dementia prognostication: A comparison of three operational case definitions of mild behavioral impairment. INTRODUCTION: We compared three operational case definitions of mild behavioral impairment (MBI) in the context of MBI prevalence estimates and dementia risk modeling. METHODS: Participants were dementia-free older adults (n = 13701) from the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center. Operational case definitions of MBI were generated based on neuropsychiatric symptoms at one (OV), two-consecutive (TCV), or more than two-thirds (TTV) of dementia-free study visits. Definitions were compared in prevalence and in Cox regressions using MBI to predict incident dementia. RESULTS: OV MBI was the most prevalent (54.4%), followed by TCV (32.3%) and TTV (26.7%) MBI. However, OV MBI had the lowest rate of incident dementia (hazard ratio [HR] = 2.54, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.33-2.78) and generated poorer model metrics than TCV MBI (HR = 4.06, 95% CI: 3.74-4.40) and TTV MBI (HR = 5.77, 95% CI: 5.32-6.26). DISCUSSION: Case ascertainment with longer timeframe MBI operational case definitions may more accurately define groups at risk of dementia in datasets lacking tools designed to detect MBI.Highlights: Mild behavioral impairment (MBI) can identify older adults at risk of dementia.Neuropsychiatric symptom (NPS) assessment tools can be proxy measures for MBI.Hazard for dementia was highest for MBI defined by NPS presence at more than two-thirds of visits.
17037921 | Protein nanopatterns and biosensors using gold binding polypeptide as a fusion partner. An efficient strategy for immobilizing proteins on a gold surface was developed by employing the gold binding polypeptide (GBP) as a fusion partner. Using the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP), severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) envelope protein (SCVme), and core streptavidin (cSA) of Streptomyces avidinii as model proteins, specific immobilization of the GBP-fusion proteins onto the gold nanoparticles and generation of protein nanopatterns on the bare gold surface were demonstrated. The GBP-fused SCVme bound to gold nanoparticles successfully interacted with its antibody and showed changes in absorbance and color, allowing efficient diagnosis of SARS-CoV. The fusion proteins could be successfully immobilized on the gold surface by nanopatterning and microcontact printing as examined by atomic force microscopy and surface plasmon resonance analysis. The poly(dimethylsiloxane) microfluidic channels were created on the gold surface and were used for antigen-antibody and DNA-DNA interaction studies. Specific immobilization of GBP-EGFP fusion protein and its interaction with the antibody in the microchannels could be demonstrated. By immobilizing the DNA probe through the use of GBP-fused cSA, specific hybridization of the target DNA prepared from Salmonella could also be achieved. The GBP-fusion method allows immobilization of proteins onto the gold surface without surface modification and in bioactive forms suitable for studying protein-protein, DNA-DNA, and other biomolecular interaction studies. Furthermore, these studies can be carried out in a microfluidic system, which allows high-throughput analysis of biomolecular interactions.
37073321 | 30 Jahre Nanobodies: Neues von kleinen Helfern mit grossem Potenzial. 2023 marks the 30th anniversary of the discovery of single-domain antibody fragments in camelids, better known as nanobodies. This was the starting point for their tremendous success story in biomedicine. Here we highlight recent advances in the development of nanobodies for the detection of neutralizing SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, as biosensors for monitoring extracellular metabolites and as tracer molecules for non-invasive imaging of immune cells.
38409877 | Detecting changes in the transmission rate of a stochastic epidemic model. Throughout the course of an epidemic, the rate at which disease spreads varies with behavioral changes, the emergence of new disease variants, and the introduction of mitigation policies. Estimating such changes in transmission rates can help us better model and predict the dynamics of an epidemic, and provide insight into the efficacy of control and intervention strategies. We present a method for likelihood-based estimation of parameters in the stochastic susceptible-infected-removed model under a time-inhomogeneous transmission rate comprised of piecewise constant components. In doing so, our method simultaneously learns change points in the transmission rate via a Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm. The method targets the exact model posterior in a difficult missing data setting given only partially observed case counts over time. We validate performance on simulated data before applying our approach to data from an Ebola outbreak in Western Africa and COVID-19 outbreak on a university campus.
35764621 | Long COVID burden and risk factors in 10 UK longitudinal studies and electronic health records. The frequency of, and risk factors for, long COVID are unclear among community-based individuals with a history of COVID-19. To elucidate the burden and possible causes of long COVID in the community, we coordinated analyses of survey data from 6907 individuals with self-reported COVID-19 from 10 UK longitudinal study (LS) samples and 1.1 million individuals with COVID-19 diagnostic codes in electronic healthcare records (EHR) collected by spring 2021. Proportions of presumed COVID-19 cases in LS reporting any symptoms for 12+ weeks ranged from 7.8% and 17% (with 1.2 to 4.8% reporting debilitating symptoms). Increasing age, female sex, white ethnicity, poor pre-pandemic general and mental health, overweight/obesity, and asthma were associated with prolonged symptoms in both LS and EHR data, but findings for other factors, such as cardio-metabolic parameters, were inconclusive.
30257217 | International Multisite Study of Human-Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Cardiomyocytes for Drug Proarrhythmic Potential Assessment. To assess the utility of human-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) as an in vitro proarrhythmia model, we evaluated the concentration dependence and sources of variability of electrophysiologic responses to 28 drugs linked to low, intermediate, and high torsades de pointes (TdP) risk categories using two commercial cell lines and standardized protocols in a blinded multisite study using multielectrode array or voltage-sensing optical approaches. Logistical and ordinal linear regression models were constructed using drug responses as predictors and TdP risk categories as outcomes. Three of seven predictors (drug-induced arrhythmia-like events and prolongation of repolarization at either maximum tested or maximal clinical exposures) categorized drugs with reasonable accuracy (area under the curve values of receiver operator curves ~0.8). hiPSC-CM line, test site, and platform had minimal influence on drug categorization. These results demonstrate the utility of hiPSC-CMs to detect drug-induced proarrhythmic effects as part of the evolving Comprehensive In Vitro Proarrhythmia Assay paradigm.
37623135 | Prospects and Aspirations for Workforce Training and Education in Social Prescribing. BACKGROUND: A social prescribing (SP) link worker (LW) is responsible for enabling and supporting individuals, by assessing their personal goals and co-producing solutions to make use of appropriate local non-clinical resources or interventions. As an emerging new role, LWs are not regulated by professional bodies associated with SP. Therefore, currently there is no standardised training for LWs who are from varied backgrounds. As such, LWs have varying knowledge about how to deal with individuals with complex needs, which can impact on their decision-making capabilities to seek solutions and navigate complex systems. The purpose of the research was to explore LWs' level of education, past and current training requirements as well as elicit how much LWs were willing to pay (WTP) to access and undertake training to improve their skill set. METHODS: A rigorous mixed method research design was employed which included semi-structured interviews with key stakeholders and quantitative questionnaires including contingent valuation (CV) questions to a population of LWs across Wales from March to June 2020. Qualitative interviews with key stakeholders who commission and deliver social prescribing interventions employing LWs identified perceived link worker qualities and requirements for LW roles. Purposive sampling was used to identify and select individuals that have experience in managing LWs. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, interviews were carried out exclusively online. LWs self-selected to complete the online questionnaires. Questionnaires gathered data on LW qualifications and demographic information with the CV questions gathering data on the value LW placed on accessing training in SP. Thematic narrative analysis was applied to interpret the data from the semi-structured interviews. Descriptive frequency analysis was conducted on the quantitative data generated from the online questionnaire. FINDINGS: SP coordinators (n = 6) reported that 'personal skills' are the most essential skills required by LWs in SP intervention. Training is available for LWs; however, the training undertaken varies depending on the type of intervention delivered, with 70% of LWs previously undertaking training to facilitate their development as an LW. The results from the contingent valuation questionnaire (n = 54) indicated that 100% of the respondents would avail of training. LWs were asked how much they were willing to pay as a single payment for professional training; on average, LWs were WTP GBP 58 from their personal funds to access training and the associated benefits to enhance their skills and knowledge. INTERPRETATION: The semi-structured interviews conducted with the key SP stakeholders yielded rich information and novel insight into LW training. External funding for the salary of the LW is an obstacle for LW development through training. In addition, the questionnaire results regarding stated preference techniques demonstrate that LWs place value on their professional development and would be willing to spend their own money on training to improve their knowledge and skills.
16689660 | Lung epithelial NF-kappaB and Stat1 signaling in response to CD8+ T cell antigen recognition. CD8+ T cell recognition of viral antigens presented by lung epithelial cells is important in the clearance of respiratory viral infection but may cause considerable injury to the lung. We have shown that a critical event of this type of injury is the activation of target epithelial cells and expression of chemokines by these cells. In this study, epithelial gene expression and transcription factor activation triggered by specific CD8+ T cell antigen recognition was examined in vitro and in vivo. T cell recognition triggers expression profiles of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-dependent and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-dependent genes in epithelial target cells. Consistent with these profiles, transcription factors nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and activator protein-1 (AP-1) were activated in lung epithelial cells of wild-type (WT) mice but not TNF receptor 1 (TNFR1)-deficient mice after CD8+ T cell recognition in vivo. In contrast, Stat1 activation and Stat1-dependent genes, such as IFN regulatory factor-1 (IRF-1) and guanylate-binding protein-2 (GBP-2), were induced to a similar extent in epithelial cells of both WT and TNFR1-deficient mice, indicating that this pathway is insufficient to induce pulmonary immunopathology in the absence of NF-kappaB-dependent transcriptional activation. Antibody neutralization of TNF-alpha abrogated epithelial monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) and macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2) production in vitro as well as pulmonary immunopathology in vivo, confirming the primary importance of this cytokine in CD8+ T cell-mediated immunopathology.
25475418 | Genetic insights on host and hepatitis B virus in liver diseases. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major global health problem and many studies have underlined the importance of inter individual variability and somatic mutations during the clinical course of HBV infection. In recent years, high-throughput technologies have provided new possibilities to study the genetic basis of many diseases. We reviewed all literature available on genome-wide association studies (GWASs), whole genome, exome and RNA sequencing studies as well as studies on HBV infection and the pathogenesis of related liver disease. Many GWASs conclude that the genetic variants in the HLA region (HLA-DP, HLA-DQ, HLA-DR and MICA), KIF1B, DEPDC5 and PNPLA3 influence HBV infection, its clinical course and the response to hepatitis B vaccination. The next generation sequencing approach provides important clues on the mutational landscape of genes involved in signaling pathways in particular JAK/STAT, Wnt/beta-catenin, p53 pathways and multiple chromatin regulator genes that significantly promote hepatocarcinogenesis. In addition, the hotspots of recurrent integrations of HBV-DNA into host chromosomes such as hTERT, PDGF receptor, MLL are involved in pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Additionally, the transitions T>C/A>G, C>T/G>A, C>A/G>T and T>A/A>T remain specific for HCC induced by viral infection and the DNA methylation in the CpG island is proposed as a biomarker for HCC. We have described common mutations in the HBV genome (G1896A, rtM204V, rtM204I) which modulate the pathogenesis and carcinogenesis of the liver. Further GWASs in different ethnic groups and additional functional studies are required to warrant the significance of such defined genetic factors. Such findings continue to shape our understanding of the genetic architecture of host-virus interactions and provide new clues and directions in determining genetic markers that modulate HBV infection and related liver diseases. The studies using high-throughput technologies help identifying potential genetic threats however the utility of mutational information can be complex in predicting prognostic significance and shall pose challenges to its clinical implementation.
34931666 | Toxoplasma-proximal and distal control by GBPs in human macrophages. Human guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are key players of interferon-gamma (IFNgamma)-induced cell intrinsic defense mechanisms targeting intracellular pathogens. In this study, we combine the well-established Toxoplasmagondii infection model with three in vitro macrophage culture systems to delineate the contribution of individual GBP family members to control this apicomplexan parasite. Use of high-throughput imaging assays and genome engineering allowed us to define a role for GBP1, 2 and 5 in parasite infection control. While GBP1 performs a pathogen-proximal, parasiticidal and growth-restricting function through accumulation at the parasitophorous vacuole of intracellular Toxoplasma, GBP2 and GBP5 perform a pathogen-distal, growth-restricting role. We further find that mutants of the GTPase or isoprenylation site of GBP1/2/5 affect their normal function in Toxoplasma control by leading to mis-localization of the proteins.
24058775 | Determinants of the extent and duration of STAT3 signaling. Multiple molecular mechanisms have been identified that are responsible for the deregulation of the quantitative aspects of JAK-STAT signaling. These mechanisms enhance the extent and the duration of, e.g., STAT3 activation and have profound consequences on the phenotypes of the affected cells. The fine tuning of STAT3 signaling is required to maintain its physiological functions and its deregulation is associated with diverse pathological states. Deregulation can be exerted by the gain of function of components mediating the activation of STAT3 or the loss of function of molecules involved in the deactivation steps of STAT3. Gain of function mutations can involve tyrosine kinases that phosphorylate STAT3, mutations in cytokine and growth factor receptors causing their ligand independent activation, mutations in STAT3 that enhance and prolong its tyrosine phosphorylation and the autocrine or paracrine production and secretion of cytokines, most notably IL-6. Diminished deactivation of phosphorylated STAT3 can be due to the reduced expression of tyrosine phosphatases, inactivating mutations in these enzymes, silencing or functional inactivation of SOCS molecules, post-transcriptional inhibition of PIAS3 expression or deletion mutations in the lymphocyte adaptor protein, LNK. STAT3 variants that exhibit autonomous transactivation potential have been detected in 40% of patients with T-cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia in clonally expanded CD8(+) T cells. These patients also were preferentially affected by neutropenia and rheumatoid disorders and the results suggest that activating STAT3 mutations in T lymphocytes could be a cause of autoimmune diseases.
37263873 | The societal cost of vaccine refusal: A modelling study using measles vaccination as a case study. BACKGROUND: Increasing vaccine hesitancy and refusal poses a challenge to public health as even small reductions in vaccine uptake can result in large outbreaks of infectious diseases. Here we estimate the societal costs of vaccine refusal using measles as a case study. METHODS: We developed a compartmental metapopulation model of measles transmission to explore how the changes in the size and level of social mixing between populations that are \pro-vaccination\, and \anti-vaccination\ impacts the burden of measles. Using the projected cases and deaths, we calculated the health, healthcare, direct medical costs, and productivity loss associated with vaccine refusal. Using measles in England as a case study, we quantified the societal costs that each vaccine refusal imposes on society. FINDINGS: When there is a high level of mixing between the pro- and anti-vaccination populations, those that refuse to be vaccinated benefit from the herd immunity afforded by the pro-vaccination population. At the same time, their refusal to be vaccinated increases the burden in those that are vaccinated due to imperfect vaccines, and in those that are not able to be vaccinated due to other underlying health conditions. Using England as a case study, we estimate that this translates to a societal loss of GBP 292 million and disease burden of 17 630 quality-adjusted-life-years (sensitivity range 10 594-50 379) over a 20-year time horizon. Of these costs, 26 % are attributable to healthcare costs and 74 % to productivity losses for patients and their carers. This translates to a societal loss per vaccine refusal of GBP 162.21 and 0.01 (0.006-0.03) quality-adjusted-life-years. INTERPRETATION: Our findings demonstrate that even low levels of vaccine refusal can have a substantial and measurable societal burden on the population. These estimates can support the value of investment in interventions that address vaccine hesitancy and vaccine refusal, providing not only improved public health but also potential economic benefits to society.
37762054 | Development of a Macrophage-Related Risk Model for Metastatic Melanoma. As a metastasis-prone malignancy, the metastatic form and location of melanoma seriously affect its prognosis. Although effective surgical methods and targeted drugs are available to enable the treatment of carcinoma in situ, for metastatic tumors, the diagnosis, prognosis assessment and development of immunotherapy are still pending. This study aims to integrate multiple bioinformatics approaches to identify immune-related molecular targets viable for the treatment and prognostic assessment of metastatic melanoma, thus providing new strategies for its use as an immunotherapy. Immunoinfiltration analysis revealed that M1-type macrophages have significant infiltration differences in melanoma development and metastasis. In total, 349 genes differentially expressed in M1-type macrophages and M2-type macrophages were extracted from the MSigDB database. Then we derived an intersection of these genes and 1111 melanoma metastasis-related genes from the GEO database, and 31 intersected genes identified as melanoma macrophage immunomarkers (MMIMs) were obtained. Based on MMIMs, a risk model was constructed using the Lasso algorithm and regression analysis, which contained 10 genes (NMI, SNTB2, SLC1A4, PDE4B, CLEC2B, IFI27, COL1A2, MAF, LAMP3 and CCDC69). Patients with high+ risk scores calculated via the model have low levels of infiltration by CD8+ T cells and macrophages, which implies a poor prognosis for patients with metastatic cancer. DCA decision and nomogram curves verify the high sensitivity and specificity of this model for metastatic cancer patients. In addition, 28 miRNAs, 90 transcription factors and 29 potential drugs were predicted by targeting the 10 MMIMs derived from this model. Overall, we developed and validated immune-related prognostic models, which accurately reflected the prognostic and immune infiltration characteristics of patients with melanoma metastasis. The 10 MMIMs may also be prospective targets for immunotherapy.
38016822 | The Added Value of ADC-based Nomogram in Assessing the Depth of Myometrial Invasion of Endometrial Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma. RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: To explore the potential value of the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC)-based nomogram models in preoperatively assessing the depth of myometrial invasion of endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma (EEA). MATERIALS AND METHODS: Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of 210 EEA patients were retrospectively analyzed. ADC histogram metrics derive from the whole-tumor regions of interest. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to screen the ADC histogram metrics and clinical characteristics for nomogram model building. The diagnostic sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) of two radiologists without and with the assistance of models were calculated and compared. RESULTS: Two nomogram models were developed for predicting no myometrial invasion (NMI) and deep myometrial invasion (DMI) with area under the curves of 0.85 and 0.82, respectively. With the assistance of models, the overall accuracies were significantly improved [radiologist_1, 73.3% vs 86.2% (p = 0.001); radiologist_2, 80.0% vs 91.0% (p = 0.002)]. In determining NMI, the sensitivity and PPV were greatly improved but not significant for radiologist_1 (51.9% vs 77.8% and 46.7% vs 75.0%, p = 0.229 and 0.511), and under/near the significance level for radiologist_2 (59.3% vs 88.9% and 57.1% vs 82.8%, p = 0.041 and 0.065), while the specificity, accuracy, and NPV were significantly improved (all p < 0.001). In determining DMI, all sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, PPV, and NPV were significantly improved (all p < 0.001). CONCLUSION: The ADC-based nomogram models can improve the diagnostic performance of radiologist in preoperatively assessing the depth of myometrial invasion and facilitate optimizing clinical individualized treatment decisions.
31103287 | Array-based DNA methylation profiling reveals peripheral blood differential methylation in male infertility. OBJECTIVE: To study peripheral blood DNA differential methylation in oligozoospermic infertile men in comparison with normozoospermic fertile controls. DESIGN: Case-control study. SETTING: Reproductive biology laboratory. PATIENTS(S): Azoospermic and oligozoospermic infertile patients (n = 6) and normozoospermic fertile controls (n = 6) in the discovery phase, and oligo/asthenozoospermic infertile men (n = 11) and normozoospermic fertile controls (n = 10) in the validation phase. INTERVENTION(S): Blood samples drawn from all participants, DNA isolation and methylation analysis. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): DNA methylation values analyzed using genomewide methylation 450K BeadChip array, followed by deep sequencing of selected regions for methylation analysis in the neighborhood regions of differentially methylated CpGs. RESULT(S): We found 329 differentially methylated CpG spots, out of which 245 referred to the genes, representing 170 genes. Deep-sequencing analysis confirmed the methylation pattern suggested by 450K array. A thorough literature search suggested that 38 genes play roles in spermatogenesis (PDHA2, PARP12, FHIT, RPTOR, GSTM1, GSTM5, MAGI2, BCAN, DDB2, KDM4C, AGPAT3, CAMTA1, CCR6, CUX1, DNAH17, ELMO1, FNDC3B, GNRHR, HDAC4, IRS2, LIF, SMAD3, SOD3, TALDO1, TRIM27, GAA, PAX8, RNF39, HLA-C, HLA-DRB6), are testis enriched (NFATC1, NMNAT3, PIAS2, SRPK2, WDR36, WWP2), or show methylation differences between infertile cases and controls (PTPRN2, RPH3AL). CONCLUSION(S): We found a statistically significant correlation between peripheral blood DNA methylation and male infertility, raising the hope that epigenome-based blood markers can be used for screening male infertility risk. The study also identified new candidates for spermatogenesis and fertility.
27480135 | Ion Current-Based Proteomic Profiling for Understanding the Inhibitory Effect of Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha on Myogenic Differentiation. Despite a demonstrated role for TNF-alpha in promoting muscle wasting and cachexia, the associated molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways of myoblast differentiation dysregulated by TNF-alpha remain poorly understood. This study presents well-controlled proteomic profiling as a means to investigate the mechanisms of TNF-alpha-regulated myogenic differentiation. Primary human muscle precursor cells (MPCs) cultured in growth medium (GM), differentiation medium (DM) to induce myogenic differentiation, and DM with 20 ng/mL of TNF-alpha (n = 5/group) were comparatively analyzed by an ion current-based quantitative platform consisting of reproducible sample preparation/on-pellet digestion, a long-column nano-LC separation, and ion current-based differential analysis. The inhibition of myogenic differentiation by TNF-alpha was confirmed by reduced formation of multinucleated myotubes and the recovered expression of altered myogenic proteins such as MYOD and myogenin during myogenic differentiation. Functional analysis and validation by immunoassay analysis suggested that the cooperation of NF-kappaB and STAT proteins is responsible for dysregulated differentiation in MPCs by TNF-alpha treatment. Increased MHC class I components such as HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, and beta-2-microglobulin were also observed in cultures in DM treated with TNF-alpha. Interestingly, inhibition of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway during myogenic differentiation induced by serum starvation was not recovered by TNF-alpha treatment, which combined with previous reports, implies that this process may be an early event of myogenesis. This finding could lay the foundation for the potential use of statins in modulating myogenesis through cholesterol, for example, in stem cell-based myocardial infarction treatment, where differentiation of myoblasts and stem cells into force-generating mature muscle cells is a key step to the therapeutic capacity. In conclusion, the landscapes of altered transcription regulators, metabolic processes, and signaling pathways in MPCs are revealed in the regulation of myogenic differentiation by TNF-alpha, which is valuable for myogenic cellular therapeutics.
36154006 | On the Periodicity of the Information Theory and Conceptual DFT-Based Reactivity Descriptors. The periodic trends in conceptual density functional and information theory-based reactivity descriptors are reported for the atoms H to Ba (Z = 1 to 56). Ionization potential, electron affinity, electronegativity, and hardness show periodic behavior following the Aufbau principle and popular electronic structure principles. They are in agreement with those reported in standard chemistry textbooks. The trend in the electrophilicity index, however, shows an interesting behavior, where it contradicts earlier reports. Our calculation reveals that the noble gas elements correspond to minimum omega values in each period which obey the minimum electrophilicity principle as well as reflect their low reactivity. Periodic trends in electroaccepting and electrodonating powers, along with that of net electrophilicity, are as expected. The behavior of information theory-based Shannon and GBP entropies, along with the Shannon entropy of shape function are also explored across the periodic table.
19089914 | Interferon-gamma down-regulates NKG2D ligand expression and impairs the NKG2D-mediated cytolysis of MHC class I-deficient melanoma by natural killer cells. NKG2D operates as an activating receptor on natural killer (NK) cells and costimulates the effector function of alphabeta CD8(+) T cells. Ligands of NKG2D, the MHC class I chain-related (MIC) and UL16 binding protein (ULBP) molecules, are expressed on a variety of human tumors, including melanoma. Recent studies in mice demonstrated that NKG2D mediates tumor immune surveillance, suggesting that antitumor immunity in humans could be enhanced by therapeutic manipulation of NKG2D ligand (NKG2DL) expression. However, signals and mechanisms regulating NKG2DL expression still need to be elucidated. Here, we asked whether the proinflammatory cytokine Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) affects NKG2DL expression in melanoma. Cell lines, established from MHC class I-negative and -positive melanoma metastases, predominantly expressed MICA and ULBP2 molecules on their surface. Upon IFN-gamma treatment, expression of MICA, in some cases, also of ULBP2 decreased. Besides melanoma, this observation was made also for glioma cells. Down-regulation of NKG2DL surface expression was dependent on the cytokine dose and the duration of treatment, but was neither due to an intracellular retention of the molecules nor to an increased shedding of ligands from the tumor cell surface. Instead, quantitative RT-PCR revealed a decrease of MICA-specific mRNA levels upon IFN-gamma treatment and siRNA experiments pointed to an involvement of STAT-1 in this process. Importantly, IFN-gamma-treated MHC class I-negative melanoma cells were less susceptible to NKG2D-mediated NK cell cytotoxicity. Our study suggests that IFN-gamma, by down-regulating ligand expression, might facilitate escape of MHC class I-negative melanoma cells from NKG2D-mediated killing by NK cells.
32393046 | The expression of microRNAs and exposure to environmental contaminants related to human health: a review. Environmental contaminants exposure may lead to detrimental changes to the microRNAs (miRNAs) expression resulting in several health effects. miRNAs, small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression, have multiple transcript targets and thereby regulate several signalling molecules. Even a minor alteration in the abundance of one miRNA can have deep effects on global gene expression. Altered patterns of miRNAs can be responsible for changes linked to various health outcomes, suggesting that specific miRNAs are activated in pathophysiological processes. In this review, we provide an overview of studies investigating the impact of air pollution, organic chemicals, and heavy metals on miRNA expression and the potential biologic effects on humans.Abbreviations: AHRR, aryl-hydrocarbon receptor repressor; AHR, aryl-hydrocarbon receptor; As, arsenic; BCL2, B-cell lymphoma 2; BCL2L11, B-cell lymphoma 2 like 11; BCL6, B-cell lymphoma 6; BPA, bisphenol A; CVD, cardiovascular diseases; CD40, cluster of differentiation 40; CCND1, Cyclin D1; CDKN1A, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A; Cr, chromium; CTBP1, C-terminal binding protein 1; CXCL12, C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12; DAZAP1, deleted in azoospermia associated protein 1; DEP, diesel exhaust particles; EGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor; eNOS, endothelial nitric oxide synthase; EVs, extracellular vesicles; FAK, focal adhesion kinase; FAS, fas cell surface death receptor; FOXO, forkhead box O; HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin; Hg, mercury; HLA-A, human leukocyte antigen A; HMGB, high-mobility group protein B; IFNAR2, interferon alpha receptor subunit 2; IL-6, interleukin-6; IRAK1, interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase 1; JAK/STAT, janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription; MAPK, mitogen-activated protein kinase; miRNAs, microRNAs; MVs, microvesicles; NCDs, noncommunicable diseases; NFAT, nuclear factor of activated T cells; NFkB, nuclear factor kappa B; NRF2, nuclear factor, erythroid-derived 2; NRG3, neuregulin 3; O3, ozone; OP, organophosphorus pesticides; PAHs, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons; Pb, lead; PCBs, polychlorinated biphenyls; PDCD4, programmed cell death 4; PDGFB, platelet derived growth factor subunit beta; PDGFR, platelet-derived growth factor receptor; PI3K/Akt, phosphoinositide-3-kinase/protein kinase B; PKA, protein kinase A; PM, particulate matter; PRKCQ, protein kinase C theta; PTEN, phosphatase and tensin homolog; SORT1, sortilin 1; TGFbeta, transforming growth factor-beta; TLR, toll-like receptor; TNF, tumor necrosis factors; TRAF1, tumor necrosis factors-receptor associated factors 1; TRAP, traffic-related air pollution; TREM1, triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1; TRIAP1, TP53 regulated inhibitor of apoptosis 1; VCAM-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1; VEGFA, vascular endothelial growth factor A; XRCC2, X-ray repair cross complementing 2; YBX2, Y-box-binding protein 2; ZEB1, zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 1; ZEB2, zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 2; 8-OH-dG, 8-hydroxy-guanine.
31991231 | Japanese flounder Paralichthys olivaceus interleukin 21 induces inflammatory response and plays a vital role in the immune defense against bacterial pathogen. Interleukin (IL)-21 is a pleiotropic cytokine and plays a vital role in immunity. In the current study, we examined the immune function of Japanese flounder Paralichthys olivaceus IL-21 (PoIL-21). PoIL-21 shares moderate (25.17%-46.25%) sequence identities with other teleost IL-21. PoIL-21 expression occurred in multiple tissues, especially intestine, and was regulated by bacterial infection in a time dependent manner. PoIL-21 was secreted by peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) upon LPS stimulation. Recombinant PoIL-21 (rPoIL-21) bound to a wide range of Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria and inhibited the growth of the fish bacterial pathogen Streptococcus iniae. rPoIL-21 also interacted with PBL, resulting in enhanced cell proliferation, ROS production, and expression of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, CD8beta, T-bet, PoIL-21, PoIL-21 receptor, and STAT. Consequently, the presence of rPoIL-21 significantly reduced bacterial infection in PBL. In vivo study showed that rPoIL-21 upregulated the expression of inflammatory cytokines and PoIL-21. Taken together, these results indicate that PoIL-21 is an inducible, secreted cytokine with a broad range of binding capacities and plays an important role in the regulation of anti-bacterial immunity.
23409078 | Eomesodermin of atlantic salmon: an important regulator of cytolytic gene and interferon gamma expression in spleen lymphocytes. Eomesodermin (Eomes), a T-bet homologue expressed in activated CD8+T cells was recently proposed to act as a master regulator of cytotoxic CD8+ T cell effector function and offers an exciting avenue for future exploration. Here, we have identified and characterized the full-length Atlantic salmon Eomes cDNA (2477 bp). Promoter analysis of the salmon Eomes showed the presence of important putative transcription binding sites like SP1, FOXO, Oct-1, SMAD, STAT, IRF, and Ets-1. The basal core region responsible for the promoter activity was located between base -199 and +59. Quantitative PCR analysis revealed that the Atlantic salmon Eomes was ubiquitously expressed in all the tissues studied but strongly expressed in the ovary, spleen, brain, and the head kidney. Moreover, the involvement of Eomes in Atlantic salmon immune response and its relation with the cytolytic activity was demonstrated by investigating the early time dependent expression profile of Eomes and CD8alpha followed by high interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) and granzyme A expression during challenge with live Aeromonas salmonicida and Infectious Pancreatic Necrosis (IPN) virus. Therefore, we further analyzed the regulated expression and function of this transcription factor in spleen lymphocytes. Overexpression of Eomes induced IFN-gamma, and granzyme A expression but not perforin expression, whereas small interfering RNA (siRNA) mediated suppression of Eomes expression led to significantly reduced IFN-gamma production. Thus, Eomes may be critical in cytolytic gene expression and function in fish similar to mammals. Furthermore, IFN-alpha, and mitogens induced Eomes expression. Taken together, this is the first study on the promoter activity and regulatory role of Eomes in fish.
30451821 | Sumoylation of RORgammat regulates TH17 differentiation and thymocyte development. RORgammat controls the differentiation of TH17 cells, which are mediators of autoimmune conditions such as experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). RORgammat also regulates thymocyte development and lymph node genesis. Here we show that the function of RORgammat is regulated by its sumoylation. Loss of Sumo3, but not Sumo1, dampens TH17 differentiation and delays the progression of thymic CD8+ immature single-positive cells (ISPs). RORgammat is SUMO3-modified by E3 ligase PIAS4 at lysine 31 (K31), and the mutation of K31 to arginine in mice prevents RORgammat sumoylation, leading to impaired TH17 differentiation, resistance to TH17-mediated EAE, accumulation of thymic ISPs, and a lack of Peyer's patches. Mechanistically, sumoylation of RORgammat-K31 recruits histone acetyltransferase KAT2A, which stabilizes the binding of SRC1 to enhance RORgammat transcription factor activity. This study thus demonstrates that sumoylation is a critical mechanism for regulating RORgammat function, and reveals new drug targets for preventing TH17-mediated autoimmunity.
36527309 | Polyp characterization using deep learning and a publicly accessible polyp video database. OBJECTIVES: Convolutional neural networks (CNN) for computer-aided diagnosis of polyps are often trained using high-quality still images in a single chromoendoscopy imaging modality with sessile serrated lesions (SSLs) often excluded. This study developed a CNN from videos to classify polyps as adenomatous or nonadenomatous using standard narrow-band imaging (NBI) and NBI-near focus (NBI-NF) and created a publicly accessible polyp video database. METHODS: We trained a CNN with 16,832 high and moderate quality frames from 229 polyp videos (56 SSLs). It was evaluated with 222 polyp videos (36 SSLs) across two test-sets. Test-set I consists of 14,320 frames (157 polyps, 111 diminutive). Test-set II, which is publicly accessible, 3317 video frames (65 polyps, 41 diminutive), which was benchmarked with three expert and three nonexpert endoscopists. RESULTS: Sensitivity for adenoma characterization was 91.6% in test-set I and 89.7% in test-set II. Specificity was 91.9% and 88.5%. Sensitivity for diminutive polyps was 89.9% and 87.5%; specificity 90.5% and 88.2%. In NBI-NF, sensitivity was 89.4% and 89.5%, with a specificity of 94.7% and 83.3%. In NBI, sensitivity was 85.3% and 91.7%, with a specificity of 87.5% and 90.0%, respectively. The CNN achieved preservation and incorporation of valuable endoscopic innovations (PIVI)-1 and PIVI-2 thresholds for each test-set. In the benchmarking of test-set II, the CNN was significantly more accurate than nonexperts (13.8% difference [95% confidence interval 3.2-23.6], P = 0.01) with no significant difference with experts. CONCLUSIONS: A single CNN can differentiate adenomas from SSLs and hyperplastic polyps in both NBI and NBI-NF. A publicly accessible NBI polyp video database was created and benchmarked.
30201051 | TSC-associated neuropsychiatric disorders (TAND): findings from the TOSCA natural history study. BACKGROUND: Most evidence for TSC-associated neuropsychiatric disorders (TAND) to date have come from small studies and case reports, and very little is known about TAND in adults. We explored baseline TAND data from the large-scale international TOSCA natural history study to compare childhood and adult patterns, describe age-based patterns, and explore genotype-TAND correlations. RESULTS: The study enrolled 2216 eligible participants with TSC from 170 sites across 31 countries at the data cut-off for the third interim analysis (data cut-off date: September 30, 2015). The most common behavioural problems (reported in > 10% of participants) were overactivity, sleep difficulties, impulsivity, anxiety, mood swings, severe aggression, depressed mood, self-injury, and obsessions. Psychiatric disorders included autism spectrum disorder (ASD, 21.1%), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD, 19.1%), anxiety disorder (9.7%), and depressive disorder (6.1%). Intelligence quotient (IQ) scores were available for 885 participants. Of these, 44.4% had normal IQ, while mild, moderate, severe, and profound degrees of intellectual disability (ID) were observed in 28.1, 15.1, 9.3, and 3.1%, respectively. Academic difficulties were identified in 58.6% of participants, and neuropsychological deficits (performance <5th percentile) in 55.7%. Significantly higher rates of overactivity and impulsivity were observed in children and higher rates of anxiety, depressed mood, mood swings, obsessions, psychosis and hallucinations were observed in adults. Genotype-TAND correlations showed a higher frequency of self-injury, ASD, academic difficulties and neuropsychological deficits in TSC2. Those with no mutations identified (NMI) showed a mixed pattern of TAND manifestations. Children and those with TSC2 had significantly higher rates of intellectual disability, suggesting that age and genotype comparisons should be interpreted with caution. CONCLUSIONS: These results emphasize the magnitude of TAND in TSC and the importance of evaluating for neuropsychiatric comorbidity in all children and adults with TSC, across TSC1 and TSC2 genotypes, as well as in those with no mutations identified. However, the high rates of unreported or missing TAND data in this study underline the fact that, even in expert centres, TAND remains underdiagnosed and potentially undertreated.
29095668 | SUMO modification system facilitates the exchange of histone variant H2A.Z-2 at DNA damage sites. Histone exchange and histone post-translational modifications play important roles in the regulation of DNA metabolism, by re-organizing the chromatin configuration. We previously demonstrated that the histone variant H2A.Z-2 is rapidly exchanged at damaged sites after DNA double strand break induction in human cells. In yeast, the small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) modification of H2A.Z is involved in the DNA damage response. However, whether the SUMO modification regulates the exchange of human H2A.Z-2 at DNA damage sites remains unclear. Here, we show that H2A.Z-2 is SUMOylated in a damage-dependent manner, and the SUMOylation of H2A.Z-2 is suppressed by the depletion of the SUMO E3 ligase, PIAS4. Moreover, PIAS4 depletion represses the incorporation and eviction of H2A.Z-2 at damaged sites. These findings demonstrate that the PIAS4-mediated SUMOylation regulates the exchange of H2A.Z-2 at DNA damage sites.
35442061 | Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus nsp7 Inhibits Interferon-Induced JAK-STAT Signaling through Sequestering the Interaction between KPNA1 and STAT1. Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) is a highly pathogenic enteric coronavirus that causes high mortality in piglets. Interferon (IFN) responses are the primary defense mechanism against viral infection; however, viruses always evolve elaborate strategies to antagonize the antiviral action of IFN. Previous study showed that PEDV nonstructural protein 7 (nsp7), a component of the viral replicase polyprotein, can antagonize ploy(I:C)-induced type I IFN production. Here, we found that PEDV nsp7 also antagonized IFN-alpha-induced JAK-STAT signaling and the production of IFN-stimulated genes. PEDV nsp7 did not affect the protein and phosphorylation levels of JAK1, Tyk2, STAT1, and STAT2 or the formation of the interferon-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) complex. However, PEDV nsp7 prevented the nuclear translocation of STAT1 and STAT2. Mechanistically, PEDV nsp7 interacted with the DNA binding domain of STAT1/STAT2, which sequestered the interaction between karyopherin alpha1 (KPNA1) and STAT1, thereby blocking the nuclear transport of ISGF3. Collectively, these data reveal a new mechanism developed by PEDV to inhibit type I IFN signaling pathway. IMPORTANCE In recent years, an emerging porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) variant has gained attention because of serious outbreaks of piglet diarrhea in China and the United States. Coronavirus nonstructural protein 7 (nsp7) has been proposed to act with nsp8 as part of an RNA primase to generate RNA primers for viral RNA synthesis. However, accumulating evidence indicates that coronavirus nsp7 can also antagonize type I IFN production. Our present study extends previous findings and demonstrates that PEDV nsp7 also antagonizes IFN-alpha-induced IFN signaling by competing with KPNA1 for binding to STAT1, thereby enriching the immune regulation function of coronavirus nsp7.
20534857 | Selective induction of host genes by MVA-B, a candidate vaccine against HIV/AIDS. The aim of this study was to define the effects on antigen-presenting cells of the expression of HIV antigens from an attenuated poxvirus vector. We have analyzed the transcriptional changes in gene expression following infection of human immature monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DC) with recombinant modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) expressing the genes encoding the gp120 and Gag-Pol-Nef antigens of HIV type 1 clade B (referred to as MVA-B) versus parental MVA infection. Using microarray technology and real-time reverse transcription-PCR, we demonstrated that the HIV proteins induced the expression of cytokines, cytokine receptors, chemokines, chemokine receptors, and molecules involved in antigen uptake and processing, including major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes. Levels of mRNAs for interleukin-1, beta interferon, CCR8, and SCYA20 were higher after HIV antigen production. MVA-B infection also modulated the expression of antigen processing and presentation genes: the gene for MICA was upregulated, whereas those for HLA-DRA and HSPA5 were downregulated. Indeed, the increased expression of the gene for MICA, a glycoprotein related to major histocompatibility complex class I molecules, was shown to enhance the interaction between MVA-B-infected target cells and cytotoxic lymphocytes. The expression profiles of the genes for protein kinases such as JAK1 and IRAK2 were activated after HIV antigen expression. Several genes included in the JAK-STAT and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathways were regulated after HIV antigen expression. Our findings provide the first gene signatures in DC of a candidate MVA-B vaccine expressing four HIV antigens and identified the biological roles of some of the regulatory genes, like that for MICA, which will help in the design of more effective MVA-derived vaccines.
38339367 | The JAK-STAT Pathway as a Therapeutic Strategy in Cancer Patients with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Induced Colitis: A Narrative Review. Immunotherapy has emerged as a pivotal component in the treatment of various malignancies, encompassing lung, skin, gastrointestinal, and head and neck cancers. The foundation of this therapeutic approach lies in immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI). While ICIs have demonstrated remarkable efficacy in impeding the neoplastic progression of these tumours, their use may give rise to substantial toxicity, notably in the gastrointestinal domain, where ICI colitis constitutes a significant aspect. The optimal positioning of Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway inhibitors in the therapeutic management of ICI colitis remains unclear. Numerous reports have highlighted notable improvements in ICI colitis through the application of pan-JAK-STAT inhibitors, with tofacitinib, in particular, reporting evident clinical remission of colitis. The precise mechanism by which JAK-STAT inhibitors may impact the pathogenetic process of ICI colitis remains inadequately understood. However, there is speculation regarding their potential role in modulating memory resident CD8+ T lymphocytes. The elucidation of this mechanism requires further extensive and robust evidence, and ongoing JAK-STAT-based trials are anticipated to contribute valuable insights.
9455499 | Reactivity of twenty-two cytotoxic human monoclonal HLA antibodies towards soluble HLA class I in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (PRA-STAT). An ELISA, PRA-STAT was recently introduced for the detection of HLA class I specific antibodies of IgG isotype in patients' sera. We studied the antigenicity of the soluble HLA (sHLA) preparations that are used in this ELISA as the detection matrix, with the aid of a panel of complement binding human HLA monoclonal antibodies (HuMAbs). A total of 22 HuMAbs, including both IgG and IgM were used. CDC and PRA-STAT ELISA were in complete agreement on 9 of the mAbs tested, with 16 HLA-A and 16 HLA-B locus antigens or their splits identified identically on CDC and PRA-STAT. In 7 of the remaining 13 HuMAbs, there was a difference of one antigen in the specificity pattern of the two techniques three times a specificity call not made by CDC, and four times a call not made by PRA-STAT. For the remaining 6 HuMAbs the differences involve 2 antigens (4 HuMAbs), and 3 or 4 antigens (1 HuMAb each). This study shows the validity of PRA-STAT for detection of HLA-class I antibodies, irrespective of isotype, in serum. The immunological integrity of the sHLA preparations used in PRA-STAT is also confirmed, albeit with some slight discrepancies in antibody specificity seen between PRA-STAT and CDC.
36195449 | Morphologic and Molecular Patterns of Polymyositis With Mitochondrial Pathology and Inclusion Body Myositis. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To characterize morphological and molecular underpinnings of polymyositis with mitochondrial pathology (PM-Mito) in comparison with sporadic inclusion body myositis (IBM) and to define common and distinct pathophysiologic features with a focus on interferon (IFN)-associated inflammation and T-cell response. METHODS: In this cross-sectional study, skeletal muscle biopsy samples and clinical and laboratory data from patients with PM-Mito and IBM were analyzed at Charite university hospital in Berlin, Germany. All available PM-Mito biopsy samples, an equal number of randomly selected IBM biopsy samples, and randomly selected nondiseased controls (NDCs) were included in the study. Biopsy samples were studied by histopathology, immunohistochemistry, and quantitative PCR (qPCR) and compared with biopsies derived from NDCs. Primary outcomes included cell counts for immunohistochemistry and gene expression (fold-change values compared with those in NDCs) for qPCR. RESULTS: Twenty-five skeletal muscle biopsy samples of patients with PM-Mito and IBM were included in the study and compared with 5 biopsy samples from NDCs. PM-Mito and IBM qualitatively harbored a strikingly similar molecular signature and shared important histopathologic features. Expression of IFN-induced guanylate-binding protein (GBP)6 and T-cell function-related KLRG1 distinguished IBM from PM-Mito biopsies with IBM patients showing significantly higher expression of GBP6 and KLRG1. Cryptic exon expression was detected in both patient groups with IBM patients showing higher expression levels. Skeletal muscle biopsies from IBM patients showed significantly more GBP6+ cells and KLRG1+ lymphocytes in comparison with biopsies from patients with PM-Mito. CD45+, CD68+, CD57+, PD1+, and CD8+ cytotoxic T cells were also significantly more abundant in patients with IBM. Clinically, patients with PM-Mito presented with a spectrum of muscle-related symptoms including myalgia, proximal paraparesis, proximal tetraparesis, and incomplete IBM-like patterns. Thirteen of 14 (93%) patients with PM-Mito for whom clinical follow-up was available later developed clinically defined IBM. Notably, 2 follow-up biopsies obtained 5 and 7 years after the first ones were available in this cohort, both showing histopathologic progress to net IBM including GBP6 and KLRG1 upregulation. DISCUSSION: Our combined data suggest that specific IFN-mediated inflammation plays a key role in both IBM and PM-Mito. GBP6 was identified as a new molecule of type II IFN-induced inflammation distinguishing IBM from PM-Mito. Skeletal muscles from both groups harbor dysfunctional T cells of similar type, albeit in different quantity. T-cell senescence exemplified by KLRG1 positivity does not play a significant role in PM-Mito. Based on these findings, we propose to include PM-Mito in the spectrum of IBM (IBM-spectrum disease [IBM-SD]) as a possible early form of this disease. The establishment of IBM-SD as a larger entity could potentially have a significant effect on the design of trials and therapeutic interventions.
38132229 | An Intra-Individual Comparison of Low-keV Photon-Counting CT versus Energy-Integrating-Detector CT Angiography of the Aorta. This retrospective study aims to provide an intra-individual comparison of aortic CT angiographies (CTAs) using first-generation photon-counting-detector CT (PCD-CT) and third-generation energy-integrating-detector CT (EID-CT). High-pitch CTAs were performed with both scanners and equal contrast-agent protocols. EID-CT employed automatic tube voltage selection (90/100 kVp) with reference tube current of 434/350 mAs, whereas multi-energy PCD-CT scans were generated with fixed tube voltage (120 kVp), image quality level of 64, and reconstructed as 55 keV monoenergetic images. For image quality assessment, contrast-to-noise ratios (CNRs) were calculated, and subjective evaluation (overall quality, luminal contrast, vessel sharpness, blooming, and beam hardening) was performed independently by three radiologists. Fifty-seven patients (12 women, 45 men) were included with a median interval between examinations of 12.7 months (interquartile range 11.1 months). Using manufacturer-recommended scan protocols resulted in a substantially lower radiation dose in PCD-CT (size-specific dose estimate: 4.88 +- 0.48 versus 6.28 +- 0.50 mGy, p < 0.001), while CNR was approximately 50% higher (41.11 +- 8.68 versus 27.05 +- 6.73, p < 0.001). Overall image quality and luminal contrast were deemed superior in PCD-CT (p < 0.001). Notably, EID-CT allowed for comparable vessel sharpness (p = 0.439) and less pronounced blooming and beam hardening (p < 0.001). Inter-rater agreement was good to excellent (0.58-0.87). Concluding, aortic PCD-CTAs facilitate increased image quality with significantly lower radiation dose compared to EID-CTAs.
36216795 | A selective and orally bioavailable VHL-recruiting PROTAC achieves SMARCA2 degradation in vivo. Targeted protein degradation offers an alternative modality to classical inhibition and holds the promise of addressing previously undruggable targets to provide novel therapeutic options for patients. Heterobifunctional molecules co-recruit a target protein and an E3 ligase, resulting in ubiquitylation and proteosome-dependent degradation of the target. In the clinic, the oral route of administration is the option of choice but has only been achieved so far by CRBN- recruiting bifunctional degrader molecules. We aimed to achieve orally bioavailable molecules that selectively degrade the BAF Chromatin Remodelling complex ATPase SMARCA2 over its closely related paralogue SMARCA4, to allow in vivo evaluation of the synthetic lethality concept of SMARCA2 dependency in SMARCA4-deficient cancers. Here we outline structure- and property-guided approaches that led to orally bioavailable VHL-recruiting degraders. Our tool compound, ACBI2, shows selective degradation of SMARCA2 over SMARCA4 in ex vivo human whole blood assays and in vivo efficacy in SMARCA4-deficient cancer models. This study demonstrates the feasibility for broadening the E3 ligase and physicochemical space that can be utilised for achieving oral efficacy with bifunctional molecules.
35395970 | [Expression Level of SOCS3 in Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Cells Affects the Cytotoxicity of NK Cells]. OBJECTIVE: To detect the expression level of suppressors of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and to observe the effect of over-expresson of SOCS3 in Jurkat cells on the cytotoxicity of NK cells. METHODS: The expression levels of SOCS3 mRNA in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 20 children with ALL and 20 healthy children (normal control group) were detected by RT-PCR. The peripheral blood NK cells from healthy subjects were selected by immunomagnetic technique, and the purity was detected by flow cytometry. SOCS3 was overexpressed in Jurkat cells infected with lentivirus vector, and SOCS3 mRNA expression was detected by RT-PCR after lentivirus infection. The NK cells were co-cultured with the infected Jurkat, and LDH release method was used to detect the cytotoxicity of NK cells on the infected Jurkat cells. The concentrations of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma were determined by ELISA. The expression of NKG2D ligands MICA and MICB on the surface of Jurkat cells were detected by flow cytometry. Western blot was used to detect the effect of SOCS3 overexpression on STAT3 phosphorylation in Jurkat cells. RESULTS: Compared with the control group, the mRNA expression of SOCS3 in the peripheral blood mononucleated cells of ALL children was significantly decreased. The purity of NK cells isolated by flow cytometry could reach more than 70%. The expression of SOCS3 mRNA in Jurkat cells increased significantly after lentivirus infection. Overexpression of SOCS3 in Jurkat cells significantly promoted the killing ability of NK cells and up-regulated the secretion of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma from NK cells. The results of flow cytometry showed that the expression of NKG2D ligands MICA and MICB on Jurkat cells increased significantly after SOCS3 overexpression. Western blot results showed that overexpression of SOCS3 significantly reduced the phosphorylation level of STAT3 protein in Jurkat cells. CONCLUSION: SOCS3 mRNA expression was significantly decreased in ALL patients, and overexpression of SOCS3 may up-regulate the expression of MICA and MICB of NKG2D ligands on Jurkat cell surface through negative regulation of JAK/STAT signaling pathway, thereby promoting the cytotoxic function of NK cells.
33588030 | Uncertainty analysis of MR-PET image registration for precision neuro-PET imaging. Accurate regional brain quantitative PET measurements, particularly when using partial volume correction, rely on robust image registration between PET and MR images. We argue here that the precision, and hence the uncertainty, of MR-PET image registration is mainly driven by the registration implementation and the quality of PET images due to their lower resolution and higher noise compared to the structural MR images. We propose a dedicated uncertainty analysis for quantifying the precision of MR-PET registration, centred around the bootstrap resampling of PET list-mode events to generate multiple PET image realisations with different noise (count) levels. The effects of PET image reconstruction parameters, such as the use of attenuation and scatter corrections and different number of iterations, on the precision and accuracy of MR-PET registration were investigated. In addition, the performance of four software packages with their default settings for rigid inter-modality image registration were considered: NiftyReg, Vinci, FSL and SPM. Four distinct PET image distributions made of two early time frames (similar to cortical FDG) and two late frames using two amyloid PET dynamic acquisitions of one amyloid positive and one amyloid negative participants were investigated. For the investigated four PET frames, the biggest impact on the uncertainty was observed between registration software packages (up to 10-fold difference in precision) followed by the reconstruction parameters. On average, the lowest uncertainty for different PET frames and brain regions was observed with SPM and two iterations of fully quantitative image reconstruction. The observed uncertainty for the varying PET count-level (from 5% to 60%) was slightly lower than for the reconstruction parameters. We also observed that the registration uncertainty in quantitative PET analysis depends on amyloid status of the considered PET frames, with increased uncertainty (up to three times) when using post-reconstruction partial volume correction. This analysis is applicable for PET data obtained from either PET/MR or PET/CT scanners.
21966340 | Adult mesenchymal stem cells and cell surface characterization - a systematic review of the literature. Human adult mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) were first identified by Friedenstein et al. when observing a group of cells that developed into fibroblastic colony forming cells (CFU-F). Ever since, the therapeutic uses and clinical applications of these cells have increased research and interest in this field. MSCs have the potential to be used in tissue engineering, gene therapy, transplants and tissue injuries. However, identifying these cells can be a challenge. Moreover, there are no articles bringing together and summarizing the cell surface markers of MSCs in adults. The purpose of this study is to summarize all the available information about the cell surface characterization of adult human MSCs by identifying and evaluating all the published literature in this field. We have found that the most commonly reported positive markers are CD105, CD90, CD44, CD73, CD29, CD13, CD34, CD146, CD106, CD54 and CD166. The most frequently reported negative markers are CD34, CD14, CD45, CD11b, CD49d, CD106, CD10 and CD31. A number of other cell surface markers including STRO-1, SH2, SH3, SH4, HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DR, HLA-I, DP, EMA, DQ (MHC Class II), CDIO5, Oct 4, Oct 4A, Nanog, Sox-2, TERT, Stat-3, fibroblast surface antigen, smooth muscle alpha-actin, vimentin, integrin subunits alpha4, alpha5, beta1, integrins alphavbeta3 and alphavbeta5 and ICAM-1 have also been reported. Nevertheless, there is great discrepancy and inconsistency concerning the information available on the cell surface profile of adult MSCs and we suggest that further research is needed in this field to overcome the problem.
30031388 | delta-Tocotrienol feeding modulates gene expression of EIF2, mTOR, protein ubiquitination through multiple-signaling pathways in chronic hepatitis C patients. BACKGROUND: delta-Tocotrienol is a naturally occurring proteasome inhibitor, which has the capacity to inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis in several cancer cells obtained from several organs of humans, and other cancer cell lines. Moreover, results of plasma total mRNAs after delta-tocotrienol feeding to hepatitis C patients revealed significant inhibition in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, VCAM1, proteasome subunits) and induction in the expression of ICAM1 and IFN-gamma after post-treatment. This down-regulation of proteasome subunits leads to autophagy, apoptosis of immune cells and several genes. The present study describes RNA-sequence analysis of plasma total mRNAs obtained from delta-tocotrienol treatment of hepatitis C patients on gene expression regulated by proteasome. METHODS: Pooled specimens of plasma total mRNAs of pre-dose versus post-dose of delta-tocotrienol treatment of hepatitis C patients were submitted to RNA-sequence analyses. The data based on > 1 and 8-fold expression changes of 2136 genes were uploaded into \Ingenuity Pathway Analyses (IPA)\ for core analysis, which describes possible canonical pathways, upstream regulators, diseases and functional metabolic networks. RESULTS: The IPA of \molecules\ indicated fold change in gene expression of 953 molecules, which covered several categories of biological biomarkers. Out of these, gene expression of 220 related to present study, 12 were up-regulated, and 208 down-regulated after delta-tocotrienol treatment. The gene expression of transcription regulators (ceramide synthase 3 and Mohawk homeobox) were up-regulated, and gene expression of 208 molecules were down-regulated, involved in several biological functions (HSP90AB1, PSMC3, CYB5R4, NDUFB1, CYP2R1, TNFRF1B, VEGFA, GPR65, PIAS1, SFPQ, GPS2, EIF3F, GTPBP8, EIF4A1, HSPA14, TLR8, TUSSC2). IPA of \causal network\ indicated gene regulators (676), in which 76 down-regulated (26 s proteasomes, interleukin cytokines, and PPAR-ligand-PPA-Retinoic acid-RXRalpha, PPARgamma-ligand-PPARgamma-Retinoic acid-RARalpha, IL-21, IL-23) with significant P-values. The IPA of \diseases and functions\ regulators (85) were involved with cAMP, STAT2, 26S proteasome, CSF1, IFNgamma, LDL, TGFA, and microRNA-155-5p, miR-223, miR-21-5p. The IPA of \upstream analysis\ (934) showed 57 up-regulated (mainly 38 microRNAs) and 64 gene regulators were down-regulated (IL-2, IL-5, IL-6, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17, IL-18, IL-21, IL-24, IL-27, IL-32), interferon beta-1a, interferon gamma, TNF-alpha, STAT2, NOX1, prostaglandin J2, NF-kappaB, 1kappaB, TCF3, and also miRNA-15, miRNA-124, miRNA-218-5P with significant activation of Z-Score (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: This is first report describing RNA-sequence analysis of delta-tocotrienol treated plasma total mRNAs obtained from chronic hepatitis C patients, that acts via multiple-signaling pathways without any side-effects. These studies may lead to development of novel classes of drugs for treatment of chronic hepatitis C patients.
23349666 | Phosphorylation of STAT-1 serine 727 is prolonged in HLA-B27-expressing human monocytic cells. A tissue antigen, HLA-B27, is strongly associated with a group of rheumatic diseases called spondyloarthritides. Despite the intensive research, the exact role of HLA-B27 in the pathogenesis of these diseases is still unclear. Here we studied whether HLA-B27 modulates the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT-1) serine 727 residue and the localization of STAT-1 in Salmonella-infected human monocytic cells. In addition, we studied the role of signaling molecule double-stranded RNA activated protein kinase (PKR) in these modulatory effects. U937 human monocytic cell transfectants stably expressing wild type HLA-B27 or mutated HLA-B27 heavy chains with amino acid substitutions in the B pocket were prepared. The PMA-differentiated cells were infected with S. enteritidis. Western blotting was used to detect the phosphorylation of STAT-1, and to visualize the localization of STAT-1 in the cells confocal microscopy was used. Specific inhibitors were employed to study the role of PKR in STAT-1 phosphorylation. We discovered that the phosphorylation of STAT-1 serine 727 is prolonged in cells expressing misfolding forms of HLA-B27 after S. enteritidis infection, whereas in mock cells and in cells expressing mutated, non-misfolding HLA-B27 the phosphorylation of serine 727 is transient. Interestingly, STAT-1 serine 727 phosphorylation is partly dependent on PKR. In addition, more STAT-1 is localized in the nucleus of HLA-B27-expressing cells, even before an external trigger, when compared to mock cells. In conclusion, our results show that the phosphorylation of STAT-1 serine 727 residue is prolonged in HLA-B27-expressing monocyte-macrophage U937 cells after bacterial infection. This is of interest since the phosphorylation of serine 727 on STAT-1 is suggested to contribute to macrophage activation and promote inflammatory responses. Therefore, our results provide a mechanism which explains how the expression of an HLA-B27 molecule can impact the course of Salmonella infection and reactive arthritis.
31177636 | Decreased interferon-gamma production by NK cells from KIR haplotype B carriers in hepatitis C virus infection. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Different population genetics studies showed that interactions between killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIR) and HLA play a role in viral disease outcome, but functional correlates are missing. Building upon our previous work pointing to a regulatory role for KIR3DL1/DS1 in hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, we analysed whether its expression may affect natural killer (NK) cell function in the presence or absence of its principal ligand HLA-Bw4 in KIR haplotype A and B carriers, which are characterized by a different representation of activating and inhibitory KIRs. METHODS: We performed KIR and HLA class I genotypic analysis in 54 healthy donors (HD) and 50 HCV+ subjects and examined NK cell cytokine secretion and degranulation in the context of KIR3DL1-HLA-Bw4 match stratified by KIR haplotype. RESULTS: KIR3DL1-HLA-Bw4 match induced functional NK cell modulation, reflected by reduced interferon (IFN)gamma production in haplotype B HCV+ patients compared to HD. This functional impairment could be ascribed to the KIR3DS1 negative HCV-infected patient population, whose NK cells also showed a significantly decreased proportion of KIR3DL1. Haplotype A HCV-infected patients showed increased NK cell degranulation compared with HD in the absence of KIR-HLA-Bw4 match and this activity was associated with increased phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1. CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that NK cells from HCV+ patients have an unbalanced ability to produce IFNgamma and to kill target cells in haplotype A and B carriers, suggesting the existence of complex functional differences governed by KIR-HLA interaction, particularly on KIR3DL1 expressing NK cells.
37406192 | From contigs towards chromosomes: automatic improvement of long read assemblies (ILRA). Recent advances in long read technologies not only enable large consortia to aim to sequence all eukaryotes on Earth, but they also allow individual laboratories to sequence their species of interest with relatively low investment. Long read technologies embody the promise of overcoming scaffolding problems associated with repeats and low complexity sequences, but the number of contigs often far exceeds the number of chromosomes and they may contain many insertion and deletion errors around homopolymer tracts. To overcome these issues, we have implemented the ILRA pipeline to correct long read-based assemblies. Contigs are first reordered, renamed, merged, circularized, or filtered if erroneous or contaminated. Illumina short reads are used subsequently to correct homopolymer errors. We successfully tested our approach by improving the genome sequences of Homo sapiens, Trypanosoma brucei, and Leptosphaeria spp., and by generating four novel Plasmodium falciparum assemblies from field samples. We found that correcting homopolymer tracts reduced the number of genes incorrectly annotated as pseudogenes, but an iterative approach seems to be required to correct more sequencing errors. In summary, we describe and benchmark the performance of our new tool, which improved the quality of novel long read assemblies up to 1 Gbp. The pipeline is available at GitHub: https://github.com/ThomasDOtto/ILRA.
31173242 | Effect of platinum-based chemotherapy on the expression of natural killer group 2 member D ligands, programmed cell death-1 ligand 1 and HLA class I in non-small cell lung cancer. Platinum-based chemotherapy improves the clinical outcome of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), although tumors often become refractory after treatment. Immunohistochemical staining was performed to investigate the expression levels of natural killer group 2 member D (NKG2D) ligands, programmed cell death-1 ligand 1 (PD-L1), and human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-class I in tissue samples collected from 10 NSCLC patients who received platinum-based chemotherapy followed by surgery. Additionally, the effects of repeated exposure to cisplatin on the expression of NKG2D ligands, PD-L1 and HLA-class I in NSCLC cell lines were assessed by flow cytometry. We found upregulation of PD-L1 or downregulation of NKG2D ligands in 5 of the 10 NSCLC cases, leading to the attenuation of NK cell-mediated tumor cell death. Moreover, upregulation of PD-L1 or downregulation of HLA-class I were observed in 6 cases, supporting tumor escape from T cell immunity. An in vitro assay showed that repeated exposure to cisplatin enhanced the expression of PD-L1 and NKG2D ligands in NSCLC cell lines. Notably, interferon gamma (IFNgamma) stimuli enhanced PD-L1 expression while attenuated that of NKG2D ligands in NSCLC cell lines, which mimicked the results of the clinical study. Both IFNgamma-induced upregulation of PD-L1 and downregulation of NKG2D ligands were blocked by the JAK-STAT inhibitor tofacitinib. These findings suggested that the expression levels of NKG2D ligands, PD-L1 and HLA-class I in residual tumors after chemotherapy were affected by host immunity, resulting in an immunoescape phenotype. Blocking IFNgamma-induced tumor immunoescape by a JAK-STAT inhibitor might be a promising treatment strategy for NSCLC.
38317912 | Erzhi pills reverse PD-L1-mediated immunosuppression in melanoma microenvironment. Background: Cancer immunotherapies aimed at activating immune system, especially by blocking immune checkpoints, have become a successful modality for treating patients with advanced cancers. However, its clinical practice is frequently conceded by high outcomes, low initial response rates and severe side effects. New strategies are necessary to complement and advance this biological therapy. Erzhi Pills (EZP) have diverse pharmaceutical effects including immune regulation, anti-tumor and anti-senescence. We hypothesized that EZP could exert its antitumor effect through immunomodulation. Purpose: The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of EZP on anti-tumor activities, and define its molecular mechanisms. Methods: By applying melanoma model with high immune infiltrates, we determined the anti-melanoma effect of EZP. To identify whether this effect was mediated by direct targeting tumor cells, cell viability and apoptosis were examined in vitro. Network pharmacology analysis was used to predict the potential mechanisms of EZP for melanoma via immune response. Flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry (IHC), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and crystal violet (CV) experiments were performed to detect T cell infiltrations and functions mediated by EZP. The mechanism of EZP was further investigated by western blotting both in vivo and in vitro. Results: The administration of EZP significantly inhibited tumor weight and volume. EZP extract could only slightly reduce cell viability and induce melanoma apoptosis. Network pharmacology analysis predicted that JAK-STAT signaling pathway and T cell receptor signaling pathway might be involved during EZP treatment. Flow cytometry and IHC analyses showed that EZP increased the number of CD4+ T cells and enhanced the function of CD8+ T cells. In co-culture experiments, EZP elevated killing ability of T cells. Western blotting showed that EZP treatment reduced PD-L1 signaling pathway. Conclusion: These findings indicated that EZP exerted anti-melanoma effects by inducing apoptosis and blocking PD-L1 to activate T cells. EZP might represent a promising candidate drug for cancer immunotherapies.
24201470 | A corrected formulation for marginal inference derived from two-part mixed models for longitudinal semi-continuous data. For semi-continuous data which are a mixture of true zeros and continuously distributed positive values, the use of two-part mixed models provides a convenient modelling framework. However, deriving population-averaged (marginal) effects from such models is not always straightforward. Su et al. presented a model that provided convenient estimation of marginal effects for the logistic component of the two-part model but the specification of marginal effects for the continuous part of the model presented in that paper was based on an incorrect formulation. We present a corrected formulation and additionally explore the use of the two-part model for inferences on the overall marginal mean, which may be of more practical relevance in our application and more generally.
29061306 | SUMOylation represses the transcriptional activity of the Unfolded Protein Response transducer ATF6. The Unfolded Protein Response (UPR) is a cascade of intracellular stress signaling from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) that protect the cells from the stress caused by accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER. Activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6) is one of primary UPR transducers that remodels the stressed cells through transcriptional regulation. Although the activation mechanism and biological roles of ATF6 have been well studied, the understanding of the negative or feedback regulation of ATF6 remains elusive. In this report, we showed that ATF6 protein can be modified by small ubiquitin-like modification (SUMOylation) and that the transcriptional activity of ATF6 is negatively regulated by SUMOylation. We identified that SUMOylation of ATF6 is significantly increased in the cells expressing misfolded cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) encoded by the mutant human CFTR gene (dF508CFTR). Further analyses revealed two highly conserved SUMOylation motifs within the trans-activation domain of ATF6 protein of human, mouse, or rat specie. The human ATF6 protein can be SUMOylated mediated through the small ubiquitin-like modifier protein 1 (SUMO-1) and E3 SUMO-protein ligase 1 (PIAS1) at the conserved sumoylation residue Lys149 that is located at the N-terminal of the activated form of ATF6 protein. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) analysis confirmed that the activated ATF6 protein can be SUMOylated and that the ATF6 sumoylation occurs in the nuclei. Moreover, trans-activation reporter analysis demonstrated that SUMOylation of the ATF6 protein at the conserved residue Lys149 represses the transcriptional activity of ATF6. In summary, our study revealed a negative regulation of the UPR transducer ATF6 through post-translational SUMOylation. The information from this study will not only increase our understanding of the fine-tuning regulation of the UPR signaling but will also be informative to the modulation of the UPR for therapeutic benefits.
38375882 | Mobile health (m-health) smartphone interventions for adolescents and adults with overweight or obesity. BACKGROUND: Obesity is considered to be a risk factor for various diseases, and its incidence has tripled worldwide since 1975. In addition to potentially being at risk for adverse health outcomes, people with overweight or obesity are often stigmatised. Behaviour change interventions are increasingly delivered as mobile health (m-health) interventions, using smartphone apps and wearables. They are believed to support healthy behaviours at the individual level in a low-threshold manner. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of integrated smartphone applications for adolescents and adults with overweight or obesity. SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and LILACS, as well as the trials registers ClinicalTrials.gov and World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform on 2 October 2023 (date of last search for all databases). We placed no restrictions on the language of publication. SELECTION CRITERIA: Participants were adolescents and adults with overweight or obesity. Eligible interventions were integrated smartphone apps using at least two behaviour change techniques. The intervention could target physical activity, cardiorespiratory fitness, weight loss, healthy diet, or self-efficacy. Comparators included no or minimal intervention (NMI), a different smartphone app, personal coaching, or usual care. Eligible studies were randomised controlled trials of any duration with a follow-up of at least three months. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standard Cochrane methodology and the RoB 2 tool. Important outcomes were physical activity, body mass index (BMI) and weight, health-related quality of life, self-efficacy, well-being, change in dietary behaviour, and adverse events. We focused on presenting studies with medium- (6 to < 12 months) and long-term (>= 12 months) outcomes in our summary of findings table, following recommendations in the core outcome set for behavioural weight management interventions. MAIN RESULTS: We included 18 studies with 2703 participants. Interventions lasted from 2 to 24 months. The mean BMI in adults ranged from 27 to 50, and the median BMI z-score in adolescents ranged from 2.2 to 2.5. Smartphone app versus no or minimal intervention Thirteen studies compared a smartphone app versus NMI in adults; no studies were available for adolescents. The comparator comprised minimal health advice, handouts, food diaries, smartphone apps unrelated to weight loss, and waiting list. Measures of physical activity: at 12 months' follow-up, a smartphone app compared to NMI probably reduces moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) slightly (mean difference (MD) -28.9 min/week (95% confidence interval (CI) -85.9 to 28; 1 study, 650 participants; moderate-certainty evidence)). We are very uncertain about the results of estimated energy expenditure and cardiorespiratory fitness at eight months' follow-up. A smartphone app compared with NMI probably results in little to no difference in changes in total activity time at 12 months' follow-up and leisure time physical activity at 24 months' follow-up. Anthropometric measures: a smartphone app compared with NMI may reduce BMI (MD of BMI change -2.6 kg/m2, 95% CI -6 to 0.8; 2 studies, 146 participants; very low-certainty evidence) at six to eight months' follow-up, but the evidence is very uncertain. At 12 months' follow-up, a smartphone app probably resulted in little to no difference in BMI change (MD -0.1 kg/m2, 95% CI -0.4 to 0.3; 1 study; 650 participants; moderate-certainty evidence). A smartphone app compared with NMI may result in little to no difference in body weight change (MD -2.5 kg, 95% CI -6.8 to 1.7; 3 studies, 1044 participants; low-certainty evidence) at 12 months' follow-up. At 24 months' follow-up, a smartphone app probably resulted in little to no difference in body weight change (MD 0.7 kg, 95% CI -1.2 to 2.6; 1 study, 245 participants; moderate-certainty evidence). A smartphone app compared with NMI may result in little to no difference in self-efficacy for a physical activity score at eight months' follow-up, but the results are very uncertain. A smartphone app probably results in little to no difference in quality of life and well-being at 12 months (moderate-certainty evidence) and in little to no difference in various measures used to inform dietary behaviour at 12 and 24 months' follow-up. We are very uncertain about adverse events, which were only reported narratively in two studies (very low-certainty evidence). Smartphone app versus another smartphone app Two studies compared different versions of the same app in adults, showing no or minimal differences in outcomes. One study in adults compared two different apps (calorie counting versus ketogenic diet) and suggested a slight reduction in body weight at six months in favour of the ketogenic diet app. No studies were available for adolescents. Smartphone app versus personal coaching Only one study compared a smartphone app with personal coaching in adults, presenting data at three months. Two studies compared these interventions in adolescents. A smartphone app resulted in little to no difference in BMI z-score compared to personal coaching at six months' follow-up (MD 0, 95% CI -0.2 to 0.2; 1 study; 107 participants). Smartphone app versus usual care Only one study compared an app with usual care in adults but only reported data at three months on participant satisfaction. No studies were available for adolescents. We identified 34 ongoing studies. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The available evidence is limited and does not demonstrate a clear benefit of smartphone applications as interventions for adolescents or adults with overweight or obesity. While the number of studies is growing, the evidence remains incomplete due to the high variability of the apps' features, content and components, which complicates direct comparisons and assessment of their effectiveness. Comparisons with either no or minimal intervention or personal coaching show minor effects, which are mostly not clinically significant. Minimal data for adolescents also warrants further research. Evidence is also scarce for low- and middle-income countries as well as for people with different socio-economic and cultural backgrounds. The 34 ongoing studies suggest sustained interest in the topic, with new evidence expected to emerge within the next two years. In practice, clinicians and healthcare practitioners should carefully consider the potential benefits, limitations, and evolving research when recommending smartphone apps to adolescents and adults with overweight or obesity.
34493736 | Heterogeneity of prodromal Parkinson symptoms in siblings of Parkinson disease patients. A prodromal phase of Parkinson's disease (PD) may precede motor manifestations by decades. PD patients' siblings are at higher risk for PD, but the prevalence and distribution of prodromal symptoms are unknown. The study objectives were (1) to assess motor and non-motor features estimating prodromal PD probability in PD siblings recruited within the European PROPAG-AGEING project; (2) to compare motor and non-motor symptoms to the well-established DeNoPa cohort. 340 PD siblings from three sites (Bologna, Seville, Kassel/Goettingen) underwent clinical and neurological evaluations of PD markers. The German part of the cohort was compared with German de novo PD patients (dnPDs) and healthy controls (CTRs) from DeNoPa. Fifteen (4.4%) siblings presented with subtle signs of motor impairment, with MDS-UPDRS-III scores not clinically different from CTRs. Symptoms of orthostatic hypotension were present in 47 siblings (13.8%), no different to CTRs (p = 0.072). No differences were found for olfaction and overall cognition; German-siblings performed worse than CTRs in visuospatial-executive and language tasks. 3/147 siblings had video-polysomnography-confirmed REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), none was positive on the RBD Screening Questionnaire. 173/300 siblings had <1% probability of having prodromal PD; 100 between 1 and 10%, 26 siblings between 10 and 80%, one fulfilled the criteria for prodromal PD. According to the current analysis, we cannot confirm the increased risk of PD siblings for prodromal PD. Siblings showed a heterogeneous distribution of prodromal PD markers and probability. Additional parameters, including strong disease markers, should be investigated to verify if these results depend on validity and sensitivity of prodromal PD criteria, or if siblings' risk is not elevated.
9796060 | Delayed progression of murine AIDS in C57BL/6 mice pre-immunized with a highly antigenic 10-mer peptide encoded by the murine AIDS defective virus gag p12 gene. C57BL/6 (B6) mice were immunized with a highly antigenic 10-mer peptide (P12-10), which is encoded by the murine AIDS (MAIDS) defective virus gag p12 gene, emulsified in incomplete Freund's adjuvant (ICFA). One week later, the mice were inoculated with the MAIDS virus to see if the immunization affects progression of MAIDS. It was demonstrated that the immunization significantly delayed progression of MAIDS, although it failed to induce appreciable cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) responses against the P12-10 antigen. In contrast, immunization of B6 mice with the P12-10 coupled with liposome induced substantial CTL responses but failed to protect the mice against MAIDS development. This segregation between CTL activity and in vivo protection efficacy might be worth considering when we exploit vaccines for augmenting cellular immunity mediated by CD8+ T cells.
29622578 | Relationship between islet autoantibody status and the clinical characteristics of children and adults with incident type 1 diabetes in a UK cohort. OBJECTIVES: To describe the characteristics of children and adults with incident type 1 diabetes in contemporary, multiethnic UK, focusing on differences between the islet autoantibody negative and positive. DESIGN: Observational cohort study. SETTING: 146 mainly secondary care centres across England and Wales. PARTICIPANTS: 3312 people aged >=5 years were recruited within 6 months of a clinical diagnosis of type 1 diabetes via the National Institute for Health Research Clinical Research Network. 3021 were of white European ethnicity and 291 (9%) were non-white. There was a small male predominance (57%). Young people <17 years comprised 59%. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Autoantibody status and characteristics at presentation. RESULTS: The majority presented with classical osmotic symptoms, weight loss and fatigue. Ketoacidosis was common (42%), especially in adults, and irrespective of ethnicity. 35% were overweight or obese. Of the 1778 participants who donated a blood sample, 85% were positive for one or more autoantibodies against glutamate decarboxylase, islet antigen-2 and zinc transporter 8. Presenting symptoms were similar in the autoantibody-positive and autoantibody-negative participants, as was the frequency of ketoacidosis (43%vs40%, P=0.3). Autoantibody positivity was less common with increasing age (P=0.0001), in males compared with females (82%vs90%, P<0.0001) and in people of non-white compared with white ethnicity (73%vs86%, P<0.0001). Body mass index was higher in autoantibody-negative adults than autoantibody-positive adults (median, IQR 25.5, 23.1-29.2vs23.9, 21.4-26.7 kg/m2; P=0.0001). Autoantibody-negative participants were more likely to have a parent with diabetes (28%vs16%, P<0.0001) and less likely to have another autoimmune disease (4%vs8%, P=0.01). CONCLUSIONS: Most people assigned a diagnosis of type 1 diabetes presented with classical clinical features and islet autoantibodies. Although indistinguishable at an individual level, autoantibody-negative participants as a group demonstrated features more typically associated with other diabetes subtypes. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN66496918; Pre-results.
34584159 | Peptide-HLA-based immunotherapeutics platforms for direct modulation of antigen-specific T cells. Targeted pharmacologic activation of antigen-specific (AgS) T cells may bypass limitations inherent in current T cell-based cancer therapies. We describe two immunotherapeutics platforms for selective delivery of costimulatory ligands and peptide-HLA (pHLA) to AgS T cells. We engineered and deployed on these platforms an affinity-attenuated variant of interleukin-2, which selectively expands oligoclonal and polyfunctional AgS T cells in vitro and synergizes with CD80 signals for superior proliferation versus peptide stimulation.
25972472 | CD81 controls immunity to Listeria infection through rac-dependent inhibition of proinflammatory mediator release and activation of cytotoxic T cells. Despite recent evidence on the involvement of CD81 in pathogen binding and Ag presentation by dendritic cells (DCs), the molecular mechanism of how CD81 regulates immunity during infection remains to be elucidated. To investigate the role of CD81 in the regulation of defense mechanisms against microbial infections, we have used the Listeria monocytogenes infection model to explore the impact of CD81 deficiency in the innate and adaptive immune response against this pathogenic bacteria. We show that CD81(-/-) mice are less susceptible than wild-type mice to systemic Listeria infection, which correlates with increased numbers of inflammatory monocytes and DCs in CD81(-/-) spleens, the main subsets controlling early bacterial burden. Additionally, our data reveal that CD81 inhibits Rac/STAT-1 activation, leading to a negative regulation of the production of TNF-alpha and NO by inflammatory DCs and the activation of cytotoxic T cells by splenic CD8alpha(+) DCs. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that CD81-Rac interaction exerts an important regulatory role on the innate and adaptive immunity against bacterial infection and suggests a role for CD81 in the development of novel therapeutic targets during infectious diseases.
38489266 | PAD4 controls tumor immunity via restraining the MHC class II machinery in macrophages. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) shape tumor immunity and therapeutic efficacy. However, it is poorly understood whether and how post-translational modifications (PTMs) intrinsically affect the phenotype and function of TAMs. Here, we reveal that peptidylarginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) exhibits the highest expression among common PTM enzymes in TAMs and negatively correlates with the clinical response to immune checkpoint blockade. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of PAD4 in macrophages prevents tumor progression in tumor-bearing mouse models, accompanied by an increase in macrophage major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II expression and T cell effector function. Mechanistically, PAD4 citrullinates STAT1 at arginine 121, thereby promoting the interaction between STAT1 and protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1), and the loss of PAD4 abolishes this interaction, ablating the inhibitory role of PIAS1 in the expression of MHC class II machinery in macrophages and enhancing T cell activation. Thus, the PAD4-STAT1-PIAS1 axis is an immune restriction mechanism in macrophages and may serve as a cancer immunotherapy target.
33747936 | Genomic Mutation Profile of Primary Gastrointestinal Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma. Primary gastrointestinal diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (GI-DLBCL) is the most common gastrointestinal lymphoma, but its genetic features are poorly understood. We performed whole-exome sequencing of 25 primary tumor samples from patients with GI-DLBCL and 23 matched normal tissue samples. Oncogenic mutations were screened, and the correlations between genetic mutations and clinicopathological characteristics were analyzed. Twenty-five patients with GI-DLBCL were enrolled in the genetic mutation analysis with a median of 184 (range 79-382) protein-altering variants per patient. We identified recurrent oncogenic mutations in GI-DLBCL, including those in TP53, MUC16, B2M, CCND3, HIST1H1C, NEB, and ID3. Compared with nodal DLBCL, GI-DLBCL exhibited an increased mutation frequency of TP53 and reduced mutation frequencies of PIM1, CREBBP, BCL2, KMT2D, and EZH2. Moreover, GI-DLBCL exhibited fewer MYD88 and CD79B mutations than DLBCL in the testis and central nervous system. GI-DLBCLs with HLA-B, MEF2A, RHOA, and NAV3 mutations exhibited a tendency toward a high proliferation index. MUC16 and ETV6 mutations often occurred in tumors with early clinical staging. Our data provide a comprehensive understanding of the landscape of mutations in a small subset of GI-DLBCLs. The genetic mutation profiles of GI-DLBCL differ from those of nodal DLBCL and DLBCL in immune-privileged sites. The different mutated genes are related to the NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT pathways, and the different pathogenetic mechanisms leading to the development of DLBCL may be influenced by the tissue microenvironment. Differences in genetic alterations might influence the clinicopathological characteristics of GI-DLBCL.
36400804 | Diminished neutralization responses towards SARS-CoV-2 Omicron VoC after mRNA or vector-based COVID-19 vaccinations. SARS-CoV-2 variants accumulating immune escape mutations provide a significant risk to vaccine-induced protection against infection. The novel variant of concern (VoC) Omicron BA.1 and its sub-lineages have the largest number of amino acid alterations in its Spike protein to date. Thus, they may efficiently escape recognition by neutralizing antibodies, allowing breakthrough infections in convalescent and vaccinated individuals in particular in those who have only received a primary immunization scheme. We analyzed neutralization activity of sera from individuals after vaccination with all mRNA-, vector- or heterologous immunization schemes currently available in Europe by in vitro neutralization assay at peak response towards SARS-CoV-2 B.1, Omicron sub-lineages BA.1, BA.2, BA.2.12.1, BA.3, BA.4/5, Beta and Delta pseudotypes and also provide longitudinal follow-up data from BNT162b2 vaccinees. All vaccines apart from Ad26.CoV2.S showed high levels of responder rates (96-100%) towards the SARS-CoV-2 B.1 isolate, and minor to moderate reductions in neutralizing Beta and Delta VoC pseudotypes. The novel Omicron variant and its sub-lineages had the biggest impact, both in terms of response rates and neutralization titers. Only mRNA-1273 showed a 100% response rate to Omicron BA.1 and induced the highest level of neutralizing antibody titers, followed by heterologous prime-boost approaches. Homologous BNT162b2 vaccination, vector-based AZD1222 and Ad26.CoV2.S performed less well with peak responder rates of 48%, 56% and 9%, respectively. However, Omicron responder rates in BNT162b2 recipients were maintained in our six month longitudinal follow-up indicating that individuals with cross-protection against Omicron maintain it over time. Overall, our data strongly argue for booster doses in individuals who were previously vaccinated with BNT162b2, or a vector-based primary immunization scheme.
38287674 | Tumor immune microenvironment-based clusters in predicting prognosis and guiding immunotherapy in breast cancer. The development and progression of breast cancer (BC) depend heavily on the tumor microenvironment (TME), especially tumor infiltration leukocytes (TILs). TME-based classifications in BC remain largely unknown and need to be clarified. Using the bioinformatic analysis, we attempted to construct a prognostic nomogram based on clinical features and TME-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs). We also tried to investigate the association between the prognostic nomogram and clinical characteristics, TILs, possible signaling pathways, and response to immunotherapy in BC patients. DEGs for BC patients were identified from The Cancer Genome Atlas Breast Invasive Carcinoma database. TME-related genes were downloaded from the Immunology Database and Analysis Portal. After intersecting DEGs and TME-related genes, 3985 overlapping TME-related DEGs were selected for non-negative matrix factorization clustering, microenvironment cell populations-counter (MCP-counter), LASSO Cox regression, tumor immune dysfunction, and exclusion (TIDE) algorithm analyses. BC patients were divided into three clusters based on the TME-related DEGs and survival data, in which cluster 3 had the best overall survival (OS). Of note, cluster 3 exhibited the highest infiltration or lowest infiltration of CD3+ T-cells, CD8+ T-cells, cytotoxic lymphocytes, B-lymphocytes, monocytic lineage, and myeloid dendritic cells (MDCs). A total of 33 TME-related DEGs were identified as a prognostic gene signature by the LASSO regression analysis. The prognostic gene signature separated BC patients into low- and high-risk groups with significant differences in OS (p<0.01) and demonstrated powerful effectiveness (TCGA all group: 1-year area under the curve [AUC] = 0.773, 3-year AUC = 0.770, 5-year AUC = 0.792). By integrating demographic features, tumor-node metastasis (TNM) stages, and prognostic gene signature, we constructed a nomogram with better predictive value than other clinical features alone. TMErelated DEGs in the low-risk BC patients (with better OS) were enriched in chemokine, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and JAK-STAT and Toll-like receptor signaling pathways. BC patients in the low-risk group exhibited higher TIDE scores associated with worse immune checkpoint blockade response. A prognostic nomogram based on TME-related DEGs and clinical characteristics could predict prognosis and guide immunotherapy in BC patients.
30619313 | Selective Effects of mTOR Inhibitor Sirolimus on Naive and CMV-Specific T Cells Extending Its Applicable Range Beyond Immunosuppression. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection/reactivation remains among the most important complications of immunosuppression after transplantation. However, recent clinical observations indicate that mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibition with sirolimus may improve the outcome of CMV complications. Underlying mechanisms of this observation, particularly the effect of sirolimus on naive- and CMV-specific cytotoxic CD8+ T-cell (CMV-CTL) functionality is still undiscovered. Here, the influence of sirolimus on naive and memory CMV-CTLs was determined by CD3/CD28 crosslinking and alloreactivity assays. After stimulating CMV-CTL with HLA-A*02:01-restricted CMVpp65-peptide loaded artificial antigen-presenting cells (aAPCs), we measured the effect of sirolimus on T-cell proliferation, phenotype, and functionality. Sirolimus significantly improved CMV-specific effector memory T-cell function and negatively influenced naive T cells. This unique mechanism of action was further characterized by increased secretion of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), granzyme B (GzB) and enhanced target-cell-dependent cytotoxic capacity of activated CMV-CTLs. Next-generation-sequencing (NGS) was applied to monitor T-cell receptor (TCR)-repertoire dynamics and to verify, that the increased functionality was not related to sirolimus-resistant CTL-clones. Instead, modulation of environmental cues during CMV-CTL development via IL-2 receptor (IL-2R)-driven signal transducer and activator of transcription-5 (STAT-5) signaling under mTOR inhibition allowed fine-tuning of T-cell programming for enhanced antiviral response with stable TCR-repertoire dynamics. We show for the first time that sirolimus acts selectively on human naive and memory T cells and improves CMV-specific T-cell function via modulation of the environmental milieu. The data emphasize the importance to extend immune monitoring including cytokine levels and T-cell functionality which will help to identify patients who may benefit from individually tailored immunosuppression.
25768574 | Ultradiscrete kinks with supersonic speed in a layered crystal with realistic potentials. In this paper we develop a dynamical model of the propagating nonlinear localized excitations, supersonic kinks, in the cation layer in a silicate mica crystal. We start from purely electrostatic Coulomb interaction and add the Ziegler-Biersack-Littmark short-range repulsive potential and the periodic potential produced by other atoms of the lattice. The proposed approach allows the construction of supersonic kinks which can propagate in the lattice within a large range of energies and velocities. Due to the presence of the short-range repulsive component in the potential, the interparticle distances in the lattice kinks with high energy are limited by physically reasonable values. The introduction of the periodic lattice potential results in the important feature that the kinks propagate with the single velocity and single energy, which are independent on the excitation conditions. The unique average velocity of the supersonic kinks on the periodic substrate potential we relate with the kink amplitude of the relative particle displacements, which is determined by the interatomic distance corresponding to the minimum of the total, interparticle plus substrate, lattice potential. The found kinks are ultradiscrete and can be described with the \magic wave number\ q=2pi/3a, which was previously revealed in the nonlinear sinusoidal waves and supersonic kinks in the Fermi-Pasta-Ulam lattice. The extreme discreteness of the observed supersonic kinks, with basically two particles moving at the same time, allows the detailed interpretation of their double-kink structure, which is not possible for the multikinks without an account for the lattice discreteness. Analytical calculations of the displacement patterns and energies of the supersonic kinks are confirmed by numerical simulations. The computed energy of the found supersonic kinks in the considered realistic lattice potential is in a good agreement with the experimental evidence for the transport of localized energetic excitations in silicate mica crystals between the points of ^{40}K recoil and subsequent sputtering.
29494344 | Stable and efficient retrospective 4D-MRI using non-uniformly distributed quasi-random numbers. The purpose of this work is the development of a robust and reliable three-dimensional (3D) Cartesian imaging technique for fast and flexible retrospective 4D abdominal MRI during free breathing. To this end, a non-uniform quasi random (NU-QR) reordering of the phase encoding (k y -k z ) lines was incorporated into 3D Cartesian acquisition. The proposed sampling scheme allocates more phase encoding points near the k-space origin while reducing the sampling density in the outer part of the k-space. Respiratory self-gating in combination with SPIRiT-reconstruction is used for the reconstruction of abdominal data sets in different respiratory phases (4D-MRI). Six volunteers and three patients were examined at 1.5 T during free breathing. Additionally, data sets with conventional two-dimensional (2D) linear and 2D quasi random phase encoding order were acquired for the volunteers for comparison. A quantitative evaluation of image quality versus scan times (from 70 s to 626 s) for the given sampling schemes was obtained by calculating the normalized mutual information (NMI) for all volunteers. Motion estimation was accomplished by calculating the maximum derivative of a signal intensity profile of a transition (e.g. tumor or diaphragm). The 2D non-uniform quasi-random distribution of phase encoding lines in Cartesian 3D MRI yields more efficient undersampling patterns for parallel imaging compared to conventional uniform quasi-random and linear sampling. Median NMI values of NU-QR sampling are the highest for all scan times. Therefore, within the same scan time 4D imaging could be performed with improved image quality. The proposed method allows for the reconstruction of motion artifact reduced 4D data sets with isotropic spatial resolution of 2.1  x  2.1  x  2.1 mm3 in a short scan time, e.g. 10 respiratory phases in only 3 min. Cranio-caudal tumor displacements between 23 and 46 mm could be observed. NU-QR sampling enables for stable 4D-MRI with high temporal and spatial resolution within short scan time for visualization of organ or tumor motion during free breathing. Further studies, e.g. the application of the method for radiotherapy planning are needed to investigate the clinical applicability and diagnostic value of the approach.
34102162 | Intra-city variability of fine particulate matter during COVID-19 lockdown: A case study from Park City, Utah. Urban air quality is a growing concern due a range of social, economic, and health impacts. Since the SARS-CoV-19 pandemic began in 2020, governments have produced a range of non-medical interventions (NMIs) (e.g. lockdowns, stay-at-home orders, mask mandates) to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A co-benefit of NMI implementation has been the measurable improvement in air quality in cities around the world. Using the lockdown policy of the COVID-19 pandemic as a natural experiment, we traced the changing emissions patterns produced under the pandemic in a mid-sized, high-altitude city to isolate the effects of human behavior on air pollution. We tracked air pollution over time periods reflecting the Pre-Lockdown, Lockdown, and Reopening stages, using high quality, research grade sensors in both commercial and residential areas to better understand how each setting may be uniquely impacted by pollution downturn events. Based on this approach, we found the commercial area of the city showed a greater decrease in air pollution than residential areas during the lockdown period, while both areas experienced a similar rebound post lockdown. The easing period following the lockdown did not lead to an immediate rebound in human activity and the air pollution increase associated with reopening, took place nearly two months after the lockdown period ended. We hypothesize that differences in heating needs, travel demands, and commercial activity, are responsible for the corresponding observed changes in the spatial distribution of pollutants over the study period. This research has implications for climate policy, low-carbon energy transitions, and may even impact local policy due to changing patterns in human exposure that could lead to important public health outcomes, if left unaddressed.
25220254 | A novel fluorescent sensor protein for detecting changes in airway surface liquid glucose concentration. Both lung disease and elevation of blood glucose are associated with increased glucose concentration (from 0.4 to ~4.0 mM) in the airway surface liquid (ASL). This perturbation of ASL glucose makes the airway more susceptible to infection by respiratory pathogens. ASL is minute (~1 mul/cm(2)) and the measurement of glucose concentration in the small volume ASL is extremely difficult. Therefore, we sought to develop a fluorescent biosensor with sufficient sensitivity to determine glucose concentrations in ASL in situ. We coupled a range of environmentally sensitive fluorophores to mutated forms of a glucose/galactose-binding protein (GBP) including H152C and H152C/A213R and determined their equilibrium binding properties. Of these, GBP H152C/A213R-BADAN (Kd 0.86 +- 0.01 mM, Fmax/F0 3.6) was optimal for glucose sensing and in ASL increased fluorescence when basolateral glucose concentration was raised from 1 to 20 mM. Moreover, interpolation of the data showed that the glucose concentration in ASL was increased, with results similar to that using glucose oxidase analysis. The fluorescence of GBP H152C/A213R-BADAN in native ASL from human airway epithelial cultures in situ was significantly increased over time when basolateral glucose was increased from 5 to 20 mM. Overall our data indicate that this GBP is a useful tool to monitor glucose homoeostasis in the lung.
35930549 | The COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on medical teaching in obstetrics and gynecology-A nationwide expert survey among teaching coordinators at German university hospitals. PURPOSE: The COVID-19 pandemic has imposed severe challenges on medical education at German university hospitals. In this first German nationwide expert survey, we addressed the responsible university teaching coordinators in obstetrics and gynecology departments and investigated their experiences during the pandemic as well as their opinions on future developments, especially with regard to the broader implementation of e-learning in the standard curriculum. METHODS: The questionnaire included 42 items and was disseminated among teaching coordinators at all 41 departments of obstetrics and gynecology at German university hospitals via an email that included a weblink to the online survey provider. Responses were collected between 19 April and 7 June 2021. RESULTS: In total, 30 responses were collected from 41 departments across Germany and their respective teaching coordinators in obstetrics and gynecology. The general opinion of the medical teaching provided during the pandemic was positive, whereas the teaching quality in practical skills was considered inferior and not equivalent to the standard face-to-face curriculum. Lectures and seminars had to be substituted by remote-learning alternatives, while clinical clerkships were reduced in length and provided less patient contact. Students in their final year experienced only a few differences in the clinical and teaching routine. Teaching coordinators in obstetrics and gynecology stated that they intend to incorporate more e-learning into the curriculum in the future. CONCLUSION: The medical educators' views presented here may help to complement the already-thoroughly investigated experiences of students under the restrictions of the COVID-19 pandemic. Medical educators in obstetrics and gynecology at German university hospitals have successfully established online and hybrid teaching alternatives to their standard face-to-face courses. Building on recent experiences, digitalization could help to improve future medical education.
19256855 | Surface-frustrated periodic textures of smectic- a liquid crystals on crystalline surfaces. Using polarizing optical microscopy we studied thin films and droplets of smectic- A 4-cyano- 4;{'} -n-octylbiphenyl (8CB) liquid crystal deposited in air on crystalline surfaces of muscovite mica that induce monostable planar anchoring. The competition with the homeotropic anchoring at the 8CB-air interface leads to the formation of one-dimensional (1D) patterns composed of straight, parallel defect domains that are organized in periodic arrays over areas as large as several mm;{2} . We have developed a simple model which identifies the arrays with self-assembled \oily streaks,\ comprising straight disclination lines and curvature walls. The model reproduces the observed monotonic increase of the period p with the film thickness h in the range p=1-4 microm and h=0.8-17 microm. For higher values of h we observed a sharp transition to a 2D lattice of fragmented focal conic domains. Despite the apparent generality of our model for hybrid planar-homeotropic anchoring conditions, periodic arrays of straight oily streaks have been observed so far only for 8CB on crystalline surfaces such as mica or MoS2 . Our model indicates that this specificity is due to a particularly strong anchoring of the liquid crystal on such surfaces.
38433280 | NF-kappaB in biology and targeted therapy: new insights and translational implications. NF-kappaB signaling has been discovered for nearly 40 years. Initially, NF-kappaB signaling was identified as a pivotal pathway in mediating inflammatory responses. However, with extensive and in-depth investigations, researchers have discovered that its role can be expanded to a variety of signaling mechanisms, biological processes, human diseases, and treatment options. In this review, we first scrutinize the research process of NF-kappaB signaling, and summarize the composition, activation, and regulatory mechanism of NF-kappaB signaling. We investigate the interaction of NF-kappaB signaling with other important pathways, including PI3K/AKT, MAPK, JAK-STAT, TGF-beta, Wnt, Notch, Hedgehog, and TLR signaling. The physiological and pathological states of NF-kappaB signaling, as well as its intricate involvement in inflammation, immune regulation, and tumor microenvironment, are also explicated. Additionally, we illustrate how NF-kappaB signaling is involved in a variety of human diseases, including cancers, inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, cardiovascular diseases, metabolic diseases, neurological diseases, and COVID-19. Further, we discuss the therapeutic approaches targeting NF-kappaB signaling, including IKK inhibitors, monoclonal antibodies, proteasome inhibitors, nuclear translocation inhibitors, DNA binding inhibitors, TKIs, non-coding RNAs, immunotherapy, and CAR-T. Finally, we provide an outlook for research in the field of NF-kappaB signaling. We hope to present a stereoscopic, comprehensive NF-kappaB signaling that will inform future research and clinical practice.
38515283 | Association of the medication protocols and longitudinal change of COVID-19 symptoms: a hospital-based mixed-statistical methods study. The objective of this study was to identify the relationship between hospitalization treatment strategies leading to change in symptoms during 12-week follow-up among hospitalized patients during the COVID-19 outbreak. In this article, data from a prospective cohort study on COVID-19 patients admitted to Khorshid Hospital, Isfahan, Iran, from February 2020 to February 2021, were analyzed and reported. Patient characteristics, including socio-demographics, comorbidities, signs and symptoms, and treatments during hospitalization, were investigated. Also, to investigate the treatment effects adjusted by other confounding factors that lead to symptom change during follow-up, the binary classification trees, generalized linear mixed model, machine learning, and joint generalized estimating equation methods were applied. This research scrutinized the effects of various medications on COVID-19 patients in a prospective hospital-based cohort study, and found that heparin, methylprednisolone, ceftriaxone, and hydroxychloroquine were the most frequently prescribed medications. The results indicate that of patients under 65 years of age, 76% had a cough at the time of admission, while of patients with Cr levels of 1.1 or more, 80% had not lost weight at the time of admission. The results of fitted models showed that, during the follow-up, women are more likely to have shortness of breath (OR = 1.25; P-value: 0.039), fatigue (OR = 1.31; P-value: 0.013) and cough (OR = 1.29; P-value: 0.019) compared to men. Additionally, patients with symptoms of chest pain, fatigue and decreased appetite during admission are at a higher risk of experiencing fatigue during follow-up. Each day increase in the duration of ceftriaxone multiplies the odds of shortness of breath by 1.15 (P-value: 0.012). With each passing week, the odds of losing weight increase by 1.41 (P-value: 0.038), while the odds of shortness of breath and cough decrease by 0.84 (P-value: 0.005) and 0.56 (P-value: 0.000), respectively. In addition, each day increase in the duration of meropenem or methylprednisolone decreased the odds of weight loss at follow-up by 0.88 (P-value: 0.026) and 0.91 (P-value: 0.023), respectively (among those who took these medications). Identified prognostic factors can help clinicians and policymakers adapt management strategies for patients in any pandemic like COVID-19, which ultimately leads to better hospital decision-making and improved patient quality of life outcomes.
29922483 | Quantification and pharmacokinetic study of tumor-targeting agent MHI148-clorgyline amide in mouse plasma using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. A high-performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometric (HPLC-ESI-MS/MS) method was developed for the quantification of MHI148-clorgyline amide (NMI-amide), a novel tumor-targeting monoamine oxidase A inhibitor, in mouse plasma. The method was validated in terms of sensitivity, precision, accuracy, recovery and stability and then applied to a pharmacokinetic study of NMI-amide in mice following intravenous administration. NMI-amide together with the internal standard (IS), MHI-148, was extracted by protein precipitation using acetonitrile. Multiple reaction monitoring was used for quantification of NMI-amide by detecting m/z transition of 491.2-361.9, and 685.3-258.2 for NMI-amide and the IS, respectively. The lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) of the HPLC-MS/MS method for NMI-amide was 0.005 mug/mL and the linear calibration curve was acquired with R2 > 0.99 in the concentration range of 0.005-2 mug/mL. The intra- and inter-day precisions of the assay were assessed by percentage of the coefficient of variations, which was within 9.8% at LLOQ and 14.0% for other quality control samples, whereas the mean accuracy ranged from 86.8% to 113.2%. The samples were stable under storage and experimental conditions. This method was successfully applied to a pharmacokinetic study in mice following intravenous administration of 5 mg/kg NMI-amide.
19518485 | Formation of DNA toroids inside confined droplets adsorbed on mica surfaces. We report observations of in vitro DNA compaction into toroids in the absence of any condensing agent. The DNA toroid formation is induced by geometry confinement from microdroplets on mica surfaces. With AFM imaging we show that the confined DNA molecules may take the form of random coils or semiordered folded loops with large microdroplets, while they readily take the form of compact and ordered toroids when the microdroplet sizes are small enough. To better understand these phenomena, we carried out coarse-grained Brownian dynamics simulation, obtaining results that were in good agreement with the experimental observations. The simulation reveals that the toroid formation is sensitive to not only the microdroplet size, but also the DNA stiffness.
35013206 | Robust and durable serological response following pediatric SARS-CoV-2 infection. The quality and persistence of children's humoral immune response following SARS-CoV-2 infection remains largely unknown but will be crucial to guide pediatric SARS-CoV-2 vaccination programs. Here, we examine 548 children and 717 adults within 328 households with at least one member with a previous laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. We assess serological response at 3-4 months and 11-12 months after infection using a bead-based multiplex immunoassay for 23 human coronavirus antigens including SARS-CoV-2 and its Variants of Concern (VOC) and endemic human coronaviruses (HCoVs), and additionally by three commercial SARS-CoV-2 antibody assays. Neutralization against wild type SARS-CoV-2 and the Delta VOC are analysed in a pseudotyped virus assay. Children, compared to adults, are five times more likely to be asymptomatic, and have higher specific antibody levels which persist longer (96.2% versus 82.9% still seropositive 11-12 months post infection). Of note, symptomatic and asymptomatic infections induce similar humoral responses in all age groups. SARS-CoV-2 infection occurs independent of HCoV serostatus. Neutralization responses of children and adults are similar, although neutralization is reduced for both against the Delta VOC. Overall, the long-term humoral immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection in children is of longer duration than in adults even after asymptomatic infection.
38360696 | Paclitaxel combined with Compound K inducing pyroptosis of non-small cell lung cancer cells by regulating Treg/Th17 balance. BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint inhibitors, which have attracted much attention in recent years, have achieved good efficacy, but their use is limited by the high incidence of acquired drug resistance. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop new immunotherapy drugs. Compound taxus chinensis capsule (CTC) is an oral paclitaxel compound drug, clinical results showed it can change the number of regulatory T cells and T helper cell 17 in peripheral blood. Regulating the balance between regulatory T cells and T helper cell 17 is considered to be an effective anticancer strategy. Paclitaxel and ginsenoside metabolite compound K are the main immunomodulatory components, it is not clear that paclitaxel combined with compound K can inhibit tumor development by regulating the balance between regulatory T cell and T helper cell 17. METHODS: MTT, EdU proliferation and plate colony formation assay were used to determine the concentration of paclitaxel and compound K. AnnexinV-FITC/PI staining, ELISA, Western Blot assay, Flow Cytometry and Immunofluorescence were used to investigate the effect of paclitaxel combined with compound K on Lewis cell cultured alone or co-cultured with splenic lymphocyte. Finally, transplanted tumor C57BL/6 mice model was constructed to investigate the anti-cancer effect in vivo. RESULTS: According to the results of MTT, EdU proliferation and plate colony formation assay, paclitaxel (10 nM) and compound K (60 muM) was used to explore the mechanism. The results of Flow Cytometry demonstrated that paclitaxel combined with compound K increased the number of T helper cell 17 and decreased the number of regulatory T cells, which induced pyroptosis of cancer cells. The balance was mediated by the JAK-STAT pathway according to the results of Western Blot and Immunofluorescence. Finally, the in vivo results showed that paclitaxel combined with compound K significantly inhibit the progression of lung cancer. CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we found that paclitaxel combined with compound K can activate CD8+ T cells and induce pyroptosis of tumor cells by regulating the balance between regulatory T cells and T helper cell 17. These results demonstrated that this is a feasible treatment strategy for lung cancer.
37993889 | Levetiracetam for the treatment of mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease: a double-blind controlled proof-of-concept trial protocol. BACKGROUND: Mild memory impairment, termed amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), is associated with rapid progression towards dementia in Parkinson's disease (PD). Studies have shown hyperactivation of hippocampal DG/CA3 subfields during an episodic memory task as a biomarker of aMCI related to Alzheimer's disease. This project investigates the feasibility of a trial to establish the efficacy of a repurposed antiepileptic drug, levetiracetam, in low doses as a putative treatment to target DG/CA3 hyperactivation and improve episodic memory deficits in aMCI in PD. Based on previous work, it is hypothesized that levetiracetam will normalize DG/CA3 overactivation in PD-aMCI participants and improve memory performance. METHODS: Twenty-eight PD-aMCI participants, 28 PD participants without memory impairment (PD-nMI), and 28 healthy controls will be recruited. PD-aMCI participants will undertake a 12-week randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind cross-over trial with a 14-day treatment of 125 mg levetiracetam or placebo twice daily, separated by a 4-week washout period. After each treatment period, participants will complete an episodic memory task designed to tax hippocampal subregion-specific function during high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). PD-nMI and healthy controls will undergo the fMRI protocol only, to compare baseline DG/CA3 subfield activity. RESULTS: Episodic memory task performance and functional activation in the DG/CA3 subfield during the fMRI task will be primary outcome measures. Global cognition, PD severity, and adverse events will be measured as secondary outcomes. Recruitment, eligibility, and study completion rates will be explored as feasibility outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: This study, the first of its kind, will establish hippocampal subregion functional impairment and proof of concept of levetiracetam as an early therapeutic option to reduce dementia risk in PD. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT04643327 . Registered on 25 November 2020.
17980030 | Repeated BCG treatment of mouse bladder selectively stimulates small GTPases and HLA antigens and inhibits single-spanning uroplakins. BACKGROUND: Despite being a mainstay for treating superficial bladder carcinoma and a promising agent for interstitial cystitis, the precise mechanism of Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) remains poorly understood. It is particularly unclear whether BCG is capable of altering gene expression beyond its well-recognized pro-inflammatory effects and how this relates to its therapeutic efficacy. The objective of this study was to determine differentially expressed genes in the mouse bladder following repeated intravesical BCG therapy. METHODS: Mice were transurethrally instilled with BCG or pyrogen-free on days 1, 7, 14, and 21. Seven days after the last instillation, urothelia along with the submucosa was removed and amplified ds-DNA was prepared from control- and BCG-treated bladder mucosa and used to generate suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH). Plasmids from control- and BCG-specific differentially expressed clones and confirmed by Virtual Northern were then purified and the inserts were sequenced and annotated. Finally, chromatin immune precipitation combined with real-time polymerase chain reaction assay (ChIP/Q-PCR) was used to validate SSH-selected transcripts. RESULTS: Repeated intravesical BCG treatment induced an up regulation of genes associated with antigen presentation (B2M, HLA-A, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB2, HLA-E, HLA-G, IGHG, and IGH) and representatives of two IFNgamma-induced small GTPase families: the GBPs (GBP1, GBP2, and GBP5) and the p47GTPases (IIGTP1, IIGTP2, and TGTP). Genes expressed in saline-treated bladders but down-regulated by BCG included: the single-spanning uroplakins (UPK3a and UPK2), SPRR2G, GSTM5, and RSP 19. CONCLUSION: Here we introduced a hypothesis-generator approach to determine key genes involved in the urothelium/sumbmucosa responses to BCG therapy. Urinary bladder responds to repeated BCG treatment by up-regulating not only antigen presentation-related genes, but also GBP and p47 small GTPases, both potentially serving to mount a resistance to the replication of the Mycobacterium. It will be of tremendous future interest to determine whether these immune response cascades play a role in the anti-cancer effects exerted by BCG.
34049776 | Economic impact of avoidable cancer deaths caused by diagnostic delay during the COVID-19 pandemic: A national population-based modelling study in England, UK. INTRODUCTION: Delays in cancer diagnosis arose from the commencement of non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPI) introduced in the UK in March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our earlier work predicted this will lead to approximately 3620 avoidable deaths for four major tumour types (breast, bowel, lung, and oesophageal cancer) in the next 5 years. Here, using national population-based modelling, we estimate the health and economic losses resulting from these avoidable cancer deaths. We also compare these with the impact of an equivalent number of COVID-19 deaths to understand the welfare consequences of the different health conditions. METHODS: We estimate health losses using quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and lost economic productivity using the human capital (HC) approach. The analysis uses linked English National Health Service (NHS) cancer registration and hospital administrative datasets for patients aged 15-84 years, diagnosed with breast, colorectal, and oesophageal cancer between 1st Jan to 31st Dec 2010, with follow-up data until 31st Dec 2014, and diagnosed with lung cancer between 1st Jan to 31st Dec 31 2012, with follow-up data until 31st Dec 2015. Productivity losses are based on the estimation of excess additional deaths due to cancer at 1, 3 and 5 years for the four cancer types, which were derived from a previous analysis using this dataset. A total of 500 random samples drawn from the total number of COVID-19 deaths reported by the Office for National Statistics, stratified by gender, were used to estimate productivity losses for an equivalent number of deaths (n = 3620) due to SARS-CoV-2 infection. RESULTS: We collected data for 32,583 patients with breast cancer, 24,975 with colorectal cancer, 6744 with oesophageal cancer, and 29,305 with lung cancer. We estimate that across the four site-specific cancers combined in England alone, additional excess cancer deaths would amount to a loss of 32,700 QALYs (95% CI 31,300-34,100) and productivity losses of $103.8million GBP (73.2-132.2) in the next five years. For breast cancer, we estimate a loss of 4100 QALYS (3900-4400) and productivity losses of $23.2 m (18.2-28.6); for colorectal cancer, 15,000 QALYS (14,100-16,000) lost and productivity losses of $35.7 m (22.4-48.7); for lung cancer 10,900 QALYS (9,900-11,700) lost and productivity losses of $38.3 m (14.0-59.9) for lung cancer; and for oesophageal cancer, 2700 QALYS (2300-3,100) lost and productivity losses of $6.6 m (-6 to -17.6). In comparison, the equivalent number of COVID-19 deaths caused approximately 21,450 QALYs lost, as well as productivity losses amounting to $76.4 m (73.5-79.2). CONCLUSION: Premature cancer deaths resulting from diagnostic delays during the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in the UK will result in significant economic losses. On a per-capita basis, this impact is, in fact, greater than that of deaths directly attributable to COVID-19. These results emphasise the importance of robust evaluation of the trade-offs of the wider health, welfare and economic effects of NPI to support both resource allocation and the prioritisation of time-critical health services directly impacted in a pandemic, such as cancer care.
26946153 | First external quality assurance program of the Italian HLA-B*57:01 Network assessing the performance of clinical virology laboratories in HLA-B*57:01 testing. BACKGROUND: Since the HLA-B*57:01 allele is strongly associated with abacavir hypersensitivity reaction, testing for the presence of HLA-B*57:01 is mandatory before administration of abacavir. While HLA-B*57:01 testing is usually provided by pharmacogenetics, genetics or blood transfusion services, clinical virology laboratories can be an optimal opportunity for HLA-B*57:01 testing since they receive blood samples for routine HIV monitoring and have the expertise for convenient and less expensive PCR-based point mutation assays. OBJECTIVES: The Italian HLA-B*57:01 Network gathers accredited clinical virology laboratories offering HLA-B*57:01 testing in Italy with the aim to share protocols, test new methods, develop and maintain external quality assurance (EQA) programs. STUDY DESIGN: A panel of 9HLA-B*57:01-positive and 16HLA-B*57:01-negative frozen blood samples were blindly distributed to 10 units including 9 clinical virology laboratories and one reference pharmacology laboratory. Each laboratory was free to use its own routine method for DNA extraction and HLA-B*57:01 testing. RESULTS: DNA was extracted by automated workstations in 6 units and by manual spin columns in 4. Eight units used the Duplicalpha Real Time HLA-B*57:01 kit by Euroclone and two units used two different PCR homemade protocols. All the 10 units correctly identified all the 25 samples. CONCLUSIONS: The first HLA-B*57:01 EQA program run in Italy showed that clinical virology units are equipped and proficient for providing HLA-B*57:01 testing by inexpensive assays easy to integrate into their routine.
17726064 | Nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of persistently activated STAT3. Persistent activation of the transcription factor STAT3 has been detected in many types of cancer and plays an important role in tumor progression, immune evasion and metastasis. To analyze persistent STAT3 activation we coexpressed STAT3 with v-Src. We found that tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT3 by v-Src is independent of Janus kinases (Jaks), the canonical activators of STATs. The STAT3-induced feedback inhibitor, suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3), did not interfere with STAT3 activation by v-Src. However, the protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) suppressed gene induction by persistently activated STAT3. We measured nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of STAT3 in single cells by bleaching the YFP moiety of double-labelled STAT3-CFP-YFP in the cytoplasm. Analysis of the subcellular distribution of CFP and YFP fluorescence over time by mathematical modeling and computational parameter estimation revealed that activated STAT3 shuttles more rapidly than non-activated STAT3. Inhibition of exportin-1-mediated nuclear export slowed down nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of v-Src-activated STAT3 resulting in reduced tyrosine phosphorylation, decreased induction of STAT3 target genes and increased apoptosis. We propose passage of persistently activated STAT3 through the nuclear pore complex as a new target for intervention in cancer.
25019899 | Ab initio transport coefficients of Ar+ ions in Ar for cold plasma jet modeling. Collision cross sections and transport coefficients are calculated for Ar{+} ions, in the ground state {2}P_{3/2} and in the metastable state {2}P_{1/2}, colliding with their parent gas. Differential and integral collision cross sections are obtained using a numerical integration of the nuclear Schrodinger equation for several published interaction potentials. The Cohen-Schneider semi-empirical model is used for the inclusion of the spin-orbit interaction. The corresponding differential collision cross sections are then used in an optimized Monte Carlo code to calculate the ion transport coefficients for each initial ion state over a wide range of reduced electric field. Ion swarm data results are then compared with available experimental data for different proportions of ions in each state. This allows us to identify the most reliable interaction potential which reproduces ion transport coefficients falling within the experimental error bars. Such ion transport data will be used in electrohydrodynamic and chemical kinetic models of the low temperature plasma jet to quantify and to tune the active species production for a better use in biomedical applications.
38549510 | FDA experiences with a centralized statistical monitoring tool. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has broadly supported quality by design initiatives for clinical trials - including monitoring and data validation - by releasing two related guidance documents (FDA 2013 and 2019). Centralized statistical monitoring (CSM) can be a component of a quality by design process. In this article, we describe our experience with a CSM platform as part of a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement between CluePoints and FDA. This agreement's approach to CSM is based on many statistical tests performed on all relevant subject-level data submitted to identify outlying sites. An overall data inconsistency score is calculated to assess the inconsistency of data from one site compared to data from all sites. Sites are ranked by the data inconsistency score (-log10p,where p is an aggregated p-value). Results from a deidentified trial demonstrate the typical data anomaly findings through Statistical Monitoring Applied to Research Trials analyses. Sensitivity analyses were performed after excluding laboratory data and questionnaire data. Graphics from deidentified subject-level trial data illustrate abnormal data patterns. The analyses were performed by site, country/region, and patient separately. Key risk indicator analyses were conducted for the selected endpoints. Potential data anomalies and their possible causes are discussed. This data-driven approach can be effective and efficient in selecting sites that exhibit data anomalies and provides insights to statistical reviewers for conducting sensitivity analyses, subgroup analyses, and site by treatment effect explorations. Messy data, data failing to conform to standards, and other disruptions (e.g. the COVID-19 pandemic) can pose challenges.
36078373 | A Social Return on Investment Evaluation of the Pilot Social Prescribing EmotionMind Dynamic Coaching Programme to Improve Mental Wellbeing and Self-Confidence. The COVID-19 pandemic contributed to longer waiting lists for people seeking to access mental health services. The NHS Five Year Forward View encourages the development of empowerment-based social prescribing interventions to supplement existing mental health programmes. Based in South Wales, EmotionMind Dynamic (EMD) is a lifestyle coaching programme that supports individuals suffering from anxiety or depression. In this evaluation of lifestyle coaching, a mixed-method social return on investment (SROI) methodology was used to value quantitative and qualitative data from face-to-face and online participants. Data collection took place between June 2021 and January 2022. Participants included both self-referred clients and those referred from health services. Mental wellbeing data were collected at baseline and at the end of the programme using the short Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale (SWEMWBS) and the General Self-Efficacy Scale (GSES). Baseline and follow-up data were available for 15 face-to-face participants and 17 online clients. Wellbeing valuation quantified and valued outcomes from participants. Results indicated that for every GBP 1 invested, lifestyle coaching generated social values ranging from GBP 4.12-GBP 7.08 for face-to-face clients compared with GBP 2.37-GBP 3.35 for online participants. Overall, lifestyle coaching generated positive social value ratios for both face-to-face and online clients.
36298827 | The Network of Interactions between the Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus Nucleocapsid and Host Cellular Proteins. Host-virus protein interactions are critical for intracellular viral propagation. Understanding the interactions between cellular and viral proteins may help us develop new antiviral strategies. Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) is a highly contagious coronavirus that causes severe damage to the global swine industry. Here, we employed co-immunoprecipitation and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to characterize 426 unique PEDV nucleocapsid (N) protein-binding proteins in infected Vero cells. A protein-protein interaction network (PPI) was created, and gene ontology (GO) annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database analyses revealed that the PEDV N-bound proteins belong to different cellular pathways, such as nucleic acid binding, ribonucleoprotein complex binding, RNA methyltransferase, and polymerase activities. Interactions of the PEDV N protein with 11 putative proteins: tripartite motif containing 21, DEAD-box RNA helicase 24, G3BP stress granule assembly factor 1, heat shock protein family A member 8, heat shock protein 90 alpha family class B member 1, YTH domain containing 1, nucleolin, Y-box binding protein 1, vimentin, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2/B1, and karyopherin subunit alpha 1, were further confirmed by in vitro co-immunoprecipitation assay. In summary, studying an interaction network can facilitate the identification of antiviral therapeutic strategies and novel targets for PEDV infection.
36451838 | Integrated analysis identifies the IL6/JAK/STAT signaling pathway and the estrogen response pathway associated with the pathogenesis of intracranial aneurysms. Objective: We intended to identify the potential key biomarker and pathways that correlated with infiltrating immune cells during the pathogenesis of intracranial aneurysms (IA), to develop a diagnostic model, and to predict therapeutic drugs. Methods: Three datasets containing intracranial aneurysm tissue samples and normal artery control samples from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) were included. Gene-set variation analysis(GSVA) and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) were conducted to find the significant differentially expressed pathways in IA formation. The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression and the multivariate logistic regression analysis were performed to identify the characteristic genes in the IL6/JAK/STAT signaling pathway (ISP) and the estrogen response pathway (ERP). A diagnostic model was constructed. xCell was used to identify immune cell types in IA pathogenesis. We used the weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) algorithm to explore the correlations between the key modules and the four traits. Potential therapeutic drugs were investigated in Enrichr and Drugbank database. Results: The ISP is significant positively correlated with IA onset. The biological function of the ISP is positively correlated with that of the ERP, and is significantly associated with immune cells activities. CSF2RB, FAS, IL6, PTPN1, STAT2, TGFB1 of the ISP gene set and ALDH3A2, COX6C, IGSF1, KRT18, MICB, NPY1R of the ERP gene set were proved to be the characteristic genes. The STAT2 gene can be the potential biomarker of IA onset. The immune score of IA samples was significantly higher than the controls. The STAT2 gene expression is associated with infiltration of immune cells. The WGCNA results were consistent with our finds. Acetaminophen can be a potential therapeutic drug for IA targeting STAT2. Conclusions: We identified that the ISP was one of the most significant positively correlated pathways in IA onset, and it was activated in this process concordant with the ERP and immune responses. Except for beneficial effects, complex and multiple roles of estrogen may be involved in IA formation. STAT2 could be a potential biomarker and a promising therapeutic target of IA pathogenesis.
38201275 | Viral Targeting of Importin Alpha-Mediated Nuclear Import to Block Innate Immunity. Cellular nucleocytoplasmic trafficking is mediated by the importin family of nuclear transport proteins. The well-characterized importin alpha (IMPA) and importin beta (IMPB) nuclear import pathway plays a crucial role in the innate immune response to viral infection by mediating the nuclear import of transcription factors such as IRF3, NFkappaB, and STAT1. The nuclear transport of these transcription factors ultimately leads to the upregulation of a wide range of antiviral genes, including IFN and IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs). To replicate efficiently in cells, viruses have developed mechanisms to block these signaling pathways. One strategy to evade host innate immune responses involves blocking the nuclear import of host antiviral transcription factors. By binding IMPA proteins, these viral proteins prevent the nuclear transport of key transcription factors and suppress the induction of antiviral gene expression. In this review, we describe examples of proteins encoded by viruses from several different families that utilize such a competitive inhibition strategy to suppress the induction of antiviral gene expression.
11715485 | [HLA-amino acid residue matching standard and immunogenic response]. OBJECTIVE: To provide a standard for HLA-amino acid residue matching (Res M) for Chinese population and to evaluate its immunogenic response and sensitization to allograft. METHODS: Based on the setting up of DNA typing technique and the analysis of the distribution of HLA antigen frequencies, a new matching policy of Res M of 17 residues (10 amino acid residues for class I and 7 DR supertypic groups for class II) was presented and prospectively applied to 163 first-cadaver kidney transplants. Comparing with the 6-antigen matching program, the immunogenic response and sensitization of Res M to allograft were assayed using the mixed lymphocyte culture (MLC), cytokine in culture liquid, immune competent cells in the peripheral blood and specific anti-HLA IgG antibodies with PRA-STAT technique. RESULTS: The rate of Res-matched transplants increased significantly from 1.2% by Ag M to 39.9%. Immunogenic response and sensitization to allograft of recipients with Res-matched, containing index of stimulation (SI) of MLC, gamma-IFN representing Th1 cell, IL-10 representing Th2 cell, CD4+, CD8+, CD28+ T cell and the ratio of CD4/CD8, as well as the level of sHLA-IgG representing sensitization to allograft, were similar to those of Ag-matched transplants. Those parameters showed no difference between Res-matched and Ag-matched recipients, but showed significant difference in Res-mismatched or Ag-mismatched transplants. CONCLUSION: The New Res M can increase the rate of Res-matched transplants by a big margin, minimize the sensitization and immunogenic response to allograft, and be suitable to the clinical application to organ transplantation in Chinese Han population.
22046267 | A new methodology to associate SNPs with human diseases according to their pathway related context. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) with hundreds of zthousands of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are popular strategies to reveal the genetic basis of human complex diseases. Despite many successes of GWAS, it is well recognized that new analytical approaches have to be integrated to achieve their full potential. Starting with a list of SNPs, found to be associated with disease in GWAS, here we propose a novel methodology to devise functionally important KEGG pathways through the identification of genes within these pathways, where these genes are obtained from SNP analysis. Our methodology is based on functionalization of important SNPs to identify effected genes and disease related pathways. We have tested our methodology on WTCCC Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) dataset and identified: i) previously known RA related KEGG pathways (e.g., Toll-like receptor signaling, Jak-STAT signaling, Antigen processing, Leukocyte transendothelial migration and MAPK signaling pathways); ii) additional KEGG pathways (e.g., Pathways in cancer, Neurotrophin signaling, Chemokine signaling pathways) as associated with RA. Furthermore, these newly found pathways included genes which are targets of RA-specific drugs. Even though GWAS analysis identifies 14 out of 83 of those drug target genes; newly found functionally important KEGG pathways led to the discovery of 25 out of 83 genes, known to be used as drug targets for the treatment of RA. Among the previously known pathways, we identified additional genes associated with RA (e.g. Antigen processing and presentation, Tight junction). Importantly, within these pathways, the associations between some of these additionally found genes, such as HLA-C, HLA-G, PRKCQ, PRKCZ, TAP1, TAP2 and RA were verified by either OMIM database or by literature retrieved from the NCBI PubMed module. With the whole-genome sequencing on the horizon, we show that the full potential of GWAS can be achieved by integrating pathway and network-oriented analysis and prior knowledge from functional properties of a SNP.
37238160 | Ultrahigh-Resolution Photon-Counting CT in Cadaveric Fracture Models: Spatial Frequency Is Not Everything. In this study, the impact of reconstruction sharpness on the visualization of the appendicular skeleton in ultrahigh-resolution (UHR) photon-counting detector (PCD) CT was investigated. Sixteen cadaveric extremities (eight fractured) were examined with a standardized 120 kVp scan protocol (CTDIvol 10 mGy). Images were reconstructed with the sharpest non-UHR kernel (Br76) and all available UHR kernels (Br80 to Br96). Seven radiologists evaluated image quality and fracture assessability. Interrater agreement was assessed with the intraclass correlation coefficient. For quantitative comparisons, signal-to-noise-ratios (SNRs) were calculated. Subjective image quality was best for Br84 (median 1, interquartile range 1-3; p <= 0.003). Regarding fracture assessability, no significant difference was ascertained between Br76, Br80 and Br84 (p > 0.999), with inferior ratings for all sharper kernels (p < 0.001). Interrater agreement for image quality (0.795, 0.732-0.848; p < 0.001) and fracture assessability (0.880; 0.842-0.911; p < 0.001) was good. SNR was highest for Br76 (3.4, 3.0-3.9) with no significant difference to Br80 and Br84 (p > 0.999). Br76 and Br80 produced higher SNRs than all kernels sharper than Br84 (p <= 0.026). In conclusion, PCD-CT reconstructions with a moderate UHR kernel offer superior image quality for visualizing the appendicular skeleton. Fracture assessability benefits from sharp non-UHR and moderate UHR kernels, while ultra-sharp reconstructions incur augmented image noise.
36031649 | Expenditure on Paid-for Gambling Advertising During the National COVID-19 'Lockdowns': An Observational Study of Media Monitoring Data from the United Kingdom. Changes in gambling advertising during national COVID-19 'lockdowns', when stay-at-home rules restricted participation in certain gambling activities, provides important context to variance in gambling behaviour during these periods. This study describes expenditure on paid-for gambling advertising during three national lockdowns, compares expenditure to pre-pandemic estimates, and compares changes in expenditure by subsector. Data come from an observational study of weekly expenditure on paid-for gambling advertising in the United Kingdom (n = 135 weeks; beginning 2019 to mid-2021), focusing on three COVID-19 lockdowns: (1) March-May 2020; (2) November-December 2020; and (3) January-March 2021. We descriptively analysed how total advertising expenditure in each lockdown ($GBP, inflation-adjusted) compared to the same time points in 2019, both overall and by subsector (bookmakers, lotteries, online bingo, online casino and poker, gaming, pools, mobile content). Gambling advertising expenditure during lockdown one was 38.5% lower than 2019 ($43.5 million[m] vs. $70.7 m, respectively), with decreases across all subsectors (range: -81.7% [bookmakers] to -2.8% [online bingo]). Total advertising expenditure in lockdown two was 49.3% higher than 2019 ($51.7 m vs. $34.6 m), with increases for 5/7 subsectors (range: -31.6% [mobile content] to + 103.8% [bookmakers]). In lockdown three, advertising expenditure was 5.9% higher than 2019 ($91.2 m vs. $86.1 m), with increases for 4/7 subsectors (range: -92.4% [pools] to + 49.2% [mobile content]). Reductions in advertising expenditure in lockdown one are congruent with self-reported reductions in overall gambling also observed during this period. Further research is needed to determine whether increased advertising expenditure in lockdowns two and three correlates with increased gambling, overall and for specific subsectors.
26565253 | Squeeze-out dynamics of nanoconfined water: A detailed nanomechanical study. In this study, we present a detailed analysis of the squeeze-out dynamics of nanoconfined water confined between two hydrophilic surfaces measured by small-amplitude dynamic atomic force microscopy. Explicitly considering the instantaneous tip-surface separation during squeeze-out, we confirm the existence of an adsorbed molecular water layer on mica and at least two hydration layers. We also confirm the previous observation of a sharp transition in the viscoelastic response of the nanoconfined water as the compression rate is increased beyond a critical value (previously determined to be about 0.8 nm/s). We find that below the critical value, the tip passes smoothly through the molecular layers of the film, while above the critical speed, the tip encounters \pinning\ at separations where the film is able to temporarily order. Preordering of the film is accompanied by increased force fluctuations, which lead to increased damping preceding a peak in the film stiffness once ordering is completed. We analyze the data using both Kelvin-Voigt and Maxwell viscoelastic models. This provides a complementary picture of the viscoelastic response of the confined water film.
22140419 | BLOCK-BASED BAYESIAN EPISTASIS ASSOCIATION MAPPING WITH APPLICATION TO WTCCC TYPE 1 DIABETES DATA. Interactions among multiple genes across the genome may contribute to the risks of many complex human diseases. Whole-genome single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) data collected for many thousands of SNP markers from thousands of individuals under the case-control design promise to shed light on our understanding of such interactions. However, nearby SNPs are highly correlated due to linkage disequilibrium (LD) and the number of possible interactions is too large for exhaustive evaluation. We propose a novel Bayesian method for simultaneously partitioning SNPs into LD-blocks and selecting SNPs within blocks that are associated with the disease, either individually or interactively with other SNPs. When applied to homogeneous population data, the method gives posterior probabilities for LD-block boundaries, which not only result in accurate block partitions of SNPs, but also provide measures of partition uncertainty. When applied to case-control data for association mapping, the method implicitly filters out SNP associations created merely by LD with disease loci within the same blocks. Simulation study showed that this approach is more powerful in detecting multi-locus associations than other methods we tested, including one of ours. When applied to the WTCCC type 1 diabetes data, the method identified many previously known T1D associated genes, including PTPN22, CTLA4, MHC, and IL2RA. The method also revealed some interesting two-way associations that are undetected by single SNP methods. Most of the significant associations are located within the MHC region. Our analysis showed that the MHC SNPs form long-distance joint associations over several known recombination hotspots. By controlling the haplotypes of the MHC class II region, we identified additional associations in both MHC class I (HLA-A, HLA-B) and class III regions (BAT1). We also observed significant interactions between genes PRSS16, ZNF184 in the extended MHC region and the MHC class II genes. The proposed method can be broadly applied to the classification problem with correlated discrete covariates.
35926164 | Pulmonary Surfactant Proteins Are Inhibited by Immunoglobulin A Autoantibodies in Severe COVID-19. Rationale: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) can lead to acute respiratory distress syndrome with fatal outcomes. Evidence suggests that dysregulated immune responses, including autoimmunity, are key pathogenic factors. Objectives: To assess whether IgA autoantibodies target lung-specific proteins and contribute to disease severity. Methods: We collected 147 blood, 9 lung tissue, and 36 BAL fluid samples from three tertiary hospitals in Switzerland and one in Germany. Severe COVID-19 was defined by the need to administer oxygen. We investigated the presence of IgA autoantibodies and their effects on pulmonary surfactant in COVID-19 using the following methods: immunofluorescence on tissue samples, immunoprecipitations followed by mass spectrometry on BAL fluid samples, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays on blood samples, and surface tension measurements with medical surfactant. Measurements and Main Results: IgA autoantibodies targeting pulmonary surfactant proteins B and C were elevated in patients with severe COVID-19 but not in patients with influenza or bacterial pneumonia. Notably, pulmonary surfactant failed to reduce surface tension after incubation with either plasma or purified IgA from patients with severe COVID-19. Conclusions: Our data suggest that patients with severe COVID-19 harbor IgA autoantibodies against pulmonary surfactant proteins B and C and that these autoantibodies block the function of lung surfactant, potentially contributing to alveolar collapse and poor oxygenation.
38215056 | Phase angle of bioelectrical impedance analysis as an indicator for diabetic polyneuropathy in type 2 diabetes mellitus. CONTEXT: Due to the heterogenous clinical symptoms and deficits, the diagnosis of diabetic polyneuropathy (DPN) is still difficult in clinical routine leading to increased morbidity and mortality. OBJECTIVE: We studied the correlation of phase angle (PhA) of bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) with clinical, laboratory and physical markers of DPN to evaluate PhA as possible diagnostic method for DPN. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this cross-sectional observational study as part of the Heidelberg Study on Diabetes and Complications we examined 104 healthy individuals and 205 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2D), amongst which 63 had DPN. The PhA was calculated from multi-frequency BIA. Nerve conduction studies (NCS), quantitative sensory testing (QST) and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance neurography (MRN) to determine fractional anisotropy (FA) reflecting peripheral nerve integrity were performed. RESULTS: T2D patients with DPN had lower PhA values (5.71 +- 0.10) compared to T2D patients without DPN (6.07 +- 0.08, p = 0.007,  + 6.1%) and healthy controls (6.18 +- 0.08, p < 0.001,  + 7.9%). Confounder-adjusted analyses showed correlations of the PhA with conduction velocities and amplitudes of the peroneal (beta=0.28; beta=0.31, p < 0.001) and tibial nerves (beta=0.28; beta=0.32, p < 0.001), Z-scores of QST (thermal detection beta=0.30, p < 0.05) and the FA (beta=0.60, p < 0.001). ROC analysis showed similar performance of PhA in comparison to mentioned diagnostic methods. CONCLUSION: The study shows that PhA is in comparison to other test systems used, at least an equally good and much easier to handle, investigator independent marker for detection of DPN.
38545961 | How could a pooled testing policy have performed in managing the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic? Results from a simulation study. A coordinated testing policy is an essential tool for responding to emerging epidemics, as was seen with COVID-19. However, it is very difficult to agree on the best policy when there are multiple conflicting objectives. A key objective is minimizing cost, which is why pooled testing (a method that involves pooling samples taken from multiple individuals and analyzing this with a single diagnostic test) has been suggested. In this article, we present results from an extensive and realistic simulation study comparing testing policies based on individually testing subjects with symptoms (a policy resembling the UK strategy at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic), individually testing subjects at random or pools of subjects randomly combined and tested. To compare these testing methods, a dynamic model compromised of a relationship network and an extended SEIR model is used. In contrast to most existing literature, testing capacity is considered as fixed and limited rather than unbounded. This article then explores the impact of the proportion of symptomatic infections on the expected performance of testing policies. Symptomatic testing performs better than pooled testing unless a low proportion of infections are symptomatic. Additionally, we include the novel feature for testing of non-compliance and perform a sensitivity analysis for different compliance assumptions. Our results suggest for the pooled testing scheme to be superior to testing symptomatic people individually, only a small proportion of the population (  > 10 % $$ >10 % $$  ) needs to not comply with the testing procedure.
31788121 | Expression and role of HEPIS in breast cancer. Human embryo lung cellular protein interacting with severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus nonstructural protein-10 (HEPIS) is expressed at varying levels in multiple organs and breast cancer cell lines. However, its expression and function in breast cancer cells has yet to be studied. Therefore, RNA in situ hybridization was used to detect the expression of HEPIS in breast cancer and cancer-adjacent normal breast tissue. HEPIS was expressed at lower levels in breast cancer compared with that in adjacent normal tissue. Subcellular localization of HEPIS was mainly found in the cytoplasm of HeLa cells. Cell Counting Kit-8 and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine cell proliferation assays were used to investigate the role of HEPIS in cancer cell proliferation. Ectopic expression of HEPIS in MCF-7 cells was found to significantly inhibit cell proliferation. In contrast, knockdown of HEPIS by RNA interference exhibited the opposite effect. Furthermore, a dual-luciferase reporter assay was performed and HEPIS overexpression specifically inhibited the activity of the NF-kappaB reporter gene. Results of the gene chip assay revealed that 2,231 genes were differentially expressed in HEPIS-overexpressing cells. Results of the Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses indicated that these genes were enriched in the 'mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway', 'JAK-STAT signaling pathway' and 'focal adhesion'. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR was used to confirm the expression levels of the differentially expressed genes interleukin 2 receptor subunit alpha (IL2RA), interferon alpha and beta receptor subunit 2 (IFNAR2) and IFalpha8 (IFNA8). In conclusion, the results of the present study indicated that HEPIS may function as a potential repressor of breast cancer.
35998623 | Safety and immunogenicity of anti-SARS-CoV-2 heterologous scheme with SOBERANA 02 and SOBERANA Plus vaccines: Phase IIb clinical trial in adults. BACKGROUND: SOBERANA 02 has been evaluated in phase I and IIa studies comparing homologous versus heterologous schedule (this one, including SOBERANA Plus). Here, we report results of immunogenicity, safety, and reactogenicity of SOBERANA 02 in a two- or three-dose heterologous scheme in adults. METHOD: Phase IIb was a parallel, multicenter, adaptive, double-blind, randomized, and placebo-controlled trial. Subjects (n = 810) aged 19-80 years were randomized to receive two doses of SARS-CoV-2 RBD conjugated to tetanus toxoid (SOBERANA 02) and a third dose of dimeric RBD (SOBERANA Plus) 28 days apart; two production batches of active ingredients of SOBERANA 02 were evaluated. Primary outcome was the percentage of seroconverted subjects with >=4-fold the anti-RBD immunoglobulin G (IgG) concentration. Secondary outcomes were safety, reactogenicity, and neutralizing antibodies. FINDINGS: Seroconversion rate in vaccinees was 76.3% after two doses and 96.8% after the third dose of SOBERANA Plus (7.3% in the placebo group). Neutralizing IgG antibodies were detected against D614G and variants of concern (VOCs) Alpha, Beta, Delta, and Omicron. Specific, functional antibodies were detected 7-8 months after the third dose. The frequency of serious adverse events (AEs) associated with vaccination was very low (0.1%). Local pain was the most frequent AE. CONCLUSIONS: Two doses of SOBERANA 02 were safe and immunogenic in adults. The heterologous combination with SOBERANA Plus increased neutralizing antibodies, detectable 7-8 months after the third dose. TRIAL REGISTRY: https://rpcec.sld.cu/trials/RPCEC00000347 FUNDING: This work was supported by Finlay Vaccine Institute, BioCubaFarma, and the Fondo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnica (FONCI-CITMA-Cuba, contract 2020-20).
37521792 | Absolute Affinities from Quantitative Shotgun Glycomics Using Concentration-Independent (COIN) Native Mass Spectrometry. Native mass spectrometry (nMS) screening of natural glycan libraries against glycan-binding proteins (GBPs) is a powerful tool for ligand discovery. However, as the glycan concentrations are unknown, affinities cannot be measured directly from natural libraries. Here, we introduce Concentration-Independent (COIN)-nMS, which enables quantitative screening of natural glycan libraries by exploiting slow mixing of solutions inside a nanoflow electrospray ionization emitter. The affinities (Kd) of detected GBP-glycan interactions are determined, simultaneously, from nMS analysis of their time-dependent relative abundance changes. We establish the reliability of COIN-nMS using interactions between purified glycans and GBPs with known Kd values. We also demonstrate the implementation of COIN-nMS using the catch-and-release (CaR)-nMS assay for glycosylated GBPs. The COIN-CaR-nMS results obtained for plant, fungal, viral, and human lectins with natural libraries containing hundreds of N-glycans and glycopeptides highlight the assay's versatility for discovering new ligands, precisely measuring their affinities, and uncovering \fine\ specificities. Notably, the COIN-CaR-nMS results clarify the sialoglycan binding properties of the SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding domain and establish the recognition of monosialylated hybrid and biantennary N-glycans. Moreover, pharmacological depletion of host complex N-glycans reduces both pseudotyped virions and SARS-CoV-2 cell entry, suggesting that complex N-glycans may serve as attachment factors.
36579512 | Primary Definitive Treatment versus Ureteric Stenting in the Management of Acute Ureteric Colic: A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis. Objectives: To analyze the differences in cost-effectiveness between primary ureteroscopy and ureteric stenting in patients with ureteric calculi in the emergency setting. Patients and Methods: Patients requiring emergency intervention for a ureteric calculus at a tertiary centre were analysed between January and December 2019. The total secondary care cost included the cost of the procedure, inpatient hospital bed days, emergency department (A&E) reattendances, ancillary procedures and any secondary definitive procedure. Results: A total of 244 patients were included. Patients underwent ureteric stenting (62.3%) or primary treatment (37.7%), including primary ureteroscopy (URS) (34%) and shock wave lithotripsy (SWL) (3.6%). The total secondary care cost was more significant in the ureteric stenting group (GBP 4485.42 vs. GBP 3536.83; p = 0.65), though not statistically significant. While mean procedural costs for primary treatment were significantly higher (GBP 2605.27 vs. GBP 1729.00; p < 0.001), costs in addition to the procedure itself were significantly lower (GBP 931.57 vs. GBP 2742.35; p < 0.001) for primary treatment compared to ureteric stenting. Those undergoing ureteric stenting had a significantly higher A&E reattendance rate compared with primary treatment (25.7% vs. 10.9%, p = 0.02) and a significantly greater cost per patient related to revisits to A&E (GBP 61.05 vs. GBP 20.87; p < 0.001). Conclusion: Primary definitive treatment for patients with acute ureteric colic, although associated with higher procedural costs than ureteric stenting, infers a significant reduction in additional expenses, notably related to fewer A&E attendances. This is particularly relevant in the COVID-19 era, where it is crucial to avoid unnecessary attendances to A&E and reduce the backlog of delayed definitive procedures. Primary treatment should be considered concordance with clinical judgement and factors such as patient preference, equipment availability and operator experience.
34521215 | Prognostic Value of Complementary Echocardiography and Magnetic Resonance Imaging Quantitative Evaluation for Isolated Tricuspid Regurgitation. BACKGROUND: Isolated tricuspid regurgitation (TR) remains a management dilemma with poor outcomes. Echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) are valuable tools for evaluating TR, but their prognostic utility has rarely been studied together in this setting. We aimed to determine the prognostic value and thresholds for echocardiography and CMR parameters for isolated severe TR. METHODS: Consecutive patients with isolated severe TR by echocardiography and undergoing CMR during January 2007 to June 2019 were studied. Echocardiography and CMR-derived quantitative parameters were analyzed for independent associations with and thresholds for predicting the primary end point of all-cause mortality during follow-up. RESULTS: Among 262 patients studied, mean age was 62.8+-15.6 years, 156 (59.5%) were females, 207 (79.0%) had secondary TR, and 87 (33.2%) underwent tricuspid valve surgery after CMR. There were 68 (26.0%) deaths during a mean follow-up of 2.5 years. Both CMR-derived tricuspid regurgitant fraction (per 5% increase) and right ventricle free wall longitudinal strain (per 1% decrease in magnitude) were independently associated with worse survival, with hazard ratios (95% CIs) of 1.15 (1.05-1.25) and 1.10 (1.04-1.17), respectively, along with right heart failure symptoms of 2.03 (1.14-3.60), while tricuspid valve surgery was borderline protective with 0.55 (0.31-0.997). Regurgitant fraction >=30%, regurgitant volume >=35 mL and right ventricle free wall longitudinal strain >=-11% (by velocity vector imaging technique, which yields lower magnitude values than other conventional strain techniques) were the optimal thresholds for mortality during follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: TR quantification by CMR and right ventricle free wall longitudinal strain by echocardiography were the key imaging parameters independently associated with reduced survival in isolated TR, incremental to conventional clinical factors. Clinically significant thresholds for these parameters were determined and may help guide decision-making for TR management.
34713078 | Machine Learning for Localizing Epileptogenic-Zone in the Temporal Lobe: Quantifying the Value of Multimodal Clinical-Semiology and Imaging Concordance. Background: Epilepsy affects 50 million people worldwide and a third are refractory to medication. If a discrete cerebral focus or network can be identified, neurosurgical resection can be curative. Most excisions are in the temporal-lobe, and are more likely to result in seizure-freedom than extra-temporal resections. However, less than half of patients undergoing surgery become entirely seizure-free. Localizing the epileptogenic-zone and individualized outcome predictions are difficult, requiring detailed evaluations at specialist centers. Methods: We used bespoke natural language processing to text-mine 3,800 electronic health records, from 309 epilepsy surgery patients, evaluated over a decade, of whom 126 remained entirely seizure-free. We investigated the diagnostic performances of machine learning models using set-of-semiology (SoS) with and without hippocampal sclerosis (HS) on MRI as features, using STARD criteria. Findings: Support Vector Classifiers (SVC) and Gradient Boosted (GB) decision trees were the best performing algorithms for temporal-lobe epileptogenic zone localization (cross-validated Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC) SVC 0.73 +- 0.25, balanced accuracy 0.81 +- 0.14, AUC 0.95 +- 0.05). Models that only used seizure semiology were not always better than internal benchmarks. The combination of multimodal features, however, enhanced performance metrics including MCC and normalized mutual information (NMI) compared to either alone (p < 0.0001). This combination of semiology and HS on MRI increased both cross-validated MCC and NMI by over 25% (NMI, SVC SoS: 0.35 +- 0.28 vs. SVC SoS+HS: 0.61 +- 0.27). Interpretation: Machine learning models using only the set of seizure semiology (SoS) cannot unequivocally perform better than benchmarks in temporal epileptogenic-zone localization. However, the combination of SoS with an imaging feature (HS) enhance epileptogenic lobe localization. We quantified this added NMI value to be 25% in absolute terms. Despite good performance in localization, no model was able to predict seizure-freedom better than benchmarks. The methods used are widely applicable, and the performance enhancements by combining other clinical, imaging and neurophysiological features could be similarly quantified. Multicenter studies are required to confirm generalizability. Funding: Wellcome/EPSRC Center for Interventional and Surgical Sciences (WEISS) (203145Z/16/Z).
38471258 | Laboratory testing efficiency during the COVID pandemic: Findings from the Primary Health Care Corporation laboratories in the State of Qatar. BACKGROUND: Little is known about how the COVID-19 pandemic altered laboratory testing efficiency in the State of Qatar. The aim of this study was to assess laboratory testing efficiency with respect to the total number and proportion of C-reactive protein (CRP), complete blood count (CBC), and comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP) tests completed on time in 2019-2021 in several ordinary and COVID-converted Primary Health Care Corporation (PHCC) health centers across Qatar. METHODS: Secondary data from 2019 to 2021 were accessed from the PHCC-Clinical Information System center. Six randomly selected centers from three regions of Qatar (Northern, Central, and Western), two of which were COVID-converted, were analyzed. RESULTS: A total of 404,316 laboratory tests were analyzed. There were decreasing, U-shaped, and inverted-U-shaped patterns in the numbers of tests conducted in different regions between 2019 and 2021 according to test type. The proportion of urgent (STAT) CBC and CMP tests increased from 2019 to 2021, and the proportion of tests completed by COVID-converted health centers increased for CRP and CBC and decreased for CMP between 2019 and 2021. Northern and Western regions in Qatar showed higher efficiency than the Central region with respect to the proportion of STAT tests completed on time in 2019-2021. COVID-converted centers completed fewer STAT CBC tests on time than ordinary centers. CONCLUSION: Pandemics such as COVID-19 shift the allocation of resources from routine tests to urgent tests, as exemplified by the increase in STAT test proportions in 2019 to 2021. High population densities, as noted in the Central region of Qatar, may require additional resources during pandemics to complete urgent tests more efficiently. The conversion of centers to COVID-converted centers may not necessarily translate into higher urgent test efficiency, as exemplified by the STAT CBC test results.
37238112 | What Patterns in Online Classified Puppy Advertisements Can Tell Us about the Current UK Puppy Trade. The UK online puppy trade has rapidly outgrown the current legislation, aided by the anonymity provided by classified advertisement platforms. In an effort to meet increased demand, some unregulated and regulated breeders may have employed practices that negatively impact canine welfare. A paucity of up-to-date empirical data, necessary to characterise the scale and nature of this industry, makes intervention challenging. This study quantifies the online puppy trade via web-scraped online classified advertisements, providing empirical data that reveal market trends, along with spatial and temporal patterns. A total of 17,389 unique dog advertisements were collated and analysed over a 2-year period (1 June 2018 to 31 May 2020). The second year included the COVID-19 Lockdown (23 March 2020 to 31 May 2020). Statistical comparisons between dependent and independent variables were performed by linear regression. In the case of a single continuous variable, a one sample t-test was used. Of these advertisements, 57.2% were sourced from a pet-specific classified advertisement website (Pets4Homes, n = 9948), and the remaining 42.8% from two general classified advertisement websites (Gumtree, n = 7149, 41.1%; Preloved, n = 292, 1.7%, respectively). England exhibited the greatest number of advertisements (n = 10,493), followed by Wales (n = 1566), Scotland (n = 975), and Northern Ireland (NI; n = 344). Scaled for estimated human population density, Wales possessed as many advertisements per million inhabitants (489.4) as the other three combined (England = 186.4, Scotland = 177.3, and NI = 181.1). Across both years, 559 unique breeds were advertised, yet 66% of all advertisements focused on 20 breeds, and 48% advertisements focused on only 10 breeds. Regional breed popularity was suggested, with French Bulldog as the most advertised breed in England (7.3%), Scotland (6.8%), and Wales (6.8%), but Schnauzers were most popular within Northern Ireland (6.83%). Within the 559 unique breeds advertised, only 3.4% had links to conformational disorders CD); however, these breeds were among the most commonly advertised, totalling 46.9% of all ads. Across all regions, price density peaked between GBP 300 and GBP 1000, with Bulldogs presenting the greatest cost (mean = GBP 1461.38, SD = GBP 940.56), followed closely by French Bulldog (mean = GBP 1279.44, SD = GBP 664.76) and Cavapoo (mean = GBP 1064.56, SD = GBP 509.17). CD breeds were found to be GBP 208.07 more expensive, on average, than non-CD breeds. Our results represent a buoyant online market with regional and seasonal fluctuations in price, advertised breed frequency and total counts. This suggests a market influenced by consumer trends, with a particular focus on breed preference, despite links to illness/disease associated with conformation. Our findings highlight the value of utilising online classified advertisement data for long-term monitoring, in order to assist with evidence-based regulatory reform, impact measurement of targeted campaigns, and legislative enforcement.
38159235 | Influenza A Virus: Cellular Entry. The frequent emergence of pathogenic viruses with pandemic potential has posed a significant threat to human health and economy, despite enormous advances in our understanding of infection mechanisms and devising countermeasures through developing various prophylactic and therapeutic strategies. The recent coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has re-emphasised the importance of rigorous research on virus infection mechanisms and highlighted the need for our preparedness for potential pandemics. Although viruses cannot self-replicate, they tap into host cell factors and processes for their entry, propagation and dissemination. Upon entering the host cells, viruses ingeniously utilise the innate biological functions of the host cell to replicate themselves and maintain their existence in the hosts. Influenza A virus (IAV), which has a negative-sense, single-stranded RNA as its genome, is no exception. IAVs are enveloped viruses with a lipid bilayer derived from the host cell membrane and have a surface covered with the spike glycoprotein haemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA). Viral genome is surrounded by an M1 shell, forming a \capsid\ in the virus particle. IAV particles use HA to recognise sialic acids on the cell surface of lung epithelial cells for their attachment. After attachment to the cell surface, IAV particles are endocytosed and sorted into the early endosomes. Subsequently, as the early endosomes mature into late endosomes, the endosomal lumen becomes acidified, and the low pH of the late endosomes induces conformational reaggangements in the HA to initiate fusion between the endosomal and viral membranes. Upon fusion, the viral capsid disintegrates and the viral ribonucleoprotein (vRNP) complexes containing the viral genome are released into the cytosol. The process of viral capsid disintegration is called \uncoating\. After successful uncoating, the vRNPs are imported into the nucleus by importin alpha/beta (IMP alpha/beta), where viral replication and transcription take place and the new vRNPs are assembled. Recently, we have biochemically elucidated the molecular mechanisms of the processes of viral capsid uncoating subsequent viral genome dissociation. In this chapter, we present the molecular details of the viral uncoating process.
20012975 | [Pathogenesis and diagnosis of Sjogren's syndrome]. Sjogren's syndrome is a common autoimmune disorder. Several genetic risk factors such as STAT-4, ILT6 and the haplotype HLA-B8/DR3 have been identified. In addition, there are environmental risk factors, possibly chronic viral infections. In the pathophysiology of Sjogren's syndrome T and B cells infiltrate the salivary and lacrimal glands. As a consequence of the destruction of glandular cells by cytotoxic T cells, production of cytokines and autoantibodies inhibiting glandular function, the production of saliva and tears is decreased. The feeling of dry eyes and mouth is frequently not noticed by the patients. Therefore, Sjogren's syndrome should also be considered when extraglandular manifestations such as vasculitis, polyneuropathy or arthritis occur, even when the patients do not complain of dry eyes and mouth. Establishing the diagnosis of Sjogren's syndrome requires verification of reduced glandular function, for example using Schirmer's test and the Saxon test. The confirmation of Sjogren's syndrome as a cause of sicca syndrome is subsequently performed by the detection of autoantibodies against Ro (SS-A) and La (SS-B) and/or by a salivary gland biopsy.
38336025 | Systemic inflammation relates to neuroaxonal damage associated with long-term cognitive dysfunction in COVID-19 patients. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Cognitive deficits are increasingly recognized as a long-term sequela of severe COVID-19. The underlying processes and molecular signatures associated with these long-term neurological sequalae of COVID-19 remain largely unclear, but may be related to systemic inflammation-induced effects on the brain. We studied the systemic inflammation-brain interplay and its relation to development of long-term cognitive impairment in patients who survived severe COVID-19. Trajectories of systemic inflammation and neuroaxonal damage blood biomarkers during ICU admission were analyzed and related to long-term cognitive outcomes. METHODS: Prospective longitudinal cohort study of patients with severe COVID-19 surviving ICU admission. During admission, blood was sampled consecutively to assess levels of inflammatory cytokines and neurofilament light chain (NfL) using an ultrasensitive multiplex Luminex assay and single molecule array technique (Simoa). Cognitive functioning was evaluated using a comprehensive neuropsychological assessment six months after ICU-discharge. RESULTS: Ninety-six patients (median [IQR] age 61 [55-69] years) were enrolled from March 2020 to June 2021 and divided into two cohorts: those who received no COVID-19-related immunotherapy (n = 28) and those treated with either dexamethasone or dexamethasone and tocilizumab (n = 68). Plasma NfL concentrations increased in 95 % of patients during their ICU stay, from median [IQR] 23 [18-38] pg/mL at admission to 250 [160-271] pg/mL after 28 days, p < 0.001. Besides age, glomerular filtration rate, immunomodulatory treatment, and C-reactive protein, more specific markers of systemic inflammation at day 14 (i.e., interleukin (IL)-8, tumour necrosis factor, and IL-1 receptor antagonist) were significant predictors of blood NfL levels at day 14 of ICU admission (R2 = 44 %, p < 0.001), illustrating the association between sustained systemic inflammation and neuroaxonal damage. Twenty-six patients (27 %) exhibited cognitive impairment six months after discharge from the ICU. NfL concentrations showed a more pronounced increase in patients that developed cognitive impairment (p = 0.03). Higher NfL predicted poorer outcome in information processing speed (Trail Making Test A, r = -0.26, p = 0.01; Letter Digit Substitution Test, r = -0.24, p = 0.02). DISCUSSION: Prolonged systemic inflammation in critically ill COVID-19 patients is related to neuroaxonal damage and subsequent long-term cognitive impairment. Moreover, our findings suggest that plasma NfL concentrations during ICU stay may possess prognostic value in predicting future long-term cognitive impairment in patients that survived severe COVID-19.
31432181 | Clinical significance and prospective molecular mechanism of C-C motif chemokine receptors in patients with early-stage pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma after pancreaticoduodenectomy. The present study aimed to determine the clinical significance and potential molecular mechanisms of C-C motif chemokine receptor (CCR) genes in patients with early-stage pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). The transcriptomic, survival and clinical data of 112 patients with early-stage PDAC who underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas. The prognostic values of the CCR genes involved in early-stage PDAC were evaluated using Kaplan-Meier analysis and the multivariate Cox proportional risk regression model, and the potential molecular mechanisms were determined using bioinformatics tools. The identified CCRs closely interacted with each other at both the gene and protein levels. High expression levels of CCR5 [adjusted P=0.012; adjusted hazard ration (HR)=0.478, 95% confidence interval (CI)=0.269-0.852], CCR6 (adjusted P=0.026; adjusted HR=0.527, 95% CI=0.299-0.927) and CCR9 (adjusted P=0.001; adjusted HR=0.374, 95% CI=0.209-0.670) were significantly associated with longer overall survival times in patients with early-stage PDAC. The contribution of CCR5, CCR6 and CCR9 to the outcome of early-stage PDAC was also demonstrated. Combined survival analysis of CCR5, CCR6 and CCR9 suggested that patients with high expression levels of these CCRs exhibited the most favorable outcomes. A prognostic signature was constructed in terms of the expression level of CC5, CCR6 and CCR9, and time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curves indicated that this signature was able to effectively predict the outcome of patients with early-stage PDAC. The potential molecular mechanisms of CCR5, CC6 and CCR9 in PDAC include its intersection of the P53, nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB, generic transcription, mitogen-activated protein kinase and STAT signaling pathways. Collectively, this highlights that CCR5, CCR6 and CCR9 are potential prognostic biomarkers for early-stage PDAC.
36693093 | SARS-CoV-2 evolution influences GBP and IFITM sensitivity. SARS-CoV-2 spike requires proteolytic processing for viral entry. A polybasic furin-cleavage site (FCS) in spike, and evolution toward an optimized FCS by dominant variants of concern (VOCs), are linked to enhanced infectivity and transmission. Here we show interferon-inducible restriction factors Guanylate-binding proteins (GBP) 2 and 5 interfere with furin-mediated spike cleavage and inhibit the infectivity of early-lineage isolates Wuhan-Hu-1 and VIC. By contrast, VOCs Alpha and Delta escape restriction by GBP2/5 that we map to the spike substitution D614G present in these VOCs. Despite inhibition of spike cleavage, these viruses remained sensitive to plasma membrane IFITM1, but not endosomal IFITM2 and 3, consistent with a preference for TMPRSS2-dependent plasma membrane entry. Strikingly, we find that Omicron is unique among VOCs, being sensitive to restriction factors GBP2/5, and also IFITM1, 2, and 3. Using chimeric spike mutants, we map the Omicron phenotype and show that the S1 domain determines Omicron's sensitivity to GBP2/5, whereas the S2' domain determines its sensitivity to endosomal IFITM2/3 and preferential use of TMPRSS2-independent entry. We propose that evolution of SARS-CoV-2 for the D614G substitution has allowed for escape from GBP restriction factors, but the selective pressures on Omicron for spike changes that mediate antibody escape, and altered tropism, have come at the expense of increased sensitivity to innate immune restriction factors that target virus entry.
37378266 | Incomplete clustering analysis via multiple imputation. Clustering analysis is a prevalent statistical method which divides populations into several subgroups of similar units. However, most existing clustering methods require complete data. One general method that addresses incomplete data is multiple imputation (MI) which avoids many limitations found in other single imputation-based methods and complete case analyses. Nevertheless, adopting MI framework to clustering analysis can be challenging since each imputed data might consist of a different number of clusters and there is not a unique parameter for clustering analysis. In response to this problem, we have developed MICA: Multiply Imputed Cluster Analysis. MICA is a framework for clustering incomplete data consisting of two clustering stages. We assess the properties of MICA and its superiority over other existing incomplete clustering strategies based on a simulation study under various data structures. In addition, we demonstrate the usage of MICA by applying it to the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS) 2019 data.
33453166 | Alternative lengthening of telomeres is a self-perpetuating process in ALT-associated PML bodies. Alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) is mediated by break-induced replication (BIR), but how BIR is regulated at telomeres is poorly understood. Here, we show that telomeric BIR is a self-perpetuating process. By tethering PML-IV to telomeres, we induced telomere clustering in ALT-associated PML bodies (APBs) and a POLD3-dependent ATR response at telomeres, showing that BIR generates replication stress. Ablation of BLM helicase activity in APBs abolishes telomere synthesis but causes multiple chromosome bridges between telomeres, revealing a function of BLM in processing inter-telomere BIR intermediates. Interestingly, the accumulation of BLM in APBs requires its own helicase activity and POLD3, suggesting that BIR triggers a feedforward loop to further recruit BLM. Enhancing BIR induces PIAS4-mediated TRF2 SUMOylation, and PIAS4 loss deprives APBs of repair proteins and compromises ALT telomere synthesis. Thus, a BLM-driven and PIAS4-mediated feedforward loop operates in APBs to perpetuate BIR, providing a critical mechanism to extend ALT telomeres.
38293201 | JAK/STAT Signaling Predominates in Human and Murine Fungal Post-infectious Inflammatory Response Syndrome. Post-infection inflammatory syndromes have been increasingly recognized as a cause of host damage in a variety of infectious diseases including tuberculosis, bacterial meningitis, and COVID-19. Recently, a post-infectious inflammatory response syndrome (PIIRS) was described in non-HIV-infected cryptococcal fungal meningoencephalitis (CM) as a major cause of mortality. Inflammatory syndromes are particularly severe in neurological infections due to the skull's rigid structure which limits unchecked tissue expansion from inflammatory-induced edema. In the present studies, neurologic transcriptional pathway analysis utilizing a murine PIIRS model demonstrated a predominance of Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) activation. JAK/STAT inhibitor treatment resulted in improvements in CNS damage markers, reductions in intrathecal CD44hiCD62lo CD4+ effector CD4+ T-cells and MHC II+ inflammatory myeloid cells, and weight gains in mice, the latter after treatment with antifungals. Based on these data, pathway-driven steroid-sparing human treatment for steroid-refractory PIIRS was initiated using short courses of the JAK/STAT inhibitor ruxolitinib. These were well tolerated and reduced activated HLA-DR+ CD4+ and CD8+ cells and inflammatory monocytes as well as improved brain imaging. Together, these findings support the role of JAK/STAT in PIIRS as well as further study of JAK/STAT inhibitors as potential adjunctive therapy for PIRS and other neural inflammatory syndromes.
35356004 | The Shared Mechanism and Candidate Drugs of Multiple Sclerosis and Sjogren's Syndrome Analyzed by Bioinformatics Based on GWAS and Transcriptome Data. Objective: This study aimed to explore the shared mechanism and candidate drugs of multiple sclerosis (MS) and Sjogren's syndrome (SS). Methods: MS- and SS-related susceptibility genes and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by bioinformatics analysis based on genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and transcriptome data from GWAS catalog and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Pathway enrichment, Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, and protein-protein interaction analysis for susceptibility genes and DEGs were performed. The drugs targeting common pathways/genes were obtained through Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD), DrugBank database, and Drug-Gene Interaction (DGI) Database. The target genes of approved/investigational drugs for MS and SS were obtained through DrugBank and compared with the common susceptibility genes. Results: Based on GWAS data, we found 14 hub common susceptibility genes (HLA-DRB1, HLA-DRA, STAT3, JAK1, HLA-B, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQA2, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DRB5, HLA-DPA1, HLA-DPB1, TYK2, IL2RA, and MAPK1), with 8 drugs targeting two or more than two genes, and 28 common susceptibility pathways, with 15 drugs targeting three or more than three pathways. Based on transcriptome data, we found 3 hub common DEGs (STAT1, GATA3, PIK3CA) with 3 drugs and 10 common risk pathways with 435 drugs. \JAK-STAT signaling pathway\ was included in common susceptibility pathways and common risk pathways at the same time. There were 133 overlaps including JAK-STAT inhibitors between agents from GWAS and transcriptome data. Besides, we found that IL2RA and HLA-DRB1, identified as hub common susceptibility genes, were the targets of daclizumab and glatiramer that were used for MS, indicating that daclizumab and glatiramer may be therapeutic for SS. Conclusion: We observed the shared mechanism of MS and SS, in which JAK-STAT signaling pathway played a vital role, which may be the genetic and molecular bases of comorbidity of MS with SS. Moreover, JAK-STAT inhibitors were potential therapies for MS and SS, especially for their comorbidity.
37660567 | scAAGA: Single cell data analysis framework using asymmetric autoencoder with gene attention. In recent years, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has emerged as a powerful technique for investigating cellular heterogeneity and structure. However, analyzing scRNA-seq data remains challenging, especially in the context of COVID-19 research. Single-cell clustering is a key step in analyzing scRNA-seq data, and deep learning methods have shown great potential in this area. In this work, we propose a novel scRNA-seq analysis framework called scAAGA. Specifically, we utilize an asymmetric autoencoder with a gene attention module to learn important gene features adaptively from scRNA-seq data, with the aim of improving the clustering effect. We apply scAAGA to COVID-19 peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) scRNA-seq data and compare its performance with state-of-the-art methods. Our results consistently demonstrate that scAAGA outperforms existing methods in terms of adjusted rand index (ARI), normalized mutual information (NMI), and adjusted mutual information (AMI) scores, achieving improvements ranging from 2.8% to 27.8% in NMI scores. Additionally, we discuss a data augmentation technology to expand the datasets and improve the accuracy of scAAGA. Overall, scAAGA presents a robust tool for scRNA-seq data analysis, enhancing the accuracy and reliability of clustering results in COVID-19 research.
38508212 | The impact of introducing alcohol-free beer options in bars and public houses on alcohol sales and revenue: A randomised crossover field trial. AIMS: The study aimed to estimate the impact of introducing a draught alcohol-free beer, thereby increasing the relative availability of these products, on alcohol sales and monetary takings in bars and pubs in England. DESIGN: Randomised crossover field trial. SETTING: England. PARTICIPANTS: Fourteen venues that did not previously sell draught alcohol-free beer. INTERVENTION AND COMPARATOR: Venues completed two intervention periods and two control periods in a randomised order over 8 weeks. Intervention periods involved replacing one draught alcoholic beer with an alcohol-free beer. Control periods operated business as usual. MEASUREMENTS: The primary outcome was mean weekly volume (in litres) of draught alcoholic beer sold. The secondary outcome was mean weekly revenue [in GBP ($)] from all drinks. Analyses adjusted for randomised order, special events, season and busyness. FINDINGS: The adjusted mean difference in weekly sales of draught alcoholic beer was -20 L [95% confidence interval (CI) = -41 to +0.4], equivalent to a 4% reduction (95% CI = 8% reduction to 0.1% increase) in the volume of alcoholic draught beer sold when draught alcohol-free beer was available. Excluding venues that failed at least one fidelity check resulted in an adjusted mean difference of -29 L per week (95% CI = -53 to -5), equivalent to a 5% reduction (95% CI = 8% reduction to 0.8% reduction). The adjusted mean difference in weekly revenue was +61 GBP per week (95% CI = -328 to +450), equivalent to a 1% increase (95% CI = 5% decrease to 7% increase) when draught alcohol-free beer was available. CONCLUSIONS: Introducing a draught alcohol-free beer in bars and pubs in England reduced the volume of draught alcoholic beer sold by 4% to 5%, with no evidence of the intervention impacting net revenue.
38008353 | Bridging the gap - estimation of 2022/2023 SARS-CoV-2 healthcare burden in Germany based on multidimensional data from a rapid epidemic panel. INTRODUCTION: Throughout the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, Germany like other countries lacked adaptive population-based panels to monitor the spread of epidemic diseases. METHODS: To fill a gap of population-based estimates needed for winter 2022/23 we resampled in the German SARS-CoV-2 cohort study MuSPAD in mid-2022, including characterization of systemic cellular and humoral immune responses by interferon-gamma-release assay (IGRA) and CLIA/IVN assay. We were able to confirm categorization of our study population into four groups with differing protection levels against severe COVID-19 course based on literature synthesis. Using these estimates we assessed potential health care burden for winter 2022/23 in different scenarios with varying assumptions on transmissibility, pathogenicity, new variants, and vaccine booster campaigns in ordinary differential equation models. RESULTS: We included 9921 participants from eight German regions. While 85% of individuals were located in one of the two highest protection categories, hospitalization estimates from scenario modelling were highly dependent on viral variant characteristics ranging from 30-300% compared to the 02/2021 peak. Our results were openly communicated and published to an epidemic panel network and a newly established modelling network. CONCLUSION: We demonstrate feasibility of a rapid epidemic panel to provide complex immune protection levels for inclusion in dynamic disease burden modelling scenarios.
34758826 | Proteasome inhibitors restore the STAT1 pathway and enhance the expression of MHC class I on human colon cancer cells. BACKGROUND: A new strategy, particularly a novel combination, for immunotherapy in microsatellite stable metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) treatment needs to be formulated. Studies on the interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)/ Janus kinase (JAK)/ signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)1 pathway provide new directions in this regard. METHODS: Our study applies three colon cancer cell lines, including microsatellite stable (MSS) cell lines, which are SW480 and SW620, and microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) cell line, which is DLD-1. We compared the expressions of immune surface markers on colon cancer cells in response to IFN-gamma. We elucidated these mechanisms, which involved the upregulation of immune surface markers. Furthermore, we examined real-world clinical samples using the PerkinElmer Opal multiplex system and NanoString analysis. RESULTS: We established that the baseline expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I alleles and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) were generally low in cell line models. The immune surface markers were significantly increased after IFN-gamma stimulation on SW480 but were notably unresponsive on the SW620 cell line. We discovered that STAT1 and phosphorylated STAT1 (pSTAT1) were downregulated in the SW620 cell line. We verified that the STAT1/pSTAT1 could be restored through the application of proteasome inhibitors, especially bortezomib. The expression of MHC class I as downstream signals of STAT1 was also up-regulated by proteasome inhibitors. The similar results were reproduced in DLD-1 cell line, which was also initially unresponsive to IFN-gamma. In real-world samples of patients with mCRC, we found that higher STAT1 expression in tumor cells was strongly indicative of a highly immunogenic microenvironment, with significantly higher expression levels of MHC class I and PD-L1, not only on tumor cells but also on non-tumor cells. Furthermore, tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) were increased in the positive-STAT1 group. Through NanoString analysis, we confirmed that the mRNA expressions of IFN-gamma, human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A, HLA-E, and HLA-G were also significantly higher in the positive-STAT1 group than those in the negative-STAT1 group. CONCLUSION: Our study provides a novel rationale for the addition of bortezomib, a proteasome inhibitor, into new immunotherapy combinations.
21968657 | Enhanced phosphorylation of STAT-1 is dependent on double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase signaling in HLA-B27-expressing U937 monocytic cells. OBJECTIVE: To study the phosphorylation of STAT-1 in HLA-B27-transfected human monocytic cells and the role of the signaling molecules double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) and p38 in STAT-1 phosphorylation. METHODS: U937 human monocytic cell transfectants stably expressing wild-type HLA-B27 or mutated HLA-B27 heavy chains with amino acid substitutions in the B pocket were prepared. Mock-transfected cells were prepared using the antibiotic resistance vectors (pSV2neo or RSV5neo) alone. Phorbol myristate acetate-differentiated cells were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or infected with Salmonella enteritidis. The phosphorylation and expression levels of STAT-1 protein were detected by Western blotting and flow cytometry. Specific inhibitors were added in cell culture to study the role of PKR and p38 in STAT-1 phosphorylation. RESULTS: STAT-1 was constitutively highly phosphorylated on the tyrosine 701 residue in HLA-B27-positive monocytic cells when compared to control cells, even prior to stimulation with LPS or bacteria. This phenotype was associated with the expression of HLA-B27 heavy chains that misfold. In addition, phosphorylation of STAT-1 was dependent on PKR. CONCLUSION: Our results show that STAT-1 tyrosine 701 is constitutively highly phosphorylated in the HLA-B27-expressing monocyte/macrophage cell line. Since phosphorylation of tyrosine 701 on STAT-1 is sufficient to induce interferon (IFN)-dependent genes, constitutive activity of this phosphorylation site may lead to the overexpression of IFN-dependent genes, as well as other STAT-1-dependent genes, in HLA-B27 monocyte/macrophages. Our results offer a mechanism by which B27 expression alone, without any external trigger, is potentially capable of inducing activation of STAT-1, a critical regulator of the inflammatory response.
40633091 | STING agonists drive recruitment and intrinsic type I interferon responses in monocytic lineage cells for optimal anti-tumor immunity. The cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway, a sensor of cytosolic DNA, orchestrates the production of proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and type I interferons (IFN-Is), thereby contributing to spontaneous tumor surveillance. Intratumoral delivery of synthetic STING agonists induces IFN-I-dependent tumor regression in preclinical cancer models and is being tested clinically. In this study, we investigate the role of monocytic lineage cells (MCs) in response to STING agonist induced IFN-I signaling. We show that CCR2-deficient mice, lacking inflammatory MCs in the periphery, or Lyz2-Cre-IFNAR1fl/fl mice in which IFN-I signaling in monocytes is reduced, exhibit impaired responses to STING agonist therapy of MC38 and/or B16F10 tumors. STING agonist treatment induced CCR5-dependent migration of MCs carrying tumor antigen from the tumor to the lymph nodes. Single-cell RNA sequencing of CD45+ cells from lymph nodes and tumors of mice in which half the hematopoietic cells lack the IFNAR1 (interferon alpha/beta receptor 1) revealed that STING agonist therapy induces intrinsic IFNAR1-dependent acquisition of an inflammatory monocytic cell phenotype distinct from inflammatory classical dendritic cells (cDC) and a reduction in macrophages with a protumor TGFbeta/angiogenesis transcriptome. Interleukin (IL)-18-IL-18R1 interaction was the top predicted interaction between monocytic lineage cells and CD8+ T cells or natural killer cells. Blocking IL-18 reduced IFN-gamma production by CD8 T cells in lymph nodes and decreased the therapeutic efficacy of STING agonist treatment in Ccr2+/+ but not in Ccr2-/- mice. These findings support a pivotal role for IL-18 producing inflammatory monocytic lineage cells in CD8+ T cell control of melanoma following STING agonist treatment.
42109542 | Efficacy and Safety Profile of Oral Tofacitinib in Non-Segmental Vitiligo. Background: Vitiligo is a chronic disease that is often challenging to treat. Melanocyte destruction in vitiligo is mediated by immune pathways involving IFN-gamma and CD8+ T cells. Tofacitinib, a Janus kinase (JAK) 1/3 inhibitor, can be a promising treatment for vitiligo due to its potential to inhibit IFN-gamma signaling. We retrospectively reviewed the records of 16 patients (6 men, 10 women; mean age 39.7 years) with nonsegmental vitiligo refractory to conventional therapies who were treated with oral tofacitinib along with topical tacrolimus and phototherapy. Aims: To evaluate the efficacy and adverse effects of the JAK1/3 inhibitor, oral tofacitinib, in the treatment of nonsegmental vitiligo. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed the records of 16 patients (6 men, 10 women; mean age: 39.7 years) with nonsegmental vitiligo refractory to conventional therapies who were treated with oral tofacitinib along with topical tacrolimus and phototherapy. Improvement was assessed using Vitiligo Area Scoring Index (VASI) at weeks 6, 12, and 24. Hemogram, lipid profile, liver, and renal function tests were monitored during the treatment period. Results: Improvement was assessed using Vitiligo Area Scoring Index (VASI) at weeks 6, 12, and 24. Mean VASI scores improved from 5.038 at baseline to 1.269 at 24 weeks, with 13 patients (81.25%) achieving at least 50% improvement. Transient leukopenia was observed in 3 patients, and one patient developed palmar warts. Conclusions: Oral tofacitinib shows significant potential in the management of nonsegmental vitiligo, in patients unresponsive to conventional therapies especially in combination with phototherapy. No significant adverse effects were observed during the follow up period other than a transient leukopenia in three patients and palmar warts in one patient.
19949079 | Conserved amino acids within the adenovirus 2 E3/19K protein differentially affect downregulation of MHC class I and MICA/B proteins. Successful establishment and persistence of adenovirus (Ad) infections are facilitated by immunosubversive functions encoded in the early transcription unit 3 (E3). The E3/19K protein has a dual role, preventing cell surface transport of MHC class I/HLA class I (MHC-I/HLA-I) Ags and the MHC-I-like molecules (MHC-I chain-related chain A and B [MICA/B]), thereby inhibiting both recognition by CD8 T cells and NK cells. Although some crucial functional elements in E3/19K have been identified, a systematic analysis of the functional importance of individual amino acids is missing. We now have substituted alanine for each of 21 aas in the luminal domain of Ad2 E3/19K conserved among Ads and investigated the effects on HLA-I downregulation by coimmunoprecipitation, pulse-chase analysis, and/or flow cytometry. Potential structural alterations were monitored using conformation-dependent E3/19K-specific mAbs. The results revealed that only a small number of mutations abrogated HLA-I complex formation (e.g., substitutions W52, M87, and W96). Mutants M87 and W96 were particularly interesting as they exhibited only minimal structural changes suggesting that these amino acids make direct contacts with HLA-I. The considerable number of substitutions with little functional defects implied that E3/19K may have additional cellular target molecules. Indeed, when assessing MICA/B cell-surface expression we found that mutation of T14 and M82 selectively compromised MICA/B downregulation with essentially no effect on HLA-I modulation. In general, downregulation of HLA-I was more severely affected than that of MICA/B; for example, substitutions W52, M87, and W96 essentially abrogated HLA-I modulation while largely retaining the ability to sequester MICA/B. Thus, distinct conserved amino acids seem preferentially important for a particular functional activity of E3/19K.
42145610 | Maternal adiposity and inflammatory immune trajectories during pregnancy in women with HIV. Pregnancy requires tightly regulated immune adaptation, which may be altered by maternal adiposity and HIV infection. In high HIV prevalence settings with rising obesity rates, overlapping metabolic and infectious inflammation may shape gestational immune trajectories. We examined patterns of C-reactive (CRP), serum amyloid A (SAA), and interferon-gamma inducible protein-10 (IP-10) among 527 pregnant women living with HIV in Cape Town, South Africa. Immune markers were measured at up to four antenatal visits. Maternal body mass index (BMI) was categorised as normal, overweight or obese. Antiretroviral therapy (ART) exposure was classified as initiation before conception or during pregnancy. Mixed-effects models assessed associations, adjusting for baseline CD4 cell count and viral load. CRP concentrations remained elevated across pregnancy and were significantly higher among obese women independent of ART timing. In contrast, IP-10 concentrations were strongly associated with ART timing, with higher levels observed prior to ART initiation and declining thereafter; no independent association with BMI was observed. SAA concentrations were modestly lower among obese women and among those on preconception ART. These divergent patterns persisted after adjustment for HIV disease severity. These findings suggest that metabolic and HIV-related inflammatory pathways operate in parallel during pregnancy, with adiposity predominantly influencing acute-phase responses and HIV-related immune activation shaping interferon-associated chemokines trajectories.
42143018 | Expansion of NKG2A+CD8+ T cells with regulatory signatures distinguish individuals living with HIV-2 from those with HIV-1. BACKGROUND: NKG2A+CD8+ T cells are unconventional T cells described in the context of various diseases. However, their role remains poorly understood. People living with HIV-2 (PLWH2), unlike people living with HIV-1 (PLWH1), exhibit minimal intestinal inflammation despite continuous viral replication in the absence of antiretroviral treatment, but the mechanisms underlying this protection are unknown. METHODS: We characterized NKG2A+ and NKG2C+ CD8+ T cells from PLWH1 and PLWH2 with distinctive clinical phenotypes using spectral flow cytometry. Their functional response was evaluated using target cells, polyclonal T cell receptor activation, and cytokine stimulations. Cellular and plasma markers of gut mucosal integrity, T cell activation, and systemic inflammation were quantified. FINDINGS: NKG2A+ and NKG2C+ CD8+ T cells demonstrated stronger responsiveness to stimulation than conventional CD8+ T cells. NKG2A+CD8+ T cells frequently expressed regulatory molecules, homing receptors, and interleukin-22 (IL-22). The frequencies of NKG2A+ and NKG2C+ CD8+ T cells were increased in PLWH2 compared to PLWH1. They more frequently expressed DNAM-1 (CD226), CCR5, and CD49d. NKG2A+CD8+ T cells from PLWH2 correlated with gut integrity (CD4+ T helper 17/regulatory T cell ratio) and reduced chronic immune activation. PLWH2 displayed lower levels of plasma biomarkers of inflammation, gut integrity, and IL-23, but higher levels of IL-15 compared to PLWH1. IL-15 promoted the functional activity of NKG2A+CD8+ T cells and enhanced their expression of CD39 and DNAM-1. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that NKG2A+CD8+ T cells contribute to the maintenance of gut homeostasis and low systemic inflammation in PLWH2. FUNDING: This work was funded by Sidaction, ANRS-MIE, Institut Pasteur, and the MESRI (France).
41415437 | A Conserved Landscape of Chemokine Receptor Co-expression Defines the Functional States of CD8+ T Cells in Melanoma. Cancer immunotherapies, from checkpoint blockade to adoptive cell therapies like tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), have revolutionized cancer treatment but are limited by variable efficacy and significant toxicities. A central challenge is identifying ideal T-cell populations that effectively eliminate tumors without causing off-target damage, a distinction not captured by existing biomarkers. We show that co-expression patterns of chemokine receptors (CRs) CXCR3, CCR5, and CXCR6 on CD8 + T cells provide a functional \code\ defining subsets with divergent roles in on-target immunity versus off-target inflammation. In mouse and human melanoma, a triple-positive (CXCR3 + CCR5 + CXCR6 + ) T-cell subset is essential for tumor control, and its genetic signature correlates with positive clinical response, while a distinct CCR5 + CXCR6 + subset drives liver immune-related adverse events (IRAEs). Crucially, this CR code reveals that immunotherapy actively reshapes T-cell trafficking patterns, uncovering profound heterogeneity within conventional populations and distinguishing potent anti-tumor progenitors from cells predisposed to exhaustion or off-target migration. This work establishes CR co-expression as a practical tool, providing a surface marker-based strategy to identify and enrich optimized T cells for adoptive therapies, thereby offering a framework to uncouple efficacy from toxicity.
40522146 | High expression of CCL3/CCL4/CCL5/CCR5 promotes exhausted CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells terminal differentiation and is associated with poor prognosis in pediatric B-ALL patients. This study aims to identify differentially upregulated ligand-receptor interactions between B-ALL cells and exhausted CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells and to develop a multivariate Cox regression model for predicting the overall survival of pediatric B-ALL patients based on CCL3/CCL4/CCL5 expression levels. Pediatric B cell-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is a hematopoietic malignancy. T cell exhaustion has an important impact on the prognosis of leukemia. The interaction between tumor cells and T cells can influence the degree of T cell exhaustion. However, the effects of B-ALL cells on exhausted T cell subpopulations and how the interaction influences the prognosis of B-ALL patients remain unclear. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) data from pediatric B-ALL patients were downloaded from GEO. Cell interaction analysis identified ligand-receptor pairs between B-ALL cells and exhausted CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell. To confirm the function of <i>CCL3</i>/<i>CCL4</i>/<i>CCL5</i>/<i>CCR5</i> in prognosis prediction, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was employed. We further developed an innovative stratified model that integrates <i>CCL3</i>, <i>CCL4</i>, and <i>CCL5</i> through multi-Cox regression. Clustering of scRNA-Seq data revealed an increased proportion of exhausted CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells in relapsed B-ALL, especially terminal exhausted CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells (CD8_Ex), with increased exhaustion and decreased proliferation scores. Moreover, the CCL3/CCL4/CCL5-CCR5 axis was upregulated in interactions between B-ALL cells and terminal CD8_Ex. Transcriptome data from 221 pediatric B-ALL samples revealed that high CCL3/CCL4/CCL5/CCR5 levels correlate with low overall survival (OS). A multivariate Cox regression model incorporating CCL3/CCL4/CCL5 predicted prognoses. Finally, a model based on the adult B-ALL patients from our center also accurately predicted prognoses. We report for the first time the crucial role of the CCL3/CCL4/CCL5-CCR5 axis in the differentiation of terminal exhausted CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells in B-ALL. High expression of CCL3, CCL4, CCL5, and CCR5 correlates with poor prognosis in B-ALL, suggesting potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
25217579 | The role of microRNAs in the control of innate immune response in cancer. Ligands for receptors of natural killer (NK) cells and CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), such as the inhibitory nonclassical HLA-G, the activating stress-induced major histocompatibility complex class I-related antigens MICA and MICB, and/or the UL16-binding proteins (ULBPs), are often aberrantly expressed upon viral infection and neoplastic transformation, thereby preventing virus-infected or malignant-transformed cells from elimination by immune effector cells. Recently, it has been shown that ligands of both NK and CD8(+) T cells are regulated by a number of cellular and/or viral microRNAs (miRs). These miRs are involved in shaping the antiviral and/or antitumoral immune responses as well as neoplastic growth properties. This review summarizes the expression pattern and function of miRs directed against selected NK and T cell receptor ligands, their putative role in shaping immune surveillance and tumorigenicity, and their clinical relevance. In addition, the potential role of RNA-binding proteins in the post-transcriptional gene regulation of these ligands will be discussed.
26387944 | Inhibition of Super-Enhancer Activity in Autoinflammatory Site-Derived T Cells Reduces Disease-Associated Gene Expression. The underlying molecular mechanisms for many autoimmune diseases are poorly understood. Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is an exceptionally well-suited model for studying autoimmune diseases due to its early onset and the possibility to analyze cells derived from the site of inflammation. Epigenetic profiling, utilizing primary JIA patient-derived cells, can contribute to the understanding of autoimmune diseases. With H3K27ac chromatin immunoprecipitation, we identified a disease-specific, inflammation-associated, typical enhancer and super-enhancer signature in JIA patient synovial-fluid-derived CD4(+) memory/effector T cells. RNA sequencing of autoinflammatory site-derived patient T cells revealed that BET inhibition, utilizing JQ1, inhibited immune-related super-enhancers and preferentially reduced disease-associated gene expression, including cytokine-related processes. Altogether, these results demonstrate the potential use of enhancer profiling to identify disease mediators and provide evidence for BET inhibition as a possible therapeutic approach for the treatment of autoimmune diseases.
33830530 | Association between the HLA genotype and the severity of COVID-19 infection among South Asians. Regional variations are found in the incidence and severity of the COVID-19 infection. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) polymorphism is one of the genetic factors that might have an impact on the outcome of the disease. This study explored the association between the HLA genotype and the severity of COVID-19 among patients from South Asia. Blood samples from 95 Asians (Bangladeshis, Indians, and Pakistanis) with COVID-19 were collected. The patients were divided according to the severity of their infection: mild (N = 64), severe (N = 31), and fatal (N = 20). DNA was extracted from all samples, and HLA genotyping was performed for both class I (A, B, and C) and class II (DRB1, DQA1, and DQB1) using the PCR-rSSO (polymerase chain reaction-reverse sequence-specific oligonucleotide) molecular method. The frequency of HLA-B*51 was significantly higher among patients in the fatal group than among those in the mild infection group (15% vs. 4.7%, p = 0.027). Additionally, the frequency of HLA-B*35 was significantly higher in the mild infection group than in the fatal group (21.1% vs. 7.5%, p = 0.050 [a borderline p-value]). In terms of HLA class II, DRB1*13 was significantly observed in the fatal group than in the mild infection group (17.5% vs. 11.3%, p = 0.049). However, the p-value for all alleles became insignificant after a statistical correction for the p-values (pc  = 0.216, pc  = 0.4, and pc  = 0.49, respectively). Compared with all published data, this study highlights that the association between the HLA system and the COVID-19 outcome might be ethnic-dependent. Genetic variation between populations must be examined on a wider scale to assess infection prognosis and vaccine effectiveness.
33905752 | HLA-C*17 in COVID-19 patients: Hints for associations with severe clinical outcome and cardiovascular risk.
40595568 | PI3Kgamma signaling controls trafficking of CD8+ T cells between lymphoid and non-lymphoid organs and drives hypertension in a murine model. Activated immune cells infiltrate the vasculature during the pathophysiology of hypertension by establishing a vascular-immune interface that contributes to blood pressure dysregulation and organ failure. Many observations indicate a key role of CD8+ T cells in hypertension but mechanisms regulating their activation and interplay with the cardiovascular system are still unknown. In murine model, here we show that a specific member of the phosphoinositide-3-kinases (PI3K) family of lipid kinases, PI3Kgamma, is a key intracellular signaling of CD8+ T cells activation and RANTES/CCL5 secretion in hypertension: CCL5-CCR5 signaling is crucial for the establishment of the vascular-immune interface in peripheral organs, lastly contributing to CD8+ tissue infiltration, organ dysfunction and blood pressure elevation. Our studies identify PI3Kgamma as a booster of effector CD8+ T cell function, even in the absence of external stimuli. Lastly, an enhanced PI3Kgamma signaling mediates the bystander activation of CD8+ T cells and proves effective in transferring the hypertensive phenotype between mice.
41854744 | Gsalpha deficiency in macrophages promotes tumor progression via the MAPK signaling pathway. Under diverse stimuli in the tumor microenvironment, tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are susceptible to polarize toward an immunosuppressive phenotype. Reprogramming TAMs is a promising strategy for cancer immunotherapy. As a downstream molecule of G protein-coupled receptors, the alpha subunit of the stimulatory G protein (Gsalpha) plays an indispensable role in the transduction of extracellular signals to intracellular signals. However, whether Gsalpha is responsible for the reprogramming and polarization of TAMs is largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that Gsalpha deficiency in TAMs accelerates tumor growth and metastasis in B16 and MC38 tumor cells. Further investigations revealed that Gsalpha upregulates the expression of CD86, CCR5, Il1b and Nos2 and inhibits CD206 and Il10 expression, which facilitates the recruitment and antitumoral activity of TAMs and contributes to the increased effector activity of CD8+ T cells. Mechanistically, Gsalpha promotes the proinflammatory M1-like polarization of TAMs by increasing the phosphorylation of ERK, p38 and JNK in the MAPK signaling pathway. In summary, our study indicates that Gsalpha-deficient TAMs exhibit protumoral activity via the MAPK pathway, suggesting a novel potential target for cancer immunotherapy based on TAMs reprogramming. KEY MESSAGES: Deficiency of Gsalpha in TAMs accelerates tumor growth and metastasis in B16 and MC38 tumor models in vivo and in vitro. Further investigations reveal that Gsalpha upregulates expression of CD86, CCR5, Il1b and Nos2, and inhibits CD206 and Il10 expression, which facilitates antitumoral activity of TAMs. Mechanistically, Gsalpha promotes M1 polarization of TAMs via upregulating phosphorylation of ERK, p38 and JNK in MAPK signaling pathway.
42024459 | Co-administration of Rapamycin with a DNA/MVA SIV Vaccine Improves Memory CD8 T Cell Response. Inhibiting the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) during acute viral infection generates highly functional memory CD8 T cells. We investigated the effects of inhibiting mTOR by using rapamycin during the effector and contraction phases of the immune response to a DNA prime and Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) boost SIV vaccination in rhesus macaques. Rapamycin administered either during MVA boosts alone (DMR) or during both primes and boosts (DRMR) reduced the contraction of effector CD8 T cells, resulting in higher frequencies of SIV-specific memory CD8 T cells with enhanced quality as indicated by expression of Bcl-2 and CD127. Additionally, rapamycin reduced the frequency of proliferating CCR5+ CD4 T cells in the blood following the MVA boost. Post SIV251 infection, rapamycin-treated macaques demonstrated marked expansion of SIV-specific CD8 T cells (reaching up to 50% in blood and 25% in gut). The heightened expansion of SIV-specific CD8 T cells in the DMR group was associated with markedly lower (2-logs compared to unvaccinated and 1-log compared to DM) peak viral load in the gut and set-point viremia, along with improved survival post infection. Thus, inhibiting the mTOR pathway during MVA boosts of a DNA/MVA vaccine enhances vaccine efficacy by improving memory CD4 and CD8 T cell function.
38953028 | The HHV-6B U20 glycoprotein binds ULBP1, masking it from recognition by NKG2D and interfering with natural killer cell activation. Introduction: Human Herpesvirus 6B (HHV-6B) impedes host immune responses by downregulating class I MHC molecules (MHC-I), hindering antigen presentation to CD8+ T cells. Downregulation of MHC-I disengages inhibitory receptors on natural killer (NK) cells, resulting in activation and killing of the target cell if NK cell activating receptors such as NKG2D have engaged stress ligands upregulated on the target cells. Previous work has shown that HHV-6B downregulates three MHC-like stress ligands MICB, ULBP1, and ULBP3, which are recognized by NKG2D. The U20 glycoprotein of the related virus HHV-6A has been implicated in the downregulation of ULBP1, but the precise mechanism remains undetermined. Methods: We set out to investigate the role of HHV-6B U20 in modulating NK cell activity. We used HHV-6B U20 expressed as a recombinant protein or transduced into target cells, as well as HHV-6B infection, to investigate binding interactions with NK cell ligands and receptors and to assess effects on NK cell activation. Small-angle X-ray scattering was used to align molecular models derived from machine-learning approaches. Results: We demonstrate that U20 binds directly to ULBP1 with sub-micromolar affinity. Transduction of U20 decreases NKG2D binding to ULBP1 at the cell surface but does not decrease ULBP1 protein levels, either at the cell surface or in toto. HHV-6B infection and soluble U20 have the same effect. Transduction of U20 blocks NK cell activation in response to cell-surface ULBP1. Structural modeling of the U20 - ULBP1 complex indicates some similarities to the m152-RAE1gamma complex.
21958371 | Human-leukocyte antigen class I Cw 1502 and class II DR 0301 genotypes are associated with resistance to severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) infection. One-hundred and thirty confirmed cases of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) were recruited to evaluate their anti-SARS-coronavirus (CoV) antibody status and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) types in September 2006, 3 y after the SARS outbreaks in Taiwan. Western blot assay showed that 6.9% of participants still had anti-spike and anti-nucleocapside antibodies. A case-control study of the association of HLA with SARS revealed that the HLA-Cw1502 and DR0301 alleles conferred resistance against SARS infection (p<0.05).
41862326 | [Summary of second-line treatment of stage IV NSCLC without oncogenic addiction]. Stage IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) without actionable mutations remains a major therapeutic challenge, especially following immunotherapy failure. The introduction of immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti-PD-1/PD-L1) has revolutionized first-line treatment, but second-line options remain largely dependent on older chemotherapies such as docetaxel or pemetrexed. A significant number of patients experience disease progression despite immunotherapy, highlighting tumor resistance mechanisms, whether primary (rapid failure) or acquired (after initial response). Resistance mechanisms include low CD8+ T-cell infiltration, genetic mutations (PTEN, JAK), loss of neoantigens, and tumor-induced immunosuppression. Innovative strategies are under investigation: antibody-drug conjugates (anti-TROP-2, anti-CEACAM-5), cancer vaccines (TEDOPI), external electric fields (TTFields), oncolytic viruses, and PROTACs. While some of these show promise in progression-free survival, global survival benefit remains modest. The identification of robust predictive biomarkers is essential for tailoring future therapies.
14504086 | VWRPY motif-dependent and -independent roles of AML1/Runx1 transcription factor in murine hematopoietic development. AML1/Runx1 is a frequent target of leukemia-associated gene aberration, and it encodes a transcription factor essential for definitive hematopoiesis. We previously reported that the AML1 molecules with trans-activation subdomains retained can rescue in vitro hematopoietic defects of AML1-deficient mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells when expressed by using a knock-in approach. Extending this notion to in vivo conditions, we found that the knock-in ES cell clones with AML1 mutants, which retain trans-activation subdomains but lack C-terminal repression subdomains including the conserved VWRPY motif, contribute to hematopoietic tissues in chimera mice. We also found that germline mice homozygous for the mutated AML1 allele, which lacks the VWRPY motif, exhibit a minimal effect on hematopoietic development, as was observed in control knock-in mice with full-length AML1. On the other hand, reduced cell numbers and deviant CD4 expression were observed during early T-lymphoid ontogeny in the VWRPY-deficient mice, whereas the contribution to the thymus by the corresponding ES cell clones was inadequate. These findings demonstrate that AML1 with its trans-activating subdomains is essential and sufficient for hematopoietic development in the context of the entire mouse. In addition, its trans-repression activity, depending on the C-terminal VWRPY motif, plays a role in early thymocyte development.
41946995 | SETDB2 induces abnormal SHP-1 splicing and promotes immunosuppression in hepatocellular carcinoma. The clinical application of targeted therapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) has significantly improved the survival prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, due to the high heterogeneity of HCC, the response rate to immunotherapy is still low, and there is an urgent need to identify reliable biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets to improve the therapeutic benefit. In this study, a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) model of HCC was constructed to compare and analyze the tumor tissues of the immunotherapy responder group and the non-responder group. RNA sequencing and proteomics combined analysis found that histone H3K9 trimethyltransferase SETDB2 was highly expressed in the non-responder group. Functional experiments showed that SETDB2 deficiency could significantly inhibit tumorigenesis, enhance CD8+ T cell infiltration, and improve the immune microenvironment. Further mechanistic studies found that SETDB2 shut down the chromatin structure of the promoter region of the splicing factor SRSF1 through H3K9me3 modification, inhibiting its expression, thereby leading to a decrease in the proportion of functional spliceosomes of the immune regulatory factor SHP-1. After the activity of SHP-1 was weakened, the JAK/STAT3 signaling pathway was continuously activated, leading to an enhanced tumor immunosuppressive phenotype. SETDB2 overexpression also promoted the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages M2 and inhibited the function of effector T cells, leading to a decrease in immunotherapy response. This study systematically revealed that SETDB2 regulates SRSF1 expression through an epigenetic mechanism mediated by H3K9me3, thereby driving the SHP-1 spliceosome deviation, activating STAT3 signaling and reshaping the key pathway of the immune microenvironment. The SETDB2/SRSF1/SHP-1/STAT3 axis plays a core role in HCC immune escape, providing a new perspective on the mechanism of resistance to immunotherapy in liver cancer, and providing a theoretical basis and potential biomarkers for the combined epigenetic targeted intervention strategy of ICIs.
22144105 | Differential effects of inhibition of bone morphogenic protein (BMP) signalling on T-cell activation and differentiation. Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are involved in patterning and cellular fate in various organs including the thymus. However, the redundancy of BMPs and their receptors have made it difficult to analyse their physiological roles. Here, we investigated the role of BMP signalling in peripheral CD4(+)  T cells by analysing the effects of an inhibitor of BMP signalling, dorsomorphin. Dorsomorphin suppressed phosphorylation of SMAD1/5/8, suggesting that BMP signalling naturally occurs in T cells. At high doses, dorsomorphin suppressed proliferation of T cells in a dose-dependent manner, inducing G1 arrest. Also, dorsomorphin suppressed Th17 and induced Treg-cell differentiation, while preserving Th2 differentiation. Dorsomorphin efficiently suppressed IL-2 production even at low doses in mouse CD4(+)  T cells, suggesting that the BMP-Smad signalling physiologically regulates IL-2 transcription in these cells. In addition, recombinant BMP2 induced a dose-dependent multiphasic pattern of IL-2 production, while Noggin suppressed IL-2 production at higher doses in Jurkat cells. Notably, BMP signalling controlled the phosphorylation of RUNX1, revealing the molecular nature of its effect. Collectively, we describe multiple effects of dorsomorphin and Noggin on T-cell activation and differentiation, demonstrating a physiological role for BMP signalling in these processes.
41226415 | COVID-19 Hijacking of the Host Epigenome: Mechanisms, Biomarkers and Long-Term Consequences. The epigenetics of COVID-19 is a rapidly expanding field that reveals how the SARS-CoV-2 virus initiates alterations in the host's genome, influencing the susceptibility to infection, the disease severity, and long-term consequences, known as \long COVID.\ In this review, we describe the mechanisms utilized by the virus to manipulate the host epigenome, suppressing antiviral responses and creating a favorable environment for viral replication. We also highlight virus-induced epigenetic changes across diverse cell populations that contribute to COVID-19 pathogenesis. Notably, the virus reprograms hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, leading to long-lasting alterations in innate immunity, a phenomenon known as \trained immunity.\ These epigenetic modifications are maintained in differentiated daughter cells and may explain the persistent inflammation and other symptoms of long COVID. Furthermore, we discuss emerging epigenetic biomarkers of disease severity, including methylation signatures in genes such as AIM2, HLA-C, and PARP9, as well as dysregulated miRNA profiles. Understanding this complex interplay between the virus and the host's epigenetic landscape is crucial for developing new therapeutic approaches that target specific epigenetic modifications to suppress pathological processes and improve clinical outcomes for COVID-19 patients.
40061315 | Soluble immune checkpoints are dysregulated in patients with sickle cell disease and correlate with inflammatory mediators, autoantibodies, immune cell profiles, and clinical outcomes. Background: Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a chronic condition characterized by inflammation, immune dysregulation, and debilitating pain. Aim: This study investigates soluble immune checkpoints (sICPs) and their associations with inflammatory mediators, immune cell profiles, autoantibodies, and clinical outcomes in SCD. Method: Peripheral blood samples from 50 SCD patients and 40 demographic-matched healthy controls (HCs) were analyzed for 37 sICPs, 80 inflammatory mediators, and 18 autoantibodies using multiplex assays, alongside immune cell profiles via flow cytometry. Pain and quality of life (QoL) were assessed through patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs). Results: Twenty-three sICPs, including arginase-1, BTLA, CD27, CD28, CD47, CD80, CD96, CD134, CD137, CD152, GITR, HVEM, IDO, LAG-3, MICA, MICB, Nectin-2, PD-1, Siglec-7, Siglec-9, TIM-3, TIMD-4, and VISTA, were significantly elevated in SCD patients compared to HCs. These sICPs correlated with multiple proinflammatory mediators (e.g., IL-18), autoantibodies (e.g., MPO), and immune cell activation markers (e.g., CD38/HLA-DR on CD8 T cells). Notably, CD28, CD152, HVEM, and VISTA were strongly associated with systemic inflammation and immune cell activation, while BTLA, LAG-3, PD-1, and CD80 correlated with pain and anxiety scores and QoL. Conclusion: This study highlights complex interactions between sICPs, immune activation, inflammation, and clinical outcomes in SCD, underscoring their potential as biomarkers or therapeutic targets to alleviate inflammation and improve QoL in this challenging clinical population.
23527639 | 17beta-Estradiol suppresses MHC class I chain-related B gene expression via an intact GC box. Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related B (MICB) is a membrane-bound glycoprotein involved in both innate and adaptive immunity through its interaction with NKG2D receptors present on gammadelta T, alphabeta CD8(+) T, and natural killer cells. Factors known to upregulate MICB expression include heat shock, viral or bacterial infection, and tumorigenesis, and here, we explored the effect of 17beta-estradiol (E2) on MICB regulation. Physiological concentrations of E2 were found to suppress MICB mRNA and surface protein levels and this effect was antagonized by the antiestrogen ICI 182780. The inhibitory effect of E2 was also observed for other NKG2D ligands, MICA and ULBPs. Evaluation of promoter fragments from the common MICB*00502 allele revealed that inhibition of transcription by E2 required the GC box at -87. The electrophoretic mobility shift assay and supershift analysis established the presence of SP1, SP3, or estrogen receptor alpha recognition sites within the MICB promoter sequence and interaction of these factors in situ was confirmed by chromatin immunoprecipitation. We conclude that E2 upon forming a complex with its cognate receptor suppresses MICB expression through binding with SP1/SP3 sites within the MICB promoter GC box. These results suggest that the partial benefit of 17beta-estradiol on autoimmune diseases may be mediated by reducing the immune NKG2D ligands like MICB.
41432877 | CCR5 expression defines the functional heterogeneity of tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells and predicts enhanced antitumor immunity and favorable prognosis in non-small cell lung cancer. BACKGROUND: CD8+ T cells play a key role in antitumor immunity, but their heterogeneity leads to inconsistent prognostic associations. CCR5 (C-C chemokine receptor type 5) is a key regulator of CD8+ T cell migration into the tumor microenvironment, suggesting that CCR5+CD8+ T cells may have unique antitumor functions and prognostic significance. However, this hypothesis has not yet been validated. METHODS: We investigated the role of CCR5+CD8+ T cells in tumors and their prognostic value in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) through comprehensive analyses including bulk transcriptomic profiling of TCGA and GEO cohorts, single-cell RNA sequencing of 15 NSCLC patient samples, multiplex immunofluorescence staining of tumor tissues, and in vitro tumor cell co-culture killing experiments. RESULTS: We identified that high levels of CCR5+CD8+ T cell infiltration were significantly associated with improved overall survival across multiple cohorts and served as an independent prognostic factor. Gene enrichment analysis indicated that CCR5 upregulation is linked to T cell activation and enhanced antitumor immunity. CCR5 expression correlated more strongly with CD8+ T cell infiltration than that of other CCR family members. Functional assays revealed reduced tumor cell lysis following CCR5 antagonist treatment, indicating impaired T cell cytotoxicity. Single-cell analysis further showed that CCR5+CD8+ T cells represent a functionally potent antitumor subset. CONCLUSION: CCR5+CD8+ T cells exhibit antitumor activity in NSCLC and could serve as a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.
37451436 | Differential Transcriptomic Landscapes of SARS-CoV-2 Variants in Multiple Organs from Infected Rhesus Macaques. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) caused the persistent coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, which has resulted in millions of deaths worldwide and brought an enormous public health and global economic burden. The recurring global wave of infections has been exacerbated by growing variants of SARS-CoV-2. In this study, the virological characteristics of SARS-CoV-2 and its variants of concern (VOC, including Alpha, Beta, and Delta) in vitro and differential transcriptomic landscapes in multiple organs (lung, right ventricle, blood, cerebral cortex, and cerebellum) from the infected rhesus macaques were elucidated. The original strain of SARS-CoV-2 caused a stronger innate immune response in the host cells, and VOC markedly increased levels of subgenomic RNA (sgRNA), such as N, Orf9b, Orf6, and Orf7ab, which are known as innate immune antagonists and the inhibitor of antiviral factors. Intriguingly, the original SARS-CoV-2 strain and Alpha strain induced larger alteration of RNA abundance in tissues of rhesus monkeys than Beta and Delta variants did. Moreover, an hyperinflammatory state and active immune response were shown in right ventricle by the up-regulation of inflammation- and immune-related RNAs. Furthermore, peripheral blood may mediate signaling transmission among tissues to coordinate the molecular changes in the infected individuals. Collectively, these data provide insights into the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 and its VOC infection in the early stage.
42091690 | USP21 drives immune evasion in colorectal cancer via deubiquitination and stabilization of beta-catenin. The efficacy of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains limited. Thus, elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying tumor immune evasion and identifying novel predictive biomarkers are critical for improving immunotherapy outcomes in CRC patients. Here, we report that ubiquitin-specific peptidase 21 (USP21) is overexpressed in tumor tissues from CRC patients who fail to respond to immunotherapy and that its expression is correlated with CD8+ T-cell exclusion and impaired antitumor immunity. To functionally validate these clinical observations, we employed syngeneic mouse models of both microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) and microsatellite stable (MSS) CRC. Genetic ablation of Usp21 or treatment with the USP21 inhibitor BAY-805 significantly enhanced tumor-reactive CD8+ T-cell responses, suppressed tumor progression, and synergized with anti-PD-1 therapy. Mechanistically, USP21 stabilized beta-catenin by removing K48-linked ubiquitin chains, enabling its nuclear translocation and binding to the ATF3 promoter to upregulate ATF3 expression. ATF3 subsequently mediated transcriptional repression of the chemokine CCL4, thereby limiting CD8+ T-cell trafficking and function via the CCL4-CCR5 axis. Importantly, the therapeutic potential of targeting USP21 to enhance anti-PD-1 efficacy was further validated in huCD34+ humanized mice. Collectively, our findings identify USP21 as a pivotal regulator of immune evasion, and inhibiting USP21 represents a promising adjuvant strategy to increase the efficacy of ICB in CRC.
19568423 | Absence of leucine zipper in the natural FOXP3Delta2Delta7 isoform does not affect dimerization but abrogates suppressive capacity. BACKGROUND: Phenotype and function of regulatory T cells (Treg) largely depend on the presence of the transcription factor FOXP3. In contrast to mice, human Treg cells express isoforms of this protein. Besides the full length version (FOXP3fl), an isoform lacking the exon 2 (FOXP3Delta2) is co-expressed in comparable amounts. Recently, a third splice variant has been described that in addition to exon 2 also misses exon 7 (FOXP3Delta2Delta7). Exon 7 encodes for a leucine zipper motif commonly used as structural dimerization element. Mutations in exon 7 have been linked to IPEX, a severe autoimmune disease suggested to be caused by impaired dimerization of the FOXP3 protein. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: This study shows that the lack of exon 7 does not affect (homo-) dimerization. Moreover, the interaction of FOXP3Delta2Delta7 to RUNX1, NFAT and NF-kB appeared to be unchanged in co-immunoprecipitation experiments and reporter gene assays, when compared to FOXP3fl and FOXP3Delta2. Nevertheless, retroviral transduction with FOXP3Delta2Delta7 failed to induce the typical Treg-associated phenotype. The expression of FOXP3-induced surface molecules such as CD25 and CTLA-4 were not enhanced in FOXP3Delta2Delta7 transduced CD4+ T cells, which also failed to exhibit any suppressive capacity. Notably, however, co-expression of FOXP3fl with FOXP3Delta2Delta7 resulted in a reduction of CD25 expression by a dominant negative effect. CONCLUSIONS: The leucine zipper of FOXP3 does not mediate dimerization or interaction with NFAT, NF-kB and RUNX1, but is indispensable for the characteristic phenotype and function in Treg cells. FOXP3Delta2Delta7 could play a role in regulating the function of the other FOXP3 isoforms and may be involved in cancer pathogenesis, as it is overexpressed by certain malignant cells.
40842867 | Chemical engineering of gammadelta T cells with cancer cell-targeting antibodies for enhanced tumor immunotherapy. Gamma delta (gammadelta) T cells hold great promise in adoptive cell therapy, but suffer from low tumor-targeting efficiency. Herein, we report the development of antibody-gammadelta T cell conjugates for enhanced tumor therapy. By evaluating different biomolecules residing on the cell surface, sialic acids-the terminal sugars of various cell-surface glycans-are identified as the optimum site for anchoring antibodies onto gammadelta T cells via metabolic glycan labeling with unnatural sugars containing a bioorthogonal functional group. A programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1)-specific nanobody (alphaPD-L1) is conjugated onto gammadelta T cells via click chemistry and the resulting alphaPD-L1-gammadelta T cells exhibit enhanced cytotoxicity towards PD-L1-positive cancer cell lines, patient-derived primary cancer cells, and xenografted tumors in living mice. Mechanistically, alphaPD-L1-gammadelta T cells target cancer cells and tumors via binding to PD-L1 and induce cancer cell pyroptosis. Furthermore, alphaPD-L1-gammadelta T cells remodel the tumor microenvironment to be immune-active, at least partially through the recruitment and activation of CD8+ T cells via the CCR5/CCL5 axis. This work provides a versatile strategy for chemical engineering of gammadelta T cells for improved therapeutic applications.
35818892 | The association of human leucocyte antigen (HLA) alleles with COVID-19 severity: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Due to their pivotal role in orchestrating the immune response, HLA loci were recognized as candidates for genetic association studies related to the severity of COVID-19. Since the findings on the effects of HLA alleles on the outcome of SARS-CoV-2 infection remain inconclusive, we aimed to elucidate the potential involvement of genetic variability within HLA loci in the molecular genetics of COVID-19 by classifying the articles according to different disease severity/outcomes and by conducting a systematic review with meta-analysis. Potentially eligible studies were identified by searching PubMed, Scopus and Web of Science literature databases. A total of 28 studies with 13,073 participants were included in qualitative synthesis, while the results of 19 studies with 10,551 SARS-CoV-2-positive participants were pooled in the meta-analysis. According to the results of quantitative data synthesis, association with COVID-19 severity or with the lethal outcome was determined for the following alleles and allele families: HLA-A*01, HLA-A*03, HLA-A*11, HLA-A*23, HLA-A*31, HLA-A*68, HLA-A*68:02, HLA-B*07:02, HLA-B*14, HLA-B*15, HLA-B*40:02, HLA-B*51:01, HLA-B*53, HLA-B*54, HLA-B*54:01, HLA-C*04, HLA-C*04:01, HLA-C*06, HLA-C*07:02, HLA-DRB1*11, HLA-DRB1*15, HLA-DQB1*03 and HLA-DQB1*06 (assuming either allelic or dominant genetic model). We conclude that alleles of HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1 and -DQB1 loci may represent potential biomarkers of COVID-19 severity and/or mortality, which needs to be confirmed in a larger set of studies.
41145447 | Stage-specific roles of clonally expanded CD8+ T cells in regulating amyloid pathology in Alzheimer's disease models. Clonally expanded CD8+ T cells may contribute to Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology through interactions with brain-resident cells. However, the functional impact of AD-specific T cell receptor (TCR) clonotypes remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that CD8+ T cells undergo clonal expansion in early-stage AD mouse models, AppNL-G-F and 5xFAD, and that their depletion reduces amyloid plaque accumulation. Expanded TCR-expressing CD8+ T cells preferentially infiltrate the brain, exacerbating plaque deposition. Moreover, brain-infiltrating CD8+ T cells impair microglial transition into disease-associated states, suppressing amyloid clearance via CCL5-CCR5 signaling. Pharmacological blockade of CCL5 attenuates amyloid deposition, whereas CCL5 administration aggravates pathology. Notably, T cell depletion at later disease stages exacerbates amyloid pathology, suggesting a temporal shift in their function. Early-stage CD8+ T cells exhibit cytotoxic and effector profiles, whereas late-stage cells acquire tissue-resident and exhausted phenotypes. This temporal switch-from pathogenic to protective roles-highlights the stage-specific contribution of CD8+ T cells to AD and their potential as therapeutic targets.
40459692 | CCR5-mediated dynamic maintenance of resident memory T cells in the respiratory tract. Tissue-resident memory T cells (T<sub>RM</sub>) play a key role in defense against pathogen invading barrier sites and other non-lymphoid tissues. How T<sub>RM</sub> cells are maintained in various tissues, and how they relate to antigen-experienced memory T cells in lymphoid organs are not fully understood. By barcode-based lineage tracing and single-cell transcriptome analysis, we found a distinct population of CD69<sup>+</sup>CD103<sup>+</sup> virus-specific CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells in draining lymph nodes (dLNs) following intranasal influenza infection. Intriguingly, these dLN T<sub>RM</sub> cells and lung T<sub>RM</sub> cells shared similar function-neutral barcode contents and transcriptomic features, implicating local circulation between the lung and dLNs in the maintenance of resident memory. Ablation of CXCR3 from CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells, which impairs lung T<sub>RM</sub> generation, severely reduced the abundance of dLN T<sub>RM</sub> cells, suggesting that dLN T<sub>RM</sub> cells are connected to lung T<sub>RM</sub> cells by retrograde migration. Our screen for chemokines and chemokine receptors implicated the CCR5-CCL5 axis in promoting lung-to-dLN migration. Temporary CCR5 blockade by intratracheal administration of Maraviroc, a CCR5 inhibitor, reduced the abundance of dLN T<sub>RM</sub> cells without affecting lung T<sub>RM</sub> cells. By intratracheal cell transfer, CCR5-deficient CD8<sup>+</sup> T cells were found impaired in lung-to-dLN migration. Finally, dLN T<sub>RM</sub> cells actively participated in the secondary response and could reconstitute lung T<sub>RM</sub> cells following influenza infection. Our results support a model in which lung-to-dLN TRM retrograde migration helps maintain the CD8<sup>+</sup> memory resident in the respiratory tract and optimizes the local T-cell response to reinfection.
22184268 | MICB gene expression on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and susceptibility to multiple sclerosis in north of Iran. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune multifactorial degenerative disease with detrimental affliction on central nervous system. MHC class I chain- related geneA,B(MICA and MICB) are nonclassical human leukocyte antigens that can affect on some diseases and also on transplantation. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the MICA and MICB MRNA expression in multiple sclerosis patients. In this study, we evaluated MICA and MICB MRNA expression in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells by reverse transcryptase-polymerase chain reaction(RT-PCR) in MS patients and normal controls. The results of this study showed that 32.6% of patients with progressive clinical outcome over expressed MICB genes in comparison with controls ( p=0.002). It is concluded that the high expression of MICB gene in MS patients is an important criterion of MS disease that it may be due to the interaction between MICB and its receptor on CD8+T or NK cells.
41959369 | Metabolic reprogramming by caloric restriction enhances acute phase virological control and reduces chronic inflammation in SIV-infected rhesus macaques. Nutrient metabolism influences HIV-1 replication, antiviral immunity, and chronic inflammation, yet is difficult to leverage for therapeutic gain. We sought to modulate metabolism in the non-human primate model of HIV-1 by caloric restriction (CR), a modality canonically known for its antiaging benefits. Four months of 30% CR was safe and resulted in broad and systemic metabolic reprogramming in healthy adult male and female rhesus macaques. Relative to that of ad libitum- fed animals, CR lowered the frequencies of target CCR5+ CD4 T cells in the gut mucosa. Upon infection with SIV, CR reduced acute phase viremia, dampened type I interferon signaling, and overall permitted a more vigorous cycling of CD8+ T cells in lymphoid tissues. CR-induced protection from SIV was associated with a robust up-regulation of glycolysis, which supported an early reduction in viremia that ultimately waned over time. During virologic suppression with antiretroviral therapy (ART), CR significantly limited gastrointestinal (GI) immune activation, improved tricarboxylic acid cycle flux, and lowered concentrations of soluble CD14 and several TNF-related molecules in plasma. Blood SIV DNA levels however were unchanged by CR, suggesting that residual GI dysfunction and inflammation can be decoupled from viral persistence. Our findings highlight that a dietary modality can limit pathology in a primate lentiviral infection. They also reveal the robust but temporally constrained nature of glycolysis in supporting an acute antiviral response. SIGNIFICANCE: Caloric restriction (CR) is a safe dietary intervention known to confer anti-aging and health benefits across diverse animal models. However, its application in the context of infectious diseases has yielded mixed outcomes and has largely been limited to murine systems. In this study, we therefore employed CR to examine the impact of dietary modulation on SIV infection outcomes. Our findings demonstrate that CR reduced acute-phase viremia and attenuated markers of chronic inflammation following ART, effects that were associated with distinct metabolic signatures. Collectively, these findings underscore the importance of diet and nutrition in shaping chronic viral infection outcomes, such as SIV, within a clinically relevant non-human primate model.
38804627 | Platelet dysfunction caused by differentially expressed genes as key pathogenic mechanisms in COVID-19. At the end of 2019, the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) became prevalent worldwide, which brought a heavy medical burden and tremendous economic losses to the world population. In addition to the common clinical respiratory symptoms such as fever, cough and headache, patients with COVID-19 often have hematological diseases, especially platelet dysfunction. Platelet dysfunction usually leads to multiple organ dysfunction, which is closely related to patient severity or mortality. In addition, studies have confirmed significant changes in the gene expression profile of circulating platelets under SARS-CoV-2 infection, which will further lead to changes in platelet function. At the same time, studies have shown that platelets may absorb SARS-COV-2 mRNA independently of ACE2, which further emphasizes the importance of the stability of platelet function in defense against SARS-CoV-2 infection. This study reviewed the relationship between COVID-19 and platelet and SARS-CoV-2 damage to the circulatory system, and further analyzed the significantly differentially expressed mRNA in platelets after infection with SARS-CoV-2 on the basis of previous studies. The top eight hub genes were identified as NLRP3, MT-CO1, CD86, ICAM1, MT-CYB, CASP8, CXCL8 and CXCR4. Subsequently, the effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection on platelet transcript abnormalities and platelet dysfunction were further explored on the basis of 8 hub genes. Finally, the treatment measures of complications caused by platelet dysfunction in patients with COVID-19 were discussed in detail, so as to provide reference for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of COVID-19.
33243747 | [Analysis of immunophenotypes and expressions of non-myeloid antigens in acute myeloid leukemia]. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the characteristics of immunophenotypes and expressions of non-myeloid differentiation antigens in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and their value in diagnosis and prognostic evaluation of AML. METHODS: We examined the immunophenotypes of 109 patients with AML using BD FACSCalibur flow cytometry and analyzed the association of the immunophenotypes and expressions of non-myeloid differentiation antigens with the prognosis and complete remission (CR) rate of the patients. RESULTS: Immunophenotype analysis showed that the positivity rates of the myeloid differentiation antigens of AML cells decreased in the order of CD13, CD117, CD33, MPO and CD15; the positivity rates of CD117, CD13, CD33 and MPO did not differ significantly (P > 0.05) and were all significantly higher than that of CD15 (P < 0.05). The positivity rates of AML cell non-lineage antigens CD34, CD38, HLA-DR, and CD123 did not differ significantly (P > 0.05). The positivity rates of non-myeloid differentiation antigens decreased in the order of CD9, CD200, CD56 and CD7 in AML cells and were all significantly higher than those of CD25, CD19, CD2, CD10, CD4, CyCD79a and CyCD3 (P < 0.05). Among the 109 AML patients, the CR rates of patients positive for CD7, CD34, CD56 and CD25 were significantly lower than those negative for these antigens (P < 0.05); the CR rates were significantly higher in patients positive for MPO and CD19 than in the negative patients (P < 0.05). Among the 15 AML-M2b patients with AML1-ETO positivity, the CR rate following a single treatment course was significantly lower in patients positive for CD56 than in CD56-negative patients, and CD56-positive patients also had a significantly higher relapse rate within 1 year (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Immunophenotyping and analysis of non-myeloid differentiation antigens can be of great clinical significance for the diagnosis and prognostic evaluation of AML, and serve also as one of the important bases for the diagnosis and treatment of AML.
33233780 | Population Difference in Allele Frequency of HLA-C*05 and Its Correlation with COVID-19 Mortality. BACKGROUND: coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) causes severe illness including cytokine storms, but mortality among countries differs largely. In the present study, we investigated the association between human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I, which plays a major role in susceptibility to viral infections, and the mortality of COVID-19. METHODS: data of allele frequencies of HLA-A, -B and -C and COVID-19 mortality were obtained for 74 countries from the Allele Frequency Net Database and worldometer.info. Association between allele frequency of each HLA and mortality was assessed by linear regression followed by multivariable regression. Subsequently, association of HLA-C*05 to its receptor KIR2DS4fl, expressed on natural killer (NK) cells, and differential mortality to historic pandemics were analyzed. RESULTS: HLA-A*01, -B*07, -B*08, -B*44 and -C*05 were significantly associated with the risk of deaths (adjusted p = 0.040, 0.00081, 0.047, 0.0022, 0.00032, respectively), but only HLA-C*05 remained statistically significant (p = 0.000027) after multivariable regression. A 1% increase in the allele frequency of HLA-C*05 was associated with an increase of 44 deaths/million. Countries with different mortality could be categorized by the distribution of HLA-C*05 and its receptor KIR2DS4fl, which in combination cause NK cell-induced hyperactive immune response. Countries with similar ethnic and/or geographic background responded in a similar pattern to each pandemic. CONCLUSIONS: we demonstrated that allele frequency of HLA-C*05 and the distribution pattern with its receptor KIR2DS4fl strongly correlated with COVID-19 mortality. Host genetic variance of innate immunity may contribute to the difference in mortality among various countries and further investigation using patient samples is warranted.
32933522 | Correlation of the two most frequent HLA haplotypes in the Italian population to the differential regional incidence of Covid-19. BACKGROUND: Understanding how HLA polymorphisms may affect both susceptibility, course and severity of Covid-19 infection could help both at the clinical level to identify individuals at higher risk from the disease and at the epidemiological one to explain the differences in the epidemic trend among countries or even within a specific country. Covid-19 disease in Italy showed a peculiar geographical distribution from the northern most affected regions to the southern ones only slightly touched. METHODS: In this study we analysed the regional frequencies for the most common Italian haplotypes from the Italian Bone Marrow Donor Registry (HLA-A, -B, -C and -DRB1 at four-digit level). Then we performed Pearson correlation analyses among regional haplotypes estimated frequency in the population and Covid-19 incidence and mortality. RESULTS: In this study we found that the two most frequent HLA haplotypes in the Italian population, HLA-A*:01:01g-B*08:01 g-C*07:01g-DRB1*03:01g and HLA-A*02.01g-B*18.01g-C*07.01g-DRB1*11.04g, had a regional distribution overlapping that of Covid-19 and showed respectively a positive (suggestive of susceptibility) and negative (suggestive of protection) significant correlation with both Covid-19 incidence and mortality. CONCLUSIONS: Based on these results, in order to define such HLA haplotypes as a factor effectively associated to the disease susceptibility, the creation of national networks that can collect patients' samples from all regions for HLA typing should be highly encouraged.
22246985 | The effect of photodynamic therapy on tumor cell expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and MHC class I-related molecules. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is FDA-approved anti-cancer modality for elimination of early disease and palliation in advanced disease. PDT efficacy depends in part on elicitation of a tumor-specific immune response that is dependent on cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and natural killer (NK) cells. The cytolytic potential of CTLs and NK cells is mediated by the ability of these cells to recognize major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and MHC class I-related molecules. The MHC class I-related molecules MICA and MICB are induced by oxidative stress and have been reported to activate NK cells and co-stimulate CD8(+) T cells. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of PDT on tumor cell expression of MHC classes I and II-related molecules in vivo and in vitro. STUDY DESIGN/MATERIALS AND METHODS: Human colon carcinoma Colo205 cells and murine CT26 tumors were treated with 2-[1-hexyloxyethyl]-2-devinyl pyropheophorbide-a (HPPH)-PDT at various doses. MHC classes I and I-related molecule expression following treatment of Colo205 cells was temporally examined by flow cytometry using antibodies specific for components of MHC class I molecules and by quantitative PCR using specific primers. Expression of MHC class I-related molecules following HPPH-based PDT (HPPH-PDT) of murine tumors was monitored using a chimeric NKG2D receptor. RESULTS: In vitro HPPH-PDT significantly induces MICA in Colo205 cells, but had no effect on MHC class I molecule expression. PDT also induced expression of NKG2D ligands (NKG2DL) following in vivo HPPH-PDT of a murine tumor. Induction of MICA corresponded to increased NK killing of PDT-treated tumor cells. CONCLUSIONS: PDT induction of MICA on human tumor cells and increased expression of NKG2DL by murine tumors following PDT may play a role in PDT induction of anti-tumor immunity. This conclusion is supported by our results demonstrating that tumor cells have increased sensitivity to NK cell lysis following PDT.
41710896 | Effective treatment of acute graft-versus-host disease following liver transplantation using an integrated regimen centered on antithymocyte globulin: a single-center experience. Aims: Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) after liver transplantation (LT) is a rare but highly lethal complication, with no standardized diagnosis/treatment protocols. Our center successfully treated three patients using a comprehensive antithymocyte globulin (ATG)-based regimen. This study preliminarily evaluates the efficacy of ATG-based regimens for aGVHD, comparing outcomes with a historical cohort that received conventional treatment, to provide initial clinical evidence. Methods: This retrospective study included three consecutive post allogeneic LT aGVHD patients treated at Tianjin First Central Hospital between January 2024 and August 2025. Their outcomes were compared with those of 10 historical controls who received conventional treatment between January 2019 and December 2023. Given the small sample size, outcomes were primarily compared descriptively and using effect size measures (odds ratio [OR]/median difference), while Fisher's exact and Mann-Whitney U tests were performed for exploratory purposes. Results: In the ATG treatment group, two patients presented with fever and rash, while one presented with diarrhea; all developed skin involvement, oral ulcers, and myelosuppression, with a median posttransplant onset of 18 days (range: 15-27). Skin biopsy revealed epidermal hyperkeratosis, basal cell vacuolar degeneration, and dermal lymphocytic infiltration. Cases 2 and 3 had donor CD8+ T-cell chimerism. Median onset-to-diagnosis time was 15 days (range: 9-17). Treatment included an ATG-based regimen, tacrolimus tapering/withdrawal, low-dose glucocorticoids, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG), janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor (ruxolitinib), and symptomatic supportive care. All three patients achieved complete remission (CR) without serious complications, with a median diagnosis-to-remission time of 35 days (range: 17-50). In this preliminary comparison, the ATG group demonstrated a significantly higher CR rate (100% vs. 20%; p = 0.012, OR = 25.0), a lower infection rate (0% vs. 60%; p = 0.033), and a shorter median remission time (35 days vs. 62 days; p = 0.021, median difference = - 27 days) compared with historical controls. Conclusion: The diagnosis of aGVHD after LT requires integrating clinical manifestations, rash pathology, and chimerism detection. In this small series, ATG-based therapy was associated with favorable outcomes compared with a historical cohort receiving conventional therapy, suggesting that it may be a promising strategy warranting further evaluation in large-scale clinical studies.
42061141 | MAL/SPP1 axis drives tumor proliferation and immune evasion via JAK2/STAT3 and MHC class Ib in breast cancer. Breast cancer persists as the second leading cause of cancer-related mortality in women globally. Identifying key molecular drivers governing tumor growth and invasion could substantially improve diagnostic precision and therapeutic outcomes. This study employed 4T1 triple-negative breast cancer cells (TNBC) to establish a clinically relevant sequential metastasis model. Using this model, we identified a progressive upregulation of myelin and lymphocyte protein (MAL) expression, which demonstrated a strong positive correlation with breast cancer growth and progression. Integrated methodologies-combining transcriptomic sequencing, functional cellular assays, Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)-mediated gene knockout, and in vivo intervention studies-revealed MAL's dual oncogenic function in promoting both primary tumor growth and metastatic spread. Mechanistically, MAL drives tumorigenesis by upregulating secreted phosphoprotein 1 (SPP1), thereby activating the Janus Kinase 2-Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (JAK2/STAT3) signaling axis to stimulate angiogenesis and accelerate proliferation. Simultaneously, it subverts anti-tumor immunity by exploiting major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class Ib molecules, suppressing T-cell infiltration and impairing CD8+ T-cell tumor-lytic activity within the tumor microenvironment. Critically, targeted inhibition of MAL effectively curtailed breast cancer progression, underscoring its promise as a novel therapeutic target for metastatic breast cancer intervention.
42145516 | Ensuring effective transitions in care for hospitalized people living with HIV. Recent changes in the global health financing resulted in a steep reduction in donor support for HIV programmes worldwide, threatening years of progress in reducing infections and mortality. These developments require existing HIV programmes to rethink their priorities. Advanced HIV disease (AHD) is a condition present in approximately 30% of people living with HIV (PLHIV) presenting to HIV care programmes worldwide. These individuals are defined by their low immune status, having a CD4 cell count <=200 cells/mm3 or World Health Organization (WHO) Clinical Stage 3 or 4 AIDS-defining illness-and are at significantly greater risk of hospitalization and poor outcomes following discharge from hospital. A recent systematic review found that in low-and middle-income settings, 19% of those discharged from hospital were subsequently readmitted, and 14% died. Post-discharge outcomes are an important and often poorly acknowledged gap in the HIV care cascade where PLHIV fail to successfully return to regular care services. In this mini-review, we provide an overview on post-discharge outcomes for PLHIV and suggest a way forward for expanding current service delivery approaches to improve outcomes. The focus is on low-income settings, but reflects broader trends on post-discharge outcomes for PLHIV.
41884450 | Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related A and B molecules and their potential role in virus-associated cancers. Infections with certain viruses are strong risk factors for specific cancers. The human major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related genes A (MICA) and B (MICB) are polymorphic, non-classical major histocompatibility complex class I genes located within the human leukocyte antigen region. Polymorphisms in these genes have been associated with susceptibility and outcomes of several virus-associated cancers. The underlying mechanisms involve modulation of natural killer cell- and CD8+ T cell-mediated cytotoxicity by disrupting the natural killer group 2-member D-MICA/B axis. The resulting soluble forms of both MICA and MICB have recently gained attention as potential predictive biomarkers for virus-induced malignancies and disease severity. Therapeutic strategies targeting this axis show considerable promise. This minireview summarizes the genetics and biology of MICA and MICB, highlighting their emerging importance in the pathogenesis of virus-associated cancers.
35874712 | The KIR2DL2/HLA-C1C1 Gene Pairing Is Associated With an Increased Risk of SARS-CoV-2 Infection. SARS-CoV-2 is the causative agent for the global COVID-19 pandemic; however, the interaction between virus and host is not well characterized. Natural killer cells play a key role in the early phase of the antiviral response, and their primary functions are dependent on signaling through the killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR). This study measured the association between KIR/HLA class I ligand pairings and the occurrence and development of COVID-19. DNA of blood samples from 257 COVID-19 patients were extracted and used to detect KIR and HLA-C gene frequencies using single strain sequence-specific primer (SSP) PCR. The frequency of these genes was compared among 158 individuals with mild COVID-19, 99 with severe disease, and 98 healthy controls. The frequencies of KIR2DL2 (P=0.04, OR=1.707), KIR2DS3 (P=0.047, OR=1.679), HLA-C1C1 (P<0.001, OR=3.074) and the KIR2DL2/HLA-C1C1 pairing (P=0.038, OR=2.126) were significantly higher in the COVID-19 patients than the healthy controls. At the same time, the frequency of KIR2DL3+KIR2DL2-/HLA-C1+Others+ was lower in COVID-19 patients than in healthy individuals (P=0.004, OR=0.477). These results suggest that the protective effect of KIR2DL3 against SARS-CoV-2 infection is related to the absence of the KIR2DL2 gene. This study found no correlation between the frequencies of these genes and COVID-19 pathogenesis. Global statistical analysis revealed that the incidence of COVID-19 infection was higher in geographic regions with a high frequency of KIR2DL2. Together these results suggest that the KIR2DL2/HLA-C1C1 gene pairing may be a risk factor for SARS-CoV-2 infection.
41676150 | CyTOF profiling identifies location-specific peripheral immune checkpoint and immune cell subset in mild ischemic stroke. Introduction: Mild ischemic stroke accounts for over half of all stroke cases, yet how peripheral immune responses evolve over time-and how they differ by infarct location-remains poorly defined. Methods: Peripheral blood was collected from ten patients with mild ischemic stroke and five matched controls at days 1, 3, and 7 after onset. Patients were stratified by cortical or subcortical infarction. High-dimensional mass cytometry was used to characterize immune cell composition and immune checkpoint expression. Results: Subcortical infarction was associated with sustained expansion of classical monocytes, persistent reduction of intermediate monocytes, and delayed PD-1/PD-L1 regulatory signaling, indicating prolonged myeloid-driven inflammation. In contrast, cortical infarction exhibited a more balanced monocyte profile and earlier PD-1 upregulation on dendritic cells and classical monocytes. CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell subsets showed distinct, location-dependent dynamics: cortical infarction induced earlier modulation of memory and regulatory phenotypes, whereas subcortical infarction produced slower but more persistent shifts. CCR5-defined CD8+ T-cell subsets also differed markedly, with subcortical infarction showing enrichment of CCR5+ effector cells, reduced checkpoint expression, and contraction of the CCR5- compartment. Discussion: Peripheral immune remodeling in mild ischemic stroke displays clear infarct location-specific trajectories. These findings highlight infarct topology as a critical determinant of post-stroke immune regulation and support the development of location-adapted immunomodulatory strategies.
41540109 | CD4+ T cells mediate CAR-T cell-associated immune-related adverse events after BCMA CAR-T cell therapy. B cell maturation antigen (BCMA)-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy has revolutionized the treatment of multiple myeloma but can cause unique toxicities, including cranial nerve palsy, parkinsonism and enterocolitis, which we refer to collectively as CAR T cell therapy-associated immune-related adverse events (CirAEs). Among 198 patients treated with ciltacabtagene autoleucel or idecabtagene vicleucel (June 2021-December 2024), 27 (13.6%) developed CirAEs. This included one remarkable case with three distinct CirAEs in association with an extreme CD4+ CAR T cell expansion (peak lymphocytes: 197 x 103 per microliter), which was abrogated in vitro by CCR5 inhibition. CirAEs were associated with significantly higher non-relapse mortality (hazard ratio = 5.2, P = 0.006), and independent risk factors included ciltacabtagene autoleucel (odds ratio = 4.5, P = 0.058), peak absolute lymphocyte count >= 2.4 x 103 per microliter in the first 14 days post-infusion (odds ratio = 4.3, P < 0.001) and apheresis CD4:CD8 ratio > 1 (odds ratio = 2.6, P = 0.048). We identified marked CD4+ CAR T cell infiltration in all available CirAE tissues, including cerebrospinal fluid during neurologic CirAEs, implicating CD4+ CAR T cell therapy as a key mediator of these toxicities.
12946863 | Requirement of transcription factor AML1 in proliferation of developing thymocytes. Although the transcription factor AML1/Runx1 is known to be essential for definitive hematopoiesis, its role in T cell differentiation is not well understood. In this study, we investigated the functions of AML1 in the early stage of thymocyte differentiation. For this, we crossed AML1 dominant interfering form (Runt)-transgenic mice with TCR-transgenic mice, and demonstrated the decrease of CD4+8+ (DP) thymocyte cell number although their proportion was not reduced. Reaggregation culture system for thymocytes of (RuntxTCR) double transgenic mice, in which the rate of de novo transition from DN cells to the DP stage can be estimated, showed that the cell division during the DN-to-DP transition is impaired without significant cell death. These results indicate that AML1 is involved in thymocyte differentiation by controlling cell proliferation.
36130991 | Deep RNA sequencing of intensive care unit patients with COVID-19. COVID-19 has impacted millions of patients across the world. Molecular testing occurring now identifies the presence of the virus at the sampling site: nasopharynx, nares, or oral cavity. RNA sequencing has the potential to establish both the presence of the virus and define the host's response in COVID-19. Single center, prospective study of patients with COVID-19 admitted to the intensive care unit where deep RNA sequencing (> 100 million reads) of peripheral blood with computational biology analysis was done. All patients had positive SARS-CoV-2 PCR. Clinical data was prospectively collected. We enrolled fifteen patients at a single hospital. Patients were critically ill with a mortality of 47% and 67% were on a ventilator. All the patients had the SARS-CoV-2 RNA identified in the blood in addition to RNA from other viruses, bacteria, and archaea. The expression of many immune modulating genes, including PD-L1 and PD-L2, were significantly different in patients who died from COVID-19. Some proteins were influenced by alternative transcription and splicing events, as seen in HLA-C, HLA-E, NRP1 and NRP2. Entropy calculated from alternative RNA splicing and transcription start/end predicted mortality in these patients. Current upper respiratory tract testing for COVID-19 only determines if the virus is present. Deep RNA sequencing with appropriate computational biology may provide important prognostic information and point to therapeutic foci to be precisely targeted in future studies.
41260902 | Oligoclonal tumor-specific CD8 T-cell revival and IRE1alpha/XBP1-GDF15-mediated immunosuppressive niches determine neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy efficacy in cervical cancer. BACKGROUND: Neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy (NACI) shows promise for locally advanced cervical cancer (LACC), but drug-tolerant persister (DTP) cells and immunosuppressive microenvironmental adaptations limit clinical efficacy. The underlying determinants governing heterogeneous responses to NACI regimens remain poorly understood, particularly regarding how dynamic tumor-immune interactions shape therapeutic outcomes. METHODS: We characterized microenvironmental dynamics in patients with LACC by integrating single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), single-cell VDJ sequencing (n=10, five paired pre-NACI/post-NACI samples) and spatial transcriptomics (ChiCTR2300072535). Pathological response was assessed using major pathological response criteria. The findings were validated in an independent NACI cohort (n=23 with RNA-seq), multiplex immunohistochemistry (mIHC) analysis of six surgically resected specimens, as well as functional in vitro and murine models. RESULTS: MPR patients exhibited cytotoxic revival via oligoclonal expansion of tumor-reactive CD8+T cell clones and CCR5-mediated myeloid-T cell crosstalk. Conversely, non-MPR tumors exhibited endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-adapted DTP cells with elevated ER stress signaling, accompanied by a deficiency in tumor-specific T-cell clone expansion and an accumulation of transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2) + myeloid DTP niches. Mechanistically, ER stress signaling via the inositol-requiring enzyme 1 alpha (IRE1alpha) / X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) axis induces growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) production in DTP cells, contributing to treatment-resistant microdomains. Pharmacological IRE1alpha inhibition synergized with chemoimmunotherapy to eradicate DTP populations in murine models. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides critical insights that NACI resistance stems from adaptive ER stress signaling in DTP cells and spatially organized immunosuppressive networks. Targeting the IRE1alpha/XBP1-GDF15 axis represents an actionable strategy to reprogram microenvironmental ecology and improve immunotherapy outcomes.
35387473 | Association of Human Leukocyte Antigen Genotypes with Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 Vaccine-Induced Subacute Thyroiditis. Background: Despite mass vaccination, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) vaccine-induced subacute thyroiditis (SAT) is rarely seen as a complication. The reason why some individuals are susceptible to developing vaccine-induced SAT is not known. SAT develops in genetically predisposed individuals who carry specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) haplotypes. It is unknown whether specific HLA alleles are associated with SARS-CoV-2 vaccine-induced SAT. Objective: This study compared the HLA profiles of patients with SARS-CoV-2 vaccine-induced SAT to controls, to assess whether there is an association between specific HLA genotypes and development of SAT. The relationship between HLA genotypes and the clinical course of SARS-CoV-2 vaccine-induced SAT was also evaluated. Methods: A case-control study was conducted in a Turkish tertiary care center. Fourteen patients with SARS-CoV-2 vaccine-induced SAT and 100 healthy controls were included. HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DQB1, and HLA-DRB1 frequencies were analyzed by next-generation sequencing. Results: The frequencies of HLA-B*35 and HLA-C*04 alleles were significantly higher in SARS-CoV-2 vaccine-induced SAT cohort when compared with controls (HLA-B*35: 13 [93%] vs. 40 [40%], p < 0.001; HLA-C*04: 13 [93%] vs. 43 [43%], p < 0.001, respectively). More severe thyrotoxicosis was seen in patients having HLA-B*35 and HLA-C*04 homozygous alleles (free thyroxine: 4.47 ng/dL [3.77-5.18] vs. 1.41 ng/dL [1.22-2.63], p = 0.048). Inflammation tended to be more severe in homozygous patients (C-reactive protein: 28.2 mg/dL [13.6-42.9] vs. 4.8 [1.2-10.5], p = 0.07). Conclusions: The frequencies of HLA-B*35 and HLA-C*04 alleles were higher in SARS-CoV-2 vaccine-induced SAT compared with controls. Homozygosity for HLA-B*35 and HLA-C*04 was associated with thyrotoxicosis and a greater inflammatory reaction. Our findings should be confirmed in studies of other populations.
41280107 | Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition is Associated with Altered Immune Composition and Cytotoxic Function in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a dynamic process that contributes to breast cancer progression, metastasis, and therapy resistance. EMT also influences the tumor immune microenvironment, shaping immune cell infiltration and function. Although the immunological features of fully epithelial or fully mesenchymal tumor states have been characterized, the immune landscape associated with intermediate or partial EMT states remains poorly understood. To address this gap, we established five single-cell-derived clonal populations from the triple-negative 4T1 mouse mammary tumor cell line, representing a spectrum of EMT phenotypes, and analyzed tumors derived from these clones using single-cell RNA sequencing. We show that tumors derived from these clones retained their relative EMT states in vivo, and that EMT progression is associated with a graded reduction in tumor immunogenicity, accompanied by alterations in immune cell composition and function. Along the EMT spectrum, tumor cells exhibited progressive downregulation of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and II gene expression, along with decreased infiltration of cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, and reduced expression of key effector and trafficking genes (Gzmb, Ccr5, Cxcr6). B cell composition also shifted, with decreased frequencies of IgG1-producing plasma cells and an enrichment of regulatory-like B cells. Natural killer (NK) cells similarly demonstrated progressive functional suppression, marked by reduced expression of cytotoxic molecules and the downregulation of key effector pathways. These findings reveal that EMT is associated with immune cell recruitment and function in a graded manner, providing a rationale for integrating EMT phenotyping into therapeutic strategies to overcome immune resistance in breast cancer.
19917773 | Transcription factors RUNX1 and RUNX3 in the induction and suppressive function of Foxp3+ inducible regulatory T cells. Forkhead box P3 (FOXP3)(+)CD4(+)CD25(+) inducible regulatory T (iT reg) cells play an important role in immune tolerance and homeostasis. In this study, we show that the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) induces the expression of the Runt-related transcription factors RUNX1 and RUNX3 in CD4(+) T cells. This induction seems to be a prerequisite for the binding of RUNX1 and RUNX3 to three putative RUNX binding sites in the FOXP3 promoter. Inactivation of the gene encoding RUNX cofactor core-binding factor-beta (CBFbeta) in mice and small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated suppression of RUNX1 and RUNX3 in human T cells resulted in reduced expression of Foxp3. The in vivo conversion of naive CD4(+) T cells into Foxp3(+) iT reg cells was significantly decreased in adoptively transferred Cbfb(F/F) CD4-cre naive T cells into Rag2(-/-) mice. Both RUNX1 and RUNX3 siRNA silenced human T reg cells and Cbfb(F/F) CD4-cre mouse T reg cells showed diminished suppressive function in vitro. Circulating human CD4(+) CD25(high) CD127(-) T reg cells significantly expressed higher levels of RUNX3, FOXP3, and TGF-beta mRNA compared with CD4(+)CD25(-) cells. Furthermore, FOXP3 and RUNX3 were colocalized in human tonsil T reg cells. These data demonstrate Runx transcription factors as a molecular link in TGF-beta-induced Foxp3 expression in iT reg cell differentiation and function.
42144624 | Infection timing and immuno-inflammatory profiles determine prognosis of Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia in kidney transplant recipients. BACKGROUND: Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PJP) is a severe opportunistic infection in kidney transplant recipients (KTRs). Clinical presentation varies widely among patients. We aimed to identify key prognostic factors for PJP in KTRs, build a visual nomogram to predict outcomes, and examine the effect of infection timing on survival. METHODS: We analyzed data from 169 KTRs diagnosed with PJP at a single center between July 2019 and October 2025. Using multivariate Cox regression with restricted cubic spline (RCS) analysis, we identified independent prognostic factors. Using these factors, we developed a predictive nomogram and an online calculator. Model performance was assessed using the concordance index (C-index), ROC curves, calibration plots, and decision curve analysis (DCA). We also compared survival in patients with PJP within six months of transplantation versus after six months. RESULTS: Thirty-three patients (19.5%) died or required ICU admission. Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that low CD4 + T-lymphocyte counts, high C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, and high serum 1,3-beta-D-glucan (G-test) levels were key risk factors for adverse outcomes. The nomogram based on these indicators demonstrated high accuracy and clinical usefulness, with AUC values of 0.884 (4 months), 0.793 (9 months), and 0.877 (12 months) for predicting adverse outcomes. Patients with late-onset PJP (after 6 months) had a lower risk of adverse outcomes than those with early-onset PJP (within 6 months) (OR 0.36, P = 0.013). CONCLUSION: PJP outcomes in KTRs depend heavily on immune status and inflammatory response. Infection timing matters: early-onset PJP often leads to a higher risk of death. Our dynamic nomogram helps clinicians identify high-risk patients early, supporting a shift from standard treatment to stepwise precision care.
41935202 | Asymmetry and redundancy of STAT5 paralogs across CD8+ T cell differentiation states. Fostering STAT5 signaling is key to immunotherapies that leverage CD8+ T cell biology. Using mouse models, we demonstrate that the two mammalian STAT5 paralogs, STAT5A and STAT5B, are at once redundant and functionally distinct in CD8+ T cells. Thus, they are asymmetric paralogs, exhibiting both widespread homology at molecular level and functional asymmetry at cellular level, with STAT5B emerging as dominant. For mechanisms, we determined that STAT5B is twice as abundant, accounting for two-thirds of the total STAT5 pool, and present evidence that it also has distinct, paralog-specific properties. We also defined cytokine- and cell state-restricted STAT5B functions and devised a core signature that spotlights key downstream properties and serves as bioinformatic probe. Together, these studies affirm the centrality of STAT5 in CD8+ T cells, reveal common and circumscribed activities for STAT5A and STAT5B, and present a unifying model that foregrounds both redundancy and asymmetry.
24962621 | Diversity and characterization of polymorphic 5' promoter haplotypes of MICA and MICB genes. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-related chain A (MICA) and B (MICB) are ligands for the natural killer group 2, member D (NKG2D) activating receptor expressed on natural killer (NK) cells, natural killer T (NKT) cells, CD8+ T cells and gammadelta T cells. Natural killer group 2, member D (NKG2D) ligand expression is stress-related and upregulated by infected or oncogenic cells leading to cytolysis. MICA and MICB genes display considerable polymorphism among individuals and studies have investigated allelic association with disease and relevance of MICA in transplantation, with variable success. It is now known that promoters of MICA and MICB are polymorphic with some polymorphisms associating with reduced expression. We sequenced International Histocompatibility Workshop (IHW) cell line DNA to determine promoter types and alleles encoded by exons 2-6. We found 8 of 12 known MICA promoter polymorphisms and although promoter P7 dominated, other promoters associated with the same allele. For example, MICA*002:01 had promoters P3, P4 or P7 and the common MICA*008:01/04 type had P1, P6 or P7. Similarly, we sequenced 8 of 12 known MICB promoter haplotypes. Some coding region defined MICB alleles had a single promoter, for example, MICB*002:01 and promoter P9, whereas the promiscuous MICB*005 allele had promoters P1, P2, P5, P6, P10 or P12. The results indicate potential for variation in expression of MICA and MICB ligands between individuals with the same allelic types. If differential expression by polymorphic MICA and MICB promoters is confirmed by functional studies, involvement of these genes in disease susceptibility or adverse transplantation outcomes may require knowledge of both promoter and allelic types to make meaningful conclusions.
35960731 | Association between HLA-C alleles and COVID-19 severity in a pilot study with a Spanish Mediterranean Caucasian cohort. The clinical presentations of COVID-19 may range from an asymptomatic or mild infection to a critical or fatal disease. Several host factors such as elderly age, male gender, and previous comorbidities seem to be involved in the most severe outcomes, but also an impaired immune response that causes a hyperinflammatory state but is unable to clear the infection. In order to get further understanding about this impaired immune response, we aimed to determine the association of specific HLA alleles with different clinical presentations of COVID-19. Therefore, we analyzed HLA Class I and II, as well as KIR gene sequences, in 72 individuals with Spanish Mediterranean Caucasian ethnicity who presented mild, severe, or critical COVID-19, according to their clinical characteristics and management. This cohort was recruited in Madrid (Spain) during the first and second pandemic waves between April and October 2020. There were no significant differences in HLA-A or HLA-B alleles among groups. However, despite the small sample size, we found that HLA-C alleles from group C1 HLA-C*08:02, -C*12:03, or -C*16:01 were more frequently associated in individuals with mild COVID-19 (43.8%) than in individuals with severe (8.3%; p = 0.0030; pc = 0.033) and critical (16.1%; p = 0.0014; pc = 0.0154) disease. C1 alleles are supposed to be highly efficient to present peptides to T cells, and HLA-C*12:03 may present a high number of verified epitopes from abundant SARS-CoV-2 proteins M, N, and S, thereby being allegedly able to trigger an efficient antiviral response. On the contrary, C2 alleles are usually poorly expressed on the cell surface due to low association with beta2-microglobulin (beta2M) and peptides, which may impede the adequate formation of stable HLA-C/beta2M/peptide heterotrimers. Consequently, this pilot study described significant differences in the presence of specific HLA-C1 alleles in individuals with different clinical presentations of COVID-19, thereby suggesting that HLA haplotyping could be valuable to get further understanding in the underlying mechanisms of the impaired immune response during critical COVID-19.
40779493 | Persistent immunological repercussions of late antiretroviral initiation in children living with HIV. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to evaluate how age at antiretroviral treatment (ART) initiation modified immune parameters and vaccine responses in a Brazilian cohort of children with perinatally acquired HIV on long-term treatment. DESIGN: Cross-sectional study including children < 18 years; ART for >= 6 months; and HIV viral load <50 copies/mL. METHODS: Data was abstracted from medical charts and blood was collected for serology and PBMC isolation. Antibody titers for hepatitis A and B, rubella, mumps and measles were measured. T cells with markers for senescence (CD57+), anergy (CD28-), apoptosis (CD95+), activation (CD38+, CCR5+, HLA-DR+) and exhaustion (PD-1+) were analyzed by flow cytometry. Children were categorized in 4 groups: ART initiation <6 months; >=6 months <1 year; >= 1 year <5 years; >=5 years. RESULTS: 55 participants with a median age of 12 (8.3;15.9) years and median time on ART of 9 (5.0;13.2) years were included. Median age at ART initiation was 1.8 (0,6;3,6) years. Compared to those starting ART later, children who initiated ART earlier (< 1 year of age, and especially < 6 months) had higher CD4+ counts, CD4+ nadir, and CD4+/CD8+ ratio. Earlier ART was associated with CD4+ and CD8+ profiles with lower frequencies of activation, senescence, and exhaustion markers, and higher antibody titers for mumps, measles and rubella. Activation, senescence, and exhaustion markers correlated with poorer vaccine response. CONCLUSION: Children who started ART later in life presented with worse immune outcomes even after long-term ART.
41876467 | Disruption of metabolic licensing by JAK inhibitors constrains CD8 T cell activation and effector function. Janus kinase inhibitors (JAKis) are widely prescribed for autoimmune diseases, but their use is associated with increased infection risk. The mechanisms underlying this susceptibility remain unclear. CD8 T cells play a central role in antimicrobial defence, yet little is known about how JAKis reprogramme their activation and effector programmes. Here, we investigated naive and memory CD8 T cells from healthy donors stimulated in vitro in the presence of clinically relevant JAK inhibitors targeting JAK1 (JAK1i), JAK1/2 (JAK1/2i), or JAK1/3 (JAK1/3i). Flow cytometry, SCENITH, transmission electron microscopy, and RNA-seq were used to evaluate metabolic and functional programmes. We found that JAKis uncoupled phenotypic activation from metabolic reprogramming. Functionally, JAKi-treated CD8 T cells exhibited reduced activation and produced lower amounts of cytokines and cytotoxic molecules. Notably, even JAKi-treated memory CD8 T cells that upregulated CD69 and CD25 failed to engage glycolysis, showing decreased GLUT1 expression and glucose uptake. SCENITH profiling confirmed diminished glucose dependence and a shift toward mitochondrial reliance, despite reduced mitochondrial potential and structural alterations. Transcriptomic and protein analyses further revealed decreased mTOR activity and increased p53-associated transcripts, consistent with impaired growth and stress signalling. CD8 T cells from rheumatoid arthritis patients under JAKi therapy were analysed ex vivo for translational validation. These cells showed similar metabolic and signalling alterations, underscoring their clinical relevance. Altogether, these findings identify JAKis as disruptors of metabolic and signalling pathways in CD8 T cells, providing a mechanistic link between impaired effector function and the increased infection risk observed in treated patients.
15156176 | Role of RUNX family members in transcriptional repression and gene silencing. RUNX family members are DNA-binding transcription factors that regulate the expression of genes involved in cellular differentiation and cell cycle progression. The RUNX family includes three mammalian RUNX proteins (RUNX1, -2, -3) and two homologues in Drosophila. Experiments in Drosophila and mouse indicate that the RUNX proteins are required for gene silencing of engrailed and CD4, respectively. RUNX-mediated repression involves recruitment of corepressors such as mSin3A and Groucho as well as histone deacetylases. Furthermore, RUNX1 and RUNX3 associate with SUV39H1, a histone methyltransferase involved in gene silencing. RUNX1 is frequently targeted in human leukemia by chromosomal translocations that fuse the DNA-binding domain of RUNX1 to other transcription factors and corepressor molecules. The resulting leukemogenic fusion proteins are transcriptional repressors that form stable complexes with corepressors, histone deacetylases and histone methyltransferases. Thus, transcriptional repression and gene silencing through RUNX1 contribute to the mechanisms of leukemogenesis of the fusion proteins. Therapies directed at the associated cofactors may be beneficial for treatment of these leukemias.
42009357 | Novel NK cell-like phenotype expressing CCR5 and its ligands elicits tumor-specific acquired immunity to carcinomatous peritonitis via host NK-derived IFN-gamma. BACKGROUND: Natural killer (NK) cell-based immunotherapies remain largely ineffective against solid tumors and strategies that directly enhance NK cell cytotoxicity often fail to establish durable tumor control. To address this limitation, we developed GAIA-102, a novel NK-like phenotype with enhanced tumor-homing capacity, and its scalable derivative, expanded GAIA-102 (exp_GAIA). Here, we evaluated whether exp_GAIA can engage host immunity to drive durable response. METHODS: A syngeneic lethal murine model of carcinomatous peritonitis was used to assess exp_GAIA. Following adoptive transfer of exp_GAIA with recombinant human interleukin-2 (rhIL-2), antitumor efficacy, survival and immune response were evaluated. Mechanistic studies quantified chemokine production and examined CCR5-dependent recruitment and expansion of endogenous NK cells, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) secretion, and activation of tumor-specific CD8+T cells. Tumor immunogenic cell death (ICD) was assessed by calreticulin (CRT) surface translocation and analyzed for its association with endogenous NK expansion. RESULTS: Treatment with exp_GAIA plus rhIL-2 induced complete tumor regression and generated durable, tumor-specific adaptive immune response that required CD8+T cells. Mechanistically, exp_GAIA secreted CCR5-binding chemokines, particularly CCL3, thereby recruiting endogenous NK cells into tumor. Endogenous NK cells produced IFN-gamma, which activated tumor-specific CD8+T cells and established an innate-to-adaptive cytotoxicity axis. In parallel, exp_GAIA triggered tumor ICD characterized by CRT translocation, which further promoted in situ expansion of endogenous NK cells. CONCLUSIONS: In combination with rhIL-2, exp_GAIA integrates endogenous NK activity with induction of long-lasting, CD8+T cell-dependent antitumor immunity via a CCR5-CCL3-NK-IFN-gamma-CD8 pathway, reinforced ICD with CRT exposure. These findings support exp_GAIA+rhIL-2 as a new NK-based strategy for durable control of solid tumors.
32623831 | A role for human leucocyte antigens in the susceptibility to SARS-Cov-2 infection observed in transplant patients. We analysed data from 80 patients who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 RNA who had previously been HLA typed to support transplantation. Data were combined from two adjacent centres in Manchester and Leeds to achieve a sufficient number for early analysis. HLA frequencies observed were compared against two control populations: first, against published frequencies in a UK deceased donor population (n = 10,000) representing the target population of the virus, and second, using a cohort of individuals from the combined transplant waiting lists of both centres (n = 308), representing a comparator group of unaffected individuals of the same demographic. We report a significant HLA association with HLA- DQB1*06 (53% vs. 36%; p < .012; OR 1.96; 95% CI 1.94-3.22) and infection. A bias towards an increased representation of HLA-A*26, HLA-DRB1*15, HLA-DRB1*10 and DRB1*11 was also noted but these were either only significant using the UK donor controls, or did not remain significant after correction for multiple tests. Likewise, HLA-A*02, HLA-B*44 and HLA-C*05 may exert a protective effect, but these associations did not remain significant after correction for multiple tests. This is relevant information for the clinical management of patients in the setting of the current SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and potentially in risk-assessing staff interactions with infected patients.
41990066 | Bioinformatics analysis identifies IL-23A and JAK2 as regulatory factors in sepsis immune response via the JAK/STAT3 pathway. INTRODUCTION: Sepsis is a life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by dysregulated host responses to infection. Identifying key genes associated with sepsis and exploring their interactions with immune cells are crucial for advancing diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. METHODOLOGY: In order to explore the genetic underpinnings, five datasets-GSE28750, GSE57065, GSE64457, GSE65682, and GSE95233-were analyzed using the \Limma\ package in R to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Functional enrichment analysis was conducted using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and key modules were analyzed using STRING and Cytoscape. The core genes were selected using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression, and their diagnostic value was validated through receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Immune cell infiltration was assessed using the CIBERSORT algorithm. RESULTS: A total of 230 DEGs were identified, including 183 upregulated and 47 downregulated genes. GO and KEGG analysis revealed significant enrichment in immune-related pathways. Two core genes, IL-23A and JAK2, emerged as key players. ROC curve analysis demonstrated high diagnostic value with area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.82 and 0.90 for IL-23A and JAK2, respectively. IL-23A showed a strong positive correlation with CD8+ T cells and activated natural killer (NK) cells, while also activating the JAK/STAT3 signaling pathway and mitigating JAK2-mediated immune cell infiltration. CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the potential role of IL-23A and JAK2 in the immune regulation of sepsis and provides new insights into immune therapeutic strategies via the JAK/STAT3 signaling pathway.
41981139 | Blockage of cuproplasia inhibits pancreatic tumour-associated neutrophils infiltration through TRAF6/STAT3/CCL2 pathway. BACKGROUND: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a highly aggressive cancer with a poor prognosis and is easy to developing drug resistance to conventional therapies due to its distinctive tumour microenvironment. Recent advancements have brought attention to the aberrant copper metabolism in this malignancy, but the influence of intracellular cuproplasia and balance on the tumoral immune microenvironment is still uncertain. METHODS: We analysed copper concentrations and CTR1 expression in PDAC tissues and cell lines. Spatial transcriptomics was employed to delineate the relationship between CTR1 overexpression and tumour-associated neutrophils (TANs) infiltration. Chemokine arrays and molecular assays were used to identify key signalling pathways involved. Functional experiments, including CTR1 knockdown and TRAF6 overexpression, were conducted to assess its impact on neutrophil infiltration and therapeutic synergy with gemcitabine. RESULTS: We identified that CTR1 overexpression drives intracellular copper overaccumulation, activating TRAF6-dependent phosphorylation of JAK/STAT3. Phosphorylated STAT3 transcriptionally upregulates the chemokine CCL2, fostering CCR2-mediated TANs infiltration, which correlates with poor prognosis. Crucially, single-cell RNA sequencing revealed CTR1 knockdown suppresses a pro-metastatic TAN subpopulation (TAN-2) and dramatically reduces TANs recruitment in orthotopic tumour models. This copper-targeted intervention concurrently enhances cytotoxic CD8+ effector T cells within the TME. The translational impact is underscored in gemcitabine-resistant PDAC, where hyperactive CTR1 and intensified TANs infiltration create a therapy-refractory condition. Combining CTR1 inhibition with gemcitabine synergistically overcomes this resistance by dual remodelling of the TME. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings shed light on how intracellular copper metabolism-regulating molecules modulate the neutrophil infiltration through the TRAF6/STAT3/CCL2 pathway, and particularly, targeting the copper regulator shows potential in optimising the tumour microenvironment in the treatment of pancreatic cancers. Schematic diagram of the mechanism by which CTR1 regulates neutrophil recruitment through CCL2 transcriptional activation through the TRAF6/JAK/STAT3 Pathway.
41861828 | HE4 drives PD-L1 expression in myeloid cells via IFN-gammaR-JAK-STAT3 signaling to promote tumor immune evasion. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) targeting PD-1/PD-L1 have achieved clinical success, yet most patients fail to respond and many develop immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Although interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) is considered the canonical driver of PD-L1 expression, regulation of PD-L1 in myeloid cells within the tumor microenvironment (TME) remains poorly defined. Here, we identify human epididymis protein 4 (HE4), a tumor-secreted glycoprotein overexpressed in multiple cancers, as an unrecognized inducer of myeloid PD-L1 transcription. HE4 directly binds IFN-gamma receptors, activates JAK-STAT3 signaling, and upregulates PD-L1. Neutralization of mouse or human HE4 with monoclonal antibodies reduced myeloid PD-L1 expression, restored CD8+ T cell activity, and suppressed tumor growth in syngeneic and humanized models, while inducing fewer irAEs than PD-1 blockade. Clinically, high HE4 expression predicts poor prognosis but correlates with improved response to PD-1 inhibitors in lung adenocarcinoma, highlighting HE4 as both a therapeutic target and predictive biomarker.
21292764 | Down-regulation of Runx1 expression by TCR signal involves an autoregulatory mechanism and contributes to IL-2 production. Runx1 transcription factor plays multiple roles in T cell development, differentiation, and function. However, the regulatory mechanisms and functional significance of high Runx1 protein expression in resting peripheral CD4+ T cells is not well understood. Here, we demonstrate that T-cell receptor (TCR) activation down-regulates distal Runx1 transcription, resulting in a significant reduction of Runx1 protein. Interestingly, this down-regulation of distal Runx1 transcription appears to be mediated through a negative auto-regulatory mechanism, whereby Runx1 protein binds to a Runx consensus site in the distal promoter. Through the use of Runx1-overexpressing cells from transgenic mice, we demonstrate that interference with TCR-mediated Runx1 down-regulation inhibits IL-2 production and proliferation in activated CD4+ T cells. In contrast, using Runx1-deficient cells prepared from targeted mice, we show that the absence of Runx1 in unstimulated CD4+ T cells results in IL-2 derepression. In summary, we propose that high levels of Runx1 in resting CD4+ T cells functions negatively in the regulation of IL-2 transcription, and that TCR activation-mediated down-regulation of Runx1 involves negative auto-regulation of the distal Runx1 promoter and contributes to IL-2 production.
42145593 | Induction of multiple HIV-1 neutralizing B Cell Precursors in Humans. Induction of broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) remains a central goal of HIV vaccine development. In the HVTN300 clinical trial ( NCT04915768 ), we evaluated an HIV CH505 transmitted/founder (TF) envelope trimer designed to prime naive B cell precursors of the CD4 binding site (CD4bs) class of bnAbs that use a CDRH3-dominated binding mode. Autologous tier 2 serum neutralizing activity was detected in 9 of 11 vaccinees, and neutralizing B cells were isolated from all participants. CD4bs-directed, CDRH3-binder bnAb precursors were identified in 8 of 11 vaccinees (73%), including one lineage with nascent heterologous breadth that neutralized 6% of global HIV isolates. Cryo-EM structures confirmed CD4bs CDRH3-binder modes of engagement and additionally revealed vaccine-induced V1/V3-directed antibodies and a neutralizing lineage targeting the gp120/gp41 interface. Together, these results demonstrate that the CH505 TF trimer primes a diverse, polyclonal neutralizing B cell repertoire in humans, providing multiple entry points for sequential boosting strategies to achieve HIV bnAb breadth. HIGHLIGHTS: CH505 germline-targeting trimeric immunogen induced autologous tier 2 neutralizing B cell lineages in 100% of vaccinated humans.CD4 binding site CDRH3-binder bnAb precursors were detected in 73% of vaccinees.Single immunogen primed CD4bs, V1/V3, and gp120/gp41 targeting neutralizing antibodies.A CD4 binding site B cell clonal lineage was isolated that neutralized 6% of global HIV primary isolates.
39999840 | An epitope-directed mRNA vaccine inhibits tumor metastasis through the blockade of MICA/B alpha1/2 shedding. Antigenic peptide-based mRNA vaccines have been explored for immunotherapeutic use in various types of cancer because of their advantages in activating durable and specific immune responses. However, their role in modulating tumor metastasis is still unclear. Here, we identify a conserved linear epitope-based peptide, Ma3P, located in the proteolytic region of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-related chain A (MICA) alpha3 and further design mCM10-L, an mRNA vaccine that encodes the carrier protein CRM197 and 10 tandem repeats of Ma3P. We demonstrate that vaccination with mCM10-L induces the production of specific antibodies that block MICA/B alpha1/2 shedding, activate CD8+ T cells and natural killer (NK) cells, and significantly inhibit MICA/B+ tumor metastasis in mice. Furthermore, mCM10-L stimulation triggers the production of specific antibodies to promote MICA/B-mediated immune killing in an in-vitro-interacting human organoid model and humanized mice. Our results indicate the potential clinical application prospects of the mCM10-L vaccine.
40070827 | Longitudinal CNS and systemic T-lymphocyte and monocyte activation before and after antiretroviral therapy beginning in primary HIV infection. Background: Trafficking of immune cells to the central nervous system is hypothesized to facilitate HIV entry and immune-induced neuronal injury and is mediated by surface proteins such as chemokine receptors and alpha4 integrin. We longitudinally assessed immune cell activation and surface marker expression in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood and their relationship with CSF HIV RNA beginning during primary HIV infection (PHI) before and after antiretroviral therapy (ART). Methods: Longitudinal paired blood and CSF were obtained in ART-naive PHI (<12 month since infection) participants; some independently initiated ART during follow up. Multiparameter flow cytometry of fresh samples determined activation (% CD38+HLADR+) and chemokine receptor expression (% CCR5+ and CXCR3+) on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and subtype and alpha4 integrin expression (% and mean fluorescence intensity (mfi) of CD49d+) on monocytes. HIV RNA was quantified by PCR. Analyses employed Spearman correlation, within-subject correlation, and linear mixed models. Results: 51 participants enrolled at a median 3.2 months post HIV transmission with 168 total visits (113 pre-ART, 55 post-ART) and a median of 6.5 months of longitudinal follow up (range 0-40). In pre-ART PHI, frequencies of activated CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were much higher in CSF than in blood, with levels similar to ART-naive people with chronic HIV infection. Both CSF CD4+ and CD8+ T cell activation increased longitudinally prior to initiation of ART. In multivariate analysis, CSF CD4+ but not CD8+ T cell activation independently predicted CSF HIV RNA. Neither CSF monocyte subtypes or alpha4 expression correlated with CSF HIV RNA. Blood monocyte alpha4 MFI correlated with CD4+ and CD8+ T cell activation (p<0.05). Following ART initiation, blood but not CSF T cell activation declined with days on treatment (slope=-0.06, p=0.001). During ART, blood and CSF monocyte alpha4 MFI correlated with T cell activation (p<0.05). Conclusions: In untreated early infection after PHI, immune activation increases over time, and CSF CD4+ T cell activation but not monocyte activation correlates with CSF HIV RNA. Intrathecal T cell activation does not decline during early follow up on ART. Immunomodulating therapies may be needed to prevent neuronal injury and HIV neuroinvasion during early HIV.
41964644 | Regulatory Effects of CD14+CD16++Slan+ Monocytes on Classical Monocytes and T Lymphocytes in Response to Inflammatory and Phagocytic Stimuli. BACKGROUND: CD14+CD16++6-sulfo LacNAc (Slan)+ monocytes represent a specialized nonclassical subset with reported pro-inflammatory and regulatory features. However, their capacity to modulate classical monocytes and T lymphocytes under apoptotic and inflammatory conditions remains incompletely defined. METHODS: We employed a coculture reconstitution model using flow cytometry-sorted CD14+CD16++Slan+ monocytes and CD14++CD16-Slan- classical monocytes at defined ratios. Cultures were stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or K562-derived apoptotic bodies (ABs). Monocyte surface marker expression was evaluated by flow cytometry, and cytokine concentrations were quantified using multiplex bead-based assays. The impact of Slan+ monocytes on CD3+ T cell proliferation and cytokine production was assessed following monocyte-T cell coculture. RESULTS: CD14+CD16++Slan+ monocytes exhibited enhanced uptake of ABs and distinct phenotypic modulation upon stimulation. Increasing proportions of Slan+ cells induced higher HLA-DR and CCR5 expression on classical monocytes. LPS stimulation promoted TNF, IL-12, IL-6, and CCL2 production, whereas AB exposure favored IL-10 and IL-17 accumulation. In coculture assays, Slan+ monocytes reduced CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation and altered T cell cytokine profiles in a stimulus-dependent manner. CONCLUSION: CD14+CD16++Slan+ monocytes exert a dose- and context-dependent modulatory effect on classical monocytes and T lymphocytes in vitro, displaying both inflammatory and regulatory properties depending on the stimulus. These findings highlight their functional plasticity within the human monocyte compartment.
41788062 | SPIKE PROTEIN OF SARS-COV-2 INCREASES CXCR4 EXPRESSION AND MIGRATION OF BREAST CANCER CELLS IN VITRO. BACKGROUND: There are some data that viral respiratory infections facilitate metastasis of breast cancer (BC). However, whether the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 is a trigger for BC progression is not yet clear, as well as the possible mechanisms of its involvement. AIM: The work aimed to study the effect of the SARS-Cov-2 spike protein (SP) on the expression profile of components of the CXCL12/CXCR4 key signaling axis of BC, cell adhesion markers CD326, CD54, epithelial cells cytokeratin-18 and b-catenin, and migratory activity in in vitro model system. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The expression profile of the studied markers was detected by flow cytometry after 48 h of incubation of MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells with SP. Marker expression was assessed by the number of positive cells (%) and the level of its expression (the relative index of mean fluorescence intensity of cells, iMFI). Cell migration was analyzed by the scratch assay. RESULTS: After SP treatment, a significant increase in CXCR4 expression was detected in the cytoplasm of both MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells. SP caused opposite effects on CXCL12 expression - an increase in the MDA-MB-231 cells and decrease in the MCF-7 cells. In addition, in MCF-7 cells, SP treatment resulted in a decrease in the number of CD54-positive cells, the iMFI of CD326, cytokeratin-18, and a slight increase in the iMFI of b-catenin, while in the MDA-MB-231 cell line, a significant decrease in the iMFI of CD54 was observed. SP accelerated the migration activity of MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 cells, the effect being more pronounced in MDA-MB-231 cells. CONCLUSION: The immunophenotypic changes in the expression profile of several markers under the influence of SP may indicate the induction of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition in the MCF-7 cells and increased migration activity in both cell lines.
32424945 | Distribution of HLA allele frequencies in 82 Chinese individuals with coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19). COVID-19 is a respiratory disease caused by a novel coronavirus and is currently a global pandemic. HLA variation is associated with COVID-19 because HLA plays a pivotal role in the immune response to pathogens. Here, 82 individuals with COVID-19 were genotyped for HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, -DRB3/4/5, -DQA1, -DQB1, -DPA1, and -DPB1 loci using next-generation sequencing (NGS). Frequencies of the HLA-C*07:29, C*08:01G, B*15:27, B*40:06, DRB1*04:06, and DPB1*36:01 alleles were higher, while the frequencies of the DRB1*12:02 and DPB1*04:01 alleles were lower in COVID-19 patients than in the control population, with uncorrected statistical significance. Only HLA-C*07:29 and B*15:27 were significant when the corrected P-value was considered. These data suggested that some HLA alleles may be associated with the occurrence of COVID-19.
32810439 | Elevated Calprotectin and Abnormal Myeloid Cell Subsets Discriminate Severe from Mild COVID-19. Blood myeloid cells are known to be dysregulated in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by SARS-CoV-2. It is unknown whether the innate myeloid response differs with disease severity and whether markers of innate immunity discriminate high-risk patients. Thus, we performed high-dimensional flow cytometry and single-cell RNA sequencing of COVID-19 patient peripheral blood cells and detected disappearance of non-classical CD14LowCD16High monocytes, accumulation of HLA-DRLow classical monocytes (Human Leukocyte Antigen - DR isotype), and release of massive amounts of calprotectin (S100A8/S100A9) in severe cases. Immature CD10LowCD101-CXCR4+/- neutrophils with an immunosuppressive profile accumulated in the blood and lungs, suggesting emergency myelopoiesis. Finally, we show that calprotectin plasma level and a routine flow cytometry assay detecting decreased frequencies of non-classical monocytes could discriminate patients who develop a severe form of COVID-19, suggesting a predictive value that deserves prospective evaluation.
36325330 | HLA-C dysregulation as a possible mechanism of immune evasion in SARS-CoV-2 and other RNA-virus infections. One of the mechanisms by which viruses can evade the host's immune system is to modify the host's DNA methylation pattern. This work aims to investigate the DNA methylation and gene expression profile of COVID-19 patients, divided into symptomatic and asymptomatic, and healthy controls, focusing on genes involved in the immune response. In this study, changes in the methylome of COVID-19 patients' upper airways cells, the first barrier against respiratory infections and the first cells presenting viral antigens, are shown for the first time. Our results showed alterations in the methylation pattern of genes encoding proteins implicated in the response against pathogens, in particular the HLA-C gene, also important for the T-cell mediated memory response. HLA-C expression significantly decreases in COVID-19 patients, especially in those with a more severe prognosis and without other possibly confounding co-morbidities. Moreover, our bionformatic analysis revealed that the identified methylation alteration overlaps with enhancers regulating HLA-C expression, suggesting an additional mechanism exploited by SARS-CoV-2 to inhibit this fundamental player in the host's immune response. HLA-C could therefore represent both a prognostic marker and an excellent therapeutic target, also suggesting a preventive intervention that conjugate a virus-specific antigenic stimulation with an adjuvant increasing the T-cell mediated memory response.
20863413 | Cytotoxic T cells expressing the co-stimulatory receptor NKG2 D are increased in cigarette smoking and COPD. BACKGROUND: A suggested role for T cells in COPD pathogenesis is based on associations between increased lung cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CD8+) numbers and airflow limitation. CD69 is an early T cell activation marker. Natural Killer cell group 2 D (NKG2D) receptors are co-stimulatory molecules induced on CD8+ T cells upon activation. The activating function of NKG2 D is triggered by binding to MHC class 1 chain-related (MIC) molecules A and B, expressed on surface of stressed epithelial cells. The aim of this study was to evaluate the expression of MIC A and B in the bronchial epithelium and NKG2 D and CD69 on BAL lymphocytes in subjects with COPD, compared to smokers with normal lung function and healthy never-smokers. METHODS: Bronchoscopy with airway lavages and endobronchial mucosal biopsy sampling was performed in 35 patients with COPD, 21 healthy never-smokers and 16 smokers with normal lung function. Biopsies were immunohistochemically stained and BAL lymphocyte subsets were determined using flow cytometry. RESULTS: Epithelial CD3+ lymphocytes in bronchial biopsies were increased in both smokers with normal lung function and in COPD patients, compared to never-smokers. Epithelial CD8+ lymphocyte numbers were higher in the COPD group compared to never-smoking controls. Among gated CD3+cells in BAL, the percentage of CD8+ NKG2D+ cells was enhanced in patients with COPD and smokers with normal lung function, compared to never-smokers. The percentage of CD8+ CD69+ cells and cell surface expression of CD69 were enhanced in patients with COPD and smokers with normal lung function, compared to never-smokers. No changes in the expression of MIC A or MIC B in the airway epithelium could be detected between the groups, whereas significantly decreased soluble MICB was detected in bronchial wash from smokers with normal lung function, compared to never-smokers. CONCLUSIONS: In COPD, we found increased numbers of cytotoxic T cells in both bronchial epithelium and airway lumen. Further, the proportions of CD69- and NKG2D-expressing cytotoxic T cells in BAL fluid were enhanced in both subjects with COPD and smokers with normal lung function and increased expression of CD69 was found on CD8+ cells, indicating the cigarette smoke exposure-induced expansion of activated cytotoxic T cells, which potentially can respond to stressed epithelial cells.
38676495 | In Silico approach: Design an Optimized shRNA against RUNX1 Gene to Target HIV. INTRODUCTION: Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is a retrovirus with single-stranded RNA that leads to the challenging disease of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) can prevent the progression of the disease, but it is not capable of long-term HIV elimination. One of the significant obstacles to treating HIV-1-infected individuals is the creation of latent cell reservoirs early in the infection. Gene-based therapies that utilize RNA interference (RNAi) to silence host or viral gene expression are considered promising therapeutic approaches. It has been demonstrated that RUNX1, a T-cell-specific transcription factor, may significantly affect HIV replication and infection. According to accumulating evidence on the role of interfering RNA techniques in inhibiting gene expression and considering the role of RUNX1 in the replication of HIV-1. In this study, we aim to design shRNAs against RUNX1 that can target the replication of HIV-1. </P> Methods: Several computational methods, including target alignment, similarity search, and secondary structure prediction, have been employed in the design of shRNA against RUNX1. </P> Results: Seven shRNA molecules with the highest efficiency were designed and validated using computational methods to silence the RUNX1 gene. </P> Conclusions: In the present study, we designed shRNA against RUNX1, which can target latent cells infected with HIV. Suppression of RUNX1 by shRNA reactivates HIV in the latent cells and subsequently potentiates the immune response toward identifying accurate virus-infected cells. This process may lead to an effective and efficient reduction of the volume of cell reservoirs infected with HIV.
40011702 | Immune dysregulation in COVID-19 induced ARDS in kidney transplant recipients revealed by single-cell RNA sequencing. BACKGROUND: Since the emergence of COVID-19 at the end of 2019, the disease has led to widespread acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), particularly among kidney transplant recipients (KTRs), who are at increased risk due to long-term immunosuppressive therapy. This study aims to explore the differences in immune responses between kidney transplant recipients and non-kidney transplant recipients in COVID-19-induced ARDS to identify potential therapeutic targets for improving outcomes. Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on 108,320 cells derived from peripheral blood samples to construct a global single-cell map of COVID-19 induced ARDS in kidney transplant recipients(ARDSKT), COVID-19 induced ARDS in non transplant recipients(ARDSNKT), and healthy controls. Subsequently, using cellular clustering analysis, we obtained single-cell maps of different cell types. We employed enrichment analysis to determine the pathways involved in different subpopulations and focused on the role of key immune cells such as monocytes, megakaryocytes, B cells, and CD8+ T cells in the pathogenesis of ARDS. Significant immune differences were observed between ARDSKT and ARDSNKT. In ARDSKT, the S100A9+ MK subpopulation, which activates the NF-kappaB signaling pathway, was elevated, promoting inflammation. In contrast, the S100A12+ monocyte subpopulation that activates the chemokine signaling pathway was more abundant in ARDSNKT, reflecting a stronger inflammatory response, while its abundance was reduced in ARDSKT due to immunosuppression. The CXCR4+ B subpopulation, crucial for adaptive immunity, was significantly reduced in ARDSKT. Additionally, the XAF1+ Teff subpopulation, associated with apoptosis, was more abundant in ARDSKT, potentially impairing immune recovery. This study highlights the immune differences between ARDSKT and ARDSNKT, revealing the impact of immunosuppression on immune dysregulation. These findings suggest that targeting specific immune pathways can improve therapeutic strategies for ARDSKT.
40936207 | Children With Celiac Disease Have a Higher Degree of Activated or Exhausted CD4+ and CD8+ T Cells Compared to Healthy References. Type 1 diabetes (T1D) and celiac disease (CeD) are two chronic autoimmune disorders commonly diagnosed during childhood. In this exploratory study we performed flow cytometric immunophenotyping of various immune cell populations in peripheral blood from children with T1D, CeD, a T1D and CeD comorbidity, and from age-matched healthy references (controls). With extensive flow cytometry panels covering subpopulations of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, as well as monocytes and NK cells, our main finding is a tendency towards a higher degree of activated/exhausted T cells in children with a sole diagnosis of CeD compared with healthy references. This was seen through a higher fraction of CD4+ T cells positive for PD-1, CCR5 and CCR10, as well as a higher fraction of CD8+ T cells expressing PD-1 and CD39. In contrast, children with CeD showed a lower percentage of naive CD8+ T cells compared with healthy references. Other important findings are a skewed CD4+/CD8+ ratio for children with a comorbidity compared with references, increased fractions of T regulatory cells (Tregs, CD4+CD25+CD127low) for all three diagnosis groups compared with references, and a higher percentage of CD56dimCD16+ NK cells with a corresponding lower percentage in CD56dimCD16- NK cells in CeD compared to the T1D and CeD comorbidity. Ultimately, analysis of the peripheral immunological milieu might lead to the development of more efficient tools for diagnosis and monitoring, and better treatment options, for children with T1D, CeD, and the rare combination of T1D and CeD.
33732261 | Association of HLA Class I Genotypes With Severity of Coronavirus Disease-19. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I molecules play a crucial role in the development of a specific immune response to viral infections by presenting viral peptides at the cell surface where they will be further recognized by T cells. In the present manuscript, we explored whether HLA class I genotypes can be associated with the critical course of Coronavirus Disease-19 by searching possible connections between genotypes of deceased patients and their age at death. HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C genotypes of n = 111 deceased patients with COVID-19 (Moscow, Russia) and n = 428 volunteers were identified with next-generation sequencing. Deceased patients were split into two groups according to age at the time of death: n = 26 adult patients aged below 60 and n = 85 elderly patients over 60. With the use of HLA class I genotypes, we developed a risk score (RS) which was associated with the ability to present severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) peptides by the HLA class I molecule set of an individual. The resulting RS was significantly higher in the group of deceased adults compared to elderly adults [p = 0.00348, area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC ROC = 0.68)]. In particular, presence of HLA-A*01:01 allele was associated with high risk, while HLA-A*02:01 and HLA-A*03:01 mainly contributed to low risk. The analysis of patients with homozygosity strongly highlighted these results: homozygosity by HLA-A*01:01 accompanied early deaths, while only one HLA-A*02:01 homozygote died before 60 years of age. Application of the constructed RS model to an independent Spanish patients cohort (n = 45) revealed that the score was also associated with the severity of the disease. The obtained results suggest the important role of HLA class I peptide presentation in the development of a specific immune response to COVID-19.
33353065 | HCV-Associated Exosomes Upregulate RUNXOR and RUNX1 Expressions to Promote MDSC Expansion and Suppressive Functions through STAT3-miR124 Axis. RUNX1 overlapping RNA (RUNXOR) is a long non-coding RNA and plays a pivotal role in the differentiation of myeloid cells via targeting runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1). We and others have previously reported that myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) expand and inhibit host immune responses during chronic viral infections; however, the mechanisms responsible for MDSC differentiation and suppressive functions, in particular the role of RUNXOR-RUNX1, remain unclear. Here, we demonstrated that RUNXOR and RUNX1 expressions are significantly upregulated and associated with elevated levels of immunosuppressive molecules, such as arginase 1 (Arg1), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in MDSCs during chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Mechanistically, we discovered that HCV-associated exosomes (HCV-Exo) can induce the expressions of RUNXOR and RUNX1, which in turn regulates miR-124 expression via STAT3 signaling, thereby promoting MDSC differentiation and suppressive functions. Importantly, overexpression of RUNXOR in healthy CD33+ myeloid cells promoted differentiation and suppressive functions of MDSCs. Conversely, silencing RUNXOR or RUNX1 expression in HCV-derived CD33+ myeloid cells significantly inhibited their differentiation and expressions of suppressive molecules and improved the function of co-cultured autologous CD4 T cells. Taken together, these results indicate that the RUNXOR-RUNX1-STAT3-miR124 axis enhances the differentiation and suppressive functions of MDSCs and could be a potential target for immunomodulation in conjunction with antiviral therapy during chronic HCV infection.
40018777 | Frequencies of Circulating Immune Cells in Patients with Parkinson's Disease: Correlation with MDS-UPDRS Scores. BACKGROUND: Parkinson's Disease (PD) is associated with dysregulated/chronic inflammation. The immune system has multiple roles including beneficial effects such as clearing alpha synuclein aggregates. However, peripheral immune cells entering the brain may also contribute to inflammation and neurodegeneration. To identify which cells might have a negative impact and could be potential therapeutic targets, we compared immune signatures of patients and healthy controls. METHODS: Multicolor flow cytometry was used to determine the frequencies of major immune cell subsets in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of PD patients and controls. Because of the major impact of Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection on the distribution of immune cell subsets, particularly cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ T-cells, all participants were tested for CMV seropositivity. RESULTS: Although the cohort of 35 PD patients exhibited the well-established T-cell differentiation signature driven by CMV infection, there were no differences in the frequencies of differentiated or pro-inflammatory T-cells, B-cells or natural killer cells (NK-cells) attributable to the disease. However, percentages of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) were higher in PD patients than controls. Moreover, percentages of CD14+CD16+ (intermediate) monocytes expressing the C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) correlated with disease severity assessed by the Movement Disorder Society's revised version of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) score and disease duration. CONCLUSIONS: A comprehensive evaluation of the major subsets of circulating immune cells in PD patients revealed differences in myeloid cells between PD and healthy controls and some correlation of monocyte abundance with disease severity.
41516373 | A Novel MICB-Targeting CAR-NK Cells for the Treatment of Pancreatic Cancer. MICB-targeting CAR-NK (chimeric antigen receptor-modified natural killer cells) therapy may serve as off-the-shelf immunotherapy. We designed soluble Anti-MICB-scFv blocks tumor immune evasion targeting the MICB antigen, thereby enhancing CAR-NK cytotoxicity while reactivating endogenous immune attacks against malignancies. The Anti-MICB-CAR includes two Anti-MICB-scFv connected by an F2A linker, the CD8 hinge and transmembrane domain, the 4-1BB co-stimulatory domain, the CD3zeta activation domain, and IL-15. The expression efficiency of Anti-MICB-CAR in NK cells was investigated by flow cytometry; ELISA demonstrated that Anti-MICB-CAR-NK secreted free Anti-MICB-scFv and detected IL-15 secretion. Flow cytometry and CCK8 were utilized to study Anti-MICB-CAR-NK on tumor cell viability. The PANC-1 xenograft model was established in order to elucidate the anti-tumor effects of Anti-MICB-CAR-NK in vivo. In vitro investigations have demonstrated that the treatment of tumor cells with Anti-MICB-CAR-NK supernatant + NK cells or Anti-MICB-CAR-NK cells not only significantly increased the cytotoxic activity of tumor cells, but also secreted and produced higher levels of IL-15, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, perforin, and granzyme B compared with NK cells. Anti-MICB-CAR-NK cells exhibit strong cytotoxic activity against tumor cells with high MICB expression. In vivo, Anti-MICB-CAR-NK cells exhibited a substantial inhibitory effect on tumor growth. The IHC results reveal that Anti-MICB-CAR-NK cells show a more pronounced ability to infiltrate the tumor. We demonstrated the successful expression of Anti-MICB-CAR in NK cells, which enhances the anti-tumor activity of NK cells both in vitro and in vivo. This stress ligand-targeting approach provides a promising strategy for solid tumors.
29491162 | Long Noncoding RNA uc002yug.2 Activates HIV-1 Latency through Regulation of mRNA Levels of Various RUNX1 Isoforms and Increased Tat Expression. The HIV-1 reservoir is a major obstacle to complete eradication of the virus. Although many proteins and RNAs have been characterized as regulators in HIV-1/AIDS pathogenesis and latency, only a few long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been shown to be closely associated with HIV-1 replication and latency. In this study, we demonstrated that lncRNA uc002yug.2 plays a key role in HIV-1 replication and latency. uc002yug.2 potentially enhances HIV-1 replication, long terminal repeat (LTR) activity, and the activation of latent HIV-1 in both cell lines and CD4+ T cells from patients. Further investigation revealed that uc002yug.2 activates latent HIV-1 through downregulating RUNX1b and -1c and upregulating Tat protein expression. The accumulated evidence supports our model that the Tat protein has the key role in the uc002yug.2-mediated regulatory effect on HIV-1 reactivation. Moreover, uc002yug.2 showed an ability to activate HIV-1 similar to that of suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate using latently infected cell models. These findings improve our understanding of lncRNA regulation of HIV-1 replication and latency, providing new insights into potential targeted therapeutic interventions.IMPORTANCE The latent viral reservoir is the primary obstacle to curing HIV-1 disease. To date, only a few lncRNAs, which play major roles in various biological processes, including viral infection, have been identified as regulators in HIV-1 latency. In this study, we demonstrated that lncRNA uc002yug.2 is important for both HIV-1 replication and activation of latent viruses. Moreover, uc002yug.2 was shown to activate latent HIV-1 through regulating alternative splicing of RUNX1 and increasing the expression of Tat protein. These findings highlight the potential merit of targeting lncRNA uc002yug.2 as an activating agent for latent HIV-1.
41308233 | Single-cell transcriptomics reveals dynamics of natural killer cell expansion in a feeder cell-free culture of peripheral blood mononuclear cells-implications for immunotherapy. Natural killer (NK) cell therapies hold great promise for cancer treatment; however, donor-to-donor heterogeneity in the ex vivo expansion process remains a critical bottleneck in their supply. This study aimed to identify factors influencing donor variability in a 2-week-long ex vivo NK cell expansion from peripheral blood mononuclear cells, analyzed across three donors. Single-cell transcriptomics was applied to investigate the distribution of cell types and phenotypes, as well as trajectory inference and differential gene expression. Our results identified that several factors were associated with the variability in the final NK cell fraction and expansion, and that their influence was prevalent between culture days 3 and 8. Compared to a high final NK cell expansion, a culture with a low final NK cell expansion exhibited an upregulation of some stress and inflammatory genes and an increase in one specific subcluster of NK cells already on culture day 3. It showed a low score of CD56Bright CD16- phenotype and a high score of CD56Dim CD16+ phenotype. It also had a decreased presence of cytotoxic CD8+ Tm cells. Among the observed subclusters of CD8+ Tm cells, it exhibited a higher presence of a subcluster associated with a less differentiated and less cytotoxic phenotype, as well as a lower prevalence of a subcluster associated with chemokine and cytotoxic genes. Finally, it had a major expansion of one of the CD8+ Tm cells subclusters annotated as NK-like T cell and characterized by a high CCR5 mRNA expression, while the levels of CCL3, CCL4 and CCL5 mRNA were downregulated. The present findings point toward a potential link between CCL signaling and improved NK cell expansion performance, including possible markers for further investigations, and suggest future strategies to increase the final NK cell fraction and expansion based on donor-specific markers.
12091906 | The t(8;21) fusion protein, AML1 ETO, specifically represses the transcription of the p14(ARF) tumor suppressor in acute myeloid leukemia. The t(8;21) is one of the most frequent chromosomal translocations associated with acute leukemia. This translocation creates a fusion protein consisting of the acute myeloid leukemia-1 transcription factor and the eight-twenty-one corepressor (AML1 ETO), which represses transcription through AML1 (RUNX1) DNA binding sites and immortalizes hematopoietic progenitor cells. We have identified the p14(ARF) tumor suppressor, a mediator of the p53 oncogene checkpoint, as a direct transcriptional target of AML1 ETO. AML1 ETO repressed the p14(ARF) promoter and reduced endogenous levels of p14(ARF) expression in multiple cell types. In contrast, AML1 stimulated p14(ARF) expression and induced phenotypes consistent with cellular senescence. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays demonstrated that AML1 ETO was specifically bound to the p14(ARF) promoter. In acute myeloid leukemia samples containing the t(8;21), levels of p14(ARF) mRNA were markedly lower when compared with other acute myeloid leukemias lacking this translocation. Repression of p14(ARF) may explain why p53 is not mutated in t(8;21)-containing leukemias and suggests that p14(ARF) is an important tumor suppressor in a large number of human leukemias.
40976299 | C-C motif glycoprotein ligand 5 (CCL5) and its GPCR CCR5: Macromolecular game-changers in cancer biology. The C-C motif chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5; also known as RANTES) and its primary G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), CCR5, establish complicated signaling pathways, affecting tumor progression through context-dependent immunomodulation and direct contacts with neoplastic cells. This review summarizes current structural and functional evidence linking CCL5's O-linked glycosylation, oligomerization, and glycosaminoglycan interactions to its affinity for CCR5, tissue retention, and gradient formation-molecular attributes that govern leukocyte recruitment, stromal remodeling, angiogenesis, and metastasis. It also discusses mechanistic data showing how CCL5/CCR5 signaling promotes protumorigenic processes, including the recruitment of regulatory T cells (Tregs) and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), stabilization of programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), and therapeutic resistance. In particular, in immune-activating conditions, the recruitment of conventional type 1 dendritic cells (cDC1s), natural killer (NK) cells, and CD8+ T cells is augmented, hence fortifying anticancer immunity. Data from several tumors reveal both detrimental and beneficial effects, dependent on the tumor microenvironment (TME) and therapeutic context. Translational techniques employing CCR5 antagonists such as Maraviroc, GAG-binding modulators, glycoengineered CCL5 variants, delivery systems, and their integration with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) and targeted therapies are highlighted for their considerable therapeutic promise. Critical research priorities, encompassing single-cell phenotyping, CRISPR-mediated screening of chemokine pathways, and structural-functional mapping, are outlined to facilitate precise modulation of the CCL5/CCR5 axis in targeted cancer therapy. This review addresses structural biology and tumor immunology to identify the CCL5/CCR5 axis as a multifaceted yet promising biological target for innovative cancer therapeutics.
40382385 | Hepatitis B virus surface antigen drives T cell immunity through non-canonical antigen presentation in mice. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) exclusively infects hepatocytes and produces large amounts of subviral particles containing its surface antigen (HBsAg). T cell immunity is crucial for controlling and clearing HBV infection. However, the intercellular processes underlying HBsAg presentation to T cells are incompletely understood. Here, using preclinical mouse models, we show that, following HBsAg expression, the intrahepatic Batf3<sup>+</sup>XCR1<sup>+</sup>CCR7<sup>-</sup> conventional dendritic cell subset cDC1 presents HBsAg by MHC-I cross-dressing, driving CD8<sup>+</sup> T cell response. Meanwhile, upon HBsAg access to lymphoid tissues, B cells acquire HBsAg directly in the follicles of lymphoid tissues and initiate CD4<sup>+</sup> T cell responses sequentially in the follicular and interfollicular regions, guided by chemoattractant receptors CCR5 and EBI2, respectively. Finally, we identify ALCAM, LFA-1, and CD80 as key co-stimulatory signals essential for optimal T cell responses. Thus, these findings reveal the roadmap of non-canonical antigen presentation that drives T cell immunity against HBsAg, advancing novel therapeutic strategies for chronic HBV infection.
40877317 | Molecular basis of potent antiviral HLA-C-restricted CD8+ T cell response to an immunodominant SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid epitope. The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 Variants of Concern (VOC) is a major clinical threat; however, VOC remain susceptible to cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) recognition. Therefore, it is crucial to identify potent CTL responses targeting conserved epitopes across VOCs. Here, we demonstrate that the nucleocapsid (N) protein induces efficient CTL responses in early pandemic COVID-19 convalescent donors. In the context of the HLA-A24-B52-C12 haplotype, prevalent in Japan, the KF9 peptide (N266-274: KAYNVTQAF) is immunodominant and restricted by HLA-C*12:02. KF9-specific T cells are cytotoxic and suppress viral replication of both the ancestral and multiple VOC SARS-CoV-2. KF9-specific CD8+ T cells maintain effector memory and terminally differentiated phenotypes for 12 months post-infection and proliferate rapidly upon recall. We also determine the structure of a TCR in the context of the HLA-C*12:02-KF9 complex, providing a prototype for the interaction of HLA-C with viral peptides. Surprisingly, despite the TCR's high affinity, the CDR3beta loop almost lacks contact with the KF9 peptide. These findings highlight the importance of conserved epitopes and the role of HLA-C molecules in controlling SARS-CoV-2 VOC.
34352002 | Natural killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors trigger differences in immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection. BACKGROUND: The diversity in the clinical course of COVID-19 has been related to differences in innate and adaptative immune response mechanisms. Natural killer (NK) lymphocytes are critical protagonists of human host defense against viral infections. It would seem that reduced circulating levels of these cells have an impact on COVID-19 progression and severity. Their activity is strongly regulated by killer-cell immuno-globulin-like receptors (KIRs) expressed on the NK cell surface. The present study's focus was to investigate the impact of KIRs and their HLA Class I ligands on SARS-CoV-2 infection. METHODS: KIR gene frequencies, KIR haplotypes, KIR ligands and combinations of KIRs and their HLA Class I ligands were investigated in 396 Sardinian patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Comparisons were made between 2 groups of patients divided according to disease severity: 240 patients were symptomatic or paucisymptomatic (Group A), 156 hospitalized patients had severe disease (Group S). The immunogenetic characteristics of patients were also compared to a population group of 400 individuals from the same geographical areas. RESULTS: Substantial differences were obtained for KIR genes, KIR haplotypes and KIR-HLA ligand combinations when comparing patients of Group S to those of Group A. Patients in Group S had a statistically significant higher frequency of the KIR A/A haplotype compared to patients in Group A [34.6% vs 23.8%, OR = 1.7 (95% CI 1.1-2.6); P = 0.02, Pc = 0.04]. Moreover, the KIR2DS2/HLA C1 combination was poorly represented in the group of patients with severe symptoms compared to those of the asymptomatic-paucisymptomatic group [33.3% vs 50.0%, OR = 0.5 (95% CI 0.3-0.8), P = 0.001, Pc = 0.002]. Multivariate analysis confirmed that, regardless of the sex and age of the patients, the latter genetic variable correlated with a less severe disease course [ORM = 0.4 (95% CI 0.3-0.7), PM = 0.0005, PMC = 0.005]. CONCLUSIONS: The KIR2DS2/HLA C1 functional unit resulted to have a strong protective effect against the adverse outcomes of COVID-19. Combined to other well known factors such as advanced age, male sex and concomitant autoimmune diseases, this marker could prove to be highly informative of the disease course and thus enable the timely intervention needed to reduce the mortality associated with the severe forms of SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, larger studies in other populations as well as experimental functional studies will be needed to confirm our findings and further pursue the effect of KIR receptors on NK cell immune-mediated response to SARS-Cov-2 infection.
41913313 | Unanchored by two hits: IFNgamma and mechanical stress synergize to undermine melanocyte adhesion and promote vitiligo. BACKGROUND: Vitiligo is a chronic depigmentation disorder caused by selective melanocyte loss. Autoreactive CD8+ T cells are known contributors, but impaired melanocyte-keratinocyte adhesion due to E-cadherin dysfunction has also been implicated. OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to identify the key adhesion molecules mediating melanocyte-basement membrane interactions and to investigate their modulation in response to vitiligo-associated factors, including IFNgamma and mechanical stress. METHODS: Primary human epidermal melanocytes (PHEMs) and ex vivo human skin tissues were exposed to IFNgamma and mechanical stress. To identify key molecules involved in melanocyte adhesion, we integrated RNA sequencing data from prior studies with antibody array profiling. The involvement of focal adhesion-associated proteins in melanocyte-basement membrane attachment was further assessed by confocal imaging of vitiligo patient skin, revealing a reduction in these molecules. RESULTS: Exposure to interferon gamma (IFNgamma) and mechanical stress reduced focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and integrin beta1 (ITGbeta1) expression in melanocytes and ex vivo human skin, increasing melanocyte detachment. Both molecules were also decreased in basal keratinocytes and melanocytes from the skin of vitiligo patients compared to healthy controls. Pre-treatment with the JAK inhibitor baricitinib, used in vitiligo therapy, reduced melanocyte detachment through a cathepsin L (CTSL)-dependent mechanism. CONCLUSIONS: IFNgamma and mechanical stress contribute to melanocyte detachment from the basement membrane via CTSL, FAK, and ITGbeta1 regulation. These findings highlight the importance of melanocyte-basement membrane adhesion in vitiligo pathogenesis and offer insight into the Koebner phenomenon in disease progression.
41246306 | Targeting Pin1 to overcome immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment in MSS colorectal cancer. Background: Management of the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) is crucial for microsatellite stability (MSS) colorectal cancer (CRC), which responds poorly to immunotherapy. PIN1, a peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase that is overexpressed in human malignancies, regulates TME immunosuppression. However, its role in MSS CRC remains insufficiently explored. Methods: We divided 411 CRC patients from the TCGA-COAD database into MSS or microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) groups and analyzed their gene expression profiles. Using smoothed t-statistic SVM, weighted correlation network analysis, and sample clustering, we identified PIN1 as a key biomarker. We assessed Pin1 expression in CRC cell lines and tissues, and conducted functional assays, in vitro co-cultures, and in vivo studies (using a Pin1 inhibitor and anti-PD-1 in CT26 subcutaneous tumor and liver metastasis mouse models) to evaluate its effects and mechanisms. Results: PIN1 was overexpressed in MSS CRC and negatively correlated with CD4+ T and CD8+ T cell infiltration. Knockdown of PIN1 in MSS CRC cells significantly reduced cell proliferation (assessed by CCK-8 assay), impaired migratory capacity (assessed via wound-healing assay), and increased the apoptotic rate (detected by flow cytometry). In CT26 mouse models, combining Pin1 inhibition with PD-1 blockade enhanced immunotherapy efficacy by reducing Treg infiltration, suppressing cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF) activity, and promoting CD8+ T cell recruitment. Mechanistically, PIN1 activated the NF-kappaB pathway and modulated CCL3-CCR5 signaling, which are critical for Treg migration and CAF activation. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that Pin1 reshapes the immunosuppressive TME in MSS CRC through the NF-kappaB-CCL3-CCR5 axis, driving CRC progression and immunotherapy resistance. This pathway presents a potential target for overcoming immunotherapy resistance in MSS CRC.
38756234 | Nanobody-based CAR NK cells for possible immunotherapy of MICA+ tumors. The glycoproteins MICA and MICB are upregulated on the surface of cells undergoing stress, for instance due to (viral) infection or malignant transformation. MICA/B are the ligands for the activating receptor NKG2D, found on cytotoxic immune cells like NK cells, CD8+ T cells, and gammadelta T cells. Upon engagement of NKG2D, these cells are activated to eradicate the MICA/B-positive targets, assisted by the secretion of cytokines. Nanobodies, or VHHs, are derived from the variable regions of camelid heavy-chain only immunoglobulins. Nanobodies are characterized by their small size, ease of production, stability, and specificity of recognition. We generated nanobodies that recognize membrane-bound MICA with high affinity. Here, we use these nanobodies as building blocks for a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) to establish VHH-based CAR NK cells. These anti-MICA nanobody-based CAR NK cells recognize and selectively kill MICA-positive tumor cells in vitro and in vivo. We track localization of the VHH-based CAR NK cells to MICA-positive lung metastases by immuno-positron emission tomography imaging.
40796616 | Severity-specific immune landscape of COVID-19 revealed by single-cell sequencing. The Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has rapidly become the worst pandemic since the 1918 influenza pandemic. Studies have shown that severe COVID-19 patients have immune dysfunction. To characterize the dysregulated immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection, we performed a comprehensive analysis of scRNA-seq and scV(D)J-seq in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from mild, moderate, and severe patients. We observed that as the severity of the disease increased, several CD8 + T cell subsets and Treg cells continued to decrease, while CD4 + T subsets, natural killer cells and plasma cells continued to increase. Several aberrantly expressed biomarkers associated with SARS-CoV-2 severity were identified. For example, RPS26 was down-regulated, while the ZFP36, IL-32, and IgM genes were up-regulated with increasing disease severity. Functional analysis showed multiple immune-related pathways, such as interleukin-2 and interleukin-10 production pathways, were dysregulated. As the disease severity increased, intercellular interactions fluctuated. Particularly, naive CD8 + T cells regulated memory and activated CD8 + T cells, and the weakening in Treg cells' regulation of other immune cells was especially obvious. The expression of the MIF signaling pathway, mediated by CD74 + CXCR4, was higher throughout SARS-CoV-2 infection and the intensity of immune cell-cell interactions mediated by TGF-beta was enhanced from mild to severe. Subsequently, scV(D)J-seq analysis showed a decreasing trend in the number of clonotypes, repertoire diversity and clonotypes overlap of monoclonal B cell receptor (BCR) and T cell receptor (TCR) as the SARS-CoV-2 progresses. The CDR3 sequence length in COVID-19-specific clonotypes showed a bias towards being longer as the severity of COVID-19 increases. Our findings may provide new clues for understanding COVID-19 immunopathogenesis and help identify optimal biomarkers for new therapeutic strategies.
33619495 | HLA binding of self-peptides is biased towards proteins with specific molecular functions. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is highly polymorphic and plays a key role in guiding adaptive immune responses by presenting foreign and self peptides to T cells. Each HLA variant selects a minor fraction of peptides that match a certain motif required for optimal interaction with the peptide-binding groove. These restriction rules define the landscape of peptides presented to T cells. Given these limitations, one might suggest that the choice of peptides presented by HLA is non-random and there is preferential presentation of an array of peptides that is optimal for distinguishing self and foreign proteins. In this study we explore these preferences with a comparative analysis of self peptides enriched and depleted in HLA ligands. We show that HLAs exhibit preferences towards presenting peptides from certain proteins while disfavoring others with specific functions, and highlight differences between various HLA genes and alleles in those preferences. We link those differences to HLA anchor residue propensities and amino acid composition of preferentially presented proteins. The set of proteins that peptides presented by a given HLA are most likely to be derived from can be used to distinguish between class I and class II HLAs and HLA alleles. Our observations can be extrapolated to explain the protective effect of certain HLA alleles in infectious diseases, and we hypothesize that they can also explain susceptibility to certain autoimmune diseases and cancers. We demonstrate that these differences lead to differential presentation of HIV, influenza virus, SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 proteins by various HLA alleles. Finally, we show that the reported self peptidome preferences of distinct HLA variants can be compensated by combinations of HLA-A/HLA-B and HLA-A/HLA-C alleles in frequent haplotypes.
24716598 | Decreased expression of Runx1 and lowered proportion of Foxp3+ CD25+ CD4+ regulatory T cells in systemic sclerosis. OBJECTIVES: To investigate the role of Foxp3(+) CD25(+) CD4(+) regulatory T cells (Treg) and their transcription factor, Runt-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1), in the pathogenesis and development of systemic sclerosis (SSc). METHODS: We collected 23 blood samples from patients with SSc including 19 females and 4 males, 11 early-stage cases within 3 years from onset and 12 late-stage cases and 22 samples from age-matched healthy subjects (HS). Total CD4(+) T cells were assessed for the expression of Treg-related markers, CD25 and CD127, on their surface and intracellular Foxp3 using flow cytometry. Relative expression of Runx1 mRNA in magnetically purified Treg was analyzed using real-time PCR. RESULTS: Proportion of Foxp3(+) cells in total CD4(+) T cells was decreased in patients with either early- or late-stage SSc compared with that in HS, and Runx1 mRNA expression in purified Treg was lower in patients with SSc than in HS. Runx1 mRNA expression level was related to the frequency of Treg in SSc. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report on Runx1 expression in Treg of a human autoimmune disease. Low expression of Runx1 along with reduced proportion of Treg in CD4(+) T cells may be associated with development of SSc even in early disease.
40177773 | ALKBH5 Regulates Macrophage Senescence and Accelerates Atherosclerosis by Promoting CCL5 m6A Modification. BACKGROUND: Senescent foamy macrophages are key drivers of atherosclerosis and plaque instability. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification of RNA plays an important role in the development of various diseases including aging. Here, we aim to investigate the role of m6A modification of RNA in the formation of senescent foamy macrophages in atherosclerosis. METHODS: To assess m6A methylation, macrophages were isolated from the atherosclerotic plaques of patients with atherosclerosis, and Apoe-/- mice were fed a high-fat diet using CD68+ magnetic beads. An ALKBH5 (alkB homolog 5)f/f, Lyz2 (lysozyme 2)Cre, Apoe-/- mouse model was generated to determine the infiltration of senescent foamy macrophages into plaques and atherosclerosis progression. Methylated RNA immunoprecipitation, RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing, and dual-luciferase assays were performed to explore the mechanisms underlying the ALKBH5-mediated formation of senescent foamy macrophages. RESULTS: Decreased m6A methylation and increased ALKBH5 expression were observed in arterial plaques and infiltrating macrophages from patients and mice with atherosclerosis. Compared with control mice, ALKBH5f/f, Lyz2Cre, Apoe-/- mice exhibited fewer atherosclerosis plaques with greater stability, which was attributed to the suppression of senescent foamy macrophage formation and senescence-associated secretory phenotype. In addition, ALKBH5 deletion reduced the mRNA expression level of CCL5 (CC chemokine ligand 5) by increasing m6A methylation in macrophages, which disrupts the stability of CCL5 mRNA. Mechanistically, ALKBH5 promoted senescent foamy macrophage formation through the CCL5/CCR5 (CC chemokine receptor 5)/autophagy signaling pathway. CCL5 also recruited CD8+ IFN (interferon)gamma+ T cells via the CCL5-CCR5 axis. The ALKBH5 inhibitor IOX1 and the CCR5 antagonist maraviroc were identified as potential clinical interventions for inhibiting senescent foamy macrophage formation and atherosclerosis progression. CONCLUSIONS: Myeloid ALKBH5 deletion attenuates atherosclerosis progression by suppressing the formation of senescent foamy macrophages and the recruitment of CD8+IFNgamma+ T cells. These findings identify ALKBH5, CCL5, and CCR5 as novel therapeutic targets for atherosclerosis.
41592892 | Targeting AKR1B1 reprograms tumor-associated macrophages to enhance antitumor immunity. BACKGROUND: Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are key drivers of the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), thereby limiting the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. METHODS: Both genetic (Akr1b3 knockout) and pharmacologic (epalrestat) approaches were employed to examine the impact of Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B1 (AKR1B1) inhibition on TAMs and T-cell function in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistic insights were obtained through RNA sequencing, flow cytometry, immunofluorescence staining, and co-culture assays. To assess therapeutic relevance, 4T1 breast cancer and LLC lung carcinoma mouse models were used to evaluate the effects of epalrestat on tumor growth, immune infiltration, and T-cell responses. Clinical relevance was validated in patient cohorts with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) and lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). RESULTS: AKR1B1 is highly expressed in TAMs and correlates with CD8+ T-cell dysfunction. Targeting AKR1B1 enhances antitumor immunity by reprogramming TAMs. Mechanistically, AKR1B1 modulates macrophage metabolism via the glutathione/reactive oxygen species axis, suppressing nuclear factor kappaB activation and downregulating C-C motif chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5) production, thereby inducing CD8+ T-cell dysfunction and establishing an immunosuppressive TME. Inhibition of AKR1B1, either by gene knockout or selective pharmacologic blockade, reprograms TAMs toward an immunostimulatory phenotype, increases CCL5-CCR5 (C-C motif chemokine receptor 5) signaling, restores CD8+T cell effector function, and strengthens antitumor immunity. Clinically, high AKR1B1 expression is associated with poor prognosis and immune suppression in TNBC and LUAD. Notably, targeting AKR1B1 improves responses to ICIs in both breast and lung cancer models. CONCLUSIONS: AKR1B1 as a critical regulator of TAM-mediated immunosuppression and highlight its therapeutic potential to enhance the efficacy of ICIs.
34289534 | High-resolution HLA genotyping identifies alleles associated with severe COVID-19: A preliminary study from India. INTRODUCTION: Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) variability has been demonstrated to be associated with susceptibility/severity of COVID-19. High-resolution HLA genotyping to identify alleles associated with severe COVID-19 in an Indian cohort was performed. METHODS: Quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction-confirmed SARS-CoV-2-positive patients with mild/moderate/severe disease (n = 54) and asymptomatic (n = 42) were recruited and genotyped for 11-HLA loci on MiSeq using NGSgo -MX11-3 and analyzed (NGSengine; GenDx). RESULTS: A significant difference in alleles between the groups was identified for HLA-C*04:01:01:01, HLA-DRB5*01:01:01:02, HLA-DQA1*03:01:01:01, HLA-DPB1*04:01:01:41, and HLA-DPA1*01:03:01:02. Alleles namely, HLA-C*04:01:01:01 (OR: 5.71; 95% CI: 1.2-27.14; p = .02), HLA-DRB5*01:01:01:02 (OR: 2.94; 95% CI: 1.1-7.84; p = .03), DQA1*03:01:01:01 (OR: 22.47; 95% CI: 1.28-393.5; p = .03), HLA-DPB1*04:01:01:41 (OR: 9.44; 95% CI: 0.5-175.81; p = .13), and HLA-DPA1*01:03:01:02 (OR: 8.27; 95% CI: 2.26-30.21; p = .001) were associated with severe COVID-19. CONCLUSION: Genotyping for these alleles will enable identification of individuals at risk of severe disease and stratification for preferential vaccination.
40865718 | Kidney-resident macrophages limit toxin-induced inflammation through their hallmark functions. INTRODUCTION: The inflammatory phenotype of acute kidney injury (AKI), characterized by interstitial infiltration of immune cells, arises due to nephrotoxic agents. However, it does not pose the same risk of occurrence and progression for everyone, suggesting that the amplification or attenuation of disease depends on the unique immunological status of each kidney. Here, our study investigated the regulatory role of kidney-resident macrophages (KRMs) in the induction and progression of toxin-induced AKI. METHODS: To explore this, mice were administered standard pellet chow supplemented, or not, with 0.2% adenine. We injected antibodies against the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor to selectively depleted KRMs while preserving other kidney-infiltrating macrophages (KiMs) over an extended period owing to different kinetics of KRMs and KiMs. RESULTS: During the KRM-free period, apoptotic cells accumulated in the interstitium, largely due to the lack of AXL receptor tyrosine kinase, crucial for the efferocytotic function of KRMs. This KRM-free kidney with apoptotic debris induced stress on surrounding tubules, thereby increasing p53 expressing and damage marker (KIM-1)-positive cells. Additionally, KRM-free kidneys presented increased production of chemokine CCL5 from effector CD8+ T cells and increased recruitment of CCR5+ natural killer cells. This occurred because the remaining KiMs, which expressed lower levels of the immune regulatory protein VISTA than did the KRMs, stimulated the effector CD8+ T cells to produce CCL5. The overall alterations in the kidney due to the absence of KRMs ultimately rendered the kidney susceptible to toxin-induced AKI occurrence and progression. Changes in AKI outcomes related to AXL and VISTA expression in kidney mononuclear phagocytes were also observed in human kidney tissues. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our findings underscore the hallmark role of KRMs in modulating kidney conditions and mitigating the risk of toxin-induced AKI.
42105873 | IFN-gamma-driven CD8+ T-cell-keratinocyte cross talk underlies inflammation and blistering in pemphigus lesions. BACKGROUND: Pemphigus is an autoimmune bullous disease primarily driven by anti-desmoglein (Dsg) autoantibodies. However, the disease pathogenesis beyond anti-Dsg autoantibodies remains unclear. OBJECTIVE: We sought to explore the pathogenic role of IFN-gamma in pemphigus and to evaluate the therapeutic potential of targeting the IFN-gamma-JAK pathway. METHODS: The pathogenetic effects of IFN-gamma signaling in pemphigus were investigated by integrated single cell analysis, ex vivo human skin explants, and cocultures. Therapeutic efficacy of the JAK1 inhibitor abrocitinib was evaluated in a murine pemphigus model and in refractory pemphigus patients. RESULTS: IFN-gamma-expressing T cells largely infiltrate pemphigus lesions and drive IFN-gamma-dominant inflammation. IFN-gamma-activated keratinocytes secrete C-X-C motif chemokines CXCL9/10/11 to recruit more CD8+ T cells. Notably, IFN-gamma primes keratinocytes to become more susceptible to CD8+ T-cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Moreover, IFN-gamma synergizes with anti-Dsg autoantibodies to induce keratinocyte dissociation through p38 activation and augments anti-Dsg autoantibody production. Oral JAK1 inhibitor abrocitinib effectively attenuated IFN-gamma-dominant inflammation and improved skin lesions in a murine pemphigus model and in patients with refractory disease. CONCLUSION: A self-amplifying inflammatory circuit between IFN-gamma+CD8+ T cells and keratinocytes acts as a key driver of pemphigus pathogenesis and provides a mechanistic rationale for targeting the IFN-gamma-JAK pathway in its treatment.
42145056 | Synthetic Inducible Bacteria Normalize the Microenvironment of Refractory Tumors, Potentiating Checkpoint Inhibitor Responses. Immunotherapy has transformed cancer treatment but remains ineffective in many solid tumors, largely due to the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). A dense/stiff extracellular matrix (ECM) can hinder immune cell infiltration, limiting therapeutic success. To overcome this challenge, we developed a live biotherapeutic platform using engineered programmable bacteria that offer advantages for delivering enzymes that normalize the TME. These nonpathogenic, commensal-derived strains are equipped with tumor-inducible promoters to deliver hyaluronidase locally and safely within the TME. Our study demonstrates that bacterial-mediated hyaluronan (HA) degradation reduces tumor stiffness, restores vascular function, and enhances immune checkpoint inhibitor efficacy in breast cancer murine models by improving immune cell infiltration and activation. Using machine learning and feature importance analysis, we identified biomarkers predictive of therapeutic response. Notably, we found that the potency of antitumor responses depends highly on baseline stiffness levels and ECM composition in relatively stiff breast tumors. In contrast, responses in less stiff colorectal cancer models characterized by low HA deposition primarily associated with immune cell composition, particularly CD8+ and CD4+ T cells and M2 macrophages. Our study showcases the potential of programmable bacteria to reshape the TME and identifies distinct tumor-dependent mechanisms of response across different tumor types, paving the way for more effective cancer treatments.
42145055 | Contemporary Disengagement From Antiretroviral Therapy in the Western Cape, South Africa: A Cross-Sectional Study. INTRODUCTION: South Africa has the largest antiretroviral therapy (ART) programme in the world, with universal access available through the public health system. Yet, gaps in coverage persist. In the Western Cape (WC), an estimated 200,000 people living with HIV are not currently on ART-many of whom are known to the health services. Exploring how people who are not on ART differ from those who are on ART may help guide more effective strategies for re-engagement and retention in care. METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of routine person-level data from the WC Provincial Health Data Centre, including adults (>=15 years) known to be living with HIV who accessed public services between October 2022 and September 2024. ART status was inferred from visit and dispensing records. Relative risks (RRs) of current disengagement were estimated using multivariable log-binomial regression on 25 imputed data sets, adjusting for sex, age, years since diagnosis, diagnosis setting and baseline CD4 count. RESULTS: Of 494,071 adults included, 131,368 (27%) were currently disengaged from ART. Those at elevated risk included men (aRR 1.20, 95% CI 1.19-1.21), younger people aged 15-24 years (aRR 1.54, 95% CI 1.51-1.57), those with CD4 >500 cells/mm3 at diagnosis (aRR 1.26, 95% CI 1.24-1.28) and individuals diagnosed in hospital (aRR 1.41, 95% CI 1.39-1.43) or during pregnancy (aRR 1.20, 95% CI 1.18-1.22). However, the majority of those disengaged were not from these groups, proportionally representing the underlying population living with HIV. Model discrimination was poor (AUC 0.614), indicating that these characteristics do not reliably identify those disengaged. CONCLUSIONS: Most disengaged individuals are from larger, lower-risk demographic groups and would be missed by interventions targeting higher-risk demographics. Whole-population strategies that address common barriers to retention through more inclusive, person-centred care offer the greatest potential to improve ART coverage.
39536392 | Multi-omic characteristics of longitudinal immune profiling after breakthrough infections caused by Omicron BA.5 sublineages. BACKGROUND: Omicron sub-variants breakthrough infections (BTIs) have led to millions of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) cases worldwide. The acute-phase immune status is critical for prognosis, however, the dynamic immune profiling of COVID-19 during the first month after BTIs remains unclear. METHODS: In this study, we monitored the immune dynamics at various timepoints in a longitudinal cohort during the first month post-BTIs through clinical evaluation, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), T cell receptor (TCR)/B cell receptor (BCR) sequencing, and antibody mass spectrometry. FINDINGS: Serological analysis revealed limited impairment to functions of major organs, active cellular and humoral immunity at 2 weeks post-BTI, with significant increases in cytokines (CKs) and neutralizing antibody levels. However, 1 month post-BTI, organ function parameters and CK levels reverted to pre-infection levels, whereas neutralizing antibody levels remained high. Notably, scRNA-seq showed that lymphocytes maintained strong antiviral activity and cell depletion at 2 weeks and 1 month post-BTI, with genes CD81, ABHD17A, CXCR4, DUSP1, etc. upregulated, and genes PFDN5, DYNLRB1, CD52, etc. downregulated, indicating that lymphocytes status take longer to recover to normal levels than that routine blood tests revealed. Additionally, T cell-exhaustion associated genes, including LAG3, TIGIT, PDCD1, CTLA4, HAVCR2, and TOX, were upregulated after BTI. TCRs and BCRs exhibited higher clonotypes, mainly in CD8Tem or plasmablast cells, at 2 weeks post-BTI comparing 1 month. More IgG and IgA-type BCRs were found in the groups of 1 month post-BTI, with higher somatic hypermutation, indicating greater maturity. Verification of monoclonal antibodies corresponding to amplified BCRs highlighted the antigen-specific and broad-spectrum characteristics. INTERPRETATION: Our study elucidated the dynamic immune profiling of individuals after Omicron BA.5 sublineages BTI. Strong immune activation, antiviral response, antibody maturation and class transition at 2 weeks and 1 month after BTI may provide essential insights into pathogenicity, sequential immune status, recovery mechanisms of Omicron sublineage BTI. FUNDING: This study was supported by the National Key R&D Program of China, the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation, Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research Foundation, the National Natural Science Foundation of China, CAS Project for Young Scientists in Basic Research, and the Air Force Special Medical Center Science and Technology Booster Program.
41446843 | Using mass cytometry to probe the STAT signaling landscape in circulating immune cells in Rheumatoid Arthritis uncovers signaling dysregulation and correlation with disease activity. Introduction: The phosphorylation state of signaling proteins is a useful measure of cell function. The high dimensionality of mass cytometry (CyTOF) allows assessment of a large number of parameters using limited amount of material. By combining CyTOF high dimensionality with fixation of blood cells close to collection, cell phosphorylation patterns are preserved as close as possible to in vivo conditions. We used Cytof and whole fixed blood to investigate the phosphorylated forms of five Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription - STATs - in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) patients and controls. Materials and Methods: We designed an antibody panel identifying 34 immune subpopulations combined with the phosphorylated (p) forms of Stat1, Stat3, Stat4, Stat5 and Stat6. Whole fixed blood from 21 RA patients and 10 healthy controls were analyzed by CyTOF. The frequency of immune cell subpopulations and the level of the pSTATs proteins were compared between the samples from RA patients and controls using Multiple Mann Whitney tests and clustering analysis. Correlation of the tested parameters with DAS28-ESR, DAS28-CRP and CDAI was examined. Results: Levels of pSTAT5 were elevated in several CD4 T cell subsets, and positively correlated with DAS28-ESR and DAS28-CRP. pSTAT1 levels were elevated in CD4 T cell subpopulations, as well as in some subsets of CD8 T cell subsets, NK cells, monocytes and Dendritic cells. Levels of pSTAT6 in several CD4 T cell subpopulations, including T regulatory cells, were lower in samples from RA patients compared to controls, and negative correlations between CDAI and pSTAT6 were found. The frequency of CD4 T cell effector memory cells expressing the chemokine receptors CCR2 and CCR5 was lower in samples from RA patients compared to controls. Conclusion: We found distinct pattern of STAT proteins phosphorylation associated with circulating immune cells in RA samples compared to healthy controls. These findings correlated with measures of disease activity. Analysis of phosphorylation patterns may be useful to understand disease pathology, and also as a marker of treatment response and disease outcome. By avoiding cell isolation, phosphorylation patterns in several cell subpopulation can be analyzed close to the in vivo cell profile.
42001553 | Human genetics of HIV infection. Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 (HIV-1) continues to pose a significant global public health challenge. Marked inter-individual variability in susceptibility to infection, viral load, and disease progression has long highlighted an important role for host genetic factors. To date, only a small number of germline loci show consistent, reproducible effects on HIV-1 control, most notably CCR5 and HLA class I genes. Recent studies have refined the mechanistic basis of these associations, clarifying how CCR5 regulation and specific HLA-B residues shape CD8+ T-cell and natural killer cell responses. Beyond these loci, emerging population-specific associations, including variants at the CHD1L/PRKAB2 locus, underscore the importance of studying diverse populations and highlight novel pathways influencing viral replication and evolution. In parallel, attention has shifted toward somatic genetic variation and aging-related processes in people living with HIV-1. HIV-1 infection and chronic immune activation are associated with genomic instability, accelerated accumulation of mitochondrial DNA mutations, telomere shortening, and increased prevalence of clonal hematopoiesis, processes that may contribute to inflammation and non-communicable comorbidities despite effective viral suppression. As well, the growing application of polygenic risk scores to predict cardiometabolic and renal disease in treated populations has implications for precision HIV-1 medicine. As universal antiretroviral therapy reduces opportunities to study natural HIV-1 progression, future genetic research will increasingly focus on how host germline and somatic variation influence therapeutic outcomes and viral reservoir dynamics to shape long-term health outcomes and emerging treatment strategies.
39807702 | Exploring the Relationship Between Humoral and Cellular T Cell Responses Against SARS-CoV-2 in Exposed Individuals From Emilia Romagna Region and COVID-19 Severity. COVID-19 remains a significant global health problem with uncertain long-term consequences for convalescents. We investigated the relationships between anti-N protein antibody levels, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-CoV-2-associated TCR repertoire parameters, HLA type and epidemiological information from three cohorts of 524 SARS-CoV-2-infected subjects subgrouped in acute phase, seronegative and seropositive convalescents from the Emilia Romagna region. Epidemiological information and anti-N antibody index were associated with TCR repertoire data. HLA type was inferred from TCR repertoire using the HLA3 tool and its association with clonal breadth (CB) and clonal depth (CD) was assessed. Age above 58 years, male and COVID-19 hospitalisation were significantly and independently associated with seropositivity (p = 0.004; p = 0.004; p = 0.04), suggesting an association between high antibody titres and symptoms' severity. As for the TCR repertoire analysis, we found no difference in CB among the cohorts, while CD was higher in seronegative than acute (p = 0.04). However, clustering analysis supported that seronegative patients are endowed with broader CB and deeper CD indicating a compensatory mechanism without effective seroconversion. The CD calculated on the TCRs associated with the single SARS-CoV-2 ORFs in convalescents is higher when compared to the acute. Lastly, we identified and reported on novel HLAs significantly associated with increased risk of hospitalisation such as HLA-C*07:02 carriers (OR = 3.9, CI = 1.1-13.4, p = 0.03) and on HLAs that associate significantly with lower or higher TCR repertoire parameters in a population exposed for the first time to SARS-CoV-2.
42074088 | Molecular and Cellular Basis of Oral Lichen Planus: Bridging Pathogenesis and Modern Clinical Paradigms. Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a chronic, T cell-mediated inflammatory disorder classified by the World Health Organization as an oral potentially malignant disorder (OPMD). Despite decades of research, its precise etiology remains incompletely understood and involves a complex interplay between genetic predisposition, environmental triggers, and autoimmune-like responses. This review provides a comprehensive update on OLP pathogenesis, emphasizing the role of CD8 positive cytotoxic T lymphocyte-driven basal keratinocyte apoptosis and the skewing of the T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire. We highlight the significance of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling pathway as a molecular bridge between chronic inflammation and epithelial proliferation. Furthermore, we discuss a stepwise therapeutic approach that prioritizes the management of the oral microenvironment-specifically Candida colonization and periodontal health-before escalating to immunosuppressive agents. Finally, we explore emerging precision medicine frontiers, including IL-17/IL-23 inhibitors and JAK inhibitors, alongside traditional Japanese Kampo medicine (Hange-shashin-to) and systemic adjuncts like Cepharanthine, offering a contemporary perspective on modern OLP management. This integrative framework redefines OLP not merely as a chronic inflammatory disorder, but as an immunologically sustained, microenvironment-driven, potentially malignant condition.
24813230 | - No Title -
40973224 | Synergy between TLR3-ligand and IFN-alpha in the transient sensitization of \Cold\ tumors to PD-1 blockade and the induction of systemic immunity. BACKGROUND: Programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1)-blocking immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) are effective against highly immunogenic \hot\ tumors containing high numbers of cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs), but not against poorly immunogenic \cold\ tumors. We previously reported that the combination of TLR3 agonist rintatolimod with interferon (IFN)-alpha selectively induces CTL-attracting chemokines (CXCL9, CXCL10, CCL5) in the tumor microenvironment (TME), but not healthy tissues, raising the possibility of their systemic application to promote local CTL attraction to TME. METHODS: We used mouse colorectal cancer (CRC) cells implanted in syngeneic mice to test the effects of chemokine modulatory regimen (CKM) in combination with PD-1 blockade applied at different schedules. Tumor-bearing mice were treated and monitored for survival. In addition, we evaluated the reliance of CKM+alphaPD-1 treatment on various immune cell subsets. Finally, we observed treatment-induced changes in immune markers within TME. RESULTS: Here, we report that both local or systemic application of CKM, a combination of rintatolimod and IFN-alpha, but not each of them individually, induces intratumoral CTL attractants and sensitizes PD-1-resistant MC38 and CT26 tumors to PD-1 blockade. The CKM/alphaPD-1 combination promotes intratumoral influx of BATF3-positive cDC1s and CTLs, inhibits tumor growth and prolongs survival, inducing cures in 20-100% of animals, depending on the tumor model and stage, and the route of delivery (local or systemic). CKM/alphaPD-1-treated mice develop local and systemic tumor-specific CTL responses and resistance to tumor re-challenge. The effectiveness of CKM requires its application at the time of or directly before PD-1 blockade and is strongly reduced by even a 24-hour delay in alphaPD-1 administration. CKM-driven intratumoral CTL accumulation and antitumor effects require host's BATF3+cDC1s, CD8+T-lymphocytes, and CXCR3 and CCR5 (receptors for CXCL9/CXCL10 and CCL5). CONCLUSIONS: The ability of systemic CKM to eliminate the PD-1-resistance of cold tumors indicates that intratumoral CTL accumulation, rather than tumor immunogenicity, is the key factor limiting the therapeutic effectiveness of ICI. These data suggest a broad therapeutic potential of TME-reprogramming strategies.
24997223 | MICA/B expression in macrophage foam cells infiltrating atherosclerotic plaques. Infiltrating macrophages accumulate in fatty streak lesions and transform into foam cells, leading to the formation of atherosclerotic plaques. Inflammatory mechanisms underlying the plaque formation mediated by NKG2D-positive lymphocytes such as CD8+ T cells, natural killer cells and natural killer T cells have been extensively investigated. Yet, the involvement of the NKG2D system itself remains poorly understood. Recent work in mouse models has shown that blockade of an NKG2D receptor-ligand interaction reduces plaque formation and suppresses inflammation in aortae. In this study, we conducted immunohistochemical analysis of NKG2D ligand expression in autopsy-derived aortic specimens. Foam cells expressing NKG2D ligands MICA/B were found in advanced atherosclerotic lesions accompanied by a large necrotic core or hemorrhage. Human monocyte-derived macrophages treated in vitro with acetylated low-density lipoproteins enhanced expression of MICA/B and scavenger receptor A, thus accounting for NKG2D ligand expression in foam cells infiltrating atherosclerotic plaques. Our results suggest that, as in mice, the NKG2D system might be involved in the development of atherosclerosis in humans.
40762079 | Single-Cell Multi-Omics Identifies Specialized Cytotoxic and Migratory CD8+ Effector T Cells in Acute Myocarditis. BACKGROUND: Acute myocarditis (AM), particularly fulminant myocarditis (FM), is an infrequent but life-threatening cardiac inflammation, with limited effective precision-targeted treatments available. This urgent clinical challenge has prompted further investigations into the mechanisms underlying this pathology to develop novel therapeutic approaches. METHODS: We enrolled 40 patients diagnosed with AM (24 mild, 16 fulminant) between December 2022 and November 2023. Using a multi-omics approach, we analyzed peripheral blood mononuclear cells and plasma-integrated single-cell RNA sequencing, single-cell T-cell receptor sequencing, cytometry by time of flight, and Olink proteomics to identify specific pathogenic immune subsets and molecular alterations. In vitro experiments validated the function and inducing signals of identified pathogenic subsets. In coxsackievirus B3-induced FM mice, cytometry by time of flight analysis was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and cardiac infiltrating immune cells. Pharmacological blockade of key molecular was tested to assess potential therapeutic efficacy. RESULTS: We identified that a specialized type of CD8+ effector T cells, CD57+CD8+ T cells with high cytotoxicity and migration potential, were significantly enriched and exhibited large clonal expansion in AM. Differential expression analysis revealed upregulation of natural killer-like receptor genes in CD57+CD8+ effector T cells from FM compared with mild cases, which was positively associated with enhanced cytotoxicity and migration potential. In vitro experiments confirmed the existence of circulating CD57+CD8+ effector T cells with high cytotoxic degranulation and migration potential inducing cardiomyocyte apoptosis, supporting their cardiac migration and cardiomyocyte cytotoxicity in pathogenesis. Elevated circulating interleukin (IL)-18 levels in patients with AM induced the functional differentiation of CD57+CD8+ effector T cells. In addition, increased proinflammatory CXCL8+CD14+ monocytes potentially contributed to increasing IL-18 levels and crosstalk with CD57+CD8+ effector T cells. In FM mice, we observed the analogous expansions of CD57+CD8+ effector T cells and CXCL2+LY6C+ monocytes in both blood and hearts, accompanied by elevated plasma IL-18 levels. Disrupting the pathogenic axis involving proinflammatory monocytes, IL-18 signaling, and CCR5-mediated cardiac recruitment significantly alleviated FM in mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a comprehensive immune landscape for understanding the pathogenesis of AM, especially in FM, highlighting clonal CD57+CD8+ effector T cells with high cytotoxicity and migration potential, along with their upstream inflammatory signals, as potential therapeutic targets for mitigating immune-related cardiac damage in AM management, especially in FM.
40693490 | Persistence of CXCR4-tropic virus in people living with four-class drug-resistant HIV and its clinical impact in the modern antiretroviral era. BACKGROUND: CXCR4-tropic HIV seems to be associated with more clinical events than CCR5-tropic virus. OBJECTIVES: This study aims to describe the effect of the persistence of CXCR4-tropic virus on the occurrence of clinical events in people with four-class drug-resistant HIV. METHODS: This is a retrospective study on people with four-class drug-resistant HIV from the PRESTIGIO Registry, with at least two HIV-tropism determinations during follow-up. Follow-up accrued from the date of the first four-class drug resistance evidence (baseline) until death, loss to follow-up or freezing date (31 December 2023). Univariable Poisson regression was used to estimate and compare incidence rates of clinical events. Predictors of clinical events were assessed by multivariable Poisson regression. RESULTS: A total of 144 people with four-class drug-resistant HIV [47 (33%) with persistent CXCR4-tropism, 39 (27%) with persistent CCR5-tropism and 58 (40%) with a tropism switch during follow-up] were included with a median follow-up of 7.80 years (IQR = 5.80-10.6). Overall, 117 (81.3%) 4DR-PLWH experienced at least one clinical event during follow-up [incidence rate = 32.5 (95% CI = 29.3-35.9)]. The persistence of CXCR4-tropic virus was associated with an increased risk of HIV-related events among people living with four-class drug-resistant HIV, even in modern ART era. After adjusting for age, sex at birth and CD4+/CD8+ at baseline, standardized viremia copy-years [adjusted-incidence rate ratio = 1.66 (95% CI = 1.24-2.26), P < 0.001] and persistent CXCR4-tropism [adjusted-incidence rate ratio: 2.01 (95% CI = 1.04-3.91), P = 0.037] were associated with the occurrence of HIV-related events. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm CXCR4-tropism as a marker of HIV progression also in the four-class drug-resistant population, suggesting the need of further prioritization of viro-immunological control and studies of pathogenic mechanisms in presence of CXCR4-tropic multidrug-resistant viral strains.
41826994 | Neoadjuvant afatinib in a patient with locally advanced lung adenocarcinoma harboring an NPTN-NRG1 fusion: a case report.
35185875 | HLA-C*04:01 Affects HLA Class I Heterozygosity and Predicted Affinity to SARS-CoV-2 Peptides, and in Combination With Age and Sex of Armenian Patients Contributes to COVID-19 Severity. The novel SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus infection has become a global health concern, causing the COVID-19 pandemic. The disease symptoms and outcomes depend on the host immunity, in which the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules play a distinct role. The HLA alleles have an inter-population variability, and understanding their link to the COVID-19 in an ethnically distinct population may contribute to personalized medicine. The present study aimed at detecting associations between common HLA alleles and COVID-19 susceptibility and severity in Armenians. In 299 COVID-19 patients (75 asymptomatic, 102 mild/moderate, 122 severe), the association between disease severity and classic HLA-I and II loci was examined. We found that the advanced age, male sex of patients, and sex and age interaction significantly contributed to the severity of the disease. We observed that an age-dependent effect of HLA-B*51:01 carriage [odds ratio (OR)=0.48 (0.28-0.80), Pbonf <0.036] is protective against severe COVID-19. Contrary, the HLA-C*04:01 allele, in a dose-dependent manner, was associated with a significant increase in the disease severity [OR (95% CI) =1.73 (1.20-2.49), Pbonf <0.021] and an advancing age (P<0.013). The link between HLA-C*04:01 and age was secondary to a stronger association between HLA-C*04:01 and disease severity. However, HLA-C*04:01 exerted a sex-dependent differential distribution between clinical subgroups [females: P<0.0012; males: P=0.48]. The comparison of HLA-C*04:01 frequency between subgroups and 2,781 Armenian controls revealed a significant incidence of HLA-C*04:01 deficiency in asymptomatic COVID-19. HLA-C*04:01 homozygous genotype in patients blueprinted a decrease in heterozygosity of HLA-B and HLA class-I loci. In HLA-C*04:01 carriers, these changes translated to the SARS-CoV-2 peptide presentation predicted inefficacy by HLA-C and HLA class-I molecules, simultaneously enhancing the appropriate HLA-B potency. In patients with clinical manifestation, due to the high prevalence of HLA-C*04:01, these effects provided a decrease of the HLA class-I heterozygosity and an ability to recognize SARS-CoV-2 peptides. Based on our observations, we developed a prediction model involving demographic variables and HLA-C*04:01 allele for the identification of potential cases with the risk of hospitalization (the area under the curve (AUC) = 86.2%) or severe COVID-19 (AUC =71%).
41353398 | A CCL5+CD20+CD8+ T cell subset drives pathogenic transformation of synoviocytes in rheumatoid arthritis via JAK-STAT signaling.
40787669 | Molecular targets of neuroplasticity in ischemic stroke: insights from GEO database, single-cell analysis and immune infiltration analysis. This study is aimed to identify diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers related to neuroplasticity in IS. Gene expression profiling (GSE61616) was derived from GEO, and neuroplasticity-related genes were obtained from the GeneCards databases. The overlapping genes related to neuroplasticity were processed for GO and KEGG analysis. The protein interaction network and hub genes were identified using Cytoscape and the PPI network. Then we predicted the potential TFs and miRNAs related to hub genes. Single-cell analysis was performed to explore cellular localization and intercellular communications related to hub genes in GSE167593. Immune infiltration characteristics were explored via GSVA package. The correlation between various immune cells and hub genes (CCR5 and CXCR4) was calculated via linKET package. Finally, DGIdb database was used for screening small-molecule drugs of CCR5 and CXCR4. Our study screened five significant neuroplasticity-related hub genes (CCR5, CXCR4, TIMP1, GRIN1, and GRM1). Moreover, single-cell analysis revealed that the CCR5 was specifically expressed in microglia and macrophages, while the CXCR4 was specifically expressed in T cells, NK cells, macrophages, and granulocytes. Immune infiltration and correlation analysis revealed a positive association of CCR5 with aDCs and T helper cells, while CXCR4 was positively correlated with CD8+ T cells, but negatively correlated with Tfh. Finally, the Leronlimab, Ulocuplumab, Burixafor, and MSX-122 are promising drugs to treat IS via targeting on CCR5 and CXCR4. In conclusion, our findings suggest that CCR5 and CXCR4 are promising targets for enhancing neuroplasticity post-ischemic stroke, thus providing potentially effective and reliable therapeutic targets for future interventional strategy.
42144883 | Functional immune profiling reveals CD4+ T cell dysregulation in coeliac disease. T cells integrate signals from antigen and costimulatory receptors to calibrate response magnitude and quality, with genetically encoded programs shaping activation thresholds for immune tolerance and feedback regulation. Coeliac disease (CeD) is an autoimmune disorder with well-defined genetic risk and immune dysregulation triggered by dietary gluten. However, how genetic risk translates into cell-intrinsic functional variation, particularly within the naive T-cell compartment, remains poorly defined. Here, we developed the T cell momentum assay, a quantitative functional profiling platform combining standardized T-cell activation with defined stimulus withdrawal to measure proliferation, survival and activation dynamics over time. Integrated with the Cyton2 mathematical model, this approach infers cellular fate programs from population-level dynamics, enabling high-resolution analysis of intrinsic T-cell behavior. Applying this assay to naive T cells from individuals with CeD and healthy donors (HDs), we identified disease-associated abnormalities predominantly in CD4+ T cells, including hypoproliferation, reduced IL-2 secretion, impaired survival and delayed downregulation of CD69, indicating prolonged activation and impaired feedback regulation. Distinct early alterations in CD8+ T cells were also observed. These abnormalities were present in both newly diagnosed individuals and those on a gluten-free diet, supporting a cell-intrinsic phenotype not solely attributable to active inflammation and is consistent with altered baseline immune function. Together, our findings reveal previously unrecognized alterations in naive T-cell programming in CeD, linking inherited immune variation to functional dysregulation beyond antigen-specific responses. More broadly, the momentum assay offers a scalable, model-informed framework to detect subtle early T cell dysregulation and functionally stratify immune variation across autoimmune diseases.
32386260 | Increased expression of miR-338-3p impairs Treg-mediated immunosuppression in pemphigus vulgaris by targeting RUNX1. Pemphigus vulgaris (PV) is a regulatory T cell (Treg)-associated autoimmune disease. Treg cells maintain immunosuppression by expressing the signature transcription factor FOXP3. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have frequently emerged as regulators in Treg-mediated immunosuppression. We previously found that miR-338-3p was overexpressed in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with PV. Herein, we explored the role of miR-338-3p in Treg-mediated immunosuppression by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, analysis of public microarray data, miRNA transfection, Western blotting, flow cytometry, and luciferase reporter assays. Increased expression of miR-338-3p was detected in CD4+ T cells of active PV patients compared with those in healthy controls. Moreover, the miR-338-3p level was positively related to disease severity. Bioinformatics prediction revealed that Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), a gene activating FOXP3 expression, was a putative target of miR-338-3p. There was a reduction of FOXP3 and RUNX1 expression in the CD4+ T cells of patients with PV, along with significant correlations with the level of miR-338-3p. MiRNA transfection, mRNA and protein analysis, and luciferase reporter assays verified that miR-338-3p attenuated FOXP3 expression by targeting RUNX1. This study suggests that excessive expression of miR-338-3p attenuates the expression of FOXP3 by targeting RUNX1, contributing to Treg dysfunction in PV.
24651404 | Activation of HIV-1 from latent infection via synergy of RUNX1 inhibitor Ro5-3335 and SAHA. A major barrier to the elimination of HIV-1 infection is the presence of a pool of long-lived, latently infected CD4+ memory T-cells. The search for treatments to re-activate latent HIV to aid in clearance is hindered by the incomplete understanding of the mechanisms that lead to transcriptional silencing of viral gene expression in host cells. Here we identify a previously unknown role for RUNX1 in HIV-1 transcriptional latency. The RUNX proteins, in combination with the co-factor CBF-beta, are critical transcriptional regulators in T-cells. RUNX1 strongly modulates CD4 expression and contributes to CD4+ T-cell function. We show that RUNX1 can bind DNA sequences within the HIV-1 LTR and that this binding represses transcription. Using patient samples we show a negative correlation between RUNX1 expression and viral load. Furthermore, we find that pharmacologic inhibition of RUNX1 by a small molecule inhibitor, Ro5-3335, synergizes with the histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor SAHA (Vorinostat) to enhance the activation of latent HIV-1 in both cell lines and PBMCs from patients. Our findings indicate that RUNX1 and CBF-beta cooperate in cells to modulate HIV-1 replication, identifying for the first time RUNX1 as a cellular factor involved in HIV-1 latency. This work highlights the therapeutic potential of inhibitors of RUNX1 to re-activate virus and aid in clearance of HIV-1.
37511350 | Insights into the SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 Mechanism of Action. ORF6 is responsible for suppressing the immune response of cells infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. It is also the most toxic protein of SARS-CoV-2, and its actions are associated with the viral pathogenicity. Here, we study in silico and in vitro the structure of the protein, its interaction with RAE1 and the mechanism of action behind its high toxicity. We show both computationally and experimentally that SARS-CoV-2 ORF6, embedded in the cytoplasmic membranes, binds to RAE1 and sequesters it in the cytoplasm, thus depleting its availability in the nucleus and impairing nucleocytoplasmic mRNA transport. This negatively affects the cellular genome stability by compromising the cell cycle progression into the S-phase and by promoting the accumulation of RNA-DNA hybrids. Understanding the multiple ways in which ORF6 affects DNA replication may also have important implications for elucidating the pathogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 and developing therapeutic strategies to mitigate its deleterious effects on host cells.
33343579 | Human Leukocyte Antigen Complex and Other Immunogenetic and Clinical Factors Influence Susceptibility or Protection to SARS-CoV-2 Infection and Severity of the Disease Course. The Sardinian Experience. Aim: SARS-CoV-2 infection is a world-wide public health problem. Several aspects of its pathogenesis and the related clinical consequences still need elucidation. In Italy, Sardinia has had very low numbers of infections. Taking advantage of the low genetic polymorphism in the Sardinian population, we analyzed clinical, genetic and immunogenetic factors, with particular attention to HLA class I and II molecules, to evaluate their influence on susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection and the clinical outcome. Method and Materials: We recruited 619 healthy Sardinian controls and 182 SARS-CoV-2 patients. Thirty-nine patients required hospital care and 143 were without symptoms, pauci-symptomatic or with mild disease. For all participants, we collected demographic and clinical data and analyzed the HLA allele and haplotype frequencies. Results: Male sex and older age were more frequent in hospitalized patients, none of whom had been vaccinated during the previous seasonal flu vaccination campaignes. Compared to the group of asymptomatic or pauci-symptomatic patients, hospitalized patients also had a higher frequency of autoimmune diseases and glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase (G6PDH) deficiency. None of these patients carried the beta-thalassemia trait, a relatively common finding in the Sardinian population. The extended haplotype HLA-A*02:05, B*58:01, C*07:01, DRB1*03:01 [OR 0.1 (95% CI 0-0.6), Pc = 0.015] was absent in all 182 patients, while the HLA-C*04:01 allele and the three-loci haplotype HLA-A*30:02, B*14:02, C*08:02 [OR 3.8 (95% CI 1.8-8.1), Pc = 0.025] were more frequently represented in patients than controls. In a comparison between in-patients and home care patients, the HLA-DRB1*08:01 allele was exclusively present in the hospitalized patients [OR > 2.5 (95% CI 2.7-220.6), Pc = 0.024]. Conclusion: The data emerging from our study suggest that the extended haplotype HLA-A*02:05, B*58:01, C*07:01, DRB1*03:01 has a protective effect against SARS-CoV-2 infection in the Sardinian population. Genetic factors that resulted to have a negative influence on the disease course were presence of the HLA-DRB1*08:01 allele and G6PDH deficiency, but not the beta-thalassemic trait. Absence of influenza vaccination could be a predisposing factor for more severe disease.
22551552 | Runx1 deficiency in CD4+ T cells causes fatal autoimmune inflammatory lung disease due to spontaneous hyperactivation of cells. The Runx1 transcription factor is abundantly expressed in naive T cells but rapidly downregulated in activated T cells, suggesting that it plays an important role in a naive stage. In the current study, Runx1(-/-)Bcl2(tg) mice harboring Runx1-deleted CD4(+) T cells developed a fatal autoimmune lung disease. CD4(+) T cells from these mice were spontaneously activated, preferentially homed to the lung, and expressed various cytokines, including IL-17 and IL-21. Among these, the deregulation of IL-21 transcription was likely to be associated with Runx binding sites located in an IL-21 intron. IL-17 produced in Runx1-deleted cells mobilized innate immune responses, such as those promoted by neutrophils and monocytes, whereas IL-21 triggered humoral responses, such as plasma cells. Thus, at an initial stage, peribronchovascular regions in the lung were infiltrated by CD4(+) lymphocytes, whereas at a terminal stage, interstitial regions were massively occupied by immune cells, and alveolar spaces were filled with granular exudates that resembled pulmonary alveolar proteinosis in humans. Mice suffered from respiratory failure, as well as systemic inflammatory responses. Our data indicate that Runx1 plays an essential role in repressing the transcription of cytokine genes in naive CD4(+) T cells and, thereby, maintains cell quiescence.
39132689 | Single-cell transcriptomic analysis of B cells reveals new insights into atypical memory B cells in COVID-19. Here, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing of S1 and receptor binding domain protein-specific B cells from convalescent COVID-19 patients with different clinical manifestations. This study aimed to evaluate the role and developmental pathway of atypical memory B cells (MBCs) in response to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. The results revealed a proinflammatory signature across B cell subsets associated with disease severity, as evidenced by the upregulation of genes such as GADD45B, MAP3K8, and NFKBIA in critical and severe individuals. Furthermore, the analysis of atypical MBCs suggested a developmental pathway similar to that of conventional MBCs through germinal centers, as indicated by the expression of several genes involved in germinal center processes, including CXCR4, CXCR5, BCL2, and MYC. Additionally, the upregulation of genes characteristic of the immune response in COVID-19, such as ZFP36 and DUSP1, suggested that the differentiation and activation of atypical MBCs may be influenced by exposure to SARS-CoV-2 and that these genes may contribute to the immune response for COVID-19 recovery. Our study contributes to a better understanding of atypical MBCs in COVID-19 and the role of other B cell subsets across different clinical manifestations.
24741640 | Rapamycin regulates iTreg function through CD39 and Runx1 pathways. It has been shown that rapamycin is able to significantly increase the expression of FoxP3 and suppress activity in induced Treg (iTreg) cells in vivo and in vitro. CD39 is a newly determined Treg marker that relates to cell suppression. Runx1, a regulator of FoxP3, controls the expression of adenosine deaminase (ADA) gene, which is found recently in the downstream of CD39 pathway in trophoblast cells. Whether rapamycin would influence CD39 pathway and regulate the expression of Runx1 remains to be determined. The addition of rapamycin to human CD4(+) naive cells in the presence of IL-2, TGF-beta promotes the expression of FoxP3. In this paper, we found that CD39 positively correlated with the FoxP3 expression in iTreg cells. Rapamycin induced iTreg cells showed a stronger CD39/Runx1 expression with the enhanced suppressive function. These data suggested that CD39 expression was involved in iTreg generation and the enhanced suppressive ability of rapamycin induced Treg was partly due to Runx1 pathway. We conclude that rapamycin favors CD39/Runx1 expression in human iTreg and provides a novel insight into the mechanisms of iTreg generation enhanced by rapamycin.
42137281 | First successful allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in STING-associated vasculopathy of infancy-A case report. Stimulator of interferon genes (STING)-associated vasculopathy with onset in infancy (SAVI) is a monogenic autoinflammatory disorder caused by gain-of-function mutations in TMEM173, leading to constitutive STING activation and persistent type I interferon signaling. Affected children develop early-onset cutaneous vasculopathy, systemic inflammation, and progressive interstitial lung disease, often refractory to standard immunosuppressive treatments. Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors offer partial transient control, with risk of irreversible organ damage. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) could cure SAVI by replacing the mutant immune system, but experience is very limited. We report a 6-year-old boy with SAVI carrying the TMEM173 p.N154S mutation who failed multiple JAK inhibitors, including ruxolitinib, tofacitinib, and baricitinib and developed worsening lung fibrosis and cutaneous ulcers. He underwent allo-HSCT from a fully HLA-matched sibling after myeloablative conditioning. Engraftment was rapid. By 12 months post hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), vasculitic skin lesions had healed, lung disease was stable, and inflammatory markers normalized, and cellular and humoral immunity reconstituted, including recovery of CD8+ central memory T cells and IgG and IgA. No graft-versus-host disease or major infections were observed. A transient autoimmune hemolytic anemia resolved with corticosteroids. This first successful SAVI allo-HSCT suggests curative potential via a durable immune reconstitution approach in selected patients with severe, treatment-refractory SAVI.
40414601 | Inflammatory chemokine receptors CCR1, CCR2, CCR3 and CCR5 are essential for an optimal T cell response to influenza. Inflammatory chemokine receptors CCR1/2/3/5 (iCCRs) play an important role in the recruitment of immune cells involved in innate immune functions and orchestrating the adaptive immune response. Here we utilise an influenza A virus (IAV) challenge to investigate the combinatorial roles of the iCCRs in the anti-IAV immune response. We did not observe any gross differences in infection-driven pathology in the absence of iCCRs. iCCR deletion resulted in decreased numbers of some antigen-presenting cell types in the lung (B cells, DC1s, monocytes and inflammatory macrophages), though cell numbers in the draining lymph node were not affected. Whilst the total number of T cells was similar in lungs of iCCR-deficient mice, the number of IAV-specific CD4 but not CD8 T cells in the lung was strongly reduced in the absence of iCCRs. Furthermore, fewer CD4, but not CD8, T cells produced IFN-gamma. This CD4 T cell phenotype persisted into the memory stage of infection, with fewer IAV-specific and IFN-gamma+ CD4 but not CD8 T cells at 29 days post infection. In conclusion, despite having limited impact on antigen-presenting cell migration between the lung and the draining lymph node, iCCR deletion is associated with an altered CD4 T cell response to IAV infection.
22486624 | Immunological pathways in virus-induced COPD exacerbations: a role for IL-15. BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterized by high levels of antiviral type 1 cytokine interferon-gamma and activated CD8(+) T cells. COPD exacerbations are the major cause of morbidity and mortality, have a prolonged and intense effect on quality of life and may result in accelerated loss of lung function. Respiratory virus infections, frequently within a state of colonization by bacteria, are the major cause of COPD exacerbations, and there is also evidence of virus latency in 'stable' disease, suggesting that latent infection might be a cause of chronic inflammation in COPD. DESIGN: This is an update of current literature concerning the role of interleukin-15 and major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain A and B molecules in type 1 immune responses, particularly to respiratory virus infections, which are the main cause of COPD exacerbations. We also present data from our own group suggesting a role for interleukin-15 in virus-induced COPD exacerbations. RESULTS: Type 1 cytokine interleukin-15 is produced by resident airway cells (epithelial cells and macrophages) in response to virus infection and bacteria. Virus infections modulate major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain A and B molecules in respiratory epithelial cells. CONCLUSIONS: Interleukin-15 could play a major role in the airway inflammation in COPD directly, via its own receptors, by amplifying the type 1 immune responses and decreasing apoptosis or indirectly, via modulating molecules associated with cytotoxic activity of natural killer and CD8(+) T cells, such as major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain A and B.
32817592 | The DEL-1/beta3 integrin axis promotes regulatory T cell responses during inflammation resolution. FOXP3+CD4+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) are critical for immune homeostasis and respond to local tissue cues, which control their stability and function. We explored here whether developmental endothelial locus-1 (DEL-1), which, like Tregs, increases during resolution of inflammation, promotes Treg responses. DEL-1 enhanced Treg numbers and function at barrier sites (oral and lung mucosa). The underlying mechanism was dissected using mice lacking DEL-1 or expressing a point mutant thereof, or mice with T cell-specific deletion of the transcription factor RUNX1, identified by RNA sequencing analysis of the DEL-1-induced Treg transcriptome. Specifically, through interaction with alphavbeta3 integrin, DEL-1 promoted induction of RUNX1-dependent FOXP3 expression and conferred stability of FOXP3 expression upon Treg restimulation in the absence of exogenous TGF-beta1. Consistently, DEL-1 enhanced the demethylation of the Treg-specific demethylated region (TSDR) in the mouse Foxp3 gene and the suppressive function of sorted induced Tregs. Similarly, DEL-1 increased RUNX1 and FOXP3 expression in human conventional T cells, promoting their conversion into induced Tregs with increased TSDR demethylation, enhanced stability, and suppressive activity. We thus uncovered a DEL-1/alphavbeta3/RUNX1 axis that promotes Treg responses at barrier sites and offers therapeutic options for modulating inflammatory/autoimmune disorders.
33820854 | Long Noncoding RNA RUNXOR Promotes Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cell Expansion and Functions via Enhancing Immunosuppressive Molecule Expressions during Latent HIV Infection. RUNX1 overlapping RNA (RUNXOR) is a long noncoding RNA and a key regulator of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) via targeting runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1). We and others have previously reported MDSC expansion and inhibition of host immune responses during viral infections; however, the mechanisms regulating MDSC differentiation and suppressive functions, especially the role of RUNXOR-RUNX1 in the regulation of MDSCs in people living with HIV (PLHIV), remain unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that RUNXOR and RUNX1 expressions are upregulated in MDSCs that expand and accumulate in human PBMCs derived from PLHIV. We found that the upregulation of RUNXOR and RUNX1 is associated with the expressions of several key immunosuppressive molecules, including arginase 1, inducible NO synthase, STAT3, IL-6, and reactive oxygen species. RUNXOR and RUNX1 could positively regulate each other's expression and control the expressions of these suppressive mediators. Specifically, silencing RUNXOR or RUNX1 expression in MDSCs from PLHIV attenuated MDSC expansion and immunosuppressive mediator expressions, whereas overexpressing RUNXOR in CD33+ myeloid precursors from healthy subjects promoted their differentiation into MDSCs and enhanced the expression of these mediators. Moreover, loss of RUNXOR-RUNX1 function in MDSCs improved IFN-gamma production from cocultured autologous CD4 T cells derived from PLHIV. These results suggest that the RUNXOR-RUNX1 axis promotes the differentiation and suppressive functions of MDSCs via regulating multiple immunosuppressive signaling molecules and may represent a potential target for immunotherapy in conjunction with antiviral therapy in PLHIV.
25887583 | Soluble NKG2D ligand promotes MDSC expansion and skews macrophage to the alternatively activated phenotype. Expression of surface NKG2D ligand MIC on tumor cells is deemed to stimulate NK and co-stimulate CD8 T cell anti-tumor immunity. Human cancer cells however frequently adopt a proteinase-mediated shedding strategy to generate soluble MIC (sMIC) to circumvent host immunity. High levels of sMIC have been shown to correlate with advanced disease stages in cancer patients. The underlying mechanism is currently understood as systemic downregulation of NKG2D expression on CD8 T and NK cells and perturbing NK cell periphery maintenance. Herein we report a novel mechanism by which sMIC poses immune suppressive effect on host immunity and tumor microenvironment. We demonstrate that sMIC facilitates expansion of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and skews macrophages to the more immune suppressive alternative phenotype through activation of STAT3. These findings further endorse that sMIC is an important therapeutic target for cancer immunotherapy.
41618065 | Single-cell immune atlas of mouse testes unveils metabolic reprogramming of FOLR2 + macrophages in orchestrating testicular immunity during aging. Immune cells play a crucial role in maintaining tissue homeostasis during aging. However, the dynamics and functions of immune cells in testicular aging have not been well elucidated. In this study, we utilized single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to analyze CD45-enriched immune cells isolated from young and old mice testis. This approach yielded a comprehensive dataset comprising 6622 immune cells, encompassing macrophages, monocytes, and T cells. Our analysis revealed a significant decline in FOLR2 + resident macrophages, accompanied by a corresponding increase in pro-inflammatory CD74 + macrophages, CCR2 + monocytes, and CD8 + T cells in old mice testis. These findings were further validated by multiplex immunofluorescence staining. Notably, during testicular aging, FOLR2 + macrophages underwent a phenotypic transition towards a pro-inflammatory state. This transition subsequently facilitated the recruitment of monocytes and CD8 + T cells via the CCL8-CCR2/CCR5 axis. Furthermore, we discovered that mitochondrial metabolic dysfunction was a key driver of FOLR2 + macrophage activation. Specifically, inhibition of IDH2, a key catalytic enzyme in the TCA cycle, significantly induced this activation. Collectively, our findings provide a detailed immune atlas of testicular aging and suggest a potential role for FOLR2 + macrophages in maintaining testicular immune homeostasis.
39867906 | Infant respiratory infections modulate lymphocyte homing to breast milk. Introduction: Chemokines and their receptors are essential for leukocyte migration to several tissues, including human milk. Here, we evaluated the homing of T and B lymphocyte subsets to breast milk in response to ongoing respiratory infections in the nursing infant. Methods: Blood and mature milk were collected from healthy mothers of nurslings with respiratory infections (Group I) and from healthy mothers of healthy nurslings (Group C). Total lymphocyte, T and B cells, their subset numbers, and the expression of the homing receptors CCR5, CCR6, CCR10, and CXCR3 in these cells were evaluated in milk. Maternal serum and milk chemokine, cytokine, and IgA and IgG antibody levels were also quantified. Results: All milk lymphocyte numbers were greater in Group I than in Group C. All CD4 T-cell subsets expressing CCR5, CCR6, and CXCR3 were higher in Group I. Within the CD8 T-cell subsets, only CCR6 and CXCR3 were higher in Group I, while CCR5 expression was higher in Group I exclusively for activated CD8 T cells. Group I showed greater numbers of all CCR6+ B-cell subsets and CXCR3+ naive B cells and plasma cells than did Group C. Infection of the nurslings promoted increased CCL20, CXCL10, IL-6, IL-8, total IgA, and IgG levels in the milk. Conclusion: Respiratory infections in nursing infants stimulate an increase in cytokines and chemokines in breast milk, facilitating the recruitment and activation of lymphocytes. This process may promote immunological tolerance and help in the maturation of the infant's immune system, providing an additional strategy for passive maternal-infant protection.
42144866 | Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphomas in the post-antiretroviral therapy era according to HIV virological suppression. OBJECTIVES: Lymphomas remain among the most frequent HIV-associated malignancies, with risk persisting despite effective virological control. This study describes the clinical, epidemiological and prognostic characteristics of lymphomas (both Hodgkin [HL] and non-Hodgkin [NHL]) in people living with HIV (PLWH), according to virological suppression at diagnosis and assesses lymphoma-related mortality at 1 year and overall survival at 5 years. METHODS: We conducted a multicentre retrospective study including PLWH from the Spanish CoRIS cohort, who were diagnosed with lymphoma between 2004 and 2022 and had HIV viral load data at diagnosis. Virological suppression was defined as HIV-1 RNA <100 copies/mL within the 6 months prior to and 1 month following lymphoma diagnosis. RESULTS: Among 18 573 PLWH included in CoRIS, 291 developed lymphoma, with virological data available for 245 individuals, of whom 49 (20%) had virological suppression. People with detectable HIV viral load had lower CD4 counts (median 180 cells/mm3 [IQR 80-330] vs. 371 cells/mm3 [IQR 202-583], p < 0.001) and more advanced Ann Arbor stage (stage III-IV: 82.0% vs. 64.1%, p = 0.027) compared with those with virological suppression. Despite this, they showed similar treatment response (complete remission: 67.1% vs. 76.2%) and relapse rates (16.3% vs. 18.4%, p = 0.779). Furthermore, virological suppression was not independently associated with 1-year lymphoma-specific or 5-year overall survival. CONCLUSIONS: In PLWH diagnosed with lymphoma, prognosis is independent of HIV virological status at diagnosis. These findings support that lymphoma management in PLWH should be guided by standard oncological criteria, alongside antiretroviral therapy, regardless of HIV viral suppression status.
19924293 | Three distinct domains contribute to nuclear transport of murine Foxp3. Foxp3, a 47-kDa transcription factor, is necessary for the function of CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells (Tregs), with an essential role in the control of self-reactive T cells and in preventing autoimmunity. Activation of Tregs by TCR engagement results in upregulation of Foxp3 expression, followed by its rapid nuclear transport and binding to chromatin. Here, we identify three distinct Foxp3 domains that contribute to nuclear transport. The first domain (Domain 1) comprises the C-terminal 12 amino acids. The second domain (Domain 2) is located immediately N-terminal to the forkhead domain (FHD), recently reported to be a binding site for the runt-related transcription factor 1/acute myeloid leukemia 1 (Runx1/AML1). The third domain (Domain 3) is located within the N-terminal first 51 amino acids. Unlike the known nuclear localization signals (NLSs), none of these three regions are rich in basic residues and do not bear any similarity to known monopartite or bipartite NLSs that have one or more clusters of basic amino acids. The basic arginine-lysine-lysine-arginine (RKKR) sequence, located 12-aa from the C-terminal end of Foxp3 was previously reported to be a nuclear localization signal (NLS) for several proteins, including for a GFP-Foxp3 hybrid. Evidence is provided here that in the full-length native Foxp3 RKKR does not function as an NLS. The data reported in this study indicates that Foxp3 achieves nuclear transport by binding to other nuclear factors and co-transporting with them to the nucleus.
40971975 | DNA methylation and multi-omics profiling of T cells uncovers chemotactic pathways and proliferation-linked hypomethylation in narcolepsy type 1. Narcolepsy type 1 (NT1) is a chronic sleep disorder caused by a loss of orexin-producing cells in the brain and involves autoimmune mechanisms, including the presence of autoreactive T cells. In this study, we performed genome-wide DNA methylation analysis using both CD4+/CD8+ T cells from 42 NT1 patients and 42 controls across discovery and replication cohorts. To identify methylation changes more robustly associated with the disease, we prioritized differentially methylated regions (DMRs) over single-site differentially methylated positions (DMPs). Furthermore, to validate and interpret DMP-level associations, we integrated genome-wide genotype and gene expression data obtained from the same individuals. As a result, the DMR analysis identified 15 reproducible DMRs in CD4+ T cells and 5 in CD8+ T cells, with most DMRs shared between the two cell types. Shared DMRs included regions associated with CCL5 (p=2.1.E-02) and CCR4 (p=8.3.E-03). Integrative analysis with genotype and gene expression data also showed that the DMP related to S100A4, which promotes lymphocyte migration through CCR5 and CXCR3 receptors, was associated with the disease in CD4+ T cells. Pathway analysis of genes identified through both the DMR and integrative analyses indicated enrichment in cell chemotaxis-related pathways, suggesting that aberrant chemokine-mediated cell migration plays a central role in NT1 pathogenesis. Further, NT1-associated methylation changes were predominantly hypomethylation events, significantly enriched in non-promoter, non-CpG island regions (p=1.74E-102). We further observed that global hypomethylation levels were correlated with hypoSC, a mitotic index estimated from methylation data, highlighting increased T cell proliferation in NT1.
41687462 | RNF26 regulating tumor immunogenicity of hepatocellular carcinoma by degrading GRP78 and instigating ER stress. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role and molecular mechanism of the E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF26 in regulating the immunogenicity of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). METHODS: We integrated multi-omics analyses of clinical HCC specimens with different immunogenicity, established HCC models using hepatocyte-specific Rnf26 knockout mice, and employed in vitro 3D tumor-T cell co-culture systems, RNA-seq, molecular interaction assays, and pharmacological inhibition to systematically examine RNF26's regulation of T cell function, antigen presentation, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. RESULTS: RNF26 was highly expressed in immune-\cold\ HCC, and its transcription was directly regulated by the inflammatory JAK-STAT3 axis. In HCC cells, RNF26 degraded the ER chaperone GRP78 via K48-linked polyubiquitination, inducing sustained ER stress. This resulted in diminished MHC-I antigen presentation and increased PD-L1 expression. This mechanism consistently inhibited CD8+ T cell infiltration, promoted T cell exhaustion, and drove immune evasion in both in vivo and in vitro models. Inhibiting ER stress reversed the RNF26-mediated immunosuppressive phenotype. CONCLUSION: RNF26 is a pivotal molecular node linking the inflammatory microenvironment to immune suppression in HCC. By ubiquitinating and degrading GRP78 to instigate ER stress, it dually regulates antigen presentation and immune checkpoint expression. Targeting the RNF26-GRP78 axis represents a promising novel strategy for reversing HCC immune resistance and enhancing the efficacy of immunotherapy.
32759312 | Immunoinformatic approach to assess SARS-CoV-2 protein S epitopes recognised by the most frequent MHC-I alleles in the Brazilian population. AIMS: Brazil is nowadays one of the epicentres of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic and new therapies are needed to face it. In the context of specific immune response against the virus, a correlation between Major Histocompatibility Complex Class I (MHC-I) and the severity of the disease in patients with COVID-19 has been suggested. Aiming at better understanding the biology of the infection and the immune response against the virus in the Brazilian population, we analysed SARS-CoV-2 protein S peptides in order to identify epitopes able to elicit an immune response mediated by the most frequent MHC-I alleles using in silico methods. METHODS: Our analyses consisted in searching for the most frequent Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-A, HLA-B and HLA-C alleles in the Brazilian population, excluding the genetic isolates; then, we performed: molecular modelling for unsolved structures, MHC-I binding affinity and antigenicity prediction, peptide docking and molecular dynamics of the best fitted MHC-I/protein S complexes. RESULTS: We identified 24 immunogenic epitopes in the SARS-CoV-2 protein S that could interact with 17 different MHC-I alleles (namely, HLA-A*01:01; HLA-A*02:01; HLA-A*11:01; HLA-A*24:02; HLA-A*68:01; HLA-A*23:01; HLA-A*26:01; HLA-A*30:02; HLA-A*31:01; HLA-B*07:02; HLA-B*51:01; HLA-B*35:01; HLA-B*44:02; HLA-B*35:03; HLA-C*05:01; HLA-C*07:01 and HLA-C*15:02) in the Brazilian population. CONCLUSIONS: Being aware of the intrinsic limitations of in silico analysis (mainly the differences between the real and the Protein Data Bank (PDB) structure; and accuracy of the methods for simulate proteasome cleavage), we identified 24 epitopes able to interact with 17 MHC-I more frequent alleles in the Brazilian population that could be useful for the development of strategic methods for vaccines against SARS-CoV-2.
41980031 | CD28+ CD8+ Tem cells with a STAT1-dependent glucocorticoid receptor deficit contribute to steroid-refractory acute GVHD. Steroid-refractory (SR) disease develops in a substantial fraction of patients with grade II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (aGvHD) and is associated with poor long-term survival. Improved mechanistic insight is needed to identify reliable predictors of steroid resistance. We retrospectively profiled peripheral blood collected prior to glucocorticoid treatment from allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation recipients without aGvHD, with steroid-sensitive aGvHD, and with SR-aGvHD using an integrated multi-omics approach, and validated findings in an independent multicenter cohort. Mass cytometry revealed expansion of activated CD28+ CD8+ effector-memory T (Tem) cells in SR-aGvHD. Absolute counts of these cells at neutrophil engraftment predicted subsequent steroid resistance in the multicenter cohort and performed comparably to established clinical classifiers. This phenotype was associated with a proinflammatory milieu enriched for IL-2, IL-27, and IFN-gamma. Single-cell RNA sequencing and functional assays implicated a STAT1-glucocorticoid receptor (GR) regulatory axis in which inflammatory cytokines induce STAT1 phosphorylation and suppress GR expression, consistent with intrinsic glucocorticoid resistance. JAK inhibition rescued cytokine-induced steroid resistance in vitro, while in SR-aGvHD patients, clinical response to ruxolitinib was accompanied by reduced STAT1 activation, restoration of GR expression, and contraction of the expanded CD8+ Tem pool. These findings identify immune dysregulation at SR-aGvHD centered on CD8+ Tem cells with a STAT1-dependent GR deficit and support a mechanistic link to steroid refractoriness. CD28+ CD8+ Tem cell counts may serve as a biomarker of SR-aGvHD and inform development of pre-emptive, pathway-targeted strategies.
33968060 | HLA-A*11:01:01:01, HLA-C*12:02:02:01-HLA-B*52:01:02:02, Age and Sex Are Associated With Severity of Japanese COVID-19 With Respiratory Failure. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus causing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was announced as an outbreak by the World Health Organization (WHO) in January 2020 and as a pandemic in March 2020. The majority of infected individuals have experienced no or only mild symptoms, ranging from fully asymptomatic cases to mild pneumonic disease. However, a minority of infected individuals develop severe respiratory symptoms. The objective of this study was to identify susceptible HLA alleles and clinical markers that can be used in risk prediction model for the early identification of severe COVID-19 among hospitalized COVID-19 patients. A total of 137 patients with mild COVID-19 (mCOVID-19) and 53 patients with severe COVID-19 (sCOVID-19) were recruited from the Center Hospital of the National Center for Global Health and Medicine (NCGM), Tokyo, Japan for the period of February-August 2020. High-resolution sequencing-based typing for eight HLA genes was performed using next-generation sequencing. In the HLA association studies, HLA-A*11:01:01:01 [Pc = 0.013, OR = 2.26 (1.27-3.91)] and HLA-C*12:02:02:01-HLA-B*52:01:01:02 [Pc = 0.020, OR = 2.25 (1.24-3.92)] were found to be significantly associated with the severity of COVID-19. After multivariate analysis controlling for other confounding factors and comorbidities, HLA-A*11:01:01:01 [P = 3.34E-03, OR = 3.41 (1.50-7.73)], age at diagnosis [P = 1.29E-02, OR = 1.04 (1.01-1.07)] and sex at birth [P = 8.88E-03, OR = 2.92 (1.31-6.54)] remained significant. The area under the curve of the risk prediction model utilizing HLA-A*11:01:01:01, age at diagnosis, and sex at birth was 0.772, with sensitivity of 0.715 and specificity of 0.717. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first article that describes associations of HLA alleles with COVID-19 at the 4-field (highest) resolution level. Early identification of potential sCOVID-19 could help clinicians prioritize medical utility and significantly decrease mortality from COVID-19.
41878441 | Dysregulated NK-cell gene expression defines the enduring symptoms of long COVID-19. Introduction: Long-term COVID-19 syndrome (LTCS) or \long COVID\ is a debilitating post-viral condition affecting approximately 2%-8% of individuals after SARS-CoV-2 infection. It manifests typically >=3 months post-infection with symptoms persisting for at least 2 months, including fatigue, pulmonary dysfunction, and cognitive impairment, in the absence of alternative diagnoses. The biological mechanisms underlying LTCS remain poorly defined, yet emerging evidence implicates immune dysregulation. Methods: We profiled plasma antibodies and cytokines from healthy controls (HC, N = 66), convalescents (CONV, N = 24), and LTCS patients (N = 94), followed by multiparametric 14-color flow cytometry of PBMCs from HC (N = 9), CONV (N = 6), and LTCS (N = 23) participants. To gain mechanistic insight, we performed single-cell transcriptomic profiling (scRNA-seq) on PBMCs from HC (N = 8), CONV (N = 6), and LTCS (N = 32) individuals. Results: LTCS patients exhibited elevated anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG (spike S1/RBD/N) titers compared with HC, but displayed significantly reduced systemic cytokine levels, including IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-10. Flow cytometry revealed marked depletion of CD56+CD16+ NK cells and CD56+CD3+ NKT cells, accompanied by altered T-cell activation states. scRNA-seq confirmed NK type I cell loss and uncovered broad transcriptional reprogramming with upregulation of PDCD4, CHD1, CXCR4, and SLC7A5 and downregulation of TGFBR3, RIPOR2, and MBNL1. Gene set enrichment analyses indicated activation of circadian and translational programs and suppression of olfactory receptor, neurotransmitter receptor, and GABA-gated ion-channel pathways. Functional assays validated reduced NK-cell inflammatory capacity in LTCS participants. Discussion: LTCS is characterized by systemic cytokine attenuation and a quantitative and functional NK-cell deficit coupled to neurosensory pathway suppression. These findings identify NK cells as key sentinels of LTCS pathophysiology and highlight an NK-centric neuroimmune axis as a promising target for biomarker discovery and therapeutic intervention.
40553564 | Lung adenocarcinoma-derived IFN-g promotes growth by modulating CD8+ T cell production of CCR5 chemokines. Since the lung is a mucosal barrier organ with a unique immunologic environment, mechanisms of immunoregulation in lung cancer may differ from those of other malignancies. Consistent with this notion, we found that CD8+ T cells play a paradoxical role in facilitating, rather than ameliorating, the growth of multiple lung adenocarcinoma models. These include spontaneous, carcinogen-induced, and transplantable tumor cell line models. Specifically, we found that CD8+ T cells promote homing of CD4+Foxp3+ T regulatory cells to the tumor bed by increasing levels of CCR5 chemokines in the tumor microenvironment in an IFN-g and TNF-a dependent manner. Contrary to their canonical role, these Th1 cytokines contributed to accelerated growth of murine lung adenocarcinomas while suppressing the growth of other malignancies. Surprisingly, lung cancer cells themselves can serve as a dominant source of IFN-g, and deletion of this cytokine from cancer cells using CRISPR/Cas-9 decreases tumor growth. Importantly for translational applications, a high level of IFN-g was also found in human lung cancer patients at both the mRNA and protein level. Our data outlines what we deem a novel and previously undefined lung cancer specific immunoregulatory pathway that may be harnessed to tailor immune based therapy specifically for this malignancy.
39336433 | Association of Human Leukocyte Antigen Alleles with COVID-19 Severity and Mortality in a Spanish Population. Background and Objectives: The aim of the following cross-sectional study is to determine the association between human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles and outcomes in patients presenting to the emergency department (ED) with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Methods and Materials: Genotyping was made using the Axiom Human Genotyping SARS-CoV-2 Research Array. Statistical analysis was made with Fisher's exact test and multivariable logistic regression, adjusted for sex, age and clinical variables. Results: Of 190 patients, 11.1% were discharged from the ED; 57.9% were admitted to the COVID-19 ward, without intensive care unit (ICU) admission; 15.3% survived an ICU admission; and 15.8% died. After multivariable analysis, two HLA alleles protected against hospital admission (HLA-C*05:01, adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 0.2, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.055-0.731; and HLA-DQB1*02:02, aOR 0.046, CI 0.002-0.871) and one was associated with higher risk for ICU admission or death (HLA-DQA1*05:01, aOR 2.517, CI 1.086-5.833). Conclusions: In this population, HLA-C*05:01 and HLA-DQB1*02:02 are associated with a protective effect against hospital admission and HLA-DQA1*05:01 is associated with higher risk of ICU admission or death in the multivariable analysis. This may help stratify risk in COVID-19 patients.
33065764 | Dysregulated RASGRP1 expression through RUNX1 mediated transcription promotes autoimmunity. RasGRP1 is a Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor, and an essential regulator of lymphocyte receptor signaling. In mice, Rasgrp1 deletion results in defective T lymphocyte development. RASGRP1-deficient patients suffer from immune deficiency, and the RASGRP1 gene has been linked to autoimmunity. However, how RasGRP1 levels are regulated, and if RasGRP1 dosage alterations contribute to autoimmunity remains unknown. We demonstrate that diminished Rasgrp1 expression caused defective T lymphocyte selection in C57BL/6 mice, and that the severity of inflammatory disease inversely correlates with Rasgrp1 expression levels. In patients with autoimmunity, active inflammation correlated with decreased RASGRP1 levels in CD4+ T cells. By analyzing H3K27 acetylation profiles in human T cells, we identified a RASGRP1 enhancer that harbors autoimmunity-associated SNPs. CRISPR-Cas9 disruption of this enhancer caused lower RasGRP1 expression, and decreased binding of RUNX1 and CBFB transcription factors. Analyzing patients with autoimmunity, we detected reduced RUNX1 expression in CD4+ T cells. Lastly, we mechanistically link RUNX1 to transcriptional regulation of RASGRP1 to reveal a key circuit regulating RasGRP1 expression, which is vital to prevent inflammatory disease.
41934610 | Single-cell RNA sequencing dissect the immunological network of immune checkpoint inhibitors-induced myocarditis. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) targeted PD-1/PD-L1 axis generate immune-related adverse events such as myocarditis, limiting their clinical application. Herein, we tried to explore the potential mechanism of ICIs-induced myocarditis. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing of heart tissues and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) collected from mice with or without a relative low dose of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor (BMS-1) treatment. Compared with PBS treatment, BMS-1 treatment increased T, B, NK cells, and neutrophils but decreased macrophages in the heart. Four T cell subclusters in the heart were identified, including Treg, LEF1+CD4+ T, CCL5+CD8+ T, and STMN1+CD8+ T cells. The BMS-1-heart exhibited increased CCL5+CD8+ T cells depicted by elevated Nkg7 and Ccl5 gene expression compared with the PBS-heart. The number of macrophages declined but revealed inflammatory activity in the BMS-1-heart. Interestingly, CCR5, a receptor for CCL5 expressed in both CCR2- resident and CCR2+ recruit macrophages in the heart, was upregulated by the BMS-1 treatment. In addition, fibroblasts, not endothelial cells, showed an inflammatory activation state. Last, we identified increased CCL5+CD8+ T cells in the BMS-1-PBMC. Immunofluorescence staining also confirmed significantly elevated CCL5+CD8+ T cells in the BMS-1-heart than that of PBS-heart. BMS-1 seems to recruit circulating CCL5+CD8+ T cells to the heart, which further interact with CCR5+ macrophages, resulting in fibroblast activation. The CCL5/CCR5 axis and circulating CCL5+CD8+ T cells may be potential therapeutic/diagnostic strategies for ICIs-induced myocarditis.
41066593 | FNDC4 Drives Metastasis and Immune Evasion in Pancreatic Cancer. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is highly metastatic and largely refractory to current therapies, underscoring the need to uncover the molecular drivers of progression to identify targetable vulnerabilities. Here, we found that fibronectin type III domain containing 4 (FNDC4), known for its role in macrophage polarization and metabolic regulation, was elevated in metastatic PDAC cells and correlated with poor patient outcomes. FNDC4 knockdown reduced tumor growth and metastasis in a diverse set of aggressive PDAC models. Mechanistically, FNDC4 enhanced CCAR1 stability, thereby sustaining CCAR1/beta-catenin signaling. FNCD4 deficiency led to reduced CCAR1 and beta-catenin expression and consequently impaired invasion and colony formation. Moreover, FNDC4 promoted immune evasion by driving macrophage polarization toward a pro-tumorigenic M2 phenotype. FNDC4 loss shifted macrophage polarization toward an anti-tumor profile and increased CD4+ and CD8+ T cell infiltration. Together, the effects of FNDC4 targeting resulted in reduced tumor burden, suppression of metastasis, and improved survival in immunocompetent murine PDAC models. Unexpectedly, FNDC4 localized to the nucleus, pointing to potential intranuclear activity. Transcriptomic and functional analyses further identified CCL5 as a critical downstream effector, required for recruiting CCR5+ T-cells and mediating the immune effects of FNDC4 inhibition. Upstream, BHLHE40 directly activated FNDC4 transcription, which was stimulated by induction of epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Importantly, combining FNDC4 inhibition with CLDN18.2 CAR-T cells or chemotherapy resulted in enhanced tumor control compared to monotherapy. Together, these findings underscore the role of FNDC4 in promoting PDAC progression and the potential of FNDC4 as a target for innovative multimodal treatment strategies.
42091972 | Transcriptomic evidence of CD8+ T-cell exhaustion-like phenotype and mitochondrial impairment underlying immune dysregulation in feline chronic gingivostomatitis. Feline chronic gingivostomatitis (FCGS) is a debilitating oral disease characterized by immune dysregulation and chronic inflammation. We hypothesized that CD8 + T cells from FCGS cats exhibit exhaustion features with suppressed mitochondrial pathways, and that mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) therapy post-extractions might restore these programs. RNA sequencing was performed on peripheral CD8 + T cells from cats with active FCGS before (disease group, D) and after (treated group, M) clinical remission following full-mouth extractions and MSC therapy, with specific-pathogen-free cats as controls (control group, C). CD8 + T cells from active disease displayed terminal effector differentiation and exhaustion-like signatures, including upregulation of cytotoxic markers (GZMB, GZMK, GZMA), differentiation markers (KLRG1, IL18R1/IL18RAP), and exhaustion-associated genes (EOMES, CD244, TNFSF10, CCR5, PRDM1, RGS16). Gene set enrichment analysis confirmed exhaustion-like CD8 + T-cell phenotype enrichment in active disease, which resolved after treatment. Pathway analysis revealed marked downregulation of mitochondrial respiratory chain components, ATP synthesis, and protein import pathways in active FCGS, with partial post-treatment resolution. Immunofluorescence of draining lymph nodes showed significantly increased CTLA-4 + CD3+ T cells in both FCGS groups versus controls, suggesting persistent immunoregulatory signaling despite clinical improvement. These findings identify overlapping T-cell exhaustion and mitochondrial dysfunction-associated transcriptomic signatures in FCGS, supporting therapeutic strategies targeting immune-metabolic pathways.
42144489 | Eltrombopag restores T-cell homeostasis in aplastic anemia by regulating oxidative metabolism and reactive oxygen species levels. Aplasticanemia (AA) is an autoimmune-mediated bone marrow failure syndrome characterized by excessive T-cell activation and destruction of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Eltrombopag (ELT), a thrombopoietin receptor agonist, has been shown to promote hematopoiesis and exert immunomodulatory effects. However, its role in regulating T cells in AA remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether ELT modulates the T-cell functional phenotype via the oxidative metabolism pathway. Using single-cell RNA sequencing of AA mouse models under different treatment regimens, we identified differentially expressed genes in T-cell subsets associated with oxidative stress. ELT treatment effectively reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, reshaped T-cell subset composition, and attenuated cytotoxic activity. Mechanistically, Western blot analysis confirmed that ELT significantly upregulated ENPP1 and ENTPD5, which are involved in oxidative metabolism. Collectively, these findings reveal a previously unrecognized mechanism through which ELT restores T-cell homeostasis by fine-tuning oxidative metabolism, highlighting its therapeutic potential beyond hematopoietic stimulation in AA.
41155153 | Pattern of Regulatory T Cells, Resident Memory T Cells, and Exhausted T Cells in Human Pericardial Fluid Samples of Cardiovascular Patients. This study investigates T cell subsets in pericardial fluid samples obtained from heart transplantation donors, heart transplantation recipients, and coronary artery bypass graft patients. Using flow cytometry, we characterized regulatory T cells (Tregs), tissue-resident memory T cells (Trm), and exhausted T cells based on specific markers. Our results showed significant alterations in the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell subsets, migration (CXCR3, CCR5), and exhaustion markers (PD-1, TIM3) across the groups. Notably, Tregs and Trm cells were enriched in recipients, while markers of T cell exhaustion showed a complex regulation. These findings provide novel insights into the local immune regulation in cardiac disease and transplantation.
33972137 | Risk HLA alleles in South America and potential new epitopes for SARS-CoV2. HLA alleles are associated with the body's response to infection and the regulation of the immune system. HLA alleles have been reported to be involved in response to viral infections such as SARS-CoV2. Our study reviews the HLA alleles associated with protection or susceptibility to SARS-CoV2 and the prevalence of these HLA alleles in South America. Previous studies on HLA and SARS-CoV2 infection reported that HLA-A*02:02, HLA-B*15:03, and HLA-C*12:03 are protective; while HLA-A*25:01, HLA-B*46:01, and HLA-C*01:02 increase susceptibility. We identified that these alleles are not frequent in South America, confirmed that the spike protein is the most immunogenic protein of SARS-CoV2, and detected new immunogenic epitopes that bound to protective HLA alleles and to HLA alleles common in South America (binding score > 0.90). These could be used as vaccine targets.
38992165 | CD74 is a functional MIF receptor on activated CD4+ T cells. Next to its classical role in MHC II-mediated antigen presentation, CD74 was identified as a high-affinity receptor for macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF), a pleiotropic cytokine and major determinant of various acute and chronic inflammatory conditions, cardiovascular diseases and cancer. Recent evidence suggests that CD74 is expressed in T cells, but the functional relevance of this observation is poorly understood. Here, we characterized the regulation of CD74 expression and that of the MIF chemokine receptors during activation of human CD4+ T cells and studied links to MIF-induced T-cell migration, function, and COVID-19 disease stage. MIF receptor profiling of resting primary human CD4+ T cells via flow cytometry revealed high surface expression of CXCR4, while CD74, CXCR2 and ACKR3/CXCR7 were not measurably expressed. However, CD4+ T cells constitutively expressed CD74 intracellularly, which upon T-cell activation was significantly upregulated, post-translationally modified by chondroitin sulfate and could be detected on the cell surface, as determined by flow cytometry, Western blot, immunohistochemistry, and re-analysis of available RNA-sequencing and proteomic data sets. Applying 3D-matrix-based live cell-imaging and receptor pathway-specific inhibitors, we determined a causal involvement of CD74 and CXCR4 in MIF-induced CD4+ T-cell migration. Mechanistically, proximity ligation assay visualized CD74/CXCR4 heterocomplexes on activated CD4+ T cells, which were significantly diminished after MIF treatment, pointing towards a MIF-mediated internalization process. Lastly, in a cohort of 30 COVID-19 patients, CD74 surface expression was found to be significantly upregulated on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in patients with severe compared to patients with only mild disease course. Together, our study characterizes the MIF receptor network in the course of T-cell activation and reveals CD74 as a novel functional MIF receptor and MHC II-independent activation marker of primary human CD4+ T cells.
35681490 | HLA Allele Frequencies and Association with Severity of COVID-19 Infection in Northern Italian Patients. HLA allelic distribution was analysed in a cohort of 96 Northern Italian subjects (53M/43F) (mean age 59.9 +- 13.3 years) from Lombardy who developed COVID-19 during the first two pandemic waves to investigate possible correlations between HLA molecules and disease severity. An important role of HLA- B and HLA-C loci in modulating the clinical severity of COVID-19 disease was identified. In particular, the HLA-B07 supertype was observed to be associated with a significant risk for severe disease; conversely, the HLA-B27 supertype and C*12:02 allele played a protective role as they were associated with milder disease. These associations were confirmed after applying a multinomial regression analysis to adjust the correlation for age, gender and comorbidities with COVID-19 severity. Though the power of results is limited by the small sample size, data herein contribute to shedding light on the role played by genetic background in COVID-19 infection.
