27906990 | Surveillance of Helicobacter pylori Antibiotic Susceptibility in Indonesia: Different Resistance Types among Regions and with Novel Genetic Mutations. Information regarding Helicobacter pylori antibiotic resistance in Indonesia was previously inadequate. We assessed antibiotic susceptibility for H. pylori in Indonesia, and determined the association between virulence genes or genetic mutations and antibiotic resistance. We recruited 849 dyspeptic patients who underwent endoscopy in 11 cities in Indonesia. E-test was used to determine the minimum inhibitory concentration of five antibiotics. PCR-based sequencing assessed mutations in 23S rRNA, rdxA, gyrA, gyrB, and virulence genes. Next generation sequencing was used to obtain full-length sequences of 23S rRNA, infB, and rpl22. We cultured 77 strains and identified 9.1% with clarithromycin resistance. Low prevalence was also found for amoxicillin and tetracycline resistance (5.2% and 2.6%, respectively). In contrast, high resistance rates to metronidazole (46.7%) and levofloxacin (31.2%) were demonstrated. Strains isolated from Sumatera Island had significantly higher metronidazole resistance than those from other locations. Metronidazole resistant strains had highly distributed rdxA amino acid substitutions and the 23S rRNA A2143G mutation was associated with clarithromycin resistance (42.9%). However, one strain with the highest MIC value had a novel mutation in rpl22 without an A2143G mutation. Mutation at Asn-87 and/or Asp-91 of gyrA was associated with levofloxacin-resistance and was related to gyrB mutations. In conclusions, although this is a pilot study for a larger survey, our current data show that Indonesian strains had the high prevalence of metronidazole and levofloxacin resistance with low prevalence of clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and tetracycline resistance. Nevertheless, clarithromycin- or metronidazole-based triple therapy should be administered with caution in some regions of Indonesia.
37119037 | The Relationship Between Influenza and COVID-19 Vaccine Uptake in a Cross-Sectional Study in China, Indonesia, Malaysia, and the United States.
38424106 | Altered receptor binding, antibody evasion and retention of T cell recognition by the SARS-CoV-2 XBB.1.5 spike protein. The XBB.1.5 variant of SARS-CoV-2 has rapidly achieved global dominance and exhibits a high growth advantage over previous variants. Preliminary reports suggest that the success of XBB.1.5 stems from mutations within its spike glycoprotein, causing immune evasion and enhanced receptor binding. We present receptor binding studies that demonstrate retention of binding contacts with the human ACE2 receptor and a striking decrease in binding to mouse ACE2 due to the revertant R493Q mutation. Despite extensive evasion of antibody binding, we highlight a region on the XBB.1.5 spike protein receptor binding domain (RBD) that is recognized by serum antibodies from a donor with hybrid immunity, collected prior to the emergence of the XBB.1.5 variant. T cell assays reveal high frequencies of XBB.1.5 spike-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells amongst donors with hybrid immunity, with the CD4+ T cells skewed towards a Th1 cell phenotype and having attenuated effector cytokine secretion as compared to ancestral spike protein-specific cells. Thus, while the XBB.1.5 variant has retained efficient human receptor binding and gained antigenic alterations, it remains susceptible to recognition by T cells induced via vaccination and previous infection.
18076379 | Mutations in a small region of the exportin Crm1p disrupt the daughter cell-specific nuclear localization of the transcription factor Ace2p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. BACKGROUND INFORMATION: The CBK1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes a protein kinase that is a member of the NDR (nuclear Dbf2-related) family of protein kinases, which are involved in morphogenesis and cell proliferation. Previous studies have shown that deletion of CBK1 leads to a loss of polarity and the formation of large aggregates of cells. This aggregation phenotype is due to the loss of the daughter cell-specific accumulation of the transcription factor Ace2p, which is responsible for the transcription of genes whose products are necessary for the final separation of the mother and the daughter at the end of cell division. RESULTS: We show that the daughter cell-specific localization of Ace2p does not occur via a specific localization of the ACE2 mRNA and that, in vivo, the transcription of CTS1, one of the principal targets of Ace2p, is daughter cell-specific. We have shown that extragenic suppressors of the Deltacbk1 aggregation phenotype are located in the nuclear exportin CRM1 and ACE2. These mutations disrupt the interaction of Ace2p and Crm1p, thus impairing Ace2p export and resulting in the accumulation of the protein in both mother and daughter cell nuclei. CONCLUSIONS: We propose that in the daughter cell nucleus Cbk1p phosphorylates the Ace2p nuclear export signal, and that this phosphorylation blocks the export of Ace2p via Crm1p, thus promoting the daughter cell-specific nuclear accumulation of Ace2p.
37995824 | Polymethoxyflavone from Citrus depressa as an inhibitor against various variants of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: In traditional Taiwanese medicine, Citrus depressa Hayata serves as the raw material of Chen-Pi which has been widely used to treat respiratory ailments. Scientific investigations have validated the attributes of C. depressa, elucidating its valuable properties, including antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, anticancer, neuroprotion, hepatoprotection, and hypolipidemic effects. AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aims to isolate a universal inhibitor of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein from C. depressa and confirm the mechanism by which these inhibitors disrupt the binding of the spike protein to hACE2. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The whole fruit of C. depressa was subjected to ethanol extraction, following by partitioning to obtain water, butanol, and ethyl acetate fractions. To identify the inhibitory components in citrus fruits, we performed both the SPR assay and the SARS-CoV-2 pseudo-virus assays. Subsequently, we employed a bioassay-guided approach to efficiently isolate and characterize the bioactive constituents that hindered the interaction between the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and hACE2, using a combination of MPLC and Semi-preparative HPLC for compound isolation. ELISA based spike protein binding assay evaluate the inhibitory activities of the extract and potential constituents against multiple spike protein variants. To further shed light on the inhibitory mechanism, candidate inhibitors were validated through the SPR assay and molecular docking. RESULTS: The crude extract and ethyl acetate layer derived from C. depressa showed significant inhibitory activity on SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.4/5, with IC50 of 77.4 mug/mL and 100 mug/mL, respectively. Ten potential compounds from C. depressa have been identified with inhibitory activity against various SARS-CoV-2 spike proteins. 2'-hydroxy-4,4',5',6'-tetramethoxychalcone (Cd3) and 5-hydroxy-3',4',6,7,8-pentamethoxyflavone (Cd8) also showed good inhibitory activity to the spike protein, with KD of 0.79 muM and 37.3 nM, respectively. These findings are in line with prior study, indicating Cd3 and Cd8 can bind to key amino acid residue, disrupting the formation of the spike protein and h-ACE2 complex. CONCLUSION: This study presents the initial evidence showcasing the inhibitory effect of polymethoxyflavones (PMFs) on the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2. Moreover, the inhibitory activity of C. depressa extracts indicates their potential to prevent infections of different SARS-CoV-2 variants.
33612629 | Effect of Nutrition Education and Multi-Nutrient Biscuit Interventions on Nutritional and Iron Status: A Cluster Randomized Control Trial on Undernourished Children Aged 6-23 Months in Aceh, Indonesia. Undernutrition and iron deficiencies on under-five children in Indonesia remain high and very closely related to inadequate complementary feeding. This study investigated the effect of weekly nutrition education by home visite using the food monitoring card (FMC) models and daily provision multi-nutrient biscuits and combination on growth and reduction of iron deficiency and anemia among underweight children aged 6-23 mo in Aceh Indonesia. A 6-mo, cluster randomized, control trial was conducted on 121 children received nutrition education (NE), multi-nutrient biscuit (MNB), combination both nutrition education and biscuits (NE+MNB), and control group. The outcome weight gain and prevalence of underweight (weight for age z-score <-2SD) were collected by anthropometric and iron deficiency were serum ferritin measuring with ELISA method. After the 6-mo intervention, the rate of weight gain was higher in combination intervention group 1.51+-0.68 kg than multi-biscuit group 1.40+-0.72 kg, NE group 1.34+-0.66 kg and control group 1.21+-0.42 kg, and the rate increase of serum ferritin was higher in combination NE+MNB and biscuit group (2.54 mug/L and 2,17 mug/L). At the end of study there were a significant decrease in prevalence of underweight (p=0.003), the incidence of underweight in NE+MNB (45.2%) lower than NE group (63.3%), MNB group (64.5%) and control group (69,0%) and significant decrease of iron deficiency (p=0.02), the incidence lower in MNB group (6.5%) than NE+MNB (22.6%), NE group (23.3%) and control group (24.1%). The combination of nutritional education and multi-nutrient biscuits intervention improving nutritional and iron deficiency status on undernourished children. These risearch highlight the need integration of nutrition education and food base intervention to prevent underweight and iron deficiency on children 6-23 mo old.
34950606 | Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) Membrane (M) and Spike (S) Proteins Antagonize Host Type I Interferon Response. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has spread worldwide and has infected more than 250 million people. A typical feature of COVID-19 is the lack of type I interferon (IFN-I)-mediated antiviral immunity in patients. However, the detailed molecular mechanisms by which SARS-CoV-2 evades the IFN-I-mediated antiviral response remain elusive. Here, we performed a comprehensive screening and identified a set of SARS-CoV-2 proteins that antagonize the IFN-I response. Subsequently, we characterized the mechanisms of two viral proteins antagonize IFN-I production and downstream signaling. SARS-CoV-2 membrane protein binds to importin karyopherin subunit alpha-6 (KPNA6) to inhibit interferon regulatory factor 3(IRF3) nuclear translocation. Further, the spike protein interacts with signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) to block its association with Janus kinase 1 (JAK1). This study increases our understanding of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis and suggests novel therapeutic targets for the treatment of COVID-19.
36685023 | Serum pepsinogen level as a biomarker for atrophy, reflux esophagitis, and gastric cancer screening in Indonesia. Background: Chronic dyspepsia's symptoms are frequently seen in primary to tertiary healthcare in Indonesia. This study aimed to describe the potential usability of pepsinogen (PG) values in determining gastric mucosal conditions, including superficial gastritis and atrophic gastritis. Materials and Methods: We recruited 646 adult dyspeptic patients and then analyzed PG values (including PGI, PGII, and PGI/II ratio) with endoscopic findings, gastric mucosal damages, and Helicobacter pylori infection. The gastric mucosal damage and H. pylori infection were evaluated using histological examination based on the updated Sydney system. Results: Among 646 enrolled patients, 308 (47.2%), 212 (32.8%), 91 (14.1%), 34 (5.2%), and 1 (0.2%) patient were diagnosed with normal mucosa, gastritis, reflux esophagitis, peptic ulcer disease, and gastric cancer, respectively. Significant differences in PGI, PGII, and PGI/II ratio values were observed among ethnic groups (all P < 0.01). The PGI and PGII levels were significantly higher and PGI/II was significantly lower in H. pylori-infected patients than in uninfected ones (all P < 0.001). The optimal cutoff value for PGII and PGI/II was 12.45 ng/mL with an area under the curve (AUC) value of 0.755 (0.702-0.811), sensitivity 59.3%, and specificity 77.1%; and 4.75 with AUC value of 0.821 (0.763-0.855), sensitivity 81.5%, and specificity 78.7%, respectively, to determine moderate-severe atrophy. Conclusion: Serum PG levels, a useful biomarker, represent the endoscopic findings, especially for reflux esophagitis. In addition, the benefits of PG values detecting atrophic gastritis were limited to moderate-severe atrophic gastritis. This usefulness requires careful attention for several ethnic groups in Indonesia.
35187564 | Decoupling SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 localization and interferon antagonism. Like many pathogenic viruses, SARS-CoV-2 must overcome interferon (IFN)-mediated host defenses for infection establishment. To achieve this, SARS-CoV-2 deploys overlapping mechanisms to antagonize IFN production and signaling. The strongest IFN antagonist is the accessory protein ORF6, which localizes to multiple membranous compartments, including the nuclear envelope, where it directly binds nuclear pore component Nup98-Rae1 to inhibit nuclear translocation of activated STAT1 and IRF3 transcription factors. However, this direct cause-and-effect relationship between ORF6 localization and IFN antagonism has yet to be explored experimentally. Here, we use extensive mutagenesis studies to define the structural determinants required for steady-state localization and demonstrate that mis-localized ORF6 variants still potently inhibit nuclear trafficking and IFN signaling. Additionally, expression of a peptide that mimics the ORF6-Nup98 interaction domain robustly blocked nuclear trafficking. Furthermore, pharmacologic and mutational approaches combined to suggest that ORF6 is likely a peripheral membrane protein, as opposed to being a transmembrane protein as previously speculated. Thus, ORF6 localization and IFN antagonism are independent activities, which raises the possibility that ORF6 may have additional functions within membrane networks to enhance virus replication. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
35408618 | Can the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Variant Confer Natural Immunity against COVID-19? The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is still ongoing, with no signs of abatement in sight. The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which is the causative agent of this pandemic and has claimed over 5 million lives, is still mutating, resulting in numerous variants. One of the newest variants is Omicron, which shows an increase in its transmissibility, but also reportedly reduces hospitalization rates and shows milder symptoms, such as in those who have been vaccinated. As a result, many believe that Omicron provides a natural vaccination, which is the first step toward ending the COVID-19 pandemic. Based on published research and scientific evidence, we review and discuss how the end of this pandemic is predicted to occur as a result of Omicron variants being surpassed in the community. In light of the findings of our research, we believe that it is most likely true that the Omicron variant is a natural way of vaccinating the masses and slowing the spread of this deadly pandemic. While the mutation that causes the Omicron variant is encouraging, subsequent mutations do not guarantee that the disease it causes will be less severe. As the virus continues to evolve, humans must constantly adapt by increasing their immunity through vaccination.
37827578 | Targeting Cyclophilin A and CD147 to Inhibit Replication of SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV-2-Induced Inflammation. Identification and development of effective therapeutics for COVID-19 are still urgently needed. The CD147/Spike interaction is involved in the SARS-CoV-2 invasion process, in addition to ACE2. Cyclophilin A (CyPA), the extracellular ligand of CD147, has been found to play a role in the infection and replication of coronaviruses. In this study, our results show that CyPA inhibitors such as Cyclosporine A (CsA) and STG-175 can suppress the intracellular replication of SARS-CoV-2 by inhibiting the binding of CyPA to the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid-CTD, and the IC50 is 0.23 microM and 0.17 microM respectively. Due to high homology, CsA also had inhibitory effects on SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, and the IC50 is 3.2 microM and 2.8 microM respectively. Finally, we generated a formulation-PS-Liposome-CsA for pulmonary drug delivery. These findings provide a scientific basis for identifying CyPA as a potential drug target for the treatment of COVID-19 as well as for the development of broad-spectrum inhibitors for coronavirus via targeting CyPA. Significance Statement New SARS-CoV-2 variants and other pathogenic CoVs are continually emerging and new broad-spectrum anti-CoV therapy is urgently needed. We found that binding sites of CyPA/CsA overlap with CyPA/N-CTD and CyPA/CD147 binding, and CsA shows the potential to inhibit the activity of invasion or replication driven by CyPA during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Here, we provide new evidence for targeting CyPA in the treatment of COVID-19, as well as the potential of development CyPA inhibitors for broad-spectrum inhibition of CoVs.
34504685 | The role of single nucleotide polymorphisms of IL-1A -889C>T (rs1800587), TNF-A -238G>A (rs361525), and VDR TaqI (rs731236) on susceptibility to herniated nucleus pulposus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Background: The pathogenesis of herniated nucleus pulposus (HNP) is complex and may involve the wide variety of gene polymorphism. However, the reports from the existing studies are inconclusive. The objective of this study was to determine the role of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in interleukin 1 alpha ( IL-1A), tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-A), and vitamin D receptor ( VDR) genes on the susceptibility to herniated nucleus pulposus (HNP). Methods: Four databases (PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, and Web of Science) were searched as of April 1 st, 2021. Authors, publication year, targeted genes, genotype and allele frequency in each case and control groups were collected. Newcastle-Ottawa scale was used to evaluate the publication quality. The pooled estimates of association of IL-1A -889C>T (rs1800587), TNF-A -238G>A (rs361525), and VDR TaqI (rs731236) and susceptibility to HNP were assessed using Z test. Results: We screened 3,067 unique studies for eligibility and three, two and nine case-control studies on IL-1A -889C>T, TNF-A -238G>A, and VDR TaqI were included, respectively, in our meta-analysis. The studies consisting 369 HNP cases and 433 controls for IL-1A -889C>T, 252 cases and 259 controls for TNF-A -238G>A and 1130 cases and 2096 controls for VDR TaqI. Our pooled estimates indicated that there was no significant association of those SNPs with the susceptibility to HNP in any genotype, dominant model, recessive model, or allele comparations. Conclusion: Although individual studies suggested the important role of gene expression dysregulation associated with SNPs in IL-1A, TNF-A, and VDR, our data indicated that IL-1A -889C>T, TNF-A -238G>A, and VDR TaqI had weak association with HNP susceptibility in both genotypes and allele distributions. However, since heterogeneity was identified among studies included in this meta-analysis, further meta-analysis with a larger population and subgroup analysis on specific population are warranted to support this finding.
32805314 | Unravelling host-pathogen interactions: ceRNA network in SARS-CoV-2 infection (COVID-19). COVID-19 is a lurking calamitous disease caused by an unusual virus, SARS-CoV-2, causing massive deaths worldwide. Nonetheless, explicit therapeutic drugs or clinically approved vaccines are not available for COVID-19. Thus, a comprehensive research is crucially needed to decode the pathogenic tools, plausible drug targets, committed to the development of efficient therapy. Host-pathogen interactions via host cellular components is an emerging field of research in this respect. miRNAs have been established as vital players in host-virus interactions. Moreover, viruses have the capability to manoeuvre the host miRNA networks according to their own obligations. Besides protein coding mRNAs, noncoding RNAs might also be targeted in infected cells and viruses can exploit the host miRNA network via ceRNA effect. We have predicted a ceRNA network involving one miRNA (miR-124-3p), one mRNA (Ddx58), one lncRNA (Gm26917) and two circRNAs (Ppp1r10, C330019G07RiK) in SARS-CoV infected cells. We have identified 4 DEGs-Isg15, Ddx58, Oasl1, Usp18 by analyzing a mRNA GEO dataset. There is no notable induction of IFNs and IFN-induced ACE2, significant receptor responsible for S-protein binding mediated viral entry. Pathway enrichment and GO analysis conceded the enrichment of pathways associated with interferon signalling and antiviral-mechanism by IFN-stimulated genes. Further, we have identified 3 noncoding RNAs, playing as potential ceRNAs to the genes associated with immune mechanisms. This integrative analysis has identified noncoding RNAs and their plausible targets, which could effectively enhance the understanding of molecular mechanisms associated with viral infection. However, validation of these targets is further corroborated to determine their therapeutic efficacy.
28606000 | A controlled trial of trauma-focused therapy versus problem-solving in Islamic children affected by civil conflict and disaster in Aceh, Indonesia. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relative efficacies of trauma-focused cognitive behavior therapy and problem-solving therapy in treating post-traumatic stress disorder in children affected by civil conflict in Aceh, Indonesia. METHOD: A controlled trial of children with post-traumatic stress disorder ( N = 64) randomized children to either five individual weekly sessions of trauma-focused cognitive behavior therapy or problem-solving therapy provided by lay-counselors who were provided with brief training. Children were assessed by blind independent assessors at pretreatment, posttreatment and 3-month follow-up on post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and anger, as well as caregiver ratings of the child's post-traumatic stress disorder levels. RESULTS: Intent-to-treat analyses indicated no significant linear time x treatment condition interaction effects for post-traumatic stress disorder at follow-up ( t(129.05) = -0.55, p = 0.58), indicating the two conditions did not differ. Across both conditions, there were significant reductions in post-traumatic stress disorder on self-reported ( t(131.26) = -9.26, p < 0.001) and caregiver-reported ( t(170.65) = 3.53, p = 0.001) measures and anger ( t(127.66) = -7.14, p < 0.001). Across both conditions, there was a large effect size for self-reported post-traumatic stress disorder (cognitive behavior therapy: 3.73, 95% confidence interval = [2.75, 3.97]; problem-solving: 2.68, 95% confidence interval = [2.07, 3.29]). CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that trauma-focused cognitive behavior therapy and problem-solving approaches are comparably successful in reducing post-traumatic stress disorder and anger in treating mental health in children in a post-conflict setting. This pattern may reflect the benefits of non-specific therapy effects or gains associated with trauma-focused or problem-solving approaches.
33953911 | Global prevalence and pathogenesis of headache in COVID-19: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Background: This study was conducted to determine the prevalence of headache in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and to assess its association as a predictor for COVID-19. This study also aimed to discuss the possible pathogenesis of headache in COVID-19. Methods: Available articles from PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science were searched as of September 2 nd, 2020. Data on characteristics of the study, headache and COVID-19 were extracted following the PRISMA guidelines. Biases were assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa scale. The cumulative prevalence of headache was calculated for the general population (i.e. adults and children). The pooled odd ratio (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) was calculated using the Z test to assess the association between headache and the presence of COVID-19 cases. Results: We included 104,751 COVID-19 cases from 78 eligible studies to calculate the global prevalence of headache in COVID-19 and 17 studies were included to calculate the association of headache and COVID-19. The cumulative prevalence of headache in COVID-19 was 25.2% (26,464 out of 104,751 cases). Headache was found to be more prevalent, approximately by two-fold, in COVID-19 patients than in non-COVID-19 patients with symptoms of other respiratory viral infections, OR: 1.73; 95% CI: 1.94, 2.5 with p=0.04. Conclusion: Headache is common among COVID-19 patients and seems to be more common in COVID-19 patients compared to those with the non-COVID-19 viral infection. No definitive mechanisms on how headache  emerges in COVID-19 patients but several possible hypotheses have been proposed. However, extensive studies are warranted to elucidate the mechanisms. PROSPERO registration: CRD42020210332 (28/09/2020).
35935729 | Factors affecting pregnant women in undergoing pregnancy during COVID-19 pandemic: A survey in ACEH. COVID-19 pandemic is a threat to public health caused by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). Significant increases in cases occurred worldwide, including in Indonesia and Aceh Province. Pregnant women as a vulnerable group need to equip themselves with knowledge, attitudes, and practices to prevent themselves from being infected with the virus. This study aimed to determine the knowledge, attitude, and practice factors among pregnant women undergoing pregnancy in the COVID-19 pandemic. A cross-sectional online survey in Aceh was carried out among 148 pregnant women between May 3rd and May 14th, 2020. This study was conducted using a knowledge, attitude, and practice questionnaire adapted to pregnancy conditions during the COVID-19 pandemic. Responses were analyzed and categorized by using univariate analysis. The study identified that most pregnant women aged 31-35 years old (41.2%) and had higher education as their latest education (59.5%). This study found 94.6% of participants were knowledgeable on pregnancies carried out during the COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, 60.1% had a positive attitude, and 60.8% of pregnant women had good practice in carrying pregnancy during the COVID-19 pandemic. In conclusion, the knowledge, attitude, and practice factors of pregnant women were quite adequate. However, antenatal education is still needed to reduce anxiety in pregnant women and their family.
30496303 | Multiple components of the nuclear pore complex interact with the amino-terminus of MX2 to facilitate HIV-1 restriction. Human myxovirus resistance 2 (MX2/MXB) is an interferon-induced post-entry inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) infection. While the precise mechanism of viral inhibition remains unclear, MX2 is localized to the nuclear envelope, and blocks the nuclear import of viral cDNAs. The amino-terminus of MX2 (N-MX2) is essential for anti-viral function, and mutation of a triple arginine motif at residues 11 to 13 abrogates anti-HIV-1 activity. In this study, we sought to investigate the role of N-MX2 in anti-viral activity by identifying functionally relevant host-encoded interaction partners through yeast-two-hybrid screening. Remarkably, five out of seven primary candidate interactors were nucleoporins or nucleoporin-like proteins, though none of these candidates were identified when screening with a mutant RRR11-13A N-MX2 fragment. Interactions were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation, and RNA silencing experiments in cell lines and primary CD4+ T cells demonstrated that multiple components of the nuclear pore complex and nuclear import machinery can impact MX2 anti-viral activity. In particular, the phenylalanine-glycine (FG) repeat containing cytoplasmic filament nucleoporin NUP214, and transport receptor transportin-1 (TNPO1) were consistently required for full MX2, and interferon-mediated, anti-viral function. Both proteins were shown to interact with the triple arginine motif, and confocal fluorescence microscopy revealed that their simultaneous depletion resulted in diminished MX2 accumulation at the nuclear envelope. We therefore propose a model whereby multiple components of the nuclear import machinery and nuclear pore complex help position MX2 at the nuclear envelope to promote MX2-mediated restriction of HIV-1.
38450393 | Willingness-to-pay for COVID-19 vaccine in ten low-middle-income countries in Asia, Africa and South America: A cross-sectional study. Vaccine hesitancy is considered as one of the greatest challenges to control the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. A related challenge is the unwillingness of the general public to pay for vaccination. The objective of this study was to determine willingness-to-pay (WTP) for COVID-19 vaccine among individuals from ten low- middle-income countries (LMICs) in Asia, Africa, and South America. Data were collected using an online questionnaire distributed during February - May 2021 in ten LMICs (Bangladesh, Brazil, Chile, Egypt, India, Iran, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sudan, and Tunisia). The major response variable of in this study was WTP for a COVID-19 vaccine. The assessment of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy was based on items adopted from the World Health Organization (WHO) Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) vaccine hesitancy scale constructs. In this study, 1337 respondents included in the final analysis where the highest number of respondents was from India, while the lowest number was from Egypt. A total of 88.9% (1188/1337) respondents were willing to pay for the COVID-19 vaccination, and 11.1% (149/1337) were not. The average WTP for COVID-19 vaccination was 87.9 US dollars ($), (range: $5-$200). The multivariate model analysis showed that the country, monthly household income, having a history of respiratory disease, the agreement that routine vaccines recommended by health workers are beneficial and having received the flu vaccination within the previous 12 months were strongly associated with the WTP. Based on the country of origin, the highest mean WTP for COVID-19 vaccine was reported in Chile, while the lowest mean WTP for the vaccine was seen among the respondents from Sudan. The availability of free COVID-19 vaccination services appears as a top priority in the LMICs for successful control of the ongoing pandemic. This is particularly important for individuals of a lower socio- economic status. The effects of complacency regarding COVID-19 extends beyond vaccine hesitancy to involve less willingness to pay for COVID-19 vaccine and a lower value of WTP for the vaccine.
36447130 | Nonpharmaceutical interventions reduce the incidence and mortality of COVID-19: A study based on the survey from the International COVID-19 Research Network (ICRN). The recently emerged novel coronavirus, \severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2),\ caused a highly contagious disease called coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). It has severely damaged the world's most developed countries and has turned into a major threat for low- and middle-income countries. Since its emergence in late 2019, medical interventions have been substantial, and most countries relied on public health measures collectively known as nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs). We aimed to centralize the accumulative knowledge of NPIs against COVID-19 for each country under one worldwide consortium. International COVID-19 Research Network collaborators developed a cross-sectional online survey to assess the implications of NPIs and sanitary supply on the incidence and mortality of COVID-19. The survey was conducted between January 1 and February 1, 2021, and participants from 92 countries/territories completed it. The association between NPIs, sanitation supplies, and incidence and mortality were examined by multivariate regression, with the log-transformed value of population as an offset value. The majority of countries/territories applied several preventive strategies, including social distancing (100.0%), quarantine (100.0%), isolation (98.9%), and school closure (97.8%). Individual-level preventive measures such as personal hygiene (100.0%) and wearing facial masks (94.6% at hospitals; 93.5% at mass transportation; 91.3% in mass gathering facilities) were also frequently applied. Quarantine at a designated place was negatively associated with incidence and mortality compared to home quarantine. Isolation at a designated place was also associated with reduced mortality compared to home isolation. Recommendations to use sanitizer for personal hygiene reduced incidence compared to the recommendation to use soap. Deprivation of masks was associated with increased incidence. Higher incidence and mortality were found in countries/territories with higher economic levels. Mask deprivation was pervasive regardless of economic level. NPIs against COVID-19 such as using sanitizer, quarantine, and isolation can decrease the incidence and mortality of COVID-19.
34127970 | Identification of ACE2 modifiers by CRISPR screening. SARS-CoV-2 infection is initiated by binding of the viral spike protein to its receptor, ACE2, on the surface of host cells. ACE2 expression is heterogeneous both in vivo and in immortalized cell lines, but the molecular pathways that govern ACE2 expression remain unclear. We now report high-throughput CRISPR screens for functional modifiers of ACE2 surface abundance. We identified 35 genes whose disruption was associated with a change in the surface abundance of ACE2 in HuH7 cells. Enriched among these ACE2 regulators were established transcription factors, epigenetic regulators, and functional networks. We further characterized individual cell lines with disruption of SMAD4, EP300, PIAS1 , or BAMBI and found these genes to regulate ACE2 at the mRNA level and to influence cellular susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Collectively, our findings clarify the host factors involved in SARS-CoV-2 entry and suggest potential targets for therapeutic development.
35484353 | A systems genomics approach to uncover patient-specific pathogenic pathways and proteins in ulcerative colitis. We describe a precision medicine workflow, the integrated single nucleotide polymorphism network platform (iSNP), designed to determine the mechanisms by which SNPs affect cellular regulatory networks, and how SNP co-occurrences contribute to disease pathogenesis in ulcerative colitis (UC). Using SNP profiles of 378 UC patients we map the regulatory effects of the SNPs to a human signalling network containing protein-protein, miRNA-mRNA and transcription factor binding interactions. With unsupervised clustering algorithms we group these patient-specific networks into four distinct clusters driven by PRKCB, HLA, SNAI1/CEBPB/PTPN1 and VEGFA/XPO5/POLH hubs. The pathway analysis identifies calcium homeostasis, wound healing and cell motility as key processes in UC pathogenesis. Using transcriptomic data from an independent patient cohort, with three complementary validation approaches focusing on the SNP-affected genes, the patient specific modules and affected functions, we confirm the regulatory impact of non-coding SNPs. iSNP identified regulatory effects for disease-associated non-coding SNPs, and by predicting the patient-specific pathogenic processes, we propose a systems-level way to stratify patients.
23067392 | Importin-7 mediates nuclear trafficking of DNA in mammalian cells. Eukaryotic cells have the ability to uptake and transport endogenous and exogenous DNA in their nuclei, however little is known about the specific pathways involved. Here we show that the nuclear transport receptor importin 7 (imp7) supports nuclear import of supercoiled plasmid DNA and human mitochondrial DNA in a Ran and energy-dependent way. The imp7-dependent pathway was specifically competed by excess DNA but not by excess of maltose-binding protein fused with the classical nuclear localizing signal (NLS) or the M9 peptides. Transport of DNA molecules complexed with poly-l-lysine was impaired in intact cells depleted of imp7, and DNA complexes remained localized in the cytoplasm. Poor DNA nuclear import in cells depleted of imp7 directly correlated with lower gene expression levels in these cells compared to controls. Inefficient nuclear import of transfected DNA induced greater upregulation of the interferon pathway, suggesting that rapid DNA nuclear import may prevent uncontrolled activation of the innate immune response. Our results provide evidence that imp7 is a non-redundant component of an intrinsic pathway in mammalian cells for efficient accumulation of exogenous and endogenous DNA in the nucleus, which may be critical for the exchange of genetic information between mitochondria and nuclear genomes and to control activation of the innate immune response.
38450336 | Quantity of antibiotic use and its association with clinical outcomes in COVID-19 patients: A snapshot from a provincial referral hospital in Indonesia. Irrational antibiotic use in Indonesia is considered high, yet there are still lacks reliable information regarding the issue. The quantity of antibiotic use studies, in particular during coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, was not well reported. The aim of this study was to evaluate antibiotic use in COVID-19 patients at a province referral hospital in Aceh, Indonesia, Dr Zainoel Abidin Hospital, and to assess the association between antibiotic use and COVID-19 clinical outcomes. The defined daily dose (DDD) method was used and expressed in DDDs per 100 patient-days as in hospital setting. The data were obtained from inpatient confirmed COVID-19 patients between March 2020 and December 2021. A logistic regression was used to determine the association between patients' characteristics and antibiotic usage with clinical outcomes. A total of 361 treated COVID-19 patients were included using a random sampling technique and analyzed. Out of 361 patients, 89.2% of them were treated with antibiotic(s). All the antibiotics were given empirically except for cefazoline (5.5%) that was used as prophylaxis to obstetric patients who underwent the c-section. Azithromycin was the most prescribed antibiotic and levofloxacin had the highest DDD. Our data suggested that there was no association between antibiotic use and clinical outcomes of COVID-19 patients (p=0.128). Having sepsis and another pulmonary disease however were associated with mortality of COVID-19 patients with adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 14.14; 95%CI 2.94-67.90, p=0.001 and aOR 8.64; 95%CI 3.30-22.63, p<0.001, respectively. In addition, patients older than 60-year-old had a higher chance to an unfavorable outcome compared to those younger than 30-year-old, aOR: 7.61; 95%CI: 1.07-53.94. In conclusion, the use of antibiotics is prevalent among COVID-19 and it is not directly associated with clinical outcomes.
34530086 | An overview of human proteins and genes involved in SARS-CoV-2 infection. As of July 2021, the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by SARS-CoV-2, has led to more than 200 million infections and more than 4.2 million deaths globally. Complications of severe COVID-19 include acute kidney injury, liver dysfunction, cardiomyopathy, and coagulation dysfunction. Thus, there is an urgent need to identify proteins and genetic factors associated with COVID-19 susceptibility and outcome. We comprehensively reviewed recent findings of host-SARS-CoV-2 interactome analyses. To identify genetic variants associated with COVID-19, we focused on the findings from genome and transcriptome wide association studies (GWAS and TWAS) and bioinformatics analysis. We described established human proteins including ACE2, TMPRSS2, 40S ribosomal subunit, ApoA1, TOM70, HLA-A, and PALS1 interacting with SARS-CoV-2 based on cryo-electron microscopy results. Furthermore, we described approximately 1000 human proteins showing evidence of interaction with SARS-CoV-2 and highlighted host cellular processes such as innate immune pathways affected by infection. We summarized the evidence on more than 20 identified candidate genes in COVID-19 severity. Predicted deleterious and disruptive genetic variants with possible effects on COVID-19 infectivity have been also summarized. These findings provide novel insights into SARS-CoV-2 biology and infection as well as potential strategies for development of novel COVID therapeutic targets and drug repurposing.
33441437 | Cutting Edge: Mouse SARS-CoV-2 Epitope Reveals Infection and Vaccine-Elicited CD8 T Cell Responses. The magnitude of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell responses correlates inversely with human disease severity, suggesting T cell involvement in primary control. Whereas many COVID-19 vaccines focus on establishing humoral immunity to viral spike protein, vaccine-elicited T cell immunity may bolster durable protection or cross-reactivity with viral variants. To better enable mechanistic and vaccination studies in mice, we identified a dominant CD8 T cell SARS-CoV-2 nucleoprotein epitope. Infection of human ACE2 transgenic mice with SARS-CoV-2 elicited robust responses to H2-Db/N219-227, and 40% of HLA-A*02+ COVID-19 PBMC samples isolated from hospitalized patients responded to this peptide in culture. In mice, i.m. prime-boost nucleoprotein vaccination with heterologous vectors favored systemic CD8 T cell responses, whereas intranasal boosting favored respiratory immunity. In contrast, a single i.v. immunization with recombinant adenovirus established robust CD8 T cell memory both systemically and in the respiratory mucosa.
28326644 | HIV-1 susceptibility of transgenic rat-derived primary macrophage/T cells and a T cell line that express human receptors, CyclinT1 and CRM1 genes. We developed transgenic (Tg) rats that express human CD4, CCR5, CXCR4, CyclinT1, and CRM1 genes. Tg rat macrophages were efficiently infected with HIV-1 and supported production of infectious progeny virus. By contrast, both rat primary CD4+ T cells and established T cell lines expressing human CD4, CCR5, CyclinT1, and CRM1 genes were infected inefficiently, but this was ameliorated by inhibition of cyclophilin A. The infectivity of rat T cell-derived virus was lower than that of human T cell-derived virus.
37228990 | Immunopharmacological considerations of general anaesthetics for surgical procedures in the times of COVID-19: Correspondence.
19114004 | Biomphalaria glabrata transcriptome: cDNA microarray profiling identifies resistant- and susceptible-specific gene expression in haemocytes from snail strains exposed to Schistosoma mansoni. BACKGROUND: Biomphalaria glabrata is an intermediate snail host for Schistosoma mansoni, one of the important schistosomes infecting man. B. glabrata/S. mansoni provides a useful model system for investigating the intimate interactions between host and parasite. Examining differential gene expression between S. mansoni-exposed schistosome-resistant and susceptible snail lines will identify genes and pathways that may be involved in snail defences. RESULTS: We have developed a 2053 element cDNA microarray for B. glabrata containing clones from ORESTES (Open Reading frame ESTs) libraries, suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) libraries and clones identified in previous expression studies. Snail haemocyte RNA, extracted from parasite-challenged resistant and susceptible snails, 2 to 24 h post-exposure to S. mansoni, was hybridized to the custom made cDNA microarray and 98 differentially expressed genes or gene clusters were identified, 94 resistant-associated and 4 susceptible-associated. Quantitative PCR analysis verified the cDNA microarray results for representative transcripts. Differentially expressed genes were annotated and clustered using gene ontology (GO) terminology and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis. 61% of the identified differentially expressed genes have no known function including the 4 susceptible strain-specific transcripts. Resistant strain-specific expression of genes implicated in innate immunity of invertebrates was identified, including hydrolytic enzymes such as cathepsin L, a cysteine proteinase involved in lysis of phagocytosed particles; metabolic enzymes such as ornithine decarboxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in the production of polyamines, important in inflammation and infection processes, as well as scavenging damaging free radicals produced during production of reactive oxygen species; stress response genes such as HSP70; proteins involved in signalling, such as importin 7 and copine 1, cytoplasmic intermediate filament (IF) protein and transcription enzymes such as elongation factor 1alpha and EF-2. CONCLUSION: Production of the first cDNA microarray for profiling gene expression in B. glabrata provides a foundation for expanding our understanding of pathways and genes involved in the snail internal defence system (IDS). We demonstrate resistant strain-specific expression of genes potentially associated with the snail IDS, ranging from signalling and inflammation responses through to lysis of proteinacous products (encapsulated sporocysts or phagocytosed parasite components) and processing/degradation of these targeted products by ubiquitination.
34687900 | Repositioning Ivermectin for Covid-19 treatment: Molecular mechanisms of action against SARS-CoV-2 replication. Ivermectin (IVM) is an FDA approved macrocyclic lactone compound traditionally used to treat parasitic infestations and has shown to have antiviral potential from previous in-vitro studies. Currently, IVM is commercially available as a veterinary drug but have also been applied in humans to treat onchocerciasis (river blindness - a parasitic worm infection) and strongyloidiasis (a roundworm/nematode infection). In light of the recent pandemic, the repurposing of IVM to combat SARS-CoV-2 has acquired significant attention. Recently, IVM has been proven effective in numerous in-silico and molecular biology experiments against the infection in mammalian cells and human cohort studies. One promising study had reported a marked reduction of 93% of released virion and 99.98% unreleased virion levels upon administration of IVM to Vero-hSLAM cells. IVM's mode of action centres around the inhibition of the cytoplasmic-nuclear shuttling of viral proteins by disrupting the Importin heterodimer complex (IMPalpha/beta1) and downregulating STAT3, thereby effectively reducing the cytokine storm. Furthermore, the ability of IVM to block the active sites of viral 3CLpro and S protein, disrupts important machinery such as viral replication and attachment. This review compiles all the molecular evidence to date, in review of the antiviral characteristics exhibited by IVM. Thereafter, we discuss IVM's mechanism and highlight the clinical advantages that could potentially contribute towards disabling the viral replication of SARS-CoV-2. In summary, the collective review of recent efforts suggests that IVM has a prophylactic effect and would be a strong candidate for clinical trials to treat SARS-CoV-2.
36819954 | ChatGPT Output Regarding Compulsory Vaccination and COVID-19 Vaccine Conspiracy: A Descriptive Study at the Outset of a Paradigm Shift in Online Search for Information. BACKGROUND: Being on the verge of a revolutionary approach to gathering information, ChatGPT (an artificial intelligence (AI)-based language model developed by OpenAI, and capable of producing human-like text) could be the prime motive of a paradigm shift on how humans will acquire information. Despite the concerns related to the use of such a promising tool in relation to the future of the quality of education, this technology will soon be incorporated into web search engines mandating the need to evaluate the output of such a tool. Previous studies showed that dependence on some sources of online information (e.g., social media platforms) was associated with higher rates of vaccination hesitancy. Therefore, the aim of the current study was to describe the output of ChatGPT regarding coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccine conspiracy beliefs. and compulsory vaccination. METHODS: The current descriptive study was conducted on January 14, 2023 using the ChatGPT from OpenAI (OpenAI, L.L.C., San Francisco, CA, USA). The output was evaluated by two authors and the degree of agreement regarding the correctness, clarity, conciseness, and bias was evaluated using Cohen's kappa. RESULTS: The ChatGPT responses were dismissive of conspiratorial ideas about severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) origins labeling it as non-credible and lacking scientific evidence. Additionally, ChatGPT responses were totally against COVID-19 vaccine conspiracy statements. Regarding compulsory vaccination, ChatGPT responses were neutral citing the following as advantages of this strategy: protecting public health, maintaining herd immunity, reducing the spread of disease, cost-effectiveness, and legal obligation, and on the other hand, it cited the following as disadvantages of compulsory vaccination: ethical and legal concerns, mistrust and resistance, logistical challenges, and limited resources and knowledge. CONCLUSIONS: The current study showed that ChatGPT could be a source of information to challenge COVID-19 vaccine conspiracies. For compulsory vaccination, ChatGPT resonated with the divided opinion in the scientific community toward such a strategy; nevertheless, it detailed the pros and cons of this approach. As it currently stands, the judicious use of ChatGPT could be utilized as a user-friendly source of COVID-19 vaccine information that could challenge conspiracy ideas with clear, concise, and non-biased content. However, ChatGPT content cannot be used as an alternative to the original reliable sources of vaccine information (e.g., the World Health Organization [WHO] and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC]).
38162653 | IFN-gamma-mediated control of SARS-CoV-2 infection through nitric oxide. Introduction: The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the need to identify mechanisms of antiviral host defense against SARS-CoV-2. One such mediator is interferon-g (IFN-gamma), which, when administered to infected patients, is reported to result in viral clearance and resolution of pulmonary symptoms. IFN-gamma treatment of a human lung epithelial cell line triggered an antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2, yet the mechanism for this antiviral response was not identified. Methods: Given that IFN-gamma has been shown to trigger antiviral activity via the generation of nitric oxide (NO), we investigated whether IFN-gamma induction of antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 infection is dependent upon the generation of NO in human pulmonary epithelial cells. We treated the simian epithelial cell line Vero E6 and human pulmonary epithelial cell lines, including A549-ACE2, and Calu-3, with IFN-gamma and observed the resulting induction of NO and its effects on SARS-CoV-2 replication. Pharmacological inhibition of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) was employed to assess the dependency on NO production. Additionally, the study examined the effect of interleukin-1b (IL-1beta) on the IFN-g-induced NO production and its antiviral efficacy. Results: Treatment of Vero E6 cells with IFN-gamma resulted in a dose-responsive induction of NO and an inhibitory effect on SARS-CoV-2 replication. This antiviral activity was blocked by pharmacologic inhibition of iNOS. IFN-gamma also triggered a NO-mediated antiviral activity in SARS-CoV-2 infected human lung epithelial cell lines A549-ACE2 and Calu-3. IL-1beta enhanced IFN-gamma induction of NO, but it had little effect on antiviral activity. Discussion: Given that IFN-g has been shown to be produced by CD8+ T cells in the early response to SARS-CoV-2, our findings in human lung epithelial cell lines, of an IFN-gamma-triggered, NO-dependent, links the adaptive immune response to an innate antiviral pathway in host defense against SARS-CoV-2. These results underscore the importance of IFN-gamma and NO in the antiviral response and provide insights into potential therapeutic strategies for COVID-19.
37456016 | COVID-19 pandemic sheds a new research spotlight on antiviral potential of essential oils - A bibliometric study. Background: Essential oils are thought as potential therapies in managing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Many researchers have put their efforts to tackle the pandemic by exploring antiviral candidates which consequently changes the research landscape. Herein, we aimed to assess the effect of COVID-19 pandemic toward the landscape of essential oil research. Methods: This study employed bibliometric analysis based on the metadata of published literature indexed in the Scopus database. The search was performed on December 15th, 2022 by using keyword 'essential oil' and its synonyms. We grouped the data based on publication year; pre-COVID-19 (2014-2019) and during COVID-19 (2020-2024, some studies have been published earlier). Further, we separated the COVID-19-focused research from COVID-19 (2020-2024) by introducing a new keyword 'COVID-19' during the search. All metadata were processed using VoSviewer and Biblioshiny for network visualization analysis. Selections of frequently occurring keywords, clusters of keyword co-occurrence, and the list of most impactful papers were performed by two independent reviewers. Results: Metadata from a total of 35,262 publications were included for bibliometric analysis, comprised of three groups of datasets namely pre-COVID-19 (n = 18,670), COVID-19 (n = 16,592), and COVID-19-focused (n = 281). Five research topics clusters were found from pre-COVID-19 dataset, eight - from COVID-19 dataset, and nine - from COVID-19-focused dataset. COVID-19 cluster containing the keyword 'antiviral' emerged in the COVID-19 dataset, whereas none of the previous research topic clusters contained the keyword 'antiviral'. Antiviral, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) inhibitory, and anti-inflammation activities were among the top occurring keywords in studies covering both essential oil and COVID-19. Studies on essential oil used for managing COVID-19 were most reported by authors from the United States (documents = 37, citations = 405), Australia (documents = 16, citations = 115) and Italy (documents = 23, citations = 366). Conclusion: A significant increase was found during COVID-19 pandemic for publications covering essential oil themes, but only a small portion was occupied by COVID-19 research. The COVID-19 pandemic does not alter the ongoing progress of essential oil research but rather offers a new spotlight on the antiviral potential of essential oils. Hence, the COVID-19 pandemic has provided an opportunity to investigate deeper the antiviral potential of essential oils.
37640791 | SARS-CoV-2 spike protein induces endothelial inflammation via ACE2 independently of viral replication. COVID-19, caused by SARS-CoV-2, is a respiratory disease associated with inflammation and endotheliitis. Mechanisms underling inflammatory processes are unclear, but angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), the receptor which binds the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 may be important. Here we investigated whether spike protein binding to ACE2 induces inflammation in endothelial cells and determined the role of ACE2 in this process. Human endothelial cells were exposed to SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, S1 subunit (rS1p) and pro-inflammatory signaling and inflammatory mediators assessed. ACE2 was modulated pharmacologically and by siRNA. Endothelial cells were also exposed to SARS-CoV-2. rSP1 increased production of IL-6, MCP-1, ICAM-1 and PAI-1, and induced NFkB activation via ACE2 in endothelial cells. rS1p increased microparticle formation, a functional marker of endothelial injury. ACE2 interacting proteins involved in inflammation and RNA biology were identified in rS1p-treated cells. Neither ACE2 expression nor ACE2 enzymatic function were affected by rSP1. Endothelial cells exposed to SARS-CoV-2 virus did not exhibit viral replication. We demonstrate that rSP1 induces endothelial inflammation via ACE2 through processes that are independent of ACE2 enzymatic activity and viral replication. We define a novel role for ACE2 in COVID-19- associated endotheliitis.
27774719 | Age of onset of obesity and risk of type 2 diabetes. OBJECTIVE: To compare a simple measure - age of onset of obesity - to an obese-years construct (a product of duration and magnitude of obesity) as risk factors for type 2 diabetes. METHOD: Participants from the Framingham Heart Study who were not obese and did not have diabetes at baseline were included (n=4,320). The Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) was computed to compare four Cox proportional hazards models with incident diabetes as the outcome and: (i) obese-years; (ii) age of onset of obesity; (iii) body mass index (BMI); and (iv) age of onset of obesity plus magnitude of BMI combined, as exposures. RESULTS: AIC indicated that the model with obese-years provided a more effective explanation of incidence of type 2 diabetes compared to the remaining three models. Models including age of onset of obesity plus BMI were not appreciably different from the model with BMI alone, except in those aged >=60. CONCLUSIONS: While obese-years was the optimal obesity construct to explain risk of type 2 diabetes, age of onset may be a useful, practical addition to current BMI in the elderly. IMPLICATIONS: Where computation of obese-years is not possible or impractical, age of onset of obesity combined with BMI may provide a useful alternative.
37737615 | Tonsils are major sites of persistence of SARS-CoV-2 in children. In the present study, we show that SARS-CoV-2 can infect palatine tonsils, adenoids, and secretions in children without symptoms of COVID-19, with no history of recent upper airway infection. We studied 48 children undergoing tonsillectomy due to snoring/OSA or recurrent tonsillitis between October 2020 and September 2021. Nasal cytobrushes, nasal washes, and tonsillar tissue fragments obtained at surgery were tested by RT-qPCR, immunohistochemistry (IHC), flow cytometry, and neutralization assay. We detected the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in at least one specimen tested in 27% of patients. IHC revealed the presence of the viral nucleoprotein in epithelial surface and in lymphoid cells in both extrafollicular and follicular regions, in adenoids and palatine tonsils. Also, IHC for the SARS-CoV-2 non-structural protein NSP-16 indicated the presence of viral replication in 53.8% of the SARS-CoV-2-infected tissues. Flow cytometry showed that CD20+ B lymphocytes were the most infected phenotypes, followed by CD4+ lymphocytes and CD123 dendritic cells, CD8+ T lymphocytes, and CD14+ macrophages. Additionally, IF indicated that infected tonsillar tissues had increased expression of ACE2 and TMPRSS2. NGS sequencing demonstrated the presence of different SARS-CoV-2 variants in tonsils from different tissues. SARS-CoV-2 antigen detection was not restricted to tonsils but was also detected in nasal cells from the olfactory region. Palatine tonsils and adenoids are sites of prolonged RNA presence by SARS-CoV-2 in children, even without COVID-19 symptoms. IMPORTANCE This study shows that SRS-CoV-2 of different lineages can infect tonsils and adenoids in one quarter of children undergoing tonsillectomy. These findings bring advancement to the area of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis, by showing that tonsils may be sites of prolonged infection, even without evidence of recent COVID-19 symptoms. SARS-CoV-2 infection of B and T lymphocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells may interfere with the mounting of immune responses in these secondary lymphoid organs. Moreover, the shedding of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in respiratory secretions from silently infected children raises concern about possible diagnostic confusion in the presence of symptoms of acute respiratory infections caused by other etiologies.
32752944 | Current status and strategic possibilities on potential use of combinational drug therapy against COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2. The spread of new coronavirus infection starting December 2019 as novel SARS-CoV-2, identified as the causing agent of COVID-19, has affected all over the world and been declared as pandemic. Approximately, more than 8,807,398 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection and 464,483 deaths have been reported globally till the end of 21 June 2020. Until now, there is no specific drug therapy or vaccine available for the treatment of COVID-19. However, some potential antimalarial drugs like hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, antifilarial drug ivermectin and antiviral drugs have been tested by many research groups worldwide for their possible effect against the COVID-19. Hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin have been identified to act by creating the acidic condition in cells and inhibiting the importin (IMPalpha/beta1) mediated viral import. There is a possibility that some other antimalarial drugs/antibiotics in combination with immunomodulators may help in combatting this pandemic disease. Therefore, this review focuses on the current use of various drugs as single agents (hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, azithromycin, favipiravir, remdesivir, umifenovir, teicoplanin, nitazoxanide, doxycycline, and dexamethasone) or in combinations with immunomodulators additionally. Furthermore, possible mode of action, efficacy and current stage of clinical trials of various drug combinations against COVID-19 disease has also been discussed in detail.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
33163160 | Predictors of COVID-19 severity: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Background: The unpredictability of the progression of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) may be attributed to the low precision of the tools used to predict the prognosis of this disease. Objective: To identify the predictors associated with poor clinical outcomes in patients with COVID-19. Methods: Relevant articles from PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, and Web of Science were searched and extracted as of April 5, 2020. Data of interest were collected and evaluated for their compatibility for the meta-analysis. Cumulative calculations to determine the correlation and effect estimates were performed using the Z test. Results: In total, 19 papers recording 1,934 mild and 1,644 severe cases of COVID-19 were included. Based on the initial evaluation, 62 potential risk factors were identified for the meta-analysis. Several comorbidities, including chronic respiratory disease, cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension were observed more frequent among patients with severe COVID-19 than with the mild ones. Compared to the mild form, severe COVID-19 was associated with symptoms such as dyspnea, anorexia, fatigue, increased respiratory rate, and high systolic blood pressure. Lower levels of lymphocytes and hemoglobin; elevated levels of leukocytes, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, blood creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, high-sensitivity troponin, creatine kinase, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, interleukin 6, D-dimer, ferritin, lactate dehydrogenase, and procalcitonin; and a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate were also associated with severe COVID-19. Conclusion: More than 30 risk factors are associated with a higher risk of severe COVID-19. These may serve as useful baseline parameters in the development of prediction tools for COVID-19 prognosis.
37224556 | Polyvinylpyrrolidone-passivated fluorescent iron oxide quantum dots for turn-off detection of tetracycline in biological fluids. Tetracycline is an antibiotic that has been prescribed for COVID-19 treatment, raising concerns about antibiotic resistance after long-term use. This study reported fluorescent polyvinylpyrrolidone-passivated iron oxide quantum dots (IO QDs) for detecting tetracycline in biological fluids for the first time. The as-prepared IO QDs have an average size of 2.84 nm and exist a good stability under different conditions. The IO QDs' tetracycline detection performance could be attributed to a combination of static quenching and inner filter effect. The IO QDs displayed high sensitivity and selectivity toward tetracycline and achieved a good linear relationship with the corresponding detection limit being 91.6 nM.
28100513 | Loss of Ranbp2 in motoneurons causes disruption of nucleocytoplasmic and chemokine signaling, proteostasis of hnRNPH3 and Mmp28, and development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-like syndromes. The pathogenic drivers of sporadic and familial motor neuron disease (MND), such amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), are unknown. MND impairs the Ran GTPase cycle, which controls nucleocytoplasmic transport, ribostasis and proteostasis; however, cause-effect mechanisms of Ran GTPase modulators in motoneuron pathobiology have remained elusive. The cytosolic and peripheral nucleoporin Ranbp2 is a crucial regulator of the Ran GTPase cycle and of the proteostasis of neurological disease-prone substrates, but the roles of Ranbp2 in motoneuron biology and disease remain unknown. This study shows that conditional ablation of Ranbp2 in mouse Thy1 motoneurons causes ALS syndromes with hypoactivity followed by hindlimb paralysis, respiratory distress and, ultimately, death. These phenotypes are accompanied by: a decline in the nerve conduction velocity, free fatty acids and phophatidylcholine of the sciatic nerve; a reduction in the g-ratios of sciatic and phrenic nerves; and hypertrophy of motoneurons. Furthermore, Ranbp2 loss disrupts the nucleocytoplasmic partitioning of the import and export nuclear receptors importin beta and exportin 1, respectively, Ran GTPase and histone deacetylase 4. Whole-transcriptome, proteomic and cellular analyses uncovered that the chemokine receptor Cxcr4, its antagonizing ligands Cxcl12 and Cxcl14, and effector, latent and activated Stat3 all undergo early autocrine and proteostatic deregulation, and intracellular sequestration and aggregation as a result of Ranbp2 loss in motoneurons. These effects were accompanied by paracrine and autocrine neuroglial deregulation of hnRNPH3 proteostasis in sciatic nerve and motoneurons, respectively, and post-transcriptional downregulation of metalloproteinase 28 in the sciatic nerve. Mechanistically, our results demonstrate that Ranbp2 controls nucleocytoplasmic, chemokine and metalloproteinase 28 signaling, and proteostasis of substrates that are crucial to motoneuronal homeostasis and whose impairments by loss of Ranbp2 drive ALS-like syndromes.
35399819 | Insights into forsythia honeysuckle (Lianhuaqingwen) capsules: A Chinese herbal medicine repurposed for COVID-19 pandemic. Background: In December 2019, a novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2 caused a series of acute atypical respiratory diseases worldwide. However, there is still a lack of drugs with clear curative effects, and the clinical trial research of vaccines has not been completely finished. Purpose: LH capsules are approved TCM patent medicine that are widely used for the treatment of respiratory tract infectious diseases caused by colds and flu. On April 12, 2020, LH capsules and granules were officially repurposed by the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) for patients with mild COVID-19 based on their safety and efficacy demonstrated through multicentre, randomized, controlled clinical trials. We hope to conduct a comprehensive review of it through modern pharmacy methods, and try to explain its possible mechanism. Methods: Using the full names of LH capsules Lianhuaqingwen, Lianhua Qingwen andSARS-COV-2, COVID-19 as the keywords of the search terms, systemically search for existing related papers in various databases such as Web of Science and PubMed. And completed the collection of clinical data in ClinicalTrials.gov and Chinese Clinical Trial Registry. Last but not least, we have sorted out the anti-inflammatory and antiviral mechanisms of LH capsules through literature and Selleck. Results: This review systematically sorted out the active ingredients in LH capsules. Furthermore, the related pharmacological and clinical trials of LH capsule on SARS-CoV-2, IAV and IBV were discussed in detail. Moreover, the present review provides the first summary of the potential molecular mechanism of specific substances in LH capsules involved in resistance to SARS-COV-2 infection and the inhibition of cytokine storm syndrome (CSS) caused by IL-6. Conclusion: This review summarizes the available reports and evidence that support the use of LH capsules as potential drug candidates for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19. However, TCM exerts its effects through multiple targets and multiple pathways, and LH capsules are not an exception. Therefore, the relevant mechanisms need to be further improved and experimentally verified.
37560162 | Characterization of extracellular vesicles in COVID-19 infection during pregnancy. Introduction: SARS-CoV-2 infection may cause a severe inflammatory response, inflicting severe morbidity and mortality. This risk is modestly increased in pregnant patients. Despite the hypercoagulability and immunosuppression associated with pregnancy, most pregnant women experience a mild COVID-19 infection. Maternal extracellular vesicles (EVs) may interact with endothelial and immune components to facilitate a favorable disease course. This pilot study aimed to explore the characteristics of EVs released during COVID-19 infection occurring during the third trimester of pregnancy. Methods: In this prospective study, blood samples were obtained from 16 healthy non-pregnant (NP), 18 healthy-pregnant (HP), and 22 COVID-19 positive pregnant subjects (CoV-P). Disease course and pregnancy outcomes were assessed and EVs were characterized. Of note, limited volumes of sample acquired from the subjects made it necessary to use smaller and different subsets of samples for each analysis. Results: The majority (91%) of the COVID-19-pregnant subjects (18 mild and 2 moderate disease) experienced good pregnancy-related outcomes. EV concentrations were higher in healthy-pregnant subjects compared to non-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0041) and lower in COVID-19-pregnant subjects compared to healthy-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0150). CD63 exosome marker expression was higher in EVs of healthy-pregnant subjects and COVID-19-pregnant subjects compared to EVs of non-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0149, p = 0.0028, respectively). Similar levels of SARS-CoV-2 entry proteins (ACE-2 and TMPRSS2) were found in all three groups. Cytokine content increased in healthy-pregnant subject-EVs compared to non-pregnant EVs, while IL-2 and IL-6 levels were decreased in COVID-19-pregnant subject-EVs compared to healthy-pregnant subject-EVs (p = 0.043, p = 0.0390, respectively). CD8+, cytotoxic T-cell marker, was lower in non-pregnant EVs compared to healthy-pregnant subject-EVs and to COVID-19-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0108, p < 0.0001, respectively). COVID-19- pregnant subject-EVs demonstrated higher levels of platelet activation marker (CD62P) than non-pregnant (p = 0.0327) and healthy-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0365). Endothelial marker EV-CD144+ was lower in healthy-pregnant subjects versus non-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0093), but similar in COVID-19-pregnant and non-pregnant subjects. Other EVs' coagulation markers/activity, D-Dimer and fibrinogen levels were similar in healthy-pregnant subjects and COVID-19 positive pregnant subjects. Conclusion: COVID-19 positive pregnant subjects' EVs demonstrated an attenuated inflammatory response, with no additional activation of the coagulation system.
34413267 | The potential role of abnormal angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 expression correlated with immune infiltration after SARS-CoV-2 infection in the prognosis of breast cancer. The potential role of abnormal ACE2 expression after SARS-CoV-2 infection in the prognosis of breast cancer is still ambiguous. In this study, we analyzed ACE2 changes in breast cancer and studied the correlation between ACE2 and the prognosis and further analyzed the relationship between immune infiltration and the prognosis of different breast cancer subtypes. Finally, we inferred the prognosis of breast cancer patients after SARS-CoV-2 infection. We found that ACE2 expression decreased significantly in breast cancer, except for basal-like subtype. Decreased ACE2 expression level was correlated with abnormal immune infiltration and poorer prognosis of luminal B breast cancer (RFS: HR 0.76, 95%CI=0.63-0.92, p=0.005; DMFS: HR 0.70, 95%CI=0.49-1.00, p=0.046). The expression of ACE2 was strongly positively correlated with the immune infiltration level of CD8+ T cell (r=0.184, p<0.001), CD4+ T cell (r=0.104, p=0.02) and neutrophils (r=0.101, p=0.02). ACE2 expression level in the luminal subtype was positively correlated with CD8A and CD8B markers in CD8+ T cells, and CEACAM3, S100A12 in neutrophils. In conclusion, breast tumor tissues might undergo a further decrease in the expression level of ACE2 after SARS-CoV-2 infection, which could contribute to further deterioration of immune infiltration and worsen the prognosis of luminal B breast cancer after SARS-CoV-2 infection.
29741414 | HPLC-based Measurement of Glycated Hemoglobin using Dried Blood Spots Collected under Adverse Field Conditions. Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) measured using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assays with venous blood and dried blood spots (DBS) are compared for 143 paired samples collected in Aceh, Indonesia. Relative to gold-standard venous-blood values, DBS-based values reported by the HPLC are systematically upward biased for HbA1c<8% and the fraction diabetic (HbA1c >= 6.5%) is overstated almost five-fold. Inspection of chromatograms from DBS assays indicates the % glycosylated calculated by the HPLC excludes part of the hemoglobin A which is misidentified as a hemoglobin variant. Taking this into account, unbiased DBS-based values are computed using data from the machine-generated chromatograms. When the DBS are collected in a clinic-like setting, under controlled humidity/temperature conditions, the recalculated values are almost identical to venous-based values. When DBS are collected under field conditions, the recalculated values are unbiased, but only about half the HbA1c values are measured reliably, calling into question the validity of the other half. The results suggest that collection conditions, particularly humidity, affect the quality of the DBS-based measures. Cross-validating DBS-based HbA1c values with venous samples collected under exactly the same environmental conditions is a prudent investment in population-based studies.
38450276 | Risk factors of MDR-TB and impacts of COVID-19 pandemic on escalating of MDR-TB incidence in lower-middle-income countries: A scoping review. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is affecting tuberculosis (TB) treatment in many ways that might lead to increasing the prevalence of multi-drugs-resistance tuberculosis (MDR-TB), especially in lower-middle-income-countries (LMICs). This scoping review aimed to identify the risk factors of MDR-TB and to determine the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on MDR-TB prevalence in LMICs. This study was reported according to the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses extension for scoping reviews (PRISMA-ScR) guideline. The relevant keywords were used to search studies in three databases (PubMed, ScienceDirect and SpringerLink) to identify the related articles. The English-written articles published from January 2012 to December 2022 that explored risk factors or causes of MDR-TB in LMICs were included. Out of 1,542 identified articles, 17 retrospective, prospective, case-control and cross-sectional studies from ten LMICs met were included in this scoping review. Twenty-one risk factors were discovered, with prior TB treatment (relapsed cases), diabetes, living area, living condition, smoking and low socioeconomic status were the main factors in developing MDR-TB during COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic increased the MDR-TB prevalence through drug resistance transmission inside households, the distance between home and healthcare facilities and low socioeconomic status. This scoping review demonstrates how the COVID-19 pandemic has affected the rising incidence of MDR-TB in LMICs.
38450272 | Correlation between high sensitivity C reactive protein (Hs-CRP) and neutrophil-to- lymphocyte ratio (NLR) with functional capacity in post COVID-19 syndrome patients. Post coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) syndrome is one of the causes of reduced functional capacity and work productivity, in particular for healthcare workers. The pathophysiology of the post COVID-19 syndrome is related to complex and multisystem inflammatory mechanisms, and cardiopulmonary exercise rehabilitation program is one of the efforts to improve the recovery process for patients with post COVID-19 syndrome. The aim of this study was to determine the correlation between the level of high sensitivity C-reactive protein (Hs-CRP) and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) with functional capacity (VO2max) in individuals with post-COVID-19 syndrome who received moderate- and high-intensity supervised cardiopulmonary exercise. A prospective cohort study was conducted at the Integrated Cardiac Rehabilitation Center of Dr. Zainoel Abidin Hospital, Banda Aceh, Indonesia. The supervised cardiopulmonary exercise was conducted for six weeks according to the participant's baseline VO2max. Spearman's and Pearson's correlation tests were used to assess the correlations. A total of 30 individuals (19 and 11 had moderate and high intensity exercise, respectively) were involved in this study. At moderate intensity exercise, the average Hs-CRP and NLR were 3.3 mg/L and 1.99, respectively; while at high intensity, the values were 3.8 mg/L and 1.79, respectively. No significant correlation between Hs-CRP level and functional capacity in both moderate-intensity and high intensity groups. In contrast, NLR was negatively correlated with functional capacity (r=-0.545, p=0.016) in moderate intensity exercise group. In conclusion, NLR value was negatively correlated with functional capacity in individuals with post-COVID-19 syndrome after receiving moderate intensity supervised cardiopulmonary exercise program. Therefore, moderate intensity of cardiopulmonary exercise maybe be used as a program to accelerate the recovery for those with post COVID-19 syndrome.
34200500 | How SARS-CoV-2 and Other Viruses Build an Invasion Route to Hijack the Host Nucleocytoplasmic Trafficking System. The host nucleocytoplasmic trafficking system is often hijacked by viruses to accomplish their replication and to suppress the host immune response. Viruses encode many factors that interact with the host nuclear transport receptors (NTRs) and the nucleoporins of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) to access the host nucleus. In this review, we discuss the viral factors and the host factors involved in the nuclear import and export of viral components. As nucleocytoplasmic shuttling is vital for the replication of many viruses, we also review several drugs that target the host nuclear transport machinery and discuss their feasibility for use in antiviral treatment.
35797394 | Prevalence of and risk factors for depression, anxiety, and stress in non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients in East Java province, Indonesia. BACKGROUND: Despite abundant data on mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic, 3 important knowledge gaps continue to exist, i.e., 1) studies from low-/middle income countries (LMICs); 2) studies in the later period of the COVID-19 pandemic; and 3) studies on non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients. To address the knowledge gaps, we assessed the prevalence of and the risk factors for mental health symptoms among non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients in one LMIC (Indonesia) during the later period of the pandemic. METHODS: This cross-sectional study was conducted in September 2020 in East Java province, Indonesia. Study population consisted of non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients who were diagnosed based on reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction results from nasopharyngeal swab. Mental health symptoms were evaluated using the Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-21. RESULTS: From 778 non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients, 608 patients were included in the analysis. Patients' median age was 35 years old and 61.2% were male. Of these, 22 (3.6%) reported symptoms of depression, 87 (14.3%) reported symptoms of anxiety, and 48 (7.9%) reported symptoms of stress. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that females were more likely to report symptoms of stress (adjusted odds ratio (aOR) = 1.98, p-value = 0.028); healthcare workers were more likely to report symptoms of depression and anxiety (aOR = 5.57, p-value = 0.002 and aOR = 2.92, p-value = 0.014, respectively); and those with a recent history of self-quarantine were more likely to report symptoms of depression and stress (aOR 5.18, p = 0.004 and aOR = 1.86, p = 0.047, respectively). CONCLUSION: The reported prevalence of mental health symptoms, especially depression, was relatively low among non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients during the later period of the COVID-19 pandemic in East Java province, Indonesia. In addition, several risk factors have been identified.
35043770 | Ivermectin in COVID-19 Management: What is the Current Evidence? Ivermectin (IVM), an approved anthelminthic drug, has been reported to have antiviral, antibacterial, and anticancer activities. Antiviral activity is due to the inhibition of nuclear cargo importin (IMP) protein. The anti-SARS CoV-2 activity through in vitro study was first reported by an Australian team. Later, many studies were conducted, and most of the study results were available as non-peer-reviewed preprints. In this narrative review, literature on the clinical studies conducted with ivermectin from published articles, preprints, and unpublished evidence was collected until 13th June 2021. They are discussed based on the severity of COVID-19 disease. Out of the 23 peer-reviewed published articles, 13 studies were randomized controlled trials. The remaining were either prospective interventional, prospective observational, retrospective cohort, cross-sectional, or case series type of studies; additionally, there were 10 randomized controlled trials available as preprints. In most studies, ivermectin was used in combination with doxycycline, azithromycin, or other drugs. Some studies suggested that a higher dose or increased duration of ivermectin usage was required to achieve favorable effects. In this review, articles on the prophylactic role of ivermectin in COVID-19 are also discussed - wherein the results are more promising. Despite accumulating evidence suggesting the possible use of ivermectin, the final call to incorporate ivermectin in the management of COVID-19 is still inconclusive.
34016183 | Genetic susceptibility of COVID-19: a systematic review of current evidence. INTRODUCTION: While COVID-19 pandemic continues to spread worldwide, researchers have linked patterns of traits to poor disease outcomes. Risk factors for COVID-19 include asthma, elderly age, being pregnant, having any underlying diseases such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity, and experiencing lifelong systemic racism. Recently, connections to certain genes have also been found, although the susceptibility has not yet been established. We aimed to investigate the available evidence for the genetic susceptibility to COVID-19. METHODS: This study was a systematic review of current evidence to investigate the genetic susceptibility of COVID-19. By systematic search and utilizing the keywords in the online databases including Scopus, PubMed, Web of Science, and Science Direct, we retrieved all the related papers and reports published in English from December 2019 to September 2020. RESULTS: According to the findings, COVID-19 uses the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor for cell entry. Previous studies have shown that people with ACE2 polymorphism who have type 2 transmembrane serine proteases (TMPRSS2) are at high risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Also, two studies have shown that males are more likely to become infected with SARS-CoV-2 than females. Besides, research has also shown that patients possessing HLA-B*15:03 genotype may become immune to the infection. CONCLUSION: Combing through the genome, several genes related to immune system's response were related to the severity and susceptibility to the COVID-19. In conclusion, a correlation was found between the ACE2 levels and the susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection.
32642531 | Psychological correlates of anti-sexual harassment: Dataset of Indonesia's Generation Z. This dataset provides empirical support for building a socio-psychological model explaining attitude towards anti-sexual harassment among Indonesia's Generation Z (15 to 21 years old). This model contains the correlates of the attitude. The variables are (1) Attitude towards anti-sexual harassment/ASH, (2) Peer influence/PR, (3) Power distance-at the individual level/PD, (4) Masculinity-at the individual level/MS, (5) Sexual harassment knowledge/SK, (6) Moral disengagement/MD, (7) Belief on myths of sexual harassment/MY, and (8) Identification with patriarchal culture/PT. The data (N = 1,014) were collected using survey method in March-April 2019 in two provinces in Western Indonesia, i.e. (1) East Java, in Java Island (from four senior high schools), and (2) Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam, in Sumatera Island (from four senior high schools). The data analysis technique was correlations and test of differences using IBM SPSS Statistics version 25 and LISREL 8.80. The data could be reused by the Indonesian Ministry of Education and Culture/KEMENDIKBUD, Indonesian Ministry of Women Empowerment and Child Protection/KEMENPP&PA, as well as all stakeholders associated with the two ministries in creating evidence-based public policies that could prevent and eradicate sexual harassment, especially among Indonesian youths.
32265897 | NGS Evaluation of Colorectal Cancer Reveals Interferon Gamma Dependent Expression of Immune Checkpoint Genes and Identification of Novel IFNgamma Induced Genes. To evaluate the expression of immune checkpoint genes, their concordance with expression of IFNgamma, and to identify potential novel ICP related genes (ICPRG) in colorectal cancer (CRC), the biological connectivity of six well documented (\classical\) ICPs (CTLA4, PD1, PDL1, Tim3, IDO1, and LAG3) with IFNgamma and its co-expressed genes was examined by NGS in 79 CRC/healthy colon tissue pairs. Identification of novel IFNgamma- induced molecules with potential ICP activity was also sought. In our study, the six classical ICPs were statistically upregulated and correlated with IFNgamma, CD8A, CD8B, CD4, and 180 additional immunologically related genes in IFNgamma positive (FPKM > 1) tumors. By ICP co-expression analysis, we also identified three IFNgamma-induced genes [(IFNgamma-inducible lysosomal thiol reductase (IFI30), guanylate binding protein1 (GBP1), and guanylate binding protein 4 (GBP4)] as potential novel ICPRGs. These three genes were upregulated in tumor compared to normal tissues in IFNgamma positive tumors, co-expressed with CD8A and had relatively high abundance (average FPKM = 362, 51, and 25, respectively), compared to the abundance of the 5 well-defined ICPs (Tim3, LAG3, PDL1, CTLA4, PD1; average FPKM = 10, 9, 6, 6, and 2, respectively), although IDO1 is expressed at comparably high levels (FPKM = 39). We extended our evaluation by querying the TCGA database which revealed the commonality of IFNgamma dependent expression of the three potential ICPRGs in 638 CRCs, 103 skin cutaneous melanomas (SKCM), 1105 breast cancers (BC), 184 esophageal cancers (ESC), 416 stomach cancers (STC), and 501 lung squamous carcinomas (LUSC). In terms of prognosis, based on Pathology Atlas data, correlation of GBP1 and GBP4, but not IFI30, with 5-year survival rate was favorable in CRC, BC, SKCM, and STC. Thus, further studies defining the role of IFI30, GBP1, and GBP4 in CRC are warranted.
33723514 | In vitro characterization of engineered red blood cells as viral traps against HIV-1 and SARS-CoV-2. Engineered red blood cells (RBCs) expressing viral receptors could be used therapeutically as viral traps, as RBCs lack nuclei and other organelles required for viral replication. However, expression of viral receptors on RBCs is difficult to achieve since mature erythrocytes lack the cellular machinery to synthesize proteins. Herein, we show that the combination of a powerful erythroid-specific expression system and transgene codon optimization yields high expression levels of the HIV-1 receptors CD4 and CCR5, as well as a CD4-glycophorin A (CD4-GpA) fusion protein in erythroid progenitor cells, which efficiently differentiated into enucleated RBCs. HIV-1 efficiently entered RBCs that co-expressed CD4 and CCR5, but viral entry was not required for neutralization, as CD4 or CD4-GpA expression in the absence of CCR5 was sufficient to potently neutralize HIV-1 and prevent infection of CD4+ T cells in vitro due to the formation of high-avidity interactions with trimeric HIV-1 Env spikes on virions. To facilitate continuous large-scale production of RBC viral traps, we generated erythroblast cell lines stably expressing CD4-GpA or ACE2-GpA fusion proteins, which produced potent RBC viral traps against HIV-1 and SARS-CoV-2. Our in vitro results suggest that this approach warrants further investigation as a potential treatment against acute and chronic viral infections.
17991743 | Cyclophilin A is required for CXCR4-mediated nuclear export of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2, activation and nuclear translocation of ERK1/2, and chemotactic cell migration. The chemokine receptor CXCR4-mediated signaling cascades play an important role in cell proliferation and migration, but the underlying mechanisms by which the receptor signaling is regulated remain incompletely understood. Here, we demonstrate that CXCR4 was co-immunoprecipitated with cyclophilin A (CyPA) from the lysate of HEK293 cells stably expressing CXCR4. Although both the glutathione S-transferase-CXCR4 N- and C-terminal fusion proteins were associated with the purified CyPA, truncation of the C-terminal domain of CXCR4 robustly inhibited the receptor co-immunoprecipitation with CyPA in intact cells, thereby suggesting a critical role of the receptor C terminus in this interaction. Ligand stimulation of CXCR4 induced CyPA phosphorylation and nuclear translocation, both of which were inhibited by truncation of the C-terminal domain of CXCR4. CyPA was associated with transportin 1, and knockdown of transportin 1 by RNA interference (RNAi) blocked CXCL12-induced nuclear translocation of CyPA, thereby suggesting a transportin 1-mediated nuclear import of CyPA. CyPA formed a complex with heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A2, which underwent nuclear export in response to activation of CXCR4. Interestingly, the CXCR4-mediated nuclear export of hnRNP A2 was blocked by RNAi of CyPA. Moreover, CXCR4-evoked activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) was attenuated by CyPA RNAi, by overexpression of a PPIase-deficient mutant of CyPA (CyPA-R55A), and by pretreatment of the immunosuppressive drugs, cyclosporine A and sanglifehrin A. Finally, CXCL12-induced chemotaxis of HEK293 cells stably expressing CXCR4 or Jurkat T cells was inhibited by CyPA RNAi or CsA treatment.
37742211 | Looking beyond the COVID-19 pandemic: the recalibration of student-teacher relationships in teaching and learning process. BACKGROUND: Given the various novel educational approaches and online interactions following the pandemic, it is timely to identify lessons learned for post-pandemic student and teacher relationships within the 'new normal' teaching learning processes. This study aims to explore the dynamics and to what extent the disruption influences student-teacher relationships in teaching and learning process following the COVID-19 pandemic. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A qualitative descriptive approach was employed to explore individual reflections and perspectives from 28 medical teachers and 35 medical students from different institutions who participated in 10 focus groups. Data were analyzed thematically using steps for coding and theorization (SCAT) approach. The emerging themes were then further analyzed and regrouped into the relationship-centered leadership framework based on emotional intelligence. RESULTS: The identified themes described three elements representing student-teacher relationships in the teaching learning processes. The self as the center of the diagram consists of the co-existing role of the self as teachers and as students, which to some extent, is related to their personal and professional development, motivation, and struggles to maintain work-life balance. The middle layer represents the dynamic of student-teacher relationship, which showed that despite the increased number of teaching opportunities, the trust among teachers and students was compromised. These changes in the self and the dynamic relationship occurred in a broader and more complex medical education system, pictured as the outer layer. Thorough curriculum improvements, contents, and new skills were emphasized. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings emphasized the need to recalibrate student-teacher relationships, taking into account the intrapersonal, interpersonal, and the system factors. The pandemic has reemphasized the aim of teachers' roles, not only to nurture students' competencies, but also to nurture meaningful interpersonal reciprocal relationships through responding towards both teachers' and students' needs as well as supporting both personal and professional development.
35987511 | Systematic review and meta-analysis of human genetic variants contributing to COVID-19 susceptibility and severity. The COVID-19 pandemic has spawned global health crisis of unprecedented magnitude, claiming millions of lives and pushing healthcare systems in many countries to the brink. Among several factors that contribute to an increased risk of COVID-19 and progression to exacerbated manifestations, host genetic landscape is increasingly being recognized as a critical determinant of susceptibility/resistance to infection and a prognosticator of clinical outcomes in infected individuals. Recently, several case-control association studies investigated the influence of human gene variants on COVID-19 susceptibility and severity to identify the culpable mutations. However, a comprehensive synthesis of the recent advances in COVID-19 host genetics research was lacking, and the inconsistent findings of the association studies required reliable evaluation of the strength of association with greater statistical power. In this study, we embarked on a systematic search of all possible reports of genetic association with COVID-19 till April 07, 2022, and performed meta-analyses of all the genetic polymorphisms that were examined in at least three studies. After identifying a total of 84 studies that investigated the association of 130 polymorphisms in 61 genes, we performed meta-analyses of all the eligible studies. Seven genetic polymorphisms involving 15,550 cases and 444,007 controls were explored for association with COVID-19 susceptibility, of which, ACE1 I/D rs4646994/rs1799752, APOE rs429358, CCR5 rs333, and IFITM3 rs12252 showed increased risk of infection. Meta-analyses of 11 gene variants involving 6702 patients with severe COVID-19 and 8640 infected individuals with non-severe manifestations revealed statistically significant association of ACE2 rs2285666, ACE2 rs2106809, ACE2 rs2074192, AGTR1 rs5186, and TNFA rs1800629 with COVID-19 severity. Overall, our study presents a synthesis of evidence on all the genetic determinants implicated in COVID-19 to date, and provides evidence of correlation between the above polymorphisms with COVID-19 susceptibility and severity.
2840678 | Molecular structure and interrelationships of multiresistance beta-lactamase transposons. Transposons coding for beta-lactamases OXA-3, OXA-4, OXA-5, LCR-1, and CARB-3 have been isolated and compared functionally and structurally with transposons for TEM-1, OXA-1, PSE-1, PSE-2, and PSE-4 enzymes. Each beta-lactamase gene type occurred in a unit together with resistance to other antibiotics, particularly streptomycin and sulfonamide but also chloramphenicol, mercuric ion, or gentamicin, kanamycin, and tobramycin. Restriction mapping, gene cloning, and DNA hybridization were used to compare the transposons and to localize their functional components. Although the multiresistance beta-lactamase transposons varied in size from 8 to 25 kb, the similarity of some of their restriction maps suggested a common derivation. Six of 12 transposons contained DNA segments homologous to the tnpR gene of transposon Tn21 and could complement a tnpR- Tn21 derivative. Consequently, these six transposons appear to have evolved from a common progenitor by acquisition of DNA coding for various beta-lactamases and other resistance genes.
37443288 | A placental model of SARS-CoV-2 infection reveals ACE2-dependent susceptibility and differentiation impairment in syncytiotrophoblasts. SARS-CoV-2 infection causes COVID-19. Several clinical reports have linked COVID-19 during pregnancy to negative birth outcomes and placentitis. However, the pathophysiological mechanisms underpinning SARS-CoV-2 infection during placentation and early pregnancy are not clear. Here, to shed light on this, we used induced trophoblast stem cells to generate an in vitro early placenta infection model. We identified that syncytiotrophoblasts could be infected through angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). Using a co-culture model of vertical transmission, we confirmed the ability of the virus to infect syncytiotrophoblasts through a previous endometrial cell infection. We further demonstrated transcriptional changes in infected syncytiotrophoblasts that led to impairment of cellular processes, reduced secretion of HCG hormone and morphological changes vital for syncytiotrophoblast function. Furthermore, different antibody strategies and antiviral drugs restore these impairments. In summary, we have established a scalable and tractable platform to study early placental cell types and highlighted its use in studying strategies to protect the placenta.
38229186 | An exploration of the Indonesian lay mental health workers' (cadres) experiences in performing their roles in community mental health services: a qualitative study. BACKGROUND: Volunteers trained to support community mental health programs in Indonesia are known as 'mental health cadres.' These are lay people trained to provide basic support for people with mental illness in their local communities. The role of cadres in community mental health services is to provide health promotion activities and support for people with mental illness, such as home visits and family assistance. Their contribution can potentially address the challenges health services currently face in remote and resource-limited settings. However, little is currently known about implementing this form of the lay workforce and the experiences of mental health cadres in Indonesia in particular. This study aimed to explore the experience of cadres when performing their roles in community mental health services in Indonesia from the cadres' perspective. METHODS: The study employed a descriptive qualitative design. Purposive sampling was employed to recruit cadres with at least one year of experience handling those diagnosed with schizophrenia across four geographical areas in Java and Sumatra, Indonesia. Data were collected utilising focus groups undertaken between July and November 2020. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, eight focus group sessions for mental health cadres were carried out virtually via Zoom and non-virtual, facilitated by local moderators. Data were analysed using thematic analysis. RESULTS: The study involved 71 cadres in four regions: Aceh, Jakarta, West Java and East Java. The majority of participants were looking after their families with a minimum of high school-level qualifications. Four themes were interpreted from the data: (1) Motivation for volunteering, (2) The role of cadres in supporting mental health services, (3) Training and support needs in carrying out cadre roles, and (4) Barriers and facilitators to the implementation of cadre roles in local communities. CONCLUSIONS: Cadres reported a motivation to help people improve their mental health and reduce the stigma associated with mental illness. Cadres also contributed to secondary and primary prevention of mental illness with some limitations. This study's results are relevant to those wishing to understand and optimise the implementation of lay workforces in resource-limited settings.
3035334 | Molecular cloning and DNA homology of plasmid-mediated beta-lactamase genes. Molecular cloning of DNA fragments between 1.5 and 8 kb from BamHI, EcoRI, HindIII, SalI, or Sau3A digests permitted the isolation of structural genes coding for TEM-1, ROB-1, OXA-1, OXA-3, OXA-4, OXA-5, PSE-1, PSE-2, PSE-3, PSE-4, CARB-3, CARB-4, AER-1, and LCR-1 beta-lactamases. Ampicillin-resistant clones were selected and it was confirmed that they contained the respective beta-lactamase genes by isoelectric focusing. Detailed physical maps of 14 different recombinant plasmids were constructed using 8 restriction endonucleases. Plasmid deletions and lacZ fusions were used to localize the beta-lactamase structural genes. DNA probes were constructed for the TEM-1, ROB-1, OXA-1, and PSE-1 genes. Under conditions of high stringency, hybridization was observed between the genes for TEM-1 and TEM-2 or TLE-1, OXA-1 and OXA-4, and PSE-1 and PSE-4 or CARB-3, while the ROB-1 gene probe showed no cross-hybridization. Such bla gene probes should facilitate studies of beta-lactamase molecular epidemiology.
32083148 | Induction of Transient Virus Replication Facilitates Antigen-Independent Isolation of SIV-Specific Monoclonal Antibodies. Structural characterization of the HIV-1 Envelope (Env) glycoprotein has facilitated the development of Env probes to isolate HIV-specific monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). However, preclinical studies have largely evaluated these virus-specific mAbs against chimeric viruses, which do not naturally infect non-human primates, in contrast to the unconstrained simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)mac239 clone. Given the paucity of native-like reagents for the isolation of SIV-specific B cells, we examined a method to isolate SIVmac239-specific mAbs without using Env probes. We first activated virus-specific B cells by inducing viral replication after the infusion of a CD8beta-depleting mAb or withdrawal of antiretroviral therapy in SIVmac239-infected rhesus macaques. Following the rise in viremia, we observed 2- to 4-fold increases in the number of SIVmac239 Env-reactive plasmablasts in circulation. We then sorted these activated B cells and obtained 206 paired Ab sequences. After expressing 122 mAbs, we identified 14 Env-specific mAbs. While these Env-specific mAbs bound to both the SIVmac239 SOSIP.664 trimer and to infected primary rhesus CD4+ T cells, five also neutralized SIVmac316. Unfortunately, none of these mAbs neutralized SIVmac239. Our data show that this method can be used to isolate virus-specific mAbs without antigenic probes by inducing bursts of contemporary replicating viruses in vivo.
35601809 | Identification of a Potential mRNA-based Vaccine Candidate against the SARS-CoV-2 Spike Glycoprotein: A Reverse Vaccinology Approach. The emergence of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) in December 2019 has generated a devastating global consequence which makes the development of a rapidly deployable, effective and safe vaccine candidate an imminent global health priority. The design of most vaccine candidates has been directed at the induction of antibody responses against the trimeric spike glycoprotein of SARS-CoV-2, a class I fusion protein that aids ACE2 (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) receptor binding. A variety of formulations and vaccinology approaches are being pursued for targeting the spike glycoprotein, including simian and human replication-defective adenoviral vaccines, subunit protein vaccines, nucleic acid vaccines and whole-inactivated SARS-CoV-2. Here, we directed a reverse vaccinology approach towards the design of a nucleic acid (mRNA-based) vaccine candidate. The \YLQPRTFLL\ peptide sequence (position 269-277) which was predicted to be a B cell epitope and likewise a strong binder of the HLA*A-0201 was selected for the design of the vaccine candidate, having satisfied series of antigenicity assessments. Through the codon optimization protocol, the nucleotide sequence for the vaccine candidate design was generated and targeted at the human toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7). Bioinformatics analyses showed that the sequence \UACCUGCAGCCGCGUACCUUCCUGCUG\ exhibited a strong affinity and likewise was bound to a stable cavity in the TLR7 pocket. This study is therefore expected to contribute to the research efforts directed at securing definitive preventive measures against the SARS-CoV-2 infection.
36678502 | Jietacin Derivative Inhibits TNF-alpha-Mediated Inflammatory Cytokines Production via Suppression of the NF-kappaB Pathway in Synovial Cells. Synovial inflammation plays a central role in joint destruction and pain in osteoarthritis (OA). The NF-kappaB pathway plays an important role in the inflammatory process and is activated in OA. A previous study reported that a jietacin derivative (JD), (Z)-2-(8-oxodec-9-yn-1-yl)-1-vinyldiazene 1-oxide, suppressed the nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB in a range of cancer cell lines. However, the effect of JD in synovial cells and the exact mechanism of JD as an NF-kappaB inhibitor remain to be determined. We investigated the effect of JD on TNF-alpha-induced inflammatory reaction in a synovial cell line, SW982 and human primary synovial fibroblasts (hPSFs). Additionally, we examined phosphorylated levels of p65 and p38 and expression of importin alpha3 and beta1 using Western blotting. RNA-Seq analysis revealed that JD suppressed TNF-alpha-induced differential expression: among 204 genes significantly differentially expressed between vehicle and TNF-alpha-stimulated SW982 (183 upregulated and 21 downregulated) (FC >= 2, Q < 0.05), expression of 130 upregulated genes, including inflammatory cytokines (IL1A, IL1B, IL6, IL8) and chemokines (CCL2, CCL3, CCL5, CCL20, CXCL9, 10, 11), was decreased by JD treatment and that of 14 downregulated genes was increased. KEGG pathway analysis showed that DEGs were increased in the cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, TNF signaling pathway, NF-kappaB signaling pathway, and rheumatoid arthritis. JD inhibited IL1B, IL6 and IL8 mRNA expression and IL-6 and IL-8 protein production in both SW982 and hPSFs. JD also suppressed p65 phosphorylation in both SW982 and hPSFs. In contrast, JD did not alter p38 phosphorylation. JD may inhibit TNF-alpha-mediated inflammatory cytokine production via suppression of p65 phosphorylation in both SW982 and hPSFs. Our results suggest that JD may have therapeutic potential for OA due to its anti-inflammatory action through selective suppression of the NF-kappaB pathway on synovial cells.
37550645 | The prevalence of and perception toward mental illness: a cross-sectional study among Indonesian mental health nurses. BACKGROUND: The emergence of the Coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) pandemic has affected nurses' mental and psychological health. This study investigates the prevalence of depression, anxiety, and stress among Indonesian mental health nurses and their perception of mental illness. METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted shortly before the height of the Covid-19 outbreak in Indonesia. The data were collected using the 21 items of the Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scale (DASS-21), the questionnaire on perception toward mental illness, and demographic information. RESULTS: Approximately 2.5%, 6.5%, and 1.9% of the nurses had the symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress, respectively. The vast majority of them perceive that society should treat well people with mental illness (94.8%) and that the government should protect them (94.8%). More than half also believe that they can eat anything but seldom get physically ill (62.1%) and that in Islam, people with mental illness are innocent and are destined for paradise (61.1%). CONCLUSIONS: A considerably low prevalence of mental distress was discovered, which might be attributed to the nurses' implementation of mental health skills and effective coping mechanisms. Further training and awareness-raising campaigns are needed to address their misconceptions about mental illness.
29970603 | Inhibition of the acetyltransferase NAT10 normalizes progeric and aging cells by rebalancing the Transportin-1 nuclear import pathway. Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) is an incurable premature aging disease. Identifying deregulated biological processes in HGPS might thus help define novel therapeutic strategies. Fibroblasts from HGPS patients display defects in nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of the GTP-bound form of the small GTPase Ran (RanGTP), which leads to abnormal transport of proteins into the nucleus. We report that microtubule stabilization in HGPS cells sequestered the nonclassical nuclear import protein Transportin-1 (TNPO1) in the cytoplasm, thus affecting the nuclear localization of its cargo, including the nuclear pore protein NUP153. Consequently, nuclear Ran, nuclear anchorage of the nucleoporin TPR, and chromatin organization were disrupted, deregulating gene expression and inducing senescence. Inhibiting N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10) ameliorated HGPS phenotypes by rebalancing the nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio of TNPO1. This restored nuclear pore complex integrity and nuclear Ran localization, thereby correcting HGPS cellular phenotypes. We observed a similar mechanism in cells from healthy aged individuals. This study identifies a nuclear import pathway affected in aging and underscores the potential for NAT10 inhibition as a possible therapeutic strategy for HGPS and perhaps also for pathologies associated with normal aging.
38320990 | Potent and broadly neutralizing antibodies against sarbecoviruses induced by sequential COVID-19 vaccination. The current SARS-CoV-2 variants strikingly evade all authorized monoclonal antibodies and threaten the efficacy of serum-neutralizing activity elicited by vaccination or prior infection, urging the need to develop antivirals against SARS-CoV-2 and related sarbecoviruses. Here, we identified both potent and broadly neutralizing antibodies from a five-dose vaccinated donor who exhibited cross-reactive serum-neutralizing activity against diverse coronaviruses. Through single B-cell sorting and sequencing followed by a tailor-made computational pipeline, we successfully selected 86 antibodies with potential cross-neutralizing ability from 684 antibody sequences. Among them, PW5-570 potently neutralized all SARS-CoV-2 variants that arose prior to Omicron BA.5, and the other three could broadly neutralize all current SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern, SARS-CoV and their related sarbecoviruses (Pangolin-GD, RaTG13, WIV-1, and SHC014). Cryo-EM analysis demonstrates that these antibodies have diverse neutralization mechanisms, such as disassembling spike trimers, or binding to RBM or SD1 to affect ACE2 binding. In addition, prophylactic administration of these antibodies significantly protects nasal turbinate and lung infections against BA.1, XBB.1, and SARS-CoV viral challenge in golden Syrian hamsters, respectively. Importantly, post-exposure treatment with PW5-5 and PW5-535 also markedly protects against XBB.1 challenge in these models. This study reveals the potential utility of computational process to assist screening cross-reactive antibodies, as well as the potency of vaccine-induced broadly neutralizing antibodies against current SARS-CoV-2 variants and related sarbecoviruses, offering promising avenues for the development of broad therapeutic antibody drugs.
35066912 | Lipopolysaccharide induces acute lung injury and alveolar haemorrhage in association with the cytokine storm, coagulopathy and AT1R/JAK/STAT augmentation in a rat model that mimics moderate and severe Covid-19 pathology. Progress in the study of Covid-19 disease in rodents has been hampered by the lack of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2; virus entry route to the target cell) affinities for the virus spike proteins across species. Therefore, we sought to determine whether a modified protocol of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute respiratory distress syndrome in rats can mimic both cell signalling pathways as well as severe disease phenotypes of Covid-19 disease. Rats were injected via intratracheal (IT) instillation with either 15 mg/kg of LPS (model group) or saline (control group) before being killed after 3 days. A severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-like effect was observed in the model group as demonstrated by the development of a \cytokine storm\ (>2.7 fold increase in blood levels of IL-6, IL-17A, GM-CSF, and TNF-alpha), high blood ferritin, demonstrable coagulopathy, including elevated D-dimer (approximately 10-fold increase), PAI-1, PT, and APTT (p < 0.0001). In addition, LPS increased the expression of lung angiotensin II type I receptor (AT1R)-JAK-STAT axis (>4 fold increase). Chest imaging revealed bilateral small patchy opacities of the lungs. Severe lung injury was noted by the presence of both, alveolar collapse and haemorrhage, desquamation of epithelial cells in the airway lumen, infiltration of inflammatory cells (CD45+ leukocytes), widespread thickening of the interalveolar septa, and ultrastructural alterations similar to Covid-19. Thus, these findings demonstrate that IT injection of 15 mg/kg LPS into rats, induced an AT1R/JAK/STAT-mediated cytokine storm with resultant pneumonia and coagulopathy that was commensurate with moderate and severe Covid-19 disease noted in humans.
33422520 | Expression of SARS-COV-2 cell receptor gene ACE2 is associated with immunosuppression and metabolic reprogramming in lung adenocarcinoma based on bioinformatics analyses of gene expression profiles. The aberrant expression level of SARS-CoV-2 cell receptor gene ACE2 was reported in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) comorbidity of COVID-19. However, the association of ACE2 expression levels with immunosuppression and metabolic reprogramming in LUAD remains lacking. We investigated the expression level of ACE2, an association of ACE2 expression level with various types of immune signatures, immune ratios, and pathways. We employed a weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) R package to identify the gene modules and investigated prognostic roles of hub genes in LUAD. Overexpression of ACE2 level was found in LUAD and ACE2 expression was negatively associated with various types of immune signatures including CD8+ T cells, CD4+ regulatory T cells, NK cells, and T cell activation. Besides, ACE2 upregulation was not only associated with CD8+ T cell/CD4+ regulatory T cell ratios but also linked with downregulation of immune-markers including CD8A, KLRC1, GZMA, GZMB, NKG7, CCL4, and IFNG. Moreover, the ACE2 expression level was found to be associated with the enrichment level of various metabolic pathways and it was also found that the metabolic pathways are directly positively correlated with the increased expression levels of ACE2, indicating that the overexpression of ACE2 is associated with metabolic reprogramming in LUAD. Furthermore, WGCNA based analysis revealed the gene modules in the high-ACE2-expression-level group of LUAD and identified GCLC and SLC7A11 hub genes which are not only highly expressed in lung adenocarcinoma but also correlated with the poor survival prognosis. Our analysis of ACE2 in LUAD tissues suggests that ACE2 is not only a receptor but is also associated with immunosuppression and metabolic reprogramming. This study underlines the clue for understanding the clinical significance of ACE2 in COVID-19 patients with LUAD comorbidity.
33330844 | Clinically Approved Antiviral Drug in an Orally Administrable Nanoparticle for COVID-19. There is urgent therapeutic need for COVID-19, a disease for which there are currently no widely effective approved treatments and the emergency use authorized drugs do not result in significant and widespread patient improvement. The food and drug administration-approved drug ivermectin has long been shown to be both antihelmintic agent and a potent inhibitor of viruses such as Yellow Fever Virus. In this study, we highlight the potential of ivermectin packaged in an orally administrable nanoparticle that could serve as a vehicle to deliver a more potent therapeutic antiviral dose and demonstrate its efficacy to decrease expression of viral spike protein and its receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), both of which are keys to lowering disease transmission rates. We also report that the targeted nanoparticle delivered ivermectin is able to inhibit the nuclear transport activities mediated through proteins such as importin alpha/beta1 heterodimer as a possible mechanism of action. This study sheds light on ivermectin-loaded, orally administrable, biodegradable nanoparticles to be a potential treatment option for the novel coronavirus through a multilevel inhibition. As both ACE2 targeting and the presence of spike protein are features shared among this class of virus, this platform technology has the potential to serve as a therapeutic tool not only for COVID-19 but for other coronavirus strains as well.
34943787 | SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein and Its Receptor Binding Domain Promote a Proinflammatory Activation Profile on Human Dendritic Cells. Dendritic cells (DCs) are the most potent antigen-presenting cells, and their function is essential to configure adaptative immunity and avoid excessive inflammation. DCs are predicted to play a crucial role in the clinical evolution of the infection by the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus (CoV)-2. DCs interaction with the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein, which mediates cell receptor binding and subsequent fusion of the viral particle with host cell, is a key step to induce effective immunity against this virus and in the S protein-based vaccination protocols. Here we evaluated human DCs in response to SARS-CoV-2 S protein, or to a fragment encompassing the receptor binding domain (RBD) challenge. Both proteins increased the expression of maturation markers, including MHC molecules and costimulatory receptors. DCs interaction with the SARS-CoV-2 S protein promotes activation of key signaling molecules involved in inflammation, including MAPK, AKT, STAT1, and NFkappaB, which correlates with the expression and secretion of distinctive proinflammatory cytokines. Differences in the expression of ACE2 along the differentiation of human monocytes to mature DCs and inter-donor were found. Our results show that SARS-CoV-2 S protein promotes inflammatory response and provides molecular links between individual variations and the degree of response against this virus.
34928187 | Vaccine hesitancy among communities in ten countries in Asia, Africa, and South America during the COVID-19 pandemic. Vaccine hesitancy is considered one of the greatest threats to the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccination programs. Lack of trust in vaccine benefits, along with concerns about side effects of the newly developed COVID-19 vaccine, might significantly contribute to COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy. The objective of this study was to determine the level of vaccine hesitancy among communities in particular their belief in vaccination benefits and perceived risks of new vaccines. An online cross-sectional study was conducted in 10 countries in Asia, Africa, and South America from February to May 2021. Seven items from the WHO SAGE Vaccine Hesitancy Scale were used to measure a construct of belief in vaccination benefit, and one item measured perceived riskiness of new vaccines. A logistic regression was used to determine which sociodemographic factors were associated with both vaccine hesitancy constructs. A total of 1,832 respondents were included in the final analysis of which 36.2% (range 5.6-52.2%) and 77.6% (range 38.3-91.2%) of them were classified as vaccine hesitant in terms of beliefs in vaccination benefits and concerns about new vaccines, respectively. Respondents from Pakistan had the highest vaccine hesitancy while those from Chile had the lowest. Being females, Muslim, having a non-healthcare-related job and not receiving a flu vaccination during the past 12 months were associated with poor beliefs of vaccination benefits. Those who were living in rural areas, Muslim, and those who did not received a flu vaccination during the past 12 months had relatively higher beliefs that new vaccines are riskier. High prevalence of vaccine hesitancy in some countries during the COVID-19 pandemic might hamper COVID-19 vaccination programs worldwide. Programs should be developed to promote vaccination in those sociodemographic groups with relatively high vaccine hesitancy.
21900684 | Importin alpha2-interacting proteins with nuclear roles during mammalian spermatogenesis. Spermatogenesis, the process of generating haploid sperm capable of fertilizing the female gamete, requires the timely transport into the nucleus of transcription and chromatin-remodeling factors, mediated by members of the importin (IMP) superfamily. Previous IMP expression profiling implies a role for IMPalpha2 in testicular germ cells late in spermatogenesis. To identify interacting proteins of IMPalpha2 that are potential drivers of germ cell development, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening of an adult mouse testis library. IMPalpha2 interactions were verified by coimmunoprecipitation approaches, whereas immunohistochemical staining of testis sections confirmed their coexpression with IMPalpha2 in specific testicular cell types. Key interactors identified were a novel isoform of a cysteine and histidine rich protein (Chrp), a protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family member involved in transcriptional regulation and sumoylation, Androgen receptor interacting protein 3 (Arip3), and Homologous protein 2 (Hop2), known to be involved in homologous chromosome pairing and recombination, all of which are highly expressed in the testis and show mRNA expression profiles similar to that of IMPalpha2 throughout testicular development. This is the first study to identify binding partners of IMPalpha2 in the developmental context of germ line development, and we propose that the regulated expression and timely IMPalpha2-mediated nuclear transport of these proteins may coordinate events during spermatogenesis, with IMPalpha2-mediated nuclear localization representing a potentially critical developmental switch in the testis.
38211733 | Mucosal-Associated Invariant T Cells are not susceptible in vitro to SARS-CoV-2 infection but accumulate into the lungs of COVID-19 patients. Prolonged T cell lymphopenia is common in COVID-19, caused by SARS-CoV-2. While the mechanisms of lymphopenia during COVID-19 remain elusive, it is especially pronounced in a specialized innate-like T cell population called Mucosal Associated Invariant T cells (MAITs). MAITs has been suggested to express Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 (ACE2), which is the well-known cellular receptor for SARS-CoV-2. However, it is still unclear if SARS-CoV-2 can infect or affect MAIT cells directly. In this study, we performed multicolor flow cytometry on peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from COVID-19 patients to assess the frequencies of CD8+Valpha7.2+CD161+ MAIT subsets at acute and convalescent disease phases. The susceptibility of MAITs and T cells to direct exposure by SARS-CoV-2 was analysed using cells isolated from healthy donor buffy coats by viability assays, virus-specific RT-PCR, and flow cytometry. In situ lung immunofluorescence was used to evaluate retention of T cells, especially MAIT cells, in lung tissues during acute COVID-19. Our study confirms previous reports indicating that circulating MAITs are activated, and their frequency is declined in patients with acute SARS-CoV-2 infection, whereas an accumulation of MAITs and T cells was seen in the lung tissue of individuals with fatal COVID-19. However, despite a fraction of MAITs found to express ACE2, no evidence for the susceptibility of MAITs for direct infection or activation by SARS-CoV-2 particles was observed. Thus, their activation and decline in the circulation is most likely explained by indirect mechanisms involving other immune cells and cytokine-induced pro-inflammatory environment but not by direct exposure to viral particles at the infection site.
38464527 | Potential immune evasion of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 Omicron variants. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which is caused by the novel severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has caused a global pandemic. The Omicron variant (B.1.1.529) was first discovered in November 2021 in specimens collected from Botswana, South Africa. Omicron has become the dominant variant worldwide, and several sublineages or subvariants have been identified recently. Compared to those of other mutants, the Omicron variant has the most highly expressed amino acid mutations, with almost 60 mutations throughout the genome, most of which are in the spike (S) protein, especially in the receptor-binding domain (RBD). These mutations increase the binding affinity of Omicron variants for the ACE2 receptor, and Omicron variants may also lead to immune escape. Despite causing milder symptoms, epidemiological evidence suggests that Omicron variants have exceptionally higher transmissibility, higher rates of reinfection and greater spread than the prototype strain as well as other preceding variants. Additionally, overwhelming amounts of data suggest that the levels of specific neutralization antibodies against Omicron variants decrease in most vaccinated populations, although CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses are maintained. Therefore, the mechanisms underlying Omicron variant evasion are still unclear. In this review, we surveyed the current epidemic status and potential immune escape mechanisms of Omicron variants. Especially, we focused on the potential roles of viral epitope mutations, antigenic drift, hybrid immunity, and \original antigenic sin\ in mediating immune evasion. These insights might supply more valuable concise information for us to understand the spreading of Omicron variants.
31428517 | Immune microenvironment profiling of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) shows gene expression patterns associated to immune checkpoint inhibitors response. Few studies were conducted investigating the immunological profiles in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). Adaptive and innate immune cells are present in the tumor microenvironment, indicating GIST as inflamed tumors. In addition, murine models suggested a potential interaction between immune components and imatinib. In this retrospective study, the GIST immunological profile was investigated through in silico analysis and immunohistochemistry (IHC), exploring the basis for immunotherapy approaches. Gene expression profiles (GEP) from 31 KIT/PDGFRA-mutant GIST were analyzed to evaluate the tumor microenvironment and immunotherapy predictive signatures such as the expanded IFN-gamma-induced immune signature (EIIS) and the T-cell-inflamed signature (TIS). GEP and IHC supported the presence of immune infiltrate in GIST, with dominance of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and M2 macrophages showing a remarkable similarity with melanoma microenvironment. The EIIS genes were expressed in most of GIST samples and positively correlated with PD-L1 abundance (p < .0001). Co-expression was also found between PD-L1 and CD8A (p < .0001) or CD8B (p = .0003). Moreover, the median TIS score for GIST was between the 65th and 70th percentile of the Cancer Genome Atlas dataset, in the same range of tumors responding to anti-PD-1/PD-L1. Analysis of the Gene Expression Omnibus database GIST samples pre- and post-treatment confirmed that imatinib downregulates PD-L1 and IRF1 expression through the inhibition of KIT and PDGFRA, thus contributing to counteract the suppressed adaptive immune response against GIST. The presence of a rich immune infiltrate in GIST along with the presence of TIS and EIIS suggests that GIST may benefit from immunotherapy along with tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
38529542 | The antiviral potential of the antiandrogen enzalutamide and the viral-androgen signaling interplay in seasonal coronaviruses. The sex disparity in COVID-19 outcomes with males generally faring worse than females has been associated with the androgen-regulated expression of the protease TMPRSS2 and the cell receptor ACE2 in the lung and fueled interest in antiandrogens as potential antivirals. In this study, we explored enzalutamide, an antiandrogen used commonly to treat prostate cancer, as a potential antiviral against the human coronaviruses which cause seasonal respiratory infections (HCoV-NL63, -229E, and -OC43). Using lentivirus-pseudotyped and authentic HCoV, we report that enzalutamide reduced 229E and NL63 entry and infection in both TMPRSS2- and nonexpressing immortalized cells, suggesting a TMPRSS2-independent mechanism. However, no effect was observed against OC43. To decipher this distinction, we performed RNA-sequencing analysis on 229E- and OC43-infected primary human airway cells. Our results show a significant induction of androgen-responsive genes by 229E compared to OC43 at 24 and 72 h postinfection. The virus-mediated effect on AR-signaling was further confirmed with a consensus androgen response element-driven luciferase assay in androgen-depleted MRC-5 cells. Specifically, 229E induced luciferase-reporter activity in the presence and absence of the synthetic androgen mibolerone, while OC43 inhibited induction. These findings highlight a complex interplay between viral infections and androgen-signaling, offering insights for disparities in viral outcomes and antiviral interventions.
34396983 | All in for nuclear PFKP-induced CXCR4 metastasis: a T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia prognostic marker. Phosphofructokinase 1 (PFK1) is expressed in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), where its upregulation is linked with cancer progression. While PFK1 functions in the glycolysis pathway within the cytoplasm, it is also present in the nucleus where it regulates gene transcription. In this issue of the JCI, Xueliang Gao, Shenghui Qin, et al. focus their mechanism-based investigation on the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling aspect of the PFK1 platelet isoform, PFKP. Functional nuclear export and localization sequences stimulated CXC chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) expression to promote T-ALL invasion that involved cyclin D3/CDK6, c-Myc, and importin-9. Since the presence of nuclear PFKP is associated with poor survival in T-ALL, nuclear PFKP-induced CXCR4 expression might serve as a prognostic marker for T-ALL. More promising, though, are the mechanistic insights suggesting that approaches to dampening metastatic migration may have application to benefit patients with T-ALL.
35686662 | Potential therapeutic effects of Ivermectin in COVID-19. COVID-19 is a critical pandemic that affected communities around the world, and there is currently no specific drug treatment for it. The virus enters the human cells via spikes and induces cytokine production and finally arrests the cell cycle. Ivermectin shows therapeutic potential for treating COVID-19 infection based on in vitro studies. Docking studies have shown a strong affinity between Ivermectin and some virulence factors of COVID-19. Notably, clinical evidence has demonstrated that Ivermectin with usual doses is effective by both the prophylactic and therapeutic approaches in all phases of the disease. Ivermectin inhibits both the adhesion and replication of the virus. Local therapy of the lung with Ivermectin or combination therapy may get better results and decrease the dose of the drug.
35062743 | Effectiveness and Efficacy of Vaccine on Mutated SARS-CoV-2 Virus and Post Vaccination Surveillance: A Narrative Review. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, as a result of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, since December 2019, is a major health problem and concern worldwide. The pandemic has impacted various fields, from the social to the development of health science and technology. The virus has been mutating and thus producing several new variants, rushing research in the field of molecular biology to develop rapidly to overcome the problems that occur. Vaccine clinical studies are developing promptly with the aim of obtaining vaccines that are effective in suppressing the spread of the virus; however, the development of viral mutations raises concerns about the decreasing effectiveness of the resulting vaccine, which also results in the need for more in-depth studies. There have been 330 vaccines developed, including 136 clinical developments and 194 pre-clinical developments. The SARS-CoV-2 variant continues to evolve today, and it poses a challenge in testing the effectiveness of existing vaccines. This is a narrative review describing the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic, development of vaccine platforms, identification of concerning mutations and virus variants in various countries of the world, and real-world monitoring of post-vaccination effectiveness and surveillance.
35723340 | Transcription of the Envelope Protein by 1-L Protein-RNA Recognition Code Leads to Genes/Proteins That Are Relevant to the SARS-CoV-2 Life Cycle and Pathogenesis. The theoretical protein-RNA recognition code was used in this study to research the compatibility of the SARS-CoV-2 envelope protein (E) with mRNAs in the human transcriptome. According to a review of the literature, the spectrum of identified genes showed that the virus post-transcriptionally promotes or represses the genes involved in the SARS-CoV-2 life cycle. The identified genes/proteins are also involved in adaptive immunity, in the function of the cilia and wound healing (EMT and MET) in the pulmonary epithelial tissue, in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease and in type 2 diabetes. For example, the E-protein promotes BHLHE40, which switches off the IL-10 inflammatory \brake\ and inhibits antiviral THalphabeta cells. In the viral cycle, E supports the COPII-SCAP-SREBP-HSP90alpha transport complex by the lowering of cholesterol in the ER and by the repression of insulin signaling, which explains the positive effect of HSP90 inhibitors in COVID-19 (geldanamycin), and E also supports importin alpha/beta-mediated transport to the nucleus, which explains the positive effect of ivermectin, a blocker of importins alpha/beta. In summary, transcription of the envelope protein by the 1-L protein-RNA recognition code leads to genes/proteins that are relevant to the SARS-CoV-2 life cycle and pathogenesis.
37260419 | Waning anti-SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain total antibody in CoronaVac-vaccinated individuals in Indonesia. Background: The decrease of immunity acquired from COVID-19 vaccines is a potential cause of breakthrough infection. Understanding the dynamics of immune responses of vaccine-induced antibodies post-vaccination is important. This study aimed to measure the level of anti-SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain (RBD) total antibody in individuals at different time points upon the receipt of the second dose of CoronaVac vaccine, as well as evaluate the plausible associated factors. Methods: A cross-sectional study was conducted among CoronaVac-vaccinated residents in Banda Aceh, Indonesia. The level of anti-SARS-CoV-2 RBD total antibody was measured using Elecsys immunoassay. A set of standardized and validated questionnaires were used to assess the demographics and other associated factors. Results: Our results showed waning anti-SARS-CoV-2 RBD total antibody titres over time post-vaccination. Compared to samples of the first month post-vaccination, the antibody titres were significantly lower than those of five-months (mean 184.6 vs. 101.8 U/mL, p = 0.009) and six-months post-vaccination (mean 184.6 vs. 95.59 U/mL, p = 0.001). This suggests that the length of time post-vaccination was negatively correlated with titre of antibody. A protective level of antibody titres (threshold of 15 U/mL) was observed from all the samples vaccinated within one to three months; however, only 73.7% and 78.9% of the sera from five- and six-months possessed the protective titres, respectively. The titre of antibody was found significantly higher in sera of individuals having a regular healthy meal intake compared to those who did not (mean 136.7 vs. 110.4 U/mL, p = 0.044), including in subgroup analysis that included those five to six months post-vaccination only (mean 79.0 vs. 134.5 U/mL, p = 0.009). Conclusions: This study provides insights on the efficacy of CoronaVac vaccine in protecting individuals against SARS-CoV-2 infection over time, which may contribute to future vaccination policy management to improve and prolong protective strategy.
32668509 | [Genetic and epigenetic variability, and the Covid-19 pandemic].
33526003 | Flavonol morin targets host ACE2, IMP-alpha, PARP-1 and viral proteins of SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV critical for infection and survival: a computational analysis. A sudden outbreak of a novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 in 2019 has now emerged as a pandemic threatening to efface the existence of mankind. In absence of any valid and appropriate vaccines to combat this newly evolved agent, there is need of novel resource molecules for treatment and prophylaxis. To this effect, flavonol morin which is found in fruits, vegetables and various medicinal herbs has been evaluated for its antiviral potential in the present study. PASS analysis of morin versus reference antiviral drugs baricitinib, remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine revealed that morin displayed no violations of Lipinski's rule of five and other druglikeness filters. Morin also displayed no tumorigenic, reproductive or irritant effects and exhibited good absorption and permeation through GI (clogP <5). In principal component analysis, morin appeared closest to baricitinib in 3D space. Morin displayed potent binding to spike glycoprotein, main protease 3CLPro and papain-like protease PLPro of SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV using molecular docking and significant binding to three viral-specific host proteins viz. human ACE2, importin-alpha and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)-1, further lending support to its antiviral efficacy. Additionally, morin displayed potent binding to pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6, 8 and 10 also supporting its anti-inflammatory activity. MD simulation of morin with SARS-CoV-2 3CLPro and PLPro displayed strong stability at 300 K. Both complexes exhibited constant RMSDs of protein side chains and Calpha atoms throughout the simulation run time. In conclusion, morin might hold considerable therapeutic potential for the treatment and management of not only COVID-19, but also SARS and MERS if studied further. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
18178234 | Inhibitory function of adapter-related protein complex 2 alpha 1 subunit in the process of nuclear translocation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 genome. The transfection of human cells with siRNA against adapter-related protein complex 2 alpha 1 subunit (AP2alpha) was revealed to significantly up-regulate the replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). This effect was confirmed by cell infection with vesicular stomatitis virus G protein-pseudotyped HIV-1 as well as CXCR4-tropic and CCR5-tropic HIV-1. Viral adsorption, viral entry and reverse transcription processes were not affected by cell transfection with siRNA against AP2alpha. In contrast, viral nuclear translocation as well as the integration process was significantly up-regulated in cells transfected with siRNA against AP2alpha. Confocal fluorescence microscopy revealed that a subpopulation of AP2alpha was not only localized in the cytoplasm but was also partly co-localized with lamin B, importin beta and Nup153, implying that AP2alpha negatively regulates HIV-1 replication in the process of nuclear translocation of viral DNA in the cytoplasm or the perinuclear region. We propose that AP2alpha may be a novel target for disrupting HIV-1 replication in the early stage of the viral life cycle.
37676567 | SWO1 modulates cell wall integrity under salt stress by interacting with importin alpha in Arabidopsis. Maintenance of cell wall integrity is of great importance not only for plant growth and development, but also for the adaptation of plants to adverse environments. However, how the cell wall integrity is modulated under salt stress is still poorly understood. Here, we report that a nuclear-localized Agenet domain-containing protein SWO1 (SWOLLEN 1) is required for the maintenance of cell wall integrity in Arabidopsis under salt stress. Mutation in SWO1 gene results in swollen root tips, disordered root cell morphology, and root elongation inhibition under salt stress. The swo1 mutant accumulates less cellulose and pectin but more lignin under high salinity. RNA-seq and ChIP-seq assays reveal that SWO1 binds to the promoter of several cell wall-related genes and regulates their expression under saline conditions. Further study indicates that SWO1 interacts with importin alpha IMPA1 and IMPA2, which are required for the import of nuclear-localized proteins. The impa1 impa2 double mutant also exhibits root growth inhibition under salt stress and mutations of these two genes aggravate the salt-hypersensitive phenotype of the swo1 mutant. Taken together, our data suggest that SWO1 functions together with importin alpha to regulate the expression of cell wall-related genes, which enables plants to maintain cell wall integrity under high salinity.
30177573 | Evidence for the nuclear import of histones H3.1 and H4 as monomers. Newly synthesised histones are thought to dimerise in the cytosol and undergo nuclear import in complex with histone chaperones. Here, we provide evidence that human H3.1 and H4 are imported into the nucleus as monomers. Using a tether-and-release system to study the import dynamics of newly synthesised histones, we find that cytosolic H3.1 and H4 can be maintained as stable monomeric units. Cytosolically tethered histones are bound to importin-alpha proteins (predominantly IPO4), but not to histone-specific chaperones NASP, ASF1a, RbAp46 (RBBP7) or HAT1, which reside in the nucleus in interphase cells. Release of monomeric histones from their cytosolic tether results in rapid nuclear translocation, IPO4 dissociation and incorporation into chromatin at sites of replication. Quantitative analysis of histones bound to individual chaperones reveals an excess of H3 specifically associated with sNASP, suggesting that NASP maintains a soluble, monomeric pool of H3 within the nucleus and may act as a nuclear receptor for newly imported histone. In summary, we propose that histones H3 and H4 are rapidly imported as monomeric units, forming heterodimers in the nucleus rather than the cytosol.
34136130 | Association between convalescent plasma and the risk of mortality among patients with COVID-19: a meta-analysis. Background: Convalescent plasma (CCP) has been used for treating some infectious diseases; however, the efficacy of CCP in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) remains controversial. The aim of this research was to assess the efficacy of CCP as an adjunctive treatment in COVID-19 patients. Methods: Embase, PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane and MedRix were searched for potentially relevant articles. All included papers were assessed for the quality using modified Jadad scale and Newcastle-Ottawa scale for randomized controlled trial (RCT) and non - RCT, respectively. We used a Q test and Egger test to assess the heterogeneity and publication bias among studies, respectively. Mortality rates between patients treated with standard treatment and standard treatment with CCP were compared using a Z test. Results: A total of 12 papers consisting of three cross-sectional studies, one prospective study, five retrospective studies, and three RCT studies were included in our analysis. Of them, a total of 1,937 patients treated with CCP and 3,405 patients without CCP were included. The risk of mortality was 1.92-fold higher in patients without CCP compared to patients treated with CCP (OR: 1.92; 95%CI: 1.33, 2.77; p=0.0005). In severe COVID-19 sub-group analysis, we found that patients without CCP had a 1.32 times higher risk of mortality than those treated with CCP (OR: 1.32; 95%CI: 1.09, 1.60; p=0.0040). Conclusions: CCP, as adjunctive therapy, could reduce the mortality rate among COVID-19 patients.
35231079 | Identification of cell type specific ACE2 modifiers by CRISPR screening. SARS-CoV-2 infection is initiated by binding of the viral spike protein to its receptor, ACE2, on the surface of host cells. ACE2 expression is heterogeneous both in vivo and in immortalized cell lines, but the molecular pathways that govern ACE2 expression remain unclear. We now report high-throughput CRISPR screens for functional modifiers of ACE2 surface abundance. In liver-derived HuH7 cells, we identified 35 genes whose disruption was associated with a change in the surface abundance of ACE2. Enriched among these ACE2 regulators were established transcription factors, epigenetic regulators, and functional networks. We further characterized individual HuH7 cell lines with disruption of SMAD4, EP300, PIAS1, or BAMBI and found these genes to regulate ACE2 at the mRNA level and to influence cellular susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Orthogonal screening of lung-derived Calu-3 cells revealed a distinct set of ACE2 modifiers comprised of ACE2, KDM6A, MOGS, GPAA1, and UGP2. Collectively, our findings clarify the host factors involved in SARS-CoV-2 entry, highlight the cell type specificity of ACE2 regulatory networks, and suggest potential targets for therapeutic development.
33824716 | Anosmia and dysgeusia in SARS-CoV-2 infection: incidence and effects on COVID-19 severity and mortality, and the possible pathobiology mechanisms - a systematic review and meta-analysis. Background: The present study aimed to determine the global prevalence of anosmia and dysgeusia in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients and to assess their association with severity and mortality of COVID-19. Moreover, this study aimed to discuss the possible pathobiological mechanisms of anosmia and dysgeusia in COVID-19. Methods: Available articles from PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, and preprint databases (MedRxiv, BioRxiv, and Researchsquare) were searched on November 10th, 2020. Data on the characteristics of the study (anosmia, dysgeusia, and COVID-19) were extracted following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guideline. Newcastle-Ottawa scale was used to assess research quality. Moreover, the pooled prevalence of anosmia and dysgeusia were calculated, and the association between anosmia and dysgeusia in presence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was assessed using the Z test. Results: Out of 32,142 COVID-19 patients from 107 studies, anosmia was reported in 12,038 patients with a prevalence of 38.2% (95% CI: 36.5%, 47.2%); whereas, dysgeusia was reported in 11,337 patients out of 30,901 COVID-19 patients from 101 studies, with prevalence of 36.6% (95% CI: 35.2%, 45.2%), worldwide. Furthermore, the prevalence of anosmia was 10.2-fold higher (OR: 10.21; 95% CI: 6.53, 15.96, p < 0.001) and that of dysgeusia was 8.6-fold higher (OR: 8.61; 95% CI: 5.26, 14.11, p < 0.001) in COVID-19 patients compared to those with other respiratory infections or COVID-19 like illness. To date, no study has assessed the association of anosmia and dysgeusia with severity and mortality of COVID-19. Conclusion: Anosmia and dysgeusia are prevalent in COVID-19 patients compared to those with the other non-COVID-19 respiratory infections. Several possible mechanisms have been hypothesized; however, future studies are warranted to elucidate the definitive mechanisms of anosmia and dysgeusia in COVID-19. Protocol registration: PROSPERO CRD42020223204.
30830222 | Androgens Ameliorate Impaired Ischemia-Induced Neovascularization Due to Aging in Male Mice. There is abundant evidence that low circulating testosterone levels in older men are associated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes; however, the direction of causality is unclear. Although there is burgeoning interest in the potential of androgen therapy in older men, the effect of androgens on cardiovascular regeneration in aging males remains poorly defined. We investigated the role of androgens in age-related impairment in ischemia-induced neovascularization. Castrated young (2 months) and old (24 months) male mice were subjected to unilateral hindlimb ischemia and treated with subdermal DHT or placebo Silastic implants. Blood flow recovery was enhanced by DHT treatment in young and old mice compared with age-matched placebo controls. DHT augmented angiogenesis in young mice and ameliorated age-related impairment in neovascularization in old mice. Administration of DHT was associated with increased hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and stromal cell-derived factor-1 expression in young mice, but not in old mice. In vitro, DHT-induced HIF-1alpha transcriptional activation was attenuated in fibroblasts from old mice. Interaction between androgen receptor (AR) and importins, key proteins that facilitate nuclear translocation of AR, was impaired with age. In contrast, DHT treatment stimulated the production and mobilization of Sca1+/CXCR4+ circulating progenitor cells in both young and old mice. DHT stimulated the migration and proangiogenic paracrine effect of ex vivo cultured bone marrow-derived angiogenic cells from young and old mice. In conclusion, androgens ameliorated age-related impairment in ischemia-induced neovascularization. Although age-dependent dysfunction in androgen signaling attenuated some androgen effects on angiogenesis, provasculogenic effects of androgens were partially preserved with age.
38450039 | Sailing on the ark of Scopus: Narra J new journey. Global health crises such as the recent coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic have highlighted the unique value of scientific research in the realm of public health and related disciplines. Although we have witnessed rapid growth in scientific output in the past years, concerns regarding scientific rigor and research integrity also emerged.
38506045 | Virus-Induced Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Causes Cardiomyopathy Through Eliciting Inflammatory Responses in the Heart. BACKGROUND: Viral infections can cause acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), systemic inflammation, and secondary cardiovascular complications. Lung macrophage subsets change during ARDS, but the role of heart macrophages in cardiac injury during viral ARDS remains unknown. Here we investigate how immune signals typical for viral ARDS affect cardiac macrophage subsets, cardiovascular health, and systemic inflammation. METHODS: We assessed cardiac macrophage subsets using immunofluorescence histology of autopsy specimens from 21 patients with COVID-19 with SARS-CoV-2-associated ARDS and 33 patients who died from other causes. In mice, we compared cardiac immune cell dynamics after SARS-CoV-2 infection with ARDS induced by intratracheal instillation of Toll-like receptor ligands and an ACE2 (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) inhibitor. RESULTS: In humans, SARS-CoV-2 increased total cardiac macrophage counts and led to a higher proportion of CCR2+ (C-C chemokine receptor type 2 positive) macrophages. In mice, SARS-CoV-2 and virus-free lung injury triggered profound remodeling of cardiac resident macrophages, recapitulating the clinical expansion of CCR2+ macrophages. Treating mice exposed to virus-like ARDS with a tumor necrosis factor alpha-neutralizing antibody reduced cardiac monocytes and inflammatory MHCIIlo CCR2+ macrophages while also preserving cardiac function. Virus-like ARDS elevated mortality in mice with pre-existing heart failure. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that viral ARDS promotes cardiac inflammation by expanding the CCR2+ macrophage subset, and the associated cardiac phenotypes in mice can be elicited by activating the host immune system even without viral presence in the heart.
35218001 | Could the COVID-19-Driven Increased Use of Ivermectin Lead to Incidents of Imbalanced Gut Microbiota and Dysbiosis? The microfilaricidal anthelmintic drug ivermectin (IVM) has been used since 1988 for treatment of parasitic infections in animals and humans. The discovery of IVM's ability to inactivate the eukaryotic importin alpha/beta1 heterodimer (IMPalpha/beta1), used by some viruses to enter the nucleus of susceptible hosts, led to the suggestion of using the drug to combat SARS-CoV-2 infection. Since IVM has antibacterial properties, prolonged use may affect commensal gut microbiota. In this review, we investigate the antimicrobial properties of IVM, possible mode of activity, and the concern that treatment of individuals diagnosed with COVID-19 may lead to dysbiosis.
37421949 | TMEM106B is a receptor mediating ACE2-independent SARS-CoV-2 cell entry. SARS-CoV-2 is associated with broad tissue tropism, a characteristic often determined by the availability of entry receptors on host cells. Here, we show that TMEM106B, a lysosomal transmembrane protein, can serve as an alternative receptor for SARS-CoV-2 entry into angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-negative cells. Spike substitution E484D increased TMEM106B binding, thereby enhancing TMEM106B-mediated entry. TMEM106B-specific monoclonal antibodies blocked SARS-CoV-2 infection, demonstrating a role of TMEM106B in viral entry. Using X-ray crystallography, cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM), and hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), we show that the luminal domain (LD) of TMEM106B engages the receptor-binding motif of SARS-CoV-2 spike. Finally, we show that TMEM106B promotes spike-mediated syncytium formation, suggesting a role of TMEM106B in viral fusion. Together, our findings identify an ACE2-independent SARS-CoV-2 infection mechanism that involves cooperative interactions with the receptors heparan sulfate and TMEM106B.
32607510 | In vivo antiviral host response to SARS-CoV-2 by viral load, sex, and age. Despite limited genomic diversity, SARS-CoV-2 has shown a wide range of clinical manifestations in different patient populations. The mechanisms behind these host differences are still unclear. Here, we examined host response gene expression across infection status, viral load, age, and sex among shotgun RNA-sequencing profiles of nasopharyngeal swabs from 430 individuals with PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 and 54 negative controls. SARS-CoV-2 induced a strong antiviral response with upregulation of antiviral factors such as OAS1-3 and IFIT1-3 , and Th1 chemokines CXCL9/10/11 , as well as a reduction in transcription of ribosomal proteins. SARS-CoV-2 culture in human airway epithelial cultures replicated the in vivo antiviral host response. Patient-matched longitudinal specimens (mean elapsed time = 6.3 days) demonstrated reduction in interferon-induced transcription, recovery of transcription of ribosomal proteins, and initiation of wound healing and humoral immune responses. Expression of interferon-responsive genes, including ACE2 , increased as a function of viral load, while transcripts for B cell-specific proteins and neutrophil chemokines were elevated in patients with lower viral load. Older individuals had reduced expression of Th1 chemokines CXCL9/10/11 and their cognate receptor, CXCR3 , as well as CD8A and granzyme B, suggesting deficiencies in trafficking and/or function of cytotoxic T cells and natural killer (NK) cells. Relative to females, males had reduced B and NK cell-specific transcripts and an increase in inhibitors of NF-kappaB signaling, possibly inappropriately throttling antiviral responses. Collectively, our data demonstrate that host responses to SARS-CoV-2 are dependent on viral load and infection time course, with observed differences due to age and sex that may contribute to disease severity.
34696514 | Effect of Ivermectin and Atorvastatin on Nuclear Localization of Importin Alpha and Drug Target Expression Profiling in Host Cells from Nasopharyngeal Swabs of SARS-CoV-2- Positive Patients. Nuclear transport and vesicle trafficking are key cellular functions involved in the pathogenesis of RNA viruses. Among other pleiotropic effects on virus-infected host cells, ivermectin (IVM) inhibits nuclear transport mechanisms mediated by importins and atorvastatin (ATV) affects actin cytoskeleton-dependent trafficking controlled by Rho GTPases signaling. In this work, we first analyzed the response to infection in nasopharyngeal swabs from SARS-CoV-2-positive and -negative patients by assessing the gene expression of the respective host cell drug targets importins and Rho GTPases. COVID-19 patients showed alterations in KPNA3, KPNA5, KPNA7, KPNB1, RHOA, and CDC42 expression compared with non-COVID-19 patients. An in vitro model of infection with Poly(I:C), a synthetic analog of viral double-stranded RNA, triggered NF-kappaB activation, an effect that was halted by IVM and ATV treatment. Importin and Rho GTPases gene expression was also impaired by these drugs. Furthermore, through confocal microscopy, we analyzed the effects of IVM and ATV on nuclear to cytoplasmic importin alpha distribution, alone or in combination. Results showed a significant inhibition of importin alpha nuclear accumulation under IVM and ATV treatments. These findings confirm transcriptional alterations in importins and Rho GTPases upon SARS-CoV-2 infection and point to IVM and ATV as valid drugs to impair nuclear localization of importin alpha when used at clinically-relevant concentrations.
27783955 | A Cas9 Ribonucleoprotein Platform for Functional Genetic Studies of HIV-Host Interactions in Primary Human T Cells. New genetic tools are needed to understand the functional interactions between HIV and human host factors in primary cells. We recently developed a method to edit the genome of primary CD4+ T cells by electroporation of CRISPR/Cas9 ribonucleoproteins (RNPs). Here, we adapted this methodology to a high-throughput platform for the efficient, arrayed editing of candidate host factors. CXCR4 or CCR5 knockout cells generated with this method are resistant to HIV infection in a tropism-dependent manner, whereas knockout of LEDGF or TNPO3 results in a tropism-independent reduction in infection. CRISPR/Cas9 RNPs can furthermore edit multiple genes simultaneously, enabling studies of interactions among multiple host and viral factors. Finally, in an arrayed screen of 45 genes associated with HIV integrase, we identified several candidate dependency/restriction factors, demonstrating the power of this approach as a discovery platform. This technology should accelerate target validation for pharmaceutical and cell-based therapies to cure HIV infection.
35315098 | Molnupiravir: A lethal mutagenic drug against rapidly mutating severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2-A narrative review. Broad-spectrum antiviral agents targeting viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) are expected to be a key therapeutic strategy in the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic and its future variants of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus that causes COVID-19. Molnupiravir is a nucleoside analog that in vivo experiments have been reported to inhibit the replication of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. Clinical trials of molnupiravir as a therapy for patients with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 also suggest its significant therapeutic efficacy in comparison to placebo. Molnupiravir is lethally mutagenic against viral RNA, but its effect on host cell DNA is being questioned. Herein, the safety concerns of molnupiravir are discussed with recent findings from published reports and clinical trials. The unchanged efficacy of molnupiravir against mutated SARS-CoV-2 variants is also highlighted. With its administration via the oral route, molnupiravir is expected to turn the tide of the COVID-19 pandemic.
37535672 | Deep mutagenesis scanning using whole trimeric SARS-CoV-2 spike highlights the importance of NTD-RBD interactions in determining spike phenotype. New variants of SARS-CoV-2 are continually emerging with mutations in spike associated with increased transmissibility and immune escape. Phenotypic maps can inform the prediction of concerning mutations from genomic surveillance, however most of these maps currently derive from studies using monomeric RBD, while spike is trimeric, and contains additional domains. These maps may fail to reflect interdomain interactions in the prediction of phenotypes. To try to improve on this, we developed a platform for deep mutational scanning using whole trimeric spike. We confirmed a previously reported epistatic effect within the RBD affecting ACE2 binding, that highlights the importance of updating the base spike sequence for future mutational scanning studies. Using post vaccine sera, we found that the immune response of vaccinated individuals was highly focused on one or two epitopes in the RBD and that single point mutations at these positions can account for most of the immune escape mediated by the Omicron BA.1 RBD. However, unexpectedly we found that the BA.1 RBD alone does not account for the high level of antigenic escape by BA.1 spike. We show that the BA.1 NTD amplifies the immune evasion of its associated RBD. BA.1 NTD reduces neutralistion by RBD directed monoclonal antibodies, and impacts ACE2 interaction. NTD variation is thus an important mechanism of immune evasion by SARS-CoV-2. Such effects are not seen when pre-stabilized spike proteins are used, suggesting the interdomain effects require protein mobility to express their phenotype.
36788814 | Drought and water availability analysis for irrigation and household water needs in the Krueng Jrue sub-watershed. This study aimed to analyze drought conditions and evaluate irrigation water availability and household water needs in the Krueng Jrue sub-watershed, Aceh Province, Indonesia. The Z-score statistics method was developed to analyze the drought, and the Mock model was used to generate discharges. We performed model validation using linear regression, which produced a coefficient of determination (R 2 = 0.90**) and coefficient of regression (r = 0.95**). In general, this area had a normal Z-score for precipitation (ZSP) class with 90 events (75%) and a normal Z-score for a discharge (ZSD) class with 89 events (74.2%). There were 0-11 (0-9.2%) moderate wet, very wet, extreme wet, moderate drought, and severe drought events. The consistency between the ZSP and ZSD indices reached 85.8%, indicating consensus between the meteorological droughts that were analyzed based on rainfall (ZSP) and hydrological droughts analyzed based on water discharge (ZSD). ZSP and ZSD indices showed negative values during the dry season (April to September) and positive values during the rainy season (October to March). There was a surplus of water availability for irrigation and household water needs during the rainy season and a deficit during the dry season. However, water deficits also occurred in certain months during the rainy rendeng planting season, for example, in October 2009, 2013, 2016, and 2017 as well as in February between 2008 to 2011 and from 2014 to 2017. This observation was probably due to the influence of global climate variables that need to be substantiated. This study offers necessary information for farmers, the community, and the local government when anticipating drought phenomenon, organizing the rice planting season, and evaluating water availability in other watersheds.
32294999 | Filler-Modified Castor Oil-Based Polyurethane Foam for the Removal of Aqueous Heavy Metals Detected Using Laser-Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy (LIBS) Technique. The use of polymeric material in heavy metal removal from wastewater is trending. Heavy metal removal from wastewater of the industrial process is of utmost importance in green/sustainable manufacturing. Production of absorbent materials from a natural source for industrial wastewater has been on the increase. In this research, polyurethane foam (PUF), an adsorbent used by industries to adsorb heavy metal from wastewater, was prepared from a renewable source. Castor oil-based polyurethane foam (COPUF) was produced and modified for improved adsorption performance using fillers, analyzed with laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS). The fillers (zeolite, bentonite, and activated carbon) were added to the COPUF matrix allowing the modification on its surface morphology and charge. The materials were characterized using Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and thermal gravimetry analysis (TGA), while their adsorption performance was studied by comparing the LIBS spectra. The bentonite-modified COPUF (B/COPUF) gave the highest value of the normalized Pb I (405.7 nm) line intensity (2.3), followed by zeolite-modified COPUF (Z/COPUF) (1.9), and activated carbon-modified COPUF (AC/COPUF) (0.2), which indicates the adsorption performance of Pb2+ on the respective materials. The heavy metal ions' adsorption on the B/COPUF dominantly resulted from the electrostatic attraction. This study demonstrated the potential use of B/COPUF in adsorption and LIBS quantitative analysis of aqueous heavy metal ions.
25989275 | KPNA2 is a nuclear export protein that contributes to aberrant localisation of key proteins and poor prognosis of breast cancer. BACKGROUND: It is recognised that modulations of the nuclear import of macromolecules have a role in changing cellular phenotypes and carcinogenesis. We and others have noticed that aberrant subcellular localisation of DNA damage response (DDR) proteins in breast cancer (BC) is associated with loss-of-function phenotype. This study aims to investigate the biological and clinical significance of the nucleocytoplasmic transport protein karyopherin alpha-2 (KPNA2), and its role in controlling DDR proteins subcellular localisation in BC. METHODS: A large (n=1494) and well-characterised series of early-stage invasive BC with a long-term follow-up was assessed for KPNA2 protein by using immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: KPNA2 expression was associated with the subcellular localisation of key DDR proteins that showed cytoplasmic expression including BRCA1, RAD51, SMC6L1, gammaH2AX, BARD1, UBC9, PIAS1 and CHK1. High level of KPNA2 was associated not only with cytoplasmic localisation of these proteins but also with their low/negative nuclear expression. Positive KPNA2 expression was associated with negative oestrogen receptor and triple-negative phenotype. Survival analysis showed that KPNA2 was associated with poor outcome (P<0.0001), but this effect was not independent of other prognostic variables. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides further evidence for the complexity of DDR mechanism in BC, and that KNPA2 has a role in the aberrant subcellular localisation of DDR proteins with subsequent impaired function.
31071187 | Analysis of risks of gastric cancer by gastric mucosa among Indonesian ethnic groups. Indonesia is a big country with multiethnic populations whose gastric cancer risks have not been elucidated. We performed a nationwide survey and obtained histological specimens from 1053 individuals in 19 cities across the country. We examined the gastric mucosa, the topography, the atrophic gastritis risk factors, and the gastric cancer risk scores. Almost half (46.1%) of the patients with dyspeptic symptoms had histological abnormalities; chronic (36.3%) and atrophic gastritis (28.9%) being the most frequent. Individuals of the Timor ethnicity had the highest prevalence of acute (52.6%) and chronic gastritis (68.4%), even those negative for H. pylori. Our topographic analysis showed the majority of patients had predominantly antral acute and chronic gastritis. A multivariate logistic regression model showed age (Odds ratio [OR], 1.107), Timor ethnicity (OR, 8.531), and H. pylori infection (OR, 22.643) as independent risk factors for presence of atrophic gastritis. In addition, the gastric cancer risk score was highest in those from Timor, Papuan, and Bugis ethnic populations. Overall, Indonesia is a low-risk gastric cancer country. However, several ethnic groups displayed severe gastric mucosa symptoms suggesting policy makers should focus on those ethnic groups to perform gastric cancer screenings and to eradicate H. pylori.
32891630 | Development of a Minimal Physiologically-Based Pharmacokinetic Model to Simulate Lung Exposure in Humans Following Oral Administration of Ivermectin for COVID-19 Drug Repurposing. SARS-CoV-2 utilizes the IMPalpha/beta1 heterodimer to enter host cell nuclei after gaining cellular access through the ACE2 receptor. Ivermectin has shown antiviral activity by inhibiting the formation of the importin-alpha (IMPalpha) and IMPbeta1 subunits as well as dissociating the IMPalpha/beta1 heterodimer and has in vitro efficacy against SARS-CoV-2. Plasma and lung ivermectin concentrations vs. time profiles in cattle were used to determine the apparent plasma to lung tissue partition coefficient of ivermectin. This coefficient, together with a simulated geometric mean plasma profile of ivermectin from a published population pharmacokinetic model, was utilized to develop a minimal physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (mPBPK) model. The mPBPK model accurately described the simulated ivermectin plasma concentration profile in humans. The mPBPK model was also used to simulate human lung exposure to ivermectin after 12, 30, and 120 mg oral doses. The simulated ivermectin lung exposures reached a maximum concentration of 772 ng/mL, far less than the estimated 1750 ng/mL IC50 reported for ivermectin against SARS-CoV-2 in vitro. Further studies of ivermectin either reformulated for inhaled delivery or in combination with other antivirals with differing mechanisms of action is needed to assess its therapeutic potential.
38486021 | Antibody-independent protection against heterologous SARS-CoV-2 challenge conferred by prior infection or vaccination. Vaccines have reduced severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) morbidity and mortality, yet emerging variants challenge their effectiveness. The prevailing approach to updating vaccines targets the antibody response, operating under the presumption that it is the primary defense mechanism following vaccination or infection. This perspective, however, can overlook the role of T cells, particularly when antibody levels are low or absent. Here we show, through studies in mouse models lacking antibodies but maintaining functional B cells and lymphoid organs, that immunity conferred by prior infection or mRNA vaccination can protect against SARS-CoV-2 challenge independently of antibodies. Our findings, using three distinct models inclusive of a novel human/mouse ACE2 hybrid, highlight that CD8+ T cells are essential for combating severe infections, whereas CD4+ T cells contribute to managing milder cases, with interferon-gamma having an important function in this antibody-independent defense. These findings highlight the importance of T cell responses in vaccine development, urging a broader perspective on protective immunity beyond just antibodies.
36656967 | Interdependent Nuclear Co-Trafficking of ASPP1 and p53 Aggravates Cardiac Ischemia/Reperfusion Injury. OBJECTIVE: ASPP1 (apoptosis stimulating of p53 protein 1) is critical in regulating cell apoptosis as a cofactor of p53 to promote its transcriptional activity in the nucleus. However, whether cytoplasmic ASPP1 affects p53 nuclear trafficking and its role in cardiac diseases remains unknown. This study aims to explore the mechanism by which ASPP1 modulates p53 nuclear trafficking and the subsequent contribution to cardiac ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. METHODS AND RESULTS: The immunofluorescent staining showed that under normal condition ASPP1 and p53 colocalized in the cytoplasm of neonatal mouse ventricular cardiomyocytes, while they were both upregulated and translocated to the nuclei upon hypoxia/reoxygenation treatment. The nuclear translocation of ASPP1 and p53 was interdependent, as knockdown of either ASPP1 or p53 attenuated nuclear translocation of the other one. Inhibition of importin-beta1 resulted in the cytoplasmic sequestration of both p53 and ASPP1 in neonatal mouse ventricular cardiomyocytes with hypoxia/reoxygenation stimulation. Overexpression of ASPP1 potentiated, whereas knockdown of ASPP1 inhibited the expression of Bax (Bcl2-associated X), PUMA (p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis), and Noxa, direct apoptosis-associated targets of p53. ASPP1 was also increased in the I/R myocardium. Cardiomyocyte-specific transgenic overexpression of ASPP1 aggravated I/R injury as indicated by increased infarct size and impaired cardiac function. Conversely, knockout of ASPP1 mitigated cardiac I/R injury. The same qualitative data were observed in neonatal mouse ventricular cardiomyocytes exposed to hypoxia/reoxygenation injury. Furthermore, inhibition of p53 significantly blunted the proapoptotic activity and detrimental effects of ASPP1 both in vitro and in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: Binding of ASPP1 to p53 triggers their nuclear cotranslocation via importin-beta1 that eventually exacerbates cardiac I/R injury. The findings imply that interfering the expression of ASPP1 or the interaction between ASPP1 and p53 to block their nuclear trafficking represents an important therapeutic strategy for cardiac I/R injury.
37735363 | Immune and cytokine alterations and RNA-sequencing analysis in gestational tissues from pregnant women after recovery from COVID-19. BACKGROUND: COVID-19 is a global pandemic. Understanding the immune responses in pregnant women recovering from COVID-19 may suggest new therapeutic approaches. METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study between March 1, 2020, and September 1, 2020. Participants were assigned into the convalescent COVID-19 group if they had a previous COVID-19 infection during pregnancy or the healthy control group. RNA-Seq was performed on human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUMSCs) and human amniotic mesenchymal stem cells (hAMSCs). Immunohistochemical staining, cytokine testing, lymphocyte subset analysis, RNA-Seq, and functional analyses were performed on the placental and umbilical cord blood (UCB) and compared between the two groups. RESULTS: A total of 40 pregnant women were enrolled, with 13 in the convalescent group and 27 in the control group. There were 1024, 46, and 32 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) identified in the placental tissue, hUMSCs, and hAMSCs between the convalescent and control groups, respectively. Enrichment analysis showed those DEGs were associated with immune homeostasis, antiviral activity, cell proliferation, and tissue repair. Levels of IL-6, TNF-alpha, total lymphocyte counts, B lymphocytes, Tregs percentages, and IFN-gamma expressing CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were statistically different between two groups (p <= 0.05). ACE2 and TMPRSS2 expressed on the placenta were not different between the two groups (p > 0.05). CONCLUSION: Multiple changes in immune responses occurred in the placental tissue, hUMSCs, and hAMSCs after maternal recovery from COVID-19, which might imply their protective roles against COVID-19 infection.
35680023 | Immunoregulation of Ghrelin in neurocognitive sequelae associated with COVID-19: an in silico investigation. Some patients suffering from the new Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) develop an exaggerated inflammatory response triggered by a \cytokine storm\ resulting in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) with the concomitant activation of non-specific inflammatory reactivity in the circulatory system and other organs, leading to multiorgan failure, leaky vasculature, coagulopathies and stroke. Impairment of brain functions may also occur as dysregulations in immune function resulting from neuroendocrine interactions. In this study, we explored, by bioinformatics approaches, the interaction between the multiple inflammatory agents involved in SARS-CoV-2 and Ghrelin (Ghre) together with its receptor GHSR-1A, which are described as anti-inflammatory mediators, in order to investigate what could trigger the hyper-inflammatory response in some SARS-CoV-2 patients. In our analysis, we found several interactions of Ghre and GHSR-1A with SARS-CoV-2 interacting human genes. We observed a correlation between Ghre, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 ACE2, toll-like receptors 9 (TLR9), and Acidic chitinase (CHIA), whereas its receptor GHSR-1A interacts with chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3), CCR3, CCR5, CCR7, coagulation factor II (thrombin) receptor-like 1 (F2RL1), vitamin D receptor (VDR), Nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-containing protein 1 (NOD1) and DDP4 in receptor dipeptidyl peptidase-4. To our knowledge, our findings show, for the first time, that Ghre and GHSR-1A may exert an immunomodulatory function in the course of SARS-Cov-2 infection.
29248968 | Contradictory intrahepatic immune responses activated in high-load hepatitis C virus livers compared with low-load livers. We found a HLA class II histocompatibility antigen gene, DQ alpha 1 chain (HLA-DQA1), that was expressed more than 9-fold higher in high-load hepatitis C virus (HCV) livers than low-load HCV livers using transcriptomics of chronic HCV-infected livers. To further investigate this finding, we examined which cells were positive for HLA-DQA1 and what liver immune responses were different between HCV-high and -low livers. HLA-DQA1-positive cells were significantly increased in the HCV-high group, and most positive cells were identified as non-parenchymal sinusoid cells and lymphocytic infiltrates in the portal area. Parenchymal hepatocytes were negative for HLA-DQA1. HLA-DQA1-positive cells in the liver sinusoid were positive for CD68 (macrophages or Kupffer cells); those in the lymphocytic infiltrates were positive for CD20 (B cells) or CD3 (T cells). mRNA levels of antigen-presenting cell (APC) markers such as CD68 and CD11c were significantly upregulated in the HCV-high group and were correlated with HLA-DQA mRNA levels. CD8B mRNA (CD8+ T cells) was upregulated in both HCV-positive livers compared with HCV-negative livers, whereas CD154 mRNA (CD4+ T helper cell) was upregulated in the HCV-high group compared with the HCV-low group. The immune regulatory molecules FOXP3 mRNA (regulatory T cell, T reg) and programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) mRNA were significantly increased in the HCV-high group. HCV-high livers had two molecular immune responses: increased APC numbers and adaptive immunity and the induction of immune tolerance. The local hepatic imbalance of contradictory immune responses might be responsible for high HCV loads.
36446204 | Global emerging Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2: Impacts, challenges and strategies. Newly emerging variants of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) are continuously posing high global public health concerns and panic resulting in waves of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Depending on the extent of genomic variations, mutations and adaptation, few of the variants gain the ability to spread quickly across many countries, acquire higher virulency and ability to cause severe disease, morbidity and mortality. These variants have been implicated in lessening the efficacy of the current COVID-19 vaccines and immunotherapies resulting in break-through viral infections in vaccinated individuals and recovered patients. Altogether, these could hinder the protective herd immunity to be achieved through the ongoing progressive COVID-19 vaccination. Currently, the only variant of interest of SARS-CoV-2 is Omicron that was first identified in South Africa. In this review, we present the overview on the emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants with a special focus on the Omicron variant, its lineages and hybrid variants. We discuss the hypotheses of the origin, genetic change and underlying molecular mechanism behind higher transmissibility and immune escape of Omicron variant. Major concerns related to Omicron including the efficacy of the current available immunotherapeutics and vaccines, transmissibility, disease severity, and mortality are discussed. In the last part, challenges and strategies to counter Omicron variant, its lineages and hybrid variants amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic are presented.
34356509 | MCPIP1 Enhances TNF-alpha-Mediated Apoptosis through Downregulation of the NF-kappaB/cFLIP Axis. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1-induced protein 1 (MCPIP1) is rapidly produced under proinflammatory stimuli, thereby feeding back to downregulate excessive inflammation. In this study, we used the stable, inducible expressions of wild-type (WT) MCPIP1 and an MCPIP1-D141N mutant in T-REx-293 cells by means of a tetracycline on (Tet-on) system. We found that WT MCPIP1 but not MCPIP1-D141N mutant expression dramatically increased apoptosis, caspase-3, -7, -8, and -9 activation, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation in TNF-alpha-treated cells. The pan-caspase inhibitor, z-VAD-fmk, and the caspase-1 inhibitor, z-YVAD-fmk, but not the JNK inhibitor, SP600125, significantly reversed apoptosis and caspase activation in TNF-alpha/MCPIP1-treated cells. Surprisingly, MCPIP1 itself was also cleaved, and the cleavage was suppressed by treatment with the pan-caspase inhibitor and caspase-1 inhibitor. Moreover, MCPIP1 was found to contain a caspase-1/-4 consensus recognition sequence located in residues 234~238. As expected, the WT MCPIP1 but not the MCPIP1-D141N mutant suppressed NF-kappaB activation, as evidenced by inhibition of IkappaB kinase (IKK) phosphorylation and IkappaB degradation using Western blotting, IKK activity using in vitro kinase activity, and NF-kappaB translocation to nuclei using an immunofluorescence assay. Interestingly, MCPIP1 also significantly inhibited importin alpha3 and importin alpha4 expressions, which are major nuclear transporter receptors for NF-kappaB. Inhibition of NF-kappaB activation further downregulated expression of the caspase-8 inhibitor, cFLIP. In summary, the results suggest that MCPIP1 could enhance the TNF-alpha-induced apoptotic pathway through decreasing NF-kappaB activation and cFLIP expression.
38455627 | Co-incidence of COVID-19 and hepatocellular carcinoma during pregnancy: Double punches to disease severity and mortality? Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), a considerable leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, is the most common primary liver cancer with poor prognosis and outcome. Many advances in prevention, screening, and new technologies in diagnostics and therapy have been achieved, but its incidence and mortality remain increasing. Co-infection of another viral disease in HCC patients with pregnancy might exacerbate the condition and double the mortality rate. The aim of this case report was to describe the co-infection of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in an HCC patient during pregnancy. A 26-year-old woman with 16-17 weeks of gestation was admitted to Dr. Zainoel Abidin Hospital, Banda Aceh, Indonesia with shortness of breath. The patient also reported that the abdomen expanded rapidly in the last three weeks, followed by severe pain and collateral vein appearance. Laboratory findings revealed anemia, leukocytosis, HBsAg reactive, hypoalbuminemia, hyperbilirubinemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), and cancer antigen 125 (CA-125). Ultrasonography indicated gestation with a single fetus, an enlarged liver with a 9.9 x 9.4 cm nodule, and massive ascites. The patient was also RT-PCR-confirmed COVID-19. On day 8 of hospitalization, the patient suddenly reported severe abdominal pain. Ultrasonography revealed fetal distress immediately followed by fetal death. Adequate management of cancer pain, continuous evacuation of ascites, and other supportive care could not save the patient who died on the day 17 of hospitalization. In this case, we found no proof that the patient experienced cirrhosis prior to HCC. Pregnancy through hormonal alteration is thought to be the aggravating factor that accelerates the progression of pre-existing liver disease into carcinoma and infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) worsened the outcome in this patient.
38455620 | Risk factors of early mortality in COVID-19 patients in Indonesia: A retrospective cohort study in a provincial referral hospital of Aceh. Some of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients died after being hospitalized and early mortality is a matter of concern during the pandemic; therefore, it is critical to determine which patients are the most vulnerable of having early mortality. The aim of this study was to determine the risk factors for early mortality among hospitalized COVID-19 patients in Indonesia. A retrospective cohort study was conducted on hospitalized COVID-19 patients from July 2020 to September 2021 at Dr. Zainoel Abidin Hospital, Banda Aceh, Indonesia. Demographic data, clinical characteristics, laboratory findings, and mortality were collected. Early mortality was defined as a death before seven days of the hospitalization. Multivariate regression analysis was employed to determine the risk factors associated with early mortality. We included the data of 624 COVID-19 patients who died during the study period. More than half of the patients were male and aged over 50 years old. The average hospitalization period was 10 days and most patients had more than two comorbidities. Chronic lung disease was the most common comorbidity (46.0%) followed by respiratory disease (26.8%) and heart disease (14.3%). Multiple comorbidities and elevated D-dimers exceeding 3376.92 ng/mL were associated with early mortality with OR: 7.029; 95%CI: 2.02-24.43 and OR: 1.000085, 95%CI: 1.000028-1.000142, respectively. In conclusion, early mortality in COVID-19 patients was associated with having multiple comorbidities and elevated D-dimer level. Therefore, it is crucial to assess the presence of comorbidities and routine laboratory test while managing COVID-19 patients in order to prevent the early mortality.
33339432 | Functional Complexes of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 and Renin-Angiotensin System Receptors: Expression in Adult but Not Fetal Lung Tissue. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is a membrane peptidase and a component of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) that has been found in cells of all organs, including the lungs. While ACE2 has been identified as the receptor for severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronaviruses, the mechanism underlying cell entry remains unknown. Human immunodeficiency virus infects target cells via CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4)-mediated endocytosis. Furthermore, CXCR4 interacts with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (CD26/DPPIV), an enzyme that cleaves CXCL12/SDF-1, which is the chemokine that activates this receptor. By analogy, we hypothesized that ACE2 might also be capable of interactions with RAS-associated G-protein coupled receptors. Using resonance energy transfer and cAMP and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling assays, we found that human ACE2 interacts with RAS-related receptors, namely the angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R), the angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT2R), and the MAS1 oncogene receptor (MasR). Although these interactions lead to minor alterations of signal transduction, ligand binding to AT1R and AT2R, but not to MasR, resulted in the upregulation of ACE2 cell surface expression. Proximity ligation assays performed in situ revealed macromolecular complexes containing ACE2 and AT1R, AT2R or MasR in adult but not fetal mouse lung tissue. These findings highlight the relevance of RAS in SARS-CoV-2 infection and the role of ACE2-containing complexes as potential therapeutic targets.
37650619 | SARS-CoV-2 omicron spike simulations: broad antibody escape, weakened ACE2 binding, and modest furin cleavage. The recent emergence of the omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus with large numbers of mutations has raised concern about a potential new surge in infections. Here we use molecular dynamics to study the biophysics of the interface of the BA1 and BA2 omicron spike protein binding to (i) the ACE2 receptor protein, (ii) antibodies from all known binding regions, and (iii) the furin binding domain. Our simulations suggest that while there is a significant reduction of antibody (Ab) binding strength corresponding to escape, the omicron spikes pay a cost in terms of weaker receptor binding as measured by interfacial hydrogen bonds (H-bond). The furin cleavage domain (FCD) is the same or weaker binding than the delta variant, suggesting lower fusogenicity resulting in less viral load and disease intensity than the delta variant. IMPORTANCE The BA1 and BA2 and closely related BA2.12.2 and BA.5 omicron variants of SARS-CoV-2 dominate the current global infection landscape. Given the high number of mutations, particularly those which will lead to antibody escape, it is important to establish accurate methods that can guide developing health policy responses that identify at a fundamental level whether omicron and its variants are more threatening than its predecessors, especially delta. The importance of our work is to demonstrate that simple in silico simulations can predict biochemical binding details of the omicron spike protein that have epidemiological consequences, especially for binding to the cells and for fusing the viral membrane with the cells. In each case, we predicted weaker binding of the omicron spike, which agreed with subsequent experimental results. Future virology experiments will be needed to test these predictions further.
31419537 | Gene expression associated with immune response in Atlantic salmon head-kidney vaccinated with inactivated whole-cell bacterin of Piscirickettsia salmonis and pathogenic isolates. Piscirickettsiosis is the most challenging disease present in the Chilean salmon industry. The aim of this study was to describe the expression of genes associated with immune response of Atlantic salmon intraperitoneally infected with LF-89 and EM-90 Piscirickettsia salmonis and vaccinated with inactivated whole-cell bacterin of P. salmonis. The fish infected with PS-LF-89 showed an anti-inflammatory response, whereas this finding was not observed in the PS-EM-90-infected fish and vaccinated fish. Fish infected with both P. salmonis isolates showed mhc1-mhc2, cd4-cd8b and igm overexpression, suggesting that P. salmonis promotes a T CD4+ and T CD8+ cell response and a humoral immune response. The vaccinated-fish exhibited mhc1, mhc2 and cd4 overexpression but a significant downregulation of cd8b and igm, suggesting that the vaccine supported the CD4+ T-cell response but did not induce an immune response mediated by CD8+ T cells or a humoral response. In conclusion, the expression pattern of genes related to the humoral and cell-mediated adaptive immune response showed upregulation in fish infected with P. salmonis and down-regulation in vaccinated fish. The results of this study contribute to our understanding of the immune response against P. salmonis and can be used in the optimization of SRS prevention and control measures.
38343437 | Low pre-existing endemic human coronavirus (HCoV-NL63)-specific T cell frequencies are associated with impaired SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell responses in people living with HIV. Background: Understanding how HIV affects SARS-CoV-2 immunity is crucial for managing COVID-19 in sub-Saharan populations due to frequent coinfections. Our previous research showed that unsuppressed HIV is associated with weaker immune responses to SARS-CoV-2, but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. We investigated how pre-existing T cell immunity against an endemic human coronavirus HCoV-NL63 impacts SARS-CoV-2 T cell responses in people living with HIV (PLWH) compared to uninfected individuals, and how HIV-related T cell dysfunction influences responses to SARS-CoV-2 variants. Methods: We used flow cytometry to measure T cell responses following PBMC stimulation with peptide pools representing beta, delta, wild-type, and HCoV-NL63 spike proteins. Luminex bead assay was used to measure circulating plasma chemokine and cytokine levels. ELISA and MSD V-PLEX COVID-19 Serology and ACE2 Neutralization assays were used to measure humoral responses. Results: Regardless of HIV status, we found a strong positive correlation between responses to HCoV-NL63 and SARS-CoV-2. However, PLWH exhibited weaker CD4+ T cell responses to both HCoV-NL63 and SARS-CoV-2 than HIV-uninfected individuals. PLWH also had higher proportions of functionally exhausted (PD-1high) CD4+ T cells producing fewer proinflammatory cytokines (IFNgamma and TNFalpha) and had elevated plasma IL-2 and IL-12(p70) levels compared to HIV-uninfected individuals. HIV status didn't significantly affect IgG antibody levels against SARS-CoV-2 antigens or ACE2 binding inhibition activity. Conclusion: Our results indicate that the decrease in SARS-CoV-2 specific T cell responses in PLWH may be attributable to reduced frequencies of pre-existing cross-reactive responses. However, HIV infection minimally affected the quality and magnitude of humoral responses, and this could explain why the risk of severe COVID-19 in PLWH is highly heterogeneous.
33868239 | Genetics Insight for COVID-19 Susceptibility and Severity: A Review. Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) presents a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from an asymptomatic to a severe clinical course. The host genetic background influence on the susceptibility and outcome of multiples infectious diseases has been previously reported. Herein, we aimed to describe relevant identified genetic variants and those potentially related to the inter-individual variability of COVID-19 susceptibility and/or severity considering the physiopathological pathway of the disease The HLA-A*25:01, -B*15:27, -B*46:01, -C*01:02, and -C*07:29 alleles have been associated with COVID-19 susceptibility; while HLA-A*02:02, -B*15:03, and -C*12:03 have been identified as low-risk alleles. Variants in cytokine genes such as IL1B, IL1R1, IL1RN, IL6, IL17A, FCGR2A, and TNF could be related to disease susceptibility and cytokine storm, and/or COVID-19 complications (e.g., venous thrombosis). Several variants in ACE2 and TMPRSS2 affecting the expression of the receptors related to COVID-19 have been associated with the disease susceptibility and risk factors. Finally, two GWAS have identified the loci 3p21.31 (LZTFL1, SLC6A20, CCR9, FYCO1, CXCR6, and XCR1) and 9q34.2 (ABO) with COVID-19 severity. Heterogeneous results in the association of genetic variants with COVID-19 susceptibility and severity were observed. The mechanism of identified risk-genes and studies in different populations are still warranted.
38622380 | Age-specific nasal epithelial responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Children infected with SARS-CoV-2 rarely progress to respiratory failure. However, the risk of mortality in infected people over 85 years of age remains high. Here we investigate differences in the cellular landscape and function of paediatric (<12 years), adult (30-50 years) and older adult (>70 years) ex vivo cultured nasal epithelial cells in response to infection with SARS-CoV-2. We show that cell tropism of SARS-CoV-2, and expression of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 in nasal epithelial cell subtypes, differ between age groups. While ciliated cells are viral replication centres across all age groups, a distinct goblet inflammatory subtype emerges in infected paediatric cultures and shows high expression of interferon-stimulated genes and incomplete viral replication. In contrast, older adult cultures infected with SARS-CoV-2 show a proportional increase in basaloid-like cells, which facilitate viral spread and are associated with altered epithelial repair pathways. We confirm age-specific induction of these cell types by integrating data from in vivo COVID-19 studies and validate that our in vitro model recapitulates early epithelial responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection.
33148660 | ZMYND8 Expression in Breast Cancer Cells Blocks T-Lymphocyte Surveillance to Promote Tumor Growth. Emerging studies indicate that DNA damage in cancer cells triggers antitumor immunity, but its intrinsic regulatory mechanism in breast cancer cells remains poorly understood. Here, we show that ZMYND8 is upregulated and inhibits micronucleus formation and DNA damage in breast cancer cells. Loss of ZMYND8 triggered activation of the DNA sensor cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate synthase in micronuclei, leading to further activation of the downstream signaling effectors stimulator of IFN genes and NF-kappaB, but not TANK-binding kinase 1 and IFN regulatory factor 3, thereby inducing the expression of IFNbeta and IFN-stimulated genes (ISG) in breast cancer cells in vitro and tumors in vivo. ZMYND8 knockout (KO) in breast cancer cells promoted infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, leading to tumor inhibition in syngeneic mouse models, which was significantly attenuated by treatment of anti-CD4/CD8-depleting antibodies or anti-IFNAR1 antibody and in immunodeficient Rag1 KO mice. In human breast tumors, ZMYND8 was negatively correlated with ISGs, CD4, CD8A, CD8B, and the tumor-lymphocyte infiltration phenotype. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that maintenance of genome stability by ZMYND8 causes breast cancer cells to evade cytotoxic T-lymphocyte surveillance, which leads to tumor growth. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings show that ZMYND8 is a new negative and intrinsic regulator of the innate immune response in breast tumor cells, and ZMYND8 may be a possible target for antitumor immunotherapy.
32991819 | Lung Expression of Human Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 Sensitizes the Mouse to SARS-CoV-2 Infection. Preclinical mouse models that recapitulate some characteristics of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) will facilitate focused study of pathogenesis and virus-host responses. Human agniotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) serves as an entry receptor for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) to infect people via binding to envelope spike proteins. Herein we report development and characterization of a rapidly deployable COVID-19 mouse model. C57BL/6J (B6) mice expressing hACE2 in the lung were transduced by oropharyngeal delivery of the recombinant human adenovirus type 5 that expresses hACE2 (Ad5-hACE2). Mice were infected with SARS-CoV-2 at Day 4 after transduction and developed interstitial pneumonia associated with perivascular inflammation, accompanied by significantly higher viral load in lungs at Days 3, 6, and 12 after infection compared with Ad5-empty control group. SARS-CoV-2 was detected in pneumocytes in alveolar septa. Transcriptomic analysis of lungs demonstrated that the infected Ad5-hACE mice had a significant increase in IFN-dependent chemokines Cxcl9 and Cxcl10, and genes associated with effector T-cell populations including Cd3 g, Cd8a, and Gzmb. Pathway analysis showed that several Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways were enriched in the data set, including cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, the chemokine signaling pathway, the NOD-like receptor signaling pathway, the measles pathway, and the IL-17 signaling pathway. This response is correlative to clinical response in lungs of patients with COVID-19. These results demonstrate that expression of hACE2 via adenovirus delivery system sensitized the mouse to SARS-CoV-2 infection and resulted in the development of a mild COVID-19 phenotype, highlighting the immune and inflammatory host responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. This rapidly deployable COVID-19 mouse model is useful for preclinical and pathogenesis studies of COVID-19.
34099795 | Hyperlipidemic hypersensitivity to lethal microbial inflammation and its reversal by selective targeting of nuclear transport shuttles. Hyperlipidemia, the hallmark of Metabolic Syndrome that afflicts millions of people worldwide, exacerbates life-threatening infections. We present a new evidence for the mechanism of hyperlipidemic hypersensitivity to microbial inflammation caused by pathogen-derived inducer, LPS. We demonstrate that hyperlipidemic animals succumbed to a non-lethal dose of LPS whereas normolipidemic controls survived. Strikingly, survival of hyperlipidemic animals was restored when the nuclear import of stress-responsive transcription factors (SRTFs), Sterol Regulatory Element-Binding Proteins (SREBPs), and Carbohydrate-Responsive Element-Binding Proteins (ChREBPs) was impeded by targeting the nuclear transport checkpoint with cell-penetrating, biselective nuclear transport modifier (NTM) peptide. Furthermore, the burst of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, microvascular endothelial injury in the liver, lungs, heart, and kidneys, and trafficking of inflammatory cells were also suppressed. To dissect the role of nuclear transport signaling pathways we designed and developed importin-selective NTM peptides. Selective targeting of the importin alpha5, ferrying SRTFs and ChREBPs, protected 70-100% hyperlipidemic animals. Targeting importin beta1, that transports SREBPs, was only effective after 3-week treatment that lowered blood triglycerides, cholesterol, glucose, and averted fatty liver. Thus, the mechanism of hyperlipidemic hypersensitivity to lethal microbial inflammation depends on metabolic and proinflammatory transcription factors mobilization, which can be counteracted by targeting the nuclear transport checkpoint.
37823646 | 4-Octyl itaconate reduces influenza A replication by targeting the nuclear export protein CRM1. In recent years, especially since the outbreak of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 pandemic, the cell-permeable itaconate derivative 4-octyl itaconate (4-OI) has gained traction as a potential antiviral agent. Here, we demonstrate that 4-OI inhibits replication of multiple influenza A viruses (IAV) by restricting nuclear export of viral ribonucleoproteins, a key step in the IAV replication cycle. This nuclear retention is achieved by deactivation and subsequent degradation of chromosomal maintenance 1 protein (CRM1), also known as exportin 1 (XPO1), a host cell protein exploited by IAV during replication. 4-OI-mediated deactivation of CRM1 resulted in the accumulation of the IAV nucleoprotein, the Rev protein of feline immunodeficiency virus, as well as the natural CRM1 cargos p53 and p65, in the nucleus of treated cells. Further mechanism of action studies revealed that, similar to known CRM1 inhibitors, 4-OI modifies a key cysteine in the cargo binding pocket of CRM1 at position 528 through an alkylation reaction called 2,3-dicarboxypropylation. Subsequent studies in a cell line in which the cysteine at position 528 in CRM1 protein was substituted by a serine confirmed that modification of this residue was indeed the cause for the observed inhibitory effect induced by 4-OI on CRM1 function. Overall, this study demonstrated a mechanism through which 4-OI directly interferes with the replication cycle of CRM1-dependent viruses, which contributes to the understanding of the antiviral and anti-inflammatory properties of this multifaceted immuno-metabolite.IMPORTANCEItaconate derivates, as well as the naturally produced metabolite, have been proposed as antivirals against influenza virus. Here, the mechanism behind the antiviral effects of exogenous 4-octyl itaconate (4-OI), a derivative of itaconate, against the influenza A virus replication is demonstrated. The data indicate that 4-OI targets the cysteine at position 528 of the CRM1 protein, resulting in inhibition of the nuclear export of viral ribonucleoprotein complexes in a similar manner as previously described for other selective inhibitors of nuclear export. These results postulate a mechanism not observed before for this immuno-metabolite derivative. This knowledge is helpful for the development of derivatives of 4-OI as potential antiviral and anti-inflammatory therapeutics.
37745627 | Effect of elevated temperature on SARS-CoV-2 viability. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused a worldwide disruption of global health putting healthcare workers at high risk. To reduce the transmission of SARS-CoV-2, in particular during treating the patients, our team aims to develop an optimized isolation chamber. The present study was conducted to evaluate the role of temperature elevation against SARS-CoV-2 viability, where the information would be used to build the isolation chamber. 0.6 mL of the Indonesian isolate of SARS-CoV-2 strain 20201012747 (approximately 10 13 PFU/mL) was incubated for one hour with a variation of temperatures: 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, and 65 C in digital block heater as well as at room temperature (21-23 C) before used to infect Vero E6 cells. The viability was determined using a plaque assay. Our data found a significant reduction of the viral viability from 10 13 PFU/mL to 10 9 PFU/mL after the room temperature was increase to 40 C. Further elevation revealed that 55 C and above resulted in the total elimination of the viral viability. Increasing the temperature 40 C to reduce the SARS-CoV-2 survival could create mild hyperthermia conditions in a patient which could act as a thermotherapy. In addition, according to our findings, thermal sterilization of the vacant isolation chamber could be conducted by increasing the temperature to 55 C. In conclusion, elevating the temperature of the isolation chamber could be one of the main variables for developing an optimized isolation chamber for COVID-19 patients.
34391096 | Cellular and humoral immunogenicity of a SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine in patients on haemodialysis. BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic renal insufficiency on maintenance haemodialysis face an increased risk of COVID-19 induced mortality and impaired vaccine responses. To date, only a few studies have addressed SARS-CoV-2 vaccine elicited immunity in this immunocompromised population. METHODS: We assessed immunogenicity of the mRNA vaccine BNT162b2 in at-risk dialysis patients and characterised systemic cellular and humoral immune responses in serum and saliva using interferon gamma release assay and multiplex-based cytokine and immunoglobulin measurements. We further compared binding capacity and neutralization efficacy of vaccination-induced immunoglobulins against emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants Alpha, Beta, Epsilon and Cluster 5 by ACE2-RBD competition assay. FINDINGS: Patients on maintenance haemodialysis exhibit detectable but variable cellular and humoral immune responses against SARS-CoV-2 and variants of concern after a two-dose regimen of BNT162b2. Although vaccination-induced immunoglobulins were detectable in saliva and plasma, both anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG and neutralization efficacy was reduced compared to a vaccinated non-dialysed control population. Similarly, T-cell mediated interferon gamma release after stimulation with SARS-CoV-2 spike peptides was significantly diminished. INTERPRETATION: Quantifiable humoral and cellular immune responses after BNT162b2 vaccination in individuals on maintenance haemodialysis are encouraging, but urge for longitudinal follow-up to assess longevity of immunity. Diminished virus neutralization and interferon gamma responses in the face of emerging variants of concern may favour this at-risk population for re-vaccination using modified vaccines at the earliest opportunity. FUNDING: Initiative and Networking Fund of the Helmholtz Association of German Research Centres, EU Horizon 2020 research and innovation program, State Ministry of Baden-Wurttemberg for Economic Affairs, Labour and Tourism.
38621233 | Global Rate of Willingness to Volunteer Among Medical and Health Students During Pandemic: Systemic Review and Meta-Analysis. BACKGROUND: During health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, shortages of health care workers often occur. Recruiting students as volunteers could be an option, but it is uncertain whether the idea is well-accepted. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to estimate the global rate of willingness to volunteer among medical and health students in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: A systematic search was conducted on PubMed, Embase, Scopus, and Google Scholar for studies reporting the number of health students willing to volunteer during COVID-19 from 2019 to November 17, 2023. The meta-analysis was performed using a restricted maximum-likelihood model with logit transformation. RESULTS: A total of 21 studies involving 26,056 health students were included in the meta-analysis. The pooled estimate of the willingness-to-volunteer rate among health students across multiple countries was 66.13%, with an I2 of 98.99% and P value of heterogeneity (P-Het)<.001. Removing a study with the highest influence led to the rate being 64.34%. Our stratified analyses indicated that those with older age, being first-year students, and being female were more willing to volunteer (P<.001). From highest to lowest, the rates were 77.38%, 77.03%, 65.48%, 64.11%, 62.71%, and 55.23% in Africa, Western Europe, East and Southeast Asia, Middle East, and Eastern Europe, respectively. Because of the high heterogeneity, the evidence from this study has moderate strength. CONCLUSIONS: The majority of students are willing to volunteer during COVID-19, suggesting that volunteer recruitment is well-accepted.
34157321 | Selinexor, a novel selective inhibitor of nuclear export, reduces SARS-CoV-2 infection and protects the respiratory system in vivo. The novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is responsible for the recent global pandemic. The nuclear export protein (XPO1) has a direct role in the export of SARS-CoV proteins including ORF3b, ORF9b, and nucleocapsid. Inhibition of XPO1 induces anti-inflammatory, anti-viral, and antioxidant pathways. Selinexor is an FDA-approved XPO1 inhibitor. Through bioinformatics analysis, we predicted nuclear export sequences in the ACE-2 protein and confirmed by in vitro testing that inhibition of XPO1 with selinexor induces nuclear localization of ACE-2. Administration of selinexor inhibited viral infection prophylactically as well as therapeutically in vitro. In a ferret model of COVID-19, selinexor treatment reduced viral load in the lungs and protected against tissue damage in the nasal turbinates and lungs in vivo. Our studies demonstrated that selinexor downregulated the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, and GMCSF, commonly associated with the cytokine storm observed in COVID-19 patients. Our findings indicate that nuclear export is critical for SARS-CoV-2 infection and for COVID-19 pathology and suggest that inhibition of XPO1 by selinexor could be a viable anti-viral treatment option.
37778577 | A SARS-CoV-2 nanoparticle vaccine based on chemical conjugation of loxoribine and SpyCatcher/SpyTag. SARS-CoV-2 is a particularly transmissible virus that renders the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic and global severe respiratory distress syndrome. Protein-based vaccines hold great advantages to build the herd immunity for their specificity, effectiveness, and safety. Receptor-binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2 is an appealing antigen for vaccine development. However, adjuvants and delivery system are necessitated to enhance the immunogenicity of RBD. In the present study, RBD was chemically conjugated with loxoribine and SpyCatcher/SpyTag, followed by assembly to form a nanoparticle vaccine. Loxoribine (a TLR7/8 agonist) acted as an adjuvant, and nanoparticles functioned as delivery system for the antigen and the adjuvant. The nanoparticle vaccine elicited high RBD-specific antibody titers, high neutralizing antibody titer, and strong ACE2-blocking activity. It stimulated high splenic levels of Th1-type cytokines (IFN-gamma and IL-2) and Th2-type cytokines (IL-4 and IL-5) in BALB/c mice. It promoted the splenocyte proliferation, enhanced the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell percentage and stimulated the maturation of dendritic cells. The vaccine did not render apparent toxicity to the organs of mice. Thus, the nanoparticle vaccine was of potential to act as a preliminarily safe and effective candidate against SARS-CoV-2.
37459541 | Proxalutamide reduces SARS-CoV-2 infection and associated inflammatory response. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, data suggested that males had a higher risk of developing severe disease and that androgen deprivation therapy might be associated with protection. Combined with the fact that TMPRSS2 (transmembrane serine protease 2), a host entry factor for the SARS-CoV-2 virus, was a well-known androgen-regulated gene, this led to an upsurge of research investigating androgen receptor (AR)-targeting drugs. Proxalutamide, an AR antagonist, was shown in initial clinical studies to benefit COVID-19 patients; however, further validation is needed as one study was retracted. Due to continued interest in proxalutamide, which is in phase 3 trials, we examined its ability to impact SARS-CoV-2 infection and downstream inflammatory responses. Proxalutamide exerted similar effects as enzalutamide, an AR antagonist prescribed for advanced prostate cancer, in decreasing AR signaling and expression of TMPRSS2 and angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), the SARS-CoV-2 receptor. However, proxalutamide led to degradation of AR protein, which was not observed with enzalutamide. Proxalutamide inhibited SARS-CoV-2 infection with an IC50 value of 97 nM, compared to 281 nM for enzalutamide. Importantly, proxalutamide inhibited infection by multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants and synergized with remdesivir. Proxalutamide protected against cell death in response to tumor necrosis factor alpha and interferon gamma, and overall survival of mice was increased with proxalutamide treatment prior to cytokine exposure. Mechanistically, we found that proxalutamide increased levels of NRF2, an essential transcription factor that mediates antioxidant responses, and decreased lung inflammation. These data provide compelling evidence that proxalutamide can prevent SARS-CoV-2 infection and cytokine-induced lung damage, suggesting that promising clinical data may emerge from ongoing phase 3 trials.
36016242 | Global Prevalence and Potential Influencing Factors of COVID-19 Vaccination Hesitancy: A Meta-Analysis. Countries worldwide have deployed mass COVID-19 vaccination drives, but there are people who are hesitant to receive the vaccine. Studies assessing the factors associated with COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy are inconclusive. This study aimed to assess the global prevalence of COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy and determine the potential factors associated with such hesitancy. We performed an organized search for relevant articles in PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science. Extraction of the required information was performed for each study. A single-arm meta-analysis was performed to determine the global prevalence of COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy; the potential factors related to vaccine hesitancy were analyzed using a Z-test. A total of 56 articles were included in our analysis. We found that the global prevalence of COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy was 25%. Being a woman, being a 50-year-old or younger, being single, being unemployed, living in a household with five or more individuals, having an educational attainment lower than an undergraduate degree, having a non-healthcare-related job and considering COVID-19 vaccines to be unsafe were associated with a higher risk of vaccination hesitancy. In contrast, living with children at home, maintaining physical distancing norms, having ever tested for COVID-19, and having a history of influenza vaccination in the past few years were associated with a lower risk of hesitancy to COVID-19 vaccination. Our study provides valuable information on COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy, and we recommend special interventions in the sub-populations with increased risk to reduce COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy.
34643006 | The prevalence, predictors and outcomes of acute liver injury among patients with COVID-19: A systematic review and meta-analysis. The data on the predictors and prognosis of acute liver injury (ALI) among patients in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients are limited. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence, predictors and outcomes of ALI among patients with COVID-19. A systematic review was conducted up to 10 June 2021. The relevant papers were searched from PubMed, Embase, Cochrane and Web of Science, and the data were analysed using a Z test. A total of 1331 papers were identified and 16 papers consisting of 1254 COVID-19 with ALI and 4999 COVID-19 without ALI were analysed. The cumulative prevalence of ALI among patients with COVID-19 was 22.8%. Male and having low lymphocyte levels were more likely to be associated with ALI compared with female and having higher lymphocyte level, odds ratio (OR): 2.70; 95% confidence interval (CI): 2.03, 3.60 and mean difference (MD) -125; 95% CI: -207, -43, respectively. COVID-19 patients with ALI had higher risk of developing severe COVID-19 compared with those without ALI (OR: 3.61; 95% CI: 2.60, 5.02). Our findings may serve as the additional evaluation for the management of ALI in COVID-19 patients.
34217726 | Designing an epitope vaccine against Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus: An in silico study. The house dust mite, Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus, is a major source of the inhaled allergen Der p 1, which causes immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated hypersensitivity reactions manifesting in allergic diseases. To date, no drugs or vaccines effectively treat or prevent Der p 1 sensitization. We applied in silico immunoinformatics to design T-cell and B-cell epitopes that were specified and developed from the allergen Der p 1 of D. pteronyssinus. We identified the conserved epitope areas by predicting the accessibility and flexibility of B-cell epitopes, and the percentage of human leukocyte antigen representing T cells. Molecular docking using HADDOCK software indicated three optimal clusters: cluster 6 (z-score: -2.1), cluster 1 (z-score: -1.2), and cluster 3 (z-score: -0.6). The most negative Z-score was found in cluster 6, which represented three epitopes. The interaction between A chain proteins (IgE protein residues) and B chains (Der p 1 protein residues) exhibited a knowledge-based FADE and contact value >1, suggesting the best protein interactions occurred in the conserved area. Molecular dynamic simulation further predicted the stable nature of Der p 1 protein. The IQRDNGYQP region is the best candidate to be utilized as a D. pteronyssinus epitope vaccine, which could be used in the development of allergen-specific immunotherapy.
35099819 | The global case fatality rate of coronavirus disease 2019 by continents and national income: A meta-analysis. The aim of this study is to provide a more accurate representation of COVID-19's case fatality rate (CFR) by performing meta-analyses by continents and income, and by comparing the result with pooled estimates. We used multiple worldwide data sources on COVID-19 for every country reporting COVID-19 cases. On the basis of data, we performed random and fixed meta-analyses for CFR of COVID-19 by continents and income according to each individual calendar date. CFR was estimated based on the different geographical regions and levels of income using three models: pooled estimates, fixed- and random-model. In Asia, all three types of CFR initially remained approximately between 2.0% and 3.0%. In the case of pooled estimates and the fixed model results, CFR increased to 4.0%, by then gradually decreasing, while in the case of random-model, CFR remained under 2.0%. Similarly, in Europe, initially, the two types of CFR peaked at 9.0% and 10.0%, respectively. The random-model results showed an increase near 5.0%. In high-income countries, pooled estimates and fixed-model showed gradually increasing trends with a final pooled estimates and random-model reached about 8.0% and 4.0%, respectively. In middle-income, the pooled estimates and fixed-model have gradually increased reaching up to 4.5%. in low-income countries, CFRs remained similar between 1.5% and 3.0%. Our study emphasizes that COVID-19 CFR is not a fixed or static value. Rather, it is a dynamic estimate that changes with time, population, socioeconomic factors, and the mitigatory efforts of individual countries.
37626079 | An IgM-like inhalable ACE2 fusion protein broadly neutralizes SARS-CoV-2 variants. Many of the currently available COVID-19 vaccines and therapeutics are not effective against newly emerged SARS-CoV-2 variants. Here, we developed the metallo-enzyme domain of angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-the cellular receptor of SARS-CoV-2-into an IgM-like inhalable molecule (HH-120). HH-120 binds to the SARS-CoV-2 Spike (S) protein with high avidity and confers potent and broad-spectrum neutralization activity against all known SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern. HH-120 was developed as an inhaled formulation that achieves appropriate aerodynamic properties for rodent and monkey respiratory system delivery, and we found that early administration of HH-120 by aerosol inhalation significantly reduced viral loads and lung pathology scores in male golden Syrian hamsters infected by the SARS-CoV-2 ancestral strain (GDPCC-nCoV27) and the Delta variant. Our study presents a meaningful advancement in the inhalation delivery of large biologics like HH-120 (molecular weight (MW) ~ 1000 kDa) and demonstrates that HH-120 can serve as an efficacious, safe, and convenient agent against SARS-CoV-2 variants. Finally, given the known role of ACE2 in viral reception, it is conceivable that HH-120 has the potential to be efficacious against additional emergent coronaviruses.
34051791 | Dysregulation of COVID-19 related gene expression in the COPD lung. BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients are at increased risk of poor outcome from Coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Early data suggest elevated Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) receptor angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) expression, but relationships to disease phenotype and downstream regulators of inflammation in the Renin-Angiotensin system (RAS) are unknown. We aimed to determine the relationship between RAS gene expression relevant to SARS-CoV-2 infection in the lung with disease characteristics in COPD, and the regulation of newly identified SARS-CoV-2 receptors and spike-cleaving proteases, important for SARS-CoV-2 infection. METHODS: We quantified gene expression using RNA sequencing of epithelial brushings and bronchial biopsies from 31 COPD and 37 control subjects. RESULTS: ACE2 gene expression (log2-fold change (FC)) was increased in COPD compared to ex-smoking (HV-ES) controls in epithelial brushings (0.25, p = 0.042) and bronchial biopsies (0.23, p = 0.050), and correlated with worse lung function (r = - 0.28, p = 0.0090). ACE2 was further increased in frequent exacerbators compared to infrequent exacerbators (0.51, p = 0.00045) and associated with use of ACE inhibitors (ACEi) (0.50, p = 0.0034), having cardiovascular disease (0.23, p = 0.048) or hypertension (0.34, p = 0.0089), and inhaled corticosteroid use in COPD subjects in bronchial biopsies (0.33, p = 0.049). Angiotensin II receptor type (AGTR)1 and 2 expression was decreased in COPD bronchial biopsies compared to HV-ES controls with log2FC of -0.26 (p = 0.033) and - 0.40, (p = 0.0010), respectively. However, the AGTR1:2 ratio was increased in COPD subjects compared with HV-ES controls, log2FC of 0.57 (p = 0.0051). Basigin, a newly identified potential SARS-CoV-2 receptor was also upregulated in both brushes, log2FC of 0.17 (p = 0.0040), and bronchial biopsies, (log2FC of 0.18 (p = 0.017), in COPD vs HV-ES. Transmembrane protease, serine (TMPRSS)2 was not differentially regulated between control and COPD. However, various other spike-cleaving proteases were, including TMPRSS4 and Cathepsin B, in both epithelial brushes (log2FC of 0.25 (p = 0.0012) and log2FC of 0.56 (p = 5.49E-06), respectively) and bronchial biopsies (log2FC of 0.49 (p = 0.00021) and log2FC of 0.246 (p = 0.028), respectively). CONCLUSION: This study identifies key differences in expression of genes related to susceptibility and aetiology of COVID-19 within the COPD lung. Further studies to understand the impact on clinical course of disease are now required.
35590097 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 disrupts nucleocytoplasmic trafficking to advance viral replication. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) ORF6 is an antagonist of interferon (IFN)-mediated antiviral signaling, achieved through the prevention of STAT1 nuclear localization. However, the exact mechanism through which ORF6 prevents STAT1 nuclear trafficking remains unclear. Herein, we demonstrate that ORF6 directly binds to STAT1 with or without IFN stimulation, resulting in the nuclear exclusion of STAT1. ORF6 also recognizes importin alpha subtypes with different modes, in particular, high affinity to importin alpha1 but a low affinity to importin alpha5. Although ORF6 potentially disrupts the importin alpha/importin beta1-mediated nuclear transport, thereby suppressing the nuclear translocation of the other classical nuclear localization signal-containing cargo proteins, the inhibitory effect of ORF6 is modest when compared with that of STAT1. The results indicate that the drastic nuclear exclusion of STAT1 is attributed to the specific binding with ORF6, which is a distinct strategy for the importin alpha1-mediated pathway. Combined with the results from a newly-produced replicon system and a hamster model, we conclude that SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 acts as a virulence factor via regulation of nucleocytoplasmic trafficking to accelerate viral replication, resulting in disease progression.
31533951 | Protection from Endotoxin Shock by Selective Targeting of Proinflammatory Signaling to the Nucleus Mediated by Importin Alpha 5. Endotoxin shock is induced by LPS, one of the most potent virulence factors of the Gram-negative bacteria that cause sepsis. It remains unknown if either proinflammatory stress-responsive transcription factors (SRTFs), ferried to nucleus by importin alpha5, or lipid-regulating sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs), transported to the nucleus by importin beta1, mediate endotoxin shock. A novel cell-penetrating peptide targeting importin alpha5 while sparing importin beta1 protected 80% of animals from death in response to a high dose of LPS. This peptide suppresses inflammatory mediators, liver glycogen depletion, endothelial injury, neutrophil trafficking, and apoptosis caused by LPS. In d-galactosamine-pretreated mice challenged by 700-times lower dose of LPS, rapid death through massive apoptosis and hemorrhagic necrosis of the liver was also averted by the importin alpha5-selective peptide. Thus, using a new tool for selective suppression of nuclear transport, we demonstrate that SRTFs, rather than SREBPs, mediate endotoxin shock.
34252931 | CROTON: an automated and variant-aware deep learning framework for predicting CRISPR/Cas9 editing outcomes. MOTIVATION: CRISPR/Cas9 is a revolutionary gene-editing technology that has been widely utilized in biology, biotechnology and medicine. CRISPR/Cas9 editing outcomes depend on local DNA sequences at the target site and are thus predictable. However, existing prediction methods are dependent on both feature and model engineering, which restricts their performance to existing knowledge about CRISPR/Cas9 editing. RESULTS: Herein, deep multi-task convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and neural architecture search (NAS) were used to automate both feature and model engineering and create an end-to-end deep-learning framework, CROTON (CRISPR Outcomes Through cONvolutional neural networks). The CROTON model architecture was tuned automatically with NAS on a synthetic large-scale construct-based dataset and then tested on an independent primary T cell genomic editing dataset. CROTON outperformed existing expert-designed models and non-NAS CNNs in predicting 1 base pair insertion and deletion probability as well as deletion and frameshift frequency. Interpretation of CROTON revealed local sequence determinants for diverse editing outcomes. Finally, CROTON was utilized to assess how single nucleotide variants (SNVs) affect the genome editing outcomes of four clinically relevant target genes: the viral receptors ACE2 and CCR5 and the immune checkpoint inhibitors CTLA4 and PDCD1. Large SNV-induced differences in CROTON predictions in these target genes suggest that SNVs should be taken into consideration when designing widely applicable gRNAs. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: https://github.com/vli31/CROTON. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
36045529 | Promising Marine Natural Products for Tackling Viral Outbreaks: A Focus on Possible Targets and Structure-Activity Relationship. Recently, people worldwide have experienced several outbreaks caused by viruses that have attracted much interest globally, such as HIV, Zika, Ebola, and the one being faced, SARSCoV-2 viruses. Unfortunately, the availability of drugs giving satisfying outcomes in curing those diseases is limited. Therefore, it is necessary to dig deeper to provide compounds that can tackle the causative viruses. Meanwhile, the efforts to explore marine natural products have been gaining great interest as the products have consistently shown several promising biological activities, including antiviral activity. This review summarizes some products extracted from marine organisms, such as seaweeds, seagrasses, sponges, and marine bacteria, reported in recent years to have potential antiviral activities tested through several methods. The mechanisms by which those compounds exert their antiviral effects are also described here, with several main mechanisms closely associated with the ability of the products to block the entry of the viruses into the host cells, inhibiting replication or transcription of the viral genetic material, and disturbing the assembly of viral components. In addition, the structure-activity relationship of the compounds is also highlighted by focusing on six groups of marine compounds, namely sulfated polysaccharides, phlorotannins, terpenoids, lectins, alkaloids, and flavonoids. In conclusion, due to their uniqueness compared to substances extracted from terrestrial sources, marine organisms provide abundant products having promising activities as antiviral agents that can be explored to tackle virus-caused outbreaks.
23146225 | Development and validation of RP-UPLC method for the determination of darifenacin hydrobromide, its related compounds and its degradation products using design of experiments. A selective stability-indicating ultra-performance liquid chromatographic (UPLC) method was developed for the quantitative determination of darifenacin hydrobromide (DFN) and its related compounds in API and pharmaceutical dosages. The chromatographic separation was achieved on an Acquity UPLC BEH C18 column (100, 2.1 mm and 1.7 mum) at a flow rate of 0.3 mL/min, and detection was performed at 210 nm. The typical retention behaviors of impurities at various pH values were depicted graphically. The LC conditions were optimized by design of experiments (DOE) to obtain optimal separation in the shortest possible run time. A central composite design (CCD) was employed to study the main effects and interactions of the independent variables. The drug and its thirteen impurities were eluted within 13 min. The method exhibited consistent, high-quality recoveries (93.8 +- 2.1 to 99.8 +- 1.5 (mean +- RSD)) with a high precision for the drug and impurities. Linear regression analysis revealed an excellent correlation between peak responses and concentrations (R(2) values of 0.9991-0.9999) for the drug and impurities. The stability-indicating capability of the method was verified by forced degradation experiments and mass balance study. LC-MS revealed protonated molecular ion peaks [M+H](+) at m/z 428.20, m/z 425.20 and m/z 281.30 for the acid (Imp-4), oxidized (Imp-6) and N-dealkylated (Imp-1) forms of DFN, respectively. Possible degradation pathways were established based on the known reactivity of the drug through hydrolysis, oxidation, N-dealkylation, phenyl hydroxylation, dihydrobenzofuran ring hydroxylation and ring opening. The m/z values of unknown degradation products were matched with the proposed structures and reported DFN metabolites.
34927793 | Biparatopic nanobodies protect mice from lethal challenge with SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the emergence of new SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs) requires continued development of effective therapeutics. Recently, we identified high-affinity neutralizing nanobodies (Nbs) specific for the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2. Taking advantage of detailed epitope mapping, we generate two biparatopic Nbs (bipNbs) targeting a conserved epitope outside and two different epitopes inside the RBD:ACE2 interface. Both bipNbs bind all currently circulating VOCs with high affinities and are capable to neutralize cellular infection with VOC B.1.351 (Beta) and B.1.617.2 (Delta) in vitro. To assess if the bipNbs NM1267 and NM1268 confer protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection in vivo, human ACE2 transgenic mice are treated intranasally before infection with a lethal dose of SARS-CoV-2 B.1, B.1.351 (Beta) or B.1.617.2 (Delta). Nb-treated mice show significantly reduced disease progression and increased survival rates. Histopathological analyses further reveal a drastically reduced viral load and inflammatory response in lungs. These data suggest that both bipNbs are broadly active against a variety of emerging SARS-CoV-2 VOCs and represent easily applicable drug candidates.
30683885 | FGL2 promotes tumor progression in the CNS by suppressing CD103+ dendritic cell differentiation. Few studies implicate immunoregulatory gene expression in tumor cells in arbitrating brain tumor progression. Here we show that fibrinogen-like protein 2 (FGL2) is highly expressed in glioma stem cells and primary glioblastoma (GBM) cells. FGL2 knockout in tumor cells did not affect tumor-cell proliferation in vitro or tumor progression in immunodeficient mice but completely impaired GBM progression in immune-competent mice. This impairment was reversed in mice with a defect in dendritic cells (DCs) or CD103+ DC differentiation in the brain and in tumor-draining lymph nodes. The presence of FGL2 in tumor cells inhibited granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)-induced CD103+ DC differentiation by suppressing NF-kappaB, STAT1/5, and p38 activation. These findings are relevant to GBM patients because a low level of FGL2 expression with concurrent high GM-CSF expression is associated with higher CD8B expression and longer survival. These data provide a rationale for therapeutic inhibition of FGL2 in brain tumors.
38459086 | Impact of SARS-CoV-2 spike stability and RBD exposure on antigenicity and immunogenicity. The spike protein (S) of SARS-CoV-2 induces neutralizing antibodies and is the key component of current COVID-19 vaccines. The most efficacious COVID-19 vaccines are genetically-encoded spikes with a double proline substitution in the hinge region to stabilize S in the prefusion conformation (S-2P). A subunit vaccine can be a valuable addition to mRNA and viral vector-based vaccines but requires high stability of spike. In addition, further stabilization of the prefusion conformation of spike might improve immunogenicity. To test this, five spike proteins were designed and characterized, ranging from low to high stability. The immunogenicity of these proteins was assessed in mice, demonstrating that a spike (S-closed-2) with a high melting temperature, which still allowed ACE2 binding, induced the highest neutralization titers against homologous and heterologous strains (up to 16-fold higher than the least stabilized spike). In contrast, the most stable spike variant (S-locked), in which the receptor binding domains (RBDs) were locked in a closed conformation and thus not able to breathe, induced relatively low neutralizing antibody titers against heterologous strains. These data demonstrate that S protein stabilization with RBDs exposing highly conserved epitopes may be needed to increase the immunogenicity of spike proteins for future COVID-19 vaccines.
35126123 | Bulbus Fritillariae Cirrhosae as a Respiratory Medicine: Is There a Potential Drug in the Treatment of COVID-19? Bulbus fritillariae cirrhosae (BFC) is one of the most used Chinese medicines for lung disease, and exerts antitussive, expectorant, anti-inflammatory, anti-asthmatic, and antioxidant effects, which is an ideal therapeutic drug for respiratory diseases such as ARDS, COPD, asthma, lung cancer, and pulmonary tuberculosis. Through this review, it is found that the therapeutic mechanism of BFC on respiratory diseases exhibits the characteristics of multi-components, multi-targets, and multi-signaling pathways. In particular, the therapeutic potential of BFC in terms of intervention of \cytokine storm\, STAT, NF-kappaB, and MAPK signaling pathways, as well as the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) that ACE is involved in. In the \cytokine storm\ of SARS-CoV-2 infection there is an intense inflammatory response. ACE2 regulates the RAS by degradation of Ang II produced by ACE, which is associated with SARS-CoV-2. For COVID-19, may it be a potential drug? This review summarized the research progress of BFC in the respiratory diseases, discussed the development potentiality of BFC for the treatment of COVID-19, explained the chemical diversity and biological significance of the alkaloids in BFC, and clarified the material basis, molecular targets, and signaling pathways of BFC for the respiratory diseases. We hope this review can provide insights on the drug discovery of anti-COVID-19.
32591762 | COVID-19 severity correlates with airway epithelium-immune cell interactions identified by single-cell analysis. To investigate the immune response and mechanisms associated with severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on nasopharyngeal and bronchial samples from 19 clinically well-characterized patients with moderate or critical disease and from five healthy controls. We identified airway epithelial cell types and states vulnerable to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. In patients with COVID-19, epithelial cells showed an average three-fold increase in expression of the SARS-CoV-2 entry receptor ACE2, which correlated with interferon signals by immune cells. Compared to moderate cases, critical cases exhibited stronger interactions between epithelial and immune cells, as indicated by ligand-receptor expression profiles, and activated immune cells, including inflammatory macrophages expressing CCL2, CCL3, CCL20, CXCL1, CXCL3, CXCL10, IL8, IL1B and TNF. The transcriptional differences in critical cases compared to moderate cases likely contribute to clinical observations of heightened inflammatory tissue damage, lung injury and respiratory failure. Our data suggest that pharmacologic inhibition of the CCR1 and/or CCR5 pathways might suppress immune hyperactivation in critical COVID-19.
33802310 | Immunogenetic Predictors of Severe COVID-19. According to an analysis of published data, only 20% of patients with the new coronavirus infection develop severe life-threatening complications. Currently, there are no known biomarkers, the determination of which before the onset of the disease would allow assessing the likelihood of its severe course. The purpose of this literature review was to analyze possible genetic factors characterizing the immune response to the new coronavirus infection that could be associated with the expression of angiotension-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2) and related proteins as predictors of severe Corona virus disease 2019 (COVID-19). We analyzed original articles published in Medline, PubMed and Scopus databases from December 2019 to November 2020. For searching articles, we used the following keywords: New coronavirus infection, Severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), COVID-19, severe course, complications, thrombosis, cytokine storm, ACE-2, biomarkers. In total, 3714 publications were selected using the keywords, of which 8 were in congruence with all the criteria. The literature analysis of the association of immunogenic characteristics and the expression of ACE-2 and related proteins with the development of severe COVID-19 revealed following genetic factors: HLA-B*46:01 genotype, CXCR6 gene hypoexpression, CCR9 gene expression, TLR7, rs150892504 mutations in the ERAP2 gene, overexpression of wild-type ACE-2, TMPRSS2 and its different polymorphisms. Genes, associated with the severe course, are more common among men. According to the analysis data, it can be assumed that there are population differences. However, the diagnostic significance of the markers described must be confirmed with additional clinical studies.
23468933 | Cysteine (C)-x-C receptor 4 undergoes transportin 1-dependent nuclear localization and remains functional at the nucleus of metastatic prostate cancer cells. The G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), Cysteine (C)-X-C Receptor 4 (CXCR4), plays an important role in prostate cancer metastasis. CXCR4 is generally regarded as a plasma membrane receptor where it transmits signals that support transformation, progression and eventual metastasis. Due to the central role of CXCR4 in tumorigenesis, therapeutics approaches such as antagonist and monoclonal antibodies have focused on receptors that exist on the plasma membrane. An emerging concept for G-protein coupled receptors is that they may localize to and associate with the nucleus where they retain function and mediate nuclear signaling. Herein, we demonstrate that CXCR4 associated with the nucleus of malignant prostate cancer tissues. Likewise, expression of CXCR4 was detected in nuclear fractions among several prostate cancer cell lines, compared to normal prostate epithelial cells. Our studies identified a nuclear pool of CXCR4 and we defined a nuclear transport pathway for CXCR4. We reveal a putative nuclear localization sequence (NLS), 'RPRK', within CXCR4 that contributed to nuclear localization. Additionally, nuclear CXCR4 interacted with Transportinbeta1 and Transportinbeta1-binding to CXCR4 promoted its nuclear translocation. Importantly, Galphai immunoprecipitation and calcium mobilization studies indicated that nuclear CXCR4 was functional and participated in G-protein signaling, revealing that the nuclear pool of CXCR4 retained function. Given the suggestion that functional, nuclear CXCR4 may be a mechanism underlying prostate cancer recurrence, increased metastatic ability and poorer prognosis after tumors have been treated with therapy that targets plasma membrane CXCR4, these studies addresses a novel mechanism of nuclear signaling for CXCR4, a novel mechanism of clinical targeting, and demonstrate an active nuclear pool that provides important new information to illuminate what has been primarily clinical reports of nuclear CXCR4.
37792911 | Nuclear ERK1/2 signaling potentiation enhances neuroprotection and cognition via Importinalpha1/KPNA2. Cell signaling is central to neuronal activity and its dysregulation may lead to neurodegeneration and cognitive decline. Here, we show that selective genetic potentiation of neuronal ERK signaling prevents cell death in vitro and in vivo in the mouse brain, while attenuation of ERK signaling does the opposite. This neuroprotective effect mediated by an enhanced nuclear ERK activity can also be induced by the novel cell penetrating peptide RB5. In vitro administration of RB5 disrupts the preferential interaction of ERK1 MAP kinase with importinalpha1/KPNA2 over ERK2, facilitates ERK1/2 nuclear translocation, and enhances global ERK activity. Importantly, RB5 treatment in vivo promotes neuroprotection in mouse models of Huntington's (HD), Alzheimer's (AD), and Parkinson's (PD) disease, and enhances ERK signaling in a human cellular model of HD. Additionally, RB5-mediated potentiation of ERK nuclear signaling facilitates synaptic plasticity, enhances cognition in healthy rodents, and rescues cognitive impairments in AD and HD models. The reported molecular mechanism shared across multiple neurodegenerative disorders reveals a potential new therapeutic target approach based on the modulation of KPNA2-ERK1/2 interactions.
35163923 | Approaches to the Potential Therapy of COVID-19: A General Overview from the Medicinal Chemistry Perspective. In spite of advances in vaccination, control of the COVID-19 pandemic will require the use of pharmacological treatments against SARS-CoV2. Their development needs to consider the existence of two phases in the disease, namely the viral infection and the inflammatory stages. The main targets for antiviral therapeutic intervention are: (a) viral proteins, including the spike (S) protein characteristic of the viral cover and the viral proteases in charge of processing the polyprotein arising from viral genome translation; (b) host proteins, such as those involved in the processes related to viral entry into the host cell and the release of the viral genome inside the cell, the elongation factor eEF1A and importins. The use of antivirals targeted at host proteins is less developed but it has the potential advantage of not being affected by mutations in the genome of the virus and therefore being active against all its variants. Regarding drugs that address the hyperinflammatory phase of the disease triggered by the so-called cytokine storm, the following strategies are particularly relevant: (a) drugs targeting JAK kinases; (b) sphingosine kinase 2 inhibitors; (c) antibodies against interleukin 6 or its receptor; (d) use of the traditional anti-inflammatory corticosteroids.
38637558 | Adaptive immune responses to two-dose COVID-19 vaccine series in healthy Canadian adults >= 50 years: a prospective, observational cohort study. To evaluate immune responses to COVID-19 vaccines in adults aged 50 years and older, spike protein (S)-specific antibody concentration, avidity, and function (via angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) inhibition surrogate neutralization and antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP)), as well as S-specific T cells were quantified via activation induced marker (AIM) assay in response to two-dose series. Eighty-four adults were vaccinated with either: mRNA/mRNA (mRNA-1273 and/or BNT162b2); ChAdOx1-S/mRNA; or ChAdOx1-S/ChAdOx1-S. Anti-S IgG concentrations, ADCP scores and ACE2 inhibiting antibody concentrations were highest at one-month post-second dose and declined by four-months post-second dose for all groups. mRNA/mRNA and ChAdOx1-S/mRNA schedules had significantly higher antibody responses than ChAdOx1-S/ChAdOx1-S. CD8+ T-cell responses one-month post-second dose were associated with increased ACE2 surrogate neutralization. Antibody avidity (total relative avidity index) did not change between one-month and four-months post-second dose and did not significantly differ between groups by four-months post-second dose. In determining COVID-19 correlates of protection, a measure that considers both antibody concentration and avidity should be considered.
34483599 | Genetic Risk Factors for the Development of COVID-19 Coronavirus Infection. The COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic has spread to 215 countries around the world and caused tens of millions of infections and more than a million deaths worldwide. In the midst of COVID-19 infection, it is extremely important to identify new protein and gene targets that may be highly sensitive diagnostic and prognostic markers of the severity and outcome of the disease for combating this pandemic. Identification of individual genetic predisposition allows personalizing programs of medical rehabilitation and therapy. It has now been shown that the transmissibility and severity of COVID-19 infection can be affected by gene variants in both the human body (ACE2, HLA-B*4601, FcgammaRIIA, MBL, TMPRSS2, TNFA, IL6, blood group A antigen, etc.) and the virus itself (ORF8 in RNA polymerase, ORF6 in RNA primase, S, N, E proteins). The presence of mutations in the proteins of the virus can change the affinity and specificity for the binding of targeted drugs to them, being the molecular basis of individual differences in the response of the human body to antiviral drugs and/or vaccines. The review summarizes the data on the variants of the genomes of the coronavirus and humans associated with an individual predisposition to an increased or decreased risk of transmission, severity, and outcome of COVID-19 infection. Targeted drugs and vaccines being developed for the therapy of COVID-19 infection are briefly reviewed.
34031383 | Targeting novel LSD1-dependent ACE2 demethylation domains inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication. Treatment options for COVID-19 remain limited, especially during the early or asymptomatic phase. Here, we report a novel SARS-CoV-2 viral replication mechanism mediated by interactions between ACE2 and the epigenetic eraser enzyme LSD1, and its interplay with the nuclear shuttling importin pathway. Recent studies have shown a critical role for the importin pathway in SARS-CoV-2 infection, and many RNA viruses hijack this axis to re-direct host cell transcription. LSD1 colocalized with ACE2 at the cell surface to maintain demethylated SARS-CoV-2 spike receptor-binding domain lysine 31 to promote virus-ACE2 interactions. Two newly developed peptide inhibitors competitively inhibited virus-ACE2 interactions, and demethylase access to significantly inhibit viral replication. Similar to some other predominantly plasma membrane proteins, ACE2 had a novel nuclear function: its cytoplasmic domain harbors a nuclear shuttling domain, which when demethylated by LSD1 promoted importin-alpha-dependent nuclear ACE2 entry following infection to regulate active transcription. A novel, cell permeable ACE2 peptide inhibitor prevented ACE2 nuclear entry, significantly inhibiting viral replication in SARS-CoV-2-infected cell lines, outperforming other LSD1 inhibitors. These data raise the prospect of post-exposure prophylaxis for SARS-CoV-2, either through repurposed LSD1 inhibitors or new, nuclear-specific ACE2 inhibitors.
36531241 | Host genetics impact on SARS-CoV-2 vaccine-induced immunoglobulin levels and dynamics: The role of TP53, ABO, APOE, ACE2, HLA-A, and CRP genes. Background: Development and worldwide availability of safe and effective vaccines against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) to fight severe symptoms of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and block the pandemic have been a great achievement and stimulated researchers on understanding the efficacy and duration of different vaccine types. Methods: We investigated the levels of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies (IgG) and neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) in 195 healthy adult subjects belonging to the staff of the University-Hospital of Ferrara (Italy) starting from 15 days up to 190 days (about 6 months) after the second dose of the BNT162b2 (Pfizer-BioNTech) mRNA-based vaccine (n = 128) or ChAdOx1 (AstraZeneca) adenovirus-based vaccine (n = 67) using a combined approach of serological and genomics investigations. Results: A strong correlation between IgG and NAb levels was detected during the 190 days of follow-up (r 2 = 0.807; p < 0.0001) and was confirmed during the first 90 days (T1) after vaccination (r 2 = 0.789; p = 0.0001) and 91-190 days (T2) after vaccination (r 2 = 0.764; p = 0.0001) for both vaccine types (r 2 = 0.842; p = 0.0001 and r 2 = 0.780; p = 0.0001 for mRNA- and adenovirus-based vaccine, respectively). In addition to age (p < 0.01), sex (p = 0.03), and type of vaccine (p < 0.0001), which partially accounted for the remarkable individual differences observed in the antibody levels and dynamics, interesting genetic determinants appeared as significant modifiers of both IgG and NAb responses among the selected genes investigated (TP53, rs1042522; APOE, rs7412/rs429358; ABO, rs657152; ACE2, rs2285666; HLA-A rs2571381/rs2499; CRP, rs2808635/rs876538; LZTFL1, rs35044562; OAS3, rs10735079; SLC6A20, rs11385942; CFH, rs1061170; and ACE1, ins/del, rs4646994). In detail, regression analysis and mean antibody level comparison yielded appreciable differences after genotype stratification (P1 and P2, respectively, for IgG and NAb distribution) in the whole cohort and/or in the mRNA-based vaccine in the following genes: TP53, rs1042522 (P1 = 0.03; P2 = 0.04); ABO, rs657152 (P1 = 0.01; P2 = 0.03); APOE, rs7412/rs429358 (P1 = 0.0018; P2 = 0.0002); ACE2, rs2285666 (P1 = 0.014; P2 = 0.009); HLA-A, rs2571381/rs2499 (P1 = 0.02; P2 = 0.03); and CRP, rs2808635/rs876538 (P1 = 0.01 and P2 = 0.09). Conclusion: High- or low-responsive subjects can be identified among healthy adult vaccinated subjects after targeted genetic screening. This suggests that favorable genetic backgrounds may support the progression of an effective vaccine-induced immune response, though no definite conclusions can be drawn on the real effectiveness ascribed to a specific vaccine or to the different extent of a genotype-driven humoral response. The interplay between data from the polygenic predictive markers and serological screening stratified by demogeographic information can help to recognize the individual humoral response, accounting for ethnic and geographical differences, in both COVID-19 and anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccinations.
38416781 | Parental vaccine hesitancy and acceptance of a COVID-19 vaccine: An internet-based survey in the US and five Asian countries. COVID-19 vaccination rates for children globally are relatively low. This study aimed to investigate parental vaccine hesitancy and parents' acceptance of a COVID-19 for their children for their children in the United States, China, Taiwan, India, Indonesia, and Malaysia.We analyzed data from an opt-in, internet-based cross-sectional study (n = 23,940). Parents were asked about their acceptance of a COVID-19 vaccine for their children, and if they would accept the vaccine with different risk and effectiveness profiles for themselves. Poisson regression was used to generate prevalence ratios (PR) of the relationship between vaccine acceptance for a child and vaccine profile, by country and waves and overall. Between August 2020 and June 2021, COVID-19 vaccine acceptance for children decreased in the United States (89% to 72%) and Taiwan (79% to 71%), increased in India (91% to 96%) and Malaysia (81% to 91%), and was stable in Indonesia (86%) and China (at 87%-90%). Vaccine risk and effectiveness profiles did not consistently affect parent's acceptance of a COVID-19 vaccine for their children. Instead, being not hesitant was a large driver of vaccine acceptance (PR: 1.24, 95% CI: 1.14, 1.36). Adolescent COVID-19 vaccination have already been established in many high and middle-income countries, but our study suggests that there is a movement of vaccine hesitancy which could impede the success of future pediatric and adolescent COVID-19 vaccination programs.
35666772 | The phospho-docking protein 14-3-3 regulates microtubule-associated proteins in oocytes including the chromosomal passenger Borealin. Global regulation of spindle-associated proteins is crucial in oocytes due to the absence of centrosomes and their very large cytoplasmic volume, but little is known about how this is achieved beyond involvement of the Ran-importin pathway. We previously uncovered a novel regulatory mechanism in Drosophila oocytes, in which the phospho-docking protein 14-3-3 suppresses microtubule binding of Kinesin-14/Ncd away from chromosomes. Here we report systematic identification of microtubule-associated proteins regulated by 14-3-3 from Drosophila oocytes. Proteins from ovary extract were co-sedimented with microtubules in the presence or absence of a 14-3-3 inhibitor. Through quantitative mass-spectrometry, we identified proteins or complexes whose ability to bind microtubules is suppressed by 14-3-3, including the chromosomal passenger complex (CPC), the centralspindlin complex and Kinesin-14/Ncd. We showed that 14-3-3 binds to the disordered region of Borealin, and this binding is regulated differentially by two phosphorylations on Borealin. Mutations at these two phospho-sites compromised normal Borealin localisation and centromere bi-orientation in oocytes, showing that phospho-regulation of 14-3-3 binding is important for Borealin localisation and function.
33904225 | NeutrobodyPlex-monitoring SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing immune responses using nanobodies. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, there is an ongoing need for diagnostic tools to monitor the immune status of large patient cohorts and the effectiveness of vaccination campaigns. Here, we present 11 unique nanobodies (Nbs) specific for the SARS-CoV-2 spike receptor-binding domain (RBD), of which 8 Nbs potently inhibit the interaction of RBD with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) as the major viral docking site. Following detailed epitope mapping and structural analysis, we select two inhibitory Nbs, one of which binds an epitope inside and one of which binds an epitope outside the RBD:ACE2 interface. Based on these, we generate a biparatopic nanobody (bipNb) with viral neutralization efficacy in the picomolar range. Using bipNb as a surrogate, we establish a competitive multiplex binding assay (\NeutrobodyPlex\) for detailed analysis of the presence and performance of neutralizing RBD-binding antibodies in serum of convalescent or vaccinated patients. We demonstrate that NeutrobodyPlex enables high-throughput screening and detailed analysis of neutralizing immune responses in infected or vaccinated individuals, to monitor immune status or to guide vaccine design.
37843354 | Possible mechanism of central nervous system targeting and neurological symptoms of the new-coronavirus (COVID-19): literature review. The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) that caused the 2019 Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) has been associated with several neurological symptoms. This review aimed to highlight the possible mechanism of central nervous system (CNS) targeting and the neurological symptoms that may occur with the COVID-19 infection. The case reports containing the keywords \neurological symptoms\ and \COVID-19\ were thoroughly reviewed to identify possible mechanisms of CNS targeting and neurological manifestations associated with COVID-19 infection. The angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE2) receptors have been identified as the functional receptor for SARS-CoV-2. SARS-CoV-2 can affect the CNS through the following mechanisms: 1) Direct infection. 2) Blood pathway. 3) Neuronal pathway. 4) Immune-mediated injury/pathway (Cytokine Storm Syndrome). COVID-19 virus, a neurotropic virus, was isolated from the cerebral fluid (CSF) and responsible for several neurological manifestations. The COVID-19 infection primarily affects CD4+ and CD8+ T-lymphocytes and it induces a surge of inflammatory cytokines, known as Cytokine Storm Syndrome (CSS). The Interlukine-6 (IL-6) is the primary CSS component. The IL-6, interferon-gamma and endothelial growth factor were significantly higher in COVID-19 infected compared to non-infected individuals. The improvement of the COVID-19 patients after interleukin receptor blockers supports the CSS theory. The spectrum of SARS-CoV-2 neurological manifestations includes encephalitis, viral meningitis, post-COVID-19 infectious acute disseminated encephalitis, Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS), Miller-Fisher syndrome (MFS) and acute cerebrovascular disease (CVD). Several COVID-19-associated neurological manifestations have been reported. Thus, it is important to identify and treat neurological symptoms as soon as possible to avoid long-term effects. The care providers should take the appropriate preventive precautions because patients can present with neurological manifestations of COVID-19 without any respiratory symptoms. Future research is warranted to confirm the relationship between SARS-CoV-2 and the development of neurological manifestations.
33100902 | Mica Can Alleviate TNBS-Induced Colitis in Mice by Reducing Angiotensin II and IL-17A and Increasing Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2, Angiotensin 1-7, and IL-10. AIM: To explore the treatment effect of mica on 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid solution- (TNBS-) induced colitis in mice. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty male BALB/C mice were randomly divided into the control group, the TNBS group, and the mica group. Control mice were treated with saline solution. Experimental colitis was induced by TNBS (250 mg/kg/d) in the TNBS group and the mica group. After modeling, the mica group was treated with mica (180 mg/kg/d) for 3 days, while the TNBS group continued the treatment with TNBS. All solutions were injected intrarectally. During treatment, body weight and mice activity were monitored daily. After treatment, the colon tissues of mice were collected; angiotensin II (Ang II), angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), angiotensin 1-7 (Ang (1-7)), IL-17A, and IL-10 expression was analyzed by ELISA and immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: Food intake, activity, and body weight gradually decreased in the TNBS group compared to the control group and the mica group (all P < 0.05). Also, black stool adhesion in the anus and thin and bloody stool were observed in the TNBS group, but not in the other two groups. Moreover, the expression of Ang II, ACE2, Ang (1-7), IL-17A, and IL-10 in the TNBS group increased compared to that in the control group. Compared to the TNBS group, ACE2, Ang (1-7), and IL-10 in the mica group increased, while Ang II and IL-17A decreased (all P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Mica can alleviate TNBS-induced colitis in mice by regulating the inflammation process; it reduces Ang II and IL-17A and increases ACE2, IL-10, and Ang (1-7).
33542445 | Pharmacogenomics and COVID-19: clinical implications of human genome interactions with repurposed drugs. The outbreak of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has evolved into an emergent global pandemic. Many drugs without established efficacy are being used to treat COVID-19 patients either as an offlabel/compassionate use or as a clinical trial. Although drug repurposing is an attractive approach with reduced time and cost, there is a need to make predictions on success before the start of therapy. For the optimum use of these repurposed drugs, many factors should be considered such as drug-gene or dug-drug interactions, drug toxicity, and patient co-morbidity. There is limited data on the pharmacogenomics of these agents and this may constitute an obstacle for successful COVID-19 therapy. This article reviewed the available human genome interactions with some promising repurposed drugs for COVID-19 management. These drugs include chloroquine (CQ), hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), azithromycin, lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r), atazanavir (ATV), favipiravir (FVP), nevirapine (NVP), efavirenz (EFV), oseltamivir, remdesivir, anakinra, tocilizumab (TCZ), eculizumab, heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) regulators, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, ivermectin, and nitazoxanide. Drug-gene variant pairs that may alter the therapeutic outcomes in COVID-19 patients are presented. The major drug variant pairs that associated with variations in clinical efficacy include CQ/HCQ (CYP2C8, CYP2D6, ACE2, and HO-1); azithromycin (ABCB1); LPV/r (SLCO1B1, ABCB1, ABCC2 and CYP3A); NVP (ABCC10); oseltamivir (CES1 and ABCB1); remdesivir (CYP2C8, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, and OATP1B1); anakinra (IL-1a); and TCZ (IL6R and FCGR3A). The major drug variant pairs that associated with variations in adverse effects include CQ/HCQ (G6PD; hemolysis and ABCA4; retinopathy), ATV (MDR1 and UGT1A1*28; hyperbilirubinemia; and APOA5; dyslipidemia), NVP (HLA-DRB1*01, HLA-B*3505 and CYP2B6; skin rash and MDR1; hepatotoxicity), and EFV (CYP2B6; depression and suicidal tendencies).
35011492 | Fruit Bromelain-Derived Peptide Potentially Restrains the Attachment of SARS-CoV-2 Variants to hACE2: A Pharmacoinformatics Approach. Before entering the cell, the SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein receptor-binding domain (RBD) binds to the human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) receptor. Hence, this RBD is a critical target for the development of antiviral agents. Recent studies have discovered that SARS-CoV-2 variants with mutations in the RBD have spread globally. The purpose of this in silico study was to determine the potential of a fruit bromelain-derived peptide. DYGAVNEVK. to inhibit the entry of various SARS-CoV-2 variants into human cells by targeting the hACE binding site within the RBD. Molecular docking analysis revealed that DYGAVNEVK interacts with several critical RBD binding residues responsible for the adhesion of the RBD to hACE2. Moreover, 100 ns MD simulations revealed stable interactions between DYGAVNEVK and RBD variants derived from the trajectory of root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), radius of gyration (Rg), and root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF) analysis, as well as free binding energy calculations. Overall, our computational results indicate that DYGAVNEVK warrants further investigation as a candidate for preventing SARS-CoV-2 due to its interaction with the RBD of SARS-CoV-2 variants.
30157418 | Affinity for DNA Contributes to NLS Independent Nuclear Localization of MeCP2. MeCP2 is a nuclear protein that is mutated in the severe neurological disorder Rett syndrome (RTT). The ability to target beta-galactosidase to the nucleus was previously used to identify a conserved nuclear localization signal (NLS) in MeCP2 that interacts with the nuclear import factors KPNA3 and KPNA4. Here, we report that nuclear localization of MeCP2 does not depend on its NLS. Instead, our data reveal that an intact methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD) is sufficient for nuclear localization, suggesting that MeCP2 can be retained in the nucleus by its affinity for DNA. Consistent with these findings, we demonstrate that disease progression in a mouse model of RTT is unaffected by an inactivating mutation in the NLS of MeCP2. Taken together, our work reveals an unexpected redundancy between functional domains of MeCP2 in targeting this protein to the nucleus, potentially explaining why NLS-inactivating mutations are rarely associated with disease.
33396178 | Effects of cadmium on osteoblast cell line: Exportin 1 accumulation, p-JNK activation, DNA damage and cell apoptosis. Cadmium is an environmental metal pollutant that has been a focus of research in recent years, which is reported to cause bone disease; however, its skeletal toxicity and the mechanism involved are not yet fully known. Therefore, this study used MC3T3-E1 subclone 14 cells to determine the mechanism of cadmium toxicity on bone. Cadmium chloride (Cd) significantly reduced cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner. Exposure to Cd inhibited osteoblast-related proteins (Runx2, Col-1, STC2) and decreased alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity. Cd caused Exportin-1 accumulation and induced DNA damage. Cd significantly down-regulated caspase 9 and induced cleaved-PARP, cleaved-caspase 3 protein level. Treatment with JNK inhibitor, SP600125, suppressed cadmium-induced elevation in the ratio of phosphorylation of JNK to JNK. Inhibition of caspase with pan-caspase inhibitor, Z-VAD-FMK, prevented MC3T3-E1 subclone 14 cells from cadmium-induced reduction of Runx2, STC2, caspase 9, and accumulation of cleaved PARP and cleaved caspase 3. Cd-induced cell survival enhanced by SP600125 but rescued by Z-VAD-FMK or KPT-335. These results suggest that cadmium cytotoxicity on bone involved exportin 1 accumulation, phosphorylation of JNK, induction of DNA damage and pro-apoptosis, which was induced by activation of caspase-dependent pathways.
37901798 | A potent and broad-spectrum neutralizing nanobody for SARS-CoV-2 viruses, including all major Omicron strains. SARS-CoV-2 viruses are highly transmissible and immune evasive. It is critical to develop broad-spectrum prophylactic and therapeutic antibodies for potential future pandemics. Here, we used the phage display method to discover nanobodies (Nbs) for neutralizing SARS-CoV-2 viruses especially Omicron strains. The leading nanobody (Nb), namely, Nb4, with excellent physicochemical properties, can neutralize Delta and Omicron subtypes, including BA.1, BA.1.1 (BA.1 + R346K), BA.2, BA.5, BQ.1, and XBB.1. The crystal structure of Nb4 in complex with the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of BA.1 Spike protein reveals that Nb4 interacts with an epitope on the RBD overlapping with the receptor-binding motif, and thus competes with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) binding. Nb4 is expected to be effective for neutralizing most recent Omicron variants, since the epitopes are evolutionarily conserved among them. Indeed, trivalent Nb4 interacts with the XBB1.5 Spike protein with low nM affinity and competes for ACE2 binding. Prophylactic and therapeutic experiments in mice indicated that Nb4 could reduce the Omicron virus loads in the lung. In particular, in prophylactic experiments, intranasal administration of multivalent Nb4 completely protected mice from Omicron infection. Taken together, these results demonstrated that Nb4 could serve as a potent and broad-spectrum prophylactic and therapeutic Nb for COVID-19.
38608314 | Delay induced stability switch in a mathematical model of CD8 T-cell response to SARS-CoV-2 mediated by receptor ACE2. The pathogen SARS-CoV-2 binds to the receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) of the target cells and then replicates itself through the host, eventually releasing free virus particles. After infection, the CD8 T-cell response is triggered and appears to play a critical role in the defense against virus infections. Infected cells and their activated CD8 T-cells can cause tissue damage. Here, we established a mathematical model of within-host SARS-CoV-2 infection that incorporates the receptor ACE2, the CD8 T-cell response, and the damaged tissues. According to this model, we can get the basic reproduction number R0 and the immune reproduction number R1. We provide the theoretical proof for the stability of the disease-free equilibrium, immune-inactivated equilibrium, and immune-activated equilibrium. Finally, our numerical simulations show that the time delay in CD8 T-cell production can induce complex dynamics such as stability switching. These results provide insights into the mechanisms of SARS-CoV-2 infection and may help in the development of effective drugs against COVID-19.
38005968 | Comparative Immune Response after Vaccination with SOBERANA  02 and SOBERANA  plus Heterologous Scheme and Natural Infection in Young Children. (1) Background: In children, SARS-CoV-2 infection is mostly accompanied by mild COVID-19 symptoms. However, multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) and long-term sequelae are often severe complications. Therefore, the protection of the pediatric population against SARS-CoV-2 with effective vaccines is particularly important. Here, we compare the humoral and cellular immune responses elicited in children (n = 15, aged 5-11 years) vaccinated with the RBD-based vaccines SOBERANA  02 and SOBERANA  Plus combined in a heterologous scheme with those from children (n = 10, aged 4-11 years) who recovered from mild symptomatic COVID-19. (2) Methods: Blood samples were taken 14 days after the last dose for vaccinated children and 45-60 days after the infection diagnosis for COVID-19 recovered children. Anti-RBD IgG and ACE2-RBD inhibition were assessed by ELISA; IgA, cytokines, and cytotoxic-related proteins were determined by multiplex assays. Total B and T cell subpopulations and IFN-gamma release were measured by multiparametric flow cytometry using a large panel of antibodies after in vitro stimulation with S1 peptides. (3) Results: Significant higher levels of specific anti-RBD IgG and IgA and ACE2-RBD inhibition capacity were found in vaccinated children in comparison to COVID-19 recovered children. Th1-like and Th2-like CD4+ T cells were also significantly higher in vaccinated subjects. IFN-gamma secretion was higher in central memory CD4+ T cells of COVID-19 recovered children, but no differences between both groups were found in the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell effector, terminal effector, and naive T cell subpopulations. In contrast to low levels of IL-4, high levels of IL-2, IL-6, IFN-gamma, and IL-10 suggest a predominant Th1 cell polarization. Cytotoxic-related proteins granzyme A and B, perforin, and granulin were also found in the supernatant after S1 stimulation in both vaccinated and recovered children. (4) Conclusions: Vaccination with the heterologous scheme of SOBERANA  02/SOBERANA  Plus induces a stronger antibody and cellular immune response compared to natural infections in young children.
36568059 | Cytotoxicity and phytochemical profiles of Phyllanthus emblica stem barks with in silico drug-likeliness: Focusing on antidiabetic potentials. Out of numerous reported medicinal plants, Phyllanthus emblica has been reported to possess a strong antidiabetic potential and other pharmacological effects. This research aimed to identify the phytoconstituents in the extracts of P. emblica stem barks and hypothesize their antidiabetic potentials based on in silico drug-likeliness. Simplicia of P. emblica powder was sequentially macerated at room temperature (24 h) using n-hexane, ethyl acetate, and methanol solvents. Phytochemical profiles of the extract were investigated qualitatively using reagents, followed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis. All phytocompounds were then analyzed for their pharmacological properties and predicted bioactivities on molinspiration. Cytotoxicity of each extract was evaluated using the brine shrimp lethality test. As many as 18 compounds (from GC-MS), were identified in all extract samples from P. emblica stem barks. Based on in silico drug-likeliness, methanol extract contained the most potentially bioactive compounds (16alpha-hydroxycleroda-3,13 (14) Z-dien-15,16-olide; 14-. beta.-H-pregna; and isochiapin B). Isochiapin B was revealed as the only compound that had no violation of the rule of five. All three compounds could hypothetically contribute to the antidiabetic activity of the methanol extract from P. emblica stem barks by inhibiting diabetes-related enzymes and interacting with nuclear receptors. Moderate cytotoxicity of ethyl acetate and methanol extract, respectively, further suggests their bioactivities.
38293390 | Energy conservation of HVAC systems in isolation rooms using heat pipe heat exchangers. Isolation rooms are crucial in healthcare facilities to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. Infectious diseases can be transmitted to humans from humans or through animals known as zoonoses. With the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, isolation rooms have become one of the most critical facilities in hospitals. Maintaining the correct temperature and humidity in these isolation rooms is a challenge, considering the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems that continuously consume large amounts of energy. With the application of energy conservation methods, the total energy consumption of HVAC systems can be reduced. Many studies have shown that the heat pipe heat exchanger (HPHE) technology can contribute significantly to energy savings using HVAC systems. In this study, the effectiveness of an HPHE on an HVAC system in an isolation room was examined, and the total energy reduction was quantified. The HPHE consisted of two rows with ten heat pipes in each row, arranged in a staggered configuration with fresh air temperature and mass flow variations. The inlet fresh air temperatures varied at 32, 35, 37, and 40  C and fresh air velocities at 1.2, 1.6, 2.2, and 2.6 m/s. Using a chiller, the inlet fresh air was cooled to a comfortable temperature zone, approximately 24.4-25.2  C, in the isolation room. Notably, higher velocities decreased the effectiveness of the HPHE. An increase in the flow rate enhanced the system, thereby improving the heat recovery value. The increase in the inlet fresh air temperature from 32  C, that yielded an energy saving of 1.23 W, to 40  C, resulted in a further energy saving of 1.85 W. The application of the HPHE in the HVAC system in isolation rooms represents a significant innovation that contributes to a reduction in total energy consumption.
37333294 | Post-acute immunological and behavioral sequelae in mice after Omicron infection. Progress in understanding long COVID and developing effective therapeutics is hampered in part by the lack of suitable animal models. Here we used ACE2-transgenic mice recovered from Omicron (BA.1) infection to test for pulmonary and behavioral post-acute sequelae. Through in-depth phenotyping by CyTOF, we demonstrate that naive mice experiencing a first Omicron infection exhibit profound immune perturbations in the lung after resolving acute infection. This is not observed if mice were first vaccinated with spike-encoding mRNA. The protective effects of vaccination against post-acute sequelae were associated with a highly polyfunctional SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell response that was recalled upon BA.1 breakthrough infection but not seen with BA.1 infection alone. Without vaccination, the chemokine receptor CXCR4 was uniquely upregulated on multiple pulmonary immune subsets in the BA.1 convalescent mice, a process previously connected to severe COVID-19. Taking advantage of recent developments in AI-based assessments of murine behaviors, we demonstrate that BA.1 convalescent mice respond abnormally to a stimulus after repeated presentations (habituation). Collectively, our data identify immunological and behavioral post-acute sequelae after Omicron infection and uncover a protective effect of vaccination.
36066346 | A specific role for importin-5 and NASP in the import and nuclear hand-off of monomeric H3. Core histones package chromosomal DNA and regulate genomic transactions, with their nuclear import and deposition involving importin-beta proteins and a dedicated repertoire of histone chaperones. Previously, a histone H3-H4 dimer has been isolated bound to importin-4 (Imp4) and the chaperone ASF1, suggesting that H3 and H4 fold together in the cytoplasm before nuclear import. However, other studies have shown the existence of monomeric H3 in the nucleus, indicating a post-import folding pathway. Here, we report that the predominant importin associated with cytoplasmic H3 is importin-5 (Imp5), which hands off its monomeric cargo to nuclear sNASP. Imp5, in contrast to Imp4, binds to both H3 and H4 containing constitutively monomeric mutations and binds to newly synthesised, monomeric H3 tethered in the cytoplasm. Constitutively monomeric H3 retains its interaction with NASP, whereas monomeric H4 retains interactions specifically with HAT1 and RBBP7. High-resolution separation of NASP interactors shows the 's' isoform but not the 't' isoform associates with monomeric H3, whilst both isoforms associate with H3-H4 dimers in at least three discrete multi-chaperoning complexes. In vitro binding experiments show mutual exclusivity between sNASP and Imp5 in binding H3, suggesting direct competition for interaction sites, with the GTP-bound form of Ran required for histone transfer. Finally, using pulse-chase analysis, we show that cytoplasm-tethered histones do not interact with endogenous NASP until they reach the nucleus, whereupon they bind rapidly. We propose an Imp5-specific import pathway for monomeric H3 that hands off to sNASP in the nucleus, with a parallel H4 pathway involving Imp5 and the HAT1-RBBP7 complex, followed by nuclear folding and hand-off to deposition factors.
37477828 | Antibody Fc-binding profiles and ACE2 affinity to SARS-CoV-2 RBD variants. Emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants, notably Omicron, continue to remain a formidable challenge to worldwide public health. The SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain (RBD) is a hotspot for mutations, reflecting its critical role at the ACE2 interface during viral entry. Here, we comprehensively investigated the impact of RBD mutations, including 5 variants of concern (VOC) or interest-including Omicron (BA.2)-and 33 common point mutations, both on IgG recognition and ACE2-binding inhibition, as well as FcgammaRIIa- and FcgammaRIIIa-binding antibodies, in plasma from two-dose BNT162b2-vaccine recipients and mild-COVID-19 convalescent subjects obtained during the first wave using a custom-designed bead-based 39-plex array. IgG-recognition and FcgammaR-binding antibodies were decreased against the RBD of Beta and Omicron, as well as point mutation G446S, found in several Omicron sub-variants as compared to wild type. Notably, while there was a profound decrease in ACE2 inhibition against Omicron, FcgammaR-binding antibodies were less affected, suggesting that Fc functional antibody responses may be better retained against the RBD of Omicron in comparison to neutralization. Furthermore, while measurement of RBD-ACE2-binding affinity via biolayer interferometry showed that all VOC RBDs have enhanced affinity to human ACE2, we demonstrate that human ACE2 polymorphisms, E35K (rs1348114695) has reduced affinity to VOCs, while K26R (rs4646116) and S19P (rs73635825) have increased binding kinetics to the RBD of VOCs, potentially affecting virus-host interaction and, thereby, host susceptibility. Collectively, our findings provide in-depth coverage of the impact of RBD mutations on key facets of host-virus interactions.
37360864 | Immunogenicity and safety of heterologous immunisation with Ad5-nCOV in healthy adults aged 60 years and older primed with an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (CoronaVac): a phase 4, randomised, observer-blind, non-inferiority trial. Background: People over 60 have been found to develop less protection after two doses of inactivated COVID-19 vaccines than younger people. Heterologous immunisation could potentially induce more robust immune responses compared to homologous immunisation. We aimed to assess the immunogenicity and safety of a heterologous immunisation with an adenovirus type 5-vectored vaccine (Ad5-nCOV, Convidecia) among elderly who were primed with an inactivated vaccine (CoronaVac) previously. Methods: We did a randomised, observer-blinded, non-inferiority trial in healthy adults aged 60 years and older in Lianshui County (Jiangsu, China) between August 26, 2021 and May 15, 2022. 199 eligible participants who had received two doses of CoronaVac in the past 3-6 months were randomised (1:1) to receive a third dose of Convidecia (group A, n = 99) or CoronaVac (group B, n = 100), while 100 participants primed with one dose of CoronaVac in the past 1-2 months were randomised equally to receive a second dose of Convidecia (group C, n = 50) or CoronaVac (group D, n = 50). Participants and investigators were masked to the vaccine received. Primary outcomes were the geometric mean titers (GMTs) of neutralising antibodies against live SARS-CoV-2 virus 14 days after boosting and 28-day adverse reactions. This study was registered with ClinicalTrials.govNCT04952727. Findings: A heterologous third dose of Convidecia resulted in a 6.2-fold (GMTs: 286.4 vs 48.2), 6.3-fold (45.9 vs 7.3) and 7.5-fold (32.9 vs 4.4) increase in neutralising antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 wild-type, delta (B.1.617.2) and omicron (BA.1.1) 14 days post boosting, respectively, compared with the homologous boost. The heterologous booster with Convidecia induced significantly higher neutralsing activities, with up to 91% inhibition in binding of Spike to ACE2 for BA.4 and BA.5 variants, compared with 35% inhibition induced by three doses of CoronaVac. For participants primed with one dose of CoronaVac, a heterologous dose of Convidecia induced higher neutralising antibodies against wild-type than two doses of CoronaVac (GMTs: 70.9 vs 9.3, p < 0.0001), but not for that against variants of concern (GMTs against delta: 5.0 vs 4.0, p = 0.4876; GMTs against omicron: 4.8 vs 3.7, p = 0.4707). Adverse reactions were reported by 8 (8.1%) participants in group A and 4 (4.0%) in group B (p > 0.05), and 8 (16.0%) in group C and 1 (2.0%) in group D (p = 0.031). Interpretation: In elderly individuals primed with two doses of CoronaVac, the heterologous immunisation with Convidecia induced strong antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 wildtype and variants of concern, which could be an alternative regimen for enhancing protection in this vulnerable population. Funding: National Natural Science Foundation of China, Jiangsu Provincial Key Research and Development Program, and Jiangsu Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars Program.
37423172 | Potential therapeutic implications of calcitriol administration and weight reduction on CD4 T cell dysregulation and renin angiotensin system-associated acute lung injury in septic obese mice. This study investigated the effects of weight reduction and/or calcitriol administration on regulating CD4 T cell subsets and renin-angiotensin system (RAS)-associated acute lung injury (ALI) in obese mice with sepsis. Half of the mice were fed a high-fat diet for 16 weeks, half of them had high-fat diet for 12 weeks then were transferred to a low-energy diet for 4 weeks. After feeding the respective diets, cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) were performed to induce sepsis. There were four sepsis groups: OSS group, obese mice injected with saline; OSD group, obese mice given calcitriol; WSS group, mice with weight reduction and saline; WSD group, mice with weight reduction and calcitriol. Mice were sacrificed after CLP. The findings showed that CD4 T subsets distribution did not differ among the experimental groups. Calcitriol-treated groups had higher RAS-associated AT2R, MasR, ACE2, and angiopoietin 1-7 (Ang(1-7)) levels in the lungs. Also, higher tight junction proteins were noted 12 h after CLP. At 24 h post-CLP, weight reduction and/or calcitriol treatment reduced plasma inflammatory mediator production. Calcitriol-treated groups had higher CD4/CD8, T helper (Th)1/Th2 and lower Th17/regulatory T (Treg) ratios than the groups without calcitriol. In the lungs, calcitriol-treated groups had lower AT1R levels, whereas the RAS anti-inflammatory protein levels were higher than those groups without calcitriol. Lower injury scores were also noted at this time point. These findings suggested weight reduction decreased systemic inflammation. However, calcitriol administration produced a more-balanced Th/Treg distribution, upregulated the RAS anti-inflammatory pathway, and attenuated ALI in septic obese mice.
36344555 | Genomic control of inflammation in experimental atopic dermatitis. Atopic Dermatitis (AD) or eczema, a recurrent allergic inflammation of the skin, afflicts 10-20% of children and 5% adults of all racial and ethnic groups globally. We report a new topical treatment of AD by a Nuclear Transport Checkpoint Inhibitor (NTCI), which targets two nuclear transport shuttles, importin alpha5 and importin beta1. In the preclinical model of AD, induced by the active vitamin D3 analog MC903 (calcipotriol), NTCI suppressed the expression of keratinocyte-derived cytokine, Thymic Stromal Lymphopoietin (TSLP), the key gene in AD development. Moreover, the genes encoding mediators of TH2 response, IL-4 and its receptor IL-4Ralpha were also silenced together with the genes encoding cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-13, IL-23alpha, IL-33, IFN-gamma, GM-CSF, VEGF A, the chemokines RANTES and IL-8, and intracellular signal transducers COX-2 and iNOS. Consequently, NTCI suppressed skin infiltration by inflammatory cells (eosinophils, macrophages, and CD4 + T lymphocytes), and reduced MC903-evoked proliferation of Ki-67-positive cells. Thus, we highlight the mechanism of action and the potential utility of topical NTCI for treatment of AD undergoing Phase 1/2 clinical trial (AMTX-100 CF, NCT04313400).
37517693 | Structure of the Hepatitis B Virus capsid quasi-sixfold with a trapped C-terminal domain reveals capsid movements associated with domain exit. Many viruses undergo transient conformational change to surveil their environments for receptors and host factors. In Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) infection, after the virus enters the cell it is transported to the nucleus by interaction of the HBV capsid with an importin alpha/beta complex. The interaction between the virus and the importins is mediated by nuclear localization signals on the capsid protein C-terminal domain (CTD). However, CTDs are located inside the capsid. In this study we asked: where does a CTD exit the capsid, are all quasi-equivalent CTDs created equal, and does the capsid structure deform to facilitate CTD egress from the capsid? Here, we used Impbeta as a tool to trap transiently exposed CTDs and examined this complex by cryo-electron microscopy. We examined structures in an asymmetric reconstruction of a T=4 icosahedral capsid and a focused reconstruction of a quasi-sixfold vertex (3.8 and 4.0 A resolution, respectively). With both approaches, we observed that a subset of CTDs extended through a pore in the center of the quasi-sixfold complex. CTD egress was accompanied by enlargement of the pore and subtle changes in quaternary and tertiary structure of the quasi-sixfold. When compared to molecular dynamics simulations, structural changes were within the normal range of capsid flexibility. Although pore diameter was enlarged in the Impbeta-bound reconstruction, simulations indicate that CTD egress does not exclusively depend on enlarged pores. In summary, we find that HBV surveillance of its environment by transient exposure of its CTD, requires only modest conformational change of the capsid.
35083038 | The association between therapeutic plasma exchange and the risk of mortality among patients critically ill with COVID-19: a meta-analysis. Background: Cytokine storm has been widely known to contribute to the development of the critical condition in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), and studies had been conducted to assess the potential aspect of cytokine storm elimination by performing therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE). However, contradictory findings were observed. The objective of this study was to assess the association between TPE and the reduction of mortality of critically ill COVID-19 patients. Methods: A meta-analysis was conducted by collecting data from PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science. Data on the mortality rate of critically ill COVID-19 patients treated with TPE plus standard of care and that of patients treated with standard of care alone were analyzed using a Z test. Results: We included a total of four papers assessing the association between TPE and the risk of mortality among critically ill COVID-19 patients. Our findings suggested that critically ill COVID-19 patients treated with TPE had lower risk of mortality compared to those without TPE treatment. Conclusion: Our study has identified the potential benefits of TPE in reducing the risk of mortality among critically ill COVID-19 patients.
37727107 | Development of an automated, high-throughput SARS-CoV-2 neutralization assay based on a pseudotyped virus using a vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) vector. The global outbreak of COVID-19 has caused a severe threat to human health; therefore, simple, high-throughput neutralization assays are desirable for developing vaccines and drugs against COVID-19. In this study, a high-titer SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus was successfully packaged by truncating the C-terminus of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein by 21 amino acids and infecting 293T cells that had been stably transfected with the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor and furin (named AF cells), to establish a simple, high-throughput, and automated 384-well plate neutralization assay. The method was optimized for cell amount, virus inoculation, incubation time, and detection time. The automated assay showed good sensitivity, accuracy, reproducibility, Z' factor, and a good correlation with the live virus neutralization assay. The high-throughput approach would make it available for the SARS-CoV-2 neutralization test in large-scale clinical trials and seroepidemiological surveys which would aid the accelerated vaccine development and evaluation.
8089068 | In-vitro activity of biapenem, compared with imipenem and meropenem, against Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains and mutants with known resistance mechanisms. The activity of biapenem (L-627, LJC-10627), a new carbapenem, was investigated against Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains, mutants and isolates with known resistance mechanisms to other beta-lactams. The behaviour of biapenem closely resembled that of imipenem, although it showed minor differences compared with meropenem, Inducible (i.e. normal) or derepressed chromosomal beta-lactamase expression gave slight protection against biapenem and imipenem, but insufficient to raise the MICs above clinically significant limits. This behaviour correlated with the slight lability of these compounds to the purified enzyme and with their strong capacity to induce beta-lactamase synthesis. Inducible or derepressed enzyme gave no protection against meropenem, possibly reflecting this compound's particular ability to deactivate the enzyme. Biapenem also has some ability to reversibly deactivate the enzyme. None of several plasmid-mediated beta-lactamases (TEM-2, PSE-1, -3 or -4; OXA-3,-6,-10,-11; NPS-1 or LCR-1) introduced into a P. aeruginosa PU21 recipient strain reduced susceptibility to biapenem or other carbapenems. Amongst permeability mutants, those lacking the D2 'carbapenem-specific' porin had reduced susceptibility to biapenem as well as to imipenem and meropenem. Biapenem and imipenem insusceptibility in these D2 porin-deficient mutants required continued expression of the chromosomal beta-lactamase, although this did not apply to meropenem. P. aeruginosa isolates and mutants with broad-spectrum insusceptibility ('intrinsic resistance') to penicillins, cephalosporins and unrelated drugs remained fully susceptible to biapenem and imipenem, whilst showing slightly reduced susceptibility to meropenem. Overall, these findings suggest that biapenem, like the earlier carbapenems, should prove to be a useful antipseudomonal agent, overcoming the mechanisms that commonly confer resistance to other classes of antipseudomonal beta-lactams.
38472523 | Preclinical Development of a Novel Epitope-based DNA Vaccine Candidate against SARS-CoV-2 and Evaluation of Immunogenicity in BALB/c Mice. The protective efficacies of current licensed vaccines against COVID-19 have significantly reduced as a result of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs) which carried multiple mutations in the Spike (S) protein. Considering that these vaccines were developed based on the S protein of the original SARS-CoV-2 Wuhan strain, we designed a recombinant plasmid DNA vaccine based on highly conserved and immunogenic B and T cell epitopes against SARS-CoV-2 Wuhan strain and the Omicron VOC. Literature mining and bioinformatics were used to identify 6 immunogenic peptides from conserved regions of the SARS-CoV-2 S and membrane (M) proteins. Nucleotide sequences encoding these peptides representing highly conserved B and T cell epitopes were cloned into a pVAX1 vector to form the pVAX1/S2-6EHGFP recombinant DNA plasmid vaccine. The DNA vaccine was intranasally or intramuscularly administered to BALB/c mice and evaluations of humoral and cellular immune responses were performed. The intramuscular administration of pVAX1/S2-6EHGFP was associated with a significantly higher percentage of CD8+ T cells expressing IFN-gamma when compared with the empty vector and PBS controls. Intramuscular or intranasal administrations of pVAX1/S2-6EHGFP resulted in robust IgG antibody responses. Sera from mice intramuscularly immunized with pVAX1/S2-6EHGFP were found to elicit neutralizing antibodies capable of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant with the ACE2 cell surface receptor. This study demonstrated that the DNA vaccine construct encoding highly conserved immunogenic B and T cell epitopes was capable of eliciting potent humoral and cellular immune responses in mice.
34428682 | Comparative study of the interaction of ivermectin with proteins of interest associated with SARS-CoV-2: A computational and biophysical approach. The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has accelerated the study of existing drugs. The mixture of homologs called ivermectin (avermectin-B1a [HB1a] + avermectin-B1b [HB1b]) has shown antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 in vitro. However, there are few reports on the behavior of each homolog. We investigated the interaction of each homolog with promising targets of interest associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection from a biophysical and computational-chemistry perspective using docking and molecular dynamics. We observed a differential behavior for each homolog, with an affinity of HB1b for viral structures, and of HB1a for host structures considered. The induced disturbances were differential and influenced by the hydrophobicity of each homolog and of the binding pockets. We present the first comparative analysis of the potential theoretical inhibitory effect of both avermectins on biomolecules associated with COVID-19, and suggest that ivermectin through its homologs, has a multiobjective behavior.
33316950 | CD4, CD8b, and Cytokines Expression Profiles in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells Infected with Different Subtypes of KoRV from Koalas (Phascolarctos cinereus) in a Japanese Zoo. Koala retrovirus (KoRV) poses a major threat to koala health and conservation, and currently has 10 identified subtypes: an endogenous subtype (KoRV-A) and nine exogenous subtypes (KoRV-B to KoRV-J). However, subtype-related variations in koala immune response to KoRV are uncharacterized. In this study, we investigated KoRV-related immunophenotypic changes in a captive koala population (Hirakawa zoo, Japan) with a range of subtype infection profiles (KoRV-A only vs. KoRV-A with KoRV-B and/or -C), based on qPCR measurements of CD4, CD8b, IL-6, IL-10 and IL-17A mRNA expression in unstimulated and concanavalin (Con)-A-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Although CD4, CD8b, and IL-17A expression did not differ between KoRV subtype infection profiles, IL-6 expression was higher in koalas with exogenous infections (both KoRV-B and KoRV-C) than those with the endogenous subtype only. IL-10 expression did not significantly differ between subtype infection profiles but did show a marked increase-accompanying decreased CD4:CD8b ratio-in a koala with lymphoma and co-infected with KoRV-A and -B, thus suggesting immunosuppression. Taken together, the findings of this study provide insights into koala immune response to multiple KoRV subtypes, which can be exploited for the development of prophylactic and therapeutic interventions for this iconic marsupial species.
37566678 | Exposure to lung-migrating helminth protects against murine SARS-CoV-2 infection through macrophage-dependent T cell activation. Helminth endemic regions report lower COVID-19 morbidity and mortality. Here, we show that lung remodeling from a prior infection with a lung-migrating helminth, Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, enhances viral clearance and survival of human-ACE2 transgenic mice challenged with SARS-CoV-2 (SCV2). This protection is associated with a lymphocytic infiltrate, including increased accumulation of pulmonary SCV2-specific CD8+ T cells, and anti-CD8 antibody depletion abrogated the N. brasiliensis-mediated reduction in viral loads. Pulmonary macrophages with a type 2 transcriptional and epigenetic signature persist in the lungs of N. brasiliensis-exposed mice after clearance of the parasite and establish a primed environment for increased CD8+ T cell recruitment and activation. Accordingly, depletion of macrophages ablated the augmented viral clearance and accumulation of CD8+ T cells driven by prior N. brasiliensis infection. Together, these findings support the concept that lung-migrating helminths can limit disease severity during SCV2 infection through macrophage-dependent enhancement of antiviral CD8+ T cell responses.
34255748 | Nuclear PFKP promotes CXCR4-dependent infiltration by T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. PFKP (phosphofructokinase, platelet), the major isoform of PFK1 expressed in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), is predominantly expressed in the cytoplasm to carry out its glycolytic function. Our study showed that PFKP is a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein with functional nuclear export and nuclear localization sequences (NLSs). Cyclin D3/CDK6 facilitated PFKP nuclear translocation by dimerization and by exposing the NLS of PFKP to induce the interaction between PFKP and importin 9. Nuclear PFKP stimulated the expression of C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), a chemokine receptor regulating leukemia homing/infiltration, to promote T-ALL cell invasion, which depended on the activity of c-Myc. In vivo experiments showed that nuclear PFKP promoted leukemia homing/infiltration into the bone marrow, spleen, and liver, which could be blocked with CXCR4 antagonists. Immunohistochemical staining of tissues from a clinically well-annotated cohort of T cell lymphoma/leukemia patients showed nuclear PFKP localization in invasive cancers, but not in nonmalignant T lymph node or reactive hyperplasia. The presence of nuclear PFKP in these specimens correlated with poor survival in patients with T cell malignancy, suggesting the potential utility of nuclear PFKP as a diagnostic marker.
35126885 | Advances in the development of therapeutic strategies against COVID-19 and perspectives in the drug design for emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants. Since Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was identified in late 2019, the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has challenged public health around the world. Currently, there is an urgent need to explore antiviral therapeutic targets and effective clinical drugs. In this study, we systematically summarized two main therapeutic strategies against COVID-19, namely drugs targeting the SARS-CoV-2 life cycle and SARS-CoV-2-induced inflammation in host cells. The development of above two strategies is implemented by repurposing drugs and exploring potential targets. A comprehensive summary of promising drugs, especially cytokine inhibitors, and traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), provides recommendations for clinicians as evidence-based medicine in the actual clinical COVID-19 treatment. Considering the emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants greatly impact the effectiveness of drugs and vaccines, we reviewed the appearance and details of SARS-CoV-2 variants for further perspectives in drug design, which brings updating clues to develop therapeutical agents against the variants. Based on this, the development of broadly antiviral drugs, combined with immunomodulatory, or holistic therapy in the host, is prior to being considered for therapeutic interventions on mutant strains of SARS-CoV-2. Therefore, it is highly acclaimed the requirements of the concerted efforts from multi-disciplinary basic studies and clinical trials, which improves the accurate treatment of COVID-19 and optimizes the contingency measures to emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants.
37896826 | A 5-Lipoxygenase Inhibitor, Zileuton, Modulates Host Immune Responses and Improves Lung Function in a Model of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) Induced by Betacoronavirus. Exacerbated inflammatory responses are a hallmark of severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Zileuton (Zi) is a selective inhibitor of 5-lipoxygenase, an enzyme involved in the production of several inflammatory/pro-resolving lipid mediators. Herein, we investigated the effect of Zi treatment in a severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) model. Mouse hepatitis virus (MHV)3-infected mice treated with Zi significantly improved the clinical score, weight loss, cardiopulmonary function, and survival rates compared with infected untreated animals. The protection observed in Zi-treated mice was associated with a lower inflammatory score, reduced dendritic cell-producing tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and increased neutrophil-producing interleukin (IL)-10 in the lungs three days after infection (dpi). At 5 dpi, the lungs of treated mice showed an increase in Th2-, Treg CD4+-, and Treg CD8+-producing IL-10 and reduced Th1 infiltrating cells. Furthermore, similar results were found upon Zi treatment after SARS-CoV-2 infection in transgenic mice expressing the human angiotensin I-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor driven by the cytokeratin-18 (K18) gene promoter (K18-hACE2), significantly improving the clinical score, weight loss, and lung inflammatory score compared with untreated animals. Our data suggest that Zi protects against developing severe lung disease during SARS induced by betacoronavirus without affecting the host's capacity to deal with infection.
33521616 | Disruption of CCR5 signaling to treat COVID-19-associated cytokine storm: Case series of four critically ill patients treated with leronlimab. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is associated with considerable morbidity and mortality. The number of confirmed cases of infection with SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19 continues to escalate with over 70 million confirmed cases and over 1.6 million confirmed deaths. Severe-to-critical COVID-19 is associated with a dysregulated host immune response to the virus, which is thought to lead to pathogenic immune dysregulation and end-organ damage. Presently few effective treatment options are available to treat COVID-19. Leronlimab is a humanized IgG4, kappa monoclonal antibody that blocks C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5). It has been shown that in patients with severe COVID-19 treatment with leronlimab reduces elevated plasma IL-6 and chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5), and normalized CD4/CD8 ratios. We administered leronlimab to 4 critically ill COVID-19 patients in intensive care. All 4 of these patients improved clinically as measured by vasopressor support, and discontinuation of hemodialysis and mechanical ventilation. Following administration of leronlimab there was a statistically significant decrease in IL-6 observed in patient A (p=0.034) from day 0-7 and patient D (p=0.027) from day 0-14. This corresponds to restoration of the immune function as measured by CD4+/CD8+ T cell ratio. Although two of the patients went on to survive the other two subsequently died of surgical complications after an initial recovery from SARS-CoV-2 infection.
32898168 | In vivo antiviral host transcriptional response to SARS-CoV-2 by viral load, sex, and age. Despite limited genomic diversity, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has shown a wide range of clinical manifestations in different patient populations. The mechanisms behind these host differences are still unclear. Here, we examined host response gene expression across infection status, viral load, age, and sex among shotgun RNA sequencing profiles of nasopharyngeal (NP) swabs from 430 individuals with PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 and 54 negative controls. SARS-CoV-2 induced a strong antiviral response with up-regulation of antiviral factors such as OAS1-3 and IFIT1-3 and T helper type 1 (Th1) chemokines CXCL9/10/11, as well as a reduction in transcription of ribosomal proteins. SARS-CoV-2 culture in human airway epithelial (HAE) cultures replicated the in vivo antiviral host response 7 days post infection, with no induction of interferon-stimulated genes after 3 days. Patient-matched longitudinal specimens (mean elapsed time = 6.3 days) demonstrated reduction in interferon-induced transcription, recovery of transcription of ribosomal proteins, and initiation of wound healing and humoral immune responses. Expression of interferon-responsive genes, including ACE2, increased as a function of viral load, while transcripts for B cell-specific proteins and neutrophil chemokines were elevated in patients with lower viral load. Older individuals had reduced expression of the Th1 chemokines CXCL9/10/11 and their cognate receptor CXCR3, as well as CD8A and granzyme B, suggesting deficiencies in trafficking and/or function of cytotoxic T cells and natural killer (NK) cells. Relative to females, males had reduced B cell-specific and NK cell-specific transcripts and an increase in inhibitors of nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kappaB) signaling, possibly inappropriately throttling antiviral responses. Collectively, our data demonstrate that host responses to SARS-CoV-2 are dependent on viral load and infection time course, with observed differences due to age and sex that may contribute to disease severity.
37048725 | Molecular Understanding of ACE-2 and HLA-Conferred Differential Susceptibility to COVID-19: Host-Directed Insights Opening New Windows in COVID-19 Therapeutics. The genetic variants of HLAs (human leukocyte antigens) play a crucial role in the virus-host interaction and pathology of COVID-19. The genetic variants of HLAs not only influence T cell immune responses but also B cell immune responses by presenting a variety of peptide fragments of invading pathogens. Peptide cocktail vaccines produced by using various conserved HLA-A2 epitopes provoke substantial specific CD8+ T cell responses in experimental animals. The HLA profiles vary among individuals and trigger different T cell-mediated immune responses in COVID-19 infections. Those with HLA-C*01 and HLA-B*44 are highly susceptible to the disease. However, HLA-A*02:01, HLA-DR*03:01, and HLA-Cw*15:02 alleles show resistance to SARS infection. Understanding the genetic association of HLA with COVID-19 susceptibility and severity is important because it can help in studying the transmission of COVID-19 and its physiopathogenesis. The HLA-C*01 and B*44 allele pathways can be studied to gain insight into disease transmission and physiopathogenesis. Therefore, integrating HLA testing is suggested in the ongoing pandemic, which will help in the rapid identification of highly susceptible populations worldwide and possibly acclimate vaccine development. Therefore, understanding the correlation between HLA and SARS-CoV-2 is critical in opening new insights into COVID-19 therapeutics, based on previous studies conducted.
34348091 | Revealing protein-protein interactions at the transcriptome scale by sequencing. We describe PROPER-seq (protein-protein interaction sequencing) to map protein-protein interactions (PPIs) en masse. PROPER-seq first converts transcriptomes of input cells into RNA-barcoded protein libraries, in which all interacting protein pairs are captured through nucleotide barcode ligation, recorded as chimeric DNA sequences, and decoded at once by sequencing and mapping. We applied PROPER-seq to human embryonic kidney cells, T lymphocytes, and endothelial cells and identified 210,518 human PPIs (collected in the PROPER v.1.0 database). Among these, 1,365 and 2,480 PPIs are supported by published co-immunoprecipitation (coIP) and affinity purification-mass spectrometry (AP-MS) data, 17,638 PPIs are predicted by the prePPI algorithm without previous experimental validation, and 100 PPIs overlap human synthetic lethal gene pairs. In addition, four previously uncharacterized interaction partners with poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) (a critical protein in DNA repair) known as XPO1, MATR3, IPO5, and LEO1 are validated in vivo. PROPER-seq presents a time-effective technology to map PPIs at the transcriptome scale, and PROPER v.1.0 provides a rich resource for studying PPIs.
34670407 | CCM3 Loss-Induced Lymphatic Defect Is Mediated by the Augmented VEGFR3-ERK1/2 Signaling. OBJECTIVE: Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) can happen anywhere in the body, although they most commonly produce symptoms in the brain. The role of CCM genes in other vascular beds outside the brain and retina is not well-examined, although the 3 CCM-associated genes (CCM1, CCM2, and CCM3) are ubiquitously expressed in all tissues. We aimed to determine the role of CCM gene in lymphatics. Approach and Results: Mice with an inducible pan-endothelial cell (EC) or lymphatic EC deletion of Ccm3 (Pdcd10ECKO or Pdcd10LECKO) exhibit dilated lymphatic capillaries and collecting vessels with abnormal valve structure. Morphological alterations were correlated with lymphatic dysfunction in Pdcd10LECKO mice as determined by Evans blue dye and fluorescein isothiocyanate(FITC)-dextran transport assays. Pdcd10LECKO lymphatics had increased VEGFR3 (vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3)-ERK1/2 (extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2) signaling with lymphatic hyperplasia. Mechanistic studies suggested that VEGFR3 is primarily regulated at a transcriptional level in Ccm3-deficient lymphatic ECs, in an NF-kappaB (nuclear factor kappaB)-dependent manner. CCM3 binds to importin alpha 2/KPNA2 (karyopherin subunit alpha 2), and a CCM3 deletion releases KPNA2 to activate NF-kappaB P65 by facilitating its nuclear translocation and P65-dependent VEGFR3 transcription. Moreover, increased VEGFR3 in lymphatic EC preferentially activates ERK1/2 signaling, which is critical for lymphatic EC proliferation. Importantly, inhibition of VEGFR3 or ERK1/2 rescued the lymphatic defects in structure and function. CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that CCM3 deletion augments the VEGFR3-ERK1/2 signaling in lymphatic EC that drives lymphatic hyperplasia and malformation and warrant further investigation on the potential clinical relevance of lymphatic dysfunction in patients with CCM.
34913347 | Effects of selected inherited factors on susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19 progression. Genetic predispositions may influence geographical and interethnic differences in COVID-19 prevalence and mortality in affected populations. Of the many genes implicated in COVID-19 progression, a substantial number have no direct functional link on virus transfer/viability or on the host immune system. To address this knowledge deficit, a large number of in silico studies have recently been published. However, the results of these studies often contradict the findings of studies involving real patients. For example, the ACE2 has been shown to play an important role in regulating coronavirus entry into cells, but none of its variations have been directly associated with COVID-19 susceptibility or severity. Consistently was reported that increased risk of COVID-19 is associated with blood group A and with the APOE4 allele. Among other genes with potential impacts are the genes for CCR5, IL-10, CD14, TMPRSS2 and angiotensin-converting enzyme. Variants within the protein-coding genes OAS1 and LZTFL1 (transferred to the human genome from Neanderthals) are understood to be among the strongest predictors of disease severity. The intensive research efforts have helped to identify the genes and polymorphisms that contribute to SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19 severity.
36015553 | Trend of Polymer Research Related to COVID-19 Pandemic: Bibliometric Analysis. Polymeric materials are used for personal protective equipment (PPE), which is mandatory for clinicians to use when handling coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients. The development of diagnostic tools and vaccines for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is also dependent on polymer technology. This current report aims to provide readers with the trend of polymer research regarding the COVID-19 pandemic, by employing bibliometric analysis. A literature search on the Scopus database (31 January 2022) was carried out using predetermined terms. Using Scopus database features, the publications were filtered based on the year of publication (2020-2022), types of articles (original research and review), and language (English). The metadata were extracted in a CSV (.csv) file, to be later used in VOSviewer software. The data were presented in a table, graph, and network visualization. As many as 512 publications were included, consisting of 66.4% original research articles and 33.6% review articles. Most of the publications were written by authors whose affiliation was in the United States (n = 118, 23%) and covering the Materials Science subject area (n = 142, 27.7%). The Ministry of Education of China was the most productive organization, publishing 11 articles. The National Science Foundation of China was the top funding source, supporting 45 publications. Heinz C. Schroder was the most prolific author, publishing nine articles. Science of the Total Environment was the leading journal publishing the included studies. The trend of polymer technology related to COVID-19 mostly covers PPE and waste-management themes. The use of polymer technology as a delivery system for the anti-SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19 vaccine is also among the frequently researched areas. We encourage more research in the field of polymer technology be carried out, to overcome the global pandemic.
25345917 | Activation of caspases and inhibition of ribosome biogenesis mediate antitumor activity of Chijongdan in A549 non-small lung cancer cells. BACKGROUND: Though herbal medicines have been used for cancer prevention and treatment, their scientific evidences still remain unclear so far. Thus, complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) project has been actively executed to reveal the scientific evidences in the USA and other countries. In the present study, we elucidated antitumor mechanism of Chijongdan, an oriental prescription of Rhus verniciflua, processed Panax ginseng, Persicaria tinctoria and Realgar, that has been traditionally applied for cancer treatment in Korea. METHODS: Chijongdan was prepared with extracts of Rhus verniciflua, processed Panax ginseng, Persicaria tinctoria and processed Realgar. The cytotoxicity of Chijongdan was measured by MTT colorimetric assay. Cell cycle analysis was performed by FACS. Western blot was performed to see the apoptosis related proteins. RESULTS: Chijongdan significantly exerted cytotoxicity in A549, H460 and H1299 non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) cells by MTT assay and also increased the number of ethidium homodimer positively stained cells in A549 NSCLC cells. Also, cell cycle analysis showed that Chijongdan increased sub-G1 population in a concentration dependent manner in A549 cells. In addition, Western blotting revealed that Chijongdan activated cleaved PARP, and caspase 9/3, while attenuated the expression of survival genes such as Bcl-2, Bcl-XL and survivin in A549 cells. Furthermore, Chijongdan suppressed the expression of ribosomal biogenesis related proteins such as upstream binding factor (UBF), Fibrillarin, NPM (B23) and Importin-7 (IPO7) and conversely pan-caspase inhibitor Z--VAD-FMK reversed the apoptotic ability of Chijongdan to cleave PARP and caspase 3 and attenuate the expression of UBF and Fibrillarin in A549 cells. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that Chijongdan induces apoptosis and inhibits ribosomal biogenesis proteins via caspase activation.
38444621 | Discrepancy of the law on disaster emergency in Indonesia: In search of an integrated law. The emergency status is a critical factor in handling disasters in Indonesia, particularly for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). It provides adequate access for the Government to reduce legal bureaucracy and facilitate expenditure. However, it has faced difficulties in its application as it does not have an explicit reference to existing emergency-related disaster laws. This article investigates this discrepancy in terms of the meaning of emergency status within the legal framework in Indonesia. This study uses the doctrinal method to explore six various laws related to disaster emergencies and analyse their discrepancies that have adversely impacted the management of COVID-19. The article finds that the term 'disaster emergencies' in the Indonesian legal system has different legal interpretations and a lack of standardisation, making their execution difficult. Contribution: This article significantly highlights the normative issues of determining disaster emergencies and their status in six different disaster-related laws. It provides an alternative approach to mainstream thinking by proposing amendments to the Infectious Disease Outbreak Law as an integrated law to ensure legal certainty, benefit, and fairness for the people in handling potential pandemics in Indonesia in the years to come.
35348437 | Human-Immune-System (HIS) humanized mouse model (DRAGA: HLA-A2.HLA-DR4.Rag1KO.IL-2RgammacKO.NOD) for COVID-19. We report a Human Immune System (HIS)-humanized mouse model (\DRAGA\: HLA-A2.HLA-DR4.Rag1KO.IL-2 RgammacKO.NOD) for COVID-19 research. DRAGA mice express transgenically HLA-class I and class-II molecules in the mouse thymus to promote human T cell development and human B cell Ig-class switching. When infused with human hematopoietic stem cells from cord blood reconstitute a functional human immune system, as well as human epi/endothelial cells in lung and upper respiratory airways expressing the human ACE2 receptor for SARS-CoV-2. The DRAGA mice were able to sustain SARS-CoV-2 infection for at least 25 days. Infected mice showed replicating virus in the lungs, deteriorating clinical condition, and human-like lung immunopathology including human lymphocyte infiltrates, microthrombi and pulmonary sequelae. Among the intra-alveolar and peri-bronchiolar lymphocyte infiltrates, human lung-resident (CD103+) CD8+ and CD4+ T cells were sequestered in epithelial (CD326+) lung niches and secreted granzyme B and perforin, suggesting anti-viral cytotoxic activity. Infected mice also mounted human IgG antibody responses to SARS-CoV-2 viral proteins. Hence, HIS-DRAGA mice showed unique advantages as a surrogate in vivo human model for studying SARS-CoV-2 immunopathological mechanisms and testing the safety and efficacy of candidate vaccines and therapeutics.
37648855 | Neutralization, effector function and immune imprinting of Omicron variants. Currently circulating SARS-CoV-2 variants have acquired convergent mutations at hot spots in the receptor-binding domain1 (RBD) of the spike protein. The effects of these mutations on viral infection and transmission and the efficacy of vaccines and therapies remains poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that recently emerged BQ.1.1 and XBB.1.5 variants bind host ACE2 with high affinity and promote membrane fusion more efficiently than earlier Omicron variants. Structures of the BQ.1.1, XBB.1 and BN.1 RBDs bound to the fragment antigen-binding region of the S309 antibody (the parent antibody for sotrovimab) and human ACE2 explain the preservation of antibody binding through conformational selection, altered ACE2 recognition and immune evasion. We show that sotrovimab binds avidly to all Omicron variants, promotes Fc-dependent effector functions and protects mice challenged with BQ.1.1 and hamsters challenged with XBB.1.5. Vaccine-elicited human plasma antibodies cross-react with and trigger effector functions against current Omicron variants, despite a reduced neutralizing activity, suggesting a mechanism of protection against disease, exemplified by S309. Cross-reactive RBD-directed human memory B cells remained dominant even after two exposures to Omicron spikes, underscoring the role of persistent immune imprinting.
26816005 | Homologous Transcription Factors DUX4 and DUX4c Associate with Cytoplasmic Proteins during Muscle Differentiation. Hundreds of double homeobox (DUX) genes map within 3.3-kb repeated elements dispersed in the human genome and encode DNA-binding proteins. Among these, we identified DUX4, a potent transcription factor that causes facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD). In the present study, we performed yeast two-hybrid screens and protein co-purifications with HaloTag-DUX fusions or GST-DUX4 pull-down to identify protein partners of DUX4, DUX4c (which is identical to DUX4 except for the end of the carboxyl terminal domain) and DUX1 (which is limited to the double homeodomain). Unexpectedly, we identified and validated (by co-immunoprecipitation, GST pull-down, co-immunofluorescence and in situ Proximal Ligation Assay) the interaction of DUX4, DUX4c and DUX1 with type III intermediate filament protein desmin in the cytoplasm and at the nuclear periphery. Desmin filaments link adjacent sarcomere at the Z-discs, connect them to sarcolemma proteins and interact with mitochondria. These intermediate filament also contact the nuclear lamina and contribute to positioning of the nuclei. Another Z-disc protein, LMCD1 that contains a LIM domain was also validated as a DUX4 partner. The functionality of DUX4 or DUX4c interactions with cytoplasmic proteins is underscored by the cytoplasmic detection of DUX4/DUX4c upon myoblast fusion. In addition, we identified and validated (by co-immunoprecipitation, co-immunofluorescence and in situ Proximal Ligation Assay) as DUX4/4c partners several RNA-binding proteins such as C1QBP, SRSF9, RBM3, FUS/TLS and SFPQ that are involved in mRNA splicing and translation. FUS and SFPQ are nuclear proteins, however their cytoplasmic translocation was reported in neuronal cells where they associated with ribonucleoparticles (RNPs). Several other validated or identified DUX4/DUX4c partners are also contained in mRNP granules, and the co-localizations with cytoplasmic DAPI-positive spots is in keeping with such an association. Large muscle RNPs were recently shown to exit the nucleus via a novel mechanism of nuclear envelope budding. Following DUX4 or DUX4c overexpression in muscle cell cultures, we observed their association with similar nuclear buds. In conclusion, our study demonstrated unexpected interactions of DUX4/4c with cytoplasmic proteins playing major roles during muscle differentiation. Further investigations are on-going to evaluate whether these interactions play roles during muscle regeneration as previously suggested for DUX4c.
36299428 | Impact of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 and its variant polymorphisms on host responses and viral pathogenesis. We and others have previously shown that the SARS-CoV-2 accessory protein ORF6 is a powerful antagonist of the interferon (IFN) signaling pathway by directly interacting with Nup98-Rae1 at the nuclear pore complex (NPC) and disrupting bidirectional nucleo-cytoplasmic trafficking. In this study, we further assessed the role of ORF6 during infection using recombinant SARS-CoV-2 viruses carrying either a deletion or a well characterized M58R loss-of-function mutation in ORF6. We show that ORF6 plays a key role in the antagonism of IFN signaling and in viral pathogenesis by interfering with karyopherin(importin)-mediated nuclear import during SARS-CoV-2 infection both in vitro , and in the Syrian golden hamster model in vivo . In addition, we found that ORF6-Nup98 interaction also contributes to inhibition of cellular mRNA export during SARS-CoV-2 infection. As a result, ORF6 expression significantly remodels the host cell proteome upon infection. Importantly, we also unravel a previously unrecognized function of ORF6 in the modulation of viral protein expression, which is independent of its function at the nuclear pore. Lastly, we characterized the ORF6 D61L mutation that recently emerged in Omicron BA.2 and BA.4 and demonstrated that it is able to disrupt ORF6 protein functions at the NPC and to impair SARS-CoV-2 innate immune evasion strategies. Importantly, the now more abundant Omicron BA.5 lacks this loss-of-function polymorphism in ORF6. Altogether, our findings not only further highlight the key role of ORF6 in the antagonism of the antiviral innate immune response, but also emphasize the importance of studying the role of non-spike mutations to better understand the mechanisms governing differential pathogenicity and immune evasion strategies of SARS-CoV-2 and its evolving variants. ONE SENTENCE SUMMARY: SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 subverts bidirectional nucleo-cytoplasmic trafficking to inhibit host gene expression and contribute to viral pathogenesis.
38144172 | Case Report: Case report: Administration of anticoagulant therapy after neuro-anesthesia procedure for hemorrhagic stroke patients with COVID-19 complications and its ethical and medicolegal consideration. Background: Ethical dilemmas can occur in any situation in clinical medicine. In patients undergoing neuro-anesthesia for surgical procedure evacuation of intracerebral hemorrhage with a history of hemorrhagic stroke, anticoagulants should not be given because they can cause recurrent bleeding. Meanwhile, at the same time, the patient could also be infected with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), one of treatment is the administration of anticoagulants. Methods: A case report. A 46-year-old male patient was admitted to hospital with a loss of consciousness and was diagnosed with intracerebral hemorrhage due to a hemorrhagic stroke and was confirmed positive for COVID-19. Giving anticoagulants to patients is considered counterproductive so, an ethical dilemma arises. For this reason, a joint conference was held to obtain the best ethical and medicolegal solutions for the patient. Results: By using several methods of resolving ethical dilemmas such as basic ethical principles, supporting ethical principles, and medicolegal considerations, it was decided that the patient was not to be given anticoagulants. Conclusions: Giving anticoagulants to hemorrhagic stroke patients is dangerous even though it is beneficial for COVID-19 patients, so here the principle of risk-benefit balance is applied to patients who prioritize risk prevention rather than providing benefits. This is also supported by the prima facie principle by prioritizing the principle of non-maleficence rather than beneficence, the minus malum principle by seeking the lowest risk, and the double effect principle by making the best decision even in a slightly less favorable way as well as the medicolegal aspect by assessing patient safety and risk management.
37932969 | CALM3 affects the prognosis of leukemia and hemorrhoids. Leukemia is an abnormal proliferation of white blood cells in the bone marrow, resulting in a large accumulation of abnormal leukemia cells in the blood and bone marrow. Hemorrhoids are dilated and swollen veins in the rectum or anal area. However, the relationship between CALM3 and leukemia and hemorrhoids remains unclear. The hemorrhoids dataset GSE154650 and leukemia dataset GSE26294 were downloaded from GEO databases generated by GPL20301 and GPL571.The R package limma was used to screen differentially expressed genes (DEDs). Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed. The construction and analysis of protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, functional enrichment analysis, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) and comparative toxicogenomics database (CTD) analysis were performed. TargetScan was used to screen miRNAs regulating central DEGs. It was verified by western blot basic cell assay. A total of 125 DEGs were co-identified. According to the GO analysis, they are mainly enriched in small molecule catabolic processes, skin development, and chemokine receptor binding. The KEGG analysis results show that the target cells are mainly enriched in the interaction of cytokines and cytokine receptors, as well as butyric acid metabolism. The GSEA analysis results indicate enrichment in small molecule catabolic processes, skin development, and chemokine receptor binding. Six core genes (CALM3, ACE2, PPARGC1A, XCR1, CFTR, PRKCA) were identified. We found that the core gene CALM3 is highly expressed in hemorrhoid samples, low in leukemia samples, and has low expression in normal samples, which may play a regulatory role in hemorrhoids and leukemia. Immunoinfiltration results showed a higher proportion of T_cells_CD4_memory_resting and a correlation with T_cells_CD8. WB experiment verified the result. CALM3 expression is low in leukemia, and the lower the expression is, the worse the prognosis is. CALM3 is highly expressed in hemorrhoids, and the higher the expression, the worse the prognosis.
34513611 | The dual role of phytochemicals on SARS-CoV-2 inhibition by targeting host and viral proteins. BACKGROUND: The severe acute respiratory syndrome-2019 has affected more than 190 million people around the world and caused severe crises throughout the globe. Due to rapid mutation in the viral genome, its became important to simultaneously improvise the host immunity while targeting viral proteins to reduce the severity of infection. AIM: The current computational work focuses on multi-level rigorous screening of 47 medicinal plant-based phytochemicals for discovering effective phytochemical inhibitors against the host and viral targets. EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURE: A total of 586 phytochemicals were analyzed in detail based on their drug-likeness, pharmacological properties, and structure-based activity against the viral proteins (Spike glycoprotein, Papain-like protease, and Main protease) and host proteins (ACE2, Importin-subunit alpha-5, and beta-1). Phytochemicals showing higher binding affinity with the dual capacity to target both the categories of proteins were further analyzed by profiling of their chemical reactivity using Density-Functional Theory (DFT) based quantum chemical methods. Finally, detailed molecular dynamics simulations were performed to analyze the interactions of the complexes. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: The results revealed that the selected phytochemicals from Andrographis paniculata, Aconitum heterophyllum, Costus speciosus and Inula racemosa may have the capacity to act with prominent affinity towards the host and viral proteins. Therefore, the combination of active phytochemicals of these plants may prove to be more beneficial and can be used for developing the potential phytotherapeutic intervention.
35251012 | Comparative Magnitude and Persistence of Humoral SARS-CoV-2 Vaccination Responses in the Adult Population in Germany. Recent increases in SARS-CoV-2 infections have led to questions about duration and quality of vaccine-induced immune protection. While numerous studies have been published on immune responses triggered by vaccination, these often focus on studying the impact of one or two immunisation schemes within subpopulations such as immunocompromised individuals or healthcare workers. To provide information on the duration and quality of vaccine-induced immune responses against SARS-CoV-2, we analyzed antibody titres against various SARS-CoV-2 antigens and ACE2 binding inhibition against SARS-CoV-2 wild-type and variants of concern in samples from a large German population-based seroprevalence study (MuSPAD) who had received all currently available immunisation schemes. We found that homologous mRNA-based or heterologous prime-boost vaccination produced significantly higher antibody responses than vector-based homologous vaccination. Ad26.CoV2S.2 performance was particularly concerning with reduced titres and 91.7% of samples classified as non-responsive for ACE2 binding inhibition, suggesting that recipients require a booster mRNA vaccination. While mRNA vaccination induced a higher ratio of RBD- and S1-targeting antibodies, vector-based vaccines resulted in an increased proportion of S2-targeting antibodies. Given the role of RBD- and S1-specific antibodies in neutralizing SARS-CoV-2, their relative over-representation after mRNA vaccination may explain why these vaccines have increased efficacy compared to vector-based formulations. Previously infected individuals had a robust immune response once vaccinated, regardless of which vaccine they received, which could aid future dose allocation should shortages arise for certain manufacturers. Overall, both titres and ACE2 binding inhibition peaked approximately 28 days post-second vaccination and then decreased.
15746192 | Defective calmodulin-mediated nuclear transport of the sex-determining region of the Y chromosome (SRY) in XY sex reversal. The sex-determining region of the Y chromosome (SRY) plays a key role in human sex determination, as mutations in SRY can cause XY sex reversal. Although some SRY missense mutations affect DNA binding and bending activities, it is unclear how others contribute to disease. The high mobility group domain of SRY has two nuclear localization signals (NLS). Sex-reversing mutations in the NLSs affect nuclear import in some patients, associated with defective importin-beta binding to the C-terminal NLS (c-NLS), whereas in others, importin-beta recognition is normal, suggesting the existence of an importin-beta-independent nuclear import pathway. The SRY N-terminal NLS (n-NLS) binds calmodulin (CaM) in vitro, and here we show that this protein interaction is reduced in vivo by calmidazolium, a CaM antagonist. In calmidazolium-treated cells, the dramatic reduction in nuclear entry of SRY and an SRY-c-NLS mutant was not observed for two SRY-n-NLS mutants. Fluorescence spectroscopy studies reveal an unusual conformation of SRY.CaM complexes formed by the two n-NLS mutants. Thus, CaM may be involved directly in SRY nuclear import during gonadal development, and disruption of SRY.CaM recognition could underlie XY sex reversal. Given that the CaM-binding region of SRY is well-conserved among high mobility group box proteins, CaM-dependent nuclear import may underlie additional disease states.
40314039 | Screening Biomarkers and Risk Factors for COVID-19 Progression in a Border Population Between Brazil-Bolivia. Background: The performance and genetic role in host response delineate investigative points of polymorphisms as potential biomarkers in viral infections. Methods: Thus, this research aimed to map biomarkers and risk factors in the severity of COVID-19 in individuals in Western Amazon (n = 243). Results: Patients aged 40 to 59 years showed an association with clinical progression (P = .003), also evidencing the relationship for individuals >60 years (P < .001), besides the non-vaccination influenced the pathology (P = .023). qPCR for human genotyping of the targets rs2070788, rs4702, rs76635825, rs540856718, rs35803318, rs12979860, and rs16899066, as well as for gene expression of ACE2, HLA-A, HLA-B, IFNL-3/2, IL-6, and TMPRSS2 was used. The rs12979860 (C > T) and rs2070788 (A > G) showed association among the analyzed groups (P < .05) with the allelic and genotypic frequency of rs12979860 (x 2 < 3.84) and evolutionary pointing of rs2070788G allele among infected people, including deaths. Conclusion: Gene expression showed high levels between the moderate and severe groups, with emphasis on TMPRSS2 and IL-6 genes that performed better. Thus, there is possibly an association regarding the role of the TMPRSS2 gene and rs2070788G, as well as age and IL-6 levels for COVID-19, pointing in parallel to the considerable influence of the vaccine on the SARS-CoV-2 pathway.
42147802 | Assessment and mitigation of COVID-19 occupational hazards among small businesses in a high-risk community. Purpose -: This project explored COVID-19 workplace hazards and factors influencing the implementation of risk mitigation approaches among small businesses in a high-risk community. Design/methodology/approach -: Using a novel framework, data were collected from 90 workplaces through site visits and consultations with at least one owner, manager or supervisor (\employer\) and at least one non-managerial staff member (\employee\). A risk assessment and mitigation plan were prepared based on site-specific hazards; later, a follow-up visit assessed whether recommendations had been implemented and factors influencing these decisions. Findings -: A total of 84 businesses (93.3%) implemented at least one recommendation, citing ease and staff and/or customer preferences as motivating factors; businesses that did not implement controls doubted their effectiveness and/or reported lack of feasibility. Although employers and employees generally agreed on job-related exposures, discrepancies existed that may have underestimated employees' time at risk. Importantly, this project provides evidence that small business owners are receptive to - and, often, eager for - targeted occupational health and safety information and support. Originality/value -: To our knowledge, this is the first effort to provide small businesses with worksite-specific respiratory disease risk assessments and tailored remediation plans as well as the first to assess their willingness to implement such recommendations.
42146970 | COVID-19 school closures, learning losses and intergenerational mobility. The paper investigates the longer-term inequality implications of COVID-19 by examining the ability of children from different backgrounds to engage in continued learning throughout the pandemic, and their implications for intergenerational mobility in education. The analysis builds on data from the Global Database of Intergenerational Mobility, country-specific learning loss simulation models using weekly school closure information from February 2020 to February 2022, and high-frequency phone survey data collected by the World Bank during the pandemic to assess the incidence and type of continued learning during school closures across children from different backgrounds. Using this information, the paper simulates counterfactual educational attainment and corresponding absolute and relative intergenerational educational mobility measures to estimate COVID-19 impacts. The results suggest that the extensive school closures are likely to have a significant impact on both absolute and relative mobility in the absence of remedial measures - in upper-middle-income countries, the share of children with more years of education than their parents could decline by 8 percentage points. Unequal access to continued learning across children from different socioeconomic backgrounds also leads to a significant decline in relative mobility. Notably, adopting more optimistic assumptions about the effectiveness of alternative learning modalities makes the simulated decline in relative mobility even larger.
41941698 | Antigen-specific T cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination after Hematopoietic Cell Transplant or CAR T cell Therapy. The optimal timing of SARS-CoV-2 vaccination after cellular therapies remains uncertain. In a prior prospective multicenter cohort (n=466), we found no differences in humoral or SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell receptor (TCR) responses between patients vaccinated early (<4 months) versus later (4-12 months) after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (allo-HCT), autologous HCT (auto-HCT), or chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) therapy. In this sub-study, we evaluated functional T cell responses in 68 patients (allo-HCT n=28, auto-HCT n=22, CAR-T n=18) that were clinically and immunophenotypically similar to the overall cohort. Antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccination were assessed by spectral flow cytometry. Functional responses were correlated with baseline immune reconstitution parameters, antibody responses, and to SARS-CoV-2-specific TCR repertoire metrics. Vaccination induced significant increases in antigen-specific IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha production by both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells across all cellular therapy groups. Responses were primarily driven by CD4+ central memory and cytotoxic CD8+ T cell subsets. Functional T cell responses correlated with baseline CD19+ B cell counts (p=0.002) and post-vaccination antibody responses (p<0.01), but not with SARS-CoV-2-specific TCR breadth or depth. Notably, functional T cell responses were detectable even in patients with low B cell counts or absent antibody responses. We conclude that mRNA SARS-CoV-2 vaccination elicits functional, Th1-skewed T cell responses after allo-HCT, auto-HCT, and CAR-T therapy. Initiation of SARS-CoV-2 vaccination early after cellular therapy (<4 months) was not associated with impaired functional T cell responses.
30021886 | MHC proteins confer differential sensitivity to CTLA-4 and PD-1 blockade in untreated metastatic melanoma. Combination anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) therapy promotes antitumor immunity and provides superior benefit to patients with advanced-stage melanoma compared with either therapy alone. T cell immunity requires recognition of antigens in the context of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and class II proteins by CD8+ and CD4+ T cells, respectively. We examined MHC class I and class II protein expression on tumor cells from previously untreated melanoma patients and correlated the results with transcriptional and genomic analyses and with clinical response to anti-CTLA-4, anti-PD-1, or combination therapy. Most (>50% of cells) or complete loss of melanoma MHC class I membrane expression was observed in 78 of 181 cases (43%), was associated with transcriptional repression of HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, and B2M, and predicted primary resistance to anti-CTLA-4, but not anti-PD-1, therapy. Melanoma MHC class II membrane expression on >1% cells was observed in 55 of 181 cases (30%), was associated with interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and IFN-gamma-mediated gene signatures, and predicted response to anti-PD-1, but not anti-CTLA-4, therapy. We conclude that primary response to anti-CTLA-4 requires robust melanoma MHC class I expression. In contrast, primary response to anti-PD-1 is associated with preexisting IFN-gamma-mediated immune activation that includes tumor-specific MHC class II expression and components of innate immunity when MHC class I is compromised. The benefits of combined checkpoint blockade may be attributable, in part, to distinct requirements for melanoma-specific antigen presentation to initiate antitumor immunity.
21051653 | Dual nuclear import mechanisms of sex determining factor SRY: intracellular Ca2+ as a switch. The sex-determining region on the Y chromosome (SRY) has 2 nuclear localization signals (NLSs) that flank the DNA binding high mobility group (HMG) domain; the beta-NLS and the CaM-NLS, which mediate nuclear transport through importin beta1 (Impbeta1) and the calcium-binding protein calmodulin (CaM), respectively. Here we reconstitute the nuclear import mediated by the 2 NLSs for the first time in vitro, establishing Ran independence of CaM-NLS-dependent transport. The beta- and CaM-NLSs were found to be independently functional out of the context of the SRY HMG domain, dependent on Impbeta1 and CaM binding, respectively. Intriguingly, direct protein binding assays also indicated competitive binding of Impbeta1 and CaM to the SRY HMG domain. To assess the potential role of intracellular calcium in modulating SRY nuclear accumulation, Cos-7 cells expressing SRY and control constructs were treated with agents elevating or reducing intracellular Ca(2+) levels. The in vivo results, supported by experiments in vitro where transport was assessed with or without 2 muM Ca(2+), indicate a Ca(2+)-dependent mode of nuclear transport via the CaM-NLS/CaM, with inhibition of beta-NLS/Impbeta1-mediated nuclear import by intracellular Ca(2+). The results imply mutual exclusivity of nuclear transport via the 2 NLSs with intracellular Ca(2+) as the switch between the 2.
31761720 | Ovarian stimulation does not influence the uterine immune environment in healthy infertile women. RESEARCH QUESTION: There is some controversy regarding the impact of ovarian stimulation on immune cells in women undergoing IVF. The study's aim was to determine whether ovarian stimulation affected immune uterine cells in healthy women undergoing IVF. DESIGN: This prospective cohort study included 28 patients undergoing IVF and 47 healthy oocyte donors. Endometrial biopsies were taken in a natural cycle and after ovarian stimulation. All participants had a normal karyotype, pelvic ultrasound and cervical cytology results and thyroid-stimulating hormone concentration, as well as normal glucose and insulin concentrations and inherited and acquired thrombophilia test results. Screening tests including human papillomavirus were normal. Immune cells were analysed using three techniques: fluorescence-activated cell sorting, immunohistochemistry and gene expression. A human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-C tetramer was used as an 'artificial embryo'. The expression of genes including those for tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin-10 (IL-10) was analysed. RESULTS: A comparison was made of the percentage and gene expression of CD56brightCD16- uterine natural killer (uNK), CD56dimCD16+ natural killer cells, CD56-CD16+ natural killer cells and TregCD25+CD4+FoxP3+ cells, uNK binding to the HLA-C tetramer, and TNF-alpha and IL-10 expression. No between- or within-group differences were observed in natural versus ovarian stimulation cycles. CONCLUSIONS: Ovarian stimulation does not affect the uterine immune cell population or HLA-C binding in healthy women undergoing ovarian stimulation. Further studies are underway to find out if different responses might be seen in women with previous autoimmune disorders.
32501836 | HIV-1 induced changes in HLA-C*03 :  04-presented peptide repertoires lead to reduced engagement of inhibitory natural killer cell receptors. OBJECTIVE: Viral infections influence intracellular peptide repertoires available for presentation by HLA-I. Alterations in HLA-I/peptide complexes can modulate binding of killer immunoglobuline-like receptors (KIRs) and thereby the function of natural killer (NK) cells. Although multiple studies have provided evidence that HLA-I/KIR interactions play a role in HIV-1 disease progression, the consequence of HIV-1 infection for HLA-I/KIR interactions remain largely unknown. DESIGN: We determined changes in HLA-I presented peptides resulting from HIV-1-infection of primary human CD4 T cells and assessed the impact of changes in peptide repertoires on HLA-I/KIR interactions. METHODS: Liquid chromatography-coupled tandem mass spectrometry to identify HLA-I presented peptides, cell-based in-vitro assays to evaluate functional consequences of alterations in immunopeptidome and atomistic molecular dynamics simulations to confirm experimental data. RESULTS: A total of 583 peptides exclusively presented on HIV-1-infected cells were identified, of which only 0.2% represented HIV-1 derived peptides. Focusing on HLA-C*03 : 04/KIR2DL3 interactions, we observed that HLA-C*03 : 04-presented peptides derived from noninfected CD4 T cells mediated stronger binding of inhibitory KIR2DL3 than peptides derived from HIV-1-infected cells. Furthermore, the most abundant peptide presented by HLA-C*03 : 04 on noninfected CD4 T cells (VIYPARISL) mediated the strongest KIR2DL3-binding, while the most abundant peptide presented on HIV-1-infected cells (YAIQATETL) did not mediate KIR2DL3-binding. Molecular dynamics simulations of HLA-C*03 : 04/KIR2DL3 interactions in the context of these two peptides revealed that VIYPARISL significantly enhanced the HLA-C*03 : 04/peptide contact area to KIR2DL3 compared with YAIQATETL. CONCLUSION: These data demonstrate that HIV-1 infection-induced changes in HLA-I-presented peptides can reduce engagement of inhibitory KIRs, providing a mechanism for enhanced activation of NK cells by virus-infected cells.
15889150 | Prostaglandin D2 induces nuclear import of the sex-determining factor SOX9 via its cAMP-PKA phosphorylation. During mammalian gonadal development, nuclear import/export of the transcription factor SOX9 is a critical step of the Sry-initiated testis-determining cascade. In this study, we identify a molecular mechanism contributing to the SOX9 nuclear translocation in NT2/D1 cells, which is mediated by the prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) signalling pathway via stimulation of its adenylcyclase-coupled DP1 receptor. We find that activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) induces phosphorylation of SOX9 on its two S64 and S181 PKA sites, and its nuclear localization by enhancing SOX9 binding to the nucleocytoplasmic transport protein importin beta. Moreover, in embryonic gonads, we detect a male-specific prostaglandin D synthase expression and an active PGD2 signal at the time and place of SOX9 expression. We thus propose a new step in the sex-determining cascade where PGD2 acts as an autocrine factor inducing SOX9 nuclear translocation and subsequent Sertoli cell differentiation.
42149146 | Effects of Delayed Pessary Maintenance Appointments on Patient's Symptoms and Clinical Findings During the COVID-19 Pandemic. INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: The COVID-19 pandemic impacted healthcare globally, with significant delays in elective services. This service evaluation aimed to capture the impact of delays in pessary maintenance appointments on patient's symptom experience and clinical findings. METHODS: All patients attending routine pessary maintenance appointments over a 6-month period during the COVID-19 pandemic were asked a series of questions concerning vaginal symptoms. Clinician observation of erythema and erosion were recorded. Descriptive statistics, for both total duration in situ and delay in pessary maintenance appointments, were calculated on the basis of pessary type for each symptom. RESULTS: Of the 208 questionnaires received, 173 were analysed and 35 excluded (incomplete data). Pessary distribution: ring (n = 99), Gellhorn (n = 52), shelf (n = 22). There was a moderate correlation with time pessary in situ and symptoms of discharge and odour in all pessaries, with a weak relationship between symptoms and delay in pessary maintenance appointments. Patients using a pessary longer than 6 months, were unlikely to report worsening symptoms related to delay in pessary maintenance appointments, with the majority reporting no symptom change. Whilst clinician findings of erythema and erosion correlated strongly with duration of pessary use, severe changes were observed when pessaries were in situ at least 11 months. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that in select patients, extending pessary maintenance appointments beyond 6 months may have little effect on patient symptoms but, beyond 10 months risks increasing the incidence of severe erythema and erosion. This can help reduce burden on appointments for both patients and providers and reduce wastage of single use resources.
17951682 | Nuclear import properties of the sex-determining factor SRY. The sex-determining factor SRY plays an important role in male sexual development, diverting primordial gonads from the ovarian pathway toward male differentiation to form testes. SRY is a DNA-binding protein and gains access to the nucleus through two independently acting nuclear localization signals (NLSs) that flank the high mobility group (HMG) DNA-binding domain. We have reconstituted the nuclear import of SRY using an in vitro nuclear transport assay, showing that nuclear import of SRY can occur in the absence of additional exogenous cytosolic factors, with a significant reduction in nuclear transport in the presence of antibodies to the nuclear transport protein importin (Imp) beta1 but not Impalpha. We have also shown using in vitro binding assays that the C-terminal NLS of SRY binds directly to Impbeta1. Finally, we have shown that SRY can target green fluorescent protein to the nucleus in a mammalian transfected cell line; importantly, mutations known to result in sex reversal that map to either NLS impair nuclear accumulation implying that SRY nuclear import is critical to its function.
38674456 | HLA-B and C Expression Contributes to COVID-19 Disease Severity within a South African Cohort. Globally, SARS-CoV-2 has negatively impacted many lives and industries due to its rapid spread, severe outcomes, and the need for the implementation of lockdown strategies across the world. SARS-CoV-2 disease severity varies among different populations. Host genetics have been associated with various diseases, and their ability to alter disease susceptibility and severity. In addition, Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) expression levels and alleles vary significantly among ethnic groups, which might impact the host's response to SARS-CoV-2. Our previous study highlighted that HLA-A might have an effect on COVID-19 disease severity across ethnicities. Therefore, in this study, we aim to examine the effect of HLA-B and C expression levels on COVID-19 disease severity. To achieve this, we used real-time PCR to measure the HLA mRNA expression levels of SARS-CoV-2-infected individuals from a South African cohort and compared them across ethnic groups, disease outcomes, gender, comorbidities, and age. Our results show (1) that the effect of HLA-B mRNA expression levels was associated with differences in disease severity when we compare symptomatic vs. asymptomatic (p < 0.0001). While HLA-C mRNA expression levels were not associated with COVID-19 disease severity. (2) In addition, we observed that HLA-B and HLA-C mRNA expression levels were significantly different between South African Black individuals and South African Indian individuals (p < 0.0001, p < 0.0001). HLA-B mRNA expression levels among symptomatic South African Black individuals were significantly higher than symptomatic South African Indian individuals (p < 0.0001). In addition, the HLA-B mRNA expression levels of symptomatic South African Black individuals were significantly higher than asymptomatic South African Black individuals (p > 0.0001). HLA-C mRNA expression levels among symptomatic South African Black individuals were significantly higher than among symptomatic South African Indian individuals (p = 0.0217). (3) HLA-C expression levels were significantly different between males and females (p = 0.0052). In addition, the HLA-C expression levels of asymptomatic males are higher than asymptomatic females (p = 0.0375). (4) HLA-B expression levels were significantly different between individuals with and without comorbidities (p = 0.0009). In addition, we observed a significant difference between individuals with no comorbidities and non-communicable diseases (p = 0.0034), in particular, hypertension (p = 0.0487). (5) HLA-B expression levels were significantly different between individuals between 26-35 and 56-65 years (p = 0.0380). Our work is expected to strengthen the understanding of the relationship between HLA and COVID-19 by providing insights into HLA-B and C expression levels across ethnic populations in South Africa among COVID-19-symptomatic and asymptomatic individuals. Our results highlight that HLA-B mRNA expression levels contribute to COVID-19 severity as well as variation in ethnicities associated with COVID-19. Further studies are needed to examine the effect of HLA expression levels across various ethnic groups with contributing factors.
42148293 | Erratum: WITHDRAWAL - Administrative Duplicate Publication: Expanding the Diagnostic Lens: Mast Cell Activation Syndromes and the Hidden Spectrum of Angioedema Associated Mortality in COVID-19. [This corrects the article DOI: 10.1177/19253621251409437.].
42146922 | Telemedicine for new immigrant children in the US: a tool for equity or another layer of disparity? Telemedicine refers to the use of digital communication tools to deliver healthcare services. In pediatrics care in the United States (US), it has become an important approach to expand access to primary and subspecialty care while reducing travel demands and improving continuity of care, particularly for children in remote and underserved communities. Evidence consistently shows that telemedicine can supplement in-person visits while maintaining high levels of family satisfaction and clinical effectiveness among American families. This narrative review was developed to assess the applicability of telemedicine for new immigrant families in the US using a structured literature search across PubMed, Scopus, Google Scholar, and Cochrane of published English literature. Peer-reviewed studies were included if they were conducted in the last 50 years and focused on pediatric patients from birth to 21 years of age. Findings were synthesized to evaluate the acceptance, accessibility, feasibility, and applicability of telemedicine for new immigrant children in the US. Across the reviewed literature, telemedicine has meaningful potential in narrowing health disparities faced by new immigrant families such as transportation, specialist shortages, scheduling delays, limited English proficiency, and difficulty navigating the complex healthcare system. Furthermore, telemedicine can connect families with providers who share similar cultural and linguistic backgrounds, thereby strengthening cultural sensitivity and trust. Still, it comes with several obstacles limiting its use among new immigrant families. From digital divide, poor network coverage, low health literacy, privacy concerns, immigration-related concerns, to mistrust, the challenges are numerous. Studies during the COVID-19 pandemic found low acceptance and infeasibility of telemedicine for new immigrant families. However, telemedicine offers multiple opportunities and future directions to better serve immigrant children and their families. Expanding multilingual telehealth platforms and integrating telemedicine access points into schools, community centers, and immigrant resource hubs can enhance accessibility, usability, and acceptance. Pairing telemedicine with artificial intelligence can have huge future potential and might be a tool for inclusive care at lower cost. Furthermore, policy amendments, particularly broader Medicaid telemedicine coverage and mandates for interpreter integration into telemedicine workflows, are essential for promoting more equitable access with higher acceptance and more applicability for new immigrant children in the US.
41372155 | Structural insights into clonal restriction and diversity in T cell recognition of two immunodominant SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid epitopes. T cells play a crucial role in clearing SARS-CoV-2 and in forming long-term memory responses to that coronavirus. The highly immunogenic nucleocapsid (N) protein of SARS-CoV-2 is much more conserved than the spike (S) protein across variants of concern, making it an attractive vaccine target for activating cytotoxic CD8+ T cells. Of particular interest are the immunodominant N epitopes LLL and SPR. Whereas LLL elicits a clonally restricted T cell response, the response to SPR is highly diverse. To understand the basis for this difference, here we determine structures of T cell receptors (TCRs) bound to LLL-HLA-A2 and SPR-HLA-B7, revealing the structural underpinnings of highly restricted Valpha gene usage by LLL-specific TCRs, as well as multiple structural solutions to recognizing SPR and thereby generating a clonally diverse T cell response to that epitope. These structures also provide frameworks for understanding T cell recognition of SARS-CoV-2 variants and other coronaviruses. Finally, we compare the X-ray structures of TCR-LLL-HLA-A2 and TCR-SPR-HLA-B7 complexes with models predicted by multiple versions of AlphaFold, highlighting some success while showing room for improvement. Overall, our findings expand understanding of coronavirus T cell recognition, informing vaccine design and advances in computational modeling approaches.
41633309 | HLA typing of HLA-A, -B, -C, -DPB1, -DQB1 and -DRB1 loci of 226 individuals from three metropolitan areas in South Africa. The aim of this study was to characterize HLA diversity in individuals from clinical research sites in order to better understand T cell responses to COVID-19 vaccines in relation to their HLA profiles. Next-generation sequence-based typing of the HLA-A, -B, -C, -DPB1, -DQB1 and -DRB1 loci is reported for 226 individuals from three metropolitan areas in South Africa. Overall, the frequencies of both class I and class II HLA alleles in this study were comparable to those identified in other South African studies. While a more uniform allele frequency prevalence was noted for HLA class I and HLA-DRB1 genes, an allele bias was noted within our population for HLA-DPB1 and -DQB1 alleles, where three most prevalent alleles accounted for allele frequencies of between 12.3 and 29.8%. Our HLA genotyping data will contribute to an expanding catalogue of HLA data from Africa, which are available in the Allele Frequencies Net Database under identifiers 3826, 3827 and 3828.
42019908 | SARS-CoV-2 infection disrupts the immune control status in a male HIV-1 elite controller. The impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on long-term HIV-1 control in elite controllers (ECs) remains uncertain. We report a case of a Chinese male EC with HIV-1 CRF01_AE and protective HLA-B*57:01, who had sustained undetectable viral load and stable CD4+ T-cell counts for over 10 years. Following SARS-CoV-2 infection, he developed persistent HIV viral rebound (peaking at 4,430 copies/mL) for eight months, accompanied by a profound CD4+ T-cell decline to 174 cells/muL, requiring the initiation of antiretroviral therapy. After treatment, viral load was effectively suppressed and immune function gradually recovered. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case directly linking SARS-CoV-2 infection as the precipitating event leading to prolonged virological rebound and significant immune deterioration in an EC harboring canonical protective genetics. Our observation highlights the conditional nature of elite control and supports enhanced surveillance of ECs during major immunological challenges.
15297880 | Regulation of human SRY subcellular distribution by its acetylation/deacetylation. SRY, a Y chromosome-encoded DNA-binding protein, is required for testis organogenesis in mammals. Expression of the SRY gene in the genital ridge is followed by diverse early cell events leading to Sertoli cell determination/differentiation and subsequent sex cord formation. Little is known about SRY regulation and its mode of action during testis development, and direct gene targets for SRY are still lacking. In this study, we demonstrate that interaction of the human SRY with histone acetyltransferase p300 induces the acetylation of SRY both in vitro and in vivo at a single conserved lysine residue. We show that acetylation participates in the nuclear localisation of SRY by increasing SRY interaction with importin beta, while specific deacetylation by HDAC3 induces a cytoplasmic delocalisation of SRY. Finally, by analysing p300 and HDAC3 expression profiles during both human or mouse gonadal development, we suggest that acetylation and deacetylation of SRY may be important mechanisms for regulating SRY activity during mammalian sex determination.
42146904 | Next-Generation Sequencing Dataset Downloader and In Silico Sequence Mining: Graphical-User-Interface-Based Tools for Accessible, Multiprobe Target Mining in Next-Generation Sequencing Data. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is expanding in clinical practice, yet many pipelines defer actionable decisions until full alignment and taxonomic calling are complete. The primary contribution of In Silico Sequence Mining (ISSM) lies in providing an accessible graphical-user-interface-based workflow for rapid probe-based pre-alignment screening of raw FASTQ/FASTA datasets. ISSM performs probe-based matching of predefined targets directly on raw FASTQ/FASTA files and supports configurable match thresholds and subsampling. We assessed ISSM using 4 datasets, including 34,899 coronavirus genomes, NGS data from CRFK cells infected with feline coronavirus (FCoV), plasma-derived HIV datasets from patients with sepsis, and colorectal cancer sequencing datasets. Public primer/probe panels applied to coronavirus genomes reliably identified targets at a 100% match threshold, while a 95% threshold increased sensitivity with limited false positives. In FCoV samples, strong positives were observed with both FCoV-specific and pan-coronavirus probes, and spurious matches were negligible relative to true-positive read counts. In HIV data, specificity was preserved in controls; under the most permissive screening criterion, HIV probe matches were detected in 170/263 datasets. Subtyping using subtype-specific probes was feasible in 80 datasets, with subtype D most frequent. In colorectal cancer datasets, ISSM supported preliminary KRAS-mutation-associated probe screening. Operationally, ISSM supports rapid post-sequencing triage, prioritization of confirmatory alignments, and rational reflex testing to quantitative polymerase chain reaction/targeted sequencing, improving allocation of bioinformatics resources. Together with the NGS Dataset Downloader, the ISSM provides a user-friendly graphical-user-interface-based program for researchers and clinical users with limited bioinformatics expertise. Software and a reproducible workflow are available at https://github.com/khk1329/NDD-and-ISSM.git.
32119961 | Anti-HCV, nucleotide inhibitors, repurposing against COVID-19. AIMS: A newly emerged Human Coronavirus (HCoV) is reported two months ago in Wuhan, China (COVID-19). Until today >2700 deaths from the 80,000 confirmed cases reported mainly in China and 40 other countries. Human to human transmission is confirmed for COVID-19 by China a month ago. Based on the World Health Organization (WHO) reports, SARS HCoV is responsible for >8000 cases with confirmed 774 deaths. Additionally, MERS HCoV is responsible for 858 deaths out of about 2500 reported cases. The current study aims to test anti-HCV drugs against COVID-19 RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, sequence analysis, modeling, and docking are used to build a model for Wuhan COVID-19 RdRp. Additionally, the newly emerged Wuhan HCoV RdRp model is targeted by anti-polymerase drugs, including the approved drugs Sofosbuvir and Ribavirin. KEY FINDINGS: The results suggest the effectiveness of Sofosbuvir, IDX-184, Ribavirin, and Remidisvir as potent drugs against the newly emerged HCoV disease. SIGNIFICANCE: The present study presents a perfect model for COVID-19 RdRp enabling its testing in silico against anti-polymerase drugs. Besides, the study presents some drugs that previously proved its efficiency against the newly emerged viral infection.
31705171 | Tumor genetic alterations and features of the immune microenvironment drive myelodysplastic syndrome escape and progression. The transformation and progression of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) to secondary acute myeloid leukemia (sAML) involve genetic, epigenetic, and microenvironmental factors. Driver mutations have emerged as valuable markers for defining risk groups and as candidates for targeted treatment approaches in MDS. It is also evident that the risk of transformation to sAML is increased by evasion of adaptive immune surveillance. This study was designed to explore the immune microenvironment, immunogenic tumor-intrinsic mechanisms (HLA and PD-L1 expression), and tumor genetic features (somatic mutations and altered karyotypes) in MDS patients and to determine their influence on the progression of the disease. We detected major alterations of the immune microenvironment in MDS patients, with a reduced count of CD4+ T cells, a more frequent presence of markers related to T cell exhaustion, a more frequent presence of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), and changes in the functional phenotype of NK cells. HLA Class I (HLA-I) expression was normally expressed in CD34+ blasts and during myeloid differentiation. Only two out of thirty-six patients with homozygosity for HLA-C groups acquired complete copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity in the HLA region. PD-L1 expression on the leukemic clone was also increased in MDS patients. Finally, no interplay was observed between the anti-tumor immune microenvironment and mutational genomic features. In summary, extrinsic and intrinsic immunological factors might severely impair immune surveillance and contribute to clonal immune escape. Genomic alterations appear to make an independent contribution to the clonal evolution and progression of MDS.
42148352 | Autoimmune Hepatitis Following COVID-19 Vaccination in a Patient With Ulcerative Colitis: A Case Report. Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) following COVID-19 vaccination is a rare adverse event. We present the case of a 55-year-old male with a history of ulcerative colitis (UC) who developed AIH 3 weeks after receiving his second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine. He presented with jaundice and significantly elevated liver enzymes. A liver biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of AIH. The patient was successfully treated with corticosteroids and azathioprine, leading to complete clinical and biochemical remission. This case highlights the potential for vaccine-induced autoimmune phenomena, particularly in individuals with preexisting autoimmune conditions, and underscores the importance of prompt diagnosis and treatment.
31511383 | The Education of NK Cells Determines Their Responsiveness to Autologous HIV-Infected CD4 T Cells. Several studies support a role for specific killer immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR)-HLA combinations in protection from HIV infection and slower progression to AIDS. Natural killer (NK) cells acquire effector functions through education, a process that requires the interaction of inhibitory NK cell receptors with their major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I (or HLA class I [HLA-I]) ligands. HLA-C allotypes are ligands for the inhibitory KIRs (iKIRs) KIR2DL1, KIR2DL2, and KIR2DL3, whereas the ligand for KIR3DL1 is HLA-Bw4. HIV infection reduces the expression of HLA-A, -B, and -C on the surfaces of infected CD4 (iCD4) T cells. Here we investigated whether education through iKIR-HLA interactions influenced NK cell responses to autologous iCD4 cells. Enriched NK cells were stimulated with autologous iCD4 cells or with uninfected CD4 cells as controls. The capacities of single-positive (sp) KIR2DL1, KIR2DL2, KIR2DL3, and KIR3DL1 NK cells to produce CCL4, gamma interferon (IFN-gamma), and/or CD107a were assessed by flow cytometry. Overall, we observed that the potency of NK cell education was directly related to the frequency of each spiKIR+ NK cell's ability to respond to the reduction of its cognate HLA ligand on autologous iCD4 cells, as measured by the frequency of production by spiKIR+ NK cells of CCL4, IFN-gamma, and/or CD107a. Both NK cell education and HIV-mediated changes in HLA expression influenced NK cell responses to iCD4 cells.IMPORTANCE Epidemiological studies show that natural killer (NK) cells have anti-HIV activity: they are able to reduce the risk of HIV infection and/or slow HIV disease progression. How NK cells contribute to these outcomes is not fully characterized. We used primary NK cells and autologous HIV-infected cells to examine the role of education through four inhibitory killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (iKIRs) from persons with HLA types that are able to educate NK cells bearing one of these iKIRs. HIV-infected cells activated NK cells through missing-self mechanisms due to the downmodulation of cell surface HLA expression mediated by HIV Nef and Vpu. A higher frequency of educated than uneducated NK cells expressing each of these iKIRs responded to autologous HIV-infected cells by producing CCL4, IFN-gamma, and CD107a. Since NK cells were from non-HIV-infected individuals, they model the consequences of healthy NK cell-HIV-infected cell interactions occurring in the HIV eclipse phase, when new infections are susceptible to extinction.
41854333 | Role of myeloid cells expressing CD169/Siglec-1 in host - pathogen interactions. CD169/Siglec-1 is a type-I transmembrane lectin receptor expressed on subcapsular sinus macrophages and activated monocytes, which play a key role in innate immune surveillance and orchestration of adaptive immunity. As a sialic acid-binding immunoglobulin-like lectin (Siglec), CD169 recognizes sialylated gangliosides and glycoconjugates present on surface of several viral envelopes, including HIV-1, SARS-CoV-2 and Ebola virus as well as sialylated bacterial capsules such as those of Neisseria meningitidis and Campylobacter jejuni. Moreover, different viruses were shown to be captured by CD169+ cells which could play distinctive role during infections: they could enhance efficient immune responses, but also facilitate pathogen dissemination through viral capture and transfer to permissive cells. This last mechanism has been well documented for HIV-1, where CD169 mediates viral trans-infection of CD4+ T-cells. CD169 expression is rapidly induced by type-I interferons during acute viral infections and has emerged as a valuable biomarker to distinguish viral from bacterial infection, particularly for COVID-19 and influenza. Detectable by flow cytometry, CD169 represents a solid biomarker in clinical settings and possible target in the development of novel prophylactic and therapeutic strategies. Its dual role, protective in host defence yet exploitable by certain pathogens, highlights the need for careful consideration in future therapeutic approaches.
42147000 | China's TB Portfolio for Advancing the 2030 End TB Goals. The global trajectory for tuberculosis (TB) elimination remains precarious, characterized by a recent but fragile and insufficient decline in its incidence by 2024, the first since the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Progress is severely hampered by the failure to meet the ambitious 2025 End TB targets and is further threatened by anticipated funding cuts, necessitating a translation of widely accepted concepts of \high-level multi-sectoral cooperation\ and \strict accountability\ to concrete solutions. In contrast, China has achieved remarkable progress, meeting its goal of a 20% reduction in TB incidence from 2015 to 2024, suggesting a transition toward a lower-incidence setting. This success reflects a deliberate, science-driven, and strategic transformation. In this Personal View, we describe China's clearly defined national and provincial TB incidence-reduction targets for 2025 and 2030, as well as its comprehensive TB control program spanning the full continuum of care. China's integrated strategy, combining political commitment, rigorous strategy, sustainable financing, empowering research and innovation, the zoonotic and anthroponotic TB approach, and strong accountability mechanisms, offers a blueprint for low- and middle-income countries. It outlines a specific implementation pathway to revitalize global efforts to combat TB and restore confidence in the feasibility of ending TB.
42147054 | SARS-CoV-2 infection complicated by acute longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis and pulmonary embolism: a case report. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) presents with a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations. While primarily affecting the respiratory system, neurological involvement and thromboembolic complications have also been documented. This report describes a rare case of a 25-year-old male who developed acute longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis (LETM) complicated by pulmonary embolism (PE) and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) of the lower extremities following SARS-CoV-2 infection. The patient presented with acute chest tightness and pain, followed by high fever, which rapidly progressed to quadriplegia and sensory deficits. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed abnormal signal intensity in the spinal cord from the C4 to T1 levels. Computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA) confirmed PE, and laboratory tests were positive for SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid. Although aquaporin-4 (AQP4), myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) antibodies were negative, cerebrospinal fluid analysis indicated inflammatory changes. Partial clinical improvement was achieved following treatment with high-dose corticosteroid pulse therapy, anticoagulation, and antiviral agents. This case highlights the potential of COVID-19 to simultaneously trigger neurological and vascular complications, underscoring the complexity of multi-system involvement by the virus. The underlying pathophysiological mechanisms involving potential \virus-immune-thrombosis\ interactions are discussed in depth, providing important insights for clinicians to recognize and manage such complex cases.
12927536 | Unique and conserved features of genome and proteome of SARS-coronavirus, an early split-off from the coronavirus group 2 lineage. The genome organization and expression strategy of the newly identified severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) were predicted using recently published genome sequences. Fourteen putative open reading frames were identified, 12 of which were predicted to be expressed from a nested set of eight subgenomic mRNAs. The synthesis of these mRNAs in SARS-CoV-infected cells was confirmed experimentally. The 4382- and 7073 amino acid residue SARS-CoV replicase polyproteins are predicted to be cleaved into 16 subunits by two viral proteinases (bringing the total number of SARS-CoV proteins to 28). A phylogenetic analysis of the replicase gene, using a distantly related torovirus as an outgroup, demonstrated that, despite a number of unique features, SARS-CoV is most closely related to group 2 coronaviruses. Distant homologs of cellular RNA processing enzymes were identified in group 2 coronaviruses, with four of them being conserved in SARS-CoV. These newly recognized viral enzymes place the mechanism of coronavirus RNA synthesis in a completely new perspective. Furthermore, together with previously described viral enzymes, they will be important targets for the design of antiviral strategies aimed at controlling the further spread of SARS-CoV.
29237835 | HLA Class I-Mediated HIV-1 Control in Vietnamese Infected with HIV-1 Subtype A/E. HIV-1-specific cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) play an important role in the control of HIV-1 subtype B or C infection. However, the role of CTLs in HIV-1 subtype A/E infection still remains unclear. Here we investigated the association of HLA class I alleles with clinical outcomes in treatment-naive Vietnamese infected with subtype A/E virus. We found that HLA-C*12:02 was significantly associated with lower plasma viral loads (pVL) and higher CD4 counts and that the HLA-A*29:01-B*07:05-C*15:05 haplotype was significantly associated with higher pVL and lower CD4 counts than those for individuals without these respective genotypes. Nine Pol and three Nef mutations were associated with at least one HLA allele in the HLA-A*29:01-B*07:05-C*15:05 haplotype, with a strong negative correlation between the number of HLA-associated Pol mutations and CD4 count as well as a positive correlation with pVL for individuals with these HLA alleles. The results suggest that the accumulation of mutations selected by CTLs restricted by these HLA alleles affects HIV control.IMPORTANCE Most previous studies on HLA association with disease progression after HIV-1 infection have been performed on cohorts infected with HIV-1 subtypes B and C, whereas few such population-based studies have been reported for cohorts infected with the Asian subtype A/E virus. In this study, we analyzed the association of HLA class I alleles with clinical outcomes for 536 HIV-1 subtype A/E-infected Vietnamese individuals. We found that HLA-C*12:02 is protective, while the HLA haplotype HLA-A*29:01-B*07:05-C*15:05 is deleterious. The individuals with HIV-1 mutations associated with at least one of the HLA alleles in the deleterious HLA haplotype had higher plasma viral loads and lower CD4 counts than those of individuals without the mutations, suggesting that viral adaptation and escape from HLA-mediated immune control occurred. The present study identifies a protective allele and a deleterious haplotype for HIV-1 subtype A/E infection which are different from those identified for cohorts infected with HIV-1 subtypes B and C.
26082769 | Nucleocytoplasmic transport of nucleocapsid proteins of enveloped RNA viruses. Most viruses with non-segmented single stranded RNA genomes complete their life cycle in the cytoplasm of infected cells. However, despite undergoing replication in the cytoplasm, the structural proteins of some of these RNA viruses localize to the nucleus at specific times in the virus life cycle, primarily early in infection. Limited evidence suggests that this enhances successful viral replication by interfering with or inhibiting the host antiviral response. Nucleocapsid proteins of RNA viruses have a well-established, essential cytoplasmic role in virus replication and assembly. Intriguingly, nucleocapsid proteins of some RNA viruses also localize to the nucleus/nucleolus of infected cells. Their nuclear function is less well understood although significant advances have been made in recent years. This review will focus on the nucleocapsid protein of cytoplasmic enveloped RNA viruses, including their localization to the nucleus/nucleolus and function therein. A greater understanding of the nuclear localization of nucleocapsid proteins has the potential to enhance therapeutic strategies as it can be a target for the development of live-attenuated vaccines or antiviral drugs.
41314220 | HLA-B Serine 116 Confers Protection Against Severe COVID-19 in a Cohort From Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. COVID-19 is a respiratory disease caused by SARS-CoV-2, in which severe outcomes are primarily driven by an exacerbated immune response. The HLA region has been extensively investigated in COVID-19 due to its central role in the immune response, although genetic associations vary across populations. Here, the association of HLA genetic variability with COVID-19 severe respiratory outcomes was investigated in an admixed population from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Results of a comparative study between mild and severe COVID-19 cases involving 306 individuals have suggested risk associations with severe COVID-19 for the HLA-DPB1*13:01 allele (OR = 3.42, 95% CI = 1.05-11.16, p = 0.041) and the HLA-B*39 allele group (OR = 3.26, 95% CI = 1.16-9.13, p = 0.024), although statistical significance was lost after FDR adjustment for multiple comparisons (adjusted p > 0.05). Amino acid analyses showed that a serine at position 116 of HLA-B conferred protection against severe COVID-19 (OR = 0.4774, 95% CI = 0.28-0.81, p = 0.006, adjusted p = 0.031). In silico analysis using the NetMHCpan tool predicted that this residue, located in the HLA-B peptide-binding groove, has enhanced binding affinity to immunodominant SARS-CoV-2 epitopes, suggesting a functional mechanism underlying the observed protection. The association of single nucleotide variants at the HLA region was also investigated, and no statistically significant association was found. Results obtained in the present study underscore the importance of HLA in COVID-19 severity, likely mediated by its influence on viral peptide presentation, and advance our understanding of the genetic underpinnings of severe disease in admixed populations.
32027612 | HLA-C*18:01 and KIR2DL2+C1 genetic variants are associated with low viral load in cART naive HIV-infected adult Zimbabweans. INTRODUCTION: Polymorphisms in killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene families are implicated in differential outcomes of HIV infection. However, research findings on the influence of KIR and HLA-C polymorphism on HIV disease progression remain inconclusive. We thus investigated the association of KIR and HLA-C gene polymorphisms with plasma HIV load (VL) and CD4+ T lymphocyte (CD4) count in 183 chronically HIV-infected, combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) naive Zimbabweans of Bantu origin. METHODOLOGY: The presence or absence of 15 KIR genes were determined using sequence specific primer polymerase chain reaction while HLA-C typing was performed using chain termination DNA sequencing. Plasma VL was determined using the Cavidi Exavir viral load version 3 assay while CD4+ T lymphocytes were enumerated using flow cytometry. VLs and CD4 counts were compared between gene/genotype carriers and non-carriers using Mann-Whitney ranksum test. RESULTS: HLA-C*18:01 allele carriers had a significantly lower median log10 VL (2.87copies/mL [IQR;2.3-3.2]) than the non-C*18:01 carriers (3.33copies/mL [IQR; 2.74-3.9]), p = 0.018. Further, median log10 VL was significantly lower in KIR2DL2+C1 carriers (2.745 [IQR; 2.590-2.745]) than non-KIR2DL2+C1 carriers (3.4 [IQR; 2.746-3.412]), p = 0.041. Comparison of CD4 + T lymphocyte counts between C*08:02 allele carriers and non-C*08:02 carriers showed a significantly higher median CD4 count in C*08:02 carriers (548cells/microL [IQR;410-684]) than in non-carriers (428cells/microL [IQR;388-537]), p = 0.034. CONCLUSION: We conclude that the HLA-C*18:01 and KIR2DL2+C1 genetic variants are associated with low VL while the C*08:02 is associated with high CD4+ T lymphocyte count among cART naive Zimbabwean adults with chronic HIV infection.
42147892 | Correlations of 18F-FDG PET/CT metabolic parameters and systemic immune-inflammation index with distant metastasis of small-size (T1) NSCLC. Background: Although small-size (T1, solid nodule with maximum diameter <3 cm) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is generally associated with a favorable prognosis, a notable subset of patients present with distant metastasis, a paradox that conventional staging fails to address. Fluorine-18-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) metabolic parameters and the systemic immune-inflammation index (SII) are linked to NSCLC progression, but their associations with distant metastasis in small-size NSCLC remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate these correlations to identify reliable metastatic risk factors for small-size NSCLC. Methods: This retrospective study enrolled 243 cases of pathologically confirmed T1 solid NSCLC, including 114 with and 129 without distant metastasis, who underwent 18F-FDG PET/CT within two weeks before tumor resection or biopsy. PET/CT metabolic parameters including standardized uptake value peak (SUVpeak), standardized uptake value maximum (SUVmax), standardized uptake value mean (SUVmean), metabolic tumor volume (MTV), total lesion glycolysis (TLG), and coefficient of variation (COV) at various SUV thresholds (1.0, 1.5, 2.0, and 2.5) were assessed for primary lesions. Inflammation factors including SII were measured one day prior to surgery or biopsy. Patients were randomized into modeling (n=182) and validation (n=61) cohorts (3:1). Univariate/multivariate logistic regression analyses identified independent risk factors for metastasis correlations between metabolic parameters and serum inflammation markers were analyzed. Results: In the modeling cohort, high SUVpeak, SUVmean, SUVmax, MTV, TLG, and COV were significantly associated with distant metastasis (all P<0.05), except COV at SUV 1.0 (P=0.65). Multivariate regression confirmed COV at an SUV threshold of 2.0 (COV2.0) >0.33 as an independent risk factor [hazard ratio (HR) =3.03, P=0.01]. SII >641.68 was also identified as an independent inflammation-related risk factor (HR =2.84, P=0.003). COV2.0 was positively correlated with SII [odds ratio (OR) =4.55, P=0.03]. The co-high COV2.0/SII status was identified as an independent risk factor for metastasis (HR =5.08, P<0.001). In the independent validation cohort, the metastasis rate in the co-high COV2.0/SII group was 84.20% (16/19), significantly higher than the non-metastasis rate (15.80%, 3/19, P=0.043). The metastasis rate in the co-low COV2.0/SII group was only 17.90% (5/28, P<0.001). No clinicopathological features (age, gender, histological subtype, tumor diameter, smoking history) were associated with metastasis (all P>0.05). Conclusions: Enhanced glycolysis accompanied by a corresponding systemic immune response plays a critical role in T1 NSCLC metastasis. The combined assessment of 18F-FDG PET/CT-derived COV2.0 and serum SII may aid in evaluating the risk of distant metastasis in small-size NSCLC, thereby informing more rational treatment and follow-up strategies for lung cancer.
42146565 | Computational modeling of pro-inflammatory cytokine-enhanced blood coagulation. The interplay between inflammation and coagulation is a central driver of thrombotic risk across various diseases. While mathematical models of blood coagulation are well established, there remains a critical gap in quantitative frameworks that capture inflammation-induced hypercoagulability. In this study, we develop a mathematical model that explicitly simulates the interaction between pro-inflammatory cytokines and the coagulation cascade. The model incorporates key mechanisms, including: (i) upregulation of tissue factor (TF) by IL-1 beta , IL-6, and TNF- alpha ; (ii) suppression of natural anticoagulants, namely antithrombin III (ATIII) and tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), by IL-6 and TNF- alpha ; and (iii) feedback amplification of proinflammatory cytokines by thrombin. By encoding the bidirectional feedback between inflammatory and coagulation pathways, the model captures essential features of inflammation-driven hypercoagulability and enables systematic quantification of how variability in inflammatory extent and duration results in heterogeneous thrombin generation (TG) dynamics. To evaluate its effectiveness, we integrate the model with TG assays and apply it to virtual patient cohorts representing four clinically distinct conditions: COVID-19, sickle cell disease (SCD), type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and Hemophilia A. Model simulations predict that disease-specific inflammatory environments induce distinct shifts in TG dynamics. In COVID-19 and T2DM, elevated cytokine levels lead to shortened lag times and increased thrombin peak, whereas in SCD, shortened lag times are accompanied by a reduced thrombin peak. These effects are strongly modulated by both cytokine concentration and duration of exposure. These results demonstrate that the proposed computational model augments conventional TG assays by mechanistically linking inflammatory signaling to disease-specific coagulation responses. Collectively, the proposed computational framework extends conventional TG assays by considering the interplay between inflammation and coagulation, thereby providing a potential tool for predicting disease progression and identifying disease-specific therapeutic targets to advance personalized management strategies in thrombo-inflammatory disorders.
41012626 | Whole-Exome Sequencing Reveals Rare Genetic Variants in Saudi COVID-19 Patients with Extreme Phenotypes. The global impact of COVID-19 was staggering, with millions of cases and related mortality reported worldwide. Genetic variations play a significant role in determining an individual's susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection and progress to severe disease. This pilot study provides an experimental approach using WES to identify certain rare and novel genetic variants that might affect an individual's susceptibility to the risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection, offering an initial exploration of these genetic variants. In the study cohort with 16 patients, the mortality rate was higher in male patients due to severe disease. There was a substantial burden of comorbidity, including hypertension, ischemic heart disease, and T2DM, conditions which independently increase the risk of adverse outcomes in COVID-19 patients. A total of 4478 variants were identified, distributed across 322 genes within the cohort. The majority of these variants were missense substitutions along with frameshift variants, inframe insertions/deletions (indels), and nonsense variants. The variants were further categorized by types to include single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), deletions (DEL), and insertions (INS). The gene with the highest number of variants was HLA-DRB1, followed by HLA-B, ABO, HPS4, and SP110 displaying both common polymorphisms and rare variants. Moreover, the HLA-B gene exhibited the highest number of rare candidate variants, followed by AK2, IRF7, KMT2D, TAP1, and HLA-DRB1. Several genes harbored multiple novel variants, including TAP1, AK2, G6PC3, HLA-B, IL12RB2, and ITGB2. The frequencies of the identified variants were found to be either zero or extremely low (below 1% threshold) in the Middle Eastern or in the overall combined population, suggesting that these are indeed rare and do not represent common indigenous polymorphisms. Functional enrichment analysis of the constructed protein-protein interaction network in our preliminary findings revealed that the identified genes are primarily enriched in pathways associated with immune deficiency and DNA repair. This initial exploration of genetic variants in COVID-19 susceptibility provides a foundation for future large-scale studies.
38891862 | SARS-CoV-2 Selectively Induces the Expression of Unproductive Splicing Isoforms of Interferon, Class I MHC, and Splicing Machinery Genes. RNA processing is a highly conserved mechanism that serves as a pivotal regulator of gene expression. Alternative processing generates transcripts that can still be translated but lead to potentially nonfunctional proteins. A plethora of respiratory viruses, including severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), strategically manipulate the host's RNA processing machinery to circumvent antiviral responses. We integrated publicly available omics datasets to systematically analyze isoform-level expression and delineate the nascent peptide landscape of SARS-CoV-2-infected human cells. Our findings explore a suggested but uncharacterized mechanism, whereby SARS-CoV-2 infection induces the predominant expression of unproductive splicing isoforms in key IFN signaling, interferon-stimulated (ISGs), class I MHC, and splicing machinery genes, including IRF7, HLA-B, and HNRNPH1. In stark contrast, cytokine and chemokine genes, such as IL6 and TNF, predominantly express productive (protein-coding) splicing isoforms in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection. We postulate that SARS-CoV-2 employs an unreported tactic of exploiting the host splicing machinery to bolster viral replication and subvert the immune response by selectively upregulating unproductive splicing isoforms from antigen presentation and antiviral response genes. Our study sheds new light on the molecular interplay between SARS-CoV-2 and the host immune system, offering a foundation for the development of novel therapeutic strategies to combat COVID-19.
15937753 | Treatment of human disseminated strongyloidiasis with a parenteral veterinary formulation of ivermectin. There are no parenteral antihelminthic drugs licensed for use in humans. We report the successful treatment of disseminated strongyloidiasis with a parenteral veterinary formulation of ivermectin in a patient presenting with severe malabsorption and paralytic ileus. To our knowledge, ivermectin levels are reported for the first time in this situation.
42148723 | Identity Styles and Social Adaptation in Emerging Adulthood: The Mediating Role of Coping Styles and the Moderating Role of Tolerance for Uncertainty. Self-identity construction and social adaptation are critical issues for emerging adults. In recent years, the COVID-19 pandemic has introduced significant uncertainties and posed additional challenges for young people navigating the process of identity formation. This study, grounded in the Identity Process Model, examines how emerging adults' identity styles influence social adaptation, as well as the mediating roles of coping styles and Tolerance of uncertainty. A sample of 439 college students (Mage = 21.72, SDage = 2.20) completed self-report questionnaires. The moderated mediation analyses showed that the mediating effects of coping styles on the relationship between identity style and social adaptation were influenced by emerging adults' Tolerance of uncertainty. These findings may contribute to a better understanding of psychological development in emerging adults and provide valuable guidance for fostering their social adaptation, especially in the context of sudden adverse experiences.
31960060 | Safety of high-dose ivermectin: a systematic review and meta-analysis. BACKGROUND: Ivermectin is a key anthelmintic for the control of neglected tropical diseases. The main indications for population-level control with ivermectin through mass drug administration are onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis; however, there is interest in using higher, fixed-dose regimens for the control of scabies, soil-transmitted helminths and malaria. Safety data for these higher-dose regimens are needed. METHODS: A systematic literature review and meta-analysis on the safety and doses of ivermectin was conducted. Eligible studies reported patient-level data and, for the meta-analysis, clinical trials reporting data on doses >=200 and >=400 mug/kg were included. Incidence ratios were used to compare adverse events by severity and organ system affected. RESULTS: The systematic search identified six studies for inclusion, revealing no differences in the number of individuals experiencing adverse events. A descriptive analysis of these clinical trials for a variety of indications showed no difference in the severity of the adverse events between standard (up to 400 mug/kg) and higher doses of ivermectin. Organ system involvement only showed an increase in ocular events in the higher-dose group in one trial for the treatment of onchocerciasis, all of them transient and mild to moderate in intensity. CONCLUSIONS: Although within this review the safety of high-dose ivermectin appears to be comparable to standard doses, there are not enough data to support a recommendation for its use in higher-than-approved doses. Ocular adverse events, despite being transient, are of concern in onchocerciasis patients. These data can inform programme managers and guide operational research activities as new approaches for the use of ivermectin are evaluated.
42147457 | A Scoping Review of Machine Learning Applications Across Epidemiological Stages of Zoonotic Disease. Emerging zoonotic diseases represent a significant threat to global health. While machine learning (ML) holds promise for their management, a comprehensive understanding of how these technologies are applied across the entire animal-to-human transmission pathway is lacking. This scoping review systematically maps ML applications in zoonotic disease management to identify research trends, methodological approaches, and critical gaps across different epidemiological stages and functional domains. We organize the literature along two dimensions: epidemiological stages, from animal hosts to human populations, and functional domain, including diagnosis, epidemiology, and intervention. We searched PubMed and Web of Science for studies on 14 preselected high-priority zoonotic diseases. The search string combined keywords for the selected diseases, ML techniques, and functional applications (diagnosis, epidemiology, and intervention). A total of 966 studies were included in the final analysis, of which 72.8% focused on COVID-19. Our analysis shows robust ML performance in clinical diagnostics, epidemic forecasting, and intervention optimization within human populations. However, critical gaps persist, only 1.96% of studies examined the animal-human interface, no ML models explicitly targeted spillover prevention, and studies on animal-reservoir surveillance remain limited. All spillover studies originated from high-income or upper-middle-income countries (UMICs), in contrast with low- and lower-middle-income countries (LMICs) contributing 21.4% of human-stage studies. These findings reveal a pronounced mismatch between research investment and spillover risk and highlight the need for greater emphasis on spillover mechanisms, enhanced integration of cross-species transmission dynamics, and methods suitable for surveillance in resource-limited settings. Addressing these imbalances is essential for advancing a shift from reactive outbreak response to proactive spillover prevention within a One Health framework.
40065352 | A rapid ecologic analysis, confirmed by a case-control study, identifies class I HLA alleles correlated to the risk of COVID-19. BACKGROUND: Several studies suggest that the heterogeneous spread of SARS-CoV-2 pandemics started on December 2019 could be partially upheld by the prevalence of permissive class I HLA alleles in specific populations. Such HLA alleles are in fact unable to shape an efficient anti-viral immune-response in the hosts or sustain an exaggerated inflammatory T cell mediated response responsible for the COVID-19 disease. We previously reported an ecologic correlation between the risk of COVID-19 spreading across Italy and the germinal expression of permissive HLA-C*01 and -B*44 alleles in specific inter and intraregional populations along the first spreading wave. METHODS: Considering that SARS-CoV-2 has undergone multiple adaptative mutations since the beginning of pandemics related to a natural immunization and to the worldwide campaign of anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, we have carried out further analyses to evaluate whether the predictive value of class I HLA-allele gene prevalence and COVID-19 incidence has changed with time along the first four pandemics spreading waves in Italy. To this purpose we carried out an ecologic study followed by a case-control study. RESULTS:   Our data revealed that the direct correlation of HLA-C*01, and HLA-B*44 gene expression and COVID-19 risk was completely lost just after the first pandemics wave in Italy. On the contrary, the expression of HLA-B*49 allele in specific populations emerged as inversely correlated to the risk of COVID-19 and could be considered as a protective factor. The statistical significance of this correlation was progressively enforced in each subsequent spreading wave until February 2022. The following case-control study in the two Regions of Campania and Calabria in Italy confirmed the protective value of HLA-B*49 allele gene expression (OR = 0.289; p = 0.041), although statistical significance is lost after adjustment by logistic regression model. The analysis also detected multiple class I HLA-alleles whose expression was strongly correlated with COVID-19 risk: HLA-B*08 (ORadj = 3.193; p = 0.015); -B*14:01 (ORadj = 3.596; p = 0.018); -B*15:01 (ORadj = 5.124; p = 0.001); -B*35 (ORadj = 2.972; p = 0.002). CONCLUSIONS: Our study not only identifies specific HLA alleles related to COVID-19 risk but also exemplifies a rapid and inexpensive approach that can be used to identify individuals needing prioritization during vaccination campaigns.
40872614 | Benzimidazole-Pyrimidine Hybrids: Synthesis and Medicinal Properties. Background: Heterocyclic compounds represent a key class of compounds in medicinal chemistry. Both benzimidazoles and pyrimidines are essential heterocycles in medicinal chemistry, with various therapeutic properties. Recent literature presents a series of hybrid heterocyclic compounds, as their medicinal properties are generally improved compared to those of single heterocyclic rings. Methods: A literature search was conducted across relevant scientific literature from peer-reviewed sources, using keywords, including \benzimidazole\, \pyrimidine\, \Biginelli\, \benzimidazole-pyrimidine hybrids\, \anticancer\, \antiviral\, \antimicrobial\, and \anti-inflammatory\. Results: In this review, benzimidazole-pyrimidine hybrids are reported as anticancer, antimicrobial, antiviral, anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antiulcer, antidepressant, anti-Alzheimer's, or antioxidant agents, with activities even better than those of existing drugs. The IC50 values for these anticancer hybrids are in the nanomolar range, which signifies potent anticancer agents. It can be mentioned here that the anticancer hybrid Abemaciclib, as a CDK4/6 inhibitor for the treatment of certain types of breast cancer, was approved in 2017. The antimicrobial activity of these hybrids proved especially potent against a broad variety of infections, with MIC values in the range of microM or even nM. Moreover, these hybrids exhibited good antiviral properties against SARS-CoV-2, HIV-1, and the hepatitis C virus. The hybrids also functioned as JAK3 inhibitors, COX-1 inhibitors, and MAO-A inhibitors. Conclusions: This review presents synthesis methods of benzimidazole-pyrimidine hybrids, their medicinal properties, and SAR studies reported in the last 20 years. For almost every therapeutic activity, SAR studies have revealed the essential presence of a substituent on the aromatic rings or between the two benzimidazole and pyrimidine nuclei.
41919612 | PLGA-particle-based vaccine induces SARS-CoV-2-specific antibody and T-cell responses. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Current coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccines effectively prevent severe disease but induce primarily systemic immunity without mucosal protection in the respiratory tract, which is mandatory for protection from severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection and the prevention of viral transmission. Vaccination strategies capable of inducing local immunity at the site of infection are therefore needed. Here, we evaluated a poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microparticle-based vaccine co-encapsulating the receptor binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein with the TLR3/RIG-1 agonist Riboxxim, employing a subcutaneous prime and intranasal boost immunization schedule. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: BALB/c mice received subcutaneous prime immunization followed by intranasal boost with PLGA microparticles containing RBD/Riboxxim. Antibody responses were assessed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), neutralization by competitive ELISA and T-cell responses by enzyme-linked immune spot assay, intracellular cytokine staining and flow cytometry. Memory responses were evaluated 30 days post boost immunization. KEY RESULTS: Vaccination induced robust RBD-specific IgG and IgA antibody titres in both serum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, with neutralizing capacity against the Wuhan-Hu-1 strain. Strong CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses were detected systemically and in the respiratory tract. Importantly, the vaccine generated durable immunological memory, including tissue-resident memory T-cells in the respiratory tract and long-lived IgG and IgA memory B-cells in secondary lymphoid organs. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: PLGA microparticle-based vaccination induces potent systemic and mucosal immune responses against SARS-CoV-2 RBD. This adaptable platform represents a promising approach for mucosal vaccination strategies, with potential for rapid adaptation to emerging variants.
31141680 | Three Types of Functional Regulatory T Cells Control T Cell Responses at the Human Maternal-Fetal Interface. During pregnancy, maternal regulatory T cells (Tregs) are important in establishing immune tolerance to invading fetal extravillous trophoblasts (EVTs). CD25HIFOXP3+ Tregs are found at high levels in decidual tissues and have been shown to suppress fetus-specific and nonspecific responses. However, limited data are available on additional decidual Treg types and the mechanisms by which they are induced. This study investigated three distinct decidual CD4+ Treg types in healthy pregnancies with a regulatory phenotype and the ability to suppress T cell responses: CD25HIFOXP3+, PD1HIIL-10+, and TIGIT+FOXP3dim. Moreover, co-culture of HLA-G+ EVTs or decidual macrophages with blood CD4+ T cells directly increased the proportions of CD25HIFOXP3+ Tregs compared to T cells cultured alone. EVTs also increased PD1HI Tregs that could be inhibited by HLA-C and CD3 antibodies, suggesting an antigen-specific induction. The presence of distinct Treg types may allow for the modulation of a variety of inflammatory responses in the placenta.
40078747 | Rare peptide anchors of HLA class I alleles contribute to the COVID-19 disease severity and T cell memory. Understanding how human leukocyte antigen (HLA) polymorphism affects both the susceptibility and severity of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection will help to identify individuals at higher risk to better manage and prioritize vaccination at the clinical level and explain the differences in epidemic trends in different regions at the epidemiological level. This study compared the frequencies of HLA class I alleles (HLA-A, B) in 214 coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients with different disease severity and 35 healthy controls and analyzed the correlations between specific HLA alleles and disease severity and T cell memory. The results showed no significant difference in HLA allele frequencies between COVID-19 patients and healthy controls (P > 0.05). The allele HLA-B*13:02 was significantly correlated with the disease severity of COVID-19 patients (P = 0.006). After adjustment for age and disease severity, the T cell responses of COVID-19 convalescents with the allele HLA-B*40:01 may be lower at six months (P = 0.044) and 12 months (P = 0.069). Moreover, these results may be due to their rare peptide anchors by analyzing the binding peptide motifs of these HLA alleles. The study may be valuable for investigating the potential association of specific HLA alleles with SARS-CoV-2 infection.
41702968 | Association of human leukocyte antigen B genotypes with COVID-19 severity in Egyptian patients. Host genetic factors, specifically major histocompatibility complex (MHC) influence the prognosis of COVID-19 infections. It plays a central role in the body's ability to recognize and respond to pathogens, including viruses like SARS-CoV-2. This study aims to identify the significant human leukocyte antigen B (HLA-B) allele genotypes associated with severe cases among SARS-CoV-2-positive patients attending the PCR unit in The Fever Hospital-Alexandria, Egypt. This cross-sectional study was conducted from November 2022 through April 2023. Two swabs (nasopharyngeal and oropharyngeal) were collected from each patient for RT-PCR to determine the cycle threshold (Ct) value. Subsequently, 2 ml of EDTA blood was drawn from each patient for DNA extraction and HLA-B typing using the INNO-LiPA HLA-B Update Plus kit. Patients were divided according to the severity of their infection: mild (N = 15, mean Ct = 26.27 +- 1.27), moderate (N = 15, mean Ct = 24.20 +- 1.63), and severe (N = 15, mean Ct = 22.27 +- 0.93). Ct values were the lowest amongst the severe group with a mean of 22.27 (p = 0.026). Regarding the severity of SAR-CoV-2 infection, 39 HLA-B genotypes, 6 HLA-B super-types, and 22 HLA-B alleles were identified. HLA-B44 was the most significant allele when comparing the three groups of severity: mild, moderate, and severe (p = 0.044). HLA-B08 and HLA-B44 had a statistical significance of (p = 0.011) and (p = 0.034) respectively when comparing the mild group to hospitalized group (severe + moderate). The Ct value is a clear predictor of SARS-CoV-2 severity. HLA-B44 and HLA-B08 were the most significant alleles associated with severe cases, emphasizing the association of human leukocyte antigen B alleles with disease severity and viral load in determining COVID-19 outcomes. These findings may contribute to the development of personalized medical management and improve strategies for COVID-19 control and prevention.
29321314 | HLA Class I Downregulation by HIV-1 Variants from Subtype C Transmission Pairs. HIV-1 downregulates human leukocyte antigen A (HLA-A) and HLA-B from the surface of infected cells primarily to evade CD8 T cell recognition. HLA-C was thought to remain on the cell surface and bind inhibitory killer immunoglobulin-like receptors, preventing natural killer (NK) cell-mediated suppression. However, a recent study found HIV-1 primary viruses have the capacity to downregulate HLA-C. The goal of this study was to assess the heterogeneity of HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C downregulation among full-length primary viruses from six chronically infected and six newly infected individuals from transmission pairs and to determine whether transmitted/founder variants exhibit common HLA class I downregulation characteristics. We measured HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, and total HLA class I downregulation by flow cytometry of primary CD4 T cells infected with 40 infectious molecular clones. Primary viruses mediated a range of HLA class I downregulation capacities (1.3- to 6.1-fold) which could differ significantly between transmission pairs. Downregulation of HLA-C surface expression on infected cells correlated with susceptibility to in vitro NK cell suppression of virus release. Despite this, transmitted/founder variants did not share a downregulation signature and instead were more similar to the quasispecies of matched donor partners. These data indicate that a range of viral abilities to downregulate HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C exist within and between individuals that can have functional consequences on immune recognition.IMPORTANCE Subtype C HIV-1 is the predominant subtype involved in heterosexual transmission in sub-Saharan Africa. Authentic subtype C viruses that contain natural sequence variations throughout the genome often are not used in experimental systems due to technical constraints and sample availability. In this study, authentic full-length subtype C viruses, including transmitted/founder viruses, were examined for the ability to disrupt surface expression of HLA class I molecules, which are central to both adaptive and innate immune responses to viral infections. We found that the HLA class I downregulation capacity of primary viruses varied, and HLA-C downregulation capacity impacted viral suppression by natural killer cells. Transmitted viruses were not distinct in the capacity for HLA class I downregulation or natural killer cell evasion. These results enrich our understanding of the phenotypic variation existing among natural HIV-1 viruses and how that might impact the ability of the immune system to recognize infected cells in acute and chronic infection.
32201439 | Therapeutic options for the treatment of 2019-novel coronavirus: An evidence-based approach.
11535586 | The C-terminal nuclear localization signal of the sex-determining region Y (SRY) high mobility group domain mediates nuclear import through importin beta 1. The sex-determining factor SRY is a DNA-binding protein that diverts primordial gonads from the ovarian pathway toward male differentiation to form testes. It gains access to the nucleus through two distinct nuclear localization signals (NLSs) that flank the high mobility group (HMG) DNA-binding domain, but the mechanisms through which these NLSs operate have not been studied. In this study, we reconstitute the nuclear import of SRY in vitro, demonstrating a lack of requirement for exogenous factors for nuclear accumulation and a significant reduction in nuclear transport in the presence of antibodies to importin beta but not importin alpha. Using a range of quantitative binding assays including enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, fluorescence polarization, and native gel mobility electrophoresis, we assess the binding of importins to SRY, demonstrating a high affinity recognition (in the low nm range) by Imp beta independent of Imp alpha. In assessing the contribution of each NLS, we found that the N-terminal NLS was recognized poorly by importins, whereas the C-terminal NLS was bound by importin beta with similar affinity to SRY. We also found that RanGTP, but not RanGDP, could dissociate the SRY-importin beta complex in solution using FP. We describe a novel double-fluorescent label DNA binding assay to demonstrate mutual exclusivity between importin beta recognition and DNA binding on the part of SRY, which may represent an alternative release mechanism upon nuclear entry. This study represents the first characterization of the nuclear import pathway for a HMG domain-containing protein. Importantly, it demonstrates for the first time that recognition of SRY by Imp beta is of comparable affinity to that with which Imp alpha/beta recognizes conventional NLS-containing substrates.
12711465 | Coronavirus as a possible cause of severe acute respiratory syndrome. BACKGROUND: An outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) has been reported in Hong Kong. We investigated the viral cause and clinical presentation among 50 patients. METHODS: We analysed case notes and microbiological findings for 50 patients with SARS, representing more than five separate epidemiologically linked transmission clusters. We defined the clinical presentation and risk factors associated with severe disease and investigated the causal agents by chest radiography and laboratory testing of nasopharyngeal aspirates and sera samples. We compared the laboratory findings with those submitted for microbiological investigation of other diseases from patients whose identity was masked. FINDINGS: Patients' age ranged from 23 to 74 years. Fever, chills, myalgia, and cough were the most frequent complaints. When compared with chest radiographic changes, respiratory symptoms and auscultatory findings were disproportionally mild. Patients who were household contacts of other infected people and had older age, lymphopenia, and liver dysfunction were associated with severe disease. A virus belonging to the family Coronaviridae was isolated from two patients. By use of serological and reverse-transcriptase PCR specific for this virus, 45 of 50 patients with SARS, but no controls, had evidence of infection with this virus. INTERPRETATION: A coronavirus was isolated from patients with SARS that might be the primary agent associated with this disease. Serological and molecular tests specific for the virus permitted a definitive laboratory diagnosis to be made and allowed further investigation to define whether other cofactors play a part in disease progression.
16163727 | Regulated nucleocytoplasmic transport in spermatogenesis: a driver of cellular differentiation? This review explores the hypothesis that regulation of nucleocytoplasmic shuttling is a means of driving differentiation, using spermatogenesis as a model. The transition from undifferentiated spermatogonial stem cell to terminally differentiated spermatozoon is, at its most basic, a change in the repertoire of expressed genes. To effect this, the complement of nuclear proteins, such as transcription factors and chromatin remodelling components must change. Current knowledge of the nuclear proteins and nucleocytoplasmic transport machinery relevant to spermatogenesis is consolidated in this review, and their functional linkages are highlighted not only as a means of regulating nuclear protein composition, but also as a key mechanism regulating gene transcription and hence cell fate. Through this, we hypothesize that male germ cell differentiation is mediated through regulation of nuclear transport machinery components, and thereby of the access of critical factors to the nucleus. The importance of nucleocytoplasmic trafficking to male germ cell differentiation is discussed, using the sex-determining factors Sry and SOX9, cell cycle regulators, CREM and cofactors and the Smads as specific examples, together with the roles in gametogenesis for particular nuclear transport factors in Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila.
42147714 | Author Response: NETosis Markers such as Citrullinated Histones Myeloperoxidase and Elastase should not be Recommended as Predictors of COVID-19 Severity. How to cite this article: Kumar A. Author Response: NETosis Markers such as Citrullinated Histones Myeloperoxidase and Elastase should not be Recommended as Predictors of COVID-19 Severity. Indian J Crit Care Med 2026;30(4):349.
42147715 | NETosis Markers, Such as Citrullinated Histones, Myeloperoxidase, and Elastase, should not be Recommended as Predictors of COVID-19 Severity. How to cite this article: Finsterer J. NETosis Markers, Such as Citrullinated Histones, Myeloperoxidase, and Elastase, should not be Recommended as Predictors of COVID-19 Severity. Indian J Crit Care Med 2026;30(4):347-348.
29107145 | Overlapping CD8+ and CD4+ T-cell epitopes identification for the progression of epitope-based peptide vaccine from nucleocapsid and glycoprotein of emerging Rift Valley fever virus using immunoinformatics approach. Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) is an emergent arthropod-borne zoonotic infectious viral pathogen which causes fatal diseases in the humans and ruminants. Currently, no effective and licensed vaccine is available for the prevention of RVFV infection in endemic as well as in non-endemic regions. So, an immunoinformatics-driven genome-wide screening approach was performed for the identification of overlapping CD8+ and CD4+ T-cell epitopes and also linear B-cell epitopes from the conserved sequences of the nucleocapsid (N) and glycoprotein (G) of RVFV. We identified overlapping 99.39% conserved 1 CD8+ T-cell epitope (MMHPSFAGM) from N protein and 100% conserved 7 epitopes (AVFALAPVV, LAVFALAPV, FALAPVVFA, VFALAPVVF, IAMTVLPAL, FFDWFSGLM, and FLLIYLGRT) from G protein and also identified IL-4 and IFN-gamma induced (99.39% conserved) 1 N protein CD4+ T-cell epitope (HMMHPSFAGMVDPSL) and 100% conserved 5 G protein CD4+ T-cell epitopes (LPALAVFALAPVVFA, PALAVFALAPVVFAE, GIAMTVLPALAVFAL, GSWNFFDWFSGLMSW, and FFLLIYLGRTGLSKM). The overlapping CD8+ and CD4+ T-cell epitopes were bound with most conserved HLA-C*12:03 and HLA-DRB1*01:01, respectively with the high binding affinity (kcal/mol). The combined population coverage analysis revealed that the allele frequencies of these epitopes are high in endemic and non-endemic regions. Besides, we found 100% conserved and non-allergenic 2 decamer B-cell epitopes, GVCEVGVQAL and RVFNCIDWVH of G protein had the sequence similarity with the nonamer CD8+ T-cell epitopes, VCEVGVQAL and RVFNCIDWV, respectively. Consequently, these epitopes may be used for the development of epitope-based peptide vaccine against emerging RVFV. However, in vivo and in vitro experiments are required for their efficient use as a vaccine.
38742159 | The impact of SARS-CoV-2 spike mutation on peptide presentation is HLA allomorph-specific. CD8+ T cells are crucial for viral elimination and recovery from viral infection. Nonetheless, the current understanding of the T cell response to SARS-CoV-2 at the antigen level remains limited. The Spike protein is an external structural protein that is prone to mutations, threatening the efficacy of current vaccines. Therefore, we have characterised the immune response towards the immunogenic Spike-derived peptide (S976-984, VLNDILSRL), restricted to the HLA-A*02:01 molecule, which is mutated in both Alpha (S982A) and Omicron BA.1 (L981F) variants of concern. We determined that the mutation in the Alpha variant (S982A) impacted both the stability and conformation of the peptide, bound to HLA-A*02:01, in comparison to the original S976-984. We identified a longer and overlapping immunogenic peptide (S975-984, SVLNDILSRL) that could be presented by HLA-A*02:01, HLA-A*11:01 and HLA-B*13:01 allomorphs. We showed that S975-specific CD8+ T cells were weakly cross-reactive to the mutant peptides despite their similar conformations when presented by HLA-A*11:01. Altogether, our results show that the impact of SARS-CoV-2 mutations on peptide presentation is HLA allomorph-specific, and that post vaccination there are T cells able to react and cross-react towards the variant of concern peptides.
27306458 | Structure of the exportin Xpo4 in complex with RanGTP and the hypusine-containing translation factor eIF5A. Xpo4 is a bidirectional nuclear transport receptor that mediates nuclear export of eIF5A and Smad3 as well as import of Sox2 and SRY. How Xpo4 recognizes such a variety of cargoes is as yet unknown. Here we present the crystal structure of the RanGTP Xpo4 eIF5A export complex at 3.2 A resolution. Xpo4 has a similar structure as CRM1, but the NES-binding site is occluded, and a new interaction site evolved that recognizes both globular domains of eIF5A. eIF5A contains hypusine, a unique amino acid with two positive charges, which is essential for cell viability and eIF5A function in translation. The hypusine docks into a deep, acidic pocket of Xpo4 and is thus a critical element of eIF5A's complex export signature. This further suggests that Xpo4 recognizes other cargoes differently, and illustrates how Xpo4 suppresses - in a chaperone-like manner - undesired interactions of eIF5A inside nuclei.
28494720 | HLA-C Single Nucleotide Polymorphism Associated with Increased Viral Load Level in HIV-1 Infected Individuals from Northeast Brazil. BACKGROUND: Genetic variations in Human leukocyte antigen C (HLA-C), Zinc ribbon domain containing 1 (ZNRD1) and its antisense RNA (ZNRD1-AS1) genes are known to influence the HIV-1 replication and disease progression. OBJECTIVE AND METHOD: We evaluated the distribution of HLA-C (rs10484554, rs9264942) and ZNRD1 (rs8321) and ZNRD1-AS1 (rs3869068), single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 266 HIV-1-infected and 223 unexposed-uninfected individuals from Northeast Brazil and their relation to HIV-1 infection, CD4 T cells count and viral load pre-treatment. RESULTS: HLA-C SNPs were in Linkage Disequilibrium (D'=0.84), constituting four possible haplotypes. Our results showed that HLA-C, ZNRD1 and ZNRD1-AS1 SNPs as well as HLA-C haplotypes frequencies were not significantly different between HIV-1-infected and unexposed-uninfected individuals. In addition, we analyzed HLA-C and ZNRD-1 and ZNRD1-AS1 SNPs considering CD4+ T cell counts and viral load before the antiretroviral treatment. Individuals carrying HLA-C rs9264942 TT genotype showed a significant increased level of HIV-1 viral load pre-treatment, in comparison with individuals carrying the CC genotype (p-value = 0.0092). Finally, we stratified our findings according to CCR5Delta32 allele presence along with the studied SNPs: no statistically significant influence over viral load pre-treatment has been found. CONCLUSION: The association between HLA-C rs9264942 SNP and viral load prior treatment in an admixed population from North East Brazil was in agreement with findings from previous studies obtained on different ethnic groups; however more studies should be conducted in order to clarify how HLA-C impair the HIV-1 replication.
35371005 | Comparison of Lung-Homing Receptor Expression and Activation Profiles on NK Cell and T Cell Subsets in COVID-19 and Influenza. Respiratory viral infections with SARS-CoV-2 and influenza viruses commonly induce a strong infiltration of immune cells into the human lung, with potential detrimental effects on the integrity of the lung tissue. Despite comprising the largest fractions of circulating lymphocytes in the lung, rather little is known about how peripheral blood natural killer (NK) cell and T cell subsets are equipped for lung-homing in COVID-19 and influenza. Here, we provide a detailed comparative analysis of NK cells and T cells in patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 or influenza virus, focusing on the protein and gene expression of chemokine receptors known to be involved in recruitment to the lung. For this, we used 28-colour flow cytometry as well as re-analysis of a publicly available single-cell RNA-seq dataset from bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid. Frequencies of NK cells and T cells expressing CXCR3, CXCR6, and CCR5 were altered in peripheral blood of COVID-19 and influenza patients, in line with increased transcript expression of CXCR3, CXCR6, and CCR5 and their respective ligands in BAL fluid. NK cells and T cells expressing lung-homing receptors displayed stronger phenotypic signs of activation compared to cells lacking lung-homing receptors, and activation was overall stronger in influenza compared to COVID-19. Together, our results indicate a role for CXCR3+, CXCR6+, and/or CCR5+ NK cells and T cells that potentially migrate to the lungs in moderate COVID-19 and influenza patients, identifying common targets for future therapeutic interventions in respiratory viral infections.
32166607 | A Review of Coronavirus Disease-2019 (COVID-19). There is a new public health crises threatening the world with the emergence and spread of 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) or the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The virus originated in bats and was transmitted to humans through yet unknown intermediary animals in Wuhan, Hubei province, China in December 2019. There have been around 96,000 reported cases of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-2019) and 3300 reported deaths to date (05/03/2020). The disease is transmitted by inhalation or contact with infected droplets and the incubation period ranges from 2 to 14 d. The symptoms are usually fever, cough, sore throat, breathlessness, fatigue, malaise among others. The disease is mild in most people; in some (usually the elderly and those with comorbidities), it may progress to pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and multi organ dysfunction. Many people are asymptomatic. The case fatality rate is estimated to range from 2 to 3%. Diagnosis is by demonstration of the virus in respiratory secretions by special molecular tests. Common laboratory findings include normal/ low white cell counts with elevated C-reactive protein (CRP). The computerized tomographic chest scan is usually abnormal even in those with no symptoms or mild disease. Treatment is essentially supportive; role of antiviral agents is yet to be established. Prevention entails home isolation of suspected cases and those with mild illnesses and strict infection control measures at hospitals that include contact and droplet precautions. The virus spreads faster than its two ancestors the SARS-CoV and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), but has lower fatality. The global impact of this new epidemic is yet uncertain.
42148226 | The inhibitory effects of Melicope pahangenesis T. G. Hartley extract on LPS-induced acute lung injury. Since COVID-19 pandemic, the protection of lung health against infection with various pathogens has been emphasized. Acute lung injury (ALI) is a severe respiratory disease that causes sudden loss of lung function via pathogenic invasion. Although diverse anti-inflammatory materials have been investigated, the preventive efficacy remains limited. The purpose of this study is to investigate the preventive effects of Melicope pahangenesis T. G. Hartley extract (MPE) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI. In vivo, oral MPE administration inhibits LPS-induced intestinal thickening, hyperplasia, mucus production, alveolar macrophage recruitment, and IL-1beta expression in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. The production of IL-6 and expression of iNOS and COX-2 were strongly suppressed. In mechanism studies, MPE inhibited phosphorylation of p65, IkappaB kinase, p38, and JNK1/2 and nuclear translocation of p65. Furthermore, MPE reduced reactive oxygen species and induced radical scavenging activities. Taken together, MPE consistently exerted anti-inflammatory effects in vitro and in vivo.
42149546 | Within-person trends in anxiety, depression, and social isolation among first-year college students before and after the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. The present study aimed to differentiate groups based upon the ways undergraduate students at a large public university in the southeastern United States experienced depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, and social isolation before the start of the COVID-19 pandemic and how their experiences changed as the pandemic progressed. Specifically, current analyses examined within-person trends in mental health baseline and change values, identities of most likely class members, and associations among coping strategies used and latent profiles. First-year students were surveyed both before (October 2019 to February 2020) and after (June/July 2020) the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. Baseline values and change scores in depression, anxiety, and social isolation were used as indicators in a latent profile analysis, which yielded a six-class solution. Additionally, associations among latent mental health profiles and coping strategies used during lockdown were examined. While most of the sample remained in the same moderate or low severity range in which they started, profiles also emerged in which students (a) began with low severity across indicators and increased substantially, (b) began in high distress and remained that way, and (c) began in extremely high distress and decreased to moderate levels of distress. Latent profile associations with coping strategy and identity revealed modest associations between the latent profiles with increasing distress and coping via substance use and negative emotion expression. Avoidance was the most widely endorsed coping strategy. Campus responses should consider tiered or flexible approaches to support a high degree of heterogeneity among student mental health presentations and coping strategies and prepare to swiftly enact a needs assessment to guide resource allocation in times of collective crisis, in addition to ongoing assessment and conversation. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2026 APA, all rights reserved).
41409547 | Single-cell transcriptome profile during the antibody decline phase following inactivated COVID-19 vaccination. Introduction: Variability in antibody responses among individuals following vaccination is a common phenomenon. This study employs single-cell transcriptome sequencing to characterize the transcriptomic features underlying these variations during the antibody decline phase after inactivated COVID-19 vaccination. Methods: Sixty-five healthy volunteers received two doses of BBIBP-CorV. Antibody levels were measured 109-140 days post-vaccination. From these, 15 samples representing low, median, and high antibody titers were selected for PBMC single-cell RNA sequencing. Results: Re-analysis of antibody kinetics revealed that titers during the decline phase are most strongly associated with long-term persistence. Differentially expressed genes were enriched in immune pathways including lymphocyte activation, antigen presentation (MHC-I and MHC-II), and interferon signaling. Significant variation in HLA genes, particularly HLA-B, was observed across PBMC cell types. Cell-cell communication analysis further identified enhanced MHC-I signaling in high-titer groups, dominated by HLA-B interactions with CD8+ T cells. Discussion: These findings reveal a state of balanced immune alertness during the decline phase, providing insights into the cellular and molecular determinants of long-term humoral immunity and informing future vaccine design.
41098775 | Identification of antigen-specific functional CD8+ T cells using an optofluidic system independent of epitope information. Most studies detect and isolate antigen-specific CD8+ T cells solely by measuring T cell receptor (TCR) binding affinity to peptide-major histocompatibility complexes (p-MHCs) without considering T cell function. Here, we present a function-based strategy to screen antigen-specific CD8+ T cells using the Lightning optofluidic platform, named MicroFAST (microfluidic function-based screening of antigen-specific single T lymphocyte) fitting for limited sample volume. We validated this method by using it to isolate human cytomegalovirus (HCMV)-specific CD8+ T cells targeting a known HLA-A*02:01-restricted epitope. We finally applied this method to identify several SARS-CoV-2-specific TCRs, which were characterized by recognizing HLA-B*35:01-restricted TPS epitope (TPSGTWLTY), demonstrating the utility of our system. TCR binding affinity did not associate with its functionality. Collectively, we developed a workflow of isolating antigen-specific functional CD8+ T cells with or without a prior knowledge of peptide-MHC specificities, which will facilitate the development of engineered TCR-T therapies and T cell-based vaccines.
42149126 | Repurposed Medicines for Viruses With Epidemic or Pandemic Potential: A Horizon Scan. Viruses such as Ebola, Marburg, influenza, mpox, MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV, and SARS-CoV-2 may be considered pathogens of epidemic or pandemic concern. Developing novel antiviral medicines can be time-consuming and resource intensive. Repurposing existing medicines with known or potential antiviral activity offers a faster, cost-effective strategy to expand treatment options during public health emergencies. This scan aimed to map current investigational activity involving repurposed medicines for these viruses. A horizon scanning approach was employed, starting with a targeted search in Embase followed by a systematic search of ClinicalTrials.gov to identify developmental stages of relevant technologies. Eligible technologies included UK- or EU-licensed medicines being investigated for antiviral use, while vaccines, unlicensed medicines, and treatments already approved for the target viruses were excluded. From the literature, 196 repurposed technologies were identified, and the expanded search on the clinical trials registry revealed 58 technologies in active clinical development. Interventional trial activity was limited to influenza and SARS-CoV-2, with 29 technologies for SARS-CoV-2 and two influenza technologies advancing to phase III evaluation. For other viruses, candidate repurposed technologies were identified only at preclinical or exploratory stages. Frequently investigated pharmacological classes included direct-acting antivirals, immunomodulators, and anti-inflammatory agents. While repurposing represents a potentially rapid strategy for therapeutic deployment, inclusion in this horizon scan does not imply clinical efficacy. Rigorous preclinical validation, pharmacokinetic feasibility assessment, and mechanistic confirmation remain essential before clinical translation.
12730501 | The Genome sequence of the SARS-associated coronavirus. We sequenced the 29,751-base genome of the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-associated coronavirus known as the Tor2 isolate. The genome sequence reveals that this coronavirus is only moderately related to other known coronaviruses, including two human coronaviruses, HCoV-OC43 and HCoV-229E. Phylogenetic analysis of the predicted viral proteins indicates that the virus does not closely resemble any of the three previously known groups of coronaviruses. The genome sequence will aid in the diagnosis of SARS virus infection in humans and potential animal hosts (using polymerase chain reaction and immunological tests), in the development of antivirals (including neutralizing antibodies), and in the identification of putative epitopes for vaccine development.
12730500 | Characterization of a novel coronavirus associated with severe acute respiratory syndrome. In March 2003, a novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV) was discovered in association with cases of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). The sequence of the complete genome of SARS-CoV was determined, and the initial characterization of the viral genome is presented in this report. The genome of SARS-CoV is 29,727 nucleotides in length and has 11 open reading frames, and its genome organization is similar to that of other coronaviruses. Phylogenetic analyses and sequence comparisons showed that SARS-CoV is not closely related to any of the previously characterized coronaviruses.
42149106 | Redirection of SARS-CoV-2 to phagocytes by intranasal sACE2-Fc as a universal decoy confers complete prophylactic protection. The rapid evolution of SARS-CoV-2 and other respiratory RNA viruses limits the success of current vaccines and antibody-based therapies. Engineered decoy receptors based on soluble angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (sACE2) offer promising alternatives but show limited clinical success. This study conducted functional and mechanistic analyses using an optimized sACE2 mutant fused to human IgG1 Fc (B5-D3) as a representative, revealing redirection of virus-decoy complexes from epithelial infection to lysosomal degradation in phagocytes beyond viral neutralization. Intranasal prophylactic delivery of B5-D3 confers complete protection in SARS-CoV-2-infected K18-hACE2 mice, regardless of age. Abrogation of Fc effector functions compromises antiviral protection, indicating that Fc-mediated uptake of virus-decoy complexes is critical. Transcriptomic analysis suggests that B5-D3 induces early immune activation in the lungs of infected mice. Bio-distribution and flow cytometry reveal selective targeting of airway phagocytes. In vitro assays confirm lysosomal degradation of virus-decoy complexes by macrophages without productive infection. These findings reveal a distinct antiviral mechanism via phagocytic clearance, supporting refined regimens for decoy treatments against SARS-CoV-2 and potentially other respiratory viruses.
39906838 | Anti-PL-7/PL-12 antisynthetase syndrome associated with interstitial lung disease following SARS-COV-2 infection and vaccination: A case study review. Cumulative evidence suggests a link between specific autoimmune diseases (AD), including idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM), and SARS-CoV-2 infection or COVID-19 vaccination. Anti-synthetase syndrome (ASS), a subset of IIM, is defined by the presence of autoantibodies against aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase (anti-ARS) and is strongly associated with interstitial lung disease (ILD), a major contributor to severe complications and reduced survival. We present four clinical cases of patients who developed autoantibodies against threonyl (PL-7) and alanyl (PL-12) synthetases associated with ASS-ILD shortly after SARS-CoV-2 infection or COVID-19 vaccination. Anti-ARS autoantibodies were identified using three complementary methods: immunoblotting, western blotting (WB) and the method considered the gold standard, immunoprecipitation (IP), which ensures accurate interpretation of results. The study highlights the clinical and pathogenic overlap between ASS-ILD and SARS-CoV-2-related lung involvement.Both conditions share similar high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) patterns, including inflammation and pulmonary fibrosis (PF), driven by IFN-gamma signaling, which complicates accurate diagnosis. Our results provide novel insights into the temporal association of SARS-CoV-2 and vaccine exposure with ASS-ILD, focusing on possible molecular mimicry between viral proteins and ARS molecules as a potential mechanism. Understanding the involvement of specific anti-ARS autoantibodies (PL-7 and PL-12) and the identification of genetic predispositions (HLA-B*08:01 and HLA-DRB1*03:01) in these patients may be key to underpinning these autoimmune manifestations. The study underscores the importance of a multidisciplinary approach and vigilant follow-up to optimize diagnosis and management. Further research is essential to elucidate the causal relationships and molecular mechanisms behind these observations.
41972683 | Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Respond to SARS-CoV-2 Peptides and Exhibit Altered T-Cell Regulatory Capacity. BACKGROUND: MSCs possess strong immunoregulatory properties and play a central role in maintaining immune homeostasis by limiting inflammatory responses. Their function is highly plastic and influenced by environmental cues, including viral signals. How SARS-CoV-2-derived antigens affect MSC immunoregulation remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to investigate the impact of SARS-CoV-2 peptides on MSC-mediated immune modulation of T-cells. METHODS: MSCs were stimulated directly with SARS-CoV-2 spike protein S peptides or cocultured with SARS-CoV-2 peptide-activated T-cells. TLR4 surface expression and receptor downstream signaling were assessed to evaluate pathway activation. MSC immunoregulatory function was analyzed by measuring suppression of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma expression and induction of CD4+FOXP3+ regulatory T-cells. TLR4 inhibition and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation were used to examine pathway specificity and interaction. RESULTS: SARS-CoV-2 peptides activated TLR4-associated signaling in MSCs, increasing TLR4 expression and NF-kappaB phosphorylation. Peptide-treated MSCs showed impaired suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokines and reduced induction of regulatory T-cells. TLR4 inhibition prevented these effects. LPS induced similar effects, while combining LPS and peptide stimulation partially restored physiological T-cell cytokine suppression. CONCLUSIONS: SARS-CoV-2 peptides modulate MSC immunoregulatory function on T-cells via TLR4-dependent mechanisms.
42147781 | Visual Acuity Outcomes in Socioeconomically Disadvantaged Patients With Vitreous Hemorrhage Resulting From Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy Treated at a County Hospital. Purpose: To evaluate real-world visual acuity (VA) outcomes in a socioeconomically disadvantaged population of patients with vitreous hemorrhage (VH) resulting from proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) who received primary treatment with either intravitreal antivascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) injections, pars plana vitrectomy (PPV), or panretinal photocoagulation (PRP). Methods: This retrospective cohort study included patients with newly diagnosed VH resulting from PDR at Eskenazi Hospital (Indianapolis, IN). VA outcomes were compared in patients before and during the COVID-19 pandemic, between race/ethnicity groups, and between initial treatment groups of intravitreal anti-VEGF injections, PPV, or PRP. Results: Of the 100 patients included in the study, mean VA was 1.44 logMAR at baseline (Snellen equivalent, 20/550; n = 100), which improved to 0.79 logMAR (Snellen equivalent, 20/125; n = 45), 0.80 logMAR (Snellen equivalent, 20/125; n = 41), and 0.87 logMAR (Snellen equivalent, 20/150; n = 38) at 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years following diagnosis, respectively. VA outcomes between the time periods prior to and during the pandemic, race/ethnicity groups, and initial treatment groups were similar, with the exception of significantly better VA at 2 years in the PRP group compared with the anti-VEGF group (P < .01). Conclusions: Long-term VA outcomes in a socioeconomically disadvantaged population with VH resulting from PDR at a county hospital were worse than those observed in a randomized control trial, influenced by worse presenting VA and poor follow-up rate.
40366340 | HLA Polymorphisms and COVID-19 Susceptibility and Severity: Insights From an Iranian Patients Cohort. The HLA system is a crucial immune response component against infectious agents, including SARS-CoV-2. Certain polymorphisms may impart varying levels of protection or vulnerability to COVID-19. This research aims to understand the possible relationship between HLA polymorphisms and the susceptibility to COVID-19 and its severity. We recruited 290 hospitalised Iranian COVID-19 patients (130 severe and 160 moderate). Using PCR-SSP methods, we conducted a detailed analysis of polymorphisms in HLA class I (HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C) and II (HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQB1) molecules at low resolution. The study found that certain HLA alleles, including HLA-B*49, HLA-B*52, HLA-C*12, HLA-DRB1*04, and HLA-DQB1*05, were associated with disease susceptibility. Additionally, HLA-A*23, DRB1*10, and DRB1*13 were indicators of disease severity. The study also noted that individuals carrying the HLA-A*23 allele showed a significant decrease in lymphocyte levels and an elevated likelihood of developing thrombosis. We hypothesise that a maladaptive immune response may occur based on these findings. This might be due to the strong affinity of the HLA-A*23 allele group for presenting a wide range of SARS-CoV-2 peptides. Such a presentation possibly leads to a cytokine storm, followed by lymphocyte apoptosis and an increase in platelet count.
41961589 | Immunological Dysfunction Associated with SARS-CoV-2 Persistence in Immunocompromised Patients. INTRODUCTION: Advances in COVID-19 management has led to decreases in disease burden, however, immunocompromised patients continue to experience prolonged or persistent infections. We investigated immunological factors associated with time to viral clearance of SARS-CoV-2 infections in immunocompromised patients . METHODS: By integrating clinical follow-up data, SARS-CoV-2-specific humoral and cellular response data, and single-cell RNA transcriptomic data, we uncovered differential immune responses between patients exhibiting short or long time-to-clearance (TTC), both at diagnosis and later during infection. RESULTS: We found that prolonged infection was associated with reduced SARS-CoV-2-specific humoral responses (p=0.035) and diminished development of CD4+ and CD8+ T cell activation (p=0.045 and p=0.038, respectively) despite levels of IFN-gamma-producing T cells not being negatively affected.Baseline transcriptional profiles revealed increased immunological engagement of CD8+ cytotoxic T and NK cells among patients with prolonged TTC, potentially to compensate for impaired functional T cell activation. Differential gene expression further pointed towards features of impaired T cell functionality and exhaustion as contributors to prolonged TTC, including enrichment of NEAT1, CD52, and IL12RB2 in Long TTC patients. CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that impaired viral clearance in some immunocompromised patients reflects an actively engaged yet dysregulated immune response. This underscores the complexity of immune dysfunction in this population and highlights the need for targeted interventions to restore effective, antiviral immunity, with a particular focus on regaining functional activation of antigen-specific T cells.
42147305 | Structure-enabled enhancement of potency in a metronidazole-benznidazole hybrid: design, synthesis, and evaluation of antitrypanosomal activity of a benzylamide-linked 5-nitroimidazole. Benznidazole (1) remains the primary antiparasitic drug used clinically for Chagas disease, underscoring the need to discover novel treatments targeting Trypanosoma cruzi (T. cruzi) infection. In this sense, the present work reports the in silico design of a novel hybrid (3) containing the 5-nitroimidazole core from the commercial antiparasitic drug metronidazole (2) and the N-benzylacetamide moiety from 1. These structural motifs were designed to target T. cruzi nitroreductase type I (TcNTR) for activation and to boost intracellular drug levels (lipophilicity). The in silico predictions suggested that the presence of the N-benzylacetamide moiety might enhance the anti-T. cruzi activity of 2 and improve the drug-likeness. To validate the predictions, hybrid 3 was synthesized with a yield of 53% and structurally characterized (melting point, 1H and 13C NMR, and HRMS). The in vitro assays of hybrid 3 against T. cruzi amastigotes (Tulahuen strain C2C4 LacZ) supported the in silico predictions, showing a lower IC50 for 3 (67.73 +- 8.98 microM) than for 2 (>100 microM). Despite hybrid 3 having an activity 45-fold lower than that of 1, the results provide insights for future hybrid optimization.
39928675 | Bronchoalveolar lavage single-cell transcriptomics reveals immune dysregulations driving COVID-19 severity. The continuous threats posed by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus that causes COVID-19, including the emergence of potentially more infectious and deadly variants, necessitate ongoing studies to uncover novel and detailed mechanisms driving disease severity. Using single-cell transcriptomics, we conducted a secondary data analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from COVID-19 patients of varying severities and healthy controls to comprehensively examine immune responses. We observed significant immune cell alterations correlating with disease severity. In severe cases, macrophages showed upregulation of pro-inflammatory genes TNFalpha and IL1beta, contributing to severe inflammation and tissue damage. Neutrophils exhibited increased activation, marked by S100A8, CXCL8, and IL1beta expression, with extended viability and reduced phagocytosis. Genes such as MCL1 and HIF1alpha supported extended viability, while MSR1 and MRC1 indicated reduced phagocytosis. Enhanced formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) and reduced clearance, indicated by NET-associated markers, were linked to thrombo-inflammation and organ damage. Both macrophages and neutrophils in severe cases showed impaired efferocytosis, indicated by decreased expression of MSR1 and TREM2 in macrophages and downregulation of FCGR3B in neutrophils, leading to the accumulation of apoptotic cells and exacerbating inflammation. Severe cases were characterized by M1 macrophages with high TNFalpha and IL1beta, while milder cases had M2 macrophages with elevated PPARgamma. Dendritic cells (DCs) in severe cases exhibited reduced proportions and attenuated expression of MHC class I genes (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C) and co-stimulatory molecules (CD80, CD86), alongside increased cytochrome c expression, indicating impaired antigen presentation and enhanced apoptosis. NK and T cells in severe cases demonstrated altered receptor and gene expression, with increased activation markers IFNgamma and ISG15, suggesting a paradoxical state of activation and exhaustion. This analysis highlights the critical role of dysregulated neutrophil, macrophage, dendritic cell, NK, and T cell responses in severe COVID-19, identifying potential therapeutic targets and providing novel insights into the disease.
42146723 | Policy Responses to the COVID-19 Pandemic in High-Income Countries and the Associated Maternal-Infant Health Outcomes: A Systematic Literature and Policy Review. Background: Foreseeing how policy impacts pregnant women and infants is limited by ethical challenges of experimental research within these groups. The COVID-19 pandemic generated natural experiments, offering rare opportunities to explore associations between specific policy responses and maternal-infant health outcomes. These insights are useful for informing policy design aligned with the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. Aims: To systematically review evidence of associations between COVID-19 policies, OxCGRT Stringency Index (a University of Oxford tool for comparing the stringency of policies) and maternal-infant health outcomes during pregnancy, birth, and the first 12 months postpartum from 2020-2022 in high-income countries. Methods: Following PRISMA guidelines, Embase, MEDLINE, PubMed, and Web of Science were searched (January 1 2020-July 9 2022) using subject headings, keywords, and variants for \COVID-19\, \policies\, \perinatal\, and \randomized\, and \non-randomized\ study designs. Eligible studies were from high-income countries, published in English, and used comparison groups. Two reviewers independently extracted and analyzed data. Heterogeneity and risk of bias made meta-analysis inappropriate. Outcomes were instead reported using tables and visuals of effect sizes, ratio estimates, and 95% confidence intervals. Results: Of 3143 citations, 35 studies met inclusion criteria. All reported high OxCGRT Stringency Index during exposure, validating the fidelity of adhering to defined policy exposure periods. Lockdown was associated with reductions in preterm and low birthweight births, infant emergency admissions, and breast feeding women, and increases in hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and gestational diabetes mellitus. Telehealth was associated with earlier gestational age at antenatal visits and less breast feeding women. Maternal mental health and stillbirth results were mixed. Conclusion: High stringency policies, including lockdowns and telehealth, were associated with both favorable and adverse maternal-infant outcomes. Findings inform avenues for future causal inference research and areas for mitigation planning should high stringency policies be reintroduced, supporting progress towards the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals.
28317943 | Functional conservation and coherence of HIV-1 subtype A Vpu alleles. Functional studies of HIV-1 proteins are normally conducted using lab adapted strains of HIV-1. The extent of those functions in clinical strains is sometimes unknown. In this study, we amplified and sequenced HIV-1 Vpu from 10 Iranian patients infected with HIV-1. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the Vpu alleles were closely related to the CRF35_AD from Iran and subtype A Vpu. We addressed some of the well-established functions of the HIV-1 Vpu, as well as some of its recently reported functions. Ability of the clinical strains of subtype A Vpu alleles for downregulation of CD4 was similar to that of the lab adapted NL4.3 Vpu. Majority of the subtype A Vpu alleles performed stronger than NL4.3 Vpu for downregulation of SNAT1. The Vpu alleles differentially induced downregulation of HLA-C, ranging from no effect to 88% downregulation of surface HLA-C. Downregulation of tetherin and enhancement of virus release was similar for the subtype A Vpu alleles and NL4.3. Subtype A Vpu alleles were more potent when compared with NL4.3 for inhibition of NF-kappaB activation. Our study shows that subtype A Vpu alleles exert the classical functions of HIV-1 Vpu.
42146704 | scLASER: a robust framework for simulating and detecting time-dependent single-cell dynamics in longitudinal studies. Longitudinal single-cell clinical studies enable tracking within-individual cellular dynamics, but methods for modeling temporal phenotypic changes and estimating power remain limited. We present scLASER, a framework detecting time-dependent cellular neighborhood dynamics and simulating longitudinal single-cell datasets for power estimation. Across benchmark experiments, scLASER shows consistently higher sensitivity than traditional cluster--based approaches, with particularly pronounced gains in rare cell types and non-linear temporal patterns. Applications to inflammatory bowel disease (95,813 cells, 38 patients) reveal treatment-responsive NOTCH3+ stromal trajectories with high cell type discrimination (AUC > 0.92), while analysis of COVID-19 data (188,181 cells, 84 patients) identifies three distinct axes of T cell activity (cytotoxic effector, NK immunoreceptor signaling, and interferon-stimulated gene programs) over disease progression. scLASER enables robust longitudinal single-cell analysis and optimization of study design. Teaser: A new framework detects time-dependent cellular dynamics and enables power estimation for longitudinal clinical single-cell studies.
41999211 | Immunosenescence and CMV-Associated Immune Signatures on SARS-CoV-2 Booster Responses. Ageing remodels antiviral immunity, yet its influence on responses to repeated mRNA vaccination is not fully defined. We evaluated humoral and SARS-CoV-2 spike-specific T-cell responses in 41 adults-stratified by age (<50 vs. >=60 years), sex, prior SARS-CoV-2 infection and cytomegalovirus (CMV) serostatus-before and after a fourth dose of the bivalent BNT162b2 vaccine. Anti-RBD IgG titres increased in nearly all participants, with no measurable impact of age, sex, infection history or CMV status, and baseline titres predicted post-booster antibody levels. In contrast, cellular immunity showed clear heterogeneity across ageing-related variables. Although the booster enhanced IFN-gamma production and reduced TNF-alpha-associated inflammatory activity at the cohort level, older adults and males exhibited significantly lower post-boost frequencies of IFN-gamma-producing CD4+ T cells. Prior SARS-CoV-2 infection was associated with attenuated CD4+ recall responses, whereas infection-naive and female participants showed the strongest functional gains. Immunosenescence markers were associated with reduced cellular responsiveness. CMV-related immune remodelling-including higher anti-CMV IgG levels and expansions of differentiated CD8+ subsets-correlated with diminished IFN-gamma responses in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells after boosting, suggesting that chronic CMV imprinting constrains heterologous antiviral immunity even in mid-adult life. Humoral and cellular changes were largely uncoupled, supporting the need to evaluate both arms of adaptive immunity. These findings indicate that while a fourth bivalent BNT162b2 dose reliably reinforces humoral immunity across ages, the magnitude and quality of cellular responses are shaped by age, sex, infection history and CMV-associated immunosenescence. Incorporating immune-ageing markers into vaccination strategies may improve booster efficacy in older populations.
42146757 | Resting-State Functional Connectivity Alterations in Pediatric Survivors of Severe COVID-19: An Exploratory Case-Control Study. Objectives: To assess resting-state functional connectivity and exploratory cognitive vulnerability in pediatric survivors of severe COVID-19 compared with healthy pre-pandemic controls. Introduction: Pediatric neurocognitive sequelae after SARS-CoV-2 infection remain poorly characterized. Methods: We conducted an observational case-control study including 14 children hospitalized for severe COVID-19 and 31 healthy pre-pandemic controls scanned on the same 3T MRI system using identical rs-fMRI protocols and a standardized CONN/SPM pipeline. ROI-to-ROI connectivity was analyzed with cluster-level FDR correction (P < .05). Results: Post-COVID participants showed 3 altered connectivity clusters: increased Default Mode-visual medial coupling, stronger dorsal attention-sensorimotor anticorrelations, and enhanced temporo-occipital-vermis connectivity. In an exploratory subset (8 post-COVID, 12 controls), 50% of post-COVID children had abnormally low Timeliness and 25% low Impulsivity MOXO-d-CPT z-scores, whereas no controls were abnormal. Conclusion: These preliminary findings suggest subtle post-infectious cognitive vulnerability and warrant confirmation in larger longitudinal cohorts.
42146763 | The Selective DHCR24 Blocker SH42 Inhibits ACE2 Binding and Cellular Entry of SARS-CoV-2 Spike Proteins More Efficiently Than Atorvastatin. ACE2 binding of spike proteins and concomitant viral uptake are the first and most decisive membrane-coupled events of SARS-CoV-2 infection, which rely on cholesterol-rich lipid raft microdomains of the host cell plasma membrane. Therefore, lowering membrane cholesterol levels may combat the infection, potentially complementing specific, resistance-prone antiviral approaches such as vaccines. High-throughput flow cytometry and quantitative 3-dimensional microscopy reveal that SH42, a novel, extremely potent, and highly selective 24-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR24) blocker, markedly inhibits ACE2 binding of SARS-CoV-2 spike receptor-binding domains and entry of spike trimers of Wuhan-Hu-1 (WT), Delta, and Omicron BA.1 variants into living cells. These effects are related to SH42-induced reduction of plasma membrane cholesterol abundance and subsequent lipid raft disruption, which are accompanied by decreased cell surface ACE2 expression and its lowered raft partitioning. SH42 exhibits superior efficacy and potency in all aspects compared to the reference atorvastatin. Furthermore, inhibitory effects of SH42 are also corroborated by reduced SARS-CoV-2 RNA copy numbers of replication-competent complete virions of WT-resembling D614G, Delta, and Omicron-derived JN.1 strains. These results suggest that selective DHCR24 blockers such as SH42 may be promising novel candidates for inhibiting initial membrane-coupled events of SARS-CoV-2 infection and serve as potential alternative therapeutic option for COVID-19.
41973057 | Vaccination coverage against COVID-19 among people living with HIV infection in the Czech Republic. OBJECTIVES: The pandemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has affected hundreds of millions of individuals globally. Vaccination has become a promptly effective preventive procedure. People living with HIV (PLHIV) are in increased risk of many infections including COVID-19. We aimed to analyse the first phase of vaccination (January 2021-June 2022) in the Czech Republic in PLHIV focusing on vaccination coverage, vaccine hesitancy and breakthrough infections. METHODS: In this single-centre, open-label, prospective study we have enrolled 1,758 PLHIV with median age of 42.5 years and median CD4+ T cells count (cluster of differentiation) 800/microL. RESULTS: Vaccination coverage was 84.7% and first booster dose was received by 71.7% of those who completed vaccination. Only 78 individuals (4.4%) have actively rejected vaccination. The most frequent vaccination scheme (60.3%) was Comirnaty vaccine plus booster of the same vaccine. There was a significant difference between vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals in age, CD4+ count, CD4/CD8 ratio, virological suppression on antiretroviral therapy (ART) duration of HIV and level of education (p < 0.001). Prevalence of breakthrough infection was seen in 21.4%. There was no significant difference among individual vaccines (p = 0.715). Individuals with breakthrough infections were statistically younger (p = 0.001) with some risk factors in 25.1%. CONCLUSION: In this prospective study we have seen higher vaccination coverage against COVID-19 in PLHIV in the Czech Republic in comparison with the general Czech population. Hesitancy, resulting in rejection of vaccination, was lower in our cohort as regards affinity to the HIV clinic, and breakthrough infections were noticed and occurred particularly in younger age groups.
40877359 | Association of HLA-B gene polymorphism and blood groups with COVID-19 susceptibility and severity. The COVID-19 pandemic gave insight into how host genetics influence the ability to get infected and how severe the infection will be if contracted. Among these, the HLA polymorphisms and ABO blood groups are known to influence the immune system. This study examines the correlation between HLA-B genotypes, blood groups, and the severity of COVID-19. A total of 984 COVID-19 patient samples and control samples were collected from different regions of Pakistan. Throat and nasopharyngeal swabs were obtained for molecular detection of SARS-CoV-2, and blood samples were collected for HLA-B genotyping and ABO blood group analysis. Genomic DNA was extracted using the Phenol-Chloroform method, and HLA-B genotyping was performed using the OLERUP SSP HLA typing kit. The study identified a significant association between HLA-B07:02 and increased COVID-19 susceptibility (OR: 2.5, 95% CI: 1.6-3.9, p < 0.001), whereas HLA-B15:01 was associated with a protective effect (OR: 0.6, 95% CI: 0.4-0.9, p = 0.01). Blood group A was also linked to higher infection risk, while blood group O conferred protection. A strong correlation was observed between co-morbidities (hypertension, diabetes) and severe COVID-19 outcomes. This study provides convincing evidence that HLA-B polymorphisms and ABO blood groups play a significant role in COVID-19 susceptibility and severity.
29528943 | Impact of HLA Allele-KIR Pairs on Disease Outcome in HIV-Infected Thai Population. BACKGROUND: Class I human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules contribute to HIV control through antigen presentation to both cytotoxic T lymphocytes and natural killer cells. Contribution of cytotoxic T lymphocytes to HIV clinical outcome by HLA alleles has been well studied. However, reports about the role of natural killer cells in HIV clinical outcome, particularly, about the effect of HLA-killer immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) pairs, remain incomplete. METHODS: The effects of HLA allele-KIR pairs on HIV clinical outcome were statistically analyzed in a Thai cohort of treatment-naive chronically infected population (n = 209). RESULTS: Five HLA allele-KIR pairs scored significantly in viral load (VL) differences. Among them, opposing effects on VL were identified among subjects expressing KIR2DL2 ligands within the HLA-C1 group: higher VL in individuals expressing HLA-B*46:01+KIR2DL2+ compared with individuals without KIR (HLA-B*46:01+KIR2DL2-) (5.0 vs 4.6 log10 copies/mL, P = 0.02), in HLA-C*01:02+KIR2DL2+ (5.0 vs 4.6 log10 copies/mL; P = 0.02), and lower VL in HLA-C*12:03+KIR2DL2+ (4.3 vs 5.6 log10 copies/mL; P = 0.01). In the longitudinal analysis of a ten-year follow-up, HLA-B*46:01+KIR2DL2+ve subjects also had a higher mortality rate compared with the subjects without that pair, independent of variables including antiretroviral treatment, as well as CD4 T-cell count, sex, and age (adjusted hazard ratio 5.9, P = 0.02). CONCLUSION: We identified several HLA allele-KIR pairs associated with clinical outcome differences including opposing effects on VL within 1 HLA group with the same KIR. Among them, HLA-B*46:01 emerged in Southeast Asia about 50,000 years ago and is now the most prevalent HLA-B allele in that area. These findings highlight that each endemic area has unique features of anti-HIV innate immunity that impact clinical outcome.
42149396 | Pre-Pandemic Longitudinal Factors Associated with Mental Health Difficulties in Clinically Anxious Youth During the First 15 Months of the COVID-19 Pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic had broad influences on youth psychological well-being. Relative to short-term, cross-sectional research in non-clinical samples, fewer studies examined the impact of pre-pandemic factors on longitudinal mental health consequences in clinical samples. The current study investigated changes in behavioral and emotional difficulties among 54 clinically anxious youth aged 6-17 during the first 15 months of the pandemic, in relation to pre-pandemic anxiety, depression, and family accommodation. Youth and their mothers were evaluated at an anxiety clinic before and during the early pandemic. Multilevel analyses revealed that male youth experienced higher difficulties than females. Youth-reported pre-pandemic anxiety severity predicted youth difficulties during the pandemic, whereas mother-reported pre-pandemic youth depression and family accommodation predicted youth difficulties over time. Overall, youth difficulties remained relatively stable. Findings highlight the importance of prioritizing mental health support for youth with elevated anxiety and depression while addressing family accommodation before and/or during large-scale disasters.
40892914 | HLA-B*15:01-positive severe COVID-19 patients lack CD8+ T cell pools with highly expanded public clonotypes. Understanding host factors driving asymptomatic versus severe disease outcomes is of key importance if we are to control emerging and re-emerging viral infections. HLA-B*15:01 has been associated with asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection in nonhospitalized individuals of European ancestry, with protective immunity attributed to preexisting cross-reactive CD8+ T-cells directed against HLA-B*15:01-restricted Spike-derived S919-927 peptide (B15/S919+CD8+ T-cells). However, fundamental questions remained on the abundance and clonotypic nature of CD8+ T-cell responses in HLA-B*15:01-positive patients who succumbed to life-threatening COVID-19. Here, we analyzed B15/S919+CD8+ T-cell responses in COVID-19 patients from independent HLA-typed COVID-19 patient cohorts across three continents, Australia, Asia and Europe. We assessed B15/S919+CD8+ T-cells in COVID-19 patients across disease outcomes ranging from asymptomatic to hospitalized critical illness. We found that severe/critical COVID-19 patients mounted B15/S919+CD8+ T-cell responses lacking a highly expanded key public B15/S919+CD8+ T-cell receptor (TCR; TRAV9-2/TRBV7-2) which recurred across multiple individuals in COVID-19 patients with a mild disease. Instead, B15/S919+CD8+ T-cell responses in life-threatening disease had a prevalence of an alternate TCR clonotypic motif (TRAV38-2/DV8/TRBV20-1), potentially contributing, at least in part, to why B15/S919+CD8+ T-cells in severe COVID-19 patients were less protective. Interestingly, the frequency, memory phenotype, and activation profiles of circulating B15/S919+CD8+ T-cells did not differ across disease severity. Moreover, B15/S919+CD8+ T-cells were better maintained into convalescence compared to other SARS-CoV-2-specificities. Our study thus provides evidence on the differential nature of the TCR clonal repertoire in 22.37% of HLA-B*15:01-positive COVID-19 patients who developed severe or critical disease in our cohorts, comparing to HLA-B*15:01-expressing individuals with mild COVID-19.
16891412 | Rewiring the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) transcription circuit: engineering a recombination-resistant genome. Live virus vaccines provide significant protection against many detrimental human and animal diseases, but reversion to virulence by mutation and recombination has reduced appeal. Using severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus as a model, we engineered a different transcription regulatory circuit and isolated recombinant viruses. The transcription network allowed for efficient expression of the viral transcripts and proteins, and the recombinant viruses replicated to WT levels. Recombinant genomes were then constructed that contained mixtures of the WT and mutant regulatory circuits, reflecting recombinant viruses that might occur in nature. Although viable viruses could readily be isolated from WT and recombinant genomes containing homogeneous transcription circuits, chimeras that contained mixed regulatory networks were invariantly lethal, because viable chimeric viruses were not isolated. Mechanistically, mixed regulatory circuits promoted inefficient subgenomic transcription from inappropriate start sites, resulting in truncated ORFs and effectively minimize viral structural protein expression. Engineering regulatory transcription circuits of intercommunicating alleles successfully introduces genetic traps into a viral genome that are lethal in RNA recombinant progeny viruses.
42147191 | Covid-19 a Strong Predictor of Hyperglycaemia Among Ugandan Patients: A Retrospective Study. Background: Hyperglycemia is one of the common complications in COVID-19 patients. Globally, hyperglycemia associated with COVID-19 was estimated to be 25%. Hyperglycemia results in increased morbidity and mortality yet proper screening and management protocols in developing countries. There is paucity of data in developing countries. Objectives: To determine the prevalence of hyperglycemia, clinical characteristics, and outcomes of COVID-19 admitted patients in Mbale and Soroti regional referral hospitals - Uganda. Methodology: Retrospective cross-sectional study was conducted on adult admitted COVID-19 patient's case files at two tertiary hospitals, in Eastern Uganda. 711 COVID-19 patient files with a capillary blood glucose test result during the study period from 1st March 2020 to 31st December 2021 were reviewed. Data was abstracted into a data collection tool specifically designed for this study. The variables included socio-demographics, clinical characteristics, and outcome status of the patients. Hyperglycaemia was defined based on the COVID-19 management algorithm as capillary blood glucose readings >11.1 mmol/l at or during admission, with the aid of the Glucometer One-Touch . A primary outcome was hyperglycaemia in hospitalised patients. The Chi-Squared test was used for bivariate analysis, while the logistic regression model was applied for multivariate analysis. Results: Overall, hyperglycaemia was detected in 459 out of 711 (65%) patients. Living in rural areas (AOR 1.7, 95% CI: 1.1-2.7, P < 0.027), having a medical history of diabetes mellitus (AOR 4.8, 95% CI: 3.4-6.7, P < 0.001), and current use of steroids (AOR 2.9, 95% CI: 1.8-4.7, P < 0.001) immediately before admission were statistically significantly associated with hyperglycemia in COVID-19 patients. COVID-19 found to be an independent risk factor for Hyperglycaemia. Conclusion: The prevalence of hyperglycaemia among COVID-19 patients in eastern Uganda during the global epidemic was high, at 65%. Pre-admission conditions associated with hyperglycaemia included a medical history of diabetes mellitus, steroid use, living in rural area. Strengthening screening for hyperglycemia and specific management protocols during epidemics and pandemics is recommended.
41980656 | Age-dependent variations in circulating Tfh and Tfr cells following SARS-CoV-2 infection. Studies of the COVID-19 pandemic revealed differences in the clinical course between paediatric and adult patients. In-depth research on whether T follicular cells support these observations is still ongoing. Circulating Tfh and Tfr cells were examined to identify specific immune responses in paediatric and adult individuals who recovered from asymptomatic to mild SARS-CoV-2 infection. Circulating Tfh and Tfr cells were evaluated by flow cytometry. To evaluate specific anti-SARS-CoV-2 immune responses, anti-Spike RBD IgG antibodies were measured by an enzyme-linked fluorescent assay, anti-Spike neutralizing activity - by an in vitro cell-based assay, and IFN-gamma T cell responses were evaluated via ELISpot assay. Age-specific differences in the profiles of the CXCR5+CD4+ T cells that distinguish them from CXCR5- counterparts were detected. An increased percentage of cTfr cells and decreased percentage of cTfh cells was observed in the paediatric group, which resulted in a decreased cTfh/cTfr ratio. Increased proportions of ICOS- and HLA-DR-expressing cTfh and cTfr cells were also observed, consistent with the high proportion of antibody-responders among children. In contrast, a greater percentage of adults than children exhibited IFN-gamma-positive T cells in response to the four viral peptides. In adult responders, a good correlation was found between the presence of plasmablasts and the cTfh/cTfr ratio. Antibody neutralizing capacity did not differ between children and adults. Circulating Tfh and Tfr cells exhibit specific age-dependent differences, which may contribute to the immunologic background of the clinical symptoms of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
42148087 | Infection risk associated with teclistamab in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma: a systematic review and meta-analysis of clinical trial and real-world evidence. Background: Teclistamab, a B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) x CD3 bispecific antibody (BsAb), has shown remarkable efficacy in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). However, its mechanism leads to profound hypogammaglobulinemia, making infection a critical concern. This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to quantify the infectious burden and contrast outcomes between clinical trial and real-world evidence (RWE). Methods: We systematically searched PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library for studies reporting infection outcomes in RRMM patients treated with teclistamab. Pooled incidences of any-grade and grade >=3 infections were calculated using a random-effects model. Subgroup analysis compared the pivotal MajesTEC-1 trial with multi-institutional RWE cohorts. Results: Five studies encompassing 714 patients were included. The overall pooled incidence was 56.5% (95% CI: 43.1%-69.9%) for any-grade infections and 27.6% (95% CI: 21.0%-34.3%) for grade >=3 infections. Subgroup analysis revealed a significantly higher risk in the clinical trial compared to RWE (Any-grade: 76.4% vs. 45.4%, p< 0.01; Grade >=3: 44.8% vs. 22.8%, p<0.01). Infection-related mortality was reported in all cohorts, ranging from 0.9% to 7.3%, with COVID-19 and opportunistic pathogens (for example, Pneumocystis jirovecii) being prevalent. Significant heterogeneity was driven by variations in follow-up duration and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) prophylaxis rates (range: 41.8%-81.3%). Conclusions: Teclistamab is associated with a substantial and cumulative infectious burden. The lower infection rates in RWE may reflect shorter follow-up and evolving prophylactic strategies. Standardized infection surveillance, including regular IgG monitoring and consideration of IVIG replacement in patients with low IgG levels, may help optimize the safety of BCMA-directed bispecific therapies. Systematic Review Registration: https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/prospero/, identifier CRD420261297645.
12764225 | Defective importin beta recognition and nuclear import of the sex-determining factor SRY are associated with XY sex-reversing mutations. The architectural transcription factor SRY (sex-determining region of the Y chromosome) plays a key role in sex determination as indicated by the fact that mutations in SRY are responsible for XY gonadal dysgenesis in humans. Although many SRY mutations reduce DNA-binding/bending activity, it is not clear how SRY mutations that do not affect interaction with DNA contribute to disease. The SRY high-mobility group domain harbors two nuclear localization signals (NLSs), and here we examine SRY from four XY females with missense mutations in these signals. In all cases, mutant SRY protein is partly localized to the cytoplasm, whereas wild-type SRY is strictly nuclear. Each NLS can independently direct nuclear transport of a carrier protein in vitro and in vivo, with mutations in either affecting the rate and extent of nuclear accumulation. The N-terminal NLS function is independent of the conventional NLS-binding importins (IMPs) and requires unidentified cytoplasmic transport factors, whereas the C-terminal NLS is recognized by IMPbeta. The SRY-R133W mutant shows reduced IMPbeta binding as a direct consequence of the sex-reversing C-terminal NLS mutation. Of the N-terminal NLS mutants examined, SRY-R62G unexpectedly shows a marked reduction in IMPbeta binding, whereas SRY-R75N and SRY-R76P show normal IMPbeta binding, suggesting defects in the IMP-independent pathway. We conclude that SRY normally requires the two distinct NLS-dependent nuclear import pathways to reach sufficient levels in the nucleus for sex determination. This study documents cases of human disease being explained, at a molecular level, by the impaired ability of a protein to accumulate in the nucleus.
11990798 | The molecular action of testis-determining factors SRY and SOX9. Despite 10 years of work since the discovery of SRY, little is known about its biochemical function. The HMG domain, a DNA-binding and DNA-bending motif, plays a central role, being the only region conserved between species and the site of almost all clinical mutations causing XY gonadal dysgenesis. By contrast, SOX9 harbours a number of highly conserved regions, including two domains required for maximal transactivation. The beat shock protein HSP70 recognizes a specific region of SOX9 hitherto of unknown function which may facilitate the assembly of multi-protein complexes at promoter enhancer regions. The SRY and SOX9 HMG domains carry two nuclear localization signals (NLSs), one at each end which function independently and by distinct mechanisms. The N-terminal NLS is bound by calmodulin while the C-terminal NLS is bound by importin beta. Four XY gonadal dysgenesis patients with mutations in SRY NLS regions showed reduced nuclear import accompanied in some cases by reduced importin beta recognition. A campomelic dysplasia patient with SOX9 mutation outside the NLS regions also showed defective SOX9 nuclear import implying that nuclear import defects could be a common explanation for SRY and SOX9 HMG domain mutations.
32094225 | The antiviral compound remdesivir potently inhibits RNA-dependent RNA polymerase from Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. Antiviral drugs for managing infections with human coronaviruses are not yet approved, posing a serious challenge to current global efforts aimed at containing the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome-coronavirus 2 (CoV-2). Remdesivir (RDV) is an investigational compound with a broad spectrum of antiviral activities against RNA viruses, including severe acute respiratory syndrome-CoV and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS-CoV). RDV is a nucleotide analog inhibitor of RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RdRps). Here, we co-expressed the MERS-CoV nonstructural proteins nsp5, nsp7, nsp8, and nsp12 (RdRp) in insect cells as a part a polyprotein to study the mechanism of inhibition of MERS-CoV RdRp by RDV. We initially demonstrated that nsp8 and nsp12 form an active complex. The triphosphate form of the inhibitor (RDV-TP) competes with its natural counterpart ATP. Of note, the selectivity value for RDV-TP obtained here with a steady-state approach suggests that it is more efficiently incorporated than ATP and two other nucleotide analogs. Once incorporated at position i, the inhibitor caused RNA synthesis arrest at position i + 3. Hence, the likely mechanism of action is delayed RNA chain termination. The additional three nucleotides may protect the inhibitor from excision by the viral 3'-5' exonuclease activity. Together, these results help to explain the high potency of RDV against RNA viruses in cell-based assays.
42148106 | Determinants of success and failure of antibody-based strategies against respiratory viruses: insights from RSV and SARS-CoV-2. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) represent two extremes in the outcome of antibody-based interventions. The long-acting monoclonal antibody nirsevimab has achieved durable, population-level protection against RSV in infants, reducing hospitalizations by 70-90% with no evidence of antigenic escape. In contrast, all neutralizing monoclonal antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 became obsolete within three years due to rapid viral evolution, particularly in the spike receptor-binding domain. This review dissects the mechanistic determinants underlying this divergence. We propose four key principles that govern antibody efficacy against respiratory viruses: (i) targeting a structurally conserved epitope with high fitness cost for escape; (ii) achieving sufficient antibody concentrations in the airway epithelial lining fluid; (iii) the vulnerability of single-epitope strategies against mutable viral targets; and (iv) the auxiliary but non-substitutable role of Fc effector functions. By comparing RSV and SARS-CoV-2, we illustrate how these principles align in successful interventions and fail in others. Finally, we discuss emerging strategies-particularly inhaled delivery and mRNA-encoded antibodies-that may overcome current limitations and enable durable protection against antigenically variable respiratory pathogens.
31629629 | Multi-omics study in monozygotic twins confirm the contribution of de novo mutation to psoriasis. BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association studies have identified over 120 risk loci for psoriasis. However, most of the variations are located in non-coding region with high frequency and small effect size. Pathogenetic variants are rarely reported except HLA-C*0602 with the odds ratio being approximately 4.0 in Chinese population. Although rare variations still account for a small proportion of phenotypic variances in complex diseases, their effect on phenotypes is large. Recently, more and more studies focus on the low-frequency functional variants and have achieved a certain amount of success. METHOD: Whole genome sequencing and sanger sequencing was performed on 8 MZ twin pairs discordant for psoriasis to scan and verified the de novo mutations (DNMs). Additionally, 665 individuals with about 20 years' medical history versus 2054 healthy controls and two published large population studies which had about 8 years' medical history (including 10,727 cases versus 10,582 controls) were applied to validate the enrichment of rare damaging mutations in two DNMs genes. Besides, to verify the pathogenicity of candidate DNM in C3, RNA-sequencing for CD4+, CD8+ T cells of twins and lesion, non-lesion skin of psoriasis patients were carried out. Meanwhile, the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit was used to detect the level of C3, C3b in the supernatant of peripheral blood. RESULT: A total of 27 DNMs between co-twins were identified. We found six of eight twins carry HLA-C*0602 allele which have large effects on psoriasis. And it is interesting that a missense mutation in SPRED1 and a splice region mutation in C3 are found in the psoriasis individuals in the other two MZ twin pairs without carrying HLA-C*0602 allele. In the replication stage, we found 2 loss-of-function (LOF) variants of C3 only in 665 cases with about 20 years' medical history and gene-wise analysis in 665 cases and 2054 controls showed that the rare missense mutations in C3 were enriched in cases (OR = 1.91, P = 0.0028). We further scanned the LOF mutations of C3 in two published studies (about 8 years' medical history), and found one LOF mutation in the case without carrying HLA-C*0602. In the individual with DNM in C3, RNA sequencing showed the expression level of C3 in skin was significant higher than healthy samples in public database (TPM fold change = 1.40, P = 0.000181) and ELISA showed protein C3 in peripheral blood was higher (~2.2-fold difference) than the other samples of twins without DNM in C3. CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report that DNM in C3 is the likely pathological mutations, and it provided a better understanding of the genetic etiology of psoriasis and additional treatments for this disease.
42147230 | Equity and representation in oncology clinical evidence for FDA-approved treatments and the impact of COVID-19. Background: Pivotal clinical trials form the evidentiary foundation for FDA oncology drug approvals, yet persistent disparities in participant demographics may limit the generalizability and equity of cancer care. This study aimed to quantify demographic disparities in pivotal trials that supported FDA oncology drug approvals, and to identify trial-level characteristics associated with the underrepresentation of women, racial and ethnic minorities, and older adults. We also assessed the impact of COVID-19 on participant representation. Methods: We systematically identified pivotal trials supporting FDA oncology drug approvals from January 2018 through November 2024 using the FDA Hematology/Oncology Approvals database. Demographic data were extracted for gender, race, ethnicity, and age. SEER 21 data were used to derive population-based estimates. Enrollment incidence ratios (EIRs) were calculated for gender, race, ethnicity, and older adults (EIR <1 indicating underrepresentation). Meta-regression was used to evaluate temporal trends and associations between trial characteristics and representation disparities. Subgroup analyses were conducted for pediatric trials, accelerated approvals, and other trial-level factors. Results: Among 329 included trials enrolling over 164,000 participants, women, older adults, Black, and Hispanic individuals were consistently underrepresented. Pooled EIRs indicated significant underrepresentation of female (EIR, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.78-0.88), Black (EIR, 0.26; 95% CI, 0.22-0.30), Hispanic (EIR, 0.50; 95% CI, 0.44-0.57), and older participants (EIR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.83-0.89). Meta-regression showed modest gains in female representation over time (beta=0.02, p=0.03), but no significant improvement for Black or Hispanic participants. Older adult representation declined slightly. Trial-level factors associated with underrepresentation included industry sponsorship, use of overall survival as the primary endpoint, and accelerated approval designation. Pandemic-period EIRs were largely similar to non-pandemic EIRs, with lower representation for older adults and White participants. Conclusions: Despite recent regulatory efforts, demographic disparities persist in pivotal oncology trials supporting FDA approvals. Female, Black, Hispanic, and older adults remain underrepresented, limiting the applicability of trial findings to real-world cancer populations. Greater efforts are needed to design inclusive trials, enforce diversity mandates, and ensure equitable evidence generation in oncology drug development.
40342296 | Differential reactivity of SARS-CoV-2 S-protein T-cell epitopes in vaccinated versus naturally infected individuals. Objectives: Vaccine-induced protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2 has proved difficult to sustain. Robust T-cell responses are thought to play an important role, but T-cell responses against the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein (S-protein), the core vaccine antigen, following vaccination or natural infection are incompletely understood. Methods: Herein, the reactivity of 170 putative SARS-CoV-2 S-protein CD8+ and CD4+ T-cell peptide epitopes in the same individuals prior to vaccination, after COVID-19 vaccination, and again following subsequent natural infection was assayed using a high-throughput reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (HTS-RT-qPCR) assay. Results: The profile of immunoreactive SARS-CoV-2 S-protein epitopes differed between vaccination and natural infection. Vaccine-induced immunoreactive epitopes were localised primarily into two extra-domanial regions. In contrast, epitopes recognised following natural infection were spread across the antigen. Furthermore, T-cell epitopes in naive individuals were primarily recognised in association with HLA-A, while natural infection shifted epitope associations towards HLA-B, particularly the B7 supertype. Conclusion: This study provides insight into T-cell responses against the SARS-CoV-2 S-protein following vaccination and subsequent natural infection.
42148571 | Effect of inhaled interferon-beta1a on SARS-CoV-2 diversity and evolution. Interferon resistance has been implicated in SARS-CoV-2 escape from innate immunity, but exogenous interferon's impact on viral evolution and diversity is unknown. SNG001, an inhaled interferon-beta1a treatment, was evaluated in the ACTIV-2/A5401 randomized controlled trial of therapeutics for COVID-19. We measured viral kinetics and performed whole-genome sequencing on longitudinal nasal swabs collected from ACTIV-2 participants who received either SNG001 or placebo to assess viral sequence diversity. No difference in nasal viral load decay was detected between study arms when stratifying by SARS-CoV-2 variant or by viral culture conversion. Compared to placebo participants, the SNG001-treated participants displayed significantly lower nonsynonymous amino acid average pairwise distance, indicating lower sequence diversity. Similarly, SNG001-treated individuals also developed numerically fewer nonsynonymous mutations during their infection in ORF1a, ORF1b, Spike, and Nucleocapsid. No specific emerging SARS-CoV-2 nonsynonymous amino acid changes indicating signatures of viral escape were enriched in those receiving SNG001. These in vivo data provide an intriguing signal that exogenous interferon-beta1a may restrict SARS-CoV-2 viral diversity and add to growing evidence that interferon levels play a critical role in antiviral responses during COVID-19.IMPORTANCESARS-CoV-2 encodes several genes which can antagonize the interferon signaling cascade, preventing it from activating antiviral responses and thereby facilitating viral establishment and dissemination. It is unknown how the administration of exogenous interferon might affect viral evolution and immune escape. ACTIV-2/A5401 represents a unique opportunity to study the virologic effects of interferon treatment in a rigorous randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial setting. Our characterization of longitudinal nasal samples shows that interferon-treated individuals had lower viral diversity and no evidence of viral escape mutations.CLINICAL TRIALSThis study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov as NCT04518410.
42149421 | Utilization Trends of Colorectal Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Following Reimbursement Revision and During the COVID-19 Pandemic: An Interrupted Time-Series Analysis Using a Large Japanese Claims Database. PURPOSE: Colorectal endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is an essential oncological procedure with challenging optimal resource allocation. A 2018 reimbursement revision in Japan restricted ESD coverage to early colorectal cancer and neuroendocrine tumors. We aimed to describe utilization trends of ESD, endoscopic resection (ER), and diagnostic colonoscopy following this revision, and evaluate real-world endoscopic triage during the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: Using a large Japanese claims database, we performed an interrupted time-series analysis assessing utilization changes in ESD, ER (stratified into < 2 cm and >= 2 cm), and colonoscopy following the 2018 revision and COVID-19 pandemic onset (April 2020). RESULTS: Following the 2018 revision, ESD showed an immediate 31% decline (incidence rate ratio [IRR] 0.69, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.58-0.81). ER < 2 cm increased by 5% (IRR 1.05, 95%CI 1.03-1.06) and ER >= 2 cm increased by 13% (IRR 1.13, 95%CI 1.02-1.24), while diagnostic colonoscopy remained stable. When the COVID-19 pandemic began, ESD showed a non-significant decrease (IRR 0.89, 95%CI 0.74-1.06). Counterfactual analysis revealed suppression of ER < 2 cm (- 23.8%), ER >= 2 cm (- 25.0%), and diagnostic colonoscopy (- 27.4%) during April-July 2020, whereas ESD deviated minimally (- 5.8%). CONCLUSION: The 2018 revision was followed by decreased ESD and increased ER utilization. During the early stages of the pandemic, ER and colonoscopy fell markedly below projected trends, whereas ESD deviated minimally. These findings quantitatively document changes in procedure utilization consistent with endoscopic triage, suggesting that advanced oncological procedures were relatively prioritized and preserved during these severe system disruptions.
41305516 | Different HLA Alleles Frequencies and Their Association with Clinical Phenotypes of Acute Respiratory Infections in Children. The histocompatibility gene complex plays a vital role in the body's immune response to infections. In this work, we analyzed clinical data for 195 children hospitalized with signs of ARI in Siberia and performed genetic analysis for them. Genotyping was performed by high-throughput sequencing (NGS) using the HLA-Expert kit on the MiSeq Illumina platform. The frequencies of HLA allelic variants were calculated for each variant. For the variants detected in 20 patients or more, odds ratios (OR) were calculated for two pairs of conditions: severe/non-severe course of ARI and hypoxia/no hypoxia on admission. Six allelic variants were identified for which the odds ratio showed a significant (p < 0.05) association with one of the conditions. Allele HLA-A*11:01:01G is associated (OR = 5.654, 95% CI 1.631-19.600) with severe ARVI, which is consistent with the literature data, and HLA-A*03:01:01G allele is associated with ARVI without hypoxia in children (OR = 0.317, 95% CI 0.110-0.914). Alleles HLA-B*51:01:01G (OR = 4.457, 95% CI 1.355-14.663) and HLA-C*01:02:01G (OR = 4.743, 95% CI 1.538-14.629) are associated with severe ARI. HLA-DPB1*04:02:01G (OR = 0.462, 95% CI 0.244-0.876) is associated with ARI without hypoxia and HLA-DQA1*01:02:01G (OR = 1.811, 95% CI 1.003-3.268) is associated with ARI with hypoxia.
30669479 | Decidual Interleukin-22-Producing CD4+ T Cells (Th17/Th0/IL-22+ and Th17/Th2/IL-22+, Th2/IL-22+, Th0/IL-22+), Which Also Produce IL-4, Are Involved in the Success of Pregnancy. Trophoblast expressing paternal HLA-C resembles a semiallograft, and could be rejected by maternal T cells. IL-22 seems to be involved in allograft rejection and thus could be responsible for miscarriages. We examined the role of decidual IL-22-producing CD4+ T on human pregnancy. In those experiencing successful pregnancy and those experiencing unexplained recurrent abortion (URA), the levels of IL-22 produced by decidual CD4+ T cells are higher than those of peripheral blood T cells. We found a correlation of IL-22 and IL-4 produced by decidual CD4+ T cells in those experiencing successful pregnancy, not in those experiencing URA. The correlation of IL-22 and IL-4 was also found in the serum of successful pregnancy. A prevalence of CD4+ T cells producing IL-22 and IL-4 (Th17/Th2/IL-22+, Th17/Th0/IL-22+, Th17/Th2/IL-22+, and Th0/IL-22+ cells) was observed in decidua of those experiencing successful pregnancy, whereas Th17/Th1/IL-22+ cells, which do not produce IL-4, are prevalent in those experiencing URA. Th17/Th2/IL-22+ and Th17/Th0/IL-22+ cells are exclusively present at the embryo implantation site where IL-4, GATA-3, IL-17A, ROR-C, IL-22, and AHR mRNA are expressed. T-bet and IFN-gamma mRNA are found away from the implantation site. There is no pathogenic role of IL-22 when IL-4 is also produced by decidual CD4+ cells. Th17/Th2/IL-22+ and Th17/Th0/IL-22+ cells seem to be crucial for embryo implantation.
42148134 | Fc-mediated antibody functions are associated with disease severity in COVID-19. Introduction: Fc-mediated antibody effector functions play key roles in both antiviral immunity and immunopathology in COVID-19. While antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) contribute to pathogen clearance, they may also be associated with inflammatory responses. The contribution of these pathways-particularly antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE)-to severe COVID-19 remains incompletely understood. We prospectively investigated relationships among ADE, ADCC, and ADCP across multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants from 64 patients with laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. Methods: Patient Fc-mediated effector activities were profiled. Disease severity was classified using National Institutes of Health criteria. ADE was assessed using pseudotyped SARS-CoV-2 entry into THP-1 cells, whereas Fc gamma receptors (FcgammaR)IIIa- and FcgammaRIIa-mediated reporter activities (reflecting ADCC and ADCP surrogate responses, respectively) were assessed using spike-expressing A549 target cells and FcgammaR-expressing Jurkat-Lucia reporter cells. Functional responses were measured against wild-type SARS-CoV-2 and Omicron sublineages (B.1.1.529, BA.4/BA.5, XBB.1.5). Results: Among 64 participants (40 with mild, 24 with severe COVID-19; median age, 58 years [interquartile range, 45-71], 56% men), anti-spike IgG binding did not differ by severity. ADE activity was significantly higher in severe than mild COVID-19 and remained independently associated with severity in multivariable analysis. FcgammaRIIa-mediated reporter activity was higher in severe cases in descriptive and univariate analyses, but lost statistical significance after adjustment for age, sex, comorbidities, and variant period. FcgammaRIIIa-mediated reporter activity did not differ by severity but was reduced against Omicron variants. Plasma from severe cases promoted enhanced FcgammaR-dependent viral entry in pseudovirus assays; yet, subsequent live Omicron virus infection did not lead to an increase in viral RNA replication-consistent with an abortive infection without evidence of productive viral replication. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that ADE activity is associated with dysregulated Fc-mediated immune responses in severe COVID-19. Although multiple Fcgamma receptor-mediated pathways were observed, the independent association of ADE with disease severity supports a potential link with excessive FcgammaR-mediated myeloid activation. FcgammaRIIa reporter activity likely reflects overlapping immune signatures rather than an independent pathogenic contribution, whereas FcgammaRIIIa reporter activity showed no clear relationship with clinical outcomes. These findings highlight the complexity of Fc-effector immunity and support further investigation into therapeutic strategies targeting Fc-FcgammaR interactions.
42148138 | Safety, immunogenicity, and long COVID outcomes following inactivated COVID-19 vaccine boosters in elderly Chinese: a prospective cohort study. Background: Adults aged >=60 years face elevated risks of severe COVID-19 and long COVID. Although inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccines are safe and effective, critical gaps remain regarding optimal booster timing, durability of immune responses, and protection against emerging variants in this vulnerable population. Methods: In this prospective cohort study in Zhejiang Province, China, 450 adults aged >=60 years were randomized to receive an inactivated SARS-Cov-2 vaccine (CoronaVac or Covilo) under three dosing schedules. Neutralizing antibody titers, SARS-CoV-2-specific IgG, and variant-specific neutralization were evaluated using serum samples collected at multiple timepoints. Safety outcomes included local and systemic adverse reactions and long COVID symptoms. Results: Participants (age: 60-80 years; 50.9% male) with balanced baseline demographics were stratified into six subgroups by vaccine type and schedule (S1/S2/S3; n=75 each; all P>0.05). Adverse reaction incidence was low (0.0%-8.0%), with CoronaVac-S3 recipients experiencing significantly more local reactions than Covilo-S3 recipients (8.0% vs. 0.0%; P = 0.0124). Immunogenicity varied markedly at 1 month post vaccination, with the highest geometric mean titers (GMTs) of neutralizing antibodies in both S3 groups (Covilo: 57.2; CoronaVac: 59.4; P<0.001 vs. respective S1/S2 groups), and CoronaVac-S1 inducing higher GMTs than Covilo-S1 (21.8 vs. 15.4; P = 0.009). At 12 months post vaccination, GMTs remained highest in Covilo-S3 (9.9), while CoronaVac-S2 exceeded Covilo-S2 (8.0 vs. 5.1; P = 0.021). Covilo-S2 and -S3 were superior to their CoronaVac counterparts in inhibition against the wild-type strain and Delta variant at 1 month post vaccination (all P<0.05). Multivariate analysis identified male sex as a protective factor against COVID-19 symptoms, long COVID, and fatigue (odds ratios <0.5 and P<0.05 for all). Conclusions: A third booster of inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine administered within 2-6 months of the second dose is safe and significantly boosts humoral immunity in adults >=60 years. The three-dose Covilo regimen and a 6-month dosing interval optimized immunogenicity and were associated with the lowest risks of COVID-19 symptoms and long COVID, highlighting the importance of vaccine-specific and interval-adjusted booster strategies for older populations.
41884833 | Imbalanced immune cell network and suboptimal cell activation: signatures associated with disease severity in vaccine-naive COVID-19 patients. Background: COVID-19 vaccination has significantly reduced mortality and morbidity. Recent studies in unvaccinated people indicate a more complex immune response beyond just the cytokine storm. Understanding changes in the immune cell network is crucial for identifying vaccine-independent immune imbalances, especially in vaccine-naive patients needing invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV). This knowledge could help improve vaccine development and find biomarkers linked to severe COVID-19. Methods: Peripheral blood immune cells from vaccine-naive COVID-19 patients from the first pandemic wave were classified into those who required IMV and those who did not (No-IMV). High-dimensional immune phenotyping was performed using multiparametric flow cytometry combined with FlowSOM clustering and UMAP for dimensionality reduction. Additionally, T-cell activation efficiency after polyclonal stimulation was evaluated in vitro. Results: IMV patients, but not No-IMV, exhibited a marked disruption of immune cell networks, characterized by a loss of immune checkpoint (IC)-expressing T-cell subsets, particularly PD-1- and LAG-3-expressing T cells. Conversely, there was an increase in the frequency of T cells co-expressing molecules linked to inflammatory pathways (TNF/TNFR) and cell death (CD95L). These changes were also associated with reduced CD8+ T-cell activation capacity and the rise of non-conventional cytotoxic CD4+ T-cell subsets. In the B-cell compartment, IMV patients displayed depletion of CCR7+ subsets and decreased PD-1 expression. Additionally, higher frequencies of NK and NKT cells expressing TNF pathway-related molecules were observed. While classical monocyte subsets expressing ICs such as PD-L1, PD-L2, and TIM-3 remained stable, non-classical monocyte subsets showed altered IC expression. In contrast, No-IMV patients maintained a relatively balanced immune architecture. Conclusions: Vaccine-naive COVID-19 patients requiring IMV display an immune landscape distinct from that of No-IMV patients. IMV exhibits a profound imbalance in innate and adaptive immune cell networks, characterized by inflammatory skewing, loss of regulatory subsets, and impaired cytotoxic T-cell functionality, features not observed in No-IMV. These findings reveal coordinated immune alterations beyond cytokine hyperinflammation and identify cellular immune signatures associated with severe COVID-19.
41884832 | Long-term humoral and cellular immune responses following Covaxin vaccination: a 2-year prospective longitudinal study. Background: Globally, multiple SARS-CoV-2 vaccines received emergency authorization, primarily based on adenoviral vector, mRNA, or inactivated virus platforms. Among them, Covaxin, an inactivated vaccine, was widely used in India and several Southeast Asian countries. Due to their emergency rollout in 2021, the long-term immunogenicity data to assess the impact of these vaccinations have been limited. This study investigated the prolonged immune responses induced by Covaxin, an inactivated virus-based COVID-19 vaccine, in 250 individuals monitored for 2 years. Methods: This longitudinal study (January 2021-January 2023) tracked 250 participants, collecting blood at seven time points. We measured SARS-CoV-2 spike RBD IgG and neutralizing antibodies using ECLIA and surrogate virus neutralization tests, respectively. We also assessed cellular immunity in a subset of Covaxin recipients through flow cytometry of spike protein-stimulated lymphocytes. Results: Anti-RBD IgG levels declined rapidly post-vaccination. A significant rise was observed following Omicron infection, with sustained high antibody titers and high virus neutralization capacity. Covaxin recipients demonstrated high CD4+ T-cell activity during the Omicron wave, correlating with mild or asymptomatic infections. These findings suggest that Omicron exposure may have served as a natural booster and hold potential for next-generation vaccine development for COVID. Enhanced T-cell responses, particularly after the third dose, further underscored the vaccine's ability to maintain cellular immunity. Compared with Covishield, Covaxin elicited milder immune responses, possibly contributing to its favorable safety profile. Conclusions: Overall, this study provides one of the first longitudinal analyses of the humoral and T-cell responses to Covaxin, a vaccine widely administered in India and neighboring Southeast Asian countries.
42148996 | A portable acoustic biosensing platform combined with paper-based capillary fluidics for the rapid detection of antibodies in serum. We report the development of a sensitive biosensing platform based on a shear-horizontal surface acoustic wave (SH-SAW) device and paper fluidics, with the potential to be used outside centralized laboratory settings. Systematic research on the biorecognition surface, blocking agent, fluidics and measuring unit allowed us to transform a laboratory-based method into a field-deployable device. As a proof-of-concept, the platform was used for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 anti-spike antibodies on a surface-immobilized spike protein, tested in both simulated and human blood serum samples. A poly-L-lysine (PLL) layer was selected as a biocompatible surface for spike protein immobilization; the polymer layer can be easily removed through gentle mechanical rubbing, allowing regeneration and multiple uses of the sensing device. This surface, combined with novel paper-based capillary fluidics, enabled real-time monitoring of spike antibody binding via acoustic wave phase measurements in the range of 1-100 nM antibodies in 1% v/v serum. Further acoustic wave amplitude amplification and a tenfold improvement in the detection limit (0.1 nM) were achieved by the use of gold nanoparticles conjugated with a secondary antibody. This optimized assay was successfully evaluated in a small pilot clinical study of 20 patient samples. Our new SH-SAW immunosensor exhibited sensitivity and specificity comparable to commercial systems with standard fluidics and instrumentation; importantly, its limit of detection is better than the clinically relevant value of ~11 RU mL-1. This portable, low-cost platform, combining a pocket-size network analyzer with disposable paper fluidics and a regenerable sensing surface, offers a promising solution for quantitative antibody detection near or at the point-of-care.
20528776 | Calmodulin-dependent nuclear import of HMG-box family nuclear factors: importance of the role of SRY in sex reversal. The HMG (high-mobility group)-box-containing chromatin-remodelling factor SRY (sex-determining region on the Y chromosome) plays a key role in sex determination. Its role in the nucleus is critically dependent on two NLSs (nuclear localization signals) that flank its HMG domain: the C-terminally located 'beta-NLS' that mediates nuclear transport through Impbeta1 (importin beta1) and the N-terminally located 'CaM-NLS' which is known to recognize the calcium-binding protein CaM (calmodulin). In the present study, we examined a number of missense mutations in the SRY CaM-NLS from human XY sex-reversed females for the first time, showing that they result in significantly reduced nuclear localization of GFP (green fluorescent protein)-SRY fusion proteins in transfected cells compared with wild-type. The CaM antagonist CDZ (calmidazolium chloride) was found to significantly reduce wild-type SRY nuclear accumulation, indicating dependence of SRY nuclear import on CaM. Intriguingly, the CaM-NLS mutants were all resistant to CDZ's effects, implying a loss of interaction with CaM, which was confirmed by direct binding experiments. CaM-binding/resultant nuclear accumulation was the only property of SRY found to be impaired by two of the CaM-NLS mutations, implying that inhibition of CaM-dependent nuclear import is the basis of sex reversal in these cases. Importantly, the CaM-NLS is conserved in other HMG-box-domain-containing proteins such as SOX-2, -9, -10 and HMGN1, all of which were found for the first time to rely on CaM for optimal nuclear localization. CaM-dependent nuclear translocation is thus a common mechanism for this family of important transcription factors.
42147689 | Impact of COVID-19 on Movement Disorders Patients in the Outpatient Setting. Introduction The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic may have been the only worldwide infectious outbreak that many patients have experienced in their lifetime. The impact of COVID-19 on patients with chronic neurodegenerative disease, including movement disorders, is largely unknown. Since patients with movement disorders rely heavily on inpatient therapies and are closely followed by their medical team, it would be reasonable to see an increase in stress during a period of prolonged isolation. This study aimed to determine the emotional impact, stress, and burden of the COVID-19 pandemic on patients with movement disorders in an academic practice. Methods Over four months during the COVID-19 pandemic, from May 2021 to August 2021, patients with movement disorders were screened for eligibility to participate in the study conducted at a single academic center. Patients must be at least 18 years of age, diagnosed with a movement disorder by an academic physician who specializes in movement disorders, and score >= 24 on the mini-mental state exam (MMSE). Patients would be excluded if they were not able to speak or read English or scored <24 on the MMSE, indicating cognitive impairment. Study participants were asked to fill out a subjective questionnaire (the COVID-19 and Movement Disorders Questionnaire [CMDQ]) asking whether neurological symptoms, relationships, mental health care, finances, or healthcare delays worsened during the COVID-19 pandemic. Patients were also tested on the Pandemic Emotional Impact Scale (PEIS), a validated instrument designed to measure the emotional impact of a worldwide pandemic on populations within the United States, and the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-4). Results The mean PEIS score for the cohort was 32.52 +- 12.61 (range 16-80). Higher (worse) PEIS scores were significantly associated with \personal financial loss\ (p=0.0077), \worsening neurological symptoms\ (p=0.0006), \strained relationships\ (p=0.0021), \friends/family experiencing financial loss\ (p=0.0006), \friends/family hospitalized\ (p=0.0178), \delay in healthcare\ (p < 0.0001), and \masks impacting health\ (p = 0.0064). The mean PHQ-4 score was 3.18 (mild distress), and over 30% of the population were positive for symptoms of anxiety. Conclusion Although the emotional burden of COVID-19 was low in this cohort, patients were affected by financial burdens, strained relationships, delays in healthcare, and mask-wearing. More research is needed to assess the potential long-term effects of COVID-19 on these individuals.
42148540 | Vaccination Coverage Against Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Brazil's Indigenous Population. Indigenous populations in Brazil were prioritized for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccination due to their increased vulnerability. The aim of the study was to describe COVID-19 vaccination coverage among Indigenous population across Brazilian regions and Special Indigenous Health Districts (DSEIs; acronym for Distritos Sanitarios Especiais Indigenas). A retrospective study was conducted using data from January 17, 2021, to June 27, 2024, obtained from the open-access COVID-19 vaccination database made available by the Brazilian Ministry of Health, covering the 4-year period of the pandemic. The dataset included information on the Indigenous population (number of inhabitants), as well as the number and type of vaccine doses administered (first dose, second dose, single dose, and booster dose). Second dose refers to vaccines requiring a two-dose primary schedule, whereas single-dose refers to vaccines administered as a single primary dose; booster dose refers to any additional dose given after completion of the primary vaccination schedule and, according to the database, was restricted to individuals aged >= 18 years. Vaccination coverage was calculated by dividing the number of doses administered by the total Indigenous population, based on estimated from the 2022 Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE; acronym for Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica) Census, and multiplying by 100. The data was analyzed and presented according to Brazil's federative units (states and the Federal District) and DSEIs. A total of 1 490 036 COVID-19 vaccine doses were administered to the Indigenous population. Of these, 631 990 (42%) corresponded to first doses, 551 602 (27%) to second or single doses, and 306 444 (21%) to booster doses. These doses corresponded to vaccination coverage of 89%, 78%, and 43% of the Indigenous population (N = 707 739), respectively. Across the 27 federative units, the lowest coverage for the first dose was observed in Tocantins (83%), Roraima (74%), and Para (73%), while for second or single doses the lowest rates were found in Amapa (63%), Roraima (60%), and Para (58%). Among the 34 DSEIs, 13 (38.2%) did not reach 90% coverage for the first dose, and 21 (61.8%) did not reach this threshold for the second or single doses. The lowest coverage levels were identified in Araguaia (65% and 44%), Rio Tapajos (59% and 40%), and Kaiapo do Para (56% and 34%) for first and second or single doses, respectively. Vaccination coverage against COVID-19 among Brazil's Indigenous population has not fully reached the 90% target recommended by the Brazilian government in alignment with the World Health Organization after 4 years of the pandemic. This gap may be explained by multiple factors, including cultural barriers, remote geographic conditions, and logistical challenges related to vaccine distribution.
42147698 | Renal Biomarkers of Injury as Early Predictors of COVID-19 Associated Acute Kidney Injury: A Prospective Observational Trial (BRICOAKI Study). Background and aims: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common and serious complication among critically ill COVID-19 patients. Early identification of patients at risk is challenging because serum creatinine rises late in the course of renal injury. Unlike prior COVID-19 AKI studies that measured serum neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (sNGAL) or Cystatin-C at a single time point, this study evaluates their serial trajectories and quantifies biomarker-creatinine lead-time in a critically ill intensive care unit (ICU) cohort. Patients and methods: This prospective observational study involved 65 adults with moderate to severe COVID-19 in the ICU. Serum biomarkers [NGAL, cystatin-C, interleukin (IL)-6, kidney injury molecule (KIM)-1, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMP)-2, creatinine] and urinary Klotho (uKlotho) were measured on days 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, and 10. Acute kidney injury was defined per kidney disease: Improving global outcomes (KDIGO) criteria. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis and lead-time estimation evaluated predictive performance. Results: Acute kidney injury occurred in 47/65 (72.3%) patients; of them, 36/47 (76.6%) progressed to KDIGO stages 2-3, and 5 (10.6%) required renal replacement therapy (RRT). Among the biomarkers studied, sNGAL demonstrated the highest discrimination for KDIGO-defined AKI [area under curve (AUC): 0.71-0.79] and increased approximately 1 day before creatinine-based AKI diagnosis. Serum cystatin-C (sCystatin-C) showed moderate predictive value (AUC: 0.63-0.70) with a median lead time of approximately 1-2 days. Serum KIM-1 (sKIM-1) demonstrated only borderline variation across severity groups, while uKlotho did not show significant discriminatory performance. Although TIMP-2 and IL-6 were significantly elevated with increasing disease severity, their overall discriminative performance for AKI was lower compared with NGAL and cystatin-C. Conclusion: In critically ill COVID-19 patients, serial sNGAL and sCystatin-C demonstrated modest but consistent discrimination for KDIGO-defined AKI and showed a tendency to rise 1-2 days prior to creatinine-based diagnosis. In contrast, sKIM-1, serum TIMP-2, uKlotho, and serum IL-6 exhibited limited discriminatory performance for early AKI detection. How to cite this article: Kumar N, Mahto M, Kumar A, Kumar A, Kumar A. Renal Biomarkers of Injury as Early Predictors of COVID-19 Associated Acute Kidney Injury: A Prospective Observational Trial (BRICOAKI Study). Indian J Crit Care Med 2026;30(4):298-304.
24953690 | Intracellular calcium levels can regulate Importin-dependent nuclear import. We previously showed that increased intracellular calcium can modulate Importin (Imp)beta1-dependent nuclear import of SRY-related chromatin remodeling proteins. Here we extend this work to show for the first time that high intracellular calcium inhibits Impalpha/beta1- or Impbeta1-dependent nuclear protein import generally. The basis of this relates to the mislocalisation of the transport factors Impbeta1 and Ran, which show significantly higher nuclear localization in contrast to various other factors, and RCC1, which shows altered subnuclear localisation. The results here establish for the first time that intracellular calcium modulates conventional nuclear import through direct effects on the nuclear transport machinery.
41893738 | Prospective Biomarkers of SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine Seroconversion in Patients with Haematological Malignancies. BACKGROUND: SARS-CoV-2 vaccination is crucial for protecting against severe COVID-19 disease; however, patients with haematological malignancies (HM) respond poorly to vaccination due to immunosuppression driven by chemotherapy, targeted cell depletion, and immune dysregulation. We sought to define novel biomarkers that predict effective vaccination in patients with HM. METHODS: HM patients and healthy controls received SARS-CoV-2 vaccines and were followed for six months post-vaccination. Virus-specific humoral and cellular immune responses were analysed in serum and whole blood pre- and post-vaccination, and serum proteomics was analysed pre-vaccination to identify potential biomarkers for vaccine response. RESULTS: HM patients displayed delayed antibody seroconversion, and 37.5% failed to seroconvert. Baseline proteomic and cellular immune profiles revealed that T-cell-associated chemokines CXCL13 and CRTAM were differentially expressed, with decreased levels seen in vaccine non-responders. Vaccine response was also associated with a reduced frequency of circulating monocytes, greater numbers of B-cells, and a trend toward greater numbers of CD4+ helper cell phenotypes, including T peripheral helper cells pre-vaccination. In vitro generation of COVID-19-specific T-cells from a subset of participants trended towards increased cytotoxic CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell activity in seroconverters and dysfunctional COVID-19-specific T-cell responses in non-seroconverters. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that HM patients have impaired T-cell immunity, and non-responders may be identified by low levels of serum CXCL13 and CRTAM. This allows for the identification of at-risk patients who would benefit from alternative COVID-19 prophylaxis strategies.
40034846 | Coronavirus replicase epitopes induce cross-reactive CD8 T cell responses in SARS-CoV-2-naive people with HIV-1. Cross-reactive T cell immunity between common cold coronaviruses and SARS-CoV-2 may influence COVID-19 susceptibility. To identify cross-reactive CD8 T cell epitopes, we analyzed responses to 21 homologous SARS-CoV-2 replicase peptides in 177 people living with HIV (PLWH) on antiretroviral therapy, of which 133 did not have prior SARS-CoV-2 infection. Replicase peptides induced IFN-gamma responses in 63% of the SARS-CoV-2-naive individuals and in 73% of individuals with prior SARS-CoV-2-infection. We could define several cross-reactive epitopes, including the HLA-B*35:03 restricted CoV-YL8, and characterized a CoV-YL8-specific T cell receptor cloned from a SARS-CoV-2 seronegative individual. Analysis of the association between HLA-I alleles and SARS-CoV-2 infections over a 16-months period revealed that in a cohort of 452 PLWH, HLA-B*35:03 and C*07 were underrepresented in the 55 persons with a history of SARS-CoV-2 infection while HLA-B*35:01 and HLA-C*04 were associated with a higher infection rate. Taken together, our study suggests an HLA-I-mediated effect of common cold coronaviruses on SARS-CoV-2 immunity.
38784379 | A bioinformatic analysis of T-cell epitope diversity in SARS-CoV-2 variants: association with COVID-19 clinical severity in the United States population. Long-term immunity against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) requires the identification of T-cell epitopes affecting host immunogenicity. In this computational study, we explored the CD8+ epitope diversity estimated in 27 of the most common HLA-A and HLA-B alleles, representing most of the United States population. Analysis of 16 SARS-CoV-2 variants [B.1, Alpha (B.1.1.7), five Delta (AY.100, AY.25, AY.3, AY.3.1, AY.44), and nine Omicron (BA.1, BA.1.1, BA.2, BA.4, BA.5, BQ.1, BQ.1.1, XBB.1, XBB.1.5)] in analyzed MHC class I alleles revealed that SARS-CoV-2 CD8+ epitope conservation was estimated at 87.6%-96.5% in spike (S), 92.5%-99.6% in membrane (M), and 94.6%-99% in nucleocapsid (N). As the virus mutated, an increasing proportion of S epitopes experienced reduced predicted binding affinity: 70% of Omicron BQ.1-XBB.1.5 S epitopes experienced decreased predicted binding, as compared with ~3% and ~15% in the earlier strains Delta AY.100-AY.44 and Omicron BA.1-BA.5, respectively. Additionally, we identified several novel candidate HLA alleles that may be more susceptible to severe disease, notably HLA-A*32:01, HLA-A*26:01, and HLA-B*53:01, and relatively protected from disease, such as HLA-A*31:01, HLA-B*40:01, HLA-B*44:03, and HLA-B*57:01. Our findings support the hypothesis that viral genetic variation affecting CD8 T-cell epitope immunogenicity contributes to determining the clinical severity of acute COVID-19. Achieving long-term COVID-19 immunity will require an understanding of the relationship between T cells, SARS-CoV-2 variants, and host MHC class I genetics. This project is one of the first to explore the SARS-CoV-2 CD8+ epitope diversity that putatively impacts much of the United States population.
42147681 | Nutritional Disorders and Their Clinical Impact in Older Adults With COVID-19: A Retrospective Study From Qatar. Introduction Older adults were at a higher risk of developing nutritional disorders, hospitalization, and death because of the coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. The burden of malnutrition and overnutrition in institutionalized older adults is a critical but under-researched factor of COVID-19 outcomes, particularly in the Middle East, where scarce data are available. The purpose of this study was to find out the prevalence of nutritional disorders among older patients with COVID-19 and to identify risk factors and clinical outcomes in Qatar. Methods A total of 55 adults aged over 60 years with confirmed COVID-19 diagnoses between March and August 2020 were identified from long-term care facilities and home-based health services in Qatar. Retrospective data on nutritional disorders, risk factors, and clinical outcomes were collected. SPSS Statistics version 28 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA) was used to analyze the data. Results The majority of the cohort were overnourished (n=34, 62%) or malnourished (n=16, 29%), and the rest of them had a normal nutritional status (n=5, 9%). The cohort was 60% females (n=33) and 40% males (n=22) and the mean age was 78.7+9.9 years. The malnourished cohort was associated with feeding problems (p<0.01), gastrointestinal symptoms (p<0.04), and nasogastric tube feeding dependency (p<0.003). Multivariate analysis showed the gastrointestinal symptoms as common predictors of nutritional disorders (p=0.03) and mortality (p=0.006). The mortality rate was 74% (n=41). The independent variables that were also associated with death were hydration status (p<0.001), infection (p<0.001), use of a nasogastric tube (p<0.002), and readmission (p<0.002). Conclusions The prevalence of nutritional disorders is high in older COVID-19 patients, and overnutrition (imbalanced nutrition) is more widespread than malnutrition. There is a high correlation between nutritional disorders and gastrointestinal symptoms, and mortality as well. Additional factors that were associated with mortality to a significant level were hydration status, infection, readmission, and the use of a nasogastric tube. Thus, it is essential to focus on the nutritional assessment and management of older COVID-19 patients and similar severe infections.
42148530 | Structural analysis of the flexibility of the Ubl2 domain within the papain-like protease of SARS-CoV-2. The papain-like protease (PLpro) of SARS-CoV-2 is part of the multi-domain nonstructural protein 3 (NSP3) and consists of two domains: a ubiquitin-like domain 2 (Ubl2) and a protease domain. PLpro plays a crucial role in the replication cycle of SARS-CoV-2, facilitating host immune-system evasion and the formation of double-membrane vesicles where replication occurs. While the function of the Ubl2 domain is still not clear, it is critical for the stability and the functional efficiency of PLpro. Despite its predicted inherent flexibility, nearly all SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 PLpro crystal structures deposited in the Protein Data Bank show the Ubl2 domain in a highly similar, closed conformation against the catalytic domain. Here, we present a crystal structure of PLpro exhibiting Ubl2 in two distinct conformations: the well characterized closed state, where Ubl2 is positioned near the PLpro domain, and an as yet uncharacterized open state, where Ubl2 is displaced by 4 A from the PLpro core. This conformational variability in our structure appears to be related to the occupancy of a zinc ion within the zinc-finger domain. These results provide new insights into the flexibility of Ubl2, suggesting potential avenues for targeting and harnessing this dynamic behaviour for drug discovery.
32147628 | Discovering drugs to treat coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). The SARS-CoV-2 virus emerged in December 2019 and then spread rapidly worldwide, particularly to China, Japan, and South Korea. Scientists are endeavoring to find antivirals specific to the virus. Several drugs such as chloroquine, arbidol, remdesivir, and favipiravir are currently undergoing clinical studies to test their efficacy and safety in the treatment of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in China; some promising results have been achieved thus far. This article summarizes agents with potential efficacy against SARS-CoV-2.
18446504 | The pharmacokinetics and interactions of ivermectin in humans--a mini-review. Ivermectin is an antiparasitic drug with a broad spectrum of activity, high efficacy as well as a wide margin of safety. Since 1987, this compound has a widespread use in veterinary medicine and it use has been extended in humans. Here we present a brief review of the information available regarding the pharmacokinetics and interactions of ivermectin in humans. Awareness of these characteristics could improve the clinical efficacy of Ivermectin. All Authors declare that they do not have any Conflict of interest and that the work is original. All Authors agree that the contents of the manuscript are confidential and will not be copyrighted, submitted, or published elsewhere (including the Internet), in any language, while acceptance by the Journal is under consideration.
28704647 | HIV-1-Mediated Downmodulation of HLA-C Impacts Target Cell Recognition and Antiviral Activity of NK Cells. It was widely accepted that HIV-1 downregulates HLA-A/B to avoid CTL recognition while leaving HLA-C unaltered in order to prevent NK cell activation by engaging inhibitory NK cell receptors, but it was recently observed that most primary isolates of HIV-1 can mediate HLA-C downmodulation. Now we report that HIV-1-mediated downmodulation of HLA-C was associated with reduced binding to its respective inhibitory receptors. Despite this, HLA-C-licensed NK cells displayed reduced antiviral activity compared to their unlicensed counterparts, potentially due to residual binding to the respective inhibitory receptors. Nevertheless, NK cells were able to sense alterations of HLA-C expression demonstrated by increased antiviral activity when exposed to viral strains with differential abilities to downmodulate HLA-C. These results suggest that the capability of HLA-C-licensed NK cells to control HIV-1 replication is determined by the strength of KIR/HLA-C interactions and is thus dependent on both host genetics and the extent of virus-mediated HLA-C downregulation.
41264236 | High-throughput screening for class I peptide MHC binding via yeast surface display. T cells rely on short peptides presented by highly polymorphic major histocompatibility complexes (MHCs) to selectively initiate adaptive immune responses. Despite its importance, few techniques can systematically evaluate stable peptide presentation across diverse MHC alleles. Here, we describe a yeast display pipeline that can be deployed to rapidly screen peptides to identify class I pMHC binders across many alleles. Through this, we isolate unique biological phenomena such as alteration of the peptide presentation of HLA-B57 via interaction with the antiviral small molecule abacavir. We apply this approach to multiple pathogen proteomes (Mycobacterium tuberculosis Type VII secretion substrates, SARS-CoV-2, Dengue, and Zika) to create a comprehensive list of potential T cell antigens. Altogether, this platform acts as a flexible tool to generate large unbiased datasets for class I peptide binding at a speed and scale competitive with the biological systems they represent.
39530176 | HLA-B*15 Is Associated With SARS-CoV-2 Infection in a Brazilian Population. Studies have suggested an association between polymorphisms in class I genes of the major histocompatibility complex, specifically the human leukocyte antigen (HLA), and susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2. To explore this, 135 individuals with positive serological tests for SARS-CoV-2 were recruited. All the samples were collected before the advent of vaccines, avoiding immunization effects. Participants were divided into high and low neutralizing antibody titer groups, and polymorphisms in HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-DRB1 genes were examined using PCR-SSO. Allele prevalence in the study population was compared to the National Bone Marrow Volunteer Donors Register (REDOME) in Sao Paulo and between the high and low titer groups within the study population. Results indicated that the HLA-B*15 polymorphism was more prevalent in the COVID-19 positive group compared to the control population (COVID-19 = 0.1370; Control = 0.0875; p = 0.0067). The HLA-B*18 polymorphism was less prevalent in the COVID-19 group (COVID-19 = 0.0185; Control = 0.0534; p = 0.0064). Additionally, the HLA-A*30 polymorphism was more prevalent in the high titer group within the (high = 0.10937; low = 0.02816; p = 0.0125). Other polymorphisms showed no significant differences. These findings align with international studies, suggesting these genes plays a role in COVID-19 pathophysiology, however, further research is required to fully understand their impact.
39257586 | Individuals carrying the HLA-B*15 allele exhibit favorable responses to COVID-19 vaccines but are more susceptible to Omicron BA.5.2 and XBB.1.16 infection. Background: Natural infection or vaccination have provided robust immune defense against SARS-CoV-2 invasion, nevertheless, Omicron variants still successfully cause breakthrough infection, and the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Methods: Sequential blood samples were continuously collected at different time points from 252 volunteers who were received the CanSino Ad5-nCoV (n= 183) vaccine or the Sinovac CoronaVac inactivated vaccine (n= 69). The anti-SARS-CoV-2 prototype and Omicron BA.5.2 as well as XBB.1.16 variant neutralizing antibodies (Nab) in sera were detected by ELISA. Sera were also used to measure pseudo and live virus neutralization assay. The associations between the anti-prototype Nab levels and different HLA-ABC alleles were analyzed using artificial intelligence (AI)-deep learning techniques. The frequency of B cells in PBMCs was investigated by flow cytometry assay (FACs). Results: Individuals carrying the HLA-B*15 allele manifested the highest concentrations of anti-SARS-CoV-2 prototype Nab after vax administration. Unfortunately, these volunteers are more susceptible to Omicron BA.5.2 breakthrough infection due to their sera have poorer anti-BA.5.2 Nab and lower levels of viral neutralization efficacy. FACs confirmed that a significant decrease in CD19+CD27+RBD+ memory B cells in these HLA-B*15 population compared to other cohorts. Importantly, generating lower concentrations of cross-reactive anti-XBB.1.16 Nab post-BA.5.2 infection caused HLA-B*15 individuals to be further infected by XBB.1.16 variant. Conclusions: Individuals carrying the HLA-B*15 allele respond better to COVID-19 vax including the CanSino Ad5-nCoV and the Sinovac CoronaVac inactivated vaccines, but are more susceptible to Omicron variant infection, thus, a novel vaccine against this population is necessary for COVID-19 pandemic control in the future.
21558314 | Inhibition of SRY-calmodulin complex formation induces ectopic expression of ovarian cell markers in developing XY gonads. The transcription factor sex-determining region of the Y chromosome (SRY) plays a key role in human sex determination, because mutations in SRY cause disorders of sex development in XY individuals. During gonadal development, Sry in pre-Sertoli cells activates Sox9 gene transcription, committing the fate of the bipotential gonad to become a testis rather than an ovary. The high-mobility group domain of human SRY contains two independent nuclear localization signals, one bound by calmodulin (CaM) and the other by importin-beta. Although XY females carry SRY mutations in these nuclear localization signals that affect SRY nuclear import in transfected cells, it is not known whether these transport mechanisms are essential for gonadal development and sex determination. Here, we show that mouse Sry protein binds CaM and that a CaM antagonist reduces CaM binding, nuclear accumulation, and transcriptional activity of Sry in transfected cells. CaM antagonist treatment of cultured, sexually indifferent XY mouse fetal gonads led to reduced expression of the Sry target gene Sox9, defects in testicular cord formation, and ectopic expression of the ovarian markers Rspondin1 and forkhead box L2. These results indicate the importance of CaM for SRY nuclear import, transcriptional activity, testis differentiation, and sex determination.
40410684 | Mucosal implications of oral Jak3-targeted drugs in COVID patients. The JAK family, particularly JAK3, plays a crucial role in immune signaling and inflammatory responses. Dysregulated JAK3 activation in SARS-CoV-2 infections has been associated with severe inflammation and respiratory complications, making JAK inhibitors a viable therapeutic option. However, their use raises concerns regarding immunosuppression, which could increase susceptibility to secondary infections. While long-term adverse effects are less of a concern in acute COVID-19 treatment, patient selection and monitoring remain critical. Furthermore, adverse effects associated with oral JAK3 inhibitors necessitate the exploration of alternative strategies to optimize therapeutic efficacy while minimizing risks. This review highlights the role of JAK3 in immune and epithelial cells, examines the adverse effects of oral JAK3 inhibitors in COVID-19 and other treatments, and discusses alternative therapeutic strategies for improving patient outcomes.
38678364 | Lack of association between classical HLA genes and asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection. Human genetic studies of critical COVID-19 pneumonia have revealed the essential role of type I interferon-dependent innate immunity to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Conversely, an association between the HLA-B*15:01 allele and asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection in unvaccinated individuals was recently reported, suggesting a contribution of pre-existing T cell-dependent adaptive immunity. We report a lack of association of classical HLA alleles, including HLA-B*15:01, with pre-omicron asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection in unvaccinated participants in a prospective population-based study in the US (191 asymptomatic vs. 945 symptomatic COVID-19 cases). Moreover, we found no such association in the international COVID Human Genetic Effort cohort (206 asymptomatic vs. 574 mild or moderate COVID-19 cases and 1,625 severe or critical COVID-19 cases). Finally, in the Human Challenge Characterisation study, the three HLA-B*15:01 individuals infected with SARS-CoV-2 developed symptoms. As with other acute primary infections studied, no classical HLA alleles favoring an asymptomatic course of SARS-CoV-2 infection were identified.
42148829 | Effectiveness of intensive community care services for adolescents with acute psychiatric emergencies: findings from a feasibility multi-centre, parallel-group, single-blinded RCT. Background: Adolescents experiencing psychiatric emergencies often require intensive interventions to prevent hospitalisation and support their return to education, employment or training. Intensive Community Care Services aim to provide an alternative to inpatient care. Aims: To evaluate the effectiveness of Intensive Community Care Services compared to treatment as usual in reducing the time to start or return to education, employment or training for young people with psychiatric emergencies. Method: A multicentre, parallel-group, single-blinded, randomised controlled trial, including an internal feasibility phase, across seven NHS trusts in the United Kingdom. Adolescents aged 12-17 were randomised to receive either Intensive Community Care Services or treatment as usual. The primary outcome was the time to start or return to education, employment or training within a 6-month observation period. Secondary outcomes included clinical symptoms, functioning and service satisfaction. Process evaluation used semistructured visual interviews followed by thematic decomposition analysis. The impact of COVID-19 and the importance of continuity of care were explored in a series of cohort studies based in emergency departments. A consensus meeting was held to define the features of Intensive Community Care Services. Results: Of the approximately 977 adolescents screened, 36 were randomised in a 1 : 1 ratio using a web-based randomisation system stratified by the NHS trust using variable block sizes to receive either Intensive Community Care Services or treatment as usual. A key reason for poor recruitment was the absence of an alternative to Intensive Community Care Services. The recruitment rate did not meet pre-specified progression criteria (n = 55 by the first 6 months of recruitment), and conducting a full evaluation trial was deemed not feasible. Thirty participants from the pilot sample (83.3%) returned to education, employment or training during the 6-month follow-up period, with a median time to education, employment or training of 9 days (interquartile range 1-49). The median time to education, employment or training was lower in the Intensive Community Care Services group (6 days) compared to the treatment-as-usual group (12 days), with a hazard ratio of 1.34 (95% confidence interval 0.63 to 2.86). Estimated effect sizes for secondary outcomes were also in the direction of a benefit under Intensive Community Care Services, with higher satisfaction with services and improvements in clinical symptoms and functioning. There was a greater total average cost for the treatment-as-usual group at $15,155 (standard deviation 31,560), compared to $7063 (standard deviation 10,605) for Intensive Community Care Services. Due to the small sample size, no inferences regarding Intensive Community Care Services effectiveness or cost-effectiveness can be drawn. Fourteen young people participated in the process evaluation. Inpatient care received both praise for effective diagnoses and therapeutic interventions and criticism for a sterile approach and inadequate staff attention. Intensive Community Care Services was valued for the personalised approach, exemplified by beneficial home visits. During COVID-19, there was a significant reduction in emergency presentations of young people, followed by a significant increase post pandemic. The follow-up attendance rate increased by more than three times if the follow-up appointment was offered by the same clinician who saw the young person in an emergency room (odds ratio 3.66, 95% confidence interval 1.65 to 8.13). Intensive Community Care Services teams should use the modified Dartmouth Assertive Community Treatment Fidelity Scale to assess their quality. Recruitment to a randomised controlled trial of this kind can be improved if all new Intensive Community Care Services teams are considered to be experimental services and an equipoise between Intensive Community Care Services and existing services acknowledged. Future work: Rigorous post-implementation research is warranted for those areas that choose to implement Intensive Community Care Services. An adequately powered randomised controlled trial is needed to confirm the pilot findings of the IVY study and explore the full potential of Intensive Community Care Services as an alternative to inpatient and other community-based services for young people with severe mental health needs. Clinicians' experience delivering Intensive Community Care Services should be explored in further qualitative studies. Limitations: The most significant limitation of this pilot study is the very small sample size, which was a direct result of recruitment difficulties. As a result, we were unable to draw any inferences about the effectiveness or cost-effectiveness of Intensive Community Care Services relative to treatment as usual. It was not possible to blind participants to the intervention they were receiving. The 6-month follow-up period may have been insufficient to capture important long-term outcomes. Conclusions: No definitive conclusions can be drawn from this study. Preliminary results suggest that Intensive Community Care Services may support a faster return to education, employment or training than treatment as usual. Intensive Community Care Services may be cost-effective compared to treatment as usual. Additional mental health professionals should be deployed to Intensive Community Care Services during future lockdowns. The same Intensive Community Care Services professionals should offer assessments in emergency departments and provide community follow-up. Research with a larger sample is warranted to confirm these findings. Funding: This synopsis presents independent research funded by the National Institute for Health and Care Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme as award number NIHR127408.
42148826 | Nebulized Heparin in Adults With Acute Respiratory Failure: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Trials. OBJECTIVES: Dysregulated pulmonary coagulation and inflammation is a hallmark of respiratory failure in various etiologies. Excessive fibrin deposition contributes to alveolar collapse, impaired gas exchange, and progression to pulmonary fibrosis. Nebulized heparin can mitigate these coagulation and inflammation disturbances. Although several randomized controlled trials have explored its effects, results remain inconsistent and limited by small patient populations. We conducted a random-effects meta-analysis to calculate the risk ratio (RR) and 95% CIs. DATA SOURCES: We systematically searched PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials for randomized controlled trials comparing nebulized unfractionated heparin to standard care or placebo in adult patients with respiratory failure either invasively mechanical ventilated or not. The primary outcome was all-cause mortality at the longest follow-up. STUDY SELECTION: We included randomized clinical trials enrolling adult patients with respiratory failure, comparing nebulized heparin vs. standard care or placebo, and reporting at least one clinical outcome, including all-cause mortality. DATA EXTRACTION: Two independent investigators extracted data on trial design, setting, etiology of respiratory failure, heparin dosing regimens, follow-up duration, and outcomes. Discrepancies were resolved by consensus. DATA SYNTHESIS: We identified 16 studies (787 receiving nebulized heparin, 833 control). Six (38%) were multicenter, five focused on COVID-19, 12 enrolled ICU patients, and dosing clustered around 25,000 international units (IUs) three times a day (~75,000 IU/d for ~10 d). At the longest follow-up, nebulized heparin reduced all-cause mortality vs. control (110/645 [17.1%] vs. 157/711 [22.1%]; RR, 0.79; 95% CI, 0.66-0.95; with ten studies included). Nebulized heparin was also associated with more ventilation-free days by day 28 (mean difference, +4.85; 95% CI, 1.47-8.24). Major bleeding was rare (1.1 vs. 0.7%; RR, 1.48; 95% CI, 0.42-5.18), while no minor bleeding or heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was reported. CONCLUSIONS: Nebulized unfractionated heparin may improve survival in patients with respiratory failure without increasing adverse events.
39364548 | Analysis of KIR and HLA Polymorphism in Chinese Individuals With COVID-19. Killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) interactions with HLA class I have crucial roles in modulating NK cell function in response to viral infections. To explore the correlation between KIR/HLA and susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection, we analysed polymorphism of KIR genes, haplotypes, HLA allotypes, and the interplay between KIR and HLA in individuals diagnosed with COVID-19. Compared to a population control group, we observed a significantly increased frequency of KIR3DL3*00802 in the COVID-19 group. When encoded by the HLA-B gene, the frequency of HLA-Bw4, a ligand for KIR3DL1, was at lower frequency in the COVID-19 group. Additionally, significantly elevated frequencies of KIR-Bx3, KIR3DL3*00301, 3DL3*048, and C1+HLA-C were identified in the COVID-19 group before multiple test correction, suggesting associations with susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Our findings indicate that the KIR3DL3*00802 allele may be a high-risk factor for SARS-CoV-2 infection, while Bw4 encoded by HLA-B gene may confer protective effects against the infection.
39768617 | Associations Between Clinical Manifestations of SARS-CoV-2 Infection and HLA Alleles in a Caucasian Population: A Molecular HLA Typing Study. Background and Objectives: Severe COVID-19 still constitutes an important health problem. Taking into account the crucial role of HLA in immune reactions, evaluation of the impact of HLA on COVID-19 risk and clinical course seemed necessary, as the already available data are inconsistent. The aim of the present study was to compare the HLA profiles of patients with symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection and a healthy control group, as well as to compare HLA allele frequencies in patients with severe and non-severe courses of COVID-19. Materials and Methods: HLA classes were genotyped using a next-generation sequencing method in 2322 persons, including 2217 healthy hematopoietic stem cell potential donors and 105 patients with symptomatic COVID-19. Results: Symptomatic course of SARS-CoV-2 infection appeared to be associated with the presence of HLA-A*30:01, B*44:02, B*52:01, C*05:01, C*17:01, and DRB1*11:02, while HLA-C*07:04 and DQB1*03:03 seem to play a protective role. Moreover, we demonstrated that the severe symptomatic course of COVID-19 can be associated with the presence of HLA-B*08:01, C*04:01, DRB1*03:01, and DQB1*03:01, while HLA-DRB1*08:01 appeared to be protective against severe COVID-19 disease. Conclusions: Identification of alleles that are potentially associated with symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection as well as the severe course of COVID-19 broadens the knowledge on the genetic background of COVID-19 course and can constitute an important step in the development of personalized medicine.
42146628 | Condensate-Like Organization in Respiratory Aerosols Modulates the Dynamics of an Airborne Virus. The molecular behavior of viruses within respiratory aerosols plays a critical role in airborne disease transmission yet remains largely inaccessible to experimental characterization. Here, we use a billion-atom all-atom molecular dynamics simulation of a virus-laden respiratory aerosol to uncover how respiratory proteins, lipids, ions, and water collectively assemble around SARS-CoV-2, giving rise to structured microenvironments that influence viral stability and spike dynamics. We find that respiratory components rapidly evolve into heterogeneous networks characterized by protein-rich aggregates, patchy lipid assemblies, and spatially structured ion and water dynamics. These features create distinct microenvironments that constrain molecular transport and stabilize regions surrounding the virion. Within this crowded aerosol context, we observe sustained and selective interactions between aerosol components and the viral spike protein, including preferential recruitment of surfactant lipids and persistent coordination by divalent cations. These interactions modulate spike conformational dynamics, enhancing domain breathing motions and flexibility at key hinge regions while preserving a stable membrane anchor. Together, these observations reveal a condensate-like physical regime in which multivalent aerosol components coalesce into a soft, heterogeneous matrix that selectively modulates viral protein dynamics under extreme crowding. By framing virus-laden respiratory aerosols within this physical context, this work establishes an in situ molecular framework for understanding how aerosols influence viral persistence and offers a platform for exploring mechanisms relevant to airborne disease transmission and mitigation strategies. TOC Graphic:  Synopsis: Respiratory aerosols exhibit condensate-like physical properties that govern the evolution of the particle and modulate the behavior of airborne SARS-CoV-2.
41939860 | Immune correlates underlying small fiber neuropathy presenting as vaccine-associated post-acute SARS- coronavirus syndrome. Background: A spectrum of adverse events overlapping with Post-acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC) occurs in some patients following SARS-CoV-2 vaccination including small fiber neuropathy (SFN) and cognitive symptoms. Aims: Accruing information regarding disease course and immune response imbalances in these patients. Methods: We studied 71 previously healthy patients with neurological symptoms following SARS-CoV-vaccination. All had negative neurological workup for central/peripheral involvement (MR, EMG/EN). Cutaneous biopsy (21pts.) and peripheral blood sampling (20pts) were performed for anti-idiotype Ab analysis (ACE-2,NRP-1) (ELISA, IF) and for Flowcytometric analysis. Results: Paresthesia, cognitive impairment and autonomic symptoms agreed with SFN international definition. Comparative differences included abrupt onset, presence of simultaneous diverse paresthesia across multiple body regions frequently affecting the facial and cervical regions (44%) and the trunk (26%), associated to dysautonomia. Median time from vaccination to symptom manifestation was 3 days (mean +- SD: 8.76 +- 17.4 days). Symptom severity was still high (5.9 +- 1.9 mean+SD) at the time of evaluation and sampling, (382 +- 133 days from onset. Reduced small fiber density was observed in 19/21 biopsies. Anti-ACE-2 antibodies in 9/71pts. (12%) and 4/19 (21%) vaccinated HD sera and NRP-1 reactivity in 14/71 (20%) patient and 1/19 (5%) HD sera were not significantly increased. Peripheral NKG2D+CD8+ and NKG2D+DNAM-1+CD4+ T-cells were increased. Circulating inflammatory CD34+ cells were increased and generated in vitro a prevalence of NKG2D+DNAM-1+ T-cells. Conclusion: PASC-vac SFN is associated with persistent immune imbalances common to other immune-mediated diseases. Additional effort to identify immune mechanisms unleashing PASC-vac SFN will contribute to modulate future early interventions for these patients and refine vaccine design.
42149279 | Pandemic Preparedness and Health System Resilience: Lessons from Jordan's COVID-19 Response. This review article provides a comprehensive analysis of Jordan's health sector preparedness and response to the COVID-19 pandemic from 2020 to 2025. It critically examines the national response framework, the capacity and challenges of frontline healthcare workers, and the systemic strengths and weaknesses of the healthcare system. The article further explores the multifaceted economic and social impacts of the pandemic on Jordanian society, including the effects on the economy, education, and mental health. Finally, it discusses the post-pandemic improvements and long-term strategies being implemented to strengthen the resilience of Jordan's healthcare system. The findings indicate that while Jordan's initial response was robust and well-coordinated, the prolonged nature of the pandemic exposed significant vulnerabilities in resource availability, practical training, and the psychological well-being of healthcare workers. By 2025, Jordan has made substantial progress in institutional reforms and health system strengthening, although challenges remain in sustaining these improvements. This review synthesizes the key lessons learned [1] and offers evidence-based recommendations for enhancing institutional preparedness and resilience for future public health emergencies. The experience of Jordan provides valuable insights for other resource-constrained settings facing similar health security challenges.
41659846 | CMTM8 variants influence BNT162b2 COVID-19 vaccination response by regulating granulocytic/polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cell activity. Background: The immunoglobulin level following vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 results from a multifaceted immunological process involving cells and molecules that determine its efficacy and protect us against severe infection outcomes. The observed heterogeneity in the immune response to vaccination is partly attributable to host genetic factors; however, this genetic contribution has only been partially explored. Methods: To elucidate the mechanisms underlying the antibody response elicited by the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, we conducted a genome-wide association study on anti-spike immunoglobulin G levels measured in 1,968 Italian individuals who received two doses of the vaccine, selected from a larger cohort of 7,169 volunteers characterized for 8 million genetic variants. Sex, age, body mass index, smoking habit, and time elapsed between vaccine administration and blood draw were accounted as covariates in the linear regression model. Results: We identified a novel signal of association on chromosome 3 in the intronic region of the CMTM8 gene and confirmed one previously identified at the HLA locus close to the HLA-B gene. The lead SNP in the CMTM8 gene, rs7643677 (p-value = 2.095x10-8), is associated with anti-S IgG levels and with the expression level of CD66b on granulocytic/polymorphonuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells. Conclusions: These findings support a role for CMTM8 in regulating the suppressive activity of specific immune cells, and suggest a potential interplay among genetic, humoral, and cellular mechanisms underlying the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination.
40469303 | Predominant T-cell epitopes of SARS-CoV-2 restricted by multiple prevalent HLA-B and HLA-C allotypes in Northeast Asia. Since the outbreak of novel coronavirus pneumonia (COVID-19), numerous T-cell epitopes in severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) proteome have been reported. However, most of the identified CD8+ T-cell epitopes have been restricted primarily by HLA-A allotypes. The epitopes restricted by HLA-B and HLA-C allotypes are limited. This study focuses on the screening of T-cell epitopes restricted by 13 prevalent HLA-B and 13 prevalent HLA-C allotypes, which cover over 70% and 90% of the Chinese and Northeast Asian populations, respectively. Totally, 67 HLA-B restricted and 53 HLA-C restricted epitopes were validated as immunogenic epitopes with a herd predominance rate by peptide-PBMCs ex vivo coculture experiments using the PBMCs from convalescent Chinese cohort. In addition, 26 transfected cell lines expressing indicated HLA-B or HLA-C allotype were established, and used in the competitive peptide binding assays to define the affinities and cross-restriction of each validated epitope binding to HLA-B or HLA-C allotypes. These data will facilitate the design of T-cell-directed vaccines and SARS-CoV-2-specific T-cell detection tools tailored to the Northeast Asian population. The herd test of functionally validated T-cell epitopes, and the competitive peptide binding assay onto cell line array expressing prevalent HLA allotypes may serve as an additional criterion for selecting T-cell epitopes used in vaccine.
28735348 | Analysis of the CD8+ T cell anti-HIV activity in heterologous cell co-cultures reveals the benefit of multiple HLA class I matches. CD8+ T lymphocytes can reduce the production of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) by CD4+ T cells by cytotoxic and non-cytotoxic mechanisms. To investigate the involvement of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I compatibility in anti-HIV responses, we co-cultured primary CD8+ T cells, isolated from the peripheral blood of HIV-1-infected individuals, with panels of autologous and heterologous acutely HIV-1-infected primary CD4+ T cells. Altogether, CD8+ T cell anti-HIV activity was evaluated in more than 200 co-cultures. Marked heterogeneity in HIV-1 replication levels was observed among the co-cultures sharing a common CD8+ T cell source. The co-cultures that exhibited greater than 50% reduction in HIV production were found to have significantly increased numbers of matching HLA class I alleles (Yates chi-square = 54.21; p < 0.001). With CD8+ T cells from HIV controllers and asymptomatic viremic individuals, matching HLA-B and/or HLA-C alleles were more predictive of strong anti-HIV activity than matching HLA-A alleles. Overall, HLA class I genotype matches were more closely associated with CD8+ T cell anti-HIV activity than supertype pairings. Antibodies against HLA class I and CD3 reduced the CD8+ T cell anti-HIV activity. Stimulated CD8+ T cells exhibited increased anti-HIV activity and reduced dependency on HLA compatibility. These findings provide evidence that the maximal suppression of HIV replication by CD8+ T cells requires the recognition of multiple epitopes. These studies provide insight for HIV vaccine development, and the analytic approach can be useful for the functional characterization of HLA class I alleles and tentative HLA class I supertypes.
40650195 | Investigation of HLA-B -21 M/T Dimorphism and Its Potential Role in COVID-19. Natural killer (NK) cells play a key role in the innate immune response against viral infections. Their activity is regulated by a balance of activating and inhibitory signals, which are modulated by interactions with HLA class I molecules, including HLA-E. The HLA-B 21M/T dimorphism influences the availability of HLA-B leader peptides that stabilize HLA-E expression and modulate NK cell function via the NKG2A/CD94 receptor. To investigate the association between the HLA-B -21M/T dimorphism and the clinical severity of COVID-19, we analyzed a cohort of hospitalized patients with primary SARS-CoV-2 infection, who were genotyped for the HLA-B -21M/T dimorphism. Clinical data, lymphocyte counts, the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), and inflammatory markers were compared across genotypes. Contrary to previous studies suggesting a protective effect of the M/M genotype, we found no significant association between the HLA-B -21M/T dimorphism and COVID-19 severity, lymphocyte parameters, or inflammatory biomarkers. Our findings do not support a role for the HLA-B -21M/T dimorphism in modulating COVID-19 outcomes. These results underscore the complexity of NK cell regulation and highlight the need for integrative studies combining genetic, immunological, and functional data to better understand host factors influencing disease progression.
31375574 | Primary HIV-1 Strains Use Nef To Downmodulate HLA-E Surface Expression. Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) has evolved elaborate ways to evade immune cell recognition, including downregulation of classical HLA class I (HLA-I) from the surfaces of infected cells. Recent evidence identified HLA-E, a nonclassical HLA-I, as an important part of the antiviral immune response to HIV-1. Changes in HLA-E surface levels and peptide presentation can prompt both CD8+ T-cell and natural killer (NK) cell responses to viral infections. Previous studies reported unchanged or increased HLA-E levels on HIV-1-infected cells. Here, we examined HLA-E surface levels following infection of CD4+ T cells with primary HIV-1 strains and observed that a subset downregulated HLA-E. Two primary strains of HIV-1 that induced the strongest reduction in surface HLA-E expression were chosen for further testing. Expression of single Nef or Vpu proteins in a T-cell line, as well as tail swap experiments exchanging the cytoplasmic tail of HLA-A2 with that of HLA-E, demonstrated that Nef modulated HLA-E surface levels and targeted the cytoplasmic tail of HLA-E. Furthermore, infection of primary CD4+ T cells with HIV-1 mutants showed that a lack of functional Nef (and Vpu to some extent) impaired HLA-E downmodulation. Taken together, the results of this study demonstrate for the first time that HIV-1 can downregulate HLA-E surface levels on infected primary CD4+ T cells, potentially rendering them less vulnerable to CD8+ T-cell recognition but at increased risk of NKG2A+ NK cell killing.IMPORTANCE For almost two decades, it was thought that HIV-1 selectively downregulated the highly expressed HLA-I molecules HLA-A and HLA-B from the cell surface in order to evade cytotoxic-T-cell recognition, while leaving HLA-C and HLA-E molecules unaltered. It was stipulated that HIV-1 infection thereby maintained inhibition of NK cells via inhibitory receptors that bind HLA-C and HLA-E. This concept was recently revised when a study showed that primary HIV-1 strains reduce HLA-C surface levels, whereas the cell line-adapted HIV-1 strain NL4-3 lacks this ability. Here, we demonstrate that infection with distinct primary HIV-1 strains results in significant downregulation of surface HLA-E levels. Given the increasing evidence for HLA-E as an important modulator of CD8+ T-cell and NKG2A+ NK cell functions, this finding has substantial implications for future immunomodulatory approaches aimed at harnessing cytotoxic cellular immunity against HIV.
39487235 | The HLA-B -21 M/T dimorphism associates with disease severity in COVID-19. Host genetics shape immune responses and influence severity of infectious diseases. The HLA-B -21 M/T dimorphism tunes the functionality of natural killer (NK) cells expressing the inhibitory receptor NKG2A. NKG2A+ NK cells have been reported to recognize SARS-CoV-2-infected cells, but it remains unclear whether the HLA-B -21 M/T dimorphism associates with COVID-19 severity. Here, we investigated the influence of the HLA-B -21 M/T dimorphism in a cohort of 230 unvaccinated patients hospitalized with COVID-19 and requiring respiratory support. We found that HLA-B -21 M/M genotypes were more prevalent in patients with moderate compared to severe COVID-19 (6.0% vs. 0.9%). Comparison of age- and sex-matched sub-groups revealed that patients with M/M genotypes required mechanical respiratory support less frequently (OR = 0.13, 95% CI = 0.01-0.76, P = 0.013). Furthermore, patients with M/M genotypes showed a coordinately shifted signature of clinical laboratory parameters, coinciding with elevated serum levels of the anti-viral cytokine IFN-gamma. These findings demonstrate that HLA-B variants associate with COVID-19 severity and suggest that the robust functionality of NKG2A+ NK cells in patients carrying the M/M genotype may contribute to protection from severe disease.
31133031 | Coronavirus envelope protein: current knowledge. BACKGROUND: Coronaviruses (CoVs) primarily cause enzootic infections in birds and mammals but, in the last few decades, have shown to be capable of infecting humans as well. The outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in 2003 and, more recently, Middle-East respiratory syndrome (MERS) has demonstrated the lethality of CoVs when they cross the species barrier and infect humans. A renewed interest in coronaviral research has led to the discovery of several novel human CoVs and since then much progress has been made in understanding the CoV life cycle. The CoV envelope (E) protein is a small, integral membrane protein involved in several aspects of the virus' life cycle, such as assembly, budding, envelope formation, and pathogenesis. Recent studies have expanded on its structural motifs and topology, its functions as an ion-channelling viroporin, and its interactions with both other CoV proteins and host cell proteins. MAIN BODY: This review aims to establish the current knowledge on CoV E by highlighting the recent progress that has been made and comparing it to previous knowledge. It also compares E to other viral proteins of a similar nature to speculate the relevance of these new findings. Good progress has been made but much still remains unknown and this review has identified some gaps in the current knowledge and made suggestions for consideration in future research. CONCLUSIONS: The most progress has been made on SARS-CoV E, highlighting specific structural requirements for its functions in the CoV life cycle as well as mechanisms behind its pathogenesis. Data shows that E is involved in critical aspects of the viral life cycle and that CoVs lacking E make promising vaccine candidates. The high mortality rate of certain CoVs, along with their ease of transmission, underpins the need for more research into CoV molecular biology which can aid in the production of effective anti-coronaviral agents for both human CoVs and enzootic CoVs.
42146284 | Evaluation of a Community-based Quality Improvement Smoking Cessation Program Using the Ottawa Model During COVID-19. Background: Tobacco smoking remains a major preventable cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In Canada, despite substantial declines in national smoking prevalence over the past 2 decades, important regional disparities persist, with some provinces reporting rates above the national average. This study assessed changes in smoking and cessation outcomes among participants in the Prince Edward Island (PEI) Smoking Cessation Program (SCP), adapted from the Ottawa Model for Smoking Cessation (OMSC) during the COVID-19 pandemic. Methods: This pre-post study evaluated the PEI SCP (2019-2021) among participants completing baseline and 6-month follow-up surveys. Primary outcomes were 7-day and 30-day point-prevalence abstinence at 6 months. Results: Of all tobacco users enrolled in the program (n=1,707), a total of 732 (42.9%) responded to both baseline and 6-month surveys. At the 6-month follow-up, 32.2% of participants achieved 7-day point-prevalence abstinence, and 27.5% of responders reported 30-day point-prevalence abstinence. Nicotine dependence level was significantly reduced (p < 0.001), with the proportion of participants in the low Heaviness of Smoking Index (HSI) category increasing from 17.0% at baseline to 48.7% at follow-up. While 66.5% felt that service quality was unaffected by COVID-19, 29.7% reported pandemic-related challenges to quitting, mainly stress (61.0%) and personal life challenges (31.9%). Conclusions: Findings from the PEI SCP showed that about one-third of respondents achieved smoking abstinence at 6 months, despite the COVID-19 pandemic. These results support continued implementation of evidence-based programs like OMSC in community health settings and highlight the program's resilience under constrained healthcare conditions.
41961721 | High risk of COVID-19 mortality in people living with advanced HIV disease in South Africa: A retrospective cohort study. Conflicting information exists in the literature regarding the relationship between HIV viral load suppression and immune suppression among people living with HIV (PLHIV) with coronavirus disease (COVID-19) comorbidity. We evaluated risk of in-hospital mortality among PLHIV with varying levels of immunosuppression and viral load in South Africa. We analyzed retrospectively collected individual-level cohort data from South Africa shared in the World Health Organization Global Clinic Platform comprising 3,10,522 hospitalized individuals, including 8191 PLHIV on antiretroviral therapy. Advanced disease was defined as CD4 counts of <200 cells/microL. The primary outcome was in-hospital mortality, defined as death within 28 days of hospital admission. Royston-Parmar survival models were used to assess the association of viral load and CD4 counts with in-hospital mortality among PLHIV on antiretroviral therapy. Models were adjusted for demographic factors, COVID-19 severity, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 variants, and comorbidities. Among the 8191 PLHIV with available CD4 and viral load data, 77.2% had viral suppression, and 35.9% had CD4 counts < 200 cells/muL. Compared to HIV-negative individuals, PLHIV with CD4 < 200 cells/muL and viral load >=1000 copies/mL had a significantly higher risk of mortality (adjusted hazard ratio [aHR] 2.73, 95% CI: 2.45-3.04). Elevated mortality risk was also observed in PLHIV with CD4 < 200 cells/muL and viral load < 1000 copies/mL (aHR 2.01, 95% CI: 1.84-2.20), and those with CD4 >= 200 cells/muL and viral load >= 1000 copies/mL (aHR 1.47, 95% CI: 1.20-1.81). PLHIV with CD4 >= 200 cells/muL and viral suppression had the lowest, but still significant, increased in-hospital mortality risk (aHR 1.27, 95% CI: 1.18-1.36). A substantial increased risk of in-hospital mortality occurs among PLHIV with advanced HIV disease and unsuppressed viremia hospitalized with COVID-19. These findings highlight the importance of prioritizing COVID-19 vaccination and COVID-19 therapeutics for PLHIV during the post-pandemic phase. Further research is however needed to understand the high risk of mortality in virally suppressed PLHIV with CD4 >= 200 cells/muL.
41921385 | Placental immune cell distributions of CD4, CD8 and CD56 in the context of SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccination. The placenta serves as a crucial immunological interface between mother and fetus, maintaining a delicate balance between immune tolerance and defense. While recent infectious challenges have emphasized changes in systemic immunity, the immune dynamics within the placenta-particularly the interplay between innate and adaptive immune cells-remain less understood. This study investigated how distinct immune exposures during pregnancy influence placental immune cell composition, using SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccination as model conditions. Placental tissues from 73 women who delivered at the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital, LMU Munich (April 2020-March 2023) were analyzed immunohistochemically for CD4+, CD8+, and CD56+ markers, representing adaptive and innate immune responses. Participants were categorized into four groups: healthy controls (n = 21), SARS-CoV-2 infection during pregnancy (n = 17), SARS-CoV-2 infection during labor (n = 22), and vaccinated controls (n = 13). Immune markers were quantified separately in fetal villi and maternal decidua, and statistical analyses were performed using Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney U tests. Placental adaptive immune profiles varied significantly between groups. CD4+ cell numbers were higher in the fetal villi of vaccinated individuals compared with those infected during pregnancy (p = 0.001), while CD8+ cell levels on the fetal side were reduced (p = 0.046). In contrast, innate immune features-such as macrophage-rich regions and NK-cell density-remained stable across groups, suggesting a preserved innate immune baseline despite systemic activation. These findings reveal distinct adaptive immune modulation following SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccination and underscore the importance of characterizing both innate and adaptive immune responses to better understand the immunological balance at the maternal-fetal interface.
39173558 | Association between human leukocyte antigen alleles and COVID-19 disease severity. BACKGROUND: the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) loci have been widely characterized to be associated with viral infectious diseases. Several studies including various ethnic groups and populations suggested associations between certain HLA alleles and SARS-CoV-2 infection. Despite the numerous associations identified, the role of HLA polymorphisms in determining the individual response to SARS-CoV-2 infection is controversial among different Saudi populations. METHOD: Here, we performed HLA typing by next-generation sequencing to investigate if variations in polymorphic HLA genes are linked to COVID-19 severity in the Saudi population. Namely, we analyzed HLA loci at allele level in 575 Saudi patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. HLA class I and class II frequencies in patients were compared with allele frequency data from healthy Saudi population. RESULTS: in our cohort HLA-A* 02:01:01 G was associated with mild disease but was not associated with moderate and severe disease. HLA-B* 51:01:01 G was protective from severe disease while HLA-B* 50:01:01 G, HLA-C* 06:02:01 G and HLA-DRB1 * 07:01:01 G were associated with risk to severe disease as well as the total COVID-19 cohort. HLA-DRB1 * 15:01:01 G was associated with risk to all severity groups. CONCLUSION: in conclusion, we found significant associations between HLA alleles and COVID-19 disease severity in Saudis. Further studies are warranted to include HLA typing in the workup for any new COVID-19 patients.
42148449 | Exploring the correlates of COVID-19 vaccination inequity: a global analysis using machine learning from a health economic lens. Introduction: The COVID-19 pandemic has reduced system resilience, caused economic welfare loss, and widened disparities in healthcare access. This study aims to identify the macro-level factors contributing to COVID-19 vaccination inequity by proposing an AI-driven monitoring framework using classical statistical modelling and machine learning (ML) classifiers from a pooled dataset (WHO, World Bank, and our World in Data) covering 195 countries. Methods: Daily vaccination data and national-level indicators were investigated using concentration indices, classical odds ratios across global regions and seven ML classifiers-logistic regression, naive Bayes, decision tree, random forest, LightGBM, extra trees, and XGBoost-to identify significant predictors of vaccination inequity with higher accuracy. Results and discussion: Findings show vaccine coverage remains pro-rich in Africa, North America, Europe, and Oceania, whereas Southeast Asia depicts pro-poor vaccine uptake. Capacity of health system, availability of hygiene infrastructure, prioritization of people suffering from noncommunicable diseases, and exposure to behavioral risk factors were strongly associated with pro-poor distribution of vaccine access in low-income (LIC) and lower-middle income countries (LMIC) in Asia and Africa and improves over time. Among ML models, random forest and XGBoost achieved the highest performance. As the final best model, random forest (RF) is selected with highest weighted score (98.5%), AUROC (99.9%). XGBoost is the second-best model attained the second highest weighted score (97.9%), AUROC (99.8%), and both attained good 5-fold cross validation standard deviation (0.009 for RF and 0.014 for XGBoost) allowing temporal stratification of folds. Results justify the superiority of ensemble ML models over single learners in predicting inequity in vaccine uptake. This study proves that machine learning outperforms conventional predictive analysis and more suitable for monitoring inequity in COVID-19 vaccination access to inform global health policy towards intelligent pandemic preparedness. Therefore, to reduce regional inequity in vaccine uptake, the regional-structural nonlinearities in LICs and LMICs should be adjusted through accurate and robust integration of artificial intelligence in monitoring systems.
19808100 | Shuttling of SOX proteins. The control of access of SOX proteins to their nuclear target genes is a powerful strategy to activate or repress complex genetic programs. The sub-cellular targeting sequences of SOX proteins are concentrated within the DNA binding motif, the HMG (for high mobility group) domain. Each SOX protein displays two different nuclear localization signals located at the N-terminal and C-terminal part of their highly conserved DNA binding domain. The N-terminal nuclear localization signal binds calmodulin and is potentially regulated by intracellular calcium signalling, while the C-terminal nuclear localization signal, which binds importin-beta, responds to other signalling pathways such as cyclic AMP/protein kinase A. Mutations inducing developmental disorders like sex reversal have been reported in both NLSs of SRY, interfering with its nuclear localization and suggesting that both functional nuclear localization signal are required for its nuclear activity. A nuclear export signal is also present in the HMG box of SOX proteins. Group E SOX proteins harbour a perfect consensus nuclear export signal sequence in contrast to all other SOX proteins, which display only imperfect ones. However, observations made during mouse embryonic development suggest that non-group E SOX proteins could also be regulated by a nuclear export mechanism. The presence of nuclear localization and nuclear export signal sequences confers nucleocytoplasmic shuttling properties to SOX proteins, and suggests that cellular events regulated by SOX proteins are highly dynamic.
42149301 | The association of angiostatin and plasminogen plasma levels with Charlson comorbidity burden and mortality in COVID-19. Severe COVID-19 is associated with thrombotic complications. Dysregulated fibrinolysis, marked by increased plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) and reduced plasmin generation, has been linked to adverse outcomes including death. Plasmin(ogen) is also the precursor of angiostatin, an angiogenesis inhibitor with dual roles both preventing SARS-CoV-2 infection and promoting cell death. While alterations in fibrinolytic markers are associated with disease severity, the relationship between plasminogen and angiostatin with survival outcomes remains unclear. Therefore we compared plasma angiostatin and plasminogen levels between COVID-19 survivors and non-survivors and assessed their association with mortality. The observational cohort study included age- and sex-matched hospitalized COVID-19 survivors and non-survivors. Plasma samples were collected during hospitalization, and angiostatin and plasminogen levels were quantified by immunoblotting. Cox regression, adjusted for Charlson comorbidity score and time from symptom onset to sample collection, assessed their association with mortality. Non-survivors had a higher Charlson score and significantly lower plasma angiostatin and plasminogen levels compared to survivors. Angiostatin was not associated with mortality after multivariate analysis. However, exploratory Kaplan-Meier survival curve analysis suggested that individuals with lowest Charlson score and angiostatin within the lower tertile exhibit lowest survival probability, while individuals with high Charlson score and with angiostatin in the middle tertile exhibit longest survival probability. By contrast, lower plasminogen was independently associated with mortality after adjustments, supporting a role for impaired fibrinolysis in poor outcomes, while a more complex potential association between angiostatin and COVID-19 mortality is emerging consistent with its dual roles in SARS-CoV-2 infection.
39684907 | Sex-Specific HLA Alleles Contribute to the Modulation of COVID-19 Severity. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, responsible for Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), exhibits a spectrum of clinical manifestations, ranging from asymptomatic to severe pulmonary dysfunction or death. The variability in COVID-19 severity has largely been attributed to the host's genetic characteristics, suggesting a polygenic genetic architecture, without significant strong evidence of sex-related genetic differences. In this Italian retrospective case-control study, we investigated the association between COVID-19 severity (severe vs. asymptomatic/oligosymptomatic healed individuals) and HLA gene variants, analyzed by next-generation sequencing (NGS). We identified significant HLA alleles (according to the conventional nomenclature), SNPs and haplotypes in the HLA-B, -C, -F, -DQA1, -DRB1, and -DRB5 genes associated with COVID-19 severity. Interestingly, these variants showed biological sex-related effects. Also, we identified specific haplotypes associated with COVID-19 severity that are shared by different conventional HLA alleles, indicated here as \super-haplotypes\. These haplotypes had a biological sex-specific impact on disease severity and markedly increased the risk of severe COVID-19 compared to the conventional HLA alleles (odds ratio of up to 15). Our data suggest that the revision of the current HLA nomenclature may help to identify variants with a stronger effect on disease susceptibility and that association studies could benefit from the stratification of patients by biological sex. If replicated in other disease models, these findings could help to define the functional diversity in immune response between sexes, also based on the HLA system. Finally, due to the global pandemic's mortality rate, we hypothesize here that SARS-CoV-2 may have acted as a natural selection trigger, leading to a drift in HLA allelic frequencies in the general population.
35193979 | The major genetic risk factor for severe COVID-19 is associated with protection against HIV. There are genetic risk factors that influence the outcome of COVID-19 [COVID-19 Host Genetics Initiative, Nature 600, 472-477 (2021)]. The major genetic risk factor for severe COIVD-19 resides on chromosome 3 and is inherited from Neandertals [H. Zeberg, S. Paabo, Nature 587, 610-612 (2020)]. The risk-associated DNA segment modulates the expression of several chemokine receptors, among them CCR5, a coreceptor for HIV which is down-regulated in carriers of the COVID-19 risk haplotype. Here I show that carriers of the risk variant have an ~27% lower risk of HIV infection.
42148023 | Rectifying referrals: genetics testing is underutilized in rectal cancer patient care. Background: The National Comprehensive Cancer Network recommends microsatellite instability (MSI)/mismatch repair (MMR) testing to guide genetic counseling referrals for Lynch syndrome (LS) in patients with colorectal cancer. Studies show poor adherence with genetic counseling referral guidelines. Colon and rectal cancers are frequently treated as one entity despite molecular, epidemiologic, and biologic differences. Methods: We investigated facility- and patient-level adherence with genetics testing/referral guidelines for LS and other germline mutations among rectal cancer patients at one institution. This is a retrospective review of patients with rectal cancer at a tertiary hospital from 2018 to 2023, excluding years 2020 to 2022 to minimize confounding factors associated with COVID-19. Indications for genetic testing/referrals were based on the Collaborative Group of the Americas on Inherited Colorectal Cancer guidelines. Results: We sampled 177 patients, aged 27 to 96 years. A total of 149 (84.2%) underwent MMR/MSI testing; 47 (26.6%) were eligible for genetics referral. Nineteen (40.4%) were referred to genetics, and 14 (73.7%) underwent counseling/testing. One patient was diagnosed with LS, two with MUTYH-associated polyposis, and one with BRCA2. Conclusion: This study demonstrates poor facility-level adherence with MSI/MMR testing recommendations and poor patient-level compliance with genetic referrals in rectal cancer. When recommendations were met, patients with germline mutations benefited from adjustments to their disease management.
42149360 | Characterization of post-COVID syndrome by self-perceived symptom severity stratified by infection wave: beyond COVID, a prospective, multicenter cohort study in Germany. BACKGROUND: Post-COVID syndrome (PCS) refers to persistent or new-onset symptoms 3 months after SARS-CoV-2 infection lasting for at least 2 months. The characterization of PCS varies across studies, with a substantial heterogeneity regarding different study samples, survey instruments, and follow-up periods. This is particularly the case in hospitalized patients vs. outpatients, as well as regarding different variants of concern (VOCs) and their impact on the frequency and severity of specific symptoms. METHODS: The study population of Beyond COVID was recruited in six German cities by inviting (1) individuals registered as SARS-CoV-2 PCR positive at the local Public Health Authorities and (2) previously hospitalized patients with infection date after 1st March 2021. Participants were allocated to the predominant VOC of their first infection. Questionnaires to assess pre-existing conditions, symptoms during infection, and persisting symptomswere performed. Follow-up at sixth-month intervals is planned for 3 years. The study is ongoing. This publication describes the parameters at the baseline visit (BV). RESULTS: We included 1257 participants (13% hospitalized-based; 87% population-based). Most participants had BA.2 (n = 436; 35%), followed by Delta (n = 336; 27%), BA.1 (n = 238; 19%), and Alpha (n = 218; 17%). The mean age was 47.1 years, and 59% of the participants were female. 72% reported at least one persisting symptom. Fatigue was the most frequent ongoing symptom (33%), followed by concentration disorders (25%) and dyspnoea (22%). Female sex, lower education, and a shorter period between infection and BV were associated with higher rates of persisting symptoms and symptom severity. Among all VOCs, participants with BA.1 and BA.2 had the lowest rates of persisting symptoms and symptom severity. CONCLUSION: Analysis of baseline data from the Beyond-COVID cohort confirms a high percentage of persistent symptoms. Omicron variants had lower rates of persistent symptoms and symptom severity. We are confident, that long-term follow-up and the additional results from our clinical examinations, blood samples, sociodemographic and psychosocial data will further contribute to the characterization of PCS.
35421995 | Severe COVID-19-associated variants linked to chemokine receptor gene control in monocytes and macrophages. Genome-wide association studies have identified 3p21.31 as the main risk locus for severe COVID-19, although underlying mechanisms remain elusive. We perform an epigenomic dissection of 3p21.31, identifying a CTCF-dependent tissue-specific 3D regulatory chromatin hub that controls the activity of several chemokine receptor genes. Risk SNPs colocalize with regulatory elements and are linked to increased expression of CCR1, CCR2 and CCR5 in monocytes and macrophages. As excessive organ infiltration of inflammatory monocytes and macrophages is a hallmark of severe COVID-19, our findings provide a rationale for the genetic association of 3p21.31 variants with elevated risk of hospitalization upon SARS-CoV-2 infection.
41935967 | HIV-1 viral load and reservoir size remain stable following SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccination in people with HIV. BACKGROUND: The potent immunogenicity of mRNA vaccination raised concerns about its impact on HIV-1 viral load (VL) and reservoir size in people with HIV, which could drive vaccine hesitancy. As part of a prospective clinical trial, we investigated whether SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccination induced changes in VL and reservoir size after a 1-year three-dose regimen in people with HIV on antiretroviral therapy (ART). METHODS: We collected blood samples from 37 people with HIV with varying degrees of immune reconstitution before vaccination and after receiving their second and third doses of vaccine. Anti-SARS-CoV-2-Spike antibodies and Spike-specific CD4+T-cells were analysed as indicators of vaccine-induced immunogenicity. The Intact Proviral DNA Assay was used to quantify the intact and defective HIV-1 reservoir. RESULTS: Vaccination with three doses of SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine over the course of 1 year did not result in plasma HIV-1 RNA rebound nor significantly alter the HIV-1 reservoir size regardless of immune status. The median intact HIV-1 reservoir size was 53 (IQR 34-193) copies/million CD4+T-cells at baseline and 86 (34-268) and 138 (33-334) 3 months after the second and third dose, respectively (p > 0.38). We found no correlation between changes in VL or HIV-1 reservoir size and the anti-SARS-CoV-2-Spike levels, Spike-specific CD4+T-cells, CD4+/CD8+ ratio, nadir or CD4+T-cell count. However, the intact reservoir size negatively correlated with CD4+T-cell count, CD4+/CD8+ ratio and nadir CD4+T-cell count. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show that three doses of SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine did not affect the VL or HIV reservoir size regardless of immune status, supporting their safety in people with HIV. Notably, a higher CD4+T-cell count correlated with a reduced intact HIV-1 reservoir size.
40962674 | The Impact of HLA Alleles on the Severity of COVID-19 in Kidney Transplant Patientss. BACKGROUND: Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) genes play a crucial role in immune response against infectious disease. In this study, we aimed to investigate the frequency of HLA alleles in kidney transplant patients diagnosed with COVID-19 and explore potential associations with disease severity. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Kidney transplant patients who were diagnosed with COVID-19 and followed up at the Istanbul Medical Faculty Hospital kidney transplant clinic between March 2020 and January 2023 were included in this study. All patients were genotyped for HLA loci (HLA-A,-B,-DRB1) at low resolution using the Luminex method. Patients were classified as mild, moderate, and severe according to COVID-19 severity. RESULTS: In a study of 332 kidney transplant patients, 52 developed severe COVID-19, with 24 deaths. Severe cases were older and had higher rates of hospitalization, Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admissions, acute kidney injury, and mortality (all P < .001). The HLA-B*38 and HLA-DRB1*11 alleles were more common in severe cases (P = .045 and P = .005). Among those who died, cardiovascular disease, longer hospital stays, and ICU admissions were more frequent (all P < .001). The HLA-B*35 allele was higher in the deceased (P = .021), while the HLA-DRB1*03 allele was absent in those who died but present in 8.3% of survivors (P = .042). CONCLUSION: The association with HLA was examined for susceptibility with COVID-19 infection in patients who underwent kidney transplantation: HLA-B*38 and HLA-DRB1*11 were found to be more common in patients with SARS-CoV-2 infections.
40451247 | Asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 Infection: Association Involving the HLA-B*15 Allele Group in Brazilian Individuals. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of HLA-A, -B and -C polymorphisms on the clinical course of SARS-CoV-2 infection and on the progression of COVID-19 in a population from southeastern Brazil. This study included 478 unvaccinated individuals. Of these, 369 were hospitalised with critical/severe (n = 309) or moderate/mild (n = 60) symptoms, and 109 were asymptomatic. The control group consisted of 150 volunteer bone marrow donors, recruited in the pre-pandemic period. The HLA-B*15 allele group (adjusted p value < 0.001) was associated with a protective factor against symptomatic infection. Investigating the effects of the distribution of HLA alleles on susceptibility and resistance to SARS-CoV-2 may provide a better understanding of the clinical course of infection in different geographical regions.
41858408 | TCR-pMHC recognition mediates target phagocytosis by T cells. T cells are traditionally viewed as non-phagocytic lymphocytes that recognize antigens via the T cell receptor (TCR) and mediate cytotoxicity at the immunological synapse, while phagocytosis is performed by professional phagocytes such as macrophages and dendritic cells. Here we show that peptide-MHC (pMHC) recognition alone is sufficient to drive rapid, antigen-specific phagocytosis by Jurkat T cells. We generated CD8+ Jurkat cells expressing a class I-restricted human TCR (SVAR16) with intermediate-to-high 2-dimensional (2D) affinity for the SARS-CoV-2 epitope HLA*A2:01-YLQ and used a micropipette system to control and image T cell interaction with pMHC coated beads. Upon contact with cognate YLQ-coated beads, SVAR16 transduced CD8+ Jurkat cells consistently formed phagosomes within minutes and completely internalized beads with consistent kinetics. These results demonstrate that appropriately tuned TCR-pMHC interactions, supported by CD8 co-receptors, can convert a canonical CD4+ T cell line into an antigen-specific phagocyte. This work reports a novel effector function of T cells and suggests that TCR-engineering could convert CD4+ T cells into phagocytes, potentially revealing a new approach to T cell-based cancer immunotherapy.
38785545 | SARS-CoV-2-Induced Type I Interferon Signaling Dysregulation in Olfactory Networks Implications for Alzheimer's Disease. Type I interferon signaling (IFN-I) perturbations are major drivers of COVID-19. Dysregulated IFN-I in the brain, however, has been linked to both reduced cognitive resilience and neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's. Previous works from our group have proposed a model where peripheral induction of IFN-I may be relayed to the CNS, even in the absence of fulminant infection. The aim of our study was to identify significantly enriched IFN-I signatures and genes along the transolfactory route, utilizing published datasets of the nasal mucosa and olfactory bulb amygdala transcriptomes of COVID-19 patients. We furthermore sought to identify these IFN-I signature gene networks associated with Alzheimer's disease pathology and risk. Gene expression data involving the nasal epithelium, olfactory bulb, and amygdala of COVID-19 patients and transcriptomic data from Alzheimer's disease patients were scrutinized for enriched Type I interferon pathways. Gene set enrichment analyses and gene-Venn approaches were used to determine genes in IFN-I enriched signatures. The Agora web resource was used to identify genes in IFN-I signatures associated with Alzheimer's disease risk based on its aggregated multi-omic data. For all analyses, false discovery rates (FDR) <0.05 were considered statistically significant. Pathways associated with type I interferon signaling were found in all samples tested. Each type I interferon signature was enriched by IFITM and OAS family genes. A 14-gene signature was associated with COVID-19 CNS and the response to Alzheimer's disease pathology, whereas nine genes were associated with increased risk for Alzheimer's disease based on Agora. Our study provides further support to a type I interferon signaling dysregulation along the extended olfactory network as reconstructed herein, ranging from the nasal epithelium and extending to the amygdala. We furthermore identify the 14 genes implicated in this dysregulated pathway with Alzheimer's disease pathology, among which HLA-C, HLA-B, HLA-A, PSMB8, IFITM3, HLA-E, IFITM1, OAS2, and MX1 as genes with associated conferring increased risk for the latter. Further research into its druggability by IFNb therapeutics may be warranted.
42147522 | Automated Detection of COVID-19 Using Machine Learning Analysis of White Blood Cell Flow Cytometry Images. BACKGROUND: COVID-19 is usually diagnosed by real-time polymerase chain reaction testing of nasopharyngeal swabs, but this approach may be associated with a prolonged time to diagnosis. Machine learning incorporating findings from standard laboratory tests may more rapidly identify individuals infected with SARS-CoV-2, enabling early management and protection for healthcare staff. METHODS: A machine learning model was developed to detect patients infected with COVID-19 using only white blood cell flow cytometry without using symptom or clinical history data. The model included images from 106 patients positive for SARS-CoV-2 and 211 controls admitted to a university hospital with respiratory symptoms. A total of 17 texture-feature analysis methods were tested using three classifiers. Finally, the Particle Swarm Optimization algorithm was used to combine the best-performing models. The performance of the final model was assessed using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC), sensitivity, specificity, precision, and F1-Score. RESULTS: Using the five-fold cross-validation technique, the final model achieved an accuracy of 88.96% for diagnosing patients with a SARS-CoV-2 infection. It also had a sensitivity of 78.30%, a specificity of 94.31%, a precision of 87.83%, an F1-score of 0.83, and an AUROC of 0.86. CONCLUSIONS: The final algorithm showed good diagnostic performance even when compared with models that included clinical, epidemiological, and other laboratory or ancillary test data. The use of cytometry images could represent a significant advance in the early diagnosis of COVID-19.
38936012 | Common human leucocyte antigensassociated with the development of subacute thyroiditis and COVID-19. PURPOSE: Case reports of subacute thyroiditis (SAT) following coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19) have been reported. Because the relationship between SAT and human leucocyte antigen (HLA) alleles is known, we aimed to determine HLA alleles that may predispose a patient to coronavirus infection and/or post-COVID-19 SAT. METHOD: This retrospective study was conducted in 51 patients with SAT and 190 healthy bone marrow donor volunteers. HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, and -DQB1 were genotyped using next-generation sequencing. The study population was grouped into four groups according to SAT and COVID-19 history. RESULTS: The frequency of HLA-DQB1*04:02 was higher in the COVID-19(-) participants than in the COVID-19(+) participants (=0.045). The presence of HLA-DQB1*04:02 was associated with a lower risk of developing COVID-19 in all groups. The frequencies of HLA-B*35:01, HLA-B*35:03, HLA-DRB1*12:01, and HLA-DRB1*14:01 were different in the SAT(+) group than in the SAT(-) group in COVID-19(-) group. The frequencies of HLA-C*12:03, HLA-DQB1*06:04, HLA-DRB1*13:02, and HLA-DRB1*13:03 were different in the SAT(+) group than in the SAT(-) group in the COVID-19 (+) group. The difference in the frequency of these HLA types remains significant when the four groups are included together as follows: In the COVID-19(+) group, the frequencies of HLA-DRB1*13:02, and HLA-DRB1*13:03 were higher in the SAT(+) group than in the SAT(-) group. In the COVID-19(-) group, the frequencies of HLA-B*35:03, HLA-DRB1*12:01, and HLA-DRB1*14:01 were higher in the SAT (+) group than in the SAT(-) group. CONCLUSION: HLA alleles associated with SAT susceptibility may vary with COVID-19 history.
41994288 | Humoral immunity and infection status of PLWH following vaccination after the BA.5/BF.7 wave. Objectives: To ensure adequate preparedness of immunocompromised populations for future pandemic waves, it is crucial to assess the humoral immune response of people living with HIV (PLWH) to existing vaccination strategies and major Omicron sublineages following BA.5/BF.7 breakthrough infection (BTI). Methods: This study enrolled 232 PLWH who had received either the CoronaVac/BBIBP-CorV or ZF2001 vaccine and experienced the BA.5/BF.7 wave in China between January and April 2023. Serum samples from each individual were collected approximately 1-6 months after the last exposure. Immunoglobulin G (IgG) and total antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 were measured using a chemiluminescent immunoassay. Neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) against D614G, BA.5, and XBB.1.5 were detected using a pseudovirus-based neutralization assay. Meanwhile, an Enterprise WeChat link was created to allow PLWH to self-report severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infections and clinical symptoms associated with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Results: The Omicron BA.5/BF.7 BTI rate among PLWH was 76.7%. The most commonly reported symptoms were fever, fatigue, and muscle ache. PLWH who experienced BA.5/BF.7 BTI after three doses of inactivated vaccines showed elevated levels of total antibodies, IgG, and NAb titers against D614G and BA.5. In contrast, those who experienced BTI after three doses of ZF2001 vaccines showed the highest NAb titers against D614G and BA.5. However, the neutralizing capacity of antibodies against XBB.1.5 was significantly reduced in both study cohorts. PLWH who had CD4 lymphocyte counts greater than 500 cells/muL demonstrated higher NAb titers against all tested variants and reported a lower incidence of symptoms. Conclusion: Hybrid immunity resulting from vaccination and BA.5/BF.7 BTI enhances humoral immune responses in PLWH, which may contribute to improved protection against COVID-19. However, this hybrid immunity offers limited protection against Omicron variant XBB.1.5. Regular monitoring of immune responses to new vaccines targeting emerging variants is crucial for optimizing COVID-19 prevention strategies in PLWH.
39611146 | Case report: A novel JAK3 homozygous variant in a patient with severe combined immunodeficiency and persistent COVID-19. Inborn errors of immunity (IEI) encompass a broad range of disorders with heterogeneous clinical presentations, often leading to challenges in early diagnosis. This study presents a case of a Brazilian patient with a T-B+NK- severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) diagnosed at the age of 6 months when was admitted to the hospital due to multiple infectious diseases. Despite undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), the patient had recurrent infections, requiring constant hospital care, including IgG infusions and several antibiotic treatments for the following months. One year after HSCT, presenting mixed chimerism, the patient tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in nasopharyngeal, duodenum, and intestine samples, with persistent positive tests over a six-month period. Whole exome sequencing identified a private homozygous missense variant (c.1202T>C; p.Leu401Pro) in the Janus Kinase 3 (JAK3) gene. This substitution is located in a highly conserved position, and different bioinformatic variant effect predictors classified the variant as damaging. In silico structural analysis suggested that the variant led to increased structural instability, disrupting the hydrophobic interactions within the SH2 domain, thereby influencing the neighboring residues and potentially altering the interaction between JAK3 and gamma chain (gammac) intracellular receptors. This study provides evidence for the novel pathogenicity classification of the variant and highlights the importance of the JAK3 and SH2 domain modulating protein function and their contribution to the SCID pathogenesis.
18585925 | Boys, girls and shuttling of SRY and SOX9. In the mammalian embryo, SRY and SOX9 are key Sertoli cell proteins that drive the development of the bipotential gonad into a testes rather than an ovary, leading ultimately to the male phenotype. Clinical SRY and SOX9 mutations causing disorders of sex development (DSD) highlight defective protein-protein interactions between SRY or SOX9, and carrier proteins required for nuclear import (importin-b and calmodulin) and nuclear export (CRM-1). The fine balance between import and export determines the levels of transcriptionally active SRY and SOX9 in the nucleus. Recently, post-translational modifications of SRY and SOX9 have been identified which affect nuclear transport. It is therefore timely that the consequences of sex-reversal mutation upon nuclear transport be reviewed. SRY and SOX9 mutations in DSD have uncovered regulatory sites for sumoylation, ubiquitination, acetylation and phosphorylation, many of which are essential for their transport and sex determining functions.
32020029 | Remdesivir and chloroquine effectively inhibit the recently emerged novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in vitro.
