25289687 | Human adenovirus-specific gamma/delta and CD8+ T cells generated by T-cell receptor transfection to treat adenovirus infection after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Human adenovirus infection is life threatening after allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Immunotherapy with donor-derived adenovirus-specific T cells is promising; however, 20% of all donors lack adenovirus-specific T cells. To overcome this, we transfected alpha/beta T cells with mRNA encoding a T-cell receptor (TCR) specific for the HLA-A*0101-restricted peptide LTDLGQNLLY from the adenovirus hexon protein. Furthermore, since allo-reactive endogenous TCR of donor T lymphocytes would induce graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) in a mismatched patient, we transferred the TCR into gamma/delta T cells, which are not allo-reactive. TCR-transfected gamma/delta T cells secreted low quantities of cytokines after antigen-specific stimulation, which were increased dramatically after co-transfection of CD8alpha-encoding mRNA. In direct comparison with TCR-transfected alpha/beta T cells, TCR-CD8alpha-co-transfected gamma/delta T cells produced more tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and lysed peptide-loaded target cells as efficiently. Most importantly, TCR-transfected alpha/beta T cells and TCR-CD8alpha-co-transfected gamma/delta T cells efficiently lysed adenovirus-infected target cells. We show here, for the first time, that not only alpha/beta T cells but also gamma/delta T cells can be equipped with an adenovirus specificity by TCR-RNA electroporation. Thus, our strategy offers a new means for the immunotherapy of adenovirus infection after allogeneic HSCT.
34785698 | A phase I study of the WT2725 dosing emulsion in patients with advanced malignancies. WT2725 is a Wilms' tumor gene 1 (WT1)-derived-oligopeptide vaccine designed to induce WT1-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes against WT1+ tumors in human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*0201+ and/or HLA-A*0206+ patients. Here, we report the results of a phase I study of WT2725. In this phase I, open-label, dose-escalation and expansion two-part study, the WT2725 dosing emulsion was administered as a monotherapy to patients with advanced malignancies known to overexpress WT1, including glioblastoma. In part 1, 44 patients were sequentially allocated to four doses: 0.3 mg (n = 5), 0.9 mg (n = 5), 3 mg (n = 6), and 9 mg (n = 28). In part 2, 18 patients were allocated to two doses: 18 mg (n = 9) and 27 mg (n = 9). No dose-limiting toxicities were observed, so the maximum tolerated dose was not reached. Median progression-free survival was 58 (95% confidence interval [CI] 56-81) days (~ 2 months) across all patients with solid tumors; median overall survival was 394 days (13.0 months) (95% CI 309-648). Overall immune-related response rate in solid tumor patients was 7.5% (95% CI 2.6-19.9); response was most prominent in the glioblastoma subgroup. Overall, 62.3% of patients were considered cytotoxic T-lymphocyte responders; the proportion increased with increasing WT2725 dosing emulsion dose. WT2725 dosing emulsion was well tolerated. Preliminary tumor response and biological marker data suggest that WT2725 dosing emulsion may exert antitumor activity in malignancies known to overexpress the WT1 protein, particularly glioblastoma, and provide a rationale for future clinical development.Trial registration: NCT01621542.
30778343 | Clinical, Immunological, and Molecular Findings in 57 Patients With Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID) From India. Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) represents one of the most severe forms of primary immunodeficiency (PID) disorders characterized by impaired cellular and humoral immune responses. Here, we report the clinical, immunological, and molecular findings in 57 patients diagnosed with SCID from India. Majority of our patients (89%) presented within 6 months of age. The most common clinical manifestations observed were recurrent pneumonia (66%), failure to thrive (60%), chronic diarrhea (35%), gastrointestinal infection (21%), and oral candidiasis (21%). Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) is the only curative therapy available for treating these patients. Four patients underwent HSCT in our cohort but had a poor survival outcome. Lymphopenia (absolute lymphocyte counts/muL <2,500) was noted in 63% of the patients. Based on immunophenotypic pattern, majority of the cases were T-B- SCID (39%) followed by T-B+ SCID (28%). MHC class II deficiency accounted for 10.5% of our patient group. A total of 49 patients were molecularly characterized in this study and 32 novel variants were identified in our cohort. The spectrum of genetic defects in our cohort revealed a wide genetic heterogeneity with the major genetic cause being RAG1/2 gene defect (n = 12) followed by IL2RG (n = 9) and JAK3 defects (n = 9). Rare forms of SCID like Purine nucleoside phosphorylase (PNP) deficiency, reticular dysgenesis, DNA-Protein Kinase (DNA-PKcs) deficiency, six cases of MHC class II deficiency and two ZAP70 deficiency were also identified in our cohort. Fourteen percent of the defects still remained uncharacterized despite the application of next generation sequencing. With the exception of MHC class II deficiency and ZAP70 deficiency, all SCID patients had extremely low T cell receptor excision (TRECs) (<18 copies/muL).
38543518 | Genomic Surveillance and Mutation Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Variants among Patients in Saudi Arabia. The genome of severe acute respiratory coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus responsible for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), has undergone a rapid evolution, resulting in the emergence of multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants with amino acid changes. This study aimed to sequence the whole genome of SARS-CoV-2 and detect the variants present in specimens from Saudi Arabia. Furthermore, we sought to analyze and characterize the amino acid changes in the various proteins of the identified SARS-CoV-2 variants. A total of 1161 samples from patients diagnosed with COVID-19 in Saudi Arabia, between 1 April 2021 and 31 July 2023, were analyzed. Whole genome sequencing was employed for variant identification and mutation analysis. The statistical analysis was performed using the Statistical Analytical Software SAS, version 9.4, and GraphPad, version 9.0. This study identified twenty-three variants and subvariants of SARS-CoV-2 within the population, with the Omicron BA.1 (21K) variant (37.0%) and the Delta (21J) variant (12%) being the most frequently detected. Notably, the Omicron subvariants exhibited a higher mean mutation rate. Amino acid mutations were observed in twelve proteins. Among these, the spike (S), ORF1a, nucleocapsid (N), and ORF1b proteins showed a higher frequency of amino acid mutations compared to other the viral proteins. The S protein exhibited the highest incidence of amino acid mutations (47.6%). Conversely, the ORF3a, ORF8, ORF7a, ORF6, and ORF7b proteins appeared more conserved, demonstrating the lowest percentage and frequency of amino acid mutations. The investigation of structural protein regions revealed the N-terminal S1 subunit of the S protein to frequently harbor mutations, while the N-terminal domain of the envelope (E) protein displayed the lowest mutation frequency. This study provides insights into the variants and genetic diversity of SARS-CoV-2, underscoring the need for further research to comprehend its genome evolution and the occurrence of mutations. These findings are pertinent to the development of testing approaches, therapeutics, and vaccine strategies.
28521443 | Loss of Fas expression and high expression of HLA-E promoting the immune escape of early colorectal cancer cells. Previous studies have investigated the mechanisms of immune evasion of tumor cells in numerous types of advanced solid malignant tumor, and several types of immune preparations have been administered as antitumor adjuvant therapies. However, in the majority of studies, the efficacy of therapies has been revealed to be limited. The present study aimed to investigate the immune evasion mechanisms employed by early colorectal cancer cells and the expression of the molecules associated with immune evasion during the malignant transformation process of normal colorectal epithelial cells to measure the effects of immune intervention for early colorectal cancer, and to improve the efficacy of immunotherapy. A total of 60 colorectal tissues, including 15 normal mucosa, 15 adenoma, 15 early cancer and 15 advanced cancer tissues, from patients undergoing endoscopic procedures in Huadong Hospital Affiliated to Fudan University (Shanghai, China) were collected. A comparison of baseline characteristics among these four groups was performed. The expression levels of human leukocyte antigen-A (HLA-A), apoptosis antigen 1 (Fas), c-c chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5), Fas ligand (FasL) and HLA-E in each group were detected by immunohistochemical analysis. Furthermore, 15 patients with advanced colorectal cancer were enrolled into the present study. Advanced cancer and paracancer tissues (normal mucosal tissues 3 cm away from the margin of cancer tissues) were collected from each patient by colonoscopic biopsy. The expression levels of HLA-A, Fas, CCR5, FasL and HLA-E in each group were detected by western blot analysis. During the malignant transformation process of normal colorectal epithelial cells, the expression levels of CCR5, FasL and HLA-E increased significantly (P<0.001), whilst the expression levels of Fas reduced significantly (P=0.0271). In the early cancer group, the expression levels of Fas reduced significantly (P=0.0239), whilst the expression levels of HLA-E increased significantly (P<0.001) compared with adenoma group. In conclusion, a loss of Fas expression and high expression levels of HLA-E may promote the immune evasion of early colorectal cancer cells.
21592983 | Human leukocyte antigen genotypes in the genetic control of adaptive immune responses to smallpox vaccine. BACKGROUND: The role of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes in mediating adaptive immune responses to smallpox vaccine remains unknown. METHODS: We determined genotypes for a group of individuals (n = 1071) who received a single dose of smallpox vaccine (Dryvax, Wyeth Laboratories) and examined associations between HLA alleles and 15 immune outcomes to smallpox vaccine on a per-locus and a per-allele level. RESULTS: We found significant associations between the HLA-B and HLA - DQB1 loci and vaccinia-induced antibodies (P = .04 for each locus), with the HLA-B*1302 (P = .036), B*3802 (P = .011), DQB1*0302 (P = .015), and DQB1*0604 (P = .017) alleles being associated with higher levels. Significant global associations were identified between vaccinia-specific interferon (IFN)-gamma and DQA1 (P = .003), interleukin (IL)-1beta and HLA-B (P = .004), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and HLA-B (P = .006), and IL-6 and HLA-B locus (P = .016) for secreted cytokines, as well as between CD8alpha(+) IFN-gamma Elispot responses and DQB1 (P = .027). Subjects carrying B*3906 (P = .006) and B*5701 (P < .001) secreted higher levels of IL-1beta than did subjects who did not carry these alleles. Subjects carrying the B*5301 (P = .047) and B*5601 (P = .008) alleles secreted less IL-1beta, compared with subjects who did not carry these alleles. The B*3502 (P = .009), B*5601 (P = .004), and B*5701 (P < .001) alleles were significantly associated with variations in TNF-alpha secretion. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that variations in antibody and cellular IFN-gamma, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and IL-6 immune responses after receipt of smallpox vaccine are genetically controlled by HLA genes or genes in close linkage disequilibrium to these alleles.
32658127 | Brief Report: Toll-like Receptor 9-1635A/G Polymorphism Is Associated With HIV-1 Rebound After Four Weeks of Interruption of Antiretroviral Therapy. OBJECTIVES: This study aims to analyze the association of the presence of common polymorphisms [single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)] on Toll-like receptors (TLRs), such as TLR9-1635A/G, TLR2-1892A/C, TLR2-2258G/A, TLR4-899A/G, and TLR4-1196C/T, with the viral rebound after stopping antiretroviral treatment (ART). CCR5-Delta32 deletion and HLA-A/HLA-B alleles were also analyzed. DESIGN: Interruption of ART may be required to investigate the outcome of strategies aimed to achieve drug-free HIV remission or cure. However, interruption of ART is currently not indicated. This was a retrospective longitudinal study that included 57 long-term suppressed HIV-1-infected individuals. METHODS: TLR SNPs were detected by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). CCR5-Delta32 was analyzed by conventional PCR and HLA-A and HLA-B alleles by PCR-SSOP Luminex. RESULTS: HIV-1 RNA rebound at week 4 after treatment interruption positively correlated with pre-ART HIV-1 load (P = 0.025). The TLR9-1635AA genotype was independently associated with a higher HIV-1 rebound compared with those with AG + GG genotype (multivariate stepwise regression analysis, P = 0.004). Women had lower HIV-1 RNA load both at rebound and during the 72 weeks of follow-up compared with men (P < 0.05 at all time-points), whereas CD4 nadir and CD4 count set-point were similar according to sex. The pre-ART viral load was independently associated with the viral set-point (P = 0.001), whereas the presence of the HLA-A01 allele (P = 0.027) and the CD4 nadir (P = 0.001) were associated with the CD4 count set-point. CONCLUSIONS: The association of the TLR9-1635AA genotype with a higher HIV-1 rebound suggests that this SNP may affect the results from strategies requiring interruption of ART aimed to cure HIV-1 infection.
22735807 | Simultaneous coexpression of memory-related and effector-related genes by individual human CD8 T cells depends on antigen specificity and differentiation. Phenotypic and functional cell properties are usually analyzed at the level of defined cell populations but not single cells. Yet, large differences between individual cells may have important functional consequences. It is likely that T-cell-mediated immunity depends on the polyfunctionality of individual T cells, rather than the sum of functions of responding T-cell subpopulations. We performed highly sensitive single-cell gene expression profiling, allowing the direct ex vivo characterization of individual virus-specific and tumor-specific T cells from healthy donors and melanoma patients. We have previously shown that vaccination with the natural tumor peptide Melan-A-induced T cells with superior effector functions as compared with vaccination with the analog peptide optimized for enhanced HLA-A*0201 binding. Here we found that natural peptide vaccination induced tumor-reactive CD8 T cells with frequent coexpression of both memory/homing-associated genes (CD27, IL7R, EOMES, CXCR3, and CCR5) and effector-related genes (IFNG, KLRD1, PRF1, and GZMB), comparable with protective Epstein-Barr virus-specific and cytomegalovirus-specific T cells. In contrast, memory/homing-associated and effector-associated genes were less frequently coexpressed after vaccination with the analog peptide. Remarkably, these findings reveal a previously unknown level of gene expression diversity among vaccine-specific and virus-specific T cells with the simultaneous coexpression of multiple memory/homing-related and effector-related genes by the same cell. Such broad functional gene expression signatures within antigen-specific T cells may be critical for mounting efficient responses to pathogens or tumors. In summary, direct ex vivo high-resolution molecular characterization of individual T cells provides key insights into the processes shaping the functional properties of tumor-specific and virus-specific T cells.
38518551 | Upping the ante: enhanced expression of interferon-antagonizing ORF6 and ORF9b proteins by SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern. SARS-CoV-2 exhibits a remarkable capability to subvert the host antiviral innate immune system. This adeptness is orchestrated by viral proteins, which initially attempt to obstruct the activation of the antiviral immune program and then act as a fail-safe mechanism to mitigate the downstream effects of the activated immune response. This dual strategy leads to delayed expression and enfeebled action of type-I and -III interferons at the infection site, enabling the virus to replicate extensively in the lungs and subsequently disseminate to other organs. Throughout the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, SARS-CoV-2 has undergone evolution, giving rise to several variants of concern, some with exceedingly higher transmission and virulence. These improved features have been linked, at least in part, to the heightened expression or activity of specific viral proteins involved in circumventing host defense mechanisms. In this review, we aim to provide a concise summary of two SARS-CoV-2 proteins, ORF6 and ORF9b, which provided selective advantage to certain variants, affecting their biology and pathogenesis.
36698398 | Canine oral squamous cell carcinoma as a spontaneous, translational model for radiation and immunology research. Introduction: Improving outcomes for oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) patients has been hindered by a lack of effective predictive animal models. Spontaneously occurring canine OSCC could help fill this gap. The objective of this study was to characterize the immune landscape of canine OSCC to advance understanding of how dogs could serve as a surrogate for human OSCC. Methods/Results: Canine OSCC contains a heterogenous tumor immune microenvironment. CD3+ T cells were the predominant tumor infiltrating immune cell population; however, there was a wide range CD3+ T cell density across samples. The most common CD3+ T cell micro-anatomical distribution was defined as \pre-existing immunity\, but the remaining 20% of tumors were characterized as \immunologically ignorant\ or \excluded infiltrates\ patterns. When compared to normal oral mucosa, the tumor gene expression pattern suggests that canine OSCC microenvironment is highly inflamed and characterized by the presence of an anti-tumor immune response dominated by cytotoxic effector T cells and NK cells (CD8a, GZMA, OX40, and HLA-A); however, overexpression of genes associated with effector T cell exhaustion and microenvironmental immunosuppression was also identified (PD-1, LAG3, CXCL2). Correlations between CD3+ T cell density and immune gene expression revealed key genes associated with cytotoxic anti-tumor T cell responses (GZMA, GZMB, PRF1), co-stimulation of T cells (CD27, CD28, ICOS), and other immune processes, including Type I IFN response (TNF, TNFSF10), and T cell exhaustion (CTLA4, PD-1). CD3+ T cell density in canine OSCC was significantly correlated with a cytolytic activity score (mean PRF1 and GZMA expression), suggestive of active effector CD8 T cell function. CD204+ macrophages were the second most abundant tumor infiltrating immune cell, and when comparing to normal oral mucosa, two differently expressed genes linked to tumor associated macrophages and myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC) were identified: CXCL2, CD70. Overexpression of CXCL2 was also identified in canine OSCC \T cell-high\ tumors compared to \T cell-low\ tumors. Discussion: This study identified actionable immunotherapy targets which could inform future comparative oncology trials in canine OSCC: CTLA-4, PD-1, CXCL2. These data provide a good first step towards utilizing spontaneous canine OSCC as a comparative model for human OSCC radiation and immuno-oncology research.
38490508 | SARS-CoV-2 and UPS with potentials for therapeutic interventions. The Ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS), an essential eukaryotic/host/cellular post-translational modification (PTM), plays a critical role in the regulation of diverse cellular functions including regulation of protein stability, immune signaling, antiviral activity, as well as virus replication. Although UPS regulation of viral proteins may be utilized by the host as a defense mechanism to invade viruses, viruses may have adapted to take advantage of the host UPS. This system can be manipulated by viruses such as the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) to stimulate various steps of the viral replication cycle and facilitate pathogenesis, thereby causing the respiratory disease COVID-19. Many SARS-CoV-2 encoded proteins including open reading frame 3a (ORF3a), ORF6, ORF7a, ORF9b, and ORF10 interact with the host's UPS machinery, influencing host immune signaling and apoptosis. Moreover, SARS-CoV-2 encoded papain-like protease (PLpro) interferes with the host UPS to facilitate viral replication and to evade the host's immune system. These alterations in SARS-CoV-2 infected cells have been revealed by various proteomic studies, suggesting potential targets for clinical treatment. To provide insight into the underlying causes of COVID-19 and suggest possible directions for therapeutic interventions, this paper reviews the intricate relationship between SARS-CoV-2 and UPS. Promising treatment strategies are also investigated in this paper including targeting PLpro with zinc-ejector drugs, as well as targeting viral non-structural protein (nsp12) via heat treatment associated ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal degradation to reduce viral pathogenesis.
12186903 | Analysis of the adenovirus E1B-55K-anchored proteome reveals its link to ubiquitination machinery. During the early phase of infection, the E1B-55K protein of adenovirus type 5 (Ad5) counters the E1A-induced stabilization of p53, whereas in the late phase, E1B-55K modulates the preferential nucleocytoplasmic transport and translation of the late viral mRNAs. The mechanism(s) by which E1B-55K performs these functions has not yet been clearly elucidated. In this study, we have taken a proteomics-based approach to identify and characterize novel E1B-55K-associated proteins. A multiprotein E1B-55K-containing complex was immunopurified from Ad5-infected HeLa cells and found to contain E4-orf6, as well as several cellular factors previously implicated in the ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated destruction of proteins, including Cullin-5, Rbx1/ROC1/Hrt1, and Elongins B and C. We further demonstrate that a complex containing these as well as other proteins is capable of directing the polyubiquitination of p53 in vitro. These ubiquitin ligase components were found in a high-molecular-mass complex of 800 to 900 kDa. We propose that these newly identified binding partners (Cullin-5, Elongins B and C, and Rbx1) complex with E1B-55K and E4-orf6 during Ad infection to form part of an E3 ubiquitin ligase that targets specific protein substrates for degradation. We further suggest that E1B-55K functions as the principal substrate recognition component of this SCF-type ubiquitin ligase, whereas E4-orf6 may serve to nucleate the assembly of the complex. Lastly, we describe the identification and characterization of two novel E1B-55K interacting factors, importin-alpha 1 and pp32, that may also participate in the functions previously ascribed to E1B-55K and E4-orf6.
5071791 | The influence of obidoxime on acetylcholinesterase activity in different parts of the mouse brain following isopropylmethyl phosphonofluoridate intoxication.
25935001 | Epigenetic regulation of differential HLA-A allelic expression levels. MHC class I expression levels influence the strength of immune responses and represent another variable in determining outcome to disease beyond peptide binding alone. Identification of the HLA loci that vary in allelic expression levels and delineating the mechanism responsible for expression variation may provide the opportunity to modify their expression therapeutically. We have examined the expression levels of allelic lineages at the HLA-A locus in a sample of 216 European Americans using a real-time polymerase chain reaction assay, which amplifies all HLA-A lineages specifically with equal efficiency, and observed a gradient of expression that associates with HLA-A allelic lineage (R = 0.6, P = 5 x 10(-25)). DNA methylation of the HLA-A gene appears to contribute to the variation in HLA-A mRNA expression levels, as a significant inverse correlation was observed between HLA-A mRNA expression levels in untreated cells and the degree to which expression is increased after treatment of the cells with a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor (R = 0.6, P = 2.8 x 10(-6)). Further, deep-sequencing and immunoprecipitation assays revealed allelic lineage-specific methylation patterns within the HLA-A promoter region where increased DNA methylation levels correlated significantly with reduced HLA-A expression levels (R = 0.89, P = 3.7 x 10(-9)). These data demonstrate HLA-A allelic lineage-specific variation in expression levels, and DNA methylation as a likely factor in contributing to this variation.
38490580 | Selective pressure mediated by influenza virus M158-66 epitope-specific CD8+T cells promotes accumulation of extra-epitopic amino acid substitutions associated with viral resistance to these T cells. Influenza viruses are notorious for their capacity to evade host immunity. Not only can they evade recognition by virus-neutralizing antibodies, there is also evidence that they accumulate mutations in epitopes recognized by virus-specific CD8+T cells. In addition, we have shown previously that human influenza A viruses were less well recognized than avian influenza viruses by CD8+T cells directed to the highly conserved, HLA-A*02:01 restricted M158-66 epitope located in the Matrix 1 (M1) protein. Amino acid differences at residues outside the epitope were responsible for the differential recognition, and it was hypothesized that this reflected immune adaptation of human influenza viruses to selective pressure exerted by M158-66-specific CD8+T cells in the human population. In the present study, we tested this hypothesis and investigated if selective pressure exerted by M158-66 epitope-specific CD8+T cells could drive mutations at the extra-epitopic residues in vitro. To this end, isogenic influenza A viruses with the M1 gene of a human or an avian influenza virus were serially passaged in human lung epithelial A549 cells that transgenically express the HLA-A*02:01 molecule or not, in the presence or absence of M158-66 epitope-specific CD8+T cells. Especially in the virus with the M1 gene of an avian influenza virus, variants emerged with mutations at the extra-epitopic residues associated with reduced recognition by M158-66-specific T cells as detected by Next Generation Sequencing. Although the emergence of these variants was observed in the absence of selective pressure exerted by M158-66 epitope-specific CD8+T cells, their proportion was much larger in the presence of this selective pressure.
15914216 | A peptide inhibitor of exportin1 blocks shuttling of the adenoviral E1B 55 kDa protein but not export of viral late mRNAs. The human subgroup C adenoviral E1B 55 kDa and E4 Orf6 proteins are required for efficient nuclear export of viral late mRNAs, but the cellular pathway that mediates such export has not been identified. As a first step to develop a general approach to address this issue, we have assessed the utility of cell-permeable peptide inhibitors of cellular export receptors. As both E1B and E4 proteins have been reported to contain a leucine-rich nuclear export signal (NES), we synthesized a cell-permeable peptide containing such an NES. This peptide induced substantial inhibition of export of the E1B protein, whereas a control, non-functional peptide did not. However, under the same conditions, the NES peptide had no effect on export of viral late mRNAs. These observations establish that viral late mRNAs are not exported by exportin1, as well as the value of peptide inhibitors in investigation of mRNA export regulation in adenovirus-infected cells.
38249884 | Knockdown of Slfn5 alleviates lipopolysaccharide-induced pneumonia by regulating Janus kinase/signal transduction and activator of transcription pathway. Background: In recent years, the incidence of pneumonia has been increasing, which is the main cause of death and morbidity of children and the elderly in the world. Slfn5 is implicated in multiple cancers, and Slfn5 promotes epithelial-mesenchymal transition and metastasis in lung cancer. However, the influences of Slfn5 in pneumonia have not yet been completely cleared. Herein, we aimed to explore the underlying effects and regulatory mechanisms of Slfn5 in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced pneumonia in mice and A549 cells. Methods: Mice were intratracheally administered 5 mg/kg LPS to construct pneumonia model. In vitro, A549 cells were treated with 10 microg/mL LPS to construct cellular pneumonia model. Slfn5 expression was detected using immunohistochemistry and western blotting. Haematoxylin and eosin staining, TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferasemediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end-labelling), and western blotting were performed to assess pathological injury and inflammation. MTT [3(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2-H-tetrazolium bromide], flow cytometry, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay analysis were performed to analyze cell viability, apoptosis, and inflammation. Gene set enrichment analysis was performed to explore the mechanism of Slfn5 in pneumonia. Results: Slfn5 expression was upregulated in LPS-induced pneumonia in mice and A549 cells. In mice, knockdown of Slfn5 weakened LPS-induced lung injury and inflammation and decreased the expression of p-JAK2, p-JAK3, and p-STAT3. In LPS-stimulated A549 cells, downregulation of Slfn5 expression increased and Slfn5 overexpression decreased cell viability. Downregulation of Slfn5 expression decreased and Slfn5 overexpression increased cell apoptosis, inflammation and the expression of p-JAK2, p-JAK3, and p-STAT3. AG490, an inhibitor of the JAK/STAT pathway, reversed the damaging effects of Slfn5 overexpression. Conclusions: In the LPS-induced pneumonia model, Slfn5 knockdown alleviated LPS-induced lung injury by regulating the JAK/STAT pathway.
38090439 | Phylogenetic, Sequencing, and Mutation Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron (BA.1) and Its Subvariants (BA.1.1, BA.2) During the Fifth Wave of the COVID-19 Pandemic in the Iraqi Kurdistan Region. Introduction In December 2019, a global outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 occurred in Wuhan, China, resulting in the COVID-19 pandemic. Since then, the virus has spread to all countries, necessitating a worldwide initiative to create effective treatments and vaccines. Methods The RNA of samples QIAamp Viral RNA Mini Kit (Qiagen, MD). SARS-CoV-2 RNA was reverse transcribed with SuperScript IV VILO (ThermoFisher Scientific, Waltham, MA). The virus cDNA was amplified in two multiplexed PCR reactions using Q5 DNA High-fidelity Polymerase (New England Biolabs, Ipswich, MA). The genome was entirely sequenced from 40 samples at the Scripps Research Institute (TSRI) in California, USA. The samples were sequenced using a NovaSeq 6000 SP Reagent Kit v1.5 (Illumina, USA). The TSRI then entered these sequences into the GISAID database. The virus sequence was matched to the SARS-COV-2 virus identified in Wuhan, China (accession number: NC 045512.2) using Illumina sequencing technology (Illumina, CA), finding 95 different changes. The NextClade (clades.nextstrain.org) and Mega 11 (https://www.megasoftware.net) software tools were used to analyze SARS-CoV-2 genome sequence alignment and mutation studies. Results Following a sequencing analysis, it was determined that the spike glycoprotein (S) included a total of 38 mutations. Thirty of these mutations were found in the ORF1a gene. Additionally, 11 mutations were found in the ORF1b gene, with the remaining mutations found in the nucleocapsid (N), membrane protein (M), open reading frames 6 (ORF6), open reading frames 9 (ORF9), and envelope (E) genes. The phylogenetic analysis and transmission studies indicated that the isolates discovered in Iraq had separate infection origins and were closely linked to those discovered in other nations and states. Conclusion According to the findings of this study, a new vaccine can be developed based on identifying new Omicron variant mutations and subvariants such as BA.2, which were identified for the first time in Iraq.
38580537 | HLA alleles associated with susceptibility and severity of the COVID-19 in Vietnamese. The diversity of clinical manifestations in COVID-19 has been observed not only among individuals but also among various populations in globally. HLA molecules play a central role in physiology, protective immunity, and deleterious, disease-related autoimmune reactivity or overreaction. This study exploited the association between HLA frequencies and SARS-CoV-2 susceptibility and disease severity among the Vietnamese cohort (159 patients and 52 controls). A significant difference in frequency of both HLA class I and II in mild, moderate, and severe/fatal COVID-19 patients and negative exposure individuals - the controls were observed. Regarding SARS-CoV-2 sensitivity, HLA-A*03:01, 30:01, HLA-DQA1*01:02, DRB1*15:01, and DRB5*02:02 presented higher frequency in the control group compared with infected patients but DRB1 09:01 frequency was higher in infected patients. Regarding COVID-19 severity, HLA-F*01:01, 01:03 and DPA1*01:03 and 02:01, DPB1*04:01, DQA1*01:02, and DQB1*05:02 alleles were detected with higher frequency in severe patients but DOB*01:01, DRB1*05:01 and 09:01 had a significantly higher frequency in the mild group than remaining groups. Surprisingly, HLA-DQA1*01:02 and DRB1*09:01 alleles were identified with both inversely potential roles in protective function and severe risk. The obtained data herein will contribute to explore on the role of host genetic background in the pathology of COVID-19 disease.
19265143 | MHC class I/peptide transfer between dendritic cells overcomes poor cross-presentation by monocyte-derived APCs that engulf dying cells. In vivo data suggest that monocytes participate critically in cross-presentation, but other data suggest that lymph node resident dendritic cells (DCs) mainly cross-present. Here, we utilized a three-dimensional model of a blood vessel wall that endogenously supports DC development from human monocytes, and we incorporated dying autologous cells in the subendothelial matrix of the model. Flu-infected dying cells promoted monocytes to become mature DCs and cross-present cell-associated Ags for the activation of CTLs. Similar responses were induced by loading the dying cells with the TLR7/8 ligand ssRNA, whereas dying cells loaded with TLR3 ligand were less efficient. Monocyte-derived DCs that developed in this model cross-presented Ag to T cells efficiently regardless of whether they engulfed detectable amounts of labeled dying cells. Unexpectedly, the monocyte-derived cells that directly engulfed dying cells in vitro were not the major APCs stimulating CD8(+) lymphocytes. Instead, bystander DCs acquired more robust capacity to cross-prime through receipt of MHC class I/peptide from the phagocytic, monocyte-derived cells. In mice, lymph node-homing monocyte-derived DCs processed Ags from engulfed cells and then transferred MHC class I/peptide complexes to confer cross-priming capacity to MHC class I-deficient lymph node resident CD8alpha(+) DCs. Thus, natural or synthetic TLR7/8 agonists contained within dying cells promote the conversion of monocytes to DCs with capacity for cross-presentation and for \cross-dressing\ other DCs. These data reveal a way in which migratory monocyte-derived DCs and other DCs, like lymph node resident DCs, both mediate cross-presentation.
34127972 | Evolution of enhanced innate immune evasion by the SARS-CoV-2 B.1.1.7 UK variant. Emergence of SARS-CoV-2 variants, including the globally successful B.1.1.7 lineage, suggests viral adaptations to host selective pressures resulting in more efficient transmission. Although much effort has focused on Spike adaptation for viral entry and adaptive immune escape, B.1.1.7 mutations outside Spike likely contribute to enhance transmission. Here we used unbiased abundance proteomics, phosphoproteomics, mRNA sequencing and viral replication assays to show that B.1.1.7 isolates more effectively suppress host innate immune responses in airway epithelial cells. We found that B.1.1.7 isolates have dramatically increased subgenomic RNA and protein levels of Orf9b and Orf6, both known innate immune antagonists. Expression of Orf9b alone suppressed the innate immune response through interaction with TOM70, a mitochondrial protein required for RNA sensing adaptor MAVS activation, and Orf9b binding and activity was regulated via phosphorylation. We conclude that B.1.1.7 has evolved beyond the Spike coding region to more effectively antagonise host innate immune responses through upregulation of specific subgenomic RNA synthesis and increased protein expression of key innate immune antagonists. We propose that more effective innate immune antagonism increases the likelihood of successful B.1.1.7 transmission, and may increase in vivo replication and duration of infection.
32022317 | TEG011 persistence averts extramedullary tumor growth without exerting off-target toxicity against healthy tissues in a humanized HLA-A*24:02 transgenic mice. gammadeltaT cells play an important role in cancer immunosurveillance and are able to distinguish malignant cells from their healthy counterparts via their gammadeltaTCR. This characteristic makes gammadeltaT cells an attractive candidate for therapeutic application in cancer immunotherapy. Previously, we have identified a novel CD8alpha-dependent tumor-specific allo-HLA-A*24:02-restricted Vgamma5Vdelta1TCR with potential therapeutic value when used to engineer alphabetaT cells from HLA-A*24:02 harboring individuals. alphabetaT cells engineered to express this defined Vgamma5Vdelta1TCR (TEG011) have been suggested to recognize spatial changes in HLA-A*24:02 present selectively on tumor cells but not their healthy counterparts. However, in vivo efficacy and toxicity studies of TEG011 are still limited. Therefore, we extend the efficacy and toxicity studies as well as the dynamics of TEG011 in vivo in a humanized HLA-A*24:02 transgenic NSG (NSG-A24:02) mouse model to allow the preparation of a first-in-men clinical safety package for adoptive transfer of TEG011. Mice treated with TEG011 did not exhibit any graft-versus-host disease-like symptoms and extensive analysis of pathologic changes in NSG-A24:02 mice did not show any off-target toxicity of TEG011. However, loss of persistence of TEG011 in tumor-bearing mice was associated with the outgrowth of extramedullary tumor masses as also observed for mock-treated mice. In conclusion, TEG011 is well tolerated without harming HLA-A*24:02+ expressing healthy tissues, and TEG011 persistence seems to be crucial for long-term tumor control in vivo.
5110203 | [Effect of atropine and trimedoxime on the acetylcholinesterase activity in some parts of the mouse brain].
38590857 | Evaluation the frequencies of HLA alleles in moderate and severe COVID-19 patients in Iran: A molecular HLA typing study. Background: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 was first reported in December 2019 and it has spread globally ever since. The HLA system is crucial in directing anti-viral immunity and recent studies are investigating the possible involvement of the HLA genes on the severity of immune inflammation in different phases of COVID-19. Methods: In this cross-sectional study, peripheral blood-extracted genomic DNAs of 109 COVID-19 patients and 70 healthy controls were genotyped for different alleles of HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-DRB1 loci using sequence-specific primer PCR method. Results: The results indicated that frequencies of HLA-DRB1*11:01 and HLA-DRB1*04:03 were significantly higher in severe patients rather than moderates (p: <0.001 and 0.004, respectively). Also, it was observed that HLA-DRB1*04:01 was more frequent in moderate patients and healthy controls (p:0.002). In addition, HLA-B*07:35, and HLA-DRB1*07:01 showed higher frequencies in patients compared with controls (p: 0.031 and 0.003 respectively). Inversely, due to the higher frequencies of HLA-B*51:01 (p:0.027), HLA-DRB1*11:05 (p:0.003), HLA-DRB1*13:05 (p:0.022), and HLA-DRB1*14:01 (p:0.006) in healthy individuals rather than patients, they may be associated with COVID-19 resistance. Conclusion: The results show that, based on the population differences, the type of alleles related to the severity of COVID-19 is different, which should be clarified by designing large-scale studies in order to develop HLA-based treatments and vaccines.
23592745 | Protective effect of wogonin on proinflammatory cytokine generation via Jak1/3-STAT1/3 pathway in lipopolysaccharide stimulated BV2 microglial cells. Wogonin is a flavonoid compound which exhibits antioxidation, anti-inflammation, neuroprotection, and antitumorgenesis functions. However, the mechanism of how wogonin reduces proinflammatory cytokine generation in activated microglia is unclear. At present, we found wogonin inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-/interferon-gamma (INF-gamma)-induced generation of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Wogonin exhibited parallel inhibition on LPS-/INF-gamma-induced expression of IL-6 and TNF-alpha messenger RNA at the same concentration range. LPS-/INF-gamma-induced phosphorylation of signal transduction and transcription 1 and 3 (STAT1/3) were also inhibited by wogonin. Although wogonin expressed only weak inhibitory effect on LPS-/INF-gamma-induced phosphorylation of Janus kinase-2 (Jak-2) and tyrosine kinase (Tyk)-2, it significantly attenuated the phosphorylation of Jak-1 and Jak-3. These results indicated that the blockade of IL-6 and TNF-alpha production by wogonin in LPS-/INF-gamma-stimulated BV2 microglial cells was attributed mainly to the interference in Jak-1/-3-STAT1/3 signaling pathway.
34407341 | Pan-Sarbecovirus Neutralizing Antibodies in BNT162b2-Immunized SARS-CoV-1 Survivors. Emerging severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) variants of concern pose a challenge to the effectiveness of current vaccines. A vaccine that could prevent infection caused by known and future variants of concern as well as infection with pre-emergent sarbecoviruses (i.e., those with potential to cause disease in humans in the future) would be ideal. Here we provide data showing that potent cross-clade pan-sarbecovirus neutralizing antibodies are induced in survivors of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 1 (SARS-CoV-1) infection who have been immunized with the BNT162b2 messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine. The antibodies are high-level and broad-spectrum, capable of neutralizing not only known variants of concern but also sarbecoviruses that have been identified in bats and pangolins and that have the potential to cause human infection. These findings show the feasibility of a pan-sarbecovirus vaccine strategy. (Funded by the Singapore National Research Foundation and National Medical Research Council.).
32090602 | Signaling through the interleukin-4 and interleukin-13 receptor complexes regulates cholangiocyte TMEM16A expression and biliary secretion. TMEM16A is a Ca2+-activated Cl- channel in the apical membrane of biliary epithelial cells, known as cholangiocytes, which contributes importantly to ductular bile formation. Whereas cholangiocyte TMEM16A activity is regulated by extracellular ATP-binding membrane purinergic receptors, channel expression is regulated by interleukin-4 (IL-4) through an unknown mechanism. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to identify the signaling pathways involved in TMEM16A expression and cholangiocyte secretion. Studies were performed in polarized normal rat cholangiocyte monolayers, human Mz-Cha-1 biliary cells, and cholangiocytes isolated from murine liver tissue. The results demonstrate that all the biliary models expressed the IL-4Ralpha/IL-13Ralpha1 receptor complex. Incubation of cholangiocytes with either IL-13 or IL-4 increased the expression of TMEM16A protein, which was associated with an increase in the magnitude of Ca2+-activated Cl- currents in response to ATP in single cells and the short-circuit current response in polarized monolayers. The IL-4- and IL-13-mediated increase in TMEM16A expression was also associated with an increase in STAT6 phosphorylation. Specific inhibition of JAK-3 inhibited the increase in TMEM16A expression and the IL-4-mediated increase in ATP-stimulated currents, whereas inhibition of STAT6 inhibited both IL-4- and IL-13-mediated increases in TMEM16A expression and ATP-stimulated secretion. These studies demonstrate that the cytokines IL-13 and IL-4 regulate the expression and function of biliary TMEM16A channels through a signaling pathway involving STAT6. Identification of this regulatory pathway provides new insight into biliary secretion and suggests new targets to enhance bile formation in the treatment of cholestatic liver disorders.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The Ca2+-activated Cl- channel transmembrane member 16A (TMEM16A) has emerged as an important regulator of biliary secretion and hence, ductular bile formation. The present studies represent the initial description of the regulation of TMEM16A expression in biliary epithelium. Identification of this regulatory pathway involving the IL-4 and IL-13 receptor complex and JAK-3 and STAT-6 signaling provides new insight into biliary secretion and suggests new therapeutic targets to enhance bile formation in the treatment of cholestatic liver disorders.
12797544 | HBcAg-specific CD8 T cells play an important role in virus suppression, and acute flare-up is associated with the expansion of activated memory T cells. We analyzed the prevalence and longitudinal fluctuation of hepatitis B virus (HBV)-specific CD8 T cells in chronic HBV infection using an HLA-A2-HBc18-27 tetramer. Thirty-five HLA-A2-positive patients with chronic HBV infection were divided into 17 HBe antigen (HBeAg)-positive and 18 anti-HBe antibody (anti-HBe)-positive patients. Five HLA-A2-positive normal subjects, five HLA-A2-negative patients with chronic HBV infection, and two HLA-A2-positive patients with acute HBV infection were included as controls. HBc18-27-specific CD8 T cells (c18-27-CD8Ts) were detected at a significantly higher prevalence in patients with anti-HBe (6/18) than in those with HBeAg (1/17), and their frequency reached 0.28% of the total CD8 T cells. The prevalence was significantly higher in patients with HBV DNA below 4.0 log genome equivalents (LGE)/ml (5/12) than in those with HBV DNA above 4.0 LGE/ml (2/23). The frequency of c18-27-CD8Ts was consistently higher in liver-infiltrating lymphocytes, ranging from 0.18 to 1.28%, than in autologous peripheral blood lymphocytes. Longitudinal analysis of patients with acute flare-up demonstrated that the elevation of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was intimately associated with the expansion of c18-27-CD8Ts. Phenotypic analysis revealed that most c18-27-CD8Ts during acute flare-up expressed HLA-DR and CCR5, while those during low-ALT periods showed low expression. Furthermore, most liver-infiltrating c18-27-CD8Ts were positive for HLA-DR and CCR5, suggesting selective recruitment of activated c18-27-CD8Ts into the liver. In conclusion. HBV-specific CD8 T cells play an important role in the suppression of virus replication, and acute flare-up is associated with the expansion and activation of HBV-specific memory cells.
9177355 | Crystal structure of the complex between human CD8alpha(alpha) and HLA-A2. The dimeric cell-surface glycoprotein CD8 is crucial to the positive selection of cytotoxic T cells in the thymus. The homodimer CD8alpha(alpha) or the heterodimer alpha beta stabilizes the interaction of the T-cell antigen receptor (TCR) with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I/peptide by binding to the class I molecule. Here we report the crystal structure at 2.7 A resolution of a complex between CD8alpha(alpha) and the human MHC molecule HLA-A2, which is associated with peptide. CD8alpha(alpha) binds one HLA-A2/peptide molecule, interfacing with the alpha2 and alpha3 domains of HLA-A2 and also contacting beta2-microglobulin. A flexible loop of the alpha3 domain (residues 223-229) is clamped between the complementarity-determining region (CDR)-like loops of the two CD8 subunits in the classic manner of an antibody-antigen interaction, precluding the binding of a second MHC molecule. The position of the alpha3 domain is different from that in uncomplexed HLA-A2, being most similar to that in the TCR/Tax/HLA-A2 complex, but no conformational change extends to the MHC/peptide surface presented for TCR recognition. Although these shifts in alpha3 may provide a synergistic modulation of affinity, the binding of CD8 to MHC is clearly consistent with an avidity-based contribution from CD8 to TCR-peptide-MHC interactions.
20506481 | Selective functional inhibition of JAK-3 is sufficient for efficacy in collagen-induced arthritis in mice. OBJECTIVE: All gamma-chain cytokines signal through JAK-3 and JAK-1 acting in tandem. We undertook this study to determine whether the JAK-3 selective inhibitor WYE-151650 would be sufficient to disrupt cytokine signaling and to ameliorate autoimmune disease pathology without inhibiting other pathways mediated by JAK-1, JAK-2, and Tyk-2. METHODS: JAK-3 kinase selective compounds were characterized by kinase assay and JAK-3-dependent (interleukin-2 [IL-2]) and -independent (IL-6, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor [GM-CSF]) cell-based assays measuring proliferation or STAT phosphorylation. In vivo, off-target signaling was measured by IL-22- and erythropoietin (EPO)-mediated models, while on-target signaling was measured by IL-2-mediated signaling. Efficacy of JAK-3 inhibitors was determined using delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) models in mice. RESULTS: In vitro, WYE-151650 potently suppressed IL-2-induced STAT-5 phosphorylation and cell proliferation, while exhibiting 10-29-fold less activity against JAK-3-independent IL-6- or GM-CSF-induced STAT phosphorylation. Ex vivo, WYE-151650 suppressed IL-2-induced STAT phosphorylation, but not IL-6-induced STAT phosphorylation, as measured in whole blood. In vivo, WYE-151650 inhibited JAK-3-mediated IL-2-induced interferon-gamma production and decreased the natural killer cell population in mice, while not affecting IL-22-induced serum amyloid A production or EPO-induced reticulocytosis. WYE-151650 was efficacious in mouse DTH and CIA models. CONCLUSION: In vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo assays demonstrate that WYE-151650 is efficacious in mouse CIA despite JAK-3 selectivity. These data question the need to broadly inhibit JAK-1-, JAK-2-, or Tyk-2-dependent cytokine pathways for efficacy.
36496055 | Identification of Reduced ERAP2 Expression and a Novel HLA Allele as Components of a Risk Score for Susceptibility to Liver Injury Due to Amoxicillin-Clavulanate. BACKGROUND & AIMS: Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) due to amoxicillin-clavulanate (AC) has been associated with HLA-A*02:01, HLA-DRB1*15:01, and rs2476601, a missense variant in PTPN22. The aim of this study was to identify novel risk factors for AC-DILI and to construct a genetic risk score (GRS). METHODS: Transcriptome-wide association study and genome-wide association study analyses were performed on 444 AC-DILI cases and 10,397 population-based controls of European descent. Associations were confirmed in a validation cohort (n = 133 cases and 17,836 population-based controls). Discovery and validation AC-DILI cases were also compared with 1358 and 403 non-AC-DILI cases. RESULTS: Transcriptome-wide association study revealed a significant association of AC-DILI risk with reduced liver expression of ERAP2 (P = 3.7 x 10-7), coding for an aminopeptidase involved in antigen presentation. The lead eQTL single nucleotide polymorphism, rs1363907 (G), was associated with AC-DILI risk in the discovery (odds ratio [OR], 1.68; 95% CI, 1.23-1.66; P = 1.7 x 10-7) and validation cohorts (OR, 1.2; 95% CI, 1.04-2.05; P = .03), following a recessive model. We also identified HLA-B*15:18 as a novel AC-DILI risk factor in both discovery (OR, 4.19; 95% CI, 2.09-8.36; P = 4.9 x 10-5) and validation (OR, 7.78; 95% CI, 2.75-21.99; P = .0001) cohorts. GRS, incorporating rs1363907, rs2476601, HLA-B*15:18, HLA-A*02:01, and HLA-DRB1*15:01, was highly predictive of AC-DILI risk when cases were analyzed against both general population and non-AC-DILI control cohorts. GRS was the most significant predictor in a regression model containing known AC-DILI clinical risk characteristics and significantly improved the predictive model. CONCLUSIONS: We identified novel associations of AC-DILI risk with ERAP2 low expression and with HLA-B*15:18. GRS based on the 5 risk variants may assist AC-DILI causality assessment and risk management.
34424731 | Donor HLA Class 1 Evolutionary Divergence Is a Major Predictor of Liver Allograft Rejection : A Retrospective Cohort Study. BACKGROUND: The HLA evolutionary divergence (HED), a continuous metric quantifying the peptidic differences between 2 homologous HLA alleles, reflects the breadth of the immunopeptidome presented to T lymphocytes. OBJECTIVE: To assess the potential effect of donor or recipient HED on liver transplant rejection. DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study. SETTING: Liver transplant units. PATIENTS: 1154 adults and 113 children who had a liver transplant between 2004 and 2018. MEASUREMENTS: Liver biopsies were done 1, 2, 5, and 10 years after the transplant and in case of liver dysfunction. Donor-specific anti-HLA antibodies (DSAs) were measured in children at the time of biopsy. The HED was calculated using the physicochemical Grantham distance for class I (HLA-A or HLA-B) and class II (HLA-DRB1 or HLA-DQB1) alleles. The influence of HED on the incidence of liver lesions was analyzed through the inverse probability weighting approach based on covariate balancing, generalized propensity scores. RESULTS: In adults, class I HED of the donor was associated with acute rejection (hazard ratio [HR], 1.09 [95% CI, 1.03 to 1.16]), chronic rejection (HR, 1.20 [CI, 1.10 to 1.31]), and ductopenia of 50% or more (HR, 1.33 [CI, 1.09 to 1.62]) but not with other histologic lesions. In children, class I HED of the donor was also associated with acute rejection (HR, 1.16 [CI, 1.03 to 1.30]) independent of the presence of DSAs. There was no effect of either donor class II HED or recipient class I or class II HED on the incidence of liver lesions in adults and children. LIMITATION: The DSAs were measured only in children. CONCLUSION: Class I HED of the donor predicts acute or chronic rejection of liver transplant. This novel and accessible prognostic marker could orientate donor selection and guide immunosuppression. PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: Institut National de la Sante et de la Recherche Medicale.
35739510 | A promising Prognostic risk model for advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) with immune-related genes. BACKGROUND: Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a third most common tumor of the urinary system. Nowadays, Immunotherapy is a hot topic in the treatment of solid tumors, especially for those tumors with pre-activated immune state. METHODS: In this study, we downloaded genomic and clinical data of RCC samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Four immune-related genetic signatures were used to predict the prognosis of RCC by Cox regression analysis. Then we established a prognostic risk model consisting of the genes most related to prognosis from four signatures to value prognosis of the RCC samples via Kaplan-Meier (KM) survival analysis. An independent data from International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC) database were used to test the predictive stability of the model. Furthermore, we performed landscape analysis to assess the difference of gene mutant in the RCC samples from TCGA. Finally, we explored the correlation between the selected genes and the level of tumor immune infiltration via Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER) platform. RESULTS: We used four genetic signatures to construct prognostic risk models respectively and found that each of the models could divide the RCC samples into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different prognosis, especially in advanced RCC. A comprehensive prognostic risk model was constructed by 8 candidate genes from four signatures (HLA-B, HLA-A, HLA-DRA, IDO1, TAGAP, CIITA, PRF1 and CD8B) dividing the advanced RCC samples from TCGA database into high-risk and low-risk groups with a significant difference in cancer-specific survival (CSS). The stability of the model was verified by independent data from ICGC database. And the classification efficiency of the model was stable for the samples from different subgroups. Landscape analysis showed that mutation ratios of some genes were different between two risk groups. In addition, the expression levels of the selected genes were significantly correlated with the infiltration degree of immune cells in the advanced RCC. CONCLUSIONS: Sum up, eight immune-related genes were screened in our study to construct prognostic risk model with great predictive value for the prognosis of advanced RCC, and the genes were associated with infiltrating immune cells in tumors which have potential to conduct personalized treatment for advanced RCC.
37738970 | SARS-CoV-2 variants evolve convergent strategies to remodel the host response. SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs) emerged during the COVID-19 pandemic. Here, we used unbiased systems approaches to study the host-selective forces driving VOC evolution. We discovered that VOCs evolved convergent strategies to remodel the host by modulating viral RNA and protein levels, altering viral and host protein phosphorylation, and rewiring virus-host protein-protein interactions. Integrative computational analyses revealed that although Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta ultimately converged to suppress interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), Omicron BA.1 did not. ISG suppression correlated with the expression of viral innate immune antagonist proteins, including Orf6, N, and Orf9b, which we mapped to specific mutations. Later Omicron subvariants BA.4 and BA.5 more potently suppressed innate immunity than early subvariant BA.1, which correlated with Orf6 levels, although muted in BA.4 by a mutation that disrupts the Orf6-nuclear pore interaction. Our findings suggest that SARS-CoV-2 convergent evolution overcame human adaptive and innate immune barriers, laying the groundwork to tackle future pandemics.
37738983 | Impact of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 and its variant polymorphisms on host responses and viral pathogenesis. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) encodes several proteins that inhibit host interferon responses. Among these, ORF6 antagonizes interferon signaling by disrupting nucleocytoplasmic trafficking through interactions with the nuclear pore complex components Nup98-Rae1. However, the roles and contributions of ORF6 during physiological infection remain unexplored. We assessed the role of ORF6 during infection using recombinant viruses carrying a deletion or loss-of-function (LoF) mutation in ORF6. ORF6 plays key roles in interferon antagonism and viral pathogenesis by interfering with nuclear import and specifically the translocation of IRF and STAT transcription factors. Additionally, ORF6 inhibits cellular mRNA export, resulting in the remodeling of the host cell proteome, and regulates viral protein expression. Interestingly, the ORF6:D61L mutation that emerged in the Omicron BA.2 and BA.4 variants exhibits reduced interactions with Nup98-Rae1 and consequently impairs immune evasion. Our findings highlight the role of ORF6 in antagonizing innate immunity and emphasize the importance of studying the immune evasion strategies of SARS-CoV-2.
38433722 | Strong humoral response after Covid-19 vaccination correlates with the common HLA allele A*03:01 and protection from breakthrough infection. Few data exist on the role of genetic factors involving the HLA system on response to Covid-19 vaccines. Moving from suggestions of a previous study investigating the association of some HLA alleles with humoral response to BNT162b2, we here compared the HLA allele frequencies among weak (n = 111) and strong (n = 123) responders, defined as those healthcare workers with the lowest and the highest anti-Spike antibody levels after vaccination. Individuals with clinical history of Covid-19 or positive anti-nucleocapside antibodies were excluded. We found the common HLA-A*03:01 allele as an independent predictor of strong humoral response (OR = 12.46, 95% CI: 4.41-35.21, p < 0.0001), together with younger age of vaccines (p = 0.004). Correlation between antibody levels and protection from breakthrough infection has been observed, with a 2-year cumulative incidence of 42% and 63% among strong and weak responders, respectively (p = 0.03). Due to the high frequency of HLA-A*03:01 and the need for seasonal vaccinations against SARS-CoV-2 mutants, our findings provide useful information about the inter-individual differences observed in humoral response after Covid-19 vaccine and might support further studies on the next seasonal vaccines.
1788521 | Efficacy of various pretreatment and therapy regimens against soman lethality in mice. The efficacy of a number of drug pretreatment combinations in protecting mice against lethal effects of soman was determined. Pyridostigmine peroral pretreatment followed by intramuscular postpoisoning therapy with atropine, obidoxime and/or trimedoxime, and diazepam protected mice against the lethal action of soman. Combination of pyridostigmine with trihexyphenidyl, benactyzine and bis-(4-hydroxyiminomethyl) pyridinium-methane dichloride improved prophylactic action even further.
24416451 | Interleukin-21 is a critical regulator of CD4 and CD8 T cell survival during priming under Interleukin-2 deprivation conditions. Optimal T cell activation and expansion require binding of the common gamma-chain (gammac) cytokine Interleukin-2 (IL-2) to its cognate receptor that in turn engages a gammac/Janus tyrosine kinase (Jak)3 signaling pathway. Because of its restricted expression by antigen-activated T cells and its obligatory role in promoting their survival and proliferation, IL-2 has been considered as a selective therapeutic target for preventing T cell mediated diseases. However, in order to further explore IL-2 targeted therapy, it is critical to precisely understand its role during early events of T cell activation. In this study, we delineate the role of IL-2 and other gammac cytokines in promoting the survival of CD4 and CD8 T cells during early phases of priming. Under IL-2 inhibitory conditions (by neutralizing anti-IL-2 mAbs), the survival of activated CD8+ T cells was reduced, whereas CD4+ T cells remained much more resistant. These results correlated with reduced Bcl-2 expression, and mitochondrial membrane potential in CD8+ T cells in comparison to CD4+ T cells. However, using transwell co-culture assays we have found that CD4+ T cells could rescue the survival of CD8+ T cells even under IL-2 deprived conditions via secretion of soluble factors. A cytokine screen performed on CD8+ T cells cultured alone revealed that IL-21, another gammac cytokine, was capable of rescuing their survival under IL-2 deprivation. Indeed, blocking the IL-21 signaling pathway along with IL-2 neutralization resulted in significantly reduced survival of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Taken together, we have shown that under IL-2 deprivation conditions, IL-21 may act as the major survival factor promoting T cell immune responses. Thus, investigation of IL-2 targeted therapies may need to be revisited to consider blockade of the IL-21 signaling pathways as an adjunct to provide more effective control of T cell immune responses.
38228858 | Evolution of enhanced innate immune suppression by SARS-CoV-2 Omicron subvariants. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) human adaptation resulted in distinct lineages with enhanced transmissibility called variants of concern (VOCs). Omicron is the first VOC to evolve distinct globally dominant subvariants. Here we compared their replication in human cell lines and primary airway cultures and measured host responses to infection. We discovered that subvariants BA.4 and BA.5 have improved their suppression of innate immunity when compared with earlier subvariants BA.1 and BA.2. Similarly, more recent subvariants (BA.2.75 and XBB lineages) also triggered reduced innate immune activation. This correlated with increased expression of viral innate antagonists Orf6 and nucleocapsid, reminiscent of VOCs Alpha to Delta. Increased Orf6 levels suppressed host innate responses to infection by decreasing IRF3 and STAT1 signalling measured by transcription factor phosphorylation and nuclear translocation. Our data suggest that convergent evolution of enhanced innate immune antagonist expression is a common pathway of human adaptation and link Omicron subvariant dominance to improved innate immune evasion.
12673061 | Metagenomes of complex microbial consortia derived from different soils as sources for novel genes conferring formation of carbonyls from short-chain polyols on Escherichia coli. Metagenomic DNA libraries from three different soil samples (meadow, sugar beet field, cropland) were constructed. The three unamplified libraries comprised approximately 1267000 independent clones and harbored approximately 4.05 Gbp of environmental DNA. Approximately 300000 recombinant Escherichia coli strains of each library per test substrate were screened for the production of carbonyls from short-chain (C2 to C4) polyols such as 1,2-ethanediol, 2,3-butanediol, and a mixture of glycerol and 1,2-propanediol on indicator agar. Twenty-four positive E. COLI clones were obtained during the initial screen. Fifteen of them contained recombinant plasmids, designated pAK201-215, which conferred a stable carbonyl-forming phenotype on E. coli Sequencing revealed that the inserts of pAK201-215 encoded 26 complete and 14 incomplete predicted protein-encoding genes. Most of these genes were similar to genes with unknown functions from other microorganisms or unrelated to any other known gene. The further analysis was focused on the 7 plasmids (pAK204, pAK206, pAK208, and pAK210-213) recovered from the positive clones, which exhibited an NAD(H)-dependent alcohol oxidoreductase activity with polyols or the correlating carbonyls as substrates in crude extracts. Three genes (ORF6, ORF24, and ORF25) conferring this activity were identified during subcloning of the inserts of pAK204, pAK211, and pAK212. The sequences of the three deduced gene products revealed no significant similarities to known alcohol oxidoreductases, but contained putative glycine-rich regions, which are characteristic for binding of nicotinamide cofactors.
31382992 | Next-generation sequencing identifies contribution of both class I and II HLA genes on susceptibility of multiple sclerosis in Japanese. BACKGROUND: The spectrum of classical and non-classical HLA genes related to the risk of multiple sclerosis (MS) and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) in the Japanese population has not been studied in detail. We conducted a case-control analysis of classical and non-classical HLA genes. METHODS: We used next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based HLA genotyping methods for mapping risk for 45 MS patients, 31 NMOSD patients, and 429 healthy controls. We evaluated the association of the HLA variants with the risk of MS and NMOSD using logistic regression analysis and Fisher's exact test. RESULTS: We confirmed that HLA-DRB1*15:01 showed the strongest association with MS (P = 2.1 x 10-5; odds ratio [OR] = 3.44, 95% confidence interval [95% CI] = 1.95-6.07). Stepwise conditional analysis identified HLA-DRB1*04:05, HLA-B*39:01, and HLA-B*15:01 as being associated with independent MS susceptibility (PConditional < 8.3 x 10-4). With respect to amino acid polymorphisms in HLA genes, we found that phenylalanine at HLA-DQbeta1 position 9 had the strongest effect on MS susceptibility (P = 3.7 x 10-8, OR = 3.48, 95% CI = 2.23-5.43). MS risk at HLA-DQbeta1 Phe9 was independent of HLA-DRB1*15:01 (PConditional = 1.5 x 10-5, OR = 2.91, 95% CI = 1.79-4.72), while HLA-DRB1*15:01 was just significant when conditioned on HLA-DQbeta1 Phe9 (PConditional = 0.037). Regarding a case-control analysis for NMOSD, HLA-DQA1*05:03 had a significant association with NMOSD (P = 1.5 x 10-4, OR = 6.96, 95% CI = 2.55-19.0). CONCLUSIONS: We identified HLA variants associated with the risk of MS and NMOSD. Our study contributes to the understanding of the genetic architecture of MS and NMOSD in the Japanese population.
33869027 | Characterization of Immune Infiltration and Construction of a Prediction Model for Overall Survival in Melanoma Patients. Reports indicate that the use of anti-programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) and death ligand-1 (PD-L1) monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of patients diagnosed with melanoma has demonstrated promising efficacy. Nonetheless, this therapy is limited by the resistance induced by the tumor microenvironment (TME). As such, understanding the complexity of the TME is vital in enhancing the efficiency of immunotherapy. This study used four different methods to estimate the infiltrating level of immune cells. Besides, we analyzed their infiltration pattern in primary and metastatic melanoma obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. As a consequence, we discovered a significantly higher infiltration of immune cells in metastatic melanoma compared to primary tumor. Consensus clustering identified four clusters in melanoma with different immune infiltration and clusters with higher immune infiltration demonstrated a better overall survival. To elucidate the underlying mechanisms of immune cell infiltration, the four clusters were subdivided into two subtypes denoted as hot and cold tumors based on immune infiltration and predicted immune response. Enrichment analysis of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) revealed different transcriptome alterations in two types of tumors. Additionally, we found tyrosinase-related protein1 (TYRP1) was negatively correlated with CD8A expression. In vitro experiments showed that knockdown TYRP1 promoted the expression of HLA-A, B, and C. Eventually, we constructed a prediction model which was validated in our external cohort. Notably, this model also performed effectively in predicting the survival of patients under immunotherapy. In summary, this work provides a deeper understanding of the state of immune infiltration in melanoma and a prediction model that might guide the clinical treatment of patients with melanoma.
34391476 | Blocking Jak/STAT signalling using tofacitinib inhibits angiogenesis in experimental arthritis. OBJECTIVE: During rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the angiogenic processes, occurring with pannus-formation, may be a therapeutic target. JAK/STAT-pathway may play a role and the aim of this work was to investigate the inhibiting role of a JAK-inhibitor, tofacitinib, on the angiogenic mechanisms occurring during RA. METHODS: After ethical approval, JAK-1, JAK-3, STAT-1, STAT-3 and VEGF expression was evaluated on RA-synovial-tissues. In vitro, endothelial cells (ECs), stimulated with 20 ng/ml of VEGF and/or 1 muM of tofacitinib, were assessed for tube formation, migration and proliferation, by Matrigel, Boyden chamber assay and ki67 gene-expression. In vivo, 32 mice received collagen (collagen-induced arthritis (CIA)) and 32 mice PBS (control). At day 19, CIA and controls mice were divided: 16 mice receiving vehicle and 16 mice receiving tofacitinib. At day 35, the arthritis score, the thickness of paw joints and the serum levels of VEGF and Ang-2 were evaluated. RESULTS: The expression of JAK-1, JAK-3, STAT-1, STAT-3 and VEGF in synovial tissue of RA-patients were significantly higher than healthy controls. In vitro, tofacitinib inhibited the ECs ability to form vessels, to proliferate and to migrate. In vivo, administration of tofacitinib prevented the increase of the arthritis score, the paw thickness, the synovial vessels and VEGF and Ang-2 serum-accumulation, when compared to CIA without tofacitinib. CONCLUSIONS: We explored the anti-angiogenic role of tofacitinib, reporting its ability to inhibit in vitro the angiogenic mechanisms of ECs and in vivo the formation of new synovial vessels, occurring in CIA model. These findings suggest that the therapeutic effect of tofacitinib during RA may be also related to its anti-angiogenic activity.
24614195 | Tapasin modification on the intracellular epitope HBcAg18-27 enhances HBV-specific CTL immune response and inhibits hepatitis B virus replication in vivo. HBV-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) activity has a very important role in hepatitis B virus clearance. Present studies suggest that Tapasin, a endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone, stabilizes the peptide-receptive MHC I conformation, allowing peptide exchange and increasing more peptides to be translocated into the ER. We have previously testified that cytoplasmic transduction peptide (CTP)-HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin fusion protein could enter cytoplasm of dendritic cells, and enhance T cells' response to generate specific CTLs efficiently in vitro. In the present study, we evaluated specific immune responses of CTP-HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin fusion protein in HLA-A2 transgenic mice (H-2K(b)) and anti-viral ability in HBV transgenic mice, and explored the mechanisms probably involved in. The studies showed that CTP-HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin not only increased production of cytokine IFN-gamma and interleukin-2 (IL-2), compared with CTP-HBcAg(18-27), HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin, and PBS, but also significantly induced the higher percentages of IFN-gamma+CD8(+) T cells and specific CTL responses in HLA-A2 transgenic mice. Moreover, enhancement of specific CTL activity induced by the fusion protein reduced HBV DNA and hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) levels and decreased the expression of HBsAg and hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg) in liver tissue of HBV transgenic mice. In addition, CTP-HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin could upregulate the expression of JAK2, Tyk2, STAT1, and STAT4 in T lymphocytes in HLA-A2 transgenic mice splenocytes. However, there was no significant difference on the expressions of JAK1, JAK3, and STAT6 between each group. In conclusion, CTP-HBcAg(18-27)-Tapasin fusion protein could enhance not only the percentages of CTLs but also induce robust specific CTL activity and inhibits hepatitis B virus replication in vivo, which was associated with activation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway.
16698439 | Intracellular expression of MICA in activated CD4 T lymphocytes and protection from NK cell-mediated MICA-dependent cytotoxicity. MICA is a stress-regulated molecule recognized by the NK cell-activating receptor NKG2D. Previously, we demonstrated that MICA is induced on activated T cells but regulation by mitogenic cytokines and its biological consequences remain unexplored. Here, we show that IL-2, IL-4, and IL-15 but not TNF-alpha or IFN-alpha induced MICA expression in T lymphocytes present in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), as assessed by Western blot. IL-2 effect involved Jak3/STAT5, p38 MAPK, p70(56) kinase, Lck/fyn kinases, and NF-kappaB. MICA expression was also observed in Th1 and Th2 cells. However, surface expression was not detected. T lymphocytes present in PBMCs and isolated CD4+ T lymphocytes stimulated with phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate and ionomycin also induced MICA expression as assessed by Western blot, but only low levels were expressed at the cell surface. Activated but not resting CD4+ T lymphocytes were lysed by IL-15- or IL-2-stimulated NK cells, and susceptibility was increased when HLA class I molecules were blocked. Also, cytokine-stimulated NK cells produced more IFN-gamma after culture with activated CD4+ T lymphocytes. However, the participation of MICA in these responses, if any, was marginal. Confocal microscopy revealed that MICA is retained mostly inside activated CD4+ T cells. Our results suggest that low surface expression of MICA on activated CD4+ T lymphocytes might be a safeguard mechanism to protect them from NK cells in an inflammatory, virus-infected, or tumor microenvironment, where NK and activated CD4+ T cells are recruited.
20083666 | Mechanisms of spatial and temporal development of autoimmune vitiligo in tyrosinase-specific TCR transgenic mice. Generalized vitiligo is thought to have an autoimmune etiology and has been correlated with the presence of CD8 T cells specific for melanocyte differentiation Ag. However, limited animal models for the disease have hampered its understanding. Thus, we generated TCR transgenic mice that recognize an epitope of the melanocyte protein, tyrosinase. These animals develop vitiligo with strikingly similar characteristics to the human disease. Vitiligo develops temporally and spatially, with juvenile lesions forming bilaterally in head and facial areas, and only arising later in the body of adult animals. Vitiligo is entirely dependent on CD8 T cells, whereas CD4 T cells exert a negative regulatory effect. Importantly, CD8 T cells can be pervasively present in the skin in the steady state without inducing vitiligo in most areas. This points to developmental differences in melanocyte susceptibility and/or immunological effector mechanisms over time, or in different body locations. Disease is strongly dependent on both IFN-gamma and CXCR3, whereas dependence on CCR5 is more limited, and both CCR4 and perforin are dispensable. Genetic ablation of CXCR3 or IFN-gamma also resulted in scarce CD8 T cell infiltration into the skin. Our results identify unexpected complexity in vitiligo development and point toward possible therapeutic interventions.
22318145 | Tiled microarray identification of novel viral transcript structures and distinct transcriptional profiles during two modes of productive murine gammaherpesvirus 68 infection. We applied a custom tiled microarray to examine murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (MHV68) polyadenylated transcript expression in a time course of de novo infection of fibroblast cells and following phorbol ester-mediated reactivation from a latently infected B cell line. During de novo infection, all open reading frames (ORFs) were transcribed and clustered into four major temporal groups that were overlapping yet distinct from clusters based on the phorbol ester-stimulated B cell reactivation time course. High-density transcript analysis at 2-h intervals during de novo infection mapped gene boundaries with a 20-nucleotide resolution, including a previously undefined ORF73 transcript and the MHV68 ORF63 homolog of Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus vNLRP1. ORF6 transcript initiation was mapped by tiled array and confirmed by 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends. The ~1.3-kb region upstream of ORF6 was responsive to lytic infection and MHV68 RTA, identifying a novel RTA-responsive promoter. Transcription in intergenic regions consistent with the previously defined expressed genomic regions was detected during both types of productive infection. We conclude that the MHV68 transcriptome is dynamic and distinct during de novo fibroblast infection and upon phorbol ester-stimulated B cell reactivation, highlighting the need to evaluate further transcript structure and the context-dependent molecular events that govern viral gene expression during chronic infection.
37988912 | Therapeutic potential of a synthetic dual JAK1/TYK2 inhibitor in inflammatory bowel disease. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic and incurable disease with an increasing incidence rate and low mortality rate. Selectively inhibiting JAK1 and TYK2 has been proposed as a strategy to enhance the efficacy of such inhibitors while minimizing the potential side effects on other JAK isoforms. Our previous studies identified small molecule 18 as a JAK1/TYK2 inhibitor with high selectivity and a new structure. Specifically, the IC50 of 18 at the kinase level reached 39 nM and 21 nM for JAK1 and TYK2, respectively, with 10-fold selectivity over both JAK2 and JAK3. In in vitro studies, 18 dose-dependently inhibited cytokine-induced STAT phosphorylation downstream of the JAK1 and TYK2 signaling pathway. In pharmacokinetic experiments, 18 demonstrated an oral bioavailability of 59.82%, making it a promising candidate for further in vivo studies. Using two mouse models of acute ulcerative colitis (UC) induced by the administration of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) or oxazolone (OXA), 18 dose-dependently showed a better therapeutic effect than the positive control drug tofacitinib. Additionally, after long-term administration for 32 days, 18 displayed low toxicity to mice and a high safety profile. Taken together, these findings suggest that 18 is a JAK1/TYK2 dual inhibitor with therapeutic effects superior to those of tofacitinib in the treatment of IBD. Moreover, 18 is also a suitable clinical candidate for further investigation in diseases with strong involvement from interferon and/or IL-12/IL-23 in their pathogenesis. This study confirmed the therapeutic effect and long-term safety of inhibiting JAK1 and TYK2 to treat IBD.
25198529 | TCR+CD4-CD8- T cells in antigen-specific MHC class I-restricted T-cell responses after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Human TCRalphabeta(+) CD4(-)CD8(-) double-negative (DN) T cells represent a minor subset in peripheral blood, yet are important in infectious diseases and autoimmune responses. We examined the frequency of DN T cells in 17 patients after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (aHSCT) at 1, 2, 3, 6, and 12 months post-aHSCT and show that these cells increase early after aHSCT and decrease with time after aHSCT. DN T cells reside in the terminally differentiated effector (CD45RA(+)CCR7(-)) T-cell population and are polyclonal, determined by T-cell receptor Vbeta CDR3 analysis. Gene expression analysis of ex vivo sorted DN T cells showed a distinct set of gene expression, including interleukin-8, as compared with CD4(+) or CD8(+) T cells. DN T cells contributed to MHC class I-restricted EBV-directed immune responses, defined by antigen-specific cytokine production and by detection of HLA-A*02:01-restricted EBV BMLF-1 (GLCTLVAML), LMP-2A (CLGGLLTMV), and HLA-A*24:02-restricted EBV BRLF-1 (DYCNVLNKEF) and EBNA3 (RYSIFFDY)-specific T cells. We created retroviral-transfected Jurkat cell lines with a Melan-A/MART-1-specific TCR(+) and the CD8alpha chain to study TCR(+) DN T cells in response to their nominal MHC class I/peptide ligand. We show that DN T cells exhibit increased TCRzeta chain phosphorylation as compared with the TCR(+)CD8(+) transgenic T-cell line. DN T cells contribute to antigen-specific T-cell responses and represent an effector T-cell population that may be explored in immunotherapeutic approaches against viral infections or transformed cells.
5132126 | Influence of trimedoxime and atropine on acetylcholinesterase activity in some parts of the brain of mice poisoned by isopropylmethyl phosphonofluoridate.
37747932 | Pharmacological inhibition of bromodomain and extra-terminal proteins induces an NRF-2-mediated antiviral state that is subverted by SARS-CoV-2 infection. Inhibitors of bromodomain and extra-terminal proteins (iBETs), including JQ-1, have been suggested as potential prophylactics against SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, molecular mechanisms underlying JQ-1-mediated antiviral activity and its susceptibility to viral subversion remain incompletely understood. Pretreatment of cells with iBETs inhibited infection by SARS-CoV-2 variants and SARS-CoV, but not MERS-CoV. The antiviral activity manifested itself by reduced reporter expression of recombinant viruses, and reduced viral RNA quantities and infectious titers in the culture supernatant. While we confirmed JQ-1-mediated downregulation of expression of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), multi-omics analysis addressing the chromatin accessibility, transcriptome and proteome uncovered induction of an antiviral nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (NRF-2)-mediated cytoprotective response as an additional mechanism through which JQ-1 inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication. Pharmacological inhibition of NRF-2, and knockdown of NRF-2 and its target genes reduced JQ-1-mediated inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 replication. Serial passaging of SARS-CoV-2 in the presence of JQ-1 resulted in predominance of ORF6-deficient variant, which exhibited resistance to JQ-1 and increased sensitivity to exogenously administered type I interferon (IFN-I), suggesting a minimised need for SARS-CoV-2 ORF6-mediated repression of IFN signalling in the presence of JQ-1. Importantly, JQ-1 exhibited a transient antiviral activity when administered prophylactically in human airway bronchial epithelial cells (hBAECs), which was gradually subverted by SARS-CoV-2, and no antiviral activity when administered therapeutically following an established infection. We propose that JQ-1 exerts pleiotropic effects that collectively induce an antiviral state in the host, which is ultimately nullified by SARS-CoV-2 infection, raising questions about the clinical suitability of the iBETs in the context of COVID-19.
9059145 | Ankylosing spondylitis in West Africans--evidence for a non-HLA-B27 protective effect. OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence of ankylosing spondylitis in the Fula ethnic group in The Gambia, and relate the disease prevalence to the B27 frequency and subtype distribution of that population. METHODS: 215 first degree relatives of 48 B27 positive Fula twin pairs, and 900 adult Fula males were screened for ankylosing spondylitis by clinical and, where appropriate, radiographic means. The B27 prevalence was determined by PCR/sequence specific oligonucleotides on finger prick samples from 100 unrelated Fula, and B27 subtype distribution by SSCP on unrelated B27 positive individuals. This data were then compared with the prevalence of ankylosing spondylitis among B27 positive Caucasians. RESULTS: No case of ankylosing spondylitis was seen. Six per cent of Fula are B27 positive, of which 32% are B*2703 and 68% B*2705. Assuming the penetrance of ankylosing spondylitis in B27 positive Fula is the same as in B27 positive Caucasians, the probability of not observing any cases of ankylosing spondylitis among the Fula examined is remote (P = 6.7 x 10(-6)). Similarly, the chance of not seeing any cases among those expected to be either B*2705 or B*2703 was small (P = 3.2 x 10(-4) for B*2705, and P = 0.02 for B*2703). CONCLUSIONS: The risk of developing ankylosing spondylitis in B27 positive Fula is lower than in B27 positive Caucasians. This is not explained by the B27 subtype distribution among Fula, and suggests the presence of some non-B27 protective factor reducing the prevalence of ankylosing spondylitis in this population.
31545408 | Genome profiling revealed the activation of IL2RG/JAK3/STAT5 in peripheral T-cell lymphoma expressing the ITK-SYK fusion gene. Peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCLs) are heterogeneous malignancies that are types of non-Hodgkin lymphomas; patients with this disease have poor prognoses. The IL-2-inducible T-cell kinase-spleen tyrosine kinase (ITK-SYK) fusion gene, the first recurrent chromosome translocation in PTCL-not otherwise specified (NOS), can drive cellular transformation and the development of T-cell lymphoma in mouse models. The aim of the current study was to investigate the signal transduction pathways downstream of ITK-SYK. The authors constructed a lentiviral vector to overexpress the ITK-SYK fusion gene in Jurkat cells. By using Signal-Net and cluster analyses of microarray data, the authors identified the tyrosine-protein kinase JAK (JAK)3/STAT5 signalling pathway as a downstream pathway of ITK-SYK, activation of which mediates the effects of ITK-SYK on tumourigenesis. JAK3-selective inhibitor tofacitinib abrogated the phosphorylation of downstream signalling molecule STAT5, supressed cell growth, induced cell apoptosis and arrested the cell cycle at the G1/S phase in ITK-SYK+ Jurkat cells. In a xenograft mouse model, tumour growth was significantly delayed by tofacitinib. Since JAK3 associates with interleukin-2 receptor subunit gamma (IL2RG) only, siRNA-specific knockdown of IL2RG showed the same effect as tofacitinib treatment in vitro. These results first demonstrated that the activation of the IL2RG/JAK3/STAT5 signalling pathway contributed greatly to the oncogenic progress regulated by ITK-SYK, supporting further investigation of JAK3 inhibitors for the treatment of PTCLs carrying the ITK-SYK fusion gene.
35711462 | Podocalyxin Expressed in Antigen Presenting Cells Promotes Interaction With T Cells and Alters Centrosome Translocation to the Contact Site. Podocalyxin (PODXL), a cell surface sialomucin expressed in diverse types of normal and malignant cells, mediates cellular adhesion to extracellular matrix and cell-to-cell interaction. A previous study reported the expression of PODXL protein on monocytes undergoing macrophage differentiation, yet the expression of this molecule in other antigen presenting cells (APCs) and its function in the immune system still remain undetermined. In this study, we report that PODXL is expressed in human monocyte-derived immature dendritic cells at both the mRNA and protein levels. Following dendritric cells maturation using pro-inflammatory stimuli, PODXL expression level decreased substantially. Furthermore, we found that PODXL expression is positively regulated by IL-4 through MEK/ERK and JAK3/STAT6 signaling pathways. Our results revealed a polarized distribution of PODXL during the interaction of APCs with CD4+ T cells, partially colocalizing with F-actin. Notably, PODXL overexpression in APCs promoted their interaction with CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells and decreased the expression of MHC-I, MHC-II, and the costimulatory molecule CD86. In addition, PODXL reduced the translocation of CD4+ T-cell centrosome toward the APC-contact site. These findings suggest a regulatory role for PODXL expressed by APCs in immune responses, thus representing a potential target for therapeutic blockade in infection and cancer.
11078608 | Stem cell factor and IL-2 act synergistically in inducing intraepithelial lymphocyte proliferation and cytokine production: upregulation of the IL-2 receptor gamma-chain and signaling via JAK-3. Murine intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) that express the gamma/delta form of the T cell receptor for antigen (TCRgammadelta) also express c-kit, the receptor for stem cell factor (SCF). We show here that SCF upregulates the expression of gammadelta TCR on IEL. More importantly, SCF induces upregulation in the expression of the common gamma-chain (gammac), which is a shared subunit of the receptor complexes for IL-2, -4, -7, -9, and -15. SCF was shown to act synergistically with IL-2 in inducing IEL proliferation, IFNgamma production, non-MHC-restricted cytotoxic activity, and upregulation of the expression of the gammac. SCF also acted synergistically with IL-7 and IL-15 in inducing IEL proliferation. IEL exposed to SCF were shown to have enhanced phosphorylation of JAK-3, and when SCF was combined with IL-2, there was an enhancement in the phosphorylation of JAK-3. These results suggest that SCF may play a more important role in regulating mucosal immune responses than previously appreciated.
38195212 | Identification of a spike-specific CD8+ T cell epitope following vaccination against the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus in humans. Licensed vaccines against the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), an emerging pathogen of concern, are lacking. The Modified Vaccinia virus Ankara vector-based vaccine MVA-MERS-S, expressing the MERS-CoV-spike glycoprotein (MERS-S), is one of three candidate vaccines in clinical development and elicits robust humoral and cellular immunity. Here, we identified for the first time a MERS-S-specific CD8+ T-cell epitope in an HLA-A*03:01/HLA-B*35:01-positive vaccinee using a screening assay, intracellular cytokine staining, and in silico epitope prediction. As evidence from MERS-CoV infection suggests a protective role of long-lasting CD8+ T-cell responses, the identification of epitopes will facilitate longitudinal analyses of vaccine-induced T-cell immunity.
35793369 | Genetic polymorphisms associated with susceptibility to COVID-19 disease and severity: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Although advanced age and presence of comorbidities significantly impact the variation observed in the clinical symptoms of COVID-19, it has been suggested that genetic variants may also be involved in the disease. Thus, the aim of this study was to perform a systematic review with meta-analysis of the literature to identify genetic polymorphisms that are likely to contribute to COVID-19 pathogenesis. Pubmed, Embase and GWAS Catalog repositories were systematically searched to retrieve articles that investigated associations between polymorphisms and COVID-19. For polymorphisms analyzed in 3 or more studies, pooled OR with 95% CI were calculated using random or fixed effect models in the Stata Software. Sixty-four eligible articles were included in this review. In total, 8 polymorphisms in 7 candidate genes and 74 alleles of the HLA loci were analyzed in 3 or more studies. The HLA-A*30 and CCR5 rs333Del alleles were associated with protection against COVID-19 infection, while the APOE rs429358C allele was associated with risk for this disease. Regarding COVID-19 severity, the HLA-A*33, ACE1 Ins, and TMPRSS2 rs12329760T alleles were associated with protection against severe forms, while the HLA-B*38, HLA-C*6, and ApoE rs429358C alleles were associated with risk for severe forms of COVID-19. In conclusion, polymorphisms in the ApoE, ACE1, TMPRSS2, CCR5, and HLA loci appear to be involved in the susceptibility to and/or severity of COVID-19.
11418651 | Memory T cells constitute a subset of the human CD8+CD45RA+ pool with distinct phenotypic and migratory characteristics. Using HLA class I-viral epitope tetramers to monitor herpes virus-specific CD8(+) T cell responses in humans, we have shown that a significant fraction of responding cells revert from a CD45RO(+) to a CD45RA(+) state after priming. All tetramer-binding CD45RA(+) cells, regardless of epitope specificity, expressed a phenotype LFA-1(high)CCR7(low) that was stable for at least 10 years in infectious mononucleosis patients and indefinitely in asymptomatic carriers. CD8(+)CD45RA(+)LFA-1(high) cells were not present in cord blood but in adults account for up to 50% of CD8(+)CD45RA(+) cells. These CD45RA(+)LFA-1(high) cells have significantly shorter telomeres than CD45RA(+)LFA-1(low) cells, suggesting that the latter represent a naive population, while the former are memory cells. CD45RA(+) memory cells are a stable population of noncycling cells, but on stimulation they are potent producers of IFN-gamma, while naive CD8(+) cells produce only IL-2. The chemokine receptor profile and migratory potential of CD45RA(+) memory cells is very similar to CD45RO(+) cells but different to naive CD8 cells. In accord with this, CD45RA(+) memory cells were significantly underrepresented in lymph nodes, but account for virtually all CD8(+)CD45RA(+) T cells in peripheral tissues of the same individuals.
38260810 | New Insights into Roles of IL-7R Gene as a Therapeutic Target Following Intracerebral Hemorrhage. Background: Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is a subtype of stroke leading to high rates of morbidity and mortality in adults. Recent studies showed that immune and inflammatory responses might play essential roles in secondary brain injury. The purpose of this article was to provide a reference for further therapeutic strategies for ICH patients. Methods: GSE206971 and GSE216607 datasets from the gene expression omnibus (GEO) database were used to screen the highly immune-related differentally expressed genes (IRDEGs). We used the CIBERSORT algorithm to assess the level of immune signatures infiltration and got the possible function of IRDEGs which was analyzed through Gene Ontology (GO) analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and six hub genes were identified in the Cytoscape plug-in. GSVA algorithm was performed to evaluate the potential pathways of six hub genes in ICH samples. The expression level of IL-7R chosen from six hub genes was further validated by Western blotting. The cell models of ICH were established for the research of IL-7/IL-7R signaling way. Results: A total of six hub genes (ITGAX, ITGAM, CCR2, CD28, SELL, and IL-7R) were identified. IL-7R was highly expressed in the mice ICH group, as shown by immunoblotting. Next, we constructed ICH cell models in RAW264.7 cells and BV2 cells. After treatment with IL-7, iNOS expression (M1 marker) was greatly inhibited while Arg-1(M2 marker) was enhanced, and it might function via the JAK3/STAT5 signaling pathway. Conclusion: The hypothesis is proposed that the IL-7/IL-7R signaling pathway might regulate the inflammatory process following ICH by regulating microglia polarization. Our study is limited and requires more in-depth experimental confirmation.
37796941 | Coarse-grained molecular dynamics-guided immunoinformatics to explain the binder and non-binder classification of Cytotoxic T-cell epitope for SARS-CoV-2 peptide-based vaccine discovery. Epitope-based peptide vaccine can elicit T-cell immunity against SARS-CoV-2 to clear the infection. However, finding the best epitope from the whole antigen is challenging. A peptide screening using immunoinformatics usually starts from MHC-binding peptide, immunogenicity, cross-reactivity with the human proteome, to toxicity analysis. This pipeline classified the peptides into three categories, i.e., strong-, weak-, and non-binder, without incorporating the structural aspect. For this reason, the molecular detail that discriminates the binders from non-binder is interesting to be investigated. In this study, five CTL epitopes against HLA-A*02:01 were identified from the coarse-grained molecular dynamics-guided immunoinformatics screening. The strong binder showed distinctive activities from the non-binder in terms of structural and energetic properties. Furthermore, the second residue from the nonameric peptide was most important in the interaction with HLA-A*02:01. By understanding the nature of MHC-peptide interaction, we hoped to improve the chance of finding the best epitope for a peptide vaccine candidate.
24603870 | In vivo administration of a JAK3 inhibitor during acute SIV infection leads to significant increases in viral load during chronic infection. The studies reported herein are the first to document the effect of the in vivo administration of a JAK3 inhibitor for defining the potential role of NK cells during acute SIV infection of a group of 15 rhesus macaques (RM). An additional group of 16 MHC/KIR typed RM was included as controls. The previously optimized in vivo dose regimen (20 mg/kg daily for 35 days) led to a marked depletion of each of the major NK cell subsets both in the blood and gastro-intestinal tissues (GIT) during acute infection. While such depletion had no detectable effects on plasma viral loads during acute infection, there was a significant sustained increase in plasma viral loads during chronic infection. While the potential mechanisms that lead to such increased plasma viral loads during chronic infection remain unclear, several correlates were documented. Thus, during acute infection, the administration of the JAK3 inhibitor besides depleting all NK cell subsets also decreased some CD8+ T cells and inhibited the mobilization of the plasmacytoid dendritic cells in the blood and their localization to the GIT. Of interest is the finding that the administration of the JAK3 inhibitor during acute infection also resulted in the sustained maintenance during chronic infection of a high number of naive and central memory CD4+ T cells, increases in B cells in the blood, but decreases in the frequencies and function of NKG2a+ NK cells within the GIT and blood, respectively. These data identify a unique role for JAK3 inhibitor sensitive cells, that includes NK cells during acute infection that in concert lead to high viral loads in SIV infected RM during chronic infection without affecting detectable changes in antiviral humoral/cellular responses. Identifying the precise mechanisms by which JAK3 sensitive cells exert their influence is critical with important implications for vaccine design against lentiviruses.
38574833 | Relative frequency of genomic mutations in SARS-CoV-2 recovered from southern Brazilian cases of COVID-19 through the Gamma, Delta and Omicron waves. The presence of different mutations in the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) genome can be related to changes in coronavirus disease (COVID-19) infection. Besides, these viral alterations associated with factors such as massive number of positive cases, vaccination and reinfections can be important in the viral evolution process. As well as, mutations found at low frequencies may have a more neutral action and consequently be less inclined to negative selection, facilitating their spread through the population. Related to that, we aimed to present mutations that are possibly relevant in the process of viral evolution found in 115 SARS-CoV-2 sequences from samples of individuals residing in the metropolitan region of Porto Alegre in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. The genome from clinical samples was sequenced using High-Throughput Sequencing (HTS) and analyzed using a workflow to map reads and find variations/SNPs. The samples were separated into 3 groups considering the sample lineage. Of the total number of analyzed sequences, 35 were from the Gamma lineage, 35 from Delta and 45 from Omicron. Amino acid changes present in frequencies lower than 80% of the reads in the sequences were evaluated. 11 common mutations among the samples were found in the Gamma lineage, 1 in the ORF1ab gene, 7 in the S gene, 2 in the ORF6 gene and 1 in the ORF7a gene. While in the Delta lineage, a total of 11 mutations distributed in the ORF1ab, S, ORF7a and N genes, 2, 7, 1 and 1 mutation were found in each gene, respectively. And finally, in the Omicron, 16 mutations were identified, 2 in the ORF1ab gene, 12 in the S gene and 2 in the M gene. In conclusion, we emphasize that genomic surveillance can be a useful tool to assess how mutations play a key role in virus adaptation, and its process of susceptibility to new hosts showing the possible signs of viral evolution.
12960314 | In vitro generation and life span extension of human papillomavirus type 16-specific, healthy donor-derived CTL clones. Human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 infection is strongly associated with the development of cervical carcinoma (CxCa) in women. The HPV16-derived oncoproteins E6 and E7, responsible for both onset and maintenance of malignant transformation, are expressed constitutively in CxCa cells and represent tumor-associated Ags. As a result, E6 and E7 constitute potential targets for adoptive CTL-mediated immunotherapy of CxCa. However, the availability to date of well-characterized HPV16-specific, CxCa-reactive human CTLs is extremely limited. The current study describes the in vitro generation and isolation of HPV16 E7-specific, CxCa-reactive human CTL clones from low-frequency healthy donor-derived CD8beta-positive precursors. For this purpose, an in vitro CTL induction protocol was used involving mature monocyte-derived dendritic cells as stimulator cells loaded with an HLA-A2.1-restricted, E7(11-20)-derived high-affinity altered peptide ligand. A double tetramer-guided isolation procedure and subsequent limiting-dilution cloning resulted in Ag-specific CTL clones. Stringent CTL characterization clearly indicated Ag-specific, HLA-A2.1-restricted reactivity against different HPV16-transformed CxCa cell lines. To allow expansion of E7(11-20)-specific CTL clones to numbers required for prolonged in vitro as well as in vivo application, their life span was significantly extended by ectopic expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase. Collectively, our results show that optimized CTL induction and stringent CTL selection procedures, followed by human telomerase reverse transcriptase-mediated life span extension will allow continued availability of low-frequency HPV16-specific, CxCa-reactive human CTL clones. This may enhance the prospects of HPV16-specific adoptive CTL immunotherapy in CxCa patients.
27992687 | Brief Report: CD4+ T Cells From Patients With Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Respond Poorly to Exogenous Interleukin-2. OBJECTIVE: Imbalanced cytokine production by T cells characterizes both patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and lupus-prone mice and contributes to immune dysregulation. This study was undertaken to further investigate in detail the production of interleukin-2 (IL-2), interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), IL-4, and IL-17A by CD4+ cell subsets in healthy subjects and patients with SLE, and the signaling response of CD4+ T cells in response to exogenous IL-2. METHODS: Cytokine production by differentiated subsets of CD4+ T cells was assessed by intracellular staining following stimulation with phorbol myristate acetate and ionomycin and by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay after anti-CD3/anti-CD28 stimulation. The IL-2 signaling pathway was examined by assessing JAK-3/STAT-5 phosphorylation. Cell proliferation in response to IL-2 was examined by carboxyfluorescein succinimidyl ester dilution. RESULTS: Production of IL-2 was defective primarily among naive CD4+ T cells, whereas the production of IFNgamma, IL-4, and IL-17A was not significantly different between patients with SLE and healthy subjects. JAK-3/STAT-5 phosphorylation and proliferation of CD4+ T cells from SLE patients in response to exogenous IL-2 were impaired compared to cells from healthy subjects. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that altered IL-2 production, as well as impaired IL-2-mediated signaling and proliferative responses, characterize SLE CD4+ T cells. Our data demonstrate the need for caution in designing IL-2 treatment trials for patients with SLE. Approaches to restore CD4+ T cell sensitivity to IL-2 should be considered.
32791162 | Whole genome sequencing identifies genetic variants associated with co-trimoxazole hypersensitivity in Asians. BACKGROUND: Co-trimoxazole, a sulfonamide antibiotic, is used to treat a variety of infections worldwide, and it remains a common first-line medicine for prophylaxis against Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. However, it can cause severe cutaneous adverse reaction (SCAR), including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms. The pathomechanism of co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR remains unclear. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the genetic predisposition of co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR. METHODS: We conducted a multicountry case-control association study that included 151 patients with of co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR and 4631 population controls from Taiwan, Thailand, and Malaysia, as well as 138 tolerant controls from Taiwan. Whole-genome sequencing was performed for the patients and population controls from Taiwan; it further validated the results from Thailand and Malaysia. RESULTS: The whole-genome sequencing study (43 case patients vs 507 controls) discovered that the single-nucleotide polymorphism rs41554616, which is located between the HLA-B and MICA loci, had the strongest association with co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR (P = 8.2 x 10-9; odds ratio [OR] = 7.7). There were weak associations of variants in co-trimoxazole-related metabolizing enzymes (CYP2D6, GSTP1, GCLC, N-acetyltransferase [NAT2], and CYP2C8). A replication study using HLA genotyping revealed that HLA-B*13:01 was strongly associated with co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR (the combined sample comprised 91 case patients vs 2545 controls [P = 7.2 x 10-21; OR = 8.7]). A strong HLA association was also observed in the case patients from Thailand (P = 3.2 x 10-5; OR = 3.6) and Malaysia (P = .002; OR = 12.8), respectively. A meta-analysis and phenotype stratification study further indicated a strong association between HLA-B*13:01 and co-trimoxazole-induced drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (P = 4.2 x 10-23; OR = 40.1). CONCLUSION: This study identified HLA-B*13:01 as an important genetic factor associated with co-trimoxazole-induced SCAR in Asians.
26553974 | Polymorphisms of large effect explain the majority of the host genetic contribution to variation of HIV-1 virus load. Previous genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of HIV-1-infected populations have been underpowered to detect common variants with moderate impact on disease outcome and have not assessed the phenotypic variance explained by genome-wide additive effects. By combining the majority of available genome-wide genotyping data in HIV-infected populations, we tested for association between ~8 million variants and viral load (HIV RNA copies per milliliter of plasma) in 6,315 individuals of European ancestry. The strongest signal of association was observed in the HLA class I region that was fully explained by independent effects mapping to five variable amino acid positions in the peptide binding grooves of the HLA-B and HLA-A proteins. We observed a second genome-wide significant association signal in the chemokine (C-C motif) receptor (CCR) gene cluster on chromosome 3. Conditional analysis showed that this signal could not be fully attributed to the known protective CCR5Delta32 allele and the risk P1 haplotype, suggesting further causal variants in this region. Heritability analysis demonstrated that common human genetic variation-mostly in the HLA and CCR5 regions-explains 25% of the variability in viral load. This study suggests that analyses in non-European populations and of variant classes not assessed by GWAS should be priorities for the field going forward.
10993288 | Impaired NFAT regulation and its role in a severe combined immunodeficiency. Severe Combined Immunodeficiency (SCID) is a primary immunodeficiency affecting T cells, B cells, or both. Whereas the clinical symptoms are uniformly dominated by recurrent infections, the molecular causes for SCID are very heterogeneous. Mutations in cell surface receptors, signal transduction molecules and transcription factors have been described, including the common gamma chain of the IL-2 (and IL-4, IL-7, IL-9 and IL-15) receptors, the kinase JAK-3, the epsilon and gamma chains of CD3, the protein tyrosine kinase ZAP-70, as well as CIITA and RFX5 involved in MHC class II gene expression. In this work we describe two infants with SCID whose T cells display a severe defect in T cell activation and cytokine transcription due to impaired activation of the transcription factor NFAT. We show that this defect in activation is not due to mutations in the NFAT proteins expressed in T cells or the phosphatase calcineurin which regulates the activation of NFAT. However, nuclear import of NFAT in response to T cell activation was severely compromised in the patients' T cells. A modest degree of nuclear translocation of NFAT was achieved in the patients' T cells when nuclear export was inhibited using lithium chloride. This low level of nuclear NFAT in the nucleus was not sufficient to compensate for the defect in cytokine production in the patients' T cells. However, elevated levels of extracellular calcium led to an increase in cytokine gene transcription by the SCID T cells, suggesting that the underlying genetic defect in the patients involved calcium influx or the initiation of calcium signalling.
9572990 | Activation of Stat-3 is involved in the induction of apoptosis after ligation of major histocompatibility complex class I molecules on human Jurkat T cells. Activation of Janus tyrosine kinases (Jak) and Signal transducers and activators of transcription (Stat) after ligation of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) was explored in Jurkat T cells. Cross-linking of MHC-I mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of Tyk2, but not Jak1, Jak2, and Jak3. In addition, the transcription factor Stat-3 was tyrosine phosphorylated in the cytoplasm and subsequently translocated to the cell nucleus. Data obtained by electrophoretic mobility shift assay suggested that the activated Stat-3 protein associates with the human serum-inducible element (hSIE) DNA-probe derived from the interferon-gamma activated site (GAS) in the c-fos promoter, a common DNA sequence for Stat protein binding. An association between hSIE and Stat-3 after MHC-I ligation was directly demonstrated by precipitating Stat-3 from nuclear extracts with biotinylated hSIE probe and avidin-coupled agarose. To investigate the function of the activated Stat-3, Jurkat T cells were transiently transfected with a Stat-3 isoform lacking the transactivating domain. This dominant-negative acting Stat-3 isoform significantly inhibited apoptosis induced by ligation of MHC-I. In conclusion, our data suggest the involvement of the Jak/Stat signal pathway in MHC-I-induced signal transduction in T cells.
17596301 | Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus ORF6 antagonizes STAT1 function by sequestering nuclear import factors on the rough endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi membrane. The host innate immune response is an important deterrent of severe viral infection in humans and animals. Nuclear import factors function as key gatekeepers that regulate the transport of innate immune regulatory cargo to the nucleus of cells to activate the antiviral response. Using severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) as a model, we demonstrate that SARS-COV ORF6 protein is localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)/Golgi membrane in infected cells, where it binds to and disrupts nuclear import complex formation by tethering karyopherin alpha 2 and karyopherin beta 1 to the membrane. Retention of import factors at the ER/Golgi membrane leads to a loss of STAT1 transport into the nucleus in response to interferon signaling, thus blocking the expression of STAT1-activated genes that establish an antiviral state. We mapped the region of ORF6, which binds karyopherin alpha 2, to the C terminus of ORF6 and show that mutations in the C terminus no longer bind karyopherin alpha 2 or block the nuclear import of STAT1. We also show that N-terminal deletions of karyopherin alpha 2 that no longer bind to karyopherin beta 1 still retain ORF6 binding activity but no longer block STAT1 nuclear import. Recombinant SARS-CoV lacking ORF6 did not tether karyopherin alpha 2 to the ER/Golgi membrane and allowed the import of the STAT1 complex into the nucleus. We discuss the likely implications of these data on SARS-CoV replication and pathogenesis.
38310765 | Radical S-adenosyl methionine domain-containing 2, a potential target of D-tryptophan in asthma treatment, regulates T helper cell type 1/2 balance. Asthma is a common chronic respiratory disease. D-tryptophan (D-TRP) can inhibit allergic airway inflammation and T helper cell type 2 (Th2) immune response. RNA-sequencing results have indicated that radical S-adenosyl methionine domain-containing 2 (RSAD2) might be a potential molecular target of D-TRP in asthma treatment. Herein, we established a mouse model of asthma using ovalbumin (OVA) via intraperitoneal injection and inhalational challenge. Gain- and loss-of-function studies of RSAD2 were performed in mice following the intratracheal delivery of lentiviral vectors (3 x 106 TU/mL). Naive CD-4+ T cells were isolated from the spleen and used to explore the effects of RSAD2 on Th2 cell differentiation. RSAD2 expression was higher in the asthma group than in the control group. RSAD2 knockdown alleviated inflammatory cell infiltration and reduced the number of goblet cells. Low RSAD2 expression decreased the levels of IgE, IL-25, IL-33, and TSLP, and it reduced the number of inflammatory cells in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. RSAD2 silencing suppressed Th2-related cytokine levels (such as IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13) and increased Th1-related cytokine levels (such as IFN-gamma). Additionally, RSAD2 knockdown inhibited the phosphorylation of JAK1, JAK3, and STAT6, and downregulated GATA-3 expression. RSAD2 overexpression increased inflammatory cell infiltration and mucus secretion in the lung tissues of mice pretreated with D-TRP. D-TRP pretreatment reduced OVA-specific IgE content and IL-4 and IL-5 levels, and it increased the IFN-gamma levels; however, RSAD2 overexpression reversed these effects. In conclusion, RSAD2 knockdown can mitigate OVA-induced asthma by regulating the Th2 immune response via JAK/STAT6 pathway inhibition.
12517979 | CD8 alpha beta T cells are not essential to the pathogenesis of arthritis or colitis in HLA-B27 transgenic rats. The class I MHC allele HLA-B27 is highly associated with the human spondyloarthropathies, but the basis for this association remains poorly understood. Transgenic rats with high expression of HLA-B27 develop a multisystem inflammatory disease that includes arthritis and colitis. To investigate whether CD8alphabeta T cells are needed in this disease, we depleted these cells in B27 transgenic rats before the onset of disease by adult thymectomy plus short-term anti-CD8alpha mAb treatment. This treatment induced profound, sustained depletion of CD8alphabeta T cells, but failed to suppress either colitis or arthritis. To address the role of CD8alpha(+)beta(-) cells, we studied four additional groups of B27 transgenic rats treated with: 1) continuous anti-CD8alpha mAb, 2) continuous isotype-matched control mAb, 3) the thymectomy/pulse anti-CD8alpha regimen, or 4) no treatment. Arthritis occurred in approximately 40% of each group, but was most significantly reduced in severity in the anti-CD8alpha-treated group. In addition to CD8alphabeta T cells, two sizeable CD8alpha(+)beta(-) non-T cell populations were also reduced by the anti-CD8alpha treatment: 1) NK cells, and 2) a CD4(+)CD8(+)CD11b/c(+)CD161a(+)CD172a(+) monocyte population that became expanded in diseased B27 transgenic rats. These data indicate that HLA-B27-retricted CD8(+) T cells are unlikely to serve as effector cells in the transgenic rat model of HLA-B27-associated disease, in opposition to a commonly invoked hypothesis concerning the role of B27 in the spondyloarthropathies. The data also suggest that one or more populations of CD8alpha(+)beta(-) non-T cells may play a role in the arthritis that occurs in these rats.
38507240 | SARS-CoV-2 Orf6 is positioned in the nuclear pore complex by Rae1 to control nucleo-cytoplasmic transport. The Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) accessory protein Orf6 works as an interferon antagonist, in part, by inhibiting the nuclear import activated p-STAT1, an activator of interferon-stimulated genes, and the export of the poly(A) RNA. Insight into the transport regulatory function of Orf6 has come from the observation that Orf6 binds to the nuclear pore complex (NPC) components Rae1 and Nup98. To gain further insight into the mechanism of Orf6-mediated transport inhibition, we examined the role of Rae1 and Nup98. We show that Rae1 alone is not necessary to support p-STAT1 import or nuclear export of poly(A) RNA. Moreover, the loss of Rae1 suppresses the transport inhibitory activity of Orf6. We propose that the Rae1/Nup98 complex strategically positions Orf6 within the NPC where it alters FG-Nup interactions and their ability to support nuclear transport. In addition, we show that Rae1 is required for normal viral protein production during SARS-CoV-2 infection presumably through its role in supporting Orf6 function.
35394875 | TCR-mimic bispecific antibodies to target the HIV-1 reservoir. HIV-1 infection is incurable due to the persistence of the virus in a latent reservoir of resting memory CD4+ T cells. \Shock-and-kill\ approaches that seek to induce HIV-1 gene expression, protein production, and subsequent targeting by the host immune system have been unsuccessful due to a lack of effective latency-reversing agents (LRAs) and kill strategies. In an effort to develop reagents that could be used to promote killing of infected cells, we constructed T cell receptor (TCR)-mimic antibodies to HIV-1 peptide-major histocompatibility complexes (pMHC). Using phage display, we panned for phages expressing antibody-like variable sequences that bound HIV-1 pMHC generated using the common HLA-A*02:01 allele. We targeted three epitopes in Gag and reverse transcriptase identified and quantified via Poisson detection mass spectrometry from cells infected in vitro with a pseudotyped HIV-1 reporter virus (NL4.3 dEnv). Sequences isolated from phages that bound these pMHC were cloned into a single-chain diabody backbone (scDb) sequence, such that one fragment is specific for an HIV-1 pMHC and the other fragment binds to CD3epsilon, an essential signal transduction subunit of the TCR. Thus, these antibodies utilize the sensitivity of T cell signaling as readouts for antigen processing and as agents to promote killing of infected cells. Notably, these scDbs are exquisitely sensitive and specific for the peptide portion of the pMHC. Most importantly, one scDb caused killing of infected cells presenting a naturally processed target pMHC. This work lays the foundation for a novel therapeutic killing strategy toward elimination of the HIV-1 reservoir.
38375265 | Down-regulation of zinc finger protein 335 undermines natural killer cell function in mouse colitis-associated colorectal carcinoma. Natural killer (NK) cells constitute an active and potent anti-tumor effector population against multiple malignancies. NK cells exploit tumoricidal machinery to restrain colorectal carcinoma (CRC) expansion and invasion. Nonetheless, it is becoming increasingly evident that functional exhaustion considerably compromises the potency of NK cells in patients with CRC. To elucidate the factors that impair NK cell function in the context of CRC, we determined the role of zinc finger protein 335 (ZFP335) in modulating NK cell activity in mouse CRC induced by azoxymethane and dextran sulfate sodium. ZFP335 was profoundly decreased in NK cells in mesenteric lymph nodes of CRC-bearing mice. ZFP335 was especially diminished in NK cells that were both phenotypically and functionally exhausted. Besides, effective ZFP335 knockdown markedly undermined NK cell proliferation, tumoricidal protein production, degranulation, and cytotoxic efficacy on malignant cells, strongly suggesting that ZFP335 reinforces NK cell function. Importantly, ZFP335 knockdown lowered the expression of Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) and Janus kinase 3 (JAK3), both of which play crucial roles in NK cell homeostasis and activation. Collectively, ZFP335 down-regulation is essential for NK cell exhaustion in mesenteric lymph nodes of mice with CRC. We discovered a new ZFP335-JAK1/3 signaling pathway that modulates NK cell exhaustion.
32289779 | Vaccination of Mice with Listeria ivanovii Expressing the Truncated M Protein of Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus Induces both Antigen-Specific CD4+ and CD8+ T Cell-Mediated Immunity. Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS), a serious disease of swine caused by the PRRS virus (PRRSV), had a severe economic impact worldwide. As commonly used PRRS vaccines, the attenuated or inactivated vaccines, provide unsatisfactory immune protection, a new PRRS vaccine is urgently needed. In this study, a part of the PRRSV ORF6 gene (from 253 to 519 bp) encoding the hydrophilic domain of PRRSV M protein was integrated into two Listeria strains via homologous recombination to generate two PRRS vaccine candidates, namely LI-M' and LM-DeltaactAplcB-M'. Both candidate vaccines showed similar growth rate as their parent strains in culture media, but presented different bacterial loads in target organs. As the integrated heterogenous gene was not expressed, LM-DeltaactAplcB-M' was excluded from the immunological test. In a mouse model, LI-M' provoked both CD4+ and CD8+ T cell-mediated immunity. In addition, LI-M' boosting dramatically enhanced CD8+ T cell-mediated immunity without affecting the response intensity of CD4+ T cell-mediated immunity. All of these data suggest that LI-M' is a promising PRRS vaccine candidate.
10706736 | In vitro priming with adenovirus/gp100 antigen-transduced dendritic cells reveals the epitope specificity of HLA-A*0201-restricted CD8+ T cells in patients with melanoma. Replication-deficient recombinant adenovirus (Ad) encoding human gp100 or MART-1 melanoma Ag was used to transduce human dendritic cells (DC) ex vivo as a model system for cancer vaccine therapy. A second generation E1/E4 region deleted Ad which harbors the CMV immediate-early promoter/enhancer and a unique E4-ORF6/pIX chimeric gene was employed as the backbone vector. We demonstrate that human monocyte-derived DC are permissive to Ad infection at multiplicity of infection between 100 and 500 and occurs independent of the coxsackie Ad receptor. Fluorescent-labeled Ad was used to assess the kinetics and distribution of viral vector within DC. Ad-transduced DC show peak transgene expression at 24-48 h and expression remains detectable for at least 7 days. DC transduced with replication-deficient Ad do not exhibit any unusual phenotypic characteristics or cytopathic effects. DC transduced with Ad2/gp100v2 can elicit tumor-specific CTL in vitro from patients bearing gp100+ metastatic melanoma. Using a panel of gp100-derived synthetic peptides, we show that Ad2/gp100v2-transduced DC elicit Ag-specific CTL that recognize only the G209 and G280 epitopes, both of which display relatively short half-lives ( approximately 7-8 h) on the surface of HLA-A*0201+ cells. Thus, patients with metastatic melanoma are not tolerant to gp100 Ag based on the detection of CD8+ T cells specific for multiple HLA-A*0201-restricted, gp100-derived epitopes.
19035322 | [Pseudotyping of murine leukemia virus particles with porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus M protein-mediated E protein]. For constructing pcDNA-ORF5, pcDNA-ORF5-ORF6, pcDNA-ORF5/6, the ORF5 and ORF6 of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) were amplified by RT-PCR, and transiently transfected into 293T cells by calciumphosphate co-precipitation. After 48 h, 293T cells were collected and surveyed by flow cytometry examination. The result indicated that the expression level of the E protein that mediated by the M protein was higher than that of the E protein expressed independently. Then pcDNA-ORF5, pcDNA-ORF5-ORF6, pcDNA-ORF5/6 were respectivly co-transfected into 293T cells with pHIT60 (include MuLV structural genes,namely gag and pol) and pHIT111 (retroviral genome, containing LacZ as a reporter). The supernatants were harvested 48 h post-transfection,and the analysis of the characteristic of the pseudotyping virions was performed by Western blot and infection test. The result indicated that the E proteins were expressed on the virions, and incorporated into the retroviral virions. Infection test were performed on Marc-145 and PAM, all the cells infected were Lac Z positive. These results indicated the pseudotype virions of MuLV-E and MuLV-E/M were infectious, and higher infectivity was achieved by MuLV-E/M.
37865274 | Over-representation analysis of angiogenic factors in immunosuppressive mechanisms in neoplasms and neurological conditions during COVID-19. BACKGROUND: Recent studies emphasized the necessity to identify key (human) biological processes and pathways targeted by the Coronaviridae family of viruses, especially Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) caused up to 33-55 % death rates in COVID-19 patients with malignant neoplasms and Alzheimer's disease. Given this scenario, we identified biological processes and pathways involved in various diseases which are most likely affected by COVID-19. METHODS: The COVID-19 DisGeNET data set (v4.0) contains the associations between various diseases and human genes known to interact with viruses from Coronaviridae family and were obtained from the IntAct Coronavirus data set annotated with DisGeNET data. We constructed the disease-gene network to identify genes that are involved in various comorbid diseased states. Communities from the disease-gene network were identified using Louvain method and functional enrichment through over-representation analysis methodology was used to discover significant biological processes and pathways shared between COVID-19 and other diseases. RESULT: The COVID-19 DisGeNET data set (v4.0) comprised of 828 human genes and 10,473 diseases (including various phenotypes) that together constituted nodes in the disease-gene network. Each of the 70,210 edges connects a human gene with an associated disease. The top 10 genes linked to most number of diseases were VEGFA, BCL2, CTNNB1, ALB, COX2, AGT, HLA-A, HMOX1, FGF2 and COMT. The most vulnerable group of patients thus discovered had comorbid conditions such as carcinomas, malignant neoplasms and Alzheimer's disease. Finally, we identified 15 potentially useful biological processes and pathways for improved therapies. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the key mediator of angiogenesis in cancer. It is widely distributed in the brain and plays a crucial role in brain inflammation regulating the level of angiopoietins. With a degree of 1899, VEGFA was associated with maximum number of diseases in the disease-gene network. Previous studies have indicated that increased levels of VEGFA in the blood results in dyspnea, Pulmonary Edema (PE), Acute Lung Injury (ALI) and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). In case of COVID-19 patients with neoplasms and other neurological symptoms, our results indicate VEGFA as a therapeutic target for inflammation suppression. As VEGFs are known to disproportionately affect cancer patients, improving endothelial permeability and vasodilation with anti-VEGF therapy could lead to suppression of inflammation and also improve oxygenation. As an outcome of our study, we make case for clinical investigations towards anti-VEGF therapies for such comorbid conditions affected by COVID-19 for better therapeutic outcomes.
15166527 | Correlates of resistance to HIV-1 infection in homosexual men with high-risk sexual behaviour. OBJECTIVE: To investigate possible correlates of HIV resistance in participants from the Amsterdam Cohort of Homosexual men who have remained HIV seronegative despite high-risk sexual behaviour. DESIGN/METHODS: We studied in vitro HIV-1 susceptibility and adaptive and innate immunity in 29 high-risk seronegative (HRSN) and 15 HIV-negative pre-seroconversion (pre-SC) homosexual men from the same Amsterdam Cohort Study (ACS) who seroconverted to HIV-1 positive during active follow-up. Host genetics were compared between HRSN and HIV-positive ACS participants. RESULTS: We found lower in vitro susceptibility for a CCR5-using (R5) HIV-1 variant, higher RANTES production levels, but no difference in coreceptor expression in HRSN as compared with pre-SC controls. Reduced R5 in vitro susceptibility of two HRSN tested was restored to normal levels by addition of antibodies against beta-chemokines. A higher proportion of HRSN carried the SDF-1 3'A variant and HLA-A*11, A*31 and Cw*15 alleles. ELIspot analysis with HIV-1 peptide stimulation revealed low frequencies of HIV-1-specific CD8 interferon-gamma producing cytotoxic T cells in both HRSN and pre-SC controls. CONCLUSIONS: Low in vitro R5 susceptibility of cells from the HRSN men was due to beta-chemokine mediated inhibition of virus replication. The presence of HIV-1 specific cytotoxic T cells in both HRSN and pre-SC participants may signify exposure to the virus rather than protection from infection. Host genetic characteristics and other factors affecting innate immunity may contribute to differential resistance to HIV-1 infection among exposed seronegative individuals.
12838324 | In vivo study of the GC90/IRIV vaccine for immune response and autoimmunity into a novel humanised transgenic mouse. Parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTH-rP), a secreted protein produced by prostate carcinoma and other epithelial cancers, is considered a key agent for the development of bone metastases. We investigated the construct GC90/IRIV, composed of immunopotentiating reconstituted influenza virosomes (IRIV) containing PTH-rP gene plasmids (GC90), as a potential tool for human anticancer immunotherapy into humanised mice transgenic for HLA-A(*)02.01, the human-beta2 microglobulin, and the human CD8alpha molecule. Intranasal administration of GC90/IRIV resulted in the induction of a PTH-rP-specific multiepitope cytotoxic T-cell (CTL) response. Cytotoxic T cells derived from vaccinated mice were capable of lysing in vitro syngenic murine PTH-rP transfectants and human HLA-A((*))02.01(+)/PTH-rP(+) prostate carcinoma LNCaP cells as well. The immune response capacity and the absence of any sign of toxicity and/or autoimmunity in vivo suggest the GC90/IRIV vaccine as a valid tool for active specific immunotherapy of human cancers and metastases overexpressing PTH-rP.
38127299 | Identification of novel canonical and cryptic HCMV-specific T-cell epitopes for HLA-A*03 and HLA-B*15 via peptide-PRISM. ABSTRACT: Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) reactivation poses a substantial risk to patients receiving tranplants. Effective risk stratification and vaccine development is hampered by a lack of HCMV-derived immunogenic peptides in patients with common HLA-A*03:01 and HLA-B*15:01 haplotypes. This study aimed to discover novel HCMV immunogenic peptides for these haplotypes by combining ribosome sequencing (Ribo-seq) and mass spectrometry with state-of-the-art computational tools, Peptide-PRISM and Probabilistic Inference of Codon Activities by an EM Algorithm. Furthermore, using machine learning, an algorithm was developed to predict immunogenicity based on translational activity, binding affinity, and peptide localization within small open reading frames to identify the most promising peptides for in vitro validation. Immunogenicity of these peptides was subsequently tested by analyzing peptide-specific T-cell responses of HCMV-seropositive and -seronegative healthy donors as well as patients with transplants. This resulted in the direct identification of 3 canonical and 1 cryptic HLA-A*03-restricted immunogenic peptides as well as 5 canonical and 1 cryptic HLA-B*15-restricted immunogenic peptide, with a specific interferon gamma-positive (IFN-gamma+)/CD8+ T-cell response of >=0.02%. High T-cell responses were detected against 2 HLA-A*03-restricted and 3 HLA-B*15-restricted canonical peptides with frequencies of up to 8.77% IFN-gamma+/CD8+ T cells in patients after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Therefore, our comprehensive strategy establishes a framework for efficient identification of novel immunogenic peptides from both existing and novel Ribo-seq data sets.
14678034 | The novel JAK-3 inhibitor CP-690550 is a potent immunosuppressive agent in various murine models. JAK-3 has been shown to play a key role in cytokine signaling via gammac, e.g. IL-2, 4, 7, 9, 15, 21. The current study describes the immunosuppressive effects of CP-690550, a novel, small molecule inhibitor of JAK-3, in various murine models. In vitro, CP-690550 effectively inhibited a murine mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) (IC50= 91 nm). Mice chronically dosed with CP-690550 (1.5-15 mg/kg/day) demonstrated dose- and time-dependent alterations in lymphocyte subsets when examined by flow cytometry. The most dramatic change observed was a 96% reduction in splenic NK1.1 + TCRbeta- cell numbers following 21 days of treatment. Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses in sensitized mice were reduced in a dose-dependent manner following treatment with the JAK-3 inhibitor (1.87-30 mg/kg, s.c.). Extended survival of neonatal Balb/c hearts implanted into the ear pinna of MHC mismatched C3H/HEN mice was observed with CP-690550 monotherapy (10-30 mg/kg/day), but improved upon combination with cyclosporin (10 mg/kg/day). These data support the participation of JAK-3 in various lymphocyte homeostatic functions in mature mice. Furthermore, the ability of CP-690550 to extend cardiac allograft survival in murine models suggests it may afford a new treatment for prevention of transplant rejection.
27795451 | 3-Deoxysappanchalcone Promotes Proliferation of Human Hair Follicle Dermal Papilla Cells and Hair Growth in C57BL/6 Mice by Modulating WNT/beta-Catenin and STAT Signaling. 3-Deoxysappanchalcone (3-DSC) has been reported to possess anti-allergic, antiviral, anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities. In the present study, we investigated the effects of 3-DSC on the proliferation of human hair follicle dermal papilla cells (HDPCs) and mouse hair growth in vivo. A real-time cell analyzer system, luciferase assay, Western blot and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were employed to measure the biochemical changes occurring in HDPCs in response to 3-DSC treatment. The effect of 3-DSC on hair growth in C57BL/6 mice was also examined. 3-DSC promoted the proliferation of HDPCs, similar to Tofacitinib, an inhibitor of janus-activated kinase (JAK). 3-DSC promoted phosphorylation of beta-catenin and transcriptional activation of the T-cell factor. In addition, 3-DSC potentiated interleukin-6 (IL-6)-induced phosphorylation and subsequent transactivation of signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3), thereby increasing the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase-4 (Cdk4), fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). On the contrary, 3-DSC attenuated STAT6 mRNA expression and IL4-induced STAT6 phosphorylation in HDPCs. Finally, we observed that topical application of 3-DSC promoted the anagen phase of hair growth in C57BL/6 mice. 3-DSC stimulates hair growth possibly by inducing proliferation of follicular dermal papilla cells via modulation of WNT/beta-catenin and STAT signaling.
26971464 | Alopecia areata: Animal models illuminate autoimmune pathogenesis and novel immunotherapeutic strategies. One of the most common human autoimmune diseases, alopecia areata (AA), is characterized by sudden, often persisting and psychologically devastating hair loss. Animal models have helped greatly to elucidate critical cellular and molecular immune pathways in AA. The two most prominent ones are inbred C3H/HeJ mice which develop an AA-like hair phenotype spontaneously or after experimental induction, and healthy human scalp skin xenotransplanted onto SCID mice, in which a phenocopy of human AA is induced by injecting IL-2-stimulated PBMCs enriched for CD56+/NKG2D+ cells intradermally. The current review critically examines the pros and cons of the available AA animal models and how they have shaped our understanding of AA pathobiology, and the development of new therapeutic strategies. AA is thought to arise when the hair follicle's (HF) natural immune privilege (IP) collapses, inducing ectopic MHC class I expression in the HF epithelium and autoantigen presentation to autoreactive CD8+ T cells. In common with other autoimmune diseases, upregulation of IFN-gamma and IL-15 is critically implicated in AA pathogenesis, as are NKG2D and its ligands, MICA, and ULBP3. The C3H/HeJ mouse model was used to identify key immune cell and molecular principles in murine AA, and proof-of-principle that Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors are suitable agents for AA management in vivo, since both IFN-gamma and IL-15 signal via the JAK pathway. Instead, the humanized mouse model of AA has been used to demonstrate the previously hypothesized key role of CD8+ T cells and NKG2D+ cells in AA pathogenesis and to discover human-specific pharmacologic targets like the potassium channel Kv1.3, and to show that the PDE4 inhibitor, apremilast, inhibits AA development in human skin. As such, AA provides a model disease, in which to contemplate general challenges, opportunities, and limitations one faces when selecting appropriate animal models in preclinical research for human autoimmune diseases.
21533899 | The HLA-B 3906 allele imparts a high risk of diabetes only on specific HLA-DR/DQ haplotypes. AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: We investigated the risk associated with HLA-B*39 alleles in the context of specific HLA-DR/DQ haplotypes. METHODS: We studied a readily available dataset from the Type 1 Diabetes Genetics Consortium that consists of 2,300 affected sibling pair families genotyped for both HLA alleles and 2,837 single nucleotide polymorphisms across the major histocompatibility complex region. RESULTS: The B*3906 allele significantly enhanced the risk of type 1 diabetes when present on specific HLA-DR/DQ haplotypes (DRB1 0801-DQB1 0402: p = 1.6 x 10(-6), OR 25.4; DRB1 0101-DQB1 0501: p = 4.9 x 10(-5), OR 10.3) but did not enhance the risk of DRB1 0401-DQB1 0302 haplotypes. In addition, the B 3901 allele enhanced risk on the DRB1 1601-DQB1 0502 haplotype (p = 3.7 x 10(-3), OR 7.2). CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: These associations indicate that the B 39 alleles significantly increase risk when present on specific HLA-DR/DQ haplotypes, and HLA-B typing in concert with specific HLA-DR/DQ genotypes should facilitate genetic prediction of type 1 diabetes, particularly in a research setting.
35453523 | Molecular Basis for Paradoxical Activities of Polymorphonuclear Neutrophils in Inflammation/Anti-Inflammation, Bactericide/Autoimmunity, Pro-Cancer/Anticancer, and Antiviral Infection/SARS-CoV-II-Induced Immunothrombotic Dysregulation. Polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) are the most abundant white blood cells in the circulation. These cells act as the fast and powerful defenders against environmental pathogenic microbes to protect the body. In addition, these innate inflammatory cells can produce a number of cytokines/chemokines/growth factors for actively participating in the immune network and immune homeostasis. Many novel biological functions including mitogen-induced cell-mediated cytotoxicity (MICC) and antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC), exocytosis of microvesicles (ectosomes and exosomes), trogocytosis (plasma membrane exchange) and release of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) have been successively discovered. Furthermore, recent investigations unveiled that PMNs act as a double-edged sword to exhibit paradoxical activities on pro-inflammation/anti-inflammation, antibacteria/autoimmunity, pro-cancer/anticancer, antiviral infection/COVID-19-induced immunothrombotic dysregulation. The NETs released from PMNs are believed to play a pivotal role in these paradoxical activities, especially in the cytokine storm and immunothrombotic dysregulation in the recent SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. In this review, we would like to discuss in detail the molecular basis for these strange activities of PMNs.
38582657 | A comparative analysis of TCR immune repertoire in COVID-19 patients. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has merged as a global health threat since its outbreak in December 2019. Despite widespread recognition, there has been a paucity of studies focusing on the T cell receptor (TCR) bias in adaptive immunity induced by SARS-CoV-2. This research conducted a comparative analysis of the TCR immune repertoire to identify notable alphabeta TCR bias sequences associated with the SARS-CoV-2 virus antigen. The present study encompassed 73 symptomatic COVID-19 patients, categorized as moderate/mild or severe/critical, along with 9 healthy controls. Our findings revealed specific TCR chains prominently utilized by moderate and severe patients, identified as TRAV30-J34-TRBV3-1-J2-7 and TRAV12-3-J6-TRBV28-J1-1, respectively. Additionally, our research explored critical TCR preferences in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) of COVID-19 patients at various disease stages. Indeed, monitoring the dynamics of immune repertoire changes in COVID-19 patients could serve as a crucial biomarker for predicting disease progression and recovery. Furthermore, the study explored TCR bias in both peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and BALF. The most common alphabeta VJ pair observed in BALF was TRAV12-3-J18-TRBV7-6-J2-7. In addition, a comparative analysis with the VDJdb database indicated that the HLA-A*02:01 allele exhibited the widest distribution and highest frequency in COVID-19 patients across different periods. This comprehensive examination provided a global characterization of the TCR immune repertoire in COVID-19 patients, contributing significantly to our understanding of TCR bias induced by SARS-CoV-2.
19139084 | Constitutive JAK3 activation induces lymphoproliferative syndromes in murine bone marrow transplantation models. The tyrosine kinase JAK3 plays a well-established role during normal lymphocyte development and is constitutively phosphorylated in several lymphoid malignancies. However, its contribution to lymphomagenesis remains elusive. In this study, we used the newly identified activating JAK3A572V mutation to elucidate the effect of constitutive JAK3 signaling on murine lymphopoiesis. In a bone marrow transplantation model, JAK3A572V induces an aggressive, fatal, and transplantable lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by the expansion of CD8(+)TCRalphabeta(+)CD44(+)CD122(+)Ly-6C(+) T cells that closely resemble an effector/memory T-cell subtype. Compared with wild-type counterparts, these cells show increased proliferative capacities in response to polyclonal stimulation, enhanced survival rates with elevated expression of Bcl-2, and increased production of interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), correlating with enhanced cytotoxic abilities against allogeneic target cells. Of interest, the JAK3A572V disease is epidermotropic and produces intraepidermal microabscesses. Taken together, these clinical features are reminiscent of those observed in an uncommon but aggressive subset of CD8(+) human cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCLs). However, we also observed a CD4(+) CTCL-like phenotype when cells are transplanted in an MHC-I-deficient background. These data demonstrate that constitutive JAK3 activation disrupts T-cell homeostasis and induces lymphoproliferative diseases in mice.
9605330 | Assembly and crystallization of the complex between the human T cell coreceptor CD8alpha homodimer and HLA-A2. A strategy for overexpression in Escherichia coli of the extracellular immunoglobulin domain of human CD8alpha was devised using codon usage alterations in the 5' region of the gene, designed so as to prevent the formation of secondary structures in the mRNA. A fragment of CD8alpha, comprising residues 1-120 of the mature protein, excluding the signal peptide and the membrane-proximal stalk region, was recovered from bacterial inclusion bodies and refolded to produce a single species of homodimeric, soluble receptor. HLA-A2 heavy chain, beta2-microglobulin and a synthetic peptide antigen corresponding to the pol epitope from HIV-1 were also expressed in E. coli, refolded and purified. CD8alpha/HLA-A2 complexes were formed in solution and by co-crystallization with a stoichiometry of one CD8alpha alpha dimer to one HLA-A2-peptide unit.
25406087 | Host genetic factors associated with symptomatic primary HIV infection and disease progression among Argentinean seroconverters. BACKGROUND: Variants in HIV-coreceptor C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) and Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes are the most important host genetic factors associated with HIV infection and disease progression. Our aim was to analyze the association of these genetic factors in the presence of clinical symptoms during Primary HIV Infection (PHI) and disease progression within the first year. METHODS: Seventy subjects diagnosed during PHI were studied (55 symptomatic and 15 asymptomatic). Viral load (VL) and CD4 T-cell count were evaluated. HIV progression was defined by presence of B or C events and/or CD4 T-cell counts <350 cell/mm3. CCR5 haplotypes were characterized by polymerase chain reaction and SDM-PCR-RFLP. HLA-I characterization was performed by Sequencing. RESULTS: Symptoms during PHI were significantly associated with lower frequency of CCR5-CF1 (1.8% vs. 26.7%, p = 0.006). Rapid progression was significantly associated with higher frequency of CCR5-CF2 (16.7% vs. 0%, p = 0.024) and HLA-A*11 (16.7% vs. 1.2%, p = 0.003) and lower frequency of HLA-C*3 (2.8% vs. 17.5%, p = 0.035). Higher baseline VL was significantly associated with presence of HLA-A*11, HLA-A*24, and absence of HLA-A*31 and HLA-B*57. Higher 6-month VL was significantly associated with presence of CCR5-HHE, HLA-A*24, HLA-B*53, and absence of HLA-A*31 and CCR5-CF1. Lower baseline CD4 T-cell count was significantly associated with presence of HLA-A*24/*33, HLA-B*53, CCR5-CF2 and absence of HLA-A*01/*23 and CCR5-HHA. Lower 6-month CD4 T-cell count was associated with presence of HLA-A*24 and HLA-B*53, and absence of HLA-A*01 and HLA-B*07/*39. Moreover, lower 12-month CD4 T-cell count was significantly associated with presence of HLA-A*33, HLA-B*14, HLA-C*08, CCR5-CF2, and absence of HLA-B*07 and HLA-C*07. CONCLUSION: Several host factors were significantly associated with disease progression in PHI subjects. Most results agree with previous studies performed in other groups. However, some genetic factor associations are being described for the first time, highlighting the importance of genetic studies at a local level.
23689514 | JAK3 deregulation by activating mutations confers invasive growth advantage in extranodal nasal-type natural killer cell lymphoma. Extranodal, nasal-type natural killer (NK)/T-cell lymphoma (NKCL) is an aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis in which, usually, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is constitutively activated and oncogenic. Here, we demonstrate that STAT3 activation mostly results from constitutive Janus kinase (JAK)3 phosphorylation on tyrosine 980, as observed in three of the four tested NKCL cell lines and in 20 of the 23 NKCL tumor samples under study. In one of the cell lines and in 4 of 19 (21%) NKCL primary tumor samples, constitutive JAK3 activation was related to an acquired mutation (A573V or V722I) in the JAK3 pseudokinase domain. We then show that constitutive activation of the JAK3/STAT3 pathway has a major role in NKCL cell growth and survival and in the invasive phenotype. Indeed, NKCL cell growth was slowed down in vitro by targeting JAK3 with chemical inhibitors or small-interfering RNAs. In a human NKCL xenograft mouse model, tumor growth was significantly delayed by the JAK3 inhibitor CP-690550. Altogether, the constitutive activation of JAK3, which can result from JAK3-activating mutations, is a frequent feature of NKCL that deserves to be tested as a therapeutic target.
37604828 | Hydrophobic interactions dominate the recognition of a KRAS G12V neoantigen. Specificity remains a major challenge to current therapeutic strategies for cancer. Mutation associated neoantigens (MANAs) are products of genetic alterations, making them highly specific therapeutic targets. MANAs are HLA-presented (pHLA) peptides derived from intracellular mutant proteins that are otherwise inaccessible to antibody-based therapeutics. Here, we describe the cryo-EM structure of an antibody-MANA pHLA complex. Specifically, we determine a TCR mimic (TCRm) antibody bound to its MANA target, the KRASG12V peptide presented by HLA-A*03:01. Hydrophobic residues appear to account for the specificity of the mutant G12V residue. We also determine the structure of the wild-type G12 peptide bound to HLA-A*03:01, using X-ray crystallography. Based on these structures, we perform screens to validate the key residues required for peptide specificity. These experiments led us to a model for discrimination between the mutant and the wild-type peptides presented on HLA-A*03:01 based exclusively on hydrophobic interactions.
37019883 | 110 mum thin endo-microscope for deep-brain in vivo observations of neuronal connectivity, activity and blood flow dynamics. Light-based in-vivo brain imaging relies on light transport over large distances of highly scattering tissues. Scattering gradually reduces imaging contrast and resolution, making it difficult to reach structures at greater depths even with the use of multiphoton techniques. To reach deeper, minimally invasive endo-microscopy techniques have been established. These most commonly exploit graded-index rod lenses and enable a variety of modalities in head-fixed and freely moving animals. A recently proposed alternative is the use of holographic control of light transport through multimode optical fibres promising much less traumatic application and superior imaging performance. We present a 110 mum thin laser-scanning endo-microscope based on this prospect, enabling in-vivo volumetric imaging throughout the whole depth of the mouse brain. The instrument is equipped with multi-wavelength detection and three-dimensional random access options, and it performs at lateral resolution below 1 mum. We showcase various modes of its application through the observations of fluorescently labelled neurones, their processes and blood vessels. Finally, we demonstrate how to exploit the instrument to monitor calcium signalling of neurones and to measure blood flow velocity in individual vessels at high speeds.
12244147 | Differential functions of IL-4 receptor types I and II for dendritic cell maturation and IL-12 production and their dependency on GM-CSF. Little is known about the distinct roles of the two types of IL-4R on DC. Here we report that IL-4 and IL-13 are able to promote DC maturation, as evaluated by up-regulation of MHC class II and costimulatory molecules, when the concentration of GM-CSF is relatively lower than the dose of IL-4 or IL-13. In addition, under these conditions both cytokines enable DC to respond to maturation stimuli such as bacterial products or proinflammatory cytokines. Both IL-4 and IL-13 act synergistically with weak maturation stimuli such as TNF-alpha or CD40. The IL-4R signaling for DC maturation requires the IL-4R alpha-chain and STAT6, but not Janus kinase 3, indicating that IL-4R type II signaling is preferentially responsible for these effects. In contrast, the production of IL-12 p70, but not IL-10 and TNF, induced by microbial products was enhanced only by IL-4, not by IL-13 or Y119D, a selective type II IL-4R agonist, in vitro and in vivo. This enhancement was dependent on the presence of Janus kinase 3, indicating that this function is exclusively mediated by the type I IL-4R. In short, we discerned the individual roles of the two IL-4R types on DC function, showing that IL-4R type I promotes IL-12 secretion independently of GM-CSF concentration, while IL-4R type II promotes the up-regulation of MHC class II and costimulatory surface markers in a GM-CSF concentration-dependent manner.
24957906 | A genome-wide association study identifies a functional ERAP2 haplotype associated with birdshot chorioretinopathy. Birdshot chorioretinopathy (BSCR) is a rare form of autoimmune uveitis that can lead to severe visual impairment. Intriguingly, >95% of cases carry the HLA-A29 allele, which defines the strongest documented HLA association for a human disease. We have conducted a genome-wide association study in 96 Dutch and 27 Spanish cases, and 398 unrelated Dutch and 380 Spanish controls. Fine-mapping the primary MHC association through high-resolution imputation at classical HLA loci, identified HLA-A*29:02 as the principal MHC association (odds ratio (OR) = 157.5, 95% CI 91.6-272.6, P = 6.6 x 10(-74)). We also identified two novel susceptibility loci at 5q15 near ERAP2 (rs7705093; OR = 2.3, 95% CI 1.7-3.1, for the T allele, P = 8.6 x 10(-8)) and at 14q32.31 in the TECPR2 gene (rs150571175; OR = 6.1, 95% CI 3.2-11.7, for the A allele, P = 3.2 x 10(-8)). The association near ERAP2 was confirmed in an independent British case-control samples (combined meta-analysis P = 1.7 x 10(-9)). Functional analyses revealed that the risk allele of the polymorphism near ERAP2 is strongly associated with high mRNA and protein expression of ERAP2 in B cells. This study further defined an extremely strong MHC risk component in BSCR, and detected evidence for a novel disease mechanism that affects peptide processing in the endoplasmic reticulum.
36194829 | Association Between Human Leukocyte Antigen Polymorphism and Human Papillomavirus Infection in Brazilian Women.
33906298 | Establishment of Nude Mice Lacking NK Cells and Their Application for Human Tumor Xenografts. OBJECTIVE: Nude mice are used as a recipient for human tumor cell xenografts. However, the success rate of xenotransplantation is unsatisfactory due to high natural killer (NK) activity. To overcome this limitation, we established nude mice with no NK cells, and compared the transplantation efficiency with that in nude mice. METHODS: BALB/c Nude Jak3-/- (Nude-J) mice were established by crossing BALB/c Nude mice and BALB/c Jak-3-/- mice. Hematopoietic malignant cell lines (BCBL-1 and Z138) were implanted subcutaneously to compare the tumorigenicity in Nude-J mice with Nude Rag-2/Jak3 double deficient (Nude RJ) mice and nude mice. RESULTS: Nude-J mice showed complete loss of NK and T lymphocytes, whereas B lymphocytes remained. Both BCBL-1 and Z138 human lymphoid malignant cell lines formed almost the same sizes of subcutaneous tumors in Nude-J and Nude RJ mice, whereas they formed no or only small tumors in nude mice. Splenocytes from Nude-J mice showed no cytotoxic activity in vitro. CONCLUSION: Nude-J mice can be a valuable tool for human tumor cell transplantation studies.<br />.
16818755 | CD8 alpha coreceptor to improve TCR gene transfer to treat melanoma: down-regulation of tumor-specific production of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10. Therapeutic success of TCR gene transfer to treat tumors depends on the ability of redirected T cells to become activated upon tumor recognition in vivo. Help provided by tumor-specific Th1 cells is reported to relieve T cells from an anergized state and to induce tumor regression. We recently demonstrated the ability to generate melanoma-specific Th1 cells by genetic introduction of both a CD8-dependent TCR and the CD8alpha coreceptor into CD4+ T cells. In this study, we analyzed a TCR that binds Ag independently of CD8, a property generally preferred to induce tumor-specific T cell responses, and addressed the contribution of CD8alpha following introduction into TCR-transduced CD4+ T cells. To this end, primary human CD4+ T cells were gene transferred with a high-avidity TCR, and were shown not only to bind peptide/MHC class I, but also to effectively kill Ag-positive tumor cells in the absence of CD8alpha. The introduction of CD8alpha up-regulates the tumor-specific production of TNF-alpha and IL-2 to some extent, but significantly down-regulates production of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10 in CD4+ T cells. The introduction of a mutated cysteine motif in CD8alpha, which prevents its binding to LCK and linker for activation of T cells, did not adversely affect expression and T cell cytotoxicity, but counteracted the CD8alpha-mediated down-regulation of IL-4 and IL-5, but not IL-10. In conclusion, CD8alpha down-regulates the production of major Th2-type cytokines, in part mediated by LCK and/or linker for activation of T cells, and may induce differentiation of tumor-specific Th1 cells, which makes this coreceptor an interesting candidate to improve the clinical potential of TCR gene transfer to treat cancer.
38239352 | MediMer: a versatile do-it-yourself peptide-receptive MHC class I multimer platform for tumor neoantigen-specific T cell detection. Peptide-loaded MHC class I (pMHC-I) multimers have revolutionized our capabilities to monitor disease-associated T cell responses with high sensitivity and specificity. To improve the discovery of T cell receptors (TCR) targeting neoantigens of individual tumor patients with recombinant MHC molecules, we developed a peptide-loadable MHC class I platform termed MediMer. MediMers are based on soluble disulfide-stabilized beta2-microglobulin/heavy chain ectodomain single-chain dimers (dsSCD) that can be easily produced in large quantities in eukaryotic cells and tailored to individual patients' HLA allotypes with only little hands-on time. Upon transient expression in CHO-S cells together with ER-targeted BirA biotin ligase, biotinylated dsSCD are purified from the cell supernatant and are ready to use. We show that CHO-produced dsSCD are free of endogenous peptide ligands. Empty dsSCD from more than 30 different HLA-A,B,C allotypes, that were produced and validated so far, can be loaded with synthetic peptides matching the known binding criteria of the respective allotypes, and stored at low temperature without loss of binding activity. We demonstrate the usability of peptide-loaded dsSCD multimers for the detection of human antigen-specific T cells with comparable sensitivities as multimers generated with peptide-tethered beta2m-HLA heavy chain single-chain trimers (SCT) and wild-type peptide-MHC-I complexes prior formed in small-scale refolding reactions. Using allotype-specific, fluorophore-labeled competitor peptides, we present a novel dsSCD-based peptide binding assay capable of interrogating large libraries of in silico predicted neoepitope peptides by flow cytometry in a high-throughput and rapid format. We discovered rare T cell populations with specificity for tumor neoepitopes and epitopes from shared tumor-associated antigens in peripheral blood of a melanoma patient including a so far unreported HLA-C*08:02-restricted NY-ESO-1-specific CD8+ T cell population. Two representative TCR of this T cell population, which could be of potential value for a broader spectrum of patients, were identified by dsSCD-guided single-cell sequencing and were validated by cognate pMHC-I multimer staining and functional responses to autologous peptide-pulsed antigen presenting cells. By deploying the technically accessible dsSCD MHC-I MediMer platform, we hope to significantly improve success rates for the discovery of personalized neoepitope-specific TCR in the future by being able to also cover rare HLA allotypes.
22071967 | Cross-presentation of tumour antigens by human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived CD141(+)XCR1+ dendritic cells. Monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDC) have been widely used in cancer immunotherapy but show significant donor-to-donor variability and low capacity for the cross-presentation of tumour-associated antigens (TAA) to CD8(+) T cells, greatly limiting the success of this approach. Given recent developments in induced pluripotency and the relative ease with which induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cell lines may be generated from individuals, we have succeeded in differentiating dendritic cells (DC) from human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A(*)0201(+) iPS cells (iPS cell-derived DC (ipDC)), using protocols compliant with their subsequent clinical application. Unlike moDC, a subset of ipDC was found to coexpress CD141 and XCR1 that have been shown previously to define the human equivalent of mouse CD8alpha(+) DC, in which the capacity for cross-presentation has been shown to reside. Accordingly, ipDC were able to cross-present the TAA, Melan A, to a CD8(+) T-cell clone and stimulate primary Melan A-specific responses among naive T cells from an HLA-A(*)0201(+) donor. Given that CD141(+)XCR1(+) DC are present in peripheral blood in trace numbers that preclude their clinical application, the ability to generate a potentially unlimited source from iPS cells offers the possibility of harnessing their capacity for cross-priming of cytotoxic T lymphocytes for the induction of tumour-specific immune responses.
38172378 | The disruptor of telomeric silencing 1-like (DOT1L) promotes peritoneal fibrosis through the upregulation and activation of protein tyrosine kinases. The disruptor of telomeric silencing 1-like (DOT1L), a specific histone methyltransferase that catalyzed methylation of histone H3 on lysine 79, was associated with the pathogenesis of many diseases, but its role in peritoneal fibrosis remained unexplored. Here, we examined the role of DOT1L in the expression and activation of protein tyrosine kinases and development of peritoneal fibrosis. We found that a significant rise of DOT1L expression in the fibrotic peritoneum tissues from long-term PD patients and mice. Inhibition of DOT1L significantly attenuated the profibrotic phenotypic differentiation of mesothelial cells and macrophages, and alleviated peritoneal fibrosis. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing and proteomic analysis indicated that DOT1L was mainly involved in the processes of protein tyrosine kinase binding and extracellular matrix structural constituent in the peritoneum. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) showed that intranuclear DOT1L guided H3K79me2 to upregulate EGFR in mesothelial cells and JAK3 in macrophages. Immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence showed that extranuclear DOT1L could interact with EGFR and JAK3, and maintain the activated signaling pathways. In summary, DOT1L promoted the expression and activation of tyrosine kinases (EGFR in mesothelial cells and JAK3 in macrophages), promoting cells differentiate into profibrotic phenotype and thus peritoneal fibrosis. We provide the novel mechanism of dialysis-related peritoneal fibrosis (PF) and the new targets for clinical drug development. DOT1L inhibitor had the PF therapeutic potential.
20435017 | Expression, purification, and characterization of TYK-2 kinase domain, a member of the Janus kinase family. The Janus kinase family consists of four members: JAK-1, -2, -3 and TYK-2. While JAK-2 and JAK-3 have been well characterized biochemically, there is little data on TYK-2. Recent work suggests that TYK-2 may play a critical role in the development of a number of inflammatory processes. We have carried out a series of biochemical studies to better understand TYK-2 enzymology and its inhibition profile, in particular how the TYK-2 phosphorylated forms differ from each other and from the other JAK family members. We have expressed and purified milligram quantities of the TYK-2 kinase domain (KD) to high purity and developed a method to separate the non-, mono- (pY(1054)) and di-phosphorylated forms of the enzyme. Kinetic studies (k(cat(app))/K(m(app))) indicated that phosphorylation of the TYK-2-KD (pY(1054)) increased the catalytic efficiency 4.4-fold compared to its non-phosphorylated form, while further phosphorylation to generate the di-phosphorylated enzyme imparted no further increase in activity. These results are in contrast to those obtained with the JAK-2-KD and JAK-3-KD, where little or no increase in activity occurred upon mono-phosphorylation, while di-phosphorylation resulted in a 5.1-fold increase in activity for the JAK-2-KD. Moreover, ATP-competitive inhibitors demonstrated 10-30-fold shifts in potency (K(i(app))) as a result of the TYK-2-KD phosphorylation state, while the shifts for JAK-3-KD were only 2-3-fold and showed little or no change for JAK-2-KD. Thus, the phosphorlyation state imparted differential effects on both activity and inhibition within the JAK family of kinases.
37192158 | IRIS: Discovery of cancer immunotherapy targets arising from pre-mRNA alternative splicing. Alternative splicing (AS) is prevalent in cancer, generating an extensive but largely unexplored repertoire of novel immunotherapy targets. We describe Isoform peptides from RNA splicing for Immunotherapy target Screening (IRIS), a computational platform capable of discovering AS-derived tumor antigens (TAs) for T cell receptor (TCR) and chimeric antigen receptor T cell (CAR-T) therapies. IRIS leverages large-scale tumor and normal transcriptome data and incorporates multiple screening approaches to discover AS-derived TAs with tumor-associated or tumor-specific expression. In a proof-of-concept analysis integrating transcriptomics and immunopeptidomics data, we showed that hundreds of IRIS-predicted TCR targets are presented by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules. We applied IRIS to RNA-seq data of neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC). From 2,939 NEPC-associated AS events, IRIS predicted 1,651 epitopes from 808 events as potential TCR targets for two common HLA types (A*02:01 and A*03:01). A more stringent screening test prioritized 48 epitopes from 20 events with \neoantigen-like\ NEPC-specific expression. Predicted epitopes are often encoded by microexons of <=30 nucleotides. To validate the immunogenicity and T cell recognition of IRIS-predicted TCR epitopes, we performed in vitro T cell priming in combination with single-cell TCR sequencing. Seven TCRs transduced into human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) showed high activity against individual IRIS-predicted epitopes, providing strong evidence of isolated TCRs reactive to AS-derived peptides. One selected TCR showed efficient cytotoxicity against target cells expressing the target peptide. Our study illustrates the contribution of AS to the TA repertoire of cancer cells and demonstrates the utility of IRIS for discovering AS-derived TAs and expanding cancer immunotherapies.
37853388 | Dysregulation of intracellular redox homeostasis by the SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 protein. SARS-CoV-2 has evolved several strategies to overcome host cell defenses by inducing cell injury to favour its replication. Many viruses have been reported to modulate the intracellular redox balance, affecting the Nuclear factor erythroid 2-Related Factor 2 (NRF2) signaling pathway. Although antioxidant modulation by SARS-CoV-2 infection has already been described, the viral factors involved in modulating the NRF2 pathway are still elusive. Given the antagonistic activity of ORF6 on several cellular pathways, we investigated the role of the viral protein towards NRF2-mediated antioxidant response. The ectopic expression of the wt-ORF6 protein negatively impacts redox cell homeostasis, leading to an increase in ROS production, along with a decrease in NRF2 protein and its downstream controlled genes. Moreover, when investigating the Delta61 mutant, previously described as an inactive nucleopore proteins binding mutant, we prove that the oxidative stress induced by ORF6 is substantially related to its C-terminal domain, speculating that ORF6 mechanism of action is associated with the inhibition of nuclear mRNA export processes. In addition, activation by phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 40 of NRF2 is increased in the cytoplasm of wt-ORF6-expressing cells, supporting the presence of an altered redox state, although NRF2 nuclear translocation is hindered by the viral protein to fully antagonize the cell response. Furthermore, wt-ORF6 leads to phosphorylation of a stress-activated serine/threonine protein kinase, p38 MAPK, suggesting a role of the viral protein in regulating p38 activation. These findings strengthen the important role of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 and identify ORF6 as an important viral accessory protein hypothetically involved in modulating the antioxidant response during viral infection.
38396843 | Interferon-gamma as a Potential Inhibitor of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 Accessory Protein. The ORF6 protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus plays a crucial role in blocking the innate immune response of the infected cells by inhibiting interferon pathways. Additionally, it binds to and immobilises the RAE1 protein on the cytoplasmic membranes, thereby blocking mRNA transport from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. In all these cases, the host cell proteins are tethered by the flexible C-terminus of ORF6. A possible strategy to inhibit the biological activity of ORF6 is to bind its C-terminus with suitable ligands. Our in silico experiments suggest that hIFNgamma binds the ORF6 protein with high affinity, thus impairing its interactions with RAE1 and, consequently, its activity in viral invasion. The in vitro studies reported here reveal a shift of the localisation of RAE1 in ORF6 overexpressing cells upon treatment with hIFNgamma from predominantly cytoplasmic to mainly nuclear, resulting in the restoration of the export of mRNA from the nucleus. We also explored the expression of GFP in transfected-with-ORF6 cells by means of fluorescence microscopy and qRT-PCR, finding that treatment with hIFNgamma unblocks the mRNA trafficking and reinstates the GFP expression level. The ability of the cytokine to block ORF6 is also reflected in minimising its negative effects on DNA replication by reducing accumulated RNA-DNA hybrids. Our results, therefore, suggest hIFNgamma as a promising inhibitor of the most toxic SARS-CoV-2 protein.
16847108 | Novel replication-incompetent adenoviral B-group vectors: high vector stability and yield in PER.C6 cells. Adenoviral vectors based on adenovirus type 35 (rAd35) have the advantage of low natural vector immunity and induce strong, insert-specific T- and B-cell responses, making them prime-candidate vaccine carriers. However, severe vector-genome instability of E1-deleted rAd35 vectors was observed, hampering universal use. The instability of E1-deleted rAd35 vector proved to be caused by low pIX expression induced by removal of the pIX promoter, which was located in the E1B region of B-group viruses. Reinsertion of a minimal pIX promoter resulted in stable vectors able to harbour large DNA inserts (> 5 kb). In addition, it is shown that replacement of the E4-Orf6 region of Ad35 by the E4-Orf6 region of Ad5 resulted in successful propagation of an E1-deleted rAd35 vector on existing E1-complementing cell lines, such as PER.C6 cells. The ability to produce these carriers on PER.C6 contributes significantly to the scale of manufacturing of rAd35-based vaccines. Next, a stable rAd35 vaccine was generated carrying Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens Ag85A, Ag85B and TB10.4. The antigens were fused directly, resulting in expression of a single polyprotein. This vaccine induced dose-dependent CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses against multiple antigens in mice. It is concluded that the described improvements to the rAd35 vector contribute significantly to the further development of rAd35 carriers for mass-vaccination programmes for diseases such as tuberculosis, AIDS and malaria.
11429112 | HIV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes, HLA-A11, and chemokine-related factors may act synergistically to determine HIV resistance in CCR5 delta32-negative female sex workers in Chiang Rai, northern Thailand. Understanding how highly HIV-exposed individuals remain HIV uninfected may be useful for HIV vaccine design and development of new HIV prevention strategies. To elucidate mechanisms associated with resistance to HIV infection, immunologic and genetic factors were examined in 14 HIV-exposed but persistently seronegative (HEPS) female sex workers from Chiang Rai, northern Thailand and in ethnically matched, HIV-positive (n = 9) and HIV-negative women (n = 9). The HEPS women were identified in a study of commercial sex workers who had an HIV-1 incidence of 20.3 per 100 person-years. A high frequency of HLA-A11 was observed in HEPS women (86%) compared with northern Thai controls (56%). HIV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) lytic responses were detected in cryopreserved peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), using HLA-A-matched subtype E HIV-1 peptides in four of seven (57%) HEPS women, eight of eight HIV-positive women, and zero of nine HIV-negative unexposed controls (p = 0.019 HEPS women vs. HIV-negative controls). CTL lysis levels were low, but responses were detected to peptides from Nef, Pol, Gag, and Env. Nef responses predominated in HEPS women. Compared with controls, HEPS women tended to have higher frequencies of CCR5 promotor 59402GG and SDF-1 3'UTR 801A genotypes known to influence HIV transmission or course of disease. HEPS women also had higher levels of spontaneous RANTES production by PBMCs than other groups. Each of these factors could potentially contribute to HIV resistance. As most HEPS women had one or more of these factors, they may prevent HIV infection synergistically by blocking HIV cell entry, delaying its dissemination, or killing HIV-infected cells.
28196473 | 2.7 million samples genotyped for HLA by next generation sequencing: lessons learned. BACKGROUND: At the DKMS Life Science Lab, Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) has been used for ultra-high-volume high-resolution genotyping of HLA loci for the last three and a half years. Here, we report on our experiences in genotyping the HLA, CCR5, ABO, RHD and KIR genes using a direct amplicon sequencing approach on Illumina MiSeq and HiSeq 2500 instruments. RESULTS: Between January 2013 and June 2016, 2,714,110 samples largely from German, Polish and UK-based potential stem cell donors have been processed. 98.9% of all alleles for the targeted HLA loci (HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, -DQB1 and -DPB1) were typed at high resolution or better. Initially a simple three-step workflow based on nanofluidic chips in conjunction with 4-primer amplicon tagging was used. Over time, we found that this setup results in PCR artefacts such as primer dimers and PCR-mediated recombination, which may necessitate repeat typing. Split workflows for low- and high-DNA-concentration samples helped alleviate these problems and reduced average per-locus repeat rates from 3.1 to 1.3%. Further optimisations of the workflow included the use of phosphorothioate oligos to reduce primer degradation and primer dimer formation, and employing statistical models to predict read yield from initial template DNA concentration to avoid intermediate quantification of PCR products. Finally, despite the populations typed at DKMS Life Science Lab being relatively homogenous genetically, an analysis of 1.4 million donors processed between January 2015 and May 2016 led to the discovery of 1,919 distinct novel HLA alleles. CONCLUSIONS: Amplicon-based NGS HLA genotyping workflows have become the workhorse in high-volume tissue typing of registry donors. The optimisation of workflow practices over multiple years has led to insights and solutions that improve the efficiency and robustness of short amplicon based genotyping workflows.
37528566 | HLA-A*11:01 and HLA-C*04:01 are associated with severe COVID-19. We analyzed the association between HLA polymorphisms and susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection and disease severity. Genotyping data from a total of 9373 COVID-19-positive cases from the Spanish Coalition to Unlock Research on Host Genetics on COVID-19 (SCOURGE) consortium and 5943 population controls were included in the study. We found an association of the alleles HLA-B*14:02 and HLA-C*08:02 with a lower risk to COVID-19 infection (p = 0.006, OR = 0.84, 95% CI = [0.75-0.95], p = 0.024, OR = 0.86, 95% CI = [0.78-0.95], respectively). We also found the alleles HLA-A*11:01 and HLA-C*04:01 associated with disease severity (p = 0.033, OR = 1.16, 95% CI = [1.04-1.31], p = 0.045, OR = 1.14, 95% CI = [1.05-1.25], respectively). These results suggest that an effective presentation of viral peptides by HLA class I alleles involve a faster infection clearance, decreasing the susceptibility and severity of COVID-19.
38084957 | Deubiquitinase USP1 regulates sarbecovirus ORF6 protein function. SARS-CoV-2 belongs to the subgenus Sarbecovirus, which universally encodes the accessory protein ORF6. SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 is an antagonist of the interferon (IFN)-mediated antiviral response and plays an important role in viral infections. However, the mechanism by which the host counteracts the function of ORF6 to restrict viral replication remains unclear. In this study, we found that most ORF6 proteins encoded by sarbecoviruses could be ubiquitinated and subsequently degraded via the proteasome pathway. Through extensive screening, we identified that the deubiquitinase USP1, which effectively and broadly deubiquitinates sarbecovirus ORF6 proteins, stabilizes ORF6 proteins, resulting in enhanced viral replication. Therefore, ubiquitination and deubiquitination of ORF6 are important for antagonizing IFN-mediated antiviral signaling and influencing the virulence of SARS-CoV-2. These findings highlight an essential molecular mechanism and may provide a novel target for therapeutic interventions against viral infections.IMPORTANCEThe ORF6 proteins encoded by sarbecoviruses are essential for effective viral replication and infection and are important targets for developing effective intervention strategies. In this study, we confirmed that sarbecovirus ORF6 proteins are important antagonists of the host immune response and identified the regulatory mechanisms of ubiquitination and deubiquitination of most sarbecovirus ORF6 proteins. Moreover, we revealed that DUB USP1 prevents the proteasomal degradation of all ORF6 proteins, thereby promoting the virulence of SARS-CoV-2. Thus, impeding ORF6 function is helpful for attenuating the virulence of sarbecoviruses. Therefore, our findings provide a deeper understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying sarbecovirus infections and offer potential new therapeutic targets for the prevention and treatment of these infections.
30372438 | A simian-adenovirus-vectored rabies vaccine suitable for thermostabilisation and clinical development for low-cost single-dose pre-exposure prophylaxis. BACKGROUND: Estimates of current global rabies mortality range from 26,000 to 59,000 deaths per annum. Although pre-exposure prophylaxis using inactivated rabies virus vaccines (IRVs) is effective, it requires two to three doses and is regarded as being too expensive and impractical for inclusion in routine childhood immunization programmes. METHODOLOGY/ PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here we report the development of a simian-adenovirus-vectored rabies vaccine intended to enable cost-effective population-wide pre-exposure prophylaxis against rabies. ChAdOx2 RabG uses the chimpanzee adenovirus serotype 68 (AdC68) backbone previously shown to achieve pre-exposure protection against rabies in non-human primates. ChAdOx2 differs from AdC68 in that it contains the human adenovirus serotype 5 (AdHu5) E4 orf6/7 region in place of the AdC68 equivalents, enhancing ease of manufacturing in cell lines which provide AdHu5 E1 proteins in trans. We show that immunogenicity of ChAdOx2 RabG in mice is comparable to that of AdC68 RabG and other adenovirus serotypes expressing rabies virus glycoprotein. High titers of rabies virus neutralizing antibody (VNA) are elicited after a single dose. The relationship between levels of VNA activity and rabies virus glycoprotein monomer-binding antibody differs after immunization with adenovirus-vectored vaccines and IRV vaccines, suggesting routes to further enhancement of the efficacy of the adenovirus-vectored candidates. We also demonstrate that ChAdOx2 RabG can be thermostabilised using a low-cost method suitable for clinical bio-manufacture and ambient-temperature distribution in tropical climates. Finally, we show that a dose-sparing effect can be achieved by formulating ChAdOx2 RabG with a simple chemical adjuvant. This approach could lower the cost of ChAdOx2 RabG and other adenovirus-vectored vaccines. CONCLUSIONS/ SIGNIFICANCE: ChAdOx2 RabG may prove to be a useful tool to reduce the human rabies death toll. We have secured funding for Good Manufacturing Practice- compliant bio-manufacture and Phase I clinical trial of this candidate.
11564593 | Immune dysfunction and immune restoration disease in HIV patients given highly active antiretroviral therapy. BACKGROUND: Some immune defects caused by HIV infection resolve following treatment with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), but residual immune dysfunction may cause disease. Problems with the regulation of the restored immune system in the first six months of treatment can lead to atypical presentations of mycobacterial, cytomegalovirus (CMV), hepatitis B virus or hepatitis C virus (HCV) disease. We defined these conditions as immune restoration diseases (IRD) and showed that they occur in 30-40% of individuals who begin HAART from low CD4 T cell counts. OBJECTIVES: Analysis of immune dysregulation in patients who have responded to HAART. STUDY DESIGN: Patients with successful immune reconstitution following HAART were selected from a database containing details of all patients managed at Royal Perth Hospital (Western Australia) on the basis a CD4 T cell count <100/microl before HAART and an increase of >4-fold or to >200 CD4 T cells/microl. RESULTS: Patients who had experienced an IRD demonstrated increased levels of bioavailable IL-6 and increased expression of CCR5 and CCR3 on monocytes and granulocytes, but numbers of gammadeltaT-cells were similar to patients with similar CD4 T cell counts without an IRD. Carriage of HLA-A2, -B44 was associated with a history of CMV retinitis and/or encephalomyelitis as an IRD, but not with IRD initiated by Mycobacterium sp., cutaneous varicella zoster or herpes simplex infections or HCV. We also identified a patient with Graves' thyrotoxicosis and pronounced lymphadenopathy after HAART, and demonstrated that thyroid stimulating hormone receptor antibody production was associated with an increase in serum soluble CD30, suggesting acquired immune dysregulation. CONCLUSIONS: IRD are associated with persistent immune activation, where differences in genetic profiles suggest that distinct pathological mechanisms are responsible for retinitis/encephalomyelitis IRD. Further studies are important as dysregulated T-cell responses may cause disease later in the course of immune reconstitution.
34942634 | Evolution of enhanced innate immune evasion by SARS-CoV-2. The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern suggests viral adaptation to enhance human-to-human transmission1,2. Although much effort has focused on the characterization of changes in the spike protein in variants of concern, mutations outside of spike are likely to contribute to adaptation. Here, using unbiased abundance proteomics, phosphoproteomics, RNA sequencing and viral replication assays, we show that isolates of the Alpha (B.1.1.7) variant3 suppress innate immune responses in airway epithelial cells more effectively than first-wave isolates. We found that the Alpha variant has markedly increased subgenomic RNA and protein levels of the nucleocapsid protein (N), Orf9b and Orf6-all known innate immune antagonists. Expression of Orf9b alone suppressed the innate immune response through interaction with TOM70, a mitochondrial protein that is required for activation of the RNA-sensing adaptor MAVS. Moreover, the activity of Orf9b and its association with TOM70 was regulated by phosphorylation. We propose that more effective innate immune suppression, through enhanced expression of specific viral antagonist proteins, increases the likelihood of successful transmission of the Alpha variant, and may increase in vivo replication and duration of infection4. The importance of mutations outside the spike coding region in the adaptation of SARS-CoV-2 to humans is underscored by the observation that similar mutations exist in the N and Orf9b regulatory regions of the Delta and Omicron variants.
37982908 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 protein targets TRIM25 for proteasomal degradation to diminish K63-linked RIG-I ubiquitination and type-I interferon induction. Evasion and antagonism of host cellular immunity upon SARS-CoV-2 infection provide replication advantage to the virus and contribute to COVID-19 pathogenesis. We explored the ability of different SARS-CoV-2 proteins to antagonize the host's innate immune system and found that the ORF6 protein mitigated type-I Interferon (IFN) induction and downstream IFN signaling. Our findings also corroborated previous reports that ORF6 blocks the nuclear import of IRF3 and STAT1 to inhibit IFN induction and signaling. Here we show that ORF6 directly interacts with RIG-I and blocks downstream type-I IFN induction and signaling by reducing the levels of K63-linked ubiquitinated RIG-I. This involves ORF6-mediated targeting of E3 ligase TRIM25 for proteasomal degradation, which was also observed during SARS-CoV-2 infection. The type-I IFN antagonistic activity of ORF6 was mapped to its C-terminal cytoplasmic tail, specifically to amino acid residues 52-61. Overall, we provide new insights into how SARS-CoV-2 inhibits type-I IFN induction and signaling through distinct actions of the viral ORF6 protein.
38442328 | Design and synthesis of highly selective Janus kinase 3 covalent inhibitors for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Selective inhibition of Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) is a promising strategy for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. Based on the discovery of a hydrophobic pocket unutilized between the lead compound RB1 and the JAK3 protein, a series of covalent JAK3 inhibitors were prepared by introducing various aromatic fragments to RB1. Among them, J1b (JAK3 IC50  = 7.2 nM, other JAKs IC50  > 1000 nM) stood out because of its low toxicity (MTD > 2 g/kg) and superior anti-inflammatory activity in Institute of Cancer Research mice. Moreover, the acceptable bioavailability (F% = 31.69%) ensured that J1b displayed excellent immune regulation in collagen-induced arthritis mice, whose joints in the high-dose group were almost recovered to a normal state. Given its clear kinase selectivity (Bmx IC50  = 539.9 nM, other Cys909 kinases IC50  > 1000 nM), J1b was nominated as a highly selective JAK3 covalent inhibitor, which could be used to safely treat arthritis and other autoimmune diseases.
25774455 | Expression patterns of immune-associated genes in external genital and perianal warts treated with sinecatechins. The role of human papillomavirus (HPV) in human disease includes external genital and perianal warts (EGW), with some HPV genotypes having oncogenic potential (i.e., HPV-16 and -18). While green-tea extracts have antitumor and antiproliferative effects in vitro, the mechanism of action of sinecatechins in the treatment of EGW is not well understood. To investigate the role of immune-regulated genes further, an open-label, single institution, prospective study was conducted enrolling patients with clinically diagnosed EGW. Thirty subjects were enrolled, and 18 completed the trial. All patients applied sinecatechins 15% ointment to target lesions in the study. RNA expression microarrays were obtained from treated EGW lesions and analyzed for differential gene expression of immune-regulated genes. HPV types were analyzed and, based on copy number, were stratified into virological responders (VR) or nonresponders (VNR). Gene expression analysis of RNA samples was performed using TaqMan arrays for human T cell receptor and CD3 complex (TCR), Toll-like receptors (TLR) pathway, interferon (IFN) pathway, and antigen processing pathway. A total of 256 genes were analyzed across the four arrays. Genes that were significantly regulated between VRs and VNRs were CREB3L4, HIST1H3A, HIST1H3H, IFNA1, IFNA4, IFNA5, IFNA6, IFNA8, IFNA14, IFNG, IFNAR1, IL6, IRF9, MAPK4, MAPK5, MAPK14, NET1, and PIK3C2A in the IFN array. In the TCR array, HLA_B was found to be statistically significantly upregulated in both the VR and VNR groups; concomitantly, CD8A was found to be statistically significantly downregulated only in VRs. In the TLR array, only LBP and MAPK8 were found to be differentially regulated. In the antigen processing array, HLA-A, HLA-C, HLA-DMA, HLA-DMB, HLA-F, PSMA5, PSMB8, and PSMB9 were differentially downregulated. Based on these findings, it was determined that sinecatechins treatment modulates and downregulates genes involved in the pro-inflammatory response to HPV infection.
33395585 | XBP1s repression regulates Kupffer cell polarization leading to immune suppressive effects protecting liver allograft in rats. BACKGROUND: Polarized kupffer cells (KCs) influence the immune response after liver transplantation. We report an undiscovered immune regulatory role of X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) on immune function of kupffer cells (KCs). METHODS: Acute rejection model using rats. RESULTS: We found that suppression of XBP1s in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) -activated KCs could increase the expression of arginase-1 (Arg-1) and CD204 but also decrease the expression levels of MHC-II and CD40 and shift the phenotype markers of KCs toward M2 via the janus kinase (JAK) 3- Signal Transducer And Activator Of Transcription (STAT) 6 pathway, presenting an immunosuppressive function by enhancing anti-inflammatory cytokine secretion and accelerating apoptosis of activated T cells. XBP1s over-expression in KCs shift the phenotype markers on KCs towards M1 via the JAK1-STAT1 pathway and have shown a strong pro-inflammatory property. Down-regulation of XBP1s in KCs changed the phenotype and cytokine secretion profile towards M2 and markedly protected the function and structure of allograft liver, prolonging the recipient's survival compared with control and normal saline groups in rats. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism of XBP1 in an induced immuno-suppressive state to protect rat's liver allograft via JAK-STAT mediated KCs polarization.
15949308 | [Study of the expression profile of immunogenesis associated genes in tuberculosis by microarray]. OBJECTIVE: To explore the difference of gene expression profile in tuberculosis patients. METHODS: mRNA levels of pleural fluid and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in tuberculous pleurisy and lung cancer patients were compared by cDNA microarray. Paired mRNAs from fluid specimens of tuberculosis and lung cancer cases were labeled with different fluorochromes during cDNA probe synthesis in a reverse-transcription reaction. The signal intensity of each spot was measured by laser scanner and gene expression was quantified as the tubercle-to-normal fluorescence ratio (T:N ratio). The gene was defined as over expression when the T:N ratio was greater than 2.0 and under expression when the ratio was less than 0.5. RESULTS: Among 626 immunogenesis associated genes there were 53 differences, of which 31 (tnf-alpha, ig-lambda, il-17, il-17r, hla-dp, lcp1, tcralpha, tcrbeta, hsp75, cxcr4, fyb, hla-g, hla-a, il18bp, il-2r, lt-beta, il-8, ip-10, mcp-1, il-12, il-12r, il-10, canx, irf2, ifn-gamma, tlr, il-1, il-7, tlr, lsp-1, il-14)were higher and 22 (il-4, il-18, il-15, ifg-1, scya14, ablim, peci, ppid, hsf 2, actg2, maoa, ttid, gatm, tgfb3, insr, thbd, trap1, tcrgamma, tcrdelta, il-13r, il-11, igf1, a2m)were lower in tuberculous pleurisy than those in the control. CONCLUSIONS: The immunogenesis of tuberculosis involves multi-genetic expression changes, such as tnf-alpha, il-17, il-12, tcralpha, tcrbeta, hsp75, cxcr4, il-4, il-18, il-15 etc., the expression profile of which changed dramatically. The results provide new insight for understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms of tuberculosis and exploring new therapeutic strategies.
24782321 | Neo-antigens predicted by tumor genome meta-analysis correlate with increased patient survival. Somatic missense mutations can initiate tumorogenesis and, conversely, anti-tumor cytotoxic T cell (CTL) responses. Tumor genome analysis has revealed extreme heterogeneity among tumor missense mutation profiles, but their relevance to tumor immunology and patient outcomes has awaited comprehensive evaluation. Here, for 515 patients from six tumor sites, we used RNA-seq data from The Cancer Genome Atlas to identify mutations that are predicted to be immunogenic in that they yielded mutational epitopes presented by the MHC proteins encoded by each patient's autologous HLA-A alleles. Mutational epitopes were associated with increased patient survival. Moreover, the corresponding tumors had higher CTL content, inferred from CD8A gene expression, and elevated expression of the CTL exhaustion markers PDCD1 and CTLA4. Mutational epitopes were very scarce in tumors without evidence of CTL infiltration. These findings suggest that the abundance of predicted immunogenic mutations may be useful for identifying patients likely to benefit from checkpoint blockade and related immunotherapies.
28452824 | Analysis of shared homozygosity regions in Saudi siblings with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. AIM: Genetic and clinical complexities are common features of most psychiatric illnesses that pose a major obstacle in risk-gene identification. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is the most prevalent child-onset psychiatric illness, with high heritability. Over the past decade, numerous genetic studies utilizing various approaches, such as genome-wide association, candidate-gene association, and linkage analysis, have identified a multitude of candidate loci/genes. However, such studies have yielded diverse findings that are rarely reproduced, indicating that other genetic determinants have not been discovered yet. In this study, we carried out sib-pair analysis on seven multiplex families with ADHD from Saudi Arabia. We aimed to identify the candidate chromosomal regions and genes linked to the disease. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 41 individuals from multiplex families were analyzed for shared regions of homozygosity. Genes within these regions were prioritized according to their potential relevance to ADHD. RESULTS: We identified multiple genomic regions spanning different chromosomes to be shared among affected members of each family; these included chromosomes 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 13, 17, and 18. We also found specific regions on chromosomes 8 and 17 to be shared between affected individuals from more than one family. Among the genes present in the regions reported here were involved in neurotransmission (GRM3, SIGMAR1, CHAT, and SLC18A3) and members of the HLA gene family (HLA-A, HLA-DPA1, and MICC). CONCLUSION: The candidate regions identified in this study highlight the genetic diversity of ADHD. Upon further investigation, these loci may reveal candidate genes that enclose variants associated with ADHD. Although most ADHD studies were conducted in other populations, our study provides insight from an understudied, ethnically interesting population.
35732501 | Low-Dose JAK3 Inhibition Improves Antitumor T-Cell Immunity and Immunotherapy Efficacy. Terminal T-cell exhaustion poses a significant barrier to effective anticancer immunotherapy efficacy, with current drugs aimed at reversing exhaustion being limited. Recent investigations into the molecular drivers of T-cell exhaustion have led to the identification of chronic IL2 receptor (IL2R)-STAT5 pathway signaling in mediating T-cell exhaustion. We targeted the key downstream IL2R-intermediate JAK 3 using a clinically relevant highly specific JAK3-inhibitor (JAK3i; PF-06651600) that potently inhibited STAT5-phosphorylation in vitro. Whereas pulsed high-dose JAK3i administration inhibited antitumor T-cell effector function, low-dose chronic JAK3i significantly improved T-cell responses and decreased tumor load in mouse models of solid cancer. Low-dose JAK3i combined with cellular and peptide vaccine strategies further decreased tumor load compared with both monotherapies alone. Collectively, these results identify JAK3 as a novel and promising target for combination immunotherapy.
37795024 | Association between HLA alleles and beta-lactam antibiotics-related severe cutaneous adverse reactions. Introduction: Beta-lactam antibiotics are one of the most common causes of antibiotics-related severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS), toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), drug reactions with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), and acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP). Recent evidence demonstrated that the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) polymorphisms play important roles in the development of drug-related SCARs. This study aimed to extensively characterize the associations between HLA genetic polymorphisms and several phenotypes of SCARs related to beta-lactam antibiotics. Methods: Thirty-one Thai patients with beta-lactam antibiotics-related SCARs were enrolled in the study. A total of 183 unrelated native Thai subjects without any evidence of drug allergy were recruited as the control group. Genotyping of HLA class I and class II alleles was performed. Results: Six HLA alleles including HLA-A*01:01, HLA-B*50:01, HLA-C*06:02, HLA-DRB1*15:01, HLA-DQA1*03:01, and HLA-DQB1*03:02, were significantly associated with beta-lactam antibiotics-related SCARs. The highest risk of SCARs was observed in patients with the HLA-B*50:01 allele (OR = 12.6, 95% CI = 1.1-142.9, p = 0.042), followed by the HLA-DQB1*03:02 allele (OR = 5.8, 95% CI = 1.5-22.0, p = 0.012) and the HLA-C*06:02 allele (OR = 5.7, 95% CI = 1.6-19.9, p = 0.011). According to the phenotypes of SCARs related to beta-lactam antibiotics, the higher risk of SJS/TEN was observed in patients with HLA-A*03:02, HLA-B*46:02 (OR = 17.5, 95% CI = 1.5-201.6, p = 0.033), HLA-A*02:06, HLA-B*57:01 (OR = 9.5, 95% CI = 1.3-71.5, p = 0.028), HLA-DQB1*03:02 (OR = 7.5, 95% CI = 1.8-30.9, p = 0.008), or HLA-C*06:02 (OR = 4.9, 95% CI = 1.1-21.4, p = 0.008). While eight HLA alleles including HLA-A*02:05, HLA-A*02:11, HLA-B*37:01, HLA-B*38:01, HLA-B*50:01, HLA-C*06:02, HLA-C*03:09, and HLA-DRB1*15:01 were associated with AGEP, the highest risk of AGEP was observed in patients with the HLA-B*50:01 allele (OR = 60.7, 95% CI = 4.8-765.00, p = 0.005). Among the four HLA alleles associated with DRESS including HLA-C*04:06, HLA-DRB1*04:05, HLA-DRB1*11:01, and HLA-DQB1*04:01, the HLA-C*04:06 allele had the highest risk of beta-lactam antibiotics-related DRESS (OR = 60.0, 95% CI = 3.0-1202.1, p = 0.043). However, these associations did not achieve statistical significance after Bonferroni's correction. Apart from the HLA risk alleles, the HLA-A*02:07 allele appeared to be a protective factor against beta-lactam antibiotic-related SCARs (OR = 0.1, 95% CI = 0.0-0.5, p = 3.7 x 10-4, Pc = 0.012). Conclusion: This study demonstrated the candidate HLA alleles that are significantly associated with several phenotypes of beta-lactam antibiotics-related SCARs. However, whether the HLA alleles observed in this study can be used as valid genetic markers for SCARs related to beta-lactam antibiotics needs to be further explored in other ethnicities and larger cohort studies.
38240239 | Identification and relative abundance of naturally presented and cross-reactive influenza A virus MHC class I-restricted T cell epitopes. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes are key for controlling viral infection. Unravelling CD8+ T cell-mediated immunity to distinct influenza virus strains and subtypes across prominent HLA types is relevant for combating seasonal infections and emerging new variants. Using an immunopeptidomics approach, naturally presented influenza A virus-derived ligands restricted to HLA-A*24:02, HLA-A*68:01, HLA-B*07:02, and HLA-B*51:01 molecules were identified. Functional characterization revealed multifunctional memory CD8+ T cell responses for nine out of sixteen peptides. Peptide presentation kinetics was optimal around 12 h post infection and presentation of immunodominant epitopes shortly after infection was not always persistent. Assessment of immunogenic epitopes revealed that they are highly conserved across the major zoonotic reservoirs and may contain a single substitution in the vicinity of the anchor residues. These findings demonstrate how the identified epitopes promote T cell pools, possibly cross-protective in individuals and can be potential targets for vaccination.
34685742 | Integrative Analysis to Identify Genes Associated with Stemness and Immune Infiltration in Glioblastoma. It is imperative to identify the mechanisms that confer stemness to the cancer cells for more effective targeting. Moreover, there are not many studies on the link between stemness characteristics and the immune response in tumours. Therefore, in the current study involving GBM, we started with the study of BIRC5 (one of the rare genes differentially expressed in normal and cancer cells) and CXCR4 (gene involved in the survival and proliferation of CSCs). Together, these genes have not been systematically explored. We used a set of 27 promoter methylated regions in GBM. Our analysis showed that four genes corresponding to these regions, namely EOMES, BDNF, HLA-A, and PECAM1, were involved with BIRC5 and CXCR4. Interestingly, we found EOMES to be very significantly involved in stemness and immunology and it was positively correlated to CXCR4. Additionally, BDNF, which was significant in methylation, was negatively correlated to BIRC5.
32698510 | The Effect of JAK Inhibitor on the Survival, Anagen Re-Entry, and Hair Follicle Immune Privilege Restoration in Human Dermal Papilla Cells. Topical or systemic administration of JAK inhibitors has been shown to be a new treatment modality for severe alopecia areata (AA). Some patients show a good response to JAK inhibitors, but frequently relapse after cessation of the treatment. There have been no guidelines about the indications and use of JAK inhibitors in treating AA. The basic pathomechanism of AA and the relevant role of JAK inhibitors should support how to efficiently use JAK inhibitors. We sought to investigate the effect of JAK1/2 inhibitor on an in vitro model of AA and to examine the possible mechanisms. We used interferon gamma-pretreated human dermal papilla cells (hDPCs) as an in vitro model of AA. Ruxolitinib was administered to the hDPCs, and cell viability was assessed. The change of expression of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway, molecules related to the JAK-STAT pathway, and growth factors in ruxolitinib-treated hDPCs was also examined by reverse transcription PCR and Western blot assay. We examined immune-privilege-related molecules by immunohistochemistry in hair-follicle culture models. Ruxolitinib did not affect the cell viability of the hDPCs. Ruxolitinib activated several molecules in the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, including Lef1 and beta-catenin, and suppressed the transcription of DKK1 in hDPCs, but not its translation. Ruxolitinib reverted IFN-gamma-induced expression of caspase-1, IL-1beta, IL-15, and IL-18, and stimulated several growth factors, such as FGF7. Ruxolitinib suppressed the phosphorylation of JAK1, JAK2 and JAK3, and STAT1 and 3 compared to IFN-gamma pretreated hDPCs. Ruxolitinib pretreatment showed a protective effect on IFN-gamma-induced expression of MHC-class II molecules in cultured hair follicles. In conclusion, ruxolitinib modulated and reverted the interferon-induced inflammatory changes by blocking the JAK-STAT pathway in hDPCs under an AA-like environment. Ruxolitinib directly stimulated anagen-re-entry signals in hDPCs by affecting the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway and promoting growth factors in hDPCs. Ruxolitinib treatment prevented IFN-gamma-induced collapse of hair-follicle immune privilege.
37649599 | Global analysis of HLA-A2 restricted MAGE-A3 tumor antigen epitopes and corresponding TCRs in non-small cell lung cancer. Background: Advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer with poor prognosis. Adoptive cell therapy using engineered T-cell receptors (TCRs) targeting cancer-testis antigens, such as Melanoma-associated antigen 3 (MAGE-A3), is a potential approach for the treatment of NSCLC. However, systematic analysis of T cell immune responses to MAGE-A3 antigen and corresponding antigen-specific TCR is still lacking. Methods: In this study, we comprehensively screened HLA-A2 restricted MAGE-A3 tumor epitopes and characterized the corresponding TCRs using in vitro artificial antigen presentation cells (APC) system, single-cell transcriptome and TCR V(D)J sequencing, and machine-learning. Furthermore, the tumor-reactive TCRs with killing potency was screened and verified. Results: We identified the HLA-A2 restricted T cell epitopes from MAGE-A3 that could effectively induce the activation and cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells using artificial APC in vitro. A cohort of HLA-A2+ NSCLC donors demonstrated that the number of epitope specific CD8+ T cells increased in NSCLC than healthy controls when measured with tetramer derived from the candidate MAGE-A3 epitopes, especially epitope Mp4 (MAGE-A3: 160-169, LVFGIELMEV). Statistical and machine-learning based analyses demonstrated that the MAGE-A3-Mp4 epitope-specific CD8+ T cell clones were mostly in effector and proliferating state. Importantly, T cells artificially expressing the MAGE-A3-Mp4 specific TCRs exhibited strong MAGE-A3+ tumor cell recognition and killing effect. Cross-reactivity risk analysis of the candidates TCRs showed high binding stability to MAGE-A3-Mp4 epitope and low risk of cross-reaction. Conclusions: This work identified candidate TCRs potentially suitable for TCR-T design targeting HLA-A2 restricted MAGE-A3 tumor antigen.
26980598 | Neoantigen Load, Antigen Presentation Machinery, and Immune Signatures Determine Prognosis in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma. Tumors commonly harbor multiple genetic alterations, some of which initiate tumorigenesis. Among these, some tumor-specific somatic mutations resulting in mutated protein have the potential to induce antitumor immune responses. To examine the relevance of the latter to immune responses in the tumor and to patient outcomes, we used datasets of whole-exome and RNA sequencing from 97 clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) patients to identify neoepitopes predicted to be presented by each patient's autologous HLA molecules. We found that the number of nonsilent or missense mutations did not correlate with patient prognosis. However, combining the number of HLA-restricted neoepitopes with the cell surface expression of HLA or beta2-microglobulin(beta2M) revealed that an A-neo(hi)/HLA-A(hi) or ABC-neo(hi)/beta2M(hi) phenotype correlated with better clinical outcomes. Higher expression of immune-related genes from CD8 T cells and their effector molecules [CD8A, perforin (PRF1) and granzyme A (GZMA)], however, did not correlate with prognosis. This may have been due to the observed correlation of these genes with the expression of other genes that were associated with immunosuppression in the tumor microenvironment (CTLA-4, PD-1, LAG-3, PD-L1, PD-L2, IDO1, and IL10). This suggested that abundant neoepitopes associated with greater antitumor effector immune responses were counterbalanced by a strongly immunosuppressive microenvironment. Therefore, immunosuppressive molecules should be considered high-priority targets for modulating immune responses in patients with ccRCC. Blockade of these molecular pathways could be combined with immunotherapies targeting neoantigens to achieve synergistic antitumor activity. Cancer Immunol Res; 4(5); 463-71.  2016 AACR.
31921215 | ORF6 and ORF61 Expressing MVA Vaccines Impair Early but Not Late Latency in Murine Gammaherpesvirus MHV-68 Infection. Gammaherpesviruses (gammaHV) are important pathogens causing persistent infections which lead to several malignancies in immunocompromised patients. Murine gammaHV 68 (MHV-68), a homolog to human EBV and KSHV, has been employed as a classical pathogen to investigate the molecular pathogenicity of gammaHV infections. gammaHV express distinct antigens during lytic or latent infection and antigen-specific T cells have a significant role in controlling the acute and latent viral infection, although the quality of anti-viral T cell responses required for protective immunity is not well-understood. We have generated recombinant modified vaccinia virus Ankara (recMVA) vaccines via MVA-BAC homologous recombination technology expressing MHV-68 ORF6 and ORF61 antigens encoding both MHC class I and II-restricted epitopes. After vaccination, we examined T cell responses before and after MHV-68 infection to determine their involvement in latent virus control. We show recognition of recMVA- and MHV-68-infected APC by ORF6 and ORF61 epitope-specific T cell lines in vitro. The recMVA vaccines efficiently induced MHV-68-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cell responses after a single immunization and more pronounced after homologous prime/boost vaccination in mice. Moreover, we exhibit protective capacity of prophylactic recMVA vaccination during early latency at day 17 after intranasal challenge with MHV-68, but failed to protect from latency at day 45. Further T cell analysis indicated that T cell exhaustion was not responsible for the lack of protection by recMVA vaccination in long-term latency at day 45. The data support further efforts aiming at improved vaccine development against gammaHV infections with special focus on targeting protective CD4+ T cell responses.
38396726 | Differentially Expressed Genes Involved in Primary Resistance to Immunotherapy in Patients with Advanced-Stage Pulmonary Cancer. In the last few years, nivolumab has become the standard of care for advanced-stage lung cancer patients. Unfortunately, up to 60% of patients do not respond to this treatment. In our study, we identified variations in gene expression related to primary resistance to immunotherapy. Bronchoscopy biopsies were obtained from advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients previously characterized as responders or non-responders after nivolumab treatment. Ten tumor biopsies (from three responders and seven non-responders) were analyzed by the differential expression of 760 genes using the NanoString nCounter platform. These genes are known to be involved in the response to anti-PD1/PD-L1 therapy. All the patients were treated with nivolumab. Examining the dysregulated expression of 24 genes made it possible to predict the response to nivolumab treatment. Supervised analysis of the gene expression profile (GEP) revealed that responder patients had significantly higher levels of expression of CXCL11, NT5E, KLRK1, CD3G, GZMA, IDO1, LCK, CXCL9, GNLY, ITGAL, HLA-DRB1, CXCR6, IFNG, CD8A, ITK, B2M, HLA-B, and HLA-A than did non-responder patients. In contrast, PNOC, CD19, TP73, ARG1, FCRL2, and PTGER1 genes had significantly lower expression levels than non-responder patients. These findings were validated as predictive biomarkers in an independent series of 201 patients treated with nivolumab (22 hepatocellular carcinomas, 14 non-squamous cell lung carcinomas, 5 head and neck squamous cell carcinomas, 1 ureter/renal pelvis carcinoma, 120 melanomas, 4 bladder carcinomas, 31 renal cell carcinomas, and 4 squamous cell lung carcinomas). ROC curve analysis showed that the expression levels of ITK, NT5E, ITGAL, and CD8A were the best predictors of response to nivolumab. Further, 13/24 genes showed an adverse impact on overall survival (OS) in an independent, large series of patients with NSCLC (2166 cases). In summary, we found a strong association between the global GEP of advanced NSCLC and the response to nivolumab. The classification of NSCLC patients based on GEP enabled us to identify those patients who genuinely benefited from treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). We also demonstrated that abnormal expression of most of the markers comprising the genomic signature has an adverse influence on OS, making them significant markers for therapeutic decision-making. Additional prospective studies in larger series of patients are required to confirm the clinical utility of these biomarkers.
20053740 | Two kinetic patterns of epitope-specific CD8 T-cell responses following murine gammaherpesvirus 68 infection. Murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (gammaHV68) provides an important experimental model for understanding mechanisms of immune control of the latent human gammaherpesviruses. Antiviral CD8 T cells play a key role throughout three separate phases of the infection: clearance of lytic virus, control of the latency amplification stage, and prevention of reactivation of latently infected cells. Previous analyses have shown that T-cell responses to two well-characterized epitopes derived from ORF6 and ORF61 progress with distinct kinetics. ORF6(487)-specific cells predominate early in infection and then decline rapidly, whereas ORF61(524)-specific cells continue to expand through early latency, due to sustained epitope expression. However, the paucity of identified epitopes to this virus has limited our understanding of the overall complexities of CD8 T-cell immune control throughout infection. Here we screened 1,383 predicted H-2(b)-restricted peptides and identified 33 responses, of which 21 have not previously been reported. Kinetic analysis revealed a spectrum of T-cell responses based on the rapidity of their decline after the peak acute response that generally corresponded to the expression patterns of the two previously characterized epitopes. The slowly declining responses that were maintained during latency amplification proliferated more rapidly and underwent maturation of functional avidity over time. Furthermore, the kinetics of decline was accelerated following infection with a latency-null mutant virus. Overall, the data show that gammaHV68 infection elicits a highly heterogeneous CD8 T-cell response that segregates into two distinctive kinetic patterns controlled by differential epitope expression during the lytic and latency amplification stages of infection.
6286775 | Generation of long-term human cytolytic cell lines with persistent natural killer activity. Human cell lines maintained by in vitro stimulation with the HLA-A, B-negative, DR-positive, Epstein Barr virus-transformed, lymphoblastoid cell line Daudi in the presence of conditioned medium demonstrated significant NK activity for over 6 wk in continuous culture. These cells lyse K562 and a broad panel of lymphoblastoid cell lines but do not lyse normal peripheral blood lymphocytes or pokeweed mitogen blasts. They possess the sheep red blood cell receptor but lack other T cell markers (Lyt-3+, OKT3-). Natural killer activity correlated with the presence of a Mac 1-positive subpopulation of cells present in these long-term lines.
20724918 | Development and characterization of a JAK-2-specific antibody suitable for immunohistochemical investigative studies. Janus kinases (JAKs) are tyrosine kinases called JAK-1, JAK-2, JAK-3, and Tyk-2, which have been shown to participate in the signaling pathways of several cytokines that are believed to play a key role in several autoimmune-mediated disorders including rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, the availability of JAK-specific antibodies to be used in investigative efficacy studies in RA models is very limited. Therefore, in this study we developed and characterized a JAK-2-specific antibody that was used to evaluate its immunohistochemical expression in the joints of a rat adjuvant-induced arthritis (rAIA) RA preclinical model. An immunogen peptide sequence design was used to generate JAK-2-specific mouse, rat, and human polyclonal antibodies. JAK-2 plasmid cDNA was then generated and HEK293 transfected cell lines, gel electrophoresis, immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry were used to further characterize the generated JAK-2 antibodies. We show that the generated JAK-2 antibody exhibits specificity and lacks cross-reactivity to JAK-1 and JAK-3. In addition, marked JAK-2 expression is shown in the rAIA in mixed inflammatory cells (macrophages and neutrophils), mast cells, and bone marrow elements. In conclusion, we show the development and characterization of a JAK-2-specific antibody that can be used in investigative and mechanistic studies such as preclinical efficacy models.
16300869 | CpG oligodeoxynucleotides activate dendritic cells in vivo and induce a functional and protective vaccine immunity against a TERT derived modified cryptic MHC class I-restricted epitope. The use of synthetic peptides derived from tumor-associated Ags is attractive for the development of antitumoral vaccines as far as strong adjuvants are found to render them immunogenic. Here, we investigated the possibility to enhance the CD8 response against the human and mouse shared TERT(572Y) HLA-A*0201 restricted modified cryptic peptide by using ODN-CpG as adjuvant. Humanized transgenic mice were immunized with the TERT(572Y) modified cryptic peptide in the presence of ODN-CpG and compared to mice immunized in IFA. By contrast with IFA, we first showed that, in vivo, ODN-CpG leads to the recruitment of dendritic cells in the lymph nodes draining the injection site. Those cells and especially the CD11c+ CD11b- CD8a+ lymphoid and the CD11c+ B220+ plasmacytoid dendritic cells were activated as shown by up-regulation of CD40 at their cell surface. Immunization against TERT(572Y) peptide in the presence of ODN-CpG rather than IFA led to a strong CD8 response and can delayed mortality in an induced tumor model. Study of the CD8 response obtained after antigenic challenge suggested that a functional memory response is induced upon vaccination with ODN-CpG. Thus, MHC class I-restricted epitope in combination of ODN-CpG is a promising and rather simple cancer vaccine formulation.
15972696 | Response of memory CD8+ T cells to severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus in recovered SARS patients and healthy individuals. To date, the pathogenesis of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in humans is still not well understood. SARS coronavirus (SARS-CoV)-specific CTL responses, in particular their magnitude and duration of postinfection immunity, have not been extensively studied. In this study, we found that heat-inactivated SARS-CoV elicited recall CTL responses to newly identified spike protein-derived epitopes (SSp-1, S978, and S1202) in peripheral blood of all HLA-A*0201(+) recovered SARS patients over 1 year postinfection. Intriguingly, heat-inactivated SARS-CoV elicited recall-like CTL responses to SSp-1 but not to S978, S1202, or dominant epitopes from several other human viruses in 5 of 36 (13.8%) HLA-A*0201(+) healthy donors without any contact history with SARS-CoV. SSp-1-specific CTLs expanded from memory T cells of both recovered SARS patients, and the five exceptional healthy donors shared a differentiated effector CTL phenotype, CD45RA(+)CCR7(-)CD62L(-), and expressed CCR5 and CD44. However, compared with the high avidity of SSp-1-specific CTLs derived from memory T cells of recovered SARS patients, SSp-1-specific CTLs from the five exceptional healthy donors were of low avidity, as determined by their rapid tetramer dissociation kinetics and reduced cytotoxic reactivity, IFN-gamma secretion, and intracellular production of IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, perforin, and granzyme A. These results indicate that SARS-CoV infection induces strong and long-lasting CTL-mediated immunity in surviving SARS patients, and that cross-reactive memory T cells to SARS-CoV may exist in the T cell repertoire of a small subset of healthy individuals and can be reactivated by SARS-CoV infection.
16177063 | The Mannich base NC1153 promotes long-term allograft survival and spares the recipient from multiple toxicities. JAK3 is a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase with limited tissue expression but is readily found in activated T cells. Patients lacking JAK3 are immune compromised, suggesting that JAK3 represents a therapeutic target for immunosuppression. Herein, we show that a Mannich base, NC1153, blocked IL-2-induced activation of JAK3 and its downstream substrates STAT5a/b more effectively than activation of the closely related prolactin-induced JAK2 or TNF-alpha-driven NF-kappaB. In addition, NC1153 failed to inhibit several other enzymes, including growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases, Src family members, and serine/threonine protein kinases. Although NC1153 inhibited proliferation of normal human T cells challenged with IL-2, IL-4, or IL-7, it did not block T cells void of JAK3. In vivo, a 14-day oral therapy with NC1153 significantly extended survival of MHC/non-MHC mismatched rat kidney allografts, whereas a 90-day therapy induced transplantation tolerance (>200 days). Although NC1153 acted synergistically with cyclosporin A (CsA) to prolong allograft survival, it was not nephrotoxic, myelotoxic, or lipotoxic and did not increase CsA-induced nephrotoxicity. In contrast to CsA, NC1153 was not metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4. Thus, NC1153 prolongs allograft survival without several toxic effects associated with current immunosuppressive drugs.
38349589 | Flavipin from fungi as a potential inhibitor of rheumatoid arthritis signaling molecules. Flavipin, a fungal lower molecular weight biomolecule (MW 196.16 g/mol), has not been yet extensively studied for beneficial preclinical and clinical applications. In recent years, various preclinical mouse models including adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA) were employed to understand mechanisms associated with Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and to develop new therapeutic drugs. In the current study, we studied the inhibitory effect of Flavipin on major signaling molecules involved in the inflammatory response during RA using both in-silico virtual interaction and in vivo mouse model of AIA. Our in-silico results clarified that Flavipin interacts with the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) through conventional hydrogen binding (H-H) at one of TNF-alpha critical amino acids tyrosine residues, Tyr119, with binding energy (b.e.) -5.9. In addition, Flavipin binds to ATP-binging sites of the Jesus kinases, JAK1, JAK2 and JAK3, through H-H (b. e. between -5.8 and -6.1) and then it may inhibit JAKs, regulators of RA signaling molecules. Moreover, our molecular dynamics stimulation for the docked TNF-alpha/Flavipin complex confirmed the specificity and the stability of the interaction. In vitro, Flavipin is not toxic to normal cells at doses below 50 microM (its IC50 in normal fibroblast cell line was above 100 microM). However, in vivo, the arthritis score and hind paw oedema parameters were modulated in Flavipin treated mice. Consistent with the in-silico results the levels of the TNF-alpha, the nuclear transcription factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) and the signal transduction and activator of transcription (STAT3, downstream of JAKs) were modulated at joint tissues of the hind-paw of Flavipin/AIA treated mice. Our data suggest Flavipin as a potential therapeutic agent for arthritis can inhibit RA major signaling molecules.
38116398 | Human motor neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells are susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Introduction: COVID-19 typically causes Q7 respiratory disorders, but a high proportion of patients also reports neurological and neuromuscular symptoms during and after SARSCoV-2 infection. Despite a number of studies documenting SARS-CoV-2 infection of various neuronal cell populations, the impact of SARS-CoV-2 exposure on motor neuronal cells specifically has not been investigated so far. Methods: Thus, by using human iPSC-derived motor neurons (iPSC-MNs) we assessed: (i) the expression of SARS-CoV-2 main receptors; (ii) iPSC-MN infectability by SARS-CoV-2; and (iii) the effect of SARS-CoV-2 exposure on iPSC-MN transcriptome. Results: Gene expression profiling and immunofluorescence (IF) analysis of the main host cell receptors recognized by SARS-CoV-2 revealed that all of them are expressed in iPSC-MNs, with CD147 and NRP1 being the most represented ones. By analyzing SARS-CoV-2 N1 and N2 gene expression over time, we observed that human iPSC-MNs were productively infected by SARS-CoV-2 in the absence of cytopathic effect. Supernatants collected from SARS-CoV-2-infected iPSC-MNs were able to re-infect VeroE6 cells. Image analyses of SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid proteins by IF confirmed iPSC-MN infectability. Furthermore, SARS-CoV-2 infection in iPSCMNs significantly altered the expression of genes (IL-6, ANG, S1PR1, BCL2, BAX, Casp8, HLA-A, ERAP1, CD147, MX1) associated with cell survival and metabolism, as well as antiviral and inflammatory response. Discussion: These results suggest for the very first time that SARS-CoV-2 can productively infect human iPSC-derived MNs probably by binding CD147 and NRP1 receptors. Such information will be important to unveil the biological bases of neuromuscular disorders characterizing SARS-CoV-2 infection and the so called long-COVID symptoms.
38214610 | Development of a New Off-the-Shelf Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell-Based Approach for the Expansion and Characterization of SARS-CoV-2-Specific T Cells. Global vaccination against COVID-19 has been widely successful; however, there is a need for complementary immunotherapies in severe forms of the disease and in immunocompromised patients. Cytotoxic CD8+ T cells have a crucial role in disease control, but their function can be dysregulated in severe forms of the disease. We report here a cell-based approach using a plasmacytoid dendritic cell line (PDC*line) to expand in vitro specific CD8+ responses against COVID-19 Ags. We tested the immunogenicity of eight HLA-A*02:01 restricted peptides derived from diverse SARS-Cov-2 proteins, selected by bioinformatics analyses in unexposed and convalescent donors. Higher ex vivo frequencies of specific T cells against these peptides were found in convalescent donors compared with unexposed donors, suggesting in situ T cell expansion upon viral infection. The peptide-loaded PDC*line induced robust CD8+ responses with total amplification rates that led up to a 198-fold increase in peptide-specific CD8+ T cell frequencies for a single donor. Of note, six of eight selected peptides provided significant amplifications, all of which were conserved between SARS-CoV variants and derived from the membrane, the spike protein, the nucleoprotein, and the ORF1ab. Amplified and cloned antiviral CD8+ T cells secreted IFN-gamma upon peptide-specific activation. Furthermore, specific TCR sequences were identified for two highly immunogenic Ags. Hence, PDC*line represents an efficient platform to identify immunogenic viral targets for future immunotherapies.
5289893 | [Therapeutic effectiveness of esterase reactivators in organophosphate poisoning and its limits].
9068631 | Cloning and characterization of bacteriophage-like DNA from Haemophilus somnus homologous to phages P2 and HP1. In an attempt to identify and characterize components of a heme uptake system of Haemophilus somnus, an Escherichia coli cosmid library of H. somnus genomic DNA was screened for the ability to bind hemin (Hmb+). The Hmb+ phenotype was associated with a 7,814-bp HindIII fragment of H. somnus DNA that was subcloned and sequenced. Thirteen open reading frames (orfs) were identified, all transcribed in one direction, and transposon mutagenesis identified orf7 as the gene associated with the Hmb+ phenotype. Orf7 (178 amino acids) has extensive homology with the lysozymes of bacteriophages P-A2, P21, P22, PZA, phi-29, phi-vML3, T4, or HP1. The orf7 gene complemented the lytic function of the K gene of phage P2 and the R gene of phage lambda. A lysozyme assay using supernatants from whole-cell lysates of E. coli cultures harboring plasmid pRAP501 or pGCH2 (both of which express the orf7 gene product) exhibited significant levels of lysozyme activity. The orf6 gene upstream of orf7 has the dual start motif common to the holins encoded by lambdoid S genes, and the orf6 gene product has significant homology to the holins of phages HP1 and P21. When expressed from a tac promoter, the orf6 gene product caused immediate cell death without lysis, while cultures expressing the orf7 gene product grew at normal rates but lysed immediately after the addition of chloroform. Based on this data, we concluded that the Hmb+ phenotype was an artifact resulting from the expression of cloned lysis genes which were detrimental to the E. coli host. The DNA flanking the cloned lysis genes contains orfs that are similar to structural and DNA packaging genes of phage P2. Polyclonal antiserum against Orf2, which is homologous to the major capsid precursor protein (gpN) of phage P2, detected a 40,000-M(r) protein expressed from pRAP401 but did not detect Orf2 in H. somnus, lysates. The phage-like DNA was detected in the serum-susceptible preputial strains HS-124P and HS-127P but was absent from the serum-resistant preputial strains HS-20P and HS-22P. Elucidation of a potential role for this cryptic prophage in the H. somnus life cycle requires more study.
38065105 | SARS-CoV-2 immune response and reinfection in vaccinated Maya and mestizo in Southeast of Mexico. Immune response to pathogens, including coronaviruses, is influenced by HLA haplotypes. 1,2. Maya ethnic group is predominant in Yucatan peninsula, this Amerindian group present allele frequency  HLA-G*01:01:02, HLA-G*01:01:01, HLA-G*01:04:01, HLA-A*68  not found in another Amerindians.3-5 Immune response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination and reinfection particularly after Omicron variant appeared was explored in 118 vaccinated subjects with complete two shots immunization in Maya ascendant and mestizo no-Maya. 1172 epidemiological survey applied to university staff in Campeche, Mexico to evaluate reinfection, co-morbidities, variant virus, disease severity, aftermaths, clinical outcomes, age, sex, ethnicity, and vaccination shots. Multiple logistic regression, correspondence analysis, and association tests were used to analysis data.   Sixteen percent  of vaccinated subjects became seronegative after 11 months. We found that vaccinated Maya subjects respond with higher IgG immune response compared to no-Maya subjects, similarly women respond with higher IgG response than men (p<0.05). During an eleven-month period and after two vaccination shots, 7% of the vaccinated subjects reported a confirmed positive infection, and after the third vaccine shot a higher IgG immune response than two vaccination shots or natural infection was detected. However, we observed 23.7% reinfection in people after the third shot. This data represents almost three times  the reinfection rate reported when compared to  previous third vaccine shots. The increase of reinfection in vaccinated subjects was associated with circulation of Omicron variant by 71.5%. Others have reported  reinfection of 40% and vaccine effectiveness of 60% during Omicron dominance.6 To understand COVID-19 severity after reinfection in vaccinated subjects and the associated variables, we carried out a multiple logistic regression, and found a strong association between less severe symptoms with Alfa and Omicron variants (B 5.3; Error 0.39; Wald 0.00; Significance 0.00; OR201).  However, subjects with severe symptoms and or hospitalization correspondent to individuals with multiplex comorbidities and  Gamma SARS-CoV-2 variants (B 5.06; Error 0.97; Wald 26.8; Significance 0.00; OR 158). A follow-up survey of COVID-19 recovered patients experienced diverse digestive, respiratory, cardiac, neurological, or joints involvement sequelae. We looked for SARS-CoV-2 variant and COVID-19 sequelae in a correspondence analysis. Our data suggest that Beta and Delta variants are associated with respiratory and digestive symptoms, whereas Omicron was more closely associated with joints and digestive symptoms, and finally the Gamma variant displayed wider and more diverse symptoms. Our results suggest that genetic background and gender influence IgG response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, and  Maya ascendant has higher immune IgG response to vaccine than mestizos. Reinfection in our population studied fluctuate from 7% to 23.7% nevertheless is higher if Omicron variant is involved, but symptoms are less severe and more closely associated with joints and digestive symptoms.
30626427 | A rare population of tumor antigen-specific CD4+CD8+ double-positive alphabeta T lymphocytes uniquely provide CD8-independent TCR genes for engineering therapeutic T cells. BACKGROUND: High-affinity tumor antigen-specific T-cell receptor (TCR) gene is required to engineer potent T cells for therapeutic treatment of cancer patients. However, discovery of suitable therapeutic TCR genes is hampered by the fact that naturally occurring tumor antigen-specific TCRs are generally of low-affinity, and artificial modification of TCRs can mediate cross-reactivity to other antigens expressed in normal tissues. Here, we discovered a naturally occurring T-cell clone which expressed high-affinity HLA-A*02:01 (A*02)-restricted TCR against NY-ESO-1 from a patient who had NY-ESO-1-expressing ovarian tumor. METHODS: A*02-restricted NY-ESO-1-specific T-cell clones were established from peripheral blood of patients who had NY-ESO-1-expressing ovarian tumors. TCR alpha and beta chain genes were retrovirally transduced into polyclonally activated T cells. Phenotype and function of the parental and TCR-transduced T cells were analyzed by flow cytometry, ELISA and cytotoxicity assay. In vivo therapeutic efficacy was investigated in a xenograft model using NOD/SCID/IL-2Rgamma-deficient (NSG) mice. RESULTS: A rare population of NY-ESO-1-specific T cells, which we named 19305DP, expressed cell surface CD4, CD8alpha, and CD8beta but not CD56 and recognized A*02+NY-ESO-1+ cancer cell lines in a CD4- and CD8-independent manner. 19305DP showed a gene expression profile that is consistent with a mixed profile of CD4+ and CD8+ single-positive T cells. Both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells that were retrovirally transduced with 19305DP-derived TCR gene (19305DP-TCR) showed strong reactivity against A*02+NY-ESO-1+ cancer cells, whereas TCR genes from the conventional A*02-restricted NY-ESO-1-specific CD8+ single-positive T-cell clones functioned only in CD8+ T cells. Both 19305DP-TCR gene-engineered CD4+ and CD8+ T cells eliminated A*02+NY-ESO-1+ tumor xenografts in NSG mice. Finally, based on reactivity against a series of alanine-substituted peptides and a panel of normal human tissue-derived primary cells, 19305DP-TCR was predicted to have no cross-reactivity against any human non-NY-ESO-1 proteins. CONCLUSION: Together, our results indicate that the naturally occurring 19305DP-TCR derived from CD4+CD8+ double-positive alphabeta T cells, is a promising therapeutic TCR gene for effective and safe adoptive T-cell therapy in A*02+ patients with NY-ESO-1-expressing tumor.
37586317 | Phase 1 clinical trial to assess safety and efficacy of NY-ESO-1-specific TCR T cells in HLA-A*02:01 patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma. New York esophageal squamous cell carcinoma-1 (NY-ESO-1)-specific T cell receptor (TCR) T cell therapy is effective in tumors with NY-ESO-1 expression, but a safe and effective TCR-T cell therapeutic protocol remains to be improved. Here, we report a phase 1 investigational new drug clinical trial with TCR affinity-enhanced specific T cell therapy (TAEST16001) for targeting NY-ESO-1. Enrolled patients receive TAEST16001 cell infusion after dose-reduced lymphodepletion with cyclophosphamide (15 mg/kg/day x 3 days) combined with fludarabine (20 mg/m2/day x 3 days), and the TCR-T cells are maintained with low doses of interleukin-2 injection post-adoptive transfer. Analysis of 12 patients treated with the regimen demonstrates no treatment-related serious adverse events. The overall response rate is 41.7%. The median progression-free survival is 7.2 months, and the median duration of response is 13.1 months. The protocol of TAEST16001 cells delivers a safe and highly effective treatment for patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT04318964).
11520814 | Targeting Janus kinase 3 to attenuate the severity of acute graft-versus-host disease across the major histocompatibility barrier in mice. To prevent the development of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in lethally irradiated C57BL/6 (H-2b) recipient mice transplanted with bone marrow-splenocyte grafts from major histocompatibility complex (MHC) disparate BALB/c mice (H-2d), recipient mice were treated with the rationally designed JAK3 inhibitor WHI-P131 [4-(4'-hydroxyphenyl)-amino-6,7-dimethoxyquinazoline] (20 mg/kg, 3 times a day [tid]) daily from the day of bone marrow transplantation (BMT) until the end of the 85-day observation period. Total body irradiation (TBI)-conditioned, vehicle-treated control C57BL/6 mice (n = 38) receiving bone marrow-splenocyte grafts from BALB/c mice survived acute TBI toxicity, but they all developed histologically confirmed severe multi-organ GVHD and died after a median survival time of 37 days. WHI-P131 treatment (20 mg/kg intraperitoneally, tid) prolonged the median survival time of the BMT recipients to 56 days. The probability of survival at 2 months after BMT was 11% +/- 5% for vehicle-treated control mice (n = 38) and 41% +/- 9% for mice treated with WHI-P131 (n = 32) (P <.0001). Notably, the combination regimen WHI-P131 plus the standard anti-GVHD drug methotrexate (MTX) (10 mg/m2 per day) was more effective than WHI-P131 or MTX alone. More than half the C57BL/6 recipients receiving this most effective GVHD prophylaxis remained alive and healthy throughout the 85-day observation period, with a cumulative survival probability of 70% +/- 10%. Taken together, these results indicate that targeting JAK3 in alloreactive donor lymphocytes with a chemical inhibitor such as WHI-P131 may attenuate the severity of GVHD after BMT.
34759930 | Adding Help to an HLA-A*24:02 Tumor-Reactive gammadeltaTCR Increases Tumor Control. gammadeltaT cell receptors (gammadeltaTCRs) recognize a broad range of malignantly transformed cells in mainly a major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-independent manner, making them valuable additions to the engineered immune effector cell therapy that currently focuses primarily on alphabetaTCRs and chimeric antigen receptors (CARs). As an exception to the rule, we have previously identified a gammadeltaTCR, which exerts antitumor reactivity against HLA-A*24:02-expressing malignant cells, however without the need for defined HLA-restricted peptides, and without exhibiting any sign of off-target toxicity in humanized HLA-A*24:02 transgenic NSG (NSG-A24:02) mouse models. This particular tumor-HLA-A*24:02-specific Vgamma5Vdelta1TCR required CD8alphaalpha co-receptor for its tumor reactive capacity when introduced into alphabetaT cells engineered to express a defined gammadeltaTCR (TEG), referred to as TEG011; thus, it was only active in CD8+ TEG011. We subsequently explored the concept of additional redirection of CD4+ T cells through co-expression of the human CD8alpha gene into CD4+ and CD8+ TEG011 cells, later referred as TEG011_CD8alpha. Adoptive transfer of TEG011_CD8alpha cells in humanized HLA-A*24:02 transgenic NSG (NSG-A24:02) mice injected with tumor HLA-A*24:02+ cells showed superior tumor control in comparison to TEG011, and to mock control groups. The total percentage of mice with persisting TEG011_CD8alpha cells, as well as the total number of TEG011_CD8alpha cells per mice, was significantly improved over time, mainly due to a dominance of CD4+CD8+ double-positive TEG011_CD8alpha, which resulted in higher total counts of functional T cells in spleen and bone marrow. We observed that tumor clearance in the bone marrow of TEG011_CD8alpha-treated mice associated with better human T cell infiltration, which was not observed in the TEG011-treated group. Overall, introduction of transgenic human CD8alpha receptor on TEG011 improves antitumor reactivity against HLA-A*24:02+ tumor cells and further enhances in vivo tumor control.
22120524 | Role of JAK3 in myogenic differentiation. Skeletal muscle differentiation is regulated by transcription factors, including members of the myogenic regulatory factor (MRF) family and many signaling pathways. The JAK1 and JAK2 pathways are known to each have different effects on myoblast proliferation and differentiation; however, the role of JAK3 in myoblast differentiation remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the effect of JAK3 inhibition on myogenic differentiation in the C2C12 mouse myoblast cell line. During myogenic differentiation, treatment with the JAK3 inhibitor WHIp154 significantly increased the number of MHC-positive multinucleated myotubes and the expressions of myosin heavy chain (MHC), myogenin (MGN), MyoD, and myogenic enhancer factor 2 (MEF2). Knockdown of the JAK3 gene using siJAK3 also significantly increased MHC, MGN and MyoD mRNA expressions as well as insulin-like growth factor-II (IGF-II) gene expression. During differentiation, JAK3 was initially activated and later decreased. Differentiation decreased STAT1, which was further decreased by WHIp154. In contrast, STAT3 gradually was elevated during differentiation, and was increased by JAK3 inhibition. Moreover, we found that up-regulation of AKT activity and down-regulation of ERK activity cooperated to accelerate myogenic differentiation. Taken together, these data indicate that JAK3 inhibition potently facilitates myoblast differentiation through antagonistic STAT1/STAT3 activities. Additionally, JAK3 inhibition induced precocious differentiation and played important roles for terminal differentiation, including fusion, which is involved with regulation of AKT and ERK pathways.
31483188 | JAK3 inhibitor-based immunosuppression in allogeneic islet transplantation in cynomolgus monkeys. Islet transplantation is efficacious to prevent severe hypoglycemia and glycemic liability of selected patients of type 1 diabetes. However, since calcineurin inhibitor (CNI) causes beta-cell and nephrotoxicity, alternative drug(s) with similar potency and safety profile to CNI will be highly desirable. Here we tested whether JAK3 inhibitor, tofacitinib could be used instead of tacrolimus in CIT07 immunosuppression regimen in cynomolgus nonhuman primate (NHP) model. Five independent streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic monkeys were transplanted with MHC-mismatched allogeneic islets and three animals were further re-transplanted upon insufficient glycemic control or early islet graft rejection. After islet transplantation, blood glucose levels were quickly stabilized and maximal islet graft survival as measured by serum C-peptide concentration was >330, 98, >134, 31, or 22 days, respectively, after transplantation (median survival day; 98 days). Cellular and humoral immune responses were efficiently suppressed by JAK3 inhibitor-based immunosuppression during the follow-up periods. Although intermittent increases of the genome copy number of cynomolgus cytomegalovirus (CMV) were detected by quantitative real-time PCR analyses, serious infections or posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD) was not found in all animals. Taken together, we have shown that JAK3 inhibitor could be used in replacement of tacrolimus in a highly translatable NHP islet transplantation model and these results suggest that JAK3 inhibitor will be potentially incorporated in human allogeneic islet transplantation.
33952315 | Subtype-specific differences in Gag-protease replication capacity of HIV-1 isolates from East and West Africa. BACKGROUND: The HIV-1 epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa is heterogeneous with diverse unevenly distributed subtypes and regional differences in prevalence. Subtype-specific differences in disease progression rate and transmission efficiency have been reported, but the underlying biological mechanisms have not been fully characterized. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the subtypes prevalent in the East Africa, where adult prevalence rate is higher, have lower viral replication capacity (VRC) than their West African counterparts where adult prevalence rates are lower. RESULTS: Gag-protease sequencing was performed on 213 and 160 antiretroviral-naive chronically infected participants from West and East Africa respectively and bioinformatic tools were used to infer subtypes and recombination patterns. VRC of patient-derived gag-protease chimeric viruses from West (n = 178) and East (n = 114) Africa were determined using a green fluorescent protein reporter-based cell assay. Subtype and regional differences in VRC and amino acid variants impacting VRC were identified by statistical methods. CRF02_AG (65%, n = 139), other recombinants (14%, n = 30) and pure subtypes (21%, n = 44) were identified in West Africa. Subtypes A1 (64%, n = 103), D (22%, n = 35), or recombinants (14%, n = 22) were identified in East Africa. Viruses from West Africa had significantly higher VRC compared to those from East Africa (p < 0.0001), with subtype-specific differences found among strains within West and East Africa (p < 0.0001). Recombination patterns showed a preference for subtypes D, G or J rather than subtype A in the p6 region of gag, with evidence that subtype-specific differences in this region impact VRC. Furthermore, the Gag A83V polymorphism was associated with reduced VRC in CRF02_AG. HLA-A*23:01 (p = 0.0014) and HLA-C*07:01 (p = 0.002) were associated with lower VRC in subtype A infected individuals from East Africa. CONCLUSIONS: Although prevalent viruses from West Africa displayed higher VRC than those from East Africa consistent with the hypothesis that lower VRC is associated with higher population prevalence, the predominant CRF02_AG strain in West Africa displayed higher VRC than other prevalent strains suggesting that VRC alone does not explain population prevalence. The study identified viral and host genetic determinants of virus replication capacity for HIV-1 CRF02_AG and subtype A respectively, which may have relevance for vaccine strategies.
28920005 | The frequency of neoantigens per somatic mutation rather than overall mutational load or number of predicted neoantigens per se is a prognostic factor in ovarian clear cell carcinoma. Neoantigens derived from tumor-specific somatic mutations are excellent targets for anti-tumor immune responses. In ovarian clear cell carcinoma (OCCC), checkpoint blockade yields durable responses in a subset of patients. To approach the question of why only some patients respond, we first investigated neoantigen loads and immune signatures using exome sequencing and expression array data for 74 OCCC patients treated conventionally. Neither the number of missense mutations nor total predicted neoantigens assessed in the tumor correlated with clinical outcomes. However, the number of neoantigens per missense mutation (\neoAg frequency\) did correlate with clinical outcomes. Cox multivariate regression analysis demonstrated that low neoAg frequencies correlated with increased progression-free survival (PFS) and was an independent predictive factor for PFS in OCCC (p = 0.032), especially at stage I-II (p = 0.0045). Immunity-associated genes including those related to effector memory CD8 T cells were dominantly expressed in tumors with low neoAg frequencies in stage I-II patients, suggesting CD8 T cell-mediated elimination of immunogenic sub-clones expressing neoantigens (immunoediting) had occurred. In contrast, we observed decreased HLA-A, -B, and -C expression (p = 0.036, p = 0.026, and p = 0.030, respectively) as well as increased ratios of CTLA-4, PD-1, Tim-3, and LAG3 to CD8A expression (p = 0.0064, p = 0.017, p = 0.033 and p = 0.0136, respectively) in stage I-II tumors with high neoAg frequencies. Constrained anti-tumor immunity may thus result in limited immunoediting, and poor prognosis. Our results show that neoAg frequency in OCCC is an independent prognostic factor for clinical outcome and may become a potential candidate biomarker for immunomodulatory agent-based treatments.
38265236 | CRL4B E3 ligase recruited by PRPF19 inhibits SARS-CoV-2 infection by targeting ORF6 for ubiquitin-dependent degradation. The accessory protein ORF6 of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a key interferon (IFN) antagonist that strongly suppresses the production of primary IFN as well as the expression of IFN-stimulated genes. However, how host cells respond to ORF6 remains largely unknown. Our research of ORF6-binding proteins by pulldown revealed that E3 ligase components such as Cullin 4B (CUL4B), DDB1, and RBX1 are potential ORF6-interacting proteins. Further study found that the substrate recognition receptor PRPF19 interacts with CUL4B, DDB1, and RBX1 to form a CRL4B-based E3 ligase, which catalyzes ORF6 ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. Overexpression of PRPF19 promotes ORF6 degradation, releasing ORF6-mediated IFN inhibition, which inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication. Moreover, we found that activation of CUL4B by the neddylation inducer etoposide alleviates lung lesions in a SARS-CoV-2 mouse infection model. Therefore, targeting ORF6 for degradation may be an effective therapeutic strategy against SARS-CoV-2 infection.IMPORTANCEThe cellular biological function of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway as an important modulator for the regulation of many fundamental cellular processes has been greatly appreciated. The critical role of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in viral pathogenesis has become increasingly apparent. It is a powerful tool that host cells use to defend against viral infection. Some cellular proteins can function as restriction factors to limit viral infection by ubiquitin-dependent degradation. In this research, we identificated of CUL4B-DDB1-PRPF19 E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Complex can mediate proteasomal degradation of ORF6, leading to inhibition of viral replication. Moreover, the CUL4B activator etoposide alleviates disease development in a mouse infection model, suggesting that this agent or its derivatives may be used to treat infections caused by SARS-CoV-2. We believe that these results will be extremely useful for the scientific and clinic communities in their search for cues and preventive measures to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.
38539271 | Identification of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell and its receptor. The T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoires exhibits distinct signatures associated with COVID-19 severity. However, the precise identification of vaccine-induced SARS-CoV-2-specific TCRs and T-cell immunity mechanisms are unknown. We developed a machine-learning model that can differentiate COVID-19 patients from healthy individuals based on TCR sequence features with an accuracy of 95.7%. Additionally, we identified SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells and TCR in HLA-A*02 vaccinated individuals by peptide stimulation. The SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells exhibited higher cytotoxicity and prolonged survival when targeting spike-pulsed cells in vitro or in vivo. The top-performing TCR was further tested for its affinity and cytotoxic effect against SARS-CoV-2-associated epitopes. Furthermore, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), immune repertoire sequencing (IR-seq) and flow cytometry were used to access vaccine-induced cellular immunity, which demonstrated that robust T cell responses (T cell activation, tissue-resident memory T cell (Trm) generation, and TCR clonal expansion) could be induced by intranasal vaccination. In summary, we identified the SARS-CoV-2-associated TCR repertoires profile, specific TCRs and T cell responses. This study provides a theoretical basis for developing effective immunization strategies.
25761891 | Virus-specific T lymphocytes home to the skin during natural dengue infection. Dengue, which is the most prevalent mosquito-borne viral disease afflicting human populations, causes a spectrum of clinical symptoms that include fever, muscle and joint pain, maculopapular skin rash, and hemorrhagic manifestations. Patients infected with dengue develop a broad antigen-specific T lymphocyte response, but the phenotype and functional properties of these cells are only partially understood. We show that natural infection induces dengue-specific CD8(+) T lymphocytes that are highly activated and proliferating, exhibit antiviral effector functions, and express CXCR3, CCR5, and the skin-homing marker cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen (CLA). In the same patients, bystander human cytomegalovirus -specific CD8(+) T cells are also activated during acute dengue infection but do not express the same tissue-homing phenotype. We show that CLA expression by circulating dengue-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells correlates with their in vivo ability to traffic to the skin during dengue infection. The juxtaposition of dengue-specific T cells with virus-permissive cell types at sites of possible dengue exposure represents a previously uncharacterized form of immune surveillance for this virus. These findings suggest that vaccination strategies may need to induce dengue-specific T cells with similar homing properties to provide durable protection against dengue viruses.
25197660 | Alzheimer's disease and HLA-A2: linking neurodegenerative to immune processes through an in silico approach. There is a controversial relationship between HLA-A2 and Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been suggested a modifier effect on the risk that depends on genetic loadings. Thus, the aims of this study were to evaluate this relationship and to reveal genes associated with both concepts the HLA-A gene and AD. Consequently, we did first a classical systematic review and a meta-analysis of case-control studies. Next, by means of an in silico approach, we used experimental knowledge of protein-protein interactions to evaluate the top ranked genes shared by both concepts, previously found through text mining. The meta-analysis did not show a significant pooled OR (1.11, 95% CI: 0.98 to 1.24 in Caucasians), in spite of the fact that four of the included studies had a significant OR > 1 and none of them a significant OR < 1. In contrast, the in silico approach retrieved nonrandomly shared genes by both concepts (P = 0.02), which additionally encode truly interacting proteins. The network of proteins encoded by APP, ICAM-1, ITGB2, ITGAL, SELP, SELL, IL2, IL1B, CD4, and CD8A linked immune to neurodegenerative processes and highlighted the potential roles in AD pathogenesis of endothelial regulation, infectious diseases, specific antigen presentation, and HLA-A2 in maintaining synapses.
38114231 | Autologous engineered T cell receptor therapy in advanced cancer. To overcome challenges associated with adoptive cell therapy (ACT), we developed a personalized autologous T-cell therapy program. Patients with advanced cancer with HLA-A *02:01 allele and tumor expression of PRAME, MAGEA1, MAGEA4, MAGEA8, NY-ESO-1, COL6A3 exon 6, MXRA5, and/or MMP1 underwent leukapheresis and T-cell product manufacturing. Patients received lymphodepletion, IMA101 infusion and interleukin 2 for 14 days. Of 214 screened patients, 14 were treated (6, IMA101; 8, IMA101 and atezolizumab). The most common adverse events were cytokine release syndrome (G1, n = 6; G2, n = 4) and cytopenia. At 6 weeks, 12 (85.7%) patients had stable disease. Three patients had prolonged disease stabilization for 12.9, 7.3, and 13.7 months, respectively. The median progression-free survival and overall survival were 3.4 months and 9.4 months, respectively. Target-specific T cells expanded to constitute up to 78.7% of CD8+ cells. In conclusion, IMA101 was feasible and well tolerated, leveraging the potential of multi-targeted ACT that warrants further investigation.
37777360 | Coronavirus-19 disease risk and protective factors associated with HLA/KIR polymorphisms in Ecuadorian patients residing in Madrid. BACKGROUND: Immigrants represented 21.8% of cases in a Spanish cohort of hospitalised patients with COVID-19, a proportion exceeding the percentage of immigrants in that area's total population. Among the ethnic-related genetic risk factors for COVID-19, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genotypes in diverse populations might bias the response to SARS-CoV-2 infection and/or progression. Similarly, genetic differences in natural killer-activating and inhibitory receptors could play a role in the immune system's response to the viral infection. METHODS: We characterised HLA alleles and KIR genes in 52 Ecuadorian patients hospitalised for moderate and severe COVID-19 and 87 Ecuadorian controls from the general population living in the same area. RESULTS: There was a significantly increased frequency of the HLA-B*39 antigen and the activating KIR2DS4 receptor in the presence of its HLA-C*04 ligand in the COVID-19 group when compared with the control group. In contrast, there was a significant reduction in the frequency of carriers of KIR2DL1 and of the KIR3DL1/Bw4 receptor/ligand combination among COVID-19 group. On the other hand, HLA-A*24:02 and HLA-DRB1*09:01 alleles showed significantly lower frequencies specifically in the severe COVID-19 group. CONCLUSION: HLA-B*39 alleles might be genetic risk factors for developing COVID-19 in Ecuadorian individuals. In the presence of its ligand C*04, the natural killer-activating receptor KIR2DS4 might also increase the risk of developing COVID-19, while, in the presence of HLA-Bw4 alleles, the inhibitory receptor KIR3DL1 might play a protective role. Patients with COVID-19 who carry HLA-A*24:02 and HLA-DRB1*09:01 alleles might be protected against more severe forms of COVID-19.
10802168 | Simple method to identify bacteriocin induction peptides and to auto-induce bacteriocin production at low cell density. The production of some bacteriocins by lactic acid bacteria is regulated by induction peptides (IPs) that are secreted by a dedicated secretion system. The IP gene cbaX, for carnobacteriocin A production by Carnobacterium piscicola LV17A, and a presumptive IP gene (orf6), associated with the genetic locus for enterocin B production in Enterococcus faecium BFE 900, were fused to the signal peptide of the bacteriocin divergicin A from Carnobacterium divergens LV13 to access the general secretory pathway. The culture supernatants of C. piscicola UAL26 and Lactococcus lactis MG1363 containing either of these constructs were used to induce bacteriocin production by Bac(-) cultures of C. piscicola LV17A or E. faecium CTC492. The cbaX fusion product induced bacteriocin production by Bac(-) C. piscicola LV17A, but the orf6 fusion product did not induce bacteriocin production by E. faecium CTC492. This represents a relatively simple method of confirming the role of presumptive IPs. The transformation of C. piscicola LV17A with the CbaX gene under expression of the P32 promoter from L. lactis resulted in constitutive production of bacteriocin by either the dedicated transport apparatus or the general secretory pathway.
38114221 | [Tongxie Yaofang regulates tumor-associated macrophage polarization in colorectal cancer under chronic stress]. This study aims to investigate the intervention effect and mechanism of Tongxie Yaofang in regulating tumor-associated macrophage polarization on colorectal cancer under chronic stress. BALB/C mice were randomized into blank, control, model, mifepristone, and low-, medium-, and high-dose Tongxie Yaofang groups. The other groups except the blank and model groups were subjected to chronic restraint stress and subcutaneous implantation of colon cancer cells for the modeling of colon cancer under stress. Du-ring this period, the body mass and tumor size of each group of mice were recorded. The degree of depression in mice was assessed by behavioral changes. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was employed to determine the levels of cortisol(CORT), 5-hydroxytryptamine(5-HT), norepinephrine(NE), M1-associated inflammatory cytokines [interleukin(IL)-1beta, IL-12, and tumor necrosis factor(TNF)-alpha], and M2-associated inflammatory cytokines(IL-4 and IL-10) in the serum. The tumor growth of mice in each group was regularly monitored by in vivo imaging. The histopathological changes of tumors in each group of mice were observed by hematoxylin-eosin staining. The proportions of CD86 and CD206 in the tumor tissue were detected by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence staining. Western blot was employed to determine the protein levels of Janus kinase(JAK)1, JAK2, JAK3, signal transducer and activator of transcription(STAT)3, and STAT6 in the tumor tissue. The results showed that chronic stress increased the immobility time of mice, elevated the serum levels of CORT, IL-4, and IL-10, lowered the levels of 5-HT, NE, IL-1beta, IL-12, and TNF-alpha, and promoted the growth of subcutaneous tumors. The tumor cells in the tumor tissue grew actively, with obvious atypia and up-regulated protein levels of CD206, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, STAT3, and STAT6, and down-regulated protein level of CD86. The treatment with Tongxie Yaofang shortened the immobility time of mice, lowered the serum levels of CORT, IL-4, and IL-10, elevated the serum levels of 5-HT, NE, IL-1beta, IL-12, and TNF-alpha, and inhibited the growth of subcutaneous tumors in mice. Moreover, the treatment caused different degrees of necrosis in the tumor tissues, down-regulated the protein levels of CD206, JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, STAT3, and STAT6, and up-regulated the protein level of CD86. In summary, Tongxie Yaofang can promote the transformation of M2 macrophages to M1 macrophages and change the tumor microenvironment under chronic stress to inhibit the development of colorectal cancer, which may be related to the JAK/STAT signaling pathway.
36624315 | Autologous T cell therapy for MAGE-A4+ solid cancers in HLA-A*02+ patients: a phase 1 trial. Affinity-optimized T cell receptors can enhance the potency of adoptive T cell therapy. Afamitresgene autoleucel (afami-cel) is a human leukocyte antigen-restricted autologous T cell therapy targeting melanoma-associated antigen A4 (MAGE-A4), a cancer/testis antigen expressed at varying levels in multiple solid tumors. We conducted a multicenter, dose-escalation, phase 1 trial in patients with relapsed/refractory metastatic solid tumors expressing MAGE-A4, including synovial sarcoma (SS), ovarian cancer and head and neck cancer ( NCT03132922 ). The primary endpoint was safety, and the secondary efficacy endpoints included overall response rate (ORR) and duration of response. All patients (N = 38, nine tumor types) experienced Grade >=3 hematologic toxicities; 55% of patients (90% Grade <=2) experienced cytokine release syndrome. ORR (all partial response) was 24% (9/38), 7/16 (44%) for SS and 2/22 (9%) for all other cancers. Median duration of response was 25.6 weeks (95% confidence interval (CI): 12.286, not reached) and 28.1 weeks (95% CI: 12.286, not reached) overall and for SS, respectively. Exploratory analyses showed that afami-cel infiltrates tumors, has an interferon-gamma-driven mechanism of action and triggers adaptive immune responses. In addition, afami-cel has an acceptable benefit-risk profile, with early and durable responses, especially in patients with metastatic SS. Although the small trial size limits conclusions that can be drawn, the results warrant further testing in larger studies.
37550228 | Effect of Janus Kinase 3 Inhibitor on Sebaceous Gland Regeneration during Skin Wound Healing. BACKGROUND: Janus kinase (Jak) 3 has recently been shown as a beneficial target for the treatment of chronic inflammatory diseases, such as psoriasis and alopecia areata. The role of Jak3 in tissue repair and remodeling is emerging. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the role of Jak3 signaling in the remodeling of the sebaceous gland (SG) during skin wound repair, and the development of in vitro SGs. METHODS: Mouse skin tissue (ICR mouse) was obtained from the recovered skin eight days after a 4 mm biopsy punch wound. To observe the role of Jak3, the selective inhibitors WHI-p131 and PF06651600 was administered. Formation of in vitro SG was examined using primary sebocyte cultures obtained postnatally from 3-day-old mice. RESULTS: The data showed that SGs showed highly positive signals with anti-isolectin B4, which also used for detection of angiogenetic vessels and the basal epidermis. Isolectin B4 could be a good indicator of SGs. The Jak3 inhibitors significantly reduced the area and volume of SG remodeling with reduced expression of p-Jak3. In addition, the area of cultured intact SG in vitro was significantly decreased in a concentration-dependent manner by Jak3 inhibition. CONCLUSION: These data showed that Jak3 signaling is a potent regulator to develop SGs. Jak3 inhibition did not decrease the number of sebocytes in SGs but decreased the area and volume of SG remodeling. Therefore, Jak3 inhibition may be a potential target for the treatment of SG hyperplasia and associated skin diseases.
16926293 | Differences in the frequency and function of HHV8-specific CD8 T cells between asymptomatic HHV8 infection and Kaposi sarcoma. It is unclear how the immune response controls human herpesvirus 8 (HHV8; also known as Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus [KSHV]) replication and thereby prevents Kaposi sarcoma (KS). We compared CD8 T-cell responses to HHV8 latent (K12) and lytic (glycoprotein B, ORF6, ORF61, and ORF65) antigens in patients who spontaneously controlled the infection and in patients with posttransplantation, AIDS-related, or classical KS. We found that anti-HHV8 responses were frequent, diverse, and strongly differentiated toward an effector phenotype in patients who controlled the infection. Conversely, HHV8-specific CD8 cells were very rare in patients who progressed to KS, and were not recruited to the tumoral tissue, as visualized by in situ tetramer staining of KS biopsies. Last, HHV8-specific CD8 T cells were observed in a seronegative recipient of an HHV8infected graft who remained persistently aviremic and antibody negative, suggesting that specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) may provide protection from persistent HHV8 infection. These results support the crucial role of cellular immune responses in controlling HHV8 replication, in preventing malignancies in latently infected subjects, and in conferring genuine resistance to persistent infection. They may also have important implications for the design of prophylactic and therapeutic HHV8 vaccines, and for adoptive immunotherapy of KS.
38236733 | Quantitative comparison of nuclear transport inhibition by SARS coronavirus ORF6 reveals the importance of oligomerization. Open Reading Frame 6 (ORF6) proteins, which are unique to severe acute respiratory syndrome-related (SARS) coronavirus, inhibit the classical nuclear import pathway to antagonize host antiviral responses. Several alternative models were proposed to explain the inhibitory function of ORF6 [H. Xia et al., Cell Rep. 33, 108234 (2020); L. Miorin et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 117, 28344-28354 (2020); and M. Frieman et al., J. Virol. 81, 9812-9824 (2007)]. To distinguish these models and build quantitative understanding of ORF6 function, we developed a method for scoring both ORF6 concentration and functional effect in single living cells. We combined quantification of untagged ORF6 expression level in single cells with optogenetics-based measurement of nuclear transport kinetics, using methods that could be adapted to measure concentration-dependent effects of any untagged protein. We found that SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 is ~15 times more potent than SARS-CoV-1 ORF6 in inhibiting nuclear import and export, due to differences in the C-terminal region that is required for the NUP98-RAE1 binding. The N-terminal region was required for transport inhibition. This region binds membranes but could be replaced by synthetic constructs which forced oligomerization in solution, suggesting its primary function is oligomerization. We propose that the hydrophobic N-terminal region drives oligomerization of ORF6 to multivalently cross-link the NUP98-RAE1 complexes at the nuclear pore complex, and this multivalent binding inhibits bidirectional transport.
38575714 | Human leukocyte antigen variants associate with BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine response. BACKGROUND: Since the beginning of the anti-COVID-19 vaccination campaign, it has become evident that vaccinated subjects exhibit considerable inter-individual variability in the response to the vaccine that could be partly explained by host genetic factors. A recent study reported that the immune response elicited by the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in individuals from the United Kingdom was influenced by a specific allele of the human leukocyte antigen gene HLA-DQB1. METHODS: We carried out a genome-wide association study to investigate the genetic determinants of the antibody response to the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine in an Italian cohort of 1351 subjects recruited in three centers. Linear regressions between normalized antibody levels and genotypes of more than 7 million variants was performed, using sex, age, centers, days between vaccination boost and serological test, and five principal components as covariates. We also analyzed the association between normalized antibody levels and 204 HLA alleles, with the same covariates as above. RESULTS: Our study confirms the involvement of the HLA locus and shows significant associations with variants in HLA-A, HLA-DQA1, and HLA-DQB1 genes. In particular, the HLA-A*03:01 allele is the most significantly associated with serum levels of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. Other alleles, from both major histocompatibility complex class I and II are significantly associated with antibody levels. CONCLUSIONS: These results support the hypothesis that HLA genes modulate the response to Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine and highlight the need for genetic studies in diverse populations and for functional studies aimed to elucidate the relationship between HLA-A*03:01 and CD8+ cell response upon Pfizer-BioNTech vaccination.
30889422 | DNA methylation and transcriptome signature of the IL12B gene in ankylosing spondylitis. OBJECTIVE: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is an autoimmune disease without a reliable biomarker. This study investigated the IL12B gene methylation as a robust marker by integrating DNA methylation and mRNA data. METHODS: A two-stage design was used for methylome and transcriptome investigation. The first phase detected methylation level from 99 AS patients and 99 healthy controls (HCs) whilst the second phase measured mRNA level from 20 patients and 20 HCs. We conducted analysis of differential methylation sites and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) as well as mRNA level to verify methylation. RESULTS: We investigated 37 methylation sites that were mapped to 2 CpG islands (IL12B-1 and IL12B-2). Compared with HCs, the two islands were hypermethylated (IL12B-1: P = 4.6 * 10 ^ -4; IL12B-2: P = 1.3 * 10 ^ -5) and the mRNA level was overexpressed (P = 0.004) in AS patients. The subgroup analysis results showed a significant hypermethylation of the two islands in B27 positive group (IL12B-1: P = 3.7 * 10 ^ -4; IL12B-2: P = 3.7 * 10 ^ -6) and in male patients (IL12B-1: P = 4.9 * 10 ^ -4; IL12B-2: P = 7.2 * 10 ^ -6). ROC results found that the IL12B-1 island had a sensitivity of 62.6% and a specificity of 66.7%, and the IL12B-2 had a sensitivity of 50.0% and a specificity of 77.7%. CONCLUSION: DNA methylation and transcriptome signature of the IL12B gene can discriminate AS patients from HCs, and hypermethylation of the IL12B may contribute to the pathogenesis of AS.
38514841 | ACE2-dependent and -independent SARS-CoV-2 entries dictate viral replication and inflammatory response during infection. Excessive inflammation is the primary cause of mortality in patients with severe COVID-19, yet the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Our study reveals that ACE2-dependent and -independent entries of SARS-CoV-2 in epithelial cells versus myeloid cells dictate viral replication and inflammatory responses. Mechanistically, SARS-CoV-2 NSP14 potently enhances NF-kappaB signalling by promoting IKK phosphorylation, while SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 exerts an opposing effect. In epithelial cells, ACE2-dependent SARS-CoV-2 entry enables viral replication, with translated ORF6 suppressing NF-kappaB signalling. In contrast, in myeloid cells, ACE2-independent entry blocks the translation of ORF6 and other viral structural proteins due to inefficient subgenomic RNA transcription, but NSP14 could be directly translated from genomic RNA, resulting in an abortive replication but hyperactivation of the NF-kappaB signalling pathway for proinflammatory cytokine production. Importantly, we identified TLR1 as a critical factor responsible for viral entry and subsequent inflammatory response through interaction with E and M proteins, which could be blocked by the small-molecule inhibitor Cu-CPT22. Collectively, our findings provide molecular insights into the mechanisms by which strong viral replication but scarce inflammatory response during the early (ACE2-dependent) infection stage, followed by low viral replication and potent inflammatory response in the late (ACE2-independent) infection stage, may contribute to COVID-19 progression.
37640197 | Engineered TCR T-cell therapy targeting mass spectrometry-identified natural epitope in PDAC. Tumor antigens are crucial targets for T-cell-based therapy to induce tumor-specific rejection. However, identifying pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC)-specific T-cell epitopes has been challenging. Using advanced mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, we previously identified cancer-associated, class I MHC-bound epitopes shared by multiple PDAC patients with different HLA-A types. Here, we investigated one of these epitopes, LAMC2203-211, a naturally occurring nonmutated epitope on the LAMC2 protein. Following stimulation with the LAMC2203-211 peptide, we cloned T-cell receptors (TCRs) and transduced them into the Jurkat human T-cell line using a lentiviral vector. We found that Jurkat cells expressing LAMC2203-211-specific TCRs resulted in potent, LAMC2 specific, in vitro cytotoxic effects on PDAC cells. Furthermore, in mice that harbored either subcutaneously or orthotopically implanted tumors originating from both HLA-A allele-matched and unmatched PDAC patients, tumor growth was suppressed in a LAMC2-dependent manner following the infusion of LAMC2-targeting T cells. We have therefore developed a LAMC2-specific TCR-based T-cell therapy strategy likely suitable for many PDAC patients. This is the first study to adopt MS analysis to identify natural CD8+ T-cell epitopes in PDAC that could potentially serve as targets for PDAC immunotherapy.
38641760 | IRG1/Itaconate inhibits proliferation and promotes apoptosis of CD69+CD103+CD8+ tissue-resident memory T cells in autoimmune hepatitis by regulating the JAK3/STAT3/P53 signalling pathway. To investigate the protective role of immune response gene 1 (IRG1) and exogenous itaconate in autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) and elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Wild-type and IRG1-/- AIH mouse models were established, and samples of liver tissue and ocular blood were collected from each group of mice to assess the effects of IRG1/itaconate on the expression of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines. The levels of liver enzymes and related inflammatory factors were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Liver histomorphology was detected through hematoxylin and eosin staining and then scored for liver injury, and the infiltration levels of tissue-resident memory T (TRM) cells and related molecules in the liver tissue were detected through immunofluorescence staining in vitro. RNA sequencing and gene enrichment analysis were conducted to identify the corresponding molecules and pathways, and lentiviral transfection was used to generate TRM cell lines with IRG1, Jak3, Stat3, and p53 knockdown. Real-time quantitative PCR and western blot were performed to detect the expression levels of relevant mRNAs and proteins in the liver tissue and cells. The percentage of apoptotic cells was determined using flow cytometry. IRG1/itaconate effectively reduced the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and the pathological damage to liver tissue, thereby maintaining normal liver function. At the same time, IRG1/itaconate inhibited the JAK3/STAT3 signaling pathway, regulated the expression of related downstream proteins, and inhibited the proliferation and promoted the apoptosis of CD69+CD103+CD8+ TRM cells. For the first time, P53 was found to act as a downstream molecule of the JAK3/STAT3 pathway and was regulated by IRG1/itaconate to promote the apoptosis of CD8+ TRM cells. IRG1/itaconate can alleviate concanavalin A-induced autoimmune hepatitis in mice by inhibiting the proliferation and promoting the apoptosis of CD69+CD103+CD8+ TRM cells via the JAK3/STAT3/P53 pathway.
38547769 | Peficitinib alleviated acute lung injury by blocking glycolysis through JAK3/STAT3 pathway. Peficitinib is a selective Janus kinase (JAK3) inhibitor recently developed and approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in Japan. Glycolysis in macrophages could induce NOD-like receptor (NLR) family and pyrin domain-containing protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome activation, thus resulting in pyroptosis and acute lung injury (ALI). The aim of our study was to investigate whether Peficitinib could alleviate lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced ALI by inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Wild type C57BL/6J mice were intraperitoneally injected with Peficitinib (5 or 10 mg kg-1 day-1) for 7 consecutive days before LPS injection. The results showed that Peficitinib pretreatment significantly relieved LPS-induced pulmonary edema, inflammation, and apoptosis. NLRP3 inflammasome and glycolysis in murine lung tissues challenged with LPS were also blocked by Peficitinib. Furthermore, we found that the activation of JAK3/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) was also suppressed by Peficitinib in mice with ALI. However, in Jak3 knockout mice, Peficitinib did not show obvious protective effects after LPS injection. In vitro experiments further showed that Jak3 overexpression completely abolished Peficitinib-elicited inhibitory effects on pyroptosis and glycolysis in LPS-induced RAW264.7 macrophages. Finally, we unveiled that LPS-induced activation of JAK3/STAT3 was mediated by toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in RAW264.7 macrophages. Collectively, our study proved that Peficitinib could protect against ALI by blocking JAK3-mediated glycolysis and pyroptosis in macrophages, which may serve as a promising candidate against ALI in the future.
14592774 | Evaluating the role of CRM1-mediated export for adenovirus gene expression. A complex of the Adenovirus (Ad) early region 1b 55-kDa (E1b-55kDa) and early region 4 ORF6 34-kDa (E4-34kDa) proteins promotes viral late gene expression. E1b-55kDa and E4-34kDa have leucine-rich nuclear export signals (NESs) similar to that of HIV Rev. It was proposed that E1b-55kDa and/or E4-34kDa might promote the export of Ad late mRNA via their Rev-like NESs, and the transport receptor CRM1. We treated infected cells with the cytotoxin leptomycin B to inhibit CRM1-mediated export; treatment initially delays the onset of late gene expression, but this activity completely recovers as the late phase progresses. We find that the E1b-55kDa NES is not required to promote late gene expression. Previous results showed that E4-34kDa-mediated late gene expression does not require an intact NES (J. Virol. 74 (2000), 6684-6688). Our results indicate that these Ad regulatory proteins promote late gene expression without intact NESs or active CRM1.
33717167 | Can PIRCHE-II Matching Outmatch Traditional HLA Matching? We analyzed in a cohort of 68,606 first deceased donor kidney transplantations reported to the Collaborative Transplant Study whether an epitope-based matching of donor-recipient pairs using the Predicted Indirectly ReCognizable HLA Epitopes algorithm (PIRCHE-II) is superior to currently applied HLA antigen matching. PIRCHE-II scores were calculated based on split antigen HLA-A, -B, -DRB1 typing and adjusted to the 0-6 range of HLA mismatches. PIRCHE-II scores correlated strongly with the number of HLA mismatches (Spearman rho = 0.65, P < 0.001). In multivariable analyses both parameters were found to be significant predictors of 5-year death-censored graft loss with high prognostic power [hazard ratio (HR) per adjusted PIRCHE-II score = 1.102, per HLA mismatch = 1.095; z-value PIRCHE-II: 9.8, HLA: 11.2; P < 0.001 for both]. When PIRCHE-II scores and HLA mismatches were analyzed simultaneously, their predictive power decreased but remained significant (PIRCHE-II: P = 0.002; HLA: P < 0.001). Influence of PIRCHE-II was especially strong in presensitized and influence of HLA mismatches in non-sensitized recipients. If the level of HLA-incompatibility was low (0-3 mismatches), PIRCHE-II scores showed a low impact on graft survival (HR = 1.031) and PIRCHE-II matching did not have additional significant benefit (P = 0.10). However, if the level of HLA-incompatibility was high (4-6 mismatches), PIRCHE-II improved the positive impact of matching compared to applying the traditional HLA matching alone (HR = 1.097, P = 0.005). Our results suggest that the PIRCHE-II score is useful and can be included into kidney allocation algorithms in addition to HLA matching; however, at the resolution level of HLA typing that is currently used for allocation it cannot fully replace traditional HLA matching.
17250935 | Novel adenovirus vaccine vectors based on the enteric-tropic serotype 41. Replication-defective adenovirus vectors, primarily developed from serotype 5 (Ad5) viruses, have been widely used for gene transfer and vaccination approaches. Vectors based on other serotypes of adenovirus could be used in conjunction with, or in place of, Ad5 vectors. In this study, Ad41, an enteric adenovirus usually described as 'non-cultivable' or 'fastidious,' has been successfully cloned, rescued and propagated on 293-ORF6 cells. The complementation capabilities of this cell line allow generation of Ad41 vectors at titers comparable to those obtained for Ad5 vectors. Mice immunized with an Ad41 vector containing an HIV envelope (Env) gene mounted anti-Env cellular and humoral immune responses. Ad41-Env vectors appear to be particularly attractive when used in heterologous prime-boost regimens, where they induce significantly higher cellular immune responses to HIV-Env than Ad5-based regimens. Ad41-based constructs are attractive vaccine vectors alone or in combination with Ad5 adenovectors, since each vector type can provide circumvention of pre-existing immunity to the other.
15655551 | Tumour-derived exosomes and their role in cancer-associated T-cell signalling defects. Dendritic and lymphoid 'exosomes' regulate immune activation. Tumours release membranous material mimicking these 'exosomes,' resulting in deletion of reactive lymphocytes. Tumour-derived 'exosomes' have recently been explored as vaccines, without analysis of their immunologic consequences. This investigation examines the composition of tumour-derived 'exosomes' and their effects on T lymphocytes. Membranous materials were isolated from ascites of ovarian cancer patients (n=6) and Western immunoblotting was performed for markers associated with 'exosomes.' Using cultured T cells, 'exosomes' were evaluated for suppression of CD3-zeta and JAK 3 expressions and induction of apoptosis, measured by DNA fragmentation. 'Exosome' components mediating suppression of CD3-zeta were isolated by continuous eluting electrophoresis and examined by Western immunoblotting. 'Exosomes' were shown to be identical with previously characterised shed membrane vesicles by protein staining and TSG101 expression. 'Exosomes' expressed class I MHC, placental alkaline phosphatase, B23/nucleophosmin, and FasL. 'Exosomes' suppressed expression of T-cell activation signalling components, CD3-zeta and JAK 3 and induced apoptosis. CD3-zeta suppression was mediated by two components: 26 and 42 kDa. Only the 42 kDa component reacted with anti-FasL antibody. These results indicate that, while 'exosomes' express tumour antigens, leading to their proposed utility as tumour vaccines, they also can suppress T-cell signalling molecules and induce apoptosis.
35365041 | The correlation between human leucocyte antigen amino acid residue matching before keratoplasty and postoperative rejection: a systematic review and meta-analysis. BACKGROUND: At present, corneal transplantation has become the main surgical method for infectious keratitis. However, the rejection of corneal graft after operation leads to graft opacity, which is an important reason for the failure of transplantation. There is no unified conclusion whether the rejection can be reduced by matching human leucocyte antigen (HLA) before operation. The purpose of this meta-analysis is to explore the correlation between HLA locus matching and corneal transplantation rejection, so as to provide evidence-based medical evidence for clinical corneal transplantation in the treatment of infectious keratitis. METHODS: Search English databases, such as PubMed, Medline, Embase and Evidence-based Medicine Library by computer; Chinese databases, such as China Biomedical Literature Database, China Knowledge Network (CNKI) database, Wanfang database, Weipu database, and Google Academic database. According to Cochrane Handbook 5.0 risk assessment table, two researchers made random sequence random allocation method, blind method, allocation scheme hiding, integrity of data results and quality score of research results. The bias risk evaluation of Rev Man 5.3 software was used to evaluate the risk bias of the references. RESULTS: A total of 5 literatures were included, and 725 eyes underwent penetrating keratoplasty, all of which were randomized controlled trials (RCTs). The quality of the included articles was medium to high quality. A meta-analysis of four HLA-A matching articles showed odds ratio (OR) =0.28, 95% confidential interval (CI): (0.15, 0.51), significance test Z=4.08, P<0.0001, and the difference was statistically significant. Meta-analysis was performed on four HLA-B matching articles and showed OR =0.50, 95% CI: (0.27, 0.89), significance test Z=2.33, P=0.02, and the difference was statistically significant. Meta-analysis of four HLA-DR matching articles showed OR =0.69, 95% CI: (0.41, 1.17), significance test Z=1.39, P=0.17, and the difference was not statistically significant. DISCUSSION: In patients with infectious keratitis undergoing corneal transplantation, preoperative matching of HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-DR sites played an important role in corneal transplantation. Preoperative HLA matching is of clinical significance.
35878026 | Physical and in silico immunopeptidomic profiling of a cancer antigen prostatic acid phosphatase reveals targets enabling TCR isolation. Tissue-specific antigens can serve as targets for adoptive T cell transfer-based cancer immunotherapy. Recognition of tumor by T cells is mediated by interaction between peptide-major histocompatibility complexes (pMHCs) and T cell receptors (TCRs). Revealing the identity of peptides bound to MHC is critical in discovering cognate TCRs and predicting potential toxicity. We performed multimodal immunopeptidomic analyses for human prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP), a well-recognized tissue antigen. Three physical methods, including mild acid elution, coimmunoprecipitation, and secreted MHC precipitation, were used to capture a thorough signature of PAP on HLA-A*02:01. Eleven PAP peptides that are potentially A*02:01-restricted were identified, including five predicted strong binders by NetMHCpan 4.0. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from more than 20 healthy donors were screened with the PAP peptides. Seven cognate TCRs were isolated which can recognize three distinct epitopes when expressed in PBMCs. One TCR shows reactivity toward cell lines expressing both full-length PAP and HLA-A*02:01. Our results show that a combined multimodal immunopeptidomic approach is productive in revealing target peptides and defining the cloned TCR sequences reactive with prostatic acid phosphatase epitopes.
12595891 | Development of an Ad7 cosmid system and generation of an Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN) env/rev recombinant virus. A strategy to circumvent immune responses to adenovirus (Ad) resulting from natural infection or repeated vector administrations involves sequential use of vectors from different Ad serotypes. To further develop an Ad-HIV recombinant AIDS vaccine approach, a replication-defective recombinant Ad from a non-subgroup C virus was required. Using a cosmid system, we generated an Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN) env/rev recombinant virus and compared expression of the inserted HIV genes with a similarly constructed replication-competent Ad7deltaE3HIV(MN)env/rev recombinant. Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN)env/rev expressed both HIV env and rev gene products. The envelope protein was correctly processed and functional, mediating syncytia formation of Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN) env/rev-infected cells and CD4(+) T lymphocytes. Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN)env/rev could be amplified on 293-ORF6 cells, containing the E4 ORF6 gene, shown earlier to support production of an Ad7 vector lacking the E1a gene. The utility of this cell line is now extended to the production of replication-defective Ad7 recombinants lacking E1a, E1b, and protein IX genes. Sequential immunizations with Ad-HIV recombinants based in different Ad serotypes have been shown to effectively elicit both humoral and cellular HIV-specific immune responses. The recombinant Ad7deltaE1deltaE3HIV(MN)env/rev will be useful in such AIDS vaccine strategies. Further, these studies have created new cosmid vectors that can be applied to generation of single- or double-deleted Ad7 recombinants with foreign genes inserted into the E1 and/or E3 regions.
38022506 | Surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 immunogenicity: loss of immunodominant HLA-A*02-restricted epitopes that activate CD8+ T cells. Introduction and methods: In this present work, coronavirus subfamilies and SARS-CoV-2 Variants of Concern (VOCs) were investigated for the presence of MHC-I immunodominant viral peptides using in silico and in vitro tools. Results: In our results, HLA-A*02 haplotype showed the highest number of immunodominant epitopes but with the lowest combined prediction score. Furthermore, a decrease in combined prediction score was observed for HLA-A*02-restricted epitopes when the original strain was compared to the VOCs, indicating that the mutations on the VOCs are promoting escape from HLA-A2-mediated antigen presentation, which characterizes a immune evasion process. Additionally, epitope signature analysis revealed major immunogenic peptide loss for structural (S) and non-structural (ORF8) proteins of VOCs in comparison to the Wuhan sequence. Discussion: These results may indicate that the antiviral CD8+ T-cell responses generated by original strains could not be sufficient for clearance of variants in either newly or reinfection with SARS-CoV-2. In contrast, N epitopes remain the most conserved and reactive peptides across SARS-CoV-2 VOCs. Overall, our data could contribute to the rational design and development of new vaccinal platforms to induce a broad cellular CD8+ T cell antiviral response, aiming at controlling viral transmission of future SARS-CoV-2 variants.
11981413 | Allochimeric class I MHC protein-induced tolerance by partial TCR engagement requires activation of both CTL4- and common gamma-chain-dependent cytokine signals. BACKGROUND: The various toxicities associated with the general immune suppression resulting from current clinical immunosuppressive therapies continue to plague transplant recipients as well as jeopardize allograft survival. METHODS: The present study utilized allochimeric class I MHC antigens (alpha1hu70-77-RT1.Aa) bearing only four donor RT1.Au polymorphic amino acids (a.a.; His70, Val73, Asn74, and Asn77) superimposed on the recipient RT1.Aa background to induce transplantation tolerance in the rat cardiac transplant model. RESULTS: Oral delivery of alpha1hu70-77-RT1.Aa protein alone (days 0-6) induced tolerance, as evidenced by inhibition of both acute and chronic rejection processes. Delivery of alpha1hu70-77-RT1.Aa with therapeutic doses of cyclosporine (CsA) also prevented chronic rejection, otherwise readily developed after treatment with CsA alone. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based analysis showed that tolerant recipients had reduced numbers of interleukin (IL)-2/interferon (IFN)-gamma-producing T helper (Th)1 cells and elevated numbers of IL-4/IL-10-producing Th2 cells. Adoptive transfer experiments revealed that potent regulatory T cells mediated tolerance. The same T cells displayed diminished T cell receptor (TCR)-driven signaling via extracellular regulated kinase, AP-1, and NF-kappaB, as well as the common gamma-chain (gammac) cytokine-receptor-induced signaling by Janus kinase 3 (Jak3)/stimulators and activators of transcription Stat/5 pathways. Tolerance induction was prevented in vivo by inhibition of signal 2 by CTL4Ig or of signal 3 by either rapamycin, which disrupts the mammalian target of rapamycin, or AG490, which inhibits Jak3. Finally, partial or complete tyrosine phosphorylation of Zap70 was observed in alloantigen-specific T cell clones in response to tolerogenic versus immunogenic peptides, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Tolerance induction by allochimeric proteins is achieved by partial TCR activation in the presence of signals 2 and 3, resulting in a skewed Th2 phenotype.
35571141 | Suppression of NLRP3 Inflammasome by Dihydroarteannuin via the HIF-1alpha and JAK3/STAT3 Signaling Pathway Contributes to Attenuation of Collagen-Induced Arthritis in Mice. Dihydroarteannuin (DHA), the primary element of artemisinin extracted from the traditional Chinese herb Artemisia annua L., has been used in malaria treatment for a long time. Recently, many studies have indicated that DHA also exhibits potent anti-rheumatoid arthritis (RA) activity. In this study, collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in DBA/1J mice and inflammatory model in THP-1 cells were established to evaluate the modulatory effects of DHA on joint destruction and to explore the underlying mechanisms. Our results showed that DHA decreased the serum levels of IL-1beta and IL-6, alleviated paw oedema, and reduced bone destruction in DBA/1J mice with CIA. Further exploration with the inflammatory model in THP-1 cells indicated that DHA reduced the protein expression of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha and the phosphorylation in Janus kinase (JAK) 3 and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3 protein, which resulted in a decrease in NOD-like receptor protein (NLRP) 3 expression and interleukin (IL)-1beta release. Consequentially, the inflammatory activation in THP-1 cells was inhibited. Therefore, we concluded that DHA efficiently alleviated the inflammation and arthritic symptoms in CIA mice and downregulated inflammation in part by inhibiting NLRP3 expression via the HIF-1alpha and JAK3/STAT3 signaling pathway. Thus, DHA may be considered as a potential therapeutic agent in RA treatment.
15385740 | Lack of associations between HLA class II alleles and resistance to HIV-1 infection among white, non-Hispanic homosexual men. HLA class II alleles were molecularly typed for 100 high-risk seronegative men and 184 low-risk seroconverters from the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study (MACS). Seven resistant individuals homozygous for CCR5 Delta32 deletions were excluded from analysis. In the univariate analysis, no significant HLA class II associations with resistance/susceptibility to HIV type 1 infection were identified. However, the transporter associated with antigen presentation 2 (TAP2) Ala 665 variant associated with resistance in earlier analyses in the MACS was in linkage disequilibrium with some HLA class II alleles. After adjusting for the established associations with HLA-A*0205 subgroup and TAP2 Ala 665 variant, no HLA class II alleles were independently associated with resistance/susceptibility to HIV-1 infection. Other genetic factors in the HLA class II-TAP region of the major histocompatibility complex might be involved.
32120158 | The uterine immunological changes may be responsible for repeated implantation failure. A significant part of couples in IVF-ICSI cycles experience Repeated Implantation Failure (RIF). Screening of the embryos with new methods like Next Generation Sequencing and arrays showed that even euploid embryos fail to implant. Immunology is a potent window maybe resolve the RIF problem. In this investigation we employed innate and adaptive immune system PCR array to compare the transcriptome profiles of endometrium in unexplained RIF and healthy fertile women. A total of 21 women were enrolled in the present study, 11women with unexplained RIF and 10 healthy fertile women. After RNA extraction and cDNA synthesis PCR array was performed using RT2 profiler PCR array human innate and adaptive immune responses kit (Qiagen, Cat.No: PAHS-052A). PCR Array data analysis identified significantly greater expression of IL6, IFNG, IL17A, IL23A, IFNA1, IFNB1, CD40 L, CCR4, CCR5, CCR6, CXR3, CCL2, IL2, TLR4, IRF3, STAT3, RAG1, IFNAR1 in unexplained RIF women than in controls (P < 0.05). However, expression of IL1B, IL8, NFKB, HLA-A, HLA-E, CD80, CD40 was significantly lower in unexplained RIF group than in controls (P < 0.05). Our results showed that modulation of immune system in RIF patient is shifted to inflammatory responses as pNK cells, Th17 signaling pathway and TLR signaling pathway are activated. So, by stimulation of immune system and initiation of humoral immune responses the panel of immunity and immunotolerance is completely changed in RIF patients comparing normal. It seems that attention to these alterations individually help physician to manage RIF patients better.
18192109 | Wilms tumor gene WT1 peptide-based immunotherapy induced a minimal response in a patient with advanced therapy-resistant multiple myeloma. The product of the Wilms tumor gene, WT1, is a universal tumor antigen. We performed WT1 peptide-based immunotherapy for a patient with multiple myeloma (MM). This patient was a 57-year-old woman with chemotherapy-resistant MM (Bence Jones kappa type). The patient received weekly intradermal injections of an HLA-A*2402-restricted 9-mer WT1 peptide emulsified with Montanide ISA 51 adjuvant for 12 weeks and achieved a minimal response according to European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation criteria without experiencing systemic adverse effects. The proportion of myeloma cells in the bone marrow (BM) decreased from 85% to 25%, and the amount of M protein in the urine decreased from 3.6 to 0.6 g/day after WT1 vaccination. Furthermore, a bone scintigram showed an improvement after the vaccination. As for immunologic parameters, the frequency of WT1 tetramer-positive cells among CD8+ T-cells, which was higher than in healthy donors, temporarily decreased at weeks 4 and 8 but increased at week 12, whereas the frequency of WT1 peptide-responding CD107a/b+ cells among WT1 tetramer-positive T-cells increased from 27.0% to 38.6% after the vaccination. After WT1 vaccination, the frequency of CXCR4+ cells among WT1 tetramer-positive T-cells increased in the BM, where stromal cells expressed the ligand for CXCR4, stromal-derived factor 1 (SDF-1), but decreased in the peripheral blood (PB), implying that WT1-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes had migrated from the PB to the BM, a tumor site.
16468034 | In vitro priming of tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes using allogeneic dendritic cells derived from the human MUTZ-3 cell line. The adoptive transfer of in vitro-induced and expanded tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) presents a promising immunotherapeutic approach for the treatment of cancer. The in vitro induction of tumor-reactive CTL requires repeated stimulation of CTL precursors with dendritic cells (DC). To circumvent problems like scarcity of blood DC precursors and donor variability, it would be attractive to use DC from a non-autologous, unlimited source. DCs derived from the human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell line MUTZ-3 are attractive candidates since these DCs closely resemble monocyte-derived DC (MoDC) in terms of phenotype and T cell stimulatory capacity. Here we demonstrate that functional CTL clones could be generated against multiple tumor-associated antigens, i.e., human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT), ErbB3-binding protein-1 (Ebp1), carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and Her-2/neu, by stimulating CD8beta(+) CTL precursors with peptide-loaded allogeneic, HLA-A2-matched MUTZ-3-derived DC. A consistent induction capacity, as determined by MHC tetramer-binding, was found in multiple donors and comparable to autologous peptide-loaded MoDC. Functional characterization at the clonal level revealed the priming of CTL that recognized endogenously processed epitopes on tumor cell lines in an HLA-A2-restricted fashion. Our data indicate that MUTZ-3-derived DC can be used as stimulator cells for in vitro priming and expansion of functional TAA-specific effector CTL. MUTZ-3-derived DCs thus represent a ready and standardized source of allogeneic DC to generate CTL for therapeutic adoptive transfer strategies.
33343569 | The JAK1 Selective Inhibitor ABT 317 Blocks Signaling Through Interferon-gamma and Common gamma Chain Cytokine Receptors to Reverse Autoimmune Diabetes in NOD Mice. Cytokines that signal through the JAK-STAT pathway, such as interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and common gamma chain cytokines, contribute to the destruction of insulin-secreting beta cells by CD8+ T cells in type 1 diabetes (T1D). We previously showed that JAK1/JAK2 inhibitors reversed autoimmune insulitis in non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice and also blocked IFN-gamma mediated MHC class I upregulation on beta cells. Blocking interferons on their own does not prevent diabetes in knockout NOD mice, so we tested whether JAK inhibitor action on signaling downstream of common gamma chain cytokines, including IL-2, IL-7 IL-15, and IL-21, may also affect the progression of diabetes in NOD mice. Common gamma chain cytokines activate JAK1 and JAK3 to regulate T cell proliferation. We used a JAK1-selective inhibitor, ABT 317, to better understand the specific role of JAK1 signaling in autoimmune diabetes. ABT 317 reduced IL-21, IL-2, IL-15 and IL-7 signaling in T cells and IFN-gamma signaling in beta cells, but ABT 317 did not affect GM-CSF signaling in granulocytes. When given in vivo to NOD mice, ABT 317 reduced CD8+ T cell proliferation as well as the number of KLRG+ effector and CD44hiCD62Llo effector memory CD8+ T cells in spleen. ABT 317 also prevented MHC class I upregulation on beta cells. Newly diagnosed diabetes was reversed in 94% NOD mice treated twice daily with ABT 317 while still on treatment at 40 days and 44% remained normoglycemic after a further 60 days from discontinuing the drug. Our results indicate that ABT 317 blocks common gamma chain cytokines in lymphocytes and interferons in lymphocytes and beta cells and are thus more effective against diabetes pathogenesis than IFN-gamma receptor deficiency alone. Our studies suggest use of this class of drug for the treatment of type 1 diabetes.
20391436 | Stress-activated dendritic cells interact with CD4+ T cells to elicit homeostatic memory. Evidence is presented that thermal or oxidizing stress-activated DC interact with CD4(+) T cells to induce and maintain a TCR-independent homeostatic memory circuit. Stress-activated DC expressed endogenous intra-cellular and cell surface HSP70. The NF-kappaB signalling pathway was activated and led to the expression of membrane-associated IL-15 molecules. These interacted with the IL-15 receptor complex on CD4(+) T cells, thus activating the Jak3 and STAT5 phosphorylation signalling pathway to induce CD40 ligand expression, T-cell proliferation and IFN-gamma production. CD40 ligand on CD4(+) T cells in turn re-activated CD40 molecules on DC, inducing DC maturation and IL-15 expression thereby maintaining the feedback circuit. The proliferating CD4(+) T cells were characterized as CD45RA(-) CD62L(+) central memory cells, which underwent homeostatic proliferation. The circuit is independent of antigen and MHC-class-II-TCR interaction as demonstrated by resistance to TCR inhibition by ZAP70 inhibitor or MHC-class II antibodies. These findings suggest that stress can activate a DC-CD4(+) T-cell interacting circuit, which may be responsible for maintaining a homeostatic antigen-independent memory.
38410446 | CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are required to prevent SARS-CoV-2 persistence in the nasal compartment. SARS-CoV-2 is the causative agent of COVID-19 and continues to pose a significant public health threat throughout the world. Following SARS-CoV-2 infection, virus-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are rapidly generated to form effector and memory cells and persist in the blood for several months. However, the contribution of T cells in controlling SARS-CoV-2 infection within the respiratory tract are not well understood. Using C57BL/6 mice infected with a naturally occurring SARS-CoV-2 variant (B.1.351), we evaluated the role of T cells in the upper and lower respiratory tract. Following infection, SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells are recruited to the respiratory tract and a vast proportion secrete the cytotoxic molecule Granzyme B. Using antibodies to deplete T cells prior to infection, we found that CD4+ and CD8+ T cells play distinct roles in the upper and lower respiratory tract. In the lungs, T cells play a minimal role in viral control with viral clearance occurring in the absence of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells through 28 days post-infection. In the nasal compartment, depletion of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, but not individually, results in persistent and culturable virus replicating in the nasal compartment through 28 days post-infection. Using in situ hybridization, we found that SARS-CoV-2 infection persisted in the nasal epithelial layer of tandem CD4+ and CD8+ T cell-depleted mice. Sequence analysis of virus isolates from persistently infected mice revealed mutations spanning across the genome, including a deletion in ORF6. Overall, our findings highlight the importance of T cells in controlling virus replication within the respiratory tract during SARS-CoV-2 infection.
23797672 | The role of JAK-3 in regulating TLR-mediated inflammatory cytokine production in innate immune cells. The role of JAK-3 in TLR-mediated innate immune responses is poorly understood, although the suppressive function of JAK3 inhibition in adaptive immune response has been well studied. In this study, we found that JAK3 inhibition enhanced TLR-mediated immune responses by differentially regulating pro- and anti- inflammatory cytokine production in innate immune cells. Specifically, JAK3 inhibition by pharmacological inhibitors or specific small interfering RNA or JAK3 gene knockout resulted in an increase in TLR-mediated production of proinflammatory cytokines while concurrently decreasing the production of IL-10. Inhibition of JAK3 suppressed phosphorylation of PI3K downstream effectors including Akt, mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1, glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta), and CREB. Constitutive activation of Akt or inhibition of GSK3beta abrogated the capability of JAK3 inhibition to enhance proinflammatory cytokines and suppress IL-10 production. In contrast, inhibition of PI3K enhanced this regulatory ability of JAK3 in LPS-stimulated monocytes. At the transcriptional level, JAK3 knockout lead to the increased phosphorylation of STATs that could be attenuated by neutralization of de novo inflammatory cytokines. JAK3 inhibition exhibited a GSK3 activity-dependent ability to enhance phosphorylation levels and DNA binding of NF-kappaB p65. Moreover, JAK3 inhibition correlated with an increased CD4(+) T cell response. Additionally, higher neutrophil infiltration, IL-17 expression, and intestinal epithelium erosion were observed in JAK3 knockout mice. These findings demonstrate the negative regulatory function of JAK3 and elucidate the signaling pathway by which JAK3 differentially regulates TLR-mediated inflammatory cytokine production in innate immune cells.
10477719 | Reconstitution of early lymphoid proliferation and immune function in Jak3-deficient mice by interleukin-3. Expansion of early lymphoid progenitors requires interleukin-7 (IL-7), which functions through gamma(c)-mediated receptor activation of Jak3. Jak3 deficiency is a cause of severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) in humans and mice. IL-3 activates many of the same signaling pathways as IL-7, such as Stat5, but achieves this effect through the activation of Jak2 rather than Jak3. We hypothesized that expansion of an IL-7-responsive precursor population through a Jak3-independent pathway using IL-3 may stimulate early lymphoid progenitors and restore lymphopoiesis in Jak3(-/-) mice. Newborn Jak3(-/-) mice that were injected with IL-3 demonstrated thymic enlargement, a 2- to 20-fold increase in thymocyte numbers, and up to a 10-fold expansion in the number of CD4(+), CD8(+), and B220(+)/IgM(+) splenic lymphocytes, consistent with an effect upon an early lymphoid progenitor population. In contrast to control mice, IL-3-treated Jak3(-/-) mice challenged with the allogeneic major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-bearing tumor P815 developed a specific CD8-dependent cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response. IL-3-treated mice also mounted influenza-specific CTL responses and survival was prolonged. The beneficial effects of IL-3 are proposed to be produced by stimulation of a lymphoid precursor population of IL-7Ralpha(+)/IL-3Ralpha(+) cells that we identified in wild-type bone marrow. In vitro, we show that an early IL-7R(+) lymphoid progenitor population expresses IL-3R and proliferates in response to IL-3 and that IL-3 activates Stat5 comparably to IL-7. Clinically, IL-3 may therefore be useful treatment for X-linked and Jak3-deficient SCID patients who lack bone marrow donors.
27487096 | Role of Janus-Kinases in Major Depressive Disorder. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Major depressive disorder is a severe, common and often chronic disease with a significant mortality due to suicide. The pathogenesis of major depression is still unknown. It is assumed that a reduction of neurogenesis in the hippocampus plays an important role in the development of major depressive disorder. However, the mechanisms that control proliferation of neuronal stem cells in the hippocampus require definition. Here, we investigated the role of Janus-Kinase 3 (Jak-3) for stress-induced inhibition of neurogenesis and the induction of major depression symptoms in mice. METHODS: Stress was induced by the application of glucocorticosterone. Brain sections were stained with phospho-specific antibodies and analysed by confocal microscopy to measure phosphorylation of Jak-3 specifically in the hippocampus. Jak-3 inhibitors and the antidepressant amitriptyline were applied to counteract stress. The effects of the inhibitors were determined by a set of behavioural tests and analysis of Jak-3 phosphorylation in brain sections. Acid sphingomyelinase-deficient mice were employed to test whether Jak3 is downstream of ceramide. RESULTS: The data show that stress reduces neurogenesis, which is restored by simultaneous application of Jak-3 inhibitors. Inhibition of neurogenesis correlated with an anxious-depressive behaviour that was also normalized upon application of a Jak-3-inhibitor. Confocal microscopy data revealed that stress triggers a phosphorylation and thereby activation of Jak-3 in the hippocampus. Amitriptyline, a commonly used antidepressant that blocks the acid sphingomyelinase, or acid sphingomyelinase-deficiency reduced stress-induced phosphorylation of Jak-3. CONCLUSION: Our data show that Jak-3 is activated by stress at least partially via the acid sphingomyelinase and is involved in the mediation of stress-induced major depression.
35496269 | Single Nucleotide Variants as Proxies for HLA-A*31:01 in Native American Populations. Carbamazepine triggers dermatologic hypersensitivity reactions, associated with specific human leukocyte antigens (HLAs), especially HLA-B*15:02 and HLA-A*31:01. Previous efforts to identify single nucleotide variants (SNVs) with high predictive value as HLA proxies, revealed that rs1061235 and rs17179220 fulfill these requirements for HLA-A*31:01 in some but not all populations. Herein we explored the predictive performance of rs1061235 and rs17179220 as HLA-A*31:01 tags in populations of Native American ancestry, which are largely underrepresented in pharmacogenomic studies. The study cohorts comprised the overall Admixed American superpopulation of the 1000 Genomes Project (1 KG_AMR), a subcohort of individuals with predominant Native American ancestry (1 KG_NAT), the Native American population of the Human Genome Diversity Project (HGDP), plus Kaingang (KRC) and Guarani (GRC and GKW) adults from indigenous reservation areas in Brazil. The diversity of cohorts is reflected in the range of frequencies of HLA-A*31:01 (0.02-0.65), rs1061235 (0.03-0.13) and rs17179220 (0.12-0.66), as well as in the predictive performance of these SNVs as HLA-A*31:01 proxies. NPV (negative predictive value), the metric of primary interest for pharmacogenetic-informed carbamazepine prescription was maximal (NPV = 1.0) for both SNVs in 1 KG_AMR and 1 KG_NAT, for rs17179220, but not rs1061235 (NPV = 0.91) in HGDP, and for rs17179220 in GWK, but not GRC (NPV = 0.88) or KRC (NPV = 0.80). Collectively, the data support the notion that rs1061235 and rs17179220 are not optimal proxies for HLA-A*31:01 across populations of Native American ancestry.
37490916 | Targeting of multiple tumor-associated antigens by individual T cell receptors during successful cancer immunotherapy. The T cells of the immune system can target tumors and clear solid cancers following tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) therapy. We used combinatorial peptide libraries and a proteomic database to reveal the antigen specificities of persistent cancer-specific T cell receptors (TCRs) following successful TIL therapy for stage IV malignant melanoma. Remarkably, individual TCRs could target multiple different tumor types via the HLA A*02:01-restricted epitopes EAAGIGILTV, LLLGIGILVL, and NLSALGIFST from Melan A, BST2, and IMP2, respectively. Atomic structures of a TCR bound to all three antigens revealed the importance of the shared x-x-x-A/G-I/L-G-I-x-x-x recognition motif. Multi-epitope targeting allows individual T cells to attack cancer in several ways simultaneously. Such \multipronged\ T cells exhibited superior recognition of cancer cells compared with conventional T cell recognition of individual epitopes, making them attractive candidates for the development of future immunotherapies.
12389628 | Treatment of post-bone marrow transplant acute graft-versus-host disease with a rationally designed JAK3 inhibitor. Here we show that the Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) inhibitor 4-(3'-hydroxyphenyl)-amino-6,7-dimethoxyquinazoline (JANEX-3) exhibits potent anti-GVHD activity and consequently improves the post-BMT survival outcome of C57BL/6 (H-2b) recipient mice transplanted with allogeneic bone marrow/splenocyte (BM/S) grafts from MHC disparate BALB/c mice (H-2d). One hundred percent of the vehicle-treated allograft recipients developed severe GVHD and died with a median survival of 41 days. Treatment of recipient mice with JANEX-3 (30 mg/kg/day, 3 x/day) after the onset of rapidly progressive severe GVHD in the 3rd week after BMT significantly improved the survival of BMT recipients with GVHD and prolonged the median survival time to 78 days (P < 0.0001, log-rank test). The probability of survival at two and three months post-BMT was 6 +/- 6% and 0 +/- 0% for vehicle-treated control mice and 100 +/- 0% and 38 +/- 17% for mice treated with JANEX-3. These results prompted the hypothesis that JAK3 plays a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of GVHD. To test this hypothesis, we examined if mice transplanted with allogeneic BM/S grafts from Jak3 knockout mice Jak3-/- develop GVHD. The allografts from (Jak3-/-) C57BL/6 (H-2b) mice rescued MHC-disparate recipient BALB/c mice (H-2d) of the lethal toxicity of TBI without causing fatal GVHD. Taken together, these observations establish JAK3 as a key mediator of severe GVHD after allogeneic BMT in the context of a major-HLA disparity.
38100550 | Prediction and identification of HLA-A*0201-restricted epitopes from cancer testis antigen CT23. Cancer-testis antigen CT23 is a class of tumor-associated antigens (TAA) characterized by restricted expression in male germ cells and a variety of tumor tissues. Numerous studies have shown that CT23 is closely related to tumor cell viability, proliferation, metastasis and invasion. CT23 is immunogenic and can cause specific immune response in tumor patients. Therefore, it is considered to be one of the best target antigens for designing therapeutic tumor vaccines and T-cell-mediated tumor immunotherapy. In this study, we initially obtained seven HLA-A*0201-restricted CT23 epitope candidate peptides through the T cell epitope prediction program. Subsequently, a T2 cell binding assay revealed the potential binding of all candidate peptides with HLA-A2 molecules. Notably, peptide P7 (ALLVLCYSI) exhibited the highest affinity, as evidenced by a fluorescence index (FI) of 2.19. Dendritic cells (DCs) loaded with CT23 candidate peptide can stimulate CD8+T cell activation and proliferation, and compared with other candidate peptides, candidate peptide P7 is superior. The cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) stimulated by the peptide P7 had killing effect on tumor cells (HLA-A*0201+, CT23+), but no killing effect on tumor cells (HLA-A*0201-, CT23+). The CTLs induced by the peptide P7 also had a specific killing effect on T2 cells bearing the peptide P7. In summary, our findings suggest that the CT23 peptide P7 (ALLVLCYSI) can induce immune responses and holds potential for tumor-specific CTL therapy.
36007063 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 disrupts innate immune signalling by inhibiting cellular mRNA export. SARS-CoV-2 is a betacoronavirus and the etiological agent of COVID-19, a devastating infectious disease. Due to its far-reaching effect on human health, there is an urgent and growing need to understand the viral molecular biology of SARS-CoV-2 and its interaction with the host cell. SARS-CoV-2 encodes 9 predicted accessory proteins, which are presumed to be dispensable for in vitro replication, most likely having a role in modulating the host cell environment to aid viral replication. Here we show that the ORF6 accessory protein interacts with cellular Rae1 to inhibit cellular protein production by blocking mRNA export. We utilised cell fractionation coupled with mRNAseq to explore which cellular mRNA species are affected by ORF6 expression and show that ORF6 can inhibit the export of many mRNA including those encoding antiviral factors such as IRF1 and RIG-I. We also show that export of these mRNA is blocked in the context of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Together, our studies identify a novel mechanism by which SARS-CoV-2 can manipulate the host cell environment to supress antiviral responses, providing further understanding to the replication strategies of a virus that has caused an unprecedented global health crisis.
37708194 | HLA class I associations with the severity of COVID-19 disease in the United Arab Emirates. SARS-CoV-2 appears to induce diverse innate and adaptive immune responses, resulting in different clinical manifestations of COVID-19. Due to their function in presenting viral peptides and initiating the adaptive immune response, certain Human Leucocyte Antigen (HLA) alleles may influence the susceptibility to severe SARS-CoV-2 infection. In this study, 92 COVID-19 patients from 15 different nationalities, with mild (n = 30), moderate (n = 35), and severe (n = 27) SARS-CoV-2 infection, living in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) were genotyped for the Class I HLA -A, -C, and -B alleles using next-generation sequencing (NGS) between the period of May 2020 to June 2020. Alleles and inferred haplotype frequencies in the hospitalized patient group (those with moderate to severe disease, n = 62) were compared to non-hospitalized patients (mild or asymptomatic, n = 30). An interesting trend was noted between the severity of COVID-19 and the HLA-C*04 (P = 0.0077) as well as HLA-B*35 (P = 0.0051) alleles. The class I haplotype HLA-C*04-B*35 was also significantly associated (P = 0.0049). The involvement of inflammation, HLA-C*04, and HLA-B*35 in COVID-19 severity highlights the potential roles of both the adaptive and innate immune responses against SARS-CoV-2. Both alleles have been linked to several respiratory diseases, including pulmonary arterial hypertension along with infections caused by the coronavirus and influenza. This study, therefore, supports the potential use of HLA testing in prioritizing public healthcare interventions for patients at risk of COVID-19 infection and disease progression, in addition to providing personalized immunotherapeutic targets.
29031612 | Variants at HLA-A, HLA-C, and HLA-DQB1 Confer Risk of Psoriasis Vulgaris in Japanese. Psoriasis vulgaris (PsV) is an autoimmune disease of skin and joints with heterogeneity in epidemiologic and genetic landscapes of global populations. We conducted an initial genome-wide association study and a replication study of PsV in the Japanese population (606 PsV cases and 2,052 controls). We identified significant associations of the single nucleotide polymorphisms with PsV risk at TNFAIP3-interacting protein 1and the major histocompatibility complex region (P = 3.7 x 10-10 and 6.6 x 10-15, respectively). By updating the HLA imputation reference panel of Japanese (n = 908) to expand HLA gene coverage, we fine-mapped the HLA variants associated with PsV risk. Although we confirmed the PsV risk of HLA-C*06:02 (odds ratio = 6.36, P = 0.0015), its impact was relatively small compared with those in other populations due to rare allele frequency in Japanese (0.4% in controls). Alternatively, HLA-A*02:07, which corresponds to the cysteine residue at HLA-A amino acid position 99 (HLA-A Cys99), demonstrated the most significant association with PsV (odds ratio = 4.61, P = 1.2 x 10-10). In addition to HLA-A*02:07 and HLA-C*06:02, stepwise conditional analysis identified an independent PsV risk of HLA-DQbeta1 Asp57 (odds ratio = 2.19, P = 1.9 x 10-6). Our PsV genome-wide association study in Japanese highlighted the genetic architecture of PsV, including the identification of HLA risk variants.
30037793 | The Psoriasis Risk Allele HLA-C*06:02 Shows Evidence of Association with Chronic or Recurrent Streptococcal Tonsillitis. Pharyngeal tonsillitis is one of the most common upper respiratory tract infections, and group A streptococcus is the most important bacterial pathogen causing it. While most patients experience tonsillitis only rarely, a subset of patients suffers from recurrent or chronic tonsillitis or pharyngitis. The predisposing factors for recurring or chronic forms of this disease are not yet fully understood, but genetic predisposition has been suggested. A genetic association study using Illumina's Immunochip single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array was performed to search for new genetic biomarkers in pharyngeal tonsillitis. More than 100,000 SNPs relevant to immune-mediated diseases were analyzed in a cohort of 95 patients subjected to tonsillectomy due to recurrent/chronic tonsillitis and 504 controls. Genetic association between the cases and controls showed strongest association with two peaks in the HLA locus (odds ratio [OR], 3.7 to 4.7; P = 4.9 x 10-6 to 5.7 x 10-6). Further analysis with imputed classical HLA alleles suggested the known psoriasis risk allele HLA-C*06:02 as a risk factor for tonsillitis (P = 4.8 x 10-4; OR, 2.3). In addition, the imputed HLA haplotype HLA-C*06:02/HLA-B*57:01, a reported risk haplotype in psoriasis, had the strongest risk for tonsillitis (P = 3.2 x 10-4; OR, 6.5). These findings further support the previously reported link between streptococcal throat infections and psoriasis.
37887003 | Individual Immune Response to SARS-CoV-2 Infection-The Role of Seasonal Coronaviruses and Human Leukocyte Antigen. During the coronavirus pandemic, evidence is growing that the severity, susceptibility and host immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection can be highly variable. Several influencing factors have been discussed. Here, we investigated the humoral immune response against SARS-CoV-2 spike, S1, S2, the RBD, nucleocapsid moieties and S1 of seasonal coronaviruses: hCoV-229E, hCoV-HKU1, hCoV-NL63 and hCoV-OC43, as well as MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV, in a cohort of 512 individuals. A bead-based multiplex assay allowed simultaneous testing for all the above antigens and the identification of different antibody patterns. Then, we correlated these patterns with 11 HLA loci. Regarding the seasonal coronaviruses, we found a moderate negative correlation between antibody levels against hCoV-229E, hCoV-HKU1 and hCoV-NL63 and the SARS-CoV-2 antigens. This could be an indication of the original immunological imprinting. High and low antibody response patterns were distinguishable, demonstrating the individuality of the humoral response towards the virus. An immunogenetical factor associated with a high antibody response (formation of >=4 different antibodies) was the presence of HLA A*26:01, C*02:02 and DPB1*04:01 alleles, whereas the HLA alleles DRB3*01:01, DPB1*03:01 and DB1*10:01 were enriched in low responders. A better understanding of this variable immune response could enable more individualized protective measures.
18408395 | Whole blood assays to identify Th1 cell antigens and peptides encoded by Mycobacterium tuberculosis-specific RD1 genes. OBJECTIVE: To identify Th1 cell-stimulating antigens/peptides encoded by the genes predicted in the Mycobacterium tuberculosis-specific genomic region of difference (RD)1, deleted in Mycobacterium bovis Bacille Calmette-Guerin(BCG), by using synthetic peptides and whole blood from tuberculosis (TB) patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Heparinized peripheral blood was obtained from culture-proven pulmonary TB patients (n = 16) attending the Chest Disease Hospital, Kuwait. Whole blood was diluted with tissue culture medium RPMI-1640 and tested for Th1 cell stimulation using antigen-induced proliferation and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) secretion assays. The antigens included a peptide pool of 220 peptides covering the sequence of 12 open reading frames (ORFs) of RD1 (RD1(mix)), peptide pools of RD1 ORF5 (ORF5(mix)), ORF6 (ORF6(mix)) and ORF7 (ORF7(mix)), and individual peptides of ORF6 (P6.1-P6.6) and ORF7 (P7.1-P7.6). M. tuberculosis culture filtrate, cell walls and whole-cell M. bovis BCG were used as complex mycobacterial antigens. The results obtained with different antigens and peptides were statistically analyzed for significant differences using Z test. RESULTS: The complex mycobacterial antigens (culture filtrate, cell walls and M.bovis BCG) and RD1(mix) induced comparable (p > 0.05) positive antigen-induced proliferation and IFN-gamma responses with whole blood from TB patients. However, the positive IFN-gamma responses induced by ORF6(mix) and ORF7(mix) were higher than ORF5(mix). Among the individual peptides, P6.4 and P7.1 of ORF6 and ORF7, respectively, induced the highest IFN-gamma responses, suggesting that these peptides represented the immunodominant Th1 cell epitopes of RD1 ORF6 and ORF7 in the patients tested. CONCLUSION: The whole blood assays with synthetic peptides are useful to identify Th1 cell antigens/peptides encoded by genes located in M. tuberculosis-specific genomic regions.
25443414 | Upregulation of MAPK/Erk and PI3K/Akt pathways in ulcerative colitis-associated colon cancer. An extracellular signal like a cytokine or chemokine, secreted in the inflammatory microenvironment can activate the mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway by binding to a cytokine receptor tyrosine kinase, which further activates tyrosine kinases such as Janus Kinase-3 (Jak-3). This signal is transferred from Jak-3 to the DNA in the nucleus of the cell by a chain of kinases, ultimately activating extracellular receptor kinase (Erk/MAPK). The latter phosphorylates c-myc, an oncogene, which alters the levels and activities of many transcription factors leading to cell survival, proliferation and invasion. The oncogenic PI3K pathway plays a similar role by activating c-myc, leading to cell survival and proliferation. The present study explores the role of ulcerative colitis in colon cancer by investigating the activities of tyrosine kinase activated MAPK pathway and various components of the PI3K pathway including PI3K, PTEN, PDK1, GSK3beta, Akt, mTOR, Wnt and beta-catenin. This was done by western blot and fluorescent immunohistochemical analysis of the above-mentioned proteins. Also, the morphological and histological investigation of the colonic samples from various animal groups revealed significant alterations as compared to the control in both inflammatory as well as carcinogenic conditions. These effects were reduced to a large extent by the co-administration of celecoxib, a second-generation non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID).
22818666 | HLA class I protective alleles in an HIV-1-infected subject homozygous for CCR5-Delta32/Delta32. Homozygosity for a 32 bp deletion in CCR5 (CCR5-Delta32/Delta32) is associated with strong resistance against HIV-1 infection. Several HLA types have been associated to improved viral control and/or delayed progression to AIDS. We report a unique HIV-1 infected individual homozygous for CCR5-Delta32/Delta32 and carrier of HLA-A*2402 and HLA-B*5701. In comparison with earlier data and although a replication competent virus has been isolated, the patient presents better immune status, response to treatment and disease evolution, which may be related to the control exerted by HLA class I restricted T cell immunity. Importantly, the accumulation of protective factors does not warrant a complete protection to HIV infection and the subsequent life-long treatment.
23964274 | CD8alphaalpha Expression Marks Terminally Differentiated Human CD8+ T Cells Expanded in Chronic Viral Infection. The T cell co-receptor CD8alphabeta enhances T cell sensitivity to antigen, however studies indicate CD8alphaalpha has the converse effect and acts as a co-repressor. Using a combination of Thymic Leukemia (TL) antigen tetramer, which directly binds CD8alphaalpha, anti-CD161, and anti-Valpha7.2 antibodies we have been able for the first time to clearly define CD8alphaalpha expression on human CD8 T cells subsets. In healthy controls CD8alphaalpha is most highly expressed by CD161 \bright\ (CD161++) mucosal associated invariant T (MAIT) cells, with CD8alphaalpha expression highly restricted to the TCR Valpha7.2+ cells of this subset. We also identified CD8alphaalpha-expressing populations within the CD161 \mid\ (CD161+) and \negative\ (CD161-) non-MAIT CD8 T cell subsets and show TL-tetramer binding to correlate with expression of CD8beta at low levels in the context of maintained CD8alpha expression (CD8alpha+CD8beta(low)). In addition, we found CD161-CD8alpha+CD8beta(low) populations to be significantly expanded in the peripheral blood of HIV-1 and hepatitis B (mean of 47 and 40% of CD161- T cells respectively) infected individuals. Such CD8alphaalpha expressing T cells are an effector-memory population (CD45RA-, CCR7-, CD62L-) that express markers of activation and maturation (HLA-DR+, CD28-, CD27-, CD57+) and are functionally distinct, expressing greater levels of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma on stimulation and perforin at rest than their CD8alpha+CD8beta(high) counterparts. Antigen-specific T cells in HLA-B(*)4201+HIV-1 infected patients are found within both the CD161-CD8alpha+CD8beta(high) and CD161-CD8alpha+CD8beta(low) populations. Overall we have clearly defined CD8alphaalpha expressing human T cell subsets using the TL-tetramer, and have demonstrated CD161-CD8alpha+CD8beta(low) populations, highly expanded in disease settings, to co-express CD8alphabeta and CD8alphaalpha. Co-expression of CD8alphaalpha on CD8alphabeta T cells may impact on their overall function in vivo and contribute to the distinctive phenotype of highly differentiated populations in HBV and HIV-1 infection.
40387404 | Identification of the Novel MICA*002:01:30 Allele in a Haematopoietic Stem Cell Donor From India. MICA*002:01:30 differs from MICA*002:01:03 by a transition of C > T at position 3678 in intron 1.
40628501 | Association of MICA gene polymorphisms and SNP loci with susceptibility to rosacea. OBJECTIVES: The major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related gene A (MICA), a component of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene complex, is involved in the pathogenesis of various diseases including cancers and autoimmune disorders. Rosacea, a chronic inflammatory skin disease with a complex pathogenesis, potentially influenced by genetic and autoimmune factors. This study aims to investigate the relationship among MICA gene polymorphisms, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), and susceptibility to rosacea, thereby offering new insights into the disease mechanism. METHODS: Peripheral blood DNA samples were collected from 84 patients with rosacea (rosacea group) and 223 healthy volunteers (control group) who visited the Dermatology Outpatient Department of Xiangya Hospital of Central South University between November 2017 and November 2019. MICA genotyping was performed using polymerase chain reaction-sequencing-based typing (PCR-SBT) and the next-generation sequencing (NGS), and the accuracy of the 2 methods was compared. The frequency distributions of MICA alleles between the 2 groups were analyzed. Amino acid clustering and SNP site analyses were conducted to identify haplotype-linked SNPs and to classify MICA polymorphic variants. Distribution differences of these classifications between groups were also examined. RESULTS: Blood tests in rosacea patients showed mildly elevated, with no significant changes in lymphocyte counts. Both PCR-SBT and NGS accurately identified MICA alleles. The most common alleles in the rosacea group were MICA*010:01, MICA*008:04, and MICA*019:01. The frequencies of MICA*002:01 and MICA*027 were significantly lower in the rosacea group compared to controls (6.55% vs 18.16% and 1.19% vs 5.38%, respectively), while and MICA*010:01 were significantly higher (7.74% vs 3.36% and 31.55% vs 18.61%, respectively; all P<0.05). Five short tandem repeat (STR) alleles were identified. Frequencies of MICA-A4 and MICA-A9 were lower in the rosacea group than in the control group (16.07% vs 23.32% and 7.74% vs 17.26%, respectively), whereas MICA-A6 was higher (10.12% vs 4.03%; all P<0.05). Clustering and SNP analysis identified 6 linked SNP sites, classifying MICA variants into Type I (C36+M129+K173+G206+W210+S215) and Type II (Y36+V129+E173+S206+R210+T215). Type I MICA variants were significantly associated with rosacea susceptibility. CONCLUSIONS: MICA gene polymorphisms are associated with susceptibility to rosacea, and there are 6 linked SNP sites within the MICA gene. Based on this, MICA polymorphic variants are classified into Type I and Type II, with Type I being more closely associated with disease development of rosacea.
42024073 | [Translated article] Short-term evaluation of minimally invasive Chevron-Akin osteotomy versus conventional Chevron: Patient-reported outcomes. OBJECTIVE: The choice of surgical technique for treating hallux valgus remains debated. Previous studies show favorable outcomes for both open and percutaneous techniques but do not conclude on their superiority. This study compares the functional outcomes of two groups of patients undergoing the minimally invasive Chevron-Akin (MICA) technique and the conventional technique, in short- and mid-term follow-up, using patient-reported outcome scores. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A prospective study was conducted on patients with moderate hallux valgus, divided into two groups: conventional Chevron-Akin osteotomy and MICA with fixation using three screws. Pre- and postoperative records were evaluated at 4 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months using the Manchester-Oxford Foot Questionnaire (MOxFQ), the AOFAS scale, and the visual analog scale (VAS). Complications were recorded. Subjective aspects such as surgical technique recommendation and time to return to normal footwear were also assessed. RESULTS: Thirty patients were included in each group. Significant improvements were observed in functional scales post-surgery, but no differences were found between techniques. All patients recommended the surgery performed and returned to wearing normal footwear between the third and fourth postoperative weeks. CONCLUSIONS: Both techniques show similar short- and mid-term outcomes and are effective in treating moderate hallux valgus. The choice of technique should depend on the surgeon's skills and experience.
42024062 | Short-term evaluation of minimally invasive Chevron-Akin osteotomy versus conventional Chevron: Patient-reported outcomes. OBJECTIVE: The choice of surgical technique for treating hallux valgus remains debated. Previous studies show favorable outcomes for both open and percutaneous techniques but do not conclude on their superiority. This study compares the functional outcomes of two groups of patients undergoing the minimally invasive Chevron-Akin (MICA) technique and the conventional technique, in short- and mid-term follow-up, using patient-reported outcome scores. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A prospective study was conducted on patients with moderate hallux valgus, divided into two groups: conventional Chevron-Akin osteotomy and MICA with fixation using three screws. Pre- and postoperative records were evaluated at 4weeks, 6months, and 12months using the Manchester-Oxford Foot Questionnaire (MOxFQ), the AOFAS scale, and the visual analog scale (VAS). Complications were recorded. Subjective aspects such as surgical technique recommendation and time to return to normal footwear were also assessed. RESULTS: Thirty patients were included in each group. Significant improvements were observed in functional scales post-surgery, but no differences were found between techniques. All patients recommended the surgery performed and returned to wearing normal footwear between the third and fourth postoperative weeks. CONCLUSIONS: Both techniques show similar short- and mid-term outcomes and are effective in treating moderate hallux valgus. The choice of technique should depend on the surgeon's skills and experience.
42051239 | Micafungin microevolution in Candida auris reveals resistance development without in vivo fitness compromise. Candida auris is an emerging multidrug-resistant pathogen with high transmissibility in healthcare settings. Although echinocandin resistance in Candida is typically associated with fitness loss, we found that micafungin-resistant C. auris strains (MICAevo) generated from two distinct source isolates (AR0381 and AR0387) via experimental microevolution retained full virulence. Evolved strains developed stable resistance to multiple echinocandins, while AR0387 (B8441), originating from MICAevo strain, also acquired increased azole tolerance. Whole-genome sequencing revealed clinically relevant mutations in FKS1, as well as changes in genes involved in ergosterol biosynthesis (ERG3), amino acid metabolism, and PKA signaling. Despite in vitro sensitivity to cell wall stressors, resistant strains maintained or even enhanced colonization in a murine systemic infection model. Independently evolved strains showed similar antifungal resistance profiles, and although minor differences of pathogenic potential were noted, no consistent virulence attenuation was observed, indicating the reproducibility of phenotype changes. These findings suggest that C. auris can acquire echinocandin resistance without compromising pathogenicity, supporting its persistence and spread in clinical settings.
41792779 | Sigma-1 receptor regulates HIV-1 and methamphetamine-induced endothelial/pericyte barrier impairment via strain-specific inflammatory responses and mitochondrial dysregulation. BACKGROUND: Methamphetamine (METH) use disorder (MUD) is a frequent comorbidity among people with HIV-1 (PWH). While both METH and HIV-1 independently disrupt the brain microvascular system and promote neuroinflammation, the molecular mechanisms underlying their synergistic neurotoxicity remain unclear. The sigma-1 receptor (Sigma-1R) signaling pathway has been suggested as a potential target in METH misuse; however, its involvement in the impact of METH and/or HIV-1 infection on brain pericytes remains unknown. METHODS: Transwell co-cultures of human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs) and human brain vascular pericytes (HBVPs) were employed to assess the impact of combined METH exposure and infection with HIV-1 on barrier integrity. Moreover, mitochondrial functions, inflammatory mediators, oxidative stress markers, and the expression of interferon-stimulated genes were analyzed. RESULTS: HBVP infection with the CXCR4-tropic HIV-1 strain NL4-3, but not the CCR5-tropic JR-CSF strain, disrupted endothelial/pericyte barrier permeability, reduced transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER), and lowered claudin-5 expression, effects alleviated by pretreatment with Sigma-1R antagonist S1RA (10 microM). S1RA suppressed interleukin-6 (IL-6) release without affecting increased ROS levels and mitigated HIV-1 NL4-3 and METH co-induced proton leak and mitochondrial network fragmentation in a DRP1 phosphorylation-dependent manner. Importantly, METH enhanced replication of HIV-1 NL4-3, a process modulated by the CXCR4/CCL2 signaling pathway rather than Sigma-1R. CONCLUSIONS: The obtained results identify Sigma-1R antagonism as a potential therapeutic strategy to protect microvascular integrity in the context of HIV-1 infection and METH misuse. In addition, they reveal distinct mechanisms that may underly microvascular dysfunction in PWH who experience MUD.
42073014 | Central European Sample Analysis of Traumatic Vertebral Fractures: A One-Year Retrospective Cohort Study. BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to examine the sex-specific distribution of traumatic spinal fractures and potential predictive clinical factors for a more well-founded treatment evaluation. METHODS: This study is a retrospective cohort study. Data from electronic medical records were analyzed and compiled in a database. Demographic information, trauma-specific characteristics, and radiological measurements, as well as laboratory values and surgical treatments, were collected. Only surgical cases were included in this study. Statistical analyses were performed using the IBM SPSS Statistics program. Chi-square tests, effect sizes, and 95 confidence intervals were used for comparison of categorical variables, and means and standard deviations were calculated, as well as Levene's test for equality and t-tests for analyzing continuous variables. The statistical significance was set at a two-tailed p < 0.05. RESULTS: A total of 164 patients were included, with a mean age of 58.03 years. Statistically significant differences between sexes were found in age (p = 0.04), GCS (p = 0.03), hemoglobin (p = 0.03), hematocrit (p = 0.007), and the one-year post-surgical intervertebral angle (p = 0.004). AIS score showed statistically significant differences in the cervical and lumbar sections (p < 0.015; p = 0.022) and the overall spine (p = 0.049). No statistically significant difference in the HU values in the vertebra above the fracture was found between men and women. Women showed significantly larger one-year postoperative intervertebral angles than men. CONCLUSION: Vertebrae with lower HU values tend to collapse despite stable surgical treatment; therefore, additional bone quality assessment should be contemplated. These findings highlight sex-specific considerations for future clinical decision-making.
41943887 | Thermodynamically guided synthesis of 3R-TaSe2 nanocrystals and their superconducting behavior. Two-dimensional (2D) TaSe2 has recently garnered significant attention due to its intrinsic physical properties, e.g., charge density wave (CDW) states, Mott insulator transitions, and superconductivity. In this study, we optimized the synthesis conditions for preparing highly crystalline 3R-TaSe2 using a chemical vapor transport (CVT) approach. We systematically investigated the influence of substrate type on the morphology of the resulting nanocrystals (NCs) and elucidated the underlying growth mechanisms. The NCs were grown on various substrates, including SiO2/Si, c-sapphire (0001), and mica, under optimal conditions. The deposited crystals were characterized using various techniques, including optical microscopy (OM), atomic force microscopy (AFM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) and high-resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM). In addition, magneto-transport measurements were carried out. Of particular interest, the prepared 3R-TaSe2 NCs showed a signature of CDWs at around 100 K and an onset of superconductivity below 2.2 K. Such highly crystalline NCs are interesting for fundamental research of properties such as CDW phenomena and superconductivity at the nanoscale. This work provides insights into substrate-mediated growth and paves the way for advancing the knowledge of 2D TaSe2 materials for potential applications in next-generation nanodevices.
19184033 | HLA-Cw*06 class I region rather than MICA is associated with psoriatic arthritis in Czech population. Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a chronic inflammatory joint disease which affects patients suffering from psoriasis. The genetic background especially the susceptibility loci on the short arm of the chromosome six contribute to PsA development. In our study, we looked for the role of the MICA and HLA-Cw genes polymorphisms in PsA pathogenesis. We investigated 100 PsA patients and 94 healthy Czech individuals. We found an association between HLA-Cw*06 and PsA namely PsA with psoriasis type I (age of psoriasis onset before 40 years) compared to healthy individuals (P (corrected) < 0.05, OR 2.56, CI 95% 1.33-4.76 and P (corrected) = 0.01, OR 3.03, CI 95% 1.53-5.88, respectively). The MICA-A9 allele of the transmembrane microsatelite MICA polymorphism occurred more frequently in PsA with psoriasis type II group (age of psoriasis onset after 40 years) than in controls, 58.6 versus 38.0%, respectively however, this finding did not reach a statistical significance after correction (P (corrected) = 0.085).
41489289 | Identification of Three Novel HLA Class I Alleles in Potential Haematopoietic Stem Cell Donors From Kazakhstan. The HLA-A*31:247, B*15:748 and C*14:174 alleles were identified in individuals from Kazakhstan.
41003754 | Unlocking the role of transcription activator-like effector nuclease (TALENs) and zinc finger nuclease (ZFN) in the treatment of HIV. Some nucleases may be programmed to break just certain portions of DNA; examples of such enzymes include zinc-finger nucleases (ZFNs) and transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs). Insertions and deletions are used by cellular machinery to repair damaged DNA. By specifically targeting long terminal repeats (LTRs), zinc-finger nucleases (ZFNs) efficiently and accurately remove HIV-1 proviral DNA from inactive human T cells, offering a new and different way to eradicate HIV-1 infections. This paper examines the potential, evaluates the current situation, and draws attention to the challenges surrounding the use of TALENs and ZFNs as therapeutic tools for the treatment of HIV infection, to mitigate the adverse off-target effects that result from their extended expression. There is less off-target editing and higher success in targeting HIV escape mutations using TALENs and ZFNs than with CRISPR/Cas-9. The use of ZFNs and TALEN has resulted in changes to many host genes. These include the entrance receptors CCR5 and CXCR4, as well as the proviral integration protein LEDGF/p75. One of the viral targets is the big terminal repeats of proviral DNA. The advancement of gene therapy from the laboratory to the clinic is hindered by the need to reduce immunogenicity, cytotoxicity, and off-target editing while simultaneously enhancing cleavage efficiency and dispersion. However, TALENs technology and breakthroughs in ZFNs are making cleavage more efficient and selective. The strategy for treating HIV might be drastically changed, and maybe even eradicated, by the creation of synthetic nucleases like ZFNs and TALENs. This review explores the current developments about ZFNs and TALENs for the treatment of HIV.
21554252 | MICB polymorphisms and haplotypes with MICA and HLA alleles in Koreans. Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related gene B (MICB) is located within the human MHC class I region. The location of MICB in the MHC region may imply the presence of linkage disequilibrium with polymorphic MICA and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) loci. MICB is also polymorphic; however, MICB polymorphisms have not been investigated in Koreans. Using sequence-based typing (SBT), we estimated the allelic frequencies of MICB and haplotypes with MICA, HLA-B, and HLA-DRB1 at high resolution in a population of 139 unrelated Korean individuals. Eight MICB alleles were identified. The most frequent allele was MICB*005:02/*010 (57.2%), followed by *002 (11.5%), *004 (8.3%), *005:03 (8.3%), and *008 (6.8%). The most common two-locus haplotypes were MICB*005:02/*010-MICA*010 (19.4%), MICB*005:02/*010-DRB1*15:01 (6.5%), and MICB*005:02/*010-B*15:01 (10.4%); the most common three-locus haplotypes were B*15:01-MICA*010-MICB*005:02/*010 (5.8%) and MICA*010-MICB*005:02/*010-DRB1*04:06 (10.4%); and the most common four-locus haplotype was B*15:01-MICA*010-MICB*005:02/*010-DRB1*04:06 (5.8%). This is the first study to provide information about MICB allele frequencies and haplotypes with HLA in Koreans. These study results should help understand mechanisms of disease association between the MICB locus and neighboring loci in Koreans.
40635218 | Identification of Key Genes and miRNA-mRNA Regulatory Networks Associated with Intracranial Aneurysm Progression by Integrative Bioinformatics Analysis. BACKGROUND: Intracranial aneurysms (IAs) are the leading cause of nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), accounting for up to 85% of all cases of intracranial hemorrhage. The aim of this study was to identify core genes and pathways revealing IAs progression. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We screened differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using mRNA expression profile data from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Then functional and pathway enrichment analyses of DEGs were performed utilizing the database for annotation, visualization, and integrated discovery (DAVID) and the GEO Data Analysis Module within the ACBI Bioinformation tool. Target genes with differential expression of miRNAs were predicted using the miRWalk (Version 3.0) database, and the intersection between these predictions and DEGs was selected as differentially expressed miRNAtarget genes. In addition, a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and an miRNAmRNA regulatory network were constructed. Finally, L1000CDS2 database analyses were performed to identify the potential therapeutic targets for IAs. RESULTS: In total, 742 DEGs and 171 DEGs were identified from the GSE13353 and GSE15629 datasets, respectively. The PPI of DEGs consisted of 868 nodes and 618 edges, including 392 upregulated genes and 521 downregulated genes, respectively, while 10 hub genes were identified. Among the top 10 hub genes, justification of CXCR4, IL6, CCR5, CCL5, CXCR2, CXCL1, CCL2, CCL20, CD4, and CXCL10. These hub genes were primarily augmented in the atherosclerosis process, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and cell adhesion molecules pathways. Through the miRNAs-hub gene network construction, 7 miRNAs associated with the hub genes were identified. The results suggest that the sensitivity toward simvastatin, curcumin, parthenolide, celastrol, BMS-345541, etc., correlates with the expression of 10 hub genes. CONCLUSION: In summary, this study reveals some crucial genes and pathways potentially involved in the pathogenesis of IAs progression. These findings provide a new insight into the research and treatment of IAs.
40421016 | Effective cellular and neutralizing immunity against SARS-CoV-2 after mRNA booster vaccination is associated with pDC and B cell activation. INTRODUCTION: The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs), particularly Omicron, has challenged the efficacy of initial COVID-19 vaccination strategies. Booster immunizations, especially with mRNA vaccines, were introduced to enhance and prolong immune protection. However, the underlying mechanisms of humoral and cellular immunity induced by homologous versus heterologous vaccination regimens remain incompletely understood. This study aimed to elucidate the immune responses, including B cell, plasmacytoid dendritic cell (pDC), and T cell activation, following mRNA booster vaccination. METHODS: In a longitudinal cohort study, 136 individuals received three different vaccination regimens: homologous mRNA, heterologous vector-mRNA-mRNA, or heterologous vector-vector-mRNA vaccinations. Serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were collected at multiple time points up to 64 weeks after initial vaccination. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG titers and neutralization capacity against the wildtype virus and Omicron variant were measured using ELISA and cPass assays. Cellular immunity was assessed by IFN-g release assays, and flow cytometry was employed to analyze B cell and pDC frequencies, viability, and activation markers. Functional pDC-mediated T cell activation was evaluated in mixed lymphocyte cultures. RESULTS: mRNA booster vaccination stabilized high anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG titers and neutralizing activity against wildtype virus across all regimens, with the homologous mRNA group showing the highest antibody titers and Omicron neutralization capacity. Peripheral B cell frequencies and activation markers (MHC class I/II, CD86) were significantly upregulated post-booster. pDCs demonstrated enhanced antigen-presenting capacity and significantly promoted SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell IFN-g responses <i>in vitro</i>. Despite differences in humoral responses between regimens, breakthrough infection rates up to 25 weeks post-booster were comparable across cohorts, suggesting compensatory mechanisms via cellular immunity. DISCUSSION: Our findings highlight the pivotal role of pDCs and T cells in sustaining effective immunity following mRNA booster vaccination. While homologous mRNA regimens induce superior humoral responses, robust cellular immunity in heterologous regimens may balance protection levels against breakthrough infections. The study underscores the importance of integrated humoral and cellular immune responses, suggesting potential for optimized booster strategies and pDC-targeted vaccine designs to enhance long-term protection against SARS-CoV-2 and emerging variants.
41139148 | HLA class I expression shapes the tumor immune microenvironment and influences prognosis in prostate cancer. BACKGROUND: Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I encompasses peptide-binding proteins that regulate T-cell interactions. We examined HLA class I expression in prostate cancers (PC), exploring associations with clinical outcomes, molecular features, and tumor immune microenvironment. METHODS: We analyzed 8040 PC samples from the Caris Life Sciences database, stratifying them into HLA-high (upper quartile) and -low (lower quartile) groups. Genomic and transcriptomic alterations were compared. Immune cell fractions were inferred using quanTIseq, and overall survival (OS) data was obtained from insurance claims. Differences were computed with Cox proportional hazards. RESULTS: Among 66 cancer types, PC ranked 3rd-, 11th-, and 19th-lowest for HLA-A, -B, and -C expression, respectively. In PC, genes tied to androgen receptor (AR) signaling, immune checkpoint molecules (CTLA4, PD-L1), and the epithelial-mesenchymal transition were significantly higher in HLA-high tumors. HLA-high status was linked to greater tumor immune activity, marked by higher T cell fractions and enhanced immune hallmarks. HLA-high tumors were less likely to possess alterations in AR, FOXA1, and CDK12, but harbored increased alterations in tumor suppressor gene (RB1, PTEN) alterations. Tumors with high HLA-A and HLA-B had elevated TMB-H/MSI-H/dMMR status. Finally, shorter OS was observed in patients with high HLA-A or HLA-B expression, while longer OS was associated with high HLA-C expression. CONCLUSIONS: In PC, elevated HLA class I levels correlate with immune activity, molecular characteristics, and clinical outcomes. We suggest considering HLA expression as a supplementary marker of immune activity in PC, alongside genetic mutations and transcriptomic markers.
41986193 | Contemporary surgical decision-making for hallux valgus and hallux rigidus in Switzerland: A national cross-sectional survey using standardized clinical scenarios. BACKGROUND: Surgical management of hallux valgus and hallux rigidus is influenced by deformity severity, surgeon training, and evolving techniques. Previous surveys in Australia (2012), Switzerland (2015), and Israel (2023) using identical hypothetical cases demonstrated marked regional differences and a recent rise in minimally invasive Chevron-Akin (MICA). Whether these advances have altered contemporary Swiss practice remains unclear. METHODS: An electronic survey replicating the original questionnaire was distributed to members of the Swiss Foot and Ankle Society. Three standardized clinical cases were presented: mild hallux valgus, severe hallux valgus, and hallux valgus et rigidus. Respondents selected nonoperative versus operative management and specified procedures and fixation methods. Demographics, subspecialty training, and surgical volume were recorded. Current results were compared with prior Swiss data to assess temporal change. RESULTS: Eighty surgeons completed the survey (94% foot and ankle specialists). For mild hallux valgus, 87.7% recommended surgery; Scarf osteotomy remained most common (49.4%), followed by Chevron (21.0%) and Minimally Invasive Hallux Valgus correction (14.8%). Minimally Invasive adopters were predominantly mid-career (83% aged 41-50), high-volume surgeons. For severe hallux valgus, 95.1% favoured surgery; MTPJ arthrodesis was preferred (50.6% isolated; 11.1% with Lapidus), while Minimally Invasive Hallux Valgus correction was rarely chosen (2.5%). In hallux valgus et rigidus, 96% selected MTPJ fusion, most commonly plate-and-screw fixation (45.1%). Compared with 2015, fixation strategies evolved, yet procedure selection remained largely unchanged. CONCLUSION: Despite global expansion of minimally invasive bunion surgery, Swiss surgeons continue to favour established open techniques, particularly Scarf osteotomy and fusion-based strategies. Adoption of MIS remains limited and concentrated among high-volume, mid-career specialists, indicating a cautious national diffusion pattern. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: IV, survey study.
41407397 | High-Resolution Eight-Digit Human Leukocyte Antigen-A, -B, -C, and -DRB1 Allele and Haplotype Frequencies in South Koreans Using Next-Generation Sequencing. Background: Data on human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing using modern high-resolution methods are increasingly needed. Previous HLA studies in Korea were limited by small sample sizes or low-resolution data. We analyzed high-resolution (eight-digit) HLA data obtained through next-generation sequencing from healthy volunteers from Korea registered for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, providing a large-scale dataset for population-based genetic analysis. Methods: We comprehensively analyzed HLA data from 2,726 volunteers from Korea. HLA-A, -B, -C, and -DRB1 alleles were identified using a GenDX NGSgo kit. Allele frequency (AF), haplotype frequency (HF), and equilibrium status were analyzed using the PyPop software. Principal component, Euclidean distance, and Nei's standard genetic distance analyses were performed using R software to compare data from Korea with that from other East Asian populations. Results: AF analysis identified 222 alleles (52 HLA-A, 70 HLA-B, 59 HLA-C, and 41 HLA-DRB1); HLA-A*24:02:01:01, HLA-B*15:01:01:01, HLA-C*01:02:01:01, and HLA-DRB1* 09:01:02:01 were the most common. HF analysis revealed 632 haplotypes in HLA class I, and 2,848 in combined classes I and II; HLA-A*33:03:01:01~B*44:03:01:0 1~C*14:03:01:01 and HLA-A*33:03:01:01~B*44:03:01:01~C*14:03:01:01~ DRB1*13:02:01:02 were the most common. Principal component and Euclidean distance analyses revealed genetic similarities among the individuals from Korea, Japan, and China. Conclusions: This study revealed key population genetic trends and relationships with East Asian neighbors, reflecting both shared and distinctive HLA characteristics. These data can provide valuable insights for anthropological and clinicopathological studies, as well as for understanding genetic diversity within the East Asian region.
40320791 | The Novel MICA*010:01:15 Allele in an Individual From West Bengal, India. The novel allele, MICA*010:01:15 differs from the MICA*010:01:08 allele by five single nucleotide substitutions.
40709192 | Patterns of inflammation and immune activation by coreceptor use in people living with HIV-1. Introduction: Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) utilizes either the CCR5 (R5) or CXCR4 (X4) coreceptor for host cell entry. Coreceptor switching from R5 to X4 and elevated immune activation have been associated with disease progression. X4-tropic HIV-1 is predominantly observed in the late stage of infection, when the immune environment characterized by chronic activation is optimal for their replication. The aim of this study was to determine viral tropism in late HIV presenters and who have not previously received treatment in Mexico City and its relationship with markers of chronic immune activation. Methods: A cross-sectional study was conducted on 122 people living with HIV (PLWH) recruited from two public health services. Viral tropism was determined using next-generation sequencing (NGS) and the geno2pheno algorithm. Immune activation was assessed through flow cytometry (CD38+, HLA-DR+), and soluble markers (sCD14, sCD163, IL-6) were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). Differences in immune activation patterns between R5 and X4 group were explored using Mann-Whitney Wilcoxon test and t-test, and a principal component analysis (PCA). Logistic regression was used to evaluate associations between immune activation profiles and the presence of X4-tropic viruses. Results: Ninety-eight individuals had high-quality V3 loop sequences, 81.6% harbored only R5 variants (R5 group), while 18.4% had mixed R5/X4 populations (X4 group). Most PLWH had CD4+ T cell counts below 200 cells/microL, showing no significant difference between groups. Elevated levels of IL-6 were significantly associated with the R5 group (p = 0.01), while the X4 group showed increased expression of CD38+ and HLA-DR+CD38+ markers, although not statistically significant. Furthermore, IL-6 emerges as a negative predictor for the presence of X4 viruses (OR = 0.06, p = 0.006). Conclusion: R5-tropic viruses are associated with elevated inflammatory responses in early stages, as indicated by higher IL-6 levels, while X4-tropic viruses may contribute to CD4+ T cell depletion through immune activation. Consequently, elevated levels of IL-6 emerge as a negative predictor for the presence of X4 viruses. The relationship between viral tropism and chronic immune activation in HIV-1 infection reflects a complex interplay which appears to be bidirectional.
41431073 | MICA-129 Met/Met contributes to the susceptibility of colorectal cancer. The highly polymorphic human major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related gene A (MICA) regulates immune surveillance and destroys tumor cells by activating its receptor, the natural killer group 2D. This study aimed to examine a single nucleotide polymorphism of this gene at codon 129 (MICA-129) in association with colorectal cancer (CRC). Using PCR sequencing, the MICA-129 polymorphism was examined in 104 patients with CRC and 536 healthy controls. Specific MICA-129 single nucleotide polymorphism was analyzed for its association with CRC susceptibility, clinical phenotypes, and selected CRC-associated microsatellite instability, driver gene mutation, immune checkpoint programmed death ligand 1, and diagnostic biomarkers carbohydrate antigen 19-9 and carcinoembryonic antigen. The MICA-129 heterozygous A/G (Met/Val) genotype was associated with less aggressive clinical characteristics, such as a reduced prevalence of the ulcerated subtype (P = .0489, OR = 0.59) and lymph node involvement (P = .0217, OR = 0.46). Conversely, the MICA-129 homozygous allele A/A (Met/Met) variant was related to more advanced clinical characteristics, such as increased tumor invasion depth (T3/4; P = .0261, OR = 2.10), driver gene mutation (P = .0363, OR = 2.65), and KRAS mutation (P = .0392, OR = 2.23). Additionally, patients with carbohydrate antigen 19-9-positive CRC had a lower MICA-129 Met/Val variation, whereas those with carcinoembryonic antigen-positive CRC had a higher MICA-129 Met/Met variant (P = .0330/OR = 0.22 and P = .0034/OR = 2.99, respectively).
40896244 | Chemokine Receptor Profiles as Predictors of Survival and Early Progression in Follicular Lymphoma. Objective: Classical follicular lymphoma (FL) is a heterogeneous malignancy. Early progression within 24 months (POD24) is linked to poor outcomes. However, precise risk stratification remains unclear. We aimed to explore chemokine receptor (CR) expression profiles as potential markers of disease biology and outcome in FL. Methods: We analyzed mRNA expression of CCR1-CCR10, CXCR1-CXCR5, CX3CR1, and XCR1 in 52 FL samples (13 POD24, 39 non-POD24) using RT-qPCR. Immunohistochemistry for CCR3, CCR7, CXCR3, CXCR4, and CXCR5 was performed. Reactive tonsils (n = 5) served as controls. Results: Compared to controls, FL samples showed lower CCR1, CCR6, CCR7, CXCR1, CXCR5, and CX3CR1 but higher CCR4, CCR5, CCR8, and CCR9 expression. Grade 3a FL correlated with reduced CCR8, CXCR1, and CXCR3, and increased CCR7. POD24 cases had elevated CCR3, CCR4, CCR7, CXCR4, and XCR1 but reduced CXCR3. High CCR3, CCR4, and CCR10 levels were linked to inferior survival. Cluster analysis revealed two CR-based subgroups; most POD24 cases clustered in the group with worse prognosis. Conclusion: These findings suggest distinct chemokine receptor expression profiles contribute to FL progression. Our data highlight several CRs as candidate prognostic markers and potential therapeutic targets in the context of POD24, warranting further investigation in larger, prospective cohorts. Trial Registration: The authors have confirmed clinical trial registration is not needed for this submission.
40513285 | Nivolumab plus relatlimab in advanced melanoma: RELATIVITY-047 4-year update. BACKGROUND: In phase 2/3 randomized RELATIVITY-047, nivolumab plus relatlimab demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in progression-free survival (PFS), a clinically meaningful but not statistically significant improvement in overall survival (OS), and a numerically higher objective response rate (ORR) versus nivolumab alone in patients with previously untreated advanced melanoma. METHODS: Descriptive 4-year updated analyses in patients treated with nivolumab 480 mg plus relatlimab 160 mg fixed-dose combination versus nivolumab 480 mg intravenously every 4 weeks are presented. Primary endpoint was PFS by blinded independent central review (BICR). Other endpoints included melanoma-specific survival (MSS). RESULTS: At 45.3 months' minimum follow-up, nivolumab plus relatlimab versus nivolumab PFS improvement was maintained: 4-year PFS rates were 30.6 % (95 % CI, 25.4-35.9) versus 23.6 % (95 % CI, 18.9-28.5); OS was numerically better with 4-year OS rates of 52.0 % (95 % CI, 46.6-57.1) versus 42.8 % (95 % CI, 37.5-47.9); and ORR difference was maintained at 43.9 % (95 % CI, 38.7-49.3) versus 33.4 % (95 % CI, 28.6-38.6), respectively. 4-year MSS rates were 59.7 % (95 % CI, 54.1-64.8) for nivolumab plus relatlimab and 49.6 % (95 % CI, 44.0-54.9) for nivolumab. Efficacy across the majority of prespecified subgroups favored the combination. No new or unexpected safety signals were identified. CONCLUSIONS: With 4 years of follow-up, nivolumab plus relatlimab demonstrated durable improvement in outcomes versus nivolumab monotherapy for patients with previously untreated advanced melanoma. The durable benefit observed comes at a lower toxicity cost compared with other immuno-oncology combinations. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03470922.
41756291 | A fully human IgG1 antibody targeting MICA alpha1 domain inhibits interaction with NKG2D and activates immune effector functions against MICA-expressing cells. Background: MICA is a stress-induced ligand for the activating receptor NKG2D and plays a central role in immune recognition and elimination of tumor cells. Tumor-derived soluble MICA (sMICA) and its allelic diversity impair immune responses by disrupting NKG2D function and promoting immune evasion, highlighting the need for antibody-based strategies targeting the MICA/NKG2D axis. Methods: We generated a fully human IgG1 monoclonal antibody targeting the alpha1 domain of MICA using phage display and rational epitope design focused on a conserved, low-polymorphic region. We characterized its binding specificity and affinity for MICA, competition with NKG2D, and its ability to trigger immune effector functions, including antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity (ADCC), antibody-dependent cell phagocytosis (ADCP) and activation of the classical complement pathway. Results: The antibody displayed high affinity for recombinant MICA (app Kd   20 nM) and effectively competed with NKG2D (Ki   15 nM). It recognized multiple MICA alleles expressed in human gastric and leukemia cell lines, confirming broad allelic coverage. Functional assays showed that the antibody mediated strong CDC, ADCC by NK cells and promoted ADCP of MICA-expressing cells. Conclusion: By combining high-affinity recognition of broad MICA alleles and robust activation of immune effector functions, this fully human anti-MICA alpha1 antibody offers a novel strategy to modulate the MICA/NKG2D axis and activate Fc-mediated immune effector functions against MICA-expressing tumor cells. Its dual mechanism of action supports its development as a standalone or combinatorial agent with immune checkpoint inhibitors in MICA-expressing tumors.
41852580 | Comparative analysis of anti-MICA scFv affinities: Insights from three label-free biophysical methods and biological validation. Antibody-antigen affinity is a key factor in the development of therapeutic antibodies, influencing candidate selection and their clinical efficacy. We used a combination of three label-free biophysical techniques: SPR, ITC, and fluorescence quenching, to rank anti-MICA single-chain variable fragments (scFvs), complemented by ELISA. We evaluated a wild-type (WT) scFv and its Beta mutant across the platforms, complementing this with molecular dynamics simulations and functional assays. The affinity constants (KD) varied depending on the method used, but SPR provided the most precise discrimination. Flow cytometry confirmed stronger binding of the WT scFv to MICA-expressing gastric cell lines, which was consistent with the results obtained using SPR. Simulations indicated greater conformational stability and more favourable antigen contacts for the WT scFv. Together, these results highlight the value of orthogonal measurements for robust affinity assessment and support WT as a promising lead for further development. This benchmark provides practical guidance for selecting affinity assays in discovery pipelines.
40421025 | NKG2D triggering hampers DNAM-1-mediated signaling in human NK cells. INTRODUCTION: Natural Killer (NK) cells are cytotoxic innate lymphocytes able to detect transformed cells through the balanced action of inhibitory and activating receptors. NKG2D is one of the main activating receptors involved in tumor surveillance thanks to its ability to recognize stress-induced ligands. Of note, the prolonged exposure to NKG2D ligands promotes receptor down-modulation that results in defective activation of NKG2D and other unrelated activating receptors, including DNAM-1 that is also involved in tumor clearance. However, further investigations are necessary to characterize how the NKG2D/DNAM-1 interplay affects NK cell anti-tumor function. METHODS: Primary cultured human NK cells were stimulated with the natural ligand MICA or an anti-NKG2D agonist antibody. The expression of activating and inhibitory receptors as well as DNAM-1-triggered signaling events and cytotoxicity were evaluated by flow cytometry. DNAM-1-mediated granule polarization was evaluated by confocal microscopy. RESULTS: We showed that NKG2D crosslinking mediated by the natural ligand MICA or an agonist antibody had different consequences on primary cultured human NK cells. Indeed, MICA stimulation increases the expression of the checkpoint receptor TIGIT that is able to counteract DNAM-1 activation. Stimulation with the agonist antibody, without altering TIGIT expression, directly inhibits DNAM-1-mediated signal transduction and cytotoxic function with a mechanism that required NKG2D endocytosis. DISCUSSION: Our findings contribute to shed light on the functional consequences of NKG2D engagement, demonstrating that a direct impact on DNAM-1-mediated signal transduction occurs independently from the modality of NKG2D crosslinking. Understanding the molecular mechanisms responsible for suppression of NK cell activation may help the development of therapeutic anti-cancer strategies aimed to prevent NK cell dysfunction or to reinvigorate an impaired cytotoxic activity.
40912469 | Impact of MICA-129 mismatch on HSCT outcomes: Evidence from a large European cohort and meta-analysis.
32678588 | SARS-CoV-2 Main Protease: A Molecular Dynamics Study. Herein, we investigate the structure and flexibility of the hydrated SARS-CoV-2 main protease by means of 2.0 mus molecular dynamics (MD) simulations in explicit solvent. After having performed electrostatic pKa calculations on several X-ray structures, we consider both the native (unbound) configuration of the enzyme and its noncovalent complex with a model peptide, Ace-Ala-Val-Leu-Gln~Ser-Nme, which mimics the polyprotein sequence recognized at the active site. For each configuration, we also study their monomeric and homodimeric forms. The simulations of the unbound systems show that the relative orientation of domain III is not stable in the monomeric form and provide further details about interdomain motions, protomer-protomer interactions, inter-residue contacts, accessibility at the catalytic site, etc. In the presence of the peptide substrate, the monomeric protease exhibits a stable interdomain arrangement, but the relative orientation between the scissile peptide bond and the catalytic dyad is not favorable for catalysis. By means of comparative analysis, we further assess the catalytic impact of the enzyme dimerization, the actual flexibility of the active site region, and other structural effects induced by substrate binding. Overall, our computational results complement previous crystallographic studies on the SARS-CoV-2 enzyme and, together with other simulation studies, should contribute to outline useful structure-activity relationships.
40940136 | Analysis of treatment-free survival of patients with advanced melanoma receiving nivolumab as monotherapy or in combination with relatlimab in RELATIVITY-047. BACKGROUND: Treatment-free survival (TFS; time spent free of systemic anticancer therapy) is increasingly used to support traditional endpoints. TFS was previously evaluated in patients with advanced melanoma treated with nivolumab plus ipilimumab. This analysis compared TFS for nivolumab plus relatlimab and nivolumab monotherapy in patients with advanced melanoma. METHODS: Data were from 714 patients in the phase 2/3 RELATIVITY-047 trial (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT03470922). TFS was defined as the difference in restricted mean event times between the Kaplan-Meier curves for time to protocol therapy cessation and time to subsequent systemic anticancer therapy initiation or death. TFS was further partitioned into time with and time without grade >=3 treatment-related adverse events (TRAEs). Subgroup analysis based on tumor BRAF mutational status and tumor programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression level was conducted. Between-treatment group differences were calculated with bootstrapped 95% CIs. RESULTS: At 48 months from randomization, Kaplan-Meier estimates of overall survival were 52% and 43% for patients in the nivolumab plus relatlimab and nivolumab groups, respectively; 38% and 33% of patients in these respective groups were free of subsequent systemic therapy. The 48-month mean TFS was 2.9 months (95% CI 1.0 to 4.9) longer with nivolumab plus relatlimab than with nivolumab (9.7 vs 6.8 months, respectively). Mean TFS represented 20% and 14% of the 48-month period after initiating nivolumab plus relatlimab and nivolumab, respectively. Considering only time without grade >=3 TRAEs, the 48-month mean TFS was 2.6 months (95% CI 0.8 to 4.5) longer with nivolumab plus relatlimab than with nivolumab (9.1 vs 6.5 months, respectively). The 48-month mean total TFS was consistently longer with nivolumab plus relatlimab than with nivolumab in the BRAF mutant (9.4 vs 6.5 months), BRAF wild-type (9.9 vs 6.9 months), PD-L1 >=1% (12.3 vs 7.7 months), and PD-L1<1% (7.9 vs 6.2 months) subgroups. CONCLUSIONS: This analysis demonstrated TFS benefit during the 48 months since initiating nivolumab plus relatlimab compared with nivolumab alone in patients with advanced melanoma. A direct comparison between nivolumab plus relatlimab and nivolumab plus ipilimumab is needed to determine the differences between the regimens in TFS and those in traditional endpoints.
22242197 | Dynamic shift from CD85j/ILT-2 to NKG2D NK receptor expression pattern on human decidual NK during the first trimester of pregnancy. During the first trimester of human pregnancy, Natural Killer (NK) cells of the maternal uterine mucosa (e.g. decidua) have a unique phenotype and are involved in crucial physiological processes during pregnancy. We investigated whether modifications of the NK receptor repertoire occur during the first trimester of pregnancy. We found significantly decreased expression of KIR2DL1/S1 and KIR2DL2/L3/S2 receptors, NKp30 and NKp44 activatory receptors, and the CD85j (ILT-2) inhibitory receptor. We also observed significantly increased expression of the NKG2D activatory receptor at the decidual NK cell surface. By flow cytometry, we further highlighted an evolution of NK subsets between 8 and 12 weeks of gestation, with a shift from the KIR2DL1/S1+/KIR2DL2/L3/S2+ subset towards the double negative subset, coupled with a decrease of the CD85j+/NKG2D- subset in favour of the CD85j-/NKG2D+ subset. Furthermore, cell surface expression of NK receptor ligands, including CD85j and NKG2D ligands, has been characterized by flow cytometry on decidual immune CD14+ and CD3+ cells. HLA-G, the high affinity ligand of CD85j, was detected on both cell types. In contrast, NKG2D ligands ULBP-2 ULBP-3 and MICA/B were not expressed on CD14+ and CD3+ cells, however a variable expression of ULBP-1 was observed. The ligand expression of KIR2DL1/S1 and KIR2DL2/L3/S2 was also analyzed: the HLA-C molecule was expressed at a low level on some CD14+ cells whereas it was not detected on CD3+ cell surface. NK receptor ligands are known to be also expressed on the invading placental trophoblast cells. Thus, the phenotypic evolutions of decidual NK cells described in this present study may preserve their activation/inhibition balance during the first trimester of pregnancy.
21457151 | Differential major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related A allele associations with skin and joint manifestations of psoriatic disease. About 30% of patients with psoriasis have psoriatic arthritis (PsA), an inflammatory arthritis that can affect both axial and peripheral joints. Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related A (MICA) alleles have previously been shown to be associated with PsA; however it is unclear whether there is a differential association of MICA alleles with skin and joint manifestations of PsA. Here, we describe a case-control study that aims to validate previously reported MICA allele associations with PsA and determine whether MICA alleles differentiate patients with PsA from those with psoriasis without PsA. Two hundred forty-nine unrelated Caucasian PsA patients, 243 psoriasis patients without arthritis, and 248 healthy controls were genotyped for 55 MICA alleles using PCR-SSP, and for human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-B and HLA-C alleles by PCR-SSO reverse line blot. Allele frequencies were calculated and logistic regressions were performed, adjusting for HLA-B and HLA-C alleles previously shown to be associated with psoriasis and/or PsA. Several MICA alleles were associated with psoriatic disease, PsA, and psoriasis compared with controls, and PsA compared with psoriasis in univariate analyses. Haplotype analysis showed evidence of strong linkage disequilibrium (LD) between PsA and psoriasis risk alleles of HLA-C, HLA-B, and MICA. After adjusting for significant HLA-B and HLA-C alleles in multivariate analyses, MICA*016 remained significantly associated with psoriasis [odds ratio (OR) = 5.5, P = 0.008]. MICA*00801 homozygosity was associated with susceptibility to PsA when compared with patients with psoriasis alone (OR = 2.26, P = 0.009). We conclude that most MICA allele associations with psoriasis and PsA are dependent on LD with HLA-B and HLA-C risk alleles. Independent of HLA, only MICA*016 influences the risk of developing psoriasis without arthritis, and homozygosity for MICA*00801 increases the risk of developing PsA in patients with psoriasis.
41121425 | MiR-518c-5p/miR-4524a-3p can mediate immune escape and chemotherapy resistance in triple-negative breast cancer and predict its outcome. BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), is characterized by its highly aggressive nature, with chemotherapy resistance and immune evasion contributing to poor outcomes. The role of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHCI) downregulation in TNBC progression remains incompletely understood. AIM: The present research focused on elucidating the roles of miR-518c-5p/miR-4524a-3p in immune evasion and chemoresistance in TNBC, and evaluating their clinical significance. METHODS: Bioinformatics analysis predicted miRNAs targeting HLA-A/B/C, validated by dual-luciferase assays. Functional studies in TNBC cell lines (MDA-MB-231/468 and ADR-resistant sublines) included chromium release, proliferation, invasion, and apoptosis assays. Clinical relevance was assessed in 88 TNBC patients and 88 controls using RT-PCR and survival analysis. RESULTS: MiR-518c-5p/miR-4524a-3p directly targeted HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C, downregulating MHCI expression and promoting immune evasion. Overexpression of miR-518c-5p/miR-4524a-3p enhanced TNBC cell proliferation, invasion, and chemoresistance to doxorubicin, while their inhibition reversed these effects. High expression of miR-518c-5p/miR-4524a-3p correlated with adverse clinical outcomes in TNBC patients, including shorter recurrence-free survival. CONCLUSIONS: MiR-518c-5p/miR-4524a-3p contribute to TNBC progression by facilitating immune evasion and chemoresistance. Targeting miR-518c-5p/miR-4524a-3p may represent a promising therapeutic approach for improving TNBC treatment outcomes.
42093409 | Stress-aided thermal activation of crack propagation in multidentate hydrogen bonding adhesives. Adhesives containing multidentate hydrogen bonding moieties are gaining prominence for their ability to adhere strongly underwater. Previous studies attributed their remarkable underwater adhesion to the multiple adjacent attachment points within a moiety stabilizing the bond, enabling cooperative hydrogen bonding. However, as adhesion involves multiple coupled phenomena, isolating the contribution of individual bonds to the adhesive strength remains challenging. Here we investigate the relationship between peeling velocity and adhesion over a range of temperatures to estimate the activation energy of the chemical bonds that fracture at the adhesive interface. We utilize a model epoxy modified by the addition of tridentate hydrogen bonding moieties (DGEBA-Tris). We report on the effect of curing, debonding temperature, and crack velocity on the adhesive strength at the DGEBA-Tris/mica interface. Adhesion is measured using self-arrested crack propagation to probe the threshold velocity above which the energy release rate transitions from velocity-independent to increasing sharply with crack velocity. We measure a shift by two orders of magnitude in the threshold velocity as the debonding temperature increases from 9  C to 60  C, consistent with a thermally activated process. The increase in threshold velocity with an increase in temperature follows an Arrhenius dependence revealing a bond activation energy of 14 +- 2 x 10-20 J (or 35 +- 4kBT at 20  C). The bond energy and associated temperature dependence of the energy release rate suggest that adhesion is dominated by cooperative tridentate hydrogen bonds, and that adhesive fracture of these bonds proceeds through an activated process.
41761579 | HLA variation analysis and autoantigen epitope prediction in idiopathic inflammatory myopathies. OBJECTIVE: To identify HLA associations with clinical and autoantibody-defined subgroups of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (IIM) and predict potential immunogenic epitopes presented by subgroup-specific HLA alleles. METHODS: An observational case-control study was conducted including 147 biopsy-confirmed IIM patients and 114 ethnically matched healthy controls. Patients were classified into clinical and autoantibody-defined subgroups. High-resolution HLA genotyping was performed, and allele/amino acid frequencies were compared between groups. Epitope prediction was carried out for key HLA-associated autoantibody subgroups using in silico tools assessing antigenicity, allergenicity, toxicity, and molecular docking with HLA alleles. RESULTS: HLA-C*07:01 was protective in IIM (pa = 1.23 x 1 0 -2, OR = 0.17, 95% CI 0.06-0.41). Subgroup analysis showed associations of HLA-A*33:03 with dermatomyositis (pa = 3.97 x 1 0 -3, OR = 14.8, 95% CI 4.38-68.07) and DQB1*06:03 with polymyositis (pa = 2.40 x 1 0 -2, OR = 7.24, 95% CI 2.42-22.61). The anti-Mi2 subgroup showed strong associations with A*33:03 (pa = 2.82 x 1 0 -3, OR = 19.73, 95% CI 5.11-98.01), DQA1*02:01 (pa = 1.03 x 1 0 -2, OR = 10.28, 95% CI 2.33-53.75), and DQB1*03:03 (pa = 1.98 x 1 0 -2, OR = 8.99, 95% CI 2.71-30.51). Anti-Ro52 was associated with B*08:01 (pa = 2.94 x 1 0 -3, OR = 11.67, 95% CI 3.56-39.83). Fine mapping pinpointed phenylalanine at position 25 of DQA1 to the risk allele DQA1*02:01 in anti-Mi2a/b autoantibody positive patients. From 49 predicted Mi-2 peptides, \YYKYILTR,\ \QAFSRAHR,\ and \DYWEKLLR\ bound stably to A*33:03 and were non-allergenic and non-toxic. CONCLUSION: In the anti-Mi2 subgroup, we identified novel HLA alleles, amino-acid variants, and immunogenic epitopes, supporting a role for HLA-restricted antigen presentation in disease pathogenesis and indicating candidate targets for antigen-specific immunotherapy. However, the HLA/epitope findings related to anti-Mi2 are exploratory due to limited power, and require confirmation in larger cohorts together with experimental validation.
40044041 | PEPSeek-mediated identification of novel epitopes from viral and bacterial pathogens and the impact on host cell immunopeptidomes. Here, we develop PEPSeek, a web-server based software to allow higher performance in the identification of pathogen-derived epitope candidates detected via mass spectrometry in MHC class I immunopeptidomes. We apply it to human and mouse cell lines infected with either SARS-CoV-2, Listeria monocytogenes or Chlamydia trachomatis, thereby identifying a large number of novel antigens and epitopes that we prove to be recognized by CD8+ T cells. In infected cells, we identified antigenic peptide features that suggested how processing and presentation of pathogenic antigens differ between pathogens. The quantitative tools of PEPSeek also helped to define how C. trachomatis infection cycle could impact on the antigenic landscape of the host human cell system, likely reflecting metabolic changes occurred in the infected cells.
16101830 | Associations of major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related molecule polymorphisms with Behcet's disease in Caucasian patients. HLA-B*51 is known to be associated with Behcet's disease (BD) in many ethnic groups. The pathogenic gene, however, may lie close to the HLA-B locus and therefore be in linkage disequilibrium with HLA-B*51. On the basis of the proximity of MIC genes to HLA-B, their expression pattern and their affinity for the activating NKG2D receptor on natural killer (NK) cells and gammadelta T cells, these molecules have been postulated as susceptibility factors in BD. DNA from 56 western European Caucasians with BD and 90 Caucasian controls were analysed by polymerase chain reaction using allele-specific primers for MICA and MICB alleles. An increased allele frequency of MICA*009 was found in the BD patient group (25.0%) when compared with the controls (7.2%). This was associated with a corresponding decrease in MICA*008 in the BD patients (36.6%) compared with the controls (46.7%), which was not significant. MICA*009 was strongly associated with the presence of HLA-B*51 in patients and controls. No significant difference in frequency of MICB alleles was found between patients and controls. Both HLA-B*51 and MICA*009 are strongly associated with BD in a pure Caucasian BD patient group, and the two alleles are in linkage disequilibrium. No MICB allele was found to associate significantly with the disease, an unexpected finding considering the close proximity of the MICA and MICB loci. Our results suggest that while MICB does not influence the development of BD, polymorphisms in MICA may be pathogenic, perhaps through the interaction with NK and gammadelta T cells.
41284357 | FuFiHLA: A tool for Full-Field HLA typing from long reads data. Motivation: Allele typing for Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) genes has many important clinical applications. Popular short-read typing can only accurately distinguish alleles at the peptide level, which potentially limit our understanding of the effect of variants in non-coding region. Recently, a few methods were declared to distinguish full-field HLA alleles from de-novo assemblies, which motivates us to develop an accurate HLA typing method directly from long reads. Results: We developed FuFiHLA, a lightweight open-source software, to type HLA alleles. Currently it supports typing alleles of six HLA genes (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQA1, and HLA-DQB1) from long reads. Evaluation using 47 PacBio HiFi samples from HPRC shows that FuFiHLA achieves 99.57% accuracy in the full field allele typing and QV as 50.1 for consensus allele sequence construction. Additional testing on four Nanopore R10 reads demonstrates slightly reduced accuracy in the fourth field. Availability and implementation: FuFiHLA is available on GitHub (https://github.com/jingqing-hu/FuFiHLA) under MIT License.
42086265 | Transfer of faeces in ulcerative colitis 2: improving efficacy - study protocol for a multicentre randomised controlled trial (TURN2 study). INTRODUCTION: The interaction between the gut microbiota and the host immune system is implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease, including ulcerative colitis (UC). Targeting the gut microbiota with faecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) from a healthy donor has shown promise in inducing remission in patients with active UC. However, mixed results and protocol heterogeneity have limited its practical application. Our previous Transfer of Faeces in Ulcerative Colitis; Restoring Homeostasis (TURN) trial found a correlation of clinical response with specific strains and butyrate production. Since most gut microbes, including many butyrate producers, are anaerobes, anoxic processing of donor stool may be essential to increase efficacy of FMT in UC. This trial aims to enhance FMT efficacy by applying strict anoxic processing, selecting donors based on microbial composition and using repetitive dual-route administration. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre study evaluates the efficacy of strictly anoxic prepared donor FMT compared with anoxic prepared autologous FMT in patients with mild to moderate active UC. An open-label extension option is available for non-responders in the autologous arm. Included patients will receive 4 weekly FMTs, comprising two double-route administrations (nasoduodenal administration combined with enema) and two single enemas. Donors are selected based on their microbiota profile, informed by our previous TURN trial and literature. A total of 76 patients evaluable for the primary endpoint will be included. The primary endpoint is steroid-free clinical and endoscopic remission at week 8, assessed by the adapted Mayo score. An interim analysis will be conducted midway through the study by a Data Safety Monitoring Board to monitor efficacy and safety. Other outcomes of this study include the evaluation of clinical, endoscopic and histological response. In addition to clinical results, this study aims to provide valuable insights into specific microbial strains, metabolites and mechanisms correlated with response, aiding in the development of future microbial therapies. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethics approval was obtained from the medical ethics committee of the Amsterdam University Medical Centre in the Netherlands (reference number 2018_057). All participants will provide written informed consent. The results of the trial will be disseminated through publication in a peer-reviewed journal and presentations at (inter)national conferences. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Prospectively registered in May 2018 in the Dutch Trial Register (NTR/LTR) as NL7770. Assigned NL-OMON52507 following the transition of the Dutch Trial Register to the Overview of Medical Research in the Netherlands. Also registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT05998213).
40242761 | Distinct Omicron longitudinal memory T cell profile and T cell receptor repertoire associated with COVID-19 hospitalisation. SARS-CoV-2 has claimed more than 7 million lives worldwide and has been associated with prolonged inflammation, immune dysregulation and persistence of symptoms following severe infection. Understanding the T cell mediated immune response and factors impacting development and continuity of SARS-CoV-2 specific memory T cells is pivotal for developing better therapeutic and monitoring strategies for those most at risk from COVID-19. Here we present a comprehensive analysis of memory T cells in a convalescent cohort (n=20), three months post Omicron infection. Utilising flow cytometry to investigate CD4+CD45RO+ and CD8+CD45RO+ memory T cell IL-2 expression following Omicron (B.1.1.529/BA.1) peptide pool stimulation, alongside T cell receptor repertoire profiling and RNA-Seq analysis, we have identified several immunological features associated with hospitalised status. We observed that while there was no significant difference in median CD4+CD45RO+ IL-2+ and CD8+ CD45RO+ IL-2+ memory T cell count between subgroups, the hospitalised subgroup expressed significantly more IL-2 per cell following Omicron peptide pool exposure in the CD8+CD45RO+ population (p <0.03) and trended towards significance in CD4+CD45RO+ cells (p <0.06). T cell receptor repertoire analysis found that the non-hospitalised subgroup had a much higher number of circulating clonotypes, targeting a wider range of predominantly MHC-I epitopes across the SARS-CoV-2 genome. Several immunodominant epitopes, conserved between both subgroups, were observed, however hospitalised individuals were less likely to express putative HLA alleles responsible for pMHC presentation which may impact TCR affinity. We observed a bias towards shorter CDR3 segments in TCRbeta repertoire analysis within the hospitalised subgroup, alongside lower rates of repertoire overlap in CDR3 sequences compared to the non-hospitalised subgroup. We found a significant proportion of TCRs targeted epitopes along the SARS-CoV-2 genome including non-structural proteins, responsible for viral replication and immune evasion. These findings highlight how the continuity of T cell based protective immunity is impacted by both the viral replication cycle of SARS-CoV-2 upon intracellular and innate immune responses, and HLA-type upon TCR affinity and clonotype formation. Our novel Epitope Target Analysis Pipeline (Epi-TAP) could prove beneficial in development of new therapeutic strategies through rapid identification of shared immunodominant epitopes across non-hospitalised and hospitalised subgroups.
41906493 | Tailored Vapor Deposition Unlocks Large-Grain, Wafer-Scale Epitaxial Growth of 2D Magnetic CrCl3. Two-dimensional magnetic materials (2D-MM) are an exciting playground for fundamental research, and for spintronics and quantum sensing. However, their large-grain, wafer-scale synthesis using scalable vapor deposition methods is still an unsolved challenge. Here, a tailored physical vapor transport deposition (PVTD) method is developed, which enables centimeter-scale, epitaxial growth of semiconducting 2D-MM CrCl3 at 500 C (on mica substrate). A controlled synthesis protocol, enabled via four process innovations, (i) low emissivity secondary heating source, (ii) very-high carrier-gas flow, (iii) dynamic precursor flux control, and (iv) oxygen/moisture removal, suppresses redox etching and drives growth beyond the diffusion limit for wafer-scale growth. Optical, stoichiometric, structural, and magnetic characterization confirm single-crystalline, phase-pure 2D-MM CrCl3. Substrate temperature tunes thickness of films from few-layers to tens of nanometers, while flow rate controls nucleation density and coverage. Further, we demonstrate selective-area growth and large-area transfer, validating potential wafer-level device integration. Substrate-dependent growth features are explained using density functional theory and state-of-the-art machine learning interatomic potential-based atomic-scale simulations. This scalable, flexible vapor deposition approach offers a general route for synthesizing several (volatile and reactive) 2D-MM and bridges the scalability gap from conventional wafer-scale materials. The low-temperature growth will enable the creation of hybrid functional heterostructures.
42035926 | Plasma proteome and autism spectrum disorder: Integrative proteome-wide Mendelian randomization with clinical profiling. BACKGROUND: Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder with incompletely elucidated underlying biological mechanisms. Circulating proteins serve as an intermediate molecular layer linking genetic variation to downstream biological processes. This study aimed to systematically investigate the causal associations between the plasma proteome and ASD risk, followed by multi-omic and clinical validation. METHOD: Two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) was performed to screen 1124 plasma proteins for potential causal links with ASD. Genetically prioritized proteins were further verified using Bayesian colocalization analysis, tissue expression profiling (GTEx), transcriptomic validation (GEO), and co-expression network analyses. In a retrospective cohort of 100 children with ASD, serum concentrations of inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-1beta, IL-8, IL-10, TNF-alpha, IL-2R) and brain injury markers (NSE, S100beta) were measured. RESULTS: MR analysis identified 23 plasma proteins nominally associated with ASD risk. After correction for multiple testing, MR identified three proteins associated with ASD risk: MICA (OR = 0.964, protective), SERPIND1 (heparin cofactor II; OR = 0.897, protective), and MAPKAPK3 (OR = 1.046, risk-increasing). Genetically predicted MAPKAPK3 showed moderate evidence of colocalization with ASD (PP H4 = 0.51), suggesting a shared causal variant. Multi-omic analyses indicated that MAPKAPK3 is broadly expressed in brain tissues, significantly upregulated in the ASD cortex, and tightly co-expressed with inflammation-related genes. Clinically, severe ASD was associated with elevated serum levels of IL-6, IL-1beta, and IL-8; IL-1beta level were positively correlated with the severity of ASD symptoms. CONCLUSIONS: Integrative evidence from genetic, transcriptomic, network, and clinical analyses supports the involvement of immune-inflammatory pathways in ASD pathogenesis. The MAPKAPK3-centered inflammatory signaling emerges as a genetically supported mechanistic axis, which prioritizing for future functional studies and biomarker development.
41057958 | DEP domain containing 1: a potential oncogenic driver.
42054871 | The ability of crystalline rocks to adsorb radionuclides after exposure to aggressive environments. Crystalline rock massif of the Yeniseiskiy site (Krasnoyarsk region) is considered for the disposal of radioactive waste in the Russian Federation. In this study the resistance of different types of rocks located at target depths in the site of geological disposal facility (gneisses, dolerites, and carbonatized fissure filling) to dissolution by groundwater was simulated by short-term stage-by-stage treatment with 18 % HCl solution and aqua regia. The impact of dissolution on isolation properties was also investigated. A high sorption capacity to Cs(I) and Eu(III) which chemical behavior is similar to Am (III) and Pu (III) of gneiss, dolerite, and fissure filling samples was established. During the studies of sorption properties, it was found that the greatest influence on the retention of Cs by gneiss and dolerite have the specific surface area (SSA) value. This effect is most pronounced for gneiss due to the increased available surface area of mica minerals biotite and muscovite. The retention effect of the fissure filling material is mainly determined by the content of mixed-layer illite-smectite clay minerals and chlorite. It was found that the greatest influence on the retention of europium by gneiss and mineral fissure filling is the content of chlorite in the samples. The obtained results reflect the resistance of the host rock of the Yeniseiskiy site to the most aggressive acid environments, which allows assessing the stability of their isolation properties for a long-term perspective.
41999749 | A MICA/B GAALIE-mutant antibody elicits potent natural killer cell-driven immunity in solid and hematologic malignancy models. Anti-MICA/B antibodies that inhibit the shedding hold promise for cancer immunotherapy and are in phase 1 clinical trials. Although MICA/B-shedding inhibition promotes natural killer (NK) cell-driven immunity by NKG2D engagement, the Fc enables antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. We, therefore, engineer the Fc of an anti-MICA/B antibody (clone 7C6) through GAALIE mutations that increase the binding affinity to Fc-activating receptors. 7C6-GAALIE inhibits MICA/B shedding and potently triggers NK cell-effector functions against tumor cells. Furthermore, we establish a model of metastatic prostate cancer with which we formally demonstrate that 7C6-GAALIE is superior to 7C6 as wild-type human IgG1 in inhibiting metastases in Fc gamma receptor-humanized mice. In melanoma and leukemia models, 7C6-GAALIE had a therapeutic efficacy more consistent than that with 7C6 as wild-type human IgG1. Therefore, this study establishes the proof of concept of a next-generation anti-MICA/B antibody for cancer immunotherapy through an Fc optimization that enhances the antibody's ability to elicit NK cell-driven immunity.
42065518 | Speciation and hydration forces in sodium carbonate/bicarbonate aqueous solutions nanoconfined between mica sheets. The equilibrium between hydrated and hydrolysed forms of CO2 in water is central to a multitude of processes in geology, oceanography and biology. Chemistry of the carbonate system is well understood in bulk solution, however processes such as mineral weathering and biomineralisation frequently occur in nano-confined spaces where carbonate chemistry is less explored. For confined systems, the speciation equilibria are expected to tilt due to surface reactivity, electric fields and reduced configurational entropy. In this discussion paper we provide measurements of interaction force between negatively charged aluminosilicate (mica) sheets across aqueous carbonate/bicarbonate solutions confined to nanoscale films in equilibrium with a reservoir of the solution. By fitting the measurements to a Poisson-Boltzmann equation modified to account for charge regulation at the bounding walls, we discuss features of the bicarbonate speciation in confinement. We find that (i) the presence of bicarbonate in the bulk reservoir causes a repulsive excess pressure in the slit compared to pH-neutral salt solutions at the same concentration, arising from a higher (negative) effective charge on the mica surfaces; (ii) the electrostatic screening length is lower for solutions of Na2CO3 compared to NaHCO3 at the same bulk concentration, due to a shift in the speciation equilibria with pH and in accordance with Debye-Huckel theory; (iii) hydration forces are observed at distances below 2 nm with features of size 0.1 nm and 0.3 nm; this was reproducible across the various bicarbonate electrolytes studied, and contrasts with hydration forces of uniform step size measured in pH-neutral electrolytes.
19691640 | Association study of MICA and MICB in Alzheimer's disease. Following the replication of the association of the human leucocyte antigen (HLA) allele, HLA-B*07, with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the cohort of the Oxford Project to Investigate Memory and Ageing (OPTIMA) in a previous study, we examined whether that association could be due to linkage disequilibrium with MICA or MICB alleles. We found a possible association of MICA*00801 heterozygotes with AD in subjects positive for the epsilon 4 allele of apolipoprotein E. This finding was supported by Hardy-Weinberg analysis, by stratified association analysis and by interaction analysis, but did not survive correction for multiple testing. In any case, these results do not explain our previously reported association of HLA-B*07 with AD.
41011272 | Somatic Mutations in DNA Mismatch Repair Genes, Mutation Rate and Neoantigen Load in Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. Background/Objectives: During cancer development, tumor cells accumulate somatic mutations, which could generate tumor-specific neoantigens. The aberrant protein can be recognized by the immune system as no-self, triggering an immune response against cells expressing this aberrant protein which could mediate tumor control or rejection. Since the expression of this mutated protein is exclusive to tumor cells, great efforts are being made to identify neoantigens of relevance in the development of new cancer treatment strategies. In comparison to adulthood tumors, pediatric malignancies present fewer mutations and thus fewer potential neoantigens. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common pediatric malignancy worldwide that can be benefited by the identification of neoantigens for immunotherapy approaches, the landscape of neoantigens in ALL is not well known, therefore the aim of our study was to identify potential neoantigens in ALL pediatric patients. Methods: To identify neoantigens in ALL, whole-exome sequencing of matched tumor-normal cells from pediatric cases was performed, with these data HLA-I alleles predicted and somatic mutations identified to propose potential neoantigens based on binding affinity of mutated peptide-HLA-I. Results: We found a strong correlation between tumor mutational burden (TMB) and neoantigen load (p < 0.001) but no correlation with prognosis. Furthermore, TMB and neoantigens were greater in ALL patients with at least one mutated DNA mismatch repair gene (p < 0.001). Also, differences between B- and T-cell ALL were found but statistical significance did not remain after permutation. Conclusions: The presence of neoantigens in pediatric cases with ALL makes the neoantigen-based immunotherapy a promising new strategy for the treatment of this malignancy, especially for patients with relapse.
40259456 | Distinct HLA Haplotypes Are Associated With an Altered Strength of SARS-CoV-2-Specific T-Cell Responses and Unfavorable Disease Courses. Infection with SARS-CoV-2 results in mild to severe COVID-19 disease courses. Several studies showed the association of impaired T-cell responses and certain HLA haplotypes with disease severity. However, it remained unclear if T-cell activation was compromised due to a general reduction of presented epitopes or other intrinsic factors within APCs or T cells. Furthermore, a potential reduction of presented epitopes would suggest if an upcoming SARS-CoV-2 variant could escape T-cell immunity. Hence, knowledge about the T-cell epitope landscape of SARS-CoV-2 would allow to better understand mechanisms leading to severe disease and to estimate the potential stability of the T-cell response in light of virus evolution, which might provide insights for future vaccine designs. Hence, in the present study, the T-cell epitope landscape of SARS-CoV-2 was determined via in vitro T-cell stimulation plus in silico prediction. HLAs associated with mild and severe disease courses showed almost the same potential in epitope presentation, suggesting intrinsic factors of APCs or T cells as contributors to the more severe disease courses. As T-cell epitopes did also not originate from regions of SARS-CoV-2 having shown high mutation rates in the past, a relatively stable T-cell response can be expected regarding new SARS-CoV-2 strains in the future. Analysis of the T-cell epitope landscape of SARS-CoV-2 suggests T-cell intrinsic factors as likely modulators of disease severity and that the capacity of MHC-peptide presentation remains stable among circulating SARS-CoV-2 viral strains.
21179506 | Matched sizes of activating and inhibitory receptor/ligand pairs are required for optimal signal integration by human natural killer cells. It has been suggested that receptor-ligand complexes segregate or co-localise within immune synapses according to their size, and this is important for receptor signaling. Here, we set out to test the importance of receptor-ligand complex dimensions for immune surveillance of target cells by human Natural Killer (NK) cells. NK cell activation is regulated by integrating signals from activating receptors, such as NKG2D, and inhibitory receptors, such as KIR2DL1. Elongating the NKG2D ligand MICA reduced its ability to trigger NK cell activation. Conversely, elongation of KIR2DL1 ligand HLA-C reduced its ability to inhibit NK cells. Whereas normal-sized HLA-C was most effective at inhibiting activation by normal-length MICA, only elongated HLA-C could inhibit activation by elongated MICA. Moreover, HLA-C and MICA that were matched in size co-localised, whereas HLA-C and MICA that were different in size were segregated. These results demonstrate that receptor-ligand dimensions are important in NK cell recognition, and suggest that optimal integration of activating and inhibitory receptor signals requires the receptor-ligand complexes to have similar dimensions.
42062429 | Organoclay reinforced polyimide hybrid films based on hexadecyl modified montmorillonite and synthetic mica.
41035653 | Identification of HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C triple homozygous and double homozygous donors: a path toward synthetic superdonor advanced therapeutic medicinal products. Human-induced pluripotent stem cells with broad immune compatibility are highly desirable for regenerative medicine applications. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I homozygous cell sources are ideal for immune compatibility modeling. Here, we profile HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C alleles in 3,496 Lithuanian donors genotyped at three-field resolution. The five most frequent alleles constitute 74.6% of HLA-A, 43.2% of HLA-B, and 59.2% of HLA-C, with HLA-A*02:01:01, HLA-B*07:02:01, and HLA-C*07:02:01 being the most common. Lithuanian allele frequencies closely resemble those of European-American and British populations. We identified 153 double homozygotes and 51 triple homozygotes for HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C. Compatibility modeling showed that triple homozygous profiles match 60.5% of Lithuanians, 13.4% of the British population, and 7.4% of European-Americans. CRISPR-Cas9 guide RNA design yielded 54 candidates predicted to disrupt HLA-A or HLA-B while preserving HLA-C, producing edited profiles matching over 97.9% of Lithuanians, 95.7% of European-Americans, and 95.5% of the British population. Finally, we established 15 fibroblast lines from triple homozygotes as a bioresource for the derivation of human-induced pluripotent stem cells and immune compatibility studies.
40038251 | LNP-RNA-mediated antigen presentation leverages SARS-CoV-2-specific immunity for cancer treatment. Lipid nanoparticle (LNP)-mRNA vaccines have demonstrated protective capability in combating SARS-CoV-2. Their extensive deployment across the global population leads to the broad presence of T-cell immunity against the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, presenting an opportunity to harness this immunological response as a universal antigen target for cancer treatment. Herein, we design and synthesize a series of amino alcohol- or amino acid-derived ionizable lipids (AA lipids) and develop an LNP-RNA-based antigen presentation platform to redirect spike-specific T-cell immunity against cancer in mouse models. First, in a prime-boost regimen, AA2 LNP encapsulating spike mRNA elicit stronger T-cell immunity against the spike epitopes compared to FDA-approved LNPs (ALC-0315 and SM-102), highlighting the superior delivery efficiency of AA2 LNP. Next, AA15V LNP efficiently delivers self-amplifying RNAs (saRNAs) encoding spike epitope-loaded single-chain trimer (sSE-SCT) MHC I molecules into tumor tissues, thereby inducing the presentation of spike epitopes. Our results show that a single intratumoral (i.t.) treatment of AA15V LNP-sSE-SCTs suppresses tumor growth and extends the survival of B16F10 melanoma and A20 lymphoma tumor-bearing mice vaccinated with AA2 LNP-spike mRNA. Additionally, AA15V LNP-sSE-SCTs enable SE-SCT expression in ex vivo human glioblastoma and lung cancer samples, suggesting its potential in clinical translation.
41239078 | MICA protein as a plasma biomarker for dermatomyositis with malignancy: a proteome-wide Mendelian randomization and ELISA study. INTRODUCTION: Dermatomyositis (DM) is an autoimmune disease marked by distinctive cutaneous manifestations and systemic involvement, including an increased risk of malignancy. Proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) revealed plasma major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain A (MICA) as a potential malignancy biomarker in DM, followed by validation with the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method. METHODS: We performed a proteome-wide MR analysis using protein quantitative trait loci data from the deCODE-2021 database and genome-wide association study data of DM from the Finnish Finngen R11 cohort. The causal relationship between plasma protein levels and DM was evaluated by a variety of MR techniques, such as weighted median, Wald ratio, MR-Egger, and inverse-variance weighted (IVW). Colocalization analysis was conducted to determine whether MICA shares genetic susceptibility loci with DM. To validate our findings, serum MICA levels were measured using ELISA in 47 patients with DM/CADM (clinically amyopathic dermatomyositis), eight cancer patients without DM/CADM, and 14 healthy controls. RESULTS: MR analysis revealed that elevated plasma MICA levels are significantly associated with an increased risk of DM (OR = 1.56, 95% CI = 1.33-1.82, P = 4.90e-08). Colocalization analysis indicated that the genetic variant rs2853986 on chromosome 6 is shared between MICA and DM. ELISA validation confirmed significantly higher serum MICA levels in DM/CADM patients than in healthy controls (P = 0.001), with further elevation in DM/CADM patients with malignancy compared with those without malignancy (P = 0.004) and patients with malignancy alone (P = 0.033). CONCLUSION: These results highlight MICA as a novel biomarker for malignancy risk in DM, providing potential clinical utility for identifying patients at high risk. Key Points   This study demonstrates a significant causal association between elevated plasma MICA protein levels and an increased risk of developing dermatomyositis using proteome-wide Mendelian randomization.   ELISA-based validation in a clinical cohort confirms that serum MICA levels were significantly elevated in patients with DM/CADM, especially those with malignancy, supporting its role as a malignancy biomarker.
41834191 | Site-Engineered Corundum-Structured Aesthetic Composites for Alleviating Heat Accumulation to Mitigate Urban Heat Islands. Urban heat islands have become a global issue, as they severely impact several key factors, including elevated energy consumption, increased air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, compromised human health and comfort, and reduced water quality. This escalating issue has become a concern and requires strategic technology deployment to address the threat. In this view, the present work deals with the synthesis of corundum-structured and octahedral site-engineered Mg3- xAxTeO6 (A = Fe, and Co; x = 0.05-0.25 wt.%) pigments with brilliant colors via a solution combustion route. The designed corundum-structured Mg3- xAxTeO6 pigments exhibit an isostructural geometry with a centrosymmetric space group (   R 3   $ overline {{{R}_3}} $  ). The prepared pigments exhibit aesthetically pleasing and vibrant brown and purple hues through the engineering of site-specific (Mg/Fe/Co)O6 octahedral positions within the corundum-structured Mg3TeO6 lattice. The colors of the pigments were manipulated (i.e., from absolute white to brown and purple colors) by integrating specific concentrations of transition-metal chromophores. The prepared best-performing Mg2.85Fe0.15TeO6 and Mg2.85Co0.15TeO6 pigments showcase their capability of delivering exceptional average reflectance properties in the near-infrared region (800-2500 nm) of ~86%. The integration of transition-metal ions into corundum-structured Mg3TeO6 could effectively modulate its electronic structure through hybridization between O(p) and Fe(d)/Co(d) states, thereby enhancing the near-infrared reflectance of the pigments. The prepared pigments delivered a low thermal conductivity of about 0.06 and 0.08 W/m.K, which signifies their candidacy in cooling systems over traditional roofing materials. The cooling pigments demonstrated their stability against acid/alkali treatment, photo-resistivity, and thermal stability. The deficient electricity demand as compared to bare cement and TiO2-mica pearlescent pigment coating was evidently witnessed when the prepared pigments were used as cool coatings in an energy simulation. All clarifies the suitability of pigments in real-time implementation.
41935287 | Coreceptor usage of plasma and cerebrospinal fluid-derived HIV-1 subtype C variants. BACKGROUND: HIV-1 subtype C (HIV-1C) may use multiple coreceptors to enter cells. However, the differences in coreceptor usage between HIV-1C Env variants from peripheral blood and those from the central nervous system (CNS) are still not completely understood. This study characterised the coreceptor usage of viral populations that circulate in the central nervous system (CNS) and plasma compartments to enhance understanding of HIV-1C pathogenesis and inform the appropriate use of entry inhibitors. METHODS: We characterised the in vitro coreceptor usage of HIV-1C envelope protein (Env) variants circulating in peripheral blood and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of twelve participants living with HIV and cryptococcal meningitis coinfection. We evaluated the coreceptor usage using Geno2pheno, Phenoseq and Web-PSSM coreceptor prediction tools, and confirmed coreceptor usage in U87 cell lines. We also analysed HIV-1 Env V3 loop characteristics for associations with CCR5 or CXCR4 usage. RESULTS: Our findings indicated that CSF-derived clones primarily used CCR5, while plasma-derived clones varied usage between CCR5, CXCR4 and CCR3 in vitro. HIV-1 Envs with a long V3 loop (37 amino acids), absence of potential N-linked glycosylation sites (PNGS), and a high net charge (> 5 +) were associated with CXCR4 usage. Whereas shorter or standard-length V3 loops (34-35 amino acids), presence of PNGS, lower net charge (range + 2 to + 5) and a GPGQ crown motif were associated with CCR5 usage. CONCLUSION: Our findings reveal compartment-specific heterogeneity in HIV-1 subtype C coreceptor usage during advanced infection. CSF-derived variants were primarily limited to CCR5 usage, while plasma-derived variants exhibited broader usage of CXCR4 and alternative coreceptors. Phenotypic validation, together with distinct V3 loop signatures, provides evidence of viral adaptation to divergent tissue environments and highlights limitations of genotypic tropism prediction alone. These findings advance the understanding of HIV-1C pathogenesis and have implications for evaluating coreceptor usage in the context of entry inhibitor-based interventions particularly in regions where HIV-1C is endemic and diagnostic resources are limited.
39434905 | Diacerein reduces inflammasome activation and SARS-CoV-2 virus replication: a proof-of-concept translational study. Background: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is linked to high mortality, primarily through an intense inflammatory response. Diacerein has emerged as a potential therapy for COVID-19 due to its potential impact in decreasing the inflammasome activation and coronavirus replication. This study aims to explore diacerein's influence in inhibiting both viral replication and the inflammatory response after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Methods: Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were obtained from healthy volunteers and infected in vitro with SARS-CoV-2. Additionally, we carried out a pilot randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study with 14 participants allocated to diacerein (n = 7) or placebo (n = 7) therapies every 12 h for 10 days. The primary endpoint was change in plasma markers of inflammasome activation (NLRP3, caspase-1, and gasdermin-D). Results: In vitro protocols have shown that rhein, diacerein's primary metabolite, decreased IL-1beta secretion caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection in human PBMCs (p < 0.05), and suppressed viral replication when administered either before or after the virus incubation (p < 0.05). This later effect was, at least partially, attributed to its inhibitory effect on 3-chymotrypsin-like protease (SARS-CoV-2 3CLpro) and papain-like protease in the SARS-CoV-2 (SARS-CoV-2 PLpro) virus and in the phosphorylation of proteins related cytoskeleton network (p < 0.05). Diacerein-treated COVID-19 patients presented a smaller area under the curve for NLRP3, caspase-1 and GSDM-D measured on days 2, 5, and 10 after hospitalization compared to those receiving a placebo (p < 0.05). Conclusion: The indicated mechanisms of action of diacerein/rhein can reduce viral replication and mitigate the inflammatory response related to SARS-CoV-2. These findings are preliminary and require confirmation in clinical trials.
41671721 | Unique case of False-Positive pan-HLA-A antibody detection in LABScreen single antigen bead assay. Accurate detection of HLA antibodies is essential for assessing immunologic risk in transplantation. Solid-phase antibody assays (SPA), particularly Luminex-based single-antigen bead (SAB) assay offer high sensitivity, but are prone to false reactions that may lead to clinical misinterpretation. While false-positive pan-locus patterns have been described for HLA-C/DR, pan-HLA-A reactivity has not been previously reported. We present a patient who developed pan-HLA-A reactivity detected by LABScreen  SAB one year after combined liver-kidney transplantation. Repeat testing and Presorb  treatment yielded identical results. To investigate causes, testing with acid-treated beads ruled out antibodies to denatured HLA. An alternative SAB platform (LIFECODES  LSA ) and LABScreen  Mixed beads were negative. Surrogate flow crossmatches with two unrelated donors were negative, confirming absence of cell-reactive antibodies. This represents the first documented case of false-positive pan-HLA-A reactivity confined to a single commercial SAB product. Recognition of such artifacts is essential to prevent misclassification of antibody specificity.
41968633 | Targeting SLC5A2 suppresses colorectal tumour development by enhancing NK cell activity through extracellular vesicle-dependent MICA/B signalling. Tumour metabolic modulation represents a promising adjuvant therapeutic strategy for cancers, including colorectal cancer (CRC). Dapagliflozin, a clinically approved sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SLC5A2/SGLT2) inhibitor, has attracted considerable attention, yet its functional role in CRC remains unclear. Here, we investigated the oncogenic effect of SLC5A2 on the colorectal mucosal epithelium using transgenic rats and an azoxymethane/dextran sulphate sodium (AOM/DSS)-induced tumour model. Multiple immunofluorescence and tissue microarray analyses of clinical samples revealed an inverse correlation between SLC5A2 expression and natural killer (NK) cell infiltration, highlighting the therapeutic potential of dapagliflozin for CRC treatment. Mechanistically, gene expression profiling analysis and coculture experiments demonstrated that SLC5A2 impairs NKG2D-mediated NK cell cytotoxicity. Furthermore, perforated patch-clamp and calcium imaging revealed that SLC5A2 modulates the membrane potential and calcium influx, enhancing MHC-I-associated MICA/B secretion via extracellular vesicle (EV) formation and thereby enabling CRC cells to evade NK cell surveillance. Our findings reveal a critical oncogenic role of SLC5A2 in CRC progression and suggest dapagliflozin as a novel therapeutic option, particularly for CRC patients with metabolic comorbidities.
42115264 | Alkaline selective separation of silicon/vanadium from vanadium-bearing shale and recovery of silica. To overcome the lack of effective separation driving force in traditional physical pre-concentration methods for vanadium hosted in mica-type minerals, an alkaline selective pre-desilication route for silicon/vanadium separation was proposed based on the differences in reactivity and structural stability of various mineral phases in alkaline systems. By controlling the reaction conditions, preferential dissolution of SiO2 and relative retention of vanadium in the solid phase were achieved. To quantitatively evaluate the separation behavior, the selectivity coefficient alpha(Si/V) was introduced to characterize the relative dissolution differences between SiO2 and V2O5, and the effective selective separation window was subsequently determined. The results showed that under the conditions of NaOH concentration of 160 g/L, liquid-to-solid ratio of 4 mL/g, temperature of 190  C, and reaction time of 20 min, the leaching rate of SiO2 reached 62.29%, while that of V2O5 was only 10.56%, corresponding to an alpha(Si/V) value of 5.9. The V2O5 grade in the solid phase was enriched from 1.09% to 1.87% after desilication. Under the studied conditions, the apparent leaching processes of both SiO2 and V2O5 could be described by the unreacted shrinking core model. The dissolved silicon in the desilication liquor was recovered as precipitated silica via carbonation reaction, achieving an SiO2 recovery rate exceeding 97% and a product purity higher than 99%. The carbonate system after carbonation could be further regenerated into NaOH through causticizing treatment.
42023260 | Mechanistic study of inspiratory training in childhood Asthma: Rationale and methods of a pediatric clinical trial. Asthma is a common pediatric disease of the airways. Obesity among children increases the risk of asthma and is associated with a unique non-allergic asthma phenotype that is highly symptomatic and often unresponsive to conventional drugs. However, the mechanisms linking obesity with incident asthma, more frequent and severe symptoms, and resistance to conventional drugs remain unknown. Excess fat on the chest wall and abdomen forces children with obesity to breathe at lower lung volumes where small airway dysfunction is more likely to occur and where the normal length-tension relationship of the diaphragm is suboptimal; this leads to altered breathing mechanics and inspiratory muscle fatigue, which could lead to exertional dyspnea. While inspiratory training (IT) increases inspiratory muscle strength and endurance, improves exercise tolerance, and reduces exertional dyspnea, most research has focused on adults. The Mechanistic Study of Inspiratory Training in Childhood Asthma (MICA) study is designed with 2 objectives: (1) compare measures of small airway dysfunction and inspiratory muscle functioning between obese (n = 38) versus non-obese (n = 38) 6-17-year-olds with asthma and (2) measure small airway disease and inspiratory muscle function in response to 8 weeks of inspiratory training. We will also assess physical fitness, activity levels, and exertional dyspnea. This study will lay the foundation for dose selection and optimal target population of a larger trial. IT could represent a novel therapy to help children with asthma and obesity improve quality of life through reduced exertional symptoms and enhanced activity levels.
40635771 | Clinical Applications and Therapeutic Mechanisms of Chinese Herbal Medicine Yiaikang Capsules in Treating Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome. Yiaikang (YAK) is a 22-component traditional herbal medicine, exhibiting a powerful inhibitory effect on viral replication and immunity-boosting activities in clinical applications, and is widely used to treat diseases in people living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) in China. In clinical studies, YAK alleviates the clinical symptoms of HIV/AIDS (eg, weakness, shortness of breath, spontaneous sweating, and diarrhea) while enhancing quality of life and improving survival rates of patients. In the molecular mechanism studies, its main therapeutic action is inhibition of HIV replication, alongside increased numbers of CD4+ T cells. These are achieved through inhibition of the viral transactivator of transcription (Tat) and regulatory protein Rev, and host intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1). During HIV infection, the extensive destruction of CD4+ T cells consumes the Th17 subset of intestinal-associated lymphoid tissue, resulting in the loss of mucosal integrity. YAK also restores the normal expression of C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) and C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), promotes the proliferation of natural killer cells, regulates the balance between T helper 17 cells and regulatory T cells, and maintains the integrity of the intestinal mucosal barrier. In this review, we describe the clinical applications and therapeutic mechanisms of YAK in treating AIDS, with the goal of identifying new and efficacious therapies targets and approaches and provides new clues for the clinical application of YAK.
42082462 | Polymer-free van der Waals assembly of 2D material heterostructures using muscovite crystals. The advent of van der Waals (vdW) heterostructures has enabled formation of bespoke materials with atomic precision, where numerous quantum and topological phenomena have already been discovered. This atomic-layer tunability, however, comes at a cost: individual 2D layers must be picked up, moved, and placed in a deterministic manner while keeping their interfaces atomically clean. Recent advances in machine learning and robotics place even stronger emphasis on the deterministic aspect of vdW assembly. Current polymer-based transfer methods satisfy neither the determinism nor cleanliness requirements. To this end, solutions are needed where adhesion can be dynamically and deterministically controlled without leaving organic contamination. Here, we present a polymer-free transfer technique employing thin muscovite (mica) crystals. Temperature control over mica adhesion enables deterministic pick-up, stacking, and release of 2D materials, while their crystalline, inorganic nature ensures pristine interfaces and suppresses strain. Fully compatible with existing fabrication workflows, this approach enables the assembly of demanding vdW heterostructures, including those with exposed conductive layers, moire superlattices and suspended membranes. Our method represents a promising strategy for vdW heterostructure fabrication toward its automatisation.
41444678 | Distribution of HLA-ABC allele groups in a cohort of Chilean rheumatoid arthritis patients and healthy individuals. BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease in which HLA-DRB1 alleles encoding the \Shared Epitope\ (SE), located in the beta-chain of class II HLA-DR molecules, constitute the main genetic risk factor. However, there is scarce information about the role of HLA class I genes (HLA-ABC) in RA susceptibility. The present work aimed to evaluate the distribution of HLA-ABC allele groups in a cohort of Chilean RA patients and healthy subjects (HS), and to explore the influence of HLA-DRB1 SE alleles on this distribution. RESULTS: 135 RA patients and 122 HS were genotyped for HLA-ABC. The most frequent allele groups were HLA-A*02 (24.0%), HLA-B*39.1 (14.2%), and HLA-C*07 (24.7%) for RA patients, and HLA-A*02 (31.5%), HLA-A*24 (12.8%) and HLA-C*07 (17.7%) for HS. RA patients presented a significantly higher frequency of HLA-C*07 (p = 0.0015) and HLA-B*39.1 (p = 0.037) allele groups compared to HS. After applying the Bonferroni correction, the significant difference remained only for the HLA-C*07 allele group (p = 0.015). In a subset of RA patients (n = 60), positive for HLA-DRB1 SE alleles, the most frequent HLA-ABC allele groups were HLA-A*02 (0-33.3%), HLA-B*39.1 (0-16.7%), and HLA-C*07 (22.2-60.0%), whereas HLA-B*39.2 and HLA-B*52 were the least frequent ones. Overall, HLA-C*07 was the most frequent allele group across RA patients carrying HLA-DRB1 SE alleles. CONCLUSIONS: The HLA-C*07 allele group shows a significantly higher presence in RA patients compared to HS. In contrast, the distribution of most other HLA-ABC allele groups in this cohort displays a similar frequency between RA patients and HS, consistent with data from different populations.
41831966 | Switching cell wall-bound polysaccharides to secreted polysaccharides in lactobacilli. Bacterial exopolysaccharides (EPS) are carbohydrate polymers secreted into the environment. EPS produced by lactic acid bacteria have many valuable properties in the food and health sectors. In this study, we isolated spontaneous mutants of lactobacilli that overproduce EPS, using a selection method based on their slow sedimentation rate in a semi-liquid medium. In the mutants selected from several strains, we detected a missense mutation in epsD, which encodes a tyrosine kinase, or an insertion in epsC, which encodes its transmembrane modulator. Both genes were located within a gene cluster involved in Wzy-dependent polysaccharide biosynthesis. We then characterized selected Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus mutants in detail to gain insights into the mechanisms involved in EPS overproduction. We demonstrated that the single mutation D94L in the EpsD catalytic site prevents EpsD autophosphorylation. The chemical structure of the overproduced EPS was established, and consists of heptasaccharide repeating units with pyruvate substituents. In the wild-type parental strain, a polysaccharide with an identical structure was found covalently bound to the cell wall (CW) and covering the bacterial surface. In conclusion, our results indicate that the switch from CW-bound polysaccharides to EPS released into the environment is associated with a defect in autophosphorylation of the EpsD tyrosine kinase.
40280498 | \Virtual crossmatch reveals donor-specific MICA antibodies in antibody mediated rejection: First established Indian case\. Kidney transplantation is the best treatment for patients with End-stage renal disease (ESRD), offering significant improvements in their survival and quality of life. However, immune-mediated rejection of the graft remains a critical challenge. Anti-Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) antibodies are well-recognized mediators of acute and chronic rejection. In contrast, the role of non-HLA antibodies particularly donor-specific Anti-MHC class I-related chain A (MICA) antibodies (dsMICA Abs) requires further investigation. We report the first documented case in India of acute antibody-mediated rejection (AMR) in renal transplant recipients attributed to dsMICA. The patient, an 18-year-old male, developed graft dysfunction post-transplant despite a negative HLA Complement dependent Cytotoxicity crossmatch (CDCXM) and Lysate based Luminex Crossmatch (LumXm) results performed prior to transplantation. A more detailed diagnostic workup revealed the presence of dsMICA Abs, implicating them in the observed AMR. After a targeted treatment regimen of plasmapheresis and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) therapy, the patient showed substantial clinical improvement, marked by declining creatinine levels and then restoration of renal function. This study underscores the clinical significance of dsMICA antibodies in AMR and advocates for the need for routine non-HLA antibody screening in addition to anti-HLA screening post-transplant immunological monitoring.
42096601 | Centimeter-Scale Two-Phase Mixed Re0.58Mo0.42S2 Grown via Low-Pressure Chemical Vapor Deposition and Its Heterostructure with GaSe for High-Performance Photodetectors. Two-dimensional (2D) RexMo1-xS2 ternary transition-metal dichalcogenides are attracting increasing attention because their bandgap and conductivity are tunable, and their conductivity type can be switched from n-type to p-type through phase engineering, enabling applications in photodetection and photocatalysis. However, a high density of grain boundaries in 2D RexMo1-xS2 films strongly scatters carriers and degrades the photodetector performance. Here, we address this limitation by constructing a Re0.58Mo0.42S2/GaSe heterostructure, in which exfoliated 2D GaSe flakes, as a high-quality carrier transport layer, are dry-transferred and inserted between Re0.58Mo0.42S2 and the metal electrodes. Re0.58Mo0.42S2 with a thickness of 2.5 nm and a lateral size up to 1 cm was grown on mica by low-pressure chemical vapor deposition (LPCVD). The film exhibits a mixed crystal structure of 1T' and 2H phases, which are p-type and n-type, respectively. The 1T'/2H interface forms a p-n junction that promotes separation of photogenerated carriers, while the band alignment in the heterostructure drives hole transfer to GaSe, thereby improving carrier separation and transport. The Re0.58Mo0.42S2/GaSe photodetector achieves a responsivity (R) of 840 A/W, an external quantum efficiency (EQE) of 2.32 x 105%, a specific detectivity (D*) of 1.10 x 1010 Jones, and a rise/decay time of 3 ms/1 ms, outperforming devices based solely on Re0.58Mo0.42S2 or GaSe. These results demonstrate that heterostructures based on two-phase mixed ternary semiconductors are promising for high-performance photodetection.
41469502 | Single-cell RNA transcriptomics divulged altered gene expressions in monocytes and HLA variations in decompensated cirrhosis patients with sepsis.
40458406 | Two major human phenotypes of MICA molecules and their differential activation to NK cells via NKG2D receptor. INTRODUCTION: The major histocompatibility complex class I-related gene A (<i>MICA</i>), is a highly polymorphic gene, serve as a crucial role in immune regulator through its interaction with the NKG2D receptor on natural killer (NK) cells. These polymorphisms may influence immune responses, disease susceptibility, and transplant outcomes. However, the precise mechanisms by which <i>MICA</i> polymorphisms modulate NKG2D receptor activation remain poorly understood. METHODS: We analyzed 29 representative MICA polymorphic molecules that cover the most prevalent alleles in the population. These variants were systematically examined through Luminex bead assays, monoclonal antibody binding studies, and NKG2D-Ig fusion protein assays. NKG2D receptor activation was assessed <i>in vitro</i> using NKG2D reporter cells, while NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity was evaluated through NKL cell killing assays against target cells expressing either Type-I or Type-II MICA molecules. RESULTS: Our analysis identified two major types of <i>MICA</i> polymorphisms based on antigenic epitopes and NKG2D binding characteristics. Type-I MICA characterized by six specific polymorphic site and their associated amino acid variants. exhibited significantly stronger NKG2D receptor binding affinity and more robust receptor activation compared to Type-II polymorphisms. This functional distinction was further corroborated by enhanced NK cells cytotoxicity against target cells expressing Type-I MICA molecules. Importantly, these differences in receptor activation and NK cell killing efficiency were attributable to six critical polymorphic amino acid sites. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates the existence of two distinct types of <i>MICA</i> polymorphisms that differentially regulate NKG2D receptor activation and NK cell cytotoxicity. These findings offer new insights into that how genetic variation in MICA may contribute to individual differences in disease susceptibility through immune regulation mechanisms.
40051620 | Programmed cell death markers in COVID-19 survivors with and without sepsis. Introduction: Sepsis remains a leading cause of mortality, especially in COVID-19 patients, due to delayed diagnosis and limited therapeutic options. While the mechanisms of programmed cell death (PCD) in COVID-19 and sepsis are complex, understanding the molecular markers involved in these processes may aid in assessing disease severity. This study aimed to investigate the roles of PCD markers, inflammatory cytokines, and MHC molecules in distinguishing disease severity in COVID-19 patients with and without sepsis. Methods: The study involved adult patients (>=18 years) who survived COVID-19, grouped into four cohorts: COVID-19 with sepsis (C19wSepsis), COVID-19 without sepsis (C19NoSepsis), sepsis alone, and healthy controls. Serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from each cohort were analyzed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and flow cytometry. PCD markers (caspase-3, caspase-1, MLKL, LC3B, p62/SQSTM1), inflammatory cytokines (IL-1-beta, IFN-gamma), and MHC molecules (MHC I-A, MHC II-DRB1) were assessed. Statistical analyses were performed to evaluate differences in marker levels between and within cohorts. Results: The analysis identified two distinct molecular signatures associated with disease severity. The first signature, characterized by elevated levels of secreted markers of PCD, IL-1-beta, IFN-gamma, MHC I-A and MHC II-DRB1, was common to the C19wSepsis and C19NoSepsis cohorts. The second signature, which was more prominent in the cellular markers of PCD (caspase-1, caspase-3, MLKL, p62/SQSTM1), was uniquely associated with the C19wSepsis cohort. Conclusion: These findings provide insight into the molecular signatures distinguishing immune responses in COVID-19-related sepsis and may serve as valuable biomarkers for assessing disease severity, while guiding therapeutic interventions in critical care settings.
40348967 | Designing a multi-epitope universal vaccine for concurrent infections of SARS-CoV-2 and influenza viruses using an immunoinformatics approach. BACKGROUND: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and influenza viruses share several conserved epitopes that can be utilized for the development of universal vaccines. Our previous research demonstrated that recombinant M2e-HA2 (Matrix-2 ectodomain-Hemagglutinin subunit 2) proteins derived from influenza elicited an immune response against the virus, suggesting their potential use in universal influenza vaccine formulations. Given the lack of a specific vaccine to address SARS-CoV-2 and influenza co-infections, this study aimed to design a universal vaccine using immunoinformatics methodologies. METHODS: In this study, B-cell and T-cell epitopes were identified from the nucleocapsid (N) protein of SARS-CoV-2. Additionally, the N-terminal segments of M2e (SLLTEVET) and HA2 (GLFGAIAGF) from influenza were incorporated to construct a multi-epitope vaccine. Suitable linkers were designed, and human beta-defensin-2 was selected as an adjuvant. Further evaluations were conducted, focusing on key parameters such as stability, allergenicity, and antigenicity. RESULTS: The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and II binding epitopes exhibited broad population coverage for the vaccine on a global scale. The vaccine structure was found to interact with toll-like receptor 3 (TLR-3), and the docked conformation of the vaccine/TLR-3 complex demonstrated high stability during molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. The constructed vaccine exhibited thermal stability across cold, ambient, and human body temperatures. Additionally, in silico cloning of the vaccine candidate into the pET-28a(+) vector was performed to facilitate production within the Escherichia coli expression system. CONCLUSION: Overall, the findings suggest that the designed vaccine has the potential to serve as an effective universal vaccine and a promising strategy for controlling both Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and influenza on a global scale.
40370439 | The CD38<sup>+</sup>HLA-DR<sup>+</sup> T cells with activation and exhaustion characteristics as predictors of severity and mortality in COVID-19 patients. BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic remains a global health challenge. Severe cases often respond poorly to standard treatments, highlighting the necessity for novel therapeutic targets and early predictive biomarkers. METHODS: We utilized flow cytometry to analyze peripheral immune cells from healthy, bacterial pneumonia patients, and COVID-19 patients. The expansion of activated T cells (CD38<sup>+</sup>HLA-DR<sup>+</sup>), monocytes, and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) were detected and correlated with clinical outcomes to evaluate prognostic potential. The single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was applied to characterize the critical cell subset associated with prognosis and elucidate its phenotype in COVID-19. RESULTS: We revealed a significant increase in CD38<sup>+</sup>HLA-DR<sup>+</sup> T cells in non-survivor COVID-19 patients, establishing them as an independent risk factor for 28-day mortality. The scRNA-seq analysis identified the CD38<sup>+</sup>HLA-DR<sup>+</sup> T cell as a terminally differentiated, Treg-like subset exhibiting both activation and exhaustion characteristics. This subset presented the highest IL-6 and IL-10 mRNA levels among all T-cell subsets. Further functional analysis demonstrated its enhanced major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) cross-signaling and correspondingly enriched cytoskeletal rearrangement processes. In addition, there was dysregulated NAD<sup>+</sup> metabolism in CD38+HLA-DR+ T cells via scRNA-seq, accompanied by elevated adenosine and decreased NAD<sup>+</sup> levels in serums from COVID-19 patients. CONCLUSIONS: We identified the selective expansion of CD38<sup>+</sup>HLA-DR<sup>+</sup> T cells as a novel prognostic indicator for COVID-19 outcomes. These cells' unique activated-exhausted phenotype, along with their impact on NAD<sup>+</sup> metabolism, provides new insights into COVID-19 immunopathogenesis.
40726981 | tRNA-derived small RNA 3' tRF-Ala CGC obstructs NK cytotoxicity via cleavage of membrane protein MICA in colorectal cancer. Background: Immune escape remains a major challenge in cancer immunotherapy. Transfer RNA (tRNA)-derived small RNA (tsRNA) represents a novel class of non-coding RNAs generated from tRNA cleavage, regulating gene expression at transcriptional and translational levels. These tsRNAs exhibit diverse biological functions, including immune modulation, metabolic disorders, and cell death. Despite their critical involvement in tumor progression, the role of tsRNAs in Natural killer (NK) cells related to immune escape within colorectal cancer (CRC) has not been revealed yet. Methods: High-throughput sequencing and the tRFexplorer database were utilized to compare the profiles of CRC and normal tissues. Techniques such as RT-qPCR, western blotting, and flow cytometry were employed to assess gene and protein expression. The Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, colony formation assay, and apoptosis analysis were used to evaluate tumor heterogeneity. Differential gene expression between the tRF-3021a inhibitor and negative control (NC) in HCT116 cells was quantified and characterized using RNA sequencing. Results: We identified 3' tRF-AlaCGC (tRF-3021a) as significantly upregulated in CRC tissues. Major histocompatibility complex class I related chain A (MICA) is an important and stress-induced ligand of the natural killer group 2 member D receptor (NKG2D) that is expressed in various cancer cells. MICA undergoes post-translational modifications that regulate their expression as they are called membrane-bound MICA (mMICA) at the cancer cell surface. mMICA is a ligand that induces the activation of NK cells. Proteolytic cleavage of mMICA by A Disintegrin Metalloproteinase Domains (ADAMs) is the underlying mechanism in CRC. Mechanistically, tRF-3021a promotes proteolytic cleavage of mMICA by upregulating ADAM10, generating soluble MICA (sMICA). Elevated sMICA acts as a decoy ligand for NKG2D receptors on NK cells, impairing cytotoxicity and facilitating immune escape. Functional assays confirmed that tRF-3021a knockdown enhances NK cell-mediated CRC cell killing, while overexpression promotes CRC proliferation and inhibits apoptosis. Clinically, tRF-3021a is elevated in CRC tissues, serum exosomes, and cell lines, cleaved by ANG, demonstrating diagnostic potential. In vivo, experiments provided further evidence that inhibition of tRF-3021a reduce tumorigenicity. Conclusion: Our findings reveal tRF-3021a as a novel biomarker and therapeutic target for CRC immunotherapy.
40829740 | Targeting AXL can effectively overcome c-Met-induced therapeutic resistance in renal cancer and promote tumor cell death through increased oxidative stress. The mechanisms underlying therapeutic resistance to c-Met/receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) inhibitors in renal cancer remain unexplored. In renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cells, both AXL and c-Met are highly upregulated. Notably, we found that prolonged treatment with the c-Met/RTK inhibitor, cabozantinib (Cabo), a standard treatment for advanced-stage RCC, markedly increased total c-Met levels and promoted renal cancer cell proliferation. This effect was confirmed not only in vitro but also in murine models and renal tumor tissues from Cabo-treated patients. At lower concentrations (1 nM and 10 nM), Cabo treatment failed to inhibit HGF (c-Met ligand)-induced c-Met phosphorylation. Instead, it further enhanced receptor phosphorylation and downstream signaling events for tumor growth. Additionally, Cabo treatment induced AXL-c-Met association and disrupted the physiological degradation of c-Met. However, inhibition or knockout of AXL could significantly overcome therapeutic resistance to c-Met inhibitor(s). It triggered apoptotic cell death through increased oxidative stress and inhibition of the redox-sensitive transcription factor, Nrf2 and its effector molecule, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). We also generated Cabo-resistant RCC cells and observed a marked upregulation of both c-Met and AXL in these cells. Epigenomic profiling revealed significant differences between Cabo-resistant and Cabo-sensitive RCC cells. Importantly, inhibition of AXL either using a potent inhibitor, TP-0903, or through genetic silencing resensitized the resistant cells to Cabo-induced cell death. Together, our findings highlight AXL as a key driver of therapeutic resistance to c-Met inhibitors. A combination therapy targeting both c-Met and AXL in renal cancer could be a promising strategy to overcome the acquired resistance to c-Met inhibitors through increased oxidative stress.
39234715 | The German Central Health Study Hub - A Service to Find and Publish Clinical, Public Health and Epidemiolocal Studies and Associated Documents. INTRODUCTION: The German Central Health Study Hub is a service that was initially developed at short notice during the COVID-19 pandemic. Since then, it has been expanded in scope, content, active users and functionality. The service is aimed at two main audiences: data provider and data consumers. The former want to share research data from clinical, public health and epidemiological studies and related documents according to the FAIR criteria for research data, and the latter want to find and ultimately reuse relevant research data in the above areas. METHODS: The service connects both groups via graphical and programmatic interfaces. A sophisticated information model is employed to describe and publish various research data objects while obeying data protection and fulfilling FAIR requirements. The service is being developed in a demand-driven manner with extensive user interaction. RESULTS: A free-to-use service, built on open-source software (Dataverse, MICA, Keycloak), accessible via a web-browser. In close collaboration with users several features (ranging from collection to group items to combined data capture via API and UI) were created. The adoption of the service increases continuously and results in over 1,970 research data objects in June 2024. CONCLUSION: The service fills a marked gap and connects both user groups, yet it still needs to be improved in various dimensions (features, content, usage). The impact on the community needs to be further assessed. Despite recent legislative changes (GDNG, EHDS), the system improves the findability of sensitive data, provides a blueprint for similar systems and shows how to create a useful and user-friendly service together with users.
42079201 | CDK4/6 inhibition sensitizes breast cancer to NK cell therapy by inducing immune-interactive surface proteins. CDK4/6 inhibitors are standard-of-care for metastatic estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) breast cancer, yet the development of resistance remains a significant clinical hurdle. While CDK4/6 inhibitors are primarily recognized for their ability to induce cytostasis, their role in modulating innate immune responses remains poorly defined. Here, we demonstrated that CDK4/6i treatment remodels the tumor cell surface to favor recognition and elimination by Natural Killer (NK) cells. Using a diverse biobank of patient-derived organoids (PDOs), we found that CDK4/6 inhibition robustly upregulated the adhesion molecule ICAM-1 and the NKG2D stress ligands (ULBP2/5/6 and MICA/B). This NK-engaging cell surface phenotype was driven by a bifurcated signaling network: NF-kappaB signaling orchestrated ICAM-1 induction, while the PI3K/mTOR pathway regulated the expression of stress ligands. Functional assays confirmed that these ligands were indispensable for NK cell-mediated elimination of breast cancer cells. In vivo studies using ER+ PDX models revealed that a brief seven-day primer treatment with the CDK4/6 inhibitor abemaciclib was sufficient to sensitize tumors to NK cell therapy, significantly inhibiting tumor growth and prolonging survival. We also observed efficacy with a concurrent dosing strategy that delayed the onset of acquired resistance. These findings provide a mechanistic rationale for combining CDK4/6 inhibitors with NK cell therapy. This \prime and kill\ approach offers a promising strategy to overcome therapeutic resistance and improve outcomes for patients with metastatic ER+ breast cancer.
40711469 | First-in-Human Phase 1/2 Study of INCAGN01876, a Glucocorticoid-Induced Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor Agonist, in Patients with Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors. BACKGROUND: Glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor-related protein (GITR) agonism in T cells may potentiate antitumor immunity responses to immune checkpoint blockade therapy. This first-in-human, phase 1/2 dose escalation/expansion study assessed INCAGN01876, a humanized GITR targeting agonistic monoclonal antibody, for advanced solid tumors (NCT02697591). METHODS: Dose was escalated 0.03 to 20 mg/kg Q2W; flat doses of 400 mg Q4W and 300 mg Q2W were also evaluated. The primary objective was safety/tolerability; secondary objectives were pharmacokinetics and preliminary efficacy; exploratory objectives were immunogenicity, GITR occupancy, and immune biomarker assessment. RESULTS: Among 100 patients enrolled (prior anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy, 47%; most common tumors: colorectal [19%]; melanoma [14%]); 2% had one dose-limiting toxicity (grade 4 hypoxia; grade 3 pleurisy). Maximum tolerated dose was not reached. Treatment-related adverse events (TRAEs) occurred in 69% of patients, most frequently fatigue (17%) and pruritus (14%); 10% had grade >=3 TRAEs, most commonly fatigue (3%); 23% reported immune-related AEs, most frequently generalized pruritus and generalized rash (7% each). Doses >=5 mg/kg Q2W resulted in full receptor occupancy at trough. INCAGN01876 elicited changes in immune parameters in some patients, including variable peripheral regulatory T-cell (Treg) depletion and cytokine upregulation. Two patients achieved confirmed partial responses; one with appendiceal mucinous carcinoma, and another with melanoma previously treated with pembrolizumab and glembatumumab; 36% of patients had disease control. CONCLUSION: INCAGN01876 was generally well tolerated; fatigue was the most frequent TRAE. INCAGN01876 elicited transient and variable Treg depletion and limited antitumor activity. Future studies will explore combinatorial approaches.
41097894 | Identification of the HLA-A*11:01:01:94 and HLA-C*15:02:01:68 Alleles in Individuals From India. The novel alleles HLA-A*11:01:01:94 and HLA-C*15:02:01:68 were identified during routine HLA typing.
41149503 | Chemokine Receptors in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells as Predictive Biomarkers for Immunotherapy Efficacy in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality globally. The advent of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) has significantly improved outcomes for a subset of patients; however, predictive biomarkers to identify responders are still lacking. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) offer a minimally invasive means to assess systemic immune status and have emerged as a potential source of predictive biomarkers. Recent studies have highlighted the role of chemokines and their receptors in modulating immune responses against tumors. In particular, the expression levels of chemokine receptors such as CXCR4 on PBMCs have been associated with patient responses to ICIs. The differences in expression of these receptors correlates with enhanced T cell trafficking and infiltration into the tumor microenvironment, leading to improved antitumor activity. This review consolidates current evidence on the prognostic and predictive value of chemokine receptor expression in PBMCs, like T cells, for NSCLC patients treated with ICIs. Understanding these associations can aid in the development of non-invasive biomarkers to guide treatment decisions and improve patient stratification in immunotherapy.
40746960 | HIV infection drives proinflammatory adipocyte differentiation in an in vitro model and reveals a new inflammatory pathway. Introduction: Adipose tissue regulates metabolic homeostasis and serves as a reservoir for mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), which differentiate into osteoblasts and adipocytes, balancing bone and lipid metabolism. Bone loss and fat accumulation are common in individuals living with HIV, prompting us to investigate how R5- and X4-tropic HIV modulates adipocyte differentiation and tissue homeostasis using an in vitro model of MSC-derived adipogenesis. Methods: The study used an in vitro model of MSCs to examine how R5- and X4-tropic HIV strains affect adipocyte differentiation and function. Researchers assessed adipogenesis by analyzing lipid droplet formation, expression of adipogenic transcription factors (C/EBPalpha, C/EBPbeta, PPAR-gamma), lipogenic/lipolytic enzymes, SREBPs, cytokine secretion, and the effects of CXCR4 and CCR5 with specific inhibitors. Results: HIV exposure influences adipogenesis, increasing lipid droplet size in a tropism dependent manner and upregulating key adipogenic factors such as C/EBPalpha, C/ EBPbeta, and PPAR-gamma. This process involves the regulation of lipogenic and lipolytic enzymes, lipid droplet-lysosome interactions, and potential lipid droplet mitochondria cross-talk to fuel lipid accumulation. Additionally, HIV modulates sterol regulatory element-binding proteins (SREBPs), which control fatty acid, triacylglycerol, and cholesterol synthesis. Notably, SREBP2 downregulation correlates with increased type I interferons (IFNa2, IFNb1), linking lipid metabolism to immune responses in HIV infection. HIV-infected adipocytes also exhibit an increased leptin/adiponectin ratio and enhanced IL-1b and IL-6 secretion, contributing to the inflammatory state observed in people with HIV. CXCR4 plays a key role in adipocyte differentiation, as its inhibition with AMD3100 reduces adipocyte number, size, and lipid droplet accumulation under X4-tropic HIV exposure. In contrast, CCR5 does not appear to be significantly involved in adipose tissue homeostasis under R5-tropic HIV exposure. Discussion: These findings, derived from an in vitro model, suggest that HIV alters MSC differentiation into adipocytes, impacting adipose tissue homeostasis and function.
41683735 | Calreticulin-Mediated Quality Control of the Non-Classical MHC-I Molecule MICA: Implications for Immune Surveillance. Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related gene A (MICA) is a non-classical MHC-I molecule essential for immune surveillance, yet its intracellular maturation remains poorly understood. We show that MICA is predominantly retained intracellularly in melanoma cells and colocalizes with the endoplasmic reticulum chaperone calreticulin (CRT). Notably, MICA also colocalizes with CRT in healthy skin. Immunoprecipitation assays reveal that CRT preferentially associates with a low-molecular-weight form of MICA. Recombinant protein assays and in silico analyses support direct interaction between CRT and non-glycosylated MICA, but not with fully glycosylated eukaryotic MICA. These findings identify CRT-dependent retention of MICA as a physiological checkpoint that may be dysregulated in melanoma to promote immune evasion.
40229684 | Obstetric services preparedness among healthcare workers in maternal wards during COVID-19 pandemic. BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has been spreading rapidly since 2019, leading to devastating consequences worldwide, as well as putting healthcare providers at high risk. This study intends to assess the awareness and preparedness activities among maternal healthcare (MHC) workers and to determine factors that lead to obstetric services' preparedness in ten Government Hospitals in Selangor, Malaysia. METHODS: A cross-sectional survey was conducted among 409 MHC workers which include doctors, nurses, and midwives in the government hospitals in Selangor, Malaysia between May 2022 till June 2022. Respondents were given validated questionnaires which include socio-demographic background, knowledge, awareness, and attitude as well as the obstetric services' preparedness activities in managing the COVID-19 pandemic. RESULTS: Majority of the respondents were nurses/midwives (87.5%), female (98.5%), age 35-45 years old (48.5%), had working experience of more than 5 years (92.7%), had good knowledge and awareness (92.2%) and good obstetric services preparedness (88.3%). However, only about half (54.0%) of them had positive attitude towards COVID-19. When controlling for confounding factors, multivariate analysis showed that working period factor (p < 0.001), knowledge and awareness factor (p < 0.001) and attitude factor (p < 0.001) were significant predictive factors of obstetric services preparedness during the COVID-19 pandemic. CONCLUSIONS: Majority of the respondents had good knowledge and awareness, as well as good level of obstetric services preparedness. However, only about half of them had a positive attitude towards COVID-19. The findings in this study revealed that efforts should be made to further increase the knowledge and attitude of MHC workers on COVID-19 and more so to further improve the positivity of their attitude towards this pandemic so that they can provide better obstetric services especially in the current and future pandemics to come.
20419139 | Epigenetic mechanisms regulate MHC and antigen processing molecules in human embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells. BACKGROUND: Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are an attractive resource for new therapeutic approaches that involve tissue regeneration. hESCs have exhibited low immunogenicity due to low levels of Mayor Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) class-I and absence of MHC class-II expression. Nevertheless, the mechanisms regulating MHC expression in hESCs had not been explored. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We analyzed the expression levels of classical and non-classical MHC class-I, MHC class-II molecules, antigen-processing machinery (APM) components and NKG2D ligands (NKG2D-L) in hESCs, induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) and NTera2 (NT2) teratocarcinoma cell line. Epigenetic mechanisms involved in the regulation of these genes were investigated by bisulfite sequencing and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays. We showed that low levels of MHC class-I molecules were associated with absent or reduced expression of the transporter associated with antigen processing 1 (TAP-1) and tapasin (TPN) components in hESCs and iPSCs, which are involved in the transport and load of peptides. Furthermore, lack of beta2-microglobulin (beta2m) light chain in these cells limited the expression of MHC class I trimeric molecule on the cell surface. NKG2D ligands (MICA, MICB) were observed in all pluripotent stem cells lines. Epigenetic analysis showed that H3K9me3 repressed the TPN gene in undifferentiated cells whilst HLA-B and beta2m acquired the H3K4me3 modification during the differentiation to embryoid bodies (EBs). Absence of HLA-DR and HLA-G expression was regulated by DNA methylation. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our data provide fundamental evidence for the epigenetic control of MHC in hESCs and iPSCs. Reduced MHC class I and class II expression in hESCs and iPSCs can limit their recognition by the immune response against these cells. The knowledge of these mechanisms will further allow the development of strategies to induce tolerance and improve stem cell allograft acceptance.
20524293 | Epitopes of HLA-A, B, C, DR, DQ, DP and MICA antigens. This chapter presents lists of HLA epitopes that have been defined to date. It also presents examples of reactions of mAb and eluted allosera with the class I, class II and MICAsingle antigen beads. To date, we have identified 110 class I epitopes, of which 47 were defined by mAbs and 63 by alloantibodies that were eluted from rHLA class I single antigen cell lines. We listed 34 epitopes shared by the HLA-A locus antigens, 44 epitopes shared by HLA-B locus antigens, 4 epitopes shared by HLA-C locus antigens, 20 inter-locus epitopes shared by HLA-A-B locus antigens, 5 inter-locus epitopes shared by HLA-B-C locus antigens and 3 inter-locus epitopes shared by HLA-A-B-C locus antigens. Sixty HLA-DR epitopes have been defined mostly by one amino acid (aa) residue on the HLA-DR beta chain. Eighteen HLA-DQ epitopes have been defined on the HLA-DQB chain and on the HLA-DQA chain of the HLA-DQ antigens. A few DQ epitopes were defined by one aa residue. However, most can be defined by several alternative combinations of aa residues. DQA and DP epitopes--few in number at this time--were identified. Only seven MICA epitopes have been defined to date. All epitopes can be defined by an exclusive amino acid.
40231512 | Development of a Peptide-Based Multiepitope Vaccine from the SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein for Targeted Immune Response Against COVID-19. BACKGROUND: Since the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) became a pandemic in late 2019, vaccination remains the primary approach to combating the virus. Nevertheless, the emergence of new variants poses challenges to vaccine efficacy. This study aimed to identify targets within the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein to detect T-cell responses to the five variants of concern from SARS-CoV-2: Alpha, Beta, Delta, Gamma, and Omicron. METHODS: Here was employed immunoinformatics tools to develop a peptide-based vaccine targeting the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 and its major variants, including Alpha, Beta, Delta, Gamma, and Omicron. The peptides were screened for antigenicity, toxicity, allergenicity, and physicochemical properties to ensure their safety and efficacy. RESULTS: The potential T-cell epitopes with high immunogenicity and IFN-gamma induction, are essential for a robust immune response by a comprehensive computational analysis. Population coverage analysis revealed significant coverage across diverse geographical regions, with significant efficacy in areas heavily impacted by the pandemic. Molecular docking simulations revealed strong interactions between the selected peptides and major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules, indicating their potential as vaccine candidates. CONCLUSION: Our study provides a systematic approach to the rational design of a peptide-based vaccine against COVID-19, providing insights for further experimental validation and development of effective vaccines.
41925081 | HLA-A*11:01 and HLA-C*03 Binding to FKBP1A Influences the Efficacy of Tacrolimus in Myasthenia Gravis Subgroups. Tacrolimus (TAC) is recommended for the patients with drug tolerance or respond poorly to other conventional immunosuppressants in myasthenia gravis (MG), but its effectiveness is influenced by dose and genetic polymorphism. Studies suggest that HLA polymorphisms are significantly associated with susceptibility to MG, but the relationship between HLA and TAC efficacy in MG has not been explored. In this paper, we investigated the correlation between TAC therapeutic efficacy and HLA in different MG subgroups. HLA-C*03 was associated with a better response to TAC in patients with early-onset MG, generalized MG, and those with a high concentration of TAC. While HLA-A*11:01 showed poor responsiveness to TAC in generalized MG. Furthermore, computational docking was used to demonstrate the binding situation of HLA-A with the TAC binding protein FKBP1A. It showed that HLA-A*11:01 had a higher binding strength with FKBP1A than HLA-C*03, indicating that the combination of different types of HLA and FKBP1A may be one of the reasons affecting its therapeutic efficacy. This study highlights the influence of HLA on the efficacy of TAC among different MG subgroups, providing clues for precise treatment of MG with TAC.
42124227 | Effect of Micro and Nano Boron Nitride on Thermal Conductivity and Electrical Properties of Mica Tape. As the power industry continues to advance rapidly, large-scale generators are evolving toward higher voltage levels and greater capacity. The heat accumulation associated with high voltage and large capacity accelerates the aging of the main insulation. It is necessary to enhance the thermal conductivity (lambda) and dielectric properties of existing main insulation materials. This work focuses on investigating the effects of varying addition levels of two different-sized BN particles on the lambda and dielectric properties of the mica tape composite dielectric. The experimental findings demonstrate a progressive enhancement in the lambda of the mica tape corresponding to the incremental addition of h-BN concentration. When the doping concentration reaches 20 wt.%, the lambda of the two h-BN-doped mica tape (h-BN/MT) reaches a maximum of 0.382 W/(m K), 0.4 W/(m K), respectively, which enhances the lambda of the contrasting pure mica tape (0.199 W/(m K)) by 91.95% and 101.01%, respectively. In terms of electrical insulation properties, both sizes of h-BN/MT perform well, with breakdown strength above 32 kV/mm. Furthermore, the second-order thermal conductivity model of mica tape doped with different sizes of h-BN was constructed by combining the Halpin-Tsai model with the Series model, which allows the calculation of lambda of mica tape composites doped with different sizes of h-BN. This work provides a novel structural design approach for preparing mica tape composite dielectric that simultaneously exhibits high lambda and high insulation properties.
41949498 | Systematic surgical reassessment combined with liposomal Amphotericin B: the MICA protocol. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Rhino-orbito-cerebral mucormycosis (ROCM) is a life-threatening fungal infection in immunocompromised or diabetic patients, with mortality between 56 and 73% when the brain is involved. Standard management often fails to halt progression. The MICA (French to summarize the therapeutic strategy combining Mucormycosis management with Invasiveness and Cranial involvement treated with surgery and high-dose Amphotericin B therapy), protocol evaluated whether systematic surgical reassessment combined with liposomal amphotericin B could improve outcomes. METHODS: Patients underwent extensive surgery reaching the skull base, followed by liposomal amphotericin B. Three-month survival was the primary endpoint. Baseline CT/MRI guided staging and resection; second-look imaging and surgery were performed on day 7. RESULTS: Six patients with advanced ROCM (hematologic malignancy or diabetes) were treated. Mortality was 66.7%, driven by rapid progression, skull base invasion and systemic complications; only one patient achieved complete remission. CONCLUSION: Early surgical reassessment and close monitoring may enhance survival, but mortality remains high in cases with hematologic malignancies, and brain involvement. SIGNIFICANCE: This study highlights the critical need for early, multimodal management, optimized control of comorbidities, and enhanced therapeutic strategies, including timely surgical re-exploration, to reduce the persistently high mortality associated with ROCM.
40557764 | Combining PIM-2 and PARP1 Inhibitors Induces MICA Expression on Multiple Myeloma Cells to Activate NK Cells through NKG2D Binding. While immunogenic death in tumor cells activates specific anti-tumor T cells, the activation of non-specific natural killer (NK) cells through tumor interactions remains underexplored. This study investigates how inducing DNA damage in multiple myeloma (MM) cells leads to MICA overexpression, facilitating NKG2D binding on NK cells.We analyzed the relationship between PIM-2, PARP1, and MM prognosis using public data and clinical samples. An in vitro co-culture of MM and NK cells assessed the effects of SMI-16a (PIM-2 inhibitor) and ABT888 (PARP1 inhibitor) on tumor proliferation and apoptosis, focusing on DNA damage, MICA expression, and NK cell functionality. An NSG mouse model evaluated the combined effects on tumor growth and NK cell activity.The combination significantly increased DNA damage, marked by elevated pH2AX, and enhanced NK cell functional markers, including perforin and granzyme B. Increased DNA damage correlated with heightened MICA expression, activating NK cells via the NKG2D/MICA signaling pathway. PIM-2 and PARP1 inhibitors synergistically induce MICA expression on MM cells, enhancing NK cell activation through NKG2D binding, offering a promising therapeutic strategy for MM patients.
32786258 | Chemical Probes for Blocking of Influenza A M2 Wild-type and S31N Channels. We report on using the synthetic aminoadamantane-CH2-aryl derivatives 1-6 as sensitive probes for blocking M2 S31N and influenza A virus (IAV) M2 wild-type (WT) channels as well as virus replication in cell culture. The binding kinetics measured using electrophysiology (EP) for M2 S31N channel are very dependent on the length between the adamantane moiety and the first ring of the aryl headgroup realized in 2 and 3 and the girth and length of the adamantane adduct realized in 4 and 5. Study of 1-6 shows that, according to molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and molecular mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann surface area (MM/PBSA) calculations, all bind in the M2 S31N channel with the adamantyl group positioned between V27 and G34 and the aryl group projecting out of the channel with the phenyl (or isoxazole in 6) embedded in the V27 cluster. In this outward binding configuration, an elongation of the ligand by only one methylene in rimantadine 2 or using diamantane or triamantane instead of adamantane in 4 and 5, respectively, causes incomplete entry and facilitates exit, abolishing effective block compared to the amantadine derivatives 1 and 6. In the active M2 S31N blockers 1 and 6, the phenyl and isoxazolyl head groups achieve a deeper binding position and high kon/low koff and high kon/high koff rate constants, compared to inactive 2-5, which have much lower kon and higher koff. Compounds 1-5 block the M2 WT channel by binding in the longer area from V27-H37, in the inward orientation, with high kon and low koff rate constants. Infection of cell cultures by influenza virus containing M2 WT or M2 S31N is inhibited by 1-5 or 1-4 and 6, respectively. While 1 and 6 block infection through the M2 block mechanism in the S31N variant, 2-4 may block M2 S31N virus replication in cell culture through the lysosomotropic effect, just as chloroquine is thought to inhibit SARS-CoV-2 infection.
41027939 | CXCR4 mediated recognition of HIV envelope spike and inhibition by CXCL12. CCR5 and CXCR4 both act as HIV co-receptors, though CXCR4 is less explored. CXCR4 binds the chemokine CXCL12 to regulate cellular processes and mediate HIV entry, a process that CXCL12 inhibits. Using cryo-EM, we investigate HIV-2 envelope (Env) spike recognition by CXCR4 and how CXCL12 inhibit this interaction. We discover that CXCR4 unexpected forms a tetramer, both alone and in complex. It binds CXCL12 with 4:8 and 8:8 stoichiometries, with the CXCL12 N-terminus inserting into the CXCR4 pocket. Structures of CXCR4-gp120HIV-2 complex show one or two gp120 molecules per CXCR4 tetramer, with the V3 loop occupying the major sub-pocket of CXCR4 through deep embedment of its GFKF motif. The CXCL12 N-terminus chashes with gp120HIV-2 V3 loops, explain its inhibitory effect. Docking analyses of other HIV antagonists further clarify their mechanisms. The CXCR4-gp120HIV-1 model illustrate how V3 loop residues define co-receptor specificity, offering insights into co-receptor switching and therapeutic design.
42108464 | Minimally invasive surgery in the correction of recurrent hallux valgus: a case series with 2-year follow-up. OBJECTIVE: Recurrent deformity following surgical correction remains a complex and technically demanding condition. This study aimed to evaluate the clinical and radiographic outcomes of minimally invasive surgery (MIS) in patients undergoing revision procedures for recurrent hallux valgus (HV). METHODS: This retrospective case series included 33 feet that underwent minimally invasive revision surgery using either the third generation Minimally Invasive Chevron-Akin (MICA) or the fourth-generation Metaphyseal Extra-Articular Transverse and Akin osteotomies (META), following failure of a previous hallux valgus correction performed by open or minimally invasive techniques. Clinical outcomes were assessed using the Manchester-Oxford Foot Questionnaire (MOXFQ), the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for pain, and patient satisfaction. Radiographic parameters and complications were recorded and statistically analysed using R software. RESULTS: Both techniques proved effective in angular correction, with significant reductions in the hallux valgus angle (HVA) and intermetatarsal angle (IMA) (p < 0.001), as well as in bone and soft-tissue forefoot width (p < 0.05). Significant improvements were also observed in all three MOXFQ domains (p < 0.001) and in VAS scores (p < 0.001). Subgroup analysis revealed no statistically significant differences between MICA and META in either radiographic or clinical outcomes related to pain and function (p > 0.05). CONCLUSION: Third- and fourth-generation minimally invasive surgical techniques have proven effective in correcting radiographic parameters and improving pain and functional scores in patients undergoing revision for recurrent hallux valgus, with a low rate of complications. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV, retrospective case series.
41469025 | The Identification of 39 Novel HLA Alleles. We report here 39 novel HLA alleles identified in bone marrow donors from the Russian State Bone Marrow Registry: 10 HLA-A, 6 HLA-B, 13 HLA-C, 4 HLA-DRB1 and 6 HLA-DQB1 alleles. They have been officially named by the World Health Organization Nomenclature Committee for Factors of the HLA System in July 2025.
40498118 | Comprehensive Mendelian randomization analysis and experimental investigation identifies the causal relationship between immunity and kidney stone disease. This study investigated the causal relationship between immunity and kidney stone disease (KSD) by utilizing a Mendelian Randomization (MR) framework. We conducted a proteome-wide analysis to identify proteins associated with kidney stone disease risk using data from 4907 plasma proteins. Additionally, genetic instruments were employed to assess the impact of immune traits, including circulating inflammatory proteins, immune cell traits, immune-mediated diseases, and mRNA expression on kidney stone disease. Immunofluorescence staining was also performed to confirm gene expression patterns in kidney tissues affected by Randall's Plaque (RP). The results of the inverse variable weighting method showed that 174 plasma proteins were positively associated with KSD [ P < 0.05, odds ratio (OR) > 1]; 48 plasma proteins were negatively associated with KSD (P < 0.05, OR < 1). Subsequently, GO and KEGG analysis showed significant enrichment in immune pathways. Notably, elevated levels of inflammatory proteins such as CCL19 (OR per SD, 1.084; 95% CI = 1.006-1.167), OSM (OR per SD, 1.120; 95% CI = 1.023-1.227), and FGF5 (OR per SD, 1.077; 95% CI = 1.020-1.136) were associated with an increased risk of KSD. We also observed positive associations between 20 certain immune cell traits and KSD, while others 11 showed a negative correlation. Additionally, immune-mediated diseases, including psoriasis, Crohn's disease, and rheumatoid arthritis, were found to increase the risk of KSD (P < 0.05, OR > 1). Finally, summary-data-based MR analysis identified HLA-C, C4A and MICA as key immune system genes in blood and kidney eQTL data. Immunofluorescence staining verified the differential expression of HLA - C and C4A in clinical RP tissues.
41516361 | The Chimeric Nuclease SpRYc Exhibits Highly Variable Performance Across Biological Systems. The CRISPR-Cas9 system has significantly advanced genome editing but remains constrained by its requirement for specific protospacer adjacent motifs (PAMs). To overcome this limitation, PAM-relaxed nucleases, including the novel near-PAMless chimeric SpRYc, have been developed. Here, we evaluated SpRYc editing activity across multiple experimental systems, including human HEK293 and CEM-R5 cells, as well as Drosophila melanogaster S2 cells and embryos. In HEK293 cells, SpRYc exhibited broad PAM compatibility, enabling editing at non-canonical PAMs, albeit with reduced and variable efficiency at canonical NGG sites compared to SpCas9. This context dependency was more pronounced in CEM-R5 T cells, where SpRYc activity at endogenous CXCR4 and B2M loci was largely restricted to NGG PAMs. In contrast, unlike SpCas9, SpRYc displayed negligible genome-editing activity in Drosophila embryos in vivo. Notably, the transcriptional activator dSpRYc-VPR showed robust activity in Drosophila S2 cells at both canonical and non-canonical PAMs. Reduced chromatin occupancy of dSpRYc-VPR suggests a balance between expanded PAM recognition and DNA-binding stability, providing a mechanistic explanation for context-dependent performance of SpRYc. Overall, our results highlight that expanded targeting flexibility comes at the cost of variable efficiency, underscoring the need for extensive locus- and context-specific validation of PAM-relaxed genome-editing tools.
42134765 | Comparison of Distal Minimally Invasive Metatarsal Osteotomy and Open Chevron Osteotomy in the Treatment of Hallux Valgus (HV): A Network Meta-Analysis. BACKGROUND: Hallux valgus (HV) is a prevalent foot deformity with complex pathogenesis. PURPOSE: This study aims to compare distal minimally invasive osteotomy and open chevron osteotomy for HV treatment. STUDY DESIGN: A Network Meta-Analysis METHODS: The meta-analysis consisted of 14 studies (842 patients) from PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, and Cochrane Library (until April 2026). The retrieval strategies comprised the terms 'hallux valgus', 'percutaneous', 'minimally invasive surgery', 'mica' and 'chevron'. Outcomes included hallux valgus angle (HVA), intermetatarsal angle (IMA), distal metatarsal articular angle (DMAA), and AOFAS scores, which were calculated leveraging a 95% credible interval (CI). Study quality was evaluated adopting NIH tools, and statistical analysis was carried out utilizing R (version 4.4.1). RESULTS: A total of 14 articles involving 842 participants were included in this study. The results indicated that, compared with open chevron osteotomy, minimally invasive transverse osteotomy showed a more effective therapeutic effect in improving the HVA ([SD: -1.5, 95% CI (-2.5, -0.39)] (SUCRA = 98.17%) and IMA ([SD: -0.76, 95% CI (-1.3, -0.20)] (SUCRA=98.82%). In terms of improving the DMAA, minimally invasive chevron osteotomy (SD: -5.8, 95% CI: -8 to -3.7; SUCRA = 98.80%) and minimally invasive transverse osteotomy (SD: -2.6, 95% CI: -3.9 to -1.4; SUCRA = 54.18%) were both more effective. Minimally invasive chevron osteotomy ranked highest in terms of AOFAS score (SUCRA=81.53%). However, This estimate was associated with a wide CI [SMD:2.4, 95%CI(0.48,4.3)]. CONCLUSION: Minimally invasive transverse osteotomy is more effective for radiographic correction (HVA/IMA), whereas minimally invasive chevron osteotomy appears to improve functional outcomes. These findings suggest potential differences between the techniques but should be interpreted in light of indirect comparisons and study heterogeneity. LEVEL OF CLINICAL EVIDENCE: 2.
40043710 | Germline variants and mosaic chromosomal alterations affect COVID-19 vaccine immunogenicity. Vaccine immunogenicity is influenced by the vaccinee's genetic background. Here, we perform a genome-wide association study of vaccine-induced SARS-CoV-2-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody titers and T cell immune responses in 1,559 mRNA-1273 and 537 BNT162b2 vaccinees of Japanese ancestry. SARS-CoV-2-specific antibody titers are associated with the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) locus, and T cell responses are associated with MHC. The lead variants at IGH contain a population-specific missense variant (rs1043109-C; p.Leu192Val) in the immunoglobulin heavy constant gamma 1 gene (IGHG1), with a strong decreasing effect (beta = -0.54). Antibody-titer-associated variants modulate circulating immune regulatory proteins (e.g., LILRB4 and FCRL6). Age-related hematopoietic expanded mosaic chromosomal alterations (mCAs) affecting MHC and IGH also impair antibody production. MHC-/IGH-affecting mCAs confer infectious and immune disease risk, including sepsis and Graves' disease. Impacts of expanded mosaic loss of chromosomes X/Y on these phenotypes were examined. Altogether, both germline and somatic mutations contribute to adaptive immunity functions.
40740680 | Pannexin-1 channels, extracellular ATP, and purinergic receptors are essential for CCR5/CXCR4 clustering and HIV entry. Objective: The Human Immunodeficiency Virus-1 (HIV) cell entry has been well characterized with the identification of CD4 as the main receptor and CXCR4 and CCR5 as co-receptors for the virus. However, how the virus uses the cell machinery for entry and infection is still a work-in-progress. Previously, we identified that the Pannexin-1 (Panx-1) channel, extracellular ATP, and purinergic receptors axis are essential for HIV entry and replication in macrophages, but the mechanisms were not fully explored. Methods: Electrophysiology, ATP quantifications, confocal, HIV entry and replication experiments were used to determine the role of Panx-1 channels in HIV entry. Results: Here, we identified that HIV or gp120 induces Panx-1 channel opening in association with ATP secretion, purinergic activation, and CCR5/CXCR4/actin clustering to enable HIV entry. Blocking Panx-1 channel opening, ATP secretion, or purinergic signaling prevented co-receptor clustering, HIV entry, and subsequent replication in multiple cell types. Conclusion: We conclude that gp120 binding to the cell induces Panx-1 opening to promote the clustering of CCR5 or CXCR4 to the site of CD4-gp120 contact to aid viral entry.
39090424 | Impact of COVID-19 in the incidence of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and clinical outcomes in cancer patients: a cohort study. PURPOSE: To determine the incidence of VTE and clinical outcomes in a cohort of cancer patients and COVID-19 infection, and to establish possible predictive factors of VTE. METHODS/PATIENTS: A single-center retrospective cohort study was performed to determine the incidence of VTE and mortality in 118 cancer patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection from March to August 2020. We calculated individual Khorana Risk and CATS-MICA scores in order to evaluate their utility to identify risk of VTE or death. Continuous variables were compared using Wilcoxon or Student's T test, and categorical variables were compared using the Chi-Square or Fisher's exact text among patients with and without VTE. A Log-Rank test was performed to detect mortality differences between the groups. RESULTS: A total of 118 patients were included. VTE global incidence was 4.2% (n = 5), and mortality 25.4% (n = 30). Obesity (p = 0.05), recent chemotherapy (p = 0.049) and use of steroids (p = 0.006) were related to higher risk of VTE in the univariate analysis, although they were not confirmed in the multivariate analysis as independent risk factors. Statistically significant differences in all-cause, COVID-19-related and cancer-related mortality according to the Khorana risk score (KRS) were observed. CATS-MICA score (CMS) also showed statistically significant differences in mortality between low- and high-risk patients. Prediction of risk of VTE development with these scores showed a tendency towards significance. CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort, VTE incidence was similar to previously reported in the general population with SARS-CoV-2 infection. KRS was associated with overall and specific-cause mortality, and might be a useful prognostic tool in this setting.
42124085 | Effects of Prolonged Cryogenic Exposure on the Electrical Degradation of Stator Main Insulation in Wind Turbines. Epoxy-glass-mica composite materials are widely used as electrical insulating materials in high-voltage rotating machinery due to their layered structure and excellent dielectric properties. Taking the F-class epoxy glass with a small amount of rubber powder mica tape commonly used as the main insulation of wind turbine stator coils as the research object, 7-day, 14-day, 21-day, and 28-day low-temperature treatment tests were conducted at -50  C. The surface morphology and chemical structure changes of the materials were characterized by SEM and FTIR, and the influence laws of low-temperature treatment on the electrical properties of the mica tape insulation materials were systematically studied. The experimental results show that the low-temperature environment will induce microcracks and interface delamination and other structural damages, but no obvious change in the chemical structure of the mica tape was observed. With the extension of the low-temperature treatment time, the electrical properties of the mica tape show a deteriorating trend, and after 28 days of low-temperature treatment, the breakdown field strength of the F-class mica tape decreased by approximately 18.5%, and the volume conductivity overall increased by about two orders of magnitude. This indicates that the microcrack defects induced by low-temperature will lead to an enhanced electrical-thermal coupling effect in the insulation structure, thereby accelerating the degradation process of the insulation material. This reveals the degradation mechanism of wind turbine stator main insulation from \structural damage\ to \performance degradation\ and then to \insulation aging\ under low-temperature conditions, providing a theoretical basis for the design and reliability assessment of insulation systems in wind turbine generators in cold regions.
40202023 | Cross-variant immune shield: computational multiepitope vaccine design against B.617.2 to Omicron sub-lineages in SARS-CoV-2. The COVID-19 pandemic had a profound impact on global health. This study focuses on an in-depth analysis of the structural proteins (Spike (S), Nucleocapsid (N), Membrane (M), and Envelope (E) protein) of SARS-CoV-2 and its variants, aiming to develop a multiepitope vaccine construct that targets the virus independently of its variants. The analysis began by examining genetic variations in viral proteins relative to the reference strain Wuhan-Hu2, particularly in the S, M, N, and E proteins. T-cell epitope predictions for MHC Class-I and Class-II binding were conducted, shedding light on potential cytotoxic and helper T lymphocyte recognition. Identification of linear B-cell epitopes laid the groundwork for antibody-based humoral immune responses. The safety and efficacy of these epitopes were assessed for antigenicity, allergenicity, toxicity, immunogenicity, and conservancy. Population coverage analysis indicated promising global effectiveness of the designed vaccine construct. By incorporating 28 epitopes, we validated that was designed vaccine construct for stability through structural analysis. Molecular dynamics simulations and docking studies revealed its robust interaction with Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). Immune simulation studies suggested that the vaccine construct could induce a potent immune response by enhancing antibody titers, B-cell proliferation, memory cell development, and activation of T cells and natural killer cells upon administration. This comprehensive approach offers a promising multiepitope vaccine against SARS-CoV-2, with the potential for broad global coverage and strong immunogenicity. Further experimental validation holds the prospect of introducing a novel candidate vaccine to aid in the ongoing battle against the COVID-19 pandemic.
41395570 | Resistance mechanism to pembrolizumab in DEK-AFF2 fusion-associated sinonasal squamous cell carcinoma. Recently, the first case of a novel DEK-AFF2 fusion has been identified in nonkeratinizing squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the sinonasal tract with an exceptional response to pembrolizumab. Here we present the case of a 71-year-old female with metastatic poorly differentiated SCC of the sinonasal cavity with a DEK-AFF2 fusion. She initially received pembrolizumab monotherapy as first-line treatment, but the disease progressed after two months. Subsequent treatment with paclitaxel plus cetuximab also led to disease progression after two months. She was enrolled in the SCRUM-Japan MONSTAR-SCREEN-2, a nationwide molecular profiling project. Tumor tissue samples were analyzed using whole exome and transcriptome sequencing (WETS). WETS of a pretreatment tissue specimen revealed DEK-AFF2 fusion and APC pathogenic variant (p.G1677fs), and HLA genotype HLA-A*02:06/24:02, HLA-B*39:04/54:01, and HLA-C*01:02/07:02. Third-line therapy with 5-FU, carboplatin, and pembrolizumab achieved a partial response, but disease progression occurred after nine months. In tissues obtained from pancreatic metastases, acquired amplification of MYC (copy number 8.7) was detected in addition to DEK-AFF2 fusion and APC mutation. These findings suggest that the lack of benefit from pembrolizumab despite the presence of DEK-AFF2 fusion may be due to the HLA haplotype being different from one reported to be associated with efficacy. Additionally, acquired MYC amplification may contribute to resistance to chemotherapy and pembrolizumab. These findings underscore the importance of personalized treatment strategies in SCC patients with specific genomic alterations.
41248967 | Endothelial cells as targets of immune checkpoint blockade. The tumor vasculature acts as the gatekeeper to the tumor microenvironment, thus regulating the ability of immune cells to roll, anchor, and cross the endothelium from blood to tissue. While the role of endothelial cells (EC) in T Cell migration and extravasation has been extensively studied, the ability of ECs to control T Cell function is less well appreciated. Several well-characterized regulators of T Cell function are expressed by ECs, while others are induced by soluble factors required for EC development and differentiation. Targeting the molecules expressed by immunomodulatory ECs may provide approaches to improve tumor immunotherapy.
40163554 | Computational network biology analysis revealed COVID-19 severity markers: Molecular interplay between HLA-II with CIITA. COVID-19, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, rapidly spread worldwide. Severe and critical patients are expected to rapidly deteriorate. Although several studies have attempted to uncover the mechanisms underlying COVID-19 severity, most have focused on the perturbations of single genes. However, the complex mechanism of COVID-19 involves numerous perturbed genes in a molecular network rather than a single abnormal gene. Thus, we aimed to identify COVID-19 severity-specific markers in the Japanese population using gene network analysis. In order to reveal the severity-specific molecular interplays, we developed a novel computational network biology strategy that measures dissimilarity between networks based on the comprehensive information of gene network (i.e., expression levels of genes and network structure) by using Kullback-Leibler divergence. Monte Carlo simulations demonstrated the effectiveness of our strategy for differential gene network analysis. We applied this method to publicly available whole blood RNA-seq data from the Japan coronavirus disease 2019 Task Force and identified differentially regulated molecular interplays between 368 severe and 105 non-severe samples. Our analysis suggests the gene network between HLA class II, CIITA, and CD74 as a COVID-19 severity specific molecular marker. Although the association between HLA class II and COVID-19 has been demonstrated, our data analysis revealed that the molecular interplay of HLA class II with its target and/or regulator is a crucial marker for COVID-19 severity. Our findings from computational network biology analysis suggest that suppression and activation of the molecular interplay between HLA class II, CIITA, and CD74 provide crucial clues to uncover the mechanisms of COVID-19 severity.
40850661 | Exploring the material basis and mechanism of Astilbe chinensis for acute lung injury via integrated network pharmacology and experimental validation. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Acute lung injury (ALI), a critical complication of severe pneumonia, lacks targeted therapies. Astilbe chinensis (Maxim.) Franch. & Sav. possesses documented anti-inflammatory and respiratory-protective properties, yet its efficacy against ALI, bioactive constituents, and mechanisms remain unexplored. AIM OF THE STUDY: This study sought to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy and elucidate the mechanisms of action of Astilbe chinensis in the treatment of ALI through the application of network pharmacology and experimental methodologies. MATERIALS AND METHODS: UHPLC-MS was used to analyze plasma components absorbed after Astilbe chinensis administration in rats. Inflammation-related targets and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted via network pharmacology technique. Pulmonary function was assessed using forced lung function measurements in a LPS-induced ALI mouse model. ELISA quantified inflammatory mediators, including pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, IFN-gamma), chemokines (CCL5, CXCL2), and the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 in mouse lung tissue. Flow cytometry evaluated macrophage polarization, and HE staining examined histopathological changes. qRT-PCR determined the mRNA expression levels of genes like CCR1, IKBKB, CXCL8, STAT3, CXCR4, AKT1, CCL3, CCL5, iNOS, Arg1, YM1 and CCR5, while simple western analysis evaluated the protein expression of t-AKT, p-AKT, t-STAT3, p-STAT3, CCR1 and CCR5 in mouse lung tissues affected by Astilbe chinensis. RESULTS: In this study, 20 blood-borne components of Astilbe chinensis were identified, predicted to interact with 369 potential molecular targets, with 331 related to ALI treatment. GO and KEGG pathway analyses showed that 36 targets participate in inflammatory processes, mainly via chemokine signaling pathways. Key targets identified include CCR1, IKBKB, CXCL8, STAT3, CXCR4, AKT1, and CCR5. The principal active constituents of Astilbe chinensis with potential efficacy against ALI were identified as cyclo(phenylalanyl-prolyl), 5-(6-hydroxy-6-methyloctyl)- -2,5-dihydrofuran-2-one, nicotinamide, 3-phenyllactic acid, and phloretin. In vivo studies demonstrated that Astilbe chinensis administration significantly increased M2 macrophage populations in lung tissue while improving forced pulmonary function parameters. Furthermore Astilbe chinensis reduces the levels of inflammatory factors TNF-alpha, IL-6, IFN-gamma, CCL5 (the ligand for CCR5 and CCR1), and the neutrophil chemokine CXCL2 in the lung tissues of ALI mice, while significantly increasing the content of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Additionally, Astilbe chinensis significantly downregulated gene expression of chemokine receptors CCR1, CCR5 and their ligands CCL3, CCL5 in ALI mouse lung tissues, while upregulating anti-inflammatory markers Arg1 and Ym1 (M2 macrophage biomarkers). Meanwhile, it exerts a notable inhibitory effect on the protein expression of CCR1, CCR5, p-AKT, and p-STAT3. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that Astilbe chinensis significantly improves lung function and pulmonary inflammation in mice with ALI. Component identification combined with network pharmacology analysis reveals that its major anti-inflammatory components are cyclo(phenylalanyl-prolyl), 5-(6-hydroxy-6- -methyloctyl)-2,5-dihydrofuran-2-one, nicotinamide, 3-phenyllactic acid, and phloretin. The anti-inflammatory mechanism may involve inhibiting the gene and protein expression of inflammatory chemokines CCR1 and CCR5, suppressing the activity of the AKT/STAT3 signaling pathway, reducing the expression of inflammatory factors, promoting M2 macrophage polarization, and thereby increasing the release of anti-inflammatory genes and cytokines, ultimately exerting anti-inflammatory effects.
41846934 | Advances in MICA genotyping: characterization of 406 novel alleles and their frequencies in multiple populations. In 2020, we reported MICA allele frequencies from a cohort of over one million German individuals. This study identified MICA*008 (42%), MICA*002 (12%), and MICA*009 (9%) as the most common MICA alleles at protein resolution. Additionally, we discovered novel alleles with a cumulative frequency of 0.3%. To reduce this fraction of unnamed sequences, we aimed to fully characterize the most frequent novel alleles using both long- and short-read sequencing. As a result, we submitted 603 sequences to the IPD-IMGT/HLA Database: 406 novel alleles and 197 sequence extensions and confirmations. Among the novel alleles, 199 encoded for distinct novel MICA proteins. Following the inclusion of these sequences into the IPD-IMGT/HLA Database, we genotyped 93,814 individuals from an independent cohort. In the German subset (n=48,618), our previous findings on MICA allele frequencies were confirmed. As anticipated, the cumulative frequency of novel alleles decreased significantly from 0.3% to 0.03%, reflecting the expanded reference database. The most frequent of the previously novel alleles were MICA*107N (0.02%), MICA*141 (0.01%), MICA*119 (0.01%), MICA*089 (0.01%), and MICA*247 (0.01%). While allele frequencies in other European and the South African White population were similar to those in Germany, greater variation was observed in the South African Black, non-indigenous Chilean, and Turkish populations. Notably, some of the novel alleles appeared to be population-specific; for example, MICA*258 was exclusively identified in samples from the Black or Colored populations of South Africa. In conclusion, the extensive characterization of novel MICA alleles has substantially reduced the fraction of unknown sequences in MICA donor genotyping, which will support future biomedical and population genetic studies.
40222985 | Genome-wide association study of common side effects following COVID-19 booster vaccination in a cohort of corporate employees in Japan. Individual differences have been observed in side effects after vaccination for COVID-19, and host genetic factors have been suggested as a contributing factor. Here, we conducted a genome-wide association study (GWAS) involving 2,554 Japanese corporate employees who received a third booster dose of BNT162b2/Pfizer or mRNA-1273/Moderna vaccine. Although no genome-wide significant association was found for the presence of adverse symptoms, the GWAS for severity revealed six associated loci. The most significant association was observed between the severity of swelling of lymph nodes and chromosome 2q12 locus, including the IL1RL1, IL18R1, and IL18RAP genes (lead variant: rs76152249; P = 1.46 x 10-9). Pathway analysis suggested associations between immune pathways related to the MHC locus, including HLA genes, and the occurrence and severity of fever, and the NF-kappaB binding pathway and those of itching at the injection site. In addition, a meta-analysis of previous GWAS studies for the primary first or second dose of COVID-19 vaccine revealed 818 variants from 72 loci that demonstrated genome-wide significant associations with any of 12 symptoms, and pathway analysis identified immune pathways related to the MHC locus, suggesting shared genetic risks among primary and booster vaccinations. These results may help control side effects following COVID-19 vaccination.
41846926 | Interaction between NKG2D and its ligands MICA/B activates the DAP12/SYK/p53/p21 axis to drive pulmonary fibrosis. Background: Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) is a progressive, fatal interstitial lung disease with limited therapeutic options. Emerging evidence implicates immune-fibrotic crosstalk in PF pathogenesis, although the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly defined. While Natural Killer (NK) cells and their activating receptor NKG2D have been linked to fibrotic processes, their functional role in PF is unclear. This study investigates the NKG2D-DAP12-SYK-p53-p21 signaling axis as a potential driver of PF through immune-fibroblast interactions. Methods: We characterized the dynamic expression profile of NKG2D in pulmonary tissues derived from bleomycin (BLM)-induced model mice. Mechanistic investigations utilized AAV5-mediated NKG2D overexpression systems, coimmunoprecipitation assays, and functional pathway dissection to elucidate the DAP12-SYK-p53-p21 signaling axis. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated via anti-NKG2D antibody treatment in murine PF models via histopathology, micro-CT imaging, and molecular profiling of fibrosis markers (collagen-I, fibronectin) and senescence-associated proteins (p-p53, p21). Results: Significant upregulation of NKG2D on pulmonary NK cells and its ligands on fibroblasts was detected in murine PF. AAV5-mediated NKG2D overexpression exacerbated BLM induced fibrosis, as evidenced by increased fibrosis scores alongside elevated levels of collagen-I and fibronectin. Mechanistically, NKG2D activation triggered DAP12-dependent SYK activation, leading to p53 phosphorylation and p21-mediated cellular senescence. Treatment with anti-NKG2D antibodies effectively mitigated disease progression by reducing collagen deposition while suppressing the downstream expression of SYK and p21. Conclusion: This study proposes that the NKG2D-DAP12-SYK-p53-p21 axis may represent a novel pathogenic pathway in PF, potentially linking immune dysregulation to cellular senescence. Therapeutic targeting of NKG2D could thus hold promise for the concurrent modulation of immune-fibrotic crosstalk and fibrotic progression, which might offer a new strategic direction for PF management.
41201433 | A differentiated and durable allogeneic strategy applicable to cell therapies. BACKGROUND AIMS: Autologous T-cell therapies have shown profound clinical responses; however, their widespread use has been limited primarily as the result of their individualized manufacturing requirements. METHODS: To develop a persistent \off-the-shelf\ allogeneic (Allo) approach, a multiplex Nme2Cas9-based cytosine base editor was deployed to knockout select human leukocyte antigens (HLA) class I and II alleles (HLA-A, HLA-B and the class II transactivator [CIITA]) while retaining HLA-C to protect from natural killer (NK) cell rejection. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Matching the residual HLA-C allele from homozygous donors to the host prevented rejection of the donor T cells by allogeneic host T and NK cells. Site-specific integration of a tumor-specific CAR or TCR into the TRAC locus using SpyCas9 nuclease and an adeno-associated virus template allowed for a high localized insertion rate while simultaneously removing the endogenous TCR and preventing graft-versus-host disease. Using an optimized T-cell engineering process involving orthogonal CRISPR/Cas9 cleavage and base editors coupled with lipid nanoparticle delivery, we achieved efficient production of Allo-CAR T cells with high editing rates and cell expansion in a scalable manner. These allogeneic T cells demonstrated comparable functional activity to their autologous counterparts in preclinical assays. Moreover, this gene-editing approach significantly minimized the occurrence of chromosomal aberrations. This promising allogeneic approach also has been applied to induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) with triple edits targeting HLA-A, HLA-B and CIITA (TKO). Pancreatic progenitor cells or cardiomyocytes derived from TKO iPSCs were protected from host peripheral blood mononuclear cell-mediated rejection when matched for HLA-C, suggesting potential applications in regenerative medicine applications.
39245976 | Amphotericin B and micafungin duo-loaded nanoemulsion as a potential strategy against Candida auris biofilms. Candida auris is a multidrug-resistant yeast that has seen a worrying increase during the COVID-19 pandemic. Give7/n this, new therapeutic options, such as controlled-release nanomaterials, may be promising in combating the infection. Therefore, this study aimed to develop amphotericin B (AmB) and micafungin (MICA)-loaded nanoemulsions (NEMA) and evaluated against biofilms of C. auris. Nanoemulsions (NEs) were characterized and determined minimum inhibitory concentration MIC90, checkerboard and anti-biofilm. NEMA presented a size of 53.7 and 81.4 nm for DLS and NTA, respectively, with good stability and spherical morphology. MICAmB incorporated efficiency was 88.4 and 99.3%, respectively. The release results show that AmB and MICA obtained a release of 100 and 63.4%, respectively. MICAmB and NEMA showed MIC90 values of 0.015 and 0.031 ug/mL, respectively and synergism. NEMA showed greater metabolic inhibition and morphological changes in mature biofilms. This drugs combination and co-encapsulation proved to be a promising therapy against C. auris biofilms.
41389758 | Artocarpin alleviates fenofibrate-induced hepatic dysfunction via regulating NLRP3/caspase-1, oxidative stress and bile acids synthesis: A biochemical, histological, and computational investigation. Fenofibrate (FBR) is a promising hypolipidemic drug that is reported to induce hepatic impairments. Artocarpin (ACP) is a novel polyphenolic compound with diverse biological properties. This investigation was planned to explore the palliative efficacy of ACP in combating FBR-induced hepatotoxicity. Thirty-two Sprague Dawley rats were grouped into control, FBR (100 mg/kg), FBR (100 mg/kg) + ACP (100 mg/kg), and ACP (100 mg/kg) alone administered group. Our findings showed that FBR intoxication upregulated the mRNA expressions of CXCR4, CCR5, Caspase-1, IL-1beta, CCL2, IL-18 and NLRP3. The levels of ROS and MDA were augmented while the enzymatic action of GST, HO-1, SOD, GPx, GSR, GST, and CAT were suppressed following the exposure of FBR. Besides, FBR intoxication induced cholestatic stress as evidenced by elevated levels of chenodeoxycholic, deoxycholic acid, cholic acid, glycocholic acid and taurocholic acid. The levels of ALP, GGT, AST, hepcidin, and ALT were aggravated while the levels of total protein, hemojuvelin, and albumin were inhibited by FBR administration. Moreover, FBR exposure compromised the morphology of liver by altering key structural components. Importantly, concurrent therapy of ACP restored hepatic health by inhibiting the activation of NLRP3/Caspase-1 pathway, reducing hepatic enzymes, oxidative stress while regulating iron metabolism as well as bile acid metabolic alterations. Furthermore, ACP reversed histological alterations in hepatic tissues. These findings are supported by our in-silico analysis which exhibits excellent modulatory activity of ACP by binding at key regulatory binding sites. Collectively, these results underscore the hepatoprotective efficacy of ACP against FBR-induced liver impairments.
41676737 | An ex vivo gut mucosal explant assay to compare HIV tissue susceptibility shows increased HIV susceptibility with methamphetamine exposure. Background: Existing ex vivo mucosal explant models for HIV assess viral replication but do not fully capture the ability of tissue to support productive infection and transfer to target cells, an important indicator of tissue susceptibility. Additional tools to investigate relative mucosal susceptibility to HIV are necessary to better understand risk factors, such as substance use, or to evaluate therapeutics. Results: We developed an ex vivo gut mucosal explant assay incorporating a CCR5/CXCR4-expressing GFP-reporter cell co-culture to quantify both viral replication and transfer. Susceptibility was quantified using a composite metric based on time to infection endpoint across viral doses. Modulators of susceptibility, including anti-CD3 stimulation, tenofovir, and methamphetamine, were evaluated. The assay reliably detected differences in tissue susceptibility under various experimental conditions. We detected enhanced susceptibility following anti-CD3 stimulation, while tenofovir pretreatment reduced susceptibility in a dose-dependent manner. Methamphetamine exposure resulted in a modest but significant increase in gut tissue susceptibility to HIV. Conclusions: This novel ex vivo explant susceptibility assay advances HIV mucosal transmission research by measuring both viral production and transfer. It can detect subtle changes in susceptibility, providing a versatile platform for evaluating prevention therapeutics, host and microbial factors, and substance use effects.
41860854 | Effects of confining pressure and loading direction on the mechanical behavior of schist with high content and aggregation degree of mica. This article focuses on the mechanical anisotropy of the schist with high content and aggregation degree of mica, which are prone to causing local collapse, large deformation, and support failure in tunnel engineering. The fabric characteristics of rock and the response of mechanical properties to confining pressure and loading direction was emphatically explored by micro tests and compression tests with confining pressures ranging from 0 to 20 MPa. Micro tests reveal that the flaky micas are highly aggregated and directionally arranged in the \matrix\ composed of granular minerals and directional cracks are developed along the cleavage or the boundaries of mica. Mechanical tests indicate that the peak strength and elastic modulus of schist subjected to uniaxial compression vary in a shoulder form and U-shaped form with the orientation angle alpha, respectively. The confining pressure sigma3 nonlinearly weakens the anisotropy of schist and the transition of rock behavior from anisotropic to isotropic occurs at a critical confining pressure. Moreover, the critical ratio has a negative correlation with the most representative uniaxial compressive strength and strength anisotropy degree under uniaxial compression. As sigma3 increases, the failure mode changes from tension and shear composite to pure shear at alpha = 90  and from splitting and shear composite to plastic kinking at alpha = 0 , while maintains sliding shear at alpha = 30 . However, under the low sigma3, the tested schist is different from the schist with low content and aggregation degree of mica in the failure mode at alpha = 0  and 30 , which is attributed to the differences in the microstructures of two schist. These findings yield an in-depth understanding of the mechanical behavior of foliated rocks and offer important references for the stability evaluation and support design of tunnel surrounding rock.
42074044 | Surface Characterization of DPPG Films Modified by Chitosan, Hyaluronic Acid and Titanium Dioxide. This study focused on elucidating the effects of chitosan (Ch), hyaluronic acid (HA), and titanium dioxide nanoparticles (nano-TiO2) on the physicochemical characteristics of a model bacterial membrane (layer) composed of the phospholipid DPPG (1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-rac-(1-glycerol) sodium salt). The membrane was prepared on mica using the Langmuir-Blodgett (LB) technique from an aqueous subphase containing Ch, HA and/or TiO2. Its surface properties were subsequently characterized by optical profilometry and surface free energy estimation. The nanoscale topography of the DPPG layer provided a biomimetic platform that reflects the organization of bacterial membranes, enabling a precise evaluation of how external agents, such as Ch, HA, and nano-TiO2, modify the surface's structural and energetic properties. The results showed that the LB films exhibit mildly heterogeneous topography, which can be attributed to lipid domains with distinct molecular packing densities. Depending on the type of biopolymer employed with TiO2, distinct topographic architectures of the DPPG monolayers were obtained. Furthermore, the presence of nano-TiO2 was clearly manifested as a topographic irregularity, while the analysis of hydrophilic-hydrophobic properties revealed a structurally perturbed lipid film. The results provide detailed insight into how these specific molecules (Ch, HA, nano-TiO2) interact at the molecular level with model bacterial membranes, offering a comprehensive picture of cell-microenvironment interactions.
40691233 | Next-generation sequencing of CCR5, CXCR4, and IFNAR1 variants in relation to HIV-1 disease progression and ART response. HIV, which causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), invades the host cell via the CD4 receptor and CCR5 or CXCR4 co-receptors. Interferons induced early in HIV infection induce an antiviral defense mechanism through IFNAR signaling. Our study aimed to examine the relationship between CCR5, CXCR4, and IFNAR1 gene variations as a risk factor in HIV + patients and their response to their clinical parameters. Targeted next-generation sequencing (tNGS) was used to perform molecular genotyping analysis of the CCR5, CXCR4, and IFNAR1 genes in genomic DNA from 22 HIV + patients and 25 healthy individuals as controls. We detected 13 rare mutations in the study, including 3 missense, 1 synonymous, 2 5'UTR, 4 3'UTR, and 1 frameshift variation. We also analyzed 6 common variants in the IFNAR1 and CXCR4 genes. HIV + patients carrying the homozygous TT genotype of the IFNAR1 intronic rs2856973:T > A variant had higher CD4 + T cell counts compared with patients carrying the TA + AA genotypes of the rs2856973 variant in the naive and first month of the ART (p = 0.001 and p = 0.001, respectively). Similarly, participants receiving ART with a TT genotype of rs2856973:T > A showed a significantly higher CD4 + T cell count in the third month (p = 0.001). Patients carrying the homozygous wild-type genotype of the CXCR4 intronic rs2680880:A > T SNP had lower CD4 + T cell count compared with subjects carrying the AT + TT mutant genotypes of rs2680880:A > T in the naive and first-month period (p = 0.015 and p = 0.025, respectively). Our results demonstrate that intronic variations in the IFNAR1 rs2856973:T > A and CXCR4 rs2680880:A > T genes can contribute to modifications in HIV progression and CD4 + T recovery under ART.
19654407 | Donor-recipient mismatches in MHC class I chain-related gene A in unrelated donor transplantation lead to increased incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease. The polymorphic products of major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain A (MICA) genes are important in solid organ transplantation rejection. MICA expression is limited to gut epithelium and may play a role in triggering acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD). A total of 236 recipients of unrelated donor transplantation were studied. Donor-recipient human leukocyte antigen (HLA) match was 10/10 human leukocyte antigen (HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, -DQB1) in 73% and MICA mismatch in 8.4%. Because of physical vicinity of the loci, MICA mismatch was significantly associated with mismatch at HLA-B and HLA-C. A higher rate of grade II-IV aGVHD was seen in MICA-mismatched patients (80% vs 40%, P = .003) irrespective of degree of HLA matching (HLA 10/10 match: 75% vs 39%, P = .02) and HLA any mismatch (83% vs 46%, P = .003). The rate of grade II-IV gastrointestinal aGVHD was also higher in MICA-mismatched patients (35% vs 17%, P = .05). We conclude that MICA may represent novel a transplantation antigen recognized by human allogeneic T cells. This study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (Identifier NCT00506922).
42077511 | Comparison of Open Scarf-Akin Osteotomy and Minimally Invasive Chevron and Akin (MICA) Osteotomy for Severe Hallux Valgus Deformity: A Retrospective Study. Background: Minimally invasive surgery (MIS) for hallux valgus, particularly the minimally invasive chevron and Akin (MICA) technique, is gaining popularity. However, comparative studies between open scarf-Akin osteotomy (SA) and MICA remain limited, particularly for severe cases (ie, hallux valgus angle [HVA] >= 40  or intermetatarsal angle [IMA] >= 16 ). This study aimed to compare the clinical and radiographic outcomes between SA and MICA for severe hallux valgus. Methods: We retrospectively reviewed 56 consecutive feet (SA = 33; MICA = 23) treated between January 2019 and January 2023 at a single institution in Hong Kong. Clinical outcomes were evaluated using the American Orthopaedic Foot & Ankle Society (AOFAS) score, Self-Reported Foot and Ankle Score (SEFAS), and visual analog scale (VAS) for pain. Radiographic parameters included the HVA, IMA, distal metatarsal articular angle (DMAA), first metatarsal pronation, and first metatarsal length. Results: Baseline characteristics were broadly comparable, with deformity severity trending higher in MICA. MICA had shorter total operative time and hospital stay (P = .002 and P < .001), although the SA group had a higher frequency of concomitant lesser-toe procedures (85% vs 61%, P = .056), and MICA showed greater improvements in AOFAS and SEFAS (P = .006 and P = .032). In exploratory 2-predictor sensitivity regression adjusting for concomitant lesser-toe procedure, MICA remained associated with shorter operative time (beta = -40.0 min, 95% CI -66.3 to -13.7; P = .003) and shorter length of stay (beta = -2.35 days, 95% CI -3.52 to -1.17; P < .001). After this adjustment, AOFAS improvement was greater in MICA (beta = +6.40, P = .008), whereas SEFAS and VAS improvements were not statistically different. For pronation, SA achieved superior apparent correction: severe postoperative pronation (Wagner 3) was 0% after SA vs 48% after MICA, and baseline-adjusted ordered logistic regression similarly favored SA (MICA vs SA OR 3.75, 95% CI 1.08-13.03; P = .037). Conclusion: Both procedures reliably corrected severe HV deformity. MICA was associated with shorter total operative time and reduced length of stay. In exploratory covariate-adjusted sensitivity models, MICA maintained advantages in operative time and AOFAS scores, whereas between-group differences in SEFAS and angular radiographic outcomes were attenuated or nonsignificant. In contrast, SA demonstrated stronger correction of apparent first-metatarsal pronation, with no apparent residual severe pronation at follow-up compared with MICA. Level of Evidence: Level III, retrospective cohort study.
41930655 | Targeting the MICA-mediated oxidative stress-immune axis: a novel therapeutic strategy for ankylosing spondylitis. OBJECTIVES: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) involves a complex interplay between oxidative stress (OS) and immune dysregulation, yet the precise molecular links involved remain unclear. METHODS: OS-related genes were obtained from the GeneCards database. Differential expression analysis was performed on mRNA microarray (MA) data to identify OS-associated differentially expressed genes (DEGs). A two-sample Mendelian randomisation analysis was conducted to assess the causal relationships between OS-related genes and AS risk at the protein level. Immune cell mediation was further examined using genetic information from 731 immune phenotypes. Additionally, Logistic regression was used to examine the association between immune cell profiles and AS risk. The findings were further validated via experimental study using western blotting (WB) and single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) data. RESULTS: We found that the MICA protein is a key AS risk modulator via integrative omics analyses, with protein abundance showing a positive association (OR=1.89; PFDR=3.6x10-4). Mediation analyses revealed that the genetic effects of these genes were partially transmitted through specific T cell subsets, particularly CD28+ resting Tregs. The mediated proportion was 82.3%. Clinical validations confirmed lymphocyte-associated protection (OR: 0.64, 95%CI: 0.54-0.76). scRNA-seq analyses demonstrated significant MICA upregulation in AS-drived T cells, confirmed by Western blot analysis. CONCLUSIONS: This integrative multiomics analysis revealed OS-related genes as causal drivers of AS through immune dysregulation pathways. Targeting OS-related immune mechanisms may offer novel precision therapeutic strategies for AS.
42003023 | Comparing kinetic profiles of SV2A radiotracers [18F]SynVesT-1 and [18F]UCB-J using PET imaging in mice. Deficits in the synaptic vesicle protein 2A (SV2A) have been reported in various neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's and Huntington's disease (HD). SV2A levels can be investigated using positron emission tomography (PET) radioligands such as [11C]UCB-J, [18F]UCB-J, and [18F]SynVesT-1. To compare the in vivo performance of the PET radioligands [18F]UCB-J and [18F]SynVesT-1 in terms of brain penetration, binding profile, and SV2A quantification, we here report a head-to-head study in a mouse model of HD. Dynamic microPET/CT scans (60 min) were acquired in 17-month-old heterozygous (HET, n = 20) zQ175DN and wild-type (WT, n = 19) mice. Brain time-activity curves and image-derived input function were extracted and kinetic modeling was performed using Logan and the two-tissue compartmental model (2TCM). Intra-animal comparison between both radioligands revealed significantly higher K1 (p < 0.01) but equal k2 for [18F]SynVesT-1 compared to [18F]UCB-J. VT(IDIF) (Logan) quantification found significantly higher values for [18F]SynVesT-1 compared to [18F]UCB-J regardless of genotype (e.g. striatum WT: 22.4 +- 2.7 vs 18.6 +- 1.8 mL/cm3). Regional analyses comparing the average VT(IDIF) between genotypes showed no significant differences; however, voxel-based VT(IDIF) analyses revealed significant SV2A alterations in several subregions of the brain for both radioligands. Overall, [18F]SynVesT-1 and [18F]UCB-J showed agreement across analyses, demonstrating the equal applicability of both radioligands for SV2A PET imaging.
41530975 | Germline HLA heterozygosity is associated with decreased lung cancer risk. Heterozygosity at human leukocyte antigen (HLA) loci may improve lung cancer immunosurveillance by increasing recognition of the tumor by the immune system. Previous studies utilizing data from population-level biobanks, such as the United Kingdom Biobank and FinnGen, have identified an association between germline HLA class-II heterozygosity and reduced lung cancer risk in smokers. In the present study, we evaluate the association between HLA heterozygosity and lung cancer in a large case-control study (15,302 cases; 14,580 controls) with imputed HLA allele-type information, comparing differences in HLA heterozygosity between smokers and non-smokers, amongst lung cancer subtypes, and at 2- and 4-digit HLA allele resolution. We identify a strong protective association of HLA-II heterozygosity in smokers compared to non-smokers, particularly at the HLA-DPB1 and HLA-DPA1 loci, and provide subtype-specific resolution. Finally, analysis of the additive effects of HLA allele heterozygosity in smokers identified significant associations with several 4-digit HLA alleles, including HLA-B*08:01, HLA-A*01:01, HLA-C*07:01, HLA-DQA1*05:01, HLA-DRB1*03:01, and HLA-C*03:04. Our study provides additional evidence, with added histologic subtype information, that germline HLA-II heterozygosity is inversely associated with lung cancer risk.
42055953 | Identification of the Novel MICA*292 Allele in a Chinese Cord Blood Donor. MICA*292 differs from MICA*008:04:01 by one single nucleotide substitution in exon 3.
41857097 | The probiotic Lactiplantibacillus plantarum ATCC10241 inhibits wound-associated pathogens through the secretion of organic acids.
41847299 | Aerococcus viridans, Staphylococcus haemolyticus and Corynebacterium bovis: sub-inhibitory exposure of lactic acid and cross-resistance to beta-lactams antibiotics. Lactic acid (LA) is a commonly applied post-milking teat disinfectant to prevent bovine mastitis. Subsequent to disinfection, microorganisms are often subjected to sub-inhibitory concentrations of biocide (residues), which can promote resistance to the applied biocide and cross-resistance to various antibiotics. In this study, control strains and 20 field isolates of three bacterial species, including Staphylococcus haemolyticus (n = 5), Aerococcus viridans (n = 9) and Corynebacterium bovis (n = 6) were exposed in-vitro to sub-inhibitory concentrations of LA. In the 30-day-study-period LA supplemented growth medium was changed every 48 h for Staphylococcus haemolyticus and Aerococcus viridans and every 72 h for Corynebacterium bovis. Changes of susceptibility towards LA during sub-inhibitory treatment were assessed by recording the first non-turbid concentration, named MICA. Changes of tolerance towards antibiotics were assessed before and after LA exposure by determining antibiotic MIC through microdilution. Results showed that all Aerococcus viridans isolates exerted an increase of LA MICAs during sub-inhibitory exposure, which was 2.3-7.5-fold. Staphylococcus haemolyticus reflected a 1.3-1.8-fold rise of LA MICAs. Aerococcus viridans showed a rise of oxacillin, cefoxitin, cefazolin and ceftiofur MICs after sub-inhibitory exposure to LA. Two isolates of Staphylococcus haemolyticus showed a rise of beta-lactam-MICs. Corynebacterium bovis did not show any changes of tolerance towards LA or any tested antibiotics following 9 repetitions of sub-inhibitory treatment. The findings suggest that Aerococcus viridans and Staphylococcus haemolyticus have potential to develop tolerance towards LA and cross-resistance to beta-lactams antibiotics following sub-inhibitory exposure to LA.
40073263 | Precise motif and cross-presentation of coronavirus peptides by feline MHC class I: implications for the mild infection of SARS-CoV-2. As one of the earliest identified susceptible animals for the SARS-CoV-2, cats are also the vulnerable hosts for feline coronaviruses, ie feline enteric coronavirus (FECV). Here, to understand the cross-presentation of coronavirus-derived peptides by cat major histocompatibility complex molecule feline leucocyte antigen (FLA) class I, unpredictable natural peptide motifs presented by FLA-K*00701 and FLA-E*00301 were identified through peptide elution and further confirmed by the structural determination of the 2 FLA class I molecules. Based on these precise motifs of FLA class I peptides, the atlas of cross-presenting peptides from different coronaviruses in cats were sketched with 3 hotspots in C-terminal half of ORF1ab protein. The possibility of cross-presentation is further supported by the similar conformation of the corresponding peptides KP-CoV-9 (RSFIEDLLF) and KM-FECV-9 (RSAVEDLLF) from the 2 coronaviruses presented by FLA-K*00701. Our findings provide insights into the understanding of the cross-presentation of peptides from SARS-CoV-2 and feline coronaviruses FECV and the development of universal vaccine for coronaviruses.
41765042 | Virtual screening and molecular fingerprinting for in silico designing of potential CCR5 inhibitors targeting HIV therapy. The CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) is the principal entry receptor for HIV1 (macrophage tropic) as observed in the early stages of viral replication during attachment to the host cell. The coreceptor switch is one of the possible mechanisms for viral resistance. Hence, molecules designed to bind and inhibit CCR5 or CXCR4 would be effective in HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) therapy to prevent entry of the virus, stop further infection of cells, and allow time for its clearance from the body (through immunity intervention). The aim of this study was to design effective and safer CCR5 coreceptor antagonists. Two ligand-based pharmacophore models were generated with drugs in market and clinical trials using PharmGist tool. The model was utilized to screen the ZINC database to obtain compounds with the required features and proceed for docking with AutoDock tools. Top ten compounds with good docking score and significant interactions at the active pocket were advanced to ADME (absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion) and toxicity predictions. Interestingly, ZINC08948076 (Mol1) and ZINC08966180 (Mol2) share similar molecular fingerprints with the drug molecule, BMS-813160. In contrast, the MD simulation trajectories revealed ZINC13150285 (Mol3) and maraviroc to have similar conformational dynamics (RMSD and Rg) between the ligand and the target protein. Additionally, ZINC24968598 (Mol4) was observed to have the lowest potential energy and ZINC09515758 (Mol5) with the lowest interaction energy. Overall, the study could identify ZINC09515758 and ZINC00673808 as potential hit molecules for further experimental investigation.
40950670 | A development and validation of predictive model based on novel immune-related gene-based subtypes for the risk assessment of cutaneous melanoma. Background: Cutaneous melanoma (CM) exhibits considerable heterogeneity, and the immune status of patients can serve as a prognostic indicator. The increasing significance of immune-related markers in cancer prognosis provides clinicians with valuable tools for risk stratification and management decisions. The objective of this study was to develop a predictive model for assessing the risk of CM based on novel subtypes delineated according to immune-related genes. Methods: This study included a cohort from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Immune-related genes were carefully selected, and a comprehensive analysis was performed to characterize the molecular alterations and clinical implications linked to these genes. From this, an immune-related risk scoring system aimed at predicting the survival outcomes of patients diagnosed with CM was developed. Results: In this study, using an unsupervised consensus clustering algorithm, the study identified two subtypes-Cluster 1 (C1) and Cluster 2 (C2)-within the TCGA melanoma (MEL) cohort based on 1,959 immune-related genes. Survival analysis indicated that C1 was linked to poorer overall survival (OS) as compared to C2. We found significant correlations between these subtypes and clinical variables including tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) classification, new tumor events, and radiation therapy. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis revealed that 161 genes upregulated in C1 were associated with tyrosine metabolism, melanogenesis, and the p53 signaling pathway, while downregulated genes in C1 were linked to hematopoietic cell lineage, cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, and cell adhesion molecules. Immune-related genes in CM were optimized and assessed using univariate Cox regression and a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, with 20 genes being identified, including CXCL10, CCL5, CXCR4, CXCR3, IL10, CCR5, CCR7, STAT1, TNF, CD4, CD8A, ITGB2, FCGR3A, ITGAM, PTPRC, CD19, LCK, B2M, TYROBP, and IFNG. From these, four key prognostic markers (CXCL10, IL10, B2M, and IFNG) were selected via a least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression penalty approach and multivariate Cox analyses. For the prediction of the 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival rates, the immune-related risk score yielded area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.671, 0.667, and 0.676, respectively. Conclusions: CM was divided into two subtypes based on immune gene expression, with the C1 subtype associated with poor prognosis. A prognostic risk model was developed using these classifications to predict patient outcomes.
40950663 | Facilitation of natural killer T-cell cytotoxic activity in uterine sarcoma via the CKS2-PI3K-AKT-MICA axis. Background: Uterine sarcoma constitutes approximately 3-7% of all uterine cancers, with adenosarcoma and leiomyosarcoma being the major subtypes. This neoplasm is characterized by poor clinical outcomes, with frequent recurrence and metastasis, underscoring the urgent need for early detection strategies. Cyclin-dependent kinase regulatory subunit 2 (CKS2) is markedly overexpressed in uterine sarcoma. Preliminary data suggest that CKS2 overexpression correlates with advanced tumor staging, yet its mechanistic link to immune evasion via natural killer T (NKT)-cell regulation remains unexplored. This study aimed to explore how CKS2 regulates the immune response in uterine sarcoma. Methods: Through the integration of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases, a systematic analysis was conducted on the correlation between CKS2 expression levels, tumor prognostic staging, and immune cell infiltration. Stable CKS2-knockdown cell lines were constructed, and the expression changes of CKS2 were detected via quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot techniques. Through colony formation assays, TUNEL staining, invasion and migration assays, and Western blot analysis, the mechanism related to the regulatory effect of CKS2 on the malignant progression of uterine sarcoma cells was clarified in depth. Additionally, the specific mechanism by which CKS2 regulates NKT cell activity was verified at the tissue level via multiplex immunofluorescence. Results: In uterine sarcoma, CKS2 expression was found to be significantly upregulated and closely associated with poor prognosis, advanced tumor stage, and a distinct negative correlation with NKT cell activity. In vitro experiments indicated that knockdown of CKS2 significantly inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of sarcoma cells and promoted apoptosis. Mechanistically, CKS2 activated the PI3K/AKT signaling, reduced major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related protein A (MICA) expression, and inhibited NKT cell activity, resulting in immune escape, which was effectively mitigated by PI3K inhibitors. Conclusions: The findings suggest that CKS2 can serve as a valuable biomarker and an effective target for the prevention and screening of uterine sarcoma and can modify the antitumor immune response in uterine sarcoma.
40014015 | Pan-Variant SARS-CoV-2 Vaccines Induce Protective Immunity by Targeting Conserved Epitopes. The development of a globally effective COVID-19 vaccine faces significant challenges, particularly in redirecting the B-cell response from immunodominant yet variable regions of viral proteins toward their conserved domains. To address this, an integrated strategy is implemented that combines classical B-cell epitope prediction with protein-antibody cluster docking and antibody titer analysis from 30 vaccinated and convalescent individuals. This approach yields stable immunodominant and immunoprevalent B-cell epitopes capable of eliciting robust antibody responses in BALB/c mice and effectively neutralizing pseudoviruses expressing the Spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern, including Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, and Omicron. To achieve a broader T-cell-based immune response, promiscuous T-cell epitopes are identified by integrating classical T-cell epitope predictions, differential scanning fluorimetry, and peptide-MHC structural analysis. Unique peptides with conserved MHC-anchoring residues are identified, enabling binding to a spectrum of MHC-I and MHC-II haplotypes. These peptides elicit strong interferon gamma responses in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and demonstrate cross-species efficacy by activating both CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells in BALB/c mice. Collectively, these findings highlight the significance of innovative vaccine strategies targeting immunodominant/immunoprevalent B-cell and promiscuous T-cell epitopes to drive broad and robust humoral and cellular immune responses against a wide range of SARS-CoV-2 variants.
41128369 | Association of Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis With HLA-C*07:02 in a Japanese Population. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a progressive, refractory liver disease often requiring liver transplantation (LT). The association between the disease onset and specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing has been noted, but its relevance in the Japanese population is unknown. METHODS: The HLA 5 locus (HLA-A, B, C, DRB1 and DQB1) 4-digit genotyping results of 31 patients with progressive PSC who underwent LT at our institution were compared to those of 873 healthy Japanese controls. RESULTS: HLA-B*07:02 (p-corrected [pc] = 1.9 x 10-2), HLA-C*07:02 (pc = 3.9 x 10-5), HLA-DQB1*05:01 (pc = 3.7 x 10-2), and HLA-DRB1*01:01 (pc = 1.7 x 10-2) were identified as the susceptibility alleles for PSC. This correlation was stronger in patients with PSC complicated by ulcerative colitis than in those with PSC alone. Furthermore, analyses of the amino acid sequences of each HLA protein revealed that 15 amino acid residues of HLA-C were significantly associated with disease susceptibility (pc = 1.5 x 10-4-4.5 x 10-4). CONCLUSIONS: HLA-C*07:02 is vulnerable to PSC aggravation in the Japanese population.
41976030 | Retinal Transcriptomic Signatures in Sudden Acquired Retinal Degeneration Syndrome (SARDS) and Cancer-Associated Retinopathy (CAR). The purpose of this study was to compare the retinal gene expression profiles in canines with Sudden Acquired Retinal Degeneration Syndrome (SARDS) and Cancer-Associated Retinopathy (CAR) and identify shared and distinct molecular pathways. Previously published SARDS and CAR canine retinal microarray data were used for the purposes of retinal transcriptomic pathway analysis, followed by KEGG and GO pathway enrichment analysis using DAVID and MetaCore tools. Gene expression patterns were analyzed to detect the most important signaling pathways. ProteinBERT deep-learning language model, and large language models (LLM-Grok 4, ChatGPT4o) were used for analytical prediction of possible drug targets. Both diseases showed significant upregulation in T-cell co-stimulation and complement activation pathways, including CD86, DLA-79, and C5AR1. Downregulated genes were enriched in pathways associated with visual perception and cardiomyocyte signaling. CAR exhibited upregulation of tumor-related chemokine signaling (e.g., CCR5, CXCR4), while SARDS showed pronounced enrichment in vascular inflammation pathways. Analysis of drug targets identified different classes of drugs, which could be potentially utilized for SARDS and CAR treatment. SARDS and CAR share immune-related molecular signatures but potentially differ in secondary mechanisms-vascular inflammation and endothelial activation in SARDS versus paraneoplastic mimicry in CAR. These data provide potential insight into the pathogenesis of SARDS as well as CAR, and identify potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets.
40017543 | Supporting youths in global crises: an analysis of risk and resources factors for multiple health complaints in children and adolescents during the COVID-19 pandemic. Introduction: The number of global crises increased in recent years, significantly affecting the health and well-being of children and adolescents worldwide. Awareness of these global crises and their impact on health and well-being has risen since the COVID-19 pandemic. Research indicates that some children and adolescents are more vulnerable to the challenges resulting from these crises than others. This study examines the risk and resources factors for multiple health complaints (MHC) in children and adolescents in Germany during the COVID-19 pandemic. Methods: We analyzed data from the German population-based longitudinal COPSY (COvid-19 and PSYchological Health) study. A total of 1,673 children and adolescents aged 11 years and older and their parents participated in at least one of the five survey waves between 2020 and 2022. We assessed MHC using the international Health Behavior in School-aged Children Symptom Checklist (HBSC-SCL), which includes four somatic complaints (e.g., headache, abdominal pain) and four psychological complaints (e.g., feeling low, sleeping difficulties). We conducted a mixed model panel regression analysis to examine longitudinal changes in MHC and identified sociodemographic, psychosocial, and pandemic-related risk factors and resources. Results: Our results revealed increased MHC throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Girls, single-parent children and adolescents, as well as children and adolescents of mentally ill or highly burdened parents, were at particular risk. A higher subjective perceived burden of the pandemic and COVID-19-related worries were significantly associated with a higher level of MHC. Personal resources, a positive family climate, and more perceived social support were significantly associated with a lower level of MHC. Discussion: This paper highlights the vulnerability of children and adolescents in a global crisis, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. The results provide a scientific foundation for targeted health promotion and intervention strategies to protect and maintain the health and well-being of young people in future crises.
41968898 | Imaging of individual concanavalin a proteins by atomic force microscopy. Determining the monomolecular structure of lectins, such as concanavalin A (Con A), is crucial for understanding immune recognition mechanisms. However, most current studies focus on the cellular effects of Con A, leaving a gap in the understanding of its individual protein structure. This study uses tapping-mode atomic force microscopy (AFM) to directly visualize individual Con A proteins on mica surfaces. This approach overcomes the limitations of previous cellular-level studies and provides a new method to explore protein substructures at the single-molecule level. We also investigate how varying concentrations of Ni2+ (5 mM to 50 mM) influence the surface roughness and protein morphology. Results show that increasing the Ni2+ concentration leads to higher roughness and changes in the arrangement of Con A proteins. At 50 mM Ni2+, Con A proteins adopt four orientations: tiled, inverted triangular pyramid, vertical, and upright triangular pyramid. In contrast, at 5 mM Ni2+, the proteins are primarily arranged in two orientations: tiled and vertical. This work provides an AFM-based imaging method that enables the visualization of individual Con A proteins, offering insights into protein-surface interactions and its applications in protein-based assays.
40538407 | Soluble MHC class I chain-related protein A is a specific biomarker for the early detection of graft-versus-host disease. INTRODUCTION: MHC class I chain-related protein A (MICA) acts as a marker of cellular stress and its expression is a destruction-signal for NKG2D-expressing cytotoxic cells. Soluble MICA (sMICA) concentrations after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) were associated with worse outcomes and graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). We hypothesized that (i) sMICA could be a prognostic biomarker for the development of GVHD and (ii) may act as an acute phase reactant. METHODS: In this prospective study we included 48 patients undergoing HSCT and drew blood samples before conditioning (baseline), during engraftment and 100 days after HSCT. The follow-up period was 1 year for each patient. Soluble MICA and established acute phase reactants (C-reactive Protein, von Willebrand Factor) were measured by enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA). RESULTS: Of the 44 patients in the final analysis, 30 (68%) developed GVHD (16 acute GVHD, 8 chronic GVHD, 6 acute and chronic GVHD). Soluble MICA concentrations at baseline and during engraftment were significantly higher in patients who developed acute or chronic GVHD (<i>p</i> = 0.017). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis for the baseline values showed an area under the curve of 0.78 (<i>p</i> < 0.001; 95% confidence intervals 0.64-0.91) for diagnosis of acute or chronic GVHD. Soluble MICA concentrations above 93.5 pg/mL had a specificity of 93% for the diagnosis of GVHD, while the sensitivity was only 47%. DISCUSSION: Soluble MICA did not correlate with other acute phase reactants and remained stable during engraftment. Soluble MICA may potentially serve as a biomarker with high specificity for the prediction of GVHD.
41574522 | Global Trends and Knowledge Structure in HIV Stem Cell Research: A CiteSpace Analysis of Two Decades of Scientific Literature. INTRODUCTION: Numerous studies on HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) in stem cells have been published over the last two decades. However, no comprehensive bibliometric analysis or visualization of this field currently exists. This study aims to provide a detailed and unbiased review of the knowledge structure, research hotspots, and emerging trends in stem cell therapy-related research for HIV. By mapping publication trends, collaboration networks, and topical evolution, this work fills a critical gap and offers guidance for future functional cure strategies. METHODS: Bibliometric data from 2004 to 2023 were retrieved from the Web of Science Core Collection database. CiteSpace was used to analyze annual scientific output, countries/regions, institutions, authors, journals, references, and keywords. RESULTS: A total of 2,868 publications were included, showing a general trend of increasing yet fluctuating annual output. The United States led in both publications and influence, while author collaboration remained relatively limited. Key research topics included acquired immune deficiency syndrome cure, lentivirus, HIV carcinogenicity, CCR5, and CXCR4. More recently, major active areas of investigation have focused on \extracellular vesicles,\ \nucleases,\ \viral libraries,\ and \microglia.\ DISCUSSION: HIV stem cell research has progressed from descriptive studies to mechanism-driven approaches, emphasizing gene editing and immune modulation. Integrating stem cell transplantation with technologies such as CRISPR/Cas9 presents a promising strategy to eliminate viral reservoirs and sustain remission. Nevertheless, stronger international collaboration and translational research are essential to advance clinical applications. CONCLUSION: This comprehensive bibliometric overview provides clear insights into the development, research hotspots, and trends in HIV stem cell therapy. Further investigation into the molecular mechanisms of infection and strategies for functional cure may accelerate the development of effective stem cell-based gene therapies for HIV.
41246448 | HLA diversity is associated with TKI response and treatment-free remission in chronic myeloid leukemia. Immune surveillance is increasingly recognized as a key determinant of cancer treatment outcomes. However, the impact of Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) diversity in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) remains poorly understood and has been scarcely investigated. We retrospectively analyzed 367 CML patients with high-resolution HLA typing to investigate the impact of HLA allele distribution and HLA evolutionary divergence (HED) on disease susceptibility, molecular response, and treatment-free remission (TFR). Compared to 2832 healthy donors, CML patients exhibited significantly lower HED scores for all class I loci (A, B, C) and HLA-DQB1 (FDR < 0.001), suggesting a narrower immunopeptidome repertoire at diagnosis. Specific alleles, such as HLA-A*30:01 (OR [95% CI] = 2.08 [1.26-3.25]) and B*14:02 (OR = 1.90 [1.26-2.79]), were associated with increased CML risk (FDR < 0.01). Among 289 patients with clinical follow-up, HLA-DQB1*06:04 (aHR [95% CI] = 3.71 [1.57-8.77]) and DRB1*13:02 (aHR = 3.95 [1.77-8.81]) were associated with faster MR4 achievement in imatinib-treated patients (FDR < 0.01), while B*44:02 (aHR = 4.83 [1.62-14.41]) predicted favorable response to dasatinib (FDR < 0.05). In the TFR cohort (n = 105), alleles A*26:01 (aHR = 3.47 [1.44-8.38]), A32:01 (aHR = 3.28 [1.52-7.09], FDR < 0.05), and B18:01 (aHR = 12.96 [3.59-46.77], FDR < 0.001) were significantly associated with increased relapse risk. Conversely, a higher HED score for HLA-C was associated with improved TFR in dasatinib-treated patients (P = 0.0067). These findings suggest that HLA genotype and class-specific HED may influence CML susceptibility and outcomes and could inform TKI selection and discontinuation strategies.
41791380 | Vascular STING activation facilitates NK cell anti-tumor immunity in small cell lung cancer. Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) typically displays a \cold\ tumor microenvironment with a paucity of immune infiltrate. Neuroendocrine SCLC cells also profoundly repress MHC-I expression, rendering them vulnerable to NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Here, we confirm that neuroendocrine SCLC cells are sensitive to NK cell-mediated attack, yet the quantitative spatial profiling of the SCLC immune microenvironment in patient samples reveals that effector immune cells, including NK cells, are excluded from MHC-Ilow/neg SCLC regions. To study this biology, we develop dynamic single-cell RNA sequencing of microphysiological immune tumor environments (DynaMITE-seq) and integrate findings with spatial transcriptomics in patient tissue, unveiling the microvasculature as a major checkpoint restricting NK cell extravasation/recruitment. We demonstrate that the activation of vascular Stimulator of Interferon Genes (STING) signaling restores NK cell infiltration and killing of neuroendocrine SCLC, suggesting a strategy to overcome this key SCLC immunologic barrier and prime therapeutic response to DLL3-targeted CAR-NK cell therapy.
40772533 | Solasonine Restores Sensitivity of Gastric Cancer to NK Cells through DNA Demethylation of MICA. Solasonine, extracted from Solanum nigrum, has been proven to exert anti-tumor effects in various tumors. However, the role of solasonine in gastric cancer remains unclear. This study aims to elucidate the therapeutic effects of solasonine in suppressing gastric cancer progression. This study explores the regulatory mechanism of solasonine in vitro cells and xenograft tumor mouse models. Methylation-specific PCR (MSP) is used for DNA methylation analysis; immunohistochemical and flow cytometry are performed for MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence A (MICA) expression profiling. Solasonine inhibits the proliferation and migration of gastric cancer cells. MICA is identified as a regulatory target for solasonine in gastric cancer cells. Mechanistically, DNA methylation of MICA is suppressed by solasonine. DNA methyltransferases (DNMT) family members, DNMT1, DNMT3A, and DNMT3B, are downregulated in solasonine-treated tumor tissues. Importantly, solasonine restores the sensitivity of HGC-27 cells to natural killer (NK) cells through upregulating MICA, suggesting the potential value of solasonine as an immunotherapy drug in gastric cancer. Solasonine inhibits gastric cancer progression and restores sensitivity of gastric cancer to NK cells through inducing DNA demethylation of the MICA promoter in vitro and in vivo. This study provides application prospects for solasonine anti-tumor therapy.
41878424 | Insights into ectodomain shedding as a novel target in natural killer cell-based immunotherapy for cancer. Natural killer (NK) cells are innate lymphocytes that kill cancer cells and produce cytokines/chemokines that drive anti-tumor immune responses. NK cells are controlled by activating and inhibitory receptors, of which some, or their ligands, are regulated by ectodomain shedding, which is a post-translational modification to transform surface proteins into soluble peptides. Although ectodomain shedding is essential for normal development and physiology, it is also an immune suppression mechanism for downregulating activating receptors in NK cells or their ligands in cancer cells. The ectodomain shedding of immune receptors or ligands are therapeutic targets in cancer immunology and peculiarly relevant in NK cells, given how receptor/ligand density tips the balance to the activation or inhibition of NK cell effector functions. Two classical examples are the CD16a Fc gamma-activating receptor and the MICA/B, and B7-H6 cellular stress-induced ligands. CD16a triggers antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), but CD16a shedding by ADAM17 can prevent receptor engagement, and, therefore, CD16a shedding is a target to promote the efficacy of Fc-enabled antibodies. CD16a shedding also appears to play a dual role, not only in negatively regulating ADCC but also in terminating the immune synapse to help NK cells disengage and move to the next target cell. Furthermore, stress-induced ligands serve as \kill me\ signs on the surface of cancer cells, but the shedding of such ligands enables escape from NK cell recognition. Although the shedding of stress-induced ligands is a mechanism of immune evasion in tumors, novel monoclonal antibodies that inhibit such shedding in a highly specific manner have an outstanding efficacy in preclinical tumor models, and one clone has transitioned to clinical trial phase for potently promoting anti-tumor immunity. We, therefore, review here some of the most impactful discoveries in the ectodomain shedding field with a special focus on NK cells and cancer to help inform the scientific community and help guide the development of novel immunotherapies.
41292245 | [Analyze of HLA class-I antibody and epitopes in patients with ineffective platelet transfusion in Shandong region]. Objective Analyze the human leukocyte antigen(HLA) class-I antibody specificity and antigenic determinants in patients with ineffective platelet transfusion, to provide theoretical basis for the establishment and application of platelet donor bank in Shandong Province. Methods 69 patients with ineffective platelet transfusion, the patients specimens were subjected to specific detection of HLA class-I antibody, and the possible antigenic determinants were analyzed using HLA Matchmaker software, and the relative immunogenicity of the antigen was calculated. Results A total of 113 specific antibodies were detected in 69 patient specimens. Among which 33 were antibodies to the HLA-A loci, with the highest frequency of HLA-A*69:01 (54%), 54 were antibodies to the HLA-B loci, and the highest frequency of HLA-B*15:12 (64%); 25 antibodies against Cw loci with low platelet expression were detected, with HLA-C*17:01 having the highest frequency (38%). Using HLA Matchmaker software, a total of 221 HLA class I epitopes were detected, among which 163LG and 163L had the highest probability, reaching 59.4%. Among the HLA-A loci, the allele HLA-A*02:03 has the highest relative immunogenicity at 137.157, while the allele HLA-A*02:05 has the lowest relative immunogenicity at 0.1450. In the HLA-B locus, the relative immunogenicity of HLA-B*73:01 allele is the highest, reaching 229.885, while the relative immunogenicity of HLA-B*13:02 allele is the lowest, reaching 0.121. Conclusion This study obtained the distribution characteristics of HLA class-I antibodies in PTR patients in Shandong population, providing theoretical basis for precise platelet transfusion, improving transfusion efficiency, and establishing and applying platelet supply banks.
42020384 | S-atom dislocation-induced room-temperature ferroelectricity in two-dimensional alpha-MnS semiconductor. Room-temperature ferroelectricity in two-dimensional semiconductors has ignited enormous interests due to their potential applications in non-volatile memory and neuromorphic computing, which will trigger a revolution in next-generation electronics. Nonetheless, this fascinating ferroelectricity is rarely discovered in such materials with natural central symmetry, especially at atomically thin limit. Here we disclose a room-temperature ferroelectricity with out-of-plane polarization in chemical vapor deposition synthesized two-dimensional alpha-MnS. The difference in thermal expansion coefficients between alpha-MnS and mica substrate leads to the evolution of dislocations in two-dimensional alpha-MnS, which induce the generation of tensile strain and the displacement of S atoms, thereby result in the emergence of ferroelectricity. In addition, the ferroelectric tunneling junction based on two-dimensional alpha-MnS exhibits large tunneling electroresistance (1.3 x 104), high endurance (2.8 x 103 cycles), and long retention time (1 year). This work represents a substantial leap for developing two-dimensional ferroelectric semiconductors, which will stimulate the further exploration of ultrahigh-density information storage devices and computing-in-memory chips.
41750383 | Exploring the Potential of Receptor Silencing in the Tumor Microenvironment by RNA Interference. Cancer is a heterogeneous disease caused by genetic and epigenetic factors, leading to alterations in signaling pathways and regulatory processes. Overall, the more commonly employed conventional treatments present side effects and resistance. Due to the diverse cellular composition of the tumor microenvironment, inhibition of cell communication by RNA interference (RNAi) has emerged as a strategy to regulate the expression of receptors linked to carcinogenesis. This review examines RNAi-mediated receptor silencing as a strategy to modify the tumor microenvironment, primarily in tumor cells, enhancing its vulnerability to immune cell destruction and reducing resistance to conventional therapies. In the tumor microenvironment, the silencing of immune checkpoints like PD-1 and CTLA-4 has demonstrated the ability to restore T cell function and enhance the efficacy of adoptive cell therapies. Additionally, the targeting of G protein-coupled receptors, including CXCR4, CCR5, and A2aR, as well as growth factor receptors such as VEGFR and EGFR, and interleukin receptors, interferes with pathways that are critical for tumor promotion, resulting in diminished angiogenesis, metastasis, and immunosuppression. These strategies utilize advanced delivery systems, including nanoparticles and exosomes, and show that silencing multiple targets can produce more effective antitumor outcomes than single-target methods, underscoring the significant potential of RNA interference in cancer treatment.
18588574 | Genetic influence of the nonclassical major histocompatibility complex class I molecule MICB in multiple sclerosis susceptibility. It has been widely reported that the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II region provides the main genetic contribution to multiple sclerosis (MS) susceptibility. However, recent studies have suggested that the MHC class I region may also contribute to the development of MS. In this study, we investigated the possible association of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B, MHC class I chain-related gene B (MICB) and MHC class I chain-related gene A (MICA) genes, located in the MHC class I region, with MS susceptibility. For this purpose, we analyzed the distribution of HLA-DR, HLA-B, MICB and MICA alleles in 121 MS patients and 156 healthy controls. Neither HLA-B nor MICA alleles were found to be associated with MS susceptibility, and only the frequency of HLA-DRB1*01 allele was found to be increased in controls (31% vs 14%, P(c) = 0.011). However, MICB*004 allele frequency was significantly increased in MS patients (46.3% vs 23.3%, P(c) < 0.001, odds ratio = 2.82, 95% confidence interval = 1.68-4.73). Although, MICB*004 and HLA-DRB1*15 belong to the AH 7.1 ancestral haplotype, the association of MICB*004 to MS susceptibility was found to be independent of HLA-DRB1*15 in our population. This and previous studies clearly suggest that the MHC class I, in addition to class II, could be involved in MS susceptibility.
40347474 | Protocol for in-plate staining of clinical peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples for high-throughput analysis via spectral flow cytometry. Clinical trial research relies on robust assays to monitor immune responses in patients. We present a protocol for optimization of in-plate staining for spectral flow cytometry tailored for high-throughput analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) samples from clinical research correlative studies. We describe steps for antibody titration, optimal in-plate staining, data acquisition on Sony ID7000 spectral cell analyzer, and validation of a flow cytometry assay.
41985328 | Targeting human oncogenic viruses with CRISPR/Cas: New therapeutic opportunities and challenges. CRISPR/Cas systems, initially characterized as bacterial adaptive immune mechanisms, have rapidly emerged as precise and versatile genome-editing tools with significant potential for antiviral research and therapeutic development. This review highlights the role of CRISPR/Cas systems in targeting persistent and human oncogenic viruses, including HPV, HBV, HCV, EBV, KSHV, HTLV-1, and MCPyV, as well as HIV, which may indirectly contribute to cancer through immune dysregulation. Many of these viruses can integrate into the host genome or persist as chronic or latent infections, contributing to cancers for which curative options are limited. CRISPR-based strategies enable the excision of integrated proviral DNA, disruption of viral replication, targeted silencing of viral transcripts, and modulation of host tumor-suppressor pathways. Cas9 efficiently targets DNA viruses, such as HBV and HPV, whereas RNA-targeting Cas13 allows precise silencing of RNA viruses, like HCV. Editing T-cell receptors, including CCR5 and CXCR4, offers the potential for long-term resistance to HIV. CRISPR-based preclinical studies indicate the potential to disrupt HBV cccDNA, suppress EBV and KSHV latency gene expression, and inactivate HTLV-1 oncogenes, thereby potentially reducing viral persistence and oncogenic progression. Despite these advances, challenges remain regarding off-target effects, delivery efficiency, immune responses, and ethical considerations. Innovations such as high-fidelity Cas variants, base and prime editing, and non-viral delivery systems are expected to enhance both safety and therapeutic precision. This review provides an overview of viral life cycles, oncogenic pathways, and therapeutic vulnerabilities of human oncogenic viruses and CRISPR-based genome-editing approaches under investigation for viral elimination and cancer therapy.
40964401 | Versatile HIV Rev-dependent reporter cell system for stringent and sensitive quantification of viral reservoirs, neutralizing antibodies, and restriction factors. Detecting and measuring HIV reservoirs, neutralizing antibodies, and restriction factors are important for HIV cure research and the development of new therapeutics and vaccines. Here we describe the development and validation of several HIV Rev-dependent indicator cell lines for these purposes. These reporter cells come from different T-lymphoblast cell lines, including MOLT-4-R5, SupT1-R5, CEM-SS, A3R5, and from the adherent TZM cell platform based on HeLa clone JC53. These cells express CD4, CXCR4, and various levels of CCR5. We compared these cell lines for responsiveness to both X4 and R5-tropic viruses, and confirmed that reporter expression in these cells is not affected by stimulation from mitogens but is responsive to HIV Tat and Rev, reducing non-specific reporter induction from the leaky LTR promoter. To validate the sensitivity of the Rev-dependent reporter cell systems, we conducted a viral dilution assay with three primary HIV-1 clade C swarms from an adult in Malawi. We also validated the systems for quantifying antibody neutralization and screening restriction factors; these systems are also sensitive for viral outgrowth assays for quantifying viral reservoirs in clinical and basic research settings. Given that the systems can measure HIV accurately in complex environments with mitogens or other substances, they can be used for versatile applications, such as quantifying latent reservoirs, testing inhibitory compounds, conducting neutralizing antibody assays, and identifying new restriction factors.
41974690 | Thermal-stress enhanced pyroelectricity in piezoelectric bimorphs. Enhancing pyroelectric performance is essential for advancing thermal sensing and energy-harvesting applications. This study presents an effective strategy to achieve highly enhanced pyroelectricity in a flexible polyvinylidene fluoride/mica bimorph. Unlike conventional approaches that focus on domain-phase engineering to enhance intrinsic pyroelectric contribution, we engineer a more dominant role for the secondary pyroelectric contribution by a stress-induced shape change that couples to a change in the polarization via the piezoelectric effect. This mechanism is enabled by the favorable combination of a large thermal-expansion mismatch between the polymer (polyvinylidene fluoride) and the ceramic (mica), together with the inherent mechanical compliance of mica's flexibility, which allows interfacial thermal stresses to efficiently generate piezoelectricity. By combining experimental characterization with finite element modeling of the heterostructure's temperature-dependent curvature, interfacial thermal stress is identified as the dominant contributor to the large effects. Direct pyroelectric measurements reveal a highly enhanced pyroelectric coefficient   -359 microC/m2K, more than an order of magnitude greater than that of single-layer polyvinylidene fluoride, highlighting its potential for applications in flexible electronics, thermal sensors, and energy harvesting systems.
