35437997 | Molecules involved in the development of Barrett's esophagus phenotype in chronic eosinophilic esophagitis. This paper aims to investigate the molecules involved in development of Barrett's esophagus (BE) in human eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE). Histopathological, immunohistochemical, real-time PCR Immuno blot, and ELISA analyses are performed to identify the signature genes and proteins involved in the progression of BE in EoE. We detected characteristic features of BE like intermediate columnar-type epithelial cells, induced BE signature genes like ErbB3, CDX1, ErbB2IP in the esophageal mucosa of patients with EoE. In addition, we had observed several BE-associated proteins such as TFF3, p53 and the progression markers like EGFR, p16, MICA, MICB, and MHC molecules in esophageal biopsies of patients with chronic EoE. Interestingly, we also detected mucin-producing columnar cells and MUC-2, MUC-4, and MUC5AC genes and proteins along with induced IL-9 in patients with chronic EoE. A strong correlation of IL-9 with mucin genes is observed that implicated a possible role for IL-9 in the transformation of esophageal squamous epithelial cells to columnar epithelial cells in patients with EoE. These findings indicate that IL-9 may have an important role in BE development in patients with chronic EoE. We also discovered that IL-9 stimulates mucin-producing and barrier cell transcripts and proteins such CK8/18, GATA4, SOX9, TFF1, MUC5AC, and tight junction proteins in primary esophageal epithelial cells when exposed to IL-9. Taken together, these findings provide evidence that indeed IL-9 has a role in the initiation and progression of BE characteristics like development of mucin-producing columnar epithelial cells in patients with chronic EoE.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Intermediate columnar-type epithelial cells are observed in biopsies of patients with EoE. Induced BE signature genes (CK8/18, CDX1 GATA4, SOX9, and Occludin) were observed in patients with chronic EoE. Induction of IL-9 and its correlation with eosinophils mucin-producing genes and proteins was observed in patients with EoE. Induced IL-9 may be responsible for the development of BE in patients with chronic EoE.
24798243 | New proteomic insights on the role of NPR-A in regulating self-renewal of embryonic stem cells. Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) have the ability to self-renew indefinitely and they can give unlimited source of cells and tissues for cellular therapies. Recently, the natriuretic peptide receptor A (NPR-A) has been recognized as an important regulator for the self-renewal of ESCs. To gain insights into possible novel mechanisms involved in NPR-A pathway that presumably regulates self-renewal and survival of ESCs, we utilized a comprehensive label-free proteomics technology in our study. Targeting of NPR-A gene with small interfering RNA (siRNA) resulted in the inhibition of ESCs self-renewal. Coherently, quantitative label-free shotgun proteomic analysis identified differentially expressed proteins involved in several biological processes, including cell cycle regulation, cell proliferation, cell fate specification, and apoptosis. Interestingly, in addition to Oct4 Nanog, and Sox2, other proteins involved in ESCs self-renewal were down-regulated after NPR-A knockdown, such as heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2/B1 (ROA2), non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding protein (Nono), nucleoplasmin (Npm1), histone H2A type 1-B/E (histone H2A.2), SW1/SNF complex (Brg1), polycomb protein Suz12 (Suz12), and cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (Cdk4). Furthermore, several protein candidates involved in early differentiation and cell death were up-regulated or down-regulated as a result of NPR-A knockdown, including importin subunit alpha-4 (Impalpha4), importin-5 (Ipo5), H3 histones, core histone macro-H2A.1 (H2A.y), apurine/apyrimidine endonuclease 1 (Apex1), 78-kDa glucose-regulated protein (Grp78), and programmed cell death 5 (Pdcd5). Overall, these findings depict a comprehensive view to our understanding of the pathways involved in the role of NPR-A in maintaining ESC functions.
38052966 | Accurate image derived input function in [18F]SynVesT-1 mouse studies using isoflurane and ketamine/xylazine anesthesia. BACKGROUND: Kinetic modeling in positron emission tomography (PET) requires measurement of the tracer plasma activity in the absence of a suitable reference region. To avoid invasive blood sampling, the use of an image derived input function has been proposed. However, an accurate delineation of the blood pool region in the PET image is necessary to obtain unbiased blood activity. Here, to perform brain kinetic modeling in [18F]SynVesT-1 dynamic scans, we make use of non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) to unmix the activity signal from the different tissues that can contribute to the heart region activity, and extract only the left ventricle activity in an unbiased way. This method was implemented in dynamic [18F]SynVesT-1 scans of mice anesthetized with either isoflurane or ketamine-xylazine, two anesthestics that we showed to affect differently radiotracer kinetics. The left ventricle activity (NMF-IDIF) and a manually delineated cardiac activity (IDIF) were compared with arterial blood samples (ABS), and for isoflurane anesthetized mice, arteriovenous (AV) shunt blood data were compared as well. Finally, brain regional 2 tissue compartment modeling was performed using IDIF and NMF-IDIF, and the model fit accuracy (weighted symmetrical mean absolute percentage error, wsMAPE) as well as the total volume of distribution (VT) were compared. RESULTS: In isoflurane anesthetized mice, the difference between ABS and NMF-IDIF activity (+ 12.8 [Formula: see text] 11%, p = 0.0023) was smaller than with IDIF (+ 16.4 [Formula: see text] 9.8%, p = 0.0008). For ketamine-xylazine anesthetized mice the reduction in difference was larger (NMF-IDIF: 16.9 [Formula: see text] 10%, p = 0.0057, IDIF: 56.3 [Formula: see text] 14%, p < 0.0001). Correlation coefficient between isoflurane AV-shunt time activity curves and NMF-IDIF (0.97 [Formula: see text] 0.01) was higher than with IDIF (0.94 [Formula: see text] 0.03). The brain regional 2TCM wsMAPE was improved using NMF-IDIF compared with IDIF, in isoflurane (NMF-IDIF: 1.24 [Formula: see text] 0.24%, IDIF: 1.56 [Formula: see text] 0.30%) and ketamine-xylazine (NMF-IDIF: 1.40 [Formula: see text] 0.24, IDIF: 2.62 [Formula: see text] 0.27) anesthetized mice. Finally, brain VT was significantly (p < 0.0001) higher using NMF-IDIF compared with IDIF, in isoflurane (3.97 [Formula: see text] 0.13% higher) and ketamine-xylazine (32.7 [Formula: see text] 2.4% higher) anesthetized mice. CONCLUSIONS: Image derived left ventricle blood activity calculated with NMF improves absolute activity quantification, and reduces the error in the kinetic modeling fit. These improvements are more pronounced in ketamine-xylazine than in isoflurane anesthetized mice.
35741036 | Nuclear Transporter IPO13 Is Central to Efficient Neuronal Differentiation. Molecular transport between the nucleus and cytoplasm of the cell is mediated by the importin superfamily of transport receptors, of which the bidirectional transporter Importin 13 (IPO13) is a unique member, with a critical role in early embryonic development through nuclear transport of key regulators, such as transcription factors Pax6, Pax3, and ARX. Here, we examined the role of IPO13 in neuronal differentiation for the first time, using a mouse embryonic stem cell (ESC) model and a monolayer-based differentiation protocol to compare IPO13-/- to wild type ESCs. Although IPO13-/- ESCs differentiated into neural progenitor cells, as indicated by the expression of dorsal forebrain progenitor markers, reduced expression of progenitor markers Pax6 and Nestin compared to IPO13-/- was evident, concomitant with reduced nuclear localisation/transcriptional function of IPO13 import cargo Pax6. Differentiation of IPO13-/- cells into neurons appeared to be strongly impaired, as evidenced by altered morphology, reduced expression of key neuronal markers, and altered response to the neurotransmitter glutamate. Our findings establish that IPO13 has a key role in ESC neuronal differentiation, in part through the nuclear transport of Pax6.
17493144 | MIC gene polymorphism and haplotype diversity in rhesus macaques. Rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) mainly originating from India were analysed for their major histocompatibility complex class I-related (MIC) gene repertoire. Thus far, three distinct genes, designated MIC1, MIC2 and MIC3, have been identified in the rhesus macaque. In addition, an MICD pseudogene has been described mapping apart from the other loci in a telomeric direction. Genomic comparisons and the presence of a characteristic microsatellite in exon 5 suggest that the MIC1 gene is the equivalent of the human MICA gene. Hence, the MIC2 gene, lacking the microsatellite - as do humans -, is considered to be the equivalent of human MICB. The MIC3 gene, a hybrid of MICA and MICB, seems to be generated by a crossing-over event with one breakpoint in intron 3 and accordingly is named MICA/B. Apart from their human counterparts, MICA, MICB and MICA/B cluster in separate branches in the phylogenetic tree, confirming the hybrid character of the MICA/B gene. Population analyses have shown that the various genes display polymorphism, and six MICA, five MICB and three MICA/B alleles have been identified. In the panel of homozygous typing cells, two distinct haplotype configurations have been defined by segregation analyses. Each haplotype comprises an MICB gene in conjunction with either an MICA or an MICA/B gene. Furthermore, the presence of a polymorphic microsatellite in the MICA and MICA/B alleles facilitates speedy and accurate haplotyping.
37591356 | Pleckstrin-2 promotes tumour immune escape from NK cells by activating the MT1-MMP-MICA signalling axis in gastric cancer. Immune escape is a major challenge in tumour immunotherapy. Pleckstrin-2(PLEK2) plays a critical role in tumour progression, but its role in immune escape in gastric cancer (GC) remains uncharacterized. RNA sequencing was used to explore the differentially expressed genes in a GC cell line that was resistant to the antitumor effect of Natural killer (NK) cells. Apoptosis and the expression of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha were detected by flow cytometry (FCM). PLEK2 expression was examined by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry (IHC). PLEK2 was upregulated in MGC803R cells that were resistant to the antitumor effect of NK cells. PLEK2 knockout increased the sensitivity of GC cells to NK cell killing. PLEK2 expression was negatively correlated with MICA and positively correlated with MT1-MMP expression both in vitro and in vivo. PLEK2 promoted Sp1 phosphorylation through the PI3K-AKT pathway, thereby upregulating MT1-MMP expression, which ultimately led to MICA shedding. In mouse xenograft models, PLEK2 knockout inhibited intraperitoneal metastasis of GC cells and promoted NK cell infiltration. In summary, PLEK2 suppressed NK cell immune surveillance by promoting MICA shedding, which serves as a potential therapeutic target for GC.
19494118 | The roles of multiple importins for nuclear import of murine aristaless-related homeobox protein. Nuclear import of proteins with nuclear localization signals (NLSs) is mediated by shuttling carriers, the importins. Some cargoes display more than a single NLS, and among these are homeodomain proteins such as Arx, which is critical for development of multiple tissues. Arx has two functional NLSs. The present studies show that several pathways can import Arx via its NLS2, which is within its DNA binding homeodomain. Using an in vitro nuclear import assay, we show that import of Arx via NLS2 can be mediated by importin beta1, importin 9, or importin 13, with binding being strongest to importin beta1. All binding is sensitive to RanGTP. Experiments based on precise domain deletions indicate that NLS2 binds impbeta1, imp9, and imp13 and includes both an importin binding subdomain and a regulatory subdomain with arginine residues being important for function. Moreover, Arx can be co-precipitated with these importins when NLS2 is present. Although nuclear import of Arx can be mediated by these three importin betas, importin beta1 seems to play the major role judging from in vivo small interfering RNA ablations and the in vitro import assay. This is the first evidence to show the role of importin beta1 in nuclear import of paired-type homeodomain proteins. We propose a novel and possibly quite general mechanism for nuclear import of paired-type homeodomain proteins which is critical for development.
26776511 | let-7 Modulates Chromatin Configuration and Target Gene Repression through Regulation of the ARID3B Complex. Let-7 is crucial for both stem cell differentiation and tumor suppression. Here, we demonstrate a chromatin-dependent mechanism of let-7 in regulating target gene expression in cancer cells. Let-7 directly represses the expression of AT-rich interacting domain 3B (ARID3B), ARID3A, and importin-9. In the absence of let-7, importin-9 facilitates the nuclear import of ARID3A, which then forms a complex with ARID3B. The nuclear ARID3B complex recruits histone demethylase 4C to reduce histone 3 lysine 9 trimethylation and promotes the transcription of stemness factors. Functionally, expression of ARID3B is critical for the tumor initiation in let-7-depleted cancer cells. An inverse association between let-7 and ARID3A/ARID3B and prognostic significance is demonstrated in head and neck cancer patients. These results highlight a chromatin-dependent mechanism where let-7 regulates cancer stemness through ARID3B.
9071023 | Genomic characterization of the region between HLA-B and TNF: implications for the evolution of multicopy gene families. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) contains genes which confer susceptibility to numerous diseases and must be important in primate evolution. In some instances, genes have been mapped to the region between human histocompatibility leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) but precise localization has proven difficult especially since this region is subject to insertions, deletions, and duplications. Utilizing computer similarity searches and coding prediction programs, we have identified several potential coding sequences between HLA-B and TNF. Three of these sequences, PERB11.2, PERB15, and PERB 18, are similar to members of multicopy gene families that are located in other regions of the MHC. The identification of numerous fragmented and intact retroelements (L1, Alu, LTR, and THE sequences) flanking the PERB11 and PERB15 genes suggests that these retroelements are involved in the duplication process. The evaluation of candidate genes for disease susceptibility within the MHC is complicated by their similarity to other members of multicopy gene families. The determination of sequence differences within and between species provides a strategy with which to investigate the candidate genes between HLA-B and TNF.
37608777 | SUMOylation inhibitor TAK-981 (subasumstat) synergizes with 5-azacitidine in preclinical models of acute myeloid leukemia. Acute Myeloid Leukemias (AML) are severe hematomalignancies with dismal prognosis. The post-translational modification SUMOylation plays key roles in leukemogenesis and AML response to therapies. Here, we show that TAK-981 (subasumstat), a first-in-class SUMOylation inhibitor, is endowed with potent anti-leukemic activity in various preclinical models of AML. TAK-981 targets AML cell lines and patient blast cells in vitro and in vivo in xenografted mice with minimal toxicity on normal hematopoietic cells. Moreover, it synergizes with 5-azacitidine (AZA), a DNA-hypomethylating agent now used in combination with the BCL-2 inhibitor venetoclax to treat AML patients unfit for standard chemotherapies. Interestingly, TAK-981+AZA combination shows higher anti-leukemic activity than AZA+venetoclax combination both in vitro and in vivo, at least in the models tested. Mechanistically, TAK-981 potentiates the transcriptional reprogramming induced by AZA, promoting apoptosis, alteration of the cell cycle and differentiation of the leukemic cells. In addition, TAK-981+AZA treatment induces many genes linked to inflammation and immune response pathways. In particular, this leads to the secretion of type I interferon (IFN-I) by AML cells. Finally, TAK-981+AZA induces the expression of Natural Killer (NK)-activating ligands (MICA/B) and adhesion proteins (ICAM-1) at the surface of AML cells. Consistently, TAK-981+AZA-treated AML cells activate NKs and increase their cytotoxic activity. Targeting SUMOylation with TAK-981 may thus be a promising strategy to both sensitize AML cells to AZA and reduce their immune-escape capacities.
38234792 | Cytotoxic chemotherapy potentiates the immune response and efficacy of combination CXCR4/PD-1 inhibition in models of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Purpose: The CXCL12-CXCR4 chemokine axis plays a significant role in modulating T-cell infiltration into the pancreatic tumor microenvironment. Despite promising preclinical findings, clinical trials combining inhibitors of CXCR4 (AMD3100/BL-8040) and anti-programmed death 1/ligand1 (anti-PD1/PD-L1) have failed to improve outcomes. Experimental Design: We utilized a novel ex vivo autologous patient-derived immune/organoid (PDIO) co-culture system using human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and patient derived tumor organoids, and in vivo the autochthonous LSL-KrasG12D/+; LSL-Trp53R172H/+; Pdx-1-Cre (KPC) pancreatic cancer mouse model to interrogate the effects of either monotherapy or all combinations of gemcitabine, AMD3100, and anit-PD1 on CD8+ T cell activation and survival. Results: We demonstrate that disruption of the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis using AMD3100 leads to increased migration and activation of CD8+ T-cells. In addition, when combined with the cytotoxic chemotherapy gemcitabine, CXCR4 inhibition further potentiated CD8+ T-cell activation. We next tested the combination of gemcitabine, CXCR4 inhibition, and anti-PD1 in the KPC pancreatic cancer mouse model and demonstrate that this combination markedly impacted the tumor immune microenvironment by increasing infiltration of natural killer cells, the ratio of CD8+ to regulatory T-cells, and tumor cell death while decreasing tumor cell proliferation. Moreover, this combination extended survival in KPC mice. Conclusions: These findings suggest that combining gemcitabine with CXCR4 inhibiting agents and anti-PD1 therapy controls tumor growth by reducing immunosuppression and potentiating immune cell activation and therefore may represent a novel approach to treating pancreatic cancer.
37244285 | Changes in macrophage immunometabolism as a marker of skeletal muscle dysfunction across the lifespan. One of the most pronounced changes in the elderly is loss of strength and mobility due to the decline of skeletal muscle function, resulting in a multifactorial condition termed sarcopenia. Although significant clinical changes begin to manifest at advanced ages, recent studies have shown that changes at the cellular and molecular level precede the symptomatology of sarcopenia. By utilizing a single-cell transcriptomic atlas of mouse skeletal muscle across the lifespan, we identified a clear sign of immune senescence that presents during middle age. More importantly, the change in macrophage phenotype in middle age may explain the changes in extracellular matrix composition, especially collagen synthesis, that contributes to fibrosis and overall muscle weakness with advanced age. Our results show a novel paradigm whereby skeletal muscle dysfunction is driven by alterations in tissue-resident macrophages before the appearance of clinical symptoms in middle-aged mice, providing a new therapeutic approach via regulation of immunometabolism.
36443691 | Frequency and functional profile of circulating TCRalphabeta+ double negative T cells in HIV/TB co-infection. BACKGROUND: Increased frequency of circulating double negative T (DNT, CD4-CD8-CD3+) cells with protective immune function has been observed in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and tuberculosis (TB). Here the role of circulating TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells was further investigated in HIV/TB co-infection. METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted to investigate the frequency and functional profiles of peripheral TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells including apoptosis, chemokine and cytokine expression among healthy individuals and patients with TB, HIV infection and HIV/TB co-infection by cell surface staining and intracellular cytokine staining combined with flow cytometry. RESULTS: Significantly increased frequency of TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells was observed in HIV/TB co-infection than that in TB (p < 0.001), HIV infection (p = 0.039) and healthy controls (p < 0.001). Compared with TB, HIV/TB co-infection had higher frequency of Fas expression (p = 0.007) and lower frequency of Annexin V expression on TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells (p = 0.049), and the frequency of Annexin V expression on Fas+TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells had no significant difference. TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells expressed less CCR5 in HIV/TB co-infection than that in TB (p = 0.014), and more CXCR4 in HIV/TB co-infection than that in HIV infection (p = 0.043). Compared with healthy controls, TB and HIV/TB co-infection had higher frequency of TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells secreting Granzyme A (p = 0.046; p = 0.005). In TB and HIV/TB co-infection, TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells secreted more granzyme A (p = 0.002; p = 0.002) and perforin (p < 0.001; p = 0.017) than CD4+ T cells but similar to CD8+ T cells. CONCLUSIONS: Reduced apoptosis may take part in the mechanism of increased frequency of peripheral TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells in HIV/TB co-infection. TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells may play a cytotoxic T cells-like function in HIV/TB co-infection.
35774848 | Identification of CXCR4 Upregulation in Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Associated with Prognostic Significance and Clinicopathological Characteristics. Background: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a heterogeneous malignant lymphoma with distinct characteristics. Patients with treatment failure after the standard immunochemotherapy have worse prognosis, which implies the necessity to uncover novel targets. The C-X-C chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) overexpression has been identified in several hematopoietic malignancies. However, the expression signatures and prognostic significance of CXCR4 in DLBCL associated with clinicopathological features remain unclear. Methods: Gene expression profiles of DLBCL were obtained from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Then, a meta-analysis with an integrated bioinformatic analysis was performed to assess the relationship between CXCR4 expression and clinicopathological features of DLBCL. Finally, experimental verification including immunohistochemical (IHC) staining and real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) was carried out using patient samples. In vitro cell line viability tests were conducted using CXCR4 inhibitor WZ811. Results: DLBCL patients with activated B-cell-like (ABC) subtype have higher expression level of CXCR4 with worse survival. Differential expressed genes in the CXCR4-upregulation group were enriched in canonical pathways associated with oncogenesis. DLBCL with CXCR4 upregulation had lower degree of CD8+ T cell infiltration. TIMER analysis demonstrated that the CXCR4 expression was positively correlated with the expression of CD5, MYC, NOTCH1, PDCD1, CD274, mTOR, FOXO1, and hnRNPA2B1 in DLBCL. IHC study in patient samples showed the positive correlation between CXCR4 and nongerminal center B-cell (non-GCB) subtype and mTOR expression. Meanwhile, quantitative polymerase chain reaction results revealed that high CXCR4 mRNA level was correlated to double-hit DLBCL. Finally, cell viability test showed that WZ811 exerted antiproliferation effect in DLBCL cell lines in a dose-dependent manner. Conclusion: CXCR4 was upregulated in ABC-DLBCL associated with worse prognosis. Our analysis predicted CXCR4 as a potential target for DLBCL treatment, which may serve as an inhibitor both on BCR signaling and nuclear export warranting further investigation in clinical trials.
36757203 | Tissue-resident CXCR4+ macrophage as a poor prognosis signature promotes pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma progression. Macrophage is an essential part of the tumor immune microenvironment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. In our study, we explored the CXCR4+ macrophages subset on its prognosis value, immune profile and distinct function in pancreatic cancer progression. Specimens from 102 postoperative pancreatic patients were analyzed by flow cytometry or immune-fluorescence, and the prognostic value of CXCR4+ macrophages infiltration was further determined by Cox regression. In silico analysis on TCGA, ICGC database and single-cell sequencing of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma further validated our findings. We found that high CXCR4+ macrophages infiltration was associated with poor overall survival (P < .01) and disease-free survival (P < .05) as an independent factor. CXCR4+ macrophages exhibited an M2 protumor phenotype with high expression of CD206. The function of CXCR4+ macrophages was further analyzed in the murine orthotopic PDAC model with its tumor promotion effect and inhibition of CD8+ T cells. Mechanistic and RNA-seq analysis showed that CXCR4+ macrophages participated in extracellular matrix remodeling procedures and especially secreted SPARC through CXCR4/PI3K/Akt pathway promoting tumor proliferation and migration. Our study reveals that CXCR4+ macrophages infiltration is an indicator of poor prognosis of PDAC and targeting these cells was potentially crucial in immunotherapy of PDAC.
33571591 | The nuclear transporter importin-11 regulates the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway and acts as a tumor promoter in glioma. Karyopherins mediate the macromolecular transport between the cytoplasm and the nucleus and participate in cancer progression. However, the role and mechanism of importin-11 (IPO11), a member of the karyopherin family, in glioma progression remain undefined. Effects of IPO11 on glioma progression were detected using CCK-8, colony formation assay, flow cytometry analysis, caspase-3 activity assay, and Transwell invasion assay. Western blot analysis was used to detect the expression of active caspase-3, active caspase-7, active caspase-9, N-cadherin, Vimentin, E-cadherin, beta-catenin, and c-Myc. The activity of Wnt/beta-catenin pathway was evaluated by the T-cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor (TCF/LEF) transcription factor reporter assay. Results showed that IPO11 knockdown inhibited proliferation and reduced colony number in glioma cells. IPO11 silencing promoted the apoptotic rate, increased expression levels of active caspase-3, caspase-7, and caspase-9, and enhanced caspase-3 activity. Moreover, IPO11 silencing inhibited glioma cell invasion by suppressing epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Mechanistically, IPO11 knockdown inactivated the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. beta-Catenin overexpression abolished the effects of IPO11 silencing on the proliferation, apoptosis, and invasion in glioma cells. Furthermore, IPO11 silencing blocked the malignant phenotypes and repressed the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway in vivo. In conclusion, IPO11 knockdown suppressed the malignant phenotypes of glioma cells by inactivating the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway.
12426392 | Exp5 exports eEF1A via tRNA from nuclei and synergizes with other transport pathways to confine translation to the cytoplasm. Importin beta-type transport receptors mediate the vast majority of transport pathways between cell nucleus and cytoplasm. We identify here the translation elongation factor 1A (eEF1A) as the predominant nuclear export substrate of RanBP21/exportin 5 (Exp5). This cargo-exportin interaction is rather un usual in that eEF1A binds the exportin not directly, but instead via aminoacylated tRNAs. Exp5 thus represents the second directly RNA-binding exportin and mediates tRNA export in parallel with exportin-t. It was suggested recently that 10-15% of the cellular translation would occur in the nucleus. Our data rule out such a scenario and instead suggest that nuclear translation is actively suppressed by the nuclear export machinery. We found that the vast majority of translation initiation factors (eIF2, eIF2B, eIF3, eIF4A1, eIF5 and eIF5B), all three elongation factors (eEF1A, eEF1B and eEF2) and the termination factor eRF1 are strictly excluded from nuclei. Besides Exp5 and importin 13, CRM1 and as yet unidentified exportins also contribute to the depletion of translation factors from nuclei.
10400921 | Different evolutionary histories in two subgenomic regions of the major histocompatibility complex. Two subgenomic regions within the major histocompatibility complex, the alpha and beta blocks, contain members of the multicopy gene families HLA class I, human endogenous retroviral sequence (HERV-16; previously known as P5 and PERB3), hemochromatosis candidate genes (HCG) (II, IV, VIII, IX), 3.8-1, and MIC (PERB11). In this study we show that the two blocks consist of imperfect duplicated segments, which contain linked members of the different gene families. The duplication and truncation sites of the segments are associated with retroelements. The retroelement sites appear to generate the imperfect duplications, insertions/deletions, and rearrangements, most likely via homologous recombination. Although the two blocks share several characteristics, they differ in the number and orientation of the duplicated segments. On the 62.1 haplotype, the alpha block consists of at least 10 duplicated segments that predominantly contain pseudogenes and gene fragments of the HLA class I and MIC (PERB11) gene families. In contrast, the beta block has two major duplications containing the genes HLA-B and HLA-C, and MICA (PERB11.1) and MICB (PERB11.2). Given the common origin between the blocks, we reconstructed the duplication history of the segments to understand the processes involved in producing the different organization in the two blocks. We then found that the beta block contains four distinct duplications from two separate events, whereas the alpha block is characterized by multisegment duplications. We will discuss these results in relation to the genetic content of the two blocks.
37876509 | Biomarkers of ocular allergy and dry eye disease. The most common disorders of the ocular surface are dry eye disease (DED) and ocular allergy (OA). These conditions are frequently coexisting with or without a clinical overlap and can cause a severe impact on the patient's quality of life. Therefore, it can sometimes be hard to distinguish between DED and OA because similar changes and manifestations may be present. Atopic patients can also develop DED, which can aggravate their manifestations. Moreover, patients with DED can develop ocular allergies, so these two pathological entities of the ocular surface can be considered as mutual conditions that share the same background. Nowadays, by using different techniques to collect tissue from ocular surfaces, the changes in molecular homeostasis can be detected and this can lead to a precise diagnosis. The article provides an up-to-date review of the various ocular surface biomarkers that have been identified in DED, OA, or both conditions. Abbreviations: DED = dry eye disease, OA = ocular allergy, SS = Sjogren syndrome, TBUT = tear break up time, TFO = tear film osmolarity, AKC = Atopic keratoconjunctivitis, ANXA1 = Annexin 1, ANXA11 = Annexin 11, CALT = Conjunctival associated lymphoid tissue, CCL2/MIP-1 = Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand2/Monocyte chemoattractant protein 1, CCL3/MIP-1alpha = Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 3/Macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha, CCL4/MIP-1beta = Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 4/Macrophage inflammatory protein 1 beta, CCL5/RANTES = Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 5 /Regulated on Activation, Normal T cell Expressed and Secreted, CCR2 = Chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 2, CCR5 = Chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5, CD3+ = Cluster of differentiation 3 positive, CD4+ = Cluster of differentiation 4 positive, CD8+ = Cluster of differentiation 8 positive, CGRP = Calcitonin-gene-related peptide, CX3CL1 C-X3 = C motif -chemokine ligand 1 /Fractalkine, CXCL8 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 8, CXCL9 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 9, CXCL10 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 10, CXCL11 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 11, CXCL12 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 12, CXCR4 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 4, EGF = Epidermal growth factor, HLA-DR = Human leukocyte antigen-D-related, ICAM-1 = Intercellular adhesion molecule 1, IFN-gamma = Interferon-gamma, IgG = Immunoglobulin G, IgE = Immunoglobulin E, IL-1 = Interleukin-1, IL-1alpha = Interleukin-1 alpha, IL-1beta = Interleukin-1 beta, CGRP = Calcitonin-Gene-Related Peptide, IL-3 = Interleukin-3, IL-4 = Interleukin-4, IL-6 = Interleukin-6, IL-8 = Interleukin-8, IL-10 = Interleukin-10, IL-17 = Interleukin-17, IL-17A = Interleukin-17A, LPRR3 = Lacrimal proline-rich protein 3, LPRR4 = Lacrimal proline-rich protein 4, MUC5AC = Mucin 5 subtype AC, oligomeric mucus/gel-forming, MUC16 = Mucin 16, OCT = Optical coherence tomography, OGVHD = Ocular graft versus host disease, PAX6 = Paired-box protein 6, VKC = Vernal keratoconjunctivitis, TGF-beta = Transforming growth factor beta, S100 = proteins Calcium activated signaling proteins, Th1 = T helper 1 cell, Th17 = T helper 17 cell, MGD = Meibomian gland dysfunction, TFOS = Tear film and ocular surface society, SS-KCS = Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca, MMP-9 = Matrix metalloproteinase 9, MMP-1 = Matrix metalloproteinase 1, ZAG = Zinc alpha glycoprotein, CBA = Cytometric bead array, MALDI TOF-MS = matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight, SELDI TOF-MS = surface-enhanced laser desorption ionization-time of flight, IVCM = in vivo confocal microscopy, AS-OCT = anterior segment optical coherence tomography, iTRAQ = Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation, LC-MS = Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, LCN-1 = lipocalin 1, PIP = prolactin induced protein, NGF = Nerve growth factor, PRR4 = proline rich protein 4, VIP = Vasoactive intestinal peptide, ELISA = enzyme linked immunoassay, TNF-alpha = tumor necrosis factor alpha, PAC = perennial allergic conjunctivitis, SAC = seasonal allergic conjunctivitis, IC = impression cytology, RT-PCR = reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, PCR = polymerase chain reaction, APCs = antigen-presenting cells, NK cells = natural killer cells, HEL = hexanoyl-lysine, 4-HNE = 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, MDA = malondialdehyde.
28446596 | Dicer loss and recovery induce an oncogenic switch driven by transcriptional activation of the oncofetal Imp1-3 family. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression critical for organismal viability. Changes in miRNA activity are common in cancer, but how these changes relate to subsequent alterations in transcription and the process of tumorigenesis is not well understood. Here, we report a deep transcriptional, oncogenic network regulated by miRNAs. We present analysis of the gene expression and phenotypic changes associated with global miRNA restoration in miRNA-deficient fibroblasts. This analysis uncovers a miRNA-repressed network containing oncofetal genes Imp1, Imp2, and Imp3 (Imp1-3) that is up-regulated primarily transcriptionally >100-fold upon Dicer loss and is resistant to resilencing by complete restoration of miRNA activity. This Dicer-resistant epigenetic switch confers tumorigenicity to these cells. Let-7 targets Imp1-3 are required for this tumorigenicity and feed back to reinforce and sustain expression of the oncogenic network. Together, these Dicer-resistant genes constitute an mRNA expression signature that is present in numerous human cancers and is associated with poor survival.
36419107 | The prognostic significance of CXCR4 and SDF-1 in differentiated thyroid cancer depends on CD8+ density. BACKGROUND: Tumor infiltration with cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells is associated with a favorable outcome in several neoplasms, including thyroid cancer. The chemokine axis CXCR4/SDF-1 correlates with more aggressive tumors, but little is known concerning the prognostic relevance in relation to the tumor immune microenvironment of differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC). METHODS: A tissue microarray (TMA) of 37 tumor specimens of primary DTC was analyzed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) for the expression of CD8+, CXCR4, phosphorylated CXCR4 and SDF-1. A survival analysis was performed on a larger collective (n = 456) at RNA level using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) papillary thyroid cancer cohort. RESULTS: Among the 37 patients in the TMA-cohort, the density of CD8+ was higher in patients with less advanced primary tumors (median cells/TMA-punch: 12.5 (IQR: 6.5, 12.5) in T1-2 tumors vs. 5 (IQR: 3, 8) in T3-4 tumors, p = 0.05). In the TCGA-cohort, CXCR4 expression was higher in patients with cervical lymph node metastasis compared to N0 or Nx stage (CXCR4high/low 116/78 vs. 97/116 vs. 14/35, respectively, p = 0.001). Spearman's correlation analysis of the TMA-cohort demonstrated that SDF-1 was significantly correlated with CXCR4 (r = 0.4, p = 0.01) and pCXCR4 (r = 0.5, p = 0.002). In the TCGA-cohort, density of CD8+ correlated with CXCR4 and SDF-1 expression (r = 0.58, p < 0.001; r = 0.4, p < 0.001). The combined marker analysis of the TCGA cohort demonstrated that high expression of both, CXCR4 and SDF-1 was associated with reduced overall survival in the CD8 negative TCGA cohort (p = 0.004). CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the prognostic significance of CXCR4 and SDF-1 in differentiated thyroid cancer depends on the density of CD8 positive T-lymphocytes. Further studies with larger sample sizes are needed to support our findings and inform future investigations of new treatment and diagnostic options for a more personalized approach for patients with differentiated thyroid cancer.
38306953 | CXCL12-CXCR4 mediates CD57+ CD8+ T cell responses in the progression of type 1 diabetes. CD57+ CD8+ T cells, also referred as effector memory cells, are implicated in various conditions including tumor immunity, virus immunity, and most recently with autoimmunity. However, their roles in the progression and remission of T1D are still unclear. Here, we noted an increase in peripheral CD57+ CD8+ T cells in a T1D patient harboring an activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) mutation. Our in-depth study on the role of CD57+ CD8+ T cells within a T1D patient cohort revealed that these cells undergo significant compositional shifts during the disease's progression. Longitudinal cohort data suggested that CD57+ CD8+ T cell prevalence may be a harbinger of beta-cell function decline in T1D patients. Characterized by robust cytotoxic activity, heightened production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and increased intracellular glucose uptake, these cells may be key players in the pathophysiology of T1D. Moreover, in vitro assays showed that the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis promotes the expansion and function of CD57+ CD8+ T cells via Erk1/2 signaling. Notably, the changes of serum CXCL12 concentrations were also found in individuals during the peri-remission phase of T1D. Furthermore, treatment with the CXCR4 antagonist LY2510924 reduced the immunological infiltration of CD57+ CD8+ T cells and mitigated hyperglycemia in a STZ-induced T1D mouse model. Taken together, our work has uncovered a novel role of the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis in driving CD57+ CD8+ T cells responses in T1D, and presented a promising therapeutic strategy for delaying the onset and progression of diabetes.
23833298 | Regulation of cell proliferation and migration by keratin19-induced nuclear import of early growth response-1 in breast cancer cells. PURPOSE: Keratin19 (KRT19) is the smallest known type I intermediate filament and is used as a marker for reverse transcriptase PCR-mediated detection of disseminated tumors. In this study, we investigated the functional analysis of KRT19 in human breast cancer. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Using a short hairpin RNA system, we silenced KRT19 in breast cancer cells. KRT19 silencing was verified by Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry. We further examined the effect of KRT19 silencing on breast cancer cells by cell proliferation, migration, invasion, colony formation assay, cell-cycle analysis, immunocytochemistry, immunohistochemistry, and mouse xenograft assay. RESULTS: Silencing of KRT19 resulted in increased cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and survival. These effects were mediated by upregulation of Akt signaling as a result of reduced PTEN mRNA expression. Silencing of KRT19 decreased the nuclear import of early growth response-1 (Egr1), a transcriptional factor for PTEN transcription, through reduced association between Egr1 and importin-7. We also confirmed that silencing of KRT19 increased tumor formation in a xenograft model. CONCLUSIONS: KRT19 is a potential tumor suppressor that negatively regulates Akt signaling through modulation of Egr1 nuclear localization.
36898046 | Clinical Significance of Plasma Soluble MICB in Children With EBV-associated Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis. BACKGROUND: Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a potentially fatal systemic inflammation disease in children. The most common cause is Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence B (MICB) is a membrane protein inducibly expressed upon cellular stress, viral infection, or malignant transformation, thus marking these cells for clearance through natural killer group 2 member D-positive lymphocytes. MICB can be released into plasma through several mechanisms, reducing NK cell cytotoxicity. METHODS: We conducted clinical research on HLH patients and cell research in vitro. In the retrospective clinical part, 112 HLH patients (including EBV-HLH group and non-EBV-HLH group), 7 infectious mononucleosis patients, and 7 chronic active EBV infection patients were treated in Beijing Children's Hospital, affiliated with Capital Medical University, from January 2014 to December 2020, were enrolled in this study. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, standard enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay methods, and lactate dehydrogenase release tests were used to examine the expression of MICB mRNA, the soluble MICB (sMICB) levels, and the activity of NK cells in those patients. In vitro research, MICB overexpression-vector virus, MICB knockdown-vector virus, and empty-vector virus were transfected into two kinds of target cells, such as K562 and MCF7. The level of sMICB and NK cell killing activity between other groups was compared. Finally, we compared NK92 cell killing activity in different concentrations of sMICB. RESULTS: In clinical studies, compared with the non-EBV-HLH group, the EBV-HLH group had lower NK cell killing activity (P < 0.05). The level of sMICB in the EBV-HLH group was significantly higher than in non-EBV-HLH, infectious mononucleosis, and chronic active EBV infection patients (P<0.05). A high level of sMICB was associated with poor treatment response and poor prognosis (P<0. 05). Cellular studies showed that an increased level of membrane MICB could positively correlate with the killing activity of NK92 cells (P<0. 05), and a high level of sMICB (1250 to 5000pg/ml) could reduce the killing activity of NK92 cells (P < 0.05). A high level of sMICB (2500pg/ml) could increase the release of cytokines from NK92 cells. CONCLUSION: The expression level of sMICB in EBV-HLH patients increased, and a high level of sMICB at the initial onset indicated a poor treatment response. The killing activity of NK cells in EBV-HLH patients decreased more significantly. The high level of sMICB may inhibit the killing activity but increase the release of cytokines of NK92 cells.
33972238 | Amikacin Combined with Fosfomycin for Treatment of Neonatal Sepsis in the Setting of Highly Prevalent Antimicrobial Resistance. Antimicrobial resistance (particularly through extended-spectrum beta-lactamase and aminoglycoside-modifying enzyme production) in neonatal sepsis is a global problem, particularly in low- and middle-income countries, with significant mortality rates. High rates of resistance are reported for the current WHO-recommended first-line antibiotic regimen for neonatal sepsis, i.e., ampicillin and gentamicin. We assessed the utility of fosfomycin and amikacin as a potential alternative regimen to be used in settings of increasingly prevalent antimicrobial resistance. The combination was studied in a 16-arm dose-ranged hollow-fiber infection model (HFIM) experiment. The combination of amikacin and fosfomycin enhanced bactericidal activity and prevented the emergence of resistance, compared to monotherapy with either antibiotic. Modeling of the experimental quantitative outputs and data from checkerboard assays indicated synergy. We further assessed the combination regimen at clinically relevant doses in the HFIM with nine Enterobacterales strains with high fosfomycin and amikacin MICs and demonstrated successful kill to sterilization for 6/9 strains. From these data, we propose a novel combination breakpoint threshold for microbiological success for this antimicrobial combination against Enterobacterales strains, i.e., MICF x MICA < 256 (where MICF and MICA are the fosfomycin and amikacin MICs, respectively). Monte Carlo simulations predict that a standard fosfomycin-amikacin neonatal regimen would achieve >99% probability of pharmacodynamic success for strains with MICs below this threshold. We conclude that the combination of fosfomycin with amikacin is a viable regimen for the empirical treatment of neonatal sepsis and is suitable for further clinical assessment in a randomized controlled trial.
37867688 | Characterization of Structurally Diverse 18F-Labeled d-TCO Derivatives as a PET Probe for Bioorthogonal Pretargeted Imaging. Background: The pretargeted imaging strategy using inverse electron demand Diels-Alder (IEDDA) cycloaddition between a trans-cyclooctene (TCO) and tetrazine (Tz) has emerged and rapidly grown as a promising concept to improve radionuclide imaging and therapy in oncology. This strategy has mostly relied on the use of radiolabeled Tz together with TCO-modified targeting vectors leading to a rapid growth of the number of available radiolabeled tetrazines, while only a few radiolabeled TCOs are currently reported. Here, we aim to develop novel and structurally diverse 18F-labeled cis-dioxolane-fused TCO (d-TCO) derivatives to further expand the bioorthogonal toolbox for in vivo ligation and evaluate their potential for positron emission tomography (PET) pretargeted imaging. Results: A small series of d-TCO derivatives were synthesized and tested for their reactivity against tetrazines, with all compounds showing fast reaction kinetics with tetrazines. A fluorescence-based pretargeted blocking study was developed to investigate the in vivo ligation of these compounds without labor-intensive prior radiochemical development. Two compounds showed excellent in vivo ligation results with blocking efficiencies of 95 and 97%. Two novel 18F-labeled d-TCO radiotracers were developed, from which [18F]MICA-214 showed good in vitro stability, favorable pharmacokinetics, and moderate in vivo stability. Micro-PET pretargeted imaging with [18F]MICA-214 in mice bearing LS174T tumors treated with tetrazine-modified CC49 monoclonal antibody (mAb) (CC49-Tz) showed significantly higher uptake in tumor tissue in the pretargeted group (CC49-Tz 2.16 +- 0.08% ID/mL) when compared to the control group with nonmodified mAb (CC49 1.34 +- 0.07% ID/mL). Conclusions: A diverse series of fast-reacting fluorinated d-TCOs were synthesized. A pretargeted blocking approach in tumor-bearing mice allowed the choice of a lead compound with fast reaction kinetics with Tz. A novel 18F-labeled d-TCO tracer was developed and used in a pretargeted PET imaging approach, allowing specific tumor visualization in a mouse model of colorectal cancer. Although further optimization of the radiotracer is needed to enhance the tumor-to-background ratios for pretargeted imaging, we anticipate that the 18F-labeled d-TCO will find use in studies where increased hydrophilicity and fast bioconjugation are required.
22295092 | Specific nuclear localizing sequence directs two myosin isoforms to the cell nucleus in calmodulin-sensitive manner. BACKGROUND: Nuclear myosin I (NM1) was the first molecular motor identified in the cell nucleus. Together with nuclear actin, they participate in crucial nuclear events such as transcription, chromatin movements, and chromatin remodeling. NM1 is an isoform of myosin 1c (Myo1c) that was identified earlier and is known to act in the cytoplasm. NM1 differs from the \cytoplasmic\ myosin 1c only by additional 16 amino acids at the N-terminus of the molecule. This amino acid stretch was therefore suggested to direct NM1 into the nucleus. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We investigated the mechanism of nuclear import of NM1 in detail. Using over-expressed GFP chimeras encoding for truncated NM1 mutants, we identified a specific sequence that is necessary for its import to the nucleus. This novel nuclear localization sequence is placed within calmodulin-binding motif of NM1, thus it is present also in the Myo1c. We confirmed the presence of both isoforms in the nucleus by transfection of tagged NM1 and Myo1c constructs into cultured cells, and also by showing the presence of the endogenous Myo1c in purified nuclei of cells derived from knock-out mice lacking NM1. Using pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays we identified importin beta, importin 5 and importin 7 as nuclear transport receptors that bind NM1. Since the NLS sequence of NM1 lies within the region that also binds calmodulin we tested the influence of calmodulin on the localization of NM1. The presence of elevated levels of calmodulin interfered with nuclear localization of tagged NM1. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We have shown that the novel specific NLS brings to the cell nucleus not only the \nuclear\ isoform of myosin I (NM1 protein) but also its \cytoplasmic\ isoform (Myo1c protein). This opens a new field for exploring functions of this molecular motor in nuclear processes, and for exploring the signals between cytoplasm and the nucleus.
35876924 | Immune Evasion of Hepatoma Cancer Stem-Like Cells from Natural Killer Cells. BACKGROUND: Poor prognosis in liver cancer is due to its high frequency of intrahepatic metastasis. Cancer stem-like cells (CSLCs), which possess the properties of stemness, tumor initiation capability, and resistance to therapy, also exhibit metastatic potential. Immune surveillance plays an important role in the accomplishment of metastasis. Herein, the property of immune evasion in CSLCs was investigated. METHODS: Sphere cells were induced as CSLCs using a sphere induction medium containing neural survival factor-1. The expression of genes involved in immune evasion was determined using RNA-sequencing for sphere and parental cells followed by validation using flow cytometric analysis and ELISA. Susceptibility to natural killer (NK) cell-mediated cytotoxicity was examined by a chromium release assay. A xenograft model using BALB/c nu/nu mice was used to assess tumor growth. Gene set enrichment analysis was performed for interpreting RNA sequencing. RESULTS: The cell surface expressions of PD-L1, PD-L2, and CEACAM1 were upregulated and those of ULBP1 and MICA/MICB were downregulated in SK-sphere, CSLCs derived from SK-HEP-1, compared with that in parental cells. Levels of soluble MICA were elevated in conditioned medium from SK-sphere. Expression of HLA class I was not downregulated in SK-sphere. The susceptibilities to NK cell-mediated killing and secreted perforin were significantly lower in both CSLCs derived from SK-HEP-1 and HLE than in parental cells. Tumors formed upon inoculation of SK-sphere in immunodeficient mice harboring NK cells were larger than those formed upon inoculation of parental cells. CONCLUSION: Human hepatoma cell line-derived CSLCs may possess immune evasion properties, especially from NK cell-mediated immunity.
37674990 | Levels of Soluble NKG2D Ligands and Cancer History in Patients Starting Hemodialysis. Background: Immune dysfunction in hemodialysis patients is partially due to NK cell impairment. Ligands for NK activating receptors such as NKG2D expressed on cancer cells are involved in NK cell dysfunction and can lead to cancer development. Methods: A cohort with 370 patients who started hemodialysis (HD) was investigated. Serum levels of soluble NKG2D ligands were measured. Cancer history was defined as any cancer diagnosis at induction and hospitalization and death due to cancer during 2-year follow-up. Results: Sixty-two patients with and 308 patients without a cancer history showed mostly comparable biochemical parameters and uremic status at HD induction. Soluble MICB, ULBP-1, and ULBP-2 were detected in sera from most patients starting HD rather than MICA, the most representative NKG2D ligand. Measured NKG2D ligands, except for ULBP-1, were strongly correlated with each other. Correlations between NKG2D ligands and renal function were significant but modest in patients starting HD. Cancer history did not have any impact on levels of soluble NKG2D ligands. Discussion: Even though this investigation lacked a control cohort and serial measurement of parameters, expression patterns of NKG2D ligands were comprehensively described, and the significance of cancer in patients starting HD was elucidated for the first time. Elevated levels of soluble NKG2D ligands occurred potentially due to complex mechanisms of oxidative stress, with insufficient metabolism and excretion in a uremic milieu, but they might mask the significance of elevations in serum levels of soluble NKG2DLs in patients with a cancer history.
15545318 | Ubiquitin charging of human class III ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes triggers their nuclear import. Ubiquitin is a small polypeptide that is conjugated to proteins and commonly serves as a degradation signal. The attachment of ubiquitin (Ub) to a substrate proceeds through a multi-enzyme cascade involving an activating enzyme (E1), a conjugating enzyme (E2), and a protein ligase (E3). We previously demonstrated that a murine E2, UbcM2, is imported into nuclei by the transport receptor importin-11. We now show that the import mechanism for UbcM2 and two other human class III E2s (UbcH6 and UBE2E2) uniquely requires the covalent attachment of Ub to the active site cysteine of these enzymes. This coupling of E2 activation and transport arises from the selective interaction of importin-11 with the Ub-loaded forms of these enzymes. Together, these findings reveal that Ub charging can function as a nuclear import trigger, and identify a novel link between E2 regulation and karyopherin-mediated transport.
11703823 | Genomic analysis of MIC genes in rhesus macaques. MIC genes map to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and are distantly related to MHC class I genes. Recently, MICA/MICB-like genes have been described in nonhuman primates. In Macaca mulatta, three MICA/B-like genes could be identified: Mamu-MIC1, Mamu-MIC2, and Mamu-MIC3. We show here the isolation and characterization of rhesus macaque cosmid clones which carry the Mamu-MIC2 and Mamu-MIC3 genes. Neither the MIC2- and MIC3-coding sequences nor respective flanking sequences can be aligned unambiguously to either the human HLA-MICA or -MICB subregions, although MIC2 was found at a similar distance to the BAT1 gene as known for MICB in human. Thus, the characteristics allowing for a classification of primate MIC genes as being of the MICA or MICB types appear to have evolved after the separation of humans and rhesus monkeys from a common ancestor. Furthermore, also Mamu-MICD-containing cosmids could be isolated. In contrast to Mamu-MIC2 and Mamu-MIC3, the Mamu-MICD gene and its flanking sequences are highly conserved and orthologous to the human MICD subregion.
23605716 | Expression and subcellular distribution of imp13 are regulated in brain development. Imp13, a member of importin-beta superfamily, is found to be one of two bidirectional transport receptors in many nuclear transport activities in mammals. Several cargoes of imp13 have been identified; most of these are essential factors involved in cell cycle and development. The expression and localization of imp13 may influence its cargoes in playing their roles in appropriate time and space. To gain insight into the role of imp13 in brain development, we generated an anti-imp13 polyclonal antibody and investigated the expressions of imp13 in mouse embryonic brains during development, including E13.5, E15.5, E17.5, P0, and adult, at both transcriptional and translational levels. In addition, we performed immunohistochemical analysis and revealed that imp13 tends to be localized in the cytoplasm at the early stages and relocates into the nucleus at the late stages in neuronal cells of mouse brains. These findings suggested that the expression and localization of imp13 in brain tissues are regulated developmentally, which extends our knowledge of the dynamic presence of imp13. These observations also imply that imp13 contributes to the neural cell-specific cargo trafficking and potentially to other functions during brain development.
38516860 | Helicobacter pylori enhances HLA-C expression in the human gastric adenocarcinoma cells AGS and can protect them from the cytotoxicity of natural killer cells. Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) seems to play causative roles in gastric cancers. H. pylori has also been detected in established gastric cancers. How the presence of H. pylori modulates immune response to the cancer is unclear. The cytotoxicity of natural killer (NK) cells, toward infected or malignant cells, is controlled by the repertoire of activating and inhibitory receptors expressed on their surface. Here, we studied H. pylori-induced changes in the expression of ligands, of activating and inhibitory receptors of NK cells, in the gastric adenocarcinoma AGS cells, and their impacts on NK cell responses. AGS cells lacked or had low surface expression of the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I) molecules HLA-E and HLA-C-ligands of the major NK cell inhibitory receptors NKG2A and killer-cell Ig-like receptor (KIR), respectively. However, AGS cells had high surface expression of ligands of activating receptors DNAM-1 and CD2, and of the adhesion molecules LFA-1. Consistently, AGS cells were sensitive to killing by NK cells despite the expression of inhibitory KIR on NK cells. Furthermore, H. pylori enhanced HLA-C surface expression on AGS cells. H. pylori infection enhanced HLA-C protein synthesis, which could explain H. pylori-induced HLA-C surface expression. H. pylori infection enhanced HLA-C surface expression also in the hepatoma Huh7 and HepG2 cells. Furthermore, H. pylori-induced HLA-C surface expression on AGS cells promoted inhibition of NK cells by KIR, and thereby protected AGS cells from NK cell cytotoxicity. These results suggest that H. pylori enhances HLA-C expression in host cells and protects them from the cytotoxic attack of NK cells expressing HLA-C-specific inhibitory receptors.
29476013 | Karyopherin alpha-3 is a key protein in the pathogenesis of spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 controlling the nuclear localization of ataxin-3. Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG expansion in the ATXN3 gene leading to a polyglutamine expansion in the ataxin-3 protein. The nuclear presence and aggregation of expanded ataxin-3 are critical steps in disease pathogenesis. To identify novel therapeutic targets, we investigated the nucleocytoplasmic transport system by screening a collection of importins and exportins that potentially modulate this nuclear localization. Using cell, Drosophila, and mouse models, we focused on three transport proteins, namely, CRM1, IPO13, KPNA3, and their respective Drosophila orthologs Emb, Cdm, and Kap-alpha3. While overexpression of CRM1/Emb demonstrated positive effects in Drosophila, KPNA3/Kap-alpha3 emerged as the most promising target, as knockdown via multiple RNAi lines demonstrated its ability to shuttle both truncated and full-length expanded ataxin-3, rescue neurodegeneration, restore photoreceptor formation, and reduce aggregation. Furthermore, KPNA3 knockout in SCA3 mice resulted in an amelioration of molecular and behavioral disturbances such as total activity, anxiety, and gait. Since KPNA3 is known to function as an import protein and recognize nuclear localization signals (NLSs), this work unites ataxin-3 structure to the nuclear pore machinery and provides a link between karyopherins, NLS signals, and polyglutamine disease, as well as demonstrates that KPNA3 is a key player in the pathogenesis of SCA3.
32218703 | Importin-11 is Essential for Normal Embryonic Development in Mice. Importin-11 (Ipo11) is a novel member of the human importin family of transport receptors (karyopherins), which are known to mediate the nucleocytoplasmic transport of protein and RNA cargos. Despite its role in the transport of protein, we found that knockout of Ipo11 nuclear import factor affects normal embryonic development and govern embryo-lethal phenotypes in mice. In this study, we for the first time produced a mouse line containing null mutation in Ipo11 gene utilized by gene trapping. The Ipo11-/- embryos showed an embryonic lethal phenotype. The Ipo11-/- embryos showed a reduced size at embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5) when compared with Ipo11+/+ or Ipo11+/- embryos and died by E11.5. Whereas Ipo11+/- mice were healthy and fertile, and there was no detectable changes in embryonic lethality and phenotype when reviewed. In the X-gal staining with the Ipo11-/- or Ipo11+/- embryos, strong X-gal staining positivity was detected systematically in the whole mount embryos at E10.5, although almost no X-gal positivity was detected at E9.5, indicating that the embryos die soon after the process of Ipo11 expression started. These results indicate that Ipo11 is essential for the normal embryonic development in mice.
38331849 | IL-15-secreting CAR natural killer cells directed toward the pan-cancer target CD70 eliminate both cancer cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts. BACKGROUND: It remains challenging to obtain positive outcomes with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered cell therapies in solid malignancies, like colorectal cancer (CRC) and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). A major obstacle is the lack of targetable surface antigens that are not shared by healthy tissues. CD70 emerges as interesting target, due to its stringent expression pattern in healthy tissue and its apparent role in tumor progression in a considerable amount of malignancies. Moreover, CD70 is also expressed on cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), another roadblock for treatment efficacy in CRC and PDAC. We explored the therapeutic potential of CD70 as target for CAR natural killer (NK) cell therapy in CRC, PDAC, focusing on tumor cells and CAFs, and lymphoma. METHODS: RNA-seq data and immunohistochemical analysis of patient samples were used to explore CD70 expression in CRC and PDAC patients. In addition, CD70-targeting CAR NK cells were developed to assess cytotoxic activity against CD70+ tumor cells and CAFs, and the effect of cytokine stimulation on their efficacy was evaluated. The in vitro functionality of CD70-CAR NK cells was investigated against a panel of tumor and CAF cell lines with varying CD70 expression. Lymphoma-bearing mice were used to validate in vivo potency of CD70-CAR NK cells. Lastly, to consider patient variability, CD70-CAR NK cells were tested on patient-derived organoids containing CAFs. RESULTS: In this study, we identified CD70 as a target for tumor cells and CAFs in CRC and PDAC patients. Functional evaluation of CD70-directed CAR NK cells indicated that IL-15 stimulation is essential to obtain effective elimination of CD70+ tumor cells and CAFs, and to improve tumor burden and survival of mice bearing CD70+ tumors. Mechanistically, IL-15 stimulation resulted in improved potency of CD70-CAR NK cells by upregulating CAR expression and increasing secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, in a mainly autocrine or intracellular manner. CONCLUSIONS: We disclose CD70 as an attractive target both in hematological and solid tumors. IL-15 armored CAR NK cells act as potent effectors to eliminate these CD70+ cells. They can target both tumor cells and CAFs in patients with CRC and PDAC, and potentially other desmoplastic solid tumors.
37890815 | Hollow Cu2MoS4 nanoparticles loaded with immune checkpoint inhibitors reshape the tumor microenvironment to enhance immunotherapy for pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a fatal disease that responds poorly to single-drug immunotherapy with PD-L1 (CD274) inhibitors. Here, we prepared mesoporous nanomaterials Cu2MoS4 (CMS)/PEG loaded with PD-L1 inhibitor BMS-1 and CXCR4 inhibitor Plerixafor to form the nanodrug CMS/PEG-B-P. In vitro experiments, CMS/PEG-B-P have a more substantial inhibitory effect on the expression of PD-L1 and CXCR4 as well as to promote the apoptosis of pancreatic cancer cells KPC and suppressed KPC cell proliferation were detected by flow cytometry, qPCR and Western blotting (WB). Promotes the release of the cytotoxic substance reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the production of the immunogenic cell death (ICD) marker calreticulin (CRT) in KPC cells. CMS/PEG-B-P was also detected to have a certain activating effect on mouse immune cells, dendritic cells (mDC) and macrophage RAW264.7. Subcutaneous tumorigenicity experiments in C57BL/6 mice verified that CMS/PEG-B-P had an inhibitory effect on the growth of tumors and remodeling of the tumor immune microenvironment, including infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and polarization of macrophages, as well as reduction of immunosuppressive cells. Meanwhile, CMS/PEG-B-P was found to have different effects on the release of cytokines in the tumor immune microenvironment, including The levels of immunostimulatory cytokines INF-gamma and IL-12 are increased and the levels of immunosuppressive cytokines IL-6, IL-10 and IFN-alpha are decreased. In conclusion, nanomaterial-loaded immune checkpoint inhibitor therapies can enhance the immune response and reduce side effects, a combination that shows great potential as a new immunotherapeutic approach. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a fatal disease that has a low response to single-drug immunotherapy with PD-L1 (CD274) inhibitors. We preared PEG-modified mesoporous nanomaterials Cu2MoS4 (CMS) loaded with PD-L1 inhibitor BMS-1 and CXCR4 inhibitor Plerixafor to form the nanodrug CMS/PEG-B-P. Our study demonstrated that Nanomaterial-loaded immune checkpoint inhibitor therapies can enhance the immune response and reduce side effects, a combination that shows great potential as a new immunotherapeutic approach.
28736931 | Genetic Variants in HSD17B3, SMAD3, and IPO11 Impact Circulating Lipids in Response to Fenofibrate in Individuals With Type 2 Diabetes. Individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and dyslipidemia are at an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Fibrates are a class of drugs prescribed to treat dyslipidemia, but variation in response has been observed. To evaluate common and rare genetic variants that impact lipid responses to fenofibrate in statin-treated patients with T2D, we examined lipid changes in response to fenofibrate therapy using a genomewide association study (GWAS). Associations were followed-up using gene expression studies in mice. Common variants in SMAD3 and IPO11 were marginally associated with lipid changes in black subjects (P < 5 x 10-6 ). Rare variant and gene expression changes were assessed using a false discovery rate approach. AKR7A3 and HSD17B13 were associated with lipid changes in white subjects (q < 0.2). Mice fed fenofibrate displayed reductions in Hsd17b13 gene expression (q < 0.1). Associations of variants in SMAD3, IPO11, and HSD17B13, with gene expression changes in mice indicate that transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and NRF2 signaling pathways may influence fenofibrate effects on dyslipidemia in patients with T2D.
29643034 | [Verification of a sporadic Alzheimer disease model in SORL1 gene knockout mice]. OBJECTIVE: To compare the behavioral and pathological features of SORL1 gene knockout mice with those of normal mice and APP/PSE1 mice to verify the feasibility of using SORL1 knockout mice as a model of sporadic Alzheimer disease. METHODS: SORL1 gene of fertilized mouse eggs were edited using Crispr/Case9 technique. SORL1-/- mice were screened and identified by detecting the DNA sequence, and Western blotting was used to detect the expression of SORL1. SORL1-/- mice, control mice and APP/PSE1 mice all underwent Morris water maze test to assess their learning and memory abilities with positioning navigation and space exploration experiments. The expression of APP and Abeta in the brain of the mice was detected using immunohistochemistry and Western blotting, respectively. RESULTS: DNA sequencing showed CAAT deletion in SORL1 gene in two chromosomes of SORL1-/- mice, and the control mice had intact SORL1 gene without the deletion; Western blotting did not detect the expression of the SORL1 in the brain of SORL1-/- mice. Morris water maze test showed that in positioning navigation experiment, the average avoidance latency was similar between SORL1-/- mice and APP/PSE1 mice (P>0.05) but increased significantly in both mice as compared with the control group (P<0.05); similar results were obtained in the space exploration experiment. Immunohistochemistry and Western blotting revealed significantly increased APP and Abeta expression in the brain tissue of both SORL1-/- mice and APP/PSE1 mice compared with the control mice without significant differences between the two transgenic mice. CONCLUSION: SORL1-/- mice exhibit similar behavioral and pathological changes with APP/PSE1 mice and can be used as a model of sporadic Alzheimer's disease.
38568113 | The novel HLA-C*07:02:147 allele characterised by two different sequencing-based typing techniques. The novel allele HLA-C*07:02:147 differs from HLA-C*07:02:01:01 by one synonymous nucleotide substitution in exon 2.
19593795 | Importin 13 serves as a potential marker for corneal epithelial progenitor cells. Importin13 (IPO13), the newest member of importin-beta family discovered recently, is a unique nucleus-cytoplasm bidirectional transport receptor protein. In this study, IPO13 expression in human corneal tissue, limbal epithelial primary explant and clonal culture was evaluated by immunostaining and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reasgon. IPO13 function was evaluated in the corneal epithelial culture treated with IPO13 inhibitor, or fetal bovine serum (FBS)-containing Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) medium by colony-forming efficiency, clone growth capacity, MTT, immunostaining, and Western blotting assay. IPO13 protein was expressed mainly in nuclei of limbal epithelial basal cells, but not in the other cell layers of limbus and full thickness of corneal epithelia. IPO13 was expressed in the majority of epithelial cells in early-stage clones and in the margin of late-stage clones. IPO13 was positively expressed in mouse TKE2 progenitor cells cultured in keratinocyte serum-free defined medium, while it became negative in FBS-containing DMEM, which promoted TKE2 cell differentiation. In the presence of IPO13 inhibitor, IPO13 expression and the proliferative capacity decreased in human limbal epithelial clones and mouse TKE2 cells, which were accompanied with the cell differentiation. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate for the first time that IPO13 is uniquely expressed by human limbal basal epithelial cells, and plays an important role in maintaining the phenotype, high proliferative potential, and less differentiation of corneal epithelial progenitor cells, suggesting that IPO13 could serve as a novel potential marker for corneal epithelial progenitor cells.
9420468 | Duplication and polymorphism in the MHC: Alu generated diversity and polymorphism within the PERB11 gene family. The PERB11 gene family has at least five members within the telomeric region of the MHC. The PERB11.1 and PERB11.2 genes are approximately 40 kb and 160 kb centromeric of HLA-B, respectively. Using continuous genomic sequence encompassing PERB11.1 and PERB11.2, we have found a large (approximately 25 kb) segmental duplication extending beyond the genes themselves and other potential coding sequences. The major difference between the segments are large indels which are predominantly Alu sequences. The Alu sequences within the duplicated segments have created diversity via the internal and 3' poly A-rich region. A sequence comparison of an Alu sequence between two different human ancestral haplotypes shows a high level of polymorphism, particularly in the poly A-rich regions. This study characterises the Alu sequences within the peri-PERB11.1 and peri-PERB11.2 duplicated segments in relation to diversity and polymorphism and as evolutionary markers.
38360292 | Nanoparticle-mediated blockade of CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling enhances glioblastoma immunotherapy: Monitoring early responses with MRI radiomics. The limited therapeutic efficacy of checkpoint blockade immunotherapy against glioblastoma is closely related to the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment, where the latter is driven primarily by tumor-associated myeloid cells (TAMCs). Targeting the C-X-C motif chemokine ligand-12/C-X-C motif chemokine receptor-4 (CXCL12/CXCR4) signaling orchestrates the recruitment of TAMCs and has emerged as a promising approach for alleviating immunosuppression. Herein, we developed an iRGD ligand-modified polymeric nanoplatform for the co-delivery of CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100 and the small-molecule immune checkpoint inhibitor BMS-1. The iRGD peptide facilitated superior BBB crossing and tumor-targeting abilities both in vitro and in vivo. In mice bearing orthotopic GL261-Luc tumor, co-administration of AMD3100 and BMS-1 significantly inhibited tumor proliferation without adverse effects. A reprogramming of immunosuppression upon CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling blockade was observed, characterized by the reduction of TAMCs and regulatory T cells, and an increased proportion of CD8+T lymphocytes. The elevation of interferon-gamma secreted from activated immune cells upregulated PD-L1 expression in tumor cells, highlighting the synergistic effect of BMS-1 in counteracting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway. Finally, our research unveiled the ability of MRI radiomics to reveal early changes in the tumor immune microenvironment following immunotherapy, offering a powerful tool for monitoring treatment responses. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: The insufficient BBB penetration and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment greatly diminish the efficacy of immunotherapy for glioblastoma (GBM). In this study, we prepared iRGD-modified polymeric nanoparticles, loaded with a CXCR4 antagonist (AMD3100) and a small-molecule checkpoint inhibitor of PD-L1 (BMS-1) to overcome physical barriers and reprogram the immunosuppressive microenvironment in orthotopic GBM models. In this nanoplatform, AMD3100 converted the \cold\ immune microenvironment into a \hot\ one, while BMS-1 synergistically counteracted PD-L1 inhibition, enhancing GBM immunotherapy. Our findings underscore the potential of dual-blockade of CXCL12/CXCR4 and PD-1/PD-L1 pathways as a complementary approach to maximize therapeutic efficacy for GBM. Moreover, our study revealed that MRI radiomics provided a clinically translatable means to assess immunotherapeutic efficacy.
10795827 | Coevolution of HLA-B and PERB11.1 (MICA): significance of independent triplet expansion within the transmembrane region of PERB11.1 (MICA). Several highly polymorphic sequences are present in the beta block of the MHC, especially HLA-B, HLA-C, PERB11.1 (MICA), and PERB11.2 (MICB). It is now apparent that the polymorphism of PERB11.1 is of the same order as that of HLA-A, -B, and -C and it has been suggested that PERB11 could explain some of the disease associations previously attributed to HLA-B. Phylogenetic analysis of PERB11 alpha-domain sequences demonstrates relationships with HLA-B cross-reactive serogroups. In contrast, the transmembrane polymorphisms do not appear to be associated with either PERB11 or HLA-B. These data indicate that PERB11 and HLA-B have evolved in concert from their common ancestors and that the transmembrane polymorphisms have arisen independently and more recently. MHC disease associations will need to be reviewed in the light of mechanisms such as receptor binding and signaling.
35296537 | Common and Divergent Features of T Cells from Blood, Gut, and Genital Tract of Antiretroviral Therapy-Treated HIV+ Women. T cells residing in mucosal tissues play important roles in homeostasis and defense against microbial pathogens. The gut and female reproductive tract (FRT) are both tolerogenic environments, but they differ in the kinds of foreign Ags they need to tolerate. How these different environments influence the properties of their T cells is poorly understood, but important for understanding women's health. We recruited antiretroviral therapy-suppressed women living with HIV who donated, within one visit, blood and tissue samples from the ileum, colon, rectosigmoid, endometrium, endocervix, and ectocervix. With these samples, we conducted 36-parameter cytometry by time of flight phenotyping of T cells. Although gut and FRT T cells shared features discriminating them from their blood counterparts, they also harbored features distinguishing them from one another. These included increased proportions of CD69+ T resident memory cells of the T effector memory phenotype, as well as preferential coexpression of CD69 and CD103, on the gut-derived cells. In contrast, CD69+CD103+ T resident memory CD8+ T cells from FRT, but not those from gut, preferentially expressed PD1. We further determined that a recently described population of CXCR4+ T inflammatory mucosal cells differentially expressed multiple other chemokine receptors relative to their blood counterparts. Our findings suggest that T cells resident in different tolerogenic mucosal sites take on distinct properties.
19819847 | [Influence of Tripterygium wilfordii on the expression of spermiogenesis related genes Herc4, Ipo11 and Mrto4 in mice]. The mechanism of Tripterygium wilfordii (GTW) inhibiting productive function was studied in the male mice. The male mice were randomly divided into control group and GTW group. GTW group had been given Tripterygium wilfordii for 8 weeks. The pregnancy rate was investigated after the male mice mated with the normal female mice (1ratio2) in one week. Also the pathological changes of the male mice testis were evaluated by the optical microscope and the expression of genes related to reproduction was investigated by Gene Chip Technology 8 weeks later. The results showed pregnancy rate of GTW group was obviously decreased compared with the control mice, and no pregnancy occurred in GTW group at 8 weeks. In the testis tissues of GTW group, the spermatogenic cells in the convoluted seminiferous tubules were obviously decreased and the lumen was obstructed by large deciduous spermatogenic cells. The number of abnormal expression genes in this group was 1 932. Among them, 354 genes were related to reproduction, including 112 up-regulated and 242 down-regulated genes. Genes Herc4, Ipo11, and Mrto4, which are closely associated with spermiogenesis, were expressed irregularly. The outcome indicates that the inhibitive reproduction of Tripterygium wilfordii in the male mice is associated with the abnormal expression of spermiogenesis genes.
38566358 | Detection of the HLA-C*07:04:29 allele in a Chinese individual. HLA-C*07:04:29 differs from HLA-C*07:04:01:01 by a single substitution in exon 4.
16908015 | Stage-specific Importin13 activity influences meiosis of germ cells in the mouse. Importin-mediated transport of cargoes is known to be a key mechanism for nucleo-cytoplasmic trafficking of molecules. Ipo13, which is a member of Importin-beta gene family, encodes two transcripts by utilizing different transcription start sites. In the mouse, the full-length transcript (L-Ipo13) is expressed in the primordial germ cells in the embryo and is later expressed predominantly at the pachytene phase of meiosis in both male and female germ cells. The shorter transcript (TS-Ipo13) is only expressed in the germ cells in the adult testis. Activity of L-Ipo13, but not TS-Ipo13, mediates the nuclear accumulation of ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme 9 (UBC9), a cargo of human IPO13. This finding is consistent with the progressive accumulation of UBC9 in the nucleus of the meiotic germ cells after the onset of L-Ipo13 expression. Following siRNA knockdown of IPO13 activity in the fetal ovary, fewer germ cells are found to progress to the late-pachytene stage of meiosis and nuclear accumulation of UBC9 is reduced. Our findings strongly implicate a stage-specific role of IPO13 in nuclear-cytoplasmic translocation of cargoes that accompanies meiotic differentiation of the mouse germ cells.
38581915 | Interleukin-15 is a hair follicle immune privilege guardian. The autoimmunity-promoting cytokine, Interleukin-15 (IL-15), is often claimed to be a key pathogenic cytokine in alopecia areata (AA). Yet, rhIL-15 promotes human hair follicle (HF) growth ex vivo. We have asked whether the expression of IL-15 and its receptor (IL-15R) isoforms is altered in human AA and how IL-15 impacts on human HF immune privilege (HF-IP) in the presence/absence of interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), the well-documented key AA-pathogenic cytokine, and on hair regrowth after experimental AA induction in vivo. Quantitative immunohistomorphometry showed the number of perifollicular IL-15+ T cells in AA skin biopsies to be significantly increased compared to healthy control skin, while IL-15, IL-15R-alpha, and IL-15R-gamma protein expression within the hair bulb were significantly down-regulated in AA HFs. In organ-cultured human scalp HFs, rhIL-15 significantly reduced hair bulb expression of MICA, the key \danger\ signal in AA pathogenesis, and increased production of the HF-IP guardian, alpha-MSH. Crucially, ex vivo, rhIL-15 prevented IFNgamma-induced HF-IP collapse, restored a collapsed HF-IP by IL-15Ralpha-dependent signaling (as documented by IL-15Ralpha-silencing), and protected AA-preventive immunoinhibitory iNKT10 cells from IFNgamma-induced apoptosis. rhIL-15 even promoted hair regrowth after experimental AA induction in human scalp skin xenotransplants on SCID/beige mice in vivo. Our data introduce IL-15 as a novel, functionally important HF-IP guardian whose signaling is constitutively defective in AA patients. Our data suggest that selective stimulation of intrafollicular IL-15Ralpha signaling could become a novel therapeutic approach in AA management, while blocking it pharmacologically may hinder both HF-IP restoration and hair re-growth and may thus make HFs more vulnerable to AA relapse.
38378397 | Targeting NKG2D/NKG2DL axis in multiple myeloma therapy. Immune effector cells in patients with multiple myeloma (MM) are at the forefront of many immunotherapy treatments, and several methods have been developed to fully utilise the antitumour potential of immune cells. T and NK cell-derived immune lymphocytes both expressed activating NK receptor group 2 member D(NKG2D). This receptor can identify eight distinct NKG2D ligands (NKG2DL), including major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC) chain-related protein A and B (MICA and MICB). Their binding to NKG2D triggers effector roles in T and NK cells. NKG2DL is polymorphic in MM cells. The decreased expression of NKG2DL on the cell surface is explained by multiple mechanisms of tumour immune escape. In this review, we discuss the mechanisms by which the NKG2D/NKG2DL axis regulates immune effector cells and strategies for promoting NKG2DL expression and inhibiting its release in multiple myeloma and propose therapeutic strategies that increase the expression of NKG2DL in MM cells while enhancing the activation and killing function of NK cells.
31875548 | miRNA551b-3p Activates an Oncostatin Signaling Module for the Progression of Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. Genomic amplification of 3q26.2 locus leads to the increased expression of microRNA 551b-3p (miR551b-3p) in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Our results demonstrate that miR551b-3p translocates to the nucleus with the aid of importin-8 (IPO8) and activates STAT3 transcription. As a consequence, miR551b upregulates the expression of oncostatin M receptor (OSMR) and interleukin-31 receptor-alpha (IL-31RA) as well as their ligands OSM and IL-31 through STAT3 transcription. We defined this set of genes induced by miR551b-3p as the \oncostatin signaling module,\ which provides oncogenic addictions in cancer cells. Notably, OSM is highly expressed in TNBC, and the elevated expression of OSM associates with poor outcome in estrogen-receptor-negative breast cancer patients. Conversely, targeting miR551b with anti-miR551b-3p reduced the expression of the OSM signaling module and reduced tumor growth, as well as migration and invasion of breast cancer cells.
37958261 | Genetic Association Studies of MICB and PLCE1 with Severity of Dengue in Indonesian and Taiwanese Populations. Dengue is an arboviral disease that has spread globally and become a major public health concern. A small proportion of patients may progress from symptomatic dengue fever (DF) to dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) or dengue shock syndrome (DSS). Findings from a previous genome-wide association study (GWAS) demonstrated that variations in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related B (MICB) and the phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) genes were related to DSS in a Vietnamese population. This study investigated associations of variations in MICB (rs3132468) and PLCE1 (rs3740360, rs3765524) with dengue severity and thrombocytopenia in both the Indonesian and Taiwanese populations. We sampled 160 patients from the Indonesian population and 273 patients from the Taiwanese population. None of the patients had DSS in the Taiwanese population. Based on age demographics, we found that dengue is more prevalent among younger individuals in the Indonesian population, whereas it has a greater impact on adults in the Taiwanese population. Our results showed the association between MICB rs3132468 and DSS. In addition, an association was identified between PLCE1 rs3740360 and DHF in secondary dengue in Indonesian patients. However, there is no association of MICB or PLCE1 variants with thrombocytopenia. This study highlights the value of genetic testing, which might be included in the clinical pathway for specific patients who can be protected from severe dengue.
34691037 | NKG2D Engagement Alone Is Sufficient to Activate Cytokine-Induced Killer Cells While 2B4 Only Provides Limited Coactivation. Cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells are an ex vivo expanded heterogeneous cell population with an enriched NK-T phenotype (CD3+CD56+). Due to the convenient and relatively inexpensive expansion capability, together with low incidence of graft versus host disease (GVHD) in allogeneic cancer patients, CIK cells are a promising candidate for immunotherapy. It is well known that natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) plays an important role in CIK cell-mediated antitumor activity; however, it remains unclear whether its engagement alone is sufficient or if it requires additional co-stimulatory signals to activate the CIK cells. Likewise, the role of 2B4 has not yet been identified in CIK cells. Herein, we investigated the individual and cumulative contribution of NKG2D and 2B4 in the activation of CIK cells. Our analysis suggests that (a) NKG2D (not 2B4) is implicated in CIK cell (especially CD3+CD56+ subset)-mediated cytotoxicity, IFN-gamma secretion, E/T conjugate formation, and degranulation; (b) NKG2D alone is adequate enough to induce degranulation, IFN-gamma secretion, and LFA-1 activation in CIK cells, while 2B4 only provides limited synergy with NKG2D (e.g., in LFA-1 activation); and (c) NKG2D was unable to costimulate CD3. Collectively, we conclude that NKG2D engagement alone suffices to activate CIK cells, thereby strengthening the idea that targeting the NKG2D axis is a promising approach to improve CIK cell therapy for cancer patients. Furthermore, CIK cells exhibit similarities to classical invariant natural killer (iNKT) cells with deficiencies in 2B4 stimulation and in the costimulation of CD3 with NKG2D. In addition, based on the current data, the divergence in receptor function between CIK cells and NK (or T) cells can be assumed, pointing to the possibility that molecular modifications (e.g., using chimeric antigen receptor technology) on CIK cells may need to be customized and optimized to maximize their functional potential.
36958849 | Associations between MICA and MICB genetic variants, protein levels, and colorectal cancer: Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC). BACKGROUND: The major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related protein A (MICA) and protein B (MICB) participate in tumor immunosurveillance and may be important in colorectal cancer (CRC), but have not been examined in CRC development. METHODS: sMICA and sMICB blood levels were measured by SomaScan in Visit 2 (1990-92, baseline) and Visit 3 (1993-95) samples in cancer-free participants in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. We selected rs1051792, rs1063635, rs2516448, rs3763288, rs1131896, rs2596542, and rs2395029 that were located in or in the vicinity of MICA or MICB and were associated with cancer or autoimmune diseases in published studies. SNPs were genotyped by the Affymetrix Genome-Wide Human SNP Array. We applied linear and Cox proportional hazards regressions to examine the associations of pre-selected SNPs with sMICA and sMICB levels and CRC risk (236 CRCs, 8,609 participants) and of sMICA and sMICB levels with CRC risk (312 CRCs, 10,834 participants). In genetic analyses, estimates adjusted for ancestry markers were meta-analyzed. RESULTS: Rs1051792-A, rs1063635-A, rs2516448-C, rs3763288-A, rs2596542-T, and rs2395029-G were significantly associated with decreased sMICA levels. Rs2395029-G, in the vicinity of MICA and MICB, was also associated with increased sMICB levels. Rs2596542-T was significantly associated with decreased CRC risk. Lower sMICA levels were associated with lower CRC risk in males (HR=0.68, 95%CI 0.49-0.96) but not in females (p-interaction=0.08). CONCLUSIONS: Rs2596542-T associated with lower sMICA levels was associated with decreased CRC risk. Lower sMICA levels were associated with lower CRC risk in males. IMPACT: These findings support an importance of immunosurveillance in CRC.
8973629 | Antibody reactivity profiles following immunization with diverse peptides of the PERB11 (MIC) family. PERB11 (MIC) is a gene family possessing multiple copies located within the MHC. Structurally, PERB11 is related to the MHC class I, neonatal IgG Fc receptor (FcRn) and Zn-alpha 2-glycoprotein molecules. The MHC class I family is complex in terms of its genomic arrangement, expression and function, and available evidence suggests that the PERB11 family may be similarly complex. We have adopted an approach to study the expression of such complex gene families by immunizing with multiple peptides and by screening the resulting antibodies against a large range of tissues. The amino acid sequences of PERB11.1 and PERB11.2 as well as those of other related molecules were analysed and compared. Peptides were chosen for immunization based upon (i) loop formation within the equivalent known structure of the MHC class I molecules; (ii) immunogenicity by computer analysis; and (iii) evolutionary relationships. Antibodies in serum from immunized rabbits bound to three out of six peptides used for immunization. ELISA and immunoprecipitation demonstrated binding both to the peptides and to the PERB11.2 recombinant protein. By immunofluorescent staining of various tissues of several species, the three antisera generated overlapping profiles of activity. These included reactions with kidney, small and large intestine, oesophagus, testis, ovary and human neutrophils. This is the first description of antibodies induced by the PERB11 peptides. The extreme complexity of these profiles requires further investigation, but may be explained in terms of antibodies against diverse products of the PERB11 gene family and/or related molecules.
19805818 | Identification of novel genes that mediate innate immunity using inbred mice. Innate immunity is the first line of defense against microbial infections. Although polymorphisms in toll-like receptors (TLRs) and downstream signaling molecules (CD14, TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, and IRAK4) affect the innate immune response, these variants account for only a portion of the ability of the host to respond to bacteria, fungi, and viruses. To identify other genes involved in the innate immune response, we challenged 16 inbred murine strains with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) systemically and measured serum concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNFalpha, and the chemokine KC 6 hr post-treatment. Loci that segregate with strain phenotypes were identified by whole genome association (WGA) mapping of cytokine concentrations. Published gene expression profiles and quantitative trait loci (QTL) were then utilized to prioritize loci and genes that potentially regulate the host response to LPS. Sixteen loci were selected for further investigation by combining WGA analysis with previously published QTL for murine response to LPS or gram negative bacteria. Thirty-eight genes within these loci were then selected for further investigation on the basis of the significance of the identified locus, transcriptional response to LPS, and biological plausibility. RNA interference-mediated inhibition of 4 of 38 candidate genes was shown to block the production of IL-6 in J774A.1 macrophages. In summary, our analysis identified 4 genes that have not previously been implicated in innate immunity, namely, 1110058L19Rik, 4933415F23Rik, Fbxo9, and Ipo7. These genes could represent potential sepsis biomarkers or therapeutic targets that should be further investigated in human populations.
38507215 | The novel HLA-C*08:273 allele, identified by Sanger dideoxy nucleotide sequencing in a Chinese individual. HLA-C*08:273 differs from HLA-C*08:01:01:01 by one nucleotide in exon 2.
38526370 | A novel HLA-C*01 variant, HLA-C*01:02:01:70, identified in a healthy individual from Greece. HLA-C*01:02:01:70 differs from the HLA-C*01:02:01:01 allele by one nucleotide substitution in the intron 4.
35967081 | Targeting MICA/B with cytotoxic therapeutic antibodies leads to tumor control [version 2; peer review: 2 approved]. Background: MICA and MICB are tightly regulated stress-induced proteins that trigger the immune system by binding to the activating receptor NKG2D on cytotoxic lymphocytes. MICA and MICB are highly polymorphic molecules with prevalent expression on several types of solid tumors and limited expression in normal/healthy tissues, making them attractive targets for therapeutic intervention. Methods: We have generated a series of anti-MICA and MICB cross-reactive antibodies with the unique feature of binding to the most prevalent isoforms of both these molecules. Results: The anti-MICA and MICB antibody MICAB1, a human IgG1 Fc-engineered monoclonal antibody (mAb), displayed potent antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) of MICA/B-expressing tumor cells in vitro. However, it showed insufficient efficiency against solid tumors in vivo, which prompted the development of antibody-drug conjugates (ADC). Indeed, optimal tumor control was achieved with MICAB1-ADC format in several solid tumor models, including patient-derived xenografts (PDX) and carcinogen-induced tumors in immunocompetent MICAgen transgenic mice. Conclusions: These data indicate that MICA and MICB are promising targets for cytotoxic immunotherapy.
11696220 | Diversity of MICA (PERB11.1) and HLA haplotypes in Northeastern Thais. MICA or PERB11.1 is a polymorphic major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-related gene located 46 kb centromeric of the HLA-B gene in the HLA class I region. It is expressed mainly in gut epithelial cells, keratinocytes, endothelial cells, fibroblasts and monocytes, and is upregulated by heat stress. MICA has been found to interact with gamma delta T cells, alpha beta CD8(+) and natural killer (NK) cells bearing the NKG2D/DAP10 receptor. The MICA gene displays a high degree of polymorphism with at least 54 alleles. In the present study, polymorphic exons 2, 3 and 4 of the MICA gene were analyzed using sequencing based typing (SBT) in 255 unrelated healthy northeastern Thais. Thirteen previously reported MICA alleles were detected. MICA*008, *010, *002 and *019 were highly predominant with the allele frequencies of 21.4%, 18.2%, 17.6% and 15.3%, respectively. Five of these 13 MICA alleles show significantly different frequencies from those of the Japanese and Caucasian populations. Interestingly, MICA052, which is a very rare allele in other populations, was prevalent with the allele frequency of 8.2%, mainly on the HLA haplotype carrying HLA-B*13 in this population. Strong linkage disequilibria were observed between MICA and HLA-B, as similarly observed in other populations, namely MICA*010-B*4601, MICA052-B*13, MICA*002-B*5801, and MICA*019-B*15 (1502, 1508, 1511, 1515, 1528, 1530). A large variety of three-locus (MICA - HLA-B - HLA-Cw) and six-locus (HLA-DQB1 - HLA-DRB1 - MICA - HLA-B - HLA-Cw - HLA-A) haplotypes were recognized in the northeastern Thai population. This is the first report on MICA allelic distribution in Southeast Asian populations. These data will provide the important basis for future analyses on the potential role of the MICA gene in disease susceptibility and transplantation matching in Southeast Asian populations.
31090959 | Identification of a nuclear localization signal and importin beta members mediating NUAK1 nuclear import inhibited by oxidative stress. NUAK1 is a serine/threonine kinase member of the AMPK-alpha family. NUAK1 regulates several processes in tumorigenesis; however, its regulation and molecular targets are still poorly understood. Bioinformatics analysis predicted that the majority of NUAK1 localizes in the nucleus. However, there are no studies about the regulation of NUAK1 subcellular distribution. Here, we analyzed NUAK1 localization in several human cell lines, mouse embryo fibroblasts, and normal mouse tissues. We found that NUAK1 is located in the nucleus and also in the cytoplasm. Through bioinformatics analysis and studies comparing subcellular localization of wild type and NUAK1 mutants, we identified a conserved bipartite nuclear localization signal at the N-terminal domain of NUAK1. Based on mass spectrometry analysis, we found that NUAK1 interacts with importin-beta members including importin-beta1 (KPNB1), importin-7 (IPO7), and importin-9 (IPO9). We confirmed that importin-beta members are responsible for NUAK1 nuclear import through the inhibition of importin-beta by Importazole and the knockdown of either IPO7 or IPO9. In addition, we found that oxidative stress induces NUAK1 cytoplasmic accumulation, indicating that oxidative stress affects NUAK1 nuclear transport. Thus, our study is the first evidence of an active nuclear transport mechanism regulating NUAK1 subcellular localization. These data will lead to investigations of the molecular targets of NUAK1 according to its subcellular distribution, which could be new biomarkers or targets for cancer therapies.
22458412 | Screening and functional analysis of differentially expressed genes in EBV-transformed lymphoblasts. BACKGROUND: Epstain-Barr virus (EBV) can transform human B lymphocytes making them immortalized and inducing tumorigenic ability in vitro, but the molecular mechanisms remain unclear. The aim of the present study is to detect and analyze differentially expressed genes in two types of host cells, normal human lymphocytes and coupled EBV-transformed lymphoblasts in vitro using gene chips, and to screen the key regulatory genes of lymphocyte transformation induced by EB virus. METHODS: Fresh peripheral blood samples from seven healthy donors were collected. EBV was used to transform lymphocytes in vitro. Total RNA was extracted from 7 cases of the normal lymphocytes and transformed lymphoblasts respectively, marked with dihydroxyfluorane after reverse transcription, then hybridized with 4 x 44 K Agilent human whole genome microarray. LIMMA, String, Cytoscape and other softwares were used to screen and analyze differentially expressed genes. Real-time PCR was applied to verify the result of gene expression microarrays. RESULTS: There were 1745 differentially expressed genes that had been screened, including 917 up-regulated genes and 828 down-regulated genes. According to the results of Generank, String and Cytoscape analyses, 38 genes may be key controlled genes related to EBV-transformed lymphocytes, including 22 up-regulated genes(PLK1, E2F1, AURKB, CDK2, PLCG2, CD80, PIK3R3, CDC20, CDC6, AURKA, CENPA, BUB1B, NUP37, MAD2L1, BIRC5, CDC25A, CCNB1, RPA3, HJURP, KIF2C, CDK1, CDCA8) and 16 down-regulated genes(FYN, CD3D, CD4, CD3G, ZAP70, FOS, HCK, CD247, PRKCQ, ITK, LCP2, CXCL1, CD8A, ITGB5, VAV3, CXCR4), which primarily control biological processes such as cell cycle, mitosis, cytokine-cytokine pathway, immunity response and so on. CONCLUSIONS: Human lymphocyte transformation induced by EB virus is a complicated process, involving multiple-genes and -pathways in virus-host interactions. Global gene expression profile analysis showed that EBV may transform human B lymphocytes by promoting cell cycle and mitosis, inhibiting cell apoptosis, hindering host immune function and secretion of cytokines.
38615042 | Deep learning predictions of TCR-epitope interactions reveal epitope-specific chains in dual alpha T cells. T cells have the ability to eliminate infected and cancer cells and play an essential role in cancer immunotherapy. T cell activation is elicited by the binding of the T cell receptor (TCR) to epitopes displayed on MHC molecules, and the TCR specificity is determined by the sequence of its alpha and beta chains. Here, we collect and curate a dataset of 17,715 alphabetaTCRs interacting with dozens of class I and class II epitopes. We use this curated data to develop MixTCRpred, an epitope-specific TCR-epitope interaction predictor. MixTCRpred accurately predicts TCRs recognizing several viral and cancer epitopes. MixTCRpred further provides a useful quality control tool for multiplexed single-cell TCR sequencing assays of epitope-specific T cells and pinpoints a substantial fraction of putative contaminants in public databases. Analysis of epitope-specific dual alpha T cells demonstrates that MixTCRpred can identify alpha chains mediating epitope recognition. Applying MixTCRpred to TCR repertoires from COVID-19 patients reveals enrichment of clonotypes predicted to bind an immunodominant SARS-CoV-2 epitope. Overall, MixTCRpred provides a robust tool to predict TCRs interacting with specific epitopes and interpret TCR-sequencing data from both bulk and epitope-specific T cells.
10331161 | Phylogenetic analysis of primate MIC (PERB11) sequences suggests that the representation of the gene family differs in different primates: comparison of MIC (PERB11) and C4. Duplication of segments within the MHC has led to numerous multicopy families such as class I, class II, C4 and MIC (PERB11). Different copy numbers between haplotypes and species may be explained by the extent of duplication and subsequent deletion. There are at least five copies of MIC (PERB11) in humans, but MICA (PERB11.1) appears to have been deleted from the chimpanzee. By comparing the sequences of primates (chimpanzee, gorilla, gibbon, orang-utan, pygmy chimpanzee, Patas monkey, Aethiops and baboon) we conclude that the gorilla has a copy of PERB11.1, whereas the baboon and Patas possess MICD (PERB11.4) and/or MICE (PERB11.5) rather than MICA (PERB11.1). These findings indicate that the primate MHC is more plastic than has been appreciated.
38526343 | A novel HLA-C*17 variant, HLA-C*17:01:01:29, identified in a healthy individual from Greece. HLA-C*17:01:01:29 differs from the HLA-C*17:01:01:05 allele by one nucleotide substitution in the 3'UTR.
38526347 | Identification of the novel HLA-C*14:159 allele by next-generation sequencing. The novel HLA-C*14:159 allele was detected during the routine HLA typing for kidney transplantation.
38526346 | A novel HLA-C*04 variant, HLA-C*04:01:01:174, identified in a healthy individual from Greece. HLA-C*04:01:01:174 differs from the HLA-C*04:01:01:06 allele by one nucleotide substitution in the intron 5.
34359073 | MICA/B antibody induces macrophage-mediated immunity against acute myeloid leukemia. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a clonal hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell malignancy characterized by poor clinical outcomes. Major histocompatibility complex class I polypeptide-related sequence A and B (MICA/B) are stress proteins expressed by cancer cells, and antibody-mediated inhibition of MICA/B shedding represents a novel approach to stimulate immunity against cancers. We found that the MICA/B antibody 7C6 potently inhibits the outgrowth of AML in 2 models in immunocompetent mice. Macrophages were essential for therapeutic efficacy, and 7C6 triggered antibody-dependent phagocytosis of AML cells. Furthermore, we found that romidepsin, a selective histone deacetylase inhibitor, increased MICB messenger RNA in AML cells and enabled subsequent stabilization of the translated protein by 7C6. This drug combination substantially increased surface MICA/B expression in a human AML line, pluripotent stem cell-derived AML blasts and leukemia stem cells, as well as primary cells from 3 untreated patients with AML. Human macrophages phagocytosed AML cells following treatment with 7C6 and romidepsin, and the combination therapy lowered leukemia burden in a humanized model of AML. Therefore, inhibition of MICA/B shedding promotes macrophage-driven immunity against AML via Fc receptor signaling and synergizes with an epigenetic regulator. These results provide the rationale for the clinical testing of this innovative immunotherapeutic approach for the treatment of AML.
36923305 | Mavorixafor, an Orally Bioavailable CXCR4 Antagonist, Increases Immune Cell Infiltration and Inflammatory Status of Tumor Microenvironment in Patients with Melanoma. Purpose: Mavorixafor is an oral, selective inhibitor of the CXCR4 chemokine receptor that modulates immune cell trafficking. A biomarker-driven phase Ib study (NCT02823405) was conducted in 16 patients with melanoma to investigate the hypothesis that mavorixafor favorably modulates immune cell profiles in the tumor microenvironment (TME) and to evaluate the safety of mavorixafor alone and in combination with pembrolizumab. Experimental Design: Serial biopsies of melanoma lesions were assessed after 3 weeks of mavorixafor monotherapy and after 6 weeks of combination treatment for immune cell markers by NanoString analysis for gene expression and by multiplexed immunofluorescent staining for in situ protein expression. Serum samples taken at biopsy timepoints were evaluated for key chemokine and cytokine alterations using the Myriad Rules Based Medicine multiplex immunoassays. Results: Within the TME, mavorixafor alone increased CD8+ T-cell infiltration, granzyme B signal, antigen presentation machinery, and both tumor inflammatory signature (TIS) and IFNgamma gene expression signature scores. Increases in the key serum cytokines CXCL9 and CXCL10 were further enhanced when mavorixafor was combined with pembrolizumab. Adverse events (AE), as assessed by the investigator according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (v4.03), related to either mavorixafor or pembrolizumab (>=15%) were diarrhea, fatigue, maculopapular rash, and dry eye. Reported AEs were all <= grade 3. Conclusion/Discussion: Treatment with single-agent mavorixafor resulted in enhanced immune cell infiltration and activation in the TME, leading to increases in TIS and IFNgamma gene signatures. Mavorixafor as a single agent, and in combination with pembrolizumab, has an acceptable safety profile. These data support further investigation of the use of mavorixafor for patients unresponsive to checkpoint inhibitors. Significance: Despite survival improvements in patients with melanoma treated with checkpoint inhibitor therapy, a significant unmet medical need exists for therapies that enhance effectiveness. We propose that mavorixafor sensitizes the melanoma tumor microenvironment and enhances the activity of checkpoint inhibitors, and thereby may translate to a promising treatment for broader patient populations.
27956177 | Nuclear import of Nkx2-2 is mediated by multiple pathways. Nkx2-2 homeoprotein is essential for the development of the central nervous system and pancreas. Although the nuclear localization signals of Nkx2-2 have been identified, the responsible transport receptor is still unknown. Here, we demonstrate that imp alpha1 not only interacts with Nkx2-2 but also transports it into the nucleus in vitro by acting together with imp beta1. However, the nuclear import of Nkx2-2 in cells was not inhibited in response to knockdown expression of endogenous imp beta1 or over-expression of Bimax2. Furthermore, imp beta1 and imp 13, but not imp 4, directly interact with Nkx2-2 and are capable of transporting Nkx2-2 in an in vitro import assay. By GST pull-down assay, we demonstrate that mutation of NLS1 or NLS2 has no effect on interaction with imp alpha1 or imp 13, but significantly reduced binding to imp beta1. Thus, the nuclear import of Nkx2-2 is mediated not only by the classical import pathway but also directly by imp beta1 or imp 13.
36436710 | Identification of pre-synaptic density networks using [11C]UCB-J PET imaging and ICA in mice. BACKGROUND: Synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2A (SV2A) is a vesicle glycoprotein involved in neurotransmitter release. SV2A is located on the pre-synaptic terminals of neurons and visualized using the radioligand [11C]UCB-J and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. Thus, SV2A PET imaging can provide a proxy for pre-synaptic density in health and disease. This study aims to apply independent component analysis (ICA) to SV2A PET data acquired in mice to identify pre-synaptic density networks (pSDNs), explore how ageing affects these pSDNs, and determine the impact of a neurological disorder on these networks. METHODS: We used [11C]UCB-J PET imaging data (n = 135) available at different ages (3, 7, 10, and 16 months) in wild-type (WT) C57BL/6J mice and in diseased mice (mouse model of Huntington's disease, HD) with reported synaptic deficits. First, ICA was performed on a healthy dataset after it was split into two equal-sized samples (n = 36 each) and the analysis was repeated 50 times in different partitions. We tested different model orders (8, 12, and 16) and identified the pSDNs. Next, we investigated the effect of age on the loading weights of the identified pSDNs. Additionally, the identified pSDNs were compared to those of diseased mice to assess the impact of disease on each pSDNs. RESULTS: Model order 12 resulted in the preferred choice to provide six reliable and reproducible independent components (ICs) as supported by the cluster-quality index (IQ) and regression coefficients (beta) values. Temporal analysis showed age-related statistically significant changes on the loading weights in four ICs. ICA in an HD model revealed a statistically significant disease-related effect on the loading weights in several pSDNs in line with the progression of the disease. CONCLUSION: This study validated the use of ICA on SV2A PET data acquired with [11C]UCB-J for the identification of cerebral pre-synaptic density networks in mice in a rigorous and reproducible manner. Furthermore, we showed that different pSDNs change with age and are affected in a disease condition. These findings highlight the potential value of ICA in understanding pre-synaptic density networks in the mouse brain.
38568176 | The novel HLA-C*03:94:02 allele identified by next-generation sequencing in a Chinese individual. HLA-C*03:94:02 differs from HLA-C*03:94:01 by a single nucleotide substitution in exon 2 (codon 17 GGA->GGG).
29700284 | Mutation of IPO13 causes recessive ocular coloboma, microphthalmia, and cataract. Ocular coloboma is a developmental structural defect of the eye that often occurs as complex ocular anomalies. However, its genetic etiology remains largely unexplored. Here we report the identification of mutation (c.331C>T, p.R111C) in the IPO13 gene in a consanguineous family with ocular coloboma, microphthalmia, and cataract by a combination of whole-exome sequencing and homozygosity mapping. IPO13 encodes an importin-B family protein and has been proven to be associated with the pathogenesis of coloboma and microphthalmia. We found that Ipo13 was expressed in the cornea, sclera, lens, and retina in mice. Additionally, the mRNA expression level of Ipo13 decreased significantly in the patient compared with its expression in a healthy individual. Morpholino-oligonucleotide-induced knockdown of ipo13 in zebrafish caused dose-dependent microphthalmia and coloboma, which is highly similar to the ocular phenotypes in the patient. Moreover, both visual motor response and optokinetic response were impaired severely. Notably, these ocular phenotypes in ipo13-deficient zebrafish could be rescued remarkably by full-length ipo13 mRNA, suggesting that the phenotypes observed in zebrafish were due to insufficient ipo13 function. Altogether, our findings demonstrate, for the first time, a new role of IPO13 in eye morphogenesis and that loss of function of IPO13 could lead to ocular coloboma, microphthalmia, and cataract in humans and zebrafish.
38454570 | Soluble MICA in endometriosis pathophysiology: Impairs NK cell degranulation and effector functions. PROBLEM: Endometriosis exhibits several immune dysfunctions, including deficient natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity. MICA (MHC class I chain-related molecule A) is induced by biological stress and soluble MICA (sMICA) negatively modulates the expression of the activating receptor, NKG2D, reducing NK cells activities. We investigated the involvement of soluble MICA in NK cell-deficient activity in endometriosis. METHODS OF STUDY: sMICA levels (serum and peritoneal fluid-PF) were evaluated by ELISA. Circulating NK cell subsets quantification and its NKG2D receptor expression, NK cell cytotoxicity and CD107a, IFN-gamma and IL-10 expressions by NK cells stimulated with K562 cells were determined by flow cytometry. RESULTS: We found higher sMICA levels (serum and PF) in endometriosis, especially in advanced and deep endometriosis. Endometriosis presented lower percentages of CD56dim CD16+ cytotoxic cells and impaired NK cell responses upon stimulation, resulting in lower CD107a and IFN-gamma expressions, and deficient NK cell cytotoxicity. NK cell stimulation in the MICA-blocked condition (mimicking the effect of sMICA) showed decreased cytotoxicity in initial endometriosis stages and the emergence of a negative correlation between CD107a expression and sMICA levels. CONCLUSIONS: We suggest that soluble MICA is a potential player in endometriosis pathophysiology with involvement in disease progression and severity, contributing to NK cell impaired IFN-gamma response and degranulation. NK cell compartment exhibits multiple perturbations, including quantitative deficiency and impaired cytotoxicity, contributing to inadequate elimination of ectopic endometrial tissue.
37492198 | Integrated multiple-microarray analysis and mendelian randomization to identify novel targets involved in diabetic nephropathy. Background: Diabetic nephropathy (DN), which is the main cause of renal failure in end-stage renal disease, is becoming a common chronic renal disease worldwide. Mendelian randomization (MR) is a genetic tool that is widely used to minimize confounding and reverse causation when identifying the causal effects of complex traits. In this study, we conducted an integrated multiple microarray analysis and large-scale plasma proteome MR analysis to identify candidate biomarkers and evaluate the causal effects of prospective therapeutic targets in DN. Methods: Five DN gene expression datasets were selected from the Gene Expression Omnibus. The robust rank aggregation (RRA) method was used to integrate differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of glomerular samples between patients with DN and controls, followed by functional enrichment analysis. Protein quantitative trait loci were incorporated from seven different proteomic genome-wide association studies, and genetic association data on DN were obtained from FinnGen (3676 cases and 283,456 controls) for two-sample MR analysis. External validation and clinical correlation were also conducted. Results: A total of 82 DEGs (53 upregulated and 29 downregulated) were identified through RRA integrated analysis. The enriched Gene Ontology annotations and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways of the DEGs were significantly enriched in neutrophil degranulation, neutrophil activation, proteoglycan binding, collagen binding, secretory granule lumen, gluconeogenesis, tricarboxylic acid cycle, and pentose phosphate pathways. MR analysis revealed that the genetically predicted levels of MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence B (MICB), granzyme A (GZMA), cathepsin S (CTSS), chloride intracellular channel protein 5, and ficolin-1 (FCN1) were causally associated with DN risk. Expression validation and clinical correlation analysis showed that MICB, GZMA, FCN1, and insulin-like growth factor 1 may participate in the development of DN, and carbonic anhydrase 2 and lipoprotein lipase may play protective roles in patients with DN. Conclusion: Our integrated analysis identified novel biomarkers, including MICB and GZMA, which may help further understand the complicated mechanisms of DN and identify new target pathways for intervention.
29602637 | Importin-11 overexpression promotes the migration, invasion, and progression of bladder cancer associated with the deregulation of CDKN1A and THBS1. OBJECTIVES: We recently determined that a novel oncogene, IPO11 from 5q12, participates in bladder cancer (BCa) progression. However, the biological function of IPO11 and the molecular mechanisms through which it contributes to BCa progression remain unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of IPO11 in BCa aggressiveness and elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying its effects in BCa. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The mRNA expression levels of IPO11 in BIU-87, RT4, UMUC3, EJ, 5637, T24, J82, and HT-1376 cell lines were determined using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Expression of importin-11 was detected in 134 formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) BCa tissues and 10 paired nonneoplastic bladder tissue specimens by immunohistochemistry. The copy number of IPO11 was examined in 25 FFPE BCa specimens using fluorescent in situ hybridization. The effects of IPO11 on migration, invasion, and cell proliferation were investigated in EJ and 5637 cell lines using RNA interference. Potential molecular mechanisms were investigated using whole transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatic approaches in EJ cells and IPO11-silenced EJ cells and verified using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: Endogenous IPO11 mRNA was highly expressed in 6 invasive BCa cell lines (EJ, HT-1376, UMUC3, 5637, J82, and T24) but had a low expression in the noninvasive BCa cell line BIU-87 and the papillary BCa cell line RT4. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that 87 (64.9%) of 134 FFPE BCa tissues displayed importin-11 overexpression. Moreover, importin-11 overexpression was positively associated with increased tumor stages and tumor grades, lymphatic invasion, and lymph node metastasis. Furthermore, importin-11 overexpression was detected in 100% (14/14) of BCa tissues with IPO11 amplification, and IPO11 amplification was not observed in 2 additional BCa tissues with importin-11 overexpression. Small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of IPO11 is sufficient to inhibit the motility and invasiveness of EJ and 5637 cells. IPO11 knockdown also inhibited cell proliferation in EJ cells, whereas this was not observed in 5637 cells or the in vivo experiments. Using whole transcriptome sequencing, we found that 22 genes (including IPO11) were differentially expressed in IPO11-silenced EJ cells compared with wild-type EJ cells, 4 of which were upregulated, and 18 of which were downregulated. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis of the significantly differentially expressed genes showed that the proteoglycans in cancer pathway (pathway Id: hsa05205) was most significantly enriched among 10 genetically altered pathways and referred to 6 significantly altered genes (CDKN1A, HBEGF, PTK2, THBS1, CCNG2, and EGR1). The next 3 most significantly enriched pathways in order were the p53, ErbB, and BCa pathways. CDKN1A and THBS1 were the most 2 frequently covered genes and were involved in 9 and 6 pathways, respectively. They were also 2 key proteins in the BCa pathway (pathway Id: hsa05219) that were downregulated in IPO11-knockdown EJ cells compared with wild-type EJ cells. CONCLUSIONS: Importin-11 overexpression can promote BCa cell invasiveness, probably associated with the deregulation of CDKN1A and THBS1 primarily through the activation of the proteoglycans in cancer pathway and the classical BCa pathway. Importin-11 may be a useful target through which the progression of noninvasive BCa to invasive BCa can be blocked.
32209637 | Inhibition of MICA and MICB Shedding Elicits NK-Cell-Mediated Immunity against Tumors Resistant to Cytotoxic T Cells. Resistance to cytotoxic T cells is frequently mediated by loss of MHC class I expression or IFNgamma signaling in tumor cells, such as mutations of B2M or JAK1 genes. Natural killer (NK) cells could potentially target such resistant tumors, but suitable NK-cell-based strategies remain to be developed. We hypothesized that such tumors could be targeted by NK cells if sufficient activating signals were provided. Human tumors frequently express the MICA and MICB ligands of the activating NKG2D receptor, but proteolytic shedding of MICA/B represents an important immune evasion mechanism in many human cancers. We showed that B2M- and JAK1-deficient metastases were targeted by NK cells following treatment with a mAb that blocks MICA/B shedding. We also demonstrated that the FDA-approved HDAC inhibitor panobinostat and a MICA/B antibody acted synergistically to enhance MICA/B surface expression on tumor cells. The HDAC inhibitor enhanced MICA/B gene expression, whereas the MICA/B antibody stabilized the synthesized protein on the cell surface. The combination of panobinostat and the MICA/B antibody reduced the number of pulmonary metastases formed by a human melanoma cell line in NOD/SCID gamma mice reconstituted with human NK cells. NK-cell-mediated immunity induced by a mAb specific for MICA/B, therefore, provides an opportunity to target tumors with mutations that render them resistant to cytotoxic T cells.
38292490 | High-dimensional comparison of monocytes and T cells in post-COVID and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Introduction: Up to 30% of hospitalized COVID-19 patients experience persistent sequelae, including pulmonary fibrosis (PF). Methods: We examined COVID-19 survivors with impaired lung function and imaging worrisome for developing PF and found within six months, symptoms, restriction and PF improved in some (Early-Resolving COVID-PF), but persisted in others (Late-Resolving COVID-PF). To evaluate immune mechanisms associated with recovery versus persistent PF, we performed single-cell RNA-sequencing and multiplex immunostaining on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with Early- and Late-Resolving COVID-PF and compared them to age-matched controls without respiratory disease. Results and discussion: Our analysis showed circulating monocytes were significantly reduced in Late-Resolving COVID-PF patients compared to Early-Resolving COVID-PF and non-diseased controls. Monocyte abundance correlated with pulmonary function forced vital capacity and diffusion capacity. Differential expression analysis revealed MHC-II class molecules were upregulated on the CD8 T cells of Late-Resolving COVID-PF patients but downregulated in monocytes. To determine whether these immune signatures resembled other interstitial lung diseases, we analyzed samples from Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) patients. IPF patients had a similar marked decrease in monocyte HLA-DR protein expression compared to Late-Resolving COVID-PF patients. Our findings indicate decreased circulating monocytes are associated with decreased lung function and uniquely distinguish Late-Resolving COVID-PF from Early-Resolving COVID-PF, IPF, and non-diseased controls.
19256485 | The ubiquitin conjugating enzyme, UbcM2, engages in novel interactions with components of cullin-3 based E3 ligases. The class III ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2s) are distinguished from other E2s by the presence of unique N-terminal domains, and the utilization of importin-11 for transport into the nucleus in an activation dependent fashion. To begin determining the physiological roles of these enzymes, we carried out a yeast two-hybrid screen with the class III E2, UbcM2. This screen retrieved RCBTB1, a putative substrate adaptor for a cullin3 (CUL3) E3 ligase. We initially established through biochemical studies that RCBTB1 has the properties of a CUL3 substrate adaptor. Further analysis of the UbcM2-RCBTB1 complex led to the discovery and characterization of the following novel interactions: (i) UbcM2 binds an N-terminal domain of CUL3 requiring the first 57 amino acids, the same domain that binds to RCBTB1 and other substrate adaptors; (ii) UbcM2 does not bind mutants of CUL3 that are deficient in substrate adaptor recruitment; (iii) UbcM2 interacts with CUL3 independent of a bridging RING-finger protein; and (iv) can engage the neddylated (i.e., activated) form of CUL3. We also present evidence that UbcM2 can bind to the N-terminal halves of multiple cullins, implying that this E2 is a general cofactor for this class of ligases. Together, these studies represent the first evidence that UbcM2, in concert with substrate adaptors, engages activated CUL3 ligases, thus suggesting that class III E2s are novel regulators of cullin ligases.
38296018 | Pterostilbene upregulates MICA/B via the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway to enhance the capability of natural killer cells to kill cervical cancer cells. Natural killer (NK) cells are triggered by the innate immune response in the tumor microenvironment. The extensive set of stimulating and inhibiting receptors mediates the target recognition of NK cells, and controls the strength of the effector reaction countering specific targeted cells. Yet, lacking major MHC (histocompatibility complex) MICA/B class I chain-related proteins on the membrane of tumor cells results in the failure of NK cell recognition and ability to resist NK cell destruction. Searching databases and molecular docking suggested that in cervical cancer, pterostilbene (3,5-dimethoxy-40-hydroxystilbene; PTS) in Vaccinium corymbosum extract could constrain PI3K/AKT signaling and improving the MICA/B expression. In flow cytometry, MTT assay, viability/cytotoxicity assay, and colony development assays, PTS reduced the development of cervical cancer cells and increased apoptosis. The quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and a Western blot indicate that PTS controlled the cytolytic action of NK cells in tumor cells via increasing the MICA/B expression, thus modifying the anti-tumor immune response in cervical cancer.
36481267 | Neutrophilic granulocyte-derived B-cell activating factor supports B cells in skin lesions in hidradenitis suppurativa. BACKGROUND: Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by painful inflamed nodules, abscesses, and pus-draining tunnels appearing in axillary, inguinal, and perianal skin areas. HS lesions contain various types of immigrated immune cells. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to characterize mediators that support lesional B/plasma cell persistence in HS. METHODS: Skin samples from several cohorts of HS patients and control cohorts were assessed by mRNA sequencing, quantitative PCR on reverse-transcribed RNA, flow cytometry, and immunohistofluorescence. Blood plasma and cultured skin biopsy samples, keratinocytes, dermal fibroblasts, neutrophilic granulocytes (neutrophils), monocytes, and B cells were analyzed. Complex systems biology approaches were used to evaluate bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing data. RESULTS: Proportions of B/plasma cells, neutrophils, CD8+ T cells, and M0 and M1 macrophages were elevated in HS lesions compared to skin of healthy and perilesional intertriginous areas. There was an association between B/plasma cells, neutrophils, and B-cell activating factor (BAFF, aka TNFSF13B). BAFF was abundant in HS lesions, particularly in nodules and abscesses. Among the cell types present in HS lesions, myeloid cells were the main BAFF producers. Mechanistically, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in the presence of bacterial products was the major stimulus for neutrophils' BAFF secretion. Lesional upregulation of BAFF receptors was attributed to B cells (TNFRSF13C/BAFFR and TNFRSF13B/TACI) and plasma cells (TNFRSF17/BCMA). Characterization of the lesional BAFF pathway revealed molecules involved in migration/adhesion (eg, CXCR4, CD37, CD53, SELL), proliferation/survival (eg, BST2), activation (eg, KLF2, PRKCB), and reactive oxygen species production (eg, NCF1, CYBC1) of B/plasma cells. CONCLUSION: Neutrophil-derived BAFF supports B/plasma cell persistence and function in HS lesions.
37801126 | Intensified NK cell therapy in combination with low-dose chemoradiotherapy against human colorectal cancer. The therapeutic potential of adoptive natural Killer (NK) cells immunotherapy in combination with chemoradiotherapy, the main treatment modality for colorectal cancer (CRC), has not yet been explored. Here, we aimed to investigate the efficacy of NK cells to potentiate primary tumor control and improve survival outcomes, especially in combination with low-dose chemoradiotherapy. Ex vivo activated NK cells (> 90% purity) from healthy donors were obtained. NK cells were administered intravenously to the CRC-bearing mice and intensified in vivo in combination with low-dose 5-fluorouracil (0.5 mg/kg or 1 mg/Kg) and irradiated tumors with low doses (2 Gy or 4 Gy). Real-time NK cell cytotoxicity demonstrated a synergistic killing effect of a combination of low-dose chemoradiotherapy, mainly through NKp30 and NKG2D, showing a decrease in NK cell degranulation after blocking NKG2D and NKp30. In vivo tumor characteristics after combination treatment showed decreased CD112, CD155, MICA, and MICB expression. Under the combination strategy, 70% of the mice had free lung metastasis and 90% without secondary gross tumors, indicating suppressed distant metastasis to lung and axillary regions. This combination therapy resulted in significantly synergistic antitumor activity against primary solid tumors compared to chemoradiotherapy only. Furthermore, the intensified NK cell administration showed significantly better primary tumor control and survival outcomes than the non-intensified NK cell administration in a human colorectal HT-29 model treated with low-dose chemoradiotherapy. Optimized NK cell therapy combined with low-dose chemoradiotherapy can provide effective therapeutic potential for intractable cold human colorectal cancer.
38470345 | The novel HLA-C*06:372 allele, identified in a stem cell donor of an old order mennonite ethnicity. HLA-C*06:372 differs from HLA-C*06:02:01:01 by a single substitution in exon 4.
26173551 | A New Genomewide Association Meta-Analysis of Alcohol Dependence. BACKGROUND: Conventional meta-analysis based on genetic markers may be less powerful for heterogeneous samples. In this study, we introduced a new meta-analysis for 4 genomewide association studies on alcohol dependence that integrated the information of putative causal variants. METHODS: A total of 12,481 subjects in 4 independent cohorts were analyzed, including 1 European American cohort (1,409 cases with alcohol dependence and 1,518 controls), 1 European Australian cohort (a total of 6,438 family subjects with 1,645 probands), 1 African American cohort from SAGE + COGA (681 cases and 508 controls), and 1 African American cohort from Yale (1,429 cases and 498 controls). The genomewide association analysis was conducted for each cohort, and then, a new meta-analysis was performed to derive the combined p-values. cis-Acting expression of quantitative locus (cis-eQTL) analysis of each risk variant in human tissues and RNA expression analysis of each risk gene in rat brain served as functional validation. RESULTS: In meta-analysis of European American and European Australian cohorts, we found 10 top-ranked single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (p < 10(-6) ) that were associated with alcohol dependence. They included 6 at SERINC2 (3.1 x 10(-8) <= p <= 9.6 x 10(-8) ), 1 at STK40 (p = 1.3 x 10(-7) ), 2 at KIAA0040 (3.3 x 10(-7) <= p <= 5.2 x 10(-7) ), and 1 at IPO11 (p = 6.9 x 10(-7) ). In meta-analysis of 2 African American cohorts, we found 2 top-ranked SNPs including 1 at SLC6A11 (p = 2.7 x 10(-7) ) and 1 at CBLN2 (p = 7.4 x 10(-7) ). In meta-analysis of all 4 cohorts, we found 2 top-ranked SNPs in PTP4A1-PHF3 locus (6.0 x 10(-7) <= p <= 7.2 x 10(-7) ). In an African American cohort only, we found 1 top-ranked SNP at PLD1 (p = 8.3 x 10(-7) ; OR = 1.56). Many risk SNPs had positive cis-eQTL signals, and all these risk genes except KIAA0040 were found to express in both rat and mouse brains. CONCLUSIONS: We found multiple genes that were significantly or suggestively associated with alcohol dependence. They are among the most appropriate for follow-up as contributors to risk for alcohol dependence.
29476834 | Novel proteins that regulate cell extension formation in fibroblasts. Cell extensions are critical structures that enable matrix remodeling in wound healing and cancer invasion but the regulation of their formation is not well-defined. We searched for new proteins that mediated cell extension formation over collagen by tandem mass tagged mass spectrometry analysis of purified extensions in 3T3 fibroblasts. Unexpectedly, importin-5, ENH isoform 1b (PDLIM5) and 26 S protease regulatory subunit 6B (PSMC4) were more abundant (> 10-fold) in membrane-penetrating cell extensions than cell bodies, which was confirmed by immunostaining and immunoblotting and also observed in human gingival fibroblasts. After siRNA knockdown of these proteins and plating cells on grid-supported floating collagen gels for 6 h, formation of cell extensions and collagen remodeling were examined. Knockdown of importin-5 reduced collagen compaction (1.9-fold), pericellular collagen degradation (~ 1.8-fold) and number of cell extensions (~ 69%). Knockdown of PSMC4 reduced collagen compaction (~ 1.5-fold), pericellular collagen degradation (~ 1.7-fold) and number of cell extensions (~ 42%). Knockdown of PDLIM5 reduced collagen compaction (~ 1.6-fold) and number of cell extensions (~ 21%). Inhibition of the TGF-beta RI kinase, Smad3 or ROCK-II signaling pathways reduced the abundance of PDLIM5 in cell extensions but PSMC4 and importin-5 were reduced only by Smad3 or ROCK-II inhibitors. We conclude that these novel proteins are required for cell extension formation and their recruitment into extensions involves the Smad3 and ROCK signaling pathways.
38566402 | Identification of the novel HLA-C allele, HLA-C*07:02:150. A novel HLA-C*07 allele, now officially designated HLA-C*07:02:150, was identified by next-generation sequencing.
36849745 | T cell egress via lymphatic vessels is tuned by antigen encounter and limits tumor control. Antigen-specific CD8+ T cell accumulation in tumors is a prerequisite for effective immunotherapy, and yet the mechanisms of lymphocyte transit are not well defined. Here we show that tumor-associated lymphatic vessels control T cell exit from tumors via the chemokine CXCL12, and intratumoral antigen encounter tunes CXCR4 expression by effector CD8+ T cells. Only high-affinity antigen downregulates CXCR4 and upregulates the CXCL12 decoy receptor, ACKR3, thereby reducing CXCL12 sensitivity and promoting T cell retention. A diverse repertoire of functional tumor-specific CD8+ T cells, therefore, exit the tumor, which limits the pool of CD8+ T cells available to exert tumor control. CXCR4 inhibition or loss of lymphatic-specific CXCL12 boosts T cell retention and enhances tumor control. These data indicate that strategies to limit T cell egress might be an approach to boost the quantity and quality of intratumoral T cells and thereby response to immunotherapy.
38575366 | Characterization of the novel HLA-C*06:376N allele by Pacific Biosciences HiFi sequencing in a Chinese individual. HLA-C*06:376N differs from HLA-C*06:02:01:01 by seven nucleotide changes in exon 2, intron 2, and exon 3.
11029610 | Further characterization of MHC haplotypes demonstrates conservation telomeric of HLA-A: update of the 4AOH and 10IHW cell panels. Cell panels have been used extensively in studies of polymorphism and disease associations within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), but the results from these panels require continuous updates with the increasing availability of novel data. We present here an updated table of the typings of the 10IHW and 4AOH panels. Local data included are HFE, HERV-K(C4) and six microsatellites telomeric of HLA-A. Typings for class I, MICA (PERB11.1), MICB (PERB11.2), XA, XB, LMP2 and 10 microsatellites reported by others have also been consolidated in this table. The tabulation shows that the length of conservation in the human MHC is even more extensive than previously thought. Human MHC ancestral haplotypes are inherited as a conserved region of genomic sequence spanning some 6-8 megabases from the HLA class II region and beyond the HLA class I region up to and including the HFE gene. Numerous examples of historical recombinations were also observed.
38182756 | Single-cell analysis reveals the stromal dynamics and tumor-specific characteristics in the microenvironment of ovarian cancer. High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) is a heterogeneous disease, and a highstromal/desmoplastic tumor microenvironment (TME) is associated with a poor outcome. Stromal cell subtypes, including fibroblasts, myofibroblasts, and cancer-associated mesenchymal stem cells, establish a complex network of paracrine signaling pathways with tumor-infiltrating immune cells that drive effector cell tumor immune exclusion and inhibit the antitumor immune response. In this work, we integrate single-cell transcriptomics of the HGSOC TME from public and in-house datasets (n = 20) and stratify tumors based upon high vs. low stromal cell content. Although our cohort size is small, our analyses suggest a distinct transcriptomic landscape for immune and non-immune cells in high-stromal vs. low-stromal tumors. High-stromal tumors have a lower fraction of certain T cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and macrophages, and increased expression of CXCL12 in epithelial cancer cells and cancer-associated mesenchymal stem cells (CA-MSCs). Analysis of cell-cell communication indicate that epithelial cancer cells and CA-MSCs secrete CXCL12 that interacte with the CXCR4 receptor, which is overexpressed on NK and CD8+ T cells. Dual IHC staining show that tumor infiltrating CD8 T cells localize in proximity of CXCL12+ tumor area. Moreover, CXCL12 and/or CXCR4 antibodies confirm the immunosuppressive role of CXCL12-CXCR4 in high-stromal tumors.
26337383 | Sorting nexin 9 differentiates ligand-activated Smad3 from Smad2 for nuclear import and transforming growth factor beta signaling. Transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) is a pleiotropic protein secreted from essentially all cell types and primary tissues. While TGFbeta's actions reflect the activity of a number of signaling networks, the primary mediator of TGFbeta responses are the Smad proteins. Following receptor activation, these cytoplasmic proteins form hetero-oligomeric complexes that translocate to the nucleus and affect gene transcription. Here, through biological, biochemical, and immunofluorescence approaches, sorting nexin 9 (SNX9) is identified as being required for Smad3-dependent responses. SNX9 interacts with phosphorylated (p) Smad3 independent of Smad2 or Smad4 and promotes more rapid nuclear delivery than that observed independent of ligand. Although SNX9 does not bind nucleoporins Nup153 or Nup214 or some beta importins (Imp7 or Impbeta), it mediates the association of pSmad3 with Imp8 and the nuclear membrane. This facilitates nuclear translocation of pSmad3 but not SNX9.
22323606 | Active maintenance of nuclear actin by importin 9 supports transcription. Besides its essential and well established role as a component of the cytoskeleton, actin is also present in the cell nucleus, where it has been linked to many processes that control gene expression. For example, nuclear actin regulates the activity of specific transcription factors, associates with all three RNA polymerases, and is a component of many chromatin remodelling complexes. Despite the fact that two export receptors, Crm1 and exportin 6, have been linked to nuclear export of actin, the mechanism by which actin enters the nucleus to elicit these essential functions has not been determined. It is also unclear whether actin is actively exchanged between the nucleus and the cytoplasm, and whether this connection has any functional significance for the cell. By applying a variety of live-cell imaging techniques we revealed that actin constantly shuttles in and out of the nucleus. The fast transport rates, which depend on the availability of actin monomers, suggest an active transport mechanism in both directions. Importantly, we identified importin 9 as the nuclear import factor for actin. Furthermore, our RNAi experiments showed that the active maintenance of nuclear actin levels by importin 9 is required for maximal transcriptional activity. Measurements of nuclear export rates and depletion studies also clarified that nuclear export of actin is mediated by exportin 6, and not by Crm1. These results demonstrate that cytoplasmic and nuclear actin pools are dynamically connected and identify the nuclear import and export mechanisms of actin.
38312438 | Impact of COVID-19 quarantines on clozapine-induced constipation: Experience of utilizing a clozapine-induced constipation protocol at a state forensic psychiatric facility. Objective: Since 2017, Fulton State Hospital (FSH) has implemented a clozapine-induced constipation protocol. In March 2020, FSH initiated unit quarantines to minimize the spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of these quarantines on medical referrals for constipation, the Bristol Stool Chart ratings, utilization of as-needed (PRN) laxatives, and adherence rates with scheduled constipation medication regimens. Methods: Patients on the clozapine-induced constipation protocol from May 1, 2019 to December 31, 2020, were included, with 10-month pre- and mid-quarantine implementation. Data collected included patient demographics, primary psychiatric diagnosis, and outcome variables. Descriptive statistics and paired t-tests were performed. Results: A total of 31 patients were included. Most were male (93.5%), with a median age of 40 years. The most common primary diagnosis was schizophrenia. Compared with the pre-quarantine implementation period, there were fewer medical referral contacts per person, less use of PRN laxatives, and slightly lower adherence rates to scheduled constipation medication regimens during the mid-quarantine implementation period. Conclusion: Compared with the pre-quarantine implementation period, there were fewer medical referrals per person during the mid-quarantine implementation period.
33484773 | Expression of NKG2D ligands is downregulated by beta-catenin signalling and associates with HCC aggressiveness. BACKGROUND & AIMS: The NKG2D system is a potent immunosurveillance mechanism in cancer, wherein the activating NK cell receptor (NKG2D) on immune cells recognises its cognate ligands on tumour cells. Herein, we evaluated the expression of NKG2D ligands in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), in both humans and mice, taking the genomic features of HCC tumours into account. METHODS: The expression of NKG2D ligands (MICA, MICB, ULBP1 and ULBP2) was analysed in large human HCC datasets by Fluidigm TaqMan and RNA-seq methods, and in 2 mouse models (mRNA and protein levels) reproducing the features of both major groups of human tumours. RESULTS: We provide compelling evidence that expression of the MICA and MICB ligands in human HCC is associated with tumour aggressiveness and poor patient outcome. We also found that the expression of ULBP1 and ULBP2 was associated with poor patient outcome, and was downregulated in CTNNB1-mutated HCCs displaying low levels of inflammation and associated with a better prognosis. We also found an inverse correlation between ULBP1/2 expression levels and the expression of beta-catenin target genes in patients with HCC, suggesting a role for beta-catenin signalling in inhibiting expression. We showed in HCC mouse models that beta-catenin signalling downregulated the expression of Rae-1 NKG2D ligands, orthologs of ULBPs, through TCF4 binding. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that the expression of NKG2D ligands is associated with aggressive liver tumorigenesis and that the downregulation of these ligands by beta-catenin signalling may account for the less aggressive phenotype of CTNNB1-mutated HCC tumours. LAY SUMMARY: The NKG2D system is a potent immunosurveillance mechanism in cancer. However, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma development has not been widely investigated. Herein, we should that the expression of NKG2D ligands by tumour cells is associated with a more aggressive tumour subtype.
38257982 | The Impact and Effects of Host Immunogenetics on Infectious Disease Studies Using Non-Human Primates in Biomedical Research. Understanding infectious disease pathogenesis and evaluating novel candidate treatment interventions for human use frequently requires prior or parallel analysis in animal model systems. While rodent species are frequently applied in such studies, there are situations where non-human primate (NHP) species are advantageous or required. These include studies of animals that are anatomically more akin to humans, where there is a need to interrogate the complexity of more advanced biological systems or simply reflect susceptibility to a specific infectious agent. The contribution of different arms of the immune response may be addressed in a variety of NHP species or subspecies in specific physiological compartments. Such studies provide insights into immune repertoires not always possible from human studies. However, genetic variation in outbred NHP models may confound, or significantly impact the outcome of a particular study. Thus, host factors need to be considered when undertaking such studies. Considerable knowledge of the impact of host immunogenetics on infection dynamics was elucidated from HIV/SIV research. NHP models are now important for studies of emerging infections. They have contributed to delineating the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19, which identified differences in outcomes attributable to the selected NHP host. Moreover, their use was crucial in evaluating the immunogenicity and efficacy of vaccines against COVID-19 and establishing putative correlates of vaccine protection. More broadly, neglected or highly pathogenic emerging or re-emergent viruses may be studied in selected NHPs. These studies characterise protective immune responses following infection or the administration of candidate immunogens which may be central to the accelerated licensing of new vaccines. Here, we review selected aspects of host immunogenetics, specifically MHC background and TRIM5 polymorphism as exemplars of adaptive and innate immunity, in commonly used Old and New World host species. Understanding this variation within and between NHP species will ensure that this valuable laboratory source is used most effectively to combat established and emerging virus infections and improve human health worldwide.
35780757 | Expressional regulation of NKG2DLs is associated with the tumor development and shortened overall survival in lung adenocarcinoma. Natural killer group 2D ligands (NKG2DLs) are expressed on tumor cells as a ligand for Natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) receptors. NKG2DLs interact with NKG2D to induce immune cell-mediated cytotoxicity for eliminating tumors. Studies demonstrated that tumor cells can reduce NKG2DLs' expression to escape from anti-tumor immunity, leading to an aggressive cancer phenotype and poor prognosis in some cancers. However, these studies are limited and there is no comprehensive work on the regulation of NKG2DLs in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) which is one of the deadliest cancers worldwide. Here, we conducted an in silico analysis to evaluate the changes in NKG2DLs in LUAD by analyzing The Cancer Genome Atlas and the Gene Expression Omnibus datasets including tumor vs. normal comparisons, TNM stages, survival and infiltrating immune estimation profile. Results indicated that some members of NKG2DL were downregulated in LUAD as compared to normal samples. We determined that MICA (MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence A) was the most and significantly downregulated ligand among others and the results were nearly consistent with the different datasets which we used. Furthermore, survival analysis revealed that down-regulated MICA transcript expression might be one of the prognostic indicators of LUAD. Interestingly, according to the immune cell infiltrating analysis, there wasn't a direct correlation between the MICA transcript expression and immune cell infiltration, while for MICB there was. In addition, in genetic alteration, DNA methylation and miRNA analyses, we did not observe critical outcomes that would clarify the down-regulated MICA expression in detail. Regardless, this study is highly comprehensive and contributes valuable suggestions to further functional studies about the regulation of NKG2DLs and promising immunotherapeutic approaches in LUAD.
35594287 | Mendelian randomization analysis of plasma levels of CD209 and MICB proteins and the risk of varicose veins of lower extremities. Varicose veins of lower extremities (VVs) are a highly prevalent condition, the pathogenesis of which is still not fully elucidated. Mendelian randomization (MR) can provide useful preliminary information on the traits that are potentially causally related to the disease. The aim of the present study is to replicate the effects of the plasma levels of MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence B (MICB) and cluster of differentiation 209 (CD209) proteins reported in a previous hypothesis-free MR study. We conducted MR analysis using a fixed effects inverse-variance weighted meta-analysis of Wald ratios method. For MICB and CD209, we used data from a large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) for plasma protein levels (N = 3,301). For VVs, we used GWAS data obtained in the FinnGen project (N = 128,698), the eMERGE network (phase 3, N = 48,429), and the UK Biobank data available in the Gene ATLAS (N = 452,264). The data used in the study were obtained in individuals of European descent. The results for MICB did not pass criteria for statistical significance and replication. The results for CD209 passed all statistical significance thresholds, indicating that the genetically predicted increase in CD209 level is associated with increased risk of VVs (betaMR (SE) = 0.07 (0.01), OR (95% CI) = 1.08 (1.05-1.10), P-value = 5.9 x10-11 in the meta-analysis of three cohorts). Our findings provide further support that CD209 can potentially be involved in VVs. In future studies, independent validation of our results using data from more powerful GWASs for CD209 measured by different methods would be beneficial.
26115720 | Reference gene selection for real-time quantitative PCR analysis on ovarian cryopreservation by vitrification in mice. PURPOSE: To ensure the correct interpretation of the results of quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) from ovarian tissue cryopreserved by vitrification, it is critical to normalize expression levels to a reference gene with stable messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in the vitrified/warmed ovarian tissue. The aim of this work was to identify suitable reference genes for qRT-PCR analysis during ovarian cryopreservation by vitrification. METHODS: GeNorm, NormFinder, comparative Delta-CT, and BestKeeper were used to analyze the expression and stability of the 14 reference genes GAPDH, ABL1, ACTB, CDKN1A, GPER, GUSB, HPRT1, HSP90AB1, IPO8, PPIA, RPL4, RPL30, TBP, and UPAR. RESULTS: Our results indicated that ACTB and RPL4 were relatively stable reference genes in vitrified/warmed ovaries.
28258103 | Protecting PTEN in the Nucleus. A recent study shows that the transport receptor Importin-11 relocates PTEN, a tumor suppressor, to the nucleus, preventing its degradation in the cytoplasm. Mice lacking Importin-11 are prone to lung cancers, and its absence in human prostate and lung tumors signals a poorer prognosis.
38279325 | The Influence of HLA Polymorphisms on the Severity of COVID-19 in the Romanian Population. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether specific HLA alleles found in patients from Romania and the Republic of Moldova were associated with the severity of COVID-19 infection and its associated mortality. We analyzed the HLA alleles at the -A, -B, -C, -DRB1, and -DQB1 loci in a cohort of 130 individuals with severe and extremely severe forms of COVID-19, including 44 individuals who died. We compared these findings to a control group consisting of individuals who had either not been diagnosed with COVID-19 or had experienced mild forms of the disease. Using multivariate logistic regression models, we discovered that the B*27 and B*50 alleles were associated with an increased susceptibility to developing a severe form of COVID-19. The A*33 and C*15 alleles showed potential for offering protection against the disease. Furthermore, we identified two protective alleles (A*03 and DQB1*02) against the development of extremely severe forms of COVID-19. By utilizing score statistics, we established a statistically significant association between haplotypes and disease severity (p = 0.021). In summary, this study provides evidence that HLA genotype plays a role in influencing the clinical outcome of COVID-19 infection.
38598902 | A novel MICA/B-targeted chimeric antigen receptor augments the cytotoxicity of NK cells against tumor cells. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified immune cells have emerged as a promising approach for cancer treatment, but single-target CAR therapy in solid tumors is limited by immune escape caused by tumor antigen heterogeneity and shedding. Natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) is an activating receptor expressed in human NK cells, and its ligands, such as MICA and MICB (MICA/B), are widely expressed in malignant cells and typically absent from healthy tissue. NKG2D plays an important role in anti-tumor immunity, recognizing tumor cells and initiating an anti-tumor response. Therefore, NKG2D-based CAR is a promising CAR candidate. Nevertheless, the shedding of MICA/B hinders the therapeutic efficacy of NKG2D-CARs. Here, we designed a novel CAR by engineering an anti-MICA/B shedding antibody 1D5 into the CAR construct. The engineered NK cells exhibited significantly enhanced cytotoxicity against various MICA/B-expressing tumor cells and were not inhibited by NKG2D antibody or NKG2D-Fc fusion protein, indicating no interference with NKG2D-MICA/B binding. Therefore, the developed 1D5-CAR could be combined with NKG2D-CAR to further improve the obstacles caused by MICA/B shedding.
10691930 | PERB11 (MIC): a polymorphic MHC gene is expressed in skin and single nucleotide polymorphisms are associated with psoriasis. The susceptibility genes for psoriasis remain to be identified. At least one of these must be in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) to explain associations with alleles at human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-A, -B, -C, -DR, -DQ and C4. In fact, most of these alleles are components of just two ancestral haplotypes (AHs) designated 13.1 and 57.1. Although relevant MHC gene(s) could be within a region of at least 4 Mb, most studies have favoured the area near HLA-B and -C. This region contains a large number of non-HLA genes, many of which are duplicated and polymorphic. Members of one such gene family, PERB11.1 and PERB11.2, are expressed in the skin and are encoded in the region between tumour necrosis factor and HLA-B. To investigate the relationship of PERB11.1 alleles to psoriasis, sequence based typing was performed on 97 patients classified according to age of onset and family history. The frequency of the PERB11.1*06 allele is 44% in type I psoriasis but only 7% in controls (Pc = 0.003 by Fisher's exact test, two-tailed). The major determinant of this association is a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) within intron 4. In normal and affected skin, expression of PERB11 is mainly in the basal layer of the epidermis including ducts and follicles. PERB11 is also present in the upper keratin layers but there is relative deficiency in the intermediate layers. These findings suggest a possible role for PERB11 and other MHC genes in the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
11528126 | Comparative architectural aspects of regions of conserved synteny on human chromosome 11p15.3 and mouse chromosome 7 (including genes WEE1 and LMO1). Human chromosome 11p15.3 is associated with chromosome aberrations in the Beckwith Wiedemann Syndrome and implicated in the pathogenesis of different tumor types including lung cancer and leukemias. To date, only single tumor-relevant genes with linkage to this region (e.g. LMO1) have been found suggesting that this region may harbor additional potential disease associated genes. Although this genomic area has been studied for years, the exact order of genes/chromosome markers between D11S572 and the WEE1 gene locus remained unclear. Using the FISH technique and PAC clones of the flanking markers we determined the order of the genomic markers. Based on these clones we established a PAC contig of the respective region. To analyse the chromosome area in detail the synteny of the orthologous region on distal mouse chromosome 7 was determined and a corresponding mouse clone contig established, proving the conserved order of the genes and markers in both species: \cen-WEE1-D11S2043-ZNF143-RANBP7-CEGF1- ST5-D11S932-LMO1-D11S572-TUB-tel\, with inverted order of the murine genes with respect to the telomere/centromere orientation. The region covered by these contigs comprises roughly 1.6 MB in human as well as in mouse. The genomic sequence of the two subregions (around WEE1 and LMO1) in both species was determined using a shotgun sequencing strategy. Comparative sequence analysis techniques demonstrate that the content of repetitive elements seems to decline from centromere to telomere (52.6% to 34.5%) in human and in the corresponding murine region from telomere to centromere (41.87% to 27.82%). Genomic organisation of the regions around WEE1 and LMO1 was conserved, although the length of gene regions varied between the species in an unpredictable ratio. CpG islands were found conserved in putative promoter regions of the known genes but also in regions which so far have not been described as harboring expressed sequences.
19349578 | Exportin 4 mediates a novel nuclear import pathway for Sox family transcription factors. SRY and other Sox-type transcription factors are important developmental regulators with various implications in human disease. In this study, we identified Exp4 (exportin 4) as an interaction partner of Sox2 in mouse embryonic stem cells and neural progenitors. We show that, besides its established function in nuclear export, Exp4 acts as a bona fide nuclear import receptor for Sox2 and SRY. Thus, Exp4 is an example of a nuclear transport receptor carrying distinct cargoes into different directions. In contrast to a published study, we observed that the import activity of Imp-alpha (importin-a) isoforms toward Sox2 is negligible. Instead, we found that Imp9 and the Imp-beta/7 heterodimer mediate nuclear import of Sox2 in parallel to Exp4. Import signals for the three pathways overlap and include conserved residues in the Sox2 high-mobility group (HMG) box domain that are also critical for DNA binding. This suggests that nuclear import of Sox proteins is facilitated by several parallel import pathways.
32533616 | An Amphipathic Alpha-Helix Guides Maturation of the Ribosomally-Synthesized Lipolanthines. The recently discovered strongly anti-Gram-positive lipolanthines represent a new group of lipidated, ribosomally synthesized and post-translationally modified peptides (RiPPs). They are bicyclic octapeptides with a central quaternary carbon atom (avionin), which is installed through the cooperative action of the class-III lanthipeptide synthetase MicKC and the cysteine decarboxylase MicD. Genome mining efforts indicate a widespread distribution and unprecedented biosynthetic diversity of lipolanthine gene clusters, combining elements of RiPPs, polyketide and non-ribosomal peptide biosynthesis. Utilizing NMR spectroscopy, we show that a (thetaxx)thetaxxthetaxxtheta (theta=L, I, V, M or T) motif, which is conserved in the leader peptides of all class-III and -IV lanthipeptides, forms an amphipathic alpha-helix in MicA that destines the peptide substrate for enzymatic processing. Our results provide general rules of substrate recruitment and enzymatic regulation during lipolanthine maturation. These insights will facilitate future efforts to rationally design new lanthipeptide scaffolds with antibacterial potency.
22737227 | Genome-wide profiling of pluripotent cells reveals a unique molecular signature of human embryonic germ cells. Human embryonic germ cells (EGCs) provide a powerful model for identifying molecules involved in the pluripotent state when compared to their progenitors, primordial germ cells (PGCs), and other pluripotent stem cells. Microarray and Principal Component Analysis (PCA) reveals for the first time that human EGCs possess a transcription profile distinct from PGCs and other pluripotent stem cells. Validation with qRT-PCR confirms that human EGCs and PGCs express many pluripotency-associated genes but with quantifiable differences compared to pluripotent embryonic stem cells (ESCs), induced pluripotent stem cells (IPSCs), and embryonal carcinoma cells (ECCs). Analyses also identified a number of target genes that may be potentially associated with their unique pluripotent states. These include IPO7, MED7, RBM26, HSPD1, and KRAS which were upregulated in EGCs along with other pluripotent stem cells when compared to PGCs. Other potential target genes were also found which may contribute toward a primed ESC-like state. These genes were exclusively up-regulated in ESCs, IPSCs and ECCs including PARP1, CCNE1, CDK6, AURKA, MAD2L1, CCNG1, and CCNB1 which are involved in cell cycle regulation, cellular metabolism and DNA repair and replication. Gene classification analysis also confirmed that the distinguishing feature of EGCs compared to ESCs, ECCs, and IPSCs lies primarily in their genetic contribution to cellular metabolism, cell cycle, and cell adhesion. In contrast, several genes were found upregulated in PGCs which may help distinguish their unipotent state including HBA1, DMRT1, SPANXA1, and EHD2. Together, these findings provide the first glimpse into a unique genomic signature of human germ cells and pluripotent stem cells and provide genes potentially involved in defining different states of germ-line pluripotency.
38236249 | Ziv-aflibercept plus pembrolizumab in patients with advanced melanoma resistant to anti-PD-1 treatment. BACKGROUND: Vascular endothelial growth factor is associated with reduced immune response and impaired anti-tumor activity. Combining antiangiogenic agents with immune checkpoint inhibition can overcome this immune suppression and enhance treatment efficacy. METHODS: This study investigated the combination of ziv-aflibercept anti-angiogenic therapy with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced melanoma resistant to anti-PD-1 treatment. Baseline and on-treatment plasma and PBMC samples were analyzed by multiplex protein assay and mass cytometry, respectively. RESULTS: In this Phase 1B study (NCT02298959), ten patients with advanced PD-1-resistant melanoma were treated with a combination of ziv-aflibercept (at 2-4 mg/kg) plus pembrolizumab (at 2 mg/kg), administered intravenously every 2 weeks. Two patients (20%) achieved a partial response, and two patients (20%) experienced stable disease (SD) as the best response. The two responders had mucosal melanoma, while both patients with SD had ocular melanoma. The combination therapy demonstrated clinical activity and acceptable safety, despite the occurrence of adverse events. Changes in plasma analytes such as platelet-derived growth factor and PD-L1 were explored, indicating potential alterations in myeloid cell function. Higher levels of circulating CXCL10 in non-responding patients may reflect pro-tumor activity. Specific subsets of gammadelta T cells were associated with poor clinical outcomes, suggesting impaired gammadelta T-cell function in non-responding patients. CONCLUSIONS: Although limited by sample size and follow-up, these findings highlight the potential of the combination of ziv-aflibercept antiangiogenic therapy with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced melanoma resistant to anti-PD-1 treatment and the need for further research to improve outcomes in anti-PD-1-resistant melanoma. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02298959.
24596094 | Importin 8 regulates the transport of mature microRNAs into the cell nucleus. Mature microRNAs (miRNAs), ~ 22-nucleotide noncoding RNAs regulating target gene expression at the post-transcriptional level, have been recently shown to be transported into the nucleus where they modulate the biogenesis of other miRNAs or their own expression. However, the mechanism that governs the transport of mature miRNAs from cytoplasm to nucleus remains unknown. Here, we report that importin 8 (IPO8), a member of the karyopherin beta (also named the protein import receptor importin beta) family, plays a critical role in mediating the cytoplasm-to-nucleus transport of mature miRNAs. Specifically knocking down IPO8 but not other karyopherin beta family proteins via siRNA significantly decreases the nuclear transport of various known nucleus-enriched miRNAs without affecting their total cellular levels. IPO8-mediated nuclear transport of mature miRNAs is also dependent on the association of IPO8 with the Argonaute 2 (Ago2) complex. Cross-immunoprecipitation and Western blot analysis show that IPO8 is physically associated with Ago2. Knocking down IPO8 via siRNA markedly decreases the nuclear transport of Ago2 but does not affect the total cellular Ago2 level. Furthermore, dissociating the binding of miRNAs with Ago2 by trypaflavine strongly reduces the IPO8-mediated nuclear transport of miRNAs.
34484236 | Identifying Immune Cell Infiltration and Effective Diagnostic Biomarkers in Rheumatoid Arthritis by Bioinformatics Analysis. Background: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disorder characterized by inflammatory cell infiltration, leading to persistent synovitis and joint destruction. The pathogenesis of RA remains unclear. This study aims to explore the immune molecular mechanism of RA through bioinformatics analysis. Methods: Five microarray datasets and a high throughput sequencing dataset were downloaded. CIBERSORT algorithm was performed to evaluate immune cell infiltration in synovial tissues between RA and healthy control (HC). Wilcoxon test and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression were conducted to identify the significantly different infiltrates of immune cells. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened by \Batch correction\ and \RobustRankAggreg\ methods. Functional correlation of DEGs were analyzed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). Candidate biomarkers were identified by cytoHubba of Cytoscape, and their diagnostic effectiveness was predicted by Receiver Operator Characteristic Curve (ROC) analysis. The association of the identified biomarkers with infiltrating immune cells was explored using Spearman's rank correlation analysis in R software. Results: Ten significantly different types of immune cells between RA and HC were identified. A total of 202 DEGs were obtained by intersection of DEGs screened by two methods. The function of DEGs were significantly associated with immune cells. Five hub genes (CXCR4, CCL5, CD8A, CD247, and GZMA) were screened by R package \UpSet\. CCL5+CXCR4 and GZMA+CD8A were verified to have the capability to diagnose RA and early RA with the most excellent specificity and sensitivity, respectively. The correlation between immune cells and biomarkers showed that CCL5 was positively correlated with M1 macrophages, CXCR4 was positively correlated with memory activated CD4+ T cells and follicular helper T (Tfh) cells, and GZMA was positively correlated with Tfh cells. Conclusions: CCL5, CXCR4, GZMA, and CD8A can be used as diagnostic biomarker for RA. GZMA-Tfh cells, CCL5-M1 macrophages, and CXCR4- memory activated CD4+ T cells/Tfh cells may participate in the occurrence and development of RA, especially GZMA-Tfh cells for the early pathogenesis of RA.
38146367 | The HLA-B*57:01 allele corresponds to a very large MHC haploblock likely explaining its massive effect for HIV-1 elite control. Introduction: We have reanalyzed the genomic data of the International Collaboration for the Genomics of HIV (ICGH), centering on HIV-1 Elite Controllers. Methods: We performed a genome-wide Association Study comparing 543 HIV Elite Controllers with 3,272 uninfected controls of European descent. Using the latest database for imputation, we analyzed 35,552 Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) within the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) region. Results: Our analysis identified 2,626 SNPs significantly associated (p<5. 10-8) with elite control of HIV-1 infection, including well-established MHC signals such as the rs2395029-G allele which tags HLA-B*57:01. A thorough investigation of SNPs in linkage disequilibrium with rs2395029 revealed an extensive haploblock spanning 1.9 megabases in the MHC region tagging HLA-B*57:01, comprising 379 SNP alleles impacting 72 genes. This haploblock contains damaging variations in proteins like NOTCH4 and DXO and is also associated with a strong differential pattern of expression of multiple MHC genes such as HLA-B, MICB, and ZBTB12. The study was expanded to include two cohorts of seropositive African-American individuals, where a haploblock tagging the HLA-B*57:03 allele was similarly associated with control of viral load. The mRNA expression profile of this haploblock in African Americans closely mirrored that in the European cohort. Discussion: These findings suggest that additional molecular mechanisms beyond the conventional antigen-presenting role of class I HLA molecules may contribute to the observed influence of HLA-B*57:01/B*57:03 alleles on HIV-1 elite control. Overall, this study has uncovered a large haploblock associated with HLA-B*57 alleles, providing novel insights into their massive effect on HIV-1 elite control.
23749625 | Steady-state nuclear actin levels are determined by export competent actin pool. A number of studies in the last decade have irrevocably promoted actin into a fully fledged member of the nuclear compartment, where it, among other crucial tasks, facilitates transcription and chromatin remodeling. Changes in nuclear actin levels have been linked to different cellular processes: decreased nuclear actin to quiescence and increased nuclear actin to differentiation. Importin 9 and exportin 6 transport factors are responsible for the continuous nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of actin, but the mechanisms, which result in modulated actin levels, have not been characterized. We find that in cells growing under normal growth conditions, the levels of nuclear actin vary considerably from cell to cell. To understand the basis for this, we have extensively quantified several cellular parameters while at the same time recording the import and export rates of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged actin. Surprisingly, our dataset shows that the ratio of nuclear to cytoplasmic fluorescence intensity, but not nuclear shape, size, cytoplasm size, or their ratio, correlates negatively with both import and export rate of actin. This suggests that high-nuclear actin content is maintained by both diminished import and export. The high nuclear actin containing cells still show high mobility of actin, but it is not export competent, suggesting increased binding of actin to nuclear complexes. Creation of such export incompetent actin pool would ensure enough actin is retained in the nucleus and make it available for the various nuclear functions described for actin.
38461519 | NLRC5/MHC class I transactivator: A key target for immune escape by SARS-CoV-2. Antigen presentation to CD8+ T cells by MHC class I molecules is essential for host defense against viral infections. Various mechanisms have evolved in multiple viruses to escape immune surveillance and defense to support viral proliferation in host cells. Through in vitro SARS-CoV-2 infection studies and analysis of COVID-19 patient samples, we found that SARS-CoV-2 suppresses the induction of the MHC class I pathway by inhibiting the expression and function of NLRC5, a major transcriptional regulator of MHC class I genes. In this review, we discuss the molecular mechanisms for suppression of the MHC class I pathway and clinical implications for COVID-19.
31209109 | Liver-specific deletion of IGF2 mRNA binding protein-2/IMP2 reduces hepatic fatty acid oxidation and increases hepatic triglyceride accumulation. Insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding proteins 1-3 (IGF2BP1-3, also known as IMP1-3) contribute to the regulation of RNAs in a transcriptome-specific context. Global deletion of the mRNA-binding protein insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2 or IMP2) in mice causes resistance to obesity and fatty liver induced by a high-fat diet (HFD), whereas liver-specific IMP2 overexpression results in steatosis. To better understand the role of IMP2 in hepatic triglyceride metabolism, here we crossed mice expressing albumin-Cre with mice bearing a floxed Imp2 gene to generate hepatocyte-specific IMP2 knockout (LIMP2 KO) mice. Unexpectedly, the livers of LIMP2 KO mice fed an HFD accumulated more triglyceride. Although hepatocyte-specific IMP2 deletion did not alter lipogenic gene expression, it substantially decreased the levels of the IMP2 client mRNAs encoding carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A (CPT1A) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha). This decrease was associated with their more rapid turnover and accompanied by significantly diminished rates of palmitate oxidation by isolated hepatocytes and liver mitochondria. HFD-fed control and LIMP2 KO mice maintained a similar glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity up to 6 months; however, by 6 months, blood glucose and serum triglycerides in LIMP2 KO mice were modestly elevated but without evidence of liver damage. In conclusion, hepatocyte-specific IMP2 deficiency promotes modest diet-induced fatty liver by impairing fatty acid oxidation through increased degradation of the IMP2 client mRNAs PPARalpha and CPT1A This finding indicates that the previously observed marked protection against fatty liver conferred by global IMP2 deficiency in mice is entirely due to their reduced adiposity.
32518090 | Restoration of antitumor immunity through anti-MICA antibodies elicited with a chimeric protein. BACKGROUND: Natural killer and cytotoxic CD8+ T cells are major players during antitumor immunity. They express NKG2D, an activating receptor that promotes tumor elimination through recognition of the MHC class I chain-related proteins A and B (MICA and MICB). Both molecules are overexpressed on a great variety of tumors from different tissues, making them attractive targets for immunotherapy. However, tumors shed MICA and MICB, and the soluble forms of both (sMICA and sMICB) mediate tumor-immune escape. Some reports indicate that anti-MICA antibodies (Ab) can promote the restoration of antitumor immunity through the induction of direct antitumor effects (antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, ADCC) and scavenging of sMICA. Therefore, we reasoned that an active induction of anti-MICA Ab with an immunogenic protein might represent a novel therapeutic and prophylactic alternative to restore antitumor immunity. METHODS: We generated a highly immunogenic chimeric protein (BLS-MICA) consisting of human MICA fused to the lumazine synthase from Brucella spp (BLS) and used it to generate anti-MICA polyclonal Ab (pAb) and to investigate if these anti-MICA Ab can reinstate antitumor immunity in mice using two different mouse tumors engineered to express MICA. We also explored the underlying mechanisms of this expected therapeutic effect. RESULTS: Immunization with BLS-MICA and administration of anti-MICA pAb elicited by BLS-MICA significantly delayed the growth of MICA-expressing mouse tumors but not of control tumors. The therapeutic effect of immunization with BLS-MICA included scavenging of sMICA and the anti-MICA Ab-mediated ADCC, promoting heightened intratumoral M1/proinflammatory macrophage and antigen-experienced CD8+ T cell recruitment. CONCLUSIONS: Immunization with the chimeric protein BLS-MICA constitutes a useful way to actively induce therapeutic anti-MICA pAb that resulted in a reprogramming of the antitumor immune response towards an antitumoral/proinflammatory phenotype. Hence, the BLS-MICA chimeric protein constitutes a novel antitumor vaccine of potential application in patients with MICA-expressing tumors.
33082305 | Importin 13 promotes NSCLC progression by mediating RFPL3 nuclear translocation and hTERT expression upregulation. Our previous studies have reported that RFPL3 protein exerts its unique function as a transcriptional factor of hTERT promoter after being transported into the lung cancer cell nucleus. However, the detailed mechanism by which RFPL3 undergoes nuclear transport has not been reported yet. Here, we identified RFPL3 as a potential import cargo for IPO13, which was found to be overexpressed in NSCLC cells and tissues. IPO13 interacted with RFPL3 in lung cancer cells, and the knockdown of IPO13 led to the cytoplasmic accumulation of RFPL3, the decreased anchoring of RFPL3 at hTERT promoter, and the downregulation of hTERT expression. Moreover, IPO13 silencing suppressed tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. IHC analysis confirmed the positive correlation between the expression levels of IPO13 and hTERT in the tumor tissues from patients with lung cancer. Furthermore, the mechanistic study revealed that IPO13 recognized RFPL3 via a functional nuclear localization signal (NLS), which is located in the B30.2 domain at the C-terminal region of RFPL3. Of note, the presence of EGFR mutations was significantly related to the increased IPO13 expression. The EGFR-TKI Osimertinib downregulated IPO13 expression level in NSCLC cell lines with EGFR mutations, but not in EGFR wild-type ones. In summary, our data suggest that inhibition of IPO13 transport activity itself might be an alternative and potential therapeutic strategy for NSCLC.
37778428 | Development of small molecule inhibitors of natural killer group 2D receptor (NKG2D). Natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) is a homodimeric activating immunoreceptor whose function is to detect and eliminate compromised cells upon binding to the NKG2D ligands (NKG2DL) major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules class I-related chain A (MICA) and B (MICB) and UL16 binding proteins (ULBP1-6). While typically present at low levels in healthy cells and tissue, NKG2DL expression can be induced by viral infection, cellular stress or transformation. Aberrant activity along the NKG2D/NKG2DL axis has been associated with autoimmune diseases due to the increased expression of NKG2D ligands in human disease tissue, making NKG2D inhibitors an attractive target for immunomodulation. Herein we describe the discovery and optimization of small molecule PPI (protein-protein interaction) inhibitors of NKG2D/NKG2DL. Rapid SAR was guided by structure-based drug design and accomplished by iterative singleton and parallel medicinal chemistry synthesis. These efforts resulted in the identification of several potent analogs (14, 21, 30, 45) with functional activity and improved LLE.
38543955 | Bioinformatic, Biochemical, and Immunological Mining of MHC Class I Restricted T Cell Epitopes for a Marburg Nucleoprotein Microparticle Vaccine. The Marburg virus (MARV), the virus responsible for Marburg hemorrhagic fever (MHF), is considered a top-priority pathogen for vaccine development. Recent outbreaks in Equatorial Africa have highlighted the urgency of MARV because of its high fatality rate and historical concerns about potential weaponization. Currently, there are no licensed vaccines for MARV. Existing vaccine candidates rely on attenuated recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus carrying MARV glycoprotein (VSVDeltaG) or the chimpanzee replication-defective adenovirus 3 vector ChAd3-MARV. Although these platforms provide significant protection in animal models, they face challenges because of their limited thermal stability and the need for cold storage during deployment in resource-poor areas. An alternative approach involves using adjuvanted poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microparticles loaded with synthetic peptides representing MHC class I-restricted T cell epitopes. This vaccine platform has demonstrated effectiveness in protecting against SARS-CoV-2 and EBoV disease in animal models and has the advantage of not requiring cold storage and remaining stable at room temperature for over six months. This report outlines the design, manufacturing, and in vivo immunogenicity testing of PLGA microparticle human vaccines designed to prevent Marburg hemorrhagic fever.
36439161 | Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 signaling orchestrates immune tolerance in Echinococcus multilocularis-infected mice. The cestode Echinococcus multilocularis larva infection causes lethal zoonotic alveolar echinococcosis (AE), a disease posing a great threat to the public health worldwide. This persistent hepatic tumor-like disease in AE patients has been largely attributed to aberrant T cell responses, of which Th1 responses are impeded, whilst Th2 and regulatory T cell responses are elevated, creating an immune tolerogenic microenvironment in the liver. However, the immune tolerance mechanisms are not fully understood. Dendritic cells (DCs) are key cellular components in facilitating immune tolerance in chronic diseases, including AE. Here, we demonstrate that indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1-deficient (IDO1-/-) mice display less severe AE as compared to wild-type (WT) mice during the infection. Mechanistically, IDO1 prevents optimal T cells responses by programming DCs into a tolerogenic state. Specifically, IDO1 prevents the maturation and migration potential of DCs, as shown by the significantly enhanced expression of the antigen-presenting molecule (MHC II), costimulatory molecules (CD80 and CD86), and chemokine receptors (CXCR4 and CCR7) in infected IDO1-/- mice as compared to infected wild-type mice. More importantly, the tolerogenic phenotype of DCs is partly reverted in IDO1-/- mice, as indicated by enhanced activation, proliferation, and differentiation of both CD4+ and CD8+ - T cells upon infection with Echinococcus multilocularis, in comparison with WT mice. Interestingly, in absence of IDO1, CD4+ T cells are prone to differentiate to effector memory cells (CD44+CD62L-); in contrast, CD8+ T cells are highly biased to the central memory phenotype (CD44+CD62L+). Overall, these data are the first to demonstrate the essential role of IDO1 signaling in inducing immunosuppression in mice infected with Echinococcus multilocularis.
38338982 | CXCL12 Neutralizing Antibody Promotes Hair Growth in Androgenic Alopecia and Alopecia Areata. We had previously investigated the expression and functional role of C-X-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 12 (CXCL12) during the hair cycle progression. CXCL12 was highly expressed in stromal cells such as dermal fibroblasts (DFs) and inhibition of CXCL12 increased hair growth. Therefore, we further investigated whether a CXCL12 neutralizing antibody (alphaCXCL12) is effective for androgenic alopecia (AGA) and alopecia areata (AA) and studied the underlying molecular mechanism for treating these diseases. In the AGA model, CXCL12 is highly expressed in DFs. Subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of alphaCXCL12 significantly induced hair growth in AGA mice, and treatment with alphaCXCL12 attenuated the androgen-induced hair damage in hair organ culture. Androgens increased the secretion of CXCL12 from DFs through the androgen receptor (AR). Secreted CXCL12 from DFs increased the expression of the AR and C-X-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 4 (CXCR4) in dermal papilla cells (DPCs), which induced hair loss in AGA. Likewise, CXCL12 expression is increased in AA mice, while s.c. injection of alphaCXCL12 significantly inhibited hair loss in AA mice and reduced the number of CD8+, MHC-I+, and MHC-II+ cells in the skin. In addition, injection of alphaCXCL12 also prevented the onset of AA and reduced the number of CD8+ cells. Interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) treatment increased the secretion of CXCL12 from DFs through the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway, and alphaCXCL12 treatment protected the hair follicle from IFNgamma in hair organ culture. Collectively, these results indicate that CXCL12 is involved in the progression of AGA and AA and antibody therapy for CXCL12 is promising for hair loss treatment.
29955178 | Genome-scale analysis identifies paralog lethality as a vulnerability of chromosome 1p loss in cancer. Functional redundancy shared by paralog genes may afford protection against genetic perturbations, but it can also result in genetic vulnerabilities due to mutual interdependency1-5. Here, we surveyed genome-scale short hairpin RNA and CRISPR screening data on hundreds of cancer cell lines and identified MAGOH and MAGOHB, core members of the splicing-dependent exon junction complex, as top-ranked paralog dependencies6-8. MAGOHB is the top gene dependency in cells with hemizygous MAGOH deletion, a pervasive genetic event that frequently occurs due to chromosome 1p loss. Inhibition of MAGOHB in a MAGOH-deleted context compromises viability by globally perturbing alternative splicing and RNA surveillance. Dependency on IPO13, an importin-beta receptor that mediates nuclear import of the MAGOH/B-Y14 heterodimer9, is highly correlated with dependency on both MAGOH and MAGOHB. Both MAGOHB and IPO13 represent dependencies in murine xenografts with hemizygous MAGOH deletion. Our results identify MAGOH and MAGOHB as reciprocal paralog dependencies across cancer types and suggest a rationale for targeting the MAGOHB-IPO13 axis in cancers with chromosome 1p deletion.
28390868 | Small Nucleolar Noncoding RNA SNORA23, Up-Regulated in Human Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma, Regulates Expression of Spectrin Repeat-Containing Nuclear Envelope 2 to Promote Growth and Metastasis of Xenograft Tumors in Mice. BACKGROUND & AIMS: Small nucleolar noncoding RNAs (snoRNAs) regulate function of ribosomes, and specific snoRNAs are dysregulated in some cancer cells. We investigated dysregulation of snoRNAs in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells. METHODS: We investigated snoRNA expression in PDAC cell lines by complementary DNA microarray and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. In PDAC (n = 133), intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (n = 16), mucinous cystic neoplasm-associated PDAC (n = 1), and non-tumor pancreas (n = 8) and liver (n = 3) tissues from subjects who underwent surgical resection, levels of snoRNA were measured by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and compared with clinicopathologic parameters and survival times determined by Kaplan-Meier analysis. To examine snoRNA function, PDAC cells were transfected with snoRNA-antisense oligonucleotides flanked with amido-bridged nucleic acids, or snoRNA-expression plasmids, and analyzed in proliferation, colony formation, spheroid formation, and invasion assays. To identify snoRNA-related factors, cells were analyzed by gene expression and proteomic profiling and immunoblot assays. Mice were given intrasplenic injections of MIA PaCa2- or Suit2-HLMC cells; tumor-bearing nude mice were then given 3 weekly injections of an antisense oligonucleotides against SNORA23, a H/ACA-box type snoRNA, and tumor growth and metastasis to liver, blood, and pancreas were analyzed. RESULTS: Levels of SNORA23 increased and accumulated at the nucleolus in highly metastatic MIA PaCa2- or Suit2-HLMC cells compared with their parental cells. We detected SNORA23 in human PDAC specimens but not in non-tumor pancreatic tissue. PDAC level of SNORA23 correlated with invasion grade and correlated inversely with disease-free survival time of patients. Expression of SNORA23 in PDAC cells increased their invasive activity and colony formation, and spheroid formation was inhibited by SNORA23 knockdown. In gene expression and proteomic profile analyses, we found SNORA23 to increase expression of spectrin repeat-containing nuclear envelope 2 (SYNE2) messenger RNA and protein. Knockdown of SYNE2 in PDAC cells reduced their invasive activities and anchor-independent survival. Administration of SNORA23 antisense oligonucleotides to mice slowed growth of xenograft tumors, tumor expression of SYNE2, tumor cell dissemination, and metastasis to liver. CONCLUSIONS: We found expression of the snoRNA SNORA23, which mediates sequence-specific pseudouridylation of ribosomal RNAs, to be increased in human PDAC tissues compared with non-tumor tissues, and levels to correlate with tumor invasion grade and patient survival time. SNORA23 increases expression of SYNE2, possibly through modulation of ribosome biogenesis, to promote PDAC cell survival and invasion, and growth and metastasis of xenograft tumors in mice.
36384391 | Multiple COVID reinfections in a vaccinated psoriatic patient receiving adalimumab. Currently, psoriasis patients are advised to follow their standard therapeutic regimen, and are advised to be vaccinated against Covid-19. However, the data about the antibody responses, induced by the various kinds of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines in psoriasis patients who require systemic immunosuppressive treatment is scant. In this case report, we describe antibody responses induced by COVID-19 vaccine, in a 26-year-old male patient with psoriasis being treated with anti-TNF biotherapy, adalimumab biosimilar every two weeks. The patient was vaccinated against COVID-19, according to the national protocol. He experienced three episodes of symptomatic COVID-19. His first and second exposures did not result in antibody production. After the third episode of COVID-19, The SARS-CoV-2 anti-spike antibody (IgG) was more than 100 Ru/mL (ELISA; >=8 Ru/mL is considered positive), and SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibody (total) was more than 40 micg/mL (ELISA; >=2.5 micg/mL is considered positive). This is the first case with weak antibody response to vaccination and multiple episodes of COVID infection in a psoriatic patient with adalimumab biosimilar. However, we cannot assume causality due to the treatment.
35358193 | FOXP3 and CXCR4-positive regulatory T cells in the tumor stroma as indicators of tumor immunity in the conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma microenvironment. Conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the most common ocular surface neoplasia. The purpose of this retrospective study was to examine the role of regulatory T cell (Treg) activity in tumor immunity and investigate the tumor microenvironment as a new treatment focus in conjunctival SCC. Cancer progression gene array and immunohistochemical analyses of FOXP3 as a Treg marker, CD8 as a tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte marker, and CXCR4 expression on activated Tregs were conducted in a series of 31 conjunctival SCC cases. The objective was to investigate the immunoreactive response in tumor cells and stromal cells in the cancer microenvironment. The stroma ratio in tumor cells was investigated by monitoring alpha-smooth muscle actine (SMA) expression between carcinoma in situ (Tis) and advanced carcinoma (Tadv) (P<0.01). No significant change in PD-L1 expression was observed in this study (P = 0.15). Staining patterns of FOXP3, CD8, and CXCR4 were examined separately between tumor cells and stromal cells in SCC tumors. Differences in staining of FOXP3 in Tregs and CD8 in tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in tumor stroma in the Tis group were observed compared with the Tadv group (each P<0.01). In addition, double immunostaining of CXCR4/FOXP3 was correlated with progression-free survival (P = 0.049). Double immunostaining of CXCR4/FOXP3 correlated with American Joint Committee on Cancer T-stage, independent of age or Ki67 index (P<0.01). Our results show that FOXP3 and the CXCR4/FOXP3 axis are important pathologic and prognostic factors of ocular surface neoplasia, including SCC. The tumor microenvironment of conjunctival SCC should be considered in the future development of treatment options.
36548255 | Ancestral risk modification for multiple sclerosis susceptibility detected across the Major Histocompatibility Complex in a multi-ethnic population. The Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) makes the largest genetic contribution to multiple sclerosis (MS) susceptibility, with 32 independent effects across the region explaining 20% of the heritability in European populations. Variation is high across populations with allele frequency differences and population-specific risk alleles identified. We sought to identify MHC-specific MS susceptibility variants and assess the effect of ancestral risk modification within 2652 Latinx and Hispanic individuals as well as 2435 Black and African American individuals. We have identified several novel susceptibility alleles which are rare in European populations including HLA-B*53:01, and we have utilized the differing linkage disequilibrium patterns inherent to these populations to identify an independent role for HLA-DRB1*15:01 and HLA-DQB1*06:02 on MS risk. We found a decrease in Native American ancestry in MS cases vs controls across the MHC, peaking near the previously identified MICB locus with a decrease of ~5.5% in Hispanics and ~0.4% in African Americans. We have identified several susceptibility variants, including within the MICB gene region, which show global ancestry risk modification and indicate ancestral differences which may be due in part to correlated environmental factors. We have also identified several susceptibility variants for which MS risk is modified by local ancestry and indicate true ancestral genetic differences; including HLA-DQB1*06:02 for which MS risk for European allele carriers is almost two times the risk for African allele carriers. These results validate the importance of investigating MS susceptibility at an ancestral level and offer insight into the epidemiology of MS phenotypic diversity.
37795845 | The effect of neighborhood socioeconomic disadvantage on smoking status, quit attempts, and receipt of cessation support among adults with cancer: Results from nine ECOG-ACRIN Cancer Research Group (EA) trials. BACKGROUND: Tobacco use is associated with adverse outcomes among patients diagnosed with cancer. Socioeconomic determinants influence access and utilization of tobacco treatment; little is known about the relationship between neighborhood socioeconomic disadvantage (NSD) and tobacco assessment, assistance, and cessation among patients diagnosed with cancer. METHODS: A modified Cancer Patient Tobacco Use Questionnaire (C-TUQ) was administered to patients enrolled in nine ECOG-ACRIN clinical trials. We examined associations of NSD with (1) smoking status, (2) receiving tobacco cessation assessment and support, and (3) cessation behaviors. NSD was classified by tertiles of the Area Deprivation Index. Associations between NSD and tobacco variables were evaluated using logistic regression. RESULTS: A total of 740 patients completing the C-TUQ were 70% male, 94% White, 3% Hispanic, mean age 58.8 years. Cancer diagnoses included leukemia 263 (36%), lymphoma 141 (19%), prostate 131 (18%), breast 79 (11%), melanoma 69 (9%), myeloma 53 (7%), and head and neck 4 (0.5%). A total of 402 (54%) never smoked, 257 (35%) had formerly smoked, and 81 (11%) were currently smoking. Patients in high disadvantaged neighborhoods were approximately four times more likely to report current smoking (odds ratio [OR], 3.57; 95% CI, 1.69-7.54; p = .0009), and more likely to report being asked about smoking (OR, 4.24; 95% CI, 1.64-10.98; p = .0029), but less likely to report receiving counseling (OR, 0.11; 95% CI, 0.02-0.58; p = .0086) versus those in the least disadvantaged neighborhoods. CONCLUSIONS: Greater neighborhood socioeconomic disadvantage was associated with smoking but less cessation support. Increased cessation support in cancer care is needed, particularly for patients from disadvantaged neighborhoods.
38035108 | High population frequencies of MICA copy number variations originate from independent recombination events. MICA is a stress-induced ligand of the NKG2D receptor that stimulates NK and T cell responses and was identified as a key determinant of anti-tumor immunity. The MICA gene is located inside the MHC complex and is in strong linkage disequilibrium with HLA-B. While an HLA-B*48-linked MICA deletion-haplotype was previously described in Asian populations, little is known about other MICA copy number variations. Here, we report the genotyping of more than two million individuals revealing high frequencies of MICA duplications (1%) and MICA deletions (0.4%). Their prevalence differs between ethnic groups and can rise to 2.8% (Croatia) and 9.2% (Mexico), respectively. Targeted sequencing of more than 70 samples indicates that these copy number variations originate from independent nonallelic homologous recombination events between segmental duplications upstream of MICA and MICB. Overall, our data warrant further investigation of disease associations and consideration of MICA copy number data in oncological study protocols.
36126821 | Knee osteoarthritis phenotypes based on synovial fluid immune cells correlate with clinical outcome trajectories. BACKGROUND: Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is a highly heterogeneous disease encompassing a wide range of clinical phenotypes. Phenotypes based on immune cells and protein pattern in synovial fluid (SF) and their relationship to clinical trajectories have not been described. OBJECTIVE: To assess phenotypes based on immune cells and protein pattern of SF in KOA. DESIGN: SF-derived immune cells were investigated in 119 patients with KOA using flow cytometry. Immune-phenotypes (iPhen) were determined by multivariate patient similarity network analysis and related to clinical trajectory (3-6 months post-sampling) along with protein pattern and macrophage chemokine receptors. RESULTS: Four iPhen were detected based on the distribution of T-lymphocytes, monocyte-macrophage lineage cells and activated CD8+ T-lymphocytes. The 'activated' phenotype (n = 17) had high T-lymphocytes but low monocyte-macrophage lineage cells and neutrophils, all highly activated, and showed improved symptoms in 70% patients. The 'lymphoid progressive' phenotype (n = 31) had high neutrophils, low lymphocytes and monocyte-macrophage lineage cells, low activation and was associated with lower pain levels. The 'myeloid progressive' phenotype (n = 35) had high NK and monocyte-macrophage lineage cells but low T-lymphocytes and activation. The 'aggressive' phenotype (n = 36) had high lymphocytes, macrophages, NK cells and neutrophils and high activation, and only 39% of patients improved during follow-up. Low CXCR4 and CCR7 expression on macrophages and high CXCL10 in SF were linked to improved clinical trajectory. CONCLUSION: We identified four immune-phenotypes that were associated with different clinical trajectories in KOA patients. How these phenotypes can be targeted therapeutically deserves further investigation.
37626965 | The Role and Regulation of the NKG2D/NKG2D Ligand System in Cancer. The family of human NKG2D ligands (NKG2DL) consists of eight stress-induced molecules. Over 80% of human cancers express these ligands on the surface of tumour cells and/or associated stromal elements. In mice, NKG2D deficiency increases susceptibility to some types of cancer, implicating this system in immune surveillance for malignancy. However, NKG2DL can also be shed, released via exosomes and trapped intracellularly, leading to immunosuppressive effects. Moreover, NKG2D can enhance chronic inflammatory processes which themselves can increase cancer risk and progression. Indeed, tumours commonly deploy a range of countermeasures that can neutralise or even corrupt this surveillance system, tipping the balance away from immune control towards tumour progression. Consequently, the prognostic impact of NKG2DL expression in human cancer is variable. In this review, we consider the underlying biology and regulation of the NKG2D/NKG2DL system and its expression and role in a range of cancer types. We also consider the opportunities for pharmacological modulation of NKG2DL expression while cautioning that such interventions need to be carefully calibrated according to the biology of the specific cancer type.
35954489 | Chemokine Receptor Expression on T Cells Is Modulated by CAFs and Chemokines Affect the Spatial Distribution of T Cells in Pancreatic Tumors. The accumulation of T cells is associated with a better prognosis in pancreatic cancer. However, the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, largely composed by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), can prevent T cells from reaching the tumor nests. We examined how human CAFs modulated chemokine receptors known to be associated with T cell trafficking, CXCR3 and CCR5, and T cell exclusion, CXCR4. CAFs decreased the expression of CXCR3 and CCR5 but increased CXCR4 expression in both 2D and 3D cultures, affecting the migratory capacity of T cells towards CXCL10. An immunohistochemistry analysis showed that very few T cells were found in the tumor nests. Within the stroma, CD8+ T cells were localized more distantly from the malignant cells whereas CD4+ T cells were more equally distributed. Tumor tissues with a high production of chemokines were associated with less T cell infiltration when the whole tissue was analyzed. However, when the spatial localization of CD8+ T cells within the tissue was taken into account, levels of CXCR3 ligands and the CCR5 ligand CCL8 showed a positive association with a high relative T cell infiltration in tumor-rich areas. Thus, CXCR3 ligands could mediate T cell trafficking but CAFs could prevent T cells from reaching the malignant cells.
26140478 | Intranuclear Actin Regulates Osteogenesis. Depolymerization of the actin cytoskeleton induces nuclear trafficking of regulatory proteins and global effects on gene transcription. We here show that in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), cytochalasin D treatment causes rapid cofilin-/importin-9-dependent transfer of G-actin into the nucleus. The continued presence of intranuclear actin, which forms rod-like structures that stain with phalloidin, is associated with induction of robust expression of the osteogenic genes osterix and osteocalcin in a Runx2-dependent manner, and leads to acquisition of osteogenic phenotype. Adipogenic differentiation also occurs, but to a lesser degree. Intranuclear actin leads to nuclear export of Yes-associated protein (YAP); maintenance of nuclear YAP inhibits Runx2 initiation of osteogenesis. Injection of cytochalasin into the tibial marrow space of live mice results in abundant bone formation within the space of 1 week. In sum, increased intranuclear actin forces MSC into osteogenic lineage through controlling Runx2 activity; this process may be useful for clinical objectives of forming bone.
28476804 | Knockdown of Importin 7 Inhibits Lung Tumorigenesis in K-rasLA1 Lung Cancer Mice. Background/Aim: Lung cancer shows the highest estimated deaths in both males and females in the Unites States. Importin 7 is overexpressed in lung adenocarcinoma tissues. In this study, we aimed to demonstrate the anticancer effect of importin 7 down-regulation, especially in lung cancer. Materials and Methods: Glycerol propoxylate triacrylate spermine (GPT-SPE) is a biocompatible carrier used for aerosol gene delivery. Repeated aerosol delivery of GPT-SPE/shImportin 7 complexes was performed to 10-week-old male K-rasLA1mice (a murine lung cancer model) twice a week for 4 weeks (8 times) in a nose-only exposure chamber. Results: Aerosol delivery of GPT-SPE/shImportin 7 inhibits lung cancer in K-rasLA1mice compared to control and scramble control groups. Moreover, importin 7-down-regulated stable cell-line demonstrates suppression of proliferation through Akt inhibition and apoptosis. Conclusion: Down-regulation of importin 7 significantly suppresses lung cancer in vitro and in vivo.
35525711 | HLA class I chain-related MICA and MICB genes polymorphism in healthy individuals from the Bulgarian population. Although human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene polymorphism has been investigated in many populations around the world, the data on MHC class I chain-related (MIC) genes are still limited. The present study is aimed to analyze the allelic polymorphism of MICA and MICB genes and haplotype associations with HLA-B locus in 132 healthy, unrelated individuals from the Bulgarian population by next generation sequencing (NGS). A total of 36 MICA and 16 MICB alleles were observed with the highest frequency detected for MICA*008:01 (17.1%) and MICB*005:02 (32.4%). Further, two and three-loci haplotype frequencies and pairwise linkage disequilibrium were estimated. Highly significant global linkage disequilibrium was found between either HLA-B and MICA and MICB genes. This is the first study on MICA and MICB allelic polymorphism, linkage disequilibrium, and haplotype polymorphism in the Bulgarian population. These results will allow for better characterization of the genetic heterogeneity of the Bulgarian population and could contribute to further analyses on MICA and MICB clinical significance.
38493239 | Beyond the marrow: insights from comprehensive next-generation sequencing of extramedullary multiple myeloma tumors. Extramedullary multiple myeloma (EMM) is an aggressive form of multiple myeloma (MM). This study represents the most comprehensive next-generation sequencing analysis of EMM tumors (N = 14) to date, uncovering key molecular features and describing the tumor microenvironment. We observed the co-occurrence of 1q21 gain/amplification and MAPK pathway mutations in 79% of EMM samples, suggesting that these are crucial mutational events in EMM development. We also demonstrated that patients with mutated KRAS and 1q21 gain/amplification at the time of diagnosis have a significantly higher risk of EMM development (HR = 2.4, p = 0.011) using data from a large CoMMpass dataset. We identified downregulation of CXCR4 and enhanced cell proliferation, along with reduced expression of therapeutic targets (CD38, SLAMF7, GPRC5D, FCRH5), potentially explaining diminished efficacy of immunotherapy. Conversely, we identified significantly upregulated EZH2 and CD70 as potential future therapeutic options. For the first time, we report on the tumor microenvironment of EMM, revealing CD8+ T cells and NK cells as predominant immune effector cells using single-cell sequencing. Finally, this is the first longitudinal study in EMM revealing the molecular changes from the time of diagnosis to EMM relapse.
38427545 | Evasive Spike Variants Elucidate the Preservation of T Cell Immune Response to the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Variant. The Omicron variants boast the highest infectivity rates among all SARS-CoV-2 variants. Despite their lower disease severity, they can reinfect COVID-19 patients and infect vaccinated individuals as well. The high number of mutations in these variants render them resistant to antibodies that otherwise neutralize the spike protein of the original SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. Recent research has shown that despite its strong immune evasion, Omicron still induces strong T Cell responses similar to the original variant. This work investigates the molecular basis for this observation using the neural network tools NetMHCpan-4.1 and NetMHCiipan-4.0. The antigens presented through the MHC Class I and Class II pathways from all the notable SARS-CoV-2 variants were compared across numerous high frequency HLAs. All variants were observed to have equivalent T cell antigenicity. A novel positive control system was engineered in the form of spike variants that did evade T Cell responses, unlike Omicron. These evasive spike proteins were used to statistically confirm that the Omicron variants did not exhibit lower antigenicity in the MHC pathways. These results suggest that T Cell immunity mounts a strong defense against COVID-19 which is difficult for SARS-CoV-2 to overcome through mere evolution.
32517713 | Antibody targeting tumor-derived soluble NKG2D ligand sMIC reprograms NK cell homeostatic survival and function and enhances melanoma response to PDL1 blockade therapy. BACKGROUND: Melanoma patients who have detectable serum soluble NKG2D ligands either at the baseline or post-treatment of PD1/PDL1 blockade exhibit poor overall survival. Among families of soluble human NKG2D ligands, the soluble human MHC I chain-related molecule (sMIC) was found to be elevated in melanoma patients and mostly associated with poor response to PD1/PDL1 blockade therapy. METHODS: In this study, we aim to investigate whether co-targeting tumor-released sMIC enhances the therapeutic outcome of PD1/PDL1 blockade therapy for melanoma. We implanted sMIC-expressing B16F10 melanoma tumors into syngeneic host and evaluated therapeutic efficacy of anti-sMIC antibody and anti-PDL1 antibody combination therapy in comparison with monotherapy. We analyzed associated effector mechanism. We also assessed sMIC/MIC prevalence in metastatic human melanoma tumors. RESULTS: We found that the combination therapy of the anti-PDL1 antibody with an antibody targeting sMIC significantly improved animal survival as compared to monotherapies and that the effect of combination therapy depends significantly on NK cells. We show that combination therapy significantly increased IL-2Ralpha (CD25) on NK cells which sensitizes NK cells to low dose IL-2 for survival. We demonstrate that sMIC negatively reprograms gene expression related to NK cell homeostatic survival and proliferation and that antibody clearing sMIC reverses the effect of sMIC and reprograms NK cell for survival. We further show that sMIC/MIC is abundantly present in metastatic human melanoma tumors. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide a pre-clinical proof-of-concept and a new mechanistic understanding to underscore the significance of antibody targeting sMIC to improve therapeutic efficacy of anti-PD1/PDL1 antibody for MIC/sMIC+ metastatic melanoma patients.
16134771 | Comparison of asthma phenotypes using different sensitizing protocols in mice. BACKGROUND: Several methods have been reported to induce asthmatic reactions in mice but few studies have compared their efficiency. We evaluated the efficiency of the protocols frequently used in the literature. METHODS: BALB/c mice were sensitized to ovalbumin (OVA) by intraperitoneal injection; 1] Once a week for two weeks using OVA with alum (IPOA-2) or without (IPO-2), and provocation on days 28-30 by 1% OVA inhalation; 2] seven times for two weeks by OVA with alum (IPOA-7) or without (IPO-7) and provocation by 1% OVA inhalation on days 42-44. 3] Sensitization by 1% OVA inhalation for ten days (IHO-10) and provocation by 1% OVA inhalation on days 28-30. After the last challenge, airway hyperresponsiveness was measured with single chamber plethysmography 24 hours later and mice were sacrificed 48 hours later. RESULTS: Airway hyperresponsiveness, BALF eosinophilia, airway inflammation, and OVA-specific IgE and IgG1 production were effectively induced in IPOA-2, IPOA-7, and IPO-7. However, these phenotypes were not induced in IPO-2 (except for increased BALF eosinophils) or IHO-10 (except for an increased OVA-specific IgG1 level). CONCLUSION: The intraperitoneal injections of OVA with alum once a week for two weeks proved to be the most efficient sensitization method of inducing an asthmatic reaction in mice.
36521927 | Epigenetic modulation of neuroblastoma enhances T cell and NK cell immunogenicity by inducing a tumor-cell lineage switch. BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy in high-risk neuroblastoma (HR-NBL) does not live up to its full potential due to inadequate (adaptive) immune engagement caused by the extensive immunomodulatory capacity of HR-NBL. We aimed to tackle one of the most notable immunomodulatory processes in neuroblastoma (NBL), absence of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) surface expression, a process greatly limiting cytotoxic T cell engagement. We and others have previously shown that MHC-I expression can be induced by cytokine-driven immune modulation. Here, we aimed to identify tolerable pharmacological repurposing strategies to upregulate MHC-I expression and therewith enhance T cell immunogenicity in NBL. METHODS: Drug repurposing libraries were screened to identify compounds enhancing MHC-I surface expression in NBL cells using high-throughput flow cytometry analyses optimized for adherent cells. The effect of positive hits was confirmed in a panel of NBL cell lines and patient-derived organoids. Compound-treated NBL cell lines and organoids were cocultured with preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME)-reactive tumor-specific T cells and healthy-donor natural killer (NK) cells to determine the in vitro effect on T cell and NK cell cytotoxicity. Additional immunomodulatory effects of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) were identified by transcriptome and translatome analysis of treated organoids. RESULTS: Drug library screening revealed MHC-I upregulation by inhibitor of apoptosis inhibitor (IAPi)- and HDACi drug classes. The effect of IAPi was limited due to repression of nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) pathway activity in NBL, while the MHC-I-modulating effect of HDACi was widely translatable to a panel of NBL cell lines and patient-derived organoids. Pretreatment of NBL cells with the HDACi entinostat enhanced the cytotoxic capacity of tumor-specific T cells against NBL in vitro, which coincided with increased expression of additional players regulating T cell cytotoxicity (eg, TAP1/2 and immunoproteasome subunits). Moreover, MICA and MICB, important in NK cell cytotoxicity, were also increased by entinostat exposure. Intriguingly, this increase in immunogenicity was accompanied by a shift toward a more mesenchymal NBL cell lineage. CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates the potential of combining (immuno)therapy with HDACi to enhance both T cell-driven and NKcell-driven immune responses in patients with HR-NBL.
8995188 | Allelic and interlocus comparison of the PERB11 multigene family in the MHC. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) contains at least a hundred genes over 4 megabases of DNA. Within the MHC there are several new multigene families which have been recently described. PERB11 is a multigene family which occurs over the class I and central region of the MHC. Two members of the family have been shown to be functional and share domains with members of the supergene family including HLA class I, FcRn, and Zn-alpha2-glycoprotein molecules. The two functional members are contained within an area of the MHC which has been associated with increased susceptibility to autoimmune diseases such as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and also rapid progression to AIDS following HIV-1 infection. Intralocus and interlocus differences between PERB11.1 and PERB11.2 include: (1) several nucleotide substitutions leading to amino acid changes; (2) presence and absence of potential glycosylation sites; (3) insertions and deletions leading to a frame shift resulting in diversity at the amino acid level and an early termination signal. There are ten different alleles of PERB11.1 including one allele which contains a frame shift in the transmembrane region causing a putative truncated molecule lacking the cytoplasmic tail. The significance of this polymorphism in disease associations is under investigation. The most divergent domain is the transmembrane region when PERB11.1 and PERB11.2 are compared. The results suggest that these two molecules may have different functions.
37359242 | A phase Ib trial of combined PKC and MEK inhibition with sotrastaurin and binimetinib in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma. Background: Uveal melanoma is a disease characterized by constitutive activation of the G alpha pathway and downstream signaling of protein kinase C (PKC) and the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. While limited clinical activity has been observed in patients with metastatic disease with inhibition of PKC or MEK alone, preclinical data has demonstrated synergistic antitumor effects with concurrent inhibition of PKC and MEK. Method: We conducted a phase Ib study of the PKC inhibitor sotrastaurin in combination with the MEK inhibitor binimetinib in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma using a Bayesian logistic regression model guided by the escalation with overdose control principle (NCT01801358). Serial blood samples and paired tumor samples were collected for pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic analysis. Results: Thirty-eight patients were treated across six dose levels. Eleven patients experienced DLTs across the five highest dose levels tested, most commonly including vomiting (n=3), diarrhea (n=3), nausea (n=2), fatigue (n=2) and rash (n=2). Common treatment related adverse events included diarrhea (94.7%), nausea (78.9%), vomiting (71.1%), fatigue (52.6%), rash (39.5%), and elevated blood creating phosphokinase (36.8%). Two dose combinations satisfying criteria for the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) were identified: (1) sotrastaurin 300 mg and binimetinib 30 mg; and, (2) sotrastaurin 200 mg and binimetinib 45 mg. Exposure to both drugs in combination was consistent with single-agent data for either drug, indicating no PK interaction between sotrastaurin and binimetinib. Stable disease was observed in 60.5% of patients treated. No patient achieved a radiographic response per RECIST v1.1. Conclusions: Concurrent administration of sotrastaurin and binimetinib is feasible but associated with substantial gastrointestinal toxicity. Given the limited clinical activity achieved with this regimen, accrual to the phase II portion of the trial was not initiated.
10660567 | Random mutagenesis and functional analysis of the Ran-binding protein, RanBP1. Ran GTPase is required for nucleocytoplasmic transport of many types of cargo. Several proteins that recognize Ran in its GTP-bound state (Ran x GTP) possess a conserved Ran-binding domain (RanBD). Ran-binding protein-1 (RanBP1) has a single RanBD and is required for RanGAP-mediated GTP hydrolysis and release of Ran from nuclear transport receptors (karyopherins). In budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), RanBP1 is encoded by the essential YRB1 gene; expression of mouse RanBP1 cDNA rescues the lethality of Yrb1-deficient cells. We generated libraries of mouse RanBP1 mutants and examined 11 mutants in vitro and for their ability to complement a temperature-sensitive yrb1 mutant (yrb1-51(ts)) in vivo. In 9 of the mutants, the alteration was a change in a residue (or 2 residues) that is conserved in all known RanBDs. However, 4 of these 9 mutants displayed biochemical properties indistinguishable from that of wild-type RanBP1. These mutants bound to Ran x GTP, stimulated RanGAP, inhibited the exchange activity of RCC1, and rescued growth of the yrb1-51(ts) yeast cells. Two of the 9 mutants altered in residues thought to be essential for interaction with Ran were unable to rescue growth of the yrb1(ts) mutant and did not bind detectably to Ran in vitro. However, one of these 2 mutants (and 2 others that were crippled in other RanBP1 functions) retained some ability to co-activate RanGAP. A truncated form of RanBP1 (lacking its nuclear export signal) was able to complement the yrb1(ts) mutation. When driven from the YRB1 promoter, 4 of the 5 mutants most impaired for Ran binding were unable to rescue growth of the yrb1(ts) cells; remarkably, these mutants could nevertheless form ternary complexes with importin-5 or importin-beta and Ran-GTP. The same mutants stimulated only inefficiently RanGAP-mediated GTP hydrolysis of the Ran x GTP x importin-5 complex. Thus, the essential biological activity of RanBP1 in budding yeast correlates not with Ran x GTP binding per se or with the ability to form ternary complexes with karyopherins, but with the capacity to potentiate RanGAP activity toward GTP-bound Ran in these complexes.
10229571 | Comparison between two human endogenous retrovirus (HERV)-rich regions within the major histocompatibility complex. Sixteen human endogenous retrovirus (HERV) sequences were detected within 656 kb of genomic sequence obtained from the alpha- and beta-block of the class I region of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). The HERVs were identified and characterized as family members of HERV-16 (11 copies), HERV-L (1 copy), HERV-I (2 copies), HERV-K91 (1 copy), and HARLEQUIN (1 copy) by sequence comparison using CENSOR or Repeat Masker, BLAST searches, and dot plots. The 11 copies of HERV-16 arose as products of duplication of genomic segments containing HLA class I (HLAcI) and PERB11 (MIC) genes inter alia, whereas the other five HERVs arose after duplication probably as a consequence of single insertion events or translocations. HERV-L and HERV-I are located between the duplicated genes PERB11.2 (MICB) and PERB11.1 (MICA), and HLA-B and HLA-C, respectively, whereas HERV-K91 and HARLEQUIN are located telomeric of HLA-C. A highly fragmented copy of HERV-I was also found telomeric of PERB11. 4. Structural analysis of open reading frames (ORFs) revealed the absence of intact coding sequence within the putative gag, pol, and env gene regions of all the HERVs with the exception of HERV-K91, which had two large ORFs within the region of the putative protease and pol genes. In addition, the 5'-LTR of HERV-L contained a 2.5-kb element that was AT-rich and large ORFs with putative amino acid sequences rich in tyrosines and isoleucines. HERV-I, HARLEQUIN, and at least four copies of HERV-16 appear to have been receptors for the insertion of other retrotransposons including Alu elements and fragments of L1 and THE1. Examination of flanking sequences suggests that HERV-I and HERV-L had occurred by insertion into ancient L1 fragments. This study has revealed that the alpha- and beta-block region within the MHC is rich in HERV sequences occurring at a much higher ratio (10 to 1) than normally observed in the human genome. These HERV sequences will therefore enhance further studies on disease associations and differences between human haplotypes and primates and their role in the evolution of class I genes in the MHC.
37744375 | IL-17a-producing gammadeltaT cells and NKG2D signaling mediate bacterial endotoxin-induced neonatal lung injury: implications for bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a chronic lung disease in preterm birth survivors characterized by inflammation, impaired alveolarization and dysmorphic vasculature. Activated IL-17A+ lymphocytes are key drivers of inflammation in preterm infants. We have shown that in immature mice chronic airway exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces pulmonary inflammation, increased IL-17a expression, and hypoalveolarization, a BPD-like phenotype. The source of IL-17a and contribution to lung pathology is unknown. The natural-killer group 2, member D (NKG2D) receptor mediates activation and IL-17a production in gammadelta T cells by binding to stress molecules. LPS induces NKG2D ligand expression, including Rae-1 and MULT1. We hypothesized that IL-17a+ gammadelta T cells and NKG2D signaling mediate neonatal LPS-induced lung injury. Immature C57BL/6J (wild type), Nkg2d-/- or Tcrd-/- (lacking gammadelta T cells) mice were inoculated with 3ug/10ul of LPS from E. coli O26:B6 or 10ul of PBS intranasally on day of life 3, 5, 7, and 10. Selected mice were treated with neutralizing antibodies against IL-17a, or NKG2D intraperitoneally. Lung immune cells were assessed by flow cytometry and gene expression was analyzed by qPCR. Alveolar growth was assessed by lung morphometry. We established that anti-IL-17a antibody treatment attenuated LPS-induced hypoalveolarization. We found that LPS induced the fraction of IL-17a+NKG2D+ gammadelta T cells, a major source of IL-17a in the neonatal lung. LPS also induced lung mRNA expression of NKG2D, Rae-1, MULT1, and the DNA damage regulator p53. Anti-NKG2D treatment attenuated the effect of LPS on gammadelta T cell IL-17a expression, immune cell infiltration and hypoalveolarization. LPS-induced hypoalveolarization was also attenuated in Nkg2d-/- and Tcrd-/- mice. In tracheal aspirates of preterm infants IL-17A and its upstream regulator IL-23 were higher in infants who later developed BPD. Also, human ligands of NKG2D, MICA and MICB were present in the aspirates and MICA correlated with median FiO2. Our novel findings demonstrate a central role for activated IL-17a+ gammadelta T cells and NKG2D signaling in neonatal LPS-induced lung injury. Future studies will determine the role of NKG2D ligands and effectors, other NKG2D+ cells in early-life endotoxin-induced lung injury and inflammation with a long-term goal to understand how inflammation contributes to BPD pathogenesis.
12670497 | Interaction between protein phosphatase 2A and members of the importin beta superfamily. While performing a yeast two-hybrid library screen to uncover novel PP2A-interacting proteins, we discovered a specific interaction between a member of the importin beta/karyopherin beta superfamily, importin 9, and the A subunit of PP2A (PR65). This interaction between importin 9 and the A subunit was confirmed by in vitro pulldown, immunoprecipitation, and microcystin-Sepharose chromatography. We also found that another family member, importin beta, interacted specifically with the A subunit of PP2A. Finally, we showed that treatment of cells with a concentration of okadaic acid known to inhibit PP2A impeded the nuclear localization of an NLS-containing protein. These results provide evidence that these importins can exist in a native complex with endogenous PP2A and that this serine/threonine phosphatase plays a role in regulating the nuclear import of NLS-containing proteins in vivo.
38245792 | High and selective cytotoxicity of ex vivo expanded allogeneic human natural killer cells from peripheral blood against bladder cancer: implications for natural killer cell instillation after transurethral resection of bladder tumor. BACKGROUND: Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) is treated with transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) followed by intravesical instillation of chemotherapy or Bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy. However, these treatments have a high recurrence rate and side effects, emphasizing the need for alternative instillations. Previously, we revealed that expanded allogeneic human natural killer (NK) cells from peripheral blood are a promising cellular therapy for prostate cancer. However, whether NK cells exhibit a similar killing effect in bladder cancer (BCa) remains unknown. METHODS: Expansion, activation, and cryopreservation of allogeneic human NK cells obtained from peripheral blood were performed as we previously described. In vitro cytotoxicity was evaluated using the cell counting kit-8. The levels of perforin, granzyme B, interferon-gamma, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and chemokines (C-C-motif ligand [CCL]1, CCL2, CCL20, CCL3L1, and CCL4; C-X-C-motif ligand [CXCL]1, CXCL16, CXCL2, CXCL3, and CXCL8; and X-motif ligand 1 and 2) were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The expression of CD107a, major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I), MHC-I polypeptide-related sequences A and B (MICA/B), cytomegalovirus UL16-binding protein-2/5/6 (ULBP-2/5/6), B7-H6, CD56, CD69, CD25, killer cell Ig-like receptors (KIR)2DL1, KIRD3DL1, NKG2D, NKp30, NKp46, and CD16 of NK cells or BCa and normal urothelial cells were detected using flow cytometry. Cytotoxicity was evaluated using lactate dehydrogenase assay in patient-derived organoid models. BCa growth was monitored in vivo using calipers in male NOD-scid IL2rg-/- mice subcutaneously injected with 5637 and NK cells. Differential gene expressions were investigated using RNA sequence analysis. The chemotaxis of T cells was evaluated using transwell migration assays. RESULTS: We revealed that the NK cells possess higher cytotoxicity against BCa lines with more production of cytokines than normal urothelial cells counterparts in vitro, demonstrated by upregulation of degranulation marker CD107a and increased interferon-gamma secretion, by MICA/B/NKG2D and B7H6/NKp30-mediated activation. Furthermore, NK cells demonstrated antitumor effects against BCa in patient-derived organoids and BCa xenograft mouse models. NK cells secreted chemokines, including CCL1/2/20, to induce T-cell chemotaxis when encountering BCa cells. CONCLUSIONS: The expanded NK cells exhibit potent cytotoxicity against BCa cells, with few toxic side effects on normal urothelial cells. In addition, NK cells recruit T cells by secreting a panel of chemokines, which supports the translational application of NK cell intravesical instillation after TURBT from bench to bedside for NMIBC treatment.
33037097 | A Chimeric Antigen Receptor That Binds to a Conserved Site on MICA. The NKG2D ligand MHC class I chain-related protein A (MICA) is expressed on many varieties of malignant cells but is absent from most normal tissues, and thus represents a potential target for chimeric Ag receptor (CAR) T cell-based therapeutics. However, there are more than 100 alleles of MICA, so the ability to target a conserved site is needed for a therapy to be used in most patients. In this study, we describe a fully human anti-MICA CAR created by fusing the single-chain fragment variable B2 to the full length DAP10 protein and the traditional CD3zeta signaling domain. Human T cells expressing the B2 CAR killed MICA-positive tumor cells, produced IFN-gamma when in contact with MICA-positive tumor cells or plate-bound MICA protein, and inhibited PANC-1 growth in a mouse xenograft model. To localize B2's epitope on MICA, we used novel computational methods to model potential binding modes and to design mutational variants of MICA testing these hypotheses. Flow cytometry using a commercial anti-MICA/MICB Ab indicated that the variant proteins were expressed at high levels on transduced P815 cell lines. One variant protein (R38S/K40T/K57E) showed reduced staining with a B2-IgG1 fusion protein compared with controls and did not induce IFN-gamma production by human T cells expressing the B2 CAR. These results show antitumor activity of MICA-specific CAR T cells and indicate an essential role for a conserved site in the exposed loop involving aa 38-57 of MICA. This study describes a novel MICA-specific CAR and discusses its potential use as a cancer therapeutic.
30856600 | Identification of the IL-33 protein segment that controls subcellular localization, extracellular secretion, and functional maturation. Proteolytic activation of the IL-33 precursor, full-length interleukin-33 (FLIL33), at multiple sites within the sensor domain (aa 95-109) yields several functionally mature (MIL33) forms. Unlike nuclear FLIL33, intracellular MIL33 occurs in the cytoplasm, is secreted from source cells, and exerts biological effects by activating the ST2 receptor on target cells. Previous studies and our findings in this report indicated that IL-33 forms that are substantially longer than those produced by cleavage within the sensor domain are biologically indistinguishable from classical MIL33. We utilized a series of human and mouse N-terminal FLIL33 mutants to narrow down the boundaries of the nuclear localization sequence to aa 46-67, a segment known to include a portion of the chromatin-binding motif as well as another site controlling intracellular stability of FLIL33 in an importin-5-dependent fashion. The N-terminal FLIL33 deletion mutants starting prior to this region were intranuclear, non-secreted in cell culture, and manifested modest functional activity in vivo, similar to FLIL33. By contrast, the mutants starting after this region were cytoplasmic, secreted from cells in culture, and overtly biologically active in vivo, similar to MIL33. The deletion mutants starting within this region manifested an intermediate phenotype between FLIL33 and MIL33. Thus, this segment of IL-33 molecule controls multiple aspects of its biology, including subcellular localization, extracellular secretion, and functional maturation into the longest possible form of mature IL-33 cytokine. Future anti-IL-33 therapies may be based on interfering with this segment, thus restraining extracellular release and maturation of IL-33 into the active cytokine.
36512100 | Role of senescent tumor cells in building a cytokine shield in the tumor microenvironment: mathematical modeling. Cellular senescence can induce dual effects (promotion or inhibition) on cancer progression. While immune cells naturally respond and migrate toward various chemotactic sources from the tumor mass, various factors including senescent tumor cells (STCs) in the tumor microenvironment may affect this chemotactic movement. In this work, we investigate the mutual interactions between the tumor cells and the immune cells that either inhibit or facilitate tumor growth by developing a mathematical model that consists of taxis-reaction-diffusion equations and receptor kinetics for the key players in the interaction network. We apply a mathematical model to a transwell Boyden chamber invasion assay used in the experiments to illustrate that STCs can play a pivotal role in negating immune attack through tight regulation of intra- and extra-cellular signaling molecules. In particular, we show that senescent tumor cells in cell cycle arrest can block intratumoral infiltration of CD8+ T cells by secreting a high level of CXCL12, which leads to significant reduction its receptors, CXCR4, on T cells, and thus impaired chemotaxis. The predictions of nonlinear responses to CXCL12 were in good agreement with experimental data. We tested several hypotheses on immune-tumor interactions under various biochemical conditions in the tumor microenvironment and developed new concepts for anti-tumor strategies targeting senescence induced immune impairment.
9502318 | Homology models for the PERB11 multigene family. BACKGROUND: PERB11 is a multicopy polymorphic gene family found in association with HLA Class I genes within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). Although its function is unknown, PERB11 has sequence similarities to HLA Class I and other related proteins. To explore the possible functional roles for PERB11, homology models have been constructed using both HLA Class I and Class I-like protein structures as templates. RESULTS: The models show that PERB11.1 appears to have an unusual distribution of charged residues that potentially give the molecule a distinct polarity. Furthermore, a cluster of negatively charged residues in the traditional P2 site may form a novel binding site for a positively charged ligand such as a metal ion or complex. Other charged residues line the floor and walls of the cleft and are able to form salt bridges, reminiscent of the closed cleft of the Class I-like mouse neonatal Fc receptor structure. The closely related PERB11.2 family has a different arrangement of charged residues in the cleft, but these residues are still able to form salt bridges. Unlike HLA Class I, the majority of polymorphic positions in the PERB11 family occur outside the cleft and on the surface of the molecule. CONCLUSIONS: Homology models for PERB11 suggest that the structure is capable of associating with beta2 microglobulin or a similar molecule. Furthermore, not all of the potential glycosylation sites suggested by the PERB11 sequences appear viable. Importantly, the models suggest that the molecule has a less accessible cleft than HLA Class I and is not, therefore, able to bind peptides. Other small ligands, including metal ions, might be bound, however.
38053160 | Senescence-associated secretory phenotypes in mesenchymal cells contribute to cytotoxic immune response in oral lichen planus. Oral lichen planus is a chronic inflammatory condition that adversely affects the oral mucosa; however, its etiology remains elusive. Consequently, therapeutic interventions for oral lichen planus are limited to symptomatic management. This study provides evidence of the accumulation of senescent mesenchymal cells, CD8 + T cells, and natural killer cells in patients with oral lichen planus. We profiled the patients' tissues using the National Center for Biotechnology Information Gene Expression Omnibus database and found that senescence-related genes were upregulated in these tissues by gene set enrichment analysis. Immunohistochemical analysis showed increased senescent mesenchymal cells in the subepithelial layer of patients with oral lichen planus. Single-cell RNA-seq data retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus database of patients with oral lichen planus revealed that mesenchymal cells were marked by the upregulation of senescence-related genes. Cell-cell communication analysis using CellChat showed that senescent mesenchymal cells significantly influenced CD8 + T cells and natural killer cells via CXCL12-CXCR4 signaling, which is known to activate and recruit CD8 + T cells and NK cells. Finally, in vitro assays demonstrated that the secretion of senescence-associated factors from mesenchymal cells stimulated the activation of T cells and natural killer cells and promoted epithelial cell senescence and cytotoxicity. These findings suggest that the accumulation of mesenchymal cells with senescence-associated secretory phenotype may be a key driver of oral lichen planus pathogenesis.
28968829 | Respiratory Syncytial Virus Nonstructural Protein 1 Blocks Glucocorticoid Receptor Nuclear Translocation by Targeting IPO13 and May Account for Glucocorticoid Insensitivity. Despite their powerful antiinflammatory effect, glucocorticoids have shown no significant clinical benefit in respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)-induced bronchiolitis, the reason for which remains unclear. Upon glucocorticoid binding, the cytoplasmic glucocorticoid receptor (GR) translocates to the nucleus with the help of importin 13 (IPO13). Here, we report that RSV infection reduced GR nuclear translocation in nasopharyngeal aspirates from RSV-infected infants, lungs of infected mice, and A549 cells, which coincided with decreased IPO13 expression. This led to repression of GR-induced antiinflammatory genes, such that dexamethasone failed to suppress airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness in the infected mice. The anti-GR effect of RSV was mediated by viral nonstructural protein 1 , which likely functioned by competing with IPO13 for GR binding. Our findings provide a mechanism for the ineffectiveness of glucocorticoids in RSV-related disease and highlight the potential to target the IPO13-GR axis as a treatment for multiple glucocorticoid-related diseases.
19272828 | Time course of housekeeping gene expression changes in diffuse alveolar damage induced by hyperoxia exposure in mice. We have found diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) has taken place in some patients under mechanical ventilation with high-inspired oxygen concentrations. To clarify the molecular pathophysiology of this, the time course of gene expression changes induced by hyperoxia exposure in mouse lungs was examined using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (real-time qPCR). Our raw data and those normalized with glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) showed that: (1) there is a decrease in levels of mRNAs for surfactant-associated protein C (SFTPC), cytochrome P450, 2F2 (CYP2F2), Claudin 1 (CLDN1), membrane-associated zonula occludens protein-1 (ZO-1), lysozyme (LYZS), and this suggests alveolar dysfunction and a disruption of the immune system, (2) we confirmed apoptotic conditions, such as significant up-regulations of mRNA levels in Myc and Galectin-3, and (3) hyperoxic conditions probably yielded reactive oxygen species (ROS), which resulted in a malignant cycle of ROS production by Myc overexpression [Shimada I, Matsui K, Brinkmann B, Hohoff C, Hiraga K, Tabuchi Y, et al. Novel transcript profiling of diffuse alveolar damage induced by hyperoxia exposure in mice: normalization by glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase. Int J Legal Med 2008;122:373-83]. In this experiment, GAPDH was up-regulated when hyperoxia exposure was continued. Therefore, we reexamined our data and found that: (1) mRNA levels of other housekeeping genes, including beta(2)-microglobulin (beta2M), ribosomal protein: large P2 (RPLP2), and importin 8 (IPO8) altered to a lesser extent, (2) mRNA levels of beta2M and IPO8 were down-regulated when hyperoxia exposure was continued, and (3) our previous work was validated by normalization with these three housekeeping genes.
29636389 | The nuclear translocation of the kinases p38 and JNK promotes inflammation-induced cancer. The stimulated nuclear translocation of signaling proteins, such as MAPKs, is a necessity for the initiation and regulation of their physiological functions. Previously, we determined that nuclear translocation of the MAPKs p38 and JNK involves binding to heterodimers comprising importin 3 and either importin 7 or importin 9. Here, we identified the importin-binding region in p38 and JNK and developed a myristoylated peptide targeting this site that we called PERY. The PERY peptide specifically blocked the interaction of p38 and JNK with the importins, restricted their nuclear translocation, and inhibited phosphorylation of their nuclear (but not cytoplasmic) substrates. Through these effects, the PERY peptide reduced the proliferation of several (but not all) cancer cell lines in culture and inhibited the growth of a human breast cancer xenograft in mice. In addition, the PERY peptide substantially inhibited inflammation in mice, as manifested in models of colitis and colitis-associated colon cancer. The PERY peptide more effectively prevented colon cancer development than did a commercial p38 inhibitor. In vivo analysis further suggested that this effect was mediated by PERY peptide-induced prevention of the nuclear translocation of p38 in macrophages. Together, these results support the use of the nuclear translocation of p38 and JNK as a novel drug target to treat various cancers and inflammation-induced diseases.
34685634 | Neuron-Specific IMP2 Overexpression by Synapsin Promoter-Driven AAV9: A Tool to Study Its Role in Axon Regeneration. Insulin-like growth factor II mRNA-binding protein (IMP) 2 is one of the three homologues (IMP1-3) that belong to a conserved family of mRNA-binding proteins. Its alternative splice product is aberrantly expressed in human hepatocellular carcinoma, and it is therefore identified as HCC. Previous works have indicated that IMP1/ZBP1 (zipcode binding protein) is critical in axon guidance and regeneration by regulating localization and translation of specific mRNAs. However, the role of IMP2 in the nervous system is largely unknown. We used the synapsin promoter-driven adeno-associated viral (AAV) 9 constructs for transgene expression both in vitro and in vivo. These viral vectors have proven to be effective to transduce the neuron-specific overexpression of IMP2 and HCC. Applying this viral vector in the injury-conditioned dorsal root ganglion (DRG) culture demonstrates that overexpression of IMP2 significantly inhibits axons regenerating from the neurons, whereas overexpression of HCC barely interrupts the process. Quantitative analysis of binding affinities of IMPs to beta-actin mRNA reveals that it is closely associated with their roles in axon regeneration. Although IMPs share significant structural homology, the distinctive functions imply their different ability to localize specific mRNAs and to regulate the axonal translation.
37389656 | CLPTM1L is a GPI-anchoring pathway component targeted by HCMV. The GPI-anchoring pathway plays important roles in normal development and immune modulation. MHC Class I Polypeptide-related Sequence A (MICA) is a stress-induced ligand, downregulated by human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) to escape immune recognition. Its most prevalent allele, MICA*008, is GPI-anchored via an uncharacterized pathway. Here, we identify cleft lip and palate transmembrane protein 1-like protein (CLPTM1L) as a GPI-anchoring pathway component and show that during infection, the HCMV protein US9 downregulates MICA*008 via CLPTM1L. We show that the expression of some GPI-anchored proteins (CD109, CD59, and MELTF)-but not others (ULBP2, ULBP3)-is CLPTM1L-dependent, and further show that like MICA*008, MELTF is downregulated by US9 via CLPTM1L during infection. Mechanistically, we suggest that CLPTM1L's function depends on its interaction with a free form of PIG-T, normally a part of the GPI transamidase complex. We suggest that US9 inhibits this interaction and thereby downregulates the expression of CLPTM1L-dependent proteins. Altogether, we report on a new GPI-anchoring pathway component that is targeted by HCMV.
12861017 | Overlapping signals for protein degradation and nuclear localization define a role for intrinsic RAG-2 nuclear uptake in dividing cells. Expression of the recombinase proteins RAG-1 and RAG-2 is discordant: while RAG-1 is relatively long lived, RAG-2 is degraded periodically at the G(1)-S transition. Destruction of RAG-2 is mediated by a conserved interval in the recombination-dispensable region. The need for RAG-2 to reaccumulate in the nucleus at each cell division suggested the existence of an intrinsic RAG-2 nuclear localization signal (NLS). RAG-1 or RAG-2, expressed individually, is a nuclear protein. A screen for proteins that bind the recombination-dispensable region of RAG-2 identified the nuclear transport protein Importin 5. Mutation of residues 499 to 508 in RAG-2 abolished Importin 5 binding, nuclear accumulation, and periodic degradation of RAG-2. The Importin 5 binding site overlaps an NLS, defined by mutagenesis. RAG-1 rescued the localization of degradation-defective, RAG-2 NLS mutants; this required an intact RAG-1 NLS. Mutations in RAG-2 that abolish intrinsic nuclear accumulation but spare periodic degradation impaired recombination in cycling cells; induction of quiescence restored recombination to wild-type levels. Recombination defects were correlated with a cell cycle-dependent defect in the ability of RAG-1 to rescue localization of the RAG-2 mutants. These results suggest that the intrinsic RAG-2 NLS functions in the nuclear uptake of RAG-2 following its reexpression in cycling cells.
35078573 | [Valproate up-regulates the expression of NKG2DL through the MEK/ERK signaling pathway to enhance the killing effect of NK cells on A375 human melanoma cells]. Objective To investigate the effect of sodium valproate (VPA) on the expression of NKG2D ligand and the killing effect of NK cells on melanoma cells through MEK/ERK signaling pathway. Methods In the group with A375 cells in logarithmic phase treated with 1 mmol/L of VPA for 24 hours, the protein expression levels of MICA, MICB, phosphorylated MEK (p-MEK), MEK, phosphorylated ERK1/2 (p-ERK1/2), and ERK1/2 were detected by Western blotting, the expressions of MICA and MICB were detected by flow cytometry, and the killing effect of NK92 cells on A375 cells was detected by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release assay. In the group with A375 cells treated with the MEK/ERK signaling pathway inhibitor PD98059 combined with VPA, the protein expressions of MICA and MICB were detected by Western blotting, the expressions of MICA and MICB were detected by flow cytometry, and the killing effect of NK92 cells on A375 cells was detected by LDH release assay. The changes of melanoma volume in non-obese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency (NOD/SCID) mice were detected by tumor formation assay, and the expression of MICA and MICB was detected by immunohistochemical staining. Results Compared with those in the control group, the expressions of MICA and MICB of A375 cells, the killing effect of NK92 cells on A375 cells, and the ratios of p-MEK/MEK and p-ERK1/2/ERK1/2 were increased in the VPA group. Compared with those in the VPA group, the expressions of MICA and MICB of A375 cells and the killing effect of NK92 cells on A375 cells were decreased in the group of VPA combined with PD98059. Compared with those in the group of NK92 cells, the tumor volume of NOD/SCID mice was reduced, and the expressions of MICA and MICB were increased in the group of NK92 cells with VPA. Compared with those in the group of NK92 cells with VPA, the tumor volume of NOD/SCID mice was increased, and the expressions of MICA and MICB were decreased in the group of NK92 cells with VPA and PD98059. Conclusion VPA up-regulates the expression of MICA and MICB in melanoma cells and enhances the killing effect of NK92 cells on melanoma, which may be related to the activation of MEK/ERK signaling pathway.
33333437 | The nuclear transporter importin 13 is critical for cell survival during embryonic stem cell differentiation. Nuclear transporter Importin (Imp, Ipo) 13 is known to transport various mammalian cargoes into/out of the nucleus, but its role in directing cell-fate is unclear. Here we examine the role of Imp13 in the maintenance of pluripotency and differentiation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) for the first time, using an embryonic body (EB)-based model. When induced to differentiate, Ipo13-/- ESCs displayed slow proliferation, reduced EB size, and lower expression of the proliferation marker KI67, concomitant with an increase in the number of TUNEL+ nuclei compared to wildtype ESCs. At days 5 and 10 of differentiation, Ipo13-/- EBs also showed enhanced loss of the pluripotency transcript OCT3/4, and barely detectable clusters of OCT3/4 positive cells. Day 5 Ipo13-/- EBs further exhibited reduced levels of the mesodermal markers Brachyury and Mixl1, correlating with reduced numbers of haemoglobinised cells generated. Our findings suggest that Imp13 is critical to ESC survival as well as early post-gastrulation differentiation.
20042713 | Reduced viability of mice with lung epithelial-specific knockout of glucocorticoid receptor. Glucocorticoid (GC)-responsive epithelial-mesenchymal interactions regulate lung development. The GC receptor (GR) mediates GC signaling. Mice lacking GR in all tissues die at birth of respiratory failure. To determine the specific need for epithelial GR in lung development, we bred triple transgenic mice that carry SPC/rtTA, tet-O-Cre, and floxed, but not wild-type, GR genes. When exposed to doxycycline in utero, triple transgenic (GRepi-) mice exhibit a Cre-mediated recombination event that inactivates the floxed GR gene in airway epithelial cells. Immunofluorescence confirmed the elimination of GR in Cre-positive airway epithelial cells of late gestation GRepi- mice. Embryonic Day 18.5 pups had a relatively immature appearance with increased lung cellularity and increased pools of glycogen in the epithelium. Postnatal Day 0.5 pups had decreased viability. We used quantitative RT-PCR to demonstrate that specific elimination of epithelial immunoreactive GR in GRepi- mice is associated with reduced mRNA expression for surfactant proteins (SPs) A, B, C, and D; beta- and gamma-ENaC; T1alpha; the 10-kD Clara cell protein (CCSP); and aquaporin 5 (AQP5). Western blots confirmed reduced levels of AQP5 protein. No reduction in the levels of the GR transport protein importin (IPO)-13 was observed. Our findings demonstrate a requirement for lung epithelial cell GR in normal lung development. We speculate that impaired epithelial differentiation, leading to decreased SPs, transepithelial Na, and liquid absorption at birth, may contribute to the reduced survival of newborn mice with suppressed lung epithelial GR.
36224607 | Baicalin acts as an adjuvant to potentiate the activity of azithromycin against Staphylococcus saprophyticus biofilm: an in vitro, in vivo, and molecular study. Staphylococcus saprophyticus is frequently involved in various difficult-to-treat infections due to the formation of biofilms. To identify useful antibiofilm strategies, this study explored the efficacy and mechanism of baicalin in enhancing the ability of azithromycin against multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus saprophyticus-Liu-2016-Liyang, China-francolin (MDRSS) biofilms in vitro and in vivo. When azithromycin was used in combination with baicalin, the minimum inhibitory concentration in biofilm (MICB) for azithromycin decreased 4- to 512-fold. Compared with the azithromycin and baicalin groups, the combination of azithromycin and baicalin could not reduce the biofilm biomass, but the dispersion rates of biofilm were decreased and the bactericidal ability was increased. Furthermore, the relative transcript levels of WalK/R system-related genes were upregulated by the addition of baicalin or azithromycin plus baicalin compared with that of the azithromycin and blank control groups. The strong correlation relationship between the WalK/R system and the bactericidal index demonstrated that baicalin enhanced the bactericidal effect of azithromycin on MDRSS biofilms by modulating the WalK/R system. In the mouse cutaneous infection model, the combination of azithromycin and baicalin succeeded in eradicating MDRSS and decreasing pathological injuries. This study indicated that baicalin has the potential to be an adjuvant to enhance the antimicrobial activity of azithromycin against MDRSS in the biofilm form by modulating the WalK/R system.
38043385 | Ginsenoside Rh2 enhances immune surveillance of natural killer (NK) cells via inhibition of ERp5 in breast cancer. BACKGROUND: One critical component of the immune system that prevents breast cancer cells from forming distant metastasis is natural killer (NK) cells participating in immune responses to tumors. Ginsenoside Rh2 (GRh2) as one of the major active ingredients of ginseng has been employed in treatment of cancers, but the function of GRh2 in modulating the development of breast cancer remains elusive. PURPOSE: This study was to dissect the effect of GRh2 against breast cancer and its potential mechanisms associated with NK cells, both in vitro and in vivo. METHODS: MDA-MB-231 and 4T1 cells were used to establish in situ and hematogenous mouse models. MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 were respectively co-cultured with NK92MI cells or primary NK cells in vitro. Anti-tumor efficacy of GRh2 was verified by immunohistochemistry (IHC), Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK8), high resolution micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) scanning of lungs and hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) cytotoxicity assay, flow cytometry, in vivo depletion of NK cells, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), western blot, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), immunofluorescence and cell transfection were performed for investigating the anti-tumor mechanisms of GRh2. Molecular docking, microscale thermophoresis (MST) and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) were employed to determine the binding between endoplasmic reticulum protein 5 (ERp5) and GRh2. RESULTS: We demonstrated that GRh2 exerted prominent impacts on retarding the growth and metastasis of breast cancer through boosting the cytotoxic function of NK cells, as validated by the elevated release of perforin, granzyme B and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Mechanistical studies revealed that GRh2 was capable of diminishing the expression of ERp5 and GRh2 directly bound to ERp5 in MDA-MB-231 cells as well as on a recombinant protein level. GRh2 prevented the formation of soluble MICA (sMICA) and upregulated the expression level of MICA in vivo and in vitro. Importantly, the reduced lung metastasis of breast cancer by GRh2 was almost abolished upon the depletion of NK cells. Moreover, GRh2 was able to insert into the binding pocket of ERp5 directly. CONCLUSION: We firstly demonstrated that GRh2 played a pivotal role in augmenting NK cell activity by virtue of modulating the NKG2D-MICA signaling axis via directly binding to ERp5, and may be further optimized to a therapeutic agent for the treatment of breast cancer.
19906922 | Extrachromosomal histone H2B mediates innate antiviral immune responses induced by intracellular double-stranded DNA. Fragments of double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) forming a right-handed helical structure (B-DNA) stimulate cells to produce type I interferons (IFNs). While an adaptor molecule, IFN-beta promoter stimulator 1 (IPS-1), mediates dsDNA-induced cellular signaling in human cells, the underlying molecular mechanism is not fully understood. Here, we demonstrate that the extrachromosomal histone H2B mediates innate antiviral immune responses in human cells. H2B physically interacts with IPS-1 through the association with a newly identified adaptor, CIAO (COOH-terminal importin 9-related adaptor organizing histone H2B and IPS-1), to transmit the cellular signaling for dsDNA but not immunostimulatory RNA. Extrachromosomal histone H2B was biologically crucial for cell-autonomous responses to protect against multiplication of DNA viruses but not an RNA virus. Thus, the present findings provide evidence indicating that the extrachromosomal histone H2B is engaged in the signaling pathway initiated by dsDNA to trigger antiviral innate immune responses.
38575727 | Reassessing human MHC-I genetic diversity in T cell studies. The Major Histocompatibility Complex class I (MHC-I) system plays a vital role in immune responses by presenting antigens to T cells. Allele specific technologies, including recombinant MHC-I technologies, have been extensively used in T cell analyses for COVID-19 patients and are currently used in the development of immunotherapies for cancer. However, the immense diversity of MHC-I alleles presents challenges. The genetic diversity serves as the foundation of personalized medicine, yet it also poses a potential risk of exacerbating healthcare disparities based on MHC-I alleles. To assess potential biases, we analysed (pre)clinical publications focusing on COVID-19 studies and T cell receptor (TCR)-based clinical trials. Our findings reveal an underrepresentation of MHC-I alleles associated with Asian, Australian, and African descent. Ensuring diverse representation is vital for advancing personalized medicine and global healthcare equity, transcending genetic diversity. Addressing this disparity is essential to unlock the full potential of T cells for enhancing diagnosis and treatment across all individuals.
27875560 | Denervation-Induced Activation of the Standard Proteasome and Immunoproteasome. The standard 26S proteasome is responsible for the majority of myofibrillar protein degradation leading to muscle atrophy. The immunoproteasome is an inducible form of the proteasome. While its function has been linked to conditions of atrophy, its contribution to muscle proteolysis remains unclear. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine if the immunoproteasome plays a role in skeletal muscle atrophy induced by denervation. Adult male C57BL/6 wild type (WT) and immunoproteasome knockout lmp7-/-/mecl-1-/- (L7M1) mice underwent tibial nerve transection on the left hindlimb for either 7 or 14 days, while control mice did not undergo surgery. Proteasome activity (caspase-, chymotrypsin-, and trypsin- like), protein content of standard proteasome (beta1, beta5 and beta2) and immunoproteasome (LMP2, LMP7 and MECL-1) catalytic subunits were determined in the gastrocnemius muscle. Denervation induced significant atrophy and was accompanied by increased activities and protein content of the catalytic subunits in both WT and L7M1 mice. Although denervation resulted in a similar degree of muscle atrophy between strains, the mice lacking two immunoproteasome subunits showed a differential response in the extent and duration of proteasome features, including activities and content of the beta1, beta5 and LMP2 catalytic subunits. The results indicate that immunoproteasome deficiency alters the proteasome's composition and activities. However, the immunoproteasome does not appear to be essential for muscle atrophy induced by denervation.
38474281 | Functional MICA Variants Are Differentially Associated with Immune-Mediated Inflammatory Diseases. As the principal ligand for NKG2D, MICA elicits the recruitment of subsets of T cells and NK cells in innate immunity. MICA gene variants greatly impact the functionality and expression of MICA in humans. The current study evaluated whether MICA polymorphisms distinctively influence the pathogenesis of psoriasis (PSO), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in Taiwanese subjects. The distributions of MICA alleles and levels of serum soluble NKG2D were compared between healthy controls and patients with PSO, RA, and SLE, respectively. The binding capacities and cell surface densities of MICA alleles were assessed by utilizing stable cell lines expressing four prominent Taiwanese MICA alleles. Our data revealed that MICA*010 was significantly associated with risks for PSO and RA (PFDR = 1.93 x 10-15 and 0.00112, respectively), while MICA*045 was significantly associated with predisposition to SLE (PFDR = 0.0002). On the other hand, MICA*002 was associated with protection against RA development (PFDR = 4.16 x 10-6), while MICA*009 was associated with a low risk for PSO (PFDR = 0.0058). MICA*002 exhibited the highest binding affinity for NKG2D compared to the other MICA alleles. Serum concentrations of soluble MICA were significantly elevated in SLE patients compared to healthy controls (p = 0.01). The lack of cell surface expression of the MICA*010 was caused by its entrapment in the endoplasmic reticulum. As a prevalent risk factor for PSO and RA, MICA*010 is deficient in cell surface expression and is unable to interact with NKG2D. Our study suggests that MICA alleles distinctively contribute to the pathogenesis of PSO, RA, and SLE in Taiwanese people.
34502191 | NLRP3 Deficiency in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Enhances Surveillance of NK-92 through a Modulation of MICA/B. Human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common and even worse at prognosis. The patients with HCC which accompanied by other diseases, such as cirrhosis, can be limited in various treatments, such as chemotherapy, not HCC patients without other diseases. NLRP3 inflammasome plays an important role in the innate immune response, but emerging evidence has indicated that the NLRP3 inflammasome is implicated in all stages of cancer development. Various cells express NLRP3 protein through the autocrine or paracrine signaling in their environment, but NK cells do not. The expanding evidence shows that patients who suffer from liver cancers have a low frequency of natural killer (NK) cells, and the function of these cells is also impaired. Thus, we examined how the expression of NLRP3 in HCC cells affects cancer surveillance by NK cells in a state of a co-culture of both cells. When the expression of NLRP3 in HCC cells was ablated, MICA/B on the surface of HCC cells was upregulated through the lowered expression of matrix metalloproteinase. The expression of MICA on the surface of HCC cells interacted with the NKG2D receptor on NK-92 cells, which led to NK cytotoxicity. Furthermore, in a xenograft mice model, NLRP3 KO HCC cells delayed tumor development and metastasis as well as increased the sensitivity to NK cell cytotoxicity. Taken together, NLRP3 KO in HCC could enhance NK immunosurveillance through an interaction of NKG2D-MICA.
38619800 | Prediction of Prospective Mutational Landscape of SARS-CoV-2 Spike ssRNA and Evolutionary Basis of Its Host Interaction. Booster doses are crucial against severe COVID-19, as rapid virus mutations and variant emergence prolong the pandemic crisis. The virus's quick evolution, short generation-time, and adaptive changes impact virulence and evolvability, helping predictions about variant of concerns' (VOCs') landscapes. Here, in this study, we used a new computational algorithm, to predict the mutational pattern in SARS-CoV-2 ssRNA, proteomics, structural identification, mutation stability, and functional correlation, as well as immune escape mechanisms. Interestingly, the sequence diversity of SARS Coronavirus-2 has demonstrated a predominance of G- > A and C- > U substitutions. The best validation statistics are explored here in seven homologous models of the expected mutant SARS-CoV-2 spike ssRNA and employed for hACE2 and IgG interactions. The interactome profile of SARS-CoV-2 spike with hACE2 and IgG revealed a strong correlation between phylogeny and divergence time. The systematic adaptation of SARS-CoV-2 spike ssRNA influences infectivity and immune escape. Data suggest higher propensity of Adenine rich sequence promotes MHC system avoidance, preferred by A-rich codons. Phylogenetic data revealed the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 lineages' epidemiology. Our findings may unveil processes governing the genesis of immune-resistant variants, prompting a critical reassessment of the coronavirus mutation rate and exploration of hypotheses beyond mechanical aspects.
33548622 | Effects of transforming growth factor-beta1 on odontoblastic differentiation in dental papilla cells is determined by IPO7 expression level. Transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) is one of the broad-spectrum growth-promoting factors that participate in tooth development. The influence of TGF-beta1 on the odontoblastic differentiation is still controvercy. Mouse primary dental papilla cells (mDPCs) as well as an immortalized mouse dental papilla cell line (mDPC6Ts) were treated with exogenous TGF-beta1 during odontoblastic differentiation. RT-qPCR, Western blot, alizarin red staining and ALP staining were carried out to investigate the influence of TGF-beta1 on odontoblastic differentiation. IPO7, important for SMAD complex translocation was also detected in mDPCs and mDPC6Ts in response to TGF-beta1. After silencing IPO7 by transfection, the translocation process of P-SMAD2 was investigated by nuclear and cytoplasmic extraction as well as co-immunoprecipitation assay. The odontogenic markers, mineralization and IPO7 expression were significantly up-regulated in TGF-beta1-treated mDPCs while down-regulated in mDPC6Ts. The total level of P-SMAD2 was not influenced by IPO7 in mDPCs, however, IPO7 could bind to P-SMAD2 and affect the nuclear-cytoplasm-shuttling of P-SMAD2. Our data demonstrated that TGF-beta1 plays opposite roles in odontoblast differentiation in mDPCs and immortalized mouse dental papilla cell line (mDPC6Ts), which is determined by IPO7.
31044563 | Alternative interaction sites in the influenza A virus nucleoprotein mediate viral escape from the importin-alpha7 mediated nuclear import pathway. Influenza A viruses are able to adapt to restrictive conditions due to their high mutation rates. Importin-alpha7 is a component of the nuclear import machinery required for avian-mammalian adaptation and replicative fitness in human cells. Here, we elucidate the mechanisms by which influenza A viruses may escape replicative restriction in the absence of importin-alpha7. To address this question, we assessed viral evolution in mice lacking the importin-alpha7 gene. We show that three mutations in particular occur with high frequency in the viral nucleoprotein (NP) protein (G102R, M105K and D375N) in a specific structural area upon in vivo adaptation. Moreover, our findings suggest that the adaptive NP mutations mediate viral escape from importin-alpha7 requirement likely due to the utilization of alternative interaction sites in NP beyond the classical nuclear localization signal. However, viral escape from importin-alpha7 by mutations in NP is, at least in part, associated with reduced viral replication highlighting the crucial contribution of importin-alpha7 to replicative fitness in human cells.
38191242 | Clearing soluble MIC reverses the impaired function of natural killer cells from patients with multiple myeloma. BACKGROUND: Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related protein (MIC) is a stress-induced ligand released from multiple myeloma (MM) cells during progression, and soluble MIC impairs natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) activating receptor-mediated recognition and function of natural killer (NK) cells. However, whether clearing soluble MIC with a monoclonal antibody (mAb) can restore NK cell activity of MM patients remains undetermined. METHODS: We analyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation (MMRF) CoMMpass data set to examine the prognostic significance of MIC expression in MM. We examined the level of soluble MIC in paired peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow (BM) plasma of patients with MM at diagnosis by ELISA. We evaluated the correlation between the level of soluble MIC and immunophenotype of NK cells from MM patients by multicolor flow cytometry. We also generated MIC-overexpressing MM cell line and characterized the cytotoxic function of patient NK cells in the presence of soluble MIC, and examined the impact of clearing soluble MIC with a humanized mAb (huB10G5). RESULTS: We characterize the importance of MICA in MM by revealing the significantly better overall survival of patients with high MICA expression from TCGA MMRF CoMMpass data set. The level of soluble MICA is more highly elevated in MM than in precursor stages, and the concentration of soluble MICA is higher in BM plasma than in PB. The concentration of soluble MICA in BM was correlated with myeloma burden, while it was negatively correlated with the frequency of NKG2D+ NK cells in diagnostic BM aspirates of MM patients. Soluble MICA downregulated NKG2D expression and decreased cytotoxicity of MM patient NK cells ex vivo, which were reversed by a humanized soluble MIC-clearing mAb (huB10G5) with enhanced degranulation of NK cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate targeting soluble MIC with huB10G5 might be a viable therapeutic approach to promote NKG2D-dependent cellular immunotherapy outcome in MM.
37425790 | Engineering Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Lines to Evade Xenogeneic Transplantation Barriers. Allogeneic human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC)-derived cells and tissues for therapeutic transplantation must necessarily overcome immunological rejection by the recipient. To define these barriers and to create cells capable of evading rejection for preclinical testing in immunocompetent mouse models, we genetically ablated beta2m , Tap1 , Ciita , Cd74 , Mica , and Micb to limit expression of HLA-I, HLA-II, and natural killer cell activating ligands in hPSCs. Though these and even unedited hPSCs readily formed teratomas in cord blood-humanized immunodeficient mice, grafts were rapidly rejected by immunocompetent wild-type mice. Transplantation of these cells that also expressed covalent single chain trimers of Qa1 and H2-K b to inhibit natural killer cells and CD55, Crry, and CD59 to inhibit complement deposition led to persistent teratomas in wild-type mice. Expression of additional inhibitory factors such as CD24, CD47, and/or PD-L1 had no discernible impact on teratoma growth or persistence. Transplantation of HLA-deficient hPSCs into mice genetically deficient in complement and depleted of natural killer cells also led to persistent teratomas. Thus, T cell, NK cell, and complement evasion are necessary to prevent immunological rejection of hPSCs and their progeny. These cells and versions expressing human orthologs of immune evasion factors can be used to refine tissue- and cell type-specific immune barriers, and to conduct preclinical testing in immunocompetent mouse models.
38180524 | Oncolytic adenovirus coding for shedding-resistant MICA enhances immune responses against tumors. Cancer immunotherapies strive to overcome tumor-induced immune suppression and activate antitumor immune responses. Although cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) play a pivotal role in this process, natural killer (NK) cells have also demonstrated remarkable tumor-killing abilities, given their ability to discriminate tumor cells from normal cells and mediate specific antitumoral cytotoxicity. NK cells activation depends on a balance between activation and inhibition signals from several ligands/receptors. Among them, MICA/NKG2D axis is a master regulator of NK activation. MHC class I chain-related polypeptide A (MICA) expression is upregulated by many tumor cell lines and primary tumors and serves as a ligand for the activating NK group 2D (NKG2D) receptor on NK cells and subpopulations of T cells. However, cancer cells can cleave MICA, making it soluble and de-targeting tumor cells from NK cells, leading to tumor immune escape.In this study, we present ICOVIR15KK-MICAMut, an oncolytic adenovirus (OAdv) armed with a transgene encoding a non-cleavable MICA to promote NK-mediated cell-killing capacity and activate the immune response against cancer cells. We first demonstrated the correct MICA overexpression from infected cells. Moreover, our MICA-expressing OAdv promotes higher NK activation and killing capacity than the non-armed virus in vitro. In addition, the armed virus also demonstrated significant antitumor activity in immunodeficient mice in the presence of human PBMCs, indicating the activation of human NK cells. Finally, OAdv-MICA overexpression in immunocompetent tumor-bearing mice elicits tumor-specific immune response resulting in a greater tumor growth control.In summary, this study highlights the significance of NK cells in cancer immunotherapy and presents an innovative approach using a modified oncolytic virus to enhance NK cell activation and antitumor immune response. These findings suggest promising potential for future research and clinical applications.
11032817 | Importin-11, a nuclear import receptor for the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, UbcM2. Importins are members of a family of transport receptors (karyopherins) that mediate the nucleocytoplasmic transport of protein and RNA cargoes. We identified importin-11 as a potential new human member of this family, on the basis of limited similarity to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein, Lph2p, and cloned the complete open reading frame. Importin-11 interacts with the Ran GTPase, and constitutively shuttles between the nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments. A yeast dihybrid screen identified UbcM2, an E2-type ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, as a binding partner and potential transport cargo for importin-11. Importin-11 and UbcM2 interact directly, and the complex is disassembled by Ran:GTP but not by Ran:GDP. UbcM2 is constitutively nuclear and shuttles between the nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments. Nuclear import of UbcM2 requires Ran and importin-11, and is inhibited by wheatgerm agglutinin, energy depletion or dominant interfering mutants of Ran and importin-beta. These data establish importin-11 as a new member of the karyopherin family of transport receptors, and identify UbcM2 as a nuclear member of the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family.
38590523 | Regulatory SVA retrotransposons and classical HLA genotyped-transcripts associated with Parkinson's disease. Introduction: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative and polygenic disorder characterised by the progressive loss of neural dopamine and onset of movement disorders. We previously described eight SINE-VNTR-Alu (SVA) retrotransposon-insertion-polymorphisms (RIPs) located and expressed within the Human Leucocyte Antigen (HLA) genomic region of chromosome 6 that modulate the differential co-expression of 71 different genes including the HLA classical class I and class II genes in a Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) cohort. Aims and methods: In the present study, we (1) reanalysed the PPMI genomic and transcriptomic sequencing data obtained from whole blood of 1521 individuals (867 cases and 654 controls) to infer the genotypes of the transcripts expressed by eight classical HLA class I and class II genes as well as DRA and the DRB3/4/5 haplotypes, and (2) examined the statistical differences between three different PD subgroups (cases) and healthy controls (HC) for the HLA and SVA transcribed genotypes and inferred haplotypes. Results: Significant differences for 57 expressed HLA alleles (21 HLA class I and 36 HLA class II alleles) up to the three-field resolution and four of eight expressed SVA were detected at p<0.05 by the Fisher's exact test within one or other of three different PD subgroups (750 individuals with PD, 57 prodromes, 60 individuals who had scans without evidence of dopamine deficits [SWEDD]), when compared against a group of 654 HCs within the PPMI cohort and when not corrected by the Bonferroni test for multiple comparisons. Fourteen of 20 significant alleles were unique to the PD-HC comparison, whereas 31 of the 57 alleles overlapped between two or more different subgroup comparisons. Only the expressed HLA-DRA*01:01:01 and -DQA1*03:01:01 protective alleles (PD v HC), the -DQA1*03:03:01 risk (HC v Prodrome) or protective allele (PD v Prodrome), the -DRA*01:01:02 and -DRB4*01:03:02 risk alleles (SWEDD v HC), and the NR_SVA_381 present genotype (PD v HC) at a 5% homozygous insertion frequency near HLA-DPA1, were significant (Pc<0.1) after Bonferroni corrections. The homologous NR_SVA_381 insertion significantly decreased the transcription levels of HLA-DPA1 and HLA-DPB1 in the PPMI cohort and its presence as a homozygous genotype is a risk factor (Pc=0.012) for PD. The most frequent NR_SVA_381 insertion haplotype in the PPMI cohort was NR_SVA_381/DPA1*02/DPB1*01 (3.7%). Although HLA C*07/B*07/DRB5*01/DRB1*15/DQB1*06 was the most frequent HLA 5-loci phased-haplotype (n, 76) in the PPMI cohort, the NR_SVA_381 insertion was present in only six of them (8%). Conclusions: These data suggest that expressed SVA and HLA gene alleles in circulating white blood cells are coordinated differentially in the regulation of immune responses and the long-term onset and progression of PD, the mechanisms of which have yet to be elucidated.
38589549 | MORITS: An improved method to predict peptides from heterologous proteins that are recognized by the same T-cell receptor. Antigen-specific priming of T cells results in the activation of T cells that exert effector functions by interaction of their T-cell receptor (TCR) with the corresponding self-MHC molecule presenting a peptide on the surface of a target cell. Such antigen-specific T cells potentially can also interact with peptide-MHC complexes that contain peptides from unrelated antigens, a phenomenon that often is referred to as heterologous immunity. For example, some individuals that were pre-immunized against an allergen, could subsequently mount better anti-viral T-cell responses than non-allergic individuals. So far only few peptide pairs that experimentally have been shown to provoke heterologous immunity were  identified, and available prediction tools that can identify potential candidates are imprecise. We developed the MORITS algorithm to rapidly screen large lists of peptides for sequence similarities, while giving enhanced consideration to peptide residues presented by MHC that are particularly relevant for TCR interactions. In combination with established peptide-MHC binding prediction tools, the MORITS algorithm revealed peptide similarities between the SARS-CoV-2 proteome and certain allergens. The method outperformed previously published workflows and may help to identify novel pairs of peptides that mediate heterologous immune responses.
28193700 | The nuclear transport receptor Importin-11 is a tumor suppressor that maintains PTEN protein. Phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN) protein levels are critical for tumor suppression. However, the search for a recurrent cancer-associated gene alteration that causes PTEN degradation has remained futile. In this study, we show that Importin-11 (Ipo11) is a transport receptor for PTEN that is required to physically separate PTEN from elements of the PTEN degradation machinery. Mechanistically, we find that the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme and IPO11 cargo, UBE2E1, is a limiting factor for PTEN degradation. Using in vitro and in vivo gene-targeting methods, we show that Ipo11 loss results in degradation of Pten, lung adenocarcinoma, and neoplasia in mouse prostate with aberrantly high levels of Ube2e1 in the cytoplasm. These findings explain the correlation between loss of IPO11 and PTEN protein in human lung tumors. Furthermore, we find that IPO11 status predicts disease recurrence and progression to metastasis in patients choosing radical prostatectomy. Thus, our data introduce the IPO11 gene as a tumor-suppressor locus, which is of special importance in cancers that still retain at least one intact PTEN allele.
38550583 | MICA-specific nanobodies for diagnosis and immunotherapy of MICA+ tumors. MICA and MICB are Class I MHC-related glycoproteins that are upregulated on the surface of cells in response to stress, for instance due to infection or malignant transformation. MICA/B are ligands for NKG2D, an activating receptor on NK cells, CD8+ T cells, and gammadelta T cells. Upon engagement of MICA/B with NKG2D, these cytotoxic cells eradicate MICA/B-positive targets. MICA is frequently overexpressed on the surface of cancer cells of epithelial and hematopoietic origin. Here, we created nanobodies that recognize MICA. Nanobodies, or VHHs, are the recombinantly expressed variable regions of camelid heavy chain-only immunoglobulins. They retain the capacity of antigen recognition but are characterized by their stability and ease of production. The nanobodies described here detect surface-disposed MICA on cancer cells in vitro by flow cytometry and can be used therapeutically as nanobody-drug conjugates when fused to the Maytansine derivative DM1. The nanobody-DM1 conjugate selectively kills MICA positive tumor cells in vitro.
38541659 | An Exploratory Bioinformatic Investigation of Cats' Susceptibility to Coronavirus-Deriving Epitopes. Coronaviruses are highly transmissible and pathogenic viruses for humans and animals. The vast quantity of information collected about SARS-CoV-2 during the pandemic helped to unveil details of the mechanisms behind the infection, which are still largely elusive. Recent research demonstrated that different class I/II human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles might define an individual susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 spreading, contributing to the differences in the distribution of the infection through different populations; additional studies suggested that the homolog of the HLA in cats, the feline leukocyte antigen (FLA), plays a pivotal role in the transmission of viruses. With these premises, this study aimed to exploit a bioinformatic approach for the prediction of the transmissibility potential of two distinct feline coronaviruses (FCoVs) in domestic cats (feline enteric coronavirus (FeCV) and feline infectious peritonitis virus (FIPV)) using SARS-CoV-2 as the reference model. We performed an epitope mapping of nonapeptides deriving from SARS-CoV-2, FeCV, and FIPV glycoproteins and predicted their affinities for different alleles included in the three main loci in class I FLAs (E, H, and K). The predicted complexes with the most promising affinities were then subjected to molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations to provide insights into the stability and binding energies in the cleft. Results showed the FLA proteins encoded by alleles in the FLA-I H (H*00501 and H*00401) and E (E*01001 and E*00701) loci are largely responsive to several epitopes deriving from replicase and spike proteins of the analyzed coronaviruses. The analysis of the most affine epitope sequences resulting from the prediction can stimulate the development of anti-FCoV immunomodulatory strategies based on peptide drugs.
38180733 | An immune gene expression risk score for distant metastases after radiotherapy for cervical cancer. PURPOSE: To develop an immune-based gene expression risk score identifying cervical cancer patients at increased risk of distant metastases (DM). EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Tumor biopsies were obtained from 81 patients prior to chemoradiotherapy. Whole transcriptome RNA sequencing was performed (Illumina NextSeq500). Beginning with 4,723 immune-related genes, a 55 gene risk score for DM was derived using Cox modelling and principal component analysis. It was validated in independent cohorts of 274 patients treated at the Norwegian Radium Hospital (NRH) and 206 patients from TCGA. RESULTS: The risk score was predictive of DM (HR 2.7, p<0.0001) and lower cause specific survival (CSS) by univariate analysis (HR 2.0, p=0.0003) and multivariate analysis adjusted for clinical factors (DM HR 3.0, p<0.0001; CSS HR 2.2, p=0.0004). The risk score predicted DM (HR 1.4, p=0.05) and CSS (HR 1.48, p=0.013) in the NRH cohort and CSS (HR 1.4, p=0.03) in the TCGA cohort. Higher risk scores were associated with lower CIBERSORT estimates of tumor infiltrating immune cells, including CD8 T-cells and M1 and M2 macrophages (p<0.001). Higher risk scores were associated with lower expression (all p<0.001) of important chemokines (CXCL12, CXCR4), interferon regulated genes (IRF1, STAT1, IDO1) and immune checkpoint regulators (PD-1, PD-L1, CTLA-4). CONCLUSION: The immune metastatic risk score addresses important challenges in the treatment of cervical cancer - identifying patients at high risk of DM after radiotherapy. The findings of this study indicate that high tumor mutational burden and a 'cold', immune-excluded tumor microenvironment influence distant metastatic recurrence. Further validation of the risk score is needed.
34010605 | A human importin-beta-related disorder: Syndromic thoracic aortic aneurysm caused by bi-allelic loss-of-function variants in IPO8. Importin 8, encoded by IPO8, is a ubiquitously expressed member of the importin-beta protein family that translocates cargo molecules such as proteins, RNAs, and ribonucleoprotein complexes into the nucleus in a RanGTP-dependent manner. Current knowledge of the cargoes of importin 8 is limited, but TGF-beta signaling components such as SMAD1-4 have been suggested to be among them. Here, we report that bi-allelic loss-of-function variants in IPO8 cause a syndromic form of thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) with clinical overlap with Loeys-Dietz and Shprintzen-Goldberg syndromes. Seven individuals from six unrelated families showed a consistent phenotype with early-onset TAA, motor developmental delay, connective tissue findings, and craniofacial dysmorphic features. A C57BL/6N Ipo8 knockout mouse model recapitulates TAA development from 8-12 weeks onward in both sexes but most prominently shows ascending aorta dilatation with a propensity for dissection in males. Compliance assays suggest augmented passive stiffness of the ascending aorta in male Ipo8-/- mice throughout life. Immunohistological investigation of mutant aortic walls reveals elastic fiber disorganization and fragmentation along with a signature of increased TGF-beta signaling, as evidenced by nuclear pSmad2 accumulation. RT-qPCR assays of the aortic wall in male Ipo8-/- mice demonstrate decreased Smad6/7 and increased Mmp2 and Ccn2 (Ctgf) expression, reinforcing a role for dysregulation of the TGF-beta signaling pathway in TAA development. Because importin 8 is the most downstream TGF-beta-related effector implicated in TAA pathogenesis so far, it offers opportunities for future mechanistic studies and represents a candidate drug target for TAA.
32582150 | MICAgen Mice Recapitulate the Highly Restricted but Activation-Inducible Expression of the Paradigmatic Human NKG2D Ligand MICA. NKG2D is a potent activating immunoreceptor expressed on nearly all cytotoxic lymphocytes promoting their cytotoxicity against self-cells expressing NKG2D ligands (NKG2DLs). NKG2DLs are MHC class I-like glycoproteins that usually are not expressed on \healthy\ cells. Rather, their surface expression is induced by various forms of cellular stress, viral infection, or malignant transformation. Hence, cell surface NKG2DLs mark \dangerous\ cells for elimination by cytotoxic lymphocytes and therefore can be considered as \kill-me\ signals. In addition, NKG2DLs are up-regulated on activated leukocytes, which facilitates containment of immune responses. While the NKG2D receptor is conserved among mammals, NKG2DL genes have rapidly diversified during mammalian speciation, likely due to strong selective pressures exerted by species-specific pathogens. Consequently, NKG2DL genes are not conserved in man and mice, although their NKG2D-binding domains maintained structural homology. Human NKG2DLs comprise two members of the MIC (MICA/MICB) and six members of the ULBP family of glycoproteins (ULBP1-6) with MICA representing the best-studied human NKG2DLs by far. Many of these studies implicate a role of MICA in various malignant, infectious, or autoimmune diseases. However, conclusions from these studies often were limited in default of supporting in vivo experiments. Here, we report a MICA transgenic (MICAgen) mouse model that replicates central features of human MICA expression and function and, therefore, constitutes a novel tool to critically assess and extend conclusions from previous in vitro studies on MICA. Similarly to humans, MICA transcripts are broadly present in organs of MICAgen mice, while MICA glycoproteins are barely detectable. Upon activation, hematopoietic cells up-regulate and proteolytically shed surface MICA. Shed soluble MICA (sMICA) is also present in plasma of MICAgen mice but affects neither surface NKG2D expression of circulating NK cells nor their functional recognition of MICA-expressing tumor cells. Accordingly, MICAgen mice also show a delayed growth of MICA-expressing B16F10 tumors, not accompanied by an emergence of MICA-specific antibodies. Such immunotolerance for the xenoantigen MICA ideally suits MICAgen mice for anti-MICA-based immunotherapies. Altogether, MICAgen mice represent a valuable model to study regulation, function, disease relevance, and therapeutic targeting of MICA in vivo.
26274783 | Ras Transformation Overrides a Proliferation Defect Induced by Tpm3.1 Knockout. Extensive re-organisation of the actin cytoskeleton and changes in the expression of its binding proteins is a characteristic feature of cancer cells. Previously we have shown that the tropomyosin isoform Tpm3.1, an integral component of the actin cytoskeleton in tumor cells, is required for tumor cell survival. Our objective was to determine whether cancer cells devoid of Tpm3.1 would evade the tumorgenic effects induced by H-Ras transformation. The tropomyosin isoform (Tpm) expression profile of a range of cancer cell lines (21) demonstrates that Tpm3.1 is one of the most broadly expressed Tpm isoform. Consequently, the contribution of Tpm3.1 to the transformation process was functionally evaluated. Primary embryonic fibroblasts isolated from wild type (WT) and Tpm3.1 knockout (KO) mice were transduced with retroviral vectors expressing SV40 large T antigen and an oncogenic allele of the H-Ras gene, H-RasV12, to generate immortalized and transformed WT and KO MEFs respectively. We show that Tpm3.1 is required for growth factor-independent proliferation in the SV40 large T antigen immortalized MEFs, but this requirement is overcome by H-Ras transformation. Consistent with those findings, we found that Tpm3.1 was not required for anchorage independent growth or growth of H-Ras-driven tumors in a mouse model. Finally, we show that pERK and Importin 7 protein interactions are significantly decreased in the SV40 large T antigen immortalized KO MEFs but not in the H-Ras transformed KO cells, relative to control MEFs. The data demonstrate that H-Ras transformation overrides a requirement for Tpm3.1 in growth factor-independent proliferation of immortalized MEFs. We propose that in the SV40 large T antigen immortalized MEFs, Tpm3.1 is partly responsible for the efficient interaction between pERK and Imp7 resulting in cell proliferation, but this is overidden by Ras transformation.
33726783 | Reproductive injury in male BALB/c mice infected with Neospora caninum. BACKGROUND: Neospora caninum is one of the main causes of abortion in pregnant animals. However, N. caninum-induced reproductive injury in male mice is still unclear. METHODS: Male BALB/c mice were infected with a bovine isolate of N. caninum, and the organ coefficients of the testis and epididymis were measured. Lesions in the testis and epididymis were observed by light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Expression of the spermatogenic cell apoptosis-related proteins p53 and caspase-3 was detected by western blot. The expression of spermatogenesis-related genes in the testis was detected by reverse transcription-PCR. Sperm morphology and motility were observed. The levels of nitric oxide (NO) and antisperm antibody (AsAb) in the testicular homogenates and hormones in the serum were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The reproductive capacity of the male mice was detected using a reproduction test. RESULTS: The organ coefficients of the testis and epididymis of the experimental group were significantly downregulated. Light microscopy examination revealed that the spermatogenic cells of the testis were arranged in a disordered manner, and the number was reduced. The number of sperm in the epididymal lumen was significantly reduced, and the cytoplasm exhibited vacuolation and degeneration. Ultrastructural studies revealed that the cells of the testis and epididymis tissues showed varying degrees of disease. The level of p53 and caspase-3 expression in the testis was significantly upregulated. The expression of the testicular spermatogenesis-related genes Herc4, Ipo11 and Mrto4 were strongly downregulated. Observation of sperm by microscopic examination revealed significantly reduced sperm density and sperm motility, and the number of sperm deformities was significantly increased. The level of NO and AsAb was significantly increased. The levels of luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone and gonadotropin-releasing hormone were significantly upregulated, whereas the levels of testosterone, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, thyroxine and thyroid-stimulating hormone were significantly downregulated. After challenge, the infected male mice and healthy female mice were caged together: the subsequent fetal death rate was increased, and the conception rate, litter size, number of live births and the birth weight were significantly reduced. CONCLUSIONS: Infection of male BALB/c mice with the bovine isolate of N. caninum induced varying degrees of injury to the testis, epididymis and sperm of the mice, destroyed spermatogenesis and affected the reproductive capacity.
19204005 | Regulation of nuclear import and export of negative cofactor 2. The negative cofactor 2 (NC2) is a protein complex composed of two subunits, NC2alpha and NC2beta, and plays a key role in transcription regulation. Here we investigate whether each subunit contains a nuclear localization signal (NLS) that permits individual crossing of the nuclear membrane or whether nuclear import of NC2alpha and NC2beta depends on heterodimerization. Our results from in vitro binding studies and transfection experiments in cultured cells show that each subunit contains a classical NLS (cNLS) that is recognized by the importin alpha/beta heterodimer. Regardless of the individual cNLSs the two NC2 subunits are translocated as a preassembled complex as co-transfection experiments with wild-type and cNLS-deficient NC2 subunits demonstrate. Ran-dependent binding of the nuclear export receptor Crm1/exportin 1 confirmed the presence of a leucine-rich nuclear export signal (NES) in NC2beta. In contrast, NC2alpha does not exhibit a NES. Our results from interspecies heterokaryon assays suggest that heterodimerization with NC2alpha masks the NES in NC2beta, which prevents nuclear export of the NC2 complex. A mutation in either one of the two cNLSs decreases the extent of importin alpha/beta-mediated nuclear import of the NC2 complex. In addition, the NC2 complex can enter the nucleus via a second pathway, facilitated by importin 13. Because importin 13 binds exclusively to the NC2 complex but not to the individual subunits this alternative import pathway depends on sequence elements distributed among the two subunits.
27356504 | Proceedings of The 8th Romanian National HIV/AIDS Congress and The 3rd Central European HIV Forum : Sibiu, Romania. 5-7 May 2016.
37403715 | [Construction of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells and its killing effect on multiple myeloma cells]. Objective This study aims to construct and identify the chimeric antigen receptor NK92 (CAR-NK92) cells targeting NKG2D ligand (NKG2DL) (secreting IL-15Ra-IL-15) and verify the killing activity of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells against multiple myeloma cells. Methods The extracellular segment of NKG2D was employed to connect 4-1BB and CD3Z, as well as IL-15Ra-IL-15 sequence to obtain a CAR expression framework. The lentivirus was packaged and transduced into NK92 cells to obtain NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells. The proliferation of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells was detected by CCK-8 assay, IL-15Ra secretion was detected by ELISA and killing efficiency was detected by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay. The molecular markers of NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, the ratio of apoptotic cell population, CD107a, and the secretion level of granzyme B and perforin were detected using flow cytometry. In addition, the cytotoxic mechanism of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells on the tumor was verified by measuring the degranulation ability. Moreover, after NKG2D antibody inhibited effector cells and histamine inhibited tumor cells, LDH assay was utilized to detect the effect on cell-killing efficiency. Finally, the multiple myeloma tumor xenograft model was constructed to verify its anti-tumor activity in vivo. Results Lentiviral transduction significantly increased NKG2D expression in NK92 cells. Compared with NK92 cells, the proliferation ability of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells was weaker. The early apoptotic cell population of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells was less, and NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells had stronger cytotoxicity to multiple myeloma cells. Additionally, IL-15Ra secretion could be detected in its culture supernatant. NKp44 protein expression in NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells was clearly increased, demonstrating an enhanced activation level. Inhibition test revealed that the cytotoxicity of CAR-NK92 cells to MHC-I chain-related protein A (MICA) and MICB-positive tumor cells was more dependent on the interaction between NKG2D CAR and NKG2DL. After stimulating NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells with tumor cells, granzyme B and perforin expression increased, and NK cells obviously upregulated CD107alpha. Furthermore, multiple myeloma tumor xenograft model revealed that the tumors of mice treated with NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells were significantly reduced, and the cell therapy did not sensibly affect the weight of the mice. Conclusion A type of CAR-NK92 cell targeting NKG2DL (secreting IL-15Ra-IL-15) is successfully constructed, indicating the effective killing of multiple myeloid cells.
27993670 | Interactome of the inhibitory isoform of the nuclear transporter Importin 13. Importin 13 (Imp13) is a bidirectional nuclear transporter of proteins involved in a range of important cellular processes, with an N-terminally truncated inhibitory isoform (tImp13) specifically expressed in testis. To gain insight into tImp13 function, we performed a yeast-2-hybrid screen from a human testis cDNA library, identifying for the first time a suite of interactors with roles in diverse cellular process. We validated the interaction of tImp13 with Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4gamma2 (EIF4G2) and High mobility group containing protein 20A (HMG20A), benchmarking that with glucocorticoid receptor (GR), a known Imp13 interactor expressed in testis. Coimmunoprecipitation assays indicated association of both tImp13 and Imp13 with EIF4G2, HMG20A and GR. Quantitative confocal microscopic analysis revealed the ability of tImp13 to inhibit the nuclear localisation of EIF4G2, HMG20A and GR, as well as that of Imp13 to act as a nuclear exporter for both EIF4G2 and HMG20A, and as a nuclear importer for GR. The physiological relevance of these results was highlighted by the cytoplasmic localisation of EIF4G2, HMG20A and GR in pachytene spermatocytes/round spermatids in the murine testis where tImp13 is present at high levels, in contrast to the nuclear localisation of HMG20A and GR in spermatogonia, where tImp13 is largely absent. Interestingly, Imp13, EIF4G2, HMG20A and GR were found together in the acrosome vesicle of murine epididymal spermatozoa. Collectively, our findings show, for the first time, that tImp13 may have a functional role in the mature spermatozoa, in addition to that in the meiotic germ cells of the testis.
38152696 | CXCL14 as a potential marker for immunotherapy response prediction in renal cell carcinoma. Background: Epigenetic mechanisms play vital roles in the activation, differentiation, and effector function of immune cells. The breast and kidney-expressed chemokine (CXCL14) mainly contributes to the regulation of immune cells. However, its role in shaping the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) is yet to be elucidated in renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Objectives: This study aimed to elucidate the role of CXCL14 in predicting the efficacy of immunotherapy in patients with RCC. Methods: CXCL14 expression and RNA-sequencing, single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq), and survival datasets of RCC from public databases were analyzed, and survival was compared between different CXCL14 levels. The correlation between CXCL14 and immune infiltration and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene expression was analyzed with TIMER2.0 and gene expression profiling interactive analysis. Institutional scRNA-seq and immunohistochemical staining analyses were used to verify the relationship between CXCL14 expression level and the efficacy of immunotherapy. Results: CXCL14 was expressed in fibroblast and malignant cells in RCC, and higher expression was associated with better survival. Enrichment analysis revealed that CXCL14 is involved in immune activation, primarily in antigen procession, antigen presentation, and major histocompatibility complex assemble. CXCL14 expression was positively correlated with T-cell infiltration as well as HLA-related gene expression. Among the RCC cohort receiving nivolumab in Checkmate 025, the patients with CXCL14 high expression had better overall survival than those with CXCL14 low expression after immunotherapy. scRNA-seq revealed a cluster of CXCL14+ fibroblast in immunotherapy responders. Immunohistochemistry analysis verified that the patients with high CXCL14 expression had an increased proportion of high CD8 expression simultaneously. The expression level of CXCL14 was associated with CXCR4 expression in RCC. Conclusion: CXCL14 expression is associated with immunotherapy response in RCC. It is a promising biomarker for immunotherapy response prediction and may be an effective epigenetic modulator in combination with immunotherapy approaches.
37480753 | Oridonin enhances cytotoxic activity of natural killer cells against lung cancer. BACKGROUND: Oridonin is a Chinese herbal medicine exhibiting anti-tumor properties; however, its immune modulation capacity has yet to be elucidated. Our objective in this study was to determine whether oridonin enhances the anti-tumor activity of natural killer (NK) cells against lung cancer cells. METHODS: LDH-releasing assays were used to investigate the effects of oridonin on NK-92MI cell activity against lung cancer cells. Flow cytometry and real-time PCR were used to examine the effects of oridonin on degranulation markers, cytotoxic factors, activating receptors on NK-92MI cells, and ligands in lung cancer cells. Western blot analysis provided insight into the mechanisms underlying the observed effects. RESULTS: Oridonin enhanced the cytotoxic effects of NK-92MI cells against A549 lung cancer cells. This effect involved upregulating the expression of the degranulation marker CD107a and IFN-gamma as well as activating receptors on NK cells and their ligand MICA/B. Oridonin also inhibited STAT3 phosphorylation in A549 cells and NK-92MI cells. A lung cancer mouse model confirmed the anti-tumor effects of oridonin and NK-92MI cells, wherein both treatments alone suppressed tumor growth. Oridonin was also shown to have a synergistic effect on the anti-tumor activity of NK-92MI cells. CONCLUSIONS: The ability of oridonin to enhance the cytotoxic effects of NK cells indicates its potential as a novel therapeutic agent for the treatment of lung cancer.
36930702 | Evaluation of acellular pertussis vaccine: comparisons among different strains of mice. The current study was designed to comparatively analyse the reactions of different mouse strains in response to acellular pertussis (aP) vaccine, with attempt to further provide a reference for aP vaccine evaluation. NIH mice, ICR mice, and BALB/c mice adopted from different pharmacopoeias and studies were utilized to measure the immune protection and immunogenicity of the same batch of aP vaccine according to the Modified intracerebral challenge assay (MICA) from some Asian pharmacopoeias and the pertussis serological potency test (PTST) method from European Pharmacopoeia. Based on our results, the aP vaccine detected by NIH mice had the best potency. So the NIH mice were more suitable for detecting the immune protection of aP vaccine by the MICA method. Given that the levels of PT-IgG and FHA-IgG antibodies in ICR mice were the highest, and the levels of Th1 and Th2 cells were significantly increased (P < .01), it was more suitable for the detection of immunogenicity of aP vaccine by PSPT method. Spleen lymphocytes were stimulated by PT and FHA. And the levels of IL-4 in ICR mice and NIH mice were significantly increased, so were the levels of IL-17, IL-23, IL-27, and TNF-alpha in BALB/c mice. NIH mice have stronger adaptive immunity and the weakest inflammatory response, and ICR mice have enhanced adaptive immunity and inflammatory responses, both of which can be thereby used for evaluation by different pharmacopoeia methods. NIH was more suitable for the MICA method of Chinese Pharmacopoeia, and ICR for the PSPT method of European Pharmacopoeia.
32035130 | Anterior gradient 2-derived peptide upregulates major histocompatibility complex class I-related chains A/B in hepatocellular carcinoma cells. AIMS: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide. Decrease in NKG2D ligand levels and exhaustion of NK cells in HCC patients are major causes of immune escape, high recurrence, poor prognosis, and low overall survival. Enhancing the susceptibility of HCC to NK cells by upregulating NKG2DLs on tumor cells is an effective treatment strategy. This study aimed to identify the effect of the Anterior gradient 2 (AGR2)-derived peptide P1, which was reported to bind to HLA-A*0201 as an epitope, on both the expression of major histocompatibility complex class I-related chains A/B (MICA/B) on HCC cells and the cytotoxicity of NK cells. MAIN METHODS: The effect of P1 on MICA/B expression on HCC cells was determined by qRT-PCR, western blotting, and flow cytometry analysis. HCC cells were pre-treated with various pathway inhibitors to identify the molecular pathways associated with P1 treatment. The cytotoxicity of NK cells toward HCC was investigated by LDH cytotoxicity assay. The tumor-suppression effect of P1 was determined in vivo using a NOD/SCID mice HCC model. KEY FINDINGS: P1 significantly increased MICA/B expression on HCC cells, thereby enhancing their susceptibility to the cytotoxicity of NK cells in vitro and in vivo. Further, p38 MAPK cell signaling pathway inhibitor SB203580 significantly attenuated the effects of P1 in vivo and in vitro. SIGNIFICANCE: P1 upregulates MICA and MICB expression on HCC cells, thereby promoting their recognition and elimination by NK cells, which makes P1 an attractive novel immunotherapy agent.
36754452 | MUC1-C is a master regulator of MICA/B NKG2D ligand and exosome secretion in human cancer cells. BACKGROUND: The MUC1-C protein evolved in mammals to protect barrier tissues from loss of homeostasis; however, MUC1-C promotes oncogenesis in association with chronic inflammation. Aberrant expression of MUC1-C in cancers has been linked to depletion and dysfunction of T cells in the tumor microenvironment. In contrast, there is no known involvement of MUC1-C in the regulation of natural killer (NK) cell function. METHODS: Targeting MUC1-C genetically and pharmacologically in cancer cells was performed to assess effects on intracellular and cell surface expression of the MHC class I chain-related polypeptide A (MICA) and MICB ligands. The MICA/B promoters were analyzed for H3K27 and DNA methylation. Shedding of MICA/B was determined by ELISA. MUC1-C interactions with ERp5 and RAB27A were assessed by coimmunoprecipitation and direct binding studies. Exosomes were isolated for analysis of secretion. Purified NK cells were assayed for killing of cancer cell targets. RESULTS: Our studies demonstrate that MUC1-C represses expression of the MICA and MICB ligands that activate the NK group 2D receptor. We show that the inflammatory MUC1-C NF-kappaB pathway drives enhancer of zeste homolog 2-mediated and DNMT-mediated methylation of the MICA and MICB promoter regions. Targeting MUC1-C genetically and pharmacologically with the GO-203 inhibitor induced intracellular and cell surface MICA/B expression but not MICA/B cleavage. Mechanistically, MUC1-C regulates the ERp5 thiol oxidoreductase that is necessary for MICA/B protease digestion and shedding. In addition, MUC1-C interacts with the RAB27A protein, which is required for exosome formation and secretion. As a result, targeting MUC1-C markedly inhibited secretion of exosomes expressing MICA/B. In concert with these results, we show that targeting MUC1-C promotes NK cell-mediated killing. CONCLUSIONS: These findings uncover pleotropic mechanisms by which MUC1-C confers evasion of cancer cells to NK cell recognition and destruction.
38215755 | Engineering human pluripotent stem cell lines to evade xenogeneic transplantation barriers. Successful allogeneic human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC)-derived therapies must overcome immunological rejection by the recipient. To build reagents to define these barriers, we genetically ablated beta2M, TAP1, CIITA, CD74, MICA, and MICB to limit expression of HLA-I, HLA-II, and natural killer (NK) cell activating ligands in hPSCs. Transplantation of these cells that also expressed covalent single chain trimers of Qa1 and H2-Kb to inhibit NK cells and CD55, Crry, and CD59 to inhibit complement deposition led to persistent teratomas in wild-type mice. Transplantation of HLA-deficient hPSCs into mice genetically deficient in complement and depleted of NK cells also led to persistent teratomas. Thus, T cell, NK cell, and complement evasion are necessary to prevent immunological rejection of hPSCs and their progeny. These cells and versions expressing human orthologs of immune evasion factors can be used to define cell type-specific immune barriers and conduct preclinical testing in immunocompetent mouse models.
37017641 | CXC Chemokine Receptor Type 4 Antagonistic Gold Nanorods Induce Specific Immune Responses and Long-Term Immune Memory to Combat Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is highly challenging in its treatment because of the lack of the targeted markers. TNBC patients are not able to acquire benefits from endocrine therapy and targeted therapy except for chemotherapy. CXCR4 is highly expressed on TNBC cells that mediated the tumor cell metastasis as well as proliferation by the response of its ligand CXCL12, therefore holding promising potential of a candidate target for the treatment. In this work, a novel conjugate of CXCR4 antagonist peptide E5 and gold nanorods was fabricated (AuNRs-E5), which was applied to murine breast cancer tumor cells and an animal model, aiming to induce endoplasmic reticulum stress by endoplasmic reticulum-targeted photothermal immunological effects. Results showed that AuNRs-E5 could induce much more generation of damage-related molecular patterns in 4T1 cells under laser irradiation than AuNRs, which significantly promoted the maturation of dendritic cells and stimulated systematic anti-tumor immune responses by enhancing the infiltration of CD8+T cells into the tumor and tumor-draining lymph node, downregulating the regulatory T lymphocytes, and upregulating M1 macrophages in tumors, reversing the microenvironment from \cold\ tumors to \hot\ tumors. The administration of AuNRs-E5 with laser irradiation not only inhibited the tumor growth significantly but also exerted specific long immune responses to the triple-negative breast cancer tumor cells, which led to the prolonged survival of the mice and the specific immunological memory.
36112544 | Multi-omic Characterization of Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Relates CXCR4 mRNA Expression Levels to Potential Clinical Targets. PURPOSE: Chemokines are essential for immune cell trafficking and are considered to have a major impact on the composition of the tumor microenvironment. CX-chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) is associated with poor differentiation, metastasis, and prognosis in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). This study provides a comprehensive molecular portrait of PDAC according to CXCR4 mRNA expression levels. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The Cancer Genome Atlas database was used to explore molecular and immunologic features associated with CXCR4 mRNA expression in PDAC. A large real-word dataset (n = 3,647) served for validation and further exploratory analyses. Single-cell RNA analyses on a publicly available dataset and in-house multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) experiments were performed to elaborate cellular localization of CXCR4. RESULTS: High CXCR4 mRNA expression (CXCR4high) was associated with increased infiltration of regulatory T cells, CD8+ T cells, and macrophages, and upregulation of several immune-related genes, including immune checkpoint transcripts (e.g., TIGIT, CD274, PDCD1). Analysis of the validation cohort confirmed the CXCR4-dependent immunologic TME composition in PDAC irrespective of microsatellite instability-high/mismatch repair-deficient or tumor mutational burden. Single-cell RNA analysis and mIF revealed that CXCR4 was mainly expressed by macrophages and T-cell subsets. Clinical relevance of our finding is supported by an improved survival of CXCR4high PDAC. CONCLUSIONS: High intratumoral CXCR4 mRNA expression is linked to a T cell- and macrophage-rich PDAC phenotype with high expression of inhibitory immune checkpoints. Thus, our findings might serve as a rationale to investigate CXCR4 as a predictive biomarker in patients with PDAC undergoing immune checkpoint inhibition.
11809816 | Ribosomal protein L12 uses a distinct nuclear import pathway mediated by importin 11. Ribosome biogenesis requires the nuclear translocation of ribosomal proteins from their site of synthesis in the cytoplasm to the nucleus. Analyses of the import mechanisms have revealed that most ribosomal proteins can be delivered to the nucleus by multiple transport receptors (karyopherins or importins). We now provide evidence that ribosomal protein L12 (rpL12) is distinguished from the bulk of ribosomal proteins because it accesses the importin 11 pathway as a major route into the nucleus. rpL12 specifically and directly interacted with importin 11 in vitro and in vivo. Both rpL12 binding to and import by importin 11 were inhibited by another importin 11 substrate, UbcM2, indicating that these two cargoes may bind overlapping sites on the transport receptor. In contrast, the import of rpL23a, a ribosomal protein that uses the general ribosomal protein import system, was not competed by UbcM2, and in an in vitro binding assay, importin 11 did not bind to the nuclear localization signal of rpL23a. Furthermore, in a transient transfection assay, the nuclear accumulation of rpL12 was increased by coexpressed importin 11, but not by other importins. These data are consistent with importin 11 being a mediator of rpL12 nuclear import. Taken together, these results indicate that rpL12 uses a distinct nuclear import pathway that may contribute to a mechanism for regulating ribosome synthesis and/or maturation.
17848547 | Nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of the zinc finger protein EZI Is mediated by importin-7-dependent nuclear import and CRM1-independent export mechanisms. Nucleocytoplasmic translocation constitutes a foundation for nuclear proteins to exert their proper functions and hence for various biological reactions to occur normally in eukaryotic cells. We reported previously that EZI/Zfp467, a 12 zinc finger motif-containing protein, localizes predominantly in the nucleus, yet the underlying mechanism still remains elusive. Here we constructed a series of mutant forms of EZI and examined their subcellular localization. The results delineated a non-canonical nuclear localization signal in the region covering the 9th to the 12th zinc fingers, which was necessary for nuclear accumulation of EZI as well as sufficient to confer nuclear localizing ability to a heterologous protein. We also found that the N-terminal domain of EZI is necessary for its nuclear export, the process of which was not sensitive to the CRM1 inhibitor leptomycin B. An interaction proteomics approach and the following co-immunoprecipitation experiments identified the nuclear import receptor importin-7 as a molecule that associated with EZI and, importantly, short interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of importin-7 expression completely abrogated nuclear accumulation of EZI. Taken together, these results identify EZI as a novel cargo protein for importin-7 and demonstrate a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling mechanism that is mediated by importin-7-dependent nuclear localization and CRM1-independent nuclear export.
28193699 | Importin-11 keeps PTEN safe from harm. In this issue, Chen et al. (2017. J. Cell Biol. https://doi.org/10.1083/jcb.201604025) show that Importin-11 traffics the tumor suppressor PTEN into the nucleus and in so doing protects it from cytoplasmic proteins that cause PTEN degradation. This work helps explain the nuclear accumulation of PTEN observed in many healthy tissues and, because Ipo11 mutant mice develop lung tumors, also implicates Importin-11 as a novel tumor suppressor.
34599028 | Bispecific antibody-mediated redirection of NKG2D-CAR natural killer cells facilitates dual targeting and enhances antitumor activity. BACKGROUND: Natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) is an activating receptor of natural killer (NK) cells and other lymphocytes that mediates lysis of malignant cells through recognition of stress-induced ligands such as MICA and MICB. Such ligands are broadly expressed by cancer cells of various origins and serve as targets for adoptive immunotherapy with effector cells endogenously expressing NKG2D or carrying an NKG2D-based chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). However, shedding or downregulation of NKG2D ligands (NKG2DL) can prevent NKG2D activation, resulting in escape of cancer cells from NKG2D-dependent immune surveillance. METHODS: To enable tumor-specific targeting of NKG2D-expressing effector cells independent of membrane-anchored NKG2DLs, we generated a homodimeric recombinant antibody which harbors an N-terminal single-chain fragment variable (scFv) antibody domain for binding to NKG2D, linked via a human IgG4 Fc region to a second C-terminal scFv antibody domain for recognition of the tumor-associated antigen ErbB2 (HER2). The ability of this molecule, termed NKAB-ErbB2, to redirect NKG2D-expressing effector cells to ErbB2-positive tumor cells of different origins was investigated using peripheral blood mononuclear cells, ex vivo expanded NK cells, and NK and T cells engineered with an NKG2D-based chimeric receptor. RESULTS: On its own, bispecific NKAB-ErbB2 increased lysis of ErbB2-positive breast carcinoma cells by peripheral blood-derived NK cells endogenously expressing NKG2D more effectively than an ErbB2-specific IgG1 mini-antibody able to induce antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity via activation of CD16. Furthermore, NKAB-ErbB2 synergized with NK-92 cells or primary T cells engineered to express an NKG2D-CD3zeta chimeric antigen receptor (NKAR), leading to targeted cell killing and greatly enhanced antitumor activity, which remained unaffected by soluble MICA known as an inhibitor of NKG2D-mediated natural cytotoxicity. In an immunocompetent mouse glioblastoma model mimicking low or absent NKG2DL expression, the combination of NKAR-NK-92 cells and NKAB-ErbB2 effectively suppressed outgrowth of ErbB2-positive tumors, resulting in treatment-induced endogenous antitumor immunity and cures in the majority of animals. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that combining an NKAB antibody with effector cells expressing an activating NKAR receptor represents a powerful and versatile approach to simultaneously enhance tumor antigen-specific as well as NKG2D-CAR and natural NKG2D-mediated cytotoxicity, which may be particularly useful to target tumors with heterogeneous target antigen expression.
26077467 | Programmed cell death 5 mediates HDAC3 decay to promote genotoxic stress response. The inhibition of p53 activity by histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) has been reported, but the precise molecular mechanism is unknown. Here we show that programmed cell death 5 (PDCD5) selectively mediates HDAC3 dissociation from p53, which induces HDAC3 cleavage and ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation. Casein kinase 2 alpha phosphorylates PDCD5 at Ser-119 to enhance its stability and importin 13-mediated nuclear translocation of PDCD5. Genetic deletion of PDCD5 abrogates etoposide (ET)-induced p53 stabilization and HDAC3 cleavage, indicating an essential role of PDCD5 in p53 activation. Restoration of PDCD5(WT) in PDCD5(-/-) MEFs restores ET-induced HDAC3 cleavage. Reduction of both PDCD5 and p53, but not reduction of either protein alone, significantly enhances in vivo tumorigenicity of AGS gastric cancer cells and correlates with poor prognosis in gastric cancer patients. Our results define a mechanism for p53 activation via PDCD5-dependent HDAC3 decay under genotoxic stress conditions.
36789975 | HIF-1alpha mediates CXCR4 transcription to activate the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway and augment the viability and migration of activated B cell-like diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cells. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common lymphoid malignancy with a high relapse rate. We previously found that C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) was highly expressed in DLBCL and associated with poor prognosis. This study focused on the effect of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) on CXCR4 expression and the DLBCL progression. Two activated B cell-like DLBCL cell lines Ly-3 and SUDHL2 were transfected with overexpression and knockdown plasmids or HIF-1alpha. The viability and migration of DLBCL cells were significantly increased under hypoxic conditions, or upon HIF-1alpha overexpression under normoxic conditions, but the HIF-1alpha downregulation led to inverse trends. However, the promoting effects of HIF-1alpha overexpression on DLBCL cells were suppressed by Plerixafor (a CXCR4 inhibitor). The luciferase and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that HIF-1alpha bound to the functional site HRE1 on CXCR4 promoter to activate its transcription. HIF-1alpha-mediated CXCR4 activation further led to increased phosphorylation of AKT/mTOR under hypoxic conditions. Taken together, this work reports that HIF-1alpha promotes viability and migration of activated B cell-like cells under hypoxia, which might involve the transcription of CXCR4 and the activation of the AKT/mTOR pathway. The finding may provide novel lights in the management of DCBCL.
41249184 | Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals that kimchi dietary intervention modulates human antigen-presenting and CD4+ T cells. Kimchi, a traditional Korean fermented food, is recognized for its metabolic benefits; however, its effects on human immune function remain poorly defined. In this study, we performed single-cell RNA-seq on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 13 overweight adults using a paired pre/post design in a 12-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The participants consumed a placebo, spontaneously fermented kimchi powder, or starter culture-fermented kimchi powder. Kimchi enhanced intercellular signaling mediated by antigen-presenting cells, increased antigen uptake, and promoted the upregulation of MHC class II-related genes through the JAK/STAT1-CIITA axis. Single-cell trajectory analysis revealed accelerated CD4+ T cell differentiation toward effector and regulatory phenotypes, whereas CD8+ T cells, B cells, and NK cells remained stable, indicating preserved systemic immune homeostasis. In summary, 12 weeks of kimchi dietary intervention enhanced antigen presentation and remodeled CD4+ T cells without broad systemic activation, providing single-cell evidence of kimchi-induced dietary immunomodulation in humans. The clinical trial was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov ( https://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ ) under the identifier NCT05898802.
41138693 | Uncovering the Molecular Networks of Extracellular Vesicles in the Pathogenesis of Periodontitis. OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study is to explore EV-related genes (ERGs) networks underlying periodontitis by integrating bulk RNA-seq, single-cell RNA-seq, and causal genetic analysis. METHODS: Using GEO and eQTLGen datasets, we identified periodontitis-associated ERGs through SMR and differential gene analysis. Potential therapeutics were predicted via drug repurposing and molecular docking, while machine learning built validated predictive models. Functional enrichment revealed pathogenic pathways, and scRNA-seq explored ERGs in tissue, peripheral blood, and diabetes-comorbid periodontitis cases RESULTS: SMR prioritised nine causal ERGs (CD34, TLR4, TIMD4, ENPP4, HLA-DRA, HLA-B, ENDOD1, PSMA4 and HSPB1) that were mainly expressed in NK cells and CD8+ T cells in the subsequent single cell sequence and deconvolution analysis analysis. Dexamethasone emerged as the most promising drug via binding to HSPB1. The predictive models developed using machine learning achieved robust accuracy (XGBoost: AUC = 0.836) in validation. Key biological pathways included blood coagulation, hemostasis cell, and adhesion molecules, and so on. CONCLUSION: Through multiple analyses integration, we defined an ERG network central to periodontitis pathogenesis. The diagnostic model and repurposed drugs offer translational avenues, requiring further experimental validation. CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This study identified and prioritised periodontitis-associated ERGs, elucidated their molecular mechanisms, and established a foundation for future functional validation and clinical risk assessment.
41231422 | Single-cell RNA sequencing in osteosarcoma: applications in diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. Osteosarcoma is the most common malignant bone tumor in children and adolescents, characterized by high heterogeneity and a complex tumor microenvironment (TME). Despite multimodal treatments, survival rates have stagnated, highlighting the need for new therapeutic options. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) offers a powerful tool to dissect heterogeneity and uncover mechanisms of progression and immune evasion. A narrative literature review, guided by PRISMA principles, was conducted through October 2024 via PubMed and Scopus databases to assess scRNA-seq contributions to osteosarcomagenesis. A total of 107 studies were analyzed to highlight the identification of tumor subpopulations, signaling pathways, diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers, and therapeutic assessments. Our analysis highlights the critical role of scRNA-seq in revealing the complexity of the osteosarcoma TME. Studies identified distinct immune and non-immune cell subpopulations, with TXNIP+ and IFIT1+ macrophages, KAZALD1, EGFL7, TNFSF11, and TRAIL receptors emerging as potential therapeutic targets. scRNA-seq has elucidated mechanisms of tumor progression and metastasis, including CD24 expression, and enabled the discovery of immune and stromal biomarkers within the TME. It also revealed novel therapeutic strategies, such as targeting Tregs via CXCR4 inhibition, CAFs through LOX and SERPINE1 modulation, and MCL1 in metastatic niches. Additionally, it uncovered promising drug candidates-etoposide, mevastatin, oxfendazole, HDAC inhibitors, and TIGIT blockade-as well as immunotherapies like PD-1 inhibition and adoptive CD8+ T cell therapy. scRNA-seq has transformed insights into osteosarcoma by exposing key cellular dynamics and potential therapeutic targets. While technical challenges remain, it paves the way for more personalized and effective treatment strategies. However, the current findings are subject to limitations, including technical biases in single-cell protocols and the exclusion of non-English literature, which may affect generalizability.
38755198 | Impaired signaling pathways on Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy macrophages during Leishmania infantum infection. Berardinelli-Seip congenital lipodystrophy (CGL), a rare autosomal recessive disorder, is characterized by a lack of adipose tissue. Infections are one of the major causes of CGL individuals' premature death. The mechanisms that predispose to infections are poorly understood. We used Leishmania infantum as an in vitro model of intracellular infection to explore mechanisms underlying the CGL infection processes, and to understand the impact of host mutations on Leishmania survival, since this pathogen enters macrophages through specialized membrane lipid domains. The transcriptomic profiles of both uninfected and infected monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) from CGL (types 1 and 2) and controls were studied. MDMs infected with L. infantum showed significantly downregulated expression of genes associated with infection-response pathways (MHC-I, TCR-CD3, and granzymes). There was a transcriptomic signature in CGL cells associated with impaired membrane trafficking and signaling in response to infection, with concomitant changes in the expression of membrane-associated genes in parasites (e.g. delta-amastins). We identified pathways suggesting the lipid storage dysfunction led to changes in phospholipids expression and impaired responses to infection, including immune synapse (antigen presentation, IFN-gamma signaling, JAK/STAT); endocytosis; NF-kappaB signaling; and phosphatidylinositol biosynthesis. In summary, lipid metabolism of the host plays an important role in determining antigen presentation pathways.
19460331 | Distribution of CCR5 genotypes and HLA Class I B alleles in HIV-1 infected and uninfected injecting drug users from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Host genetic factors play an important role in the HIV epidemic dynamics, and have been considered in studies assessing susceptibility/resistance to HIV-1 infection as well as clinical evolution. Class I and Class II HLA alleles have been associated with the heterogeneity of HIV-1 infection susceptibility, as protective or risk factors for HIV-1 transmission. Moreover, a 32-base pair deletion in the HIV-1 CCR5 gene-coding region confers resistance to HIV-1 infection in homozygous individuals for the deleted allele. In this study, DNA samples from HIV-1 infected and uninfected injecting drug users (IDUs) from Rio de Janeiro were PCR amplified to determine CCR5 genotypes based on the presence of the CCR5Delta32 mutation and typed for the HLA-B locus, in an attempt to assess possible associations between these genetic factors and susceptibility/resistance to HIV-1 infection. The distribution of CCR5 genotypes between the two IDU groups did not differ. The homozygous mutant genotype Delta32/Delta32 was not found in this study. Except for HLA-B*45 (4.0% vs. 3.0%; p=0.04) and for B*51 (12.1% vs. 4.4%; p=0.002), no statistically significant differences were made evident when analyzing the frequencies of each HLA-B allele between Caucasian and non-Caucasian IDUs. The most frequent HLA-B alleles were B*15; B*35; B*44 and B*51. Although some differences in the allele frequencies could be observed between the two IDU groups, none of these was statistically significant. Therefore, no putative association between these genetic markers and susceptibility/resistance to HIV-1 infection could be made evident in the present study. So far, the assessment of genetic markers among the IDU population has been restricted to North American, European, and Asian studies and this report represents a pioneer descriptive study of the distribution of CCR5 genotypes and HLA-B alleles in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
41289679 | Photo-immunomodulatory multifunctional nanoliposomes targeting myeloid derived suppressor cells augment antitumor immunity for colon cancer. The therapeutic effect of cancer immunotherapy is limited by immune resistance caused by the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). While photodynamic therapy (PDT) can enhance tumor immunogenicity and initiate anti-tumor immunity, its practical benefits are limited. To address this, we developed a TME-responsive nanoliposome for the co-delivery of the photosensitizer chlorin e6 (Ce6) and the immunomodulatory agent AMD3100. Our results demonstrated that Ce6-mediated PDT effectively induced immunogenic cell death (ICD) in colon cancer cells, as evidenced by the robust surface exposure of calreticulin and the release of high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1). Simultaneously, AMD3100 significantly inhibited the infiltration of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) into the TME by blocking the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis. Combined treatment led to a remarkable 90.2 % inhibition of tumor growth in a murine CT26 colon carcinoma model. This profound antitumor effect was driven by a significant enhancement of dendritic cell (DC) maturation (31.1 %) and a 1.62-fold increase in tumor infiltration of CD8 + T cells, coupled with a 76.11 % reduction in MDSC accumulation. In conclusion, this multifunctional nanoliposome, which synergizes immunogenic PDT with targeted MDSC regulation, presents a highly effective strategy for colon cancer treatment and opens a new avenue for advanced photoimmunotherapy.
41905539 | Molecular Mechanisms of alpha4beta7 Engagement by HIV-1 and Implications for Vaccine Design. HIV-1 transmission is initiated at mucosal surfaces, where the virus engages the gut-homing integrin alpha4beta7 to enhance infectivity and promote early pathogenesis. This review synthesizes molecular, structural, and immunological evidence to describe the context-dependent interaction between the HIV-1 envelope gp120 and alpha4beta7, a receptor expressed on CD4+ T cells. The engagement is more than adhesive; it functions as a \molecular handshake\ that triggers costimulatory signals, lowers T-cell activation thresholds, promotes virological synapse formation, and drives local differentiation of highly susceptible CCR5+ T cells. Virions can also incorporate host alpha4beta7, forming \Trojan horse\ particles that home to intestinal tissues. Translational insights highlight the V2 region as a promising vaccine target, with rational immunogen design showing potential to elicit alpha4beta7-blocking antibodies. However, therapeutic alpha4beta7 blockade has yielded mixed results, underscoring the complexity of modulating integrin signaling and the limitations of monotherapy. Moving forward, effective prevention will likely require combination strategies that integrate alpha4beta7-focused immunogens with mucosal immune modulators, guided by physiologically relevant functional assays such as the Mucosal Blocking Score.
38737702 | Identification of immune-related prognostic biomarkers in triple-negative breast cancer. Background: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), a type of breast cancer, lacks immune-related markers that can be used for prognosis or prediction. Therefore, we created a predictive framework for TNBC using a risk assessment. Methods: Our previous study group consisted of 360 individuals who were diagnosed with TNBC through pathology using RNA sequencing and had clinical data from Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center (FUSCC). A risk scoring model was constructed using the Cox regression method with the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO). A multivariate Cox regression analysis was utilized to develop the prediction model, which was then assessed using the consistency index and calibration plots. The validation cohort of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) TNBC confirmed the strength of the signatures' predictive value. Results: The prognostic risk score model included 12 genes: TDO2, CHIT1, CARML2, HLA-C, ADIRF, C19orf33, CA8, AHNAK2, RHOV, OPLAH, THEM6, and NEBL. The receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curves for survivability values at 1, 3, and 5 years in the FUSCC TNBC cohort demonstrated area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.78, 0.83, and 0.75, respectively. These results indicated a high level of accuracy in predicting outcomes, which was further confirmed through validation using TCGA database. The patients in the high-risk group showed worse prognoses and lower levels of immune cell infiltration, specifically CD8+ T cells, than those in the low-risk group. Furthermore, the low-risk group exhibited a significant upregulation of genes that encode immune checkpoints, including CD274 and CTLA4, suggesting that immunotherapy may yield enhanced efficacy within this particular group. Conclusions: In conclusion, the prognostic signature consisting of 12 genes can assist in the choice of immunotherapy for TNBC.
40286748 | Celastrol enhanced CD8+T cell immunity in melanoma by targeting SHP2 and upregulating MHC-I. BACKGROUND: Celastrol (CEL) has demonstrated promising anti-cancer properties, yet its specific mechanisms against melanoma remain insufficient. This study investigated the CEL's anti-tumor effects and determined its potential mechanisms in the regulation of MHC-I expression in melanoma. In addition, we also tested its efficacy in sensitizing immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) to melanoma. METHODS: CEL's anti-tumor activity was evaluated in B16F10 melanoma-bearing C57BL/6 mice across five groups (control, CEL 0.5 mg/kg, CEL 1 mg/kg, CEL 2 mg/kg, and ICIs), the tumor volume, histopathology, and body weight were assessed. Mechanistic insights were obtained through network pharmacology and RNA sequencing in B16F10 cells. Differential gene and pathway analysis were validated using qRT-PCR, Western blotting, and flow cytometry. CD8+T cell activation and cytotoxicity were analyzed in co-culture with CEL-pretreated B16F10 cells using flow cytometry and ELISA. CEL's interaction with potential targets was determined by molecular docking, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), and siRNA. The synergistic effect of CEL combined with ICIs was confirmed in B16F10-bearing C57BL/6 mice, and tumor-infiltrating T cells were assessed by flow cytometry across four groups (control, CEL, ICIs, CEL+ICIs). RESULTS: CEL exhibited a significant anti-tumor effect in B16F10 melanoma-bearing mice. Mechanistically, CEL-pretreated B16F10 cells notably enhanced CD8+T cell activation and promoted IFNgamma and TNFalpha secretion, leading to B16F10 cell death. CEL upregulated MHC-I expression through activation of the JAK/STAT1 pathway in B16F10 cells. The binding assay revealed that CEL interacted with SHP2, with an affinity of 37.93 muM. When SHP2 was silenced in B16F10 cells by siRNA, CEL failed to induce MHC-I upregulation. Moreover, CEL combined with ICIs produced superior antitumor efficacy compared to ICIs alone, which was accompanied by increased CD8+T cell infiltration in melanoma. CONCLUSION: CEL enhanced CD8+T cell immunity by upregulating MHC-I expression in melanoma cells, these effects were at least partially through targeting SHP2 and activating JAK/STAT1 pathway. CEL might be a novel sensitizer for ICIs in melanoma.
41479001 | Determining the Half-Life of MHC Class I Molecules by Blocking Protein Synthesis Using Cycloheximide. Major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) molecules play a crucial role in activating adaptive immune responses by presenting viral and tumor antigens to cytotoxic CD8+ T cells. Additionally, MHC I molecules have been implicated in autoimmunity through the presentation of self-peptides. The effective presentation of antigenic peptides depends on the stability of MHC I allotypes. Evaluating MHC I stability involves analyzing its degradation kinetics and determining its half-life. In this chapter, we present an assay to evaluate the degradation kinetics of MHC I molecules (both endogenous and overexpressed) in cell lines by inhibiting protein synthesis with cycloheximide. Additionally, we incorporated MG132, a proteasomal degradation inhibitor, to examine the impact of the proteasome on MHC I degradation. Furthermore, we detail a method for calculating the half-life of MHC I molecules by fitting the degradation data into a one-phase decay model.
41411059 | CD8 T cells cross-restricted by HLA-B*57 and HLA-E*01 recognize HIV Gag with different functional profiles. Few HIV-specific epitopes restricted by non-classical HLA-E have been described, and even less is known about the functional profile of responding CD8 T cells (CD8s). This study evaluates the functional characteristics of CD8s targeting the Gag epitope KF11 (KAFSPEVIPMF) restricted by either HLA-E (E-CD8s) or HLA-B57 (B57-CD8s). CD8s from eight people with HIV (PWH) were cocultured with KF11 peptide presented by cell lines expressing HLA-B*57:01, HLA-E*01:01 or E*01:03. CD8 responses were analyzed using scRNA-seq and scTCR-seq. Supernatants were also assessed for soluble protein profiling. HLA-I multimers were developed to identify CD8s restricted by HLA-B57 and/or HLA-E ex vivo. B57-CD8s secreted higher levels of cytotoxic cytokines such as IFNgamma, whereas E-CD8s produced more chemotactic cytokines, including RANTES, CXCL10 (IP-10), and IL27, findings which were corroborated through scRNA sequencing. TCR clonotypes stimulated by KF11 were cross-restricted by HLA-B*57 and HLA-E*01/03 as demonstrated by in vitro T cell reporter assays and ex vivo multimer screening. Ex vivo CD8s were singly restricted by HLA-B57 and HLA-E, with dual restriction only observed in PWH with lower viral load. These findings demonstrate that certain HIV-specific CD8s in PWH exhibit dual restriction by HLA-B*57 and HLA-E*01/03, leading to functionally distinct immune responses depending upon the restricting allele(s).
38766241 | Suppression of the JAK/STAT Pathway Inhibits Neuroinflammation in the Line 61-PFF Mouse Model of Parkinson's Disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by neuroinflammation, progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons, and accumulation of a-synuclein (a-Syn) into insoluble aggregates called Lewy pathology. The Line 61 a-Syn mouse is an established preclinical model of PD; Thy-1 is used to promote human a-Syn expression, and features of sporadic PD develop at 9-18 months of age. To accelerate the PD phenotypes, we injected sonicated human a-Syn preformed fibrils (PFFs) into the striatum, which produced phospho-Syn (p-a-Syn) inclusions in the substantia nigra pars compacta and significantly increased MHC Class II-positive immune cells. Additionally, there was enhanced infiltration and activation of innate and adaptive immune cells in the midbrain. We then used this new model, Line 61-PFF, to investigate the effect of inhibiting the JAK/STAT signaling pathway, which is critical for regulation of innate and adaptive immune responses. After administration of the JAK1/2 inhibitor AZD1480, immunofluorescence staining showed a significant decrease in p-a-Syn inclusions and MHC Class II expression. Flow cytometry showed reduced infiltration of CD4 + T-cells, CD8 + T-cells, CD19 + B-cells, dendritic cells, macrophages, and endogenous microglia into the midbrain. Importantly, single-cell RNA-Sequencing analysis of CD45 + cells from the midbrain identified 9 microglia clusters, 5 monocyte/macrophage (MM) clusters, and 5 T-cell (T) clusters, in which potentially pathogenic MM4 and T3 clusters were associated with neuroinflammatory responses in Line 61-PFF mice. AZD1480 treatment reduced cell numbers and cluster-specific expression of the antigen-presentation genes H2-Eb1 , H2-Aa , H2-Ab1 , and Cd74 in the MM4 cluster and proinflammatory genes such as Tnf , Il1b , C1qa , and C1qc in the T3 cluster. Together, these results indicate that inhibiting the JAK/STAT pathway suppresses the activation and infiltration of innate and adaptive cells, reducing neuroinflammation in the Line 61-PFF mouse model.
41815129 | Transmembrane protein 9 as a novel biomarker promotes oral squamous cell carcinoma growth via IL1RN and serves as an immune therapeutic target. Background: The involvement of transmembrane protein 9 (TMEM9) in various malignancies has been documented; nonetheless, its exact function and mechanistic involvement in the development of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) are still not well understood. The objective of this study is to shed light on the clinical relevance, tumor-promoting functions, and molecular pathways of TMEM9 in OSCC development. Methods: Data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases were used to analyze TMEM9 expression and its associations with prognosis and clinicopathological features, with immunohistochemistry (IHC) used for validation. The functional roles of TMEM9 in OSCC cell lines (CAL-27 and TCA8113) were assessed via small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated knockdown, followed by assays including 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT), colony formation, Acridine Orange/Ethidium Bromide (AO/EB) staining, and transwell assays. Gene Ontology (GO)/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis, Mendelian randomization (MR), and correlation studies were used to identify downstream targets and pathways. The infiltration of immune cells was assessed through single sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) and the Tumor IMmune Estimation Resource (TIMER) algorithms. Results: TMEM9 expression was significantly elevated in OSCC tissues compared to normal controls and was linked to advanced T stage, higher histologic grade, smoking habits, and reduced 5-year overall survival. The suppression of TMEM9 caused a reduction in OSCC cell proliferation, migration, and colony formation, and it also promoted apoptosis. Mechanistically, TMEM9 was found to negatively regulate interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL1RN), and silencing IL1RN partially mitigated the anti-tumor effects observed with TMEM9 knockdown. TMEM9 expression showed negative correlations with tumor-infiltrating immune cells (e.g., neutrophils, CD8+ T cells, dendritic cells) and positive correlations with programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and chemokines (CXCR4 and CCL25). Conclusions: TMEM9 functions as an oncogene in OSCC by inhibiting IL1RN regulating tumor progression and fostering an immunosuppressive microenvironment. This indicates a possible prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for OSCC.
41143613 | Exploring the Therapeutic Potential of Fluorinated CXCR4 Inhibitor A1: Insights from Breast Cancer In Vitro Investigations. The impacts of the CXC motif chemokine 12 (CXCL12)/ C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) axis on the infiltration of anti-tumor and pro-tumor immune cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME) of breast cancer (BCa) have been noted in previous studies. Accordingly, regulating the downstream signals of this axis can effectively increase CD8+ cytotoxic T cells and decrease the frequency of immunosuppressive cells in the TME. This study investigated the anti-tumor effects of N, N''-thiocarbonylbis (N'-(3,4-dimethylphenyl)-2,2,2 trifluoroacetimidamide) (A1), a novel fluorinated CXCR4 inhibitor on a BCa cell line. In this study, the impacts of A1 on cell viability, proliferation, apoptosis, and cell cycle were examined using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) and flow cytometry assays. Moreover, the effect of A1 on the number of CXCR4+ 4T1 cells was measured by flow cytometry. A1 treatment exhibited cytotoxic effects on 4T1 cells, promoting cell apoptosis and G2/M cell cycle arrest. In addition, A1-treated cells showed a reduced cell proliferation than CXCL12 treated cells. Furthermore, treatment with A1 alongside CXCL12 significantly decreased the number of CXCR4+ cells compared to the control group treated with only CXCL12 as a proliferator factor. These results indicate that A1 exerts potential anti-tumor effects and may serve as a possible therapeutic agent for BCa treatment; however, further studies are required.
40763949 | MHC-I-opathy: A Unified Concept for the Etiology of Several Major Histocompatibility Complex-Associated Conditions Including Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis. At the Group for Research and Assessment of Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis (GRAPPA) 2024 annual meeting, Drs. Dennis McGonagle and Wilson Liao discussed \MHC-I-opathies,\ a class of immune-mediated diseases genetically associated with major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) and class I peptide processing. MHC-I-opathies demonstrate epistatic interactions, genetic associations, and immunopathology that are distinct from classic B cell and autoantibody-driven autoimmune diseases. Investigations into the pathomechanisms of MHC-I-opathies have revealed a blend of tissue-specific innate immunity and CD8 T cell responses. Several functional pathomechanisms by which MHC-I molecules increase psoriasis (PsO) susceptibility were presented by McGonagle and Liao, and there were multiple associations within the HLA-C locus. Antigen presentation to T cells, HLA regulation of natural killer cells and CD8 T cells through killer immunoglobulin-like receptors, and HLA regulation of dendritic cells through leukocyte immunoglobulin-like receptors were discussed. Interestingly, MHC-I associations are not only linked to excessive inflammation in MHC-I-opathies but also to the spontaneous suppression of infection (eg, HIV-1 elite controllers). This striking prominence of MHC-I in PsO and antiviral immunity provides insight into why autoimmune alleles are maintained in the human genome and how protective antiviral pathways may be linked to aberrant activation of MHC-I-opathies. Outside of spinal inflammation in HLA-B27-positive axial psoriatic arthritis (PsA), the basis for MHC-I genetics in PsA remains less clear and is at least partly linked to greater PsA heterogeneity. Understanding the contribution of MHC-I in PsO and PsA may have important implications for therapy development.
41503272 | Structural evolution of polymorphic class I HLA alleles, designating HLA-C with uncertain assemblies. Hyper polymorphic major histocompatibility class I (MHC) molecules are key components for acquired immune responses. They have high specificity towards peptides presented to CD8 + T cells, resembling vaccine design and autoimmunity. However, a broader landscape over such a diverse set of evolutionary HLA molecules (in humans) and its structural variance in their crucial ectodomains or transmembrane regions remains elusive. Herein, we examined family-wide conserved HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C alleles, and imputed structures over their full-length sequences. Despite high polymorphism among individual HLA molecules, the preserved amino acids remain proximal to C-terminus antigen binding sites. The HLA-A alleles with fewer evolutionary sub-branch have high affinity structures at both active (presenting peptides to T-cells) and inactive states of antigen cleft, compared to that of HLA-B and HLA-C. The cell-surface HLA molecules adopted better energy structures that are crucial for peptide binding and selectivity. HLA allelic families of HLA-A*02, HLA-B*57, and HLA-C*03 have shown well-defined novel secondary structures, compared to other variants. Particularly, the HLA-C alleles have structural deficiencies (insertions and sequence variability) within member-embedded domains, as well as lower internal contact energy compared to other class I HLAs. The neglected non-expressed alleles formed poor secondary structures, which reflect weaker potential to present peptides to T-cell receptors. Internal energies measured shall enable the quantification of the expressed or partially expressed HLA molecules over the cell surface. Comprehending such common structural assemblies of HLAs can guide the peptide-based vaccine development for patients with compromised immunity relating to antigen presentation.
42079175 | Potent and Broad HIV-1 Neutralization by a Bispecific CD4-CD4i Fusion Protein based on Single-Domain CD4-D1 and X5 CD4i antibody. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection remains a global health threat. Although antiretroviral therapy (ART) has significantly transformed HIV into a manageable chronic disease, emergence of drug resistance to current ART is a continuing concern. Broadly neutralizing antibodies, as well as reagents containing both a soluble CD4 mimetic and an HIV co-receptor inhibitor, such as CD4-CD4i antibodies, are promising strategies for the prevention and treatment of HIV infection. We previously developed a CD4 D1mimetic (mD1.22) with enhanced neutralization potency, surpassing that of the clinically validated sCD4-D1D2 mimetic. We also previously identified a novel CD4i antibody (X5) that targets the conserved coreceptor binding site on the gp120 core and recognizes an epitope partially overlapping with 17b monoclonal antibody binding site. X5 binding to gp120 was augmented by CD4 and modestly enhanced by CCR5. To leverage these favorable interactions, we designed and optimized sCD4-X5 bispecific antibodies by computational structure-aided modification of antibody size and fusion linkers between the two binding moieties. The bispecific D1X5, with a (G4S)7 long linker between D1 and X5 (IgG1-LL D1X5), exhibited broad neutralization against 11 diverse HIV subtypes across B, C, G clades and AC, BC recombinants. The TZM-bl cell neutralization assay showed IgG1-LL D1X5 neutralization geometric mean IC50 and IC80 are 0.6 ug/mL and 3.4 ug/mL respectively, which are within the range of potent bnAbs. This work has identified a novel single domain soluble CD4 based CD4-CD4i bispecific antibody with broad HIV-1 neutralization.
40143318 | Deciphering Host-Virus Interactions and Advancing Therapeutics for Chronic Viral Infection. Chronic viral infections like HIV, HBV, and HCV establish persistent interactions with the host immune system, resulting in immune evasion and long-term immune dysfunction. These viruses use a range of strategies to limit host defenses, such as downregulating MHC class I, disrupting interferon signaling, altering apoptosis pathways, and suppressing cytotoxic T-cell activity. Key viral proteins, including HIV Nef, HBV X protein, and HCV NS5A, interfere with antigen presentation and JAK/STAT signaling, thereby reducing antiviral immune responses. Chronic infections induce immune exhaustion due to persistent antigen exposure, which leads to the expression of inhibitory receptors like PD-1 and CTLA-4 on T cells. Viral epigenetic changes, such as N6-methyladenosine modifications and histone deacetylation, enhance immune evasion by modulating gene expression in infected cells. Viruses further manipulate host cytokine networks by promoting an immunosuppressive environment through IL-10 and TGF-beta secretion, which suppress inflammatory responses and inhibit T-cell activation. This review examines the molecular/cellular mechanisms that enable chronic viruses to escape host immunity, focusing on antigenic variation, cytokine disruption, and control of apoptotic pathways. It also addresses how host genetic factors, such as HLA polymorphisms, influence disease progression. Lastly, we discuss host-targeted therapies, including immune checkpoint inhibitors, cytokine treatments, and CRISPR.
42092593 | HLA-B alleles confer susceptibility to sulfasalazine-induced severe cutaneous adverse reactions. BACKGROUND: Sulfasalazine is a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug used to treat arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis. However, it may cause life-threatening severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs), including Stevens-Johnson syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms. OBJECTIVE: Genetic predisposition to sulfasalazine-induced SCARs was assessed. METHODS: This multicountry genetic study involved discovery, replication, and meta-analysis cohorts. The discovery cohort comprised 62 cases of sulfasalazine-induced SCARs and 75 sulfasalazine-tolerant subjects as well as 657 population controls from China and Taiwan who underwent whole-exome sequencing. The replication cohort comprised additional 17 cases and 2038 population controls from Taiwan who underwent HLA genotyping. The meta-analysis cohort comprised a total of 105 cases from Japan, Thailand, Malaysia, Taiwan, and China, together with 23,743 country-matched population controls. Functional immune mechanisms were explored with ex vivo lymphocyte activation assays. RESULTS: In the discovery cohort, rs9266217 in HLA-B exhibited the strongest association. HLA genotyping in replication cohort and phenotype stratification found 4 HLA-B alleles that jointly yielded 84.8% sensitivity (P = 2.3 x 10-24) in predicting sulfasalazine-induced SCARs in the Chinese population. Meta-analysis across 4 Asian countries confirmed significant associations for 3 alleles. Functional assays showed that sulfasalazine or its active metabolite, sulfapyridine, markedly increased granulysin release from CD8+ T cells of affected patients, supporting an HLA-restricted reaction. CONCLUSION: Multiple HLA-B alleles (B*39:01, B*13:01, and B*38:02) are strongly associated with sulfasalazine-induced SCARs in Asians.
41440022 | B Cells Can Trigger the T-Cell-Mediated Autoimmune Response Against Melanocytes in Psoriasis. Psoriasis vulgaris is a T-cell-mediated skin disease that may involve an autoimmune response against melanocytes. It develops through still unexplained pathomechanisms. Streptococcal tonsillopharyngitis is a major trigger of psoriasis onset and relapses. HLA-C*06:02 is the main psoriasis risk gene. Here we find that B cells isolated from streptococci-infected tonsils or peripheral blood of HLA-C*06:02+ psoriasis patients stimulate an HLA-C*06:02-restricted melanocyte-reactive Valpha3S1/Vbeta13S1 T-cell receptor (TCR) from a lesional psoriatic CD8+ T cell clone in an IFN-gamma-enhanced manner. Patients' B cells furthermore induce proliferation of autologous blood CD8+ T cells. We identify several HLA-C*06:02-presented self-peptides in the immunopeptidomes we had isolated from four HLA-C*06:02 homozygous B-cell lines that stimulate the Valpha3S1/Vbeta13S1 TCR and differ from the melanocyte autoantigen recognized by this TCR. These data suggest that the proinflammatory environment of streptococcal tonsillopharyngitis may enable B cells to activate autoreactive CD8+ T cells that, owing to the polyspecificity of T-cell receptors, recognize several B-cell self-peptides presented by HLA-C*06:02 and subsequently cross-react against melanocytes in the skin, thereby triggering psoriasis. The capacity of B cells to stimulate a cross-reactive autoimmune response through HLA class I-presented B-cell peptides is a previously unknown mechanism in the induction of autoimmunity that could explain psoriasis onset and persistence.
41244297 | Distinct memory CD4+ T cell subset tropism of two CCR5-tropic HIV-1 in a rapid progressor. Background: Low HIV-1 infection level in the central memory CD4+ T cell subset is a hallmark of both non-progressive HIV infection and non-pathogenetic SIV infection in the natural hosts. However, an important gap in knowledge is whether CCR5-tropic HIV-1 variants have different memory CD4+ T cell subset preferences. Case Summary: Here, we identified clear compartmentalization of two CCR5-tropic HIV-1 in different memory CD4+ T cell subsets in a rapid progressor. Participant 40512 was identified in the RV217 cohort. While the transmitted/founder (T/F) virus in 40512 was compartmentalized in the central memory CD4+ T cells, the superinfecting virus was compartmentalized in the effector memory CD4+ T cells. Both viruses rely on CCR5 to infect primary CD4+ T cells. The T/F virus is more than 100-fold more resistant to the CCR5 inhibitor Maraviroc than the superinfecting virus. Conclusion: This case report demonstrates that CCR5 HIV-1 variants have distinct memory CD4+ T cell subset preferences in vivo. Because CD4+ T cell subset targeting is highly relevant for HIV-1 pathogenesis, understanding the underlying molecular mechanisms may provide deeper insights into HIV-1 therapeutics and functional cure.
41683682 | Enterocyte Autoantibodies (GECAs) and HLA: Their Relationship with HIV Infection Pathogenesis. The significance of gut epithelial cell autoantibodies (GECAs), human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles, and other scientifically relevant factors has been largely overlooked, despite their potential importance in the medical management of HIV-infected individuals, in understanding the pathogenesis of AIDS, and in improving epidemiological and diagnostic approaches. This review may be considered as a hypothesis-driven narrative paper mostly considering GECAs and some easily detectable genetic markers. Thus, the aim is to highlight these neglected medical and scientific issues. Addressing them may contribute to a deeper understanding of HIV pathology at both the individual and population levels. Autoantibodies against enterocytes (GECAs) are present in the majority of HIV-positive patients. These intestinal epithelial cells are crucial for nutrient absorption and because of their role as antigen-presenting cells (APCs) within the immune system. Furthermore, the number of CD4-positive lymphocytes depends largely on daily antigenic stimulation rather than on thymic function, which becomes residual or inactive after puberty. The fall of CD4+ lymphocyte counts observed in HIV-infected patients may therefore be exacerbated by enterocyte dysfunction/damage, as indicated by the presence of GECAs. These autoantibodies either cause or reflect damage to these important antigen-presenting cells, which may impair intestinal antigen presentation by their surface HLA proteins to the clonotypic T-cell receptor of lymphocytes. Additionally, the association between specific HLA alleles and a CCR5 variant affects HIV disease progression or transmission and should be considered in both adults and mother-infant pairs. In particular, HLA-B35 and HLA-B57 allelic groups have been implicated in influencing both the transmission and progression of HIV infection. Moreover, several aspects of the natural history of HIV infection remain unresolved and controversial, and these issues warrant urgent clarification. For instance, diagnostic tests are not yet standardised globally, and viral abundance in HIV-infected individuals or AIDS patients' cells may be relatively low. In summary, the neglected facets of HIV infection demand renewed investigation, particularly now that an HIV diagnosis is no longer the devastating prognosis it once was. The objective of this work is to emphasise additional factors that may influence the course of AIDS, such as enterocyte injury reflected by presence of GECAs. Ultimately, we propose that GECAs may impair enterocytes' HLA (MHC II)-mediated antigen presentation by enterocytes to CD4+ T lymphocytes (through T-cell receptors), thereby diminishing T-cell proliferation, reducing CD4+ cell numbers, and impairing immune function.
41766817 | Transcriptomic profiling reveals distinct molecular signatures among lesion types in hidradenitis suppurativa. Introduction: Hidradenitis suppurativa is a painful inflammatory disease characterised by diverse cutaneous lesions that exhibit distinct clinical morphologies. The study aimed to examine the transcriptome of the various hidradenitis suppurativa lesion types. Methods: Transcriptomic analyses were performed using bulk RNA sequencing to examine the various lesion types, including draining tunnels, inflammatory nodules, non-draining tunnels, non-lesional skin from patients with hidradenitis suppurativa and normal skin from healthy individuals. Results/discussion: Principal component and differential expression analyses revealed that these different lesion types exhibit distinct expression profiles while sharing common transcriptional features. Enrichment analysis of exclusively differentially expressed genes for each lesion type showed increased antigen presentation and cytotoxic T cell response in inflammatory nodules, including genes such as CD8B, HLA-C, and HLA-F. In accordance, cell-type enrichment analysis showed an elevated CD8+ T cell signature in inflammatory nodules. Gene set variation analysis demonstrated distinct inflammatory pathway signatures in hidradenitis suppurativa lesions, including heightened IL-1 signalling in draining tunnels with significant upregulation of IL1B and its receptor IL1R, but not IL1A. Furthermore, IL17A and IL17F were significantly increased in draining tunnels, inflammatory nodules, and non-draining tunnels, with IL17F showing the highest expression in draining tunnels. MMP3, MMP8, and MMP10 were preferentially upregulated in draining tunnels, indicating a role in tunnel activity. Moreover, AQP4 and AQP5 were significantly downregulated in both lesional and non-lesional hidradenitis suppurativa skin, suggesting a possible involvement in preclinical pathogenic events. Conclusion: Distinct molecular signatures specific for each lesion type were identified, which may reflect differences in molecular mechanisms. These findings underscore the importance of distinguishing between lesion types in translational and clinical studies.
42139886 | Effect of infection temperature on infectivity and host response of human coronavirus OC43. This study aimed to investigate the changes in human coronavirus (HCoV)-OC43-infected cells upon the viral infection temperature and the associated intracellular mechanisms. To examine the influence of temperature during viral propagation, viral infectivity and host defense responses were tested under different infection temperature conditions. The results showed that the efficient viral adsorption temperature was 33  C, where nasal epithelial or oropharyngeal tissue cells were firstly faced to respiratory viruses, compared to normal tissue temperature 37  C. Viral adsorption at 33  C significantly decreased the expression of IFNA1 and IFNB1, whereas increased angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE2) expression, inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 level, NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3), and cleaved caspase-7 expression compared to the one at 37  C. Additionally, physiological changes in intercellular communication via tight junctions were observed after HCoV-OC43 infection. The levels of ZO-1 and occludin expression were downregulated at 33  C infection temperature, while ER stress expression level were upregulated. Immunofluorescence analysis further revealed that ZO-1 and occludin exhibited a diffuse and discontinuous staining pattern with reduced localization at cell-cell junctions, indicating structurally underdeveloped tight junctions. These findings suggest that lower temperatures facilitate respiratory viral infection by attenuating host antiviral responses, which may contribute to the pathogenesis and transmissibility of seasonal coronaviruses.
41848937 | Immune responses in chicken mucosal lymphoid tissues following oral and eye drop vaccination and revaccination with live modified vaccine of infectious laryngotracheitis virus (ILTV).
40755114 | Preliminary Study on GZMA- and GSDMB-Associated Pyroptosis and CD8+ T Cell-Mediated Immune Evasion in Skin Cutaneous Melanoma. BACKGROUND: Skin cutaneous melanoma (SKCM) is a life-threatening malignancy, and pyroptosis-mediated inflammatory response is associated with SKCM progression. We aimed to uncover the underlying pathogenesis of SKCM based on pyroptosis features. METHOD: The single-cell and bulk RNA-seq data and clinical information of SKCM patients were downloaded from the TCGA and GEO databases, and the REACTOME_ PYROPTOSIS.v2024.1.Hs.gmt from the MSigDB database was used for Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Differentially expressed gene (DEG) analysis was performed utilizing the \limma\ R package, and the \GSVA\ R package was used for the analysis of pyroptosis pathway activation. In addition, scRNA-seq analysis and cell communication analysis were carried out by employing the \Seurat\ R package and \CellChat\ R package, respectively. Gene expression was measured using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), while cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8), wound healing, and Transwell assays were carried out to assess cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, respectively. RESULTS: DEGs analysis detected no significant pyroptosis-related DEGs. Analysis of the expression of two representative pyroptosis genes (GZMA and GSDMB) revealed that GZMA was significantly upregulated in the SKCM tissues, but the expression of GSDMB was downregulated. The pyroptosis pathway was not activated in the tumor group. In addition, we observed that high expression of GZMA and GSDMB was closely associated with a favorable outcome in SKCM. The two genes were downregulated in SKCM cells, while the overexpression of GZMA significantly impaired the proliferation, migration, and invasion ability of SKCM cells. Nine main cell subpopulations were identified, and GZMA was specifically overexpressed in CD8+ T cells. Gene function analysis revealed that specific genes of CD8+ T cells were enriched in cell death-related and inflammation activation pathways. Cell communication demonstrated that CD8+ T cells interacted with melanocytes through the CD99-CD99 and HLA-C-KIR2DL3 ligand-receptor pairs. CONCLUSION: Based on the pyroptosis features in SKCM, this study found that blocking GZMA proteins in CD8+ T cells within melanocytes may be the underlying pathogenesis for tumor immune escape in cancer.
27089330 | Characterization of miR-206 Promoter and Its Association with Birthweight in Chicken. miRNAs have been widely investigated in terms of cell proliferation and differentiation. However, little is known about their effects on bird growth. Here we characterized the promoter of miR-206 in chicken and found that the preferable promoter was located in 1200 bp upstream of pri-miR-206. In this region, many key transcription factors, including MyoD, c-Myb, CEBPalpha/beta, AP-4, RAP1, Brn2, GATA-1/2/3, E47, Sn, upstream stimulatory factor (USF) and CdxA, were predicted to bind and interact with miR-206 promoter. Overexpression of MyoD sharply increased miR-206 expression in both fibroblast and myoblast cells, and also the regulation in the myoblast cells was much stronger, indicating that miR-206 was regulated by MyoD combined with other muscle specific transcriptional factors. Aiming to further investigate the relationship between miR-206 mutation and transcriptional expression, total of 23 SNPs were identified in the two distinct bird lines by sequencing. Interestingly, the motif bound by MyoD was individually destroyed by G-to-C mutation located at 419 bp upstream of miR-206 precursor. Co-transfecting MyoD and miR-206 promoter in DF-1 cells, the luciferase activity of promoter containing homozygous GG types was significantly higher than CC ones (p < 0.05). Thus, this mutation caused low expression of miR-206. Consistently, eight variants including G-419C mutation exhibited a great effect on birthweight through maker-trait association analysis in F2 population (p < 0.05). Additionally, the regulation of miR-206 on embryo muscle mass mainly by increasing MyoG and muscle creatine kinase (MCK) expression (p < 0.05) with little change in MyoD, TMEM8C and myosin heavy chain (MHC). In conclusion, our findings provide a novel mutation destroying the promoter activity of miR-206 in birds and shed new light to understand the regulation mechanism of miR-206 on the embryonic muscle growth.
40311393 | Sporadic late onset nemaline myopathy responsive to plasma exchanges discovered during a Graft-versus-host disease. Sporadic late-onset nemaline myopathy (SLONM) is a rare adult-onset acquired myopathy characterized by the presence of clusters of nemaline bodies (rods) inside atrophic muscle fibers, with mild to no inflammation. Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is a systemic disorder occurring after allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (allo-HSCT) variably associated with immune-mediated neuromuscular complications such as myositis, peripheral neuropathy, and myasthenic syndromes. A 49-year-old woman with an acute myeloid leukemia with translocation (6;9), and transcript DEK-NUP, was treated with chemotherapy and allo-HSCT. One month later, she developed a skin and digestive GVHD followed by the development of subacute progressive proximal muscular weakness. Serum CK were normal, and there was no MGUS. Muscle MRI showed oedema of paravertebral, pelvic girdle, and lower limbs muscle. Corticosteroids, IVIg, immunosuppressive, and anti-JAK treatments ameliorated the GVHD, but were ineffective on muscle weakness. A vastus lateralis muscle biopsy revealed clusters of rods in the majority of fibers and mild MHC-I expression in keeping with a SLONM. Plasma exchange therapy (PLEX) led to complete recovery of the muscle strength in several months. In conclusion we report a case of SLONM discovered during a chronic GVHD that responded to prolonged PLEX therapy.
41479908 | Keratinocytes as active regulators of cutaneous and mucosal immunity: a systematic review across inflammatory epithelial disorders. Background: Keratinocytes are increasingly recognized as active regulators of immunity in both skin and mucosal inflammation. Although numerous studies have described their functions in individual conditions, no systematic synthesis has compiled keratinocyte-driven immune mechanisms across the major categories of epithelial injury disorders. We conducted a systematic review to fill this gap and identify both shared and disease-specific pathways that underlie keratinocyte-immune crosstalk in prototypical inflammatory dermatoses. Methods: A PRISMA-compliant systematic review of studies investigating the role of keratinocytes in immune-mediated skin diseases marked by epithelial injury was performed in MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CENTRAL databases. Included conditions spanned atopic dermatitis (AD), psoriasis, lichen planus (LP), bullous pemphigoid (BP), lupus erythematosus (LE), and graft-versus-host disease (GvHD). These were chosen a priori because they are among the most common and clinically relevant inflammatory dermatoses, many with mucosal involvement, and together reflect diverse autoimmune, autoinflammatory, and alloimmune mechanisms. Key outcomes included keratinocyte signaling pathways, immune interactions, and tissue-specific responses. Results: Eighty-two studies met inclusion criteria: AD (n=49), psoriasis (n=11), LP (n=10), BP (n=3), LE (n=6), and GvHD (n=4). Keratinocytes were consistently implicated in cytokine production (e.g., IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha, TSLP, IL-33), immune cell recruitment, and antigen presentation (via upregulation of MHC class II and costimulatory molecules such as ICAM-1 or B7). Shared activation pathways included NF-kappaB, JAK/STAT, and MAPK. Distinct immune profiles emerged across diseases: Th2-skewed responses in AD and BP, Th1/Th17 in psoriasis and LP, and type I interferons in LE and GvHD. Stress keratins (KRT6, KRT16, KRT17) were frequently upregulated and acted as amplifiers of inflammatory signaling. Of the included studies, the majority investigated skin, while mucosal data were largely limited to oral lichen planus and GvHD; mucosal keratinocytes were more often linked to type I interferon-driven apoptosis, whereas cutaneous keratinocytes predominantly amplified inflammation through cytokine and chemokine release, with lupus as an exception. Conclusion: This systematic review highlights keratinocytes as active regulators rather than passive bystanders in epithelial injury disorders. By integrating diverse inflammatory cues, keratinocytes engage shared and disease-specific pathways that shape immune responses across the spectrum of cutaneous and mucosal inflammation.
40930749 | Innate and adaptive immune features associated with immune-related adverse events. BACKGROUND: While highly efficacious for numerous cancers, immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) can cause unpredictable and potentially severe immune-related adverse events (irAEs), underscoring the need to understand irAE biology. METHODS: We used a multidimensional approach incorporating single-cell RNA sequencing, mass cytometry, multiplex cytokine assay, and antinuclear antibody (ANA) profiling to characterize the peripheral immune landscape of patients receiving ICI therapy according to irAE development. RESULTS: Analysis of 162 patients revealed that individuals who developed clinically significant irAEs exhibited a baseline proinflammatory, autoimmune-like state characterized by a significantly higher abundance of CD57+ T and natural killer (NK) T cells, plasmablasts, proliferating and activated CXCR3+ lymphocytes, CD8+ effector and terminal effector memory T cells, along with reduced NK cells and elevated plasma ANA levels. In irAE cases, we identified distinct baseline proinflammatory gene signatures, including markedly higher expression of IL1B and CXCL8 in monocytes and CXCR3, TNF, and IFNG in T/NK cells. TNF signaling was the most enriched pathway, while immunosuppressive genes SIGLEC7 and CXCR4 were downregulated. Following ICI initiation, these patients exhibited an enhanced shift toward an activated and inflammatory immune phenotype, including monocyte reprogramming characterized by upregulation of IL18 and elevated gene expression levels of CXCL10. Conversely, post-treatment levels of CXCL8 were decreased in irAE patients. Notably, in patients who did not develop clinically significant irAE, we identified increased baseline abundance of a TGFBIhigh myeloid cluster enriched in immunosuppressive markers such as STAB1. In addition, patients without irAE exhibited upregulation of TNF and AIRE, accompanied by distinct myeloid protumorigenic reprogramming. CONCLUSIONS: A pre-existing activated, autoimmune-like proinflammatory state drives the development of irAE during ICI therapy through three key axes: increased plasmablast/ANA, heightened interferon-gamma/CXCL10/CXCR3 axis, and amplified TNF signaling. These findings may serve as potential peripheral immune biomarkers for predicting irAE and provide biological insights into the mechanisms governing and mitigating irAE.
40301561 | Personalized inhaled bacteriophage therapy for treatment of multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis. Bacteriophage (phage) therapy, which uses lytic viruses as antimicrobials, is a potential strategy to address the antimicrobial resistance crisis. Cystic fibrosis, a disease complicated by recurrent Pseudomonas aeruginosa pulmonary infections, is an example of the clinical impact of antimicrobial resistance. Here, using a personalized phage therapy strategy that selects phages for a predicted evolutionary trade-off, nine adults with cystic fibrosis (eight women and one man) of median age 32 (range 22-46) years were treated with phages on a compassionate basis because their clinical course was complicated by multidrug-resistant or pan-drug-resistant Pseudomonas that was refractory to prior courses of standard antibiotics. The individuals received a nebulized cocktail or single-phage therapy without adverse events. Five to 18 days after phage therapy, sputum Pseudomonas decreased by a median of 104 CFU ml-1, or a mean difference of 102 CFU ml-1 (P = 0.006, two-way analysis of variance with Dunnett's multiple-comparisons test), without altering sputum microbiome, and an analysis of sputum Pseudomonas showed evidence of trade-offs that decreased antibiotic resistance or bacterial virulence. In addition, an improvement of 6% (median) and 8% (mean) predicted FEV1 was observed 21-35 days after phage therapy (P = 0.004, Wilcoxon signed-rank t-test), which may reflect the combined effects of decreased bacterial sputum density and phage-driven trade-offs. These results show that a personalized, nebulized phage therapy trade-off strategy may affect clinical and microbiologic endpoints, which must be evaluated in larger clinical trials.
41679176 | NGR-modified cancer-associated fibroblast-derived exosomes deliver resveratrol to inhibit CXCR2/NF-kappaB signaling in myeloid-derived suppressor cells and reverse immune suppression in liver cancer. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to develop NGR (Asn-Gly-Arg) peptide-modified cancer-associated fibroblast (CAF)-derived exosomes for resveratrol delivery (NGR-Exos@Res) to target myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in the tumor microenvironment. By inhibiting the CXCR2/NF-kappaB pathway, this strategy reprograms MDSC function, reverses immune suppression, restores CD8+ T-cell antitumor activity, and suppresses liver cancer (LC) progression. METHODS: Network pharmacology and molecular docking identified CXCR2 as a key Res target. Public scRNA-seq data analyzed MDSC-T-cell interactions in LC. Bone marrow-derived MDSCs were treated with Res in vitro; effects on CXCR2/immunosuppressive molecules were assessed via Western blot/immunofluorescence. A CAF line expressing 3xHis-NGR-CD63 was generated to produce NGR-Exos loaded with Res (NGR-Exos@Res). Their toxicity, uptake, and biodistribution were evaluated. Efficacy was tested in a murine LC xenograft model, assessing MDSC function, T-cell activation, and immune evasion. RESULTS: Single-cell transcriptomic analysis revealed that CXCR2 was highly expressed in MDSCs within HCC tissues. Moreover, inhibitory ligand-receptor pairs such as MIF-(CD74+CXCR4) were significantly activated in the interaction network between MDSCs and T cells. In vitro experiments demonstrated that resveratrol markedly downregulated the expression of CXCR2, Arg-1, and iNOS in MDSCs, thereby suppressing their proliferation while enhancing CD8+ T-cell proliferation and IFN-gamma secretion. The successfully constructed NGR-Exos@Res drug delivery system exhibited a drug encapsulation efficiency of 19.3% and improved serum stability. In vivo, treatment with NGR-Exos@Res significantly reduced tumor volume, inhibited the CXCR2/NF-kappaB signaling pathway, decreased the proportion of MDSCs, and enhanced CD8+ T-cell activity. CONCLUSION: In this study, we successfully constructed NGR peptide-modified Exos derived from CAFs for the targeted delivery of Res. This work innovatively proposes a novel immunotherapeutic strategy that targets tumor-associated MDSCs rather than directly killing tumor cells. Mechanistically, we identify and validate CXCR2 as a previously unrecognized functional target of resveratrol in MDSCs, through which resveratrol suppresses NF-kappaB signaling and reprograms MDSC function. Collectively, NGR-Exos@Res represents a precise and efficient delivery platform capable of reversing the immunosuppressive microenvironment in LC and provides a promising combinatorial strategy to overcome immunotherapy resistance by targeting immunosuppressive myeloid cells.
40354837 | Astragalus injection antagonizes the efficacy of anti-PD-1 against melanoma through down-regulating MHC-II expression. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Astragalus injection, a solution derived from Astragalus mongholicus Bunge, has been used in cancer patients for its immune-boosting properties. The effects of Astragalus injection combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in cancer remain unsuspected. AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aims to investigate the efficacy of combining Astragalus injection with anti-PD-1 and to elucidate the potential mechanisms. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A melanoma-bearing mouse model was established to observe the effects of Astragalus injection combined with anti-PD-1 treatment. The immune cell infiltration in tumor tissues was evaluated by flow cytometry. Subsequently, network pharmacology and RNA sequencing were conducted to anticipate latent mechanisms of Astragalus in melanoma. Finally, these predictions were validated by flow cytometry, qPCR, Western blotting, and ELISA. RESULTS: Astragalus injection significantly antagonized the efficacy of anti-PD-1 in melanoma, resulting in a notable reduction of immune cell infiltration. The network pharmacology and RNA sequencing analysis revealed critical signaling routes, encompassing T-cell receptor activation, immune antigen presentation, and the JAK/STAT pathway. Subsequent data suggested that Astragalus injection could down-regulate the expressions of MHC-II in dendritic cells and B16-OVA cells and restrict the activation of dendritic cells. Moreover, the expressions of CIITA and phosphorylated STAT1 were prominently inhibited by Astragalus injection, whereas the overexpression of STAT1 partially reversed the Astragalus injection-induced decrease of MHC-II. CONCLUSIONS: Astragalus antagonized the therapeutic effect of anti-PD-1 in melanoma. These effects were partially through inhibiting JAK/STAT signaling and down-regulating MHC-II expression.
39211124 | Reduced function of the adaptor SH2B3 promotes T1D via altered gc cytokine-regulated, T cell intrinsic immune tolerance. Genome-wide association studies have identified SH2B3 as an important non-MHC gene for islet autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes (T1D). In this study, we found a single SH2B3 haplotype significantly associated with increased risk for human T1D, and this haplotype carries the single nucleotide variant rs3184504*T in SH2B3. To better characterize the role of SH2B3 in T1D, we used mouse modeling and found a T cell-intrinsic role for SH2B3 regulating peripheral tolerance. SH2B3 deficiency had minimal effect on TCR signaling or proliferation across antigen doses, yet enhanced cell survival and cytokine signaling including common gamma chain-dependent and interferon-gamma receptor signaling. SH2B3 deficient CD8+T cells showed augmented STAT5-MYC and effector-related gene expression partially reversed with blocking autocrine IL-2 in culture. Using the RIP-mOVA model, we found CD8+ T cells lacking SH2B3 promoted early islet destruction and diabetes without requiring CD4+ T cell help. SH2B3-deficient cells demonstrated increased survival post-transfer compared to control cells despite a similar proliferation profile in the same host. Next, we created a spontaneous NOD .Sh2b3 -/- mouse model and found markedly increased incidence and accelerated T1D across sexes. Collectively, these studies identify SH2B3 as a critical mediator of peripheral T cell tolerance limiting the T cell response to self-antigens. Article Highlights: The rs3184504 polymorphism, encoding a hypomorphic variant of the negative regulator SH2B3, strongly associates with T1D.SH2B3 deficiency results in hypersensitivity to cytokines, including IL-2, in murine CD4+ and CD8+ T cells.SH2B3 deficient CD8+ T cells exhibit a comparable transcriptome to wild-type CD8+ T cells at baseline, but upon antigen stimulation SH2B3 deficient cells upregulate genes characteristic of enhanced JAK/STAT signaling and effector functions.We found a T-cell intrinsic role of SH2B3 leading to severe islet destruction in an adoptive transfer murine T1D model, while global SH2B3 deficiency accelerated spontaneous NOD diabetes across sexes.
38758119 | Effect of HLA Genotype on Anti-PD-1 Antibody Treatment for Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma in the SNiP-RCC Study. Immune checkpoint blockade therapies are widely used for cancer treatment, including advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). This study aimed to investigate the impact of zygosity in HLA genes and individual HLA genotypes on the efficacy of an anti-PD-1 Ab, nivolumab, in treating advanced RCC. Patient enrollment was conducted across 23 institutions in Japan from August 19, 2019, to September 30, 2020, with follow-up concluding on March 31, 2021. HLA genotype imputation of HLA-A, B, and C, DQB1, and DRB1 loci was performed. Among 222 patients, the presence of at least one homozygosity of the HLA-II allele significantly improved the best objective response (hazard ratio, 0.34; 95% confidence interval, 0.21-0.96; p = 0.042). The HLA evolutionary divergence (HED) of the HLA-A and HLA-B loci was higher than the HLA-C (p < 0.0001 and p < 0.0001, respectively), with high HED of the HLA-B locus correlating to clinical benefits in nivolumab treatment (hazard ratio, 0.44; 95% confidence interval, 0.21-0.90; p = 0.024) and improving cancer-specific survival compared with the low group (p = 0.0202). Additionally, high HED of the HLA-B locus was correlated with the number of infiltrated CD8+ cells in the tumor microenvironment (correlation coefficient, 0.4042). These findings indicate that the diversity of the HLA-B locus plays a significant role in the anti-tumor effect of nivolumab treatment in advanced RCC, potentially offering insights for improved risk stratification in nivolumab treatment and leading to better medical management of advanced RCC.
39545415 | Nuclear PD-L1 compartmentalization suppresses tumorigenesis and overcomes immunocheckpoint therapy resistance in mice via histone macroH2A1. Canonically PD-L1 functions as the inhibitory immune checkpoint on cell surface. Recent studies have observed PD-L1 expression in the nucleus of cancer cells. But the biological function of nuclear PD-L1 (nPD-L1) in tumor growth and antitumor immunity is unclear. Here we enforced nPD-L1 expression and established stable cells. nPD-L1 suppressed tumorigenesis and aggressiveness in vitro and in vivo. Compared with PD-L1 deletion, nPD-L1 expression repressed tumor growth and improved survival more markedly in immunocompetent mice. Phosphorylated AMPKalpha (p-AMPKalpha) facilitated nuclear PD-L1 compartmentalization and then cooperated with it to directly phosphorylate S146 of histone variant macroH2A1 (mH2A1) to epigenetically activate expression of genes of cellular senescence, JAK/STAT, and Hippo signaling pathways. Lipoic acid (LA) that induced nuclear PD-L1 translocation suppressed tumorigenesis and boosted antitumor immunity. Importantly, LA treatment synergized with PD-1 antibody and overcame immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) resistance, which likely resulted from nPD-L1-increased MHC-I expression and sensitivity of tumor cells to interferon-gamma. These findings offer a conceptual advance for PD-L1 function and suggest LA as a promising therapeutic option for overcoming ICB resistance.
41605342 | Immune dysfunction contributes to comorbid depression in patients with multiple sclerosis. BACKGROUND: Depression affects approximately 30% of people with multiple sclerosis (MS) and worsens outcomes, yet its immunopathogenesis remains unclear. We investigated whether immune dysfunction contributes to MS-associated depression by integrating genomic and single-cell data. METHODS: We analyzed genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics from the International Multiple Sclerosis Genetics Consortium (IMSGC, MS) and the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium (PGC, depression) using linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC), bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization (2SMR), and multi-trait analysis of GWAS (MTAG). In addition, we performed exploratory single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from four MS patients (two with depression and two without) to characterize immune cell phenotypes and functions. RESULTS: LDSC revealed a significant positive genetic correlation between MS and depression (rg = 0.108, P = 0.035), while 2SMR analysis did not support a causal relationship. MTAG identified 10 shared loci concentrated in the chromosome-6 MHC region and enriched for antigen processing/presentation pathways. scRNA-seq revealed expansion of GZMB+ effector CD8+ T cells in MS with depression and a dominant TCR clonotype (CASGVGGNTIYF) predicted to recognize the neuronal antigen 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1F (5-HT1F) receptor as well as Epstein-Barr nuclear antigens (EBNA3/4). ERGO-II simulations predicted strong binding (score > 0.80) between 5-HT1F peptides and HLA-B allotypes (B35, B27, B07, B53, B18). Functionally, 5-HT1F-specific CD8+ T cells displayed a terminally differentiated cytotoxic phenotype, consistent with chronic antigenic stimulation. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides integrative evidence that immune dysfunction, particularly CD8+ T cell-mediated HLA-B restricted targeting of 5-HT1F-expressing neurons, may underlie depression in MS.
40243928 | Enhancing the Anticancer Activity of a Carcinoma-Directed Peptide-HLA-I Fusion Protein by Armoring with Mutein IFNalpha. Previously, we reported on the peptide-HLA-I fusion protein EpCAM-ReTARGTPR, which allows us to redirect the cytotoxic activity of pre-existing anti-CMV CD8pos T cell immunity to selectively eliminate EpCAMpos cancer cells. EpCAM-ReTARGTPR consists of the CMV pp65-derived peptide TPRVTGGGAM (TPR) fused in tandem with a soluble HLA-B*07:02/beta2-microglobulin (beta2M) molecule and an EpCAM-directed Fab antibody fragment. To further enhance its anticancer activity, we equipped EpCAM-ReTARGTPR with the immune-potentiating cytokine muteins IL2(H16A,F42A) and IFNalphaR149A, respectively. Both cytokines are engineered to have attenuated affinity for their respective cytokine receptors. Compared to EpCAM-ReTARGTPR, in vitro treatment of EpCAMpos carcinoma cell lines with EpCAM-ReTARGTPRvIL2 for 24 h increased the cytotoxic activity of PBMCs containing low levels of TPR-specific CD8pos T cells by ~15%, whereas EpCAM-ReTARGTPRIFNalphaR149A induced an increase of ~50%. Moreover, treatment for 120 h with EpCAM-ReTARGTPRIFNalphaR149A inhibited the proliferative capacity of the cancer cell lines OvCAR3 and PC3M by ~91% without compromising the viability of the TPR-specific CD8pos T cells and increased their capacity for IFNgamma secretion. Importantly, EpCAM-ReTARGTPRIFNalphaR149A potently induced the elimination of primary EpCAMpos refractory carcinoma cells from a Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) patient. Taken together, the armoring of the carcinoma-directed peptide-HLA-I fusion protein EpCAM-ReTARGTPR with IFNalphaR149A potently enhanced the efficacy of pre-existing anti-CMV CD8pos T cell immunity to selectively eliminate EpCAMpos cancer cells.
25597264 | Cardioprotective cryptides derived from fish and other food sources: generation, application, and future markets. The primary function of dietary protein is to provide amino acids for protein synthesis. However, protein is also a source of latent bioactive peptides or cryptides with potential health benefits including the control and regulation of blood pressure. Hypertension or high blood pressure is one of the major, controllable risk factors in the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD), and it is also implicated in the development of myocardial infarction, heart failure, and end-stage diabetes. Cryptides can act on various systems of the body including the circulatory, gastrointestinal (GI), nervous, skeletal, and respiratory systems. A number of studies carried out to date have examined the health benefits of food protein isolates and hydrolysates. This review provides an overview of existing blood pressure regulating peptides and products derived from fish and other protein sources and hydrolysates. It discusses the methods used currently to generate and identify cryptides from these sources and their application in food and pharmaceutical products. It also looks at the current market for protein-derived peptides and peptide-containing products, legislation governing their use, and the future development of research in this area.
41451821 | Stromal and immune cell interplay promotes neutrophilic inflammation in chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) is a heterogeneous inflammatory disorder, with neutrophilic inflammation representing a clinically challenging endotype due to its resistance to corticosteroids and biologics targeting type 2 responses. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) studies are providing novel insights into the pathogenesis of CRSwNP, particularly the roles of neutrophils and stromal cells. This review discusses how scRNA-seq has inspired a new focus on stromal-immune cell crosstalk as a driver of neutrophilic inflammation. We emphasize the pathogenic contributions of fibroblasts, granzyme K-expressing (GZMK+) CD8+ T cells, and dysregulated cytokine networks such as interleukin (IL)-1beta and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand (CXCL). Understanding these interactions is critical for developing endotype-specific therapies for refractory CRSwNP characterized by neutrophilic inflammation. RECENT FINDINGS: ScRNA-seq has revealed a significant heterogeneity in neutrophils and stromal cell populations within CRSwNP, with distinct subpopulations exhibiting unique functional profiles. The IL-1beta-activated indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1-expressing (IDO1+) fibroblast subset drives neutrophilic inflammation in CRSwNP through secreting a number of CXCL chemokines. Lymphocyte antigen 6 family member D-expressing (LY6D+) club cells in nasal epithelium express high levels of S100 calcium binding protein A (S100A) 8 and S100A9, known as chemoattractants for neutrophils, under IL-1beta stimulation. Fibroblast-derived CXCL12 recruits C-X-C motif chemokine receptor (CXCR) 4+GZMK+CD8+ T cells, establishing a feed-forward inflammatory loop. This cycle is driven by GZMK-mediated stromal activation, resulting in the secretion of potent neutrophil chemokines. Therapeutics targeting of IL-1beta and CXCL12-CXCR4 signaling show potential for suppressing neutrophilic inflammation in CRSwNP. SUMMARY: Stromal and immune cell interactions drive neutrophilic inflammation in CRSwNP. Targeting these cells and their signaling networks offers promising avenues for precision therapy, aiming to control neutrophilic inflammation, reduce associated polyp recurrence, and improve long-term disease outcomes.
41905408 | Baiting-enhanced extravasation of lipid nanoparticles for targeted co-delivery of decitabine and siTNF-alpha to the bone marrow niche in leukemia therapy. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains a fatal malignancy with poor prognosis due to limited drug bioavailability and therapeutic resistance within the protective bone marrow niche. Here, we present a bone marrow-targeted lipid nanoparticle employing a \Bait and Extravasation\ approach for the co-delivery of a hypoxia/ROS-responsive decitabine prodrug and TNF-alpha siRNA (BIS-LNPs@DCA-siTNF). BIS-LNPs@DCA-siTNF are engineered with a hypoxia-cleavable CXCR4-mimetic peptide for CXCL12-guided chemotaxis and a CLL-1-targeting ligand for selective leukemia cell uptake and tight junction disruption. Optimized formulations with liposomal-encapsulated bleb-like internal structures exhibited high siRNA loading, colloidal stability, and stimuli-responsive release under hypoxic and ROS-rich conditions, effectively mimicking the AML microenvironment. Mechanistically, TNF-alpha silencing synergized with decitabine-induced cytotoxicity to disrupt leukemia-adipocyte metabolic crosstalk, impair fatty acid metabolism, and promote apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. In an orthotopic AML model, BIS-LNPs@DCA-siTNF preferentially accumulated in bone marrow, significantly reduced leukemia burden, and reprogrammed the microenvironment to elicit anti-leukemic immunity, leading to enhanced CD8+ T, natural killer (NK), and natural killer T (NKT) cell infiltration in the bone marrow site. Furthermore, BIS-LNPs@DCA-siTNF attenuated osteoclastogenesis, restored bone integrity, and improved locomotor performance. These results establish BIS-LNPs@DCA-siTNF as a programmable nanoplatform that overcomes both pharmacological and microenvironmental barriers, offering a promising approach for enhanced AML therapy.
42082463 | Multi-omics reveals CXCR4 drives immune escape in colorectal cancer via metabolic reprogramming and immune microenvironment remodeling. Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common malignant tumors with the highest incidence and mortality rates worldwide. Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has revolutionized the landscape of cancer treatment; however, most patients with CRC gain limited benefits from it. The immunosuppressive microenvironment of CRC is an important cause of tumor progression, metastasis, and immunotherapy resistance. This study aimed to reveal the key role of chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) in the immunosuppressive microenvironment and glutamine metabolism reprogramming using integrated single-cell transcriptomics and metabolomics analyses. The in vivo and in vitro experiments verified that CXCR4 mediated metabolic reprogramming in CRC cells by regulating the PI3K-Akt-SMAD4 pathway. Further co-culture experiments revealed that CXCR4 promoted the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) to M2 type through glutamine metabolic reprogramming and induced the exhaustion of CD8+ T cells, thereby intensifying immune escape. The knockdown of CXCR4 significantly increased the infiltration of CD8+ T cells and M1 TAMs, reduced the infiltration of M2 TAMs, effectively reshaped the immunosuppressive microenvironment of CRC-bearing mice, and significantly enhanced the immunotherapeutic effect against programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1). This study discovered a novel mechanism by which CXCR4 drove CRC immune escape through the dual-axis regulation of the \glutamine metabolism-immune microenvironment.\ Targeting CXCR4 not only inhibits tumor metabolic adaptability but also reverses TAMs polarization and T cell exhaustion, thereby effectively sensitizing PD-1 inhibitors. This study provides an important theoretical basis and a highly promising new combined treatment strategy for overcoming ICB resistance in patients with CRC.
41923247 | Dual-targeted lipid nanoparticles for TET3 siRNA delivery: nanobiotechnology strategy to remodel tumor immune microenvironment in hepatocellular carcinoma. BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is characterized by a highly immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME), where M2-polarized tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and exhausted CD8+ T cells limit immunotherapy efficacy. However, the upstream epigenetic mechanisms driving these phenotypes remain poorly defined, and effective nanotherapeutic strategies to reverse this immunosuppression are lacking. This study aimed to identify key epigenetic regulators of TME dysfunction and develop a targeted nanoplatform to restore antitumor immunity in HCC. RESULTS: Single-cell RNA sequencing identified ten-eleven translocation 3 (TET3) as highly expressed in M2 TAMs in HCC tissues. Mechanistically, TET3 promotes M2 polarization by enhancing interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) transcriptional activity via hydroxymethylation, which in turn induces CD8+ T cell exhaustion through the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis. To target this pathway, we engineered dual-targeted lipid nanoparticles (TET3 siRNA@alphamp-Lipo) modified with macrophage-specific peptides, enabling efficient and specific delivery of TET3 siRNA to M2 TAMs. In vitro experiments demonstrated the nanoparticles' excellent biocompatibility, stability, and ability to silence TET3, inhibiting M2 polarization and restoring CD8+ T cell function. In vivo studies confirmed that TET3 siRNA@alphamp-Lipo significantly suppressed tumor growth, reduced M2 TAM infiltration, and reversed CD8+ T cell exhaustion in HCC models. CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies the TET3-IRF4 axis as a central epigenetic driver of immunosuppression in HCC and establishes TET3 siRNA@alphamp-Lipo as a potent and translatable nanobiotechnology platform. By integrating targeted siRNA delivery with immune microenvironment remodeling, this strategy provides a promising approach to enhance immunotherapy for HCC and potentially other cancers with immunosuppressive TMEs.
41634749 | XBP1-driven proliferative B cell subcluster in Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma linked to altered nucleotide metabolism. BACKGROUND: Current understanding of B cell heterogeneity in diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and its functional impact on disease progression remains incomplete. This study applies single-cell RNA sequencing to identify and characterize a distinct proliferation-related B cell subpopulation in DLBCL, aiming to address this knowledge gap. METHODS: We utilized dataset GSE182434 from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database for the analysis, with the aim of identifying genes that are specifically highly expressed in different cell clusters. The copy number variation analysis was performed using B cells of normal samples as the control. Thereafter, the cell-cell communication analysis was implemented to reveal the potential ligand-receptor pairs, and the functional enrichment analysis was performed to uncover the enriched pathways. Further, the potential transcription factors-target genes networks were plotted via SCENIC analysis, and a series of validation assays were implemented using DLBCL cells. RESULTS: The single-cell landscape of DLBCL revealed a reduced proportion of B cells, CD8+ T cells, and naive T cells. Malignant B cells exhibited chr1q amplification and chr6 deletion, with genes in these regions linked to immune suppression and impaired antigen presentation, respectively. Further subclustering identified a proliferative B cell subcluster (subcluster 2) enriched in nucleotide metabolism and cell cycle pathways. This subcluster was characterized by elevated XBP1 activity, regulating ER stress response, and downregulation of SPIB, RELB, and IRF factors involved in lymphocyte activation and interferon signaling. Functionally, XBP1 silencing suppressed DLBCL cells proliferation and invasion. Cell communication analysis revealed crosstalk between this B cell subpopulation and CD8+ T/NK cells via MIF-(CD74+CXCR4) and LTA-TNFRSF pathways. CONCLUSION: This analysis has identified and characterized the proliferation-related B cells in DLBCL, which may provide some ideas for the treatment strategies in immune-oncology and cellular therapies.
38743055 | HLA-C*07 is associated with symptomatic HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) and immune dysregulation. BACKGROUND: HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) in stable patients undergoing antiretroviral therapy (ART) may result from ongoing immune dysregulation and chronic inflammation. A contributing factor may result from the unstable HLA class I allele, HLA-C*07. OBJECTIVE: To assess the genetic profile of killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIR), human leukocyte antigens (HLA), and immune activation or senescence markers and their association with HAND in stable HIV-1 patients receiving ART. METHODS: An observational cross-sectional study was carried out with 96 patients with asymptomatic or symptomatic HAND. HLA and KIR as well as immune activation/senescence biomarkers in peripheral blood cells were assessed by SSO-Luminex typing and flow cytometry, respectively. RESULTS: HLA-C*07 is associated with symptomatic HAND. The frequency of two copies of HLA-C*07 was higher in patients with symptomatic than with asymptomatic HAND (12.0 vs. 2.2%, rho < 0.001). The percentage of senescent CD8+CD28- T-cells was higher in patients with two copies of HLA-C*07 (rho < 0.05). In patients with symptomatic HAND, the percentages of non-senescent CD8+CD28+ T cells were inversely proportional to the number of copies of the HLA-C*07 (rho < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Patients with symptomatic HAND showed a higher frequency of the homozygotic unstable HLA-C*07 allotype, which could be associated with neurocognitive complications. Two copies of HLA-C*07 were associated with immune senescent T lymphocyte profiles characterized by the loss of CD28 expression.
40490112 | Beta-2 microglobulin in lymphoma. Lymphomas are heterogeneous hematologic malignancies characterised by the abnormal proliferation of lymphocytes. beta2-Microglobulin (beta2M) functions both as a structural subunit of primary histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) and as a circulating biomarker with established diagnostic and prognostic significance. Serum beta2M > 2.5 mg/L is elevated in 60 % of mantle cell lymphoma and in > 50 % of advanced-stage diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, correlating with higher tumor burden, International Prognostic Index scores, and inferior survival; cerebrospinal fluid beta2M enhances central nervous system lymphoma diagnosis with 97 % sensitivity and specificity. Mechanistically, beta2M stabilizes MHC I to enable CD8+ T-cell antigen presentation and, when shed, activates JAK/STAT and NF-kappaB pathways that drive tumor proliferation and immune evasion. Preclinical strategies targeting these beta2M-driven signals such as anti-beta2M antibodies combined with proteasome inhibitors demonstrate enhanced cytotoxicity in resistant models. Advanced three-dimensional scaffold culture platforms preserve beta2M-tumour-immune interactions, allowing for the investigation of matrix stiffness effects on signalling. Emerging mechanotherapy approaches leverage extracellular matrix rigidity to modulate beta2M-related pathways and sensitize lymphoma cells to therapy. The remaining challenges include assay standardization, cohort variability, and lack of prospective validation of beta2M-based indices. Future efforts should focus on harmonising beta2M measurement methods and integrating mechanistic insights into refined risk stratification and therapeutic strategies.
41957556 | Glycolytic metabolism of CD8+ T-cells affects susceptibility to human leukocyte antigen-mediated abacavir-induced hypersensitivity. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Drug hypersensitivity reactions (DHRs) associated with a specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allotype do not manifest uniformly in all individuals within an HLA model population. This scenario highlights the complexity of predicting drug hypersensitivity reaction risk without considering additional factors. Furthermore, conducting prospective clinical studies of drug hypersensitivity reactions in humans is unfeasible. Therefore, this study aimed to prospectively evaluate HLA-mediated drug hypersensitivity reactions by using a unique transgenic mouse line harbouring HLA-B*57:01 (B*57:01-Tg) and performing abacavir-induced hypersensitivity reactions. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: B*57:01-Tg mice or their littermates were orally administered either an abacavir-containing or a vehicle-only diet. Subsequently, analyses were performed on isolated CD8+ T-cells collected from the lymph nodes, ear biopsies, or plasma of these mice. KEY RESULTS: RNA sequencing and proteomic data analyses performed on the isolated CD8+ T-cells demonstrated that the expression levels of several glycolytic enzymes, including hexokinase 2, were significantly up-regulated in abacavir-treated B*57:01-Tg mice. Moreover, the glycolytic rate and metabolite production significantly increased in these mice. Although treatment with the pyruvic acid carrier inhibitor UK5099 did not affect CD8+ T-cell activation, inhibiting glycolysis using 2-deoxy-D-glucose or diet-based calorie restriction attenuated the increase in IFN-gamma-secreting effector memory CD8+ T-cells. Consequently, this attenuation prevented CD8+ T-cell dermal infiltration in abacavir-treated B*57:01-Tg mice. CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: Overall, these results suggest the indispensable role of glycolytic CD8+ T-cell metabolism in HLA-mediated abacavir-induced hypersensitivity reactions, which may further determine susceptibility to HLA-mediated drug hypersensitivity reactions in humans.
41071311 | The impact of JAK1 pathogenic variants and MHC-I expression on response to immune checkpoint inhibition in endometrial cancer. PURPOSE: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) have increasing application in endometrial cancer, underscoring the need for robust biomarkers for patient selection. JAK1 pathogenic variants (PV) have previously been implicated in immune evasion. Here, we identify biomarkers predictive of ICI response in endometrial cancer and the implications of JAK1 PV in this context. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: This is a translational study of tumors from 84 endometrial cancer patients treated with ICI. High-throughput proteomic-based profiling was used to quantify 193 phospho-/protein expression levels, including key JAK/STAT signaling pathway components. Associations with clinical outcomes were assessed using multivariate regression analysis. The functional consequences of JAK1 PV were explored through in vitro signaling assays and analyses of TCGA database. RESULTS: MHC-I expression correlated with improved progression-free survival (p = 0.035), validated in orthogonal approaches. Notably, a subset of patients harboring JAK1 PVs demonstrated exceptional survival on ICI. In TCGA cohort of microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) and DNA polymerase epsilon (POLE)-mutated tumors, homozygous loss of JAK1 (JAK1Hom) trended toward decreased survival, whereas heterozygous loss of JAK1 (JAK1Het) was associated with significantly improved survival (p = 0.026), suggesting partial retention of antigen presentation pathways. Among our ICI-treated MSI-H tumor samples, NK cell marker NCAM1 was associated with improved survival (p=0.02). CONCLUSIONS: These data support MHC-I as a potential predictive biomarker for ICI response in endometrial cancer. Additionally, we show that partial retention of JAK1 signaling in JAK1Het tumors is associated with improved survival, potentially attributable to enhanced NK cell activity in tumors with low MHC-I expression.
40048557 | Reduced function of the adaptor SH2B3 promotes T1D via altered cytokine-regulated, T cell intrinsic immune tolerance. Genome-wide association studies have identified SH2B3 as an important non-MHC gene for islet autoimmunity and type 1 diabetes (T1D). In this study, we found a single SH2B3 haplotype significantly associated with increased risk for human T1D. Fine mapping has demonstrated the most credible causative variant is the single nucleotide rs3184504*T polymorphism in SH2B3. To better characterize the role of SH2B3 in T1D, we used mouse modeling and found a T cellintrinsic role for SH2B3 regulating peripheral tolerance. SH2B3 deficiency had minimal effect on TCR signaling or proliferation across antigen doses, yet enhanced cell survival and cytokine signaling including common gamma chain-dependent and interferon-gamma receptor signaling. SH2B3 deficient naive CD8+ T cells showed augmented STAT5-MYC and effector-related gene expression partially reversed with blocking autocrine IL-2 in culture. Using the RIP-mOVA model, we found CD8+ T cells lacking SH2B3 promoted early islet destruction and diabetes without requiring CD4+ T cell help. SH2B3-deficient cells demonstrated increased survival and reduced activation-induced cell death. Lastly, we created a spontaneous NOD.Sh2b3-/- mouse model and found markedly increased incidence and accelerated T1D across sexes. Collectively, these studies identify SH2B3 as a critical mediator of peripheral T cell tolerance limiting the T cell response to self-antigens.
40152300 | Comprehensive Pan-cancer Analysis Revealed CASP10 As a Promising Biomarker For Diverse Tumor Types. We aimed to explore the comprehensive cancer landscape of Caspase-10 (CASP10). CASP10, a member of the caspase family, is located at the human chromosome locus 2q33-34. Studies have suggested its potential role in the development of certain cancers. To evaluate CASP10 expression in normal and pan-cancer tissues, we integrated data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), GEO, Human Protein Atlas (HPA), and UALCAN databases. The diagnostic and prognostic significance of CASP10 was analyzed using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC), Cox regression, and Kaplan-Meier analysis. Correlations of CASP10 with clinical parameters were assessed via the Wilcoxon test, Kruskal-Wallis test, and logistic regression analysis. Genomic variations were explored with cBioPortal, GSCALite database, and UALCAN databases. LinkedOmics database was used to detect the function of CASP10 in pan-cancer. Interactions between CASP10 and the Tumor Immune Microenvironment (TIME) were investigated using TISIDB, TIMER2, and TISCH databases. The GSCALite database was utilized to assess the sensitivity of CASP10 to small-molecule drugs. In addition, Western Blotting (WB) was employed to detect the expression of the CASP10 in our clinical Liver Hepatocellular Carcinoma (LIHC) and Stomach Adenocarcinoma (STAD) cohorts. The transcription and protein expression of CASP10 significantly differ across cancer types, marking it as a biomarker for diagnosis and prognosis. Its expression correlated with certain clinical characteristics such as histological types and Alpha-Fetoprotein (AFP) levels. CASP10 gene exhibited a 2% alteration frequency across pan-cancer patients, with significant SNV and CNV profiles, and decreased methylation levels. CASP10 was closely related to the Nuclear Factor-kappaappa B (NF-kappaB), TNF, cell cycle, and JAK-STAT signal pathways. CASP10 showed correlation with immune components in the tumor microenvironment, including lymphocytes, immune stimulators, immune inhibitors, MHC molecules, chemokines, receptors, and Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts (CAFs). Importantly, CASP10 could predict the sensitivity of diverse anti-cancer drugs. Finally, WB analysis validated the overexpression of CASP10 in LIHC and STAD tissues. Our comprehensive bioinformatic analysis reveal the function of CASP10 on the diagnosis, prognosis, and progression of diverse cancer types.
41921137 | Spatial and functional polarization of cancer-associated fibroblasts with CXCR4-mediated immune modulation in hepatocellular carcinoma. BACKGROUND: Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) represent a predominant cell population in the tumor microenvironment (TME) of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). How the spatial distribution of CAF subtypes relates to immune modulation within the TME remains incompletely understood. This study aimed to characterize the spatial organization of CAF subtypes in HCC and to explore their potential associations with immune contexture. METHODS: Spatial transcriptomic analysis was performed on 6 HCC cases to identify CAF-enriched clusters and their spatial localization. Immunohistochemical analyses were conducted on 132 HCC sections to examine the relationship between CAF-related features, immune cell distribution, and clinical outcomes. RESULTS: Spatial transcriptomic analysis identified distinct CAF sub-clusters, including myofibroblastic CAFs (myCAFs), which were predominantly localized within tumor regions and enriched for extracellular matrix-related gene expression; inflammatory CAFs (iCAFs), which were preferentially localized within tumor septa and associated with inflammatory signaling; and antigen-presenting CAFs (apCAFs), which were enriched in the peritumoral zone and exhibited gene expression patterns suggestive of immune-related functions. Interactome analysis suggested that apCAFs in the peritumoral region showed transcriptional patterns consistent with CXCL12-CXCR4-related interactions with CD8+ T cells accumulating at the tumor periphery. The enrichment of apCAFs on the outer side of tumor septa was associated with reduced intra-tumoral CD8+ T-cell infiltration and poorer prognosis, suggesting a link between apCAF distribution and an immune-excluded TME. CONCLUSIONS: Spatial transcriptomic profiling suggests that CAFs exhibit functional and spatial polarization in the TME of HCC. ApCAFs are associated with CXCR4-related immune exclusion at the tumor-stroma interface and may represent a stromal component relevant to immune modulation. These findings provide a framework for CAF-immune interactions and serve as a basis for future functional studies targeting the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis.
42065097 | High-dimensional multiomics reveals perturbations to IL-6/IL-6R axis and RUNX3 in CD4+ T cells during third-trimester pregnancy. Objectives: CD4+ T cells play key roles in regulating immune responses during pregnancy; therefore, we aimed to understand the CD4+ T-cell surface proteome and transcriptome during pregnancy. Methods: CD4+ T cells were analysed in blood and decidua from term pregnancies (> 37 weeks) and non-pregnant blood. > 350 surface proteins were screened via flow cytometry, and transcriptomes were analysed using single-cell RNA sequencing with > 130 CITE-seq barcoded antibodies. Results: Surface protein screening identified changes to ILT4/CD85d, CD9, IFN-gamma receptor beta-chain, CX3CR1 and CCR5 in the pregnant blood and decidual CD4+ T cells. CX3CR1 and CCR5 had the highest expression on the effector-memory T-cell (TEM) subset in the blood, with expression consistent across subsets in decidua. CD126/IL-6R was lower in pregnant blood and decidual CD4+ T cells, while scRNAseq identified enrichment in the IL-6R signalling pathway in naive CD4+ T cells in pregnant blood. Both sIL-6R and IL-6 concentrations were increased in plasma during pregnancy, suggesting perturbations to the IL-6/IL-6R signalling axis. Meanwhile, decidual CD4+ T cells had increased expression of transcription factor RUNX3 in the CD69+ tissue-resident-like subset. Conclusions: Our findings demonstrate altered molecular expression in CD4+ T cells during pregnancy. This provides important mechanistic insight of their adaptation and regulation during placental development, which may drive placental dysfunction or pregnancy complications, including preeclampsia, fetal growth restriction and stillbirth. These new data may inform future studies that focus on determining the significance of differentially expressed immune features in pregnancy to identify potential targets for immune modulation to treat pregnancy complications and infections.
41467891 | Frequency of CCR5-Delta32, CCR2-64I, and SDF1-3'A Mutations in People with HIV Diagnoses and HIV Negative Participant in Khuzestan Province, Iran. Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) binds to CD4 receptors. Chemokine receptors such as C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5), C-C chemokine receptor type 2 (CCR2), and stromal-derived factor (SDF1) are involved in HIV cell entry, and mutations in the genes encoding these chemokine receptors and their ligands may play a role against HIV and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) progression. This study aims to investigate the frequency of the above polymorphisms within the Iranian population, evaluating their contribution to a protective genetic background against HIV acquisition and progression. Two hundred eighty-five healthy individuals and 100 people with HIV were selected. CCR5 genotyping was performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). CCR2 and SDF-1 polymorphism were analyzed by tetra-primer amplification refractory mutation system-polymerase chain (Tetra-ARMS-PCR). No CCR5-Delta32 mutants were found in either group. The screening for the CCR2 polymorphism yielded 44 (44%) and 127 (44.6%) heterozygous genotypes in the people with HIV and healthy individuals. Homozygous mutants were seen in 1 (1%) and 28 (9.8%) of the people living with HIV and healthy individuals, respectively, revealing a CCR2-64I allele frequency of 29.7%. CCR2-64I is associated with HIV resistance and reduced AIDS progression (p-value = .018). Among our 385 analyzed samples, 2 (2%) and 12 (4.2%) were found to be SDF1 heterozygous in persons with HIV and healthy individuals, respectively. Three (3%) of the people with HIV and 25 (8.8%) of the healthy individuals carried homozygous mutant variants. The allele frequency of the above polymorphism reached 9.1%, but no statistically significant association was observed, albeit it is borderline (p-value = .062). There are different distributions between people with HIV and healthy individuals, suggesting that CCR2-64I and SDF1-3'A may have a protective effect on HIV and that CCR2-64I (genotype I/I) has an effect on protecting against HIV and delaying progression from HIV status to AIDS. It could be used for prognostic genotyping in people with HIV.
41786518 | [Crosstalk of KRT17+ epithelial cells with CD8+ T cells in oral lichen planus and clinical relevance]. Objective: To investigate the interaction between keratin 17-positive (KRT17+) epithelial cells and CD8+ T cells in oral lichen planus (OLP), and to evaluate the correlation between KRT17 expression in OLP epithelial cells and clinical severity, thereby providing a theoretical basis for understanding the pathogenesis of OLP. Methods: Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data were obtained from 2 cases of non-erosive OLP (NEOLP), 2 cases of erosive OLP (EOLP), and 1 healthy control (HC) mucosal tissue samples collected from the Affiliated Stomatological Hospital of Nanjing Medical University from September to December 2022. Differentially expressed genes in OLP epithelial cells were screened, and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis was performed to characterize gene expression in KRT17+ epithelial cells. Cell-cell interactions were analyzed using CellChat. Bulk RNA sequencing (bulk RNA-seq) data from 27 NEOLP and 13 EOLP tissue samples were retrieved from the GSE213346 dataset. Immune cell infiltration was analyzed via the CIBERSORT deconvolution algorithm, and Pearson correlation analysis was used to explore the correlation between KRT17 expression and immune cell infiltration. Additionally, 20 NEOLP, 20 EOLP, and 5 HC mucosal tissue samples were collected from the Affiliated Stomatological Hospital of Nanjing Medical University between September 2022 and December 2023. Multiplex immunofluorescence staining was performed to validate KRT17 expression in OLP epithelial cells, whose correlation with OLP clinical severity scores was also analyzed. Results: KRT17 was significantly upregulated in epithelial cells of both NEOLP and EOLP groups (both P<0.01) and ranked among the top 20 differentially upregulated genes. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that genes in KRT17+ epithelial cells were mainly involved in immune response, metabolic processes, and genetic information processing. The core ligand-receptor interaction pathways between KRT17+ epithelial cells and CD8+ T cells include human leukocyte antigen-A/B/C(HLA-A/B/C)-CD8 and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF)-CD74/C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4). KRT17 expression was positively correlated with CD8+ T cell infiltration (r=0.410, P=0.011). Protein expression levels of KRT17 in epithelial cells of NEOLP [41.5 (20.5, 50.5)] and EOLP [52.0 (33.5, 58.0)] groups were significantly higher than that in the HC [6.0 (6.0, 7.0)] group (both P<0.05). Moreover, KRT17 expression was positively correlated with both the REU score (r=0.397, P=0.011) and RHU score (r=0.369, P=0.019). Conclusions: KRT17 is a key differentially upregulated gene in OLP epithelial cells, and its expression is positively correlated with the clinical severity of OLP. KRT17+ epithelial cells may interact with CD8+ T cells through signaling pathways such as HLA-A/B/C-CD8, participating in the immune-inflammatory response of OLP.
40886737 | Osteoblasts in bone metastasis: Key players in the tumor microenvironment and therapeutic targets. Osteoblasts, recognized for their role in bone formation and mineral metabolism, are emerging as pivotal, although underexplored, regulators within the bone tumor microenvironment (TME). Despite increasing evidence of their involvement, their precise contributions to metastatic progression remain underappreciated. Recent studies reveal that osteoblasts orchestrate metastasis through dynamic, stage-specific interactions. In early colonization, they may attract tumor cells via CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling and remodel the metastatic niche. During dormancy, osteoblast-derived factors such as LIF, TGFbeta2, and BMP7, along with adhesion molecules such as N-cadherin, promote therapy resistance. Subsequently, osteoblasts can drive metastatic outgrowth through metabolic coupling (e.g., Ca2+ transfer) and mTOR pathway activation. Beyond these direct effects on tumor cells, osteoblasts modulate the TME by interacting with osteoclasts and immune cells, suppressing CD8+ T/NK cell activity while skewing macrophage polarization to promote immune evasion. Tumor-derived signals including PTHrP, BMPs, and ET-1, further reprogram osteoblasts into a tumor-supportive phenotype. Therapeutic approaches, such as RANKL inhibition, CXCL12 pathway blockade, TGF-beta superfamily antagonism, and osteoblast-targeted immunotherapies, offer promising directions for clinical intervention. Recognizing osteoblasts as central players in bone metastasis may provide new frontiers in bone-targeted cancer therapy.
40517268 | Enhanced cytotoxicity of aging associated NKG2C + CD8 + T cells in ankylosing spondylitis via HLA-B27. BACKGROUND: This study aims to explore the common mechanisms between aging and the pathogenesis of ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and to identify potential therapeutic targets. METHODS: A total of 87 patients with AS and matched controls were analyzed via multidimensional flow cytometry to examine the peripheral blood immune signature. Single-cell RNA sequencing was employed to characterize T-cell subsets. The infiltration of Ly49h + cells (the murine homolog of NKG2C) was observed in a collagen-induced arthritis mouse model, and functional experiments were conducted to validate the cytotoxicity of NKG2C + CD8 + T cells. The mechanisms were further confirmed via the use of HLA-B27 transgenic mice and RNA-sequencing. RESULTS: The peripheral blood immune signature of AS patients exhibited dysregulation similar to that observed during aging. NKG2C + CD8 + T cells activated the PI3K Akt signaling pathway and increased phagocytosis in AS patients. HLA-B27 stimulation significantly increased the cytotoxicity of this subset, an effect that could be reversed by NKG2C blockade. In HLA-B27 transgenic mice, Ly49h + T cells exhibited significantly enhanced degranulation ability. RNA sequencing validated the activation of the PI3K Akt pathway in NKG2C + CD8 + T cells by HLA-B27. CONCLUSIONS: HLA-B27 drives the cytotoxicity of aging-related NKG2C + CD8 + T cells via activation of the PI3K Akt signaling pathway. Targeting NKG2C inhibition may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for AS. This study elucidates the association between immune aging and the pathogenesis of AS, providing theoretical evidence for clinical intervention.
40405507 | ESMpHLA: Evolutionary Scale Model-Based Deep Learning Prediction of HLA Class I Binding Peptides. The recognition of endogenous peptides by HLA class I plays a crucial role in CD8+ T cell immune responses and human adaptive cell immune. Thus, the prediction of HLA class I-peptide binding affinities is always the core issue for the research of immune recognition and vaccine development. In this study, an evolutionary scale model (ESM) combined with parallel CNN blocks and a cross attention mechanism was used to construct a novel ESMpHLA model for predicting HLA class I binding peptides. Based on the 91,560 binding peptides of 41 HLA-A alleles, 56,731 of 50 HLA-B alleles and 2444 of 10 HLA-C alleles, the ESMpHLA model was successfully established and achieved satisfying prediction performances with the overall accuracy and AUC values of 0.874 and 0.938 for the test dataset. The results indicate that the ESMpHLA model performs well in dealing with different HLA class I 2-field alleles as well as the peptides with different lengths. Then, the generalisation ability of the ESMpHLA model was validated by an independent test dataset compiled from recent IEDB weekly benchmark datasets. The results showed that the ESMpHLA model achieved the highest ROC-AUC and PR-AUC values when compared with the latest BVMHC, CapsNet-MHC, STMHCpan and BVLSTM models. In addition, two ensemble models were also established by integrating the above 5 deep learning models using soft-voting and hard-voting strategies.
41667243 | Trogocytosis-orchestrated CLDN18.2-\dressed\ CD8+ T cells drive pancreatic cancer progression via glucose metabolic reprogramming-induced cytotoxicity debilitation and systematic immune senescence cascade. BACKGROUND: As it is a tumour-associated antigen in epithelial cells, research on claudin18.2 (CLDN18.2) has focused on its role as a therapeutic target in pancreatic cancers and its part in maintaining tight junctions. OBJECTIVE: We elucidate the role of trogocytosis-related CLDN18.2 in CD8+ T cells and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) progression. DESIGN: We constructed humanised hCD34+, Trp53R172HKrasG12DPdx1-cre (KPC), Cldn18.2 knockout (KO), and patient-derived xenograft/organoid mouse models. Flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, single-cell RNA-sequencing and immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) were performed. RESULTS: CLDN18.2+CD8+ T cells indicated poor pancreatic cancer prognosis and immunotherapeutic resistance. CD8+ T cells acquired CLDN18.2 from tumour cells via trogocytosis, inhibiting their activation and cytotoxicity. \Dressed\ CLDN18.2 suppressed glucose uptake, glycolysis and cytotoxicity of tumour-infiltrating CD8+ T cells. Mechanically, trogocytosis-related CLDN18.2 induced GSK3beta/CK1alpha-mediated beta-catenin phosphorylation, promoting beta-catenin ubiquitination and proteasome degradation in CD8+ T cells. CLDN18.2 interacted with beta-catenin's N-terminal domain via its C-terminal domain, further strengthening the interaction between beta-catenin and CK1alpha. Moreover, CLDN18.2+CD8+ T cells preferentially 'homed' to the bone marrow through the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis, skewed haematopoietic stem cell myeloid differentiation and induced systemic immune senescence via IL1alpha. Notably, preclinical mouse studies showed PC18.1 peptide sensitised immunotherapy and suppressed PDAC progression by disrupting the CLDN18.2/beta-catenin interaction in CD8+ T cells. CONCLUSIONS: Trogocytosis-related CLDN18.2 inhibited the glucose uptake, glycolysis and cytotoxicity of tumour-infiltrating CD8+ T cells by promoting the ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of beta-catenin in PDAC. Therefore, targeting trogocytosis-related CLDN18.2+CD8+ T cells may be a promising therapeutic strategy to inhibit PDAC progression.
40938333 | What can Animal Models tell us About T Cells in Spondyloarthritis Pathogenesis? PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Spondyloarthritis animal models such as the HLA-B27 transgenic rat, SKG mouse and cytokine overexpression models have proven useful for testing hypotheses regarding pathogenesis. Recent developments in the field from human studies have shifted attention to HLA-B2705 restricted CD8+ T cell clonotype expansion and the \arthritogenic peptide\ theory. Since human and rodent MHC and T cell compartments differ, translatability comes into question. In this review, we will discuss the advantages and caveats of several spondyloarthritis rodent models. We will review classic studies and more recent reports providing insight into pathologic T cells outside the canonical paradigm of MHC Class I-CD8+ T cell interaction. RECENT FINDINGS: Animal models have revealed requisite \ingredients' for a spondyloarthritis phenotype, including inflammatory mediators and lymphoid cell types. Most of these models highlight the role of Th17 cells and other IL-17 producing cells. Indeed, the IL-23 minicircle model directly led to the identification of IL-17 producing gammadelta T cells in typical spondyloarthritis anatomic locations. In addition to identifying lymphocyte players, animal models have elucidated T cell regulation, including innate immune (e.g. neutrophil) T cell crosstalk and gut-joint trafficking. Current studies are also beginning to clarify roles for innate lymphocytic cells such as MAIT and iNKT cells. Animal model studies have provided vital insight into T cell pathogenic mechanisms outside canonical MHC Class I-CD8 interaction. Many of these findings have been replicated in human subjects. Furthermore, work from animal models directly supported the development of IL17 and IL23 targeting therapeutics, attesting to their relevance. MAIN TEXT: (~ 4246 words), 1 Figure and 1 Table.
41295582 | Impact of Wuchereria bancrofti Infection on Cervical Mucosal Immunity and Human Papillomavirus Prevalence in Women from Lindi and Mbeya Regions, Tanzania. We previously described an increased incidence of HIV among individuals infected with Wuchereria bancrofti (WB). However, no host, parasite, or viral factors were reported as directly associated with the increase in HIV incidence in this group. To investigate this, we compared T cell phenotypes between WB+ and WB- women. Flow cytometry analysis of activation and differentiation markers on CD4 T cells, as well as HIV entry receptor CCR5 was performed on cervical and peripheral blood samples from 54 women living without HIV (WLWoH). Additionally, HPV testing was performed on their specimens and for 13 WLWH. WB infection was associated with a significantly increased frequency of CD3+gammadelta2+ T cells in the cervical mucosa (median 4.0% vs. 1.4%, p = 0.012). Contrary to our expectations, we found lower frequencies of CCR5 on total, memory and activated memory CD4 T cells in the WB+ group. However, differences diminished after accounting for age and site of recruitment. WB and HIV infections were associated with an increased likelihood of high-risk human papillomavirus (HR HPV) positivity. (WB status: odds ratio (OR) 4.1, p = 0.066; HIV status: OR 5.5, p = 0.068). Our findings suggest immunological mechanisms by which WB increases the risk for other infections, e.g., HIV and HR HPV, albeit independent of the CCR5 receptor.
41416656 | Type I and II Interferons Drive Abacavir Hypersensitivity via Treg Suppression and T-Cell Enhancement in Immunocompetent HLA-Transgenic Mice. BACKGROUND: Abacavir (ABC)-induced hypersensitivity is associated with HLA-B*57:01, with tolerance maintained by regulatory T cells (Treg). This study hypothesized that the balance between Treg and CD8+ T-cells is influenced by the level of human leucocyte antigen (HLA) expression to determine hypersensitivity versus tolerance to abacavir. METHODS: HLA-B*57:01 transgenic (Tg) mice and Tg mice lacking H2-KbDb (Tg/KO) were treated with ABC with or without IFN-alpha or IFN-gamma blockade. Immune cell phenotype and functions were assessed via flow cytometry, and splenic transcriptomic profiles were analyzed to evaluate gene expression changes associated with treatment. RESULTS: ABC treatment of Tg/KO mice, which only express HLA-B*57:01 as an MHC-I allele, led to the expansion of drug-specific CD8+ T-cells, enhanced antigen presenting cell (APC) activity, and reduction in Tregs. These changes were accompanied by increased IFN-alpha levels and plasmacytoid dendritic cell (pDC) maturation. Depletion of pDCs or blocking of IFN-alphaR, in contrast to IFN-gamma blockade, restored Treg populations and diminished CD8+ T-cell responses. These findings demonstrate that IFN-alpha, primarily produced by pDCs, disrupts Treg expansion, whereas IFN-gamma predominantly enhances APC maturation and activation. Transcriptomic analysis revealed key genes regulated exclusively by ABC treatment in the presence of both IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma signaling and demonstrated that IFN-alpha signaling predominantly modulates innate and adaptive immune genes while supporting the downregulation of Treg-related genes. CONCLUSIONS: In vivo upregulation of HLA expression modulates the balance between drug-specific and regulatory T cells, thereby promoting optimal pDC expansion and enhancing IFN-alpha production, which counteracts Treg-mediated ABC tolerance. IFN-gamma secretion by drug-specific CD8+ T-cells promoted APC and effector T-cell function that led to the development of ABC-associated hypersensitivity reactions in immunocompetent HLA Tg mice.
40577315 | Machine learning application to predict binding affinity between peptide containing non-canonical amino acids and HLA-A0201. Class Iota major histocompatibility complexes (MHC-Iota), encoded by the highly polymorphic HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C genes in humans, are expressed on all nucleated cells. Both self and foreign proteins are processed to peptides of 8-10 amino acids, loaded into MHC-Iota, within the endoplasmic reticulum and then presented on the cell surface. Foreign peptides presented in this fashion activate CD8 + T cells and their immunogenicity correlates with their affinity for the MHC-Iota binding groove. Thus, predicting antigen binding affinity for MHC-Iota is a valuable tool for identifying potentially immunogenic antigens. While quite a few predictors for MHC-Iota binding exist, there are no currently available tools that can predict antigen/MHC-Iota binding affinity for antigens with explicitly labeled post-translational modifications or unusual/non-canonical amino acids (NCAAs). However, such modifications are increasingly recognized as critical mediators of peptide immunogenicity. In this work, we propose a machine learning application that quantifies the binding affinity of epitopes containing NCAAs to MHC-Iota and compares its performance with other commonly used regressors. Our model demonstrates robust performance, with 5-fold cross-validation yielding an R2 value of 0.477 and a root-mean-square error (RMSE) of 0.735, indicating strong predictive capability for peptides with NCAAs. This work provides a valuable tool for the computational design and optimization of peptides incorporating NCAAs, potentially accelerating the development of novel peptide-based therapeutics with enhanced properties and efficacy.
40449595 | The AhR regulates IFN-induced immune checkpoints in lung cancer cells through HNRNPH1, an RNA-binding protein, and INCR1, a novel long non-coding RNA. Although immune checkpoint inhibitors show great promise, not all patients respond, and many do not achieve durable responses. Consequently, further investigations into potentially targetable molecules that regulate immune checkpoints are warranted. Previous studies in several cancers demonstrated that interferons produced by tumor-infiltrating leukocytes regulate immunosuppressive PD-L1, PD-L2, and IDO1 through JAK/STAT signaling. Here, we investigated a novel role for an immunosuppressive environmental chemical receptor, previously implicated in smoking-related cancers, in IFN signaling in human lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) cells. Deletion of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) from A549 LUAD cells significantly decreased baseline JAK2, STAT1, STAT3, IRF1 (a JAK/STAT target), PD-L1, PD-L2, and IDO1 expression. IFNg and IFNa increased the expression of JAK/STAT and immune checkpoint genes and proteins, but these increases were significantly diminished or absent in AhR-knockout cells. The AhR similarly controls IFN-induced, JAK/STAT-driven increases in multiple MHC class I- and class II-related genes. AhR control of type I and type II interferon signaling is mediated through up-regulation of an lncRNA, the IFN-stimulated non-coding RNA 1 (INCR1), and through repression of an RNA-binding protein, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein H1 (HNRNPH1), which sequesters JAK/STAT-related and immune checkpoint gene transcripts. The data suggest that the AhR is a key mediator of tumor immunosuppression through regulation of IFN-induced INCR1 and JAK/STAT signaling and, thereby, expression of immune checkpoints. However, that immunosuppression may be tempered by AhR control of MHC expression. Given the multiple roles of JAK/STAT signaling in the immune system, the results also suggest multiple levels at which the AhR may affect tumor immunity.
41115748 | PDE5A+ cancer-associated fibroblasts enhance immune suppression in gastric cancer. BACKGROUND: Gastric cancer (GC) ranks among the most prevalent lethal tumours globally. Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are pivotal in creating an immunosuppressive tumour microenvironment (TME) in GC. OBJECTIVE: Identifying a critical subpopulation of CAFs in promoting an immunosuppressive TME and enabling immune evasion, which may influence therapeutic effectiveness of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) for GC. DESIGN: We performed single-cell RNA sequencing on 24 patients with GC and spatial transcriptomic profiling on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections from patients and controls. Integrating these data, we mapped cell types and gene signatures and identified distinct CAF subpopulations in the TME that influenced immunotherapy response in patients with GC. In vitro and in vivo studies further elucidated the molecular mechanisms, enhancing therapeutic implications. RESULTS: In patients with GC, phosphodiesterase type 5A (PDE5A) expression was associated with shorter overall survival and the formation of immunosuppressive TME. We identified PDE5A+ CAFs that were associated with TME alterations, including T cell exclusion and reduced CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte infiltration, potentially impairing the efficacy of immunotherapy in GC. PDE5A+ CAFs were observed to promote the epithelial-mesenchymal transition of GC cells through remodelling extracellular matrix. Furthermore, PDE5A+ CAFs, via triggering of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signalling pathway, released CXCL12, which engaged the CXCR4 receptor, consequently recruiting CD8+ TEX+ LAG3 T cells to facilitate the development of immunosuppressive TME. The combined treatment of LAG3 blockade and PDE5A inhibitor vardenafil effectively enhanced immunotherapy responses, significantly curbing GC progression in mouse models. CONCLUSIONS: Our study elucidates the intricate role of PDE5A+ CAFs in shaping the immunosuppressive TME in GC, providing mechanistic insights and therapeutic potential for combating this aggressive malignancy.
41394806 | No change in key HIV target cell markers following initiation of three progestin-based hormonal contraception methods: findings from the CHIME study. Introduction: Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) injectable, etonogestrel subdermal implant (ENG-implant), and levonorgestrel intrauterine device (LNG-IUD) are effective, widely used female hormonal contraceptives (HC). Observational studies, but not a randomized trial, suggest increased risk of HIV acquisition with HC use, particularly DMPA. Sexual acquisition of HIV occurs via CD4+ T cells expressing C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5), though other immunologic cells play a role. This study examined longitudinal changes in CCR5+ T cells and other immunologic cells in the female genital tract following HC initiation. Methods: HIV negative participants aged 18-45 years, not using HC, were recruited in Atlanta, Georgia. After two pre-HC visits, participants initiated DMPA, ENG-implant, or LNG-IUD and completed visits every three months for one year. Specimens (peripheral blood, endocervical cells, cervical tissue biopsy, and cervicovaginal lavage [CVL]) were analyzed for immune cellular markers (CD45, CD3, CD4, CCR5, CD69, HLA-DR, CD38, alpha4beta7, CD103, Fox-P3, and Ki-67) using flow cytometry. Effects of CVL on HIV infection of cells in vitro was assessed. Vaginal microbiome was characterized via 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Multivariable linear mixed effects models estimated association between HC and immune markers (Primary outcome: proportion of CD4+ T cells expressing CCR5; Secondary outcomes: other immune markers, in vitro HIV enhancement). A Bonferroni correction was applied. Results: Among 118 participants (mean age 25.9; 44.1% self-identified as Black race), 545 visits were completed from 2019-2023. No significant changes were observed in proportion of CCR5+ T cells in any tissue type post-HC. There were statistically significant but moderate absolute decreases in proportion of CD45+ and CD4+ T cells in CVL, and CD4+ T cells in blood, and increased proportion of CD69+ T cells in blood post-HC. Post-HC CVL vs. pre-HC enhanced HIV infection of cells in vitro for all three HC groups (p<0.01) and was modified by the vaginal microbiome. There was also evidence of interaction by time and microbiome parameters for several other immune cells. Discussion: Our findings suggest that commonly used HC methods do not result in immunologic changes that increase HIV acquisition risk. However, HIV infection enhancement with post-HC CVL in vitro warrants further study.
40966855 | The type 1 diabetes candidate genes PTPN2 and BACH2 regulate the IFN-alpha-induced crosstalk between JAK/STAT and MAPKs pathways in human beta cells. BACKGROUND: Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a chronic autoimmune disease that leads to the progressive loss of pancreatic beta cells. Interferons (IFNs) contribute to the initiation and amplification of beta cell autoimmunity. STAT1 is the main mediator of IFN signalling but little is known about its complex activation processes and role in the progression of beta cell failure. METHODS: We investigated the IFN-alpha-stimulated STAT1 pathway from three human beta cell models: EndoC-betaH1 cells, iPSC-derived islet-like cells and human islets by directly targeting two T1D candidate genes, namely PTPN2 and BACH2. FINDINGS: We presently show that PTPN2 and BACH2 modulate STAT1 activation via two different pathways, namely the JAK/STAT, involved in the phosphorylation of its tyrosine residue (Y701), and the MAPKs pathway, involved in the phosphorylation of its serine residue (S727). Each STAT1 phosphorylation type can independently induce expression of CXCL10, but both residues are necessary for the expression of MHC class I molecules. IFN-alpha-induced STAT1 activation is dynamic and residue-dependent, being STAT1-Y701 fast but transitory, while STAT1-S727 increases slowly and is associated with the long-term effects of IFN-alpha exposure. INTERPRETATION: The present findings provide a better understanding of the dynamics of STAT1 activation in human beta cells and will be useful to develop new and targeted (i.e. favouring individuals with particular polymorphisms) therapies for T1D and other autoimmune diseases. FUNDING: EFSD and Sanofi European Diabetes Research Programme on autoimmunity in type 1 diabetes; Breakthrough T1D, HIRN-CBDS, NIDDK, Fondation Saint-Luc, Programme d'Investissement d'Avenir' to European Genomic Institute for Diabetes, and Fondation de la Recherche Medicale.
40044623 | Pathophysiology of Alopecia Areata in the Pediatric Patient. Alopecia areata (AA) is an autoimmune non-scarring hair loss that arises in genetically susceptible individuals, potentially in combination with environmental triggers or inciting events, of which the exact mechanism is not yet fully understood. Genome wide association studies have demonstrated an association between AA and variants in HLA haplotypes on chromosome 6 which correlate with other autoimmune conditions as well as other gene variants. Familial and twin studies also confer additional evidence to a genetic component. AA pathogenesis relies on immune privilege collapse at the hair follicle (HF) bulb in the anagen hair cycle phase. Immune privilege collapse is associated with upregulation of IFN-gamma, ultimately activating JAK-STAT pathway resulting in upregulation of MHC class I and II in the HF and subjecting it to attack by NKG2D+ CD8 T cells. The complex interplay between pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IFN-gamma, IL-2, IL-15 and their use of JAK-STAT signaling are important in perpetuation of AA.
40296760 | Interferon-gamma causes myogenic cell dysfunction and senescence in immune myopathies. Idiopathic immune myopathies (IIM) represent a heterogeneous group of diseases, in which muscle lesions result from deregulated immune reactions. Typical histological features include myofibre necrosis, leukocyte infiltration, and aberrant myofibre Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) expression. To investigate the link between MHC expression, inflammation, and muscle lesions, muscle biopsies from IIM patients were analysed by transcriptomics. Both, anti-synthetase syndrome (ASS) and inclusion body myositis (IBM) displayed the upregulation of IFNgamma and senescence signalling pathways. Notably, IFNgamma expression significantly correlated with myofibre atrophy in ASS and IBM muscle biopsies. In addition to MHC-II expression at the myofibre sarcolemma in IBM, we observed a marked overexpression in the muscle stem cells (MuSC) population, suggesting that resident satellite cells respond to IFNgamma in this condition. To examine the link between IFNgamma and muscle atrophy via MuSCs, we implanted an osmotic pump chronically releasing recombinant mouse IFNgamma in wild-type mice subjected to acute muscle injury. Under IFNgamma exposure, post-injury muscle repair was associated with significantly reduced muscle weight and myofibre diameter, while promoting interstitial fibrosis and fat deposition. The mechanism of action of the IFNgamma-induced myofibre atrophy was further investigated in vitro using cultured human MuSCs. IFNgamma stimulation dramatically impaired MuSCs proliferation, fusion, and promoted cell senescence. Isolated myofibres from IFNgamma-treated wild-type mice displayed a significant decrease of MyoD expression and cell cycling, suggesting that IFNgamma also prevents MuSC activation. In vitro, ruxolitinib, a commercially available JAK1/2 antagonist, blocked IFNgamma-induced expression of MHC-II, restored normal MuSC proliferation, and reduced beta-Galactosidase activity, a marker of cell senescence. In vivo, oral delivery of ruxolitinib improved myofibre size and biomarkers of muscle atrophy. Our study provides multiple lines of evidence that IFNgamma may mediate muscle atrophy in IBM patients. The identified mechanism of action involves JAK1/2 pathways, which impair MuSC function by preventing post-lesion myogenesis and promoting cell senescence. Our data suggest that repurposing JAK1/2 inhibitors may offer a new therapeutic option for treating IBM, a condition known for its resistance to classical immunosuppressant drugs, despite their effectiveness in other IIM.
41033393 | Transcriptomic analysis of the comprehensive immune responses induced by recombinant interferon gamma and characterization of antiviral Mx2 protein in black rockfish Sebastes schlegelii. Interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) is a key immune regulator in teleost fish, yet its mechanisms of action remain poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the immunomodulatory role of recombinant Sebastes schlegelii IFNgamma (rSsIFNgamma) in intestinal cells (SSICs) and characterized the antiviral effector myxovirus resistance protein 2 (SsMx2). Transcriptome sequencing revealed 7231 differentially expressed genes, with principal component analysis (PCA) showing clear separation between experimental and control groups. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis indicated significant enrichment of immune-related pathways, particularly antigen processing and presentation, Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) signaling. rSsIFNgamma treatment upregulated major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules, key cytokines, and multiple antimicrobial effectors. We cloned the full-length ssmx2 cDNA, which encodes a 644-amino acid protein containing conserved GTPase and effector domains. Phylogenetic analysis confirmed high sequence conservation with other teleost Mx proteins. ssmx2 showed tissue-specific expression, was strongly induced by pathogen challenge and rSsIFNgamma stimulation, and localized mainly to the cytoplasm. Collectively, these results demonstrate that rSsIFNgamma reprograms intestinal immune responses through activation of multiple signaling pathways and identify SsMx2 as an important interferon-inducible antiviral effector in rockfish.
41001778 | Autologous Organoid-T Cell Co-Culture Platform for Modeling of Immune-Mediated Drug-Induced Liver Injury. Modeling adaptive immune responses in induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived liver systems remains a critical barrier for studying immune-mediated hepatic diseases, including idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury (iDILI). Conventional hepatotoxicity models lack the components required to capture patient-specific, T cell-mediated injury. Here, a scalable and matrix-free human liver organoid (HLO) microarray platform is presented that enables controlled co-culture of Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-genotyped, iPSC-derived HLOs with autologous CD8+ T cells. This immune-competent system supports antigen-specific T cell activation and reproduces cytotoxic effector responses in a genetically defined context. As a proof-of-concept, the platform models clinically relevant iDILI caused by flucloxacillin in HLA-B*57:01 carriers, recapitulating CD8+ T cell proliferation, hepatocyte apoptosis, and variability in immune responses across donors. The system captures hallmark features of adaptive immune-mediated hepatotoxicity, including secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and Granzyme B, and cytokeratin-18 release from injured hepatocytes. By linking genetic susceptibility with functional immune outcomes, this platform provides a modular and scalable approach for evaluating immune-mediated toxicities. The method offers broad utility for mechanistic studies of drug hypersensitivity, immune-related adverse events, and preclinical safety assessment in support of precision medicine.
41837138 | Maraviroc attenuates orbital remodeling, inflammation, and lipid dysregulation in a murine model of thyroid eye disease associated with Graves' disease. Background: Graves' disease (GD) is an autoimmune condition that can extend beyond the thyroid, leading to thyroid eye disease (TED), a disorder marked by orbital inflammation and tissue remodeling. Methods: We explored the therapeutic potential of maraviroc, a CCR5 antagonist, in a mouse model of TED triggered by immunization with the human TSH receptor (hTSHR) A-subunit. Mice received pTriEx1.1neo-hTSHR A-subunit plasmid immunizations, and a subset were treated with maraviroc via drinking water. We assessed thyroid function, orbital tissue changes, immune cell infiltration, and lipid metabolism through serological testing, histology, immunohistochemistry, and untargeted lipidomics. Results: Maraviroc did not significantly affect anti-TSHR antibody production nor the degree of hyperthyroidism, though it modestly improved thyroid histopathology. Notably, it reduced key signs of orbital disease, including brown adipose tissue expansion, CCL5-positive immune cell infiltration, CD4+ T-cell infiltration and the presence of F4/80+ macrophages. Lipidomic profiling revealed distinct metabolic changes in treated mice, with reduced triacylglycerols and elevated carnitines, indicative of enhanced fatty acid utilization. Composite Z-score analysis reinforced maraviroc's beneficial effects on orbital inflammation and remodeling. Conclusion: Maraviroc shows promise as a targeted therapy for TED in the context of GD, offering anti-inflammatory and anti-adipogenic benefits while sparing thyroid autoimmunity. These preclinical findings support further clinical investigation into its role in managing TED.
41343465 | Decoding the distinct immune landscape and possible regulatory mechanisms of autoimmune hepatitis through integrated single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing. OBJECTIVES: Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) is a complex immune-mediated liver disorder characterized by dysregulated immune responses. This study aimed to decode the distinct immune landscape and regulatory mechanisms of AIH using integrated single-cell and bulk RNA sequencing. METHODS: The data of single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq were downloaded from GEO database. The cell clustering, differential gene expression, trajectory analysis, functional enrichment, and cell-cell communication were performed were analyzed using R software. RESULTS: Five major immune cell types were identified, with CD8 + T cells and NK cells significantly expanded in AIH. Functional enrichment showed upregulation of immune activation, inflammation, and metabolic pathways in these cells. The cell-cell communication analysis revealed robust interactions between CD8 + T and NK cells, primarily driven by the CCL5-CCR signaling axis. Integrative analysis of scRNA-seq and bulk RNA-seq identified four common DEIRGs (ITK, IL7R, CXCR4 and SORT1) and one transcription factor PRDM1. CONCLUSION: This study identified dysregulated immune cell clusters, signaling pathways, and potential therapeutic targets in AIH.
39366623 | Androgen receptor regulates the differentiation of myoblasts under cyclic mechanical stretch and its upstream and downstream signals. Our previous studies have demonstrated the important roles of androgen receptor (AR) in myoblast proliferation regulated by 15 % (mimic appropriate exercise) and 20 % (mimic excessive exercise) mechanical stretches. Except for myoblast proliferation, differentiation is also an important factor affecting muscle mass and strength. But the role of AR in stretch-regulated myoblast differentiation and AR's upstream and downstream signals remain unknown. In the present study, firstly the differences of myogenic differentiation between C2C12 (with AR expression) and L6 (without AR expression) myoblasts induced by 15 % and 20 % mechanical stretches were compared; secondly, AR antagonist flutamide and AR agonist GTx-007 were used in 15 % and 20 % stretched myoblasts respectively to confirm AR's roles in stretch-regulated myoblast differentiation; thirdly, RNA-seq, molecular dynamic simulation (MD) and co-immunoprecipitation were performed to screen the downstream and upstream molecules of AR during stretches. We found that (1) 15 % stretch increased while 20 % stretch decreased myotube number in differentiating C2C12 and L6 myoblasts, with more significant changes in C2C12 cells than L6 cells; (2) in stretched C2C12 myoblasts, AR antagonist flutamide inhibited 15 % stretch-promoted differentiation while AR agonist GTx-007 reversed 20 % stretch-inhibited differentiation (reflected by changes in myotube number, MHC contents of fast-twitch and slow-twitch fiber, and the levels of myogenic regulatory factors (MRFs) such as MyoD and myogenin); (3) KEGG analysis of RNA-seq showed that the differently expressed genes (DEGs) in C2C12 cells induced by 15 % stretch were enriched in FoxO and JAK-STAT signaling pathways, while DEGs by 20 % stretch were enriched in FoxO and MAPK signaling pathways; (4) MD and co-immunoprecipitation showed that beta1 integrin could interact with AR and influence AR's activity in C2C12 cells. In conclusion, AR plays important roles in myoblast differentiation promoted by 15 % stretch while inhibited by 20 % stretch, which was fulfilled through FoxO-MRFs. In addition, alpha7beta1 integrin may be a bridge linking mechanical stretch and AR. This study is beneficial to deeply understand the roles and mechanisms of AR in stretch-regulated muscle mass and strength; and reports firstly that myoblasts sense mechanical stimulus and transmit into intracellular AR via alpha7beta1 integrin.
41289016 | RhCMV Expands CCR5 Memory T Cells and promotes SIV reservoir seeding in the Gut Mucosa. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a prevalent beta-herpesvirus that persists asymptomatically in immunocompetent hosts. In people with HIV-1 (PWH), CMV is associated with HIV-1 persistence and particular inflammatory-related co-morbidities. The true causative role of CMV in HIV-associated pathologies however remains unclear given that nearly all PWH are coinfected with CMV. In this study, we examined acute phase immune and virological dynamics in cohorts of SIV-infected rhesus macaques (RMs) that were naturally seropositive or -negative for rhesus CMV (RhCMV). We observed prior to SIV, RhCMV expanded a polyclonal population of target CCR5+CD4+ T cells in gut and lymph nodes (LN) that expressed the chemotactic receptor CXCR3 and were largely not specific for RhCMV. Upon SIV infection, RhCMV+ RMs exhibited higher peak viremia and elevated levels of SIV DNA in the upper and lower intestine. Greater seeding of SIV DNA was associated with a maintenance of CCR5-expressing CD4+ T cells that were enriched within the RhCMV+ gut along a CXCR3-CXCL9 chemotactic axis. Overall, the data suggest that RhCMV can promote SIV susceptibility within a diverse, polyclonal pool of CD4 T cells that are not entirely RhCMV-specific.
40574847 | Single cell dissection reveals SFRP2+ fibroblasts amplifying inflammatory responses in oral lichen planus. OBJECTIVES: Oral lichen planus (OLP) is a chronic inflammatory mucosal disease with an incompletely understood pathogenesis. This study aimed to investigate the role of disease-specific fibroblasts in OLP. METHODS: We performed single-cell RNA sequencing on buccal mucosa of 4 OLP patients and one healthy control. Additionally, mRNA expression and immunofluorescence staining were analyzed in primary fibroblasts from 51 OLP patients and 24 healthy individuals. The spatial cellular interactions were assessed using multiplex immunofluorescences in OLP tissues. RESULTS: Using single-cell RNA sequencing, we identified SFRP2+ fibroblasts as the origin of inflammatory fibroblasts in OLP. A subset of SFRP2+ fibroblasts specifically expressed Wnt5a and was implicated in antigen processing and presentation pathway in OLP. Furthermore, SFRP2+Wnt5a+ fibroblasts amplified and maintained the local immune inflammation by interacting with CD8+ T cells and epithelial cells. Compared to the healthy control group, upregulated expressions of pro-inflammatory molecules (CXCL12, CXCL14) and antigen presenting associated molecules (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C and ERAP2) were displayed in OLP group at mRNA level. Colocalization of SFRP2 and Wnt5a was displayed in the primary cultured fibroblasts of OLP <i>in vitro</i>. Besides, SFRP2+ Wnt5a+ fibroblasts were located around CD8+ T cells in the superficial layer of the lymphocyte infiltration zone. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal the heterogeneity and pathogenic mechanisms of fibroblasts in OLP, providing new insights into the cellular drivers of chronic inflammation in OLP.
41676665 | Duration of Initial Viremia Modulates Functional Properties of HIV-specific T Cell Receptors. Virus-specific CD8 + T cells are crucial in controlling chronic human viral infections such as HIV-1, but the effect of persistent antigen exposure on T cell repertoire formation is not well understood. In this study, we examined epitope-specific CD8 + T cell repertoires in people living with HIV-1, where duration of viremia following hyperacute infection was modulated by the time of initiation of continuous suppressive antiretroviral therapy (ART). After ART-induced undetectable viremia in persons expressing the same HLA class I allele, we analyzed the impact of early (n=6) versus delayed (n=6) ART initiation on the clonotypic composition, clonotypic cross-reactivity, functional avidity and memory differentiation profile of the HIV-specific T cell repertoire restricted by HLA-B*58:01. Using a panel of barcoded tetramers, we mapped T cell receptor (TCR) clonotypes specific for three dominant epitopes and their variants. Both groups exhibited polyclonal TCR repertoires with evidence of cross-reactivity, which was significantly enriched in donors with prolonged antigen exposure. Within this cohort, broadly cross-reactive clonotypes capable of recognizing all autologous variants were identified, but these were rare (<1%). Early ART initiation preserved repertoires characterized by higher-avidity TCRs and a relative enrichment of transitional memory CD8 + T cell subsets. These functional differences were not associated with differences in TRBV gene sharing, indicating that ART timing shapes repertoire quality and memory differentiation without altering TRBV gene bias. These findings demonstrate how antigen suppression dynamics differentially shape the breadth, functional sensitivity, and memory composition of the HIV-specific TCR repertoire, with implications for T cell-directed immunotherapies and HIV cure strategies. One Sentence Summary: The duration of viral antigen exposure during early HIV infection shapes the functional quality, breadth, and memory composition of virus-specific CD8+ T cell receptor repertoires.
42082110 | CD34+ cell-Derived Endothelial Cells Orchestrate Vascular and Immune Remodeling in the Transplanted Liver. BACKGROUND: Endothelial cells (ECs) damage serves as the initiating factor for acute cellular rejection after liver transplantation (LT). However, the origin and characteristics of post-transplant neonatal ECs remain controversial. We aim to uncover the mechanisms underlying cell-cell interaction of post-transplant ECs, and develop an EC-targeted strategy to alleviate transplant rejection. METHODS: Leveraging single-cell RNA sequencing from 13 human and 4 murine liver allografts, we mapped the functional atlas of ECs. Allogeneic orthotopic LT in CAG;R26-tdTomato and Cd34-CreERT2;R26-tdTomato mice confirmed the cellular origin of ECs. We used CellChat, multiplex immunohistochemistry, and in vitro co-culture model to investigate the mechanism of EC-T cells interactions. Utilizing a platelet-based bio-delivery system, we achieved targeted delivery of CXCL12 monoclonal antibody (alphaCXCL12) to alleviate rejection. RESULTS: There was a dual origin of ECs in the transplanted liver, derived from both donor and recipient. Recipient-derived ECs were characterized by high CD34 expression, high stemness, and pro-inflammatory characteristics. Combining genetic lineage-tracing mice with orthotopic LT model, we found that recipient CD34+ cell-derived ECs peaked at two weeks post-LT and declined by four weeks, consistent with the peak of rejection. We identified that CD34+ ECs recruit and potentiate Th1 and cytotoxic CD8+ T cells via the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis and co-stimulatory molecules. In turn, cytotoxic CD8+ T cells induce pyroptosis of CD34+ cell-derived ECs through the Caspase1-GSDMD pathway. Platelets loaded with alphaCXCL12 were able to specifically target ECs in the transplanted liver, reducing T cell infiltration and mitigating rejection. CONCLUSIONS: We identified a population of recipient CD34+ cell-derived ECs that exacerbated acute rejection by activating T cells via the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis, and offered a platelet-based delivery strategy that precisely targeted ECs' CXCL12 and effectively prevented acute cellular rejection. IMPACT AND IMPLICATIONS: We collected and integrated single-cell transcriptomic data from the liver allografts in both human and mice, delineating dual cellular origins and functional atlas of endothelial cells. We constructed lineage-tracing mice to track CD34+ cell fate in allogeneic mouse orthotopic liver transplantation model, demonstrating the involvement of recipient CD34-lineage endothelial cells in liver allograft angiogenesis. CD34-lineage endothelial cells recruit T cells via CXCL12-CXCR4 axis and activate them through co-stimulatory molecules. Using a platelet-based biologically delivery strategy to neutralize CXCL12 in CD34-lineage endothelial cells alleviated T cell-mediated rejection. This study provides an endothelial cell-based perspective and protocol for a novel immunosuppressive regimen after liver transplantation.
41993933 | Single-cell sequencing reveals the functional heterogeneity of melanoma cells and their crosstalk with the tumor microenvironment. Background: Cutaneous melanoma is a highly aggressive malignancy characterized by significant heterogeneity, rapid progression, and variable treatment responses. Understanding the functional diversity of melanoma cells and their interactions with the tumor microenvironment (TME) is crucial for developing effective therapeutic strategies and identifying prognostic biomarkers. Methods: We performed comprehensive single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) analysis of 70,760 cells from 11 melanoma samples. Data processing was conducted using Seurat v4.3.0 with Harmony integration. Cell-cell communication was inferred using CellChat, and pseudotime trajectory analysis was performed using Monocle 2. A prognostic model was constructed by integrating 10 machine learning algorithms within a leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV) framework using the TCGA-SKCM cohort. Experimental validation was performed using immunofluorescence analysis on clinical specimens from seven melanoma patients. Results: We identified seven major cell types and characterized nine distinct melanoma cell subpopulations with unique molecular signatures. Notably, subpopulations Mela4, Mela6, and Mela9 demonstrated significant associations with favorable patient prognosis and exhibited the highest interaction strength with immune cells in the TME. Cell communication analysis revealed that these subpopulations primarily engaged in signaling through MIF-CD74/CD44/CXCR4 and MHC-I pathways, with CD8+ T cells being the predominant signal recipients. Pseudotime trajectory analysis identified critical genes (CYR61, JUN, RHOC) involved in melanoma cell state transitions. Using an integrative machine learning approach, we developed a melanoma cell-associated signature (MRS) comprising 15 genes that achieved a mean C-index of 0.675 across validation cohorts. Furthermore, High EIF5A expression was significantly associated with poor patient outcomes (p < 0.001), Immunofluorescence analysis showing significantly elevated EIF5A expression in melanoma tissues compared to controls (p < 0.01). Conclusion: This study reveals the functional heterogeneity of melanoma cells and their interactions with the immune microenvironment, identifies key subpopulations, prognostic signatures, and EIF5A as a plausible prognostic biomarker candidate and potential therapeutic target that warrants mechanistic validation in melanoma.
42026866 | Structural Dynamics and Allosteric Communication of a SARS-Like Bat Coronavirus Spike Glycoprotein. SARS-like bat coronaviruses (CoVs) pose ongoing public health risks due to their zoonotic potential, making it important to understand the molecular pathways driving their evolution. We recently showed that SHC014-CoV can infect human cell lines in an ACE2-dependent manner after acquiring two spike ectodomain mutations (F294L and A835D). However, how the wild-type (WT) SHC014 spike differs dynamically from these mutants remains unclear. Here, we built fully glycosylated ectodomain models of WT and three mutants (F294L, A835D, and the double mutant, DM) and performed triplicate 1-mus all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations for each variant. The two mutations exhibit epistasis, altering structural rearrangements relative to WT. Notably, the DM receptor binding domain (RBD) begins sampling the open conformation in our conventional MD. At the atomic level, the DM spike mitigates the dense negative packing introduced by A835D through a salt-bridge network, while F294L disrupts pi-mediated interactions, together enhancing RBD opening propensity, which is critical for viral entry. Increased flexibility of the subdomain-2 \620-loop\ further modulates DM RBD openness. Dynamical network analysis identified three allosteric communication pathways. In WT and F294L, \Pathway 1\ forms the baseline route linking the 620-loop to the RBD, whereas in A835D and DM it extends to the FPPR, reshaping long-range communication. \Pathway 2\ is conserved across variants but is most prominent in WT and F294L. \Pathway 3\ appears only in A835D and DM, compensating for reduced communication along Pathway 2. Overall, this work provides an atomistic perspective on SHC014 molecular adaptation during host-to-host transmission and highlights mechanistic features that may inform future therapeutic and pandemic-preparedness efforts.
41246309 | TAPBPR promotes editing of the HLA-B44 peptide repertoire, increasing the presentation of peptides containing a C-terminal tryptophan. Major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules play a key part in the adaptive immune response by presenting antigens to CD8+ T cells. The high degree of polymorphism in MHC-I leads to significant variation in their dependence on the components of the antigen processing and presentation pathway, such as the transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) and tapasin, and their affinity for the peptide editor TAP-binding protein related (TAPBPR). Here, we investigated the influence of TAPBPR on the cell surface phenotype and peptide repertoire presented by two human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I allotypes, HLA-B*44:02 and HLA-B*44:05, which are known to differ drastically in their dependence on tapasin. TAPBPR bound weakly to both HLA-B*44:02 and HLA-B*44:05. In contrast to tapasin depletion, the loss of TAPBPR has a limited effect on the cell surface expression of these two molecules. Analysis of the immunopeptidomes presented in the presence and absence of TAPBPR revealed that TAPBPR expression restricted the peptide repertoire presented on HLA-B*44:05, while it diversified the repertoire presented on HLA-B*44:02. Overall, TAPBPR improved the predicted affinity of the peptides displayed on both the HLA-B44 molecules. Furthermore, TAPBPR enhanced the presentation of peptides containing a C-terminal tryptophan residue. Our results show that TAPBPR can significantly impact the peptide repertoire of MHC-I molecules to which it binds weakly. Furthermore, this represents the first study that points to a role for TAPBPR in selecting a specific peptide sequence on MHC class I molecules.
42025593 | Detection of a Merbecovirus with potential ACE2 usage in France. A novel Merbecovirus, designated Cam-2023, has been identified in Pipistrellus pipistrellus in France through non-invasive surveillance. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrates that Cam-2023 belongs to a Merbecovirus clade previously associated with ACE2 usage in closely related viruses detected in the Netherlands and Russia. While the receptor usage of Cam-2023 remains to be functionally validated, sequence similarities within the Spike protein, particularly the receptor-binding domain, suggest a putative association with a Merbecovirus clade previously associated with ACE2 usage. This discovery broadens the known host diversity of this lineage and extends its geographical range to Western Europe. Our findings highlight the importance of continuous surveillance in European bat populations to better characterize the distribution and zoonotic potential of such high-risk coronaviruses.
41854522 | HTRA1+ macrophages induce T cells egress through CRIP1/NF-kappaB/CXCL12 to limit the effects of immunotherapy in triple-negative breast cancer. The variation in immunotherapy responses among patients with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is attributed to the high heterogeneity of tumor immune components, in which macrophages play a key role. Hence, identification of key macrophage subpopulations associated with immunotherapy efficacy could provide important biological and therapeutic insights. Here, using single-cell and spatial transcriptomes, we identified at the single-cell level, a subpopulation of macrophages related to T cell expansion during immunotherapy, characterized by high temperature requirement A1 (HTRA1) high expression and correlated with clinical and immunotherapy outcomes in TNBC. Loss of macrophage-specific Htra1 in transgenic mouse resulted in delayed TNBC growth, improved immunotherapy efficacy, and increased CD8+ T cell infiltration. Mechanistically, HTRA1 associated with cysteine-rich protein 1 (CRIP1) to facilitate CRIP1 binding to NF-kappaB, thereby activating NF-kappaB pathway and downstream CXCL12 transcription, leading to T cell exit from tumors. Endothelial cell-derived CX3CL1 was implicated in the recruitment of HTRA1+ macrophages to tumor sites. Pharmacological antagonism of CXCL12/CXCR4 axis potentiated the immunotherapy efficacy in orthotopic TNBC mouse models. In conclusion, this study highlights a HTRA1+ macrophage subpopulation that can limit T cell infiltration and immunotherapy efficacy via the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis, which offers new leads to improve immunotherapeutic interventions in TNBC.
41486497 | Current Status of Research on Losartan in Tumour Therapy. Losartan, a widely prescribed antihypertensive agent, has attracted growing interest as a potential adjuvant in cancer therapy due to its affordability, established safety profile and pleiotropic effects. Emerging preclinical evidence demonstrates that losartan can effectively modulate the tumour microenvironment (TME) by inhibiting transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signalling, reducing stromal stiffness and improving vascular perfusion. These changes are shown to enhance the delivery and efficacy of chemotherapeutic agents, an effect potentially amplified when combined with nanocarriers by augmenting the enhanced permeability and retention effect. Beyond TME remodelling, losartan has demonstrated anti-tumour activity across various preclinical models, including those of pancreatic, breast and colorectal cancers. Mechanistically, angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) blockade is reported to modulate key downstream oncogenic pathways, including PI3K/AKT and YAP/TAZ, and to promote vascular normalisation via mechanisms that may include VEGF downregulation, thereby alleviating hypoxia and improving radiotherapy response. Furthermore, evidence suggests losartan remodels the tumour immune landscape by promoting CD8+ T and natural killer (NK) cell infiltration, reprogramming tumour-associated macrophages (TAMs) and suppressing immunosuppressive cytokines. It also appears to inhibit epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and metastasis-related pathways, including CXCR4/SDF-1alpha and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). These multifaceted mechanisms highlight its potential as a therapeutic adjuvant capable of overcoming stromal barriers, mitigating immune evasion and limiting metastatic dissemination. However, the translation of these compelling preclinical findings into clinical practice remains a major challenge. The promising preclinical data are tempered by variable efficacy across cancer types, a nascent clinical evidence base and unresolved questions regarding optimal patient selection and dosing. Clinical validation is still nascent, predominantly limited to early-phase trials and critical parameters such as optimal dosing, treatment sequencing and long-term safety in oncology patients await rigorous definition. This review synthesises the current mechanistic and translational research on losartan in solid tumours, aiming to clarify its anti-cancer properties, explore its synergy with nano- and immune-therapeutics, critically assess the associated challenges and identify key gaps and future directions for clinical application. Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01821729 and NCT03563248.
40243413 | Down-Regulation of HLA-C Expression on Melanocytes May Contribute to the Therapeutic Efficacy of UVB Phototherapy in Psoriasis. UVB phototherapy effectively treats psoriasis. Although it suppresses both innate and adaptive immunity, it remains unclear why UVB irradiation is primarily effective for T-cell-mediated but not inflammatory skin diseases of other etiologies. Using a Valpha3S1/Vbeta13S1 T-cell receptor (TCR) from a lesional psoriatic CD8+ T-cell clone, we recently demonstrated that in psoriasis, the major psoriasis risk allele HLA-C*06:02 mediates an autoimmune response of CD8+ T-cells against melanocytes by presenting a melanocyte autoantigen. We now investigate the effect of UVB irradiation on melanocyte immunogenicity using the psoriatic Valpha3S1/Vbeta13S1 TCR in a reporter assay. The immunogenicity of melanocytes for the Valpha3S1/Vbeta13S1 TCR depended on the up-regulation of HLA-C expression by IFN-gamma. UVB irradiation reduced the stimulatory capacity of IFN-gamma-conditioned melanocytes for the Valpha3S1/Vbeta13S1 TCR by suppressing key IFN-gamma-induced MHC-class I transcriptional regulators (STAT1, IRF1, NLRC5), the HLA-C-specific transcription factor Oct1, and by inducing miR-148a, which specifically inhibits HLA-C expression. This resulted in the suppression of the IFN-gamma-induced expression of HLA-class I molecules and, in particular, an almost complete loss of HLA-C expression. We conclude that suppression of the inflammatory increase in HLA-class I expression and antigen-presentation may contribute to the efficacy of UVB phototherapy in T-cell-mediated skin diseases. The pronounced downregulation of HLA-C on melanocytes could render psoriasis, as HLA-C-associated disease, particularly susceptible to this effect.
40162226 | The type 1 diabetes candidate genes PTPN2 and BACH2 regulate novel IFN-alpha-induced crosstalk between the JAK/STAT and MAPKs pathways in human beta cells. Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a chronic autoimmune disease that leads to the progressive loss of pancreatic beta cells. Interferons (IFNs) contribute to the initiation and amplification of beta cell autoimmunity. STAT1 is the main mediator of IFN signalling but little is known on its complex activation processes and role in the progression of beta cell failure. We presently show that two T1D candidate genes (i.e. PTPN2 and BACH2 ) modulate STAT1 activation via two different pathways, namely the JAK/STAT, involved in the short-term phosphorylation of its tyrosine residue (Y701), and the MAPKs pathway, involved in the long-term phosphorylation of its serine residue (S727). Each STAT1 phosphorylation type can independently induce expression of the chemokine CXCL10 , but both residues are necessary for the expression of MHC class I molecules. IFN-alpha-induced STAT1 activation is dynamic and residue-dependent, being STAT1-Y701 fast (detectable after 4h) but transitory (back to basal by 24h) while STAT1-S727 increases slowly (peak at 48h) and is associated with the long-term effects of IFN-alpha exposure. These pathways can be chemically dissociated in human beta cells by the use of JAK1/2, TYK2 or JNK1 inhibitors. The present findings provide a novel understanding of the dynamics of STAT1 activation and will be useful to develop novel and hopefully targeted (i.e. favouring individuals with particular polymorphisms) therapies for T1D and other autoimmune diseases.
40230599 | Selective Deletion of HLA-B, and -C Class I Genes Promotes Immunocompatibility of Humanized Skin Graft Model. Background: The treatment of extensive burns requires rapid allogeneic skin transplantation, but HLA diversity poses a significant challenge in finding histocompatible donor-recipient matches. Methods: In this study, we developed a humanized skin graft model using HLA class I transgenic mice to closely examine the HLA-mediated immune response in skin transplantation. Additionally, this model was used to analyse the response against a human lymphoblastoid cell line, JY, with HLA-B and -C genes knocked out by a single-step CRISPR-Cas9 strategy, retaining the most common HLA class I allele, HLA-A*02:01. Results: Mice expressing the HLA-A02:01 allele alone or in combination with HLA-B07:02 do not reject the skin of animals expressing only HLA-A02:01. However, skin from HLA-A02:01/B07:02 mice transplanted into HLA-A02:01 mice is rejected, triggering a strong specific CD8 T cell response mediated by the HLA-B*07:02 molecule. In these latter mice, unlike the parental JY cell line, the edited cells did not induce a CD8 T cell response in vitro, suggesting that the selective deletion of HLA-B and -C may contribute to improve skin graft compatibility. Conclusion: This genetic engineering approach, repeated without modification for the five HLA-A class I most common alleles known to be associated with HLA-B7 and -C7 in the same haplotype, would cover 83.4% of the world population. Our findings offer a scalable HLA-compatible skin graft model, potentially improving practices in burn units worldwide.
41453599 | A transgenic mouse allows characterisation of the HLA-C*06:02 immunopeptidome in a model of psoriasis. Psoriasis vulgaris is a T cell-mediated autoimmune skin condition affecting around one in fifty people worldwide. Whilst advanced immunomodulatory therapeutic options have become available in recent years, ongoing disease suppression is still required with no curative treatment available to date. The human leukocyte antigen class I allele HLA-C*06:02 is the main genetic risk determinant of psoriasis. HLA-C molecules present peptide antigens to CD8+ T cells and natural killer cells that in turn elicit and perpetuate the immune response, yet little is known about the ligands presented by HLA-C*06:02. To gain an understanding of which HLA-C*06:02-restricted peptides are presented by epidermal cell populations and might be initiators of the autoimmune response in psoriasis, we have conducted an in depth immunopeptidomic analysis of keratinocyte and melanocyte cell lines positive for HLA-C*06:02 and either HLA-C*07:01 or HLA-C*07:02. Furthermore, we introduce a HLA-C*06:02 transgenic mouse which, in conjunction with the imiquimod model of psoriasis, allowed us to assess the ex vivo immunopeptidome of HLA-C*06:02 in psoriasiform skin. Overall, we identified 20,812 high confidence HLA-C bound peptide ligands derived from HLA-C*06:02 and highly similar HLA-C*07:01/02 immunopeptidomes. Thus, we present a comprehensive HLA-C in vitro immunopeptidomic dataset and a HLA-C*06:02 ex vivo dataset of psoriasis-relevant peptide antigens that may inform the development of novel antigen-specific, curative therapeutic approaches in psoriasis.
41257391 | C-X-C chemokine receptor CXCR4 mediates diurnal changes in the aggregation and dispersion of CD8+ T cells within the tumor microenvironment. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) are widely used to treat various types of cancer; however, their effectiveness varies, with some patients exhibiting resistance. Recent studies have shown that the efficacy of ICIs depends on the localization of immune cells, particularly T cells, within the tumor microenvironment (TME). Although the circadian clock is known to regulate immune cell migration into tumors, its role in orchestrating spatially precise intratumoral localization remains unclear. Here, we found that the distribution of CD8+ T cells within the TME varied according to the time of day, accompanied by diurnal expression of C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4). The amplitude of the Cxcr4 expression rhythm was more pronounced in tumor-infiltrated T cells than in those from the spleen and was associated with time-dependent changes in their migration toward CXCL12-expressing cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). Reanalysis of single-cell RNA-seq data from T cells of lung cancer patients also revealed that upregulation of CXCR4 expression in tumor-infiltrated CD8+ T cells was linked to TGF-beta-SMAD signaling. The TGF-beta-SMAD signaling-mediated transactivation of Cxcr4 was time-dependently repressed by SMAD7, resulting in diurnal CXCR4 expression. Consequently, administration of a CXCR4 inhibitor during the circadian phase of elevated CXCR4 expression in tumor-infiltrated CD8+ T cells promotes their dispersion throughout tumor tissues, thereby enhancing the efficacy of ICIs. Our findings highlight an unrecognized mechanism underlying diurnal changes in the aggregation and dispersion of CD8+ T cells within tumors, offering a novel approach to enhance the anti-tumor immune effects of ICIs.
41627726 | CXCL12 derived from cancer-associated fibroblasts mediates dysfunctional intratumoral adaptive immunity in diabetic pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
41325163 | Single-cell immune transcriptomics reveals an inflammatory-inhibitory set-point spectrum in autoimmune diabetes. Autoimmune diabetes encompasses rapidly progressive type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1D) and indolent latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA), representing distinct inflammatory set points along a shared autoimmune spectrum. Yet the immunological mechanisms that determine these divergent inflammatory states remain unresolved. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing with paired T and B cell receptor profiling on over 400,000 peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with LADA, newly diagnosed T1D, and healthy controls. PBMC composition was comparable across cohorts, indicating that qualitative rather than quantitative immune differences underlie disease heterogeneity. In T1D, pan-lineage activation of NF-kappaB, EGFR, MAPK, and hypoxia pathways, coupled with a TNF-centered communication hub, enhanced MHC signaling, and disrupted adhesion, promoted systemic inflammation. LADA, by contrast, exhibited global suppression of NF-kappaB/EGFR activity, retention of moderate JAK/STAT tone, reinforced natural killer cell inhibitory checkpoints via HLA-C-KIR2DL3/3DL1 interaction, and stabilized CD8+ T cell synapses through HLA-C-CD8 binding, collectively restraining effector activation. Single-cell V(D)J analysis revealed multiclonal, patient-unique adaptive repertoires, emphasizing the primacy of signaling context over receptor convergence. These findings define autoimmune diabetes as an inflammatory-inhibitory set-point continuum, positioning the NF-kappaB/EGFR-JAK/STAT gradient and HLA-C-KIR axis as potential therapeutic targets to preserve residual beta-cell function.
41991241 | Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics reveal that the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis drives the immune-desert phenotype in small cell lung cancer by recruiting immunosuppressive CXCR4+ neutrophils and S100A8+ monocytes. BACKGROUND: Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is a recalcitrant malignancy with limited responses to immunotherapy, largely due to its uniquely immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the molecular mechanisms driving this phenotype remain incompletely understood. METHODS: We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing and Xenium in situ spatial transcriptomics to analyze the immune microenvironment of five SCLC and four non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) samples. Multiplex immunofluorescence was used to validate cell types and gene expression in the same tissue specimens, and animal models were employed to verify the key mechanistic pathway. RESULTS: SCLC displayed a distinct immune landscape compared with NSCLC, with increased infiltration of C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4)+ neutrophils (via neutrophil extracellular traps) and S100A8+ monocytes (toward an M2-like phenotype), and reduced CD8+ T-cell infiltration. Malignant epithelial cells in SCLC highly expressed CXCR4, regulated by transcription factors ISL LIM homeobox 1 and distal-less homeobox 5, which promoted immunosuppression. The C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12)-CXCR4 axis mediated competitive inhibition, impairing T-cell recruitment while enhancing neutrophil accumulation. Monocytes in SCLC shifted toward an M2-like phenotype, weakening antigen presentation. Xenium spatial transcriptomics confirmed colocalization of CXCR4+ neutrophils and S100A8+ monocytes with tumor cells at the tumor-normal interface, while CD8+ T cells were spatially segregated. In vivo experiments showed that CXCR4 inhibition reduced SCLC tumor growth, decreased immunosuppressive cell infiltration, and enhanced CD8+ T-cell accumulation. CONCLUSIONS: The CXCL12-CXCR4 axis, together with immunosuppressive CXCR4+ neutrophils and S100A8+ monocytes, is a key driver of the immune-desert phenotype in SCLC. Targeting this axis holds promise as a therapeutic strategy to remodel the immunosuppressive TME and improve the efficacy of immunotherapy for SCLC.
42054491 | Adeno-associated virus gene therapy-mediated CCR5 blockade suppresses virus replication long term in SHIV-infected macaques. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors are promising vehicles for the delivery and long-term expression of antibodies for treatment of chronic diseases. Given the strong link between the C-C chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5)-Delta32/Delta32 genotype and protection from HIV, we explored the ability of AAV vectors expressing the CCR5-blocking antibody leronlimab to mediate a functional cure in simian-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV)-infected rhesus macaques by interrupting viral access to the viral entry co-receptor CCR5. Delivery of AAV-leronlimab to rhesus macaques elicited antidrug antibodies (ADA) and rapid plasma leronlimab clearance in approximately half of the treated macaques. However, in these same animals, we observed spontaneous leronlimab transgene reemergence and detectable CCR5 receptor occupancy approximately 1 year later that subsequently persisted indefinitely without rebound of ADA. In macaques that did not mount robust ADA responses, detectable plasma leronlimab concentrations and CCR5 receptor occupancy were maintained for more than 1 year. Of the nine macaques producing sufficient leronlimab to achieve full CCR5 receptor occupancy on blood CD4+ T cells, AAV-leronlimab drove stringent or partial control of SHIV viremia in six macaques long term. In the three macaques with uncontrolled SHIV viremia, short-term administration of exogenous leronlimab induced complete SHIV suppression in two and a 100-fold reduction in the third, indicating that a threshold of leronlimab expression is necessary to effectively halt SHIV replication. These results demonstrate the potential of gene therapy-mediated long-term antibody-based CCR5 blockade for HIV functional cure but highlight challenges in achieving sufficient antibody expression when targeting an abundant self-antigen.
41490945 | Single-cell profiling unveils nephritis-related circulating immunological signatures in systemic lupus erythematosus patients. Lupus nephritis (LN), the most severe complication of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), arises from systemic immune dysregulation and renal damage. While renal immune perturbations are well-studied, systemic signatures specific to LN pathogenesis remain unclear. Integrated single-cell RNA and immune repertoire analysis of 177,259 peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from healthy donors and SLE patients (including active LN and non-nephritis controls) revealed LN-specific circulating immune signatures, including kappa light-chain preference in naive B cells and distinct clonal expansion in CD8+ effector T cells. These clonally expanded CD8+ effector T cells exhibited transcriptional variations indicating increased migratory capacity and exhaustion, along with preferential usage of TRBV genes (TRBV27/TRBV15/TRBV7-9), which have enhanced binding potential to an EBV epitope GLCTLVAM. Based on these findings, we developed a dual-biomarker model demonstrating reliable LN diagnosis (AUC = 0.895). Cross-tissue analysis confirmed concordance between peripheral and intrarenal immune perturbations, supporting non-invasive blood-based monitoring. Enhanced MIF-(CD74 + CXCR4) axis activity linked to lymphocyte activation/migration, while CD74+ memory B cells upregulated MHC-I antigen presentation. Renal immunostaining revealed CD74+ B cells proximal to CD8+ T cell infiltrates, suggesting CD74-mediated crosstalk facilitates intrarenal T cell activation. This study provides an integrated LN immune atlas, identifies translatable biomarkers and highlights CD74 as a potential therapeutic target.
41940979 | CCR5Delta32 polymorphism is associated with increased central memory CD4+ T cells in virologically suppressed people living with HIV on antiretroviral therapy.
39403371 | Unveiling signaling pathways inducing MHC class II expression in neutrophils. Introduction: Gram-negative bacillary bacteremia poses a significant threat, ranking among the most severe infectious diseases capable of triggering life-threatening sepsis. Despite the unambiguous involvement of neutrophils in this potentially fatal disease, there are limited data about the molecular signaling mechanisms, phenotype, and function of human neutrophils during the early phase of gram-negative bacillary bacteremia. Methods: By using an unbiased proteomics and flow cytometry approach, we identified an antigen-presenting cell (APC)-like phenotype in human peripheral blood neutrophils (PMN) with MHC class II molecule expression in the early phase of bacteremia. Using an in-vitro model of GM-CSF-mediated induction of APC-like phenotype in PMN, we investigated downstream signaling pathways leading to MHC class II expression. Results: GM-CSF stimulation of neutrophils leads to the activation of three major signaling pathways, the JAK-STAT, the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-Akt-mTOR pathways, while MHC class II induction is mediated by a MAPK-p38-MSK1-CREB1 signaling cascade and the MHC class II transactivator CIITA in a strictly JAK1/2 kinase-dependent manner. Discussion: This study provides new insights into the signaling pathways that induce MHC class II expression in neutrophils, highlighting the potential for therapeutic targeting of JAK1/2 signaling in the treatment of gram-negative bacteremia and sepsis. Understanding these mechanisms may open up novel approaches for managing inflammatory responses during sepsis.
40858554 | Distribution of CCR5-Delta32 and HLA-B*57:01 alleles in HIV-seropositive and HIV-exposed seronegative Peruvian individuals. Little information is available about CCR5-Delta32 and HLA-B*57:01 alleles in the Peruvian population, especially in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-negative people with high-risk sexual behavior. Here we describe the prevalence of these alleles in HIV-exposed seronegative individuals (PS) and HIV-seropositive individuals (PVV). For this purpose, 300 individuals were recruited: 150 from each group, and the selected alleles were characterized by endpoint PCR, real-time PCR and DNA sequencing. According to our results, the prevalence of CCR5/CCR5-Delta32 heterozygous was 2.7%, and no homozygous cases were found. The population was in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium for the CCR5 locus. Regarding HLA-B*57:01, one case was identified in the PS group, while no cases were observed in the PVV group. No statistical difference was detected between groups (P > 0.05). In conclusion, we showed a low prevalence for CCR5-Delta32 as HLA-B*57:01 in the Peruvian population. As these alleles were found at similar frequencies among both HIV-positive and HIV-negative Peruvian individuals with high-risk sexual behavior, it is possible that other genetic factors play an important role in preventing HIV transmission in this population. The low frequency of the HLA-B*57:01 allele in the Peruvian population suggests that routine genotyping tests for abacavir hypersensitivity should be reevaluated in the public health policies of Peru's Ministry of Health, based on national epidemiological data.
40139835 | Orlistat facilitates immunotherapy via AKT-FOXO3a-FOXM1-mediated PD-L1 suppression. BACKGROUND: The immunotherapy targeting cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) has achieved significant breakthroughs, but further improvements are still needed in cancer treatment. METHODS: We investigated orlistat, a drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of obesity and found that it can enhance the efficacy of CTLA-4 blockade immunotherapy. We conducted both in vivo and in vitro experiments to explore the mechanism by which orlistat increased antitumor immunity. RESULTS: Orlistat enhances the efficacy of anti-CTLA-4 immunotherapy by suppressing tumor cell PD-L1 protein expression and boosting the transcription of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) and MHC-I. Mechanistically, orlistat inhibits AKT activity and subsequent phosphorylation of forkhead box O3a (FOXO3a) at its threonine (T) 32, serine (S) 253, thereby downregulating Forkhead box M1 (FOXM1) expression, which ultimately suppresses PD-L1 transcription. Specifically, inhibition of FOXM1 leads to FOXO3a accumulation through impaired AKT activity. FOXM1 activates protein kinase B (AKT) via acting as a scaffold to facilitate 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDK1) and AKT and interaction. In addition, orlistat enhances phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (p-STAT1) at tyrosine (Y) 701, resulting in upregulation of ISGs and MHC-I. CONCLUSIONS: Orlistat plays a crucial role in modulating the immune response and supporting the combination with CTLA-4 blockade to promote antitumor immunotherapy.
41756414 | Duration of Initial Viremia Modulates Functional Properties of HIV-specific T Cell Receptors. Virus-specific CD8+ T cells are crucial in controlling chronic human viral infections such as HIV-1, but the effect of persistent antigen exposure on T cell repertoire formation is not well understood. In this study, we examined epitope-specific CD8+ T cell repertoires in people living with HIV-1, where duration of viremia following hyperacute infection was modulated by the time of initiation of continuous suppressive antiretroviral therapy (ART). After ART-induced suppression of viremia in persons expressing the same HLA class I allele, we analyzed the impact of early (n=6) versus delayed (n=6) ART initiation on the clonotypic composition, cross-reactivity, functional avidity and memory differentiation profile of the HIV-specific T cell repertoire restricted by HLA-B*58:01. Using a panel of barcoded tetramers, we mapped T cell receptor (TCR) clonotypes specific for three dominant epitopes and their variants. Both groups exhibited polyclonal TCR repertoires with evidence of cross-reactivity, which was significantly enriched in donors with prolonged antigen exposure. Within this cohort, broadly cross-reactive clonotypes capable of recognizing all autologous variants were identified, but these were rare (<1%). Early ART initiation preserved repertoires characterized by higher-avidity TCRs and a relative enrichment of transitional memory CD8+ T cell subsets. These functional differences were not associated with differences in TRBV gene sharing, indicating that ART timing shapes repertoire quality and memory differentiation without altering TRBV gene bias. These findings demonstrate how antigen suppression dynamics differentially shape the breadth, functional sensitivity, and memory composition of the HIV-specific TCR repertoire, with implications for T cell-directed immunotherapies and HIV cure strategies.
41648263 | NK Cells Engineered with a Chimeric Antigen Receptor Delay HIV Rebound and Reshape HIV Reservoir Composition. Durable HIV remission will require strategies that eliminate or permanently silence the latent reservoir that persists despite antiretroviral therapy (ART). Natural killer (NK) cells possess inherent antiviral activity, but unmodified NK cells have limited ability to recognize or clear latently infected cells during ART suppression. We engineered allogeneic human primary NK cells expressing a truncated CD4-based chimeric antigen receptor (D1D2-CAR) that targets the conserved CD4 binding site on HIV Env without permitting viral entry, and evaluated their activities in humanized mice infected with barcoded CCR5-tropic HIV. D1D2-CAR NK cells selectively killed HIV-infected primary CD4 T cells in vitro and significantly delayed viral rebound following ART interruption in humanized mice compared to GFP-NK or no NK control groups. Barcoded HIV tracking showed that CAR-NK treatment reduced the number, diversity, and inter-organ overlap of rebounding viral RNA and proviral DNA lineages, yielding rebound driven by a restricted set of dominant clones. Integration site and chromatin analysis further demonstrated selective depletion of proviruses positioned in genes, enhancers, promoters, and open chromatin. These findings show that CAR-NK cells can target rare reactivation events during ART suppression and reshape the reservoir toward a less rebound-competent, epigenetically repressive state.
40649753 | Upregulated BAP31 Links to Poor Prognosis and Tumor Immune Microenvironment in Breast Cancer. BAP31, a transmembrane protein in the endoplasmic reticulum, is known for its oncogenic properties, but its role in immunotherapy is not well understood. While BAP31's involvement in liver, gastric, and cervical cancers has been documented, its role in pan-cancer immune regulation, particularly in breast cancer, remains unexplored. Using TCGA data, analysis via the Xiantao academic and GEPIA2 database showed that BAP31 upregulation correlates with advanced clinical stages and a poor prognosis. ROC analysis demonstrated BAP31's high accuracy in distinguishing cancerous tissue from normal tissues. Additionally, BAP31 expression is associated with CNV, methylation, TMB, and MSI. In breast cancer, TIMER database analysis revealed that BAP31 expression is inversely correlated with the infiltration levels of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), macrophages, T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes, and neutrophils. Additionally, we investigated the relationship between BAP31 and the expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules and chemokine receptors utilizing the TISIDB database. LinkedOmics analysis demonstrated associations between BAP31 and various immune-inflammatory pathways, while also indicating a negative correlation between BAP31 expression and four critical pathways: extracellular matrix receptor interaction, focal adhesion, JAK-STAT signaling, and TGF-beta signaling. Furthermore, loss-of-function experiments employing shRNA-mediated knockdown of BAP31 resulted in a marked reduction in cell proliferation and an increase in apoptosis in breast cancer cells, thereby confirming its role in tumor promotion. These findings suggest that BAP31 may serve as a promising prognostic biomarker and a potential target for immunotherapy in breast cancer.
41451763 | Expression of CD38 on resting peripheral iNKT cells defines an immature subpopulation with distinct functionality in humans. Human invariant natural killer T cells (iNKT) play an important role in an orchestrated immune response; however, the heterogeneity of iNKT subsets is not yet fully understood. Here, we uncovered CD38 as a marker of iNKT differentiation, decoupling it from its role as a marker of activation by comparing the phenotype, cytokine profile and transcription factor expression of iNKT cell subsets in humans. Expression of CD38 on resting iNKT cells was restricted to cells that were low in well-described maturity markers such as CD161 and CCR5 and co-expressed markers associated with undifferentiated T cells (CD45RA, CCR7, CD62L). High abundance of CD38+ iNKT cells in human infant thymus and cord blood supported the immature nature of this subset. Functional analysis revealed that the CD38+ phenotype of resting iNKT cells was accompanied by diminished type 1 cytokine release, which was reflected by reduced expression of the transcription factor EOMES. Moreover, in vitro stimulation of sorted CD38+ and CD38- iNKT cells demonstrated the distinct phenotype of cells expressing CD38 in a resting state and activation-induced CD38. These findings suggest a context-dependent role of CD38 expression on iNKT cells, distinguishing activated from resting iNKT cells where CD38 expression marks a subset of undifferentiated cells with altered functionality. Taken together, we describe a population of iNKT cells that extends the remarkable heterogeneity of the iNKT cell compartment beyond the presence of CD4+ and CD4- subsets.
40137693 | Computational and Population-Based HLA Permissiveness to HIV Drug Resistance-Associated Mutations. The presentation of HIV peptides by the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex to CD8+ cytotoxic T-cells (CTLs) is critical to limit viral pathogenesis. HIV can mutate to evade HLA-restricted CTL responses and resist antiretroviral drugs, raising questions about how it balances these evolutionary pressures. Here, we used a computational approach to assess how drug resistance-associated mutations (RAMs) affect the binding of HIV-1 subtype B or C peptides to the most prevalent HLA alleles in US, European, and South African populations. We predict RAMs that may be favored in certain populations and report the under-representation of Y181C in people expressing HLA-B*57:01. This finding agreed with our computational predictions when Y181C was at the major anchor site P2, suggesting the potential relevance of our approach. Overall, our findings lay out a conceptual framework to study the implications of HLA alleles on the emergence of HIV RAMs at the individual and population levels.
40587260 | Characterisation of an influenza B virus-derived peptide presented by HLA-B*18:01. The influenza B virus (IBV) can pose a significant threat to global health. Despite this, IBV is understudied compared with influenza A virus (IAV). CD8+ T cells have proven highly effective in reducing influenza disease severity. In addition, pre-existing immune responses towards IAV epitopes may provide protection against homologous IBV-derived peptides due to T cell cross-reactivity. To exploit the advantages of T cells for future vaccine developments, a better understanding of the IBV-derived peptide presentation by the highly polymorphic human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is required. We previously determined that the IAV-derived PB1177-A peptide was presented by the HLA-B*18:01 molecule and induced CD8+ T cell responses. Here, we assessed the PB1177-A IBV homologue (PB1177-B). Intracellular cytokine staining assays showed that PB1177-B was unable to activate CD8+ T cells from several HLA-B*18:01+ samples tested. We determined that the IAVand IBV-derived PB1177 adopted different stability and conformation in the cleft of HLA-B*18:01. Molecular dynamics analysis on the crystal structure showed that PB1177-B had a central flexible region with a large hydrophobic patch formed by two phenylalanine residues, not present in PB1177-A. The flexibility and the lower stability of the HLA-B*18:01-PB1177-B complex may hinder CD8+ T cell receptor binding, underpinning the lack of CD8+ T cell activation observed. This provides additional insights into the differences between IAVand IBV-specific CD8+ T cell responses.
41198628 | Molecular basis for selection and inhibition of HIV-1 escape virus by T cells and KIR2DL2+NK cells. NK cells and CD8+ T cells both contribute to HIV-1 control. These cells not only suppress HIV-1 replication, but also select HIV-1 escape mutant viruses. Most viruses bearing T cell escape mutations are expected to remain susceptible to NK cell suppression, but their inhibition by NK cells is unclear. We investigated the role of HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells and NK cells recognizing superimposed Pol peptides in selection and control of HIV-1 mutant virus. KIR2DL2+NK cells have an enhanced ability to recognize HIV-1-infected cells after selection of Pol mutant virus by PolIY11-specific HLA-C*12:02-restricted T cells. Mass spectrometry-based immunopeptidome profiling of HIV-1-infected cells and analysis of crystal structures of TCR- and KIR2DL2-HLA-C*12:02-peptide complexes demonstrate the molecular basis for selection and recognition of the escape mutant epitope by TCR and KIR2DL2. The present study elucidates the mechanism for selection and inhibition of an HIV-1 escape virus by T cells and NK cells.
41714703 | Peritumoural adipose tissue drives immune evasion in colorectal cancer via adipose-mesenchymal transformation. Although peritumoural visceral adipose tissue (tVAT) is anatomically close to tumours such as colorectal cancer, the immune landscape of this tissue and its functional contribution to tumour immunity remain poorly defined. Here, we performed single-cell RNA analysis on the tVAT from patients with colorectal cancer to map its immune landscape and observed that tVAT exhibited a highly immune-infiltrated microenvironment enriched with lymphocytes, especially tumour-specific CD8+ T cells. Mechanistically, tVAT competes with the tumour for these immunocytes by activating the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis to promote tumour immune escape. Moreover, tumour-derived factors induce an adipose-mesenchymal transformation process where the adipose stromal cells trans-differentiated into adipose-derived cancer-associated fibroblasts, which secrete large amounts of CXCL12 in tVAT. Clinically, targeting adipose-tumour interaction substantially enhances diagnostic and therapeutic efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy. These findings offer an understanding of the dynamic crosstalk between tVAT and tumour immune escape, highlighting the tVAT as a potential target for cancer immunotherapy.
40948762 | Dissecting the immune evasion and therapeutic resistance mechanisms in EGFR/TP53 co-mutated non-small cell lung cancer: implications for targeted and immunotherapy strategies. Background: Although precision-targeted therapies and tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have significantly improved outcomes in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC with concurrent TP53 mutations often develop drug resistance and experience poor clinical outcomes. This study aims to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying this aggressive subtype using single-cell RNA sequencing. Methods: Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor samples were obtained from 40 hospitalized NSCLC patients. Somatic mutation profiles were determined using a targeted 23-gene next-generation sequencing (NGS) panel. Four samples harboring concurrent EGFR and TP53 mutations were selected for single-cell transcriptomic profiling using the 10x Genomics platform. Results: Two dominant malignant epithelial cell populations were identified: C1_EGFR+, associated with proliferation and invasion, and C2_STAT1+, linked to immunosuppression and drug resistance. These tumor subtypes cooperatively drive CD8+ T cell exhaustion through the MDK-(ITGA4+ITGB1), MIF-(CD74+CXCR4), and TGF-beta signaling pathways. In addition, antigen-presenting cancer-associated fibroblasts (apCAFs) recruit regulatory T cells via the CCL5-CCR4 axis, collectively establishing an immune-excluded tumor microenvironment. Mechanistically, a STAT1/ETS1-centered transcriptional program regulates the expression of key immunosuppressive (e.g., MDK, MIF, TGFB1) and resistance-associated genes (e.g., ERBB2, JAK2). Conclusion: These findings reveal a coordinated transcriptional network that promotes immune evasion and therapeutic resistance in EGFR/TP53 co-mutated NSCLC. Targeting the STAT1/ETS1 axis, in combination with EGFR-TKIs or immune checkpoint inhibitors, may provide a novel strategy to overcome resistance and improve patient outcomes. Further validation in larger patient cohorts and functional studies is warranted to confirm these observations and support clinical translation.
39273630 | Identification of a Clade-Specific HLA-C*03:02 CTL Epitope GY9 Derived from the HIV-1 p17 Matrix Protein. Efforts towards an effective HIV-1 vaccine have remained mainly unsuccessful. There is increasing evidence for a potential role of HLA-C-restricted CD8+ T cell responses in HIV-1 control, including our recent report of HLA-C*03:02 among African children. However, there are no documented optimal HIV-1 CD8+ T cell epitopes restricted by HLA-C*03:02; additionally, the structural influence of HLA-C*03:02 on epitope binding is undetermined. Immunoinformatics approaches provide a fast and inexpensive method to discover HLA-restricted epitopes. Here, we employed immunopeptidomics to identify HLA-C*03:02 CD8+ T cell epitopes. We identified a clade-specific Gag-derived GY9 (GTEELRSLY) HIV-1 p17 matrix epitope potentially restricted to HLA-C*03:02. Residues E62, T142, and E151 in the HLA-C*03:02 binding groove and positions p3, p6, and p9 on the GY9 epitope are crucial in shaping and stabilizing the epitope binding. Our findings support the growing evidence of the contribution of HLA-C molecules to HIV-1 control and provide a prospect for vaccine strategies.
40980484 | Lack of immunogenicity for an influenza-derived peptide across the HLA-B44 supertype molecules. Objectives: CD8+ T cells are protective against influenza and there is an interest in designing a future CD8+ T-cell-mediated vaccine. However, a significant challenge is the extensive polymorphism of Human Leukocyte Antigen class I (HLA-I) molecules, the targets of CD8+ T cells. Despite this, HLA supertypes have been defined as a subset of HLA-I molecules sharing similar peptide motif preferences that may present overlapping peptide repertoires. Therefore, selecting immunogenic peptides presented by a range of HLA-I molecules for inclusion in a vaccine may partially overcome the challenge presented by HLA-I polymorphism. Methods: In this study, we investigated the presentation and immunogenicity of a known HLA-B*44:03-restricted influenza-derived peptide NS1195-203 across the HLA-B44 supertype. Using TFold and AlphaFold2, we predicted the structures of the NS1195-203 bound by the HLA-B44 supertype molecules, including HLA-B*44:02, HLA-B*44:03, HLA-B*40:01, HLA-B*40:01 and HLA-B*45:01. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) isolated from donors expressing one of these HLA-B44 supertype molecules were used to generate CD8+ T-cell lines against the NS1195-203 peptide and assess its immunogenicity via intracellular cytokine staining assay. Results: The structures predicted with TFold and AlphaFold2 of the NS1195-203 peptide in complex with the HLA-B44 allomorphs were overall similar, with some notable differences at the peptide P9-Trp. A polyfunctional NS1195-203-specific CD8+ T-cell response was observed in HLA-B*44:03+ and HLA-B*44:02+ samples; however, minimal responses were observed in the three other HLA-B44+ supertype molecules. Conclusion: Although HLA molecules from the same supertype may be able to present the same peptide, this will not always result in CD8+ T-cell responses. As such, HLA-I supertypes, defined based on peptide binding motif and presentation, do not include information on immunogenicity and are not currently able to be used on their own to select epitopes as vaccine candidates. However, new knowledge on HLA supertypes may help curate sets of peptides that are potential vaccine targets and applicable to a range of HLA allomorphs.
41793512 | Spatially defined danger zone shapes gastric cancer progression through CCDC80+ fibroblast-induced CD8+ T cell dysfunction. Gastric cancer (GC) shows marked heterogeneity driven by the tumor microenvironment, leading to therapeutic resistance and poor prognosis. Using spatial transcriptomics of invasive murine tumors and human GC samples, we identified a distinct stromal-immune-vascular core region, termed the 'danger zone', which is enriched in diffuse-type GC and strongly linked to advanced stage and an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. Non-negative matrix factorization using danger zone signature genes stratified GC patients into two subtypes, with Subtype 2 exhibiting worse survival and impaired immunotherapy response. An XGBoost classifier based on 13 key genes-including CCDC80, MSRB3, FBLN1, and SPARCL1-accurately predicted subtypes and prognosis across cohorts. Single-cell and spatial analyses identified CCDC80+ fibroblasts as key drivers within the danger zone. Mechanistically, CCDC80+ fibroblasts recruit effector CD8+ T cells through CXCL12-CXCR4 signaling and induce their dysfunction by markedly upregulating PD-1 and TIM-3, thereby promoting exhaustion and apoptosis. The interactions were validated using fibroblast-CD8 + T cell co-cultures and CXCL12 blockade. Finally, a LightGBM model predicted danger zone scores directly from H&E slides, correlating with stromal infiltration and patient survival. This study defines the danger zone as a key spatial feature of GC progression and immunosuppression, offering novel biomarkers, prognostic tools, and therapeutic targets.
41039829 | Exhaustion-Resistant CD8+ T Cells in Ankylosing Spondylitis: A Proposed Three-Axis Model. Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic immune-mediated disease marked by sustained joint inflammation and aberrant bone remodelling. Although chronic antigen exposure usually enforces terminal exhaustion, emerging evidence indicates that a subset of CD8+ T cells in AS evades canonical exhaustion programmes while expressing programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1). These exhaustion-resistant cells retain effector function and likely contribute to persistent tissue inflammation and structural damage. In this review, we dissect the cellular and molecular basis of exhaustion resistance in AS CD8+ T cells and focus on the convergence of intermittent T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation, metabolic adaptation that preserves mitochondrial fitness, and co-stimulatory inputs from interleukin-15 (IL-15) and CD28. We propose an integrated three-axis model governing CD8+ T cell fate and functional persistence in the AS context shaped by human leukocyte antigen-B27 (HLA-B27) and the gut-joint axis. Clarifying these mechanisms refines current views of T cell dysfunction in chronic inflammation and highlights therapeutic strategies aimed at reprogramming pathogenic immunity in AS.
41583498 | Large-scale screening of HBV epitopes restricted by multiple prevalent HLA-B/C allotypes and routine detection of HBV-specific T cells in CHB patients. Background and aims: In our previous work, a total of 103 CD8+ T-cell epitopes restricted by 13 prevalent HLA-A allotypes in Northeast Asians were validated from the main proteins of hepatitis B virus (HBV). This study aims to further screen the T-cell epitopes restricted by 15 prevalent HLA-B and 14 prevalent HLA-C allotypes and establish a universal assay for counting reactive HBV-specific T cells in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Methods: CD8+ T-cell epitopes were systematically screened through a combination of in silico prediction, ex vivo co-cultures of peptides with patient-derived peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and peptide competitive binding assays using HLA-B/C transfected cell lines. Results: A total of 89 novel CD8+ T-cell epitopes were identified from four HBV main proteins using PBMCs from 250 CHB patients. Furthermore, 201 validated CD8+ T-cell epitope peptides restricted by the 13 HLA-A, 15 HLA-B, and 14 HLA-C allotypes were integrated to construct a broad-spectrum epitope peptide library, and by which the ELISpot assay was established followed by clinical testing for 81 CHB patients. The counts of reactive HBV-specific T cells and T cells reactive to each HBV protein (HBsAg-, HBpol-, HBx-, or HBeAg-) in PBMCs showed a negative correlation with serum HBsAg levels and no correlation with HBeAg or ALT levels. NUCs/IFN-alpha combination elicited significantly more reactive HBV-specific T cells (including those targeting HBsAg, HBpol, HBx, or HBeAg) than NUCs or IFN-alpha monotherapy. Conclusions: The proposed method holds great potential for facilitating routine evaluation of HBV-specific CD8+ T cell reactivity in CHB patients.
41250082 | Correction: Intramyocardial injected human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (HucMSCs) contribute to the recovery of cardiac function and the migration of CD4+ T cells into the infarcted heart via CCL5/CCR5 signaling.
41220617 | HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells with different abilities to recognize HIV-1-infected cells in HIV-1-exposed seronegative individuals. The presence of HIV-1-specific CD8+ T-cell responses in HIV-1-exposed seronegative (HESN) individuals has been reported, but the details of these T cells have yet to be analyzed. We investigated HIV-1-specific CD8+ T-cell responses to 281 17-mer overlapping HIV-1 peptides and six HLA-B*15:02-restricted HIV-1 subtype AE epitope peptides in 370 Vietnamese HESN men who have sex with men (MSM). Analysis of cultured T cells stimulated with these peptides using intracellular cytokine staining (ICS) assay demonstrated HIV-1-specific CD8+ T-cell responses in only eight of these HESN-MSM. HLA-restricted CD8+ T cells specific for five HIV-1 epitope peptides were identified in five of these individuals by ICS assay and/or assay using HLA multimers. CD8+ T cells specific for three HIV-1 peptides (GagHL9, PolSV9, and PolVF9) recognized HIV-1 subtype AE-infected cells, whereas those specific for two HIV-1 peptides did not recognize them. Among CD8+ T cells that can recognize HIV-1-infected cells, those specific for two epitopes, GagHL9 and PolSV9, were frequently elicited in HIV-1-infected individuals, whereas PolVF9-specific CD8+ T cells were not found in them. These results indicate that two types of HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells were clearly detected in HESN-MSM; they include CD8+ T cells specific for the immunodominant or nonimmunodominant HIV-1 epitope peptide that is effectively presented in HIV-1-infected cells and those for the HIV-1 peptide that is very weakly or not presented by HLA class I in HIV-1-infected cells. The present study demonstrated the existence of different HIV-1-specific CD8+ T cells that can or cannot recognize HIV-1-infected cells before HIV-1 infection is established.
39605664 | Machine learning application to predict binding affinity between peptide containing non-canonical amino acids and HLA0201. Class 1 major histocompatibility complexes (MHC-I), encoded by the highly polymorphic HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C genes in humans, are expressed on all nucleated cells. Both self and foreign proteins are processed to peptides of 8 to 10 amino acids, loaded into MCH-1 within the endoplasmic reticulum and then presented on the cell surface. Foreign peptides presented in this fashion activate CD8+ T cells and their immunogenicity correlates with their affinity for the MHC-1 binding groove. Thus, predicting antigen binding affinity for MHC-I is a valuable tool for identifying potentially immunogenic antigens. While quite a few predictors for MHC-I binding exist, there are no currently available tools that can predict antigen/MHC-I binding affinity for antigens with explicitly labeled post-translational modifications or unusual/non-canonical amino acids (NCAAs). However, such modifications are increasingly recognized as critical mediators of peptide immunogenicity. In this work, we propose a machine learning application that quantifies the binding affinity of epitopes containing NCAAs to MHC-I and compares its performance with other commonly used regressors. Our model demonstrates robust performance, with 5-fold cross-validation yielding an R 2 value of 0.477 and a root-mean-square error (RMSE) of 0.735, indicating strong predictive capability for peptides with NCAAs. This work provides a valuable tool for the computational design and optimization of peptides incorporating NCAAs, potentially accelerating the development of novel peptide-based therapeutics with enhanced properties and efficacy.
41102194 | Single-cell multi-omics uncovers CPS1 as a breast cancer immune evasion therapeutic target. Despite significant advances in early detection and therapeutic interventions, breast cancer persists as the most frequently diagnosed malignancy and the leading cause of cancer-related deaths among women globally. Although multiple prognostic signatures have been proposed, their predictive power and clinical applicability remain limited. In this study, we utilized an integrated approach combining single-cell multi-omics analysis with machine learning to comprehensively examine the clinical relevance of mitochondrial-related gene sets in TCGA-BRCA and developed a mitochondrial gene set scoring system, termed MitoScore. Based on the median of MitoScore, BRCA patients were classified into high-risk and low-risk groups. Our multi-omics analysis revealed that BRCA patients with higher Mitoscore exhibited poorer prognoses compared to those with lower MitoScore. The predictive ability of the model was successfully validated using an external GEO dataset. Immune infiltration analysis further indicated that high-risk group contributed to an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, marked by a decrease in CD8+ T cells. This finding was corroborated by cell-cell communication analysis, which revealed abnormal activation of the MIF-CXCR4 signaling axis. Notably, carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 1 (CPS1) emerged as the most critical factor in the MitoScore model. CPS1 was significantly upregulated in malignant BRCA cells and was closely associated with tumor aggressiveness and poor prognosis. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments confirmed the role of CPS1 in BRCA. In this study, CPS1 was identified as a metabolism-related oncogene, suggesting its involvement in enhancing glycolysis and mediating immune evasion in breast cancer cells. Knockdown of CPS1 markedly improved the efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy in immunocompetent mice, prolonged survival, and ameliorated the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. In summary, this study underscores the clinical significance of mitochondrial genes in BRCA, proposes Mitoscore for precise patient stratification and personalized treatment, and highlights the therapeutic potential of targeting CPS1 to simultaneously modulate glycolysis and immune evasion mechanisms.
40915448 | DNA methylation subtypes dictate metastatic heterogeneity of osteosarcoma via distinct tumor-stromal interactions: Multi-omics profiling and decitabine validation. Osteosarcoma (OS), the most prevalent primary bone malignancy in adolescents, is characterized by aggressive progression and early metastasis. However, the epigenetic drivers of its metastatic heterogeneity remain poorly understood. Herein, we integrated bulk DNA methylation profiling and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to elucidate the epigenetic mechanisms driving OS metastatic heterogeneity. Consensus clustering identified two methylation subtypes (K = 2) with distinct survival outcomes, where hypermethylated (MSO-high) tumors exhibited poor prognosis. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) revealed methylation-associated modules enriched in metabolic and immune pathways, pinpointing key genes such as CAMK1G and SLC11A1. Single-cell profiling uncovered MSO-high myeloid cells associated with inflammatory and oxidative phosphorylation pathways, while MSO-high OS cells displayed transdifferentiation toward fibroblasts via pseudotime trajectories, remodeling the extracellular matrix (ECM) to facilitate lung metastasis. Conversely, MSO-low tumors activated HLA-B-mediated neutrophil-CD8+ T cell interactions, promoting lymphatic metastasis via CXCR4/CXCL12 signaling. Furthermore, functional validation using the DNA demethylating agent decitabine demonstrated reduced fibroblastic transdifferentiation and suppressed invasive capacity in MSO-high osteosarcoma cells, supporting the therapeutic potential of targeting methylation dysregulation. These findings establish a model where DNA methylation dictates metastatic phenotypes through differential tumor-stromal crosstalk, providing novel targets for epigenetic therapy to disrupt fibrotic-immune networks and metastatic colonization.
40932351 | Immunological microenvironment differences between left and right colon cancer: dynamic interactions of CASC15+KLK6+ epithelial subpopulation with T cells and mast cells. BACKGROUND: Right-sided (RCC) and left-sided colorectal cancers (LCC) exhibit distinct clinical behaviors and molecular characteristics, but immune microenvironmental differences remain unclear. METHODS: Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on 3 LCC and 3 RCC tumors. Validation studies included immunofluorescence on 70 patients (30 LCC and 40 RCC). Analytical methods comprised cellular heterogeneity assessment (Seurat, inferCNV), pseudotime trajectory reconstruction (Monocle2), pathway enrichment (GSVA), and cell-cell communication inference (CellChat). RESULTS: RCC displayed significantly increased exhausted CD8+ T cells and decreased activated CD8+ T cells compared to LCC. Concurrently, RCC showed reduced proportions of TNF+ mast cells and increased VEGFA+ mast cells. We identified a CASC15+KLK6+ epithelial subpopulation specifically enriched in RCC tumors, exhibiting high copy number variation scores, elevated malignant pathway activity, and significant negative correlation with patient survival (r = - 0.2919, p = 0.0142). Enhanced intercellular communication involving MIF signaling (CD74/CXCR4/CD44) and CD99 pathways was observed between epithelial cells, T cells, and mast cells in RCC. CONCLUSION: RCC harbors an immunosuppressive niche driven by T-cell exhaustion, mast cell reprogramming, and expansion of a malignant CASC15+KLK6+ epithelial subpopulation. Targeting MIF and CD99 signaling networks represents a potential therapeutic strategy for right-sided colon cancer.
38894685 | Macrophages exploit the mannose receptor and JAK-STAT1-MHC-II pathway to drive antigen presentation and the antimycobacterial immune response after BCG vaccination. Tuberculosis (TB), caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( M. tb), remains one of the leading causes of fatal infectious diseases worldwide. The only licensed vaccine, Mycobacterium bovis Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG), has variable efficacy against TB in adults. Insufficiency of immune cell function diminishes the protective effects of the BCG vaccine. It is critical to clarify the mechanism underlying the antimycobacterial immune response during BCG vaccination. Macrophage mannose receptor (MR) is important for enhancing the uptake and processing of glycoconjugated antigens from pathogens for presentation to T cells, but the roles of macrophage MR in the BCG-induced immune response against M. tb are not yet clear. Here, we discover that macrophage MR deficiency impairs the antimycobacterial immune response in BCG-vaccinated mice. Mechanistically, macrophage MR triggers JAK-STAT1 signaling, which promotes antigen presentation via upregulated MHC-II and induces IL-12 production by macrophages, contributing to CD4 + T cell activation and IFN-gamma production. MR deficiency in macrophages reduces the vaccine efficacy of BCG and increases susceptibility to M. tb H37Ra challenge in mice. Our results suggest that MR is critical for macrophage antigen presentation and the antimycobacterial immune response to BCG vaccination and offer valuable guidance for the preventive strategy of BCG immunization.
40723184 | CD19-ReTARGTPR: A Novel Fusion Protein for Physiological Engagement of Anti-CMV Cytotoxic T Cells Against CD19-Expressing Malignancies. Background/Objectives: The physiological activation of cytotoxic CD8pos T cells (CTLs) relies on the engagement of the TCR/CD3 complex with cognate peptide-HLA class I (pHLA-I) on target cells, triggering cell lysis with appropriate cytokine release and minimized off-target toxicity. In contrast, current immunotherapies for CD19-expressing hematological malignancies, such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells and bispecific T cell engagers (BiTEs), bypass TCR/pHLA interactions, resulting in CTL hyperactivation and excessive cytokine release, which frequently cause severe immune-related adverse events (irAEs). Thus, there is a pressing need for T cell-based therapies that preserve physiological activation while maintaining antitumor efficacy. Methods: To address this, we developed CD19-ReTARGTPR, a novel fusion protein consisting of the immunodominant cytomegalovirus (CMV) pp65-derived peptide TPRVTGGAM (TPR) covalently presented by a soluble HLA-B*07:02/beta2-microglobulin complex fused to a high-affinity CD19-targeting Fab antibody fragment. The treatment of CD19-expressing cancer cells with CD19-ReTARGTPR makes them recognizable for pre-existing anti-CMVpp65 CTLs via physiological TCR-pHLA engagement. Results: Our preclinical data demonstrate that CD19-ReTARGTPR efficiently redirects anti-CMV CTLs to eliminate CD19-expressing cancer cells, including both established cell lines and primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Unlike CD19-directed CAR T cells or the CD19/CD3 BiTE blinatumomab, CD19-ReTARGTPR mediated robust cytotoxic activity without triggering supraphysiological cytokine release. Importantly, this approach retained efficacy even against cancer cells with low CD19 expression. Conclusions: In summary, we provide a robust proof-of-concept study and show that CD19-ReTARGTPR offers a promising alternative strategy for T cell redirection, enabling the selective and effective killing of CD19-expressing malignancies while minimizing cytokine-driven toxicities through physiological CTL activation pathways.
39885374 | Identifying Safeguards Disabled by Epstein-Barr Virus Infections in Genomes From Patients With Breast Cancer: Chromosomal Bioinformatics Analysis. Background: The causes of breast cancer are poorly understood. A potential risk factor is Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a lifelong infection nearly everyone acquires. EBV-transformed human mammary cells accelerate breast cancer when transplanted into immunosuppressed mice, but the virus can disappear as malignant cells reproduce. If this model applies to human breast cancers, then they should have genome damage characteristic of EBV infection. Objective: This study tests the hypothesis that EBV infection predisposes one to breast cancer by causing permanent genome damage that compromises cancer safeguards. Methods: Publicly available genome data from approximately 2100 breast cancers and 25 ovarian cancers were compared to cancers with proven associations to EBV, including 70 nasopharyngeal cancers, 90 Burkitt lymphomas, 88 diffuse large B-cell lymphomas, and 34 gastric cancers. Calculation algorithms to make these comparisons were developed. Results: Chromosome breakpoints in breast and ovarian cancer clustered around breakpoints in EBV-associated cancers. Breakpoint distributions in breast and EBV-associated cancers on some chromosomes were not confidently distinguished (P>.05), but differed from controls unrelated to EBV infection. Viral breakpoint clusters occurred in high-risk, sporadic, and other breast cancer subgroups. Breakpoint clusters disrupted gene functions essential for cancer protection, which remain compromised even if EBV infection disappears. As CRISPR (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats)-like reminders of past infection during evolution, EBV genome fragments were found regularly interspaced between Piwi-interacting RNA (piRNA) genes on chromosome 6. Both breast and EBV-associated cancers had inactivated genes that guard piRNA defenses and the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) locus. Breast and EBV-associated cancer breakpoints and other variations converged around the highly polymorphic MHC. Not everyone develops cancer because MHC differences produce differing responses to EBV infection. Chromosome shattering and mutation hot spots in breast cancers preferentially occurred at incorporated viral sequences. On chromosome 17, breast cancer breakpoints that clustered around those in EBV-mediated cancers were linked to estrogen effects. Other breast cancer breaks affected sites where EBV inhibits JAK-STAT and SWI-SNF signaling pathways. A characteristic EBV-cancer gene deletion that shifts metabolism to favor tumors was also found in breast cancers. These changes push breast cancer into metastasis and then favor survival of metastatic cells. Conclusions: EBV infection predisposes one to breast cancer and metastasis, even if the virus disappears. Identifying this pathogenic viral damage may improve screening, treatment, and prevention. Immunizing children against EBV may protect against breast, ovarian, other cancers, and potentially even chronic unexplained diseases.
41132836 | A dual-targeting peptide-drug conjugate based on CXCR4 and FOLR1 inhibits triple-negative breast cancer. Triple-negative breast cancer is therapeutically challenging due to the low expression of tumor markers and 'cold' tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment. Here, we present a dual-targeting peptide-drug conjugate (PDC) for tumor inhibition. Our PDC efficiently and selectively delivers cytotoxic Monomethyl Auristatin E (MMAE) into tumor cells via C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) and folate receptor 1 (FOLR1) for synergistic inhibition of growth and metastasis. Our results show that the dual-targeting PDC has potent antitumor activity in cultured human cells and several murine transplanted tumor models without apparent toxicity. The combination of dual-targeting PDC and radiotherapy modulates the tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment by increasing CD8+ T cell infiltration and attenuating the proportion of myeloid-derived suppressor and regulatory T cells. Therefore, our dual-targeting PDC represents a promising new strategy for cancer therapy that rebalances the immune system and promotes tumor regression.
42137296 | In vivo HSC gene therapy enables sustained eCD4-Ig expression for SIV prevention. We aim to develop an in vivo hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) gene therapy approach for the prevention and control of HIV-1 infection. Toward this goal, we engineered helper-dependent adenovirus (HDAd) 6/3+ vectors to directly transduce HSCs in vivo, enabling progeny cells to secrete eCD4-Ig, a decoy protein that broadly neutralizes HIV/simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) isolates by mimicking the primary viral receptor CD4 and coreceptors such as CCR5. In rhesus macaques, the HDAd 6/3+ platform achieved long-term expression of an enhanced eCD4-Ig variant (\eCD4-Ig-Emm06\) that retained potent neutralization efficacy in vivo. Transduced HSCs differentiated into lymphoid and myeloid lineages and trafficked to systemic tissues, with B cells emerging as a major source of eCD4Ig-Emm06. HDAd-eCD4Ig-Emm06-treated animals had significantly reduced splenic viral reservoirs, and the animal with the highest circulating levels of eCD4Ig-Emm06 exhibited fewer founder viruses, delayed onset to viremia, and lower plasma viral loads, demonstrating promise within this proof-of-concept study. Further improvements in protective efficacy may be achieved through approaches identified in this study, including lineage-specific expression, reduced immunogenicity, and efficient selection. These findings validate HDAd 6/3+ as a promising platform for durable gene-based delivery of biologic therapeutics and guide advancement of HSC gene therapy for HIV and other chronic infections.
32840378 | Alkamides and Piperamides as Potential Antivirals against the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The pandemic caused by the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has quickly spread globally, infecting millions and killing hundreds of thousands of people. Herein, to identify potential antiviral agents, 97 natural amide-like compounds known as alkamides and piperamides were tested against SARS-CoV-2 main protease (Mpro) and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), and the human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) using molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations. The docking results showed that alkamides and dimeric piperamides from Piper species have a high binding affinity and potential antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2. The absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME) profile and Lipinski's rule of five showed that dimeric piperamides have druglikeness potential. The molecular dynamics results showed that pipercyclobutanamide B forms a complex with Mpro at a similar level of stability than N3-I. Our overall results indicate that alkamides and piperamides, and specifically pipercyclobutanamide B, should be further studied as compounds with SARS-CoV-2 antiviral properties.
42109609 | Complement Anaphylatoxin C5a-Induced Mouse Lymphatic Functions Modulate Interactions Between Endothelial Cells and T Lymphocytes. The lymphatic system is a highly branched endothelial tubular network that facilitates the migration of immune cells from the peripheral tissues to lymph nodes (LNs) and other lymphoid organs. Complement factors are essential for innate and adaptive immune functions. Complement anaphylatoxin C5a is crucial in vascular endothelial cell activation and lymphocyte polarization. Understanding the impact of C5a and its cognate receptor C5ar1 signaling on lymphatic function could provide new insights into the mechanisms of immune dysregulation observed in chronic inflammatory diseases. We demonstrate that acute C5a challenge in wildtype C57B6/J mice significantly reduced lymph propulsion compared to their C5ar1-deficient counterparts. C5ar1-dependent attenuation of lymph propulsion with LPS challenge corroborated with significantly increased endothelial-derived inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression. C5ar1-iNOS axis modulated T helper cell polarization towards Cd4+/Ccr5+ Th1 subtypes, indicating that C5a-activated endothelial-iNOS may contribute to Th1 polarization in the peripheral LNs during homing. Finally, we observed C5a-mediated endothelial surface glycoprotein CD146 interaction with Th1 cell intermediate filament protein vimentin that may facilitate transmigration of activated Th1 cells into systemic circulation and tissue interstitium. Given the critical role of the C5a/C5ar1 axis in promoting lymphatic dysfunction, our study highlights the therapeutic potential of targeting C5ar1 in chronic inflammatory conditions.
40530955 | A multi-gene predictive model for the radiation sensitivity of nasopharyngeal carcinoma based on machine learning. Radiotherapy resistance in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a major cause of recurrence and metastasis. Identifying radiotherapy-related biomarkers is crucial for improving patient survival outcomes. This study developed the nasopharyngeal carcinoma radiotherapy sensitivity score (NPC-RSS) to predict radiotherapy response. By evaluating 113 machine learning algorithm combinations, the glmBoost+NaiveBayes model was selected to construct the NPC-RSS based on 18 key genes, which demonstrated good predictive performance in both public and in-house datasets. The study found that NPC-RSS is closely associated with immune features, including chemokine factors and their receptor families and the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). Gene functional analysis revealed that NPC-RSS influences key signaling pathways such as Wnt/beta-catenin, JAK-STAT, NF-kappaB, and T cell receptors. Cell line validation confirmed that SMARCA2 and CD9 gene expression is consistent with NPC-RSS. Single-cell analysis revealed that the radiotherapy-sensitive group exhibited richer immune infiltration and activation states. NPC-RSS can serve as a predictive tool for radiotherapy sensitivity in NPC, offering new insights for precise screening of patients who may benefit from radiotherapy.
41646960 | Neutrophil depletion at the early stage of Japanese encephalitis virus infection affects CD8+ T cell infiltration into the mouse brain and causes severe encephalitis. Neutrophils have been reported to have protective and detrimental functions in viral infections. However, the role of neutrophils remains unexplored in Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) infection. In this study, we elucidated the dynamics of neutrophils and their influence on immune cell recruitment in subclinical and severe encephalitis in mouse models. Further, we depleted neutrophils from 3-4 week-old C57BL/6 mice using mAb1A8 (anti-Ly6G) antibody and studied their association with inflammation, viral replication, immune cell infiltration and disease outcome. We observed that an increase in JEV replication is associated with increased infiltration of neutrophils in the spleen and brain. Further studies confirmed that depletion of neutrophils at an early stage of JEV infection reduced CD8 abundance in the infected brain and accelerated death in mice. We also observed that inhibition of the CXCL12-CXCR4 signalling axis by antagonist AMD3100 reduced CD8 abundance in the brain and augmented inflammasome activation, leading to fatal encephalitis. Reduced CXCR4 levels in the spleen and blood of CD8+T cells correlated with enhanced Granzyme B level, indicating CD8 cells differentiated more into effector phenotypes in neutrophil-depleted mice. Furthermore, CD8 depletion delayed the death of mice infected with a sublethal strain compared to neutrophil-depleted mice, suggesting that neutrophils play a vital role in the early restriction of viral replication, whereas CD8 is essential later in clearing the virus. Taken together, our study sheds new light on the role of neutrophils in the pathogenic mechanisms of JEV encephalitis and highlights the importance of neutrophils and CD8 cells associated with disease outcomes.
41714328 | CCL11 promotes hepatocellular carcinoma recurrence after surgery by potentiating immunosuppressive CCR5 + CD206 + M2-like macrophages and promoting tumor invasiveness. Liver resection is the primary curative treatment for early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC); however, high recurrence rates remain a major challenge in the absence of effective prognostic and preventive strategies. Here, we identified surgery-induced C-C motif chemokine ligand 11 (CCL11) as a pivotal driver of HCC recurrence through dual mechanisms of immunosuppression and tumor invasiveness. Elevated postoperative circulating CCL11 levels correlated strongly with HCC recurrence and poorer survival, and their integration with clinical parameters enhanced the predictive accuracy of HCC recurrence. Mechanistically, hepatic injury-induced CCL11 recruited immunosuppressive CCR5+CD206+ M2-like macrophages into the residual liver. These macrophages exhibited enhanced PD-L1 expression via activation of the CCL11/IKK/IkappaB/NF-kappaB1 axis and promoted regulatory T cell (Treg) induction from naive CD4+ T cells. Concurrently, CCL11-CCR3 signaling in HCC cells activated PI3K/AKT/MafK to upregulate MMP13, enhancing the invasion ability of HCC cells. In orthotopic models, CCL11 enrichment increased tumor burden and extrahepatic metastases, while post-resection anti-CCL11 therapy reduced HCC recurrence and extended the survival rate of tumor-bearing mice. Our findings unveil CCL11 as a master regulator of the pro-tumorigenic niche post-resection, driving recurrence through coordinated immune evasion and promoting tumor invasiveness. Targeting the CCL11-CCR5/CCR3 axis presents a promising strategy to improve HCC surgical outcomes.
41083088 | Nanotoxin induces in situ pyroptosis to sensitize alphaPD1 to ablate metastases in microsattelite stable colorectal cancer. Nanomedicine has not generated anticancer immunotherapies because of insufficient targeted specificity, lack of immunity, and associated toxicity. We developed a T22-DITOX-H6 (TDX) nanotoxin to selectively release the diphtheria toxin in the cancer cells in immunosuppressed CXCR4-overexpressing (CXCR4+) colorectal (CRC) models, inducing pyroptosis and anticancer effect. Microsatellite stable (MSS) CRC patients do not respond to current immunotherapy. Since pyroptosis is highly immunogenic, we treated with TDX immunocompetent CXCR4+ CT26 MSS metastatic CRC models to selectively deliver the toxin to induce in situ pyroptosis mediated by the activation of NLRP3, Caspase-1 GSDMD and IL-beta. In contrast to immunosuppressed, in situ pyroptosis by TDX in immunocompetent models trigger CD8+ T cell recruitment, activation and killing of cancer cells in tissues, mimicking the pyroptosis that the host induces to kill diphtheria-infected cells. The combination of TDX and alphaPD1 further increases CD8+ recruitment and perforin secretion, achieving a tissue-specific antimetastatic activity in mesentery, peritoneum, and lung, and especially in liver metastases, without systemic toxicity. This is the first time that a novel nanomedicine achieves local T cell activation and antimetastatic effect mediated by pyroptosis and immunogenic cell death, whereas the combination with alphaPD1 enhances T cell activation, reaching a synergistic response in MSS CRC models.
41944384 | Altered Chemokine Receptor Expression in CD4+ T Cells: A Signature of Visceral Leishmaniasis. Robust T helper 1 (Th1) cell responses, which activate macrophages to kill intracellular parasites, are required to control Leishmania infection. Yet, visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients do not control the infection despite the expansion of CD4+ T cells and increased IFN-gamma expression in the spleen. Chemokines and/or chemokine receptors are involved in cellular migration and are critical in the inflammatory response. In a recent study that defined a transcriptional signature for CD4+ T cells from active VL patients, we found several differentially expressed chemokine receptor genes in CD4+ T cells compared to healthy endemic controls (EC). Since CD4+ T cells play crucial roles in parasite clearance, a better understanding of the role of altered chemokine receptor expression on CD4+ T cells and their different subsets during VL could inform future treatment strategies. In this study, we examined the gene expression and surface protein expression of differentially expressed chemokine receptors found in human VL subjects, relative to endemic controls (EC) by real-time qPCR and multicolor flow cytometry, respectively. We measured chemokine levels in plasma by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and performed transwell migration assays and flow cytometry to measure the migratory potential of CD4+ T cell subsets. We found elevated mRNA and surface protein expression of CCR5, while reduced CCR4 and CCR6 expression in CD4+ T cells from VL patients compared to EC. The frequency of CCR5 expressing Th1 cells was increased in peripheral blood, indicating the expansion of CCR5+ Th1 cells that may be responsible for Th1 cells trafficking towards infected tissues. Lower CCR4 expression was found on regulatory T (Treg) cells and central memory T (Tcm) cells, possibly explaining the reduced frequencies of these cells in peripheral blood during VL. The frequency of CCR6 expressing CD4+ T cells was also found to be lower in VL patients. Our results show that VL patients possess unique chemokine receptor expression patterns on the cell surface of CD4+ T cells, compared to EC. We also found increased levels of CCL3, CCL5 and CCL20 in VL plasma compared to EC. However, no changes were observed for CCL17 levels in VL plasma compared to EC, but their levels increased following treatment. We also observed reduced migration of VL CD4+ T cells, relative to other lymphocytes and mononuclear cells, irrespective of exogenous CCL5 presence. However, the frequency of CD4+ T cells migrating in response to CCL5 in EC individuals was similar. Additionally, we noted the frequency of CCR5+ Th1 cells was increased in VL patients compared to EC. However, no enhancement was seen in the migratory capacity of CCR5+ CD4+ T cells in the presence of recombinant CCL5. This suggests that the CCR5 receptor signalling pathway is less responsive towards exogenous CCL5, potentially due to high levels of CCL3 and CCL5 present in VL plasma, which may saturate surface CCR5. The upregulation of CCR5 expression and downregulation of CCR4 and CCR6 by CD4+ T cells distinguished VL patients from healthy individuals. These findings provide new insights into VL pathogenesis and could direct the development of new and improved disease diagnostics and therapeutics for treatment of VL.
41959409 | High-dimensional multiomics reveals perturbations to IL-6/IL-6R axis and RUNX3 in CD4+ T cells during third trimester pregnancy. Objectives CD4+ T cells play key roles in regulating immune responses during pregnancy, therefore we aimed to understand the CD4+ T cell surface proteome and transcriptome during pregnancy. Methods CD4+ T cells were analysed in blood and decidua from term-pregnancies (>37 weeks), and non-pregnant blood. >350 surface proteins were screened via flow cytometry, and transcriptomes were analysed using single-cell RNA sequencing with >130 CITE-seq barcoded antibodies. Results Surface protein screening identified changes to ILT4/CD85d, CD9, IFN-gamma receptor beta-chain, CX3CR1 and CCR5 in the pregnant blood and decidual CD4+ T cells. CX3CR1 and CCR5 had the highest expression on the effector-memory T cell (TEM) subset in the blood, with expression consistent across subsets in decidua. CD126/IL-6R was lower in pregnant blood and decidual CD4+ T cells, while scRNAseq identified enrichment in the IL-6R signalling pathway in naive CD4+ T cells in pregnant blood. Both sIL-6R and IL-6 concentrations were increased in plasma during pregnancy, suggesting perturbations to the IL-6/IL-6R signalling axis. Meanwhile, decidual CD4+ T cells had increased expression of transcription factor RUNX3 in the CD69+ tissue-resident-like subset. Conclusions Our findings demonstrate altered molecular expression in CD4+ T cells during pregnancy. This provides important mechanistic insight of their adaptation and regulation during placental development, which may drive placental dysfunction or pregnancy complications including preeclampsia, fetal growth restriction and stillbirth. These new data may inform future studies that focus on determining the significance of differentially-expressed immune features in pregnancy to identify potential targets for immune modulation to treat pregnancy complications and infections. Keywords: CD4+ T cell, pregnancy, human, IL-6R.
40542889 | Recent Advances in the Immunopathology of Axial Spondyloarthritis: with and without HLA-B27. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA) is a chronic multi-organ rheumatic disease affecting various tissues, and recent key advancements have provided significant insight into understanding its immunopathology. RECENT FINDINGS: Expanded CD8+ T cell subsets bearing unique T cell receptor (TCR) motifs (TRAV21/TRBV9) in HLA-B27-positive axSpA patients or those with acute anterior uveitis were recently identified. These T cells can bind to self- and bacterial-derived peptides, supporting the \arthritogenic peptide\ hypothesis. Monoclonal antibody-mediated elimination of these expanded T cells has shown potential as a novel treatment for axSpA in a phase II clinical trial, offering a groundbreaking therapeutic approach. In addition to T cells, neutrophils have emerged as important mediators of both inflammation and new bone formation in axSpA, potentially contributing to HLA-B27-independent immune pathomechanisms. Key neutrophil-derived molecules-such as macrophage migration inhibitory factor, hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha, caspase recruitment domain-containing protein 9, and neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs)-have been shown in preclinical models to promote Th17-mediated inflammation and reduce regulatory T cell numbers. These mechanisms may be relevant to axSpA pathogenesis and represent potential new therapeutic targets. In recent years, significant progress has been made in understanding the immunopathology of axSpA through both HLA-B27-dependent and -independent mechanisms. However, key questions remain. The pathogenic HLA-B27:05-bound peptides driving CD8+ T cell expansion remain unidentified. Moreover, due to the diversity of TCR motifs that recognize self- and microbial peptides, therapies targeting a single TCR (e.g., TRBV9) may have limited efficacy. Further research is needed to clarify axSpA pathogenesis across both pathways.
40004750 | HLA-B*58 and HLA-C*2 Alleles Are Associated with the Occurrence of Rheumatoid Arthritis Among Omanis. Background/Objectives: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that is influenced by polymorphisms in the HLA molecules. Only a few studies assessed the presence of an association between HLA class I genes and RA. Moreover, ethnic background influences the association of HLA molecules and RA. HLA-I molecules are essential for the activation of CD8 T cells and natural killer (NK) cells. The implication of these cells in RA pathogenesis is controversial. Therefore, we investigated the presence of associations between HLA-I alleles and RA in Omani patients. Methods: HLA class I alleles were genotyped in a total of 206 volunteers (102 RA patients and 104 controls). The control group included volunteers who were not affected by any known disease. The Chi square test was used to investigate the significance of the associations between the HLA alleles and the occurrence of RA. A corrected p value (pc) was calculated using the Bonferroni correction. Results: The frequency of HLA-B*58 was  2.7-fold lower in RA patients (10.8%) compared to the control group (28.8%; pc = 0.0324). Moreover, the frequency of HLA-C*02 in RA patient was  8-fold higher compared to the control group (pc = 0.0104). Conclusions: This study is the first to demonstrate the presence of association between HLA-B*58 and HLA-C*02 and the occurrence of RA, which could guide future research on targeted therapies. It also suggests that these HLA alleles might influence CD8 T cells and NK cells implication in RA pathogenesis.
19086458 | [HIV tests]. In the care and treatment of HIV-infected patients, several laboratory methods are indispensable. The diagnosis of HIV infection is established by one of the following methods: detecting antibodies to the virus; detecting the viral p24 antigen; detecting viral nucleic acid; or culturing HIV. The most widely used test is the detection of antibodies to HIV. Rapid serological tests take only 15 minutes for all procedures and are very useful in clinical settings. The rapid saliva test has also been developed, but is not available in Japan. Recently, some serological test kits have become commercially available via websites. Thus, people can perform tests by themselves without visiting testing facilities, with samples being sent by post. The CD4 T-cell count is the most important marker to determine when to start anti-HIV drugs. In addition, resistance testing should be used to guide the selection of the antiretroviral regimen in both treatment-naive and -experienced patients. The following tests are still experimental but very important: HLA-B*5701 testing should be performed prior to the initiation of abacavir. Recent studies have revealed that HLA-B*5701 is strongly associated with the abacavir hypersensitivity reaction. However, fortunately, Japanese rarely have HLA-B*5701. The viral tropism assay should be performed prior to the initiation of the CCR5 antagonist.
25362010 | Genetic factors associated with slow progression of HIV among perinatally-infected Indian children. OBJECTIVE: To study the association between common AIDS restriction genes and slow disease progression among perinatally-infected children in India. METHODS: ART-naive children were identified and selected host factors including CCR5- 32, SDF1-3'A, CCR5-59029G, HLA-B*27, B*57 were studied using allele-specific PCR-RFLP and SSPGo HLA typing kits. RESULTS: Among 165 children, 10 (6%) long-term non-progressors and 8 (5%) slow progressors were identified. For comparison, 12 children with normal progression of HIV were included. The frequencies of CCR5- 32 deletion, SDF1-3'A and CCR5-59029G did not differ significantly. HLA-B*27 and B*57 were observed only in long-term non-progressors or slow progressors, who also harbored either SDF1-3'A and/or CCR5-59029G. CONCLUSIONS: There is an association between host genetic factors and slow disease progression in this population.
41750333 | Chemokine Receptor Profile of Circulating Leukocyte Subsets in Response to Acute High-Intensity Interval Training. Physically active individuals demonstrate enhanced immune competence. Efficient execution of effector function relies on chemokine receptor-regulated immune cell trafficking along chemokine gradients to sites of inflammation, infection, tumors, or tissue damage. This study investigates the impact of acute high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on chemokine receptor expression in leukocytes. Sixteen healthy participants completed a single HIIT session, and peripheral blood was collected before exercise (Bsl), immediately after (Ex02), and one hour later (Ex60). Surface expression of selected chemokine receptors was measured using flow cytometry on CD4+ T cells, gammadelta T cells, NK cells, and monocytes, followed by FlowSOM clustering. NK cells, CD4+ T cells, and gammadelta T cells were strongly mobilized at Ex02 and returned to or below baseline at Ex60. HIIT preferentially mobilized CX3CR1+ CXCR2+ CD56dim NK cells, CD4+ T cells expressing CX3CR1hi and CCR5+, and CX3CR1+ CD56+ gammadelta T cells, indicating mobilization of immune cells phenotypically associated with migratory and cytotoxic potential. Proportions of intermediate and non-classical monocytes increased at Ex02 and decreased at Ex60. In conclusion, HIIT induced a rapid redistribution of leukocyte subsets with chemokine receptor profiles suggesting enhanced endothelial interaction and migratory capacity toward effector tissues.
41013186 | Complete genome sequence analysis of Sarbecovirus (severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronaviruses) from Zimbabwean insectivorous bats. Bat-borne severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronaviruses (bat SARSr-CoVs), belonging to the Sarbecovirus subgenus of the Betacoronavirus genus pose a potential risk for zoonotic spillover. This study reports the complete genome sequences of bat sarbecoviruses from Nycteris macrotis and Rhinolophus simulator insectivorous bat species in Zimbabwe. Using genome walking and nested PCR approaches, six full viral genomes were amplified, sequenced and assembled: one from Nycteris macrotis (MAG1042) and five from Rhinolophus simulator bats species (MAG388, MAG562, MAG575, MAG850, and MAG859). Comparative genomic analysis revealed a high degree of sequence conservation (99.6-99.9%) among the Rhinolophus simulator-characterised sequences, while the Nycteris macrotis characterised sequence exhibited 96.7% identity with the Rhinolophus simulator consensus (MAG Cons) genomes, suggesting genus-specific evolution. Furthermore, the spike region exhibited notable divergence, with only 88% sequence identity between the two genera. A complete absence of ORF8, and truncation of ORF7b genes were observed, while the RNA dependent RNA polymerase genes were highly conserved across all strains. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated distinct continental clustering, with the Zimbabwean genomic sequences forming a well-supported clade within the African lineage (Lineage 4). These newly characterized Zimbabwean sarbecoviruses sequences represent the most recent evolutionary branches within the Lineage 4-African clade, indicating ongoing viral diversification in local bat populations. These findings expand understanding of SARSr-CoV diversity in African bats and underscore the importance of geographical isolation in viral evolution.
41088357 | Deciphering tumor-intrinsic and immune characteristics in resectable non-small cell lung cancer treated with neoadjuvant pembrolizumab and chemotherapy. BACKGROUND: Neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy (NCIT) aims to improve surgical and survival outcomes of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. However, the clinical application of NCIT still necessitates coordinated immune and molecular biomarker testing. METHODS: We conducted whole transcriptome sequencing on baseline and surgical samples from 26 patients with stage II-III resectable NSCLC who underwent neoadjuvant pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy followed by surgery. Gene expression and immune cell characteristics in the tumor microenvironment were assessed in relation to pathological complete response (pCR) and patient prognosis. RESULTS: Baseline pCR tumors were characterized by increased expression of genes related to antigen presentation (HLA-C, HLA-E, B2M), immune checkpoint regulation (BTN3A1, CD274), and innate immunity (HMGB1). Surgical samples from pCR patients showed elevated expression of immune-related genes (IGHD, LILRA6, and ICOSLG) but reduced CEACAM6 expression linked to cell adhesion and tumor progression. During NCIT, plasma cells and resting NK cells declined consistently across pathological groups. Non-pCR patients exhibited greater leukocyte-mediated immunity and higher CD8 + T cell infiltration (P < 0.01) post-treatment, suggestive of a sustained anti-tumor immune response. Baseline MGAT5B expression predicted pathological response (area under the curve: 0.86) and was associated with shorter disease-free survival (DFS; P = 0.03), with a consistent trend for overall survival (OS). Higher CEACAM6 expression in surgical samples was associated with both shorter DFS and OS (P = 0.03 and P = 0.04, respectively). The clinical relevance of MGAT5B and CEACAM6 expression for predicting NCIT response and prognosis was further validated in a clinical validation cohort. CONCLUSIONS: Our study identified molecular biomarkers for pathological and survival outcomes, which may inform optimal treatment decision-making, guide postoperative therapy, and improve survival outcomes for stage II-III patients with resectable NSCLC.
39772235 | The 'Oma's of the Gammas-Cancerogenesis by gamma-Herpesviruses. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), which are the only members of the gamma(gamma) herpesviruses, are oncogenic viruses that significantly contribute to the development of various human cancers, such as Burkitt's lymphoma, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, Hodgkin's lymphoma, Kaposi's sarcoma, and primary effusion lymphoma. Oncogenesis triggered by gamma-herpesviruses involves complex interactions between viral genetics, host cellular mechanisms, and immune evasion strategies. At the genetic level, crucial viral oncogenes participate in the disruption of cell signaling, leading to uncontrolled proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis. These viral proteins can modulate several cellular pathways, including the NF-kappaB and JAK/STAT pathways, which play essential roles in cell survival and inflammation. Epigenetic modifications further contribute to EBV- and KSHV-mediated cancerogenesis. Both EBV and KSHV manipulate host cell DNA methylation, histone modification, and chromatin remodeling, the interplay of which contribute to the elevation of oncogene expression and the silencing of the tumor suppressor genes. Immune factors also play a pivotal role in the development of cancer. The gamma-herpesviruses have evolved intricate immune evasion strategies, including the manipulation of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and the release of cytokines, allowing infected cells to evade immune detection and destruction. In addition, a compromised immune system, such as in HIV/AIDS patients, significantly increases the risk of cancers associated with EBV and KSHV. This review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the genetic, epigenetic, and immune mechanisms by which gamma-herpesviruses drive cancerogenesis, highlighting key molecular pathways and potential therapeutic targets.
41089683 | Unraveling the critical role of SUMOylation in the governing of tumor immunity. SUMOylation, a dynamic regulatory process in post-translational modifications (PTMs) mediated by small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) ligases and deSUMOylases, regulates protein function through reversible lysine conjugation. Emerging evidence has identified tumor-mediated hijacking of SUMOylation in both malignant cells and immune components as a novel immune evasion mechanism. This review represents a comprehensive update on how tumor-intrinsic SUMOylation modulates tumor immunity-related JAK/STAT, MHC-I, NF-kappaB, IFN-I/II pathways and other key proteins to drive its immune evasion, and immune cell-intrinsic SUMOylation in regulating natural killer (NK) and T cell cytotoxicity, dendritic cell (DC) maturation, and macrophage polarization. Tumor immunotherapy is a new potential strategy for cancer, mainly represented by immune checkpoint inhibitions (ICIs), which exhibits poor efficacy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and other solid tumors. Targeting SUMOylation of tumors presents high potential to synergistically improve the therapeutic effect of ICIs. Preclinical studies have shed light on the therapeutic potential of the combination of SUMOylation inhibitors such as TAK-981 or 2-D08 with ICIs, thus significantly improving tumor prognosis. As current phase I trials suggest dose-dependent toxicity of TAK-981, there is a need for targeted delivery systems; AI-assisted screening of novel SUMOylation inhibitors (SUMOi) which are FDA approved serves as another potential approach; besides, antibodies against these pivotal SUMOylated molecules in tumors could be conjugated with SUMOi to restore the activity of specific proteins in tumor microenvironment. In all, our review proposes that current or other novel strategies for SUMOylation inhibition stands as a promising adjuvant to immunotherapy for tumor management, thereby potentially contributing to the favorable prognosis of cancer patients.
41660411 | Gastrointestinal Mucosal Disruptions During ART-Treated SIV/Plasmodium fragile Co-Infection. Background: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and Plasmodium spp., which causes malaria, are co-endemic. Previously, we showed that during antiretroviral therapy (ART)-treated simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)/Plasmodium fragile co-infection, peripheral markers of neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation positively correlated with peripheral markers of disease and gastrointestinal (GI) dysfunction. However, the impact of co-infection directly in the GI mucosa is unclear. We hypothesized that ART-treated SIV/P. fragile co-infection would result in peripheral and GI immune disruption associated with exacerbated clinical manifestations of SIV and P. fragile. Methods: Adult male rhesus macaques (RMs; n=6) were inoculated with SIVmac239, initiated ART at week 8 post-SIV infection (p.i.), were inoculated with P. fragile at week 12 p.i., and were followed until week 20 p.i. Plasma viral loads, peripheral parasitemia, and peripheral and GI immune cell frequencies and function were assessed longitudinally. Results: We observed significant CCR5+ CD4+ T cell decline in the periphery, colon, and duodenum following SIV infection. Neutrophil frequencies were unchanged throughout ART-treated SIV/P. fragile co-infection. Notably, duodenum NET-forming granulocyte frequencies were significantly positively associated with peripheral SIV burden following P. fragile co-infection but were unassociated with peripheral parasitemia and CD4+ T cell frequencies. Finally, although P. fragile was present in the duodenum, GI parasite burden was not associated with NET-forming granulocyte frequencies, peripheral viral loads, or CD4+ T cell frequencies. Conclusions: P. fragile co-infection during ART-treated SIV could cause mucosal disruptions that contribute to peripheral SIV replication despite ART. These data may have implications for HIV and malaria disease progression and treatment strategies.
41125346 | Preferential Recognition of Drug-Induced Altered Self-Presentation on Tumor Cells, but Not Host Cells, by CD8+ T Cells for Eliciting Anti-Tumor Immunity. We previously reported that CD8+ T cell activation via drug-induced altered self-presentation increases the tumor immunogenicity and cancer immunotherapy efficacy. Although the anti-human immunodeficiency virus drug abacavir (ABC) increases the tumor immunogenicity and induces CD8+ T cell anti-tumor immune responses in mice inoculated with tumor cells ectopically expressing the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B*57:01, whether such anti-tumor immunity is also triggered in hosts with high HLA-B*57:01 expression levels remain unclear. To verify this, we investigated the anti-tumor effects of ABC on HLA-B*57:01-expressing tumor and normal host cells using HLA-B*57:01 transgenic (B*57:01-Tg) mice in this study. ABC suppressed the HLA-B*57:01-expressing B16F10 tumor growth and increased the CD8+ T cell tumor infiltration in B*57:01-Tg mice. ABC also activated the tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells to secrete interferon-gamma but did not promote their proliferation in the tumors of B*57:01-Tg mice. Moreover, ABC did not increase the effector CD8+ T cell proportions in the tumor-draining lymph nodes of B*57:01-Tg mice. Overall, CD8+ T cells preferentially recognized the ABC-induced altered self-antigen-presenting HLA-B*57:01-expressing tumor cells, but not host cells, to elicit anti-tumor immunity.
39218899 | Suppression of the JAK/STAT pathway inhibits neuroinflammation in the line 61-PFF mouse model of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by neuroinflammation, progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons, and accumulation of alpha-synuclein (alpha-Syn) into insoluble aggregates called Lewy pathology. The Line 61 alpha-Syn mouse is an established preclinical model of PD; Thy-1 is used to promote human alpha-Syn expression, and features of sporadic PD develop at 9-18 months of age. To accelerate the PD phenotypes, we injected sonicated human alpha-Syn preformed fibrils (PFFs) into the striatum, which produced phospho-Syn (p-alpha-Syn) inclusions in the substantia nigra pars compacta and significantly increased MHC Class II-positive immune cells. Additionally, there was enhanced infiltration and activation of innate and adaptive immune cells in the midbrain. We then used this new model, Line 61-PFF, to investigate the effect of inhibiting the JAK/STAT signaling pathway, which is critical for regulation of innate and adaptive immune responses. After administration of the JAK1/2 inhibitor AZD1480, immunofluorescence staining showed a significant decrease in p-alpha-Syn inclusions and MHC Class II expression. Flow cytometry showed reduced infiltration of CD4+ T-cells, CD8+ T-cells, CD19+ B-cells, dendritic cells, macrophages, and endogenous microglia into the midbrain. Importantly, single-cell RNA-Sequencing analysis of CD45+ cells from the midbrain identified 9 microglia clusters, 5 monocyte/macrophage (MM) clusters, and 5 T-cell (T) clusters, in which potentially pathogenic MM4 and T3 clusters were associated with neuroinflammatory responses in Line 61-PFF mice. AZD1480 treatment reduced cell numbers and cluster-specific expression of the antigen-presentation genes H2-Eb1, H2-Aa, H2-Ab1, and Cd74 in the MM4 cluster and proinflammatory genes such as Tnf, Il1b, C1qa, and C1qc in the T3 cluster. Together, these results indicate that inhibiting the JAK/STAT pathway suppresses the activation and infiltration of innate and adaptive cells, reducing neuroinflammation in the Line 61-PFF mouse model.
