33047584 | [Effectiveness of intraperitoneal chemotherapy for t4 colon cancer]. OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of intraperitoneal chemotherapy (IPC) with mitomycin C on expression of intraperitoneal cancer cells markers in patients with T4 colon cancer. MATERIAL AND METHODS: For the period from January 2019 to April 2020, 65 patients with T4 colon cancer were included in prospective comparative study. There were 46 patients in the main group and 19 patients in the control group. In the main group, surgical procedure was followed by IPC with mitomycin C. No IPC was performed in the control group. An effectiveness of IPC was evaluated using CD133, CD24, CD26, CD44, CD184 markers expression in peritoneal lavages. RESULTS: Significant between-group differences were observed for CD133 (p=0.0168), CD24 (p=0.0455) and CD44 (p=0.0012). There was a tendency to decrease in the level of CD184 expression in both groups in the second lavage (p=0.0605). CONCLUSION: IPC in patients with T4 colon cancer can reduce the expression and proliferative potential of free cancer cells.
3160777 | Antigen-specific suppressor T lymphocytes in man make use of the same set of surface molecules as do cytolytic T lymphocytes: roles of Leu-2/T8, Leu-4/T3, Leu-5/T11, LFA-1 molecules. When cultured with autologous antigen-primed Leu-3+ lymphoblasts, Leu-2+ cells differentiate into suppressor T cells (Ts) that specifically inhibit the responses of fresh autologous Leu-3+ cells to the priming antigen. We have shown previously that the Leu-4/T3 (CD-3) molecular complex and HLA-A,B molecules on the surface of Leu-3+ inducer blasts are recognized by Leu-2+ Ts during their differentiation. This study examines the role of various cell surface molecules expressed by Leu-2+ Ts during the inductive and effector phases of suppression. Leu-2+ cells were treated in the absence of complement with a variety of monoclonal antibodies recognizing distinct human lymphoid antigens either before or after their activation with alloantigen-primed Leu-3+ blasts. Antibodies to Leu-2/T8 (CD-8) and lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) (CDw-18) molecules inhibited not only the generation but also the effector function of Leu-2+ Ts. Although antibodies to Leu-4/T3 (CD-3) and Leu-5/T11 (CD-2) molecules caused profound inhibition of the activation of Ts, these antibodies failed to inhibit the effector function of Ts. On the contrary, anti-Leu-4 antibody consistently augmented the suppressor effect of Ts. Antibodies directed against Leu-1/T1 (CD-5), Leu-3/T4 (CD-4), LFA-3, and class I (HLA-A,B,C) and class II (HLA-DR,DQ) major histocompatibility complex molecules had no effect on either the generation or the effector function of Ts. These results suggest the involvement of Leu-2/T8 (CD-8), Leu-4/T3 (CD-3), Leu-5/T11 (CD-2), and LFA-1 (CDw-18) molecules on the surfaces of Leu-2+ cells in the activation and effector functions of Ts.
38496688 | Systemic immune index predicts tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte intensity and immunotherapy response in small cell lung cancer. Background: Despite recent progresses in immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) in small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), a lack of understanding regarding the systemic tumor immune environment (STIE) and local tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) makes it difficult to accurately predict clinical outcomes and identify potential beneficiaries from ICB therapy. Methods: We enrolled 191 patients with stage I-III SCLC and comprehensively evaluated the prognostic role of STIE by several quantitative measurements, and further integrate it with a local immune score system (LISS) established by eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) machine learning algorithm. We also test the value of STIE in beneficiary selection in our independent advanced SCLC cohort receiving programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) blockade therapy. Results: Among several systemic immune markers, the STIE as assessed by prognostic nutritional index (PNI) was correlated with disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS), and remained as an independent prognostic factor for SCLC patients [hazard ratio (HR): 0.473, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.241-0.929, P=0.030]. Higher PNI score was closely associated with inflamed SCLC molecular subtype and local tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). We further constructed a LISS which combined top three important local immune biomarkers (CD8+ T-cell count, PD-L1 expression on CD8+ T-cell and CD4+ T-cell count) and integrated it with the PNI score. The final integrated immune risk system was an independent prognostic factor and achieved better predictive performance than Tumor Node Metastasis (TNM) stages and single immune biomarker. Furthermore, PNI-high extensive-stage SCLC patients achieved better clinical response and longer progression-free survival (PFS) (11.8 vs. 5.9 months, P=0.012) from PD-L1 blockade therapy. Conclusions: This study provides a method to investigate the prognostic value of overall immune status by combining the PNI with local immune biomarkers in SCLC. The promising clinical application of PNI in efficacy prediction and beneficiary selection for SCLC immunotherapy is also highlighted.
28655090 | [Molecular mechanisms and relationship of M2-polarized macrophages with early response in multiple myeloma]. Objective: To investigate the relationship between M2-polarized macrophages and early response in multiple myeloma and its molecular mechanism. Methods: Two hundred and forty bone marrow biopsy tissue were collected and M2-polarized macrophages were stained by anti-CD163 monoclonal antibody. In vitro M2-polarized macrophages were derived from human peripheral blood mononuclear cell or THP-1 cells and identified by flow cytometry. Two myeloma cell lines RPMI 8226 and U266 were co-cultured with M2 macrophages using a transwell system. We measured myeloma cells proliferation through CCK-8 method and the pro-inflammatory cytokines expression (TNF-alpha and IL-6) by ELISA. Real time PCR was applied to measure chemokines (CCL2 and CCL3) , chemokine receptors (CCR2, CCR5) , VEGF and their receptors. In addition, flow cytometry was used to analyze the apoptosis of myeloma cells induced by dexamethasone. Results: (1)Patients with high percentage of M2 macrophage involvement in bone marrow showed poorer response (23.9% versus 73.0%, chi(2)=60.31, P<0.001). (2) In vitro the proliferation of RPMI 8226 cells (P=0.005 at 24 h, P=0.020 at 36 h) or U266 myeloma cells (P= 0.030 at 24h, P=0.020 at 36h) co-cultured with M2-polarized macrophages was higher than control group. (3)In vitro the apoptotic rate of RPMI 8226 cells (29.0% versus 71.0%, t=4.97, P=0.008) or U266 myeloma cells (24.9% versus 67.7%, t=6.99, P=0.002) co-cultured with M2-polarized macrophages was lower than control group. (4) In vitro M2-polarized macrophages promoted myeloma cells secreting higher level of IL-6, TNF-alpha and higher expression of CCL2, CCL3, CCR2, CCR5, VEGFA, VEGFR-1,-2 compared with the non-macrophage co-culture system. Conclusion: M2-polarized macrophages promote myeloma cells proliferation and inhibit apoptosis through a very complex mechanism involving pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-alpha, chemokines and related receptors such as CCL2, CCL3, CCR2, CCR3, and VEGF as well as related VEGFR.
37133343 | Severe CD8+ T Lymphopenia in WHIM Syndrome Caused by Selective Sequestration in Primary Immune Organs. Warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis (WHIM) syndrome is an ultra-rare combined primary immunodeficiency disease caused by heterozygous gain-of-function mutations in the chemokine receptor CXCR4. WHIM patients typically present with recurrent acute infections associated with myelokathexis (severe neutropenia due to bone marrow retention of mature neutrophils). Severe lymphopenia is also common, but the only associated chronic opportunistic pathogen is human papillomavirus and mechanisms are not clearly defined. In this study, we show that WHIM mutations cause more severe CD8 than CD4 lymphopenia in WHIM patients and WHIM model mice. Mechanistic studies in mice revealed selective and WHIM allele dose-dependent accumulation of mature CD8 single-positive cells in thymus in a cell-intrinsic manner due to prolonged intrathymic residence, associated with increased CD8 single-positive thymocyte chemotactic responses in vitro toward the CXCR4 ligand CXCL12. In addition, mature WHIM CD8+ T cells preferentially home to and are retained in the bone marrow in mice in a cell-intrinsic manner. Administration of the specific CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100 (plerixafor) in mice rapidly and transiently corrected T cell lymphopenia and the CD4/CD8 ratio. After lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection, we found no difference in memory CD8+ T cell differentiation or viral load between wild-type and WHIM model mice. Thus, lymphopenia in WHIM syndrome may involve severe CXCR4-dependent CD8+ T cell deficiency resulting in part from sequestration in the primary lymphoid organs, thymus, and bone marrow.
38482090 | Subacute Thyroiditis Due to COVID-19 Vaccine. In this report, we present a case of a 90-year-old female who exhibited a sudden onset of confusion and severe generalized weakness after receiving her second dose of mRNA SARS-CoV-19 vaccination 19 days prior to her admission in 2021. Her thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels were low, while her thyroxine (T4), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels were elevated. Triiodothyronine (T3) level was not measured. Ultrasonography of the thyroid revealed multiple nodules with heterogeneous tissue, and a nuclear medicine thyroid uptake scan showed very low uptake. These findings indicated limited thyroid destruction in the form of subacute thyroiditis, likely triggered by the mRNA SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. This case illustrates an acute complication due to a novel vaccine. There are three key takeaways for physicians. First, there should be a discussion of the benefits and risks of Covid-19 vaccine. Second, patients who present with encephalopathy should have their thyroid function checked. Third, clinicians must be aware of the signs and symptoms of potentially life-threatening hyperthyroidism. Additional studies are needed to identify those patients at highest risk for Covid-19 vaccine complications.
38426750 | Stoichiometry for entry and binding properties of the Env protein of R5 T cell-tropic HIV-1 and its evolutionary variant of macrophage-tropic HIV-1. Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 typically requires a high density of CD4 for efficient entry as a mechanism to target CD4+ T cells (T-tropic), with CCR5 being used most often as the coreceptor. When target T cells are limiting, the virus can evolve to infect cells with a low density of CD4 such as macrophages (M-tropic). The entry phenotype is known to be encoded in the viral Env protein on the surface of the virus particle. Using data showing a dose response for infectivity based on CD4 surface density, we built a model consistent with T-tropic viruses requiring multiple CD4 molecules to mediate infection, whereas M-tropic viruses can infect cells using a single CD4 receptor molecule interaction. We also found that T-tropic viruses bound to the surface of cells with a low density of CD4 are released more slowly than M-tropic viruses which we modeled to be due to multiple interactions of the T-tropic virus with multiple CD4 molecules to allow the initial stable binding. Finally, we found that some M-tropic Env proteins, as the gp120 subunit, possess an enhanced affinity for CD4 compared with their T-tropic pair, indicating that the evolution of macrophage tropism can be reflected both in the closed Env trimer conformation on the virion surface and, in some cases, also in the open confirmation of gp120 Env. Collectively, these studies reveal differences in the stoichiometry of interaction of T-tropic and M-tropic viruses with CD4 and start to identify the basis of binding differences at the biochemical level. IMPORTANCE: Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 normally targets CD4+ T cells for viral replication. When T cells are limiting, the virus can evolve to infect myeloid cells. The evolutionary step involves a change from requiring a high surface density of CD4 for entry to being able to infect cells with a low density of CD4, as is found on myeloid lineage cells such as macrophage and microglia. Viruses able to infect macrophages efficiently are most often found in the CNS late in the disease course, and such viruses may contribute to neurocognitive impairment. Here, we examine the CD4 binding properties of the viral Env protein to explore these two different entry phenotypes.
37584227 | Longitudinal investigation of factors influencing mental health during centralized quarantine for COVID-19. BACKGROUND: Centralized quarantine was applied in response to the coronavirus disease 2019 outbreak. The present study aimed to investigate changes in psychological status of isolated individuals before and after quarantine. METHODS: Between August 2020 and July 2021, 648 participants completed the following psychometric evaluations before and after centralized quarantine: 9-item Patient Health Questionnaire for depression, 7-item Generalized Anxiety Disorder for anxiety, the Chinese version of the Connor Davidson Resilience Scale for psychological resilience, the Chinese version of the Simplified Coping Style Questionnaire for coping style, Jiang's revised Chinese version of the Perceived Social Support Scale for social support and the Chinese version of the Impact of Events Scale for stress. RESULTS: At the beginning of centralized quarantine, 83.2% (n=539) of participants had no depressive mood, 11% (n=71) had mild depressive mood and 5.8% (n=38) had moderate-severe depressive mood. At the end of quarantine, 80.8% (n=524) of participants had no depressive mood, 13% (n=84) had mild depressive mood and 6.2% (n=41) had moderate-severe depressive mood. At the beginning of the centralized quarantine, 86.7% (n=562) of participants had no anxiety, 9.6% (n=62) had mild anxiety and 3.7% (n=24) had moderate-severe anxiety. At the end of quarantine, 85.8% (n=556) of participants had no anxiety, 11.6% (n=75) had mild anxiety and 2.6% (n=17) had moderate-severe anxiety. After 2 weeks of centralized quarantine, anxiety (t=2.175, p<0.05), stress (t=7.453, p<0.01) and three stress subscale scores (p<0.01) decreased significantly; psychology resilience (t=-3.63, p<0.01), tenacity (t=-4.747, p<0.01), active coping style (t=-3.83, p<0.01) and support outside family (t=-3.07, p<0.05) all increased significantly. No significant change was observed in depression, strength, optimism, passive coping style or support inside family. Depression and anxiety scores associated significantly with resilience, stress, coping styles and social support scores. Anxiety (B=0.488, beta=0.413, p<0.01), psychological resilience (B=-0.047, beta=-0.203, p<0.01) and stress (B=1.475, beta=0.167, p<0.1) scores before centralized quarantine were associated with depression after quarantine. Depression (B=0.323, beta=0.422, p<0.01), psychological resilience (B=-0.022, beta=-0.123, p<0.01) and stress (B=1.408, beta=0.207, p<0.01) scores before quarantine also influenced anxiety levels after quarantine. A cross-lagged panel model indicated that depression, anxiety, resilience and stress scores at the first assessment were predictive of depression and anxiety levels at the second assessment. CONCLUSIONS: Good mental health during centralized quarantine was associated with high scores of psychological resilience, impact of events, coping styles and social support and did not become worse in settings where adequate support was available.
38396459 | Validation of Artificial Intelligence (AI)-Assisted Flow Cytometry Analysis for Immunological Disorders. Flow cytometry is a vital diagnostic tool for hematologic and immunologic disorders, but manual analysis is prone to variation and time-consuming. Over the last decade, artificial intelligence (AI) has advanced significantly. In this study, we developed and validated an AI-assisted flow cytometry workflow using 379 clinical cases from 2021, employing a 3-tube, 10-color flow panel with 21 antibodies for primary immunodeficiency diseases and related immunological disorders. The AI software (DeepFlow , version 2.1.1) is fully automated, reducing analysis time to under 5 min per case. It interacts with hematopatholoists for manual gating adjustments when necessary. Using proprietary multidimensional density-phenotype coupling algorithm, the AI model accurately classifies and enumerates T, B, and NK cells, along with important immune cell subsets, including CD4+ helper T cells, CD8+ cytotoxic T cells, CD3+/CD4-/CD8- double-negative T cells, and class-switched or non-switched B cells. Compared to manual analysis with hematopathologist-determined lymphocyte subset percentages as the gold standard, the AI model exhibited a strong correlation (r > 0.9) across lymphocyte subsets. This study highlights the accuracy and efficiency of AI-assisted flow cytometry in diagnosing immunological disorders in a clinical setting, providing a transformative approach within a concise timeframe.
38502137 | Whole Genome Sequencing Highlights the Pathogenic Profile in Nocardia Keratitis. Purpose: Nocardia keratitis is a serious and sight-threatening condition. This study aims to reveal the virulence and antimicrobial resistance gene profile of Nocardia strains using whole genome sequencing. Methods: Whole-genome sequencing was performed on 23 cornea-derived Nocardia strains. Together with genomic data from the respiratory tract and the environment, 141 genomes were then utilized for phylogenetic and pan-genome analyses, followed by virulence and antibiotic resistance analysis. The correlations between virulence genes and pathogenicity were experimentally validated, including the characteristics of Nocardia colonies and clinical and histopathological evaluations of Nocardia keratitis mice models. Results: Whole-genome sequencing of 141 Nocardia strains revealed a mean of 220 virulence genes contributed to bacterial pathogenesis. The mce gene family analysis led to the categorization of strains from the cornea into groups A, B, and C. The colonies of group C had the largest diameter, height, and fastest growth rate. The size of corneal ulcers and the clinical scores showed a significant increase in mouse models induced by group C. The relative expression levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (CD4, IFN-gamma, IL-6Ralpha, and TNF-alpha) in the lesion area exhibited an increasing trend from group A to group C. Antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) spanned nine distinct drug classes, four resistance mechanisms, and seven primary antimicrobial resistance gene families. Conclusions: Whole genome sequencing highlights the pathogenic role of mce gene family in Nocardia keratitis. Its distribution pattern may contribute to the distinct characteristics of the growth of Nocardia colonies and the clinical severity of the mice models.
38349178 | Higher and Sustained Cell-Mediated Immune Responses after Three Doses of mRNA COVID-19 Vaccine In Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease on Anti-TNF Therapy. INTRODUCTION: Studies suggest that the generation of durable T cell immunity following COVID-19 vaccination protects against severe disease. The aim of this study was to measure cell mediated immune response (CMIR) one to two months and six months after a third dose of a COVID-19 mRNA vaccine. METHODS: This prospective study (HERCULES) evaluated CMIR at 28-65 days (t1) after dose 2, 28-65 days (t2) (n=183) and six months (+/-45 days) (t3) (n=167) after a third dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine. A small cohort had blood available 28-65 days (t4) (n=55) after a fourth dose. Primary outcomes were CMIR at (t2) and (t3). Secondary outcomes included the effect of immunosuppressing IBD medications on CMIR and response at (t4). RESULTS: All patients had measurable CMIR at all time points. CMIR increased at t2 compared to t1 (median 1467 responding cells per million (interquartile range (IQR) 410-5971) vs 313 (94-960) p< 0.001). There was no significant waning when comparing t2 vs t3 or significant boosting at t4. Those on anti-TNF monotherapy had a higher CMIR compared to those not on this therapy at t2 (4132 ( IQR 1136-8795) vs. 869 (IQR 343-3221) p <0.001) and t3 (2843 (IQR 596-6459) vs 654 (IQR 143-2067) p<0.001). In univariable analysis, anti-TNF monotherapy was associated with a higher CMIR at t2 (p< 0.001) and t3 (p< 0.001) and confirmed in a multivariable model (p< 0.001). CONCLUSION: A third dose of a COVID-19 vaccine boosts CMIR, and the response is sustained in patients with IBD.
38385695 | Distinct genetic clusters in HIV-1 CRF01_AE-infected patients induced variable degrees of CD4+ T-cell loss. CRF01_AE strains have been shown to form multiple transmission clusters in China, and some clusters have disparate pathogenicity in Chinese men who have sex with men. This study focused on other CRF01_AE clusters prevalent in heterosexual populations. The CD4+ T-cell counts from both cross-section data in National HIV Molecular Epidemiology Survey and seropositive cohort data were used to evaluate the pathogenicity of the CRF01_AE clusters and other HIV-1 sub-types. Their mechanisms of pathogenicity were evaluated by co-receptor tropisms, predicted by genotyping and confirmed with virus isolate phenotyping, as well as inflammation parameters. Our research elucidated that individuals infected with CRF01_AE clusters 1 and 2 exhibited significantly lower baseline CD4+ T-cell counts and greater CD4+ T-cell loss in cohort follow-up, compared with other HIV-1 sub-types and CRF01_AE clusters. The increased pathogenesis of cluster 1 or 2 was associated with higher CXCR4 tropisms, higher inflammation/immune activation, and increased pyroptosis. The protein structure modeling analysis revealed that the envelope V3 loop of clusters 1 and 2 viruses is favorable for CXCR4 co-receptor usage. Imbedded with the most mutating reverse transcriptase, HIV-1 is one of the most variable viruses. CRF01_AE clusters 1 and 2 have been found to have evolved into more virulent strains in regions with predominant heterosexual infections. The virulent strains increased the pressure for early diagnosis and treatment in HIV patients. To save more lives, HIV-1 surveillance systems should be upgraded from serology and genotyping to phenotyping, which could support precision interventions for those infected by virulent viruses.IMPORTANCERetroviruses swiftly adapt, employing error-prone enzymes for genetic and phenotypic evolution, optimizing survival strategies, and enhancing virulence levels. HIV-1 CRF01_AE has persistently undergone adaptive selection, and cluster 1 and 2 infections display lower counts and fast loss of CD4+ T cells than other HIV-1 sub-types and CRF01_AE clusters. Its mechanisms are associated with increased CXCR4 tropism due to an envelope structure change favoring a tropism shift from CCR5 to CXCR4, thereby shaping viral phenotype features and impacting pathogenicity. This underscores the significance of consistently monitoring HIV-1 genetic evolution and phenotypic transfer to see whether selection bias across risk groups alters the delicate balance of transmissible versus toxic trade-offs, since virulent strains such as CRF01_AE clusters 1 and 2 could seriously compromise the efficacy of antiviral treatment. Only through such early warning and diagnostic services can precise antiviral treatments be administered to those infected with more virulent HIV-1 strains.
38184779 | Graves' Disease Exacerbation with Impending Thyroid Storm After SARS-CoV-2 Infection: A Case Report. BACKGROUND Since the COVID-19 pandemic, several cases of COVID-19 have been linked to the development of autoimmune disorders, including of the thyroid. Graves' disease (GD) is a rare complication that can occur following SARS-CoV-2 infection. Reports have linked COVID-19 to new onset and exacerbation of GD. We present a case of a 42-year-old woman with a history of GD presenting with impending thyroid storm 3 weeks following a diagnosis of COVID-19. CASE REPORT A 42-year-old woman with a history of GD presented to the Emergency Department (ED) for an acute exacerbation of hyperthyroidism 3 weeks after SARS-CoV-2 infection was diagnosed on a home test. Symptoms included daily headaches, increased bilateral eye pressure, fatigue, muscle weakness, episodes of confusion and agitation, persistent heart palpitations, and goiter. Elevated free T4 of 5.57, free T3 of 15.68, total T3 of 4.43, and near-absent thyroid stimulating hormone were noted. The Burch-Wartofsky scale was 40, which was concerning for an impending thyroid storm; however, at the time of admission, she was not in a thyroid storm. Treatment included propylthiouracil, potassium iodide oral solution, and propranolol, with symptom improvement. Due to prior history of intolerance to antithyroid medications and recent exacerbation, a thyroidectomy was performed once she was in a euthyroid state. CONCLUSIONS Our case demonstrates the importance of recognizing COVID-19 as an etiology or a trigger for new onset or exacerbation of GD. Our case highlights that being vigilant to recognize the association between COVID-19 and thyroid abnormalities for early diagnosis and treatment is imperative.
38517294 | Antibody-Suppressor CXCR5+CD8+ T Cells Are More Potent Regulators of Humoral Alloimmunity after Kidney Transplant in Mice Compared to CD4+ Regulatory T Cells. Adoptive cell therapy (ACT), especially with CD4+ regulatory T cells (CD4+ Tregs), is an emerging therapeutic strategy to minimize immunosuppression and promote long-term allograft acceptance, although much research remains to realize its potential. In this study, we investigated the potency of novel Ab-suppressor CXCR5+CD8+ T cells (CD8+ TAb-supp) in comparison with conventional CD25highFoxp3+CD4+ Tregs for suppression of humoral alloimmunity in a murine kidney transplant (KTx) model of Ab-mediated rejection (AMR). We examined quantity of peripheral blood, splenic and graft-infiltrating CD8+ TAb-supp, and CD4+ Tregs in KTx recipients and found that high alloantibody-producing CCR5 knockout KTx recipients have significantly fewer post-transplant peripheral blood and splenic CD8+ TAb-supp, as well as fewer splenic and graft-infiltrating CD4+ Tregs compared with wild-type KTx recipients. ACT with alloprimed CXCR5+CD8+ T cells reduced alloantibody titer, splenic alloprimed germinal center (GC) B cell quantity, and improved AMR histology in CCR5 knockout KTx recipients. ACT with alloprimed CD4+ Treg cells improved AMR histology without significantly inhibiting alloantibody production or the quantity of splenic alloprimed GC B cells. Studies with TCR transgenic mice confirmed Ag specificity of CD8+ TAb-supp-mediated effector function. In wild-type recipients, CD8 depletion significantly increased alloantibody titer, GC B cells, and severity of AMR pathology compared with isotype-treated controls. Anti-CD25 mAb treatment also resulted in increased but less pronounced effect on alloantibody titer, quantity of GC B cells, and AMR pathology than CD8 depletion. To our knowledge, this is the first report that CD8+ TAb-supp cells are more potent regulators of humoral alloimmunity than CD4+ Treg cells.
2765520 | Binding energetics of phosphorus-containing inhibitors of thermolysin. The importance of a specific hydrogen bond between thermolysin and a phosphonamidate inhibitor, Z-NHCH2-PO(O-)-Leu-Leu (1) [Bartlett, P. A., & Marlowe, C. K. (1987) Science (Washington D.C.) 235, 569-571], has been reevaluated. We have determined the inhibition constants (binding free energies) for thermolysin of phosphonamidate n-hexyl-P(O)(O-)-Leu-Trp-NHMe (4), phosphonate n-hexyl-P-(O)(O-)OCH(iBu)CO-Trp-NHMe (5), and phosphinates n-hexyl-P(O)(O-)CH2CH(iBu)CO-Trp-NHMe (6) and Z-NHCH2PO(O-)CH2CH(iBu)CO-Leu (3). Replacement of the P-NH group by P-CH2 (1----3 and 4----6) weakens the overall binding free energy by about 1.5 kcal/mol. A negligible difference in solvation energy has been measured for these pairs, and the basicity of the P-O- ligand for zinc in each pair remains nearly unchanged as determined by pH titration of their 31P NMR resonances. Therefore, this value of 1.5 kcal/mol can be assigned to the specific hydrogen bond known to exist between the P-NH of 1 and thermolysin [Tronrud, D. E., Holden, H. M., & Matthews, B. W. (1987) Science (Washington, D.C.) 235, 871-574] and inferred to exist between 4 and the enzyme. Substitution of P-O for P-NH (1----2 [Bartlett, P. A., & Marlowe, C. K. (1987) Science (Washington, D.C.) 235, 569-571] and 4----5) weakens the overall binding free energy by 4.1 kcal/mol for each pair as the basicity of the P-O- ligand decreases by about 1.6 pH units. The measured solvation energy difference between 4 and 5 (and by inference between 1 and 2) is negligible.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
8791590 | Genetic restriction of HIV-1 infection and progression to AIDS by a deletion allele of the CKR5 structural gene. Hemophilia Growth and Development Study, Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study, Multicenter Hemophilia Cohort Study, San Francisco City Cohort, ALIVE Study. The chemokine receptor 5 (CKR5) protein serves as a secondary receptor on CD4(+) T lymphocytes for certain strains of human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 (HIV-1). The CKR5 structural gene was mapped to human chromosome 3p21, and a 32-base pair deletion allele (CKR5Delta32) was identified that is present at a frequency of approximately0.10 in the Caucasian population of the United States. An examination of 1955 patients included among six well-characterized acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) cohort studies revealed that 17 deletion homozygotes occurred exclusively among 612 exposed HIV-1 antibody-negative individuals (2.8 percent) and not at all in 1343 HIV-1-infected individuals. The frequency of CKR5 deletion heterozygotes was significantly elevated in groups of individuals that had survived HIV-1 infection for more than 10 years, and, in some risk groups, twice as frequent as their occurrence in rapid progressors to AIDS. Survival analysis clearly shows that disease progression is slower in CKR5 deletion heterozygotes than in individuals homozygous for the normal CKR5 gene. The CKR5Delta32 deletion may act as a recessive restriction gene against HIV-1 infection and may exert a dominant phenotype of delaying progression to AIDS among infected individuals.
38287310 | Demographic and imaging features of oral squamous cell cancer in Serbia: a retrospective cross-sectional study. BACKGROUND: The mortality of oral squamous cell cancer (OSCC) in Serbia increased in the last decade. Recent studies on the Serbian population focused mainly on the epidemiological aspect of OSCC. This study aimed to investigate the demographic and imaging features of OSCC in the Serbian population at the time of diagnosis. METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed computed tomography (CT) images of 276 patients with OSCC diagnosed between 2017 and 2022. Age, gender, tumor site, tumor volume (CT-TV, in cm3), depth of invasion (CT-DOI, in mm), and bone invasion (CT-BI, in %) were evaluated. TNM status and tumor stage were also analyzed. All parameters were analyzed with appropriate statistical tests. RESULTS: The mean age was 62.32 +- 11.39 and 63.25 +- 11.71 for males and females, respectively. Male to female ratio was 1.63:1. The tongue (36.2%), mouth floor (21.0%), and alveolar ridge (19.9%) were the most frequent sites of OSCC. There was a significant gender-related difference in OSCC distribution between oral cavity subsites (Z=-4.225; p < 0.001). Mean values of CT-TV in males (13.8 +- 21.5) and females (5.4 +- 6.8) were significantly different (t = 4.620; p < 0.001). CT-DOI also differed significantly (t = 4.621; p < 0.001) between males (14.4 +- 7.4) and females (10.7 +- 4.4). CT-BI was detected in 30.1%, the most common in the alveolar ridge OSCC. T2 tumor status (31.4%) and stage IVA (28.3%) were the most dominant at the time of diagnosis. Metastatic lymph nodes were detected in 41.1%. CONCLUSION: Our findings revealed significant gender-related differences in OSCC imaging features. The predominance of moderate and advanced tumor stages indicates a long time interval to the OSCC diagnosis.
38399453 | Development and Evaluation of a Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Model for Mechanism Interpretation and Efficacy Prediction of Atezolizumab in Combination with Carboplatin and Nab-Paclitaxel in Patients with Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. Immunotherapy has shown clinical benefit in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Due to the limited response of monotherapy, combining immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) and chemotherapy is considered a treatment option for advanced NSCLC. However, the mechanism of combined therapy and the potential patient population that could benefit from combined therapy remain undetermined. Here, we developed an NSCLC model based on the published quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP)-immuno-oncology platform by making necessary adjustments. After calibration and validation, the established QSP model could adequately characterise the biological mechanisms of action of the triple combination of atezolizumab, nab-paclitaxel, and carboplatin in patients with NSCLC, and identify predictive biomarkers for precision dosing. The established model could efficiently characterise the objective response rate and duration of response of the IMpower131 trial, reproducing the efficacy of alternative dosing. Furthermore, CD8+ and CD4+ T cell densities in tumours were found to be significantly related to the response status. This significant extension of the QSP model not only broadens its applicability but also more accurately reflects real-world clinical settings. Importantly, it positions the model as a critical foundation for model-informed drug development and the customisation of treatment plans, especially in the context of combining single-agent ICIs with platinum-doublet chemotherapy.
38102898 | The changing clinical presentation of COVID-19 in children during the course of the pandemic. AIM: To investigate the evolution of clinical symptoms of COVID-19 in children throughout the pandemic. METHODS: In this national prospective surveillance study, symptoms in children hospitalised with COVID-19 were collected from all paediatric hospitals in Switzerland between March 2020 and March 2023. Data was analysed across four time periods, according to the predominantly circulating SARS-CoV-2 variant: T1 (wild-type), T2 (Alpha), T3 (Delta) and T4 (Omicron), as well as by age group. RESULTS: The study included 1323 children. The proportion of children admitted to an intensive care unit remained stable throughout the pandemic. However, the pattern and frequency of clinical manifestations changed over time. Respiratory symptoms were less prevalent during T1 (wild-type), fever during T2 (Alpha) and rash during T4 (Omicron). In contrast, fever and neurological symptoms were more prevalent during T4 (Omicron). Newly described symptoms during T4 (Omicron) included conjunctivitis, laryngotracheitis and seizures. Fever was more prevalent among neonates and infants whereas respiratory symptoms were more common among infants. Gastrointestinal symptoms were more frequent among toddlers, while both toddlers and school-aged children presented with neurological symptoms more often than other age groups. CONCLUSION: Continuous surveillance is required to detect changes in manifestations and there by be prepared for the optimal management of complications in children with COVID-19.
37679040 | mRNA COVID-19 Vaccination Does Not Exacerbate Symptoms or Trigger Neural Antibody Responses in Multiple Sclerosis. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: In people with multiple sclerosis (pwMS), concern for potential disease exacerbation or triggering of other autoimmune disorders contributes to vaccine hesitancy. We assessed the humoral and T-cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 after mRNA vaccination, changes in disease activity, and development of antibodies against central or peripheral nervous system antigens. METHODS: This was a prospective 1-year longitudinal observational study of pwMS and a control group of patients with other inflammatory neurologic disorders (OIND) who received an mRNA vaccine. Blood samples were obtained before the first dose (T1), 1 month after the first dose (T2), 1 month after the second dose (T3), and 6 (T4), 9 (T5), and 12 (T6) months after the first dose. Patients were assessed for the immune-specific response, annualized relapse rate (ARR), and antibodies to onconeuronal, neural surface, glial, ganglioside, and nodo-paranodal antigens. RESULTS: Among 454 patients studied, 390 had MS (22 adolescents) and 64 OIND; the mean (SD) age was 44 (14) years; 315 (69%) were female; and 392 (87%) were on disease-modifying therapies. Antibodies to the receptor-binding domain were detected in 367 (86%) patients at T3 and 276 (83%) at T4. After a third dose, only 13 (22%) of 60 seronegative patients seroconverted, and 255 (92%) remained seropositive at T6. Cellular responses were present in 381 (93%) patients at T3 and in 235 (91%) patients at T6 including all those receiving anti-CD20 therapies and in 79% of patients receiving fingolimod. At T3 (429 patients) or T6 (395 patients), none of the patients had developed CNS autoantibodies. Seven patients had neural antibodies that were already present before immunization (3 adult patients with MS had MOG-IgG, 2 with MG and 1 with MS had neuronal cell surface antibodies [unknown antigen], and 1 with MS had myelin antibody reactivity [unknown antigen]. Similarly, no antibodies against PNS antigens were identified at T3 (427 patients). ARR was lower in MS and not significantly different in patients with OIND. Although 182 (40%) patients developed SARS-CoV-2 infection, no cases of severe COVID-19 or serious adverse events occurred. DISCUSSION: In this study, mRNA COVID-19 vaccination was safe and did not exacerbate the autoimmune disease nor triggered neural autoantibodies or immune-mediated neurologic disorders. The outcome of patients who developed SARS-CoV-2 infection was favorable.
38357647 | Dynamics of Whole Transcriptome Analysis (WTA) and Surface markers expression (AbSeq) in Immune Cells of COVID-19 Patients and Recovered captured through Single Cell Genomics. Introduction: Single-cell multi-omics studies, such as multidimensional transcriptomics (whole transcriptomic analysis, WTA), and surface marker analysis (antibody sequencing, AbSeq), have turned out to be valuable techniques that offer inaccessible possibilities for single-cell profiling of mRNA, lncRNA, and proteins. Methods: We used this technique to understand the dynamics of mRNA and protein-level differences in healthy, COVID-19-infected and recovered individuals using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Our results demonstrate that compared to mRNA expression, protein abundance is a better indicator of the disease state. Results: We demonstrate that compared to mRNA expression, protein abundance is a better indicator of the disease state. We observed high levels of cell identity and regulatory markers, CD3E, CD4, CD8A, CD5, CD7, GITR, and KLRB1 in healthy individuals, whereas markers related to cell activation, CD38, CD28, CD69, CD62L, CD14, and CD16 elevated in the SARS-CoV-2 infected patients at both WTA and AbSeq levels. Curiously, in recovered individuals, there was a high expression of cytokine and chemokine receptors (CCR5, CCR7, CCR4, CXCR3, and PTGRD2). We also observed variations in the expression of markers within cell populations under different states. Discussion: Furthermore, our study emphasizes the significance of employing an oligo-based method (AbSeq) that can help in diagnosis, prognosis, and protection from disease/s by identifying cell surface markers that are unique to different cell types or states. It also allows simultaneous study of a vast array of markers, surpassing the constraints of techniques like FACS to query the vast repertoire of proteins.
38429734 | Changes of Mycobacterium tuberculosis specific antigen-stimulated CD27-CD38+IFN-gamma+CD4+ T cells before and after anti-tuberculosis treatment. BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to investigate whether the expression of CD27-CD38+ in interferon (IFN)-gamma+CD4+ T cells stimulated by the specific antigen early secreted antigenic target-6 (ESAT-6)/culture filter protein-10 (CFP-10) could be a potential new therapeutic evaluation indicator for anti-tuberculosis (TB) treatment. METHODS: Newly diagnosed active pulmonary TB patients, latent TB infection (LTBI) and healthy controls were enrolled from January 2021 to December 2021. PTB patients were treated by standard anti-TB regimen 2HREZ/4HR (2 months of isoniazid (H), rifampin (R), ethambutol (E), and pyrazinamide (Z) followed by 4 months of isoniazid (H) and rifampin (R)). The difference of CD27-CD38+ expression in IFN-gamma+CD4+ T cells before treatment, 2 months after treatment, and 6 months after treatment were compared. RESULTS: Total 45 PTB patients, 38 LTBI cases and 43 healthy controls were enrolled. The expression of CD27-CD38+ decreased significantly after anti-TB treatment and was comparable with that in LTBI and healthy controls when the 6-month anti-TB treatment course was completed. The decline rate of CD27-CD38+ between 6 months after treatment and baseline was positively correlated with erythrocyte sedimentation rate (r = 0.766, P < 0.0001), C-reactive protein (r = 0.560, P = 0.003) and chest computerized tomography severity score (r = 0.632, P = 0.0005). The area under receiver operator characteristic curve of CD27-CD38+ in distinguish pulmonary TB patients before and after treatment was 0.779. CONCLUSION: The expression of CD27-CD38+ in ESAT-6/CFP-10 stimulated IFN-gamma+CD4+T cells can well reflect the changes of the disease before and after anti-TB treatment, which is expected to be a potential new therapeutic evaluation index. Clinical Registry number chiCTR1800019966.
36496008 | A 16-color full spectrum flow cytometric analysis for comprehensive evaluation of T-cell reconstitution in SIV-infected rhesus macaques. T-cell reconstitution is central in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection/disease progression. Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) have been the most widely used animal model for HIV research so far. An effective flow cytometry panel is crucial for monitoring the T cell reconstitution in SIV infection progression. We developed this sixteen-color flow cytometry-based panel for a T cell subsets analysis by manual gating and, once successfully gated, to characterize T cells function in-depth in rhesus macaques. This panel included markers to characterize CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells, T regulatory cells (Tregs), and T cell differentiation status (CD45RA and CCR7). Additionally, we included antibodies that measure T cell activation and proliferation molecules (CD69, HLA-DR, CD38 and Ki67), antibodies that examine the expressions of key PD-1 pathway molecule (PD-1), SIV potential target (CD32) and the primary SIV co-receptor CCR5 (CD195). High-dimensional single cell analysis was also performed to identify CD3+ T cells immunophenotypes of SIV-infected rhesus macaques. We designed this panel to evaluate the responses of different T cell subsets to SIV in whole blood from SIV-infected rhesus macaques.
9815249 | Unresponsive CD4+ T lymphocytes from Leishmania chagasi-infected mice increase cytokine production and mediate parasite killing after blockade of B7-1/CTLA-4 molecular pathway. Infection of BALB/c mice with Leishmania chagasi results in progressive increase of parasite burden in spleen, in spite of extensive T cell activation in situ. Explanted splenic CD4+ T cells showed decreased proliferation to anti-CD3, compared with controls, and no response to L. chagasi recombinant antigen Lcr1. Blockade of the negative costimulatory receptor CTLA-4 restored responses to anti-CD3 and induced vigorous responses to Lcr1. Blockade of B7-1, but not B7-2, also enhanced T cell responsiveness. CTLA-4 blockade completely restored activation-induced interleukin-2 secretion and increased interferon-gamma production. The effect, however, was not restricted to Th1 responses, since CTLA-4 blockade also enhanced antigen-induced interleukin-4 secretion. CTLA-4 blockade induced almost complete elimination of parasite burden in splenocyte cultures activated with anti-CD3 or Lcr1. These results indicate that CTLA-4 engagement by B7-1 plays an important role in maintaining unresponsiveness in CD4+ T cells in this model of chronic visceral leishmaniasis.
8674120 | A dual-tropic primary HIV-1 isolate that uses fusin and the beta-chemokine receptors CKR-5, CKR-3, and CKR-2b as fusion cofactors. Here, we show that the beta-chemokine receptor CKR-5 serves as a cofactor for M-tropic HIV viruses. Expression of CKR-5 with CD4 enables nonpermissive cells to form syncytia with cells expressing M-tropic, but not T-tropic, HIV-1 env proteins. Expression of CKR-5 and CD4 enables entry of a M-tropic, but not a T-tropic, virus strain. A dual-tropic primary HIV-1 isolate (89.6) utilizes both Fusin and CKR-5 as entry cofactors. Cells expressing the 89.6 env protein form syncytia with QT6 cells expressing CD4 and either Fusin or CKR-5. The beta-chemokine receptors CKR-3 and CKR-2b support HIV-1 89.6 env-mediated syncytia formation but do not support fusion by any of the T-tropic or M-tropic strains tested. Our results suggest that the T-tropic viruses characteristic of disease progression may evolve from purely M-tropic viruses prevalent early in virus infection through changes in the env protein that enable the virus to use multiple entry cofactors.
38567606 | The CRISPR-Cas9 induced CCR5 Delta32 mutation as a potent gene therapy methodology for resistance to HIV-1 variant: a review. Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) has continuously been the greatest epidemic for humanity over a period spanning almost five decades. With no specific cure or treatment available to date despite extensive research, the C-C Chemokine Receptor 5, Delta 32 (CCR5 Delta32) allele genetic point mutation plays an imperative role in the prevention of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). This comprehensive study aims to review the induction of the homozygous recessive deletion genotype using the Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats, Cas 9 Enzyme (CRISPR-Cas9), and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation under positive selection pressure for active immunity in seropositive patients' populations as the phenotype. A methodology is proposed to trigger a significant increase in the expression of Delta 32 beneficial mutant alleles within controlled modern healthcare facilities utilizing totipotent stem cells through somatic gene therapy. It acts upon two dysfunctional CCR5 genes, translating mutant G protein-coupled co-receptors, whose primary function is similar to that of C-X-C Motif Chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), by blocking the entry of viral RNA into the CD4+ T helper lymphocytes, halting infection and seizing viral life cycle. This modification is endemic in Northern Europe, where it naturally pertains to the Caucasian descent population samples in the form of polymorphism, p (X=0.01), where X is the probability of frequency of complete immunity against HIV-1 in population samples. The epigenetics of the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) are analyzed as they play a significant role in immunity distribution. Furthermore, a comparative analysis within the ethical boundaries of CRISPR-Cas9 is conducted to discuss the practical aspects and challenges of the presented methodologies and treatment alternatives. Additionally, the study assembles all available data and summarizes preexisting research while providing a promising solution to this ethical dilemma. Finally, a methodology is devised to answer the question of whether the variant-specific epidemic of AIDS caused by HIV-1 can be cured via artificially inducing immunity by CRISPR-Cas9.
16498064 | Novel neuroanatomical pathways for thyroid hormone action in the human anterior pituitary. OBJECTIVE: An increasing number of proteins appear to be involved in thyroid hormone feedback action at the level of the anterior pituitary, but the cell types expressing these proteins are largely unknown. The aim of the present study was to identify cell types in the human anterior pituitary that express type II and type III deiodinase (D2 and D3), the recently described thyroid hormone transporter (MCT8) and thyroid hormone receptor (TR) isoforms by means of double-labeling immunocytochemistry. RESULTS: We found TR isoforms to be expressed most prominently in gonadotropes and - although to a lesser extent - in thyrotropes, corticotropes, lactotropes and somatotropes. D3 staining showed a distribution pattern that was remarkably similar. By contrast, D2 immunoreactivity was observed exclusively in folliculostellate (FS) cells showing coexpression with human leukocyte antigen (HLA), a marker of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-class II. MCT8 immunostaining was present in FS cells without HLA coexpression. CONCLUSIONS: From these results, we propose a novel neuroanatomical model for thyroid hormone feedback on the human pituitary, with a central role for FS cells in thyroid hormone activation, which thus play an important role in the suppression of TSH secretion by circulating thyroxine (T(4)).
29892279 | Introduction of Human Flt3-L and GM-CSF into Humanized Mice Enhances the Reconstitution and Maturation of Myeloid Dendritic Cells and the Development of Foxp3+CD4+ T Cells. Two cytokines, fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand (Flt3-L) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) are considered to be the essential regulators of dendritic cell (DC) development in vivo. However, the combined effect of Flt3-L and GM-CSF on human DCs has not been evaluated in vivo. In this study, we, therefore, aimed at evaluating this using a humanized mouse model. Humanized non-obese diabetic/SCID/Jak3null (hNOJ) mice were constructed by transplanting hematopoietic stem cells from human umbilical cord blood into newborn NOJ mice, and in vivo transfection (IVT) was performed by hydrodynamic injection-mediated gene delivery using plasmids encoding human Flt3-L and GM-CSF. Following IVT, Flt3-L and GM-CSF were successfully induced in hNOJ mice. At 10 days post-IVT, we found, in the spleen, that treatment with both Flt3-L and GM-CSF enhanced the reconstitution of two myeloid DC subsets, CD14-CD1c+ conventional DCs (cDCs) and CD14-CD141+ cDCs, in addition to CD14+ monocyte-like cells expressing CD1c and/or CD141. GM-CSF alone had less effect on the reconstitution of these myeloid cell populations. By contrast, none of the cytokine treatments enhanced CD123+ plasmacytoid DC (pDC) reconstitution. Regardless of the reconstitution levels, three cell populations (CD1c+ myeloid cells, CD141+ myeloid cells, and pDCs) could be matured by treatment with cytokines, in terms of upregulation of CD40, CD80, CD86, and CD184/CXCR4 and downregulation of CD195/CCR5. In particular, GM-CSF contributed to upregulation of CD80 in all these cell populations. Interestingly, we further observed that Foxp3+ cells within splenic CD4+ T cells were significantly increased in the presence of GM-CSF. Foxp3+ T cells could be subdivided into two subpopulations, CD45RA-Foxp3hi and CD45RA-Foxp3lo T cells. Whereas CD45RA-Foxp3hi T cells were increased only after treatment with GM-CSF alone, CD45RA-Foxp3lo T cells were increased only after treatment with both Flt3-L and GM-CSF. Treatment with Flt3-L alone had no effect on the number of Foxp3+ T cells. The correlation analysis demonstrated that the development of these Foxp3+ subpopulations was associated with the maturation status of DC(-like) cells. Taken together, this study provides a platform for studying the in vivo effect of Flt3-L and GM-CSF on human DCs and regulatory T cells.
18077770 | Genomic aberrations and immunohistochemical markers as prognostic indicators in multiple myeloma. As patients with multiple myeloma (MM) have a variable clinical course, predictive markers would help determine the appropriate treatment strategy. Clinical staging is commonly used to predict outcome, but tumour marker expression and the underlying genetic changes are increasingly used to assess the biological aggressiveness of the disease. Recent studies have demonstrated the utility of immunohistochemistry in detecting prognostic markers, including fibroblast growth factor receptor 3, cyclin D1, c-maf and p53, which have been associated with various genetic aberrations, including t(4;14), t(11;14), t(14;16) and del(17p). While t(4;14), t(14;16) and del (17p) have been documented to confer a poor prognosis, t(11;14) appears to be a neutral or even favourable factor in some studies. CD56, CD33, CD20 and CXCR4 are promising surface markers due to their roles in MM progression, but further studies of larger cohorts are necessary to assess their prognostic relevance. In this review, the biological function and clinical relevance of the main prognostic markers in MM is discussed, and also the role of immunohistochemistry in the stratification of patients into appropriate risk categories.
14625051 | Establishment of an HIV cell-cell fusion assay by using two genetically modified HeLa cell lines and reporter gene. Infection of human cells with the human immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV-1) can be mimicked by a fusion process between cells expressing the HIV envelope protein (Env) and cells expressing both human CD4 together with the appropriate human chemokine receptors. In this study, a T-tropic HIV cell-cell fusion assay was established that utilized CD4, human CXCR4 and HIV NL4-3 gp160 as fusion components and a T7 polymerase-activated luciferase as a reporter system. The HeLa T4 cells used, expressed CD4 and CXCR4, and the applied HeLa KS386 cells expressed HIV NL4-3 gp160. By combining HeLa T4 cells with HeLa KS386 cells, an approximately about 100- to 300-fold increase in luciferase activity could be elicited relative to the control. The addition of anti-CD4 monoclonal antibody (Mab) (RPA-T4) or anti-CXCR4 Mab (12G5) in the assay significantly inhibited the fusion event; in contrast, an anti-CCR5 Mab (2D7) had no effect, indicating that the fusion assay was CD4 and CXCR4 dependent. In this report, fusion events could be monitored by both the luciferase reporter system and syncytia formation. Fusion events were monitored and compared using these two approaches. The luciferase reporter system was found to be more sensitive than syncytia formation. Moreover, compared with previous HIV fusion models, such as using recombinant vaccinia viruses, this system has several advantages, including simplicity and sensitivity. Finally, the system provides a powerful tool to study fusion mechanisms mediated by T-tropic HIV gp160, as well as to screen for fusion-blocking antibodies and antiviral agents.
24376850 | Targeting paraprotein biosynthesis for non-invasive characterization of myeloma biology. PURPOSE: Multiple myeloma is a hematologic malignancy originating from clonal plasma cells. Despite effective therapies, outcomes are highly variable suggesting marked disease heterogeneity. The role of functional imaging for therapeutic management of myeloma, such as positron emission tomography with 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose (18F-FDG-PET), remains to be determined. Although some studies already suggested a prognostic value of 18F-FDG-PET, more specific tracers addressing hallmarks of myeloma biology, e.g. paraprotein biosynthesis, are needed. This study evaluated the amino acid tracers L-methyl-[11C]-methionine (11C-MET) and [18F]-fluoroethyl-L-tyrosine ((18F-Fet) for their potential to image myeloma and to characterize tumor heterogeneity. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: To study the utility of 11C-MET, 18F-Fet and 18F-FDG for myeloma imaging, time activity curves were compared in various human myeloma cell lines (INA-6, MM1.S, OPM-2) and correlated to cell-biological characteristics, such as marker gene expression and immunoglobulin levels. Likewise, patient-derived CD138+ plasma cells were characterized regarding uptake and biomedical features. RESULTS: Using myeloma cell lines and patient-derived CD138+ plasma cells, we found that the relative uptake of 11C-MET exceeds that of 18F-FDG 1.5- to 5-fold and that of 18F-Fet 7- to 20-fold. Importantly, 11C-MET uptake significantly differed between cell types associated with worse prognosis (e.g. t(4;14) in OPM-2 cells) and indolent ones and correlated with intracellular immunoglobulin light chain and cell surface CD138 and CXCR4 levels. Direct comparison of radiotracer uptake in primary samples further validated the superiority of 11C-MET. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that 11C-MET might be a versatile biomarker for myeloma superior to routine functional imaging with 18F-FDG regarding diagnosis, risk stratification, prognosis and discrimination of tumor subtypes.
38589804 | Anxiety, depression, and stress: a comparative study between couples with male and female infertility. BACKGROUND AND AIM: Although infertility as a significant cause of marital crises is prevalent almost equally in men and women, infertile women are under more pressure and distress than infertile men. Therefore, this study was conducted aiming to compare anxiety, depression, and stress between couples with male and female infertility. METHODS: In this descriptive-analytical cross-sectional study, 40 couples (n = 80) with male infertility and 40 couples (n = 80) with female infertility were referred to the infertility clinic of Al-Zahra Educational and Medical Center, Rasht, Iran. Eligible infertile couples were selected by convenience sampling method. The data collection tool was a two-part questionnaire consisting of a demographic information form and a short form of the standard Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-21 (DASS-21). Data analysis was carried out using descriptive and inferential statistical tests at a significant level of p < 0.05. RESULTS: The severity of depression, anxiety, and stress also had a statistically significant difference between men and women. The severity of depression was mild in 57.5% of infertile women and moderate in 40% of infertile men. The severity of anxiety was moderate in 42.5% of infertile women and mild in 57.5% of infertile men. The severity of stress was Severe in 37.5% of infertile women and mild in 40% of infertile men. There was a statistically significant difference between infertile women and men in terms of depression (t=-4.213, df = 1619, p < 0.001), anxiety (t=-7.261, df = 2274, p < 0.001), and stress (t=-9.046, df = 2308, p < 0.001) subscales, and the total scores (t=-7.709, df = 2315, p < 0.001). The depression, stress and anxiety levels were higher in infertile women than in healthy women with infertile spouses. This difference was statistically significant (p < 0.01). The depression, anxiety, and stress levels were significantly different between infertile men and healthy men with infertile wives (p < 0.001). CONCLUSION: The results of this study indicated that depression, anxiety, and stress were more prevalent in infertile women than in infertile men. The severity levels of depression, anxiety, and stress in the wives of infertile men were higher than those in the spouses of infertile women.
12298263 | Chromosomal defects in 34 male homosexuals, half of them with HIV antibodies. Most of the research about viral interactions with human chromosomes was done during the sixties and early seventies and very few was performed after the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) appearance as an epidemic in the eighties. The objective of this work was to estimate if particular chromosomal changes follow the infection of homosexual males by HIV and to determine if the lifestyle, habits, sexual practices, of our sample of male homosexuals predisposes them to chromosomal abnormalities at a higher rate than the background level of cytogenetic damage the general population has. This was a double blinded case-control study, 17 individuals positive for HIV antibodies (HIV+) detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and confirmed by western blot (WB) were the cases, and 17 individuals negative for HIV antibodies (HIV-) the controls. These men were a very homogeneous population in terms of age, social status, lifestyles, drug abuse, sexual practices and education. Blood was collected between September 1988 and October 1989. Fresh whole blood was cultured in duplicate for 72 hr. Cell harvest followed conventional methods. Once all cell cultures were gathered, the tubes were picked up at random and air dried chromosome preparations were trypsin-giemsa banded (GTG) after overnight incubation at 60 C degrees. The percentage of gaps and breaks these men had was not different from the reported for the general population, nor were there significant difference among both groups (O.R. = 1.8) in items of amount of chromosomal fragility. The distinction among them was at the level of the specific chromosomal sites where the gaps and breaks located, being sites at 2p21 and at 3p21 four times more frequent among HIV+. These probably represent viral modification sites on chromosomes which are known to look like non-staining gaps which are caused by the virus or viral products. This presumption is supported by an earlier report of repeated breaks at 3p21.1, in fact this was the most common lesion site in this study of chromosomal aberrations of male homosexuals and the authors even considered the probability of \a new type of chromosome marker\. Furthermore, years later the CKR5 structural gene was mapped to human chromosome 3p21. This gene codes for the chemokine receptor 5 (CKR5) protein which serves as a secondary receptor on CD4+ T lymphocytes for certain strains of HIV-1. It is possible that this gene was being transcribed in HIV+ men and the consequent \staggering\ of DNA contributed to the production of gaps and breaks at 3p21.
38594373 | An easy to use tool for the analysis of subcellular mRNA transcript colocalisation in smFISH data. Single molecule fluorescence in situ hybridisation (smFISH) has become a valuable tool to investigate the mRNA expression of single cells. However, it requires a considerable amount of programming expertise to use currently available open-source analytical software packages to extract and analyse quantitative data about transcript expression. Here, we present FISHtoFigure, a new software tool developed specifically for the analysis of mRNA abundance and co-expression in QuPath-quantified, multi-labelled smFISH data. FISHtoFigure facilitates the automated spatial analysis of transcripts of interest, allowing users to analyse populations of cells positive for specific combinations of mRNA targets without the need for computational image analysis expertise. As a proof of concept and to demonstrate the capabilities of this new research tool, we have validated FISHtoFigure in multiple biological systems. We used FISHtoFigure to identify an upregulation in the expression of Cd4 by T-cells in the spleens of mice infected with influenza A virus, before analysing more complex data showing crosstalk between microglia and regulatory B-cells in the brains of mice infected with Trypanosoma brucei brucei. These analyses demonstrate the ease of analysing cell expression profiles using FISHtoFigure and the value of this new tool in the field of smFISH data analysis.
38422245 | Analysis of Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12   and Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG on underweight and malabsorption in premature infants. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to explore and analyze the therapeutic effect of the combination of Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12  and Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG on underweight and malabsorption in premature infants. METHODS: This is a retrospective study. The clinical data of 68 premature infants admitted to Beijing United Family Hospital (Private Secondary Comprehensive Hospital, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China) from January 2016 to January 2022 were analyzed retrospectively. Preterm infants less than 37 weeks of gestational age admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit were included in the study. Patients with intestinal malformations, necrotizing enterocolitis, etc., who require long-term fasting were excluded. A telephone follow-up was performed 3-6 months after discharge. They were classified as treatment groups A and B according to the treatment plan. The treatment group A included parenteral nutrition, enteral nutrition, etc. In treatment group B, based on treatment group A, the premature infants were treated with Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12  and Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG. The time to regain birthweight and the weight on day 30 were compared between the two groups, as was the duration of transition from parenteral nutrition to total enteral nutrition. RESULTS: The time of weight regain birthweight in group B was shorter than that in group A (t=-2.560; t=-4.287; p<0.05). The increase of weight on day 30 in group B was significantly higher than that in group A (t=2.591; t=2.651; p<0.05). The time from parenteral nutrition to total enteral nutrition in group B was shorter than that in group A (z=-2.145; z=-2.236; p<0.05). CONCLUSION: In the treatment of premature infants, the combination of Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12  and Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG can have a better therapeutic effect on the underweight and malabsorption of premature infants, and this treatment method can be popularized in clinics.
2420881 | HLA-DR-restricted cytotoxicity of cytomegalovirus-infected monocytes mediated by Leu-3-positive T cells. Mononuclear leukocytes from 14 cytomegalovirus (CMV)-seropositive and six CMV-seronegative normal healthy donors were treated with soluble CMV antigen for 5 days to generate cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity. CMV-antigen-stimulated lymphocytes from CMV-seropositive but not CMV-seronegative donors lysed autologous peripheral blood monocyte targets infected with CMV in 13 of 14 donors (mean percentage of virus-specific lysis = 19.0 +/- 4.5%, effector to target ratio of 50:1). Freshly donated, unstimulated lymphocytes displayed little or no lysis of CMV-infected monocytes. Lysis was virus specific in that CMV-stimulated CTL did not kill herpes simplex virus-infected monocytes. The mean level of lysis of CMV-infected autologous targets was equivalent to that of HLA-DR-matched targets (20.0 +/- 8.0%), and was significantly greater than that of HLA-A/B-matched targets (6.3 +/- 2.5%, p less than 0.035) and HLA-mismatched targets (3.3 +/- 2.5%, p less than 0.01). Enrichment for T cell subsets with the use of selective depletion methods with monoclonal antibodies showed that CTL activity against autologous and HLA-DR-matched allogeneic targets was present predominantly in Leu-3-positive T lymphocytes. These results show for the first time that short term stimulation of heterogeneous lymphocytes from CMV-seropositive donors with CMV antigen can generate CMV-specific, Leu-3-positive CTL that are primarily restricted in their activity to autologous and class II, HLA-DR-matched targets. Our findings suggest a role for Leu-3-phenotypic CTL in immunity to CMV, and provide a model for analysis of this antiviral effector function during immunodeficient states.
24645320 | [Relationship between serum HBV DNA level and follicular helper T lymphocyte in patients with chronic hepatitis B and its significance]. OBJECTIVE: To explore relationship between HBV DNA level and peripheral blood follicular helper T lymphocyte (Tfh) in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and its significance. METHODS: HBV DNA levels of 179 cases of CHB patients with positive HBV DNA, positive HBeAg and positive human leukocyte antigen(HLA)-A2 were tested with real time fluorescent quantitative PCR. Tfh and HBV specific CTL were tested with flow cytometry. IL-21 was also tested. 179 cases of CHB patients were divided into group A and group B based on HBV DNA levels, 86 cases in group A, HBV DNA levels were 10(4)-10(5) copies/ml, 93 cases in group B, HBV DNA levels were 10(6)-10(7) copies/ml. Above testing indexes of the two groups were compared. RESULTS: HBV DNA levels of group A were (4.85 +/- 0.37) log10 copies/ml, HBV DNA levels of group B were (6.83 +/- 0.31 ) log10 copies/ml, t = 27.31, P < 0. 001; Tfh of group A was (5.96 +/- 1.59)%, higher than that of group B (3.71 +/- 2.15)%, t = 4.92, P < 0.01; IL-21 of group A was (42.61 +/- 15.11)ng/L, higher than that of group B (14.91 +/- 3.15) ng/L, t = 8.62, P < 0.01; HBV specific CTL of group A was (0.36 +/- 0.08)%, higher than that of group B (0.18 +/- 0.06)%, t = 19.99, P < 0.001. CONCLUSION: Serum HBV DNA level of CHB patients is related to the level of peripheral blood Tfh level: patients with low HBV DNA level have high Tfh level, high IL-21 level and high HBV specific CTL level. Patients with high HBV DNA level have low Tfh level, low IL-21 level and low HBV specific CTL level. The mechanism of baseline HBV DNA level affecting anti-viral therapy may be related to Tfh level.
19223489 | Acute-phase CD4+ T-cell proliferation and CD152 upregulation predict set-point virus replication in vaccinated simian-human immunodeficiency virus strain 89.6p-infected macaques. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in humans and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection in macaques are accompanied by a combined early loss of CCR5 (CD195)-expressing CD4(+) memory T cells, loss of T-helper function and T-cell hyperactivation, which have all been associated with development of high virus load and disease progression. Here, a cohort of vaccinated simian-human immunodeficiency virus strain 89.6p (SHIV(89.6p))-infected rhesus macaques, where preferential depletion of these memory T-cell subsets does not take place and CD4(+) T cells are relatively well maintained, was used to study the role of hyperactivation as an independent factor in the establishment of set-point virus load. In the acute phase of the infection, a transient loss of CD4(+) T cells, as well as strong increases in expression of proliferation and activation markers on CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, together with CD152 expression on CD4(+) T cells, were observed. Peak expression levels of these markers on CD4(+) T cells, but not on CD8(+) T cells, were correlated with high virus replication in the chronic phase of the infection. In addition, the peak expression level of these markers was correlated inversely with acute-phase, but not chronic-phase, HIV/SIV-specific gamma interferon responses. These data highlight a central role for an acute but transient CD4 decrease, as well as CD4(+) T-cell activation, as independent factors for prediction of set-point levels of virus replication.
37750659 | Clinical and thyroid profile in patients with COVID-19 hospitalized in an intensive care unit. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to summarize the epidemiological and clinical features of thyroid function in COVID-19 patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Civil Fray Antonio Alcalde Hospital in Mexico. PATIENTS AND METHODS: This is a cross-sectional study that included 63 ICU patients with COVID-19 from August 2021 to December 2021. Thyroid function was evaluated through the TSH, T4, T3, and FT3 measures. Comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus type 2 (T2DM), arterial hypertension (HT), body mass index (BMI), and biochemical biomarkers, including procalcitonin (PCT) and C reactive protein (CRP), were also analyzed. RESULTS: A total of 63 patients with COVID-19 were hospitalized in the ICU; 42 (67%) were male, and 21 (33%) were female, with a mean age of 47 (range of 26-76 years). A total of 49 (78%) patients were non-vaccinated, 5 (8%) had an incomplete vaccination schedule, and 4 (6%) had completed the vaccination schedule. Regarding BMI, 10 (16%) were overweight, and 26 (40%) reported obesity. When assessing thyroid function, 8 (13%) patients were euthyroid, and 55 (87%) showed alterations on the thyroid hormonal axis, mainly a low concentration of TSH (0.56+-0.79; p=0.0001) and FT3 (2.34+-0.52; p=0.0006). In addition, increased PCT concentrations were associated with a higher risk to decease (1.22 vs. 8.21; p=0.0001) in this group of patients. CONCLUSIONS: Based on our findings, it appears that COVID-19 patients with low TSH and FT3 levels, who have not been vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2, are overweight or obese, and exhibit high levels of PCT are more likely to experience a poor prognosis and even mortality.
9024623 | CD4-independent association between HIV-1 gp120 and CXCR4: functional chemokine receptors are expressed in human neurons. BACKGROUND: Chemokines are a family of proteins that chemoattract and activate immune cells by interacting with specific receptors on the surface of their targets. We have shown previously that chemokine receptors including the interleukin-8 receptor B (CXCR2) and the Duffy blood group antigen are expressed on subsets of neurons in various regions of the adult nervous system. RESULTS: Using a combination of immunohistochemical staining and receptor binding studies, we show that hNT cells, which are differentiated human neurons derived from the cell line NTera2, express functional chemokine receptors of the C-X-X and C-C types. These chemokine receptors include CXCR2, CXCR4, CCR1 and CCR5. We demonstrate high-affinity binding of both types of chemokines to hNT neurons and dose-dependent chemotactic responses to these chemokines in differentiated, but no t undifferentiated, NTera 2 cells. In addition, we show that the envelop glycoprotein from the T-cell-tropic human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) strain IIIB is a CD4-independent, dose-dependent inhibitor of the binding of stromal cell-derived factor 1 to its receptor, CXCR4. CONCLUSIONS: These data support recent findings that members of the chemokine family, including CCR5 and LESTR/Fusin (CXCR4), function as coreceptors in combination with CD4 for HIV-1 invasion. This is the first report of functional expression of chemokine receptors on human neurons. Furthermore, our studies provide for direct CD4-independent association of the viral envelope protein of the HIV-1 strain III with the chemokine receptor CXCR4.
38441327 | Immune modulation by nutritional intervention in malnourished children: Identifying the phenotypic distribution and functional responses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Malnourished children are susceptible to an increased risk of mortality owing to impaired immune functions. However, the underlying mechanism of altered immune functions and its interaction with malnutrition is poorly understood. This study investigates the immune function and evaluates the effect of a particular nutritional intervention on the immune cells of undernourished children. Stunted (LAZ <-2) and at-risk of being stunted (length-for-age Z-scores, LAZ <-1 to -2) children aged between 12 and 18 months were enrolled and were provided with the daily nutritional intervention of one egg and 150 mL cow's milk for 90 days. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated at enrolment and upon completion of the intervention. Phenotypic profiles for CD3+ cells, CD4+ cells, CD8+ cells, NKT cells, and B cells were similar in both cohorts, both before and after the intervention. However, activated B cells (CD25+) were increased after nutritional intervention in the at-risk of being stunted cohort. Several pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL-6, IFN-gamma, and TNF-alpha, were elevated in the stunted children following the nutritional intervention. The results of the study indicate that nutritional intervention may have a role on activated B cells (CD25+) s in children who are at-risk of being stunted and may alter the capacity of PBMC to produce inflammatory cytokines in stunted children.
38235145 | T4 apoptosis in the acute phase of SARS-CoV-2 infection predicts long COVID. Background: As about 10% of patients with COVID-19 present sequelae, it is important to better understand the physiopathology of so-called long COVID. Method: To this aim, we recruited 29 patients hospitalized for SARS-CoV-2 infection and, by Luminex , quantified 19 soluble factors in their plasma and in the supernatant of their peripheral blood mononuclear cells, including inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, Th1/Th2/Th17 cytokines, and endothelium activation markers. We also measured their T4, T8 and NK differentiation, activation, exhaustion and senescence, T cell apoptosis, and monocyte subpopulations by flow cytometry. We compared these markers between participants who developed long COVID or not one year later. Results: None of these markers was predictive for sequelae, except programmed T4 cell death. T4 lymphocytes from participants who later presented long COVID were more apoptotic in culture than those of sequelae-free participants at Month 12 (36.9 +- 14.7 vs. 24.2 +- 9.0%, p = 0.016). Conclusions: Our observation raises the hypothesis that T4 cell death during the acute phase of SARS-CoV-2 infection might pave the way for long COVID. Mechanistically, T4 lymphopenia might favor phenomena that could cause sequelae, including SARS-CoV-2 persistence, reactivation of other viruses, autoimmunity and immune dysregulation. In this scenario, inhibiting T cell apoptosis, for instance, by caspase inhibitors, could prevent long COVID.
38504093 | IFNalpha induces CCR5 in CD4+ T cells of HIV patients causing pathogenic elevation. BACKGROUND: Among people living with HIV, elite controllers (ECs) maintain an undetectable viral load, even without receiving anti-HIV therapy. In non-EC patients, this therapy leads to marked improvement, including in immune parameters, but unlike ECs, non-EC patients still require ongoing treatment and experience co-morbidities. In-depth, comprehensive immune analyses comparing EC and treated non-EC patients may reveal subtle, consistent differences. This comparison could clarify whether elevated circulating interferon-alpha (IFNalpha) promotes widespread immune cell alterations and persists post-therapy, furthering understanding of why non-EC patients continue to need treatment. METHODS: Levels of IFNalpha in HIV-infected EC and treated non-EC patients were compared, along with blood immune cell subset distribution and phenotype, and functional capacities in some cases. In addition, we assessed mechanisms potentially associated with IFNalpha overload. RESULTS: Treatment of non-EC patients results in restoration of IFNalpha control, followed by marked improvement in distribution numbers, phenotypic profiles of blood immune cells, and functional capacity. These changes still do not lead to EC status, however, and IFNalpha can induce these changes in normal immune cell counterparts in vitro. Hypothesizing that persistent alterations could arise from inalterable effects of IFNalpha at infection onset, we verified an IFNalpha-related mechanism. The protein induces the HIV coreceptor CCR5, boosting HIV infection and reducing the effects of anti-HIV therapies. EC patients may avoid elevated IFNalpha following on infection with a lower inoculum of HIV or because of some unidentified genetic factor. CONCLUSIONS: Early control of IFNalpha is essential for better prognosis of HIV-infected patients.
2064322 | Defective mitogen-induced cellular cytotoxicity in myelodysplastic syndromes. Recovery after alpha-interferon administration. Peripheral blood mitogen - induced cellular cytotoxicity (MICC) and natural killer- cell cytotoxicity (NKCC) were assessed in 25 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Both MICC and NKCC were examined under the same experimental conditions using the 18 hr chromium release assay, except that cultures for MICC were stimulated in vitro by the addition of phytohemagglutinin (PHA). Patients' MICC was found significantly reduced, in relation to controls (p less than 0.001), but significantly higher than patients' NKCC (p less than 0.001). Furthermore, patients CD3+ cells and CD4+ cells, as well as the CD4+/CD8+ ratio, were significantly decreased (p less than 0.01, p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.001, respectively), while CD8+ cells and CD16+ cells were within normal limits. No relationship was noted between patients' MICC and total lymphocyte count or any lymphocyte subpopulation. In eleven patients who were subsequently subjected to a-interferon (a-IFN) administration, MICC values were found within normal range one month after the cessation of alpha-IFN, while NKCC values were significantly increased (p less than 0.01), but they still remained below the lower limit of the control (p less than 0.001). Percentages of CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ cells, as well as the CD4+/CD8+ ratio, did not change after alpha-IFN, but the absolute numbers of CD3+ cells and CD8+ cells were significantly reduced. A statistically significant rise was noted in CD16+ cells. Post- IFN rises in MICC did not correlate with lymphocyte subpopulations. The findings indicate that MDS patients display very low MICC, which can be restored by alpha-IFN administration. The cause of this disturbance and the mechanism of its restoration by alpha-IFN remain unclear.
16761627 | Loss of heterozygosity at 6p21.3 underlying HLA class I downregulation in gastric cancer. Human major histocompatibility complex (HLA), located on 6p21.3, encodes for genes involved in antigen processing and presentation. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at 6p21.3 may cause downregulated expression of HLA, thus provide tumor cells with an immune-escape tumor phenotype. In the present study, we detected HLA class I expression in gastric cancer and correlated it with LOH at 6p21.3. The expression of HLA class I antigen was analyzed by immunohistochemical procedure in 50 fresh surgically removed gastric cancers and corresponding normal tissues using 5 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). LOH studies were detected by using 6 microsatellite markers located at 6p21.3, 1 marker located at 6q21 and 2 microsatellite markers flanking the beta2m gene. HLA class I complex was obviously downregulated in gastric cancer compared with corresponding normal tissues (t=4.00, p<0.01). The expression of beta2m gene was also downregulated in tumor, but not concordant with HLA class I surface downregulation. Out of the 50 tumors, 25 (50%) showed LOH of at least one STR marker at 6p21.3 while only 11 (22%) showed LOH of the two markers flanking the beta2m gene. The LOH frequency of D6S105, which is close to HLA-A gene, was the highest in all STR markers studied (34%). Downregulation of HLA class I expression was correlated with loss of chromosomal regions at 6p21.3 (chi-squared = 5.13, p<0.05). Our results suggested that LOH of 6p21.3 contributed to HLA class I downregulated expression in gastric cancer especially at HLA-A locus. LOH of HLA-A gene might be one of the mechanisms underlying the abnormal expression of HLA class I complex.
3113742 | Spontaneous human T-cell cytotoxicity against murine hybridomas expressing the OKT3 monoclonal antibody: comparison with natural killer cell activity. Human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) exhibited spontaneous cytotoxicity against OKT3 monoclonal antibody (mAb)-expressing murine hybridoma cells (OKT3 hybridomas). In contrast, other murine hybridomas expressing OKT4, OKT8, anti-HLA DR, and anti-HLA A, B, and C mAb were not lysed. PBL showed much lower levels of cytotoxicity (3 folds) against OKT3 hybridomas as compared with NK activity against the K562 targets. Lymph node (LN) cells exhibited the inverse relationship of cytotoxicity levels. The addition of OKT3 mAb to the effector cells totally blocked both the binding and the lysis of OKT3 hybridoma targets, indicating that the CD3 antigen on the effector cells may be involved in recognition of the targets. The addition of concanavalin (Con A) also inhibited the cytotoxicity of OKT3 hybridomas. OKT4 mAb-expressing hybridomas became susceptible to lysis after chemical attachment of OKT3 mAb with CrCl3. The kinetics of lysis of OKT3 hybridomas resembled that of NK activity. Both cytotoxicities were detectable after 1 to 2 hr and reached plateau levels by 4 to 6 hr. Effector cells responsible for lysis of OKT3 hybridomas expressed T3, T8, and Leu 7 antigens, but lacked T4 and Leu 11b antigens, and were sensitive to the treatment with L-leucine methyl ester. These results indicate that T3+, T8+, Leu 7+ and T4-, and Leu 11- granular lymphocytes have a spontaneous cytotoxic activity against OKT3 hybridomas which is different from classic NK activity. These findings may provide a method for the assessment of T-cell cytotoxicity mediated presumably by in vivo generated cytotoxic T lymphocytes in blood and the other immune organs.
9379028 | Cloning and analysis of the promoter region of CXCR4, a coreceptor for HIV-1 entry. The chemokine receptor CXCR4 (also designated fusin and LESTR) is a cofactor for fusion and entry of T cell-tropic strains of HIV-1. CXCR4 is expressed in various cell types; however, the mechanisms involved in the regulation of its expression remain unknown. To delineate these mechanisms, approximately 1.2 kb of DNA from the immediate 5' upstream region of CXCR4 gene was cloned, sequenced, and characterized. Transient expression assays using CXCR4 promoter/luciferase gene reporter constructs revealed that stimulation with PMA plus ionomycin up-regulates the CXCR4 promoter activity in the A3.01 CD4+ T cell line and PBL and that a DNA fragment from -93 to +59 relative to the transcription start site contributes markedly to the basal and induced activity. This fragment contains a consensus TATA box, two potential GC boxes, and a potential nuclear respiratory factor (NRF)-1 binding site, which were confirmed by gel mobility shift assays and footprinting analysis. Mutagenesis studies revealed that a NRF-1 site is especially important for the basal and induced activity of the CXCR4 promoter. Transient expression assays further revealed that stimulation of PBL with either IL-2 or Abs to CD3 and CD28 enhances the CXCR4 promoter activity. Inducibility of the CXCR4 promoter activity by T cell stimulation suggests that overexpression of CXCR4 may be one of the mechanisms whereby immune activation and/or perturbation of the cytokine network up-regulate HIV expression and replication and thus contribute to the progression of HIV disease.
10555208 | In a human lymphomyeloid progenitor cell line (KG-1) HIV-1 gp120 binds to chemokine-receptors CXC-R4 and CCR5, only in the presence of CD4. A CD34+ human hematopoietic progenitor cell lines, KG-1, became susceptible to HIV-1 infection in the presence of a concurrent infection by human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6). We have now analyzed the possible mechanism(s) underlying this phenomenon, in the light of the recent demonstration that at least two members of the chemokine receptor family, CXCR4 (LESTR/fusin) and CCR5 molecules, are the HIV-1-specific co-receptors, necessary, together with the high affinity receptor CD4, for the entry into target cells of HIV-1. Cytofluorimetric analysis demonstrated that in KG-1 cells, after HHV-6 infection, more than 40% of cell population became CD4 positive and only in KG-1 cells expressing the CD4+ phenotype, the exposure to r-gp120 masks a significant amount, not only of CD4, but also of both CXCR4 and CCR5 chemokine receptors. In fact, only when pre-infected by HHV-6, KG-1 cells, after exposure to r-gp120, exhibit a significant reduction in the percentage of CXCR4 or CCR5-positive cells.
37833581 | Higher Infectivity of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus in Sensitive Cells with a Modification of the CCR5 Gene. As a natural mutation of the human ccr5 gene has been shown to confer resistance to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, a new avenue has opened in the development of alternative treatment approaches through genome editing. One of the two chemokine co-receptors of the plasma membrane is utilized by HIV-1 to infect CD4+ cells. HIV-1 strains that utilize CCR5 circulate in early infection, and strains that utilize CXCR4 circulate at advanced stages. A complex relationship may exist in the expression regulation of the receptors and may affect virus replication in cells that normally do not express CCR5 on the membrane, such as the MT-4 cell line. MT-4 cells were used to study the effect of ccr5 modification HIV-1 replication in vitro. Genetic modification of ccr5 in MT-4 cells was shown to increase the activities of HIV-1 strains, especially in homozygote. The results indicate that genome editing should be performed with caution in human cells and that the issue needs comprehensive investigation.
8752281 | The CXC chemokine SDF-1 is the ligand for LESTR/fusin and prevents infection by T-cell-line-adapted HIV-1. A putative chemokine receptor that we previously cloned and termed LESTR has recently been shown to function as a co-receptor (termed fusin) for lymphocyte-tropic HIV-1 strains. Cells expressing CD4 became permissive to infection with T-cell-line-adapted HIV-1 strains of the syncytium-inducing phenotype after transfection with LESTR/fusin complementary DNA. We report here the indentification of a human chemokine of the CXC type, stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1), as the natural ligand for LESTR/fusin, and we propose the term CXCR-4 for this receptor, in keeping with the new chemokine-receptor nomenclature. SDF-1 activates Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells transfected with CXCR-4 cDNA as well as blood leukocytes and lymphocytes. In cell lines expressing CXCR-4 and CD4, and in blood lymphocytes, SDF-1 is a powerful inhibitor of infection by lymphocyte-tropic HIV-1 strains, whereas the CC chemokines RANTES, MIP-1 alpha and MIP-1 beta, which were shown previously to prevent infection with primary, monocyte-tropic viruses, are inactive. In combination with CC chemokines, which block the infection with monocyte/macrophage-tropic viruses, SDF-1 could help to decrease virus load and prevent the emergence of the syncytium-inducing viruses which are characteristic of the late stages of AIDS.
8752280 | The lymphocyte chemoattractant SDF-1 is a ligand for LESTR/fusin and blocks HIV-1 entry. Chemokines are chemotactic cytokines that activate and direct the migration of leukocytes. There are two subfamilies, the CXC and the CC chemokines. We recently found that the CXC-chemokine stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) is a highly efficacious lymphocyte chemoattractant. Chemokines act on responsive leukocyte subsets through G-protein-coupled seven-transmembrane receptors, which are also used by distinct strains of HIV-1 as cofactors for viral entry. Laboratory-adapted and some T-cell-line-tropic (T-tropic) primary viruses use the orphan chemokine receptor LESTR/fusin (also known as fusin), whereas macrophage-tropic primary HIV-1 isolates use CCR-5 and CCR-3 (refs 7-11), which are receptors for known CC chemokines. Testing of potential receptors demonstrated that SDF-1 signalled through, and hence 'adopted', the orphan receptor LESTR, which we therefore designate CXC-chemokine receptor-4 (CXCR-4). SDF-1 induced an increase in intracellular free Ca2+ and chemotaxis in CXCR-4-transfected cells. Because SDF-1 is a biological ligand for the HIV-1 entry cofactor LESTR, we tested whether it inhibited HIV-1. SDF-1 inhibited infection by T-tropic HIV-1 of HeLa-CD4 cells, CXCR-4 transfectants, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), but did not affect CCR-5-mediated infection by macrophage-tropic (M-tropic) and dual-tropic primary HIV-1.
2972943 | Presence of T-cytotoxic suppressor and leucocyte common antigen positive cells in Alzheimer's disease brain tissue. Cells expressing leucocyte common antigen (LCA) as well as T-cytotoxic-suppressor (T8) and T-helper-inducer (T4) antigens were detected in significant numbers in the hippocampus and temporal cortex of Alzheimer but not normal brain tissue. Leucocytes and reactive microglia strongly expressed LCA, as well as the class II major histocompatibility complex (MCH) glycoprotein HLA-DR, but astrocytes stained negatively. Such staining indicates the immunocompetent status of microglia, as well as their phenotypic linkage to blood borne mesodermal lines. T8 and T4 positive lymphocytes were detected in capillaries and the surrounding matrix in smaller numbers than LCA positive cells. The MHC class I (HLA-A,B,C) antigens were detected on capillaries in both Alzheimer and control tissue. The significance of LCA, T4 and T8 cells in Alzheimer's disease is unknown but may be indicative of a cell mediated immune response in the disease.
8658171 | CC CKR5: a RANTES, MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta receptor as a fusion cofactor for macrophage-tropic HIV-1. Human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 (HIV-1) entry requires fusion cofactors on the CD4+ target cell. Fusin, a heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor, serves as a cofactor for T cell line-tropic isolates. The chemokines RANTES, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta, which suppress infection by macrophage-tropic isolates, selectively inhibited cell fusion mediated by the corresponding envelope glycoproteins (Envs). Recombinant CC CKR5, a G protein-coupled receptor for these chemokines, rendered CD4-expressing nonhuman cells fusion-competent preferentially with macrophage-tropic Envs. CC CKR5 messenger RNA was detected selectively in cell types susceptible to macrophage-tropic isolates. CC CKR5 is thus a fusion cofactor for macrophage-tropic HIV-1 strains.
38422171 | The timing of HIV-1 infection of cells that persist on therapy is not strongly influenced by replication competency or cellular tropism of the provirus. People with HIV-1 (PWH) on antiretroviral therapy (ART) can maintain undetectable virus levels, but a small pool of infected cells persists. This pool is largely comprised of defective proviruses that may produce HIV-1 proteins but are incapable of making infectious virus, with only a fraction (~10%) of these cells harboring intact viral genomes, some of which produce infectious virus following ex vivo stimulation (i.e. inducible intact proviruses). A majority of the inducible proviruses that persist on ART are formed near the time of therapy initiation. Here we compared proviral DNA (assessed here as 3' half genomes amplified from total cellular DNA) and inducible replication competent viruses in the pool of infected cells that persists during ART to determine if the original infection of these cells occurred at comparable times prior to therapy initiation. Overall, the average percent of proviruses that formed late (i.e. around the time of ART initiation, 60%) did not differ from the average percent of replication competent inducible viruses that formed late (69%), and this was also true for proviral DNA that was hypermutated (57%). Further, there was no evidence that entry into the long-lived infected cell pool was impeded by the ability to use the CXCR4 coreceptor, nor was the formation of long-lived infected cells enhanced during primary infection, when viral loads are exceptionally high. We observed that infection of cells that transitioned to be long-lived was enhanced among people with a lower nadir CD4+ T cell count. Together these data suggest that the timing of infection of cells that become long-lived is impacted more by biological processes associated with immunodeficiency before ART than the replication competency and/or cellular tropism of the infecting virus or the intactness of the provirus. Further research is needed to determine the mechanistic link between immunodeficiency and the timing of infected cells transitioning to the long-lived pool, particularly whether this is due to differences in infected cell clearance, turnover rates and/or homeostatic proliferation before and after ART.
38085648 | Programmable Aptasensor for Regulating CRISPR/Cas12a Activity. CRISPR-mediated aptasensors have gained prevalence for detecting non-nucleic acid targets. However, there is an urgent need to develop an easily customizable design to improve the signal-to-noise ratio, enhance universality, and expand the detection range. In this article, we report a CRISPR-mediated programmable aptasensor (CPAS) platform. The platform includes single-stranded DNA comprising the aptamer sequence, locker DNA, and a crRNA recognition region, forming a hairpin structure through complementary hybridization. With T4 DNA polymerase, the crRNA recognition region was transformed into a complete double-stranded DNA through stem-loop extension, thereby activating the trans-cleavage activity of Cas 12a and generating fluorescence signals. The specific binding between the target molecule and aptamer disrupted the formation of the hairpin structure, altering the fluorescence signals. Notably, the CPAS platform allows for easy customization by simply changing the aptamer sequence and locker DNA, without entailing adjustments to the crRNA. The optimal number of bases in the locker DNA was determined to be seven nucleotides for the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein and four nucleotides for ATP. The CPAS platform exhibited high sensitivity for S protein and ATP detection. Integration with a lateral flow assay enabled sensitive detection within 1 h, revealing its excellent potential for portable analysis.
38455049 | Comprehensive bioinformatics analysis and systems biology approaches to identify the interplay between COVID-19 and pericarditis. Background: Increasing evidence indicating that coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) increased the incidence and related risks of pericarditis and whether COVID-19 vaccine is related to pericarditis has triggered research and discussion. However, mechanisms behind the link between COVID-19 and pericarditis are still unknown. The objective of this study was to further elucidate the molecular mechanisms of COVID-19 with pericarditis at the gene level using bioinformatics analysis. Methods: Genes associated with COVID-19 and pericarditis were collected from databases using limited screening criteria and intersected to identify the common genes of COVID-19 and pericarditis. Subsequently, gene ontology, pathway enrichment, protein-protein interaction, and immune infiltration analyses were conducted. Finally, TF-gene, gene-miRNA, gene-disease, protein-chemical, and protein-drug interaction networks were constructed based on hub gene identification. Results: A total of 313 common genes were selected, and enrichment analyses were performed to determine their biological functions and signaling pathways. Eight hub genes (IL-1beta, CD8A, IL-10, CD4, IL-6, TLR4, CCL2, and PTPRC) were identified using the protein-protein interaction network, and immune infiltration analysis was then carried out to examine the functional relationship between the eight hub genes and immune cells as well as changes in immune cells in disease. Transcription factors, miRNAs, diseases, chemicals, and drugs with high correlation with hub genes were predicted using bioinformatics analysis. Conclusions: This study revealed a common gene interaction network between COVID-19 and pericarditis. The screened functional pathways, hub genes, potential compounds, and drugs provided new insights for further research on COVID-19 associated with pericarditis.
6205073 | Activation of antigen-specific suppressor T lymphocytes in man involves dual recognition of self class I MHC molecules and Leu-4/T3-associated structures on the surface of inducer T lymphocytes. We showed previously that fresh Leu-2+ T cells respond to autologous antigen-primed Leu-3+ T cells by proliferation and differentiation into suppressor T cells (Ts) that specifically inhibit the response of fresh Leu-3+ cells to the original priming antigen. This study was undertaken to characterize the role of various cell surface molecules expressed by antigen-primed Leu-3+ cells in their activation of Leu-2+ Ts cells. Alloactivated Leu-3+ blasts were treated in the absence of complement with a variety of monoclonal antibodies recognizing distinct antigens on human lymphoid cells, and then were examined for their functional effects on fresh autologous T cells. Prior treatment of Leu-3+ blasts with anti-Leu-4 or anti-HLA-A,B,C framework antibodies, but not with anti-Leu-1, anti-Leu-3, anti-Leu-5, or anti-HLA-DR framework-specific antibodies, not only blocked proliferation of fresh Leu-2+ cells, it also prevented their differentiation into Ts cells. Furthermore, after their activation by Leu-3+ blasts, Leu-2+ Ts cells inhibited the response of fresh Leu-3+ cells from only those individuals who shared HLA-A,B phenotypes with suppressor-effector cells. These results suggest that both the inductive and effector phases of suppression involve dual recognition of autologous class I MHC molecules and structures associated with the Leu-4 (T3) molecule on the surface of antigen-reactive Leu-3+ cells.
38374864 | Subacute Thyroiditis in Active COVID-19 Infection: A Report of Two Cases With a Systematic Review of the Literature. Subacute thyroiditis (SAT) is a self-limiting inflammatory condition of the thyroid gland with distinct symptoms and a predictable outcome. During the current COVID-19 pandemic, there have been multiple isolated reports of SAT either during the active viral illness or following recovery. Here, we report two such cases of COVID-19 infection presenting with SAT. A 65-year-old male presented with a two-week history of anterior neck pain, odynophagia, high-grade fever (38.9 C), sweating, palpitations, and tremulousness. At physical examination, the patient presented with a slightly increased heart rate and a tender and enlarged thyroid on palpation. Laboratory examination showed high C-reactive protein levels, with elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and thyroid function tests were suggestive of thyrotoxicosis. Ultrasonography showed a heterogeneous thyroid gland with ill-defined hypoechoic areas, and thyroid scintigraphy showed reduced uptake, confirming the diagnosis of SAT. In another case, a 52-year-old male presented with fever, cough, and myalgias, and was diagnosed with mild COVID-19 pneumonia, and managed conservatively. After two weeks, the patient had a recurrence of high-grade fever, odynophagia, palpitations, and tremors. Examination revealed tachycardia, hyperhidrosis, and a tender and enlarged thyroid on palpation. Thyroid function tests revealed low thyroid-stimulating hormone, with normal total T4 and total T3. Ultrasonography examination showed a heterogeneous thyroid gland with bilateral ill-defined hypoechoic areas. In our systematic review, including 103 SAT cases, it has been suggested that SAT should be recognized as an uncommon extra-pulmonary clinical manifestation of COVID-19 infection and clinicians need to be aware of the association. Pending larger multicentric studies, management of the condition has to be on a case-by-case basis.
38140145 | Long Term Assessment of Anti-SARS-CoV-2 Immunogenicity after mRNA Vaccine in Persons Living with HIV. (1) Background: Waning of neutralizing and cell-mediated immune response after the primary vaccine cycle (PVC) and the first booster dose (BD) is of concern, especially for PLWH with a CD4 count <=200 cells/mm3. (2) Methods: Neutralizing antibodies (nAbs) titers by microneutralization assay against WD614G/Omicron BA.1 and IFNgamma production by ELISA assay were measured in samples of PLWH at four time points [2 and 4 months post-PVC (T1 and T2), 2 weeks and 5 months after the BD (T3 and T4)]. Participants were stratified by CD4 count after PVC (LCD4, <=200/mm3; ICD4, 201-500/mm3, and HCD4, >500/mm3). Mixed models were used to compare mean responses over T1-T4 across CD4 groups. (3) Results: 314 PLWH on ART (LCD4 = 56; ICD4 = 120; HCD4 = 138) were enrolled. At T2, levels of nAbs were significantly lower in LCD4 vs. ICD4/HCD4 (p = 0.04). The BD was crucial for increasing nAbs titers above 1:40 at T3 and up to T4 for WD614G. A positive T cell response after PVC was observed in all groups, regardless of CD4 (p = 0.31). (4) Conclusions: Waning of nAbs after PVC was more important in LCD4 group. The BD managed to re-establish higher levels of nAbs against WD614G, which were retained for 5 months, but for shorter time for Omicron BA.1. The T cellular response in the LCD4 group was lower than that seen in participants with higher CD4 count, but, importantly, it remained above detectable levels over the entire study period.
38448719 | Structure-based drug design and characterization of novel pyrazine hydrazinylidene derivatives with a benzenesulfonate scaffold as noncovalent inhibitors of DprE1 tor tuberculosis treatment. In this study, we present a novel series of (E)-4-((2-(pyrazine-2-carbonyl) hydrazineylidene)methyl)phenyl benzenesulfonate (T1-T8) and 4-((E)-(((Z)-amino(pyrazin-2-yl)methylene)hydrazineylidene)methyl)phenyl benzenesulfonate (T9-T16) derivatives which exert their inhibitory effects on decaprenylphosphoryl-beta-D-ribose 2'-epimerase (DprE1) through the formation of hydrogen bonds with the pivotal active site Cys387 residue. Their effectiveness against the M. tuberculosis H37Rv strain was examined and notably, three compounds (namely T4, T7, and T12) exhibited promising antitubercular activity, with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 1.56 microg/mL. The target compounds were screened for their antibacterial activity against a range of bacterial strains, encompassing S. aureus, B. subtilis, S. mutans, E. coli, S. typhi, and K. pneumoniae. Additionally, their antifungal efficacy against A. fumigatus and A. niger also was scrutinized. Compounds T6 and T12 demonstrated significant antibacterial activity, while compound T6 exhibited substantial antifungal activity. Importantly, all of these active compounds demonstrated exceedingly low toxicity without any adverse effects on normal cells. To deepen our understanding of these compounds, we have undertaken an in silico analysis encompassing Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, and Excretion (ADME) considerations. Furthermore, molecular docking analyses against the DprE1 enzyme was conducted and Density-Functional Theory (DFT) studies were employed to elucidate the electronic properties of the compounds, thereby enhancing our understanding of their pharmacological potential.
37498399 | Efficacy and safety of tixagevimab-cilgavimab (Evusheld ) in people with Multiple Sclerosis on Ocrelizumab: preliminary evidence. BACKGROUND: Evusheld (EVS) was authorized by FDA and EMA as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) in people at high risk of severe Covid-19 outcomes, including people with Multiple Sclerosis (pwMS) on B-cell depleting (BCD) therapies-such as Ocrelizumab (OCR). In this population, no data on possible adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to EVS, B-lymphocytes (CD20 +) counts pre- and post-EVS injection, and comparison of percentage increase of IgG antibodies directed against SARS-CoV-2 trimeric spike protein (anti-TSP IgG) post-EVS and Covid-19 vaccine was available. The aim of this study was to better characterize the efficacy and safety profile of EVS in pwMS on BCD agents. METHODS: 17 pwMS on OCR agreed to receive EVS as PrEP for Covid-19. Sera samples were collected before the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine (T0), 4 weeks after the second dose (T1), 4 weeks after third dose (T2), immediately before (T3) and 4 weeks after (T4) EVS. RESULTS: Covid-19 vaccine ADRs were mild-to-moderate, whereas no ADRs were reported after EVS injection. A significant increase of anti-TSP IgG was found only at T0-T1 (Z = -3.059, p = .002) and T3-T4 (Z = -3.621, p < .001) time-points. The median percentage increase between T3-T4 was significantly higher with respect to the T0-T1(Z = -3.296, p = .001) and T1-T2 (Z = -3.059, p = .002) time-points. CONCLUSIONS: These results further support EVS safety and efficacy in boosting anti-TSP IgG titers in pwMS on OCR, with a statistically greater increase than that observed after completion of a full Covid-19 vaccine cycle, plus a booster dose.
27608299 | The tyrosine kinase inhibitor tyrphostin AG126 reduces activation of inflammatory cells and increases Foxp3+ regulatory T cells during pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. Protein tyrosine kinases are key mediators of the signal transduction cascades that control expression of many genes involved in the induction of inflammation caused by arthritis. Here we investigate the effect of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor tyrphostin AG126 on a mouse model of adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA). We report that when given at 5mg/kg i.p. every 48h from days 0-21, AG126 exerts potent anti-arthritic effects. Further, we investigated the role of AG126 on the key mediators of arthritic inflammation, namely, edema, arthritic score, presence of immunophenotypes including Foxp3+, CD4+Foxp3+, and CD25+Foxp3+ T regulatory (Treg) cells, as well as pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. AG126 treatment significantly attenuated the severity of AIA and caused a substantial reduction in the percentage of CD2+, CD3+, CD4+, CD8+, CD23+, CD80+, CD86+ CD122+, CD195+, TCRbeta+, and GITR+ cells in whole blood. Moreover, administration of AG126 under arthritis-inducing conditions resulted in suppression of IL-17A+, IFN-gamma+, CD4+ and CD25+ populations while causing an increase in the Foxp3+, CD4+Foxp3+, and CD25+Foxp3+ Treg populations in the spleen. In addition, RT-PCR analysis revealed increased expression of CD4, CD8, IL-17A, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, and NF-kappaB p65 mRNAs and decreased IL-4 mRNA in the arthritic control (AC) mice, while treatment of animals with AG126 reversed these effects. Western blot analysis confirmed the decreased expression of IL-17, GITR, NF-kappaB p65 proteins and increased Foxp3 and IL-4 proteins following AG126 treatment of knee tissue. Thus, our findings provide new evidence that inhibition of protein tyrosine kinase activity decreases the progression of arthritis.
11363902 | Basic science discovery: opening the door on HIV.
37476145 | Evaluation of Thyroid Function Tests in Patients With COVID-19. Background SARS-CoV-2 infects cells via angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). ACE2 levels are high in the thyroid gland. Although the thyroid gland can be directly infected in COVID-19 patients, the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis is also affected. Therefore, changes in thyroid function occur in COVID-19 patients. This study aimed to examine the effect of thyroid function tests on the prognosis of COVID-19. Methodology A total of 146 patients who were diagnosed with COVID-19 and treated in the intensive care unit between August and November 2021 and who had no previous history of thyroid disease were included in the study. Demographic information, laboratory tests, and thyroid hormone levels during hospitalization and discharge patterns were evaluated. The patients were divided into two groups: group I included those who were discharged after recovery, and group II included those who did not respond to treatment and died. Results When the fT3 and fT4 levels of the patients were compared, the hormone levels decreased as the clinical severity of the disease increased. The amount of decrease in hormone levels was mostly seen in group II. In the recovered patient group, the amount of hormone decreased was less. The difference between fT3 and ft4 values between the groups was found to be statistically significant (P = 0.015 and P = 0.004). In addition, the difference between the groups' C-reactive protein (CRP), D-dimer, and ferritin values was statistically significant (P = 0.036, P = 0.022, and P < 0.000, respectively). There was no statistically significant difference between the groups in terms of demographic characteristics (P > 0.05). Conclusions Thyroid hormone changes were found to be an important prognostic parameter affecting disease severity and mortality in COVID-19 patients and can be used to predict mortality.
37715885 | Natalizumab Treatment of Relapsing Remitting Multiple Sclerosis Has No Long-Term Effects on the Proportion of Circulating Regulatory T Cells. INTRODUCTION: Natalizumab (NTZ), a monoclonal antibody against the integrin alpha4beta1 (VLA-4) found on activated T cells and B cells, blocks the interaction of this integrin with adhesion molecules of central nervous system (CNS) endothelial cells and lymphocyte migration through the blood-brain barrier, effectively preventing new lesion formation and relapses in multiple sclerosis (MS). Whether NTZ treatment has additional effects on the peripheral immune system cells, and how its actions compare with other MS disease-modifying treatments, have not been extensively investigated. In particular, its effect on the proportions of circulating regulatory T cells (Treg) is unclear. METHODS: In this study, we investigated the effect of NTZ treatment in 12 patients with relapsing MS, at 6 and 12 months after the start of treatment. We evaluated the proportions of regulatory T cells (Treg), defined by flow cytometry as CD4+ CD25++ FoxP3+ cells and CD4+ CD25++ CD127- cells at these intervals. As an exploratory study, we also investigated the NTZ effects on the proportions of bulk T and B lymphocyte populations, and of those expressing novel the markers CD195 (CCR5), CD196 (CCR6), or CD161 (KLRB1), which are involved in MS pathogenesis but have been studied less in the context of MS treatment. The effects of NTZ were compared to those obtained with 11 patients under interferon-beta-1a (IFN-beta1a) treatment, and against 9 healthy volunteers. RESULTS: We observed a transient increment in the proportion of Treg cells at 6 months, which was not sustained at 12 months. We observed a reduction in the proportion of T cells expressing CD195 (CCR5) and CD161 (KLRB1) subsets of T cells. CONCLUSION: We conclude that NTZ does not have an effect on the proportion of Treg cells over 1 year, but it may affect the expression of molecules important for some aspects MS pathogenesis, in a manner that is not shared with IFN-beta1a.
10392962 | Depletion of CD34+ CD4+ cells in bone marrow from HIV-1-infected individuals. Pancytopenia as a consequence of bone marrow abnormalities is commonly seen in HIV-infected individuals. To examine the effect that HIV-1 has on hematopoietic cells, we compared hematopoietic properties of bone marrow samples from HTV+ patients at various stages of disease with bone marrow samples from uninfected donors. While the absolute number of recovered CD34+ cells and the cloning efficiency of these cells did not differ significantly in HIV+ donors, the percentage of CD34+ CD4+ cells was significantly depleted in late-stage HIV+ patients. We observed a direct correlation between the numbers of CD34+ CD4+ cells in the bone marrow and the peripheral CD4 count. Further characterization of the CD34+ CD4+ subpopulation demonstrated that these cells expressed lower levels of HLA-DR on their surface compared with CD34+ CD4- cells, suggesting an immature phenotype. We also found evidence for expression of HIV-1 coreceptors CXCR-4 and CKR-5 message and protein in CD34+ bone marrow cells. While this finding suggested that hematopoietic cells might be susceptible to HIV infection at an early stage of maturation, thus affecting different cell lineages as they matured, we did not find any evidence for infection of HIV in these cells. These data suggest that HIV affects early hematopoietic progenitor cells either directly or indirectly, and in particular CD34+ CD4+ cells. This finding has important implications for disease pathogenesis and for application of gene therapy approaches that use CD34+ hematopoietic cells.
22363634 | alpha1Proteinase inhibitor regulates CD4+ lymphocyte levels and is rate limiting in HIV-1 disease. BACKGROUND: The regulation of adult stem cell migration through human hematopoietic tissue involves the chemokine CXCL12 (SDF-1) and its receptor CXCR4 (CD184). In addition, human leukocyte elastase (HLE) plays a key role. When HLE is located on the cell surface (HLE(CS)), it acts not as a proteinase, but as a receptor for alpha(1)proteinase inhibitor (alpha(1)PI, alpha(1)antitrypsin, SerpinA1). Binding of alpha(1)PI to HLE(CS) forms a motogenic complex. We previously demonstrated that alpha(1)PI deficiency attends HIV-1 disease and that alpha(1)PI augmentation produces increased numbers of immunocompetent circulating CD4(+) lymphocytes. Herein we investigated the mechanism underlying the alpha(1)PI deficiency that attends HIV-1 infection. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Active alpha(1)PI in HIV-1 subjects (median 17 microM, n = 35) was significantly below normal (median 36 microM, p<0.001, n = 30). In HIV-1 uninfected subjects, CD4(+) lymphocytes were correlated with the combined factors alpha(1)PI, HLE(CS) (+) lymphocytes, and CXCR4(+) lymphocytes (r(2) = 0.91, p<0.001, n = 30), but not CXCL12. In contrast, in HIV-1 subjects with >220 CD4 cells/microl, CD4(+) lymphocytes were correlated solely with active alpha(1)PI (r(2) = 0.93, p<0.0001, n = 26). The monoclonal anti-HIV-1 gp120 antibody 3F5 present in HIV-1 patient blood is shown to bind and inactivate human alpha(1)PI. Chimpanzee alpha(1)PI differs from human alpha(1)PI by a single amino acid within the 3F5-binding epitope. Unlike human alpha(1)PI, chimpanzee alpha(1)PI did not bind 3F5 or become depleted following HIV-1 challenge, consistent with the normal CD4(+) lymphocyte levels and benign syndrome of HIV-1 infected chimpanzees. The presence of IgG-alpha(1)PI immune complexes correlated with decreased CD4(+) lymphocytes in HIV-1 subjects. CONCLUSIONS: This report identifies an autoimmune component of HIV-1 disease that can be overcome therapeutically. Importantly, results identify an achievable vaccine modification with the novel objective to protect against AIDS as opposed to the current objective to protect against HIV-1 infection.
9147421 | Heterozygosity for a deletion in the CKR-5 gene leads to prolonged AIDS-free survival and slower CD4 T-cell decline in a cohort of HIV-seropositive individuals. OBJECTIVE: Recently, it has been shown that a homozygous 32 base-pair deletion in the gene encoding CKR-5, a major coreceptor for HIV-1, leads to resistance to infection with HIV-1. We have investigated whether HIV-seropositive individuals who were heterozygous for the CKR-5 deletion had a different course of the disease. DESIGN: Thirty-five high-risk HIV-seronegative and 99 HIV-seropositive Danish homosexual men followed form 1985 to 1996 and 37 blood donors were analysed for their CKR-5 genotype by polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: Two (6%) of the 35 HIV-seropositive subjects at high-risk of infection were homozygous and seven (20%) were heterozygous for the CKR-5 deletion. This was not significantly different from the distribution in normal donors. Twenty-two (22%) of the 99 HIV-seropositive subjects were heterozygous and none was homozygous. Two subgroups of patients who had an opposite course of the HIV disease were identified. Of nine long-term non-progressors, six (66%) were heterozygous for the deletion. This frequency is significantly higher than in nine rapid progressors of whom non was heterozygous. The frequency of heterozygotes in long-term non-progressors was also significantly higher than in the cohort as a whole. A Kaplan-Meier plot of the HIV-seropositive subjects, of whom 57 developed AIDS, showed a significantly better prognosis within the first 7 years of follow-up for those who were heterozygous for the deletion. Heterozygous individuals also had a significantly slower decrease in CD4 T-cell count per year. CONCLUSION: Individuals who are heterozygous for the 32-base-pair deletion in the CKR-5 gene have a slower decrease in their CD4 T-cell count and a longer AIDS-free survival than individuals with the wild-type gene for up to 11 years of follow-up.
12729474 | Relation of CD30 molecules on T-cell subsets to the severity of autoimmune thyroid disease. The prognosis of patients with autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) varies. To clarify the immunologic differences among patients with various severities of AITD, we examined two types of molecules on peripheral T lymphocytes: CD195 (CCR5), which express dominantly on CD4(+) type 1 helper T (T(H)1) cells, and CD30, which is known as a marker of CD4(+) type 2 helper T (T(H)2) cells and a regulatory molecule of CD8(+) autoreactive cytotoxic T cells. We found presence of patients with high proportion (> 9%) of CD30 expression in CD4(+) cells in a group of patients with Graves' disease (GD) in remission compared to the patients with intractable GD and a decrease in the intensity of CD30 expression on CD8(+) cells from patients with severe Hashimoto's disease (HD) treated for hypothyroidism compared to patients with untreated and euthyroid HD. There was no difference in CD195 expression between these patients with GD or HD with different severities, but there was a decreased intensity of CD195(+) cells in thyrotoxic patients with GD. These results indicate that CD30 molecules on CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells may be related to the severities of GD and HD, respectively.
38397455 | Bariatric Surgery Induces Alterations in the Immune Profile of Peripheral Blood T Cells. Low-grade inflammation is closely linked to obesity and obesity-related comorbidities; therefore, immune cells have become an important topic in obesity research. Here, we performed a deep phenotypic characterization of circulating T cells in people with obesity, using flow cytometry. Forty-one individuals with obesity (OB) and clinical criteria for bariatric surgery were enrolled in this study. We identified and quantified 44 different circulating T cell subsets and assessed their activation status and the expression of immune-checkpoint molecules, immediately before (T1) and 7-18 months after (T2) the bariatric surgery. Twelve age- and sex-matched healthy individuals (nOB) were also recruited. The OB participants showed higher leukocyte counts and a higher percentage of neutrophils. The percentage of circulating Th1 cells were negatively correlated to HbA1c and insulin levels. OB Th1 cells displayed a higher activation status and lower PD-1 expression. The percentage of Th17 and Th1/17 cells were increased in OB, whereas the CD4+ Tregs' percentage was decreased. Interestingly, a higher proportion of OB CD4+ Tregs were polarized toward Th1- and Th1/17-like cells and expressed higher levels of CCR5. Bariatric surgery induced the recovery of CD4+ Treg cell levels and the expansion and activation of Tfh and B cells. Our results show alterations in the distribution and phenotype of circulating T cells from OB people, including activation markers and immune-checkpoint proteins, demonstrating that different metabolic profiles are associated to distinct immune profiles, and both are modulated by bariatric surgery.
37919427 | Spatial metabolomics identifies distinct tumor-specific and stroma-specific subtypes in patients with lung squamous cell carcinoma. Molecular subtyping of lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) has been performed at the genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic level. However, LUSC stratification based on tissue metabolomics is still lacking. Combining high-mass-resolution imaging mass spectrometry with consensus clustering, four tumor- and four stroma-specific subtypes with distinct metabolite patterns were identified in 330 LUSC patients. The first tumor subtype T1 negatively correlated with DNA damage and immunological features including CD3, CD8, and PD-L1. The same features positively correlated with the tumor subtype T2. Tumor subtype T4 was associated with high PD-L1 expression. Compared with the status of subtypes T1 and T4, patients with subtype T3 had improved prognosis, and T3 was an independent prognostic factor with regard to UICC stage. Similarly, stroma subtypes were linked to distinct immunological features and metabolic pathways. Stroma subtype S4 had a better prognosis than S2. Subsequently, analyses based on an independent LUSC cohort treated by neoadjuvant therapy revealed that the S2 stroma subtype was associated with chemotherapy resistance. Clinically relevant patient subtypes as determined by tissue-based spatial metabolomics are a valuable addition to existing molecular classification systems. Metabolic differences among the subtypes and their associations with immunological features may contribute to the improvement of personalized therapy.
21180278 | mRNA expression of chemokine receptors on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and correlation with clinical features in systemic lupus erythematosus patients. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expressions of chemokine receptors and interleukin (IL) receptors on the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients and their correlations with clinical features as well as SLE disease activity index (SLEDAI). METHODS: The mRNA expressions of chemokine receptors and IL receptors on PBMCs of 93 SLE patients and 30 healthy controls were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, including CCR2, CCR3, CCR4, CCR5, CCR6, CCR8, CXCR3, CXCRS, CX3CR1, XCR1, IL-4R, and IL-10R. The clinical features of SLE patients were recorded. The correlations of chemokine receptors and IL receptors mRNA expressions with clinical features as well as SLEDAI were assayed using linear regression analysis. RESULTS: The level of CCR5 mRNA in SLE patients (including active and inactive SLE) was significantly higher than that in healthy controls (P < 0.05), and there was no significant difference between active and inactive patients in this respect (P > 0.05). CX3CR1 mRNA expression significantly increased from healthy control to inactive SLE to active SLE in sequence. The others (except for CCR8, CXCR3, and IL-10R) in active SLE patients were significantly higher than those in both inactive SLE patients and healthy controls (all P < 0.05). There were positive correlations between SLEDAI and CCR2 (r = 0.424, t = 4.313, P < 0.001), CCR3 (r = 0.518, t = 5.410, P < 0.001), CCR4 (r = 0.376, t = 3.851, P < 0.001), CCR6 (r = 0.457, t = 4.513, P < 0.001), CXCR5 (r = 0.455, t = 4.629, P < 0.001), CX3CR1 (r = 0.445, t = 4.523, P < 0.001), as well as XCR1 (r = 0.540, t = 5.445, P < 0.001). And CCR5 mRNA expression level was positively correlated with IL-4R mRNA (r = 0.313, t = 2.353, P < 0.05). The patients with myositis and cutaneous vasculitis simultaneously showed lower levels of CCR5 and CX3CR1, and CCR5 expression was negatively correlated with the scores of SLEDAI in SLE cases accompanied by photosensitivity (r = 0.426, t = -2.155, P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Increased expressions of CCR5 and CX3CR1 on PBMCs may be indicators in clinical survey for SLE.
28559889 | Characterization of Lipopeptide Biosurfactants Produced by Bacillus licheniformis MB01 from Marine Sediments. Antibiotic resistance has become one of the world's most severe problems because of the overuse of antibiotics. Antibiotic-resistant bacteria are more difficult to kill and more expensive to treat. Researchers have been studied on antibiotic alternatives such as antimicrobial peptides and lipopeptides. A functional bacteria MB01 producing lipopeptides which can be used as bacteriostat was isolated from the Bohai Sea sediments, which had been identified as Bacillus licheniformis by the morphological, physiological, and biochemical identification and 16s rDNA sequence. The lipopeptides produced by MB01 were determined to be cyclic surfactin homologs by LC-ESI-MS structural identification after crude extraction and LH-20 chromatography. [M+H]+m/z 994, 1008, 1022, and 1036 were all the characteristic molecular weight of surfactin homologs. CID analysis revealed that the molecular structure of the lipopeptides was Rn-Glu1-Leu/Ile2-Leu3-Val4-Asp5-Leu6-Leu/Ile7. The lipopeptides showed well resistance to UV light and the change of pH and temperature.
22316480 | Several commercially available anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibodies lack specificity and should be used with caution. CCR5 (CD195) is a receptor for the chemokines RANTES, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta and is used by HIV-1 as a co-receptor for entry into macrophages and CD4+ T cells. CCR5 exists in multiple conformations in the membrane and is present at low levels on human macrophages, making it difficult to detect. Nine commercially available anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibodies were evaluated for their specificity and their recognition of CCR5 expressed by macrophages. Unexpectedly, we found that three of the nine clones tested displayed substantial background binding to CCR5 negative cells, suggesting that these antibodies may give unreliable results. We recommend the use of clones CTC8, 45531 (PE conjugated), and 45523 and advise that data obtained using CTC5, 45531 (unconjugated), and 45549 anti-CCR5 antibody clones should be interpreted with care.
22513895 | Characterization of the homodimerization interface and functional hotspots of the CXCR4 chemokine receptor. The recent crystallographic structures of the human chemokine CXC Receptor 4 (CXCR4) provide experimental evidence of a human G Protein-Coupled Receptor (GPCR) dimer in atomic detail. The CXCR4 homodimers reveal an unexpected dimerization mode involving transmembrane helices TM5 and TM6, which is examined here using all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations in the physiological environment of a lipid bilayer. The bacteriophage T4 lysozyme (T4L), which was fused to the crystallized protein but absent in our simulations, is found to slightly affect the observed relative position of the protomers in the two dimers studied here, and consequently some rearrangements of the dimerization interface are proposed. In addition, the simulations provide further evidence about the role of the two stabilizing single point mutations introduced to crystallize the receptor. Finally, this work analyzes the structural and dynamic role of key residues involved both in ligand binding and in the infection process of HIV. In particular, the different side chain conformations of His113(3.39) are found to influence the dynamics of the surrounding functional hotspot region being evaluated both in the presence and in the absence of the co-crystallized ligand IT1t. The analysis reported here adds valuable knowledge for future structure-based drug design (SBDD) efforts on this pharmacological target.
35729596 | The clinicopathological and prognostic value of CXCR4 expression in patients with lung cancer: a meta-analysis. BACKGROUND: The C-X-C chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) has been suggested to play an important role in several types of cancers and is related to biological behaviors connected with tumor progression. However, the clinical significance and application of CXCR4 in lung cancer remain disputable. Thus, we conducted a meta-analysis to investigate the impact of CXCR4 expression on survival and clinicopathological features in lung cancer. METHODS: Comprehensive literature searches were conducted in PubMed, Embase and Web of Science for relevant studies. We pooled hazard ratios (HRs)/odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) by STATA 12.0 to evaluate the potential value of CXCR4 expression. RESULTS: Twenty-seven relevant articles involving 2932 patients with lung cancer were included in our meta-analysis. The results revealed that CXCR4 expression was apparently associated with poor overall survival (OS) (HR 1.61, 95% CI 1.42-1.82) and disease-free survival (HR 3.39, 95% CI 2.38-4.83). Furthermore, a significant correlation with poor OS was obvious in non-small cell lung cancer patients (HR 1.59, 95% CI 1.40-1.81) and in patients showing CXCR4 expression in the cytoplasm (HR 2.10, 95% CI 1.55-2.84) and the membrane (HR 1.74, 95% CI 1.24-2.45). CXCR4 expression was significantly associated with men (OR 1.32, 95% CI 1.08-1.61), advanced tumor stages (T3-T4) (OR 2.34, 95% CI 1.28-4.28), advanced nodal stages (N > 0) (OR 2.34, 95% CI 1.90-2.90), distant metastasis (OR 3.65, 95% CI 1.53-8.69), advanced TNM stages (TNM stages III, IV) (OR 3.10, 95% CI 1.95-4.93) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression (OR 2.44, 95% CI 1.44-4.12) but was not associated with age, smoking history, histopathology, differentiation, lymphatic vessel invasion or local recurrence. CONCLUSION: High expression of CXCR4 is related to tumor progression and might be an adverse prognostic factor for lung cancer.
38375253 | Establishment of a diagnostic model based on immune-related genes in children with asthma. Objective: Allergic asthma is driven by an antigen-specific immune response. This study aimed to identify immune-related differentially expressed genes in childhood asthma and establish a classification diagnostic model based on these genes. Methods: GSE65204 and GSE19187 were downloaded and served as training set and validation set. The immune cell composition was evaluated with ssGSEA algorithm based on the immune-related gene set. Modules that significantly related to the asthma were selected by WGCNA algorithm. The immune-related differentially expressed genes (DE-IRGs) were screened, the protein-protein interaction network and diagnostic model of DE-IRGs was constructed. The pathway and immune correlation analysis of hub DE-IRGs was analyzed. Results: Eight immune cell types exhibited varying levels of abundance between the asthma and control groups. A total of 112 differentially expressed immune-related genes (DE-IRGs) was identified. Through the application of four ranking methods (MCC, MNC, DEGREE, and EPC), 17 hub DE-IRGs with overlapping significance were further selected. Subsequently, 8 optimized were identified using univariate logistic regression analysis and the LASSO regression algorithm, based on which a robust diagnostic model was constructed. Notably, TNF and CD40LG emerged as direct participants in asthma-related signaling pathways, displaying a positive correlation with the immune cell types of immature B cells, activated B cells, activated CD8 T cells, activated CD4 T cells, and myeloid-derived suppressor cells. Conclusion: The diagnostic model constructed using the DE-IRGs (CCL5, CCR5, CD40LG, CD8A, IL2RB, PDCD1, TNF, and ZAP70) exhibited high and specific diagnostic value for childhood asthma. The diagnostic model may contribute to the diagnosis of childhood asthma.
38160538 | Single-cell sequencing of the retina shows that LDHA regulates pathogenesis of autoimmune uveitis. Autoimmune uveitis (AU) is a severe disorder causing poor vision and blindness. However, the cellular dynamics and pathogenic mechanisms underlying retinal injury in uveitis remain unclear. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing of the retina and cervical draining lymph nodes in experimental autoimmune uveitis mice was conducted to identify the cellular spatiotemporal dynamics and upregulation of the glycolysis-related gene LDHA. Suppression of LDHA can rescue the imbalance of T effector (Teff) cells/T regulator (Treg) cells under inflammation via downregulation of the glycolysis-PI3K signaling circuit and inhibition of the migration of CXCR4+ Teff cells towards retinal tissue. Furthermore, LDHA and CXCR4 are upregulated in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada patients. The LDHA inhibitor suppresses CD4+ T cell proliferation in humans. Therefore, our data indicate that the autoimmune environment of uveitis regulates Teff cell accumulation in the retina via glycolysis-associated LDHA. Modulation of this target may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for treating AU.
9224818 | Development of resistance of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 to dextran sulfate associated with the emergence of specific mutations in the envelope gp120 glycoprotein. Polyanionic compounds are known to inhibit the binding of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) to CD4+ cells and the subsequent fusion step between the virus and cells. We selected an HIV-1 strain resistant to dextran sulfate (DS) by cultivation of HIV-1 (NL4-3)-infected MT-4 cells in the presence of DS Mr 5000. DS did not inhibit the binding of DS-resistant virus to MT-4 cells or syncytium formation between MOLT cells and HUT-78 cells persistently infected with the DS-resistant virus. In addition, a monoclonal antibody with specificity for the V3 loop of envelope gp120 glycoprotein did not recognize the DS-resistant HIV-1 gp120 V3 loop. The following mutations were found in the gp120 molecule of the DS-resistant HIV-1 strain but not in the wild-type strain: S114N in the V1 loop region; S134N in the V2 loop region; K269E, Q278H, and N293D in the V3 loop region; N323S in the C3 region; a deletion of five amino acids (Phe-Asn-Ser-Thr-Trp) at positions 364-368 in the V4 loop; and R3871 in the CD4 binding domain. Our results suggest that (i) DS interacts with specific amino acid residues in the gp120 molecule, (ii) the virus is able to overcome the inhibitory effect of DS on viral infectivity, (iii) cross-resistance developed against those polyanionic compounds that are structurally related to DS, and (iv) the molecular determinants of HIV cell tropism, syncytium-inducing ability, coreceptor (fusin/ CC-CKR5) utilization, and polyanion resistance seem to be located in the env genome of HIV and specifically in the V3 loop domain.
17302896 | Activated T cell subsets in human type 1 diabetes: evidence for expansion of the DR+ CD30+ subpopulation in new-onset disease. An important limitation in T cell studies of human autoimmune (type 1) diabetes is lack of direct access to cells infiltrating the pancreas. We hypothesized that cells recently released from the pancreas into the blood might express a characteristic combination of markers of activation. We therefore examined the recently activated circulating T cell population [CD3+, human leucocyte antigen D-related (HLA-DR+)] using cytokine production and 10 additional subset markers [CD69, CD25, CD122, CD30, CD44v6, CD57, CD71, CCR3 (CD193), CCR5 (CD195) or CXCR3 (CD183)], comparing newly diagnosed adult (ND) (age 18-40 years) patients (n=19) to patients with diabetes for >10 years [long-standing (LS), n=19] and HLA-matched controls (C, n=16). CD3+ DR+ cells were enriched by two-step immunomagnetic separation. No differences in basal or stimulated production of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-10, IL-13 or interferon (IFN)-gamma by CD3+ DR+ enriched cells were observed between the different groups of subjects. However, among the CD3+ DR+ population, significant expansions appeared to be present in the very small CD30+, CD69+ and CD122+ subpopulations. A confirmatory study was then performed using new subjects (ND=26, LS=15), three-colour flow cytometry, unseparated cells and three additional subset markers (CD38, CD134, CD4/CD25). This confirmed the expansion of the CD3+ DR+ CD30+ subpopulation in ND subjects. We conclude that a relative expansion in the T cell subpopulation with the activated phenotype CD3+ DR+ CD30+ is seen in the peripheral blood of subjects with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes. This subpopulation represents less than 0 x 7% of circulating T cells and may provide a rich source of disease-specific T cells that can be isolated from blood.
36062301 | PSMB5 overexpression is correlated with tumor proliferation and poor prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma. Aberrant expression of members of the proteasome subunit beta (PSMB) family (including PSMB2, PSMB4, PSMB7 and PSMB8) has been reported in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However the role of PSMB5 in HCC is unclear. To address this issue, we examined the expression of PSMB5 in HCC tissues using the The Cancer Genome Atlas, International Cancer Genome Consortium and Gene Expression Omnibus databases. A quantitative real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry were performed to validate the expression of PSMB5 in HCC. The survival mutation status and immune cell infiltration of PSMB5 were also evaluated in HCC. We then examined the effect of knocking down PSMB5 expression through RNA interference in the HCC cell line Huh7. High expression of PSMB5 was observed in HCC tissues and was associated with poor prognosis. PSMB5 expression and clinical characteristics were then incorporated to build a prognostic nomogram. We observed that PSMB5 expression was closely related to the abundance of B cells, CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, dendritic cell macrophages and neutrophils. Moreover silencing of PSMB5 in Huh7 significantly suppressed cell proliferation and migration at the same time as increasing apoptosis. Inhibition of the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/Akt/mechanistic target of rapamycin pathway was observed after PSMB5 downregulation in Huh7 cells. Our findings suggest that PSMB5 may promote the proliferation of HCC cells by inactivating the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/Akt/mechanistic target of rapamycin signaling pathway and thus PSMB5 may have potential as a biomarker for diagnosis and prognosis of HCC.
38583059 | [The impact of augmented reality glasses on human visual efficiency and digital eye fatigue]. Objective: To investigate the differences in reading efficiency and visual fatigue between the use of augmented reality (AR) glasses and laptops. Methods: A prospective self-controlled study was conducted. Healthy students from Capital Medical University who frequently engaged in long-term near work and used laptops and other digital display devices were recruited as subjects at Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University between November 1 and November 15, 2023. LogMAR visual acuity, visual functions (accommodation, convergence, and fusion), and visual fatigue scores (Likert visual fatigue scale) of the participants were assessed. The order of using the laptop and AR glasses for each participant was determined by a coin toss. Reading efficiency (reading speed and error rate multiplied by the detection rate of incorrect numbers) with different devices for 10 minutes at the same time on different dates and visual fatigue scores after watching a 20-minute video were measured. Statistical analyses were performed using paired t-tests and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests. Results: A total of 20 eligible subjects were included, comprising 7 males and 13 females, with a mean age of (25.45+-2.27) years. There was no significant change in binocular visual acuity before and after using AR glasses and laptops (both P>0.05). The reading speed and reading efficiency of using AR glasses [(34.03+-9.25) and (29.19+-7.62) digits/min, respectively] were significantly lower than those of using laptops [(39.43+-10.36) and (35.67+-9.87) digits/min, respectively] (t=4.36, P<0.001), while the difference in error detection rate was not statistically significant (t=1.29, P=0.213). There was no statistically significant difference in visual fatigue scores before watching videos with the two devices (Z=-0.71, P=0.480). However, the visual fatigue score after watching videos with AR glasses [(20.55+-5.04) points] was significantly higher than that with laptops [16.50 (13.00, 19.75) points] (Z=-2.85, P=0.004). The visual fatigue scores after watching videos with both devices were significantly higher than before (P<0.05), with a more significant increase observed with AR glasses [(6.05+-3.50) points] (Z=-3.41, P<0.001). Conclusion: Compared with using laptops, the reading speed and efficiency were lower, and the visual fatigue was more pronounced with the use of AR glasses at the current technical level. Further optimization and improvement of AR glasses are warranted.
2831674 | [Clinical and immune-modulating effects of the treatment with unsaturated fatty acids in atopic dermatitis]. The metabolism of essential unsaturated fatty acids seems to show changes in patients with atopic dermatitis (AD). A defect or a deficiency of a Delta-6-Desaturase, which transforms cis-linoleic acid into gamma-linolenic-acid will be discussed. We examined the influence of a treatment with unsaturated fatty acids on clinical phenotype and the surface antigens of lymphocytes in peripheral blood. Prolonged recurrence free intervals as well as a faster ability to control relapse were established. Dysbalance in the lymphocytic system was able to be positively influenced. We found an increase of Leu 2 a-antigen carrying T-suppressor-lymphocytes and of the Leu 3+8+- antigen carrying subpopulation of T-helper-lymphocytes, which are responsible for activation of precursor T-suppressor cells into.
26668134 | Immune status of high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma patients and its therapeutic modulation under LenDex: a longitudinal analysis. There is significant interest in immunotherapy for the treatment of high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM), but no available data on the immune status of this particular disease stage. Such information is important to understand the interplay between immunosurveillance and disease transformation, but also to define whether patients with high-risk SMM might benefit from immunotherapy. Here, we have characterized T lymphocytes (including CD4, CD8, T-cell receptor gammadelta, and regulatory T cells), natural killer (NK) cells, and dendritic cells from 31 high-risk SMM patients included in the treatment arm of the QUIREDEX trial, and with longitudinal peripheral blood samples at baseline and after 3 and 9 cycles of lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone (LenDex). High-risk SMM patients showed at baseline decreased expression of activation-(CD25/CD28/CD54), type 1 T helper-(CD195/interferon-gamma/tumor necrosis factor-alpha/interleukin-2), and proliferation-related markers (CD119/CD120b) as compared with age-matched healthy individuals. However, LenDex was able to restore the normal expression levels for those markers and induced a marked shift in T-lymphocyte and NK-cell phenotype. Accordingly, high-risk SMM patients treated with LenDex showed higher numbers of functionally active T lymphocytes. Together, our results indicate that high-risk SMM patients have an impaired immune system that could be reactivated by the immunomodulatory effects of lenalidomide, even when combined with low-dose dexamethasone, and support the value of therapeutic immunomodulation to delay the progression to multiple myeloma. The QUIREDEX trial was registered to www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00480363.
31428524 | CCR5 status and metastatic progression in colorectal cancer. Multiple reports have highlighted the importance of the local immunological cellular composition (i.e. the density of effector T cells and macrophage polarization state) in predicting clinical outcome in advanced metastatic stage of colorectal cancer. However, in spite of the general association between a high effector T cell density and improved outcome, our recent work has revealed a specific lymphocyte-driven cancer cell-supporting signal. Indeed, lymphocyte-derived CCL5 supports CCR5-positive tumor cell proliferation and thereby fosters tumor growth in metastatic liver lesions. Upon systematic analysis of CCR5 expression by tumor cells using immunohistochemistry, we observed that the intensity of CCR5 increases with primary tumor size and peaks in T4 tumors. In liver metastases however, though CCR5 expression intensity is globally heightened compared to primary tumors, alterations in the expression patterns appear, leading to \patchiness\ of the stain. CCR5 patchiness is, therefore, a signature of liver metastases in our cohort (n = 97 specimens) and relates to globally decreased expression intensity, but does not influence the extent of the response to CCR5 inhibitor Maraviroc in patients. Moreover, CCR5 patchiness relates to a poor immune landscape characterized by a low cytotoxic-to-regulatory T cell ratio at the invasive margin and enriched cellular and molecular markers of macrophage M2 polarization. Finally, because higher numbers of PD-1- and CTLA-4-positive cells surround tumors with patchy CCR5 expression, one can speculate that these tumors potentially respond to immune checkpoint blockade. This hypothesis is corroborated by the prolonged disease-free survival and disease-specific survival observed in patients with low gene expression of CCR5 in metastases from two publically available cohorts. These observations highlight the complex role of the CCL5-CCR5 axis in CRC metastatic progression and warrant further investigations.
38551451 | Drug resistance and influencing factors in HIV-1-infected individuals under antiretroviral therapy in Guangxi, China. OBJECTIVES: To assess the profiles and determinants of drug resistance in HIV-1-infected individuals undergoing ART in Guangxi. METHODS: Samples and data were collected from HIV-1-infected individuals experiencing virological failure post-ART from 14 cities in Guangxi. Sequencing of the HIV-1 pol gene was conducted, followed by analysis for drug resistance mutations using the Stanford University HIV Drug Resistance Database. Logistic regression was employed to identify potential risk factors associated with both HIV drug resistance and mortality. RESULTS: A total of 8963 individuals with pol sequences were included in this study. The overall prevalence of HIV-1 drug resistance (HIVDR) was 42.43% (3808/8963), showing a decrease from 59.62% to 41.40% from 2016 to 2023. Factors such as being aged >=50 years, male, Han nationality, lower education levels, occupations including workers, peasants and children, AIDS, pre-treatment CD4 T cell counts <200 cells/mm3, infection with CRF01_AE and CRF55_01B subtypes, and ART regimen lamivudine/zidovudine/nevirapine were associated with higher susceptibility to HIVDR. The common mutations were M184V (17.38%) and K103N (22.14%). Additionally, the prevalence of M184V, S68G, M41L and G190A were different between the Han and Zhuang populations. Factors including age, gender, ethnicity, education level, occupation, infectious route, clinical stage, viral load, subtype, ART regimen and HIVDR showed significant associations with mortality. CONCLUSIONS: The factors contributing to drug resistance in the HIV-1 ART individuals in Guangxi appear to be notably intricate. Continuous reinforcement of drug resistance surveillance is imperative, accompanied by the optimization of ART regimens to mitigate virological failures effectively.
22133596 | The expression of the hypoxia markers CA9 and CXCR4 is correlated with survival in patients with neuroendocrine tumours of the ileum. BACKGROUND/AIM: The hypoxia-inducible factor pathway regulates the expression of a diverse group of molecules such as CA9 and CXCR4. Our aim was to investigate the expression of these markers in a series of patients with an ileal neuroendocrine tumour (IET) at various stages of tumorigenesis. METHODS: The immunohistochemical expression of CA9 and CXCR4 was examined in 51 patients with a resected IET. A 'hypoxic score' was calculated, integrating the expression of both CA9 and CXCR4 (hypoxic score 0: absence of expression of both molecules; hypoxic score 1: expression of CXCR4 and/or CA9). Results were compared to histoprognostic factors (including tumour size, stage and grade, WHO and TNM classifications, presence of vascular or perineural invasion, presence of a fibrotic stroma and microvascular density) and to survival. RESULTS: All tumours were well differentiated. 69% of tumours were less than 25 mm. 46% of tumours largely infiltrated the intestinal wall (>=T3, subserosa and serosa) and 90% were classified as N1 and/or 63% as M1. 57% of tumours were of grade G1, 43% of grade G2. Grade G2 (p=0.004) and larger tumour infiltration (>=T4; p=0.03) correlated with lower survival. Hypoxic score 1 correlated with a greater tumour size (p=0.034), larger tumour infiltration (T3 or T4; p=0.001), grade G2 (p=0.046), presence of lymph node metastasis (p=0.0066) and with lower survival of patients (p=0.03). CONCLUSION: The hypoxia-inducible factors CA9 and CXCR4 were found associated to the malignant progression of neuroendocrine tumours of the ileum. Their expression may reflect higher tumour aggressivity.
37724517 | Long follow-up of BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine in healthcare workers (2020-2022): A retrospective longitudinal SARS-CoV-2 serological surveillance. SARS-CoV-2 anti-spike IgG production and protection from severe respiratory illness should be explored in greater depth after COVID-19 booster vaccination. This longitudinal observational retrospective study investigated the anti-spike IgG response elicited by the first, second and booster doses of BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine in healthcare workers (HCW) at San Martino IRCCS Policlinico Hospital (Genoa) up to the 12th month. Sequential blood sampling was performed at T0 (prior to vaccination), T1 (21 days after the 1st dose of vaccine), T2, T3, T4, T5, T6 (7 days and 1, 3, 6 and 9 months after the 2nd dose, respectively), T7 and T8 (1 and 3 months after a booster dose). A SARS-CoV-2 IgG panel (Bio-Rad, Marnes-la-Coquette, France) was used to determine levels of receptor-binding domain (RBD), spike-1 (S1), spike-2 and nucleocapsid structural proteins of SARS-CoV-2. In the 51 HCWs evaluated, seroprevalence was 96% (49/51) at T1 and 100% (51/51) from T2 to T5 for RBD and S1. At T6, only one HCW was negative. T2 [RBD = 2945 (IQR:1693-5364); S1 = 1574 (IQR:833-3256) U/mL], and T7 [RBD = 8204 (IQR:4129-11,912); S1 = 4124 (IQR:2124-6326) U/mL] were characterized by the highest antibody values. Significant humoral increases in RBD and S1 were documented at T7 and T8 compared to T2 and T4, respectively (p-value < .001). Following vaccination with BNT162b2 and a booster dose in the 9th month, naive and healthy subjects show high antibody titers up to 12 months and a protective humoral response against COVID-19 disease lasting up to 20 months after the last booster.
3985124 | Human dendritic cells and macrophages. In situ immunophenotypic definition of subsets that exhibit specific morphologic and microenvironmental characteristics. Using a panel of monoclonal antibodies and antisera in situ, the authors have defined subsets of human dendritic cells and macrophages that exhibit specific morphologic and microenvironmental characteristics. All subsets contained cells that reacted with antibodies directed against HLA-A,B,C, HLA-Dr, leukocyte common, Leu-M3, and Leu-3(T4) antigens. R4/23 and anti-S100 defined three major subsets. R4/23+, S100- cells constituted the B-cell-related follicular dendritic cells, which were identified only within the germinal center/mantle microenvironment of lymphoid follicles. R4/23-, S100+ cells constituted the T-cell-related dendritic cell subset. Anti-Leu-6(T6) further subdivided this group into Leu-6(T6)- interdigitating cells within the T-cell microenvironments of lymphoid organs and Leu-6(T6)+ Langerhans cells found predominantly in epithelial microenvironments, especially the skin. R4/23-, S100- cells constituted the nondendritic tissue macrophage subset which was widely distributed, primarily outside of dendritic-cell microenvironments. These data indicate that although dendritic cells and macrophages share several common antigenic features, morphologically and microenvironmentally distinct subsets express distinct immunologic phenotypes. Such data may provide insight into the ontogeny and function of these subsets and constitute a basis for the comparison of normal dendritic cells and macrophages to various histiocytic proliferative disorders.
3012568 | Functional role of HLA class I cell-surface molecules in human T-lymphocyte activation and proliferation. This investigation addressed the role of major histocompatibility complex-encoded class I molecules in the activation and proliferation of human lymphocytes. We studied the effect of antibodies specific for HLA-A and HLA-B locus gene products on mitogen-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) subpopulations. Three individually derived, well-characterized anti-HLA class I monoclonal antibodies were demonstrated to inhibit the proliferation of human PBMC stimulated by either OKT3 or the calcium ionophore ionomycin. The antibody directed against HLA-A, -B, and -C locus gene products (W6/32) and the antibody directed against HLA-B locus gene products (4E) inhibited proliferation induced by either mitogen by 70-90%. The HLA-A locus-specific antibody (131), though inhibiting ionomycin-induced proliferation by 80-90%, was much less effective when OKT3 was the stimulus. The inhibition affected T4+ and T8+ cells and was not mediated by DR+ accessory cells. The inhibitory effect of these antibodies was associated with a decrease in the level of interleukin 2 activity present in culture supernatants, decreased interleukin 2 receptor expression, and decreased transferrin receptor expression and was not overcome by the addition of exogenous interleukin 2. Our results suggest that HLA class I molecules are directly involved in the early critical events of human lymphocyte activation and proliferation.
38374756 | Integrated Bioinformatic Analysis and Validation Identifies Immune Microenvironment-Related Potential Biomarkers in Alzheimer's Disease. BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases, accompanied by cognitive and memory impairment, accounting for about 60% - 80% of dementia types. The pathogenesis of AD has not been clarified, and there is no effective therapy to prevent or treat AD. In this study, we aimed to identify the potential biomarkers involved in the brain immune microenvironment in AD. METHODS: AD datasets from GEO database were obtained to identify the differentially expressed disease-related genes (DEDRGs) in AD through weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and differential expression analysis. Functional Enrichment analysis was performed to explore the potential biological function of DEDRGs. The hub DEDRGs were identified through the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Furthermore, the CIBERSORT algorithm was employed to bulk gene expression profiles of AD to depict the immune microenvironment characteristics in AD. Pearson's correlation analysis was utilized to depict the correlation between each of immune cells and hub DEDRGs. RESULTS: A total of 27 DEDRGs were identified through WGCNA and differential expression analysis. Functional enrichment analysis of 27 DEDRGs indicated that chemokine signaling pathway was the most significantly enriched KEGG pathway, response to biotic stimulus was the most significantly enriched GO term, and most of DEDRGs were enriched into urinary system cancer in DO analysis. 6 hub DEDRGs, ANGPT1, CCL2, CD44, CXCR4, GJA1 and VCAM1, were screened through PPI network and all of them were up-regulated in AD. Immune infiltration analysis revealed that there were higher infiltration levels of T cells CD4 memory activated, T cells gamma delta, NK cells resting and macrophages M0, and lower infiltration level of NK cell activated in AD, and macrophages M2 owned the highest positively association with VCAM1 and CXCR4, but VCAM1 was statistically and negatively correlated to T cells CD8. CONCLUSION: Our study identified 6 hub DEDRGs, ANGPT1, CCL2, CD44, CXCR4, GJA1 and VCAM1, were statistically associated with immune infiltrating cells, and were significantly related to the pathological development of AD, which may provide a theoretical basis for developing potential biomarkers and implementing effective therapies against AD.
37417915 | Astragaloside IV restores Th17/Treg balance via inhibiting CXCR4 to improve chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has a high fatality rate and poses a great threat to human health. Astragaloside IV (AS-IV) is proven to attenuate cigarette smoke (CS)-induced pulmonary inflammation, based on which this research focuses on the mechanism of AS-IV in COPD. METHODS: To evaluate the effects of AS-IV, CD4+ T cells received different concentrations of AS-IV. CD4+ T cell viability, T helper 17 (Th17)/regulatory T (Treg) markers and CXCR4 expressions in CD4+ T cells or spleen/lung tissues were detected by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide assay, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. The proportions of Treg and Th17 cells were assessed by flow cytometry. Enzyme-linked immune sorbent assay was employed to determine cytokine contents in serum and lung tissues. RESULTS: AS-IV with concentration exceeding 40 microM inhibited CD4+ T cell viability. In vitro, AS-IV suppressed the expressions of CXCR4, retinoid-related orphan receptor gammat (RORgammat), and interleukin (IL)-17A as well as Th17 cells but promoted the expressions of forkhead box p3 (Foxp3) and IL-10 as well as Treg cells, while CXCR4 overexpression reversed the effects of AS-IV. In vivo, AS-IV alleviated COPD, and CS-induced Th17/Treg imbalance in mice and reduced CS-induced down-regulation of IL-10 in serum and lung tissues and Foxp3 and up-regulation of IL-1beta, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), IL-6, and IL-17A in serum and lung tissues and RORgammat. AS-IV mitigated CS-induced CXCR4 up-regulation. Above effects of AS-IV on mice were offset by CXCR4 overexpression. CONCLUSIONS: AS-IV restores Th17/Treg balance via impeding CXCR4 to ameliorate COPD.
8756719 | Homozygous defect in HIV-1 coreceptor accounts for resistance of some multiply-exposed individuals to HIV-1 infection. Rare individuals have been multiply exposed to HIV-1 but remain uninfected. The CD4+ T-cells of two of these individuals, designated EU2 and EU3, are highly resistant in vitro to the entry of primary macrophagetropic virus but are readily infectable with transformed T-cell line adapted viruses. We report here on the genetic basis of this resistance. We found that EU2 and EU3 have a homozygous defect in CKR-5, the gene encoding the recently described coreceptor for primary HIV-1 isolates. These individuals appear to have inherited a defective CKR-5 allele that contains an internal 32 base pair deletion. The encoded protein is severely truncated and cannot be detected at the cell surface. Surprisingly, this defect has no obvious phenotype in the affected individuals. Thus, a CKR-5 allele present in the human population appears to protect homozygous individuals from sexual transmission of HIV-1. Heterozygous individuals are quite common (approximately 20%) in some populations. These findings indicate the importance of CKR-5 in HIV-1 transmission and suggest that targeting the HIV-1-CKR-5 interaction may provide a means of preventing or slowing disease progression.
38420260 | HIV Productively Infects Highly Differentiated and Exhausted CD4+ T Cells During AIDS. Background: Throughout HIV infection, productively infected cells generate billions of viral particles and are thus responsible for body-wide HIV dissemination, but their phenotype during AIDS is unknown. As AIDS is associated with immunological changes, analyzing the phenotype of productively infected cells can help understand HIV production during this terminal stage. Methods: Blood samples from 15 untreated viremic participants (recent infection, n=5; long-term infection, n=5; active opportunistic AIDS-defining disease, n=5) and 5 participants virologically controlled on antiretroviral therapy (ART) enrolled in the Analysis of the Persistence, Reservoir and HIV Latency (APRIL) study (NCT05752318) were analyzed. Cells expressing the capsid protein p24 (p24+ cells) after 18 hours of resting or 24 hours of stimulation (HIV-Flow) revealed productively infected cells from viremic participants or translation-competent reservoir cells from treated participants, respectively. Results: The frequency of productively infected cells tended to be higher during AIDS in comparison with recent and long-term infections (median, 340, 72, and 32/million CD4+ T cells, respectively) and correlated with the plasma viral load at all stages of infection. Altogether, these cells were more frequently CD4low, HLA-ABClow, CD45RA-, Ki67+, PD-1+, with a non-negligible contribution from pTfh (CXCR5+PD-1+) cells, and were not significantly enriched in HIV coreceptors CCR5 nor CXCR4 expression. The comparison markers expression between stages showed that productively infected cells during AIDS were enriched in memory and exhausted cells. In contrast, the frequencies of infected pTfh were lower during AIDS compared to non-AIDS stages. A UMAP analysis revealed that total CD4+ T cells were grouped in 7 clusters and that productive p24+ cells were skewed to given clusters throughout the course of infection. Overall, the preferential targets of HIV during the latest stages seemed to be more frequently highly differentiated (memory, TTD-like) and exhausted cells and less frequently pTfh-like cells. In contrast, translation-competent reservoir cells were less frequent (5/million CD4+ T cells) and expressed more frequently HLA-ABC and less frequently PD-1. Conclusions: In long-term infection and AIDS, productively infected cells were differentiated and exhausted. This could indicate that cells with these given features are responsible for HIV production and dissemination in an immune dysfunction environment occurring during the last stages of infection.
16146542 | Extensive flow cytometric characterization of plasmacytoid dendritic cell leukemia cells. OBJECTIVES: Accumulating evidence suggests that non-T, non-B cell CD4+CD56+ neoplasms with lymphoblastic morphology include clinically and immunophenotypically diverse entities. Although their cells of origin or classification are still controversial several entities clearly represent a distinct type of neoplasms that are clinically aggressive. METHODS: In this work we present the immunophenotypic and genotypic features of bone marrow (BM), peripheral blood (PB), lymph node and skin lymphocytes from a patient diagnosed as plasmacytoid dendritic cell leukemia involving the skin, BM, PB, lymph nodes, liver and spleen. For determination of immunophenotypic characteristics of malignant plasmacytoid dendritic cells 73 monoclonal antibodies detecting lineage markers, chemokine receptors, cytokine receptors, activation, and co-stimulatory molecules were used. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: The malignant cells proved to express CD4+, CD56+ lineage negative leukemia phenotype characteristically positive for CD36, CD38, CD40, CD45, CD45RA, CD68, CD123, CD184, HLA-DR, BDCA2, and granzyme-B corresponding to the preplasmacytoid dendritic cell developmental stage. The presence of CD11a/CD18, CD84, CD91, CD95, alphavbeta5, CDw197, and the absence of CD52 and CD133 in this case can be regarded as additional features of malignant cells. Completing the immunophenotypes with multidrug resistance function can provide additional information for characterizing pDC leukemia.
9353427 | HLA-A2 antigen status predicts metastasis and response to immunotherapy in gastric cancer. Our previous studies have shown that HLA-DR4 and -B52 antigens are associated with an increased risk of lymph node metastasis in patients with gastric cancer. We hypothesized that a putative HLA antigen, correlated with a low risk of lymph node metastasis, may also be correlated with the response to anticancer therapy. The microcytotoxicity assay was used to examine 49 HLA antigens of the A, B, C, DR, and DQ loci, and the association between HLA class I and II antigen status and lymph node metastasis in 847 patients with gastric cancer as well as the response to the therapy in 739 patients were analyzed. HLA-A2 antigen was significantly associated with a low risk of lymph node metastasis in patients with T2-T4 advanced cancer [58.8% compared to 37.0% in patients with lymph node metastasis; corrected P, Pc (98), = 0.011], especially in those with moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma [71.0% compared to 26.4% in patients with lymph node metastasis, Pc (294) = 0.00294] and with a better response to post-operative immunotherapy using protein-bound polysaccharide K (PSK), a nonspecific immunomodulator, than to chemotherapy. HLA alleles may be associated with resistance or susceptibility to lymph node metastasis and HLA-A2 antigen may be a useful predictor of the response to PSK. The data suggest that the predictive power of this HLA antigen may prove useful in the selection of anticancer therapy.
11363806 | NIAID researchers identify cofactors for entry of HIV into cells. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
38479672 | Achyranthes bidentata polysaccharides improve cyclophosphamide-induced adverse reactions by regulating the balance of cytokines in helper T cells. The manuscript aimed to study the immune function maintenance effect of Achyranthes bidentata polysaccharides (ABPs). The mice were divided into the control group, cyclophosphamide-induced (CTX) group, and ABPs-treated (ABP) group. The results showed that, compared with the CTX group, ABPs could significantly improve the spleen index and alleviate the pathological changes in immune organs. Ex vivo study of whole spleen cells, the levels of interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were increased. The proliferation of lymphocytes and the proportion of CD3+CD4+ Th cells in peripheral blood mononuclear cells were increased. The transcription of GATA-3, Foxp3, and ROR gamma t were decreased, while the transcription of T-bet was increased. The transcriptome sequencing analysis showed that the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) caused by ABPs-treated were mostly downregulated in CTX-induced mice. The Th2-related genes were significantly enriched in DEGs, with representative genes, including Il4, II13, Il9, etc., while increasing the expression of immune effector genes simultaneously, including Ccl3, Ccr5, and Il12rb2. It was suggested that ABPs possibly regulated the balance of cytokines in helper T cells to ameliorate the immune function of CTX-induced mice.
38396081 | Motivation levels and white matter microstructure in children living with HIV. Central nervous system involvement in HIV infection leads to neurobehavioural sequelae. Although apathy is a well-recognised symptom in adults living with HIV linked to alterations in brain structure, there is scarce research examining motivation in children living with HIV (CLWH). We used the Children's Motivation Scale (CMS; normative mean = 50, SD = 10) to assess motivation levels in 76 CLWH aged 6-16 years (63 on antiretroviral therapy [ART]; 13 ART-naive slow progressors) in South Africa. Overall, CLWH scored low on the CMS (mean = 35.70 [SD = 5.87]). Motivation levels were significantly reduced in children taking ART compared to ART-naive slow progressors (p = 0.02), but were not correlated with markers of HIV disease (CD4 + cell count or viral load), or neurocognitive function (p > 0.05). CMS scores were correlated with diffusion tensor imaging metrics of white matter microstructure in specific frontostriatal brain regions (p < 0.05). On multiple regression, associations with the anterior limb of the internal capsule, a subcortical white matter region, remained significant after adjusting for potential confounders. These findings suggest that reduced motivation may be an important neurobehavioural symptom in CLWH and may reflect changes in white matter microstructure of frontostriatal brain regions.
23663759 | [PD-1 expression in HBcAg-specific CD8+ T cells of adolescents with chronic HBV infection]. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the differential expression of programmed death-1 (PD-1) in the hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg)17-28-specific CD8+ T cell subsets of adolescent patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection during the immune tolerant phase and the immune clearance phase. METHODS: A total of 105 patients between the ages of 12-28 years old (mean age 17.20+/-6.35) with chronic HBV infection and 15 healthy age-matched individuals were enrolled in the study. The patients were divided into two groups according to their current status in immune clearance phase (n = 55) or immune tolerant phase (n = 50), as determined by hepatic biopsy pathology. Flow cytometry was used to detect HLA-A2 type and PD-1 expression on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and HBcAg17-28-specific CD8+ T cells. PD-1 mRNA levels in PBMCs were measured by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Independent samples t-test was used to compare means between the two groups, and one-way ANOVA was used to compare means among multiple groups. Pearson's correlation coefficient was used to assess the significance of correlation. RESULTS: The frequency of HBcAg18-27-specific CD8+ T cells was significantly higher in the immune clearance phase group than in the immune tolerant phase group (t = 18.08, P less than 0.01), but the expression of PD-1 on the HBcAg18-27 specific CD8+ T cells was significantly lower in the immune clearance phase group than in the immune tolerant phase group (t = 4.72, P less than 0.01). A negative correlation existed between the frequency of HBcAg18-27-specific CD8+ T cells and PD-1 expression (r = -0.463, P less than 0.01). A positive correlation existed between HBV viral load and PD-1 expression on the HBcAg18-27-specific CD8+ T cells in chronic HBV infection patients (r = 0.882, P less than 0.01), and there was a negative correlation between PD-1 expression levels on HBcAg18-27-specific CD8+ T cells and hepatic tissue inflammation score (r = -0.76, P less than 0.01). PD-1 mRNA in PBMCs was significantly higher in the immune tolerant phase group than in the immune clearance phase group (t = 30.89, P less than 0.01). CONCLUSION: Up-regulated expression of PD-1 is associated with HBV-specific CD8+ T cells and may play a crucial role in inhibiting their function during the immune tolerance phase of chronic HBV infection in adolescents.
9770524 | CXCR4 and CD4 mediate a rapid CD95-independent cell death in CD4(+) T cells. AIDS is characterized by a progressive decrease of CD4(+) helper T lymphocytes. Destruction of these cells may involve programmed cell death, apoptosis. It has previously been reported that apoptosis can be induced even in noninfected cells by HIV-1 gp120 and anti-gp120 antibodies. HIV-1 gp120 binds to T cells via CD4 and the chemokine coreceptor CXCR4 (fusin/LESTR). Therefore, we investigated whether CD4 and CXCR4 mediate gp120-induced apoptosis. We used human peripheral blood lymphocytes, malignant T cells, and CD4/CXCR4 transfectants, and found cell death induced by both cell surface receptors, CD4 and CXCR4. The induced cell death was rapid, independent of known caspases, and lacking oligonucleosomal DNA fragmentation. In addition, the death signals were not propagated via p56(lck) and Gialpha. However, the cells showed chromatin condensation, morphological shrinkage, membrane inversion, and reduced mitochondrial transmembrane potential indicative of apoptosis. Significantly, apoptosis was exclusively observed in CD4(+) but not in CD8(+) T cells, and apoptosis triggered via CXCR4 was inhibited by stromal cell-derived factor-1, the natural CXCR4 ligand. Thus, this mechanism of apoptosis might contribute to T cell depletion in AIDS and might have major implications for therapeutic intervention.
38486826 | A Nursing Pre-Transplant Intervention to Reduce Patients' Uncertainty about Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation. Patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) procedures often experience high levels of uncertainty. In this study, we developed and implemented a nursing intervention program to help patients recognize and reduce pre-transplant uncertainty. This study used a pretest-posttest single-group design without a control group. Eighteen patients undergoing HSCT participated in the intervention program-which included informational support, confirmation that the patients understood the information provided, and emotional support. Outpatients received the intervention at their initial outpatient visits after their procedure dates were determined, while inpatients received it at discharge following their procedures. The Universal Uncertainty in Illness Scale (UUIS), which consists of 26 items and six subscales, was used as the primary outcome measure. The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale were used as secondary outcome measures. The sample included 18 individuals (13 male and five female participants; median age, 52 years). Most participants had acute lymphoblastic leukemia and had previously undergone bone marrow transplantations. Following our intervention, the total UUIS score significantly decreased, from 80.83 +- 18.42 before the intervention to 63.06 +- 23.53 afterward (t = 4.98, p < .001). Furthermore, significant post-intervention reductions were observed for all six subscales of the UUIS. There were no significant differences in the functional EORTC QLQ-C30 scale scores; however, the symptom scale showed a significant decrease in fatigue (pre = 35.19 +- 19.53, post = 25.93 +- 17.04, Z = -1.99, p < 0.046) and constipation (pre = 20.37 +- 20.26, post = 7.41 +- 14.26, Z = -2.11, p = 0.035). There were no significant differences in anxiety and depression levels pre- and post-intervention. Overall, the intervention effectively reduced both UUIS total and subscale scores related to pre-HSCT uncertainties. Assessing uncertainty prior to HSCT is vital to assisting patients in coping with the procedure. Nurses not only provide information but also tailor the information to the patients' cognitive abilities, thereby simplifying their understanding of the disease and its treatment.
8995702 | Inhibition of human immunodeficiency virus fusion by a monoclonal antibody to a coreceptor (CXCR4) is both cell type and virus strain dependent. CXCR4 (also termed fusin, LESTR, or HUMSTR) is a member of the G-protein-coupled chemokine receptor family with seven membrane-spanning domains. CXCR4 acts as a coreceptor for syncytium-inducing human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) strains, conferring entry into CD4+ cells. We show here that a novel mouse monoclonal antibody (12G5) that recognizes CXCR4 blocked cell-to-cell fusion and cell free-virus infection of CXCR4+ CD4+ RD rhabdomyosarcoma cells by seven HIV-1 and HIV-2 strains that had various cell tropisms for different CD4+ human cell types. Yet the majority of the members of the same virus panel resisted 12G5 inhibition on T-cell lines. When inhibition was observed on these cell types, it was both cell type and virus strain dependent. In at least one situation, 12G5 failed to block LAI infection of cells expressing CXCR4 as the only available coreceptor. Our observations suggest that CXCR4 could be processed or presented differently depending on the cell type, allowing some strains to evade 12G5 inhibition. Alternatively, since several of the viruses could infect certain CXCR4- CD4+ cell lines, it is conceivable that alternative coreceptors are active, enabling individual HIV strains to choose between compatible coreceptors during entry into cells. Moreover, the strain dependency of 12G5 inhibition implies that the interaction of different HIVs with CXCR4 varies.
15967444 | Induction of 15-lipoxygenase-1 impairs expression of HIV-1 receptors CD4 and CXCR4 in monocytic cells. The lipoxygenase pathway of immunocompetent cells has been related to HIV infection and interleukins-4 and -13 have been described as major regulators of this metabolic route. To explore whether 15-lipoxygenase1 expression might impact the responsiveness of monocytic cells for HIV we induced expression of this enzyme by two independent ways (stable transfection of U937 cells and culturing of blood monocytes in vitro in the presence of granulocyte/monocyte colony stimulating factor and interleukin 4) and assayed the cellular content of the two HIV-1 receptors CD4 and CXCR4 (CD184) by real time RT-PCR and fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Wild-type U937 cells express CD4 and CXCR4 at high levels and expression was not altered when the cells were transfected with control plasmids. In contrast, expression of these proteins was strongly reduced when the cells were stably transfected with 15-lipoxygenase1. Similar effects were observed when blood monocytes were cultured in the presence of granulocyte/monocyte colony stimulating factor and interleukin-4. Under these conditions strong overexpression of 15-lipoxygenase1 was paralleled by downregulation of CD4 and CXCR4. Since these surface proteins are essential for the binding of T-tropic HIV-1 strains expression of 15-lipoxygenase1 may confer resistance against HIV infection to monocytic cells.
38181545 | High prevalence of diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) among obese young patients - A retrospective observational study. OBJECTIVE: Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) is characterized by ossification of ligaments and entheses, and most commonly affects the spinal column. The prevalence of DISH is increasing with age and is considered uncommon before the age of 50 years, with an estimated prevalence of less than 5 %. DISH is known to be highly associated with metabolic syndrome and obesity. We aim to assess the prevalence of DISH among young (<=50 yr.) patients suffering from severe obesity (BMI of 35 kg/m2 or higher). METHODS: A retrospective analysis assessing chest and spine radiographs (including Computed Tomography, CT) of patients with BMI>=35 visiting the bariatric ambulatory clinic in an academic medical center from 2013 to 2022. Patients included in the analysis were 31-50 years old. Diagnosis of DISH was made according to the Resnick criteria. The prevalence of DISH was calculated. Demographic, clinical and laboratory data were collected and compared between the DISH and non-DISH groups. RESULTS: 183 young (mean age: 40.4; 118 females, 64.2 %) obese (BMI median: 40.6; range 35-73) patients were included in the radiographic review. DISH was diagnosed in 33 patients (18.0 %; 95 % CI: 13.1-24.2 %) which was significantly higher than the expected 10 % (Z = 3.62, p<.001); another 8 patients (4.4 %; 95 % CI: 2.2-8.4 %) were considered as \near DISH\ (not fulfilling yet the Resnick criteria) as it represents a pre-disease state. Patients diagnosed with DISH were significantly older than patients without DISH (t = 4.54, p<.001), as the prevalence of DISH increased by age (linear association=14.95, p<.001). There was a statistically significantly higher prevalence of hypertension (chi2 = 8.30, p<.004), smoking (chi2 = 4.69, p<.03) and OSA (chi2 = 6.16, p<.013) in the DISH group as compared to their non-DISH counterparts. CONCLUSION: The prevalence of DISH among obese young patients was 18 %, which is much higher than in the general population. Early-onset DISH should be regarded as a musculoskeletal obesity-related complication.
16918819 | Characterization of the expanded T-cell populations in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis. OBJECTIVES: Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by granulomatosis inflammation, systemic vasculitis and glomerulonephritis. In patients, the peripheral T cells are characterized by mono/oligoclonal CD4+/CD8+ T-cell AV/BV receptor expansions, with aberrant expression of activation markers. This study was designed to characterize the phenotypic differences between the expanded and nonexpanded T-cell populations. Expression of markers for activation, costimulation and adhesion molecules was examined. As earlier studies have shown aberrant expression of CD28/CD152, we also analysed the expression of another costimulatory system, the tumour necrotic factor receptor (TNFR) superfamily proteins. DESIGN: Fluorocrome-conjugated monoclonal antibodies and flow cytometry was used to analyse the expression of the different markers on the surface of the expanded and nonexpanded subsets of T cells. SETTING: The Karolinska Hospital and Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm, Sweden. SUBJECTS: Nine patients with WG (six men and three women) had 16 TCRAV/BV CD4+/CD8+ expanded populations that were characterized. RESULTS: The expanded TCRA/BV CD4+ and CD8+ cells had lower percentages of cells expressing CD28 and higher of those expressing CD152 (CTLA-4). The expanded CD4+ population had more cells expressing HLA-DR, CD57 and CCR5 (CD195), whilst the expression of CD25 was present on fewer of the expanded cells. The expanded CD8+ population contained more cells expressing CD137 (4-1BB), CD137 (4-1BBL), CD30 (Ki-1), CD40 and CD134 (OX40). CONCLUSIONS: There were marked differences in the phenotypes of expanded and nonexpanded T-cell populations.
38427640 | Effect of cryopreservation on CD4+ T cell subsets in foreskin tissue. Voluntary medical male circumcision (VMMC) reduces HIV acquisition by at least 60%, but the determinants of HIV susceptibility in foreskin tissues are incompletely understood. Flow cytometry is a powerful tool that helps us understand tissue immune defenses in mucosal tissue like the inner foreskin, but foreskin flow cytometry has only been validated using fresh tissue samples. This restricts immune analyses to timepoints immediately after surgical acquisition and hinders research in this area. We compared fresh analysis with whole tissue cryopreservation and later thawing and digestion to analyze CD4+ T cell populations relevant to HIV susceptibility (CCR5, CD25, CD127, CCR4, CXCR3, CCR6, CCR10, HLA-DR, and CD38). Eight foreskin samples from HIV-negative males aged >18 years were collected after VMMC. For each sample, half the foreskin was immediately cryopreserved for later digestion and flow cytometry analysis, while the remaining tissues were analyzed fresh. We demonstrate no significant impact of cryopreservation on CD4+ T cell expression of CD25, CCR4, CCR6, HLA-DR, CCR10, or CD127. Although expression levels of CCR5, CD38, and CXCR3 were increased after cryopreservation, the relative ranking of participants was retained. In conclusion, cryopreserved foreskin tissues may be suitable for subsequent digestion and flow cytometry phenotyping of HIV-susceptible T cell populations.
26154172 | The Effects of the Recombinant CCR5 T4 Lysozyme Fusion Protein on HIV-1 Infection. BACKGROUND: Insertion of T4 lysozyme (T4L) into the GPCR successfully enhanced GPCR protein stability and solubilization. However, the biological functions of the recombinant GPCR protein have not been analyzed. METHODS: We engineered the CCR5-T4L mutant and expressed and purified the soluble recombinant protein using an E.coli expression system. The antiviral effects of this recombinant protein in THP-1 cell lines, primary human macrophages, and PBMCs from different donors were investigated. We also explored the possible mechanisms underlying the observed antiviral effects. RESULTS: Our data showed the biphasic inhibitory and promotion effects of different concentrations of soluble recombinant CCR5-T4L protein on R5 tropic human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection in THP-1 cell lines, human macrophages, and PBMCs from clinical isolates. We demonstrated that soluble recombinant CCR5-T4L acts as a HIV-1 co-receptor, interacts with wild type CCR5, down-regulates the surface CCR5 expression in human macrophages, and interacts with CCL5 to inhibit macrophage migration. Using binding assays, we further determined that recombinant CCR5-T4L and [125I]-CCL5 compete for the same binding site on wild type CCR5. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that recombinant CCR5-T4L protein marginally promotes HIV-1 infection at low concentrations and markedly inhibits infection at higher concentrations. This recombinant protein may be helpful in the future development of anti-HIV-1 therapeutic agents.
38643381 | Cenicriviroc, a CCR2/CCR5 antagonist, promotes the generation of type 1 regulatory T cells. Cenicriviroc, a dual CCR2/CCR5 antagonist, initially developed as an anti-HIV drug, has shown promising results in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis phase 2 clinical trials. It inhibits the infiltration and activation of CCR2+/CCR5+ monocytes and macrophages to the site of liver injury, preventing liver fibrosis. However, the role of Cenicriviroc in the modulation of helper T cell differentiation and functions remains to be explored. In inflamed colons of Crohn's disease patients, CCR2+ and CCR5+ CD4+ T cells are enriched. Considering the role of CCR2+ and CCR5+ T cells in IBD pathogenesis, we investigated the potential role of Cenicriviroc in colitis. Our in vitro studies revealed that Cenicriviroc inhibits Th1-, Th2-, and Th17-cell differentiation while promoting the generation of type 1 regulatory T cells (Tr1), known for preventing inflammation through induction of IL-10. This study is the first to report that Cenicriviroc promotes Tr1 cell generation by up-regulating the signature of Tr1 cell transcription factors such as c-Maf, Prdm1, Irf-1, Batf, and EGR-2. Cenicriviroc displayed a protective effect in experimental colitis models by preventing body weight loss and intestinal inflammation and preserving epithelial barrier integrity. We show that Cenicriviroc induced IL-10 and inhibited the generation of pro-inflammatory cytokines IFN-gamma, IL-17, IL-6, and IL-1beta during colitis. Based on our data, we propose Cenicriviroc as a potential therapeutic in controlling tissue inflammation by inhibiting the generation and functions of effector T cells and promoting the induction of anti-inflammatory Tr1 cells.
9295051 | Two murine homologues of the human chemokine receptor CXCR4 mediating stromal cell-derived factor 1alpha activation of Gi2 are differentially expressed in vivo. Previous results have shown that pertussis toxin-sensitive Gi proteins are likely to be involved in regulating the emigration of mature thymocytes from the thymus. In this study, a low stringency polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approach was used to identify Gi protein-coupled cell surface receptors expressed in mouse thymocytes. Among the ten G protein-coupled receptor cDNA isolated, the most prevalent cDNA encoded a polypeptide highly homologous to the human leukocyte-expressed seven-transmembrane-domain receptor LESTR, also referred to as HIV entry cofactor, fusin, or CXCR4. Isolation of full-length cDNA revealed that alternative RNA splicing produces transcripts encoding two isoforms of the murine LESTR, differing by the presence of two amino acids in the N-terminal portion of the longer protein. Functional reconstitution of recombinant murine LESTR with recombinant heterotrimeric G proteins in baculovirus-infected insect cells showed that both receptor variants mediate stromal cell-derived factor 1alpha activation of the pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein Gi2. Receptor subtype-specific reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis revealed differential expression of the two receptor mRNA in lymphoid tissues and brain, indicating that distinct functions are mediated by the two receptor isoforms in these tissues. The presence of LESTR mRNA in very early thymocytes as well as in immature (CD4+ CD8+) thymocytes suggests that both CD4 and LESTR are co-expressed and render developing human thymocytes susceptible for HIV entry, which may affect generation of both CD4+ CD8- and CD4- CD8+ mature lineages.
2939279 | Immunopathology of renal allograft rejection analyzed with monoclonal antibodies to mononuclear cell markers. The composition of the mononuclear cell infiltrate in rejecting renal allografts was determined on 96 renal biopsies and 22 nephrectomy specimens by the use of monoclonal antibodies to mononuclear cell surface markers and an indirect immunoperoxidase staining technique. During rejection the composition of the infiltrate was heterogeneous, with T cells (T11), monocytes (OKM1) and HLA-DR expressing mononuclear cells the most frequent sub-populations. B cells (B1) and activated T cells, identified by OKT10, were always in the minority. The T cells infiltrate usually included the helper/inducer (T4) and cytotoxic (T8) subclasses, which suggests that both may contribute to the mediation of rejection. Whether T4 or T8 predominated in the graft did not relate to the ratio of T4:T8 in blood, the HLA A, B or DR incompatibilities of the graft, or the immunosuppressive used. The frequency of T11, T4, T8, HLA-DR positive cells and monocytes, but not B cells, increased with the severity of rejection and was similar in biopsies from patients immunosuppressed with Cyclosporine (CSA) to those given a combination of azathioprine, prednisone and antilymphocyte globulin (AZA). Severe rejection episodes which did not respond to treatment with corticosteroids were more often characterized by a predominance of T8 over T4 cells and T cells infiltrating the glomeruli. In grafts with evidence of cellular rejection, renal tubular cells were shown to have a marked increase in their expression of HLA-DR antigens compared to normal kidneys or grafts with minimal rejection. The expression of HLA-DR antigens on graft tubular cells correlated with the presence of T cells in the interstitium and the severity of rejection, except for moderate rejection in CSA treated biopsies, in which HLA-DR expression was lower than in AZA biopsies. These immunopathological studies have demonstrated that a variety of potential effector cells exist within the graft, and several features have been identified which may assist in assessing the prognosis of the rejection episode.
37696048 | Alterations in gp120 glycans or the gp41 fusion peptide-proximal region modulate the stability of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) envelope glycoprotein pretriggered conformation. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) envelope glycoprotein (Env) trimer mediates entry into host cells by binding receptors, CD4 and CCR5/CXCR4, and fusing the viral and cell membranes. In infected cells, cleavage of the gp160 Env precursor yields the mature Env trimer, with gp120 exterior and gp41 transmembrane Env subunits. Env cleavage stabilizes the State-1 conformation, which is the major target for broadly neutralizing antibodies, and decreases the spontaneous sampling of more open Env conformations that expose epitopes for poorly neutralizing antibodies. During HIV-1 entry into cells, CD4 binding drives the metastable Env from a pretriggered (State-1) conformation into more \open,\ lower-energy states. Here, we report that changes in two dissimilar elements of the HIV-1 Env trimer, namely particular gp120 glycans and the gp41 fusion peptide-proximal region (FPPR), can independently modulate the stability of State 1. Individual deletion of several gp120 glycans destabilized State 1, whereas removal of a V1 glycan resulted in phenotypes indicative of a more stable pretriggered Env conformation. Likewise, some alterations of the gp41 FPPR decreased the level of spontaneous shedding of gp120 from the Env trimer and stabilized the pretriggered State-1 Env conformation. State-1-stabilizing changes were additive and could suppress the phenotypes associated with State-1-destabilizing alterations in Env. Our results support a model in which multiple protein and carbohydrate elements of the HIV-1 Env trimer additively contribute to the stability of the pretriggered (State-1) conformation. The Env modifications identified in this study will assist efforts to characterize the structure and immunogenicity of the metastable State-1 conformation. IMPORTANCE The elicitation of antibodies that neutralize multiple strains of HIV-1 is an elusive goal that has frustrated the development of an effective vaccine. The pretriggered shape of the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) spike on the virus surface is the major target for such broadly neutralizing antibodies. The \closed\ pretriggered Env shape resists the binding of most antibodies but is unstable and often assumes \open\ shapes that elicit ineffective antibodies. We identified particular changes in both the protein and the sugar components of the Env trimer that stabilize the pretriggered shape. Combinations of these changes were even more effective at stabilizing the pretriggered Env than the individual changes. Stabilizing changes in Env could counteract the effect of Env changes that destabilize the pretriggered shape. Locking Env in its pretriggered shape will assist efforts to understand the Env spike on the virus and to incorporate this shape into vaccines.
38480731 | HLA-class II restricted TCR targeting human papillomavirus type 18 E7 induces solid tumor remission in mice. T cell receptor (TCR)-engineered T cell therapy is a promising potential treatment for solid tumors, with preliminary efficacy demonstrated in clinical trials. However, obtaining clinically effective TCR molecules remains a major challenge. We have developed a strategy for cloning tumor-specific TCRs from long-term surviving patients who have responded to immunotherapy. Here, we report the identification of a TCR (10F04), which is human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DRA/DRB1*09:01 restricted and human papillomavirus type 18 (HPV18) E784-98 specific, from a multiple antigens stimulating cellular therapy (MASCT) benefited metastatic cervical cancer patient. Upon transduction into human T cells, the 10F04 TCR demonstrated robust antitumor activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Notably, the TCR effectively redirected both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells to specifically recognize tumor cells and induced multiple cytokine secretion along with durable antitumor activity and outstanding safety profiles. As a result, this TCR is currently being investigated in a phase I clinical trial for treating HPV18-positive cancers. This study provides an approach for developing safe and effective TCR-T therapies, while underscoring the potential of HLA class II-restricted TCR-T therapy as a cancer treatment.
10820198 | gp120 induces cell death in human neuroblastoma cells through the CXCR4 and CCR5 chemokine receptors. To infect target cells, the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type I (HIV-1) must engage not only the well-known CD4 molecule, but it also requires one of several recently described coreceptors. In particular, the CXCR4 (LESTR/fusin) receptor allows fusion and entry of T-tropic strains of HIV, whereas CCR5 is the major coreceptor used by primary HIV-1 strains that infect macrophages and CD4(+) T-helper cells (M-tropic viruses). In addition, the alpha chemokine SDF1alpha and the beta chemokines MIP1alpha, MIP1beta, and RANTES, natural ligands of CXCR4 and CCR5, respectively, are potent soluble inhibitors of HIV infection by blocking the binding between the viral envelope glycoprotein gp120 and the coreceptors. Approximately two-thirds of individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) show neurologic complications, which are referred to a syndrome called AIDS dementia complex or HIV-1-associated cognitive/motor complex. The HIV-1 coat glycoprotein gp120 has been proposed as the major etiologic agent for neuronal damage, mediating both direct and indirect effects on the CNS. Furthermore, recent findings showing the presence of chemokine receptors on the surface of different cell types resident in the CNS raise the possibility that the association of gp120 with these receptors may contribute to the pathogenesis of neurological dysfunction. Here, we address the possible role of alpha and beta chemokines in inhibiting gp120-mediated neurotoxicity using the human neuroblastoma CHP100 cell line as an experimental model. We have previously shown that, in CHP100 cells, picomolar concentrations of gp120 produce a significant increase in cell death, which seems to proceed through a Ca(2+) - and NMDA receptor-dependent cascade. In this study, we gained insight into the mechanism(s) of neurotoxicity elicited by the viral glycoprotein. We found that CHP100 cells constitutively express both CXCR4 and CCR5 receptors and that stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate down-regulates their expression, thus preventing gp120-induced cell death. Furthermore, all the natural ligands of these receptors exerted protective effects against gp120-mediated neuronal damage, although with different efficiencies. These findings, together with our previous reports, suggest that the neuronal injury observed in HIV-1 infection could be due to direct (or indirect) interactions between the viral protein gp120 and chemokine and/or NMDA receptors.
38109021 | Reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) primer design based on Indonesia SARS-CoV-2 RNA sequence. BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of tracking cases by using various methods such as the Reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) which is a fast, simple, inexpensive, and accurate mass tracker. However, there have been no reports about the development of RT-LAMP primer designs that use genome sequences of viruses from Indonesia. Therefore, this study aimed to design an RT-LAMP primer using SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences from Indonesia and several other countries representing five continents in the world, as well as genomes from five Variants of Concern (VOC). RESULT: The results showed that the consensus sequence of 70 SARS-CoV-2 virus sequences was obtained with a length of 29,982 bases. The phylogenetic test confirmed that the consensus sequence had a close kinship with the SARS-CoV-2 Wuhan Isolate. Furthermore, the SimPlot analysis showed that there was a high genetic diversity of sequences from the Coronaviridae tribal virus at base sequences of 1,500-5,000, 6,500-7,500, and 23,300-25,500. A total of 139 sets of primers were obtained from the primer design with 4 sets namely T1_6, T1_9, T4_7, and T4_52 having the best characteristics. Based on the secondary structure analysis test on 4 sets of primers, T1_6 and T1_9 were predicted not to form secondary structures at RT-LAMP operational temperatures. The primer set T1_9 showed better specificity in BLAST NCBI and eLAMP BLAST tests. CONCLUSION: This study obtained a primer set of T1_9 with base sequence F3: CACTGAGACTCATTGATGCTATG, B3: CCAACCGTCTCTAAGAAACTCT, F2: GTTCACATCTGATTTGGCTACT, F1c: GAAGTCAACTGAACAACACCACCT, B2: CCTTCCTTAAACTTCTCTTCAAGC, B1c: GTGGCTAACTAACATCTTTGGCACT, LB: TGAAAACAAACCCGCCGTCCTTG, which meets the ideal parameters and has the best specificity. Therefore, it is recommended for use in further tests to recognize SARS-CoV-2 from Indonesia, other five continents, as well as five VOCs, including the new Omicron sub-variant.
37151698 | DISC1 as a prognostic biomarker correlated with immune infiltrates in gastric cancer. Multiple mental diseases could arise in people who have the disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) gene. However, it was unknown how DISC1 might contribute to the development of tumors and immune responses. We extracted data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and TISIDB databases from stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) patients, which revealed that DISC1 overexpression was closely associated with tumor histological type (mucinous vs. tubular, OR = 2.860, CI = 1.423-5.872, p = 0.004), as well as tumor stage and grade. Furthermore, the higher the DISC1 expression, the lower the overall 10-year survival rate. Patients with low DISC1 expression had a significantly longer progression-free interval (PFI) and disease-specific survival (DSS) than patients with high DISC1 expression. However, patients with higher DISC1 expression in the T3&T4, N0&N1 and M0 subgroups had poorer prognosis in terms of OS, DSS and PFI, as could be seen in the subgroup survival analysis. Public datasets were used to predict lncRNA-miRNA-DISC1 regulation. DISC1 was significantly up-regulated in GC(gastric cancer), and its expression levels showed a moderate to strong positive correlation with infiltration levels of effector memory T cells (Tem) and central memory T cells (Tcm), and a negative correlation was observed with Th17 cells and NK CD56bright cells. In addition, concomitant with the high expression of the DISC1 gene was a decrease in MHC-I (Major Histocompatibility Complex-I)expression and an increase in MHC-II expression, and altered chemokine expression. The upregulation of CXCL12 and CXCR4 expression could be caused by an increase in DISC1 expression. The above expression variability and correlation suggest a role for DISC1 in regulating tumor immunity in GC. These findings suggest that high expression of DISC1 could be an independent prognostic factor for GC.
22140264 | Molecular determinants of HIV-2 R5-X4 tropism in the V3 loop: development of a new genotypic tool. OBJECTIVE: The use of CCR5 inhibitors requires a tool to predict human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2) tropism, as established in HIV-1. The aim of our study was to identify genotypic determinants of HIV-2 tropism located in the gp105 V3 loop. METHODS: HIV-2 tropism phenotypic assays were performed on 53 HIV-2 clinical isolates using GFP expressing human osteosarcoma T4 [GHOST(3)] cell lines expressing CD4 and CCR5 or CXCR4 coreceptors. The gp105 V3 loop was sequenced and analyzed. RESULTS: Thirty-four HIV-2 isolates were classified as R5, 7 as X4, and 12 as X4/R5 (dual). Substitution at residue 18 was always associated with a dual/X4 tropism (P < .00001). The following determinants were associated with dual/X4 tropism: a global net charge of more than +6 (P < .00001), V19K/R mutation (P < .00001), S22A/F/Y mutation (P < .002), Q23R mutation (P < .00001), and insertions at residue 24 (P < .00001), I25L/Y (P < .0004), R28K (P < .0004), and R30K (P < .014). These mutations were not found in R5 isolates, except R28K and R30K, which were detected in 4 and 5 R5 isolates, respectively. The 4 major genotypic determinants of dual/X4 tropism were mutation at residue 18, V19 K/R mutation, insertions at residue 24, and V3 global net charge. CONCLUSIONS: We established a strong association between HIV-2 phenotypic tropism and V3-loop sequences, allowing for the prediction of R5- and/or X4-tropic viruses in HIV-2 infection.
38298433 | A pilot study on the safety and efficacy of neoadjuvant chemo-adoptive immunotherapy for locally advanced rectal cancer. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy of immune cell therapy and chemotherapy [chemo-adoptive immunotherapy (CAIT)] for patients with stage IV or recurrent colorectal cancer have been reported. In the present study, the safety and efficacy of neoadjuvant CAIT were investigated for preoperative therapy of locally advanced rectal cancer. The study included patients with cT3/T4 or cN (+) rectal adenocarcinoma scheduled for curative surgery. Six patients who consented to participate in the current study were selected as subjects. Neoadjuvant CAIT involves administration of activated autologous lymphocytes, alphabeta T cells, and mFOLFOX6 every 2 weeks for six courses, followed by surgery 4-6 weeks thereafter. Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events grade 3 neutropenia was observed in one patient. Neoadjuvant CAIT and curative surgery were performed on all the patients. The confirmed response rate was 67%. Downstaging was confirmed in five patients (83%). Regarding histological effects, two patients were grade 1a and four were grade 2. Regarding immunological reactions, both CD4+ and CD8+ T cell infiltration rates increased after treatment in three patients on tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) analysis. In peripheral blood analysis, the total lymphocyte count was maintained in all patients, and the CD8+ T cell count increased by >=3 times on the pretreatment count in two patients but may not be associated with changes in TILs. During the median postoperative follow-up duration of 24 months, liver and lung metastases occurred in one patient, but all patients survived. In conclusion, neoadjuvant CAIT (alphabeta T cells + mFOLFOX6) can be safely administered for the treatment of advanced rectal cancer. Verification of the efficacy of comprehensive immune cell therapy, especially the induction of antitumor immunity for the prevention of recurrence, will be maintained. The current study is registered with the Japan Registry of Clinical Trials (jRCT; ID, jRCTc030190248; January 21, 2019).
24330967 | [Regulation effect of adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells on pancreatic cancer cells]. OBJECTIVE: To analyze the effects of adipose tissue-derived stem cells (ADSCs) on the proliferation and invasion of pancreatic cancer (PaCa) cells and the the possible mechanism involved. METHODS: ADSCs were isolated and co-cultured with PaCa cells. CCK-8 assay was used to detect the proliferation of PaCa cells. An ELISA was used to determine the concentration of stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) in the supernatants. The proliferation of PaCa cells by SDF-1 was measured. AMD3100 regulated the co-culture of ADSCs and PaCa. The tumor growth of PaCa cells was assessed after treatment by ADSCs in vivo. RESULTS: ADSCs can promote the proliferation and invasion of PaCa cells (proliferation: SW1990: 1.535 +- 0.153; PANC-1: 1.370 +- 0.100; the value of control was 1; invasion: SW1990: 47.0 +- 2.6 vs. 28.3 +- 1.3; PANC-1: 40.3 +- 1.8 vs. 24.3 +- 1.3; t = 4.332-9.558, P < 0.05). The expression of SDF-1 was high in ADSCs, but not in PaCa cells (69 +- 5 vs. 0 and 0, F = 389.134, P < 0.01). The promotion of SDF-1 on PaCa cells depends on the concentration. AMD3100 significantly downregulates these growth-promoting effects of ADSCs on PaCa cells. ADSCs significantly promoted the growth of SW1990 in nude mice at the 5(th) week (volume: (1295 +- 102) mm(3) vs. (967 +- 81) mm(3), t = 5.614, P < 0.05) , but not in PANC-1 cell. CONCLUSION: ADSCs can promote the proliferation and invasion of PaCa cells, which may involve the SDF-1/CXCR4 axis.
38570727 | Comparative single-cell transcriptomic profile of hybrid immunity induced by adenovirus vector-based COVID-19 vaccines. In this study, antibody response and a single-cell RNA-seq analysis were conducted on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from five different groups: naive subjects vaccinated with AZD1222 (AZ) or Ad5-nCoV (Cso), individuals previously infected and later vaccinated (hybrid) with AZD1222 (AZ-hb) or Ad5-nCoV (Cso-hb), and those who were infected and had recovered from COVID-19 (Inf). The results showed that AZ induced more robust neutralizing antibody responses than Cso. The single-cell RNA data revealed a high frequency of memory B cells in the Cso and Cso-hb. In contrast, AZ and AZ-hb groups exhibited the highest proportion of activated naive B cells expressing CXCR4. Transcriptomic analysis of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells demonstrated a heterogeneous response following vaccination, hybrid immunity, or natural infection. However, a single dose of Ad5-nCoV was sufficient to strongly activate CD4+ T cells (naive and memory) expressing ANX1 and FOS, similar to the hybrid response observed with AZ. An interesting finding was the robust activation of a subset of CD8+ T cells expressing GZMB, GZMH, and IFNG genes in the Cso-hb group. Our findings suggest that both vaccines effectively stimulated the cellular immune response; however, the Ad5-nCoV induced a more robust CD8+ T-cell response in previously infected individuals.
29221851 | CCR5 chemokine receptor gene polymorphisms in ocular toxoplasmosis. CC chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) is a chemokine receptor that influences the immune response to infectious and parasitic diseases. This study aimed to determine whether the CCR5Delta32 and CCR5 59029 A/G polymorphisms are associated with the development of ocular toxoplasmosis in humans. Patients with positive serology for Toxoplasma gondii were analyzed and grouped as 'with ocular toxoplasmosis' (G1: n=160) or 'without ocular toxoplasmosis' (G2: n=160). A control group (G3) consisted of 160 individuals with negative serology. The characterization of the CCR5Delta32 and CCR5 59029 A/G polymorphisms was by PCR and by PCR-RFLP, respectively. The difference between the groups with respect to the mean age (G1: mean age: 47.3, SD+-19.3, median: 46 [range: 18-95]; G2: mean age: 61.3, SD+-13.7, median: 61 [range: 21-87]; G3: mean age: 38.8, SD+-17.9, median: 34 [range: 18-80]) was statistically significant (G1 vs.G2: p-value <0.0001; t=7.21; DF=318; G1 vs.G3: p-value <0.0001; t=4.32; DF=318; G2 vs. G3: p-value <0.0001; t=9.62; DF=318). The Nagelkerke r2 value was 0.040. There were statistically significant differences for the CCR5/CCR5 (p-value=0.008; OR=0.261), AA (p-value=0.007; OR=2.974) and AG genotypes (p-value=0.018; OR=2.447) between G1 and G2. Individuals with the CCR5/CCR5 genotype and simultaneously the CCR5-59029 AA or AG genotypes have a greater risk of developing ocular toxoplasmosis (4% greater), which may be associated with a strong and persistent inflammatory response in ocular tissue.
38343436 | Dynamics of humoral and cellular response to three doses of anti-SARS-CoV-2 BNT162b2 vaccine in patients with hematological malignancies and older subjects. Background: Few data are available about the durability of the response, the induction of neutralizing antibodies, and the cellular response upon the third dose of the anti-severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) vaccine in hemato-oncological patients. Objective: To investigate the antibody and cellular response to the BNT162b2 vaccine in patients with hematological malignancy. Methods: We measured SARS-CoV-2 anti-spike antibodies, anti-Omicron neutralizing antibodies, and T-cell responses 1 month after the third dose of vaccine in 93 fragile patients with hematological malignancy (FHM), 51 fragile not oncological subjects (FNO) aged 80-92, and 47 employees of the hospital (healthcare workers, (HW), aged 23-66 years. Blood samples were collected at day 0 (T0), 21 (T1), 35 (T2), 84 (T3), 168 (T4), 351 (T pre-3D), and 381 (T post-3D) after the first dose of vaccine. Serum IgG antibodies against S1/S2 antigens of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein were measured at every time point. Neutralizing antibodies were measured at T2, T3 (anti-Alpha), T4 (anti-Delta), and T post-3D (anti-Omicron). T cell response was assessed at T post-3D. Results: An increase in anti-S1/S2 antigen antibodies compared to T0 was observed in the three groups at T post-3D. After the third vaccine dose, the median antibody level of FHM subjects was higher than after the second dose and above the putative protection threshold, although lower than in the other groups. The neutralizing activity of antibodies against the Omicron variant of the virus was tested at T2 and T post-3D. 42.3% of FHM, 80,0% of FNO, and 90,0% of HW had anti-Omicron neutralizing antibodies at T post-3D. To get more insight into the breadth of antibody responses, we analyzed neutralizing capacity against BA.4/BA.5, BF.7, BQ.1, XBB.1.5 since also for the Omicron variants, different mutations have been reported especially for the spike protein. The memory T-cell response was lower in FHM than in FNO and HW cohorts. Data on breakthrough infections and deaths suggested that the positivity threshold of the test is protective after the third dose of the vaccine in all cohorts. Conclusion: FHM have a relevant response to the BNT162b2 vaccine, with increasing antibody levels after the third dose coupled with, although low, a T-cell response. FHM need repeated vaccine doses to attain a protective immunological response.
6457863 | Activation of human T lymphocyte subsets: helper and suppressor/cytotoxic T cells recognize and respond to distinct histocompatibility antigens. This study was directed at determining the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens recognized by helper (Leu-3) and suppressor-cytotoxic (Leu-2) T lymphocyte subsets in man. These 2 subsets were isolated from peripheral blood with monoclonal antibodies and challenged in vitro with various stimuli. Only Leu-3 cells proliferated in response to autologous nonrosetting cells and soluble antigens, suggesting that helper but not suppressor-cytotoxic T cells recognize autologous HLA-DR antigen. Furthermore, only Leu-3 T cells responded to allogeneic DR antigen; this was shown in reactions between 2 siblings who were HLA-identical except for a single disparity at HLA-DR caused by a crossover event. Leu-3 cells activated in primary allogeneic mixed leukocyte reactions (MLR) responded equally in secondary allogeneic MLR to the priming cells and to cells that were identical at HLA-DR but discordant at HLA-A, B, and C to the priming cell. The antigens responsible for stimulating Leu-2 cells in allogeneic MLR were not identified, although the results are compatible with a role for HLA-A and B antigens and exclude a dominant role for HLA-DR. These data indicate that the helper and suppressor-cytotoxic T cell subsets in man respond differentially to MHC antigens in a manner analogous to the murine Lyt-2- 3- and Lyt-2+ 3+ populations.
10738970 | Modulation of CD4, CXCR-4, and CCR-5 makes human hematopoietic progenitor cell lines infected with human herpesvirus-6 susceptible to human immunodeficiency virus type 1. Two CD34+ human hematopoietic progenitor cell (HPC) lines, KG-1 and TF-1, became susceptible to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in the presence of a concurrent infection by human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6). We have analyzed the possible mechanism(s) underlying this phenomenon in light of the recent demonstration that at least two members of the chemokine receptor family, CXCR4 (LESTR/fusin) and CCR5 molecules, are the HIV-1-specific coreceptors necessary, together with the high-affinity receptor CD4, for entry into target cells of T-tropic and M-tropic HIV-1 isolates, respectively. KG-1 cells show CXCR4 and CCR5 surface molecules in a large proportion of the cell population. Therefore, their susceptibility to both T-tropic and M-tropic HIV-1 strains, caused by HHV-6 infection, can be explained by the HHV-6-induced appearance of CD4 molecules in about 40% of the cell population. In TF-1 cells, 10%-15% of which are CD4+ and exhibit a consistent CCR5 presence in a large proportion of the cell population and a hardly detectable amount of CXCR4 in a very limited number of cells, HHV-6 infection does not modify the cell surface availability of HIV-1-specific high-affinity receptor or coreceptors.
38298428 | Prognostic value of a modified-immune scoring system in patients with pathological T4 colorectal cancer. Tumor-infiltrating immune cells, such as lymphocytes and macrophages, have been associated with tumor aggressiveness, prognosis and treatment response in colorectal cancer (CRC). An immune scoring system, Immunoscore (IS), based on tumor-infiltrating T cells in stage I-III CRC, was used to predict prognosis. An alternative immune scoring signature of immune activation (SIA) reflects the balance between anti- and pro-tumoral immune components. The present study aimed to evaluate the prognostic value of modified IS (mIS) and modified SIA (mSIA) in locally advanced pathological T4 (pT4) CRC, including stage IV CRC. Immunohistochemical staining for immune cell markers, such as CD3 (pan-T cell marker), CD8 (anti-tumoral cytotoxic T cell marker) and CD163 (tumor-supportive macrophage marker), in specimens from patients with radically resected pT4 CRC at stages II-IV was performed. mIS levels in the T4 CRC cohort were not associated with prognosis. However, low mSIA levels were associated with low survival. Furthermore, low mSIA was an independent predictor of recurrence in patients with radically resected pT4 CRC. In patients with CRC who did not receive postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy, low mSIA was a major poor prognostic factor; however, this was not observed in patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy. Evaluation of the tumor-infiltrating immune cell population could serve as a valuable marker of recurrence and poor prognosis in patients with locally advanced CRC. mSIA assessment after radical CRC resection may be promising for identifying high-risk patients with pT4 CRC who require aggressive adjuvant chemotherapy.
2452835 | Activation of T lymphocytes by immobilized monoclonal antibodies to CD3. Regulatory influences of monoclonal antibodies to additional T cell surface determinants. The effect of soluble or immobilized MAb directed at various additional surface proteins on the proliferation of highly purified T4 cells induced by two immobilized MAb to CD3, OKT3 and 64.1, was examined. High density 64.1 stimulated nearly all T4 cells to enter and progress through the cell cycle. Maximal T4 cell proliferation required stimulation with immobilized 64.1 throughout the length of the incubation and was not effected by any of the additional soluble or immobilized MAb employed. In contrast, low density immobilized 64.1 and all densities of immobilized OKT3 employed stimulated a minority of the cells to enter the cell cycle and proliferate. Immobilized MAb directed at CD2, class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) encoded gene products or CD11a (LFA-1) dramatically enhanced the response, whereas soluble MAb directed at these determinants did not. Both immobilized and soluble MAb directed at CD5 and CD28 (Tp44) enhanced responses, but they were less effective than immobilized MAb to CD2, LFA-1 or HLA-A,B,C. Soluble anti-CD4 MAb inhibited responses somewhat, whereas immobilized anti-CD4 enhanced responses. Costimulation was observed when MAb to CD3 and class I MHC molecules but not CD2, LFA-1 or CD4 were immobilized to separate surfaces. The data suggest that when anti-CD3 stimulation is suboptimal, responses can be enhanced by MAb to CD5 or CD28 (Tp44) or by immobilized MAb to CD4, CD2, CD11a (LFA-1), or class I MHC encoded gene products. Although crosslinking of CD4, CD2, or CD11a with CD3 may be necessary for costimulation, immobilized MAb to CD3 and class I MHC molecules appear to deliver independent signals that result in enhanced T4 cell activation and proliferation.
34744730 | A Selective Neutraligand for CXCL12/SDF-1alpha With Beneficial Regulatory Functions in MRL/Lpr Lupus Prone Mice. Dysregulation of CXCL12/SDF-1-CXCR4/CD184 signaling is associated with inflammatory diseases and notably with systemic lupus erythematosus. Issued from the lead molecule chalcone-4, the first neutraligand of the CXCL12 chemokine, LIT-927 was recently described as a potent analogue with improved solubility and stability. We aimed to investigate the capacity of LIT-927 to correct immune alterations in lupus-prone MRL/lpr mice and to explore the mechanism of action implemented by this small molecule in this model. We found that in contrast to AMD3100, an antagonist of CXCR4 and agonist of CXCR7, LIT-927 reduces the excessive number of several B/T lymphocyte subsets occurring in the blood of sick MRL/lpr mice (including CD3+/CD4-/CD8-/B220+ double negative T cells). In vitro, LIT-927 downregulated the overexpression of several activation markers on splenic MRL/lpr lymphocytes. It exerted effects on the CXCR4 pathway in MRL/lpr CD4+ T spleen cells. The results underline the importance of the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis in lupus pathophysiology. They indicate that neutralizing CXCL12 by the neutraligand LIT-927 can attenuate hyperactive lymphocytes in lupus. This mode of intervention might represent a novel strategy to control a common pathophysiological mechanism occurring in inflammatory diseases.
15595835 | Complex of an active mu-opioid receptor with a cyclic peptide agonist modeled from experimental constraints. Site-directed mutagenesis and design of Zn(2+)-binding centers have been used to determine a set of specific tertiary interactions between the mu-opioid receptor, a rhodopsin-like G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), and its cyclic peptide agonist ligand, Tyr(1)-c(S-Et-S)[d-Cys(2)-Phe(3)-d-Pen(4)]NH(2) (JOM6). The binding affinity of the tetrapeptide is strongly dependent on the nature of its first and third residues and on substitutions at positions 213, 216, 237, 300, 315, and 318 of the mu-opioid receptor. His(1) and His(3) analogues of the ligand were able to form metal-binding complexes with the V300C and G213C/T315C receptor mutants, respectively. Direct contact of the Phe(3) residue of JOM6 with Gly(213), Asp(216), Thr(315), and Trp(318) of the receptor was suggested by the binding affinities of His(3)-, Nle(3)-, Leu(3)-, Aci(3)-, Delta(E)Phe(3)-, and Delta(Z)Phe(3)-substituted peptides with the G213C/T315C, D216V, T315C, and W318L mutants. The improved binding affinity of the free carboxylate analogue of JOM6 for binding to the E229D mutant revealed an interaction between the C-terminal group of the peptide and Glu(229) of the receptor. The experimental constraints that were obtained were applied for distance geometry modeling of the mu-receptor in complex with the tetrapeptide agonist ligand, JOM6. The active conformation of the opioid receptor was calculated using the crystal structure of \inactive\ rhodopsin and published engineered and intrinsic metal-binding sites and disulfide bonds that allow or facilitate activation of GPCRs. Interhelical H-bonds existing in the mu-receptor were applied as additional distance constraints. The calculated model of the receptor-ligand complex can serve as a prototype of the active state for all rhodopsin-like GPCRs. It displays a strongly shifted transmembrane helix 6 (TM6) and reorientation of the conserved Trp(293) residue in TM6 upon its interaction with the agonist. Importantly, the binding pockets of the active and inactive states are not identical, which implies distinct interaction modes of agonists and antagonists. In the active state, the binding pocket of the mu-receptor is complementary to the previously proposed receptor-bound conformation of JOM6.
38186097 | [Intraoperative cochlear nerve monitoring in microvascular decompression of hemifacial spasm and resection of vestibular schwannoma]. Objective: To analyze the application of direct cochlear nerve monitoring technology-cochlear nerve action potential (CNAP) monitoring in resection of vestibular schwannoma (VS) and to compare with which in microvascular decompression (MVD) of hemifacial spasm (HFS), in order to provide reference for identification of the cochlear nerve during VS resection surgery and predicting postoperative hearing preservation. Methods: From June 2018 to March 2022, patients with facial spasm and vestibular schwannoma who underwent retrosigmoid approach surgery at the Chinese PLA General Hospital were collected. Before surgery, there were a total of 11 HFS patients and 30 VS patients. Before surgery, the former had hearing level of class A(AAO-HNS), while the latter had serviceable hearing (AAO-HNS class A-B), with a maximum tumor diameter of<=20 mm. CNAP combined with Auditory Brainstem Response (ABR) monitoring was performed during surgery. SPSS 23.0 software was used to analyze the differences of ABR and CNAP parameters between the two groups. Results: The preoperative ABR test in the VS group showed that the latency of wave V and I-V interval were significantly prolonged compared to the HFS group (t=8.36, P<0.001; t=4.61, P<0.001).In VS group, all tumors were totally removed with preserved facial nerve function (House-Brackmann grade I-II). The serviceable hearing preservation rate was 63.3%. In the HFS group, the initial CNAP waveforms were triphasic and biphasic, with N1 wave latency of (4.32+-0.37) ms and amplitude of 25.20 [15.63, 35.40]muV. The distribution of CNAP waveforms before tumor resection in the VS group was the same as that in the HFS group, and which in the hearing preservation group after surgery was also the same. Compared with the HFS group, the latency of N1 wave was prolonged (t=2.670, P=0.011;t=4.584, P<0.001), and the amplitude of N1 wavein the VS group before tumor resection was lower (Z=-3.001, P=0.003). The amplitude of N1 wave in the hearing preservation group after surgery was 20.20 [6.23, 40.90] muV,which was significantly higher than that before tumor resection (Z=-2.133, P=0.033), but there was no statistically significant difference compared to the HFS group (Z=-0.495, P=0.621). Conclusions: The reference range of CNAP in normal hearing population can be preliminarily obtained by the analysis of CNAP in MVD surgery. The latency of N1 wave in VS patients is prolonged and the amplitude of N1 wave is decreased due to tumor compression. The CNAP waveform combined with the change of N1 wave amplitude can provide reference for intraoperative mapping of the cochlear nerve and prediction of postoperative hearing preservation.
37591865 | HIV infection. The AIDS epidemic has been a global public health issue for more than 40 years and has resulted in ~40 million deaths. AIDS is caused by the retrovirus, HIV-1, which is transmitted via body fluids and secretions. After infection, the virus invades host cells by attaching to CD4 receptors and thereafter one of two major chemokine coreceptors, CCR5 or CXCR4, destroying the host cell, most often a T lymphocyte, as it replicates. If unchecked this can lead to an immune-deficient state and demise over a period of ~2-10 years. The discovery and global roll-out of rapid diagnostics and effective antiretroviral therapy led to a large reduction in mortality and morbidity and to an expanding group of individuals requiring lifelong viral suppressive therapy. Viral suppression eliminates sexual transmission of the virus and greatly improves health outcomes. HIV infection, although still stigmatized, is now a chronic and manageable condition. Ultimate epidemic control will require prevention and treatment to be made available, affordable and accessible for all. Furthermore, the focus should be heavily oriented towards long-term well-being, care for multimorbidity and good quality of life. Intense research efforts continue for therapeutic and/or preventive vaccines, novel immunotherapies and a cure.
38330189 | COVID-19 monitoring of school personnel through molecular salivary test and dried blood spot analysis. Background: When the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic broke out, most countries enforced school closures as a precautionary measure. Although COVID-19 is still present three years later, schools have been reopened. We aimed to test the association of molecular salivary testing (MST) and dried blood spot (DBS) analysis for community surveillance by investigating the immunological profile of a group of school staff during and following COVID-19 vaccination. Methods: We conducted the study in a school in Milan from April 2021, when school staff were administered the first dose of vaccine against SARS-CoV-2, until the school year ended in June 2022. Each participant provided samples for MST and DBS one month (T1, W1) after receiving their first dose of vaccine. Subsequently, they collected weekly MST samples for five weeks (W2-W6), plus a DBS sample in the last week (T2). Both samples were collected one (T3), four (T4), and seven months (T5) after the administration of the second vaccine dose in May 2021. A final DBS sample was collected one year (T6) after T3. Results: Sixty participants provided 327 MSTs and 251 DBSs. None of the MST samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 RNA during the study period. A total of 201 DBS samples tested positive for the IgG semiquantitative analysis. Negative samples were found only at T1 (20.45%) and T2 (7.32%). We observed borderline results at T1 (4.55%), T2 (7.32%), and T4 (2.70%). The anti-SARS-CoV-2 average antibody ratio increased after the second dose between T2 and T3, and the trend peaked after the third dose between T4 and T6. We performed an immunoenzymatic assay of antibodies against nucleocapsid protein on samples collected at T1 from five participants who reported having been infected before the study and from four subjects with an abnormal increase in the antibody values at T4. Two samples tested positive in the first group and two in the second one. Conclusions: Our findings show that MST and DBS could be effective tools in the active surveillance of school personnel and that schools could be considered safe settings in view of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Vaccines might have contributed to case and/or symptom reduction.
1468595 | [Athyreotic congenital hypothyroidism in two sisters]. Two sisters with athyreotic congenital hypothyroidism are described. This is the fifth report on athyreotic congenital hypothyroidism in siblings. The elder sister is 14 years old and the younger one is 12. The parents have no consanguinity or family history of thyroid disease. Both of the patients were born before the start of neonatal screening tests for congenital hypothyroidism. After birth, they had jaundice, abdominal distention and constipation, which are typical symptoms of congenital hypothyroidism. Serum T4 levels were decreased, and the serum TSH levels were markedly increased. Therefore we diagnosed them as having congenital hypothyroidism. They have received replacement therapy with thyroxine since diagnosis and have shown normal development physically and psychologically. They were tested for thyroid scintigram when the elder sister was 9 years old and the younger one was 7. 123I thyroid uptakes were 0.69% and 0.64%, respectively. The thyroid scans demonstrated no focus of accumulation of 123I. They do not have trapping defect of iodine, because 123I ratio of saliva and serum were 41.3 and 46.3, respectively. From these results, we diagnosed them as having athyreotic congenital hypothyroidism. They and their mother do not have any antithyroid antibodies. We suppose that some genetic factor is responsible for the athyreotic congenital hypothyroidism.
38507500 | JAK/STAT signaling pathway affects CCR5 expression in human CD4+ T cells. CCR5 serves as R5-tropic HIV co-receptor. Knocking out CCR5 in HIV patients, which has occurred <10 times, is believed important for cure. JAK/STAT inhibitors tofacitinib and ruxolitinib inhibit CCR5 expression in HIV+ viremic patients. We investigated the association of JAK/STAT signaling pathway with CCR5/CCR2 expression in human primary CD4+ T cells and confirmed its importance. Six of nine JAK/STAT inhibitors that reduced CCR5/CCR2 expression were identified. Inhibitor-treated CD4+ T cells were relatively resistant, specifically to R5-tropic HIV infection. Furthermore, single JAK2, STAT3, STAT5A, and STAT5B knockout and different combinations of JAK/STAT knockout significantly reduced CCR2/CCR5 expression of both RNA and protein levels, indicating that CCR5/CCR2 expression was positively regulated by JAK-STAT pathway in CD4+ T cells. Serum and glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1 (SGK1) knockout affected CCR2/CCR5 gene expression, suggesting that SGK1 is involved in CCR2/CCR5 regulation. If cell surface CCR5 levels can be specifically and markedly down-regulated without adverse effects, that may have a major impact on the HIV cure agenda.
6195259 | Alloantigen-specific cytotoxic and suppressor T lymphocytes are derived from phenotypically distinct precursors. Although Leu-2+ (OKT8+) T cells activated in the mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) mediate both alloantigen-specific cytotoxicity and suppression of alloantigen-induced proliferation, it is not known whether these functions derive from a single cell type or phenotypically distinct cells. This study was undertaken to examine the alloantigen-specific cytolytic and suppressor potential of two subpopulations of Leu-2+ cells distinguishable from one another on the basis of their binding to the monoclonal antibody 9.3. Leu-2+, 9.3+ and Leu-2+, 9.3- populations were purified from peripheral blood, cultured for 7 days with autologous helper/inducer (Leu-3+) cells and allogeneic non-T cells, and reisolated before testing for cytotoxicity and suppression. All detectable alloantigen-specific cytolytic activity was confined to the Leu-2+, 9.3+ subpopulation. Killing by this subset was specific for the HLA-A and B (class I) major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens of the priming cell. By contrast, suppression of proliferation was mediated predominantly by the Leu-2+, 9.3- cells, and suppression by this subpopulation was specific for the HLA-DR (class II) MHC antigens of the priming cell. The development of suppression by Leu-2+, 9.3- cells was unaffected by cyclosporin A (CsA), an agent shown previously to block the development of cytolytic but not suppressor cells in MLR. Alloactivated Leu-2+, 9.3+ cells were slightly inhibitory of fresh MLR, but this effect as well as the development of cytolytic cells was completely abrogated by CsA. These results indicate that suppressor and cytolytic Leu-2+ T cells activated in MLR are derived from distinct precursors separable by antibody 9.3.
28963085 | T-cell profile and systemic cytokine levels in overweight-obese patients with moderate to very-severe COPD. This study aimed to evaluate the immune profile of lean and overweight-obese COPD patients. Forty patients with moderate to very severe COPD were divided into lean group (n=20; aged 62.00+-8.91years; BMI 22.26+-1.65kg/m2) or overweight-obese group (n=20; aged 65.40+-6.69years; BMI 29.19+-3.55kg/m2). The cytokine profile (IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, INF-gamma, and TNF-alpha) was evaluated through the Cytometric Bead Array technique, and the expression of CD4, CD8, CD25, CD45ra, CD45ro, CD69, CD195(CCr5) and HLA-DR were evaluated in CD3+ T-cells. Overweight-obese COPD group had lower levels of IL-2 (p=0.01) and higher INF-gamma levels (p=0.02) and IL-6 (p=0.003) than lean COPD. Lean COPD patients had higher CD25+ (p=0.01), CCr5 (p=0.04) and HLA-DR (p=0.007) expression on T cell surface compared to overweight-obese COPD participants. These changes are related to immune dysfunction of obesity, and excess of fat mass in COPD can be a key factor to low T-cells activation.
8649511 | Identification of a major co-receptor for primary isolates of HIV-1. Entry of HIV-1 into target cells requires cell-surface CD4 and additional host cell cofactors. A cofactor required for infection with virus adapted for growth in transformed T-cell lines was recently identified and named fusin. However, fusin does not promote entry of macrophage-tropic viruses, which are believed to be the key pathogenic strains in vivo. The principal cofactor for entry mediated by the envelope glycoproteins of primary macrophage-tropic strains of HIV-1 is CC-CKR-5, a receptor for the beta-chemokines RANTES, MIP-1alpha and MIP-1beta.
8649512 | HIV-1 entry into CD4+ cells is mediated by the chemokine receptor CC-CKR-5. The beta-chemokines MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta and RANTES inhibit infection of CD4+ T cells by primary, non-syncytium-inducing (NSI) HIV-1 strains at the virus entry stage, and also block env-mediated cell-cell membrane fusion. CD4+ T cells from some HIV-1-exposed uninfected individuals cannot fuse with NSI HIV-1 strains and secrete high levels of beta-chemokines. Expression of the beta-chemokine receptor CC-CKR-5 in CD4+, non-permissive human and non-human cells renders them susceptible to infection by NSI strains, and allows env-mediated membrane fusion. CC-CKR-5 is a second receptor for NSI primary viruses.
23495770 | Regulatory T cells, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), CXCL10, CXCL11, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) as surrogate markers of host immunity in patients with renal cell carcinoma. OBJECTIVE: To identify a phenotype that could be informative and prognostic in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) peripheral blood was evaluated for TH1, TH2, regulatory T cells (Tregs), natural killer (NK) and NKT cells and for cytokines/chemokines. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Peripheral blood from 77 patients with RCC and 40 healthy controls was evaluated by flow cytometry using monoclonal antibodies against CD4, CD25, FoxP3, CD45RA, CD45RO, CD152, CD184, CD279, CD3, CD16, CD56, CD161, CD158a, CD4, CD26, CD30, CD183 and CD184. A concomitant evaluation of 38 molecules was conducted in patients' serum using a multiplex biometric ELISA-based immunoassay. RESULTS: The number of NK cells CD3-/CD16+, CD3-/CD16+/CD161+ (NK) and CD3-/CD16+/CD161+/CD158a+ (NK- Kir 2+) was greater in the patients with RCC (P < 0.05); and the number of Treg cells CD4+/CD25(high+)/FOXP3+ and the subset CD4+/CD25(high+)/FOXP3+/CD45RA+ (naive) and CD45R0+(memory) cells, were greater in the patients with RCC (P < 0.001). An increase in the following was observed in the serum of patients with RCC compared with healthy controls: interleukin (IL)-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, G-CSF, CXCL10, CXCL11, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). According to Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), CXCL10, IL-6, IL-8, epidermal growth factor (EGF), HGF and VEGF were associated with a network that controls cellular movement, tissue development and cellular growth. Kaplan-Meier analysis for disease-free survival showed that high numbers of CD4+/CD25(high+)/FOXP3+/CD45RA+ (Treg naive) and low numbers of CD3-/CD16+/CD161+/CD158a+ (NK-Kir+) cells predict short disease-free survival in patients with RCC. CONCLUSION: Concomitant evaluation of Treg (CD4+/CD25(high+)/FOXP3+ and CD4+/CD25(high+)/FOXP3+/CD45RA+) and of six soluble factors (IL-6, IL-8 ,VEGF, CXCL10, CXCL11, EGF, HGF) might be a surrogate marker of host immunity in patients with RCC.
30776910 | Mozobil  (Plerixafor, AMD3100), 10 years after its approval by the US Food and Drug Administration. AMD3100 (plerixafor, Mozobil ) was first identified as an anti-HIV agent specifically active against the T4-lymphotropic HIV strains, as it selectively blocked the CXCR4 receptor. Through interference with the interaction of CXCR4 with its natural ligand, SDF-1 (also named CXCL12), it also mobilized the CD34+stem cells from the bone marrow into the peripheral blood stream. In December 2008, AMD3100 was formally approved by the US FDA for autologous transplantation in patients with Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma or multiple myeloma. It may be beneficially used in various other malignant diseases as well as hereditary immunological disorders such as WHIM syndrome, and physiopathological processes such as hepatopulmonary syndrome.
37592162 | Lack of vitamin D predicts impaired long-term immune response to COVID-19 vaccination. PURPOSE: Low vitamin D levels were reported to negatively influence the outcome of acute COVID-19, as well as to be linked to Long-COVID. However, few studies have investigated, so far, its effects on humoral-response to anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, reporting conflicting results. We aimed to evaluate the impact of baseline 25(OH)vitamin D (25(OH)D) levels on humoral-response to a two-dose cycle of Pfizer-BioNTech-vaccine up to 9-10 months after immunization. METHODS: We retrospectively included 119 consecutive healthcare-workers (median age 53 years) without a previous history of acute COVID-19 or anti-SARS-CoV-2 immunoglobulins presence immunized with two doses of Comirnaty-vaccine from January to February 2021. 25(OH)D was measured at time of first-immunization. Immune response was evaluated at: time 0 (T0), before the first-dose; T1, time of second-dose (21 days after T0); T2, T3, T4 at 1, 5 and 9 months after T1, respectively. RESULTS: Median 25(OH)D levels were 25.6 ng/mL, and vitamin D deficiency (25(OH)D <20 ng/mL) was observed in 29 subjects (24.8%). In those with vitamin D deficiency, we found a non-significant trend towards lower antibody-titers at T3, and significantly lower titers at T4 as compared to those not vitamin D-deficient, also observing a more pronounced antibody-titers negative drop from peak-T2 and T4 in those with vitamin D deficiency. A positive correlation between 25(OH)D levels and antibody-titers at T4 (p = 0.043) was found. In multiple linear-regression analysis, 25(OH)D deficiency and older-age resulted as negative independent factors associated with antibody titer at T4 (p = 0.026, p = 0.004; respectively). CONCLUSION: In our relatively young cohort presenting low prevalence of hypovitaminosis D, the long-term humoral response to anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccination was negatively influenced by low baseline 25(OH)D. Vitamin D supplementation could be tested as a strategy to optimize the vaccination campaigns to prevent severe COVID-19.
2837101 | The cells of giant cell tumor of tendon sheath resemble osteoclasts. To determine whether the mononuclear cells (MC) and multinucleated giant cells (GC) of giant cell tumor of tendon sheath (GCTTS) exhibit evidence of monocyte/macrophage lineage, we studied their antigenic features (seven cases, paraffin sections; two cases, frozen sections) and enzymatic features in situ (four cases, plastic sections). Both MC and GC expressed a monocyte/macrophage phenotype: HLA-A,B,C+, HLA-DR+, T200+ (leukocyte common antigen), Leu-M3+ and Leu-3+. MC and GC also expressed similar enzymatic phenotypes which resembled that of osteoclasts. Both were rich in acid phosphatase and contained smaller, variable amounts of ATPase, beta-glucuronidase, alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase, and 5'-nucleotidase. Both lacked alkaline phosphatase. Reactive osteoclasts in plastic and paraffin sections were also T200+, a finding strongly supporting their bone marrow derivation and leukocytic differentiation. In plastic sections, osteoclasts were additionally reactive with macrophage antigen EBM11. In aggregate, these data suggest that GCTTS is a true histiocytic lesion of monocyte/macrophage lineage composed of phenotypically similar MC and GC that most closely resemble osteoclasts. We found no evidence that GCTTS cells resemble osteoblasts, fibroblasts, or synovial sarcoma cells. Furthermore, expression of the Ki-67 nuclear antigen by 1-2% of MC but not by GC suggests that the proliferating cells in GCTTS are restricted to its MC component.
38239974 | Evolution Driven By A Varying Host Environment Selects For Distinct HIV-1 Entry Phenotypes and Other Informative Variants. HIV-1 generates remarkable intra- and inter-host viral diversity during infection. In response to dynamic selective pressures of the host environment, HIV-1 will evolve distinct phenotypes - biological features that provide fitness advantages. The transmitted form of HIV-1 has been shown to require a high density of CD4 on the target cell surface (as found on CD4+ T cells) and typically uses CCR5 as a co-receptor during entry. This phenotype is referred to as R5 T cell-tropic (or R5 T-tropic); however, HIV-1 can switch to a secondary co-receptor, CXCR4, resulting in a X4 T cell-tropic phenotype. Macrophage-tropic (or M-tropic) HIV-1 can evolve to efficiently enter cells expressing low densities of CD4 on their surface (such as macrophages/microglia). So far only CCR5-using M-tropic viruses have been found. M-tropic HIV-1 is most frequently found within the central nervous system, and infection of the CNS has been associated with neurological impairment. It has been shown that interferon resistance phenotypes have a selective advantage during transmission, but the underlying mechanism of this is still unclear. During untreated infection, HIV-1 evolves under selective pressure from both the humoral/antibody response and CD8+ T cell killing. Sufficiently potent antiviral therapy will suppress viral replication, but if the antiviral drugs are not sufficiently potent to stop replication then the replicating virus will evolve drug resistance. HIV-1 phenotypes are highly relevant to treatment efforts, clinical outcomes, vaccine studies, and cure strategies. Therefore, it is critical to understand the dynamics of the host environment that drive these phenotypes and how they affect HIV-1 pathogenesis. This review will provide a comprehensive discussion of HIV-1 entry, transmission, and drug resistance phenotypes. Finally, we will assess the methods used in previous and current research to characterize these phenotypes.
38237304 | Tozasertib activates anti-tumor immunity through decreasing regulatory T cells in melanoma. Although immune checkpoint therapy has significantly improved the prognosis of patients with melanoma, urgent attention still needs to be paid to the low patient response rates and the challenges of precisely identifying patients before treatment. Therefore, it is crucial to investigate novel immunosuppressive mechanisms and targets in the tumor microenvironment in order to reverse tumor immune escape. In this study, we found that the cell cycle checkpoint Aurora kinase B (AURKB) suppressed the anti-tumor immune response, and its inhibitor, Tozasertib, effectively activated T lymphocyte cytokine release in vitro and anti-tumor immunity in vivo. Tozasertib significantly inhibited melanoma xenograft tumor growth by decreasing the number of inhibitory CD4+ Treg cells in the tumors, which, in turn, activated CD8+ T cells. Single-cell analysis revealed that AURKB suppressed anti-tumor immunity by increasing MIF-CD74/CXCR4 signaling between tumor cells and lymphocytes. Our study suggests that AURKB is a newly identified anti-tumor immunity suppressor, whose inhibitors may be developed as novel anti-tumor immunity drugs and may have synergistic anti-melanoma effects with immune checkpoint therapies.
9311827 | Coreceptor usage of primary human immunodeficiency virus type 1 isolates varies according to biological phenotype. The biological phenotype of primary human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) isolates varies according to the severity of the HIV infection. Here we show that the two previously described groups of rapid/high, syncytium-inducing (SI) and slow/low, non-syncytium-inducing (NSI) isolates are distinguished by their ability to utilize different chemokine receptors for entry into target cells. Recent studies have identified the C-X-C chemokine receptor CXCR4 (also named fusin or Lestr) and the C-C chemokine receptor CCR5 as the principal entry cofactors for T-cell-line-tropic and non-T-cell-line-tropic HIV-1, respectively. Using U87.CD4 glioma cell lines, stably expressing the chemokine receptor CCR1, CCR2b, CCR3, CCR5, or CXCR4, we have tested chemokine receptor specificity for a panel of genetically diverse envelope glycoprotein genes cloned from primary HIV-1 isolates and have found that receptor usage was closely associated with the biological phenotype of the virus isolate but not the genetic subtype. We have also analyzed a panel of 36 well-characterized primary HIV-1 isolates for syncytium induction and replication in the same series of cell lines. Infection by slow/low viruses was restricted to cells expressing CCR5, whereas rapid/high viruses could use a variety of chemokine receptors. In addition to the regular use of CXCR4, many rapid/high viruses used CCR5 and some also used CCR3 and CCR2b. Progressive HIV-1 infection is characterized by the emergence of viruses resistant to inhibition by beta-chemokines, which corresponded to changes in coreceptor usage. The broadening of the host range may even enable the use of uncharacterized coreceptors, in that two isolates from immunodeficient patients infected the parental U87.CD4 cell line lacking any engineered coreceptor. Two primary isolates with multiple coreceptor usage were shown to consist of mixed populations, one with a narrow host range using CCR5 only and the other with a broad host range using CCR3, CCR5, or CXCR4, similar to the original population. The results show that all 36 primary HIV-1 isolates induce syncytia, provided that target cells carry the particular coreceptor required by the virus.
6381283 | Histiocytosis X cells and Langerhans cells: enzyme histochemical and immunologic similarities. The proliferating cell in histiocytosis X has been thought to be an abnormal Langerhans cell since the identification in 1965 of the characteristic X-bodies morphologically identical to the Birbeck granules of epidermal Langerhans cells. This conclusion is based primarily on this finding and on morphologic similarities at the light microscopic level. Enzyme histochemical data have been somewhat conflicting and have not provided strong support for this conclusion. Recently, immunohistochemical studies have shown data consistent with a Langerhans cell origin for histiocytosis X cells. This study documents the presence of nonspecific esterase, acid phosphatase, and adenosine triphosphatase in both Langerhans cells and histiocytosis X cells. Both types of cells also react with antibodies directed against widely distributed leukocyte antigens (HLA-A,B,C; Ia; L3B12); Langerhans cell/thymocyte antigen [Leu 6(T6)]; histiocyte antigen (Leu-M3); helper T-cell/histiocyte antigen [Leu-3(T4)]; and S-100 protein. These results complement earlier immunologic studies and add enzyme histochemical data that strongly support the concept of histiocytosis X as a proliferative disorder of cells of Langerhans lineage.
38156317 | Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals common and unique gene expression profiles in primary CD4+ T cells latently infected with HIV under different conditions. Background: The latent HIV reservoir represents the major barrier to a cure. One curative strategy is targeting diseased cells for elimination based on biomarkers that uniquely define these cells. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has enabled the identification of gene expression profiles associated with disease at the single-cell level. Because HIV provirus in many cells during latency is not entirely silent, it became possible to determine gene expression patterns in a subset of cells latently infected with HIV. Objective: The primary objective of this study was the identification of the gene expression profiles of single latently infected CD4+ T cells using scRNA-seq. Different conditions of latency establishment were considered. The identified profiles were then explored to prioritize the identified genes for future experimental validation. Methods: To facilitate gene prioritization, three approaches were used. First, we characterized and compared the gene expression profiles of HIV latency established in different environments: in cells that encountered an activation stimulus and then returned to quiescence, and in resting cells that were infected directly via cell-to-cell viral transmission from autologous activated, productively infected cells. Second, we characterized and compared the gene expression profiles of HIV latency established with viruses of different tropisms, using an isogenic pair of CXCR4- and CCR5-tropic viruses. Lastly, we used proviral expression patterns in cells from people with HIV to more accurately define the latently infected cells in vitro. Results: Our analyses demonstrated that a subset of genes is expressed differentially between latently infected and uninfected cells consistently under most conditions tested, including cells from people with HIV. Our second important observation was the presence of latency signatures, associated with variable conditions when latency was established, including cellular exposure and responsiveness to a T cell receptor stimulus and the tropism of the infecting virus. Conclusion: Common signatures, specifically genes that encode proteins localized to the cell surface, should be prioritized for further testing at the protein level as biomarkers for the ability to enrich or target latently infected cells. Cell- and tropism-dependent biomarkers may need to be considered in developing targeting strategies to ensure that all the different reservoir subsets are eliminated.
21289125 | Loss of asparagine-linked glycosylation sites in variable region 5 of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 envelope is associated with resistance to CD4 antibody ibalizumab. Ibalizumab (formerly TNX-355) is a first-in-class, monoclonal antibody inhibitor of CD4-mediated human immunodeficiency type 1 (HIV-1) entry. Multiple clinical trials with HIV-infected patients have demonstrated the antiviral activity, safety, and tolerability of ibalizumab treatment. A 9-week phase Ib study adding ibalizumab monotherapy to failing drug regimens led to transient reductions in HIV viral loads and the evolution of HIV-1 variants with reduced susceptibility to ibalizumab. This report characterizes these variants by comparing the phenotypic susceptibilities and envelope (env) sequences of (i) paired baseline and on-treatment virus populations, (ii) individual env clones from selected paired samples, and (iii) env clones containing site-directed mutations. Viruses with reduced susceptibility to ibalizumab were found to exhibit reduced susceptibility to the anti-CD4 antibody RPA-T4. Conversely, susceptibility to soluble CD4, which targets the HIV-1 gp120 envelope protein, was enhanced. No changes in susceptibility to the fusion inhibitor enfuvirtide or the CCR5 antagonist maraviroc were observed. Functionally, viruses with reduced ibalizumab susceptibility also displayed high levels of infectivity relative to those of paired baseline viruses. Individual env clones exhibiting reduced ibalizumab susceptibility contained multiple amino acid changes in different regions relative to the paired baseline clones. In particular, clones with reduced susceptibility to ibalizumab contained fewer potential asparagine-linked glycosylation sites (PNGSs) in variable region 5 (V5) than did paired ibalizumab-susceptible clones. The reduction in ibalizumab susceptibility due to the loss of V5 PNGSs was confirmed by site-directed mutagenesis. Taken together, these findings provide important insights into resistance to this new class of antiretroviral drug.
38127856 | Insights to HIV-1 coreceptor usage by estimating HLA adaptation with Bayesian generalized linear mixed models. The mechanisms triggering the human immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV-1) to switch the coreceptor usage from CCR5 to CXCR4 during the course of infection are not entirely understood. While low CD4+ T cell counts are associated with CXCR4 usage, a predominance of CXCR4 usage with still high CD4+ T cell counts remains puzzling. Here, we explore the hypothesis that viral adaptation to the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex, especially to the HLA class II alleles, contributes to the coreceptor switch. To this end, we sequence the viral gag and env protein with corresponding HLA class I and II alleles of a new cohort of 312 treatment-naive, subtype C, chronically-infected HIV-1 patients from South Africa. To estimate HLA adaptation, we develop a novel computational approach using Bayesian generalized linear mixed models (GLMMs). Our model allows to consider the entire HLA repertoire without restricting the model to pre-learned HLA-polymorphisms. In addition, we correct for phylogenetic relatedness of the viruses within the model itself to account for founder effects. Using our model, we observe that CXCR4-using variants are more adapted than CCR5-using variants (p-value = 1.34e-2). Additionally, adapted CCR5-using variants have a significantly lower predicted false positive rate (FPR) by the geno2pheno[coreceptor] tool compared to the non-adapted CCR5-using variants (p-value = 2.21e-2), where a low FPR is associated with CXCR4 usage. Consequently, estimating HLA adaptation can be an asset in predicting not only coreceptor usage, but also an approaching coreceptor switch in CCR5-using variants. We propose the usage of Bayesian GLMMs for modeling virus-host adaptation in general.
38564144 | Daily Activities in European Children and Adolescents During COVID-19 School Closure: A Longitudinal Study Exploring Physical Activity, Use of Screens, and Sleep Patterns. This longitudinal study aimed to analyze the evolution of patterns of daily activities (physical activity time, screen usage time, and sleep hours) in European youth during school closure due to the COVID-19 health crisis. Participants were 624 caregivers of children and adolescents aged 3-18 from Italy, Spain, and Portugal. Evaluations were online, and four time-points were considered: retrospective measurement of daily activities before confinement (T1), and two (T2), five (T3), and eight (T4) weeks after starting the lockdown. Generally accepted international guidelines on physical activity time, screen usage time, and hours of sleep by age group were used to determine whether the pattern might increase the risk for ill health or not. To estimate the evolution of daily activities, generalized estimating equations (GEE) were used. The percentage of children who practiced less than 60 min of daily exercise increased significantly from before home confinement (47.8%) to T2 (86.4%); it slightly decreased at T3 (79.8%), and remained stable at T4 (76.1%). The percentage of children who made excessive use of screens (according to their age group) significantly increased from T1 to T2 and remained stable and high in the rest of the evaluations. The percentage of children who slept fewer or more hours than recommended for their age group remained stable between T1 and T4, although there was a significant increase at T3. In general, results found unhealthier behaviors as confinement was extended. Results are discussed in order to find strategies for promoting healthy daily activities for future pandemics.
37762230 | Simufilam Reverses Aberrant Receptor Interactions of Filamin A in Alzheimer's Disease. Simufilam is a novel oral drug candidate in Phase 3 clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. This small molecule binds an altered form of filamin A (FLNA) that occurs in AD. This drug action disrupts FLNA's aberrant linkage to the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7nAChR), thereby blocking soluble amyloid beta1-42 (Abeta42)'s signaling via alpha7nAChR that hyperphosphorylates tau. Here, we aimed to clarify simufilam's mechanism. We now show that simufilam reduced Abeta42 binding to alpha7nAChR with a 10-picomolar IC50 using time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer (TR-FRET), a robust technology to detect highly sensitive molecular interactions. We also show that FLNA links to multiple inflammatory receptors in addition to Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in postmortem human AD brains and in AD transgenic mice: TLR2, C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5), and T-cell co-receptor cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4). These aberrant FLNA linkages, which can be induced in a healthy control brain by Abeta42 incubation, were disrupted by simufilam. Simufilam reduced inflammatory cytokine release from Abeta42-stimulated human astrocytes. In the AD transgenic mice, CCR5-G protein coupling was elevated, indicating persistent activation. Oral simufilam reduced both the FLNA-CCR5 linkage and the CCR5-G protein coupling in these mice, while restoring CCR5's responsivity to C-C chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3). By disrupting aberrant FLNA-receptor interactions critical to AD pathogenic pathways, simufilam may promote brain health.
38497717 | Th1 cell immune response in Talaromyces marneffei infection with anti-interferon-gamma autoantibody syndrome. Anti-interferon-gamma autoantibody (AIGA) syndrome may be the basis of disseminated Talaromyces marneffei infection in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-negative adults. However, the pathogenesis of Th1 cell immunity in T. marneffei infection with AIGA syndrome is unknown. A multicenter study of HIV-negative individuals with T. marneffei infection was conducted between September 2018 and September 2020 in Guangdong and Guangxi, China. Patients were divided into AIGA-positive (AP) and AIGA-negative (AN) groups according to the AIGA titer and neutralizing activity. The relationship between AIGA syndrome and Th1 immune deficiency was investigated by using AP patient serum and purification of AIGA. Fifty-five HIV-negative adults with disseminated T. marneffei infection who were otherwise healthy were included. The prevalence of AIGA positivity was 83.6%. Based on their AIGA status, 46 and 9 patients were assigned to the AP and AN groups, respectively. The levels of Th1 cells, IFN-gamma, and T-bet were higher in T. marneffei-infected patients than in healthy controls. However, the levels of CD4+ T-cell STAT-1 phosphorylation (pSTAT1) and Th1 cells were lower in the AP group than in the AN group. Both the serum of patients with AIGA syndrome and the AIGA purified from the serum of patients with AIGA syndrome could reduce CD4+ T-cell pSTAT1, Th1 cell differentiation and T-bet mRNA, and protein expression. The Th1 cell immune response plays a pivotal role in defense against T. marneffei infection in HIV-negative patients. Inhibition of the Th1 cell immune response may be an important pathological effect of AIGA syndrome.IMPORTANCEThe pathogenesis of Th1 cell immunity in Talaromyces marneffei infection with anti-interferon-gamma autoantibody (AIGA) syndrome is unknown. This is an interesting study addressing an important knowledge gap regarding the pathogenesis of T. marneffei in non-HIV positive patients; in particular patients with AIGA. The finding of the Th1 cell immune response plays a pivotal role in defense against T. marneffei infection in HIV-negative patients, and inhibition of the Th1 cell immune response may be an important pathological effect of AIGA syndrome, which presented in this research could help bridge the current knowledge gap.
9499113 | Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) envelope binds to CXCR4 independently of CD4, and binding can be enhanced by interaction with soluble CD4 or by HIV envelope deglycosylation. Chemokine receptor CXCR4 (also known as LESTR and fusin) has been shown to function as a coreceptor for T-cell-tropic strains of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). We have developed a binding assay to show that HIV envelope (Env) can interact with CXCR4 independently of CD4 but that this binding is markedly enhanced by the previous interaction of Env with soluble CD4. We also show that nonglycosylated HIV-1(SF-2) gp120 or sodium metaperiodate-treated oligomeric gp160 from HIV-1(451) bound much more readily to CXCR4 than their counterparts with intact carbohydrate residues did.
38645169 | Respiratory viral infection promotes the awakening and outgrowth of dormant metastatic breast cancer cells in lungs. Breast cancer is the second most common cancer globally. Most deaths from breast cancer are due to metastatic disease which often follows long periods of clinical dormancy 1 . Understanding the mechanisms that disrupt the quiescence of dormant disseminated cancer cells (DCC) is crucial for addressing metastatic progression. Infection with respiratory viruses (e.g. influenza or SARS-CoV-2) is common and triggers an inflammatory response locally and systemically 2,3 . Here we show that influenza virus infection leads to loss of the pro-dormancy mesenchymal phenotype in breast DCC in the lung, causing DCC proliferation within days of infection, and a greater than 100-fold expansion of carcinoma cells into metastatic lesions within two weeks. Such DCC phenotypic change and expansion is interleukin-6 (IL-6)-dependent. We further show that CD4 T cells are required for the maintenance of pulmonary metastatic burden post-influenza virus infection, in part through attenuation of CD8 cell responses in the lungs. Single-cell RNA-seq analyses reveal DCC-dependent impairment of T-cell activation in the lungs of infected mice. SARS-CoV-2 infected mice also showed increased breast DCC expansion in lungs post-infection. Expanding our findings to human observational data, we observed that cancer survivors contracting a SARS-CoV-2 infection have substantially increased risks of lung metastatic progression and cancer-related death compared to cancer survivors who did not. These discoveries underscore the significant impact of respiratory viral infections on the resurgence of metastatic cancer, offering novel insights into the interconnection between infectious diseases and cancer metastasis.
12952348 | ELDKWA-epitope-specific monoclonal antibodies inhibit HIV env-mediated syncytium formation. Recent studies demonstrated that the N- and C-domains of HIV-1 gp41 are involved in virus-mediated membrane fusion resulting in HIV-entry into target cells. Synthetic N- and C-domain peptides, such as DP107 and DP178, potently inhibit membrane fusion induced by both laboratory-adapted strains and primary isolates of HIV-1. Monoclonal antibody (mAb) 2F5 recognizing ELDKWA-epitope on the gp41 C-domain has shown broad neutralizing activity to many HIV stains even primary isolates. To test the neutralizing mechanism of the ELDKWA-epitope-specific antibody, mAbs with predefined ELDKWA-epitope-specificity were induced by synthetic epitope-peptide instead of a natural or recombinant gp41 bearing this epitope. All of five mAbs were identified to recognize ELDKWA-epitope on recombinant soluble gp41 in ELISA-assay. In flow cytometry analysis, four out of five mAbs could bind to HIV-Env+ CHO-WT cells and such binding could be inhibited by ELDKWA-epitope peptide, which suggests that these mAbs could recognize native envelope protein expressed on cell membranes. Interestingly, two out of five mAbs could inhibit membrane fusion between the CXCR4- and CD4-expressing 3T3.T4.CXCR4 cells and HIV-Env+ CHO-WT cells in a dose-dependent manner, consistent with their potent binding capability to HIV-Env+ CHO-WT cells. Parren et al. (1998) suggested that neutralization of HIV-1 by antibody may be determined primarily by occupancy of sites and spatial obstruction which blocks virus entry. Based on this theory, a model was suggested to explain the neutralizing activities of mAbs against the epitope ELDKWA.
38372621 | PHARMACOKINETICS OF SINGLE VERSUS DOUBLE-DOSE DOLUTEGRAVIR AFTER SWITCHING FROM A FAILING EFAVIRENZ-BASED REGIMEN. BACKGROUND: Dolutegravir exposure is reduced after switching from efavirenz, which could select for dolutegravir resistance if switching occurs during virologic failure. METHODS: We measured serial dolutegravir trough concentrations after switching from efavirenz in a clinical trial, which randomised some participants to a supplemental dolutegravir dose or placebo for the first 14 days. Changes in dolutegravir trough concentrations between days 3, 7, 14 and 28 were evaluated. The primary outcome was the geometric mean ratio (GMR) of dolutegravir trough concentrations on day 7 versus day 28. RESULTS: Twenty-four participants received double-dose dolutegravir (50 mg twice daily) and 11 standard-dose for the first 14 days. Baseline characteristics were: 77% female, median age 36 years, CD4 cell count 254 cells/mm3, and HIV-1 RNA 4.0 log10 copies/mL. The GMR (90% CI) of dolutegravir trough concentrations on day 7 versus day 28 were: 0.637 (0.485 to 0.837) in the standard-dose group and 1.654 (1.404 to 1.948) in the double-dose group. There was a prolonged induction effect at day 28 in participants with efavirenz slow metaboliser genotypes. One participant in the double-dose group had a dolutegravir trough concentration below the protein-binding adjusted concentration needed to inhibit 90% of HIV-1 (PA-IC90) at day 3. CONCLUSIONS: No participants on standard-dose dolutegravir had dolutegravir trough concentrations below the PA-IC90. Slow efavirenz metaboliser genotypes had higher baseline efavirenz concentrations and more pronounced and longer period of induction post-switch. These findings suggest that a 14-day lead-in supplemental dolutegravir dose may not be necessary when switching from a failing efavirenz-based first-line regimen.
38553515 | CD4+ T cell mitochondrial genotype in Multiple Sclerosis: a cross-sectional and longitudinal analysis. Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a chronic autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS), with a largely unknown etiology, where mitochondrial dysfunction likely contributes to neuroaxonal loss and brain atrophy. Mirroring the CNS, peripheral immune cells from patients with MS, particularly CD4+ T cells, show inappropriate mitochondrial phenotypes and/or oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos) insufficiency, with a still unknown contribution of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). We hypothesized that mitochondrial genotype in CD4+ T cells might influence MS disease activity and progression. Thus, we performed a retrospective cross-sectional and longitudinal study on patients with a recent diagnosis of either Clinically Isolated Syndrome (CIS) or Relapsing-Remitting MS (RRMS) at two timepoints: 6 months (VIS1) and 36 months (VIS2) after disease onset. Our primary outcomes were the differences in mtDNA extracted from CD4+ T cells between: (I) patients with CIS/RRMS (PwMS) at VIS1 and age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HC), in the cross-sectional analysis, and (II) different diagnostic evolutions in PwMS from VIS1 to VIS2, in the longitudinal analysis. We successfully performed mtDNA whole genome sequencing (mean coverage: 2055.77 reads/base pair) in 183 samples (61 triplets). Nonetheless, mitochondrial genotype was not associated with a diagnosis of CIS/RRMS, nor with longitudinal diagnostic evolution.
38223424 | Immune-Related Genes and Immune Cell Infiltration Characterize the Maturation Status of Arteriovenous Fistulas: An Integrative Bioinformatics Study and Experimental Validation Based on Transcriptome Sequencing. Purpose: Arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is the preferred vascular access for hemodialysis, but the low maturation rate is concerning. Immune cells' impact on AVF maturation lacks bioinformatics research. The study aims to investigate the potential predictive role of immune-related genes and immune cell infiltration characteristics in AVF maturation. Patients and Methods: We analyzed the high-throughput sequencing dataset to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Then, we performed enrichment analyses (GO, KEGG, GSEA) on immune-related genes and pathways in mature AVF. We focused on differentially expressed immune-related genes (DEIRGs) and constructed a PPI network to identify hub genes. These hub genes were validated in other databases and experiments, including qPCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC). The immune cell infiltration characteristics in native veins, failed AVFs, and matured AVFs were analyzed by cibersortX. Partial experimental validation was conducted using clinical samples. Results: Our results showed that immune-related genes and signaling pathways are significantly enriched in mature AVF. We validated this in other databases and ultimately identified three hub genes (IL1B, IL6, CXCR4) in combination with experiments. Significant differences in immune cell infiltration characteristics were observed among native veins, failed AVFs, and matured AVFs. Immune cell infiltration analysis revealed that accumulation of CD4+ T cells, dendritic cells, mast cells and M2 macrophages contribute to AVF maturation. These immune-related genes and immune cells have the potential to serve as predictive factors for AVF maturation. We partially validated this experimentally. Conclusion: From a bioinformatics perspective, our results have identified, for the first time, a set of immune-related genes and immune cell infiltration features that can characterize the maturation of AVF and significantly impact AVF maturation. These features hold potential as predictive indicators for AVF maturation outcomes.
1904196 | Immunogenetic susceptibility for post-schistosomal hepatic fibrosis. In 19 children with hepatic fibrosis as the result of continued schistosomiasis mansoni and 20 children without hepatic fibrosis, the following studies were carried out: HLA antigen typing for 30 antigens, immune response of T lymphocytes to schistosome antigen by measuring DNA synthesis evidenced by 3H-thymidine uptake, and measurement of total OKT3+, OKT4+, and OKT8+ cells using monoclonal antibodies. Patients with hepatic fibrosis were mostly high responders in contrast with those without fibrosis. High immune response and susceptibility to post-schistosomal hepatic fibrosis were associated with a high frequency of A2 and B12 antigens and a lack of DR2 antigens, while low response was associated with the presence of the DR2 antigen. The T4+:T8+ ratio showed increased suppressor proportions in patients with low immune response and/or with no hepatic fibrosis. We suggest an immunogenetic susceptibility for post-schistosomal hepatic fibrosis, probably controlled by HLA-linked genes via the suppressor T cells.
24660852 | Characterization of gammadeltaT cells in naive and HIV-infected chimpanzees and their responses to T-cell activators in vitro. BACKGROUND: gammadeltaT cells are effector cells that eliminate cancer and virus-infected cells. Chimpanzees are an endangered species that can naturally and experimentally be infected with SIV and HIV, respectively, but no information about the functionality of gammadeltaT cells during chronic lentiviral infection is currently available. METHODS: Healthy and HIV-infected chimpanzee gammadeltaT cells were characterized by flow cytometry. gammadeltaT subsets were studied after stimulation with T-cell activators, and the release of cytokines was analyzed by Luminex assay. RESULTS: gammadeltaT-cell subsets, Vdelta1 and Vdelta2Vgamma9, showed different patterns in the expression of CD4, CD195, CD159a, and CD159c. Stimulation of gammadeltaT cells resulted in increased levels of CD4 and HLA-DR, which is more pronounced in Vdelta1 T cells. Distinct cytokine patterns were found between healthy and HIV-infected chimpanzees. CONCLUSIONS: Analyses of major chimpanzee gammadeltaT subsets show similarities to human gammadeltaT cells and suggest different functionality and roles in their immune response against HIV infection.
19740335 | Peripheral blood T4 cell surface CCR5 density as a marker of activity in rheumatoid arthritis treated with anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody. The chemokine (C-C motif) receptor CCR5 and its ligand CCL5 play key roles in the intra-articular recruitment of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Therefore, using quantitative cytofluorometry, we followed T4 cell surface CCR5 density in 27 subjects with RA before and after treatment with the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab. We observed low T4 cell surface CCR5 densities before treatment, which correlated positively with disease activity, as determined using a disease activity score evaluated on 28 joints (DAS 28), and negatively with CCL5 mRNA concentrations in PBMC, contrasting with a high proportion of intracellular CCR5 molecules, a pattern compatible with ligand-induced CCR5 internalization. At 3 months post-treatment, CCL5 mRNA expression in PBMC declined, whereas T4 cell surface CCR5 densities increased proportionally to the decrease in DAS 28. Thus, peripheral blood T4 cell surface CCR5 density is a good surrogate marker of RA activity and of the efficiency of anti-CD20 therapy.
8970955 | Primary, syncytium-inducing human immunodeficiency virus type 1 isolates are dual-tropic and most can use either Lestr or CCR5 as coreceptors for virus entry. A panel of primary syncytium-inducing (SI) human immunodeficiency virus type 1 isolates that infected several CD4+ T-cell lines, including MT-2 and C8166, were tested for infection of blood-derived macrophages. Infectivity titers for C8166 cells and macrophages demonstrated that primary SI strains infected macrophages much more efficiently than T-cell line-adapted HIV-1 strains such as LAI and RF. These primary SI strains were therefore dual-tropic. Nine biological clones of two SI strains, prepared by limiting dilution, had macrophage/C8166 infectivity ratios similar to those of their parental viruses, indicating that the dual-tropic phenotype was not due to a mixture of non-SI/macrophage-tropic and SI/T-cell tropic viruses. We tested whether the primary SI strains used either Lestr (fusin) or CCR5 as coreceptors. Infection of cat CCC/CD4 cells transiently expressing Lestr supported infection by T-cell line-adapted strains including LAI, whereas CCC/CD4 cells expressing CCR5 were sensitive to primary non-SI strains as well as to the molecularly cloned strains SF-162 and JR-CSF. Several primary SI strains, as well as the molecularly cloned dual-tropic viruses 89.6 and GUN-1, infected both Lestr+ and CCR5+ CCC/CD4 cells. Thus, these viruses can choose between Lestr and CCR5 for entry into cells. Interestingly, some dual-tropic primary SI strains that infected Lestr+ cells failed to infect CCR5+ cells, suggesting that these viruses may use an alternative coreceptor for infection of macrophages. Alternatively, CCR5 may be processed or presented differently on cat cells so that entry of some primary SI strains but not others is affected.
38385000 | Ocrelizumab associates with reduced cerebrospinal fluid B and CD20dim CD4+ T cells in primary progressive multiple sclerosis. The anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody ocrelizumab reduces disability progression in primary progressive multiple sclerosis. CD20 is a prototypical B-cell marker; however, subpopulations of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid also express low levels of CD20 (CD20dim). Therefore, direct targeting and depletion of these CD20dim T-cell subpopulations may contribute to the therapeutic effect of ocrelizumab. The aim of this observational cohort study was to compare CD20+ B-cell and CD20dim T-cell distributions between peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid of ocrelizumab-treated or ocrelizumab-untreated people with primary progressive multiple sclerosis. Ocrelizumab treatment was associated with depletion of circulating B cells and CD20dim CD4+ and CD20dim CD8+ T cells (P < 0.0001, P = 0.0016 and P = 0.0008, respectively) but, in cerebrospinal fluid, only with lower proportions of B cells and CD20dim memory CD4+ T cells (P < 0.0001 and P = 0.0043, respectively). The proportional prevalence of cerebrospinal fluid CD20dim memory CD8+ T cells was not significantly reduced (P = 0.1333). Only in cerebrospinal fluid, the proportions of CD20dim cells within CD4+ and not CD8+ T cells positive for CCR5, CCR6 and CXCR3 were reduced in ocrelizumab-treated participants. The proportion of CD20dim CD4+ T cells and abundance of CD4+ relative to CD8+ T cells in cerebrospinal fluid correlated positively with age (R = 0.6799, P = 0.0150) and Age-Related Multiple Sclerosis Severity score (R = 0.8087, P = 0.0014), respectively. We conclude that, in contrast to cerebrospinal fluid CD20dim CD8+ T cells, B cells and CD20dim CD4+ T cells are reduced in cerebrospinal fluid of people with primary progressive multiple sclerosis with an ocrelizumab-associated depletion of circulating B cells and CD20dim T cells. Therefore, these cells are likely to contribute to the therapeutic effects of ocrelizumab in people with primary progressive multiple sclerosis.
11932429 | Highly stable trimers formed by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 envelope glycoproteins fused with the trimeric motif of T4 bacteriophage fibritin. The envelope glycoproteins of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) function as a trimer composed of three gp120 exterior glycoproteins and three gp41 transmembrane proteins. Soluble gp140 glycoproteins composed of the uncleaved ectodomains of gp120 and gp41 form unstable, heterogeneous oligomers, but soluble gp140 trimers can be stabilized by fusion with a C-terminal, trimeric GCN4 motif (X. Yang et al., J. Virol. 74:5716-5725, 2000). To understand the influence of the C-terminal trimerization domain on the properties of soluble HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein trimers, uncleaved, soluble gp140 glycoproteins were stabilized by fusion with another trimeric motif derived from T4 bacteriophage fibritin. The fibritin construct was more stable to heat and reducing conditions than the GCN4 construct. Both GCN4- and fibritin-stabilized soluble gp140 glycoproteins exhibited patterns of neutralizing and nonneutralizing antibody binding expected for the functional envelope glycoprotein spike. Of note, two potently neutralizing antibodies, immunoglobulin G1b12 and 2G12, exhibited the greatest recognition of the stabilized, soluble trimers, relative to recognition of the gp120 monomer. The observed similarities between the GCN4 and fibritin constructs indicate that the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein ectodomains dictate many of the antigenic and structural features of these fusion proteins. The melting temperatures and ligand recognition properties of the GCN4- and fibritin-stabilized soluble gp140 glycoproteins suggest that these molecules assume conformations distinct from that of the fusion-active, six-helix bundle.
38455423 | A landscape of patient-derived cancer-associated fibroblast signals in endometrial cancers. In conversation with endometrial tumor cells, the endometrial cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are the \partners in crime\ of uterine neoplasm's highly heterogeneous tumor microenvironment (TME). We designed a laboratory-friendly method to culture endometrial CAFs on a patient-to-patient basis for studying the CAF-TME and CAF-tumor cell interaction(s). Here, we present a comprehensive characterization of endometrial CAFs derived from patients' tumor tissues (T) and tumor-adjacent normal tissues (N). We used more than 80 T and N from 53 consecutive consented patients with endometrial cancers at the Avera Cancer Institute. We derived TCAF and NCAF in a non-enzymatic feeder-layer culture and characterized their expression of markers by qRT-PCR, flow cytometry, immunocytochemistry, immunofluorescence, and Western blot. Although similar in the expression pattern of EpCAM-/CK18-/vimentin+ as in ovarian CAFs, endometrial NCAFs, and TCAFs characteristically presented dual morphology in culture. Endometrial CAFs were EpCAM-/CK18-/CD45-/CD31-/SMA+/TE-7+/PDGFRA+/CXCL12+/Meflin+/CD155+/CD90+ with patient-specific positivity for S100A4/FAP/PD-L1/CD44. Endometrial CAFs expressed mRNAs for signaling proteins of several pathways and receptor-ligands, including (1) cell cycle pathway, (2) TGF pathway, (3) FGF pathway, (4) Wnt-beta-catenin pathway, (5) HER pathway, (6) tyrosine kinase receptor ligands, and (7) steroid receptors. We tested the hypoxic response of CAFs to show that endometrial CAFs upregulate MMP1 in a HIF-1a-independent manner. In trying to delineate the relationship between expressions of CAF markers and T-cells in the tumor tissue, we observed that FAP-positive CAFs that are derived from CD4/CD8 positive tumor tissue expressed CXCL12 mRNA. The data indicate the role of the CXCL12-CXCR4 pathway of the CAF-rich stroma in the lymphocytic infiltration of the tumor. We demonstrate that endometrial CAFs can be cultured in an enzymatic-digestion-independent manner, and their signaling landscape can be mapped toward understanding CAF-TME dialogue. Our data will help unearth the functional relevance of endometrial CAFs in the context of clinical outcomes and designing CAF-inclusive therapy in the future.
37685911 | HIV Infection: Shaping the Complex, Dynamic, and Interconnected Network of the Cytoskeleton. HIV-1 has evolved a plethora of strategies to overcome the cytoskeletal barrier (i.e., actin and intermediate filaments (AFs and IFs) and microtubules (MTs)) to achieve the viral cycle. HIV-1 modifies cytoskeletal organization and dynamics by acting on associated adaptors and molecular motors to productively fuse, enter, and infect cells and then traffic to the cell surface, where virions assemble and are released to spread infection. The HIV-1 envelope (Env) initiates the cycle by binding to and signaling through its main cell surface receptors (CD4/CCR5/CXCR4) to shape the cytoskeleton for fusion pore formation, which permits viral core entry. Then, the HIV-1 capsid is transported to the nucleus associated with cytoskeleton tracks under the control of specific adaptors/molecular motors, as well as HIV-1 accessory proteins. Furthermore, HIV-1 drives the late stages of the viral cycle by regulating cytoskeleton dynamics to assure viral Pr55Gag expression and transport to the cell surface, where it assembles and buds to mature infectious virions. In this review, we therefore analyze how HIV-1 generates a cell-permissive state to infection by regulating the cytoskeleton and associated factors. Likewise, we discuss the relevance of this knowledge to understand HIV-1 infection and pathogenesis in patients and to develop therapeutic strategies to battle HIV-1.
37345240 | HIV Preintegration Transcription and Host Antagonism. Retrovirus integration is an obligatory step for the viral life cycle, but large amounts of unintegrated DNA (uDNA) accumulate during retroviral infection. For simple retroviruses, in the absence of integration, viral genomes are epigenetically silenced in host cells. For complex retroviruses such as HIV, preintegration transcription has been found to occur at low levels from a large population of uDNA even in the presence of host epigenetic silencing mechanisms. HIV preintegration transcription has been suggested to be a normal early process of HIV infection that leads to the syntheses of all three classes of viral transcripts: multiply-spliced, singly-spliced, and unspliced genomic RNA; only viral early proteins such as Nef are selectively translated at low levels in blood CD4 T cells and macrophages, the primary targets of HIV. The initiation and persistence of HIV preintegration transcription have been suggested to rely on viral accessory proteins, particularly virion Vpr and de novo Tat generated from uDNA; both proteins have been shown to antagonize host epigenetic silencing of uDNA. In addition, stimulation of latently infected resting T cells and macrophages with cytokines, PKC activator, or histone deacetylase inhibitors has been found to greatly upregulate preintegration transcription, leading to low-level viral production or even replication from uDNA. Functionally, Nef synthesized from preintegration transcription is biologically active in modulating host immune functions, lowering the threshold of T cell activation, and downregulating surface CD4, CXCR4/CCR5, and HMC receptors. The early Tat activity from preintegration transcription antagonizes repressive minichromatin assembled onto uDNA. The study of HIV preintegration transcription is important to understanding virus-host interaction and antagonism, viral persistence, and the mechanism of integrase drug resistance. The application of unintegrated lentiviral vectors for gene therapy also offers a safety advantage for minimizing retroviral vector-mediated insertional mutagenesis.
38636371 | KLRB1 defines an activated phenotype of CD4+ T cells and shows significant upregulation in patients with primary Sjogren's syndrome. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the role of KLRB1 (CD161) in human CD4+ T cells and elucidate its significance in primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS). METHODS: Peripheral blood samples from 37 healthy controls and 44 pSS patients were collected. The publicly available single-cell RNA-Seq data from pSS patient PBMCs were utilized to analyse KLRB1 expression in T cells. KLRB1-expressing T lymphocyte subset proportions in pSS patients and healthy controls were determined by flow cytometry. CD25, Ki-67, cytokine secretion, and chemokine receptor expression in CD4+ KLRB1+ T cells were detected and compared with those in CD4+ KLRB1- T cells. Correlation analysis was conducted between KLRB1-related T-cell subsets and clinical indicators. ROC curves were generated to explore the diagnostic potential of KLRB1 for pSS. RESULTS: KLRB1 was significantly upregulated following T-cell activation, and Ki-67 and CD25 expression was significantly greater in CD4+ KLRB1+ T cells than in CD4+ KLRB1- T cells. KLRB1+ CD4+ T cells exhibited greater IL-17A, IL-21, IL-22, and IFN-gamma secretion upon stimulation, and there were significantly greater proportions of CCR5+, CCR2+, CX3CR1+, CCR6+, and CXCR3+ cells among CD4+ KLRB1+ T cells than among CD4+ KLRB1- T cells. Compared with that in HCs, KLRB1 expression in CD4+ T cells was markedly elevated in pSS patients and significantly correlated with clinical disease indicators. CONCLUSION: KLRB1 is a characteristic molecule of the CD4+ T-cell activation phenotype. The increased expression of KLRB1 in the CD4+ T cells of pSS patients suggests its potential involvement in the pathogenesis of pSS and its utility as an auxiliary diagnostic marker for pSS.
38357816 | Single-Cell Transcriptome Reveals Potential Mechanisms for Coronary Artery Lesions in Kawasaki Disease. BACKGROUND: Coronary artery lesions (CALs) are the most common and major complication of Kawasaki disease (KD) in developed countries. However, the underlying immunologic mechanisms of CAL development in KD remain unclear. METHODS: Here, we conducted single-cell transcriptome analyses of 212 210 peripheral blood mononuclear cells collected from a cross-sectional cohort of 16 children, including 4 patients with KD with CALs, 5 patients with KD without CALs, 4 healthy controls, and 3 febrile controls. RESULTS: KD altered the proportion of peripheral blood mononuclear cells, including an increasing trend in inflammatory cells (megakaryocytes and monocytes) and a decreasing trend in lymphocytes (eg, CD4+ T, CD8+ T, mucosal-associated invariant T, natural killer, and gammadelta T cells), highlighting the potential presence of lymphopenia phenomenon in KD. Our data indicated the presence of inflammatory cytokine storm in patients with KD with CALs, caused by systemic upregulation of TNFSF13B, CXCL16, TNFSF10, and IL1RN, mainly produced by monocytes (especially for the Mono_CD14-CD16 cluster) and megakaryocytes. We also found that myeloid cells of patients with KD, particularly in those with CALs, might play a role in vascular injury (eg, increased MMP [matrix metalloproteinase] 9, MMP17, and MMP25) and immune cell recruitment. The immune landscape of patients with KD with CALs was featured by lower exhaustion levels in natural killer cells, a high cytotoxic state in the CD8_Pro cluster, and activation of the complement system in monocytes. Additionally, the activation of B cells was more pronounced in the early stage of KD. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, this study provides a comprehensive understanding of the roles of various immune cells and inflammatory cytokine storms in the development of CALs in KD and offers a valuable resource for identifying novel therapeutic targets for patients with KD with CALs.
38580334 | Therapeutic inhibition of monocyte recruitment prevents checkpoint inhibitor-induced hepatitis. BACKGROUND: Checkpoint inhibitor-induced hepatitis (CPI-hepatitis) is an emerging problem with the widening use of CPIs in cancer immunotherapy. Here, we developed a mouse model to characterize the mechanism of CPI-hepatitis and to therapeutically target key pathways driving this pathology. METHODS: C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice were dosed with toll-like receptor (TLR)9 agonist (TLR9-L) for hepatic priming combined with anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) plus anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) (\CPI\) or phosphate buffered saline (PBS) control for up to 7 days. Flow cytometry, histology/immunofluorescence and messenger RNA sequencing were used to characterize liver myeloid/lymphoid subsets and inflammation. Hepatocyte damage was assessed by plasma alanine transaminase (ALT) and cytokeratin-18 (CK-18) measurements. In vivo investigations of CPI-hepatitis were carried out in Rag2-/- and Ccr2rfp/rfp transgenic mice, as well as following anti-CD4, anti-CD8 or cenicriviroc (CVC; CCR2/CCR5 antagonist) treatment. RESULTS: Co-administration of combination CPIs with TLR9-L induced liver pathology closely resembling human disease, with increased infiltration and clustering of granzyme B+perforin+CD8+ T cells and CCR2+ monocytes, 7 days post treatment. This was accompanied by apoptotic hepatocytes surrounding these clusters and elevated ALT and CK-18 plasma levels. Liver RNA sequencing identified key signaling pathways (JAK-STAT, NF-KappaB) and cytokine/chemokine networks (Ifngamma, Cxcl9, Ccl2/Ccr2) as drivers of CPI-hepatitis. Using this model, we show that CD8+ T cells mediate hepatocyte damage in experimental CPI-hepatitis. However, their liver recruitment, clustering, and cytotoxic activity is dependent on the presence of CCR2+ monocytes. The absence of hepatic monocyte recruitment in Ccr2rfp/rfp mice and CCR2 inhibition by CVC treatment in WT mice was able to prevent the development and reverse established experimental CPI-hepatitis. CONCLUSION: This newly established mouse model provides a platform for in vivo mechanistic studies of CPI-hepatitis. Using this model, we demonstrate the central role of liver infiltrating CCR2+ monocyte interaction with tissue-destructive CD8+ T cells in the pathogenesis of CPI-hepatitis and highlight CCR2 inhibition as a novel therapeutic target.
38427375 | Commentary to: Pectoralis Muscle Area Measured at T4 Level is Closely Associated With Adverse COVID-19 Outcomes in Hospitalized Patients.
38391733 | Impact of Adjunctive VNS on Drug Load, Depression Severity, and Number of Neuromodulatory Maintenance Treatments. Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is a long-term adjunctive treatment option in patients with difficult-to-treat depression (DTD). A total of n = 20 patients (mean age 52.6 years) were included in the multicenter, prospective, observational, naturalistic RESTORE-LIFE study and were treated with adjunctive VNS as an add-on to treatment as usual. Exploratory and secondary outcome parameters from a single center were investigated for this present analysis. The overall mean drug load slightly decreased from 4.5 at baseline to 4.4 at 12 months (Z = -0.534, p = 0.594). The drug load was lower in previous electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) responders than in non-responders. There was a reduction in the mean number of hospitalizations per month after VNS implantation (Z = 1.975, p = 0.048) and a significant decrease in the mean Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score from 27.3 at baseline to 15.3 at 12 months (T = 4.230, degree of freedom (df) = 19, p = 0.001). A history of ECT response at baseline was associated with greater improvement in the MADRS score after 12 months of VNS (F = 8.171, p = 0.013). The number of neuromodulatory maintenance treatments decreased during the follow-up period. In summary, there was an alleviation in the burden of illness among DTD patients treated with VNS.
9060623 | Genetically divergent strains of simian immunodeficiency virus use CCR5 as a coreceptor for entry. Entry of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) requires CD4 and one of a family of related seven-transmembrane-domain coreceptors. Macrophage-tropic HIV-1 isolates are generally specific for CCR5, a receptor for the CC chemokines RANTES, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta, while T-cell line-tropic viruses tend to use CXCR4 (also known as fusin, LESTR, or HUMSTR). Like HIV-1, simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) requires CD4 on the target cell surface; however, whether it also requires a coreceptor is not known. We report here that several genetically divergent SIV isolates, including SIVmac, SIVsmSL92a, SIVsmLib-1, and SIVcpzGAB, can use human and rhesus CCR5 for entry. CXCR4 did not facilitate entry of any of the simian viruses tested, nor did any of the other known chemokine receptors. Moreover, SIVmac251 that had been extensively passaged in a human transformed T-cell line retained its use of CCR5. Rhesus and human CCR5 differed at only eight amino acid residues, four of which were in regions of the receptor that could be exposed, two in the amino-terminal extracellular region and two in the second extracellular loop. The human coreceptor was as active as the simian for SIV entry. In addition, HIV-1 was able to use the rhesus homologs of the human coreceptors, CCR5 and CXCR4. The SIV strains tested were specific for CCR5 regardless of whether they were able to replicate in transformed T-cell lines or macrophages and whether they were phenotypically syncytium inducing or noninducing in MT-2 cells. However, SIV replication was not restricted to cells expressing CCR5. SIV strains replicated efficiently in the human transformed lymphoid cell line CEMx174, which does not express detectable amounts of transcripts of CCR5. SIV also replicated in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells that were genetically deficient in CCR5. These findings indicated that, in addition to CCR5, SIV can use one or more unknown coreceptors that are expressed on human PBMCs and CEMx174 cells.
2435685 | Human mumps virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes: quantitative analysis of HLA restriction. To obtain quantitative information about the use of HLA antigens as restriction element by antiviral cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), we have analyzed precursors of human mumps virus-specific CTL by limiting dilution. CTL generated by restimulation of peripheral blood T lymphocytes with autologous mumps virus (MV)-infected stimulator cells were restricted by autologous HLA class I antigens, and derived from the T4-8+ population. They were specific for MV and did not lyse autologous target cells infected with other viruses. Frequencies of MV-specific CTL precursors ranged from 1/500 to 1/8000. HLA restriction was analyzed by split-well analysis of individual CTL colonies. CTL recognizing HLA-A or B antigens were unequally distributed: HLA-B7, -B13, and -B27 were found to function as predominant, in some cases as exclusive, restriction elements, whereas other antigens such as HLA-A24 were never or rarely used. In several combinations, there was no evidence for antigenic variants of HLA molecules as reason for the failure to be recognized. The proportion of CTL precursors recognizing HLA-A2 and -B8 seemed to be dependent on the presence or absence of \dominant\ restriction elements. We conclude that CTL precursors recognizing certain virus-HLA combinations are preferentially expanded during an infection, but that low responsiveness to a given combination is not necessarily absolute.
38391781 | Analysis of HLA-G 14 bp Insertion/Deletion Polymorphism and HLA-G, ILT2 and ILT4 Expression in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients. HLA-G is the checkpoint molecule involved in the suppression of the immune response. Increased expression of HLA-G and its ILTs receptors have been correlated with tumor progression in various cancer types. In head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) tumors, the effect of HLA-G, ILT2 and ILT4 expression on cancer development has to be explained. The 34 HNSCC patients and 98 controls were genotyped for the HLA-G 14 bp ins/del polymorphism. In HNSCC lesions, HLA-G, ILT2 and ILT4 mRNA expression was analysed using real-time PCR. The association between HLA-G, ILT2 and ILT4 mRNA expression and clinical variables (age at onset, TNM staging system and p16 positivity) was also evaluated. No genetic association between the HLA-G 14 bp ins/del and HNSCC risk was detected (p > 0.05). However, in the non-metastatic HNSCC group, a significantly higher HLA-G mRNA expression was noted in tumors in the T4 stage compared to those in the T1 and T2 stages (p = 0.0289). ILT2 mRNA expression was significantly increased in non-metastatic vs. metastatic tumors (p = 0.0269). Furthermore, a significantly higher ILT4 mRNA expression was noted in tumors in the T1+T2 stage compared to those in the T3 stage (p = 0.0495). Our results suggest that the HLA-G molecule creates an immunological microenvironment involved in HNSCC development.
37939456 | Tracking coreceptor switch of the transmitted/founder HIV-1 identifies co-evolution of HIV-1 antigenicity, coreceptor usage and CD4 subset targeting: the RV217 acute infection cohort study. BACKGROUND: The CCR5 (R5) to CXCR4 (X4) coreceptor switch in natural HIV-1 infection is associated with faster progression to AIDS, but the mechanisms remain unclear. The difficulty in elucidating the evolutionary origin of the earliest X4 viruses limits our understanding of this phenomenon. METHODS: We tracked the evolution of the transmitted/founder (T/F) HIV-1 in RV217 participants identified in acute infection. The origin of the X4 viruses was elucidated by single genome amplification, deep sequencing and coreceptor assay. Mutations responsible for coreceptor switch were confirmed by mutagenesis. Viral susceptibility to neutralization was determined by neutralization assay. Virus CD4 subset preference was demonstrated by sequencing HIV-1 RNA in sorted CD4 subsets. FINDINGS: We demonstrated that the earliest X4 viruses evolved de novo from the T/F strains. Strong X4 usage can be conferred by a single mutation. The mutations responsible for coreceptor switch can confer escape to neutralization and drive the X4 variants to replicate mainly in the central memory (CM) and naive CD4 subsets. Likely due to the smaller viral burst size of the CM and naive subsets, the X4 variants existed at low frequency in plasma. The origin of the X4 viruses preceded accelerated CD4 decline. All except one X4 virus identified in the current study lost the conserved V3 N301 glycan site. INTERPRETATIONS: The findings demonstrate co-evolution of HIV-1 antigenicity, coreceptor usage and CD4 subset targeting which have implications for HIV-1 therapeutics and functional cure. The observations provide evidence that coreceptor switch can function as an evolutionary mechanism of immune evasion. FUNDING: Institute of Human Virology, National Institutes of Health, Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine, Inc, Thai Red Cross AIDS Research Centre, Gilead Sciences, Merck, and ViiV Healthcare.
2897006 | HLA haplotype A1 B8 DR3 as a risk factor for HIV-related disease. Of 32 patients exposed to a single batch of factor VIII contaminated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), 18 became antibody positive. Serial T cell subset analyses over the succeeding four years have shown a progressive decline in circulating T4 cells in those 18 but no change in the 14 who remain seronegative. 2 of the seroconverters have died and a further 7 have symptoms attributable to HIV infection. In the group as a whole, the HLA haplotype A1 B8 DR3 was weakly associated with an increased risk of seroconversion on exposure to the virus while, in those who seroconverted, it was strongly associated with a rapid decline in T4 cells and development of HIV-related symptoms within four years of infection.
8640552 | Fusin--a place for HIV-1 and T4 cells to meet.
38585261 | The immunomodulatory impact of naturally derived neem leaf glycoprotein on the initiation progression model of 4NQO induced murine oral carcinogenesis: a preclinical study. Introduction: Murine tumor growth restriction by neem leaf glycoprotein (NLGP) was established in various transplanted models of murine sarcoma, melanoma and carcinoma. However, the role of NLGP in the sequential carcinogenic steps has not been explored. Thus, tongue carcinogenesis in Swiss mice was induced by 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide (4NQO), which has close resemblance to human carcinogenesis process. Interventional role of NLGP in initiation-promotion protocol established during 4NQO mediated tongue carcinogenesis in relation to systemic immune alteration and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is investigated. Methods: 4NQO was painted on tongue of Swiss mice every third day at a dose of 25microl of 5mg/ml stock solution. After five consecutive treatment with 4NQO (starting Day7), one group of mice was treated with NLGP (s.c., 25microg/mice/week), keeping a group as PBS control. Mice were sacrificed in different time-intervals to harvest tongues and studied using histology, immunohistochemistry, flow-cytometry and RT-PCR on different immune cells and EMT markers (e-cadherin, vimentin) to elucidate their phenotypic and secretory status. Results: Local administration of 4NQO for consecutive 300 days promotes significant alteration in tongue mucosa including erosion in papillae and migration of malignant epithelial cells to the underlying connective tissue stroma with the formation of cell nests (exophytic-hyperkeratosis with mild dysplasia). Therapeutic NLGP treatment delayed pre-neoplastic changes promoting normalization of mucosa by maintaining normal structure. Flow-cytometric evidences suggest that NLGP treatment upregulated CD8+, IFNgamma+, granzyme B+, CD11c+ cells in comparison to 4NQO treated mice with a decrease in Ki67+ and CD4+FoxP3+ cells in NLGP treated cohort. RT-PCR demonstrated a marked reduction of MMP9, IL-6, IL-2, CD31 and an upregulation in CCR5 in tongues from 4NQO+NLGP treated mice in comparison to 4NQO treated group. Moreover, 4NQO mediated changes were associated with reduction of e-cadherin and simultaneous up-regulation of vimentin expression in epithelium that was partially reversed by NLGP. Discussion: Efficacy of NLGP was tested first time in sequential carcinogenesis model and proved effective in delaying the initial progression. NLGP normalizes type 1 immunity including activation of the CD8+T effector functions, reduction of regulatory T cell functions, along with changes in EMT to make the host systemically alert to combat the carcinogenic threat.
38518400 | Second generation Al18F-labeled D-amino acid peptide for CXCR4 targeted molecular imaging. BACKGROUND: The C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) is overexpressed in many cancers, e.g. multiple myeloma and acute leukemia, yet solely [68Ga]PentixaFor is used for clinical PET imaging. The aim of this study was to develop and assess a second generation Al18F-labeled D-amino acid peptide based on the viral macrophage inflammatory protein II for CXCR4 targeted molecular imaging. METHODS: We designed a library of monomer and multimer constructs and evaluated their binding affinity for human and mouse CXCR4. Based on these results, we selected the best vector molecule for development of an Al18F-labeled ligand, [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s), which was further evaluated in a cell-based binding assay to assess its binding properties and specificity for CXCR4. Next, pharmacokinetics and tumor uptake of [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) were evaluated in naive mice and mice with xenografts derived from U87.CXCR4 cells. Finally, we performed an imaging study in a non-human primate to assess the in vivo distribution of this novel radioligand in a species closely related to humans. RESULTS: The lead ligand AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) showed six-fold higher affinity for human CXCR4 compared to Ga-Pentixafor. The corresponding radiotracer was obtained in a good radiochemical yield of 40.1 +- 13.5 % (n = 4) and apparent molar activity of 20.4 +- 3.3 MBq/nmol (n = 4) after optimization. In U87.CD4.CXCR4 cell binding assays, the total bound fraction of [18F]AlF-NOTA-(2x)DV1(c11sc12s) was 32.4 +- 1.8 %. This fraction could be reduced by 82.5 % in the presence of 75 muM AMD3100. In naive mice, [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) accumulated in organs expressing mouse CXCR4, e.g. the liver (SUVmean (mean standardized uptake value) 75 min p.i. 11.7 +- 0.6), which was blockable by co-injecting AMD3100 (5 mg/kg). In U87.CXCR4 xenografted tumor mice, the tumor uptake of [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) remained low (SUVmean 0.5 +- 0.1), but was reduced by co-administration of AMD3100. Surprisingly, [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) exhibited a similar biodistribution in a non-human primate as in mice indicating off-target binding of [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) in liver tissue. We confirmed that [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) is taken up by hepatocytes using in vitro studies and that the uptake can be blocked with AMD3100 and rifampicin, a potent organic anion-transporting-polypeptide (OATP)1B1 and OATP1B3 inhibitor. CONCLUSION: The second generation D-peptide AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) showed high affinity for human CXCR4 and the corresponding radiotracer was produced in good radiochemical yields. However, [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) is not specific for CXCR4 and is also a substrate for OATP1B1 and/or OATP1B3, known to mediate hepatic uptake. Therefore, D-amino acid peptides, based on the viral macrophage inflammatory protein II, are not the prefered vector molecule for the development of CXCR4 targeting molecular imaging tools.
22097808 | [Design and expression of an inhibitor for HIV-1 targeting dendritic cell]. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infects the host cells by the fusion of viral and cell membranes. Blocking the combining between HIV and the receptors can prevent HIV from entering the host cells. We designed an invasion-inhibitor for HIV-1 targeting dendritic cell (DC), including 2 important HIV-1 receptors CD4 and CCR5, and 2 molecules Flt3-L and Mip-3alpha. With the synthetic gene of the inhibitor, 2 eukaryotic expression vectors pABK-CKR5-CD4/Flt3L-Mip3alpha (pABK-HIV-MF) and pABK-CKR5-CD4 (pABK-HIV-MT) were constructed and transfected into HEK 293 cells for expression. Results from RT-PCR, immunofluorescent assay, ELISA and Western blot approved that the invasion-inhibitor for HIV-1 was successfully and exactly expressed in the eukaryotic cells. Current study formed a solid base for the further research on the function of inhibitors for HIV-1 and elimination targeting DC.
38213954 | Dissecting molecular mechanisms of immune microenvironment dysfunction in multiple myeloma and precursor conditions. Multiple myeloma (MM) is a disease of clonally differentiated plasma cells. MM is almost always preceded by precursor conditions, monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (MGUS), and smoldering MM (SMM) through largely unknown molecular events. Genetic alterations of the malignant plasma cells play a critical role in patient clinical outcomes. Del(17p), t(4;14), and additional chromosomal alterations such as del(1p32), gain(1q) and MYC translocations are involved in active MM evolution. Interestingly, these genetic alterations appear strikingly similar in transformed plasma cell (PC) clones from MGUS, SMM, and MM stages. Recent studies show that effectors of the innate and adaptive immune response show marked dysfunction and skewing towards a tolerant environment that favors disease progression. The MM myeloid compartment is characterized by myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), dendritic cells as well as M2-like phenotype macrophages that promote immune evasion. Major deregulations are found in the lymphoid compartment as well, with skewing towards immune tolerant Th17 and Treg and inhibition of CD8+ cytotoxic and CD4+ activated effector T cells. In summary, this review will provide an overview of the complex cross-talk between MM plasma cells and immune cells in the microenvironment and the molecular mechanisms promoting progression from precursor states to full-blown myeloma.
38275376 | Genes Associated with Altered Brain Structure and Function in Obstructive Sleep Apnea. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) has been widely reported to cause abnormalities in brain structure and function, but the genetic mechanisms behind these changes remain largely unexplored. Our research aims to investigate the relationship between sleep characteristics, cognitive impairments, genetic factors, and brain structure and function in OSA. Using structural and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data, we compared cortical morphology and spontaneous brain activity between 28 patients with moderate-to-severe OSA and 34 healthy controls (HCs) utilizing voxel-based morphology (VBM) and the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) analyses. In conjunction with the Allen Human Brain Atlas, we used transcriptome-neuroimaging spatial correlation analyses to investigate gene expression patterns associated with changes in gray matter volume (GMV) and ALFF in OSA. Compared to the HCs, the OSA group exhibited increased ALFF values in the left hippocampus (t = 5.294), amygdala (t = 4.176), caudate (t = 4.659), cerebellum (t = 5.896), and decreased ALFF values in the left precuneus (t = -4.776). VBM analysis revealed increased GMV in the right inferior parietal lobe (t = 5.158) in OSA. Additionally, functional enrichment analysis revealed that genes associated with both ALFF and GMV cross-sampling were enriched in gated channel activity and synaptic transmission, glutamatergic synapse, and neuron.
38329750 | Acanthamoeba Keratitis in China: Genotypic and Clinical Correlations. Purpose: To investigate the relationship between Acanthamoeba genotypes, clinical manifestations, and outcomes in Acanthamoeba keratitis (AK) patients. Methods: This retrospective study included 159 culture-confirmed AK patients. Patients' data were collected, including demographics, initial diagnosis, treatments, and clinical features. The genotype of Acanthamoeba was identified through sequencing the Diagnostic Fragment 3 (DF3) region in the small ribosomal subunit RNA genes. The phylogenetic tree was constructed using the ClustalW model and maximum likelihood method. Cases with \poor outcome\ were defined based on specific clinical criteria, including corneal perforation, keratoplasty, other eye surgery, duration of anti-amoebic therapy >=8.0 months, and final visual acuity <=20/80. \Better outcome\ cases were the remainder. The correlation between T4 subtypes, clinical phenotypes, and clinical prognosis were further analyzed. Results: In this study, AK was primarily attributed to the T4A genotype, with a positive correlation between geographical and genetic distances. The primary clinical associated with T4 subtypes was deep stromal infiltration. Results was also showed a significant association between T4 subtypes and clinical outcomes (P = 0.021). Further analysis revealed that T4C was closely associated with a better prognosis (P = 0.040) and T4D with worse outcomes (P = 0.013). Conclusions: In China, AK was predominantly caused by the T4A subtype. Geographical distance positively correlated with genetic distance. Clinical prognosis varied among different subtypes, notably in T4C and T4D. Translational Relevance: This study demonstrated the association between T4 subtypes and clinical phenotypes, as well as the effects of T4 subtypes on clinical prognosis.
9160656 | Expression of the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 coreceptors CXCR-4 (fusin, LESTR) and CKR-5 in CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells. CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells were assessed for mRNA expression of the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) coreceptors CXCR-4, also termed fusin or LESTR, and CKR-5, also called CC-CKR-5 or CCR-5. The CD34+ cells were obtained from leukapheresis products of 17 patients after granulocyte colony-stimulating factor-supported cytotoxic chemotherapy. Using a two-step enrichment procedure including immunomagnetic bead separation and fluorescence-activated cell sorting, the CD34+ cells had a median purity of 99.8%. Assessing 9 CD34+ cell samples by polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription (RT-PCR), CXCR-4 mRNA was found in all samples, whereas CKR-5 mRNA was only present in 3 samples, even though a nested PCR was used. Eight additional CD34+ cell samples were sorted according to CD4 expression. Based on a three-color immunofluorescence analysis, the mean relative fluorescence intensity of HLA-DR was smaller on CD34+/CD4+ cells in comparison with CD34+/ CD4- cells. CXCR-4 mRNA was found in 5 of 8 CD34+/CD4+ samples and in 7 of 8 CD34+/CD4- samples, whereas CKR-5 mRNA was detected in 2 CD34+/CD4+ samples and in 1 CD34+/CD4- cell sample. Looking at the total number of CD34+ cell samples examined, the proportion of specimens containing CXCR-4 mRNA was 84% in comparison with 24% of specimens positive for CKR-5 mRNA. These data suggest that CD34+/CD4+ hematopoietic progenitor cells, including true stem cell candidates, could be susceptible to HIV-1 infection. Considering the relatively low incidence of CD34+ cell samples containing CKR-5 mRNA, CD34+/CD4+ cells appear to be particularly prone for HIV-1 infection via the CXCR-4 coreceptor. Because this chemokine receptor allows T-cell-tropic HIV-1 strains to infect cells, CD34+ cells expressing CD4 and CXCR-4 might be infected by HIV-1 during later stages of the disease, following a viral phenotype switch from macrophage- to T-cell-tropic HIV-1 strains.
34178415 | CXCL12 Retargeting of an Oncolytic Adenovirus Vector to the Chemokine CXCR4 and CXCR7 Receptors in Breast Cancer. Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in women under 60, and the second most diagnosed cancer in women over 60. While significant progress has been made in developing targeted therapies for breast cancer, advanced breast cancer continues to have high mortality, with poor 5-year survival rates. Thus, current therapies are insufficient in treating advanced stages of breast cancer; new treatments are sorely needed to address the complexity of advanced-stage breast cancer. Oncolytic virotherapy has been explored as a therapeutic approach capable of systemic administration, targeting cancer cells, and sparing normal tissue. In particular, oncolytic adenoviruses have been exploited as viral vectors due to their ease of manipulation, production, and demonstrated clinical safety profile. In this study, we engineered an oncolytic adenovirus to target the chemokine receptors CXCR4 and CXCR7. The overexpression of CXCR4 and CXCR7 is implicated in the initiation, survival, progress, and metastasis of breast cancer. Both receptors bind to the ligand, CXCL12 (SDF-1), which has been identified to play a crucial role in the metastasis of breast cancer cells. This study incorporated a T4 fibritin protein fused to CXCL12 into the tail domain of an adenovirus fiber to retarget the vector to the CXCR4 and CXCR7 chemokine receptors. We showed that the modified virus targets and infects CXCR4- and CXCR7-overexpressing breast cancer cells more efficiently than a wild-type control vector. In addition, the substitution of the wild-type fiber and knob with the modified chimeric fiber did not interfere with oncolytic capability. Overall, the results of this study demonstrate the feasibility of retargeting adenovirus vectors to chemokine receptor-positive tumors.
36961924 | Indoline CD4-mimetic compounds mediate potent and broad HIV-1 inhibition and sensitization to antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Binding to the host cell receptors, CD4 and CCR5/CXCR4, triggers large-scale conformational changes in the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) trimer [(gp120/gp41)3] that promote virus entry into the cell. CD4-mimetic compounds (CD4mcs) comprise small organic molecules that bind in the highly conserved CD4-binding site of gp120 and prematurely induce inactivating Env conformational changes, including shedding of gp120 from the Env trimer. By inducing more \open,\ antibody-susceptible Env conformations, CD4mcs also sensitize HIV-1 virions to neutralization by antibodies and infected cells to antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). Here, we report the design, synthesis, and evaluation of novel CD4mcs based on an indoline scaffold. Compared with our current lead indane scaffold CD4mc, BNM-III-170, several indoline CD4mcs exhibit increased potency and breadth against HIV-1 variants from different geographic clades. Viruses that were selected for resistance to the lead indane CD4mc, BNM-III-170, are susceptible to inhibition by the indoline CD4mcs. The indoline CD4mcs also potently sensitize HIV-1-infected cells to ADCC mediated by plasma from HIV-1-infected individuals. Crystal structures indicate that the indoline CD4mcs gain potency compared to the indane CD4mcs through more favorable pi-pi overlap from the indoline pose and by making favorable contacts with the vestibule of the CD4-binding pocket on gp120. The rational design of indoline CD4mcs thus holds promise for further improvements in antiviral activity, potentially contributing to efforts to treat and prevent HIV-1 infection.
3522244 | Specific lysis of murine cells expressing HLA molecules by allospecific human and murine H-2-restricted anti-HLA T killer lymphocytes. The lysis by human and murine anti-HLA cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) of murine cells expressing class I HLA molecule after gene transfection has been studied using two different murine cells: LMTK- and P815-HTR-TK-. Weak but significant HLA-A11-specific lysis was found occasionally with human CTL on the HLA-A11+ L cells. On the contrary, P815-A11 or P815-A2 cells were lysed strongly and specifically by HLA-A11 or HLA-A2-specific human CTL. The T8+T4- phenotype of the effector cells was confirmed and the reaction was inhibited by anti-HLA class I monoclonal antibodies. Despite their higher sensitivity to human CTL, the P815-HLA+ cells did not express higher levels of HLA antigens than L cells, and the presence or the absence of human beta 2 microglobulin was irrelevant. Anti-human LFA-1 antibodies abrogated the lysis of P815-A11+ cells showing that the LFA-1 receptor which is apparently lacking on the L cell surface was on the contrary expressed on P815 cells. On the other hand, murine anti-HLA CTL have been prepared by immunizing mice against syngeneic HLA-A11+ L cells. They lysed very efficiently and specifically these cells, but appeared completely devoid of activity against human HLA-A11 target cells. This barrier was apparently due to the H-2 restriction of these H-2k anti-HLA murine CTL, as shown by their inability to lyse allogeneic H-2d cells expressing HLA-A11, and by the blocking of their activity by anti H-2k antibodies. By contrast, xenogeneic anti-HLA CTL obtained by immunizing murine lymphocytes against human cells lysed both human and murine HLA+ cells but they reacted with a monomorphic epitope of the HLA molecule in a nonrestricted way. These results show that human cells lyse very efficiently P815 murine cells expressing HLA class I antigens; the higher sensitivity of P815 cells compared to L cells is probably due to the presence of a LFA-1 receptor on these cells; a class I molecule of human origin can be seen as an H-2-restricted minor histocompatibility antigen in another species.
36815832 | Characterization of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV-1) Envelope Glycoprotein Conformational States on Infectious Virus Particles. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) entry into cells involves triggering of the viral envelope glycoprotein (Env) trimer ([gp120/gp41]3) by the primary receptor, CD4, and coreceptors, CCR5 or CXCR4. The pretriggered (State-1) conformation of the mature (cleaved) Env is targeted by broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs), which are inefficiently elicited compared with poorly neutralizing antibodies (pNAbs). Here, we characterize variants of the moderately triggerable HIV-1AD8 Env on virions produced by an infectious molecular proviral clone; such virions contain more cleaved Env than pseudotyped viruses. We identified three types of cleaved wild-type AD8 Env trimers on virions: (i) State-1-like trimers preferentially recognized by bNAbs and exhibiting strong subunit association; (ii) trimers recognized by pNAbs directed against the gp120 coreceptor-binding region and exhibiting weak, detergent-sensitive subunit association; and (iii) a minor gp41-only population. The first Env population was enriched and the other Env populations reduced by introducing State-1-stabilizing changes in the AD8 Env or by treatment of the virions with crosslinker or the State-1-preferring entry inhibitor, BMS-806. These stabilized AD8 Envs were also more resistant to gp120 shedding induced by a CD4-mimetic compound or by incubation on ice. Conversely, a State-1-destabilized, CD4-independent AD8 Env variant exhibited weaker bNAb recognition and stronger pNAb recognition. Similar relationships between Env triggerability and antigenicity/shedding propensity on virions were observed for other HIV-1 strains. State-1 Envs on virions can be significantly enriched by minimizing the adventitious incorporation of uncleaved Env; stabilizing the pretriggered conformation by Env modification, crosslinking or BMS-806 treatment; strengthening Env subunit interactions; and using CD4-negative producer cells. IMPORTANCE Efforts to develop an effective HIV-1 vaccine have been frustrated by the inability to elicit broad neutralizing antibodies that recognize multiple virus strains. Such antibodies can bind a particular shape of the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein trimer, as it exists on a viral membrane but before engaging receptors on the host cell. Here, we establish simple yet powerful assays to characterize the envelope glycoproteins in a natural context on virus particles. We find that, depending on the HIV-1 strain, some envelope glycoproteins change shape and fall apart, creating decoys that can potentially divert the host immune response. We identify requirements to keep the relevant envelope glycoprotein target for broad neutralizing antibodies intact on virus-like particles. These studies suggest strategies that should facilitate efforts to produce and use virus-like particles as vaccine immunogens.
38190037 | Efficient Editing of the CXCR4 Locus Using Cas9 Ribonucleoprotein Complexes Stabilized with Polyglutamic Acid. Gene editing using the CRISPR/Cas9 system provides new opportunities to treat human diseases. Approaches aimed at increasing the efficiency of genome editing are therefore important to develop. To increase the level of editing of the CXCR4 locus, which is a target for gene therapy of HIV infection, the Cas9 protein was modified by introducing additional NLS signals and ribonucleoprotein complexes of Cas9 and guide RNA were stabilized with poly-L-glutamic acid. The approach allowed a 1.8-fold increase in the level of CXCR4 knockout in the CEM/R5 T cell line and a 2-fold increase in the level of knock-in of the HIV-1 fusion peptide inhibitor MT-C34 in primary CD4+ T lymphocytes.
37946732 | Macrophage migration inhibitory factor receptor CD74 expression is associated with expansion and differentiation of effector T cells in COVID-19 patients. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) caused millions of COVID-19 cases and deaths worldwide. Severity of pulmonary pathologies and poor prognosis were reported to be associated with the activation non-virus-specific bystander T cells. In addition, high concentrations of the macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) were found in serum of COVID-19 patients. We hypothesized that these two pathogenic factors might be related and analyzed the expression of receptors for MIF on T cells in COVID-19. T cells from PBMCs of hospitalized patients with mild and severe COVID-19 were characterized. A significantly higher proportion of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from COVID-19 patients expressed CD74 on the cell surface compared to healthy controls. To induce intracellular signaling upon MIF binding, CD74 forms complexes with CD44, CXCR2, or CXCR4. The vast majority of CD74+ T cells expressed CD44, whereas expression of CXCR2 and CXCR4 was low in controls but increased upon SARS-CoV-2 infection. Hence, T cells in COVID-19 patients express receptors that render them responsive to MIF. A detailed analysis of CD74+ T cell populations revealed that most of them had a central memory phenotype early in infection, while cells with an effector and effector memory phenotype arose later during infection. Furthermore, CD74+ T cells produced more cytotoxic molecules and proliferation markers. Our data provide new insights into the MIF receptor and co-receptor repertoire of bystander T cells in COVID-19 and uncovers a novel and potentially druggable aspect of the immunological footprint of SARS-CoV-2.
18665212 | Demonstration of a novel HIV-1 restriction phenotype from a human T cell line. BACKGROUND: Although retroviruses may invade host cells, a productive infection can be established only after the virus counteracts inhibition from different types of host restriction factors. Fv1, APOBEC3G/F, TRIM5alpha, ZAP, and CD317 inhibit the replication of different retroviruses by interfering with viral uncoating, reverse transcription, nuclear import, RNA stability, and release. In humans, although APOBEC3G/3F and CD317 block HIV-1 replication, their antiviral activities are neutralized by viral proteins Vif and Vpu. So far, no human gene has been found to effectively block wild type HIV-1 replication under natural condition. Thus, identification of such a gene product would be of great medical importance for the development of HIV therapies. METHOD AND FINDINGS: In this study, we discovered a new type of host restriction against the wild type HIV-1 from a CD4/CXCR4 double-positive human T cell line. We identified a CEM-derived cell line (CEM.NKR) that is highly resistant to productive HIV-1 infection. Viral production was reduced by at least 1000-fold when compared to the other permissive human T cell lines such as H9, A3.01, and CEM-T4. Importantly, this resistance was evident at extremely high multiplicity of infection. Further analyses demonstrated that HIV-1 could finish the first round of replication in CEM.NKR cells, but the released virions were poorly infectious. These virions could enter the target cells, but failed to initiate reverse transcription. Notably, this restriction phenotype was also present in CEM.NKR and 293T heterokaryons. CONCLUSIONS: These results clearly indicate that CEM.NKR cells express a HIV inhibitory gene(s). Further characterization of this novel gene product(s) will reveal a new antiretroviral mechanism that directly inactivates wild type HIV-1.
8031607 | [The expression of HLA, Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen and the infiltration of T lymphocyte subsets in nasopharyngeal biopsy tissues]. The HLA typing, EBV-EBNA expression and the infiltration of T cell subsets in nasopharyngeal biopsies were investigated using APAAP (Alkaline phosphatase and anti-alkaline phosphatase) and anti-complement immunofluorescence method with a panel of monoclonal antibodies which are W6/32 (anti-HLA-A,B,C), CR3/43 (anti-HLA-DR, DP, DQ), serum from nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC, anti-EBNA) and T4, T8, T11(anti-Th, Tc, T3, respectively). There were 25 cases of NPC, 10 of chronic nasopharyngitis (CNP), CNE-2Z cell line and transplants of CNE-2Z, NCN-Z-1 and fetal nasopharynx mucosa under detection. The results showed that the tumor cells of NPC expressed not only HLA-I but also HLA-II. The expression of HLA-II was stronger than that of HLA-I in NPC. The expression of HLA-I and II in epithelial cells of CNP was weak. There was a significant distinction between those groups (P < 0.05). The expression of HLA-I, II was the strongest in CNE-2Z smears and transplants in under mice of CNE-2Z, NCN-Z-1, both negative in fetal nasopharyngeal epithelial transplants. It suggested that HLA express abnormally during carcinogenesis, the cancer cells with HLA-II be not recognized by EBV specific T cells, hence escape from the immune surveillance. Also it demonstrated that the EBNA expression in the cancer cells of NPC was strongly positive, the cells of T3, Th, and Tc in NPC were decreased. It needs further study whether or not the EB virus infection can induce HLA phenotype changes in tumor cells and what the biological functions of HLA-II expression in tumor cells are.
38011900 | Reduced fertility in an adenomyosis mouse model is associated with an altered immune profile in the uterus during the implantation period. STUDY QUESTION: Does a reduction in fertility and/or systemic immune cell change occur during the early implantation period in a mouse model of adenomyosis? SUMMARY ANSWER: A reduction in fertility was observed in mice with adenomyosis, coinciding with local and systemic immune changes observed during the implantation period. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Adenomyosis is a pathology responsible for impaired fertility in humans, with a still unclear pathophysiology. One hypothesis is that changes in immune cells observed in adenomyosis-affected uteri may alter fertility, notably the physiological immune environment necessary for successful implantation and a healthy pregnancy. STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: Randomly selected CD-1 female neonatal pups were orally dosed by administration of tamoxifen to induce adenomyosis (TAM group), while others received solvent only (control group). From 6 weeks of life, CD-1 mice of both groups were mated to study impaired fertility and related local and/or systemic immune cell changes during the early implantation period. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTINGS, METHODS: To evaluate fertility and pregnancy outcomes, ultrasound imaging was performed at E (embryonic day) 7.5 and E11.5 to count the number of gestational sacs and the number of resorptions in eight mice of the TAM group and 16 mice of the control group. The mice were sacrificed at E18.5, and morphometric, functional (quantitative reverse transcription PCR; RT-qPCR), and histological analyses were performed on the placentas. To identify local and/or systemic immune changes during the early implantation period, 8 mice of the TAM group and 12 mice of the control group were sacrificed at E4.5. Uterine horns and spleens were collected for flow cytometry and RT-qPCR analyses to study the immune cell populations. To investigate the profile of the cytokines secreted during the early implantation period at the systemic level, supernatants from stimulated spleen cells were analyzed by multiplex immunoassay analysis. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: By ultrasound imaging, we observed a lower number of implantation sites (P < 0.005) and a higher number of resorptions (P < 0.001) in the TAM group, leading to smaller litters (average number of fetuses per litter: 1.00 [0.00; 5.25] in the TAM group versus 12.00 [9.50; 13.75] in the control group (P < 0.001). Histological and morphometric analyses of the placentas at E18.5 showed a higher junctional/labyrinthine area ratio in the TAM group (P = 0.005). The expression levels of genes that play a role in vascularization and placental growth (Vegf (P < 0.001), Plgf (P < 0.005), Pecam (P < 0.0001), and Igf2 (P = 0.002)) were reduced in the TAM group. In the TAM group, the percentages of macrophages, natural killer (NK) cells, and dendritic cells (DC) were significantly decreased in the uterus around the implantation period. However, the number of M1 macrophages was increased. Both macrophages and DC had an increased activation profile (higher expression of MCHII, P = 0.012; CD80, P = 0.015; CCR7, P = 0.043 for macrophages, and higher expression of CD206, P = 0.018; CXCR4, P = 0.010; CCR7, P = 0.006, MCHII, P = 0.010; and CD80, P = 0.012 for DC). In spleen, an increase in the activation of macrophages (CCR7, P = 0.002; MCHII, P = 0.001; and CD80, P = 0.034) and DC was observed in the TAM group (CCR7, P = 0.001; MCHII, P = 0.001; Ly6C, P = 0.015). In the uteri and the spleen, we observed increased percentages of CD4+ T lymphocytes (P = 0.0237 and P = 0.0136, respectively) in the TAM group and, in the uteri, an increased number of regulatory T cells (P = 0.036) compared with the controls. LARGE SCALE DATA: Not applicable. LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: This study is limited by the use of an animal model and the lack of intervention. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: These data support involvement of innate and adaptive immune cells in the implantation failure and the increased rate of resorption observed in the mouse model of adenomyosis. This substantiates the need for additional research in this domain, with the goal of addressing fertility challenges in women affected by this condition. STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): None.
38056899 | Differential requirements for CD4+ T cells in the efficacy of the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 and anti-PD-1+CTLA-4 combinations in melanoma flank and brain metastasis models. BACKGROUND: Although the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 and the anti-PD-1+CTLA-4 combinations are effective in advanced melanoma, it remains unclear whether their mechanisms of action overlap. METHODS: We used single cell (sc) RNA-seq, flow cytometry and IHC analysis of responding SM1, D4M-UV2 and B16 melanoma flank tumors and SM1 brain metastases to explore the mechanism of action of the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 and the anti-PD-1+CTLA-4 combination. CD4+ and CD8+ T cell depletion, tetramer binding assays and ELISPOT assays were used to demonstrate the unique role of CD4+T cell help in the antitumor effects of the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 combination. RESULTS: The anti-PD-1+CTLA-4 combination was associated with the infiltration of FOXP3+regulatory CD4+ cells (Tregs), fewer activated CD4+T cells and the accumulation of a subset of IFNgamma secreting cytotoxic CD8+T cells, whereas the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 combination led to the accumulation of CD4+T helper cells that expressed CXCR4, TNFSF8, IL21R and a subset of CD8+T cells with reduced expression of cytotoxic markers. T cell depletion studies showed a requirement for CD4+T cells for the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 combination, but not the PD-1-CTLA-4 combination at both flank and brain tumor sites. In anti-PD-1+LAG-3 treated tumors, CD4+T cell depletion was associated with fewer activated (CD69+) CD8+T cells and impaired IFNgamma release but, conversely, increased numbers of activated CD8+T cells and IFNgamma release in anti-PD-1+CTLA-4 treated tumors. CONCLUSIONS: Together these studies suggest that these two clinically relevant immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) combinations have differential effects on CD4+T cell polarization, which in turn, impacted cytotoxic CD8+T cell function. Further insights into the mechanisms of action/resistance of these clinically-relevant ICI combinations will allow therapy to be further personalized.
8751444 | Resistance to HIV-1 infection in caucasian individuals bearing mutant alleles of the CCR-5 chemokine receptor gene. HIV-1 and related viruses require co-receptors, in addition to CD4, to infect target cells. The chemokine receptor CCR-5 (ref.1) was recently demonstrated to be a co-receptor for macrophage-tropic (M-tropic) HIV-1 strains, and the orphan receptor LESTR (also called fusin) allows infection by strains adapted for growth in transformed T-cell lines (T-tropic strains). Here we show that a mutant allele of CCR-5 is present at a high frequency in caucasian populations (allele frequency, 0.092), but is absent in black populations from Western and Central Africa and Japanese populations. A 32-base-pair deletion within the coding region results in a frame shift, and generates a non-functional receptor that does not support membrane fusion or infection by macrophage- and dual-tropic HIV-1 strains. In a cohort of HIV-1 infected caucasian subjects, no individual homozygous for the mutation was found, and the frequency of heterozygotes was 35% lower than in the general population. White blood cells from an individual homozygous for the null allele were found to be highly resistant to infection by M-tropic HIV-1 viruses, confirming that CCR-5 is the major co-receptor for primary HIV-1 strains. The lower frequency of heterozygotes in seropositive patients may indicate partial resistance.
12801524 | Characterization of novel stem cell factor responsive human mast cell lines LAD 1 and 2 established from a patient with mast cell sarcoma/leukemia; activation following aggregation of FcepsilonRI or FcgammaRI. Two novel stem cell factor (SCF) dependent human mast cell lines, designated LAD 1 and 2, were established from bone marrow aspirates from a patient with mast cell sarcoma/leukemia. LAD 1 and 2 cells have the ultrastructural features of human mast cells, and express FcepsilonRI, CD4, 9, 13, 14, 22, 31, 32, 45, 64, 71, 103, 117, 132, CXCR4 (CD184), CCR5 (CD195); and intracytoplasmic histamine, tryptase and chymase. LAD 1 and 2 do not exhibit activating mutations at codon 816 of c-kit. Both LAD 1 and 2 release beta-hexosaminidase following FcepsilonRI or FcgammaRI aggregation. The availability of these cell lines offers an unparalleled circumstance to examine the biology of human mast cells.
38231835 | Validation of a Bacteriophage Hide Application to Reduce STEC in the Lairage Area of Commercial Beef Cattle Operations. Finalyse, a T4 bacteriophage, is a pre-harvest intervention that utilizes a combination of bacteriophages to reduce incoming Escherichia coli O157:H7 prevalence by destroying the bacteria on the hides of harvest-ready cattle entering commercial abattoirs. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of Finalyse, as a pre-harvest intervention, on the reduction in pathogens, specifically E. coli O157:H7, on the cattle hides and lairage environment to overall reduce incoming pathogen loads. Over 5 sampling events, a total of 300 composite hide samples were taken using 25 mL pre-hydrated Buffered Peptone Water (BPW) swabs, collected before and after the hide wash intervention, throughout the beginning, middle, and end of the production day (n = 10 swabs/sampling point/timepoint). A total of 171 boot swab samples were also simultaneously taken at the end of the production day by walking from the front to the back of the pen in a pre-determined 'Z' pattern to monitor the pen floor environment from 3 different locations in the lairage area. The prevalence of pathogens was analyzed using the BAX  System Real-Time PCR Assay. There were no significant reductions observed for Salmonella and/or any Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) on the hides after the bacteriophage application (p > 0.05). Escherichia coli O157:H7 and O111 hide prevalence was very low throughout the study; therefore, no further analysis was conducted. However, boot swab monitoring showed a significant reduction in E. coli O157:H7, O26, and O45 in the pen floor environment (p < 0.05). While using Finalyse as a pre-harvest intervention in the lairage areas of commercial beef processing facilities, this bacteriophage failed to reduce E. coli O157:H7 on the hides of beef cattle, as prevalence was low; however, some STECs were reduced in the lairage environment, where the bacteriophage was applied. Overall, an absolute conclusion was not formed on the effectiveness of Finalyse and its ability to reduce E. coli O157:H7 on the hides of beef cattle, as prevalence on the hides was low.
34356484 | Clinical and Biological Characteristics of Medullary and Extramedullary Plasma Cell Dyscrasias. Background: Extramedullary plasma cell (PC) disorders may occur as extramedullary disease in multiple myeloma (MM-EMD) or as primary extramedullary plasmocytoma (pEMP)/solitary osseous plasmocytoma (SOP). In this study, we aimed to obtain insights into the molecular mechanisms of extramedullary spread of clonal PC. Methods: Clinical and biological characteristics of 87 patients with MM-EMD (n = 49), pEMP/SOP (n = 20) and classical MM (n = 18) were analyzed by using immunohistochemistry (CXCR4, CD31, CD44 and CD81 staining) and cytoplasmic immunoglobulin staining combined with fluorescence in situ hybridization (cIg-FISH). Results: High expression of CD44, a cell-surface glycoprotein involved in cell-cell interactions, was significantly enriched in MM-EMD (90%) vs. pEMP/SOP (27%) or classical MM (33%) (p < 0.001). In addition, 1q21 amplification by clonal PC occurred at a similar frequency of MM-EMD (33%), pEMP/SOP (57%) and classical MM (44%). Conversely, del(17p13), t(4;14) and t(14;16) were completely absent in pEMP/SOP. Besides this, 1q21 amplification was identified in 64% of not paraskeletal samples from MM-EMD or pEMP compared to 9% of SOP or paraskeletal MM-EMD/pEMP and 44% of classical MM samples, respectively (p = 0.02). Conclusion: Expression of molecules involved in homing and cytogenetic aberrations differ between MM with or without EMD and pEMP/SOP.
38332460 | Determinants of early change in serum creatinine after initiation of dolutegravir-based antiretroviral therapy in South Africa. AIMS: Dolutegravir increases serum creatinine by inhibiting its renal tubular secretion and elimination. We investigated determinants of early changes in serum creatinine in a southern African cohort starting first-line dolutegravir-based antiretroviral therapy (ART). METHODS: We conducted a secondary analysis of data from participants in a randomized controlled trial of dolutegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) or tenofovir alafenamide fumarate (TAF) (ADVANCE, NCT03122262). We assessed clinical, pharmacokinetic and genetic factors associated with change in serum creatinine from baseline to Week 4 using linear regression models adjusted for age, sex, baseline serum creatinine, HIV-1 RNA concentration, CD4 T-cell count, total body weight and co-trimoxazole use. RESULTS: We included 689 participants, of whom 470 had pharmacokinetic data and 315 had genetic data. Mean change in serum creatinine was 11.3 (SD 9.9) mumol.L-1 . Factors that were positively associated with change in serum creatinine at Week 4 were increased log dolutegravir area under the 24-h concentration-time curve (change in creatinine coefficient [beta] = 2.78 mumol.L-1 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.54, 5.01]), TDF use (beta = 2.30 [0.53, 4.06]), male sex (beta = 5.20 [2.92, 7.48]), baseline serum creatinine (beta = -0.22 [-0.31, -0.12]) and UGT1A1 rs929596 A G polymorphism with a dominant model (beta = -2.33 [-4.49, -0.17]). The latter did not withstand correction for multiple testing. CONCLUSIONS: Multiple clinical and pharmacokinetic factors were associated with early change in serum creatinine in individuals initiating dolutegravir-based ART. UGT1A1 polymorphisms may play a role, but further research on genetic determinants is needed.
10606089 | New reporter cell lines to study macrophage-tropic HIV envelope protein-mediated cell-cell fusion. The infection of human cells by HIV-1 virus can be mimicked by a fusion process between cells expressing the HIV envelope protein (Env) and cells expressing both human CD4 (huCD4) and appropriate human chemokine receptors. In this study, a macrophage-tropic (M-tropic) HIV cell-cell fusion assay was established that utilized huCD4, human CCR5 (huCCR5), and HIV ADAgpl60 as fusion components and a Gal4/VP16-activated luciferase as a reporter system. By combining CHO cells expressing huCD4 and huCCR5 with CHO cells expressing HIV ADAgpl60, a 300-fold increase in luciferase activity could be elicited relative to control. No luciferase activity was detected when HXB2gpl60 (T-tropic) was used instead of ADAgpl60 (M-tropic) as the fusion partner in the assay. Addition of anti-huCD4 (RPA-T4) or anti-huCCR5 (2D7) monoclonal antibodies in the assay significantly inhibited the fusion event; in contrast, an anti-CXCR4 (12G5) monoclonal antibody had little effect, indicating that the fusion assay was huCD4 and huCCR5 dependent. The cell-cell fusion occurred in a time-dependent manner; the maximum luciferase activity was detected about 8 hr after mixing the cells. The fusion events could also be monitored by another reporter system in which Gal4/VP16 activated green fluorescent protein (GFP) was used as the reporter instead of luciferase. In combination with fluorescence microscopy, the GFP reporter system allowed visualization of the fusion events in real time. Compared with previously described HIV fusion models, this system has several advantages, including simplicity, sensitivity, and the ability to allow continuous monitoring of the HIV cell-cell fusion event. Finally, this cell-cell fusion system is easily adapted to study other HIV fusion events.
40751130 | Screening and identification of host factors interacting with the nucleocapsid protein of SARS-CoV-2 omicron variant using the yeast two-hybrid system. BACKGROUND: The nucleocapsid protein (N protein) of SARS-CoV-2 is highly conserved in viral evolution and serves as the primary structural protein in viral infection, being the most abundant in viral particles. The N protein is highly immunogenic and plays a key role in the processes of viral infection and replication, making it of significant research value in both basic studies and clinical applications. RESULTS: To further investigate the functions of SARS-CoV-2 N protein, the Matchmaker Gold Yeast Two-Hybrid System was used to identify potential interacting partners of the N protein in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Through this approach, we identified 11 host proteins that might interact with the SARS-CoV-2 N protein. We further validated the interaction between the N protein and two host proteins, RNF2 and ARL15, which showed the highest positive clone rates at the cellular level. We also predicted the critical amino acid residues mediating the interaction of the N protein with RNF2 or ARL15. Additionally, we explored the impact of these two host proteins on coronavirus replication. Functional analysis of all the 11 host proteins revealed their involvement in ribosome biogenesis, antigen processing and presentation, as well as various signaling pathways such as JAK-STAT. CONCLUSIONS: This study further enriches the understanding of interactions between the SARS-CoV-2 N protein and host, providing important theoretical insights for the deeper understanding of viral pathogenesis and the development of antiviral strategies.
41758893 | Distinct mutational landscapes and phylogenomic insights of the SARS-CoV-2 delta variant in Pakistan and India: Regional evolution, novel mutations, and epidemiological implications. Delta SARS-CoV-2 triggered a devastating wave of COVID-19 in India, infecting approximately 26% of the population (~357 million people) within four months, with ~0.4 million new cases per day, and around 250,000 reported deaths. In contrast, Pakistan experienced a much milder Delta wave, recording only 320,333 infections and 6,287 deaths. Against this epidemiological background, the current study aimed to identify genomic mutations in the delta-variant isolates reported from India and Pakistan and to compare their mutational profiles and phylogenomic patterns, without inferring direct clinical causality, in these neighboring countries. We analyzed 1,312 Pakistani and 3,140 Indian delta-variant genomes from the GISAID database to characterize their mutational spectrum and phylogenomic relationships in a global context. A total of 3,412 mutations were identified in Pakistani isolates compared with 6,856 mutations in Indian samples, reflecting differences in sample size, with NSP3 and spike protein emerging as the most frequently mutated regions. After normalization on a per-genome basis, Pakistani Delta genomes showed a slightly higher mutation density across most ORFs. Several globally common mutations, including ORF8: S84L, ORF1b: P1000L, and S: D157-158 deletions, were absent in both countries. Indian delta-genomes exhibited distinctive variants such as an M1M mutation in ORF7a and multiple stop-gain mutations in ORF3a, ORF7a, ORF8, ORF10, and NSP4, which may reflect population-specific evolutionary patterns rather than definitive effects on pathogenicity or transmissibility. In contrast, Pakistani isolates carried three novel missense mutations, NSP12b: Q348H, ORF6: K42E, and ORF3a: Y211H, at low prevalence. Phylogenomic analysis revealed that Pakistani isolates clustered primarily with Middle Eastern lineages, particularly from Saudi Arabia and Oman, suggesting international travel-linked introductions, rather than implying exclusive transmission routes. These findings highlight distinct regional evolutionary trajectories of delta-variant and demonstrate that differences in total mutation counts do not directly translate into per-genome mutational burden or disease severity. Our results emphasize the need for continued genomic surveillance to monitor region-specific viral adaptations and inform public health strategies.
40613499 | A pan-beta-coronavirus vaccine bearing conserved and asymptomatic B- and T-cell epitopes protects against highly pathogenic Delta and highly transmissible Omicron SARS-CoV-2 variants. Over the last five years of the COVID-19 pandemic, the repetitive mutations and deletions in the SARS-CoV-2 genome, primarily targeting the Spike gene, resulted in the emergence of multiple viral variants and sub-variants. The non-updated mismatched Spike-based sub-unit vaccines are less effective due to the ability of these SARS-CoV-2 variants and sub-variants to evade vaccine-induced humoral immunity. To reduce reliance on neutralizing antibodies and prevent potential mismatches between circulating variants, sub-variants, and the vaccines, we have identified highly conserved Spike and non-Spike viral epitopes associated with protective asymptomatic B- and T-cell immune responses, respectively. We demonstrated that unvaccinated asymptomatic patients with COVID-19 recognized these conserved B- and T-cell epitopes. Using the mRNA-LNP-based antigen delivery system, we developed a multi-epitope vaccine that incorporates the conserved B-cell epitopes, CD4+ T-cell epitopes, and CD8+ T-cell epitopes. To assess the efficacy of this \asymptomatic\ multi-epitope vaccine, we used the HLA-A*02:01/HLA-DRB1* 01:01-hACE-2 triple transgenic mouse model. We demonstrated that this \asymptomatic\ multi-epitope vaccine conferred robust protection against infection and disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 Delta (B.1.617.2) and Omicron (XBB.1.5) variants as assessed by: (i) prevention of weight loss, (ii) reduction of virus replication, and (iii) lung pathology. This protection was associated with: (i) strong antibody responses; and (ii) high frequency of anti-viral IFN-gamma-producing CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells. These findings illustrate the possibility of developing a pan-beta-coronavirus vaccine to induce broad-spectrum protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2 variants and sub-variants by targeting highly conserved \asymptomatic\ B- and T-cell epitopes identified from both structural and non-structural viral proteins.
41859102 | Carbohydrate fatty acid monosulphate ester adjuvant enhances the immunogenicity of influenza antigens via TLR4/2-dependent mechanisms. Introduction: Subunit influenza vaccines require potent adjuvants to elicit robust and broad immune responses, particularly against emerging pandemic strains such as H7N9. However, currently approved adjuvants often fail to induce durable and broadly protective immunity. Carbohydrate fatty acid monosulphate ester (CMS), a synthetic glycolipid incorporated into a squalane-in-water emulsion, has demonstrated promising immunostimulatory properties and is currently undergoing phase I clinical evaluation. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying its adjuvanticity in human immune cells remain incompletely understood. We therefore investigated the immunological and molecular mechanisms by which CMS enhances influenza hemagglutinin (HA) immunogenicity. Methods: Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs) from healthy donors were stimulated with influenza HA antigen alone or in combination with CMS. Antigen-specific T cell responses were assessed using activation-induced marker assays and intracellular cytokine staining. DC maturation markers and cytokine secretion were analyzed by flow cytometry and ELISA. Antigen uptake was evaluated by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. Bulk RNA sequencing of CMS-stimulated DCs was performed to identify differentially expressed genes and enriched pathways. Toll-like receptor (TLR) involvement was validated using THP-1 reporter assays and pharmacological inhibition in DCs. Results: CMS significantly enhanced antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses in PBMCs. While recombinant H7N9 HA alone poorly activated DCs, co-formulation with CMS induced robust upregulation of co-stimulatory molecules and pro-inflammatory cytokines, leading to a polyfunctional T helper cell response. Transcriptomic profiling revealed strong enrichment of TLR, NF-kappaB, JAK-STAT, and interferon signaling pathways. Functional studies confirmed that CMS-induced activation depends on TLR4 and TLR2 engagement. Discussion: CMS enhances influenza antigen immunogenicity by promoting TLR4/2-dependent DC activation, inflammatory signaling, and improved antigen presentation. These findings define the mechanistic basis of CMS adjuvanticity and support its development as a promising adjuvant platform for next-generation influenza vaccines targeting emerging pandemic strains.
41940356 | Recent Advances in Vitiligo Treatment. Purpose: This review systematically summarizes breakthrough advances in vitiligo treatment from 2020 to 2025 to provide the latest evidence-based insights for clinical practice. Patients and Methods: We searched ClinicalTrials.gov and PubMed for literature and clinical trials published within this period. Inclusion criteria encompassed randomized controlled trials (RCTs), Phase II and above clinical trial results, and fundamental research with clear clinical translational value. Results: Our analysis identified that JAK inhibitors achieved significant repigmentation by blocking the IFN-gamma/JAK-STAT signaling pathway, while novel agents such as IL-15 inhibitors selectively eliminated pathogenic CD8+ T cells, suppressing immune-mediated damage at its source. The combination of 308 nm excimer laser with JAK inhibitors or platelet-rich plasma (PRP) increased repigmentation rates in acral lesions to 56.1%, and vitamin D adjunct therapy demonstrated synergistic effects. For stable disease, ReCell technology combined with narrowband UVB (NB-UVB) emerged as an effective option, whereas miniature punch grafting further optimized surgical outcomes. Additionally, repurposed traditional drugs and antioxidant strategies expanded the available clinical arsenal. Conclusion: Vitiligo treatment has entered an era of precision immune modulation, with JAK inhibitors establishing themselves as first-line therapy and novel biologics showing significant promise. Combined phototherapy and cellular therapy innovations markedly enhance repigmentation efficiency, and drug repurposing continues to enrich the therapeutic landscape.
41852927 | Once-daily oral ritlecitinib or brepocitinib versus placebo in patients with moderate-to-severely active Crohn's disease (PIZZICATO): an international, randomised, phase 2a trial. Background: Crohn's disease (CD) has a high unmet need for treatment. Ritlecitinib (Janus Kinase [JAK]3/tyrosine kinase expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma [TEC] family kinase inhibitor) or brepocitinib (tyrosine kinase 2 (TYK2)/JAK1 inhibitor) are promising therapeutic targets. We aimed to evaluate efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of ritlecitinib and brepocitinib versus placebo in patients with moderate-to-severely active CD. Methods: PIZZICATO was a multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, induction-maintenance, phase 2a study in patients with moderate-to-severely active CD. Eligible patients (18-75 years old) had an established diagnosis (endoscopic and histopathology) of ileal, ileocolonic, or colonic active CD at least 3 months before the study started and had documented treatment failure with at least one conventional CD therapy. This study was double-blind during the 12-week induction phase and was open label for the subsequent 52-week open-label extension (OLE) phase. Study participants were enrolled from 140 sites in 26 countries and were randomly assigned (1:1:1) to receive once-daily oral ritlecitinib (200 mg [8 weeks] followed by 50 mg [4 weeks]) or brepocitinib (60 mg [12 weeks]) or placebo in the induction phase, followed by a reduced dose of 50 mg ritlecitinib or 30 mg brepocitinib during the 52-week OLE phase. The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved Simple Endoscopic Score (SES) for CD (SES-CD 50; defined as >=50% reduction from baseline) at Week 12 (ritlecitinib versus placebo; brepocitinib versus placebo), and was assessed in the full analysis set (FAS; all participants who received at least one dose of the study drug or placebo). The primary endpoint was changed from clinically-meaningful endoscopic improvement (CMEI) by protocol amendment during study execution. The safety profile of ritlecitinib and brepocitinib was assessed as a secondary endpoint during the induction phase and as a primary endpoint during the OLE phase. Safety was assessed in the safety analysis set (SAS; same as FAS). This trial was registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03395184, and EudraCT, 2017-003359-43. Findings: Between Feb 2, 2018, and Oct 19, 2023, 244 patients (median age: 33.0 [18, 71]) were randomly allocated into study groups (ritlecitinib n = 93; brepocitinib n = 72; placebo n = 79) and included in the FAS and SAS. Of 244 participants dosed in the induction phase, 217 (88.9%) completed the induction phase and entered the OLE phase; 216 were dosed in the OLE phase. Disease activity was generally similar across groups and the majority of participants were tumour necrotizing factor (TNF) inhibitor experienced. For the primary outcome at Week 12, a significantly higher proportion of participants achieved SES-CD 50 with ritlecitinib (difference versus placebo: 14.3% [90% CI 4.0-24.5]; p = 0.012) or brepocitinib (21.4% [10.0-32.9]; p = 0.0012) than did those receiving placebo. Regarding safety, during the induction phase, 146 (59.8%) patients reported 334 treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs); for the OLE phase, 169 (78.2%) patients reported 521 TEAEs. Most TEAEs were mild or moderate. Most common being severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) test positive (six patients, 6.5%). In the ritlecitinib 200/50 mg group, headache (five patients, 6.9%) in the brepocitinib group, and worsening of underlying CD (eight patients, 10.1%) in the placebo during the induction phase; and worsening of underlying CD in the ritlecitinib 200/50 mg to 50 mg (12 patients, 14.3%) and brepocitinib 60 mg to 30 mg (11 patients, 17.2%) group, and SARS-CoV-2 infection (six patients, 16.7%) in the placebo to ritlecitinib 50 mg group during the OLE phase. No deaths were reported. Interpretation: Ritlecitinib and brepocitinib showed significant improvement in the primary outcome versus placebo for treatment of moderate-to-severely active CD, with acceptable safety profiles. This should be considered as preliminary evidence of efficacy. It is not known how effective these treatments are likely to be in patients with milder disease. Further studies are required for both molecules and to better understand responder and non-responder populations. Funding: Pfizer Inc.
41424383 | Innate immune activation and mitochondrial ROS induce acute and persistent cardiac conduction system dysfunction after COVID-19. Cardiac arrhythmias increase during acute SARS-CoV-2 infection and in long COVID syndrome, by unknown mechanisms. This study explored the acute and long-term effects of COVID-19 on cardiac electrophysiology and the cardiac conduction system (CCS) in a hamster model. Electrocardiograms and subpleural pressures were recorded by telemetry for 4 weeks after SARS-CoV-2 infection, and interferon-stimulated gene expression and macrophage infiltration of the CCS were assessed at 4 days and 4 weeks postinfection. COVID-19 induced pronounced tachypnea and cardiac arrhythmias, including bradycardia and persistent atrioventricular block, though no viral protein expression was detected in the heart. Arrhythmias developed rapidly, partially reversed, and then redeveloped, indicating persistent CCS injury. COVID-19 induced cardiac cytokine expression, connexin mislocalization, and CCS macrophage remodeling. Interestingly, sterile innate immune activation by direct cardiac injection of polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (PIC) induced arrhythmias similar to those of COVID-19. PIC strongly induced cytokine secretion and interferon signaling in hearts, human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes, and engineered heart tissues, accompanied by alterations in excitation-contraction coupling. Importantly, the pulmonary and cardiac effects of COVID-19 were blunted by JAK/STAT inhibition or a mitochondrially targeted antioxidant, indicating that SARS-CoV-2 infection indirectly leads to arrhythmias by innate immune activation and redox stress, which could have implications for long COVID syndrome.
42081084 | Large Vessel Vasculitis: Recent Advances in Pathophysiology and Targeted Therapies. Large vessel vasculitides (LVV), including giant cell arteritis (GCA) and Takayasu arteritis (TAK), share common features such as inflammation of large sized arteries but differ in several key aspects, including age of onset and pathogenic mechanism. This narrative review gives an update of recent insights into pathogenesis of GCA and TAK, and discusses emerging targeted therapies based on these insights. It highlights omics-based signatures, ULK3 and SLAMF7 in GCA, EGR1 in TAK, alongside genetic and somatic risk factors such as clonal haematopoiesis (DNMT3A/TET2) linked to relapse and ischaemic vision loss in GCA, and the IL6R-p.Asp358Ala variant as a predictor of reduced interleukin (IL)-6 receptor blockade response. Common mechanisms include CD4+ T-cell, monocyte/macrophage, and B-cell infiltration with activation of IL-6, JAK/STAT/interferon, and IL-17 pathways. Giant cell arteritis is characterised by GM-CSF-driven macrophages and disrupted programmed cell death (PD)-1/PD-L1 checkpoint regulation, while TAK shows dominance of CD8+ T cells and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha signalling. Interleukin-6 receptor inhibitors (e.g., tocilizumab) show robust efficacy in GCA but with notable non-responders; the JAK inhibitor upadacitinib demonstrated efficacy in a Phase III study, whereas IL-17 blockade (secukinumab) yielded inconsistent results. In TAK, TNF inhibitors and tocilizumab are comparably effective; early data suggest Janus kinases (JAK) inhibitors promote remission, imaging improvement, and glucocorticoid sparing. Mavrilimumab (GM-CSF receptor blockade) is promising in GCA. Recent studies have increasingly focused on short-term glucocorticoid therapy in combination with biologic agents. Advances in biomarker research, including investigation of the IL-6 receptor and IL-17A gene polymorphisms, may enable more targeted therapeutic strategies.
41501483 | Genome surveillance of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron XBB subvariants in Wuhan in June 2023. The COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 has had a significant impact on global social and economic activities. The continuous emergence of new SARS-CoV-2 variants has made the global pandemic of COVID-19 difficult to predict. Therefore, it is of great significance to closely monitor the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic and understand the evolution and transmission characteristics of SARS-CoV-2. In this study, we examined 36 cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Wuhan in June 2023. Genomic surveillance revealed that this outbreak was caused by Omicron XBB variants, among which FY.3 and its descendants FY.3.1 and FY.3.2 dominated, and this trend was consistent with the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 nationwide in June and July. Analysis of sequence variations within hosts and between populations suggested that the S and ORF8 genes had undergone positive selection, possibly due to their important role in host adaptation, suggesting that some of these variations might be harmful mutations that reduce vaccine effectiveness. These findings may provide insights that will aid in predicting the evolutionary direction of SARS-CoV-2 in terms of variant competition, informing the design of next-generation multivalent vaccines and therapeutic strategies targeting conserved or rapidly evolving regions such as the S and ORF8 genes and supporting the evaluation and adjustment of surveillance, prevention, and control strategies in the Wuhan region.
40843373 | Jing Guan Fang, an herbal formula, as an immunomodulator: opposing effects on basal and lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation of macrophage via JAK/STAT3 and MAPK pathways. Jing Guan Fang, a formula based on Forsythia suspensa, is commonly used for preventing SARS-CoV-2 infection and alleviating cold-like symptoms. However, the precise immunoregulatory mechanisms underlying its effects remain unclear and warrant investigation. This study aims to investigate the immunomodulatory effects of JGF and further elucidate the underlying mechanisms. The results showed that JGF had minimal impact on the cell viability of RAW264.7 and MH-S. In the absence of LPS stimulation, JGF promoted macrophages to produce NO and pro-inflammatory cytokines in a concentration-dependent manner. However, after LPS treatment, the JGF add-on exhibited contrasting effects, with the half-maximal effective concentrations for reducing macrophage-secreted NO and IL-6 being 80 and 180 mug/mL, respectively. Western blot analysis revealed that the JGF supplement marginally induced the production of iNOS and COX-2 without LPS stimulation. However, in LPS-pretreated cells, JGF demonstrated the opposite effect. JGF monotherapy accelerated phosphorylation in the JNK and JAK2 signaling pathways. In contrast, JGF inhibited LPS-stimulated STAT3 phosphorylation by suppressing JNK1/2 activation. Moreover, JGF reduced LPS-induced expression of IL-6 and TNF-alpha in the lungs and serum of mice. Collectively, the findings suggest that JGF exhibits immunomodulatory activity and suppresses pro-inflammatory cytokine expression caused by LPS.
41655941 | Treg-driven magnetic resonance radiomics in glioblastoma: a multicenter and cross-species model for prognostic biomarker discovery. Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most aggressive primary brain tumor in adults. This study aimed to develop and validate a regulatory T cell (Treg)-associated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) radiomics model and assess its prognostic value, cross-species similarity, and interpretability across multicenter cohorts. Tregs retained prognostic significance for patients with GBM under World Health Organization CNS 5 classification. In murine models, Treg depletion suppressed tumor growth and reduced the infiltration of myeloid-derived suppressor cells, tumor-associated macrophages, and exhausted CD8+T cells. The in vitro co-culture of Tregs with GL261 cells significantly reduced radiation-induced apoptosis. We constructed a Treg-associated radiomics model comprising six features and validated the prognostic value of the radiomics score (RS) across multicenter clinical imaging cohorts (First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University, n = 111, hazard ratio [HR] = 2.178, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.269-3.740; Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine, n = 126, HR = 1.664, 95% CI: 1.049-2.640; The Cancer Genome Atlas, n = 86, HR = 1.811, 95% CI: 1.089-3.010). Treg depletion experiments also confirmed causal associations between two radiomic features and Treg infiltration. RS stratification correlated with hypoxia, glycolysis, interleukin (IL)-2/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 5, and IL-6/Janus kinase/STAT3 signaling pathways and immune checkpoints and genomic alterations. The MRI radiomics model enables noninvasive prediction of Treg infiltration and serves as a robust, generalizable prognostic biomarker for GBM. These findings provide evidence for biological causal associations and cross-species similarities between radiomics features and Treg infiltration.
41861437 | The association of selected genetic polymorphisms with adverse events following COVID-19 vaccination: a single-centre prospective observational cohort study. OBJECTIVES: The study investigated whether selected genetic polymorphisms are linked to adverse reactions after Pfizer-BioNTech BNT162b2 vaccination. METHODS: A prospective observational cohort of 354 hospital employees who received two doses of BNT162b2 vaccination was analysed. Adverse effects were recorded after each dose using standardized surveys and graded by severity. Genotyping was performed for variants in ACE2, TMPRSS2, HLA-E, IFNG, MICA, NKG2A, NKG2C, TLR4, and TLR7. Statistical analyses included Fisher's exact test and proportional odds logistic regression with Bonferroni correction. RESULTS: The KLRC2/NKG2C del/del genotype was associated with higher frequencies of selected reactions. After the first dose , skin redness occurred in 100% (5/6) of del/del carriers versus 32% (35/110) of wt/del and 31% (72/229) of wt/wt (p = 0.0105 and p = 0.0129, respectively); swelling in 100% (5/5) versus 33% (36/109) and 35% (8/229) (p = 0.0153; p = 0.0177); and headache in 100% (5/5) versus 26% (29/110) and 36% (82/229) (p = 0.0054; p = 0.0198). After dose 2, diarrhea occurred in 40% (2/5) of del/del carriers versus 2% (2/110) of wt/del and 2% (4/227) of wt/wt (OR 34.85, 95% CI 3.35-300.59; p = 0.0264). Severity was associated with NKG2C del/del (dose 1 OR 0.16, 95% CI 0.04-0.71; p = 0.0371; dose 2 OR 0.07, 0.01-0.59; p = 0.0323) and showed a borderline association for TLR4 rs4986790 AG versus AA (OR 0.38, 0.16-0.87; p = 0.0508). No significant associations were observed for the remaining variants. CONCLUSIONS: Genetic variability in KLRC2/NKG2C and TLR4 may influence the risk and severity of adverse events following mRNA COVID-19 vaccination, supporting a role for host genetics in vaccine reactogenicity.
41808838 | Plasma proteomic profile reveals persistent immune activation in post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Plasma proteomic profiling of 92 individuals with Post-Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC), assessed a mean of 34 months after acute infection, revealed a distinct inflammatory signature. Using proximity extension assay technology, 358 proteins were quantified, identifying 26 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in PASC: 23 upregulated and 3 downregulated. The most upregulated proteins were Oncostatin M (OSM) and IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL1RN). Additional increases were observed in IL-6, IL-12B, IL-2, CCL22, CSF3, CSF1, and HLA-DRA, as well as proteins involved in tissue remodeling and angiogenesis such as ANGPTL2 and TGFA. Random forest analysis confirmed IL1RN, OSM, ANGPTL2, HLA-DRA, and CLEC4A as strong discriminators between patients and controls. Gene set enrichment analysis demonstrated activation of multiple immune pathways, including Inflammatory Response, TNF-alpha/NF-kappaB signaling, IL-6/JAK/STAT3, IL-2/STAT5, and Allograft Rejection, indicating persistent activation of innate and adaptive immunity. STRING network analysis highlighted a tightly connected cytokine-driven inflammatory module. Plasma spike protein levels did not differ between patients and controls, suggesting that PASC-related inflammation may persist independently of ongoing viral replication. Overall, the findings indicate a consistent low-grade inflammatory state in PASC without evidence for distinct biological subtypes.
41808833 | Ascaris lumbricoides antigen exposure modulates T cell activation via regulation of IL-15Ralpha expression, STAT5 phosphorylation, and promotes differentiation of BCL6low B cells. Background: Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) causes active tuberculosis (TB) in approximately 10 million people annually, resulting in 1.6 million deaths. TB and helminthiasis have a significant geographical overlap, and helminth infections can trigger immunological responses that dampen Th1 immunity, which is essential for Mtb containment. While B cells are known to modulate T cell responses, their role during helminth/TB co-infection remains unclear. Objective: This study aimed to analyze the effect of helminth exposure on T cell activation in a T and B cell co-culture system. Methods: T and B cells were isolated from healthy donor blood, stimulated with aCD3/aCD28, and exposed to Ascaris lumbricoides protein antigens (ASC) or Schistosoma mansoni soluble egg antigen (SM). Results: B cells reduced T cell proliferation, and SM exposure partly attenuated this inhibitory effect on CD4 T cells. ASC exposure did not affect T cell proliferation but increased soluble IL-15Ralpha and surface IL-15Ralpha and IL-2/15Rbeta on CD4 T cells. Restimulation with recombinant human IL-15 revealed reduced and unsustained STAT5 activation in CD4 and CD8 T cells in ASC-exposed co-cultures. Additional analysis showed altered phosphorylation of STAT1, STAT3, and STAT6, indicating broader impairment of IL-15 responsiveness and a dampened Th1 activation profile. BCL6/BLIMP-1 transcription factor expression of B cells in ASC-exposed co-cultures suggested a shift toward a more differentiated phenotype, such as plasma cell, memory B cells, or marginal zone MZ B cells, which are all typically BCL6low. The in vivo analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from individuals in a helminth/TB endemic region showed increased frequencies of CD38hiCD24hi B regulatory cells in helminth infected, and MZ B cells (IgMhigh unswitched B cells) in both helminth-infected and helminth/TB co-infected individuals. Conclusion: ASC antigen exposure modulates T cell activation through dynamic regulation of the IL-15-pathway and STAT signaling. These findings suggest that ASC exposure may help prevent prolonged IL-15-driven responses, potentially limiting excessive inflammation during TB. B cells in ASC-exposed co-cultures exhibit transcriptional changes consistent with a shift away from the germinal center phenotype toward more differentiated states.
41828447 | IFNgamma Increases Intracellular Amino Acid Content in Human Alveolar Epithelial Cells: Role of the STAT/IRF1 Axis in the Stimulation of Transmembrane Transport. Interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), a key inflammatory cytokine that orchestrates immune responses, also emerges as a regulator of cellular metabolism; however, in alveolar epithelial cells its impact on amino acid homeostasis remains poorly defined. Here, we investigated the effects of IFNgamma on intracellular amino acid content and transmembrane transport in human alveolar epithelial A549 cells, focusing on the contribution of the JAK/STAT/IRF1 signaling axis. To this end, A549 WT and IRF1 knockout (IRF1 KO) cells were used to investigate IRF1 contribution, and baricitinib to evaluate the role of the JAK/STAT pathway. HPLC analysis reveals that in WT, but not in IRF1 KO cells, IFNgamma markedly increases the intracellular concentration of many amino acids, including glutamine, glutamate, and several neutral and cationic amino acids, without affecting the cell volume, thus indicating true metabolic accumulation. The measurement of the transmembrane uptake of specific radiolabeled amino acids demonstrates a concomitant increase in transport Systems ASC, A, L, and y+ activity; an upregulation of the related transporters ASCT2, SNAT2, LAT1, and CAT1 has also been observed by means of qPCR analysis. Moreover, conditioned medium from SARS-CoV-2 spike-activated macrophages recapitulates IFNgamma-driven amino acid remodeling in a JAK/STAT/IRF1-dependent manner. Overall, our findings identify IFNgamma as a potent regulator of intracellular amino acid availability in alveolar epithelial cells through the modulation of the activity of membrane transporters. The observed IFNgamma-reprogramming is IRF1 dependent, ascribing a crucial role to this transcription factor in linking inflammation and amino acid metabolism.
41976391 | Pathology of Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma: A Narrative Review. Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) comprises a heterogeneous group of extranodal non-Hodgkin lymphomas. With the publication of the fifth edition of the World Health Organization Classification of Hematolymphoid Tumors, the diagnostic framework for CTCL has shifted from primarily morphologic phenotypes toward an emphasis on molecular drivers. Current research suggests that malignant clones may arise from somatic mutations at the hematopoietic stem cell stage and may follow a continuous hematogenous dissemination model with bidirectional trafficking between the skin and systemic circulation. At the molecular level, genomic instability, often associated with somatic copy-number variations, may promote activation of the janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling pathway through gene-dosage effects. In parallel, chromatin remodeling linked to EZH2 overexpression and reduced special SATB1 expression may support a Th2-polarized program. This phenotype may contribute to epidermal barrier impairment via cytokines such as Interleukins-4 (IL-4) and IL-13, potentially creating conditions permissive for Staphylococcus aureus colonization. Microbial superantigens and exotoxins may further contribute to tumor progression and therapeutic resistance by reinforcing JAK/STAT signaling, particularly STAT3, and reducing CD8+ T-cell-mediated immune surveillance. In the dermis, reprogramming of cancer-associated fibroblasts and polarization of macrophages toward an M2 phenotype may collectively contribute to an immunosuppressive niche. Emerging biomarkers, including CD74, and acquired resistance mechanisms after anti-C-C chemokine receptor 4 therapy further extend the translational relevance of recent pathologic findings. Overall, CTCL evolution appears to be a systemic process shaped by interactions between tumor-intrinsic genetic alterations and the skin microenvironment.
41798916 | MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV-1 proteins inhibit the IFN-alpha JAK/STAT pathway of epithelial cells, via IFN-lambda-induced USP18. The recent emergence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (SARS-CoV)-2 highlights the need for greater understanding of the immune evasion mechanisms used by Coronavirus (CoVs) to subvert antiviral responses. Previous global outbreaks caused by Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) and SARS-CoV-1 were associated with high mortality rates and limited therapeutic options. Interferon (IFN)-alpha is the body's natural antiviral agent; but its Janus kinase/signal transducer and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) signalling pathway is often antagonized by viruses, thereby preventing the upregulation of essential, anti-viral IFN Stimulated Genes (ISGs). Notably, therapeutic IFN-alpha has disappointingly weak clinical responses in MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV-1 infected patients, indicating that these CoVs inhibit the IFN-alpha JAK/STAT pathway. We previously identified that MERS-CoV-non-structural protein(nsp)2 and nsp5 and SARS-CoV-1-nsp14 block the IFN-alpha JAK/STAT signalling pathway in human epithelial A549 cells; however, the mechanisms behind this inhibition remain unknown. In this study, we explored the factors influencing basal STAT1 and STAT2 phosphorylation and discovered that the expression of MERS-CoV-nsp2 and SARS-CoV-1-nsp14, but not MERS-CoV-nsp5, upregulated IFN-lambda1/3 in A549 cells. Neutralization of IFN-lambda1/3 revealed that this induction was responsible for the observed basal STAT1 and STAT2 phosphorylation, resulting in reduced responsiveness to exogenous IFN-alpha. Furthermore, both MERS-CoV-nsp2 and SARS-CoV-1-nsp14 induced the expression of USP18, a negative regulator of the IFN-alpha JAK/STAT pathway, resulting in reduced responsiveness to exogenous IFN-alpha. Silencing USP18 reinstated IFN-alpha-mediated STAT1 phosphorylation and ISG induction. Collectively, these findings shed light on the diverse strategies employed by these CoVs to evade type I IFN antiviral responses. While providing evidence for the ineffectiveness of exogenous IFN-alpha treatment during CoV infection, our discoveries also identify these viral proteins as potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
42092153 | Steric hindrance of antibody binding in an Omicron spike fusion intermediate. Understanding conformational changes of the coronavirus spike protein is critical for developing broad-spectrum therapies. The pan-coronavirus epitope spike residues 815-825 (centred on the S2' site) are buried in the prefusion spike but are transiently exposed upon ACE2 binding1,2. Here, using integrated functional and structural analyses, we demonstrate that 76E1, an antibody targeting spike residues 815-825, specifically recognizes an open early fusion intermediate conformation in which this epitope adopts a helical conformation, designated the S2'-helix. SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variants evade such antibodies via steric hindrance resulting from S2'-helix shifts and restricted S1-ACE2 distancing in the early fusion intermediate conformation, together with increased reliance on cathepsin-mediated entry that impairs 76E1 inhibition of S2' cleavage. The H655Y mutation is central to this evasion. Antibody size directly affects its access to the S2'-helix. Crucially, antibody size minimization reversed the evasion mechanisms and significantly enhanced neutralizing activity against authentic Omicron variants and other human coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-1 and HCoV-229E. These findings establish small-molecule targeting of the S2'-helix as a strategy for pan-coronavirus therapies.
41922045 | Vitamin D in health and disease and potential shield against COVID-19. Vitamin D acts as a micronutrient, hormone, and immunomodulator. While well known for supporting bone health and preventing rickets, researchers are now exploring its potential to help fight infection, including COVID-19. Certain laboratory studies and observational research suggest that vitamin D supplementation may lower the risk of developing serious illnesses. Unfortunately, clinical studies have generated mixed results. This gap between laboratory findings and real-world outcomes highlights the need for high-quality research in the field. Another promising domain is the utilization of vitamin D analogs that can provide similar or even better benefits than native vitamin D, but with fewer side effects. Additionally, the standardization of vitamin D measurement from biologic samples in clinical and research laboratories must be improved to successfully manage individual patients and clinical research. All these aspects are dealt with in detail in this chapter.
42025371 | Viral infection and establishing new therapeutic platforms- On the occasion of receiving the 16th Setsuro Ebashi award. During the past quarter century, a series of global pandemics-caused by coronaviruses (SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2) and influenza A (H1N1, H5N1)-has underscored that viral infection is not merely a transient invasion but a systemic and temporal perturbation of the host life system. My research has sought to elucidate the principles by which the host organism senses, integrates, and regulates responses to viral stress, spanning molecular to organismal levels. Key discoveries include the identification of ACE2 as the functional receptor for SARS-CoV and a critical regulator of disease severity; elucidation of innate-immune overactivation (\cytokine storm\) as a driver of fatal pathology; identification of lipid-mediated RNA regulation that restrains excessive inflammation; and discovery of neuro-immune and epigenetic mechanisms linking acute infection to long-term dysfunction. These findings reveal infection as a multi-layered biological reprogramming process involving immunity, metabolism, the nervous system, and chromatin architecture. Building on this mechanistic foundation, we established data-driven infrastructures-AI-assisted predictive models and Medical MLOps systems-that integrate clinical and molecular data for personalized infection medicine. This perspective summarizes the evolution of this integrative research and discusses future directions toward precision therapeutics for acute and post-infectious syndromes.
40690526 | Population-level toggling of T cell immune escape at human leukocyte antigen anchor residues in SARS-CoV-2 Spike proteins, in an ethnically diverse population region. There is currently limited understanding of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) adaptation to the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) proteins which mediate CD8 (HLA-I) and CD4 (HLA-II) T cell immune responses. We investigated population-level T cell immune escape in SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein at amino acid binding positions (the anchor motifs) preferred by the highly restrictive peptide binding grooves of the HLA. SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein sequences isolated in South Africa from January 2020 until June 2022, were used. All possible 9-mer and 15-mer peptides in the sequence alignment were scanned for matches to HLA-I and HLA-II anchor motifs, respectively. Peptide positions with matched anchor motifs and >=1% mismatched sequences were investigated for immune escape using immunoinformatic prediction methods and directional evolution along the phylogenetic tree. Toggling of short-lived immune escape mutations at HLA-I anchor motifs was observed in 17 peptides across Spike. Eight of these overlapped with HLA-II escape mutations. Six mutations were related to zoonotic adaptation. All 17 sites were under significant directional evolution along the phylogenetic tree, and 16/17 are within published confirmed or inferred T cell epitopes. Immune escape predictions for HLA- A*66:01/A*68:01 were common (n = 7/17). HLA- A*02:05, A*03:01, B*07:02, B*08:01, B*58:01, DRB1*04:01 and DQA1*01:02-DQB1*06:02 were each associated with at least two escape mutations. This immunoinformatic prediction of T cell immune escape at HLA anchor motifs: (i)shortlisted potentially understudied population-specific HLA and immune escape (ii)revealed a footprint of underlying toggling of short-lived immune escape mutations, and (iii)has potential to cost-effectively guide pre-clinical research questions on the inclusion of partially conserved but dominant epitopes in vaccine immunogens.
40563525 | Cardiac Glycosides: From Natural Defense Molecules to Emerging Therapeutic Agents. Cardiac glycosides (CGs), a class of plant- and animal-derived compounds historically used to treat heart failure, have garnered renewed interest for their diverse pharmacological properties beyond Na<sup>+</sup>/K<sup>+</sup>-ATPase (NKA) inhibition. Recent studies reveal that CGs modulate key signaling pathways-such as NF-kB, PI3K/Akt, JAK/STAT, and MAPK-affecting processes central to cancer, viral infections, immune regulation, and neurodegeneration. In cancer, CGs induce multiple forms of regulated cell death, including apoptosis, ferroptosis, pyroptosis, and immunogenic cell death, while also inhibiting angiogenesis, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and cell cycle progression. They demonstrate broad-spectrum antiviral activity by disrupting viral entry, replication, and mRNA processing in viruses such as HSV, HIV, influenza, and SARS-CoV-2. Immunologically, CGs regulate Th17 differentiation via RORg signaling, although both inhibitory and agonistic effects have been reported. In the nervous system, CGs modulate neuroinflammation, support synaptic plasticity, and improve cognitive function in models of Alzheimer's disease, epilepsy, and multiple sclerosis. Despite their therapeutic potential, clinical translation is hindered by narrow therapeutic indices and systemic toxicity. Advances in drug design and nanocarrier-based delivery are critical to unlocking CGs' full potential as multi-target agents for complex diseases. This review synthesizes the current knowledge on the emerging roles of CGs and highlights strategies for their safe and effective repurposing.
41967451 | Integrative network pharmacology and molecular simulation analysis reveals the therapeutic potential of Coscinium fenestratum alkaloids against SARS-CoV-2. SARS-CoV-2 variants resist all direct antivirals across clades, necessitating immediate therapeutic interventions that use conserved inflammatory mechanisms not utilized in existing pharmacotherapy. Even though Coscinium fenestratum is known to contain alkaloids like berberine, palmatine, and tembetarine, and traditional medicine says it can change the immune system, no systematic computational analysis has looked at its multi-target potential against SARS-CoV-2 host dependency factors that are important for viral replication and immunopathology. This study integrates network pharmacology, identifying 335 shared targets between C. fenestratum alkaloids and SARS-CoV-2 host proteins; molecular docking across five hub targets; SiteMap analysis confirming a druggable STAT3 binding cavity (D-score = 1.01); 100 ns MD simulations demonstrating complex stability (RMSD < 3 A, RMSF <1.2 A); and MM/GBSA refinement positioning the tembetarine-STAT3 interaction as the lead candidate (binding free energy DeltaG_bind = -41.47 kcal/mol). STAT3/AKT1 are the most important hubs (centrality 140, 172) that cause the dysregulation of PI3K-Akt and JAK-STAT, which is a key part of the variant-independent COVID-19 cytokine storm pathophysiology. Tembetarine has enhanced binding affinity and pharmacokinetic viability, placing C. fenestratum alkaloids for prompt experimental validation via variant-circumventing, multi-target host modulation urgently required in the global SARS-CoV-2 treatment pipeline.
41680947 | Integrative multi-omics analysis reveals CXCL10-driven inflammation and TREM2 + macrophage-plasma cell survival niche as hallmarks of late-stage rheumatoid arthritis.
42114565 | Microarray Gene Expression Analysis of Lesional Skin in Canine Vesicular Cutaneous Lupus Erythematosus (VCLE). BACKGROUND: Vesicular cutaneous lupus erythematosus (VCLE) is a rare autoimmune disease in dogs and is considered the canine counterpart of human subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus (SCLE). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying VCLE remain incompletely defined. OBJECTIVE/HYPOTHESIS: To characterise gene expression changes in lesional skin from dogs with VCLE and identify immune pathways involved in disease pathogenesis. ANIMALS: Six client-owned dogs with clinically and histopathologically confirmed VCLE, and five healthy control dogs. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded lesional and control skin samples were analysed using the NanoString nCounter Canine Immuno-Oncology Panel, targeting 780 immune-related genes. Data were normalised using geNorm-selected housekeeping genes. Differential expression, cell type profiling and pathway enrichment analyses were also performed. RESULTS: Principal component analysis showed clear separation between VCLE and healthy control samples. A total of 491 differentially expressed genes were identified, including 439 upregulated and 52 downregulated genes (p-adj < 0.05). Lesional skin showed marked upregulation of interferon-stimulated genes (CXCL10, IDO1, ISG15, IFIT1), cytotoxic molecules (GZMB, PRF1, FASLG), pro-inflammatory chemokines (CXCL8, CCL3, CCL4) and S100 family markers (S100A12, S100A9, S100A8). Downregulated genes included DLA-DQB1, ERBB4, CCL27, GATA3 and RORC. Cell type profiling demonstrated enrichment of CD8+ T cells, cytotoxic T cells, natural killer cells, dendritic cells, macrophages and neutrophils. Pathway enrichment analysis identified activation of interferon signalling, Janus kinase signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signalling, chemotaxis and cytotoxic immune pathways. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: VCLE lesions feature a dominant interferon-stimulated gene signature, with downstream activation of JAK-STAT signalling and cytotoxic lymphocyte-mediated immune responses, suggesting that interferon and JAK-STAT signalling are potential therapeutic targets.
41852166 | Genetic and Transcriptomic Profiles Identify Potential Therapeutic Targets of Concurrent Follicular and Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma and Transformed Follicular Lymphoma. Concurrent follicular and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (FL/DLBCL) and transformed follicular lymphoma (tFL) are distinct B-cell lymphoma entities, posing challenges for understanding pathogenesis and clinical management. The clinical characteristics of 98 FL/DLBCL, 31 tFL, 403 FL1-2/3A, and 608 DLBCL patients were analyzed. DNA sequencing was performed in these cohorts, and RNA sequencing was performed on 60 FL/DLBCL, 8 tFL, 175 FL1-2/3A, and 329 DLBCL patients. FL/DLBCL was characterized by localized disease, whereas tFL was associated with elevated LDH levels. Genomic analyses revealed that FL/DLBCL harbored frequent mutations in the Wnt signaling pathway but lacked the epigenetic alterations observed in FL, while tFL retained FL-associated epigenetic mutations and acquired additional alterations in cell cycle/p53 and JAK-STAT pathways. Both FL/DLBCL and tFL exhibited increased gene mutations related to the tumor microenvironment and B-cell differentiation, most notably CD70 and CD79B. Transcriptomic profiling further demonstrated enrichment of tumor microenvironment and B-cell differentiation-related pathways, consistent with the mutational landscape. Functionally, co-culture assays showed that knockdown of CD70 in B-lymphoma cells reduced naive CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell subsets, whereas CD79BY197H transfected B-lymphoma cells enhanced tumor cell viability. Our findings comprehensively characterize FL/DLBCL and tFL molecularly, elucidating their distinct pathogenesis and rationalize CD70 and CD79B targeted immunotherapies.
41622291 | Copy-number amplification drives IFI30 overexpression and coordinated immune activation, identifying a novel diagnostic and therapeutic target in gastric adenocarcinoma. Interferon-gamma-inducible protein 30 (IFI30, also known as lysosomal thiol reductase, GILT) plays a key role in antigen processing by reducing disulfide bonds. However, its biological significance in gastric cancer (GC) has not been systematically elucidated. This study integrated pan-cancer multi-omics data, including transcriptomics (TCGA-STAD, GEO), genomics (whole-exome somatic mutations, copy number alterations), immune profiling, single-cell RNA sequencing, and transcription factor prediction to comprehensively characterize the dysregulation of IFI30 in GC. Downstream pathway involvement was inferred through weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and phosphoproteomic correlation mapping. The immune microenvironment was analyzed using CIBERSORTx, TIMER2.0, and re-annotated spatial transcriptomics. Multi-omics interrogation revealed that IFI30 is markedly up-regulated in gastric adenocarcinoma (STAD) relative to normal gastric mucosa. Across TCGA-GTEx and three validation cohorts, IFI30 mRNA and protein levels were significantly higher in tumours, with robust diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.92). Copy-number amplification-not point mutation-was the principal genomic driver of over-expression and was accompanied by heightened genome instability and co-occurrence of TP53 and PIK3CA alterations. Single-cell RNA-seq pinpointed IFI30 enrichment in dendritic cells, CD8+ T cells and macrophages, forming dense ligand-receptor networks that link innate and adaptive immunity. WGCNA and pathway analyses showed that IFI30-high tumours converge on antigen presentation, cytokine/chemokine, JAK-STAT and NF-kappaB signalling while activating epithelial-mesenchymal transition, cell-cycle and hypoxia programmes. IFI30 correlated strongly with multiple steps of the cancer-immunity cycle and with PD-L1, SPI1, FOXP3 and IRF1 expression. Pharmacogenomic profiling indicated resistance to MAPK- and cell-cycle inhibitors yet increased sensitivity to EGFR and PI3K/AKT blockade. IFI30-based signatures outperformed TIDE, TMB and PD-L1 in predicting immune-checkpoint-blockade response and were enriched in MSI-H tumours. In vitro, IFI30 protein was abundant in six gastric-cancer cell lines, and shRNA-mediated knock-down curtailed proliferation. Collectively, these findings establish IFI30 as a genomically driven, immunologically active and therapeutically actionable biomarker in gastric cancer. IFI30 is a copy-number-driven oncogenic and immunomodulatory gene that is markedly over-expressed in gastric adenocarcinoma. Its high expression integrates tumor-intrinsic programs (cell cycle, EMT, hypoxia) with tumor-extrinsic immune activation, predicts differential drug sensitivities, and outperforms established biomarkers in forecasting response to immune-checkpoint blockade-particularly in MSI-high disease. These findings nominate IFI30 as a promising diagnostic marker and therapeutic target.
40788085 | A Clinical Investigation Into the Effects of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 Infection and Vaccination in Children With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. This study systematically evaluated the humoral immune responses and cytokine profiles of 259 pediatric participants, comprising both healthy individuals and patients with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL), following either administration of an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine or natural infection. The data indicate that vaccination elicits measurable immune responses in both groups, supporting its relevance in immunocompromised pediatric populations. Although antigen-specific responses to the spike (S) protein and receptor-binding domain (RBD) were attenuated in the ALL cohort, levels of neutralizing antibodies and antibodies capable of inhibiting RBD-ACE2 binding were comparable to those in healthy controls, suggesting that functional antibody-mediated immunity can still be achieved in ALL patients. Notably, vaccinated ALL patients exhibited higher neutralizing antibody titers against the SARS-CoV-2 prototype strain and major variants of concern (Alpha, Beta, Delta) than their healthy counterparts. However, both groups demonstrated markedly reduced responses to the Omicron variant, underscoring its substantial immune escape potential. Cytokine analysis revealed dysregulated expression patterns in the ALL group, with minimal modulation following vaccination, in contrast to the immunosuppressive cytokine regulation observed in healthy individuals. Importantly, the JAK/STAT signaling pathway emerged as a key component in the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 among healthy subjects. These insights provide a scientific basis for the optimization of COVID-19 immunization strategies tailored to vulnerable pediatric groups.
42079584 | Respiratory epithelial cells as central mediators of immune crosstalk in SARS-CoV-2 infection. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) induces life-threatening acute lung injury (ALI) and disrupts immune homeostasis, however, the role of epithelial-immune cell crosstalk in driving this pathology remains incompletely elucidated. Respiratory epithelial cells (RECs) as the primary targets of SARS-CoV-2 via the ACE2 receptor, act as central mediators of immune crosstalk that balances antiviral defense and immunopathology in COVID-19. Beyond forming a physical barrier against pathogen invasion, RECs regulate bidirectional crosstalk with immune cells (including alveolar macrophages, dendritic cells, neutrophils, and lymphocytes) through multiple mechanisms, such as cytokine signaling, antigen presentation, PD-L1 checkpoint modulation, and renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) dysregulation. Under physiological conditions, these interactions promote viral clearance and epithelial repair; In contrast, dysregulation of such crosstalk leads to excessive inflammatory responses like cytokine storm and impaires tissue regeneration. Elucidating the molecular dynamics underlying REC-immune crosstalk is crucial for gaining insights into the development of targeted therapies (e.g., modulating cytokine signaling, restoring RAAS balance) to mitigate the severity of COVID-19. This review summarized recent findings to clarify how REC-mediated immune crosstalk dictates antiviral responses and pathological outcomes, thereby providing a theoretical basis for optimizing therapeutic strategies that strengthen antiviral immunity while minimizing immunopathology.
41544105 | TCR2HLA: Calibrated inference of HLA genotypes from TCR repertoires enables identification of immunologically relevant metaclonotypes. T cell receptors (TCRs) recognize peptides presented by polymorphic human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules, but HLA genotype data are often missing from TCR repertoire sequencing studies. To address this, we developed TCR2HLA, an open-source tool that infers HLA genotypes from TCRbeta repertoires. Expanding on work linking public TRBV-CDR3 sequences to HLA genotypes, we incorporated \quasi-public\ metaclonotypes - composed of rarer TCRbeta sequences with shared amino acid features - enriched by HLA genotypes. Using four TCRbetaseq datasets from 3,150 individuals, we applied TRBV gene partitioning and locality-sensitive hashing to identify ~96,000 TCRbeta features strongly associated with specific HLA alleles from 71M input TCRs. Binary HLA classifiers built with these features achieved high balanced accuracy (>0.9) across common HLA-A (9/12), B (9/12), C (6/13), DRB1 (11/11) alleles and prevalent DPA1/DPB1 (6/10), DQA1/DQB1 (8/17) heterodimers. We also introduced a high-sensitivity calibration to support predictions in samples with as few as 5,000 unique clonotypes. Calibrated predictions with confidence filtering improved reliability. Beyond genotype imputation, TCR2HLA enables the discovery of novel HLA- and exposure-associated TCRs, as shown by the identification of SARS-CoV-2 related TCRs in a large COVID-19 dataset lacking HLA data. TCR2HLA provides a scalable framework for bridging the gap between TCRseq data and HLA genotype for biomarker discovery.
42127898 | IL-15 and IL-21 synergy improves anti-tumor efficacy of iPSC-derived cytotoxic T cells in solid tumors. The development of effective cellular immunotherapies for solid tumors requires the presence of robust infiltration, persistence, proliferation, and antigen-specific cytotoxicity. Here, we engineered induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived cytotoxic T cells transduced with a chimeric antigen receptor (iCAR-T cells) and identified an optimal cytokine armoring strategy. Co-expression of interleukin-15 (IL-15) and IL-21 synergistically enhanced STAT1 phosphorylation, leading to increased transcriptional activation of the chemokine receptor CXCR3 and thereby improving tumor homing capacity. Furthermore, the engineered iCAR-T cells maintained a CD45RA-CD45RO+CCR7+CD62L+ memory T cell-like phenotype in tumors, contributing to the prolonged survival of the animal model. These findings demonstrate that cytokine synergy can be engineered into iPSC-derived T cells to overcome significant barriers in solid tumor immunotherapy, offering a scalable approach to developing next-generation off-the-shelf CAR-T therapies.
40369583 | Lyophilized MSC-EVs attenuates COVID-19 pathogenesis by regulating the JAK/STAT pathway. BACKGROUND: The JAK/STAT signaling pathway plays a crucial role in the release of interferons (IFNs) and the proinflammatory response during SARS-CoV-2 infection, contributing to the cytokine storm characteristic of severe COVID-19 cases. STAT3, a key protein in this pathway, has been implicated in promoting inflammation, making its inhibition a potential therapeutic strategy to mitigate disease severity. Mesenchymal Stem Cell-derived Extracellular Vesicles (MSC-EVs), enriched with immunomodulatory and antiviral miRNAs, offer a promising therapeutic approach by modulating gene expression and regulating inflammatory responses. This study investigates the ability of Lyophilized MSC-EVs to inhibit the JAK/STAT pathway, highlighting their potential application in COVID-19 management. METHODS: Male Syrian hamsters were used as an experimental model, housed under controlled laboratory conditions. SARS-CoV-2 (hCoV-19/Egypt/NRC-03/2020) was propagated in Vero E6 cells, and viral titers were determined using plaque assays. Hamsters were intranasally challenged with the virus and treated intraperitoneally with 0.5 mL of lyophilized human Wharton's jelly-derived MSC-extracellular vesicles (MSC-EVs). Histopathological evaluations were performed on lung tissues using H&E, Masson's trichrome, and immunohistochemical staining. Morphometric analyses were conducted to assess lung injury and fibrosis. Western blotting was employed to evaluate protein expression. All procedures adhered to ethical and biosafety guidelines. RESULTS: The administration of MSC-EVs significantly upregulated the expression levels of miRNA-146a, miRNA-124, miRNA-155, miRNA-29b, miRNA-7, miRNA-145 and miRNA-18a compared to their levels in the COVID-19 group, suggesting a targeted release of miRNA-cargo from the MSC-EVs into the lung tissue of the animals. MSC-EVs impaired the activation of the STAT3/STAT1 signaling pathway and reduced the cytokine storm and coagulopathy associated with COVID-19. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that MSC-EVs have the potential to effectively mitigate the pathogenesis of COVID-19 by targeting the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. Further research is needed to fully understand the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of MSC-EVs and their clinical application in combating the COVID-19 pandemic.
40497942 | IL-6 as a Mediator of Platelet Hyper-Responsiveness. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a pleiotropic cytokine with critical roles in immune regulation, inflammation, and haematopoiesis. While its functions in host defence and tissue repair are well established, accumulating evidence suggests that IL-6 also can directly and indirectly modulate megakaryocyte and platelet biology. This review examines the mechanistic basis supporting IL-6-mediated platelet hyper-responsiveness, in addition to its effect on megakaryopoiesis and thrombopoiesis in thromboinflammatory disease states. We discuss how IL-6-mediated trans-signalling may sensitizes platelets to activation, and that this may be exclusive to glycoprotein VI (GPVI) stimulation due to Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer 2 crosstalk, in addition to other mechanisms that may contribute to priming platelets. We further highlight clinical evidence linking IL-6 to thrombotic complications in cardiovascular disease and infection (e.g., COVID-19 and sepsis). Given the emerging interest in IL-6-targeting therapies as anti-inflammatory and anti-thrombotic agents, a thorough understanding of how IL-6 can drive platelet responsiveness is crucial.
41064641 | Vitamin D-inducible antimicrobial peptide LL-37 binds SARS-CoV-2 Spike and accessory proteins ORF7a and ORF8. Background: The role of vitamin D in Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) outcomes remains debated, but emerging evidence suggests it may enhance recovery by strengthening immune responses. Vitamin D upregulates LL-37, an antimicrobial peptide with broad antiviral activity, including potential benefits against SARS-CoV-2. LL-37's interactions with viral proteins, however, remain incompletely understood. Methods: We investigated LL-37's interactions with the SARS-CoV-2 Spike glycoprotein and the accessory proteins ORF7a and ORF8 using surface plasmon resonance and negative-stain electron microscopy. These approaches were employed to assess LL-37's binding capabilities and potential impact on viral infectivity. Results: LL-37 bound multiple domains of the Spike protein and inhibited its interaction with the human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) receptor in vitro. Up to seven LL-37 molecules were observed surrounding Spike, forming a halo-like structure that may block receptor engagement. LL-37 also bound to ORF7a and ORF8, potentially impairing their ability to disrupt host cell processes. Notably, LL-37's interaction with ORF7a may prevent degradation of SNAP29, restoring autophagy and promoting viral clearance. Conclusions: LL-37 disrupts key viral-host interactions by binding to Spike, ORF7a, and ORF8, thereby reducing SARS-CoV-2 infectivity. These findings highlight LL-37's potential as a therapeutic agent in COVID-19 and provide mechanistic insight into its antiviral actions.
41098416 | Medication, Nutrition, and Hygiene in COVID-19 Prevention and Treatment: A Comprehensive Narrative Review. Despite advances in Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) prevention and treatment, emerging variants and persistent challenges continue to affect global health. Studies are retrieved from PubMed using title-based searches for COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, and related therapies from 2020 to 2025, focusing on randomized controlled trials, systematic reviews, and clinical guidelines. This review explores treatments, nutrients, and adjuvant therapies that support the immune system in fighting COVID-19. It highlights the role of antiviral medications such as remdesivir, nirmatrelvir/ritonavir, and molnupiravir in reducing mortality and hospitalizations. Additionally, adjunctive therapies like corticosteroids, interleukin-6 (IL-6) inhibitors, Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors, and N-acetylcysteine (NAC) are discussed for their potential to modulate inflammation. Nutritional support, including omega-3 fatty acids, vitamins D, C, and A, zinc, selenium, and probiotics, enhances immune function. Preventive measures, such as hygiene practices, wearing masks, and physical distancing, reduce transmission. An integrated approach that combines antiviral treatments with adjunctive therapies, prevention, and nutrition is crucial for improving outcomes.
41504090 | Impact of Nanotechnology on Glioblastoma Studies: From Brain Stem Cells to Neoplastic Development and Cancer Gene Therapy. The brain malignant tumor Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) has a median survival of 14-16 months using current treatments; thus, understanding the pathology of GBM is crucial for proposing new therapies and increasing overall survival outcomes. Therefore, this study aimed to analyze different elements, particularly growth factors and the related signal transduction pathways, which play a role in brain neoplastic development, from stem cells to established solid brain tumors, and the application of current immunology techniques, molecular biology, and nanotechnology. Targeting growth factors, especially insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-I) (the principal neoplastic development factor) using anti-gene technologies-antisense and triple helix-has previously been shown to produce an immune anti-tumor response (CD8, CD28) through the TK/PI3K/AKT pathway. This immune response was increased using phytochemicals (phenolics), especially nanoparticles (theranostic nanoparticles), by modulating IGF-I through common pathways (IGF-I-R and TK/PI3K/AKT/TLR/MAPK and JAK/STAT). This review demonstrates how studies on central nervous system neoplastic development progressively led to establishing clinical cancer gene therapies, increasing GBM survival by 20-24 months. The presented studies compare the results of cancer gene therapy with other current immunotherapies. Moreover, this research chapter briefly describes the investigations of nanotechnology related to neurotumorigenesis and GBM therapies. The presented studies relate to nanotechnology and compare the results of cancer gene therapy with other current immunotherapies.
41960792 | Multilevel Residual Complexity Analysis Reveals Origin of Nanomolar Antiviral Bioactives of \Isoquercitrin\. The remarkable reported in vitro and in vivo antiviral activity of a commercial, naturally derived, isoquercitrin sample (IQC90) against Ebola (EBOV), Zika virus (ZIKV), and SARS-CoV-2 could not be confirmed with a greater purity isoquercitrin (IQC). To resolve this discrepancy, IQC90 was subjected to a two-step, quantitative bioassay-guided fractionation employing countercurrent separation and gel filtration monitored by inhibition of syncytium formation in HEK293 cells transfected with SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and ACE2. This process revealed the IQC90 antiviral activity to be due to a new family of 21-hydroxyoleanane-3-O-oligosaccharides, named dicitriosides, present at <1 mol %, rather than IQC. The two dominant dicitriosides, the hexoside, dicitrioside A1 (1), and the pentoside, dicitrioside B1 (2), inhibited syncytia formation with an IC50 = 0.530 muM; 25-fold more active than IQC90 (IC50 = 12.8 muM). Beyond anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity, dicitrioside B1 (2) also prevented EBOV infection of Vero E6 cells, supporting the conclusion that the dicitriosides inherit the promising potential of IQC90 as antiviral leads for clinical translation. Ultrahigh field 1.1 GHz NMR spectroscopy, particularly 1D selective TOCSY experiments and nuclear genotyping via quantum-mechanical spin analysis, enabled structure elucidation and provided definitive reference points for the dicitriosides as complex oligoglycoside esters.
41947332 | ACE2 Polymorphisms and COVID-19 Severity: A Study on Their Relationship with Clinical Findings. OBJECTIVE: An epidemic of acute pneumonia caused by SARS-CoV-2 spread rapidly worldwide in December 2019. The first interaction between the virus and the host cell occurs via the binding of the spike (S) protein to the ACE2 receptor. ACE2 gene expression correlates with COVID-19 severity, and certain polymorphisms may alter expression or susceptibility. METHODS: This study investigated ACE2 rs200180615, rs149039346, rs73635825, and rs140473595 polymorphisms by PCR-RFLP. The sample included 84 controls, 80 outpatients, and 168 intensive care unit (ICU) patients. RESULTS: No significant associations were found for rs200180615, rs149039346, or rs73635825. In contrast, compared with controls, ICU patients carrying the rs140473595 CT genotype (OR = 7.222, 95% CI: 3.563-14.639, p < 0.000) or TT genotype (OR = 5.893, 95% CI: 1.578-22.000, p = 0.005) had a markedly higher risk of severe disease. Inheritance model analysis also revealed significant associations for the dominant (CC vs. CT/TT; OR = 2.37, 95% CI: 1.38-4.05) and co-dominant (CC vs. TC; OR = 2.37, 95% CI: 1.37-4.09) models. Clinical parameters including CRP, HsTroponin, D-dimer, urea, NEU, and LYM were associated with COVID-19 severity. Independent t-test analysis showed that mutant allele carriers (CT, TT) had significant alterations in these parameters compared with the wild-type CC genotype, consistent with trends observed as disease severity increased. CONCLUSION: The ACE2 rs140473595 polymorphism is associated with COVID-19 severity. Broader studies in diverse populations are needed to further clarify the role of ACE2 variants in disease progression.
38236134 | NF9 peptide specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte clone cross react to Y453F mutation of SARS-CoV-2 virus spike protein. The recognition by cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) is essential for the clearance of SARS-CoV-2 virus-infected cells. Several viral proteins have been described to be recognized by CTLs. Among them, the spike (S) protein is one of the immunogenic proteins. The S protein acts as a ligand for its receptors, and several mutants with different affinities for its cognate receptors have been reported, and certain mutations in the S protein, such as L452R and Y453F, have been found to inhibit the HLA-A24-restricted CTL response. In this study, we conducted a screening of candidate peptides derived from the S protein, specifically targeting those carrying the HLA-A24 binding motif. Among these peptides, we discovered that NF9 (NYNYLYRLF) represents an immunogenic epitope. CTL clones specific to the NF9 peptide were successfully established. These CTL clones exhibited the ability to recognize endogenously expressed NF9 peptide. Interestingly, the CTL clone demonstrated cross-reactivity with the Y453F peptide (NYNYLFRLF) but not with the L452R peptide (NYNYRYRLF). The CTL clone was able to identify the endogenously expressed Y453F mutant peptide. These findings imply that the NF9-specific CTL clone possesses the capability to recognize and respond to the Y453F mutant peptide.
41993206 | Reduced COVID-19 severity in Africa: a systematic review of host genetic and immunological responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Background: The emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has had immense global consequences, leading to widespread illness, deaths, and devastated economies. Despite this, Africa has experienced a high prevalence of asymptomatic coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and mild cases. While reported cases and deaths have been lower, limited testing and undiagnosed infections make it difficult to determine the true burden of the disease. Understanding the unique immune response and the variations in genetics affect COVID-19 outcomes in African populations is important for shaping future public health responses. This review examines key immune factors and genetic variations in key host proteins that may help explain why COVID-19 was less severe in Africa. Methodology: A systematic review was conducted following PRISMA guidelines to identify studies published between 2019 and January 2026 that investigated immunological responses and genetic variations associated with COVID-19 in African populations. Literature searches were performed in PubMed, Scopus, and African Journals Online (AJOL). Inclusion criteria focused on studies reporting responses from cytokines, T-cells, antibodies or host genetic factors. After screening 4,170 records and removing duplicates, 420 studies were assessed for abstracts, and 240 full texts were reviewed. A total of 40 studies were included, and data synthesized narratively due to heterogeneity in study designs and outcomes. Results: Of the 40 studies analyzed from 19 African populations, 26 focused on immunological responses and 9 on host genetic factors. Immune studies revealed widespread pre-existing immunity, including cross-reactive antibodies (especially to the N proteins) and polyfunctional T-cell responses, likely shaped by exposure to malaria, helminths, and other coronaviruses. Severe COVID-19 cases showed elevated IL-6, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma, while asymptomatic individuals had broader, milder cytokine profiles. Antibody responses were robust across disease severities, with long-lasting IgG activity. Genetic studies identified HLA-B41, B42, C16, and C17 as risk alleles, while HLA-DQB106, DQB103, and B*15 conferred protection. ACE2 polymorphisms including rs2285666, rs73635825 were reportedly prevalent in Africans and were linked to varied ACE2 expression, viral load, and disease severity. Conclusion: The findings suggest that immune and genetic adaptations in African populations may have modulated susceptibility and severity of SARS-CoV-2 infection outcomes in Africans. Systematic review registration: https://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/view, identifier CRD420251121731.
41710875 | Synergistic immune protection of exosomal T-cell epitope vaccine and antibody-inducing vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 in highly humanized mice. Objective: To evaluate the synergistic immunological protection of exosomal T-cell epitope vaccine and antibody-inducing vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 in highly humanized mice. Methods: Red blood cell-derived exosomes were loaded with 27 CD8+ T-cell epitope peptides and 19 CD4+ T-cell epitope peptides followed by combined immunization with S1 protein vaccine of SARS-CoV-2 and adjuvant poly I:C in HLA-A2/DR1 double transgenic mice. After immunizations, splenocytes were assessed for epitope-specific T cell responses by intracellular cytokine staining and ELISPOT, and for functional T cell subset analysis through flow cytometry. Meanwhile, serum anti-S1 protein IgG and neutralizing antibodies were quantified via ELISA and BA.5 pseudovirus neutralization assay, respectively. Furthermore, viral challenge was performed after the combined immunization in HLA-A2/DR1/hACE2 triple transgenic mice, followed by viral load quantification, viral protein detection, and H&E staining in lungs. Results: The combined immunization i) increased the titers of S1 protein-specific IgG antibodies and neutralizing antibodies as well as Tfh cell frequency as compared to the S1 protein vaccine alone; ii) induced significantly more S1 protein-specific T cells and effector memory CD4+ T cells, and inhibited T cell exhaustion and regulatory T cell differentiation, compared to the exosomal T-cell epitope vaccine alone; iii) achieved the lowest pulmonary viral loads, inflammatory cell infiltration, and histopathological damage after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Conclusion: This study, for the first time, demonstrates the synergistic humoral and cellular immune responses and protective efficacy induced by the combined immunization of exosomal T-cell epitope vaccine and antibody-inducing vaccine, and provides preclinical evidence from highly humanized mice for optimizing next-generation SARS-CoV-2 vaccine protocols.
40871324 | Assessing SARS-CoV-2 Rare Mutations and Transmission in New York City by NGS. SARS-CoV-2 undergoes frequent mutations that drive viral evolution and genomic diversity, influencing transmissibility, immune escape, and disease severity. In this study, we performed whole-genome sequencing on SARS-CoV-2 isolates from patients in New York City and identified several globally rare mutations across multiple viral lineages. The isolates analyzed for rare mutations belonged to three lineages: B.1.1.7 (Alpha), B.1.526 (Iota), and B.1.623. We identified 16 rare mutations (global incidence <1000) in non-structural protein genes, including nsp2, nsp3, nsp4, nsp6, nsp8, nsp13, nsp14, ORF7a, and ORF8. Three of these mutations-located in nsp2, nsp13, and ORF8-have been reported in fewer than 100 individuals worldwide. We also detected five rare mutations in structural proteins (S, M, and N), including two-one in M and one in N-previously reported in fewer than 100 cases globally. We present clinical profiles of three patients, each infected with genetically distinct viral isolates from the three lineages studied. Furthermore, we illustrate a local transmission chain inferred from unique mutation patterns identified in the Omicron genome. These findings underscore the importance of whole-genome sequencing for detecting rare mutations, tracking community spread, and identifying emerging variants with clinical and public health significance.
41884606 | Evolution and viral properties of the SARS-CoV-2 BA.3.2 subvariant. The SARS-CoV-2 Omicron subvariant BA.3.2 descends from BA.3. It emerged two years after BA.3 ceased to circulate and differs by 39 spike mutations from BA.3. Similar to BA.2.86, which circulated at low levels before giving rise to JN.1, BA.3.2 shows a low but persistent circulation globally. Here, we characterize the phylogenetic origin, infection in cell culture, and neutralization of BA.3.2 using live virus and blood plasma samples collected in South Africa at different stages of the Covid-19 pandemic. Like the Omicron BA.2.86 subvariant, we find that BA.3.2 likely emerged in Southern Africa. We also find that an 871 bp deletion removed ORF7 and ORF8. In H1299-ACE2 cells, BA.3.2 has lower cytotoxicity measured as plaque area compared to ancestral SARS-CoV-2 but similar to the co-circulating LP.8.1 Omicron subvariant with which it also shares similar replication and infection focus size. BA.3.2 and LP.8.1 exhibit complete escape from neutralization from pre-Omicron collected plasma samples, have low levels of neutralization by plasma collected in 2024, and higher neutralization by plasma collected in 2025, with BA.3.2 showing moderately lower neutralization than LP.8.1. The emergence of long branch subvariants like BA.3.2 without intermediates likely indicates that unmonitored persistent infections continue to drive large evolutionary shifts in this virus.
42018583 | Live attenuated vaccination protects aged chimeric ACE2 mice from severe SARS-CoV-2 pathogenicity in vivo. Advanced age is one of the greatest risk factors for a severe outcome of COVID-19. Although mRNA vaccines were highly successful in protecting the elderly, the strongest increase in morbidity and mortality upon infection with emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants was among the elderly. To better understand SARS-CoV-2 pathogenicity and to thoroughly evaluate novel vaccination strategies, better models reliably reproducing human SARS-CoV-2 pathogenicity are needed. Here, we generated mice expressing a human-mouse chimera of ACE2 (chACE2) by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene editing in C57BL/6 mouse zygotes. ChACE2 mice express the chimeric viral receptor at physiological levels, enabling efficient SARS-CoV-2 infection without the heightened mortality seen in K18-hACE2 mice due to neuroinvasion. We used the chACE2 model to analyze SARS-CoV-2 infection as well as antiviral immune responses in vitro and in vivo. Similar to SARS-CoV-2 in elderly humans, aged chACE2 mice suffered from a highly aggravated disease. In addition, we found that a live attenuated vaccine candidate, LAVNsp16, induces robust mucosal and systemic immune responses in these mice despite being highly attenuated. The immunization with LAVNsp16 protected aged chACE2 mice from otherwise severe pathogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 by blocking viral replication of homologous and heterologous SARS-CoV-2 variants. The newly developed chACE2 model allows for longer observation periods of SARS-CoV-2 infection in mice, which is essential for assessing the immunogenicity of novel vaccine designs or monitoring viral pathogenicity over time. Immunization with LAVNsp16 induced robust and protective immune responses in young and aged mice, making viruses lacking 2'-O-methyltrasferse activity promising candidates for future live attenuated vaccine development.
40849415 | SARS-CoV-2 antibody responses in children exhibit higher FcR engagement and avidity than in adults. As intrinsic differences in humoral immune response to SARS-CoV-2 between children and adults remain unclear, we improved characterisation by defining the kinetics, specificity and function of antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 in children (n = 146, aged 9.4 +- 4.8 years with n = 257 samples) compared to adults (n = 85, aged 39.5 +- 15.2 years with n = 122 samples). We used plasma samples from an infection and vaccination-naive cohort study with RT-PCR confirmed ancestral B.1* SARS-CoV-2 virus infection with asymptomatic or mild disease, collected in Hong Kong between March to December 2020, from acute (0-14 days post infection) to convalescent (15-206 days) timepoints. Children had significantly lower primary antibody responses against SARS-CoV-2 proteins overall, leading to a less isotype switched response. While children had lower OC43 Spike and SARS-CoV-2 S2 IgG and avidity than adults, they exhibited higher avidities for SARS-CoV-2 whole Spike and Nucleocapsid, and higher levels of Spike FcgammaR-binding antibodies. Adults' SARS-CoV-2 antibody responses could be derived from high avidity pre-existing cross-reactive common cold coronavirus B cell responses, whilst children appear to generate a de novo SARS-CoV-2- specific Spike and Nucleocapsid IgG with robust Fc receptor (FcR) binding ability and high avidity at a higher proportion than adults, thus their responses are more targeted and functional for SARS-CoV-2.
39638714 | A Case of Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia Following COVID-19 Infection Accompanied by Acute Tubulointerstitial Nephritis in a Kidney Transplant Recipient. BACKGROUND: Acute tubular injury is one of the main causes of acute tubular injury (acute kidney injury ) in patients with COVID-19 infection. Autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) is also one of the autoimmune complications of COVID-19. However, AIHA accompanied by acute tubulointerstitial nephritis (ATIN) caused by SARS-CoV-2 is rarely reported. Here, we report a kidney transplant recipient who underwent graftectomy owing to ATIN accompanied by AIHA, possibly exacerbated by COVID-19 infection. CASE PRESENTATION: A 32-year-old male renal allograft recipient owing to immunoglobulin A nephropathy visited the emergency department owing to dyspnea and general weakness. Three weeks earlier, the patient had been transplanted with deceased-donor kidney with full HLA-A, -B, -DR match, and had been on tacrolimus, prednisolone, and mycophenolate since then. At the time of the visit, laboratory findings revealed hemoglobin of 2.4 g/dL, reticulocyte of 21.7%, total bilirubin of 1.9 mg/dL, direct bilirubin of 0.3 mg/dL, lactate dehydrogenase of 946 U/L, haptoglobin of <10 mg/dL, and severe red cell agglutination on peripheral blood smear, which suggested AIHA. In addition, his SARS-CoV-2 real-time polymerase chain reaction test was positive. During steroid treatment for AIHA, a sudden decrease in urine volume, estimated glomerular filtration rate (from 64.9 to 35.1 mL/min/1.73 m2) and increase of creatinine (from 1.42 to 2.36 mg/dL) indicated renal function deterioration, so steroid was increased to 500 mg. On the third day of renal function deterioration, dialysis was started owing to anuria and fluid retention. On renal biopsy, C4d was absent; however, ATIN with eosinophilic infiltration was observed. On renal ultrasound examination, a severely enlarged kidney with edema was observed. At the same time, the patient had a high fever with increased C-reactive protein and procalcitonin. Graftectomy was performed to prevent secondary infection. The postgraftectomy renal biopsy showed renal parenchymal and hilar inflammatory change, endotheliitis, and lymphocytic infiltration of peripheral nerve fibers. After graftectomy, dialysis was maintained and AIHA had ameliorated. CONCLUSION: The patient had to have his allografted kidney removed owing to ATIN possibly caused by COVID-19 infection. Acute kidney injury caused by SARS-CoV-2 can be either by direct viral infection or as consequence of immunological response. The exact immunological mechanism of AIHA secondary to COVID-19 infection remains to be elucidated.
42125653 | N-terminal pyroglutamylation of an HLA-A24-restricted immunodominant epitope enhances SARS-CoV-2-specific T-cell responses. T-cell responses play a critical role in the control of SARS-CoV-2 infections. Here, we examined the T-cell response to a conserved, immunodominant HLA-A*24:02-restricted SARS-CoV-2 spike protein epitope, QI9/A24 (QYIKWPWYI; residues 1208-1216). TCR repertoire analysis revealed that QI9/A24-specific T cells are highly diverse, with 219 clonotypes isolated and 169 alphabeta TCR pairs identified in six donors. To further characterize this response, we evaluated T-cell recognition of alanine-substituted and homologous coronavirus-derived peptides, using a TCR reconstitution system, and found that QI9/A24 TCRs tolerated numerous substitutions at the N-terminus and position 3. During peptide synthesis, we unexpectedly discovered that an N-terminally pyroglutamylated QI9/A24 peptide (pyrQI9) exhibited increased protease resistance, compared with the unmodified peptide. Further analysis revealed that the pyrQI9 peptide was recognized with higher sensitivity than the wild-type sequence and efficiently induced antigen-specific T-cell responses at low concentrations in both vaccinated and convalescent HLA-A*24:02-positive individuals. Moreover, immunization of HLA-A24 transgenic mice with the pyrQI9 peptide elicited antigen-specific T-cell responses more efficiently than the wild-type peptide and conferred superior T-cell-mediated protection. Together, our findings suggest that subtle modifications of antigenic peptides at a tolerable site in the N-terminus with pyroglutamate can enhance T-cell immunity in SARS-CoV-2 infection, providing critical insights into the design of next-generation T-cell-based vaccines against viral infections.
41880208 | SARS-CoV-2 Nsp15 facilitates immune evasion and viral replication by limiting multiple host innate immune pathways, including cGAS-STING. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) nonstructural protein 15 (Nsp15) is a conserved uridine-specific endoribonuclease (EndoU) and is implicated in innate immune evasion, yet its precise molecular mechanism remains incompletely understood. Here, we demonstrate that Nsp15 limits antiviral innate immune responses in part by downregulating the cGAS-STING pathway. To investigate how Nsp15 antagonizes host innate immune responses, we engineered recombinant SARS-CoV-2 bearing WT or EndoU-inactive Nsp15 (H234A). Compared with the WT virus, the Nsp15-H234A mutant exhibited a 2-log decrease in peak viral titres in interferon (IFN)-competent A549-ACE2 cells, but not in their STAT1 knockout counterparts. This attenuation was partially reversed by STING knockout or STING inhibitors, highlighting STING's involvement in Nsp15-driven immune evasion. Transcriptomic analyses revealed the upregulation of IFNs and IFN-stimulated genes in cells infected with the Nsp15-H234A mutant virus. Notably, cGAS and STING transcripts and proteins were suppressed during WT but not mutant virus infections - even in STAT1-deficient cells - suggesting that Nsp15 contributes directly to their downregulation. In vitro, Nsp15 targeted cGAS and STING transcripts in an EndoU activity-dependent manner, thereby reducing cGAS-STING-driven IFN-beta and NF-kappaB reporter activation. Infection of Syrian hamsters confirmed that the Nsp15-H234A mutant virus replicated to lower titres in respiratory tissues and elicited stronger expression of innate immune-related genes. Collectively, these findings define a key strategy by which SARS-CoV-2 Nsp15 subverts the cGAS-STING pathway to facilitate viral replication and immune evasion and underscore Nsp15 EndoU activity as a potential target for future coronavirus antiviral or vaccine design.
39915487 | APMAT analysis reveals the association between CD8 T cell receptors, cognate antigen, and T cell phenotype and persistence. Elucidating the relationships between a class I peptide antigen, a CD8 T cell receptor (TCR) specific to that antigen, and the T cell phenotype that emerges following antigen stimulation, remains a mostly unsolved problem, largely due to the lack of large data sets that can be mined to resolve such relationships. Here, we describe Antigen-TCR Pairing and Multiomic Analysis of T-cells (APMAT), an integrated experimental-computational framework designed for the high-throughput capture and analysis of CD8 T cells, with paired antigen, TCR sequence, and single-cell transcriptome. Starting with 951 putative antigens representing a comprehensive survey of the SARS-CoV-2 viral proteome, we utilize APMAT for the capture and single cell analysis of CD8 T cells from 62 HLA A*02:01 COVID-19 participants. We leverage this comprehensive dataset to integrate with peptide antigen properties, TCR CDR3 sequences, and T cell phenotypes to show that distinct physicochemical features of the antigen-TCR pairs strongly associate with both T cell phenotype and T cell persistence. This analysis suggests that CD8 T cell phenotype following antigen stimulation is at least partially deterministic, rather than the result of stochastic biological properties.
42022621 | Taming the Cytokine Storm: Therapeutic Strategies for Post-Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 Infection. Background and Aim: Post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC), commonly referred to as long COVID, has emerged as a significant global health concern, marked by persistent symptoms and chronic inflammation following recovery from acute COVID-19. A central driver of PASC pathogenesis is the sustained cytokine storm-an exaggerated and prolonged pro-inflammatory response that leads to ongoing tissue injury and multisystem dysfunction. This review aims to synthesize current knowledge on cytokine dysregulation in PASC and evaluate emerging therapeutic strategies targeting these immunopathological mechanisms. Methods: A narrative review methodology was employed, drawing from recent peer-reviewed publications, clinical trial databases, and immunological studies published between 2020 and 2025. Articles focusing on cytokine profiles in PASC, immune reprogramming, and immunomodulatory therapies were included. Mechanistic studies, biomarker research, and translational trials involving corticosteroids, cytokine inhibitors, Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors, and novel biologics were critically analyzed. Results: The literature reveals that elevated levels of IL-6, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma persist in a subset of PASC patients, contributing to chronic systemic and organ-specific inflammation. Emerging therapies-including IL-6 and IL-1 receptor antagonists, JAK inhibitors, and CNS-penetrant anti-inflammatory agents-demonstrate promise in modulating cytokine storms and improving clinical outcomes. Recent insights into cytokine profiling, trained immunity, and neuroimmune crosstalk suggest potential for precision-based interventions tailored to distinct inflammatory phenotypes in PASC. Conclusion: Persistent cytokine dysregulation underlies the pathophysiology of PASC and offers actionable targets for therapeutic intervention. Immunomodulatory strategies, when guided by biomarker profiling and systems biology approaches, hold promise for mitigating long-term complications of COVID-19. Future research should prioritize personalized treatment algorithms to address the heterogeneity of PASC and enhance patient recovery.
41571298 | Targeting macrophage-derived SPP1 enhances CD8 T cell infiltration via ROS-DNA fragment/cGAS-STING/STAT1-mediated CXCL9/10 in tumor microenvironment. BACKGROUND: Elevated levels of SPP1+ tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are associated with reduced CD8+ T cell infiltration and poorer prognosis in cancer patients, but direct evidence demonstrating a causal role for SPP1+ TAMs in excluding CD8+ T cells is still missing. The precise mechanisms by which SPP1-activated signaling pathways and macrophage-derived factors regulate CD8+ T cell trafficking remain poorly understood. METHODS: We established multiple tumor mouse models to study the function of macrophage SPP1 in the tumor environment, especially its role in the relationship between macrophages and CD8 T cells. We combined the single-cell (sc) RNA sequencing data of clinical tumor samples and tumor tissues from Spp1fl/fl-Lyz2-Cre mice to identify the differences in SPP1-related genes and found that SPP1 could regulate the expression of CXCL9 and CXCL10 in macrophages. Through Western blotting, immunofluorescence staining, and flow cytometry analyses, we elucidated the mechanistic basis by which macrophage-specific SPP1 deficiency suppressed tumorigenesis. RESULTS: This study demonstrated that macrophage-derived SPP1 played a crucial role in suppressing CD8 T cell infiltration, promoting tumor progression, and diminishing the effectiveness of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy. Sc-RNA sequencing analysis revealed a marked increase in CD8 T cell populations within tumor tissues of Spp1fl/fl-Lyz2-Cre mice. Furthermore, a negative correlation was observed between CD8 T cells and SPP1 macrophages in human colorectal cancer specimens. Genetic deletion of SPP1 in macrophages markedly enhanced tumor growth suppression in a manner dependent on CD8 T cell-mediated immunity. Mechanistically, SPP1 deficiency in macrophages led to elevated mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, resulting in the accumulation of cytosolic double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) fragments. This accumulated dsDNA activated the cGAS-STING pathway, leading to subsequent STAT1 phosphorylation. The enhanced STAT1 activity upregulated the expression of chemokines CXCL9 and CXCL10, thereby facilitating CD8 T cell recruitment into the tumor microenvironment. CONCLUSIONS: Deletion of SPP1 in TAMs upregulates CXCL9/10 production by activating the ROS-DNA fragment/cGAS-STING/STAT1 pathway, thereby enhancing CD8 T cell infiltration, inhibiting tumor progression, and improving ICI treatment outcomes in tumors.
39864283 | Screening for immunodominant epitopes of SARS-CoV-2 based on CD8+ T cell responses from individuals with HLA-A homozygous alleles. PURPOSE: SARS-CoV-2-specific CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) are crucial in viral clearance, disease progression, and reinfection control. However, numerous SARS-CoV-2 immunodominant CTL epitopes theoretically are still unidentified due to the genetic polymorphism of human leukocyte antigen class I (HLA-I) molecules. METHODS: The CTL epitopes of SARS-CoV-2 were predicted by the epitope affinity and immunogenicity prediction platforms: the NetMHCpan and the PromPPD. Individuals with HLA-A homozygous alleles were screened from 252 COVID-19 vaccinees, including the Ad5-nCoV vaccine (CanSino, n = 183) and the CoronaVac inactivated vaccine (Sinovac, n = 69) using MiSeqDx  generation sequencing, and their PBMCs were further stimulated by the predicted peptides to screen the immunodominant epitopes according to the secretion of IFN-gamma from CD8+ T cells. Peptide-MHC tetramers were constructed and used to detect the frequency of antigen specific CTLs in vivo. RESULTS: Individuals with HLA-A homozygous alleles including HLA-A*01 (n = 1), -A*02 (n = 9), - A*03 and -A*11 (n = 12), and -A*24 (n = 7) supertypes were selected. Twelve immunodominant CTL epitopes for these HLA-A allotypes were finally screened based on the frequency of IFN-gamma+CD8+ T cells in homozygous individuals. The SARS-CoV-2 specific CTLs from Omicron variant infected patients were successfully evaluated by these novel peptide-HLA tetramers. CONCLUSION: A set of immunodominant CTL epitopes of SARS-CoV-2 was identified, and the antigen-specific CD8+ T cells in viral infected patients or COVID-19 vaccinees could be rapidly detected by a mixture of the peptide-MHC tetramers.
41723466 | ROS-responsive hydrogel-delivered miR-665 targets STAT3 to alleviate inflammation and promote hair follicle regeneration in alopecia areata. BACKGROUND: Alopecia areata (AA) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by gamma-interferon (IFN-gamma)-driven CD8 + T-cell infiltration and overactivation of the JAK-STAT pathway; however, safe and long-acting therapies are lacking. MicroRNA (miRNA)-based interventions hold promise as alternatives, but their clinical translation is hindered by poor stability and the absence of targeted delivery systems. METHODS: We identified miR-665 as a key regulator of STAT3 in embryonic mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles via RNA sequencing and functional screening. An injectable, reactive oxygen species (ROS)-responsive hydrogel (PVA-TSPBA) was developed to enable localized and sustained delivery of miR-665. The physicochemical properties, miRNA release kinetics, and biocompatibility of the hydrogels were systematically characterized. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in an imiquimod-induced AA mouse model through macroscopic, histological, and immunohistochemical analyses. RESULTS: The PVA-TSPBA hydrogel exhibited excellent injectability, ROS-dependent degradation, and sustained release of miR-665. In vitro, miR-665 overexpression counteracted the IFN-gamma-induced suppression of proliferation and migration in keratinocytes and dermal papilla cells by inhibiting STAT3 phosphorylation. In vivo, injection of PVA-TSPBA@miR-665 hydrogel resulted in prolonged miRNA retention, and significantly promoted hair regeneration, restored follicular structure, and reduced T-cell infiltration compared with the control groups. CONCLUSIONS: We developed a biocompatible, ROS-responsive hydrogel platform for the local delivery of miR-665, which effectively attenuated inflammatory signaling and stimulated hair follicle regeneration in AA. This study provides a novel miRNA-biomaterial combination strategy that holds promise for targeted, durable, and safe treatment of AA.
40248364 | Phospholipid scramblase 1: a frontline defense against viral infections. Phospholipid scramblase 1 (PLSCR1) is the most studied member of the phospholipid scramblase protein family. Its main function is to catalyze calcium (Ca2+)-dependent, ATP-independent, bidirectional and non-specific translocation of phospholipids between inner and outer leaflets of plasma membrane. Additionally, PLSCR1 is identified as an interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) with antiviral activities, and its expression can be highly induced by all types of interferons in various viral infections. Indeed, numerous studies have reported the direct antiviral activities of PLSCR1 through interrupting the replication processes of a variety of viruses, including entry of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), nuclear localization of influenza A virus (IAV), and transactivation of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), human T-cell leukemia virus type-1 (HTLV1), human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and hepatitis B virus (HBV). In addition to these direct antiviral activities, PLSCR1 also regulates endogenous immune components to defend against viruses in both nonimmune and immune cells. Such activities include potentiation of ISG transcription, activation of JAK/STAT pathway, upregulation of type 3 interferon receptor (IFN-lambdaR1) and recruitment of Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9). This review aims to summarize the current understanding of PLSCR1's multiple roles as a frontline defense against viral infections.
40378861 | Effects of Janus kinase inhibitors in adults admitted to hospital due to COVID-19: a systematic review and individual participant data meta-analysis of randomised clinical trials. BACKGROUND: Evidence from randomised clinical trials (RCTs) of Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors-compared with usual care or placebo-in adults treated in hospital for COVID-19 is conflicting. We aimed to evaluate the benefits and harms of JAK inhibitors compared with placebo or usual care and whether treatment effects differed between prespecified participant subgroups. METHODS: For this systematic review and individual participant data meta-analysis (IPDMA), we searched Medline via Ovid, Embase via Elsevier, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, the Cochrane COVID-19 Study Register, and the COVID-19 L.OVE Platform, including backward and forward citation searching (last search Nov 28, 2024), for RCTs (unpublished or published in any format and any language) that randomly assigned adults (aged  16 years) admitted to a hospital due to COVID-19 to receive either a JAK inhibitor (any type) or no JAK inhibitor (ie, received site-specific standard of care with or without placebo), and requested individual participant data (IPD) from the original trial teams. The primary outcome was all-cause mortality at day 28 after random assignment. We used two-stage meta-analyses adjusting for age and respiratory support, and pooled estimates using random-effects models. The assessment of individual-level effect modifiers was based solely on within-trial information and continuous modifiers were investigated as both linear and non-linear interactions. We used the Instrument for Assessing the Credibility of Effect Modification Analyses to appraise the subgroup analyses and the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation approach to adjudicate the certainty of evidence. Grade 3 or 4 adverse events and serious adverse events by day 28, and adverse events of special interest within 28 days, were assessed among secondary outcomes. This study was registered with PROSPERO (CRD42023431817). FINDINGS: We identified 16 eligible trials. IPD were obtained from 12 trials, corresponding to 12 902 adults admitted to hospital between May, 2020, and March, 2022. These trials represented 12 902 [96.1%] of 13 423 participants from all eligible trials worldwide. Seven trials evaluated baricitinib, three evaluated tofacitinib, and two evaluated ruxolitinib. Overall, 755 (11.7%) of 6465 participants in the JAK inhibitor group died by day 28 compared with 805 (13.2%) of 6108 participants in the no JAK inhibitor group (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 0.67 [95% CI 0.55-0.82]; high-certainty evidence; 39 fewer per 1000 [95% CI 55 fewer to 21 fewer]). JAK inhibitors decreased the need for new mechanical ventilation or other respiratory support and allowed for faster discharge from hospital by about 1 day. We observed fewer grade 3 and 4 adverse events and serious adverse events in the JAK inhibitor group (14 fewer per 1000 [95% CI 24 fewer to 4 fewer]; moderate-certainty evidence). The rates of adverse events of special interest were similar across both groups. No credible subgroup effect on mortality at day 28 was found for ventilation status, type of JAK inhibitor, presence of comorbidities, timing of treatment initiation after symptom onset, C-reactive protein concentration, or concomitant use of dexamethasone or tocilizumab. We found a moderately credible effect modification by age, with younger participants showing larger relative treatment effects than older participants, but similar absolute treatment effects due to higher baseline risk for older participants. INTERPRETATION: This IPDMA of RCTs in adults admitted to hospital due to COVID-19 found that JAK inhibitors reduced mortality across all levels of respiratory support, independent of dexamethasone or tocilizumab, and probably decreased serious and severe adverse events compared with no JAK inhibitors. FUNDING: This project has received funding from the EU's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement number 101015736.
41139211 | The Macrocyclic Peptide Rhesus Theta Defensin 1 Activates Interferon and Antiviral Pathways in Human Monocytes. Rhesus theta defensin (RTD)-1, a cyclic antimicrobial peptide, regulates gene expression and immune signaling pathways in cell culture and animal models of immune mediated diseases. In LPS stimulated cells, RTD-1 inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion and gene expression is mediated through inhibition of the NF-kappaB and MAP kinase signaling pathways. To gain insights into RTD-1 regulation of naive cells, we performed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to determine the effect of the peptide on global gene expression in human monocytes and THP-1 monocytes. In both cell types, analysis of differentially expressed genes revealed stimulation of interferon and antiviral gene expression pathways. RTD-1 induced Y701 phosphorylation of STAT1 and activated the Interferon Stimulated Response Element (ISRE) reporter in a Janus Kinase (JAK) dependent manner. Stimulation of the ISRE reporter by RTD-1 was Interferon-alpha/beta receptor dependent but was independent of its NF-kappaB inhibitory activity in LPS stimulated cells. RTD-1 inhibited infection of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) pseudotyped with G glycoprotein or Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) Spike protein in THP-1 and Vero E6 cells respectively. RTD-1 also inhibited infection of Calu-3 2B4 cells by SARS-CoV-2 virus demonstrating antiviral activity of RTD-1 in diverse cell types. These results demonstrate that RTD-1 stimulates interferon and antiviral pathways, potentially priming cells for resistance to viral infection.
41664174 | Tumour-infiltrating microplastics disrupt the JAK-STAT-microbiota axis to promote immunotherapy resistance in colorectal cancer.
41918735 | The role of JAK3 and TEC family kinases in vitiligo pathogenesis. Vitiligo is an autoimmune disease characterized by the loss of skin pigmentation due to the loss of melanocytes. The pathogenesis of vitiligo is complex, involving multiple genetic factors, environmental triggers, oxidative stress, and autoimmunity against melanocytes. Stressed melanocytes release damage-associated molecular patterns, which trigger increased activation of antigen presenting cells, leading to maturation and activation of CD8+ T-cells that respond to auto-melanocyte-specific antigens. Once recruited to melanocytes, cytotoxic CD8+ and CD4+ T-cells produce cytokines, including primarily the type 1 cytokine IFN-gamma, but also IL-2, IL-15, and type 2-related cytokines. Cytokines bind to fibroblasts, melanocytes, and keratinocytes to induce a positive feedback loop of immune cell recruitment to lesions, immune cell activation, and melanocyte apoptosis. The JAK/STAT pathway and TEC family kinase signaling play key roles in vitiligo pathogenesis through chemokine production, reduction of melanocyte adhesion, and immune cell activation and disease maintenance. This review summarizes recent key advances in understanding how these pathways impact vitiligo pathogenesis and details the emergence of new targeted therapies for the treatment of vitiligo.
41989543 | [Pathological anatomy of the liver in patients who died from COVID-19 in the acute period and in the late stages after the new coronavirus infection]. OBJECTIVE: A comparative analysis of morphological changes in the liver in patients who died from COVID-19 and non-communicable diseases after the new coronavirus infection. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Morphological changes in the liver were studied in 37 patients who died from COVID-19 without previous pathology or bacterial superinfection and 10 from cardiovascular diseases within 40 to 300 days after COVID-19. H&E, Van Gieson, V. Picro-Mallory were used, immunohistochemical (IHC) reactions with antibodies to S-protein of SARS-CoV-2 and receptors for angiotensin converting enzyme type 2 (ACE 2). RESULTS: S-protein of SARS-CoV-2 expression is found in cholangiocytes, vascular endothelium and mononuclear cells of portal tract infiltrate, and single hepatocytes, ACE 2 - in cholangiocytes and hepatocytes. Liver changes are consistent with the morphology of hypoxic hepatitis in combination with COVID-associated microangio-, coagulo-, and cholangiopathy. In some patients, secondary sclerosing cholangitis and liver fibrosis are formed in the outcome of the disease. CONCLUSION: The study results do not allow us to exclude the role of SARS-CoV-2 in the pathogenesis of liver damage in COVID-19. Specific features of hypoxic hepatitis in COVID-19 are microangio-, coagulo- and cholangiopathy. Many other factors, the effect of which was excluded as much as possible from the study (bacterial superinfection, hepatotoxic drugs etc.) also play a large role in the pathogenesis of its pathology in COVID-19.
41332658 | Increased mannosylation of extracellular vesicles in Long COVID plasma provides a potential therapeutic target for Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA) affinity resin. There is no proven therapy for Long COVID, a post-acute illness characterized by a myriad of diverse symptoms including fatigue, dyspnea, and brain fog following SARS-CoV-2 infection. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been implicated in Long COVID pathogenesis by promoting viral and inflammatory signaling with their molecular cargo. In this study, we investigated whether EV abundance and glycome characteristics are altered in plasma from people with Long COVID and whether they can be targeted for removal using a glycan-binding affinity resin. Large (100-500 nm) and small (40-200 nm) EVs were isolated from plasma of participants in the post-acute phase of COVID-19 and analyzed by nanoparticle flow cytometry to measure concentration and glycan characteristics. Plasma of those with Long COVID contained elevated levels of both large and small EVs, and mannose-positive large EVs were significantly increased in comparison to recovered controls (p < 0.05). EV capture assays using Galanthus nivalis agglutinin (GNA) affinity resin demonstrated small EV removal positively correlated with mannose-positive EV abundance (r = 0.341, p < 0.05). NanoString analyses identified seven EV-associated miRNAs significantly depleted by GNA affinity resin treatment of plasma. PROGENy pathway inference of validated miRNA-mRNA interactions suggests these reductions may lead to a downregulation of JAK-STAT signaling and upregulation of Estrogen, VEGF, and PI3K pathways, resulting in a favorable rebalancing of immune and tissue-repair networks. These findings reveal specific glycome EV-miRNA cargo signatures in Long COVID and the potential clinical benefits of a lectin capture therapeutic strategy to remove these pathogenic vesicles and their inflammatory cargo.
41606221 | Prognostic model of immune -related immune models of ANLN single gene based on TCGA lung adenocarcinoma database.
40333091 | The Dual-Edged Sword: Risks and Benefits of JAK Inhibitors in Infections. Janus kinase inhibitors (JAKis) represent a relatively new class of immunomodulatory drugs with potent effects on various cytokine signalling pathways. They have revolutionized the treatment landscape for autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ulcerative colitis. However, their ability to modulate immune responses presents a dual-edged nature, influencing both protective immunity and pathological inflammation. This review explores the complex role of JAKis in infectious settings, highlighting both beneficial and detrimental effects. On the one hand, experimental models suggest that JAK inhibition can impair host defence mechanisms, increasing susceptibility to certain bacterial and viral infections. For example, tofacitinib-treated mice exhibited more severe joint erosions in Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) septic arthritis and showed impaired viral clearance in herpes simplex encephalitis. Additionally, clinical data confirm an increased risk of herpes zoster in patients receiving JAKis, underscoring the need for rigorous monitoring. On the other hand, JAK inhibition has demonstrated protective effects in certain infectious and hyperinflammatory conditions. In sepsis models, including cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) and S. aureus bacteraemia, tofacitinib improved survival by attenuating excessive inflammation. Furthermore, JAKis, particularly baricitinib, have shown substantial efficacy in mitigating cytokine storms during severe COVID-19 infections, leading to improved clinical outcomes and reduced mortality. These observations suggest that JAKis have a role in modulating hyperinflammatory responses in select infectious contexts. In conclusion, JAKis present a complex interplay between immunosuppression and immunomodulation. While they increase the risk of certain infections, they also show potential in managing hyperinflammatory conditions such as cytokine storms. The key challenge is determining which patients and situations benefit most from JAKis while minimizing risks, requiring a careful and personalized treatment approach.
42097513 | Onalespib enhances antitumor immunity through coordinated catalytic and chaperone-dependent regulation of tryptophan metabolism. Tryptophan metabolism via the kynurenine (Kyn) pathway represents a central mechanism of tumor immune tolerance. Although HSP90 inhibitors have been extensively investigated as anticancer agents, their role in metabolic immune regulation remains incompletely unknown. Here, we identify the HSP90 inhibitor onalespib as a potent suppressor of IDO1-dependent tryptophan metabolism in breast cancer. Mechanistically, onalespib suppresses the tryptophan-kynurenine pathway through coordinated catalytic modulation of IDO1 and interference with HSP90 chaperone-associated regulation of IDO1, accompanied by attenuation of IFN-gamma-induced JAK-STAT and NF-kappaB signaling programs. In vivo, onalespib remodels the tumor immune microenvironment, promotes CD8+ effector T-cell infiltration, and enhances the antitumor efficacy of cisplatin without compromising tolerability. Collectively, these findings define a functional HSP90-IDO1 regulatory axis and provide a mechanistic rationale for combination strategies targeting metabolic immune tolerance.
42101997 | D614G reshapes allosteric networks and opening mechanisms of SARS-CoV-2 spikes. The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 spike glycoprotein enables infection through a key conformational transition that exposes its receptor binding domain (RBD). Experimental evidence indicates that spike mutations, particularly the early D614G variant, alter the rate of this conformational shift, potentially increasing viral infectivity. We conducted extensive weighted ensemble simulations of the Ancestral, Delta, and Omicron BA.1 spike strains to investigate relationships between sequence mutations and RBD opening dynamics. We observe that Ancestral, Delta, and Omicron BA.1 spike RBDs open differently. Via dynamical network analysis, we identified two allosteric communication networks connecting all S1 domains: the established N2R linker and a newly investigated antiparallel R2N linker. In Delta and Omicron BA.1 variant spikes, RBD opening is facilitated by both linkers, while the Ancestral strain relies predominantly on the N2R linker. In the Ancestral spike, the D614-K854 salt bridge impedes allosteric communication through the R2N linker, whereas the loss of this salt bridge in all subsequent variants of concerns allows for increased local flexibility, thereby accelerating RBD opening. Hydrogen-deuterium mass spectrometry experiments validate these altered dynamics in the D614 region. This study unveils a \hidden\ network, connecting the N-terminal domain to the RBD via the 614-proximal region, and the D614G mutation reshapes the fitness landscape of these critical viral glycoproteins.
41552919 | The Immunoregulatory and Hematopoietic Effects of Momelotinib in a Murine Bone Marrow Failure Model. BACKGROUND: Immune-mediated bone marrow failure (AA) is characterized by T cell-mediated destruction of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). The JAK-STAT signaling pathway plays a crucial role in regulating immune responses, and JAK inhibitors have shown potential in treating immune-mediated disorders. This study investigates the effects of MMB, a JAK inhibitor, in a mouse model of immune-mediated bone marrow failure to evaluate its impact on hematopoiesis and immune cell function. METHODS: In this study, immune-mediated AA was induced in B6D2F1 female mice through irradiation and lymphocyte infusion. The mice were treated with MMB monotherapy at doses of 6.25 and 12.5 mg/kg for 14 days. Peripheral blood cell counts, bone marrow cell counts, plasma cytokine levels, T lymphocyte subsets, Fas/FasL expression, and hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) levels were analyzed to assess the effects of MMB treatment on immune function and hematopoiesis. RESULTS: MMB treatment exacerbated the reduction in peripheral blood cell counts in marrow failure mice and decreased bone marrow hematopoietic cell numbers. Concurrently, MMB also reduced cytokine levels. The treatment also led to a significant reduction in CD4+ T cells and Tregs in both the spleen and bone marrow, while the low-dose MMB group exhibited a decrease in CD8+ T cell count. Additionally, MMB did not significantly improve HSPC levels, and a decrease in the more primitive LSK and LT-HSC populations was observed. However, later-stage stem and progenitor cells, such as ST-HSCs, MPPs, and CMPs, showed an increase in numbers. The treatment also resulted in downregulation of Fas expression on non-T cells, while FasL expression on lymphocytes increased. CONCLUSION: MMB treatment exacerbated peripheral blood cell reduction and impaired bone marrow hematopoiesis in the immune-mediated AA mouse model. Although MMB modulated T lymphocyte subsets, it did not significantly improve hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell function. These findings highlight the need for further research to explore the potential and limitations of JAK inhibitors like MMB in the treatment of immune-mediated bone marrow failure.
40519915 | Comprehensive transcriptome assessment in PBMCs of post-COVID patients at a median follow-up of 28 months after a mild COVID infection reveals upregulation of JAK/STAT signaling and a prolonged immune response. BACKGROUND: Post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC), also known as post-COVID-19 condition (here abbreviated as post-COVID) is an escalating global health issue. The aim of our study was to investigate the mechanisms and clinical manifestations of post-COVID following a mild SARS-CoV-2 infection. METHODS: We analyzed the gene expression profile in PBMCs from 60 middle-aged post-COVID patients and 50 age-matched controls at a median time of 28 months following a mild SARS-CoV-2 infection. The clinical assessments included intensity of post-COVID symptoms, physical and mental fatigue, depression and anxiety. Sixty-seven participants performed a mild exertion ergometer test with assessment of lactate concentrations. Transcriptome analysis was performed on mRNA selected by poly-A enrichment and SARS-CoV-2 RNA fragments were analyzed using the ARTIC protocol. RESULTS: We identified 463 differentially expressed transcripts in PBMCs, of which 324 were upregulated and 129 downregulated in post-COVID patients. Upregulated genes in post-COVID individuals were enriched for processes involving JAK-STAT signaling, negative regulation of ubiquitination, IL9 signaling, and negative regulation of viral process, suggesting chronic inflammation. Downregulated genes were enriched for processes involving mitochondrial ATP synthesis, and oxidative phosphorylation, suggesting mitochondrial dysfunction. No SARS-CoV-2 gene fragments were detected in PBMCs of patients with post-COVID and no IFN genes were found differentially expressed in post-COVID patients. Post-COVID was associated with elevated lactate levels in blood, both at rest and after a short recovery phase following exertion, suggesting increased anaerobic activity in skeletal muscles. We did not find differences in the transcriptional profiles or clinical manifestations when comparing patients who contracted the infection from early SARS-CoV-2 variants with those who contracted the infection during the period when the Omicron variant was prevalent. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight molecular changes compatible with a persistent immune response in PBMCs of post-COVID subjects at a median follow-up of 28 months after a mild infection, supporting the hypothesis that post-COVID is a chronic inflammatory condition. The upregulation of JAK/STAT signaling suggests a potential therapeutic target in post-COVID.
41280104 | SAMHD1 promotes SARS-CoV-2 infection by enhancing HNF1-dependent ACE2 expression in lung epithelial cells. Sterile alpha motif and HD domain-containing protein 1 (SAMHD1) restricts a board spectrum of viruses through multifaceted mechanisms. It also limits spontaneous- and virus-induced innate immune responses by suppressing proinflammatory cytokine and type-I interferon (IFN-I) production. Some viruses escape SAMHD1 restriction by utilizing SAMHD1-mediated innate immune suppression to establish effective infection through viral antagonism. Our previous studies showed that SAMHD1 is a proviral factor facilitating replication of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) in human macrophages, monocytic THP-1 and epithelial-like HEK293T cell lines by suppressing IFN responses. However, it is unclear about the function of SAMHD1 in lung epithelial cells during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Here, we report that SAMHD1 facilitates SARS-CoV-2 replication in lung epithelial Calu-3 cells by enhancing endogenous expression of the viral receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) via hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-alpha (HNF1alpha) and HNF1beta. Using pseudotyped SARS-CoV-2 and lentiviral vectors, we found that SARS-CoV-2 spike protein-mediated viral entry was suppressed in Calu-3 cells with SAMHD1 knockout (KO). SAMHD1 KO repressed ACE2 expression in Calu-3 cells at mRNA and protein levels. Functional analyses revealed that HNF1alpha and HNF1beta were crucial for the endogenous ACE2 expression in Calu-3 cells. Additionally, SAMHD1 KO led to a reduction in the expression levels and ACE2-promoting function of HNF1alpha and HNF1beta. Inhibition of IFN antiviral response by baricitinib, a Janus kinase 1 and 2 (JAK 1/2) inhibitor, did not revert the suppression of SARS-CoV-2 in SAMHD1 KO Calu-3 cells. Our findings demonstrate that SAMHD1 facilitates HNF1-mediated ACE2 expression and SARS-CoV-2 replication in Calu-3 cells via a novel mechanism beyond its IFN-suppressive function.
41444262 | COVID-19-associated neurological and psychological manifestations. Long COVID is an infection-associated chronic condition that typically occurs within 3 months of acute COVID-19 infection in which symptoms are intermittently or continuously present for at least 3 months. Long COVID is estimated to affect between 80 and 400 million people globally, with an incidence of 5-20% in the community and up to 50% among hospitalized patients following acute SARS-CoV-2 infection. Common neuropsychiatric and mental health symptoms of long COVID include memory deficits, executive dysfunction, anxiety, depression, recurring headaches, sleep disturbances, neuropathies, problems with taste and smell, and dizziness that accompanies erratic heart rates and severe post-exertional malaise. Underlying pathophysiological mechanisms includes SARS-CoV-2 viral persistence, herpesvirus reactivation, microbiota dysbiosis, autoimmunity, clotting and endothelial abnormalities, and chronic immune activation. Owing to the variability in the clinical presentation, management must be tailored based on a patient's presenting symptoms.
41582354 | Mechanism of Glioblastoma Treatment Targeting Growth Factors: IGF-I Case Using Gene, Immune, Phytochemicals, and Nanotechnologies. Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), a fatal malignant brain tumor, represents a challenge in terms of developing new treatments. Solutions have been proposed in connection with anti-tumor immune responses, generally T cell strategies, including techniques targeting growth factors, particularly IGF-I, the primary cancer growth factor, and its signal transduction pathways. The objective of this review is to assess the immunogene mechanism targeting IGF-I, which constitutes the basis of the described cancer gene therapy for GBM, stemming from brain neoplastic development studies. The GBM gene therapy, based on new strategies of anti-gene IGF-I techniques, including antisense or triple helix, has been combined with phytochemicals (phenolics) and nanotechnologies (theranostic nanoparticles). The three approaches have modulated IGF-I expression together, inducing common signal transduction pathways: IGF-I-R, TK/PI3K/AKT/TLR/MAPK & JAK/STAT. These signals have transformed in vitro neoplastic glioma cells into immunogenic cells. These immunogenic cells, which express MHC-1 and B7, produce a strong T CD8 anti-tumour immune response after in vivo injection. The combined strategy of anti-IGF-I/phytochemical/nanotechnology vaccines has shown promising clinical results, with patient survival of up to two and three years in some cases. The obtained results are discussed in parallel with other immunotherapies and antitumour vaccine studies that involve the immunogenicity mechanism.
40107360 | HLA-A*03 may confer protection against long COVID through an enhanced immune response. BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has led to widespread infection, with a significant subset of patients developing persistent symptoms known as Long COVID. Understanding the genetic factors influencing Long COVID susceptibility and severity is crucial for development of targeted interventions. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the impact of HLA alleles, KIR receptors, and their interactions on the development of Long COVID in patients from southeastern Spain having contracted COVID-19 during the early 2020 pandemic wave. METHODS: A cross-sectional prospective study enrolled 153 COVID-19 patients. Three months post-infection, HLA-A, -B, -C, KIR genotyping and immunological variables were analyzed using serum and blood samples. Long COVID was diagnosed three years post- infection based on persistent symptoms. RESULTS: Among the participants, 71 developed Long COVID. HLA-A*03 was less frequent in Long COVID compared to non-Long COVID patients (10.7 % vs. 30.5 %, p = 0.001). Patients with HLA-A*03 had a higher percentage of CD8+ T cells than patients with other allotypes (33.6 +- 13.4 % vs 28.7 +- 10.8 %, p = 0.033) and showed lower expression of KIR2DL1(1265 +- 547 vs 1465 +- 414 MFI, p = 0.031) and KIR3DL1 (300.6 +- 125.0 vs 398.9 +- 131.0 MFI, p = 0.047). Moreover, NK cells in HLA-A*03 patients showed lower expression of the TIGIT inhibitory receptor (73.7 +- 12.2 % vs 78.2 +- 10.8 %, p = 0.046). CONCLUSION: HLA-A*03 may play a protective role against Long COVID, potentially through enhanced immune responses involving CD8+ T cells and NK cells. Further research in larger, diverse cohorts is needed to validate these findings and to refine personalized medicine strategies for managing COVID-19 sequelae.
41851187 | Tumor-suppressing multi-enterobacteria enhance the anti-PD-1/PD-L1 efficacy in microsatellite stable colorectal cancer.
38947322 | Molecular mimicry of SARS-COV-2 antigens as a possible natural anti-cancer preventive immunization. Background: In the present study we investigated whether peptides derived from the entire SARS-CoV-2 proteome share homology to TAAs (tumor-associated antigens) and cross-reactive CD8+ T cell can be elicited by the BNT162b2 preventive vaccine or the SARS-CoV-2 natural infection. Methods and results: Viral epitopes with high affinity (<100nM) to the HLA-A*02:01 allele were predicted. Shared and variant-specific epitopes were identified. Significant homologies in amino acidic sequence have been found between SARS-CoV-2 peptides and multiple TAAs, mainly associated with breast, liver, melanoma and colon cancers. The molecular mimicry of the viral epitopes and the TAAs was found in all viral proteins, mostly the Orf 1ab and the Spike, which is included in the BNT162b2 vaccine. Predicted structural similarities confirmed the sequence homology and comparable patterns of contact with both HLA and TCR alpha and beta chains were observed. CD8+ T cell clones cross-reactive with the paired peptides have been found by MHC class l-dextramer staining. Conclusions: Our results show for the first time that several SARS-COV-2 antigens are highly homologous to TAAs and cross-reactive T cells are identified in infected and BNT162b2 preventive vaccinated individuals. The implication would be that the SARS-Cov-2 pandemic could represent a natural preventive immunization for breast, liver, melanoma and colon cancers. In the coming years, real-world evidences will provide the final proof for such immunological experimental evidence. Moreover, such SARS-CoV-2 epitopes can be used to develop \multi-cancer\ off-the-shelf preventive/therapeutic vaccine formulations, with higher antigenicity and immunogenicity than over-expressed tumor self-antigens, for the potential valuable benefit of thousands of cancer patients around the World.
42033495 | Inhibition of SARS-CoV-2 spike S1-ACE2 binding interaction and downregulation of ACE2 gene expression by Malaysian stingless bee honey and its bioactive compound, stilbamidine (SDC). BACKGROUND: The Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) virus infects host cells by binding to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). Stilbamidine (SDC), a compound identified in Malaysian Kelulut honey (KH), has been reported to exhibit favourable binding affinity towards ACE2. This study aims to determine the effects of KH and SDC on the binding of spike protein to the ACE2 receptor, as well as to assess their modulatory potential on ACE2 gene and protein expression in lung and kidney cells. METHODS AND RESULTS: KH, SDC, and MLN 4760 (ACE2 inhibitor) were tested using an in vitro spike S1:ACE2 inhibition assay. Their modulatory effects on the ACE2 gene and protein expression were further examined through real-time PCR and western blot analysis. KH inhibited the binding of Spike S1 to ACE2, surpassing MLN4760, with maximum effects (Emax) of 82.66 +- 0.24% and 59.81 +- 8.00%, respectively, while the Emax for SDC was 19.93 +- 0.4%. KH caused a significant, dose-dependent downregulation of ACE2 gene expression in kidney-derived Vero E6 cells after 24 h of treatment, whereas SDC reduced ACE2 gene expression in lung-derived A549-ACE2-TMPRSS2 cells after 72 h. Nevertheless, ACE2 protein expression remained unchanged following both treatments. CONCLUSIONS: KH and SDC inhibit the binding of the SARS-CoV-2 spike S1 protein to the ACE2 receptor and reduce ACE2 gene expression. The efficacy of ACE2-targeted interventions may be limited by ACE2 polymorphisms and inter-individual expression differences. Further in vivo studies are needed to confirm their prophylactic and therapeutic potential against SARS-CoV-2 infection.
41988188 | Thymidine phosphorylase promotes SARS-CoV-2 spike protein-driven lung tumor development. Background: COVID-19 survivors exhibit increased interstitial lung fibrosis, a known risk factor for lung cancer. We investigated whether SARS-CoV-2 spike protein (SP)-induced lung injury and elevated thymidine phosphorylase (TYMP) promote lung tumorigenesis. Methods: A TriNetX retrospective cohort analysis was combined with mechanistic studies in K18-hACE2TG and K18-hACE2TG/Tymp-/- mice. Mice received intratracheal SP or control lysate followed by a urethane-induced lung cancer protocol. Lung injury, inflammation, thrombosis, fibrosis, STAT3 activation, cytokine profiles, and tumor burden were assessed. In vitro assays evaluated SP- and RBD-induced ACE2 processing. Results: Propensity score-matched TriNetX cohorts demonstrated an increased lung cancer risk after COVID-19, particularly among current smokers (n = 166,807; RR 1.22; HR 1.50; P<.001). In mice, SP induced acute lung injury, neutrophil infiltration, and microthrombi, which were reduced in TYMP-deficient mice. SP markedly increased lung tumor incidence and aggressiveness, whereas TYMP deficiency reduced tumor formation from 50% to 18% of lung lobes. SP-induced STAT3 upregulation and collagen deposition were significantly attenuated in K18-hACE2TG/Tymp-/- mice. Cytokine profiling revealed a tumor-promoting, myeloid-dominant inflammatory milieu in K18-hACE2TG mice, in contrast to a T cell-inflamed, anti-tumor profile in K18-hACE2TG/Tymp-/- mice. SP and RBD altered ACE2 processing, generating lower-molecular-weight fragments consistent with enhanced turnover. Conclusions: SARS-CoV-2 SP drives lung injury, fibrosis, and tumorigenesis through a TYMP-dependent mechanism involving STAT3 signaling and inflammatory microenvironment remodeling. COVID-19 significantly increases lung cancer risk, especially in current smokers. TYMP represents a potential therapeutic target to mitigate long-term pulmonary consequences of COVID-19.
40679664 | Deciphering TLR and JAK/STAT pathways: genetic variants and targeted therapies in COVID-19. Genetic alterations affecting the immune-related pathways can significantly disrupt the innate immune system among patients with COVID-19, contributing to disease severity. Research investigations have shown that common or rare mutations in TLR genes, mainly TLR3 and TLR7, can impair the recognition of viral RNA, leading to an altered interferon response. Moreover, the NF-kappaB pathway, which represents a vital regulator of inflammatory cytokine production, may also be genetically disturbed, resulting in either insufficient inflammatory signaling or, adversely, excessive cytokine release in the most severe cases. Alterations in the JAK/STAT signaling pathway that mediates the downstream effects of type I interferons and other cytokines, can further compromise the antiviral defenses. The purpose of this review is to outline recent literature describing the current understanding of immunogenetic mechanisms in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection, with an emphasis on TLR and JAK/STAT signaling pathways. We aimed to investigate important variants within the genes related to these cascades and their involvement in COVID-19 severity. We also discussed emerging therapeutic strategies, especially the JAK/STAT modulators and TLR antagonists in severe COVID-19.Despite significant advances in targeting JAK/STAT pathways for the treatment of COVID-19, these approaches can show partial efficacy in monitoring critical inflammatory responses, due to the rapid viral evolution. Moreover, JAK inhibitors, being beneficial in decreasing hyperinflammation, may present potential side effects, particularly linked to immunosuppression. Hence, by integrating genetic profiling and modulation of immunity pathways, novel precision medicine approaches may greatly optimize treatment strategies and COVID-19 patient outcomes.
41764733 | HIV- and cytomegalovirus-specific human memory CD8+ T cells are activated and expanded independent of co-stimulatory signaling by T-cell receptor-specific immunotherapeutics. To delineate the minimum signals required to activate and expand antigen-specific memory CD8+ T cells, we used immunotherapeutics termed Immuno-STAT (IST) that we designed to selectively engage and activate antigen-specific T-cell receptors alone or combined with a defined co-stimulatory signal to recapitulate the discrete activation signals delivered by antigen-presenting cells to human CD8+ T cells. Transcriptome analysis of highly purified CD8+ cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific memory T cells after delivering defined antigen-specific TCR signals alone or with co-stimulatory signals revealed that the combination of TCR signaling and CD28 or 4-1BB co-stimulatory signals significantly altered the transcriptome compared to activation by TCR signaling alone. Nevertheless, IST-delivered CMV-specific or HIV-specific TCR signaling alone in the presence of IL-2 was sufficient to induce robust recall activation and expansion of CMV (NLV)-specific or HIV (SL9)-specific memory CD8+ T cells, respectively. This response contrasts with naive antigen-specific CD8+ T cells and TCR-engineered T cells, which required CD28 co-stimulation in addition to TCR stimulation for robust antigen-specific activation and expansion. These results have important implications by indicating that immunotherapeutics that deliver antigen-specific TCR signals alone in the presence of adequate environmental cytokine support should be sufficient for immune-based strategies designed to expand antigen-specific memory CD8+ T cells to eliminate cancerous or infected cells. In contrast, strategies that aim to optimally stimulate and expand virus or cancer-specific naive or TCR-engineered T-cell responses would benefit from the codelivery of TCR and CD28 signals.
42043243 | Glycyrrhizic Acid-Modified Gold Nanoparticles Show Inhibitory Activity Against PRRSV and SARS-CoV-2 Pseudovirus In Vitro. The development of novel antiviral nanomaterials is an important approach for addressing emerging viral threats. In this study, glycyrrhizic acid-modified gold nanoparticles (GA-Au NPs) were successfully synthesized and characterized, and their inhibitory effects against porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pseudovirus were systematically evaluated. At non-cytotoxic concentrations, GA-Au NPs showed inhibitory activity against PRRSV in vitro. Stage-specific assays suggested that intracellular replication-related events were prominently affected, with additional inhibitory effects observed during adsorption, invasion, and release, whereas no direct virucidal activity was detected under the tested conditions. Furthermore, GA-Au NPs dose-dependently reduced SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus infection-associated reporter signals in HEK-293T-ACE2 cells, supporting inhibitory activity in an additional viral model. In conclusion, GA-Au NPs represent a biocompatible antiviral nanomaterial with multi-stage inhibitory activity against PRRSV and inhibitory effects in a SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus model, supporting their further evaluation as antiviral nanomaterials in enveloped virus-related models.
40299133 | Study of immunological and inflammatory gene response in Indian cohort of COVID- 19 patients by NanoString technology. COVID- 19, which has affected millions of people across the globe as a pandemic, is caused by the SARS-Cov- 2 virus which has a case fatality rate of 2.3%. The clinical outcome of those who had mild and severe infection exhibited different responses for the treatment due to differences in the host immune system. Predicting immune response with reliable biomarkers to monitor the severity and also identifying potential biomarkers that could help the clinician in decision-making would be important and also beneficial for the management of COVID- 19 in the hospital setup. In our study, we have used the NanoString nCounter gene expression assay to investigate the molecular signalling of host to COVID- 19 infection. The nCounter gene expression assay identified 29 genes that were differentially regulated and specific to COVID- 19 infection; out of which, 9 genes (ICAM3, PTAFR, CEACAM6, GBP1, C7, STAT1, CEACAM8, IL16, HLA-DPB1) exhibited strong predictive performance to differentiate COVID- 19 infection from healthy controls (AUC >= 0.9). We also observed that three genes (MAP4 K1, CTLA4, and HLA-DQB1) were able to differentiate COVID- 19 from patients with flu-like symptoms. A group of 11 genes (C2, CD14, CDKN1 A, CMKLR1, CYBB, HLA-A, IFNA2, LAG3, MARCO, TLR7, and IL15) showed a dysregulation trend with onset of COVID- 19 infection and settled to normal levels by day 14 as patient recovered. The outcome of our study may help in understanding the host immune response towards COVID- 19 infection.
42043254 | Plasma ACE and ACE2 Levels Are Altered in Patients with COVID-19. Objective: The COVID-19 pandemic has strained healthcare systems and has been associated with substantial morbidity and mortality. Severe acute respiratory syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) enters host cells by binding to angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), implicating dysregulation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in COVID-19 pathophysiology. Measurement of circulating RAS components, including ACE and ACE2, may therefore provide an insight into disease severity and underlying mechanisms. Subjects and Methods: In this retrospective cohort study, 224 adults with PCR-confirmed COVID-19 were stratified by World Health Organization disease-severity criteria into asymptomatic, mild, mild-pneumonia, severe, and critical groups. Plasma ACE and ACE2 concentrations were quantified by ELISA. Demographic, clinical, and laboratory data were extracted from electronic medical records. Results and Conclusions: Increasing disease severity was associated with higher mortality, elevated body mass index, and higher viral load estimates. Severe and critical illness was characterized by leukocytosis with neutrophilia, marked lymphopenia, anemia, elevated inflammatory and coagulation markers, renal dysfunction, and hypoalbuminemia. Plasma ACE2 levels declined progressively with increasing severity and were significantly lower in patients with mild-pneumonia, severe, or critical illness compared with asymptomatic or mild cases, showing a strong inverse correlation with severity. In contrast, plasma ACE levels increased significantly with disease severity. The resulting increase in the ACE/ACE2 ratio indicates a progressive shift toward the pro-inflammatory arm of the RAS, providing mechanistic insight into the COVID-19 pathophysiology.
41676604 | Interleukin-6 restricts pre-thymic T cell lineage commitment of progenitors driving loss of SIV control. Effective T cell reconstitution in people living with HIV is central to durable immune control and cure strategies. Sustained thymic output underpins T cell recovery and requires continuous seeding by T cell-committed progenitors originating in the bone marrow (BM). Using the SIV/rhesus macaque model, we identified a thymus-seeding progenitor (TSP; CD4-CD8-CD34+CD38-CD7+) in BM declining rapidly following SIV infection. This loss closely associated with reduction in T cell lineage committed differentiation of BM-derived hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). Importantly, both the decline in TSPs and the impairment of pre-thymic T cell potential were strongly associated with early loss of viral control, independent of peripheral T cell dynamics. Plasma interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels robustly predicted the magnitude of TSP loss and the restriction of T cell-biased HSPC differentiation. Integrated transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed inflammatory imprinting of HSPCs characterized by activation of the IL-6-JAK-STAT axis, inflammasome engagement, and coordinated suppression of key T cell specification factors, including RUNX1, FYN, and ZAP70. In a nonanimal model of thymopoiesis, IL-6 exposure of rhesus macaque and human HSPCs inhibited their transition from DN1 (CD38-) to DN2 (CD38+) TSP states, indicating an early block in T cell lineage commitment. Conversely, ex vivo IL-6 receptor blockade restored thymocyte differentiation to levels comparable to untreated controls. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that pathogenic inflammation restricts pre-thymic T cell development early after infection, directly contributing to loss of viral control. These findings have important implications for understanding the mediators of anti-viral T cell immunity and HIV cure.
41373516 | Specific Instability of HLA-A*03:01 Expression in HEK-293 Cells. HEK-293 is a highly transfectable human cell line widely used as a model for protein expression. Since large amounts of cells are often required for the purification of HLA immunopeptidomes, suspension-growing variants, such as HEK-293F, facilitate the generation of sufficient cell quantities. The HLA class I-typing of these cells is HLA-A*02:01, -A*03:01, -B*07:02, and -C*07:02. HEK-293T cells have been previously used as a source of HLA peptide ligands derived from SARS-CoV-2 proteins. In this study, we purified and analyzed the HLA-I immunopeptidome of HEK-293 and HEK-293F cells using mass spectrometry. Cell surface expression of specific HLA-I allotypes was determined using flow cytometry with allele-specific antibodies. The HLA-I immunopeptidome of HEK-293 cells contained ligands from all three HLA-I allotypes, whereas that of HEK-293F cells lacked peptides derived from HLA-A*03:01. Flow cytometry experiments confirmed the absence of HLA-A*03:01 expression on the surface of HEK-293F cells. Additionally, we generated a HEK-293 transfectant co-expressing the beta5i proteasome subunit and the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein. This transfectant showed selective loss of HLA-A*03:01 expression, suggesting that HEK-293 linages tend to specifically lose this allotype. We propose that HEK-293F cells are unsuitable for the identification of HLA-A*03:01 ligands or for stimulating T-cell responses restricted to this allele. Moreover, HLA-A*03:01 expression should be regularly monitored in HEK-293-derived cells.
41910405 | Disruption of spike protein N-glycosylation induces its endoplasmic reticulum retention and attenuates SARS-CoV-2 infectivity. The spike (S) protein of SARS-CoV-2 is extensively glycosylated, with N-glycosylation sites remaining highly conserved during viral evolution. While inhibiting N-glycosylation has been shown to significantly suppress SARS-CoV-2 infection, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain incompletely characterized. Here, we identify that two N-glycosylation sites, N61 and N343, are critical for spike maturation. We demonstrate that asparagine-to-aspartic acid substitutions (N to D) at these sites lead to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention of the S protein, with consequent abrogation of S1/S2 cleavage and near-complete elimination of viral infectivity. IP-MS analysis further reveals that the COPI complex, which facilitates retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport, is a key participant in this ER retention process. Additionally, inhibition of COPI effectively restores the plasma membrane localization of N61D- and N343D-mutated S proteins and enhanced viral infectivity. More importantly, a specific inhibitor has been developed that effectively blocks the ER-to-Golgi trafficking of the S protein, thereby broadly abolishing viral infectivity across SARS-CoV-2 variants. Overall, our study reveals the unique roles of N-glycosylation in the regulation of S protein maturation, providing a potential mechanistic target for antiviral drug development.IMPORTANCEN-glycosylation of the spike protein is critical for SARS-CoV-2. While most studies have focused on the effects on spike-ACE2 binding and neutralizing antibody recognition, few studies have reported how N-glycosylation regulates S protein maturation, with the underlying molecular mechanisms remaining poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that N-glycosylation at N61/ N343 contributes to spike ER-to-Golgi trafficking. Specifically, defects in S protein's N-glycosylation (including mutations at N61 or N343, N-glycosylation inhibitors treatment, and MOGS depletion) result in ER retention through COPI-mediated retrograde Golgi-to-ER transport, and thus, the S proteins are not effectively cleaved by furin in the Golgi. This impairment of S protein maturation leads to a significant reduction in viral infectivity, which highlights the key role of N-glycosylation at residues N61 and N343 in SARS-CoV-2 life cycle. Overall, our findings uncover the molecular mechanism by which N-glycosylation controls SARS-CoV-2 spike intracellular trafficking, offering novel insights for anti-SARS-CoV-2 strategies.
41855156 | SAMHD1 depletion restricts SARS-CoV-2 infection by suppressing HNF1-dependent ACE2 expression in lung epithelial cells. Sterile alpha motif and histidine-aspartate domain-containing protein 1 (SAMHD1) restricts a broad spectrum of viruses through multifaceted mechanisms. It also limits spontaneous- and virus-induced innate immune responses by suppressing proinflammatory cytokine and type-I interferon (IFN-I) production. Some viruses escape SAMHD1 restriction and utilize SAMHD1-mediated innate immune suppression to establish effective infection through IFN antagonism. Our previous studies showed that SAMHD1 is a proviral factor facilitating replication of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) in human macrophages, monocytic THP-1 and epithelial-like HEK293T cell lines by suppressing IFN responses. However, it is unclear about the function of SAMHD1 in lung epithelial cells during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Here, we report that SAMHD1 knockout (KO) restricts SARS-CoV-2 replication in lung epithelial Calu-3 cells by suppressing endogenous expression of the viral receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) via hepatocyte nuclear factor 1-alpha (HNF1alpha) and HNF1beta. Using pseudotyped SARS-CoV-2 and lentiviral vectors, we found that SARS-CoV-2 spike protein-mediated viral entry was suppressed in SAMHD1 KO Calu-3 cells. SAMHD1 KO repressed ACE2 expression in Calu-3 cells at mRNA and protein levels. Functional analyses revealed that HNF1alpha and HNF1beta were crucial for the endogenous ACE2 expression in Calu-3 cells. Additionally, SAMHD1 KO led to a reduction in the expression levels and ACE2-promoting function of HNF1alpha and HNF1beta. Inhibition of IFN antiviral response by baricitinib, a Janus kinase 1 and 2 (JAK 1/2) inhibitor, did not revert the suppression of SARS-CoV-2 in SAMHD1 KO Calu-3 cells. SAMHD1 knock-in and deoxynucleoside supplementation experiments indicated that SAMHD1 expression and dNTP pool balance collectively regulated HNF1-mediated ACE2 expression in Calu-3 cells. Our findings demonstrate that SAMHD1 depletion hinders HNF1-mediated ACE2 expression and SARS-CoV-2 replication in Calu-3 cells via a novel mechanism beyond its IFN-suppressive function.
41993160 | STAT3 isoform dynamics reveal robust splice ratio maintenance across cytokine-activated human immune cells. Alternative splicing of STAT3 produces two principal isoforms, STAT3alpha and STAT3beta, that differ in transactivation capacity and DNA-binding behavior. Whereas STAT3alpha is thought to be a transcriptional activator, STAT3beta - due to the lack of the transactivation domain - is thought to be a transcriptional repressor. Therefore, the relative abundance of STAT3alpha and STAT3beta molecules within a leukocyte will be critical for immune homeostasis and for gene-therapeutic strategies targeting STAT3. This study investigates whether short-term exposure to IFN-alpha, IL-6/sIL-6Ralpha, or IL-10 alters STAT3alpha/STAT3beta stoichiometry in purified human CD4+, CD8+, CD14+ and CD19+ cells. We evaluated in healthy donors PBMCs the STAT3alpha and STAT3beta mRNA and protein levels after stimulation with IFN-alpha, IL-6/sIL-6Ralpha or IL-10. For mRNA analysis, twelve candidate reference genes were assessed for stability across subsets and stimuli, with UBE2D2 identified as the most stable reference gene. We demonstrate that at mRNA level, cytokine treatment induced STAT3alpha and STAT3beta mRNA in a subset-dependent manner. STAT3beta mRNA largely paralleled STAT3alpha, and crucially, the STAT3alpha/STAT3beta mRNA ratio remained constrained within a narrow range. At protein level, STAT3alpha predominated markedly, yielding a pronounced transcript-protein decoupling. Together, these data indicate that ex vivo short-term cytokine signaling with IFN-alpha, IL-6/sIL-6Ralpha, and IL-10 co-induces STAT3 isoforms without broadly reprogramming their splice balance in primary human leukocytes and underscore the importance of preserving physiological isoform ratios in gene-therapeutic strategies targeting STAT3. These findings suggest that short-term inflammatory signals alone are insufficient to shift STAT3 isoform production, supporting the idea that additional or more prolonged regulatory inputs are required to modulate STAT3 splicing in vivo and that physiologically, the STAT3alpha/STAT3beta ratio may be modulated at protein level.
42000926 | USP13 stabilizes SOCS1 to reverse alphaPD-1 resistance in MSI-H colorectal cancer. Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has shown substantial efficacy in microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) colorectal cancer (CRC), but resistance to alphaPD-1 therapy remains a major clinical challenge. The role and mechanism of deubiquitinating enzymes in regulating alphaPD-1 resistance in CRC remain poorly understood. In this study, we used clinical cohorts and the MC38 mouse CRC model to investigate USP13 expression in alphaPD-1-sensitive and alphaPD-1-resistant tumors. The function of USP13 was evaluated using the MC38 syngeneic tumor model and flow cytometry, and the molecular mechanism underlying the interaction between USP13 and SOCS1 was explored by ubiquitination assays, co-immunoprecipitation, and adenovirus-mediated USP13 overexpression. We found that USP13 was significantly downregulated in alphaPD-1-resistant MSI-H CRC patients and in resistant MC38 tumors, and that USP13 expression was significantly associated with prognosis specifically in MSI-H CRC patients. Functionally, USP13 knockout promoted alphaPD-1 resistance in MC38 tumors and reduced CD8 + T-cell infiltration. Mechanistically, loss of USP13 enhanced JAK-STAT pathway activation, while USP13 interacted with SOCS1, increased SOCS1 protein stability, and mediated K63-linked deubiquitination of SOCS1. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that USP13 stabilizes SOCS1 by removing K63-linked ubiquitination, thereby restraining excessive JAK-STAT activation and reversing resistance to alphaPD-1 therapy in MSI-H CRC. Targeting the USP13-SOCS1 axis may therefore represent a promising combination immunotherapeutic strategy for MSI-H CRC.
42043214 | Placental Vulnerability to SARS-CoV-2: Viral Entry Pathways and Immune Activation. Pregnancy represents a distinct immunological and physiological state that modifies maternal susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 and influences the clinical and biological course of COVID-19. Accumulating evidence indicates that the interaction between viral entry determinants, gestation-specific immune modulation, placental endocrine-angiogenic pathways, and systemic inflammatory responses underlies the characteristic manifestations of SARS-CoV-2 infection during pregnancy. This review consolidates current understanding of SARS-CoV-2 viral structure, receptor biology, and the gestational regulation of key entry cofactors, including ACE2, TMPRSS2, NRP1, CTSL and FURIN, within reproductive and placental tissues. The review further integrates documented mechanisms of cytokine-mediated immune dysregulation, endothelial injury, thrombo-inflammation, and steroidogenic alteration observed in affected pregnancies, and examines their contribution to placental malperfusion, preeclampsia-like presentations, fetal growth abnormalities and preterm birth. Published molecular and computational studies characterising trophoblast antiviral defenses, receptor expression patterns, and structural determinants of Spike-ACE2 affinity are synthesised to contextualise the biological basis of placental susceptibility and the rarity of confirmed transplacental transmission. Current evidence on maternal clinical outcomes, fetal and neonatal consequences, vaccination efficacy, therapeutic considerations and contemporary management guidelines is also critically reviewed. By integrating molecular, immunological, pathological and clinical insights, this article provides a comprehensive framework for understanding the interaction between SARS-CoV-2 infection and pregnancy-specific physiology, with implications for risk assessment, preventive strategies and maternal-fetal care.
41407706 | Resistance potential of the HLA-A2-restricted immunodominant SARS-CoV-2-specific CD8+ T cell receptor repertoire to antigenic drift. A major concern of COVID-19 is immune escape. While T cells are implicated in protection against severe disease, direct evaluation of their capacity to specifically target SARS-CoV-2 variants remains limited. We aim to narrow this gap by profiling the ability of CD8+ T cells to recognize SARS-CoV-2 mutations after vaccination and observe a high degree of phenotype and repertoire diversity. To better understand the breadth of antigen repertoire coverage, we interrogate the ability of SARS-CoV-2 specific TCRs to bind all point mutations of the immunodominant HLA-A2:S269-277 epitope. While mutation space coverage is surprisingly vast, specific substitutions are not recognized by the vaccine-elicited repertoire. Structural analyses reveal a TCR sequence-based antigen recognition limitation intrinsic to vaccination. Further investigation reveals that this repertoire 'hole' is not present in the naive repertoire, suggesting future immune escape through these potential escape mutations could be relieved by modifications to vaccines.
42043229 | Intranasal Administration of SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 Accessory Protein Increases Blood Pressure and Oxidative Stress in Different Tissues of Male BALB/c Mice. SARS-CoV-2 is the etiological agent responsible for COVID-19. While most research has focused on structural proteins, the accessory protein Open Reading Frame 8 (ORF8) has attracted attention for its role in immune evasion and the induction of a cytokine storm. Although the exact mechanisms underlying viral pathogenicity remain to be elucidated, oxidative stress has been proposed as a key contributing factor. In this study, we evaluated the effect of intranasal administration of ORF8 on arterial blood pressure and the antioxidant system in different organs of male BALB/c mice at 2- or 8 weeks post-administration. A significant increase in blood pressure and renal total antioxidant capacity was observed in the 8-week group, and decreased catalase activity in the prefrontal cortex was observed in the 2-week group. These findings suggest that ORF8 may contribute to long-term renal alterations and potentially to mechanism relevant to cognitive dysfunction associated with COVID-19.
39589869 | Staggered immunization with mRNA vaccines encoding SARS-CoV-2 polymerase or spike antigens broadens the T cell epitope repertoire. Combining a T cell-targeting mRNA vaccine encoding the conserved SARS-CoV-2 RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, RdRp, with a Spike-encoding mRNA vaccine may offer an additional pathway toward COVID-19 protection. Here, we show that a nucleoside-modified RdRp mRNA vaccine raises robust and durable CD8+ T cell responses in mice. Immunization drives a CD8+ T cell response enriched toward a specific RdRp epitope. Unexpectedly, coadministration of mRNA vaccines encoding RdRp or the Spike Receptor Binding Domain (RBD) dampens RBD-specific immune responses. Contralateral administration reduces the suppression of RBD-specific T cell responses while type I interferon signaling blockade restores RBD-specific antibodies. A staggered immunization strategy maintains both RBD vaccine-mediated antibody and T cell responses as well as protection against lethal SARS-CoV-2 challenge in human ACE2 transgenic mice. In HLA-A2.1 transgenic mice, the RdRp vaccine elicits CD8+ T cell responses against HLA-A*02:01-restricted epitopes recognized by human donor T cells. These results highlight RdRp as a candidate antigen for COVID-19 vaccines. The findings also offer insights into crafting effective multivalent mRNA vaccines to broaden CD8+ T cell responses against SARS-CoV-2 and potentially other viruses with pandemic potential.
41280906 | Impaired and restored CD8+ T cell responses to a sequentially mutated spike epitope in Omicron variants. In the post-pandemic era, SARS-CoV-2 variants continue to circulate and evolve. T cell-mediated immunity is essential for antiviral defense, but its evasion by emerging variants remains poorly defined. In this study, we screened spike-derived CD8+ T cell epitopes using bioinformatic algorithms and validated them experimentally in COVID-19 vaccine recipients. LYNSASFSTF (LYN), located in the receptor-binding domain (S368-377), was identified as an HLA-A*24:02-restricted epitope harboring mutations observed in Omicron BA.1 (S371L, S373P, and S375F) and BA.2 (S371F, S373P, S375F, and T376A). BA.2 mutations more profoundly attenuated LYN-specific cellular immunity than those from BA.1 with T376A as a major contributor to immune evasion, as supported by structural analysis of altered peptide-HLA interactions. This effect was mitigated by BA.1/BA.2 breakthrough infection and appears unlikely to persist in the currently dominant NB.1.8.1 lineage, where the LYN sequence remains conserved. Our findings suggest that LYN may function both as an immune-evasive hotspot and as a cross-reactive epitope, underscoring the importance of continued epitope-level surveillance as future variants emerge.
41510671 | Targeting CXCL8 in post-traumatic stress disorder and Alzheimer's disease: insights from cross-disorder molecular analysis. BACKGROUND: Emerging clinical evidence indicates that post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) may accelerate Alzheimer's disease progression, yet the molecular mechanisms linking these disorders remain poorly understood. METHODS: We conducted an integrative bioinformatics analysis combining blood cell profiles from PTSD and Alzheimer's disease cohorts to identify shared pathogenic pathways and therapeutic targets. Computational drug repositioning and experimental validation were used to pinpoint effective treatments. RESULTS: Our analysis revealed convergent dysregulation in neuroimmune and metabolic pathways, including compensatory upregulation of terpenoid biosynthesis and impaired JAK-STAT neuroprotective signaling. Cross-disorder network analysis identified CXCL8 as a central hub gene, prioritized through network pharmacology and machine learning. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that CXCL8 is dually regulated by stress-responsive transcriptional activators and neurodegeneration-associated microRNAs, positioning it as a key mediator of peripheral-central immune crosstalk. Immunoassays further linked CXCL8 to T cell recruitment (gammadelta T, CD8+ T), suggesting its role in sustaining neuroinflammation common to both diseases. Among potential therapeutics, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs emerged as modulators of CXCL8-driven pathology, with ibuprofen significantly suppressing neurodegeneration-associated CXCL8 overexpression. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings highlight CXCL8-mediated neuroimmune dysregulation as a critical link between PTSD and Alzheimer's disease, supporting targeted anti-inflammatory strategies to mitigate stress-related dementia risk. This study advances a precision medicine framework for neurodegenerative comorbidities by integrating cross-disease molecular signatures.
41836445 | Integrated multi-omics profiling reveals immune-related biomarkers and regulatory networks for early prediction of tuberculosis in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Background: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) significantly elevates the risk of tuberculosis (TB); however, early detection in T2DM patients is still insufficient. This study aimed to identify immune-based early-warning biomarkers, develop robust prognostic models, and elucidate the immune-metabolic circuitry underlying the comorbidity of type 2 diabetes and tuberculosis (T2DM-TB). Methods: A prospective cohort study (n = 198; HC 71, T2DM 67, T2DM-TB 60) was conducted, involving whole-transcriptome and plasma-proteome profiling. Differential expression analysis, weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), and mining of the ImmPort database facilitated the extraction of immune-relevant genes. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) and competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) networks were utilized to delineate core regulators. Eleven logistic regression models were developed based on 13 cross-platform biomarkers. The robustness of these models was evaluated through 5-fold cross-validation, and feature selection was optimized using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression. External validation was performed using GEO datasets (GSE181143, GSE114192) and reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Functional annotation and xCell immune-infiltration analyses were employed to characterize microenvironmental shifts, while dual-luciferase assays confirmed ceRNA interactions. Results: Thirteen immune-related biomarkers were identified, comprising 4 mRNAs (IRF1, FPR1, LILRB3, SECTM1), 2 microRNAs (miRNAs) (hsa-miR-4726-5p, novel-miR-109), 3 long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) (MSTRG.128052.1, MSTRG.4908.1, MSTRG.37670.90), and 4 proteins (IFN-gamma, IL-6, CXCL10, CXCL6). Eleven models demonstrated high diagnostic efficacy, with area under the curve (AUC) values ranging from 0.93 to 0.99, and exhibited stable performance in 5-fold cross-validation, yielding AUC values between 0.77 and 0.95. LASSO-derived concise biomarker subsets overlapped with primary model features, thereby confirming robust discriminative stability. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses underscored the significance of immune response, inflammation, and metabolic regulation, highlighting key pathways such as Toll-like receptors, NF-kappaB, and JAK-STAT. Immune infiltration analysis revealed a \pro-inflammatory-suppressive-reconstructive\ imbalance characterized by overactivated innate immunity, including M1/M2 macrophages and NKT cells, alongside compromised adaptive immunity, evidenced by reduced CD4+/CD8+ T cells and B cells. Additionally, ceRNA networks and dual-luciferase assays confirmed that novel-miR-109 inhibits the translation of FPR1, LILRB3, and MSTRG.4908.1, while hsa-miR-4726-5p targets the 3' UTR of SECTM1. Conclusions: This study establishes a validated multi-omics framework for the early detection of T2DM-TB, elucidates key regulatory axes (IRF1/IFN-gamma, ceRNA circuitry, CXCL10/CXCL6), and provides actionable biomarkers and high-performance models for precision intervention in T2DM-TB management.
41857361 | SARS-CoV-2 Omicron EG.5 and JN.1 induce enhanced pathogenicity in K18-hACE2 mice compared with the early Omicron subvariants. The reduced pathogenicity of early SARS-CoV-2 Omicron subvariants in human ACE2-expressing K18-hACE2 mice has posed challenges for assessing vaccine and antiviral efficacy against the Omicron variant with the mouse model. Here we report the enhanced pathogenicity of the Omicron JN.1 and EG.5 lineages in K18-hACE2 mice compared with their ancestors, suggesting the potential of applying these Omicron lineages in the mouse infection model.
41869329 | The genetic basis of the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection and vaccination in the Italian municipality of Vo'. Introduction: It is becoming increasingly evident that SARS-CoV-2 infection is here to stay. Therefore, understanding whether genetic variants may impact the response to the virus or vaccination is crucial. Studies on the genetic determinants of immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 have been limited by the scarcity of genetically homogenous populations and longitudinal designs that assess responses to both infection and vaccination in relation to individual genetic variation. Methods: Here we performed genotyping and whole-genome sequencing in a well-annotated and intensively followed population from the municipality of Vo', which has previously provided critical insights into SARS-CoV-2 transmission, infection dynamics and COVID-19 clinical manifestations. Results: We identified 99 variants within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) associated with altered T cell response dynamics following infection. These variants clustered into two semi-independent linkage disequilibrium (LD) blocks, respectively tagged by the HLA-A*01:01 allele and by SNP rs1611581. Additionally, when examining the response to vaccination, we identified 617 MHC genetic variants clustering into 27 semi-independent LD blocks that correlated with either increased or decreased TCR responses. We constructed a polygenic risk score (PRS) that comprehensively captures this genetic variation. Finally, structural modelling of selected variants affecting HLA proteins identified specific amino acid residuals most likely to influence interactions with SARS-CoV-2 epitopes, including arginine at position 114, isoleucine at position 97, and alanine at position 152 of the HLA-A molecule. Conclusion: Together, these findings provide robust evidence that genetic profiles modulate the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 in a longitudinal setting, offering insights that may inform further public health interventions.
40565379 | Cytokines from Macrophages Activated by Spike S1 of SARS-CoV-2 Cause eNOS/Arginase Imbalance in Endothelial Cells. Multiple lines of evidence suggest that endothelial dysfunction is a key player in the pathogenesis of COVID-19, with cytokine storm as one of the main primary causes. Among the mechanisms underlying endothelial damage, clinical findings identify alterations in arginine metabolism, as patients with severe COVID-19 exhibit lower levels of nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and upregulated arginase. In this study, we investigated, in human endothelial cells (HUVECs), the effect of conditioned medium from macrophages activated with SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein (CM_S1) on arginine metabolism. The results indicate that CM_S1 causes a marked decrease in eNOS and an increase in arginase, along with a greater intracellular arginine content and the induction of the CAT2 transporter. These effects are ascribable to the inflammatory mediators released by macrophages in CM_S1, mainly TNFa and IL-1b. Since infliximab, an antibody targeting TNFa, and baricitinib, an inhibitor of the JAK/STAT pathway, correct the observed imbalance between eNOS and arginase, our findings suggest the potential efficacy of a combined therapy to counteract endothelial dysfunction in COVID-19.
41388153 | Long COVID involves activation of proinflammatory and immune exhaustion pathways. Long COVID (LC) involves a spectrum of chronic symptoms after acute severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 infection. Current hypotheses for the pathogenesis of LC include persistent virus, tissue damage, autoimmunity, endocrine insufficiency, immune dysfunction and complement activation. We performed immunological, virological, transcriptomic and proteomic analyses from a cohort of 142 individuals between 2020 and 2021, including uninfected controls (n = 35), acutely infected individuals (n = 54), convalescent controls (n = 24) and patients with LC (n = 28). The LC group was characterized by persistent immune activation and proinflammatory responses for more than 180 days after initial infection compared with convalescent controls, including upregulation of JAK-STAT, interleukin-6, complement, metabolism and T cell exhaustion pathways. Similar findings were observed in a second cohort enrolled between 2023 and 2024, including convalescent controls (n = 20) and patients with LC (n = 18). These data suggest that LC is characterized by persistent activation of chronic inflammatory pathways, suggesting new therapeutic targets and potential biomarkers of disease.
41540425 | Immune dysregulation triggered by inflammatory cytokines in patients with severe respiratory infections. BACKGROUND: Severe respiratory infections have imposed an immense burden on healthcare worldwide, which could lead to fatal outcomes. The dysfunctional immune response impacts disease severity of respiratory infections, yet its underlying mechanisms remain largely obscure. METHODS: We explored the immunologic response underpinning severe respiratory viral infections by performing single-cell transcriptome analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 17 patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), including moderate, severe, critical, and convalescent cases. Furthermore, we analyzed the host responses following low- or high-dose vaccination with recombinant protein. RESULTS: We constructed an immunocyte landscape with 299,527 PBMCs. The significant dysregulation of immune homeostasis in severe respiratory viral infections was characterized by an increased ratio of CD14+ monocytes and exhausted CD8+ T cells, and reduced Tregs, memory T cells and cDC2 cells. Notably, highly inflamed CD14+ monocytes overexpressing interleukin (IL)-related genes emerged as central contributor of inflammatory storms in critical patients. Enhanced inflammatory response in exhausted CD8+ T cells, FOS/JUN overexpression in Tregs and Th17 cells, as well as suppressed antigen presentation activity in cDC2 cells were also remarkable features of severe and critical cases. Moreover, the high-dose vaccination with recombinant protein inhibited the inflammatory response of CD14+ monocytes, while enriched the memory T/NK cells to boost protective immunity. In mechanism, activated IL-6-JAK-STAT in CD14+ monocytes and T cells, coupled with impaired interferon (IFN)-alpha pathway, could drive excessive inflammatory response. CONCLUSIONS: Our study creates a high-resolution transcriptomic atlas that uncovers distinct immune signatures across the disease severity of respiratory infections, which provides valuable resource for mechanistic exploration and therapeutic strategies development. Furthermore, we demonstrate that high-dose recombinant protein vaccines might mitigate the severity of illness. TRIAL REGISTRATION: This study was prospectively registered at ChiCTR (Registration number: ChiCTR2300067787).
39684303 | Features of Highly Homologous T-Cell Receptor Repertoire in the Immune Response to Mutations in Immunogenic Epitopes. CD8+ T-cell immunity, mediated through interactions between human leukocyte antigen (HLA) and the T-cell receptor (TCR), plays a pivotal role in conferring immune memory and protection against viral infections. The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 variants presents a significant challenge to the existing population immunity. While numerous SARS-CoV-2 mutations have been associated with immune evasion from CD8+ T cells, the molecular effects of most mutations on epitope-specific TCR recognition remain largely unexplored, particularly for epitope-specific repertoires characterized by common TCRs. In this study, we investigated an HLA-A*24-restricted NYN epitope (Spike448-456) that elicits broad and highly homologous CD8+ T cell responses in COVID-19 patients. Eleven naturally occurring mutations in the NYN epitope, all of which retained cell surface presentation by HLA, were tested against four transgenic Jurkat reporter cell lines. Our findings demonstrate that, with the exception of L452R and the combined mutation L452Q + Y453F, these mutations have minimal impact on the avidity of recognition by NYN peptide-specific TCRs. Additionally, we observed that a similar TCR responded differently to mutant epitopes and demonstrated cross-reactivity to the unrelated VYF epitope (ORF3a112-120). The results contradict the idea that immune responses with limited receptor diversity are insufficient to provide protection against emerging variants.
41724408 | IL-2 synergizes with proinflammatory type 3 inducers to amplify mixed type 2-type 3 inflammation in nasal polyps. BACKGROUND: Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) involves mixed type 2-type 3 inflammation, associated with disease severity and treatment resistance, yet mechanisms remain unclear. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of IL-2 and its interaction with type 3 inducers (TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-23) in driving mixed type 2-type 3 inflammation. METHODS: IL-2 and receptor expression in nasal polyps (NPs) was analyzed using tissue homogenates and public RNA-seq data. Dispersed NP cells (DNPCs) were treated with IL-2/type 3 inducers, with cytokine production, proliferation, and gene expression analyzed via immunoassays, flow cytometry, and RNA-seq. IL-2 receptor/JAK blockade studies were conducted. Furthermore, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were magnetically isolated from NPs to evaluate their response to cytokine stimulation. RESULTS: IL-2 levels were increased in CRSwNP, particularly in type 3-dominant and mixed type 2-type 3 subgroups, and correlated with type 3 cytokines. RNA-seq supported upregulated IL-2 receptors and their co-expression with type 3 genes. IL-2 synergized with type 3 inducers to enhance both type 2 and type 3 cytokine production in DNPCs. Direct functional evidence from isolated CD4+ and CD8+ T cells confirmed this synergy, with CD8+ T cells emerging as a novel source of IL-13. Flow cytometry further supported these findings, showing synergistic cytokine production across diverse cell populations, including T cell subsets and NK cells. Memory T cells mediated TCR-independent cytokine production. Transcriptomic analysis identified activated type 3, type 2, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. IL-2 receptor blockade, particularly JAK inhibition, attenuated IL-2/type 3 inducer-mediated synergistic inflammation. CONCLUSION: We identify a novel mechanism whereby IL-2 synergizes with proinflammatory type 3 inducers to amplify mixed type 2-type 3 inflammation via innate-like T cell activation, and validate targeted JAK inhibition as a potential therapy.
41997001 | The immune response of the mRNA vaccine CS-2034 as a heterologous booster before and after breakthrough infection: A follow-up study. BACKGROUND: The emergence of highly mutated SARS-CoV-2 variants challenges vaccine protection. Evaluating long-term immune protection from boosters is crucial. The experiment compares neutralizing antibody dynamics and ACE2-RBD binding inhibition induced by mRNA and inactivated vaccine boosters, and assesses the impact of breakthrough infections and age on immune responses. METHODS: This study is based on a previous randomized, double-blind, parallel controlled trial. Healthy participants aged >=18 who had received >=3 inactivated COVID-19 vaccine doses. Volunteers (32 aged 18-59 and 32 >= 60) were stratified by age and vaccine type (24 mRNA, 8 inactivated in each age group). Pregnant women, those with severe chronic diseases or a history of allergies are excluded. Neutralizing antibodies were measured via microneutralization assay, and ACE2-RBD binding inhibition by high-sensitivity electrochemiluminescence. The study assessed changes in antibody levels and ACE2-RBD binding inhibition pre- and post-infection across age groups to evaluate vaccine efficacy and durability. (Registed number: ChiCTR2200064575). RESULTS: The neutralizing antibody titers from mRNA vaccine showing stronger and more consistent responses against the original strain and variants like XBB and BA.5. After breakthrough infections, mRNA-vaccinated individuals show a significant and lasting boost in antibodies, while the increase in inactivated vaccine recipients is modest. By age, mRNA-vaccinated people over 60 experience a faster antibody decline post-vaccination, whereas the inactivated vaccine group sees an initial rise at three months before declining. For ACE2-RBD binding inhibition, mRNA vaccines maintain higher early-phase rates, while inactivated vaccines show a delayed rise at three months followed by decline. CONCLUSIONS: mRNA vaccines induce stronger neutralizing antibodies and broader immunity than inactivated vaccines. Breakthrough infections boost antibody levels more in mRNA recipients than in inactivated vaccine recipients. Antibody decline is faster with mRNA vaccines in people over 60, while inactivated vaccines show a modest but weaker antibody increase against variants in the elderly.
42142336 | Epistasis and background dependence in the evolution of Omicron variants of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The rapid and repeated emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) variants, particularly within the Omicron lineage, highlights the virus's remarkable ability to adapt under shifting immune pressures. A central molecular battleground in this evolutionary arms race is the spike receptor-binding domain, which must simultaneously maintain high affinity for the human ACE2 receptor while evading recognition by neutralizing antibodies. In this study, we construct and analyze multiple combinatorial libraries of SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain variants spanning major branches of Omicron evolution, including BA.1, BA.2, BA.5, XBB, and JN.1. Using high-throughput yeast display and binding assays, we map the effects of thousands of mutations and their combinations on ACE2 binding and antibody evasion. Our results reveal that while many receptor-binding domain mutations exhibit additive effects, several mutations interact epistatically in a background-dependent manner. In particular, we identify synergistic interactions between BA.1 and BA.5 mutations that enhance antibody evasion, likely facilitating the rise of recombinant variants and convergent evolution. Conversely, some mutations show lineage-restricted compatibility, suggesting potential constraints on future evolutionary trajectories. Our comprehensive genotype-to-phenotype maps uncover both rugged and smooth regions of the viral fitness landscape and underscore the importance of epistasis in shaping SARS-CoV-2 evolution. These findings improve our ability to anticipate future viral variants and provide a framework for understanding how host-pathogen coevolution unfolds at the molecular level.
41870123 | Multifunctional ACE2-nanobody fusion design for pan-specific neutralization and cardiovascular protection in SARS coronavirus infection. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronaviruses use the ACE2 receptor for viral entry while downregulating its activity, potentially leading to hypertension and major organ injuries. Dual-action technologies based on soluble ACE2 aimed to neutralize the virus while restoring ACE2's normal enzymatic activity. Here, we describe a novel general molecular design, VHHSpike-ACE2ECD-VHHAlbumin, in the toolbox of ACE2-centric therapeutic modalities. The optimized nanobody module VHHSpike afforded strong pan-specific binding against the entire sarbecoviral clade. This correlated with potent in vitro neutralization of pseudotyped virus variants of concern, with IC50 values in the picomolar range. Exogenous enzymatic activity was provided by the ACE2ECD module, which also contributed binding avidity via intrinsic homodimerization. Persistence of enzymatic activity in circulation was increased in vivo via the nanobody module VHHAlbumin optimized for serum albumin binding. Single-dose therapeutic administration of lead compound 72opt-ACE2-R28 demonstrated virus neutralization in lungs of hamsters at day 5 post-infection with SARS-CoV-2. In hypertensive mice maintained under continuous injection of angiotensin II, a single dose of 72opt-ACE2-R28 normalized systolic blood pressure, maintaining a 30 mmHg reduction after 24 h. Overall, encouraging coronavirus neutralization and hypertension reduction showed magnitudes and timeframes appropriate for treatment of typical acute infections. We discuss molecular bases of interactions with coronavirus spike protein molecules and future scale-up manufacturability toward clinical development of this modular design scaffold with high potential against emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants.
41978732 | Identification and genomic characterization of BA.3.2: a highly divergent BA.3-related SARS-CoV-2 lineage from southern Africa. In November 2024, a highly divergent BA.3-related severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) lineage, designated BA.3.2, was detected in South Africa, marking the first appearance of a BA.3-derived lineage in over 2 years. Phylogenetic reconstruction places BA.3.2 on an extended branch descending from ancestral BA.3, with no intermediate genomes detected, consistent with a prolonged period of unsampled or isolated evolution. Molecular clock analyses indicate accelerated divergence characteristic of a saltation event, whilst phylogeographic and demographic analyses point to a southern African origin followed by multiple independent exportations and evidence of ongoing global transmission. Relative to ancestral BA.3, BA.3.2 harbours 39 amino acid substitutions in the spike glycoprotein, two N-terminal domain deletions (Delta136-147 and Delta243-244), a four-residue insertion (ins214:ASDT), and a large deletion spanning ORF7a, ORF7b, and ORF8. The co-occurrence of D405N and R408S implies epistasis between these sites, whilst reversions R493Q and H505Y likely enhance ACE2 binding and antibody escape. Extensive remodelling across the spike, including loss of the C15-C136 disulphide bond and substitutions in the SD1 and SD2 domains, may influence spike stability, cleavage, and fusogenicity. The emergence and continued circulation of BA.3.2 underscores the ongoing potential for highly divergent SARS-CoV-2 variants to arise and spread globally. Despite its limited prevalence, the persistence of BA.3.2 alongside dominant lineages, together with evidence of more recent expansion, indicate that this lineage retains the potential to become of epidemiological concern under favourable conditions.
42032729 | PFDN5 synergizes with anti-PD1 therapy to promote triple-negative breast cancer cell death through JAK2/STAT3/c-Myc signaling axis.
42123600 | Mechanisms of Binding and Immune Escape Resistance for Broadly Neutralizing Antibodies Targeting Distinct Conserved SARS-CoV-2 Spike Epitopes: A Hierarchical Approach Integrating Mutational Profiling and Energy Landscape Analysis. The continued evolution of SARS-CoV-2 has enabled an escape from most monoclonal antibodies, yet a subset of broadly neutralizing antibodies targeting three newly identified super-conserved RBD epitopes-SCORE-A, SCORE-B, and SCORE-C-retains remarkable activity against even the most recent JN.1-derived sublineages. Here, we employed an integrated computational framework combining conformational dynamics, mutational scanning, MM-GBSA binding energetics, and frustration profiling to dissect the molecular mechanisms by which XGI antibodies achieve broad neutralization and resistance to immune escape. Structural analysis revealed that all three SCORE epitopes share a common architecture: a highly conserved, minimally frustrated core that provides stable anchoring, flanked by peripheral regions that accommodate antibody-specific variations. Conformational dynamics showed that SCORE-A antibodies (XGI-183) rigidify the lateral epitope while leaving the RBM partially mobile; SCORE-B antibodies (XGI-198, XGI-203) clamp the RBM apex, directly blocking ACE2; and SCORE-C antibodies (XGI-171) allosterically loosen the RBM loop, impairing receptor engagement indirectly. Mutational scanning identified a hierarchical hotspot organization where primary hotspots (e.g., K356, T500, Y380, T385) are evolutionarily constrained and minimally frustrated, while secondary hotspots (e.g., V503, Y508, S383) are neutrally frustrated and represent the principal sites of immune-driven mutations. MM-GBSA decomposition revealed that van der Waals-driven hydrophobic packing dominates binding, with electrostatic interactions providing auxiliary stabilization. Critically, frustration analysis demonstrated that immune escape hotspots reside precisely in zones of neutral frustration-\energetic playgrounds\ that permit mutational exploration without destabilizing the RBD-while minimally frustrated cores are evolutionarily locked. The comparative analysis of conformational versus mutational frustration distributions revealed a unifying principle: aligned neutral frustration yields permissive, escape-prone interfaces; decoupling enables the targeting of constrained cores; and the convergence of minimal frustration in both distributions creates invulnerable interfaces. These findings establish that broad neutralization arises not from ultra-high-affinity anchors but from strategic energy distribution across rigid, evolutionarily informed interfaces, providing a roadmap for designing next-generation therapeutics that target the invulnerable cores of viral surface proteins.
41890193 | The mechanisms underlying COVID-19 induced insulin resistance: a narrative review. The COVID-19 pandemic, caused by SARS-CoV-2, has resulted in a significant increase in insulin resistance and new-onset diabetes among recovered individuals. This review examines the multifactorial mechanisms underlying these metabolic complications, including activation of the immune system and inflammatory cascades, lifestyle changes, nutritional deficiencies, imbalances in amino acid metabolism, alterations in ketogenesis, disruptions in the gut microbiome, psychological impacts, and COVID-19 vaccines. We discuss how these factors collectively contribute to insulin resistance, particularly in the context of COVID-19, and highlight potential therapeutic strategies, such as dietary interventions and ACE2 activators, that may mitigate these effects. Our analysis underscores the need for targeted approaches to prevent and treat insulin resistance in post-COVID-19 patients, emphasizing the importance of understanding the pandemic's long-term metabolic consequences.
41842944 | Position-5-Driven Reorientation of an Immunodominant HLA-A*24:02 SARS-CoV-2 Epitope Drives Universal T-cell Escape. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes form a critical component of SARS-CoV-2 immunity by recognizing viral peptides bound to HLA class I molecules. Here, we identified the Spike-derived peptide NYNYLYRLF448-456 (NF9) as the immunodominant HLA-A*24:02-restricted epitope in both convalescent and vaccinated donors. Across cohorts, A24/NF9-specific responses were dominated by public TCR motifs featuring TRAV12-1 (or TRAV6-1) paired with TRBJ2-7 and a conserved CDR3beta sequence (CASSXXXGYEQYF). Using a panel of thirteen TCRs, we mapped recognition of single amino acid substitutions within NF9 and identified residue 5 (L452) as the principal determinant of escape. The L452R substitution, characteristic of the Delta variant, abolished recognition across all tested TCRs despite preserved HLA binding. Crystallography of a representative public TCR (P1-15) revealed that mutation at position 5 reoriented the peptide within HLA-A*24:02, flipping the adjacent Y453 side chain into the peptide-binding groove and eliminating the dominant TCR contact. This position-5-driven conformational switch provided a structural mechanism for universal loss of NF9 recognition by HLA-A*24:02-restricted T-cells. Consistent with this, Delta-infected convalescents failed to mount de novo NF9-5R-specific responses while retaining responses to the conserved A24/QI9 Spike epitope. Together, these findings defined the basis of A24/NF9 recognition and showed how one mutation remodelled peptide presentation to abrogate TCR responses.
42084357 | A Novel Humanized Lethal Mouse Model of SARS-CoV-2-Associated Disease. Mice are valuable small animal models for studying SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis. Ancestral SARS-CoV-2 strains do not efficiently utilize murine Ace2, rendering wild-type mice resistant to infection. Although human ACE2 transgenic models such as K18-hACE2 have provided critical insights, they express multiple copies of both murine and human ACE2, and random transgene insertion can result in non-physiological receptor expression. To overcome these limitations, we employed a human ACE2 knock-in (hACE2-KI) model in which the murine Ace2 coding sequence is replaced with human ACE2 using CRISPR/Cas9 technology, generating an mAce2-null background. This design allows human ACE2 expression under endogenous regulatory control while eliminating murine Ace2 expression, thereby providing a more physiologically relevant platform to investigate SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis and evaluate therapeutic and preventive strategies. In this study, SARS-CoV-2-associated disease was evaluated and compared among hACE2-KI, K18-hACE2 and C57BL/6J mice. Mice were intranasally inoculated with 105 plaque-forming units of SARS-CoV-2 lineages B.1 or B.1.351. Both hACE2-KI and K18-hACE2 mice developed severe disease after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Following infection with B.1, both K18-hACE2 mice and hACE2-KI mice exhibited significant weight loss and mortality, with high viral loads detected in the lungs and brain. hACE2-KI mice infected with SARS-CoV-2 B.1.351 also showed significant weight loss and viral loads, resulting in high mortality. The pathology and inflammatory response within the lungs and brain of infected hACE2-KI mice revealed robust expression of viral nucleocapsid protein, histopathological changes, and upregulated cytokine and chemokine responses. Together, these findings demonstrate that the hACE2-KI knock-in mouse model supports robust SARS-CoV-2 replication and mimics severe COVID-19 disease.
41986366 | SARS-CoV-2 vaccination and infection elicit cross-neutralizing responses against clade 3 and 4 sarbecoviruses. Two sarbecoviruses, SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 that engage ACE2 through their receptor-binding domains, have caused major human outbreaks. The pandemic potential of sarbecoviruses has prompted the discovery and classification of bat and other zoonotic sarbecoviruses that are also able to use human ACE2 or ACE2 ortholog receptors for infection. However, the current human immunological landscape reactive to these SARS-CoV-2-related viruses is not well profiled. Using a panel of pseudotyped lentiviruses expressing only spike proteins, we assess serum neutralization activity against clade 3 and 4 (also designated as clade 1c) receptor binding domain classified sarbecoviruses in a cohort who received a primary series of COVID-19 mRNA vaccines as well as individuals before and after infection with BA.5 or XBB.1.5 variants. Detectable neutralizing responses against clade 3 and 4 sarbecoviruses are observed in both vaccinees and convalescents and are comparable in magnitude to titers against SARS-CoV-2 variants. Infection with XBB.1.5 increases neutralization titers against SARS-CoV-2 variants as well as against clade 3 and 4 sarbecoviruses. Collectively, our findings suggest that the current immunologic landscape of vaccination and infection may confer some level of immunity against a variety of clade 3 and 4 sarbecoviruses, which should inform future pandemic response and pan-sarbecovirus countermeasure efforts.
40998072 | Single-cell RNA sequencing in high-burden viral respiratory infections: Decoding immune cell subsets and immune-related differential gene expression. Respiratory infections remain a major global health burden, ranking among the leading causes of mortality worldwide. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has emerged as a transformative technology for dissecting the cellular and molecular complexity of these infections. This review focuses on recent scRNA-seq studies investigating the immune landscape of high-burden viral respiratory infections, particularly COVID-19 and influenza, which are characterized by high transmissibility and clinical impact. We provide an overview of publicly available scRNA-seq datasets derived from human peripheral blood and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), as well as lung tissues and explants from murine models, emphasizing their value in profiling immune heterogeneity. scRNA-seq has revealed significant remodeling of immune cell populations during infection, including the identification of novel subsets such as CD4+ c13-MKI67+ CCL5low T cells, CD8+ CXCR3high GZMA+ T cells, and CD56high CD16- GZMB+ NK cells. These subsets are frequently associated with differential expression of cytokines, chemokines, and interferon-stimulated genes that reflect disease severity and progression. In addition, scRNA-seq has highlighted key pathogen-induced pathways, including type I interferon, NF-kappaB, and JAK/STAT signaling, and has identified emerging immune-related biomarkers-such as PTX3, MCEMP1, CXCR4, IFIT1, ISG15, and STAT1-with potential diagnostic and prognostic utility. While scRNA-seq applications in respiratory infections of other microbial origins are limited, its role in mapping immune responses and guiding biomarker discovery in viral infections is rapidly expanding. This review synthesizes these findings to inform future translational research and immunodiagnostic strategies.
38885041 | Uncommon P1 Anchor-featured Viral T Cell Epitope Preference within HLA-A*2601 and HLA-A*0101 Individuals. The individual HLA-related susceptibility to emerging viral diseases such as COVID-19 underscores the importance of understanding how HLA polymorphism influences peptide presentation and T cell recognition. Similar to HLA-A*0101, which is one of the earliest identified HLA alleles among the human population, HLA-A*2601 possesses a similar characteristic for the binding peptide and acts as a prevalent allomorph in HLA-I. In this study, we found that, compared with HLA-A*0101, HLA-A*2601 individuals exhibit distinctive features for the T cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 and influenza virus after infection and/or vaccination. The heterogeneous T cell responses can be attributed to the distinct preference of HLA-A*2601 and HLA-A*0101 to T cell epitope motifs with negative-charged residues at the P1 and P3 positions, respectively. Furthermore, we determined the crystal structures of the HLA-A*2601 complexed to four peptides derived from SARS-CoV-2 and human papillomavirus, with one structure of HLA-A*0101 for comparison. The shallow pocket C of HLA-A*2601 results in the promiscuous presentation of peptides with \switchable\ bulged conformations because of the secondary anchor in the median portion. Notably, the hydrogen bond network formed between the negative-charged P1 anchors and the HLA-A*2601-specific residues lead to a \closed\ conformation and solid placement for the P1 secondary anchor accommodation in pocket A. This insight sheds light on the intricate relationship between HLA I allelic allomorphs, peptide binding, and the immune response and provides valuable implications for understanding disease susceptibility and potential vaccine design.
41841659 | gammac-cytokines in HIV Cure Research. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Well tolerated, scalable strategies capable of targeting latent HIV reservoirs are essential for the development of cure approaches that can be implemented globally. In recent years, common gamma-chain cytokines (gammac-cytokines) have emerged as promising candidates as standalone interventions or in combination with complementary therapeutic strategies. gammac-cytokines exhibit latency-reversing activity and immunomodulatory effects. In this review, we summarize recent in-vitro, ex-vivo, and in-vivo studies evaluating the use of gammac-cytokines in HIV cure research. RECENT FINDINGS: gammac-cytokines, particularly IL-2 and IL-15 (or the superagonist N-803), promote reactivation of latent HIV proviruses, especially when combined with approaches that enhance STAT-dependent transcriptional activity. Recent in-vivo studies demonstrate that IL-15-based therapies can contribute to viral control when administered with broadly neutralizing antibodies. In addition, IL-15/N-803, alone or in combination with other interventions, consistently enhance HIV-specific immune responses by boosting the survival, proliferation, and effector function of NK cells and CD8- T cells. SUMMARY: Collectively, gammac-cytokines show promise as dual-function agents capable of targeting latent HIV reservoirs through latency reversal and immune enhancement. Emerging preclinical and clinical data support their integration into multipronged strategies aimed at reservoir reduction and sustained immune-mediated control of HIV, laying groundwork for the development of durable functional cure approaches.
42105344 | Tiliroside From Pavonia malacophylla (Link & Otto) Garcke as an Anti-SARS-CoV-2 Cell Entry Agent. Flavonoids are recognized for interfering with stages of SARS-CoV-2 life cycle. Then, tiliroside (kaempferol 3-O-glucoside-6''-E-coumaroyl), an O-glycosylated flavonoid isolated from Pavonia malacophylla (Link & Otto) Garcke, was investigated for its ability to block SARS-CoV-2 viral entry. Tiliroside was chemically characterized and tested for inhibition of the SARS-CoV-2 Spike receptor-binding domain (RBD)-human ACE2 interaction using a bioluminescent immunoassay. At 10 microM, it inhibited 63% of RBD:ACE2 binding. Flow cytometry and pseudovirus assays assessed Spike internalization in endothelial cells and Spike-pseudotyped infection, respectively. Flow cytometry confirmed reduced internalization after tiliroside treatment, while neutralization assays showed a dose-dependent inhibition of pseudovirus infection, with an EC50 of 18.5 microM. Molecular docking revealed strong binding of tiliroside to the Spike RBD, involving Lys417, Gly496, Tyr495, Tyr453, and Tyr505, with a predicted higher affinity than that of remdesivir and nafamostat. These results provide the first in vitro evidence that tiliroside may be a SARS-CoV-2 entry inhibitor, highlighting O-glycosylated flavonoids as antiviral scaffolds.
41686430 | Mechanism of RBM15 in Regulating PD-L1-Mediated Immune Escape in Ovarian Cancer Through the JAK2/STAT3/STAT5 Pathway. This paper elucidates the role of RNA-binding motif protein 15 (RBM15) in programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1)-mediated immune escape in ovarian cancer (OC), providing a novel immunotherapeutic strategy. RBM15/circFGFR3/JAK2/STAT3/STAT5 expression was assessed. OC cell progression was analyzed. OC cells were co-cultured with CD8+ T cells. The m6A enrichment on circRNA fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (circFGFR3) was determined. The expression of p-JAK2, p-STAT3, and p-STAT5 was investigated. The bindings of circFGFR3 to EIF4A3 and EIF4A3 to JAK2, STAT3, or STAT5 were analyzed. In conclusion, RBM15 promotes PD-L1-mediated immune escape and accelerates OC progression by upregulating circFGFR3 expression through m6A modification and activating the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway.
41559432 | Decoding miRNA-Mediated Immunoregulation in SARS-CoV-2, HBV, HIV, and HSV Infections. Eukaryotic cells regulate gene expression through multiple checkpoints, including post-transcriptional mechanisms mediated by microRNAs (miRNAs). These small non-coding RNAs inhibit translation by binding to target mRNAs, often within a complex regulatory network involving other RNA species such as circular RNAs and long non-coding RNAs. miRNAs are now recognised as central players in the pathogenesis, immune modulation, and progression of infectious diseases. In this review, we thoroughly examine studies published over the past five years, focusing on miRNAs involved in immune regulation during four major viral infections: severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, hepatitis B virus, human immunodeficiency virus, and herpes simplex virus. Our analysis centres on the core signalling pathways most frequently targeted by miRNAs: NF-kappaB, MAPK, JAK-STAT, TGF-beta/Smad, and pattern-recognition receptor-associated cascades. Among the miRNAs most prominently implicated are miR-21, miR-146a, miR-150, and miR-155. These miRNAs modulate key signalling pathways, thereby influencing macrophage polarisation, T- and natural killer cell activity, antigen presentation, and inflammatory cytokine production. In addition, virus-encoded miRNAs and ceRNA or extracellular vesicle-mediated interactions are discussed where mechanistically validated, illustrating virus-specific regulatory layers. Collectively, this integrative synthesis underscores the pivotal roles of miRNAs in orchestrating antiviral immunity and highlights their potential as biomarkers and therapeutic targets in viral infections. A better understanding of miRNA-mediated immunoregulation may pave the way for precision interventions aimed at improving immune control and patient outcomes.
41676649 | Regulation of virion production by the ORF8 signal peptide across SARS-CoV-2 variants. The open reading frame 8 (ORF8), an accessory protein of SARS-CoV-2, is prone to deletions and mutations across different viral variants, which was first described in several Singapore variants. The reason why viral evolution favors loss or inactivation of ORF8 is not fully understood, although the effects of ORF8 on inflammation, immune evasion, and disease severity have been described. Here we show (using clinical ORF8-deficient viral isolates, virus-like particles (VLPs) and viral replicons) that ORF8 expression dampens viral particle production. ORF8 physically interacts with the viral Spike protein and induces Golgi fragmentation, overall contributing to less virus particle production. Using systematic ORF8 deletions, we mapped the particle-reducing function to its N-terminal signal peptide. Interestingly, this part of ORF8 is severely truncated in the recent XBB.1.5 variant, and when restored, suppresses viral particle production in the context of the entire viral genome. Collectively, our data supports the model that evolutionary pressure exists to delete ORF8 sequence and expression across SARS-CoV-2 variants to fully enable viral particle production.
41062740 | Back to the wildtype: SARS-CoV-2 evolution in critically ill patients with severe lung failure.
38885482 | Safety and Feasibility of Third-Party Cytotoxic T Lymphocytes for High-Risk Patients with Covid-19. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) destroy virally infected cells and are critical for the elimination of viral infections such as those caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Delayed and dysfunctional adaptive immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 are associated with poor outcomes. Treatment with allogeneic SARS-CoV-2-specific CTLs may enhance cellular immunity in high-risk patients and provide a safe, direct mechanism of treatment. Thirty high-risk ambulatory patients with COVID-19 were enrolled on a phase I trial to assess the safety of 3rd party, SARS-CoV-2-specific CTLs. Twelve Interventional patients, 6 of whom were immunocompromised, matched the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*02:01 restriction of the CTLs and received a single infusion of one of four escalating doses of a product containing 68.5% SARS-CoV-2-specific CD8+ CTLs/total cells. Symptom improvement and resolution in these patients was compared to an Observational group of eighteen patients lacking HLA-A*02:01 who could receive standard of care. No dose-limiting toxicities were observed at any dosing level. Nasal swab PCR data showed >= 88% and >99% viral elimination from baseline in all patients at 4- and 14-days post-infusion. The CTLs did not interfere with the development of endogenous anti-SARS-CoV-2 humoral or cellular responses. T-cell receptor beta (TCR ) analysis comparing SARS-CoV-2-specific T-cell responses derived from the CTL donor versus recipients showed persistence of donor-derived CTLs through the end of the 6-month follow-up period. Interventional patients consistently reported symptomatic improvement 2-3 days after infusion, whereas improvement was more variable in Observational patients. This study shows that SARS-CoV-2-specific CTLs are a potentially feasible cellular therapy for COVID-19 illness. (Clinicaltrials.gov #NCT04765449).
39875869 | Identification of patient demographic, clinical, and SARS-CoV-2 genomic factors associated with severe COVID-19 using supervised machine learning: a retrospective multicenter study. BACKGROUND: Drivers of COVID-19 severity are multifactorial and include multidimensional and potentially interacting factors encompassing viral determinants and host-related factors (i.e., demographics, pre-existing conditions and/or genetics), thus complicating the prediction of clinical outcomes for different severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) variants. Although millions of SARS-CoV-2 genomes have been publicly shared in global databases, linkages with detailed clinical data are scarce. Therefore, we aimed to establish a COVID-19 patient dataset with linked clinical and viral genomic data to then examine associations between SARS-CoV-2 genomic signatures and clinical disease phenotypes. METHODS: A cohort of adult patients with laboratory confirmed SARS-CoV-2 from 11 participating healthcare institutions in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) were recruited from March 2020 to April 2022. Supervised machine learning (ML) models were developed to predict hospitalization using SARS-CoV-2 lineage-specific genomic signatures, patient demographics, symptoms, and pre-existing comorbidities. The relative importance of these features was then evaluated. RESULTS: Complete clinical data and viral whole genome level information were obtained from 617 patients, 50.4% of whom were hospitalized. Notably, inpatients were older with a mean age of 66.67 years (SD +- 17.64 years), whereas outpatients had a mean age of 44.89 years (SD +- 16.00 years). SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) analyses revealed that underlying vascular disease, underlying pulmonary disease, and fever were the most significant clinical features associated with hospitalization. In models built on the amino acid sequences of functional regions including spike, nucleocapsid, ORF3a, and ORF8 proteins, variants preceding the emergence of variants of concern (VOCs) or pre-VOC variants, were associated with hospitalization. CONCLUSIONS: Viral genomic features have limited utility in predicting hospitalization across SARS-CoV-2 diversity. Combining clinical and viral genomic datasets provides perspective on patient specific and virus-related factors that impact COVID-19 disease severity. Overall, clinical features had greater discriminatory power than viral genomic features in predicting hospitalization.
41910261 | Role of STAT1 in modulating the host immune response to Plasmodium yoelii 17XL-infected murine blood-stage malaria. The spleen is critically involved in the immune response to malaria parasite infections. However, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying splenic immune regulation and anemia during malaria remain elusive. This study aimed to identify the key regulatory proteins in Plasmodium yoelii (Py)-infected host spleen and investigate its role in malaria pathogenesis. Notably, significantly upregulated proteins in Py17XL-infected mice spleens were enriched in interferon (IFN) signaling, with signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)1, a critical component of the IFN pathway, emerging as the core molecule in the interaction network. Subsequent validation confirmed marked STAT1 upregulation in the spleens of infected hosts. Genetic ablation of STAT1 enhanced mouse survival rates and substantially reduced peripheral parasitemia post-infection and splenic parasite burden. Furthermore, STAT1 deficiency markedly reduced proportions of IFN-gamma-producing CD8+ T cells and interleukin-10-producing CD4+ T cells at day 7 post-infection. Interestingly, hemoglobin concentrations and the proportion of peripheral blood reticulocytes significantly increased in STAT1-knockout mice compared with those in wild-type mice, indicating that STAT1 deficiency may alleviate malarial anemia. Altogether, the findings of this study elucidate the impact of dynamic protein changes, particularly STAT1, in the host spleen during malaria and provide a research basis for developing therapeutic interventions for malaria.IMPORTANCEThe cumulative findings demonstrate the pathogenic role of STAT1 in host spleen during Py17XL parasite infection, highlighting its role in promoting IFN-gamma production and exacerbating malarial anemia. This study offers novel insights into the key pathogenic mechanisms observed in the host spleen during malaria, providing potential therapeutic targets for malaria.
42084739 | JAK/STAT inhibition reprograms T cell activation and metabolism in inflammatory arthritis patients. OBJECTIVES: Inflammatory arthritis (IA) is a group of autoimmune diseases characterised by joint inflammation and progressive damage, thus impairing the patient's quality of life. The JAK/STAT pathway inhibitor Tofacitinib has been successfully introduced into the clinic to treat patients with IA, however its direct effect on T cell responses is widely unknown. This study aims to assess the effect of Tofacitinib on T cell activation, polyfunctionality, proliferation and metabolism. METHODS: The effect of Tofacitinib on T cells from peripheral blood, synovial fluid and synovial tissue was evaluated with multidimensional flow cytometric analysis. T cell proliferation was assessed by flow cytometry and T cell metabolism was examined by qPCR and Seahorse XF analyser. To investigate the effect of Tofacitinib on T cell polarisation, naive T cells were differentiated into Th1, Th2 and Th17 with specific cytokine cocktails. Soluble mediators were evaluated by MSD multiplex analysis. RESULTS: Tofacitinib significantly inhibited T helper cell activation as evidenced by a marked reduction in the frequency of PD-1/CD69/CD25-positive cells (p < 0.01). Reduced activation was consistent with impairment of pathogenic polyfunctionality of peripheral blood and synovial tissue-derived T cells. The impact of Tofacitinib on T cell plasticity was further substantiated by reduced T cell polarisation towards Th1 (p < 0.05), Th2 (p < 0.05), Th17 (p < 0.05) and a reduction in genes associated with T cell functions. The attenuation of pathogenic T cell responses is linked to metabolic adaptation, with Tofacitinib leading to a switch in metabolic capacity, mainly ascribed to the CD4-CD8+ T cell compartment. CONCLUSIONS: Tofacitinib strongly alters T cell responses and potentially limits T cell pathogenicity by decreasing their activation, polyfunctionality, differentiation, and metabolic potential in both the circulation and the joints of patients with inflammatory arthritis.
41871083 | Identification of polyphenols as novel neuropilin-1 cendR pocket inhibitors to block SARS-CoV-2 entry and enhance variant resistance. Neuropilin-1 (NRP-1) functions as an essential co-receptor for SARS-CoV-2, facilitating viral entry by binding the spike protein's C-end rule (CendR) motif in its b1 domain, yet it has received less attention than ACE2 in therapeutic development. This in silico study evaluates plant-derived polyphenols as potential selective inhibitors of the NRP-1 CendR pocket to disrupt SARS-CoV-2 engagement, addressing limitations of synthetic inhibitors like EG01377, which exhibit modest affinity (-5.83 kcal/mol) and potential off-target risks. High-throughput molecular docking of 10,000 phytochemicals using AutoDock Vina identified 10 polyphenols with binding affinities ranging from -9.87 to -6.63 kcal/mol, led by 6\-O-acetyldaidzin (-9.87 kcal/mol) and phloretin (-8.64 kcal/mol), forming stable hydrogen bonds and pi-cation interactions with critical residues (e.g., THR-401, GLU-367 for 6\-O-acetyldaidzin; PRO-311, ILE-400 for phloretin), as visualized in Discovery Studio. Notably, four of the top inhibitors are isoflavonoid derivatives, highlighting a chemical class enrichment. Molecular dynamics simulations over 100 ns using Desmond indicated moderate complex stability (RMSD: 0.6-3.8 A; RMSF <0.5 A at binding site). ADMET-Tox profiling via SwissADME and ProTox-II revealed drug-like properties, including high gastrointestinal absorption (>70% for leads) and low toxicity (classes 4-5), though 6\-O-acetyldaidzin shows limited bioavailability due to its high H-bond acceptor count (10) and large size, suggesting need for formulation optimization. The NRP-1 b1 homology model, built with SWISS-MODEL, exhibited high fidelity (GMQE: 0.79; Ramachandran favored regions: 90.3%). This focused computational screening of polyphenols against NRP-1 complements prior studies and identifies candidates for experimental validation as potential SARS-CoV-2 inhibitors. Limitations include the in silico nature, and lack of membrane/sialic acid models, necessitating in vitro and in vivo testing against SARS-CoV-2 variants.
41967233 | Lisboaeflavanonol A: a novel Amazonian molecule as a potent antiviral compound with activity against SARS-CoV-2. The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the urgent need for effective antiviral therapies against Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and its emerging variants. Amazonian biodiversity represents an immeasurable source of natural compounds with unexplored potential against viruses. In this context, Lisboaeflavanonol A (LFA) is a novel glycosyl flavonoid isolated from Eugenia lisboae leaves that was shown by our previous in silico analysis to potentially inhibit the SARS-CoV-2 proteins 3-chymotrypsin-like cysteine protease (3CLpro) and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). Here we aimed to validate the anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity of LFA. This was first assessed using a VSV/SARS-CoV-2 pseudotyped virus system in Vero E6 cells. LFA exhibited a CC50 of 209.7 microg/ml (  370.0 microM), EC50 of 11.6 microg/ml (  20.5 microM), and a selective index (SI) of 18.1. Furthermore, using a SARS-CoV-2WT infectious clone expressing Neongreen in A549-ACE2-TMPRSS2 cells, LFA had a CC50 and EC50 of 185.7 microg/ml (  327.8 microM) and of 4.6 microg/ml (  8.1 microM), respectively; and SI of 40.4. In time of addition assays, LFA strongly inhibited SARS-CoV-2 at post-entry stages and further characterize the post-entry activity we used a SARS-CoV-2 subgenomic replicon and demonstrated that RNA synthesis was also strongly inhibited by LFA. Finally, LFA showed cross-variant antiviral potential against SARS-CoV-2 Delta and Omicron variants. Our findings suggest that LFA possesses great potential as an antiviral compound and can serve as a scaffold for the development of novel antiviral drugs against SARS-CoV-2.
41155463 | DD-CC-II: Data Driven Cell-Cell Interaction Inference and Its Application to COVID-19. Cell-cell interactions play a pivotal role in maintaining tissue homeostasis and driving disease progression. Conventional Cell-cell interactions modeling approaches depend on ligand-receptor databases, which often fail to capture context-specific or newly emerging signaling mechanisms. To address this limitation, we propose a data-driven computational framework, data-driven cell-cell interaction inference (DD-CC-II), which employs a graph-based model using eigen-cells to represent cell groups. DD-CC-II uses eigen-cells (i.e., functional module within the cell population) to characterize cell groups and construct correlation coefficient networks to model between-group associations. Correlation coefficient networks between eigen-cells are constructed, and their statistical significance is evaluated via over-representation analysis and hypergeometric testing. Monte Carlo simulations demonstrate that DD-CC-II achieves superior performance in inferring CCIs compared with ligand-receptor-based methods. The application to whole-blood RNA-seq data from the Japan COVID-19 Task Force revealed severity stage-specific interaction patterns. Markers such as FOS, CXCL8, and HLA-A were associated with high severity, whereas IL1B, CD3D, and CCL5 were related to low severity. The systemic lupus erythematosus pathway emerged as a potential immune mechanism underlying disease severity. Overall, DD-CC-II provides a data-centric approach for mapping the cellular communication landscape, facilitating a better understanding of disease progression at the intercellular level.
41613115 | From immunological mechanisms to targeted therapies: a bibliometric analysis of vitiligo treatment research (2005-2025). Background: Vitiligo is a chronic autoimmune disorder characterized by CD8+ T cell-mediated destruction of melanocytes. It affects up to 2% of the global population and has a profound psychosocial impact. Over the past two decades, advances in understanding immunological mechanisms, particularly IFN-gamma signaling and JAK-STAT pathway dysregulation, have reshaped therapeutic approaches from empirical regimens to targeted immunomodulatory interventions. Objective: To analyze global vitiligo treatment research trends from 2005 to 2025, examining publication patterns, collaboration networks, and the evolution of therapeutic strategies. Methods: Publications related to vitiligo treatment were retrieved from the Web of Science Core Collection (WoSCC) and analyzed using R (Bibliometrix), VOSviewer, and CiteSpace. Scopus database was used for supplementary validation of major trends. In parallel, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were systematically identified from PubMed to contextualize clinical research. Results: In total, 3, 483 publications were included in this study. Annual output increased at a compound growth rate of 7.27%. China, the United States, and India were the leading contributors, whereas the Egyptian Knowledge Bank and Harvard University were the most productive institutions. Thematic analysis revealed a gradual transition from traditional therapies such as corticosteroids and phototherapy to immune-targeted strategies. Citation bursts highlight the emergence of JAK inhibitors and biologics. Network analyses revealed fragmented author clusters, but strong international collaborations, particularly in Europe. An analysis of 249 RCTs revealed that pharmacological therapies, surgical interventions, and phototherapy constitute the three major research themes. Immunomodulatory therapies, particularly JAK inhibitors, such as ritlecitinib, have emerged as a key focus in ongoing clinical trials. Conclusion: This multi-database analysis delineates the evolving landscape of vitiligo treatment research, characterized by expanding output and increasing focus on immune-targeted therapies. Persistent gaps in clinical evidence, especially regarding long-term outcomes and pediatric populations, underscore the need for continued high-quality clinical studies in this field.
42047312 | FNDC4 and FNDC5 Attenuate SARS-CoV-2 S1-Induced Inflammatory Responses in Human Adipose Tissue. BACKGROUND: Adipose tissue is recognised as a SARS-CoV-2 reservoir and potential infection site. We herein characterised SARS-CoV-2 entry points in visceral (VAT) and subcutaneous (SAT) adipose tissue from people with obesity and determined whether the adipo-myokines FNDC4 and FNDC5 modulate SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein subunit 1 (S1)-induced inflammation in adipocytes and macrophages. METHODS: Plasma concentrations of FNDC4, FNDC5 and angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) were measured in 183 participants with obesity and normal weight. Expression of SARS-CoV-2 host cell entry receptors was analysed in paired VAT and SAT biopsies (n = 121). The effects of FNDC4 and FNDC5 on S1-induced inflammatory responses were evaluated in vitro using human visceral adipocytes and THP-1-derived macrophages. RESULTS: Obesity was associated with higher circulating ACE2 and increased expression of SARS-CoV-2 entry receptors (ACE2, CD147, DPP4 and neuropilin-1) in VAT, whereas plasma FNDC4 and FNDC5 levels were reduced. FNDC4, FNDC5 and ACE2 co-localised with macrophage populations in VAT, and FNDC4 and FNDC5 transcripts positively correlated with genes involved in viral entry and priming. Both adipo-myokines attenuated S1-induced M1 macrophage polarisation and HMGB1 secretion and reduced HMGB1 expression in adipocytes. CONCLUSION: Reduced FNDC4 and FNDC5 levels in obesity may amplify SARS-CoV-2 S1-induced inflammatory responses in VAT macrophages and adipocytes.
42034896 | EBCatch: A label-free electrochemical biosensor for non-invasive at-home monitoring of viral infection and infectivity via exhaled breath condensate. The ongoing threat of emerging \Disease X'', exemplified by SARS-CoV-2, emphasizes the urgent need for non-invasive, rapid, and accurate diagnostic platforms suitable for home use. Here, we present EBCatch, an integrated system for the label-free electrochemical detection of respiratory viruses directly from exhaled breath condensate (EBC). The platform combines a semiconductor-based condenser for efficient EBC collection within 1 min, a carbon nanotube-based electrochemical biosensor functionalized with ACE2 receptors for specific virus recognition, and a smartphone application for automated result interpretation. Without the need for exogenous reagents or complex sample pretreatment, EBCatch achieves femtogram-level sensitivity (limit of detection = 1.6 fg/mL for pseudovirus, substantially below the viral load in EBC samples of infected individuals with SARS-CoV-2) and delivers results within 8 min from sample collection to readout. Clinical validation with total 155 samples demonstrated high diagnostic accuracy with sensitivity of 95.06%, specificity of 97.30% and overall accuracy of 96.13%, enabling detection in pre-symptomatic and antigen-negative stages. Notably, the EBCatch response reflects not only viral load but also viral activity, providing valuable insight into infectivity status and transmission risk. This versatile and user-friendly platform represents a significant advance toward decentralized, real-time monitoring of respiratory infections at home, enabling timely intervention during emerging outbreaks.
41959565 | Host transcriptomic analysis reveals a defective intracellular environment that limits SARS-CoV-2 replication in CFTR-deficient airway epithelium. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by chronic airway inflammation, yet clinical observations have revealed more favorable COVID-19 outcomes than originally predicted. Several studies demonstrated a significant decrease of SARS-CoV-2 replication in CF-mutated bronchial cells suggesting that CFTR dysfunction may interfere with viral replication, though the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. To elucidate these mechanisms we performed transcriptomic profiling of SARS-CoV-2-infected bronchial epithelial cells with wild-type (WT) or mutated CFTR, using both immortalized and primary airway models. RNA-seq was performed on WT and CF cellular models before and at 24, 48, and 72-hours post-infection. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were defined as genes with a log2 fold change>1 between groups (p<0.05) and significant DEGs were subjected to Gene Ontology and KEGG enrichment analysis (p<0.05). Our results reveal that CFTR deficiency impairs SARS-CoV-2 replication not by altering receptor availability (e.g., ACE2, TMPRSS2), but through widespread intracellular remodeling defects. CF cells failed to activate key antiviral and inflammatory responses, including interferon signaling, AP-1 transcriptional complex, and IL-6-mediated pathways. Furthermore, they exhibited defective unfolded protein response, altered calcium signaling, and disrupted ER-mitochondrial communication. Crucially, pH dysregulation and impaired expression of V-ATPase subunits and autophagy-related genes hindered vesicle acidification, double-membrane vesicle formation, and viral assembly. These intrinsic alterations also blunted virus-induced senescence programs. Collectively, our findings indicate that CF cellular environment is intrinsically unfavorable to SARS-CoV-2, limiting its replication and propagation. This study provides a mechanistic basis for the reduced viral burden observed in CF and highlights intracellular pH regulation and organelle homeostasis as potential therapeutic targets against SARS-CoV-2 infection.
40565000 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF7a Protein Impedes Type I Interferon-Activated JAK/STAT Signaling by Interacting with HNRNPA2B1. The pandemic of Coronavirus Disease 2019 has triggered a worldwide public health emergency. Its pathogen, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has developed multiple strategies for effectively evading the host immune defenses, including inhibition of interferon (IFN) signaling. Several viral proteins of SARS-CoV-2 are believed to interfere with IFN signaling. In this study, we found that the SARS-CoV-2 accessory protein ORF7a considerably impaired IFN-activated Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling via suppression of the nuclear translocation of IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) and the activation of STAT2. ORF7a dampened STAT2 activation without altering the expression and phosphorylation of Janus kinases (JAKs). A co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) assay was performed to gather ORF7a protein, but it failed to precipitate STAT2. Interestingly, mass spectrometry and immunoblotting analyses of the ORF7a co-IP product revealed that ORF7a interacted with an RNA-binding protein, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2B1 (HNRNPA2B1), and HNRNPA2B1 was related to the inhibitory effect of ORF7a on STAT2 phosphorylation. Moreover, examination of ORF7a deletion constructs revealed that the C-terminal region of ORF7a (amino acids 96 to 122) is crucial for suppressing IFN-induced JAK/STAT signaling activation. In conclusion, we discovered that SARS-CoV-2 ORF7a antagonizes type I IFN-activated JAK/STAT signaling by interacting with HNRNPA2B1, and the C-terminal region of ORF7a is responsible for its inhibitory effect.
41619729 | Stepwise epigenetic signal integration drives adaptive programming of cytotoxic lymphocytes. Lymphocyte differentiation during infection depends on the integration of antigen and cytokine signals, yet how the timing and sequence of these cues program cell fate remains unclear. We found that interleukin-12 (IL-12) plays a context-dependent role in immune memory formation. Without prior antigen-receptor signaling, IL-12 drove cytotoxic lymphocytes toward terminal effector differentiation. In contrast, antigen signaling redirected IL-12-STAT4 activity through cooperation with AP-1 transcription factors to promote memory formation. This stepwise signal integration enabled lymphocytes to acquire memory rather than effector fates. Whereas CD8+ T cells were protected from premature IL-12 signaling by delayed receptor expression, natural killer (NK) cells, which constitutively express the IL-12 receptor, must engage their antigen receptor before cytokine signaling for efficient adaptive programming. Together, these findings define a framework in which sequential antigen and cytokine signaling coordinates effector versus memory differentiation, ensuring both robust primary responses and selective enrichment of high-avidity memory clones.
41893791 | SARS-CoV-2 Infection and Vaccination, Immune Dysregulation, and Cancer. Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection induces heterogeneous immune responses that influence both acute disease severity and long-term immune remodeling. A key question in the context of infection and vaccination is whether SARS-CoV-2 exerts direct oncogenic effects or instead acts as a transient immunological stressor capable of reinforcing tumor-permissive pathways. Current evidence does not support classical viral oncogenesis. Rather, severe infection is characterized by early interferon (IFN) imbalance followed by NF-kappaB-dominant inflammatory amplification, promoting sustained IL-6/JAK-STAT3 and MAPK signaling, chronic cytokine production, metabolic reprogramming, and impaired antitumor immune surveillance. At the molecular level, viral structural proteins modulate host signaling networks. The spike (S1) protein engages TLR2/TLR4-MyD88 pathways, activating NF-kappaB and MAPK cascades, while the membrane (M) protein reinforces NF-kappaB-STAT3 circuits linked to epithelial-mesenchymal transition and inflammatory gene expression. These mechanisms intensify pre-existing oncogenic signaling without initiating malignant transformation. Tissue-specific responses are further shaped by IFN competence, renin-angiotensin system balance, and metabolic context. In parallel, immune evasion programs shared by chronic viral infection and cancer, including checkpoint upregulation, impaired antigen presentation, and suppressive myeloid expansion, may be transiently reinforced following severe infection. In contrast, SARS-CoV-2 vaccination induces spatially restricted, self-limited innate activation without sustained inflammatory signaling or persistent antigen exposure. By preventing severe disease and chronic immune dysregulation, vaccination interrupts pathways hypothesized to intersect with cancer biology, with no evidence of increased cancer incidence. Ongoing longitudinal studies are required to clarify the long-term oncologic implications of post-infectious immune remodeling.
41950320 | From vibrations to function: Spectroscopic detection and quantification of pi-pi stacking in drug-responsive protein complexes. Aromatic pi-pi stacking interactions are fundamental to protein architecture, molecular recognition, and drug efficacy, yet directly quantifying them under near-physiological conditions has remained challenging. Here, we use a recently developed spectroscopic platform, thermostable Raman interaction profiling (TRIP), that enables direct, label-free detection and quantification of aromatic pi-pi interactions in complex protein environments. Using the SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2) main protease (Mpro) as a biologically and clinically relevant model, we demonstrate that subtle changes in the phenylalanine benzene ring breathing (BRB) mode serve as a precise spectroscopic indicator of pi-pi stacking strength. This signal is highly responsive to both protein concentration-dependent dimerization and ligand-induced structural changes. Mpro forms a catalytically active dimer stabilized by a conserved aromatic triad (phenylalanine-140, histidine-163, and histidine-172), providing an ideal system to interrogate pi-stacking at an important protein interface. Potent inhibitors MPI8 and nirmatrelvir produced the strongest BRB spectral shifts, broadening, and intensity changes, consistent with enhanced aromatic stacking and dimer stabilization, whereas halicin and VB-B-145 showed weaker engagement. BRB spectral changes also showed quantitative correlation with dimerization efficiency, published IC50 (median inhibitory concentration) values, and antiviral efficacy in A549-ACE2 cells. Complementary density functional theory revealed electron density rearrangements and vibrational coupling patterns unique to stacked aromatic residues. This integrated spectroscopic-computational approach enables quantitative probing of pi-pi stacking in native-like protein environments and positioning TRIP as a generalizable tool for designing drugs targeting aromatic protein-protein interfaces.
40197709 | Ruxolitinib for Emergency Treatment of COVID-19-Associated Cytokine Storm: Findings From an Expanded Access Study. INTRODUCTION: This expanded access program (EAP) provided ruxolitinib (oral, selective Janus kinase [JAK]1/JAK2 inhibitor) for emergency treatment of COVID-19-associated cytokine storm in patients eligible for hospitalization (NCT04355793). METHODS: Patients received ruxolitinib 5 mg twice daily (preferred regimen when tolerated) or once daily for <= 14 days, or until determination of no clinical benefit was made. Outcomes were clinical status, physician-assessed clinical benefit, and serious adverse event (SAE) incidence. RESULTS: Of 312 patients, 45.5% achieved >= 1-point clinical status improvement. Physician-assessed clinical benefit was reported in 42.6% of evaluable patients. SAEs occurred in 42.9%, with 2.6% experiencing an SAE suspected to be ruxolitinib related. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, some hospitalized patients with COVID-19-associated cytokine storm who received ruxolitinib experienced clinical status improvement; ruxolitinib was well tolerated. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT04355793.
42146300 | Drug Delivery Engineering Strategies Targeting CD4+/CD8+ T Cell Exhaustion to Improve the Tumor Immunosuppressive Microenvironment. CD4+/CD8+ T cell exhaustion, characterized by impaired effector function, sustained expression of inhibitory receptors, and diminished proliferative capacity, is a core driver in the formation of the tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment (TME) and a major obstacle to antitumor immunotherapy. Nanomaterial-based drug delivery systems (NDDSs) have emerged as potential tools for targeting exhausted T cells (Tex), leveraging their unique advantages in precise targeting, controlled release, enhanced bioavailability, and reduced off-target toxicity. This article reviews the latest advances in NDDS-mediated delivery strategies targeting CD4+/CD8+ Tex cells, encompassing the delivery of immune checkpoint inhibitors, cytokines, small molecule modulators, and nucleic acid drugs. These strategies aim to reverse Tex cell dysfunction by modulating key molecular pathways involved in T cell exhaustion (like, PD-1/PD-L1, CTLA-4, NF-kappaB, and STAT signaling pathways), thereby enhancing T cell-mediated antitumor immune responses and remodeling the tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment. Finally, the challenges and prospects of utilizing NDDSs to target T cell exhaustion for tumor immunotherapy are briefly discussed, providing a reference for the development of novel antitumor therapeutic strategies.
42041171 | Remodeling the Tumor Immune Microenvironment by Traditional Chinese Medicine: Mechanisms Focusing on TAM Polarization and CD8+ T Cell Exhaustion. This review focuses on two core immunosuppressive mechanisms within the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME): the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) towards an M2 phenotype and the functional exhaustion of CD8+ T cells. We systematically elucidate the multi-dimensional strategies by which Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) remodels the TIME. The article first dissects the interplay between TAMs and CD8+ T cells and their pivotal role in tumor immune escape. It then comprehensively reviews how TCM formulations and active components, through their characteristic multi-target actions, coordinately reverse TAM polarization and T cell exhaustion by modulating key signaling pathways (e.g., STAT, PI3K/Akt), reprogramming cellular metabolism (e.g., glycolysis, oxidative phosphorylation), and reshaping cytokine networks. Particular emphasis is placed on metabolic reprogramming as an upstream \bridging\ mechanism that concurrently regulates both processes. Finally, the review explores the synergistic potential of combining TCM with immune checkpoint inhibitors and analyzes current challenges, including compositional complexity, insufficient mechanistic depth, and a paucity of high-quality clinical evidence. This work aims to provide a theoretical foundation and forward-looking perspective for developing novel TCM-based strategies in cancer immunotherapy.
42141902 | Differential Immune Cell Distribution Between Arterial and Venous Blood in Healthy Rats. We previously identified differentially expressed miRNAs between arterial and venous blood in rats; however, whether immune cell composition and transcriptional states differ along the arterial-venous axis remains unclear. Here, single-cell RNA sequencing of 119 481 PBMCs, complemented by flow cytometry and protein-level validation, was performed to characterize immune heterogeneity between arterial and venous blood. Cell composition analysis showed enrichment of T cells in arterial blood, whereas B cells, NK cells, and monocytes were more abundant in venous blood. At the subset level, naive T cells were enriched in arterial blood, while CD8+ effector memory T cells were increased in venous blood. NK cell analysis demonstrated enrichment of cytotoxic NK subsets in venous blood and resting NK subsets in arterial blood, whereas monocyte subset proportions were comparable between compartments. Transcriptomic analysis revealed reduced JAK-STAT signaling in venous PBMCs, consistent with decreased STAT3 and NF-kappaB phosphorylation. Subset-specific analysis further showed reduced TNF/NF-kappaB signaling and enrichment of ribosome-associated pathways in venous T cells, enhanced cytotoxic, chemokine, and NF-kappaB-related programs in venous NK cells, and attenuated TNF/NF-kappaB signaling with increased ribosome-associated activity in monocytes, indicating functional reprogramming without compositional changes. Collectively, these findings demonstrate coordinated but cell type-specific immune adaptations along the arterial-venous axis, identifying blood sampling site as a critical determinant of immune readouts and a previously underappreciated source of variability in immunological studies.
41359762 | Investigating the contribution of circulating inflammatory cytokines on the link between obesity and COVID-19. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is more severe in obesity. A cytokine storm was observed in critically ill patients. Since adipose tissue secretes cytokines, we investigated whether cytokines mediate the effect of obesity on COVID-19 severity. Using replicated two-sample Mendelian randomization analyses, we assessed the causal effect of body mass index (BMI) on COVID-19 severity. We evaluated the BMI effect on 41 inflammatory cytokines, JAK-2, lymphocyte percentage and leptin. We tested the relationship between these immunological factors and COVID-19 severity and conducted mediation analysis.Higher BMI increased the risk of COVID-19 severity. BMI was causally associated with five inflammatory cytokines - HGF, TRAIL, IL-13, IL-6, and IL-7 - with replication confirming these associations. TNF-alpha and IL-8 were identified as associated with COVID-19 severity, but with no replication support. Leptin-related genetic variation was associated with COVID-19 severity and supported by replication, but JAK-2 and lymphocyte percentage provided no evidence of association. None of the immunological factors tested showed consistent statistical evidence of mediation between BMI and COVID-19 severity. Our findings support the reported causal association between BMI and COVID-19 severity. Although several cytokines elevated due to higher BMI, we observed inconsistent evidence for baseline cytokines levels increasing COVID-19 severity. Baseline levels of circulating cytokines, JAK-2, lymphocyte percentage, and leptin showed no evidence of mediating the BMI and severe COVID-19 link. Limited participants in cytokine GWASs reduce statistical power, and missing population data on cytokine responses to infection are major limitations requiring resolution to explain cytokines' mediating role between BMI and severe COVID-19.
42008572 | Entry, replication and innate immunity evasion of BANAL-236, a SARS-CoV-2-related bat virus, in Rhinolophus and human cells. Asian Rhinolophus bats are considered the natural reservoirs of an ancestral SARS-CoV-2. However, the biology of SARS-CoV-2-related viruses in bat cells is not well understood. Here, we investigated the replication of an isolate of BANAL-236, the only bat-derived SARS-CoV-2 relative isolated to date, in Rhinolophus ferrumequinum lungs (Rfe) cells. BANAL-236 did not replicate in wild-type Rhinolophus cell lines. Entry assays using pseudoviruses expressing the spike proteins (S) of SARS-CoV-2, BANAL-236, and BANAL-52 revealed that efficient S-mediated entry depends on the expression of human ACE2 (hACE2) and human TMPRSS2 (hTMPRSS2) in human and Rhinolophus cells. Through biochemical, virological, and electron microscopy analyses, we showed that BANAL-236 and SARS-CoV-2 completed their replication cycles in RFe cells engineered to express high levels of hACE2 and hTMPRSS2. Despite efficient viral replication in modified Rhinolophus and human cells, no induction of interferon (IFN)-stimulated genes was detected. Using a screening approach, we identified several BANAL-236 proteins that antagonize IFN production and signalling in human cells. Our findings thus show that BANAL-236 possesses critical features that enabled zoonotic spillover: hACE2 usage and potent evasion of human IFN responses. The Rhinolophus cellular model we established offers a platform for further investigating the interactions between bat sarbecoviruses and their reservoir hosts.
40521007 | Development and Validation of a UPLC-MS/MS Detection Method of Baricitinib for Therapeutic Drug Monitoring in COVID-19 Patients. BACKGROUND: Baricitinib is widely used as a selective Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor for the treatment of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases in clinic. It is now successfully applied in reducing inflammation and suppressing COVID-19-associated immune dysregulation. As knowledge of the appropriate plasma level of baricitinib in COVID-19 patients is deficient, the measurement of the level of baricitinib in plasma during treatment is necessary and important. PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to establish a bioanalytical method to detect the concentration of baricitinib in COVID-19 patients' plasma by ultra performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS). METHODS: The preparation process of the injected sample was to spike 100 uL of plasma and 10 uL of internal standard (IS, upadacitinib) working solution, then add 1:3 of acetonitrile to obtain the supernatant. The intra-day and inter-day precision and accuracy, matrix effect, recovery, and stability of the established methodology were all required. RESULTS: The method was established to determine the plasma levels in 22 COVID-19 patients. After taking 2 mg/day or 4 mg/day of baricitinib, the mean plasma concentrations of the patients were 15.36 ng/mL and 12.64 ng/mL, respectively. CONCLUSION: This novel UPLC-MS/MS method enables rapid and accurate determination of baricitinib concentrations in human plasma, which is suitable for the therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of baricitinib.
41959182 | ISG15-USP18 signaling restrains viperin-dependent metabolic antiviral restriction. Type I interferon (IFN-I) responses are tightly regulated to balance antiviral defense with cellular homeostasis. In humans, interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15) functions as a critical negative regulator of IFN-I signaling by stabilizing the IFN negative regulator USP18, yet the functional consequences of ISG15 deficiency remain elusive. Here, we show that the loss of ISG15 exaggerates the JAK-STAT activation and, downstream, amplifies multiple ISGs including the nucleotide-modifying enzyme RSAD2 (viperin). Our quantitative proteomics, genetic reconstitution, and signaling analyses establish that defective USP18 stabilization skews the IFN response towards viperin expression. This amplified ISG network promotes viperin-catalyzed accumulation of the antiviral nucleotide analog ddhCTP, resulting in enhanced inhibition of viral RNA synthesis and the replication of Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus and SARS-CoV-2. Together, these findings demonstrate an ISG15-USP18-viperin axis that can be targeted to boost the metabolic antiviral restriction.
39878471 | A comprehensive review of current insights into the virulence factors of SARS-CoV-2. The evolution of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenicity has been a major focus of attention. However, the determinants of pathogenicity are still unclear. Various hypotheses have attempted to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the evolution of viral pathogenicity, but a definitive conclusion has yet to be reached. Here, we review the potential impact of all proteins in SARS-CoV-2 on the viral pathogenic process and analyze the effects of their mutations on pathogenicity evolution. We aim to summarize which virus-encoded proteins are crucial in influencing viral pathogenicity, defined as disease severity following infection. Mutations in these key proteins, which are the virulence factors in SARS-CoV-2, may be the driving forces behind the evolution of viral pathogenicity. Mutations in the S protein can impact viral entry and fusogenicity. Mutations in proteins such as NSP2, NSP5, NSP14, and ORF7a can alter the virus's ability to suppress host protein synthesis and innate immunity. Mutations in NSP3, NSP4, NSP6, N protein, NSP5, and NSP12 may alter viral replication efficiency. The combined effects of mutations in the S protein and NSP6 can significantly reduce viral replication. In addition, various viral proteins, including ORF3a, ORF8, NSP4, Spike protein, N protein, and E protein, directly participate in the inflammatory process. Mutations in these proteins can modulate the levels of inflammation following infection. Collectively, these viral protein mutations can influence SARS-CoV-2 pathogenicity by impacting viral immune evasion, replication capacity, and the level of inflammation mediated by infection. In conclusion, the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenicity is likely determined by multiple virulence factors.
41122178 | Development of potent HLA-A02:01-restricted peptide-based cytotoxic T-cells against SARS-CoV-2 infections in patients awaiting a kidney transplant. Background: Controlling viral infections prior to solid organ transplantation is vital for successful engraftment and overall well-being of patients. One promising approach involves the deployment of viral antigen-specific cytotoxic T cells to eradicate viral pathogens. Although there have been attempts to develop anti-viral vaccines in the literature, the limited number of virus-specific cells which can be generated in vitro in the autologous system make it impracticable for autologous therapy. Methods: We developed a straightforward and scalable method for the in vitro expansion of SARS-CoV-2 Spike S1 peptide-specific cytotoxic CD8+ T cells. This was achieved through combinatorial stimulation with S peptide-conjugated polystyrene microspheres in the presence of cytokines IL-2, IL-7, and IL-15 for 14 days. Results: Using A2/S269-specific tetramers as markers, we compared induction of S-specific CD8+ T cells from patients awaiting kidney transplantation (n=67) with that of normal controls (n=65). We found that this method has the potential to achieve at least a 10-fold up to 200-fold increase in S-specific CD8+ T cells in 34.3% of kidney transplant candidates and 36.9% of normal controls, respectively. These SARS-CoV-2 specific CD8+ T cells released inflammatory cytokines, expressed effector-memory T cells markers, and killed target cells in a dose-dependent and antigen-specific manner. Conclusion: Our study demonstrates that viral antigen-specific cytotoxic CD8+ T cells can be robustly enriched in vitro from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of both healthy individuals and patients with kidney diseases using peptide-conjugated microspheres. Our findings provide novel insights into a potential therapeutic approach, using autologous anti-viral CD8+ T cells for transplant recipients/candidates.
41931500 | Non-markovian electron tunneling in SARS-CoV-2 virus infection in structured environments. The role of non-Markovian quantum effects in biological processes is increasingly recognized, yet remains largely unexplored in virology. This study investigates the influence of quantum tunneling on SARS-CoV-2 infection dynamics, focusing on the interaction between the viral spike protein and the host ACE2 receptor. We employed the non-Markovian quantum state diffusion (NMQSD) to model electron transfer mediated by vibrational modes within the structured lipid membrane. Our results challenge conventional semiclassical models by demonstrating that this interaction operates not in the weak coupling limit, but in an intermediate coupling regime where quantum coherence is pivotal. We find that specific vibrational modes significantly enhance tunneling efficiency and sustain coherence over extended timescales. Furthermore, our findings reveal a critical dependence on resonance: tunneling is highly efficient below resonance via resonance-assisted mechanisms, whereas tunneling rates decrease sharply above resonance due to decoherence effects. These results, which parallel coherence phenomena in photosynthesis, suggest that the host's membrane environment actively optimizes electron transfer. This work presents a new paradigm for virus-host interactions and identifies the modulation of vibrational frequencies as a potential new avenue for antiviral drug design.
42074217 | Vascular Immune Crosstalk in COVID-19: RAAS Biomarker Signature Linking Angiotensin II to Respiratory Compromise and Soluble ACE2 to IL-13 and FGF, Revealing Therapeutic Targets. COVID-19 perturbs the renin-angiotensin system (RAAS) and inflammatory pathways, shaping disease severity. Soluble ACE2 (sACE2) and angiotensin II (Ang II) are central regulators of vascular and immune homeostasis. We profiled plasma from COVID-19 patients and controls using ELISA, together with 48 cytokine profiling and clinical data. Both sACE2 and Ang II were significantly elevated in patients. Increased Ang II was associated with oxygen supplementation and dyspnea, and negatively correlated with IL-3, whereas sACE2 correlated with IL-13 and FGF. Comorbidities modulated cytokine expression: diabetes mellitus was linked to reduced LIF and MCP-1, hypertension to decreased LIF and increased IP-10, and obesity to elevated IL-12p70. Age correlated with TNF and HGF, and reduced oxygen saturation was associated with lower LIF. These findings reveal that acute COVID-19 disrupts RAAS and amplifies immune dysregulation, with Ang II emerging as a pivotal mediator of respiratory compromise and inflammatory imbalance, underscoring its potential as a biomarker and therapeutic relevance.
42084032 | Copper(II) benzyloxychalcone analogues as new potential metallodrugs against SARS-CoV-2 replication. Chalcones, a naturally occurring class of molecules found in various plants, serve as both precursors and final products in the biosynthesis of flavonoids. Renowned for their diverse therapeutic actions, chalcones demonstrate anti-inflammatory, antitumoral, antimalarial and antiviral activities. The structure of chalcones allows chemical manipulation, making them attractive for metal coordination, such as with copper, an essential metal for living organisms. Here, we characterize the activity of CuL2phen and CuL1phen against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), in which L1 and L2 are two forms of the chalcones 3-(4-(benzyloxy)phenyl)-1-(4-fluoro-2-hydroxyphenyl)prop-2-en-1-one and 3-(4-(benzyloxy)phenyl)-1-(2-hydroxyphenyl)prop-2-en-1-one, respectively, and phen is phenanthroline. CuL1phen and CuL2phen anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity were studied in the viral replication cycle employing both the SARS-CoV-2-NeonGreen infectious clone and wild-type isolates. The SI of CuL1phen and CuL2phen was found to be 1.7 and 5.5, respectively, demonstrating that CuL2phen is a more promising compound. CuL2phen impaired SARS-CoV-2 entry, predicted by molecular docking calculations to disrupt the glycoprotein S and angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) binding, emphasized by the low EC50 in pseudotyped virus entry assay. Further, CuL2phen was identified as SARS-CoV-2 post-entry inhibitor, probably due to its strong interaction with SARS-CoV-2 double stranded RNA. Altogether, the data suggest that CuL2phen acts by impairing SARS-CoV-2 entry by disrupting the viral envelope as well as interrupting RNA replication through specifically intercalating into the dsRNA. The obtained results give us mechanistic insights into the activity of this promising Cu(II) metallodrug candidate in SARS-CoV-2 infection.
42044812 | 4-Octyl itaconate blocks STAT3-induced ACE2 expression to reduce uptake of SARS-CoV-2. Itaconate is a Krebs cycle-derived metabolite with anti-inflammatory and antiviral properties. This particularly applies to derivatives of itaconate, notably 4-octyl itaconate (4-OI), which has been extensively studied in models of inflammation and infection. Itaconate and 4-OI have been shown to exhibit antiviral activity against Zika virus, Influenza A virus (IAV) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Here we have further analysed the effect of itaconate and 4-OI on SARS-CoV-2 infection. 4-OI inhibited replication of SARS-CoV-2 in vitro and in vivo, in agreement with recent literature. In lung epithelial cells, 4-OI potently blocked expression of the SARS-CoV-2 uptake receptor, Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), reducing ACE2 dependent uptake of viral pseudo particles. 4-OI inhibited the induction of both a truncated version of ACE2 and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3)-dependent full-length ACE2, possibly because of its inhibitory effect on Janus kinase 1 (JAK1). Inhibition of JAK1 by 4-OI will therefore block ACE2 expression as well as other effects driven by JAK1, highlighting a dual capability of itaconate derivatives such as 4-OI for having antiviral and anti-inflammatory effects, which could have therapeutic utility in COVID-19.
42039484 | Specific Aneuploidies Predict Immune Evasion and Poor Immunotherapy Response in Melanoma. Melanoma is one of the leading cancer types treated with immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), yet a substantial proportion of patients fail to respond. While tumor mutational burden and PD-L1 expression are established ICB biomarkers, they leave large gaps in predictive accuracy. Somatic copy number alterations (SCNAs) are pervasive in melanoma but their role in shaping the tumor immune microenvironment (TME) and predicting immunotherapy outcomes has been insufficiently characterized. Here we present KaryoTME, an integrated computational framework that systematically links SCNAs to immune phenotypes using genomic, transcriptomic, and clinical data from over 15,000 patients. Applying this framework to skin melanoma (SKCM) within a pan-cancer context, we identify arm-level chromosome 1q gain and 9p loss as the most prominent SCNA events associated with an immune-cold tumor microenvironment. These alterations act through distinct mechanisms: 9p loss preferentially depletes NK and CD8 + T cells, whereas 1q gain is more strongly associated with reduced anti-tumor immune cell infiltration. At the focal level, regions 1q21 and 1q42 show the strongest immune-suppressive associations in melanoma. Applying the TUSON-Immune algorithm, we predict candidate Tumor immune Suppressor Genes (TiSG) and immune Oncogenes (iOG) within these chromosomal regions, revealing enrichment for pathways including IFN signaling, JAK/STAT pathway, and immune-suppressive cytokine secretion. Critically, 1q gain emerged as a strong and independent predictor of poor survival following anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy across two independent clinical cohorts: the MSK-IMPACT cohort (p = 0.018, N = 77) and a large real-world Caris Life Sciences dataset (HR = 1.2, p = 0.002, N = 1,167). Multivariate analysis confirmed that 1q gain predicts poor outcomes independently of CD8 + T-cell infiltration, B-cell infiltration, tumor mutational burden, and PD-L1 status. These findings establish chromosome 1q gain as a compelling biomarker of immunotherapy resistance in melanoma and highlight aneuploidies as underappreciated drivers of immune evasion in this disease.
41588768 | Deciphering the Regulatory Landscape of mRNA-miRNA-lncRNA Interactions in COVID-19 Severity: Insights from Transcriptomic Analysis. BACKGROUND: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the causative agent of COVID-19, has a highly variable clinical course, ranging from mild symptoms to severe systemic complications. Understanding the molecular basis of disease severity is essential for improving diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. OBJECTIVE: In this study, we performed transcriptome analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with mild and severe COVID-19 to identify differentially expressed mRNAs and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), and to construct a regulatory network including microRNAs (miRNAs). METHODS: Transcriptome analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with mild and severe COVID-19 was performed to identify differentially expressed mRNAs and long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), and to construct a regulatory network including microRNAs (miRNAs) using Cytoscape. RESULTS: A total of 674 mRNAs and 215 lncRNAs were differentially expressed between severe and mild cases, with key pathways enriched in cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction and immunological synapse signaling. The lncRNAs NEAT1 and MALAT1 were identified as regulatory hubs and were broadly expressed across multiple immune and organ tissues. Predicted miRNAs (experimentally supported in interaction databases) were associated with inflammation- and cancer-related signaling pathways, including PI3K-Akt, JAK/STAT, and TNF. DISCUSSION: Our findings are consistent with recent patents (e.g., US2022/0298584A1, EP3892280A3, WO2023147669A1) that propose the use of noncoding RNAs and cytokines as biomarkers for COVID-19 diagnosis and severity assessment. CONCLUSION: Our findings are consistent with recent patents (e.g., \US20220298584A1\, \EP3892280A3\, \WO2023147669A1\) that propose the use of noncoding RNAs and cytokines as biomarkers for COVID-19 diagnosis and severity assessment. This integrative transcriptomic analysis highlights the regulatory role of noncoding RNAs in COVID-19 progression, exemplified by the central hub lncRNAs NEAT1 and MALAT1, which interact with inflammation- associated miRNAs and mRNA targets to modulate cytokine signaling. These findings offer specific transcriptomic biomarkers with potential for clinical application and therapeutic targeting.
41920812 | Computational prediction of binding affinity and structural impact of three Pakistani SARS-CoV-2 spike RBD variants on human ACE2 interaction. Despite the current development and progress in vaccine synthesis, the transmission and infection rate of new variants of SARS-CoV-2 is still challenging in developing countries like Pakistan. Previous studies reported the transmission of new virus variants associated with the mutation in spike protein particularly in the receptor binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2 making RBD a promising target to control the infection rate. Any change in the spike RBD affects the interaction with host angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) receptor. These mutations in RBD assist SARS-CoV-2 entry in the host and enhance virulence and transmission rate. In the current study, we retrieved all substitution mutations in RBD of spike protein in three Pakistani SARS-CoV-2 variants from the GISAID database. Their structures were predicted via ColabFold2 and protein-protein docking was performed using HADDOCK. Interactions between docked complexes were checked by PyMOL and binding affinity (DeltaG) (kcal/mol) was calculated via Prodigy server. The results of protein-protein interaction showed that the mutated hCoV-12471804 variant exhibited a higher number of interactions (202), low Z-score (-2.1), increased buried surface area (4066.4 +- 55.9), and high binding affinity (-21.3 kcal/mol) with hACE2 compared to hCoV-Wild variant. Moreover, the current study provides insights into the effects of mutations in RBD with hACE2 interaction providing deeper structural insight to understand the molecular mechanism responsible for the increased transmissibility of newly emerged SARS-CoV-2 variants. The exclusively in silico nature of this study necessitates experimental validation to definitively quantify the kinetic and thermodynamic parameters of the hACE2-RBD interaction.
41877928 | COVID-19 associated CKM syndrome progression in diabetic patients is linked to pancreatic beta cell dysfunction, rather than RASi use: a retrospective cohort study. Background and aims: SARS-CoV-2 primarily has tissue tropism for the respiratory epithelium; however, it may cause multiple organ dysfunction due to the widespread expression of its entry receptor, ACE2. Specifically, SARS-CoV-2 may enter pancreatic beta-cells by exploiting ACE2, disrupting cellular and hormonal activity, and thereby worsening Cardiovascular-Kidney-Metabolic (CKM) syndrome prognosis in diabetic patients. Furthermore, treatment with renin-angiotensin system inhibitors (RASi) may arguably increase ACE2 expression and facilitate viral entry, making its independent impact highly debated. Accordingly, we sought to elucidate the genuine impact of RASi usage on CKM progression via Propensity Score Matching (PSM) and concurrently investigate the specific contribution of pancreatic beta-cell secretory dysfunction. Methods: We conducted a retrospective investigation involving 682 diabetic patients across CKM stages 2 to 4 with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection utilizing multivariate logistic regression coupled with 1:1 PSM to rectify selection bias concerning RASi administration and identifying predictors. Results: Post-infection CKM progression was observed in 25.2% of the cohort and while initial multivariate models implicated RASi (OR = 1.56, 95% CI: 1.06-2.28; p=0.02) as a risk factor this association lost statistical significance after rigorously balancing baseline characteristics through PSM (OR = 1.56, 95% CI: 0.91-2.67; p = 0.156). A paradoxical finding emerged wherein the progression group exhibited low HOMA-IR scores accompanied by reduced fasting C-peptide and elevated glucose thereby indicating severe viral-induced beta-cell secretory dysfunction rather than enhanced insulin sensitivity while High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol (HDL-C) persisted as a protective factor. Conclusions: COVID-19 exacerbates CKM progression in diabetic patients, but this is not driven by RASi therapy itself. RASi use should be interpreted as a \marker of severity\ for baseline comorbidities, rather than a pathogenic factor. Mechanistically, viral infection may cause the failure of compensatory mechanisms in pancreatic beta-cell function (manifested as low C-peptide and spurious low HOMA-IR).
41952495 | Renal function dynamics in COVID-19: exploring biomarker interactions with D-Dimer and C-reactive proteins. COVID-19, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, is mainly recognized for its respiratory manifestations. However, growing evidence regarding the widespread expression of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 receptors on diverse extrapulmonary sites, particularly in renal tubular epithelial cells, suggests susceptibility of other organ systems, including the kidneys such as acute kidney injury (AKI). In this retrospective study, we explored the interrelationship between disease severity and renal function abnormalities by analysing key biochemical parameters: blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine (Cr), the BUN/Cr ratio, and estimated glomerular filtration (eGFR). Using descriptive statistics and Joint Generalized Linear Models, we examined both the mean and variance components of these markers alongside inflammatory indicators such as C-reactive protein (CRP) and D-dimer. Our findings revealed a significant positive correlation between serum urea levels and both CRP and D-dimer concentrations, suggesting that elevated urea may reflect heightened inflammatory activity. Additionally, eGFR showed a positive association with CRP, indicating potential renal involvement in systemic inflammation. Our in-silico studies supported such observations as genes responsible for CRP and D-dimer elevation were found to be common in AKI associated pathways, particularly IL-6/JAK-STAT, NF-kappaB, HIF-1, and complement pathways, ultimately causing renal microthrombosis, tubular necrosis, and fibrotic remodeling. Notably, serum creatinine revealed no significant association with CRP or D-dimer, possibly due to its lower sensitivity in early renal dysfunction. Although the study is limited by a relatively small sample size and lacks longitudinal data, it underscores the importance of monitoring renal function parameters in COVID-19 patients as potential markers of disease progression.
40378626 | Humoral immunogenicity after vaccination with the fourth dose of COVID-19 in patients with immunomediated inflammatory diseases. INTRODUCTION: On the whole, vaccines against COVID-19 have shown a good level of efficacy and safety, but in the subgroup of patients with immune-mediated inflammatory diseases there are contradictory data about the existence of an inadequate immune response after the administration of the vaccine. The objective of this study is to know and determine the immunogenicity generated after the administration of the vaccine against COVID-19 in patients with these diseases being treated with targeted therapies. MATERIAL AND METHODS: An analytical, observational and cross-sectional study was carried out at the Miguel Servet University Hospital in Zaragoza (Spain) of the Ab levels generated after the administration of the 4th dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in patients diagnosed with with immune-mediated inflammatory diseases and being treated with targeted therapies. RESULTS: A total of 243 patients were included. Only 3.3% of patients showed an inadequate post-vaccine immune response. It was observed that patients with seropositive rheumatoid arthritis showed a higher risk of presenting decreased post-vaccine antibodies IgG levels compared to other diseases such as spondyloarthritis B27 + (OR 0.039) or psoriatic arthritis (OR 0.023). Patients treated with tumor necrosis factor inhibitors drugs had a lower risk of generating decreased post-vaccine antibodies IgG levels compared to other targeted therapies such as abatacept (OR 20.03) or JAK inhibitors (OR 4.12). CONCLUSION: The type of immune-mediated inflammatory diseases and the targeted therapy used influence the immune response generated after vaccination against COVID-19. The diagnosis of seropositive rheumatoid arthritis and the use of certain targeted therapies such as abatacept or JAK inhibitors influence negatively in the formation of antibodies IgG after vaccination.
39875585 | T cell immune evasion by SARS-CoV-2 JN.1 escapees targeting two cytotoxic T cell epitope hotspots. Although antibody escape is observed in emerging severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 variants, T cell escape, especially after the global circulation of BA.2.86/JN.1, is unexplored. Here we demonstrate that T cell evasion exists in epitope hotspots spanning BA.2.86/JN.1 mutations. The newly emerging Q229K at this conserved nucleocapsid protein site impairs HLA-A2 epitope hotspot recognition. The association between HLA-A24 convalescents and T cell immune escape points to the spike (S) protein epitope S448-456NYNYLYRLF, with multiple mutations from Delta to JN.1, including L452Q, L452R, F456L, N450D and L452W, and N450D, L452W and L455S. A cliff drop of immune responses was observed for S448-456NYNYRYRLF (Delta/BA.5.2) and S448-456NYDYWYRSF (JN.1), but with immune preservation of S448-456NYDYWYRLF (BA.2.86). Structural analyses showed that hydrophobicity exposure determines the pronounced escape of L452R and L455S mutants, which was further confirmed by T cell receptor binding. This study highlights the characteristics and molecular mechanisms of the T cell immune escape for JN.1 and provides new insights into understanding the dominant circulation of variants, from the viewpoint of cytotoxic T cell evasion.
40349202 | SARS-CoV-2 Infection Reactivates HIV-1 Replication From Latency in U1 Cells. The global impact of COVID-19, caused by SARS-CoV-2, has infected millions, including those with HIV-1. However, it is unclear if SARS-CoV-2 affects HIV-1 reactivation from latency. Here, we used the U1 cell line to explore how SARS-CoV-2 infection affects HIV-1 reactivation from latency, employing real-time PCR assays and Western blot analysis. Our results show higher levels of HIV-1 RNA after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Importantly, we noticed enhanced reactivation of HIV-1 replication in cells infected with viruses carrying a deletion of amino acids R682, R683, A684 (RRADelta) in the spike (S) protein, compared to infections with viruses carrying the wild-type S protein. This is involvement of host transcription factors like NFAT, NF-kappaB p65, Ap-1, and Sp-1, which facilitate HIV production via TCR-related pathways. Additionally, activation of p-TEFb pathways enhances transcription elongation, upregulates Jak/Stat pathways, leading to increased viral replication, while TLR pathways impact the host immune response. Furthermore, RRADelta showed increased apoptotic activity through both extrinsic and intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathways compared to wild-type SARS-CoV-2. These indicate that SARS-CoV-2 infection could revive HIV-1 replication from latency. The deletion of amino acids R682R683A684 in the viral S protein might regulate further HIV-1 replication and apoptotic conditions, potentially benefiting HIV-1 survival.
40170856 | Characterizing HLA-A2-restricted CD8+ T-cell epitopes and immune responses to Omicron variants in SARS-CoV-2-inactivated vaccine recipients. Introduction: Recent surveillance has identified the emergence of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron ariant, which exhibits the ability to evade multiple neutralizing antibodies generated by prior infection or vaccination. However, significant knowledge gaps remain regarding the CD8 T-cell immune reactivity to the Omicron variant. This study aims to evaluate the characteristics of HLA-A2-restricted CD8 T-cell epitopes from the Omicron variant and analyze epitope-specific CD8 T-cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 inactivated vaccines. Methods: We conducted a comprehensive analysis of CD8 T-cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 inactivated vaccines, focusing on HLA-A2-restricted epitopes derived from the Omicron variant. Mutant epitopes were evaluated for their impact on antigen presentation and CD8 T-cell immune reactivity. Additionally, we screened for epitopes that exhibited reduced CD8 T-cell responses following the emergence of the Omicron variant. Results: Our findings revealed that mutant epitopes in the Omicron variant led to escape from antigen presentation and diminished CD8 T-cell immune responses. We identified two epitopes associated with decreased CD8 T-cell reactivity post-Omicron variant emergence. Notably, we discovered an S protein epitope, 67A>V, which demonstrated similar proportions of CD8 T-cell specificity between the ancestral and mutant strains, suggesting its conservation and potential immunogenicity for vaccine development. Furthermore, the third dose of the inactivated vaccine significantly increased the number of epitope-specific CD8 T cells, underscoring the importance of booster doses in enhancing cellular immune responses against the Omicron variant. Discussion: This study highlights the ability of the Omicron variant to evade CD8 T-cell immune responses through epitope mutations, while also identifying conserved epitopes with potential utility in vaccine design. The observed increase in epitope-specific CD8 T cells following a booster dose emphasizes the critical role of additional vaccinations in strengthening cellular immunity against emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants. These findings provide valuable insights for the development of next-generation vaccines targeting conserved epitopes and optimizing booster strategies.
40700055 | Pharmacological Immunomodulation via Collagen-Polyvinylpyrrolidone or Pirfenidone Plays a Role in the Recovery of Patients with Severe COVID-19 Through Similar Mechanisms of Action Involving the JAK/STAT Signalling Pathway: A Pilot Study. The therapeutic target of COVID-19 is focused on controlling inflammation and preventing fibrosis. Collagen-polyvinylpyrrolidone (collagen-PVP) and pirfenidone both have the ability to control the cytokine storm observed in rheumatic and fibrotic disorders. In this work, our aim was to understand the benefits of treatment with each of these drugs in patients with severe COVID-19. In total, 36 patients were treated with dexamethasone and enoxaparin, but 26 were allocated collagen-PVP or pirfenidone (n = 15 and 11, respectively); the clinical and metabolic effects were compared among them. Since pirfenidone works via transcriptional mechanisms, we performed a human genome microarray assay using RNA isolated from fibroblast and monocyte cultures treated with the biodrug, with the aim of hypothesising a possible mechanism of action for collagen-PVP. Our results showed that hospital stay duration, quick COVID-19 severity index (qCSI), and admission to the intensive care unit were statistically significantly lower (p < 0.02) in patients treated with collagen-PVP or pirfenidone when compared with the control group, and that only collagen-PVP normalised serum glucose at discharge. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis showed that the cell cycle, inflammation, and cell surface-extracellular matrix interactions could be regulated with collagen-PVP via the downmodulation of proinflammatory cytokines, while Th2 anti-inflammatory response signalling could be upregulated. Furthermore, the downregulation of some of the genes involved in nitric oxide production showed a possible control for JAK in the IFN-gamma pathway, allowing for the possibility of controlling inflammation through the JAK/STAT pathway, as has been observed for pirfenidone and other immunomodulators, such as ruxolitinib.
38655616 | Construction and efficacy testing of DNA vaccines containing HLA-A*02:01-restricted SARS-CoV-2 T-cell epitopes predicted by immunoinformatics. Vaccines play essential roles in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The development and assessment of COVID-19 vaccines have generally focused on the induction and boosting of neutralizing antibodies targeting the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein. Due to rapid and continuous variation in the S protein, such vaccines need to be regularly updated to match newly emerged dominant variants. T-cell vaccines that target MHC I- or II-restricted epitopes in both structural and non-structural viral proteins have the potential to induce broadly cross-protective and long-lasting responses. In this work, the entire proteome encoded by SARS-CoV-2 (Wuhan-hu-1) is subjected to immunoinformatics-based prediction of HLA-A*02:01-restricted epitopes. The immunogenicity of the predicted epitopes is evaluated using peripheral blood mononuclear cells from convalescent Wuhan-hu-1-infected patients. Furthermore, predicted epitopes that are conserved across major SARS-CoV-2 lineages and variants are used to construct DNA vaccines expressing multi-epitope polypeptides. Most importantly, two DNA vaccine constructs induce epitope-specific CD8 + T-cell responses in a mouse model of HLA-A*02:01 restriction and protect immunized mice from challenge with Wuhan-hu-1 virus after hACE2 transduction. These data provide candidate T-cell epitopes useful for the development of T-cell vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 and demonstrate a strategy for quick T-cell vaccine candidate development applicable to other emerging pathogens.
41886452 | Innate imprinting of transcriptional trajectories governs respiratory TRM fate and persistence. Respiratory T cell immunity wanes rapidly, and inducing durable mucosal memory remains a major challenge. We demonstrate that precision adjuvant activity, using distinct pattern recognition receptor (PRR) agonists to shape innate inflammation, imprints transcriptional trajectories that govern CD8 T cell fate. Using a nano-emulsion platform, Toll-like receptor (TLR)4 signaling induces neutrophilic inflammation and a C/EBP-NF-kappaB-HIF program that promotes durable, stem-like type 3 CD127+ tissue-resident memory T cells (TRMs). Conversely, stimulator of interferon genes (STING) drives dendritic cell (DC)-monocytic inflammation and activates an IRF-STAT-T-bet axis that programs attrition-prone type 1 TRMs. We reconcile systemic and tissue divergence models by identifying distinct TRM precursors. During influenza, Ly6CloPD-1hiLAG-3hiCD69hi precursors differentiate via local reprogramming (tissue divergence). In contrast, vaccination generates Ly6CloLAG-3loCD103hi precursors in lymph nodes and lungs that bypass inhibitory stages (systemic divergence). Mechanistically, T-bet limits TRM precursor formation and differentiation into long-lived type 3 TRMs. Thus, selecting precision adjuvants that limit T-bet activity is critical for durable mucosal T cell immunity.
42075932 | Molecular Dynamics and Solvated Interaction Energy Prioritize Cannabidiol and Cannabinol as Variant-Spanning SARS-CoV-2 RBD-ACE2 Interface Blockers. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) enters host cells when the spike receptor-binding domain (RBD) engages angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). Cannabinoid scaffolds have recently been reported to bind S1/RBD, block spike-mediated membrane fusion, and modulate host inflammatory pathways, making them attractive candidates for entry inhibition. Here, we applied an integrated computational pipeline to prioritize cannabis-derived compounds as interfacial blockers of the RBD-ACE2 complex across variants. Eleven phytocannabinoids were docked into the wild-type (WT) RBD-ACE2 interface, identifying three cavities, with ligands preferentially occupying pocket 1. Complexes were subjected to triplicate 200 ns all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations for WT, Delta, and Omicron BA.1 RBD-ACE2. Binding energetics were quantified using molecular mechanics/generalized Born surface area (MM/GBSA) and solvated interaction energy (SIE), and per-residue contributions were analyzed together with solvent-accessible surface area (SASA) and residue interaction networks. Among all compounds, cannabidiol (CBD) and cannabinol (CBN) were the only ligands that remained stably bound in pocket 1 for all variants. CBN showed the most favorable ligand-complex binding in WT, whereas CBD preserved favorable binding in Omicron BA.1 despite reduced interface burial, indicating that van der Waals/electrostatic complementarity and solvation, rather than surface coverage alone, govern affinity. Both ligands weakened modeled RBD-ACE2 binding by perturbing hot-spot residues centered on Y505 or N501Y in RBD and E37, A387, and R393 in ACE2. Overall, our results highlight CBD and CBN as tractable, variant-spanning interface disruptors and illustrate how MD-based free-energy calculations can support computational drug discovery against evolving viral protein-protein interfaces.
41466279 | Dimethyl itaconate suppresses dendritic cell and CD8+ T cell responses to halt vitiligo. BACKGROUND: Although dendritic cell (DC)- and CD8+ T cell-mediated autoimmunity is critical for destroying melanocytes in vitiligo, treatment options remain limited by the absence of therapies that cotarget both cell types. METHODS: We first evaluated the association between the immunoregulatory metabolite itaconate and disease development, by determining human vitiligo serum itaconate levels and monitoring depigmentation progression in Acod1 knockout (KO) mice with endogenous itaconate deficiency. We further evaluated the therapeutic efficacy of the itaconate derivative, dimethyl itaconate (DI) in mice and assessed its effects on cutaneous infiltration and the functional properties of DCs and CD8+ T cells in vivo and ex vivo. The gene signatures and signaling pathways involved in DI-treated CD8+ T cells were also assessed. RESULTS: We observed an elevation of circulating itaconate in vitiligo patients, whereas itaconate deficiency accelerated depigmentation in Acod1 KO mice after vitiligo induction. The administration of DI halted vitiligo development and promoted repigmentation, with elevated circulating itaconate levels, increased melanocyte counts, and decreased cutaneous CD8+ T cell densities. Mechanistically, DI dampened CD8+ T cell activation (CD69), effector function (Interferon-gamma, IFN-gamma), cytotoxicity (Gzmb), proliferation, and proinflammatory gene expression (Csf1, Ifitm1, CD49a, NKG2D, and NKG2A), partly by suppressing the Janus kinase (JAK)-STAT pathway. Moreover, DI-treated mice exhibited reduced cutaneous DC infiltration, as well as fewer DCs with mature and migratory phenotypes. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings identify DI as a metabolite-derived small molecule that protects against autoimmune injury by cotargeting DC and CD8+ T cell responses, thereby demonstrating a promising therapeutic strategy and providing a foundation for treating vitiligo and other cell-specific autoimmune diseases.
40635539 | The Genetic Landscape of Acute Necrotizing Encephalopathy: Insights Into the Possible Pathogenesis. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Acute necrotizing encephalopathy (ANE) is a rare and severe type of parainfectious encephalopathy. The pathogenesis and genetic features of ANE remain underinvestigated. In this study we aimed to characterize the genetic profiles of ANE, including novel variants and pathways. METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of 16 ANE patients and 7 controls, collecting clinical data, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) findings, neuroimaging findings, and treatment information. Whole-exome sequencing (WES) was performed to investigate potential function-impacting genetic mutations in RANBP2, CPT II, and RNH1. Enrichment analyses were conducted to explore the associated pathways. RESULTS: The median age of the ANE patients was 21 years, and viral infections such as SARS-CoV-2 and influenza were common triggers. The CSF interleukin-6 level was elevated in four patients (median=598 pg/mL, interquartile range=101-4,000 pg/mL). WES identified 278 low-frequency variants. Four pathogenic/likely pathogenic mutations (p.T585M and p.I656V) and one novel mutation of uncertain significance (p.P2733S) were identified in RANBP2, while the susceptibility alleles of p.F352C and p.V368I in CPT II were detected in three patients. Functional enrichment analyses revealed that, relative to the control group, pathways including nucleocytoplasmic transport, defense response to virus, positive regulation of tumor necrosis factor production, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways were significantly enriched in ANE patients. CONCLUSIONS: This study integrated genetic profiles with the clinical characteristics of ANE patients, and revealed the role of RANBP2 as well as the potential involvement of cytokine pathways in ANE pathogenesis.
41199100 | The disappearance of ORF8 in human-adapted coronaviruses: the Cheshire cat paradigm. We studied the fate of a gene called ORF8 in different coronaviruses species during their passage to humans. We showed that this gene harbored stop codons in many epidemic SARS-CoV-2 variants in humans and in up to 86% of SARS-CoV-2 circulating in 2023 and therefore could be a non-virulence gene whose disappearance helps the epidemics spread. We questioned whether this is a general phenomenon following coronavirus passage to humans from another species, most often bats. We studied SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2, MERS-CoV, and the four coronaviruses endemic in humans for several years or decades and observed gene degradation after species jumps from animals to humans. For SARS-CoV-2, we observed the progressive disappearance of its ORF8 with one or several stop codons and partial or even complete deletions, which is reminiscent of the 'Cheshire cat phenomenon' described in the L. Caroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland novel, where a cat gradually disappears to leave only a smile. In viruses that emerged earlier in humans and adapted to this host, only footprints of a few bases remain, but which are significantly associated with the original gene.
41874029 | Dermatomyositis with Anti-MDA5 Autoantibodies After SARS-CoV-2 mRNA Vaccination Treated with Tofacitinib: Integrating Literature Evidence and a Novel Observation. COVID-19 mRNA vaccines activate type I interferon pathways and in genetically or immunologically predisposed individuals may trigger autoimmune responses, including autoantibodies against melanoma differentiation-associated protein 5 (MDA5). Although cases of dermatomyositis (DM), particularly anti-MDA5-positive DM, have been increasingly reported after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, its clinical spectrum and management remain incompletely defined. We conducted a narrative review of the literature on post-vaccination dermatomyositis, focusing on clinical features, autoantibody profiles, therapeutic approaches, and outcomes. The review was enriched by the inclusion of a new case: a 60-year-old woman who developed anti-MDA5-positive dermatomyositis two weeks after receiving her fourth dose of the BNT162b2 (Pfizer/BioNTech) vaccine. She presented predominantly with cutaneous and articular manifestations in the absence of interstitial lung disease. Treatment with oral prednisone, intravenous alprostadil, and the Janus kinase inhibitor tofacitinib resulted in marked clinical improvement. This case, together with the literature review, illustrates both typical and atypical presentations of vaccine-associated anti-MDA5 DM, highlights diagnostic challenges without lung involvement, and suggests JAK inhibition as a potential therapeutic option, contributing to a more comprehensive understanding of post-vaccination dermatomyositis.
41164005 | Immunomodulatory effects of probiotic Lactobacillus brevis ZG2488 on SARS-CoV-2 vaccine responses in mice. Introduction: This study investigates the immunoenhancing effects of the probiotic Lactobacillus brevis ZG2488 on an adenovirus-vectored SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (AdC68-Delta-S) in mice. Methods: Mice were administered ZG2488 in combination with AdC68-Delta-S. Immune responses were evaluated by measuring SARS-CoV-2-specific IgG in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), IFN-gamma secretion by splenocytes, and transcriptomic and CIBERSORT analyses of splenic immune cells. Results: ZG2488 intervention significantly enhanced local mucosal humoral immunity in the respiratory tract (increased SARS-CoV-2-specific IgG in BALF) and systemic Th1 cellular immunity (increased IFN-gamma secretion by splenocytes). Transcriptomic analysis revealed upregulation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway, antigen processing and presentation pathways, and pro-inflammatory pathways (IL-17/TNF/NLR/PI3K-Akt), alongside downregulation of hyperinflammation-associated pathways. CIBERSORT analysis showed that ZG2488 reshaped splenic immune cell composition, increasing memory CD4+ T cells, Th1 cells, and dendritic cells (DCs), while decreasing macrophages, follicular helper T (Tfh) cells, monocytes, and gammadelta T cells. Discussion: These findings demonstrate that L. brevis ZG2488 enhances the immune response to the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine through synergistic and multi-mechanistic actions, supporting its potential as a probiotic adjuvant strategy.
41936303 | Omicron RBD expressed in E. coli outperforms mammalian-expressed S1 spike protein in generating highly neutralizing anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in mice. SARS-CoV-2 variants are characterized by high transmissibility, rapid mutations, and the ability to evade immune responses, underscoring the urgent need for affordable and easily scalable vaccine platforms. We previously reported that the E. coli-expressed receptor-binding domain (RBD) from both the Omicron BA.5 and the Wuhan variants, administered at 30 mug x 4 doses, induces robust humoral and cellular immune responses in mice. Here, using Omicron BA.5 as a model, we demonstrate that a much lower 5 mug x 2 doses of E. coli-expressed RBD elicited a strong anti-SARS-CoV-2 response even without adjuvant. In contrast, the mammalian-expressed S1 spike protein (S1) failed to do so under identical conditions. With TiterMax Gold adjuvant, both RBD and S1 induced T-cell memory and balanced immune responses; however, RBD consistently elicited stronger responses. In addition, anti-RBD sera neutralized SARS-CoV-2 in a pseudovirus neutralization assay. The superior immunogenicity of RBD is likely attributable to its high purity (RP-HPLC purified), native-like conformation, including all four native disulfide bonds and the enrichment of key neutralizing epitopes by focusing on the ACE2 receptor-binding region. Collectively, these results highlight E. coli-expressed RBD as a promising, safe, and cost-effective antigen for next-generation subunit vaccine development, and suggest that it may serve as a valuable tool for serological testing.
41563854 | The Role of Immune Cells as Modulators of Progression in Polycystic Kidney Disease: A Systematic Review. Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is a genetic disorder caused by mutations in genes encoding ciliary proteins. Increasing evidence suggests that immune cell infiltration, chronic inflammation, and dysregulated immune signalling pathways contribute to cyst growth, fibrosis, and progressive kidney function decline. Notably, features of chronic inflammation are already detectable in early stages of the disease, including infiltration by immune cells, elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and immunological crosstalk between immune and epithelial cells. These immune responses promote fibroblast activation and excessive extracellular matrix deposition via key signalling pathways such as NF-kappaB, JAK-STAT, and TGFbeta-SMAD, ultimately driving renal fibrosis and functional deterioration. Conversely, components of the adaptive immune system have been implicated in slowing disease progression. CD8+ T cells have been shown to exert a protective effect by limiting cyst expansion and preserving tubular architecture. Remarkably, cyst-lining epithelial cells themselves can regulate immune cell activity, highlighting a complex and dynamic interplay between ADPKD and the immune system at multiple levels. Beyond direct crosstalk, immune mechanisms may also contribute to the genotype-independent interindividual variability observed in ADPKD progression. In this review, we provide a comprehensive overview on the role of immune cells in ADPKD, offering mechanistic insight into the processes underlying cyst initiation and progression. This perspective underscores the increasing recognition that cystic kidneys share fundamental features with tumor-like microenvironments, including chronic inflammation, immune-driven matrix remodelling, and metabolic dysregulation. We further summarize emerging immune-related biomarkers and therapeutic targets, providing a foundation for future translational approaches.
39902616 | Induction of the Inflammasome by the SARS-CoV-2 Accessory Protein ORF9b, Abrogated by Small-Molecule ORF9b Homodimerization Inhibitors. Viral accessory proteins play critical roles in viral escape from host innate immune responses and in viral inflammatory pathogenesis. Here we show that the SARS-CoV-2 accessory protein, ORF9b, but not other SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins (ORF3a, ORF3b, ORF6, ORF7, ORF8, ORF9c, and ORF10), strongly activates inflammasome-dependent caspase-1 in A549 lung carcinoma cells and THP-1 monocyte-macrophage cells. Exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and ATP additively enhanced the activation of caspase-1 by ORF9b, suggesting that ORF9b and LPS follow parallel pathways in the activation of the inflammasome and caspase-1. Following rational in silico approaches, we have designed small molecules capable of inhibiting the homodimerization of ORF9b, which experimentally inhibited ORF9b-ORF9b homotypic interactions, caused mitochondrial eviction of ORF9b, inhibited ORF9b-induced activation of caspase-1 in A549 and THP-1 cells, cytokine release in THP-1 cells, and restored type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling suppressed by ORF9b in both cell models. These small molecules are first-in-class compounds targeting a viral accessory protein critical for viral-induced exacerbated inflammation and escape from innate immune responses, with the potential of mitigating the severe immunopathogenic damage induced by highly pathogenic coronaviruses and restoring antiviral innate immune responses curtailed by viral infection.
41655098 | Immunopathogenesis of polymorphic light eruption, role of cytokines, effector and regulatory T-cells and its therapeutic implications. Polymorphic light eruption (PMLE) is mediated by a type IVc delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction to ultraviolet radiation (UVR) induced neoantigens. While UVR normally exerts an immunosuppressive effect with increased regulatory T-cells (Tregs) and an accentuated T helper 2 (Th2) response, PMLE shows a heightened Th1 response. Existent data in PMLE suggests a Th1-skewed immune response with reduced Treg numbers and function, lack of Langerhans cells activity, and increased CD8+ resident memory T-cells. Keratinocytes (KCs) contribute to inflammation by releasing interleukin (IL)-1beta, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-alpha (VEGF-alpha), and adhesion molecules, which facilitate various immune cell infiltration. The disturbed cytokine milieu with elevated IL-1, IL-12, IL-31, IL-36, IL-15, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), and decreased IL-4 and IL-10, contributes to disease pathogenesis. IL-15 accounts for the recurrence of lesions. Various drugs, including immunosuppressive agents and antioxidants, have been tried in PMLE with limited evidence. Emerging therapies include cytokine-targeting agents and Janus kinase inhibitors such as tofacitinib, which modulate cytokine milieu via Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathways. Eradication of microbiota is a novel concept that mitigates the cytokine imbalance. Photohardening with narrow band ultraviolet B (NBUVB) or ultraviolet A (UVA) is believed to be effective as it enhances Treg activity. We emphasise the need for further cytokine profiling in PMLE to tailor targeted therapies, as there is an increasing evidence of a Th1 cytokine overexpression which is not curtailed by Treg cells, and thus, drugs targeting the implicated cytokines would achieve long-term results.
41958541 | Ruxolitinib reverses alopecia areata via a triple mechanism: JAK-STAT inhibition, localized oxidative stress attenuation and selective apoptosis modulation. Alopecia areata (AA) is an autoimmune hair loss disorder driven by the IFN-gamma-JAK-STAT signaling and cytotoxic T-cell attack. Although JAK inhibitors like ruxolitinib show clinical efficacy, their integrated mechanism remains unclear. This study elucidated ruxolitinib's therapeutic actions in a C3H/HeJ mouse model of AA induced by adoptive transfer of activated lymph node cells. Mice were treated daily with ruxolitinib or vehicle for 98 days, with weekly clinical scoring of hair loss. Comprehensive analyses quantified systemic and skin cytokines (IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, and CXCL1/KC), oxidative stress markers (malondialdehyde [MDA] and superoxide dismutase), apoptosis (cleaved caspase-3), autophagy (LC3-II), immune infiltration (CD3+, CD4+, CD8+ T cells), and JAK-STAT activation (phosphorylated-STAT1/3). Ruxolitinib significantly improved hair regrowth from day 85 onward, suppressed key inflammatory cytokines in serum and skin, reduced T-cell infiltration and STAT phosphorylation, attenuated local oxidative stress (lower MDA), and decreased keratinocyte apoptosis, without affecting autophagy or systemic oxidative markers. These results demonstrate that ruxolitinib reverses AA through a coordinated triple mechanism: upstream inhibition of the JAK-STAT pathway, downstream alleviation of local oxidative stress and apoptosis, and disruption of the self-amplifying inflammatory cycle. The findings provide a mechanistic foundation for JAK inhibitor's clinical efficacy and support the development of targeted topical therapies.
42060859 | Mass Photometry Reveals Distinct ACE2 Binding Stoichiometries across SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Subvariants. Since late 2021, the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant has rapidly accumulated mutations in its spike (S) protein, leading to increased transmissibility and immune evasion. The COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2 infections poses a significant global health challenge. While the binding affinity of Omicron S proteins to host receptor ACE2 has been extensively characterized, the binding stoichiometry across subvariants remains unclear. We used mass photometry (MP) to determine the ACE2 binding stoichiometry to different Omicron S subvariants. MP revealed diverse stoichiometries across subvariants, indicating that S protein mutations modulate ACE2 engagement beyond mere affinity. These findings reveal a nonlinear evolutionary trajectory of ACE2 engagement among Omicron subvariants, underscoring stoichiometry as a key variable in viral adaptation.
41439132 | Age-Specific Cytokine Profiling in Children with Mycoplasma Pneumoniae Infections in Post-COVID-19 Era: A Retrospective Study. Background: In the wake of COVID-19, a resurgence of Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia (MPP) has emerged globally since mid-2023. However, the clinical manifestations and immune responses following infection vary across different age groups of pediatric patients (infants, preschoolers and school-aged children), increasing the complexity of diagnosis and treatment. Methods: This study retrospectively analyzed serum cytokine levels in 40 healthy children and 87 MPP patients, with additional cytokine profiling of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) in severe cases, combining KEGG pathway analysis to investigate age-related immune patterns. SARS-CoV-2 antibody levels were further detected in these MPP patients, followed by Spearman correlation analysis to assess their correlation with cytokines in MPP children. Results: Age-specific cytokine patterns emerged in MPP children. In 0-2 years, cytokines enriched in IL-17, TLR, and TNF pathways were upregulated in MPP groups compared to controls, while in 6-12 years, cytokines enriched in TLR, RLR, and JAK-STAT pathways were downregulated in MPP groups. Serum patterns in 3-5 years resembled those in 0-2 years, but BALF aligned with 6-12 years. SARS-CoV-2 IgG positively correlated with TWEAK, IL-22, IL-16, IL-12p40, CCL7, and CD152 in 0-2 years (P < 0.05), but negatively with CCL13 in 6-12 years (P < 0.01). Conclusion: Overall, the immune pattern in children with MPP is age-specific and severity-dependent. Higher levels of SARS-CoV-2 IgG are associated with a more robust and mature anti-infective immune response in younger MPP patients, while in older children, besides providing immune memory against pathogens, SARS-CoV-2 IgG also appears to plant a landmine of immune exhaustion.
40188974 | POLYMORPHISMS IN HLA GENES AMONG BRAZILIAN PATIENTS HOSPITALIZED WITH COVID-19: INSIGHTS FROM A MULTICENTRIC STUDY. Immunogenetic factors such as human leucocyte antigen (HLA) alleles, have yielded contrasting associations with protection or increased chances of hospitalization due to COVID-19 worldwide. This case-control study included834 patients with confirmed COVID-19 diagnosis from five Brazilian states: Ceara (n=110), Mato Grosso (n=192), Para (n=209), Rio de Janeiro (n=211) and Rio Grande do Sul (n=112). Genotyping was performed using the Axiom  Human Genotyping SARS-CoV-2 array, targeting single nucleotide polymorphisms in HLA class I and II genes, and HLA alleles were imputed for eight loci. Among the 15 preselected candidate alleles, only DQA1*05:01 (p=0.015) in the state of Ceara remained significantly associated with hospitalization. The meta-analysis of the most frequent alleles in all states revealed that HLA-DPA1*01:03 (p=0.0229, OR=0.76, 95% CI=0.60-0.96) and -DPB1*04:01 (p=0.0474, OR=0.78, 95% CI=0.611.00) were associated with protection against hospitalization, whereas HLA-DPA1*02:01 (p=0.0259, OR=1.37, 95% CI=1.04-1.80), -DQA1*05:01 (p=0.0133, OR=1.40, 95% CI=1.07-1.82), and -DRB1*03:01 (p=0.0276, OR: 1.59, 95% CI: 1.05-2.40) were associated with increased risk. HLA evolutionary divergence (HED) scores were significantly higher among the non-hospitalized group for the HLA-A locus, which has been shown to be a protective factor for the most severe forms and consequently hospitalization due to COVID-19.
40872797 | SARS-CoV-2 Nsp1 Is a Major Suppressor of HLA Class I and Class II Expression. Human leukocyte antigen class I (HLA-I) molecules present intracellular peptides on the cell surface to enable CD8+ T cells to effectively control viral infections. Many viruses disrupt this antigen presentation pathway to evade immune detection. In this study, we demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 Nsp1 impairs both the constitutive and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-induced upregulation of HLA-I. Moreover, Nsp1 also blocks IFN-gamma-induced expression of HLA-II. We found that, contrary to previously published work, the early SARS-CoV-2 B 1.1.7 Alpha variant lacking the accessory protein ORF8 retained full capacity to downregulate HLA-I, comparable to an ORF8-expressing wild-type isolate. While ectopic overexpression of ORF8 could reduce HLA-I surface levels, this effect was only observed at high expression levels. In contrast, moderate expression of the viral protein Nsp1 was sufficient to potently suppress both basal and IFN-gamma-induced HLA-I, as well as HLA-II expression. To probe the underlying mechanism, we analyzed HLA-I-associated genes in previously published RNA-sequencing datasets and confirmed that Nsp1 reduces expression of components required for HLA-I biosynthesis and antigen processing. These findings identify Nsp1 as a key factor that impairs antigen presentation pathways, potentially contributing to the ability of SARS-CoV-2 to modulate immune recognition.
42102262 | SOCS1 Haploinsufficiency in a Patient with Granulomatous Interstitial Lung Disease and Inflammatory Bowel Disease-like Disease. INTRODUCTION: SOCS1 haploinsufficiency is an inborn error of immunity with dysregulated JAK-STAT signaling and heterogeneous autoimmune, infectious, and inflammatory phenotypes; its spectrum and management remain unclear. METHODS: We report a 29-year-old woman with a novel heterozygous SOCS1 variant (c.494C>T; p.Pro165Arg) identified by whole-exome sequencing. Variant impact was assessed in silico (CADD, conservation mapping, AlphaFold3, PremPS) and functionally by measuring total and phosphorylated STAT1 expression in patient vs control cells at baseline and after IFN-gamma stimulation. We also reviewed data from 20 previously reported SOCS1-deficient patients. RESULTS: The patient had granulomatous lymphocytic interstitial lung disease (GLILD), rheumatoid arthritis, IBD-like enteropathy, and hypogammaglobulinemia, initially diagnosed with CVID. GLILD responded to rituximab; sirolimus was ineffective for enteropathy. Segregation revealed an asymptomatic father carrying the same variant. The patient was found to have an additional heterozygous TACI gene variant. Post-stimulation flow cytometry showed higher STAT1 (24.7 vs 5.8 MFI) and p-STAT1 (43.4 vs 2.4 MFI) levels; however, these differences were not statistically significant (p>0.05). Structural modeling predicted SH2-domain destabilization (DeltaDeltaG +1.16 kcal/mol). Literature synthesis for SOCS1 deficiency patients (n=21) showed median symptom onset of 8 years (range 5 months-44 years), autoimmune diseases (immune thrombocytopenia, psoriasis, etc.), and frequent immunophenotypic abnormalities: lymphopenia 4/8 (50%); high IgE 5/7 (71.4%); low CD3+ 11/17 (64.7%); CD4+ 6/19 (31.5%); CD8+ 5/17 (29.4%); B cells 5/17 (29.4%); and NK cells 4/19 (21%). CONCLUSION: SOCS1 haploinsufficiency presents heterogeneous phenotypes with variable penetrance. Early genetic testing and targeted interventions, such as JAK inhibitors or cytokine-blocking biologics, may improve outcomes.
39456150 | T Cell Peptide Prediction, Immune Response, and Host-Pathogen Relationship in Vaccinated and Recovered from Mild COVID-19 Subjects. COVID-19 remains a significant threat, particularly to vulnerable populations. The emergence of new variants necessitates the development of treatments and vaccines that induce both humoral and cellular immunity. This study aimed to identify potentially immunogenic SARS-CoV-2 peptides and to explore the intricate host-pathogen interactions involving peripheral immune responses, memory profiles, and various demographic, clinical, and lifestyle factors. Using in silico and experimental methods, we identified several CD8-restricted SARS-CoV-2 peptides that are either poorly studied or have previously unreported immunogenicity: fifteen from the Spike and three each from non-structural proteins Nsp1-2-3-16. A Spike peptide, LA-9, demonstrated a 57% response rate in ELISpot assays using PBMCs from 14 HLA-A*02:01 positive, vaccinated, and mild-COVID-19 recovered subjects, indicating its potential for diagnostics, research, and multi-epitope vaccine platforms. We also found that younger individuals, with fewer vaccine doses and longer intervals since infection, showed lower anti-Spike (ELISA) and anti-Wuhan neutralizing antibodies (pseudovirus assay), higher naive T cells, and lower central memory, effector memory, and CD4hiCD8low T cells (flow cytometry) compared to older subjects. In our cohort, a higher prevalence of Vdelta2-gammadelta and DN T cells, and fewer naive CD8 T cells, seemed to correlate with strong cellular and lower anti-NP antibody responses and to associate with Omicron infection, absence of confusional state, and habitual sporting activity.
41486362 | Targeting IL27RA Enhances Immunotherapy in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer by Modulating Tumor Cells and the Tumor Microenvironment. Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has improved outcomes for patients with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), yet resistance remains widespread and its molecular basis is not fully understood. Through single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of paired pre- and post-treatment tumor samples from patients who failed to achieve pathological complete response (non-pCR) after neoadjuvant PD-1 therapy, we identified a marked upregulation of interleukin-27 receptor subunit alpha (IL27RA) in malignant epithelial cells within residual lesions. Integration with scRNA-seq profiles from an independent cohort of three pCR patients showed that this IL27RA upregulation in malignant epithelium is largely restricted to non-pCR residual tumors, and high IL27RA expression correlated with poor survival in TNBC cohorts. Mechanistically, IL27RA suppresses MHC-I expression by activating the PI3K/AKT pathway-rather than the classical IL-27/STAT axis-thereby impairing CD8+ T-cell cytotoxic function. Inhibition of AKT reversed this phenotype and restored antigen-specific killing. In orthotopic tumor models, mimicking systemic loss of Il27ra significantly reduced tumor growth and prolonged survival in immunocompetent mice, with single-cell profiling indicating enhanced intratumoral T-cell and NK-cell effector activity. Collectively, our findings identify an epithelial-intrinsic IL27RA-PI3K/AKT-MHC-I axis as a central driver of immune evasion and ICB resistance in TNBC and support IL27RA as a promising therapeutic target for overcoming immunotherapy resistance.
41602548 | JAK-centric explainable few-shot gene-expression diagnosis framework for alopecia via MultiPLIER priors and relation-style set-to-set comparison. Alopecia areata (AA) and androgenetic alopecia (AGA) both present with hair loss but require different therapies, and reliable biomarkers to guide treatment remain lacking. We integrated bulk and single-cell RNA-seq to compare JAK-STAT signaling in AA versus AGA. In AA, 257 immune-enriched differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified; WGCNA and consensus machine learning (LASSO, SVM-RFE, random forest) yielded six candidate hub genes, and external validation narrowed these to four key genes-granzyme A (GZMA), interleukin-2 receptor beta  (IL2RB) and gamma  (IL2RG) chains, and eomesodermin (EOMES). Building on these biology-anchored features, we introduced an interpretable few-shot deep learning classifier as an explainable AI alternative to a nomogram: bulk expression profiles are projected onto pathway/cell-type-aligned MultiPLIER latent variables (a frozen prior), the latent channels are re-weighted via element-wise multiplication with the expression levels of the key hub genes, and a Relation-style set-to-set comparator then aggregates support-query similarities (Hadamard mapping + permutation-invariant aggregation) before a shallow head predicts AA versus control. This prior-informed approach enables robust discrimination under limited sample conditions while retaining mechanistic interpretability, thereby exemplifying a next-generation XAI solution for small-cohort genomic diagnosis. Cross-database functional annotation and wet-lab validation (RT-qPCR and Western blot) in independent AA/AGA/healthy scalp samples confirmed that the IL2RB/IL2RG-EOMES-GZMA axis is selectively activated at both mRNA and protein levels in AA. Single-cell analysis localized GZMA to cytotoxic T cells and IL2RG to proliferating lymphocytes, outlining an   EOMES +      CD 8 +    T-cell GZMA-IL2RB/IL2RG cytotoxic loop driving JAK-STAT hyperactivation in AA. Drug-gene network analysis linked these targets to JAK inhibitors and cyclosporine. AGA showed no comparable JAK-STAT perturbation, consistent with its androgen-centric biology. In summary, this four-gene loop provides a non-invasive AA biomarker and a tractable target for precision JAK blockade, while the proposed few-shot framework offers a general, prior-driven alternative to nomograms for transcriptomic diagnosis in small cohorts, illustrating an XAI-driven diagnostic approach for precision medicine.
40943589 | Baricitinib and Infliximab Mitigate the Endothelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition (EndMT) Induced by Cytokines in HUVECs. Endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) is associated with various pathologies including cardiovascular, inflammatory, and fibrotic diseases or neoplasia. Concerning COVID-19, multiple organ dysfunctions and long COVID syndrome are mediated by microvascular damage and, recently, the role of SARS-CoV-2 peptide fragments in the induction of EndMT was demonstrated. Here, we investigated the immune-mediated effects of Spike S1 of SARS-CoV-2 on EndMT and demonstrated that cytokines secreted by S1-activated macrophages, mainly TNFalpha + IFNgamma, also induce the phenotypical switch in HUVECs. In particular, a loss of the typical cobblestone morphology is observed, along with a huge reduction in endothelial adhesion molecules, such as vWF, CD31, and VE-cadherin, and a concomitant acquisition of mesenchymal markers, such as N-cadherin and FSP1 protein. In addition, the combined use of the drug infliximab, targeting TNFalpha, and baricitinib, an inhibitor of the JAK-STAT pathway, hinders the phenotypical changes by restoring the proper expression of endothelial markers. The protective effect of these drugs is evident not only when they are added to the culture medium together with the trigger, but also when added later, i.e., once EndMT has been started. These findings reinforce the role of COVID-19-associated cytokine storm in endothelial dysfunction and in the onset of the fibrotic process and sustain the clinical relevance of infliximab and baricitinib for the prevention of vascular damage.
41901725 | Beyond the Mutation Abyss: Revisiting SARS-CoV-2 Receptor-Binding Domain Evolution from ACE2 Binding Optimization to Immune Epitope Remodeling. The SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant and its descendants accumulated unprecedented numbers of spike substitutions yet remained transmissible, implying compensatory mechanisms that preserve entry while eroding humoral immunity. We analyzed 32 variants for sequence-level mutation, physicochemical profiling, and epitope disruption; 25 had growth-advantage estimates, and 18 underwent molecular dynamics/MM-PBSA simulations. We applied a systems-virology framework to the SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain (RBD), integrating immunodominance-weighted epitope conservation (567 B-cell and 97 T-cell epitopes) across variants (Wuhan-Hu-1 to KP.3) with molecular dynamics, molecular mechanics Poisson-Boltzmann surface area (MM-PBSA) binding energetics, and deep mutational scanning (DMS) benchmarking. B-cell epitope conservation declined from a median of 72.7% in pre-Omicron variants to 28.8% in BA.1 and 10.6% in KP.3, and was strongly inversely associated with a breakthrough-infection proxy (Spearman rho = -0.8246, p < 0.001), whereas RBD T-cell epitopes remained comparatively conserved (91.5% to 87.2%). Despite the loss of the ancestral K417-ACE2 D30 salt bridge, Omicron reconfigured the interface via alternative electrostatic contacts (Q493R-E35 and Q498R-D38), producing compensatory interactions captured by MM-PBSA, but with only modest agreement with DMS affinity changes (r = 0.682, p = 0.007), consistent with enthalpy-entropy compensation. Finally, mutation tolerance shifted toward stronger epistatic buffering in Omicron (two-fold higher epistasis than pre-Omicron; p = 0.0093), enabling extensive antigenic change without structural collapse. Together, these results support a multi-objective evolutionary strategy-epitope erosion, interface rewiring, and epistatic compensation-that can be operationalized to prioritize emerging lineages for surveillance and to inform vaccine designs that emphasize conserved T-cell targets.
42014972 | Unleashing the immune arsenal: development of broad spectrum multiepitope bluetongue vaccine targeting conserved T cell epitopes of structural proteins.
42074180 | Diabetes Mellitus and COVID-19 in Adults: A Systematic Review of Pathophysiological Connections, Clinical Outcomes, and Therapeutic Considerations. The disproportionately severe disease course of diabetic patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection was repeatedly observed by clinicians during the COVID-19 pandemic. The overlap between metabolic impairment, viral pathophysiology, and chronic inflammation created a pattern that urged deeper examination. The aim of this paper was to review and synthesize evidence regarding the interaction between diabetes mellitus and COVID-19. We synthesized evidence across mechanistic pathways (immune dysregulation, chronic inflammation, ACE2/DPP-4-related signaling, endothelial dysfunction, and pancreatic involvement) and key clinical outcomes (severity, intensive care unit (ICU) admission, mortality, dysglycaemia/new-onset diabetes, and DKA). This systematic search was conducted in PubMed, Clinical Key, and Google Scholar. The eligibility criteria included papers on adults (>=18 years) with pre-existing diabetes mellitus (type 1 or type 2) or newly diagnosed diabetes/hyperglycemia and confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, published between January 2020 and October 2025, in English language. The PRISMA guidelines were used for data extraction. We identified 412 articles, out of which only 30 met all the inclusion criteria. Diabetes was consistently evoked as a major risk factor for severe COVID-19, being associated with higher susceptibility to pneumonia, respiratory failure, ICU admission, and mortality. The explanation lies in the impaired immune system, endothelial dysfunction, and metabolic repercussions imposed by hyperglycemia. Several antidiabetic drugs appeared protective in multiple cohorts. In conclusion, the accumulated evidence underscores the tight interplay between metabolic disease and COVID-19. Essentially, the clinical management of these patients would be a thoughtful selection of antidiabetic therapy and close metabolic monitoring.
41880376 | Neutralization of SARS-CoV-2 by IgM-14 via engagement of two distinct spike epitopes. Engineered immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibodies typically exhibit superior neutralization potency and avidity compared to their parental IgG counterparts, primarily due to multivalent binding to repeated epitopes on a targeting antigen. In this study, we characterize the neutralization breadth and mechanism of action of IgM-14, a previously reported intranasally deliverable antibody targeting SARS-CoV-2. IgM-14 demonstrates remarkably potent antiviral activity against all pre-Omicron variants but significantly reduced efficacy against Omicron BA.1, and complete loss of activity against the later subvariant JN.1. Resistance selection identified two key mutations in the receptor-binding domain (RBD), G476D and F486P, which disrupt IgM-14 binding and confer strong resistance. Cryo-electron microscopy analysis uncovered two distinct Fab-RBD interfaces: a primary interface overlapping the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-binding region, and a unique secondary interface formed only when the RBD adopts the ACE2-inaccessible \down\ conformation, involving a neighboring spike protomer. Site-directed mutagenesis and structural modeling revealed a critical role of this secondary site in IgM-14-mediated neutralization. Unlike IgG-14, structural modeling suggested that IgM-14 can simultaneously engage both interfaces in diverse modes, indicating a noncanonical avidity mechanism. Collectively, these findings highlight the structural and functional uniqueness of IgM-14 and offer valuable insights into the rational design of next-generation spike-targeted antibody therapeutics with enhanced breadth and potency.
40635091 | Comparison of T cell response to vaccination in rheumatic patients treated with Janus kinase inhibitors and TNF inhibitors. BACKGROUND: Janus kinase inhibitors (JAKi) represent a well-established therapeutic option for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. However, there is a paucity of evidence regarding their impact on de novo immune responses to vaccinations. T cells may confer long-lasting immunity and cross-recognise evolving epitopes of new viral variants, as evidenced by the SARS-CoV-2 vaccination. Consequently, we investigated the de novo T-cell response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination in patients with rheumatic diseases undergoing treatment with JAK inhibitors. METHODS: Cross-sectional study, conducted in an outpatient department. Patients with rheumatic disease who had received two vaccinations against SARS-CoV-2 while under therapy with JAKi (n = 22) or tumour necrosis factor-blocking biologicals (TNFi) (control group n = 16) were recruited. To evaluate the vaccine-induced T cell response, the patients' PBMCs were stimulated with SARS-CoV-2 spike protein peptides. The percentage of CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells responding specifically to this stimulation by producing IFNg was then measured using intracellular cytokine staining and flow cytometry. In addition antibody response to vaccination was assessed. RESULTS: A specific T cell response was detected in 11 out of 22 (50.0%) of patients in the JAKi cohort, compared to 13 out of 16 (81.3%) of the TNFi cohort (p = 0.088). Patients on JAKi had a lower percentage of CD4<sup>+</sup> T cells responding to stimulation with SARS-CoV-2 spike peptides than patients on TNFi (p = 0.021). The proportion of patients with an antibody response and absolute anti-spike IgG levels did not significantly differ between the cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: Patients on JAKi exhibited a compromised de novo T cell response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination compared to TNFi patients. There is a need for further research on the effect of JAKi on T cell responses to vaccination.
42018455 | Role of N-Glycosylation in SARS-CoV-2 Spike Glycoprotein Conformational Dynamics, Structure, and Function. The SARS-CoV-2 spike protein is heavily glycosylated. These post-translational modifications aid in interactions with human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2), assist in antibody evasion, and help facilitate protein dynamics. However, the exact role glycans play in maintaining the protein structure and conformation is not fully understood. In this study, we elucidated the structural function of these polysaccharides in the recombinant 614G HexaPro spike ectodomain protein by PNGase F glycosidase treatment and evaluated the subsequent effects on protein conformational dynamics via hydrogen/deuterium exchange-mass spectrometry. Our results show that enzymatic deglycosylation led to widespread conformational changes, both in regions with glycosylation sites and those without. Notably, the 630 loop, which mediates the receptor-binding domain (RBD) up/down position, became disordered, overcoming the rigidification that resulted from the D614G mutation. Additionally, heptad repeat 2, which plays a role in viral fusion machinery, also exhibited an increase in deuteration. Regions that showed a decrease in deuteration after treatment include subdomain 1, the fusion peptide proximal region, and the coiled coil. We also provide insights into the reduced thermal stability and altered binding behavior of antibodies and hACE2 in addition to changes in deuteration following enzymatic glycan removal.
41931545 | In silico design of a novel multi-epitope mRNA vaccine candidate for BtHKU5-CoV-2 using immunoinformatics. Bat HKU5-CoV-2 (BtHKU5-CoV-2), a recently discovered bat-infecting merbecovirus, was found to infect human cell lines by utilizing the human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor, similar to SARS-CoV-2, which caused millions of deaths. Moreover, its broad host tropism has raised significant concerns about potential human spillover risk. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop vaccines to combat the potential outbreak of BtHKU5-CoV-2. However, research focusing on BtHKU5-CoV-2 remains limited. In this study, we designed a novel multi-epitope vaccine for BtHKU5-CoV-2 using an immunoinformatics approach. Eight cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) epitopes, seven helper T lymphocyte (HTL) epitopes, and five linear B lymphocyte (LBL) epitopes were screened from the spike glycoprotein of BtHKU5-CoV-2. The selected epitopes were joined together with appropriate linkers, and beta-defensin II and MHC I-targeting domain (MITD) were incorporated into the construct to enhance vaccine immunogenicity. In silico analyses suggested that the designed vaccine may have favorable predicted antigenicity and immunogenicity while being non-toxic and non-allergenic. The tertiary structure of the multi-epitope vaccine was modeled and refined, and its structural plausibility was evaluated using in silico quality metrics. Molecular docking studies suggested plausible interaction modes between the vaccine construct and Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and TLR4. Moreover, the mRNA was predicted to show potential interaction modes with TLR3, TLR7, and TLR8 receptors. Additionally, in silico immune simulations suggested that vaccination may elicit humoral and cellular immune responses. Collectively, these computational results suggest that the proposed mRNA vaccine is a potential candidate for BtHKU5-CoV-2. However, further experiments are necessary to validate its protective efficacy.
39704167 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 drives osteoclastogenesis in preexisting immune-mediated inflammatory diseases. Patients with immune-mediated inflammatory diseases (IMIDs) like rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are at higher risk for severe COVID-19 and long-term complications in bone health. Emerging clinical evidence demonstrated that SARS-CoV-2 infection reduces bone turnover and promotes bone loss, but the mechanism underlying worsened bone health remains elusive. This study sought to identify specific immune mediators that exacerbated preexisting IMIDs after SARS-CoV-2 exposure. Plasma samples from 4 groups were analyzed: healthy, IMID only, COVID-19 only, and COVID-19 + IMID. Using high-throughput multiplexed proteomics, we profiled 1,500 protein biomarkers and identified 148 unique biomarkers in COVID-19 patients with IMIDs, including elevated inflammatory cytokines (e.g., IL-17F) and bone resorption markers. Long-term circulating SARS-CoV-2 ORF8, a virulence factor for COVID-19, was detected in the COVID + IMID group. RA was one of the most common IMIDs in our study. ORF8 treatment of RA-derived human osteoblasts (RA-hOBs) increased levels of inflammatory (TNF, IL6, CCL2) and bone resorption (RANKL/osteoprotegerin ratio) markers compared with healthy controls. Supernatants from ORF8-treated RA-hOBs drove the differentiation of macrophages into osteoclast-like cells. These findings suggest that SARS-CoV-2 exposure can exacerbate IMIDs through ORF8-driven inflammation and osteoclastogenesis, highlighting potential therapeutic targets for managing COVID-19-induced bone pathologies.
41255708 | JAK inhibitors remove innate immune barriers facilitating viral propagation. Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors are small-molecule therapeutics that reduce inflammation in autoimmune and inflammatory diseases by modulating the JAK-STAT pathway. While effective in alleviating immune-mediated conditions, JAK inhibitors can impair antiviral defences by suppressing interferon (IFN) responses, potentially increasing susceptibility to viral infections. This study investigates the pro-viral mechanism of JAK inhibitors, focusing on baricitinib, across various cell lines, organoids, and viral strains, including a recombinant Rift Valley fever virus, influenza A virus, SARS-CoV-2, and wild-type adenovirus. Our findings demonstrate that baricitinib suppresses transcription of IFN-stimulated genes in non-infected cells, which is triggered by type I IFNs produced by infected cells, facilitating viral propagation. The pro-viral effect was influenced by viral load, inhibitor concentration, and structural characteristics of the compound. These results underscore the dual effects of JAK inhibitors: reducing inflammation while potentially exacerbating viral infections. Additionally, the findings highlight opportunities to leverage JAK inhibitors for viral research, vaccine production, and drug screening.
42034941 | Coronavirus nucleocapsid proteins hijack host protein kinase A catalytic subunit alpha into nucleus to evade from STAT1 signaling. The role of the cAMP/PKA pathway in antiviral innate immunity, including during coronavirus infections, remains unclear. We discovered coronavirus N proteins initiate cAMP-ADCY10-PKA cascade. Cytoplasmic PKA activates STAT1 independently of canonical JAK/TYR2 signaling. Coronavirus N proteins, via a conserved arginine (e.g., PEDV R58, SARS-CoV-2 R92), directly bind and sequester PKA Calpha into the nucleus to evade STAT1 activation. Using PEDV as a model, mutant viruses with NmutNLS and NR58A were generated. Wildtype PEDV infection suppressed STAT1 activation in cells expressing PKA Calpha/PKA CalphaS339A deficient in STAT1 phosphorylation. However, in rXS0101mutNLS- or rXS0101R58A-infected cells, only PKA CalphaS339A expression inhibited STAT1 activation. Downregulation of STAT1 activation is accompanied with increased viral replication. This study first elaborates that PKA Calpha activates STAT1 in the cytoplasm of infected cells distinctly from canonical JAK/STAT1 signaling, while coronaviruses evade this antiviral response by sequestering PKA Calpha into the nucleus via direct N protein interaction.
42125790 | CD4+ Th Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Orchestrate CD8+ T Cells and Eosinophils to Enhance Anti-Tumor Immunity. CD4+ T cells play a pivotal role in anti-tumor immunity by assisting CD8+ T cells in eliminating MHC I+ tumor cells and promoting immune responses against MHC-deficient tumors through myeloid-cell recruitment. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are increasingly recognized as important mediators of intercellular immune communication; however, how CD4+ T helper (Th)-derived EVs modulate tumor immune cells, including CD8+ T cells and eosinophils, to orchestrate anti-tumor responses remains poorly understood. Here, we show that immune checkpoint molecules, including PD-1 and TIM-3, and the cytokine IL-5 are enriched on CD4+ Th cell microvilli and EVs. Activated CD4+ Th cells released both exosomes and ectosomes, which cooperatively suppressed tumor progression through two complementary mechanisms. First, CD4+ Th-derived exosomes and ectosomes displayed immune checkpoint receptors such as PD-1 and TIM-3 on their surface, thereby intercepting tumor-derived inhibitory signals, reversing T cell exhaustion, and enhancing cytotoxic T cell activity. Second, CD4+ Th-derived EVs carried IL-5 and other effector molecules that promoted JAK-STAT signaling, eosinophil recruitment to tumor sites, and eosinophil-mediated tumor cell killing through degranulation. Moreover, CD4+ Th-derived EVs remodeled the tumor microenvironment by enhancing CD8+ T cell and eosinophil infiltration and activation, suggesting their potential role in immune regulation and cancer therapy.
41773043 | Vitamin D inhibits the development of colorectal cancer cells by regulating the gut microbiota and immune microenvironment using JAKSTAT signaling pathway. OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether vitamin D modulates gut microbiota and the colorectal cancer (CRC) immune microenvironment through the vitamin D receptor (VDR)-JAK-STAT signaling pathway. METHODS: Thirty male SD rats were randomly divided into the control group (CG), model group (MG), and vitamin D intervention group (VDG). Protein expression levels of VDR-JAK-STAT pathway (VDR, p-JAK2/JAK2, p-STAT3/STAT3), gut microbiota composition (via 16S rRNA sequencing), and immune markers (CD4+/CD8+ T cells, regulatory T cells (Treg), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha were compared across the groups. RESULTS: Compared to the CG, the MG exhibited a significant reduction in VDR expression (p < 0.05) and a marked increase in the p-JAK2/JAK2 and p-STAT3/STAT3 ratios (p < 0.05). The gut microbiota alpha-diversity (Shannon/Chao1 indices) was significantly reduced (p < 0.05), and microbial composition was abnormal, with a decrease in Bacteroidetes and an increase in Firmicutes/Proteobacteria (p < 0.05). Immune microenvironment imbalance was characterized by a reduction in CD4+ T cells (p < 0.05), an increase in Treg cells (p < 0.05), elevated pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6/TNF-alpha, and decreased anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 (p < 0.05). Vitamin D intervention significantly reversed these abnormalities (all p < 0.05). The MG also showed a significant increase in macrophage proportion and M2 polarization, and a significant decrease in dendritic cell proportion and M1 macrophage polarization (all p < 0.01). Vitamin D intervention reversed the polarization imbalance, reducing total macrophages, increasing M1 polarization, and decreasing M2 polarization (all p < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Vitamin D inhibits excessive activation of the JAK-STAT pathway through VDR activation, ameliorates gut microbiota dysbiosis, restores butyrate metabolism, and rebalances macrophage polarization.
