38506564 | Integrative analysis of bulk RNA-seq and scRNA-seq data indicates the prognostic and immunologic values of SERPINH1 in glioma. BACKGROUND: SERPINH1 is abnormally expressed in multiple cancers and is associated with malignant progression. However, few reports detail its role in the etiopathogenesis of glioma. Hence, the aim of this article was to investigate the potential value of SERPINH1 in glioma using an integrative analysis. METHODS: Data of RNA-seq and scRNA-seq was obtained and evaluated using online databases. The expression of SERPINH1 was confirmed by qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. The prognostic value of SERPINH1 was evaluated using univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses. SERPINH1-related signaling pathways and the interaction of SERPINH1 with immunity were also investigated. RESULTS: SERPINH1 exhibited a markedly elevated expression in glioma compared to normal brain tissues in the online databases. Similar results were confirmed by qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. SERPINH1 was found to be an independent prognosis factor, and high expression of SERPINH1 indicated poor survival. Moreover, a nomogram was constructed to predict prognosis more accurately and intuitively. GSEA analysis showed that SERPINH1 was involved in seven signaling pathways, including JAK-STAT pathway. Further analysis indicated SERPINH1 was significantly associated with immunity, especially in low-grade glioma. Additionally, an examination of scRNA-seq data revealed that SERPINH1 was primarily expressed in T cells of the CD4+ and CD8+ subsets. CONCLUSIONS: SERPINH1 is a key biomarker of glioma prognosis and is immunologically relevant, which provides additional options for targeted therapy of glioma.
38373700 | AlphaFold2-Enabled Atomistic Modeling of Structure, Conformational Ensembles, and Binding Energetics of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.2.86 Spike Protein with ACE2 Host Receptor and Antibodies: Compensatory Functional Effects of Binding Hotspots in Modulating Mechanisms of Receptor Binding and Immune Escape. The latest wave of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variants displayed a growth advantage and increased viral fitness through convergent evolution of functional hotspots that work synchronously to balance fitness requirements for productive receptor binding and efficient immune evasion. In this study, we combined AlphaFold2-based structural modeling approaches with atomistic simulations and mutational profiling of binding energetics and stability for prediction and comprehensive analysis of the structure, dynamics, and binding of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.2.86 spike variant with ACE2 host receptor and distinct classes of antibodies. We adapted several AlphaFold2 approaches to predict both the structure and conformational ensembles of the Omicron BA.2.86 spike protein in the complex with the host receptor. The results showed that the AlphaFold2-predicted structural ensemble of the BA.2.86 spike protein complex with ACE2 can accurately capture the main conformational states of the Omicron variant. Complementary to AlphaFold2 structural predictions, microsecond molecular dynamics simulations reveal the details of the conformational landscape and produced equilibrium ensembles of the BA.2.86 structures that are used to perform mutational scanning of spike residues and characterize structural stability and binding energy hotspots. The ensemble-based mutational profiling of the receptor binding domain residues in the BA.2 and BA.2.86 spike complexes with ACE2 revealed a group of conserved hydrophobic hotspots and critical variant-specific contributions of the BA.2.86 convergent mutational hotspots R403K, F486P, and R493Q. To examine the immune evasion properties of BA.2.86 in atomistic detail, we performed structure-based mutational profiling of the spike protein binding interfaces with distinct classes of antibodies that displayed significantly reduced neutralization against the BA.2.86 variant. The results revealed the molecular basis of compensatory functional effects of the binding hotspots, showing that BA.2.86 lineage may have evolved to outcompete other Omicron subvariants by improving immune evasion while preserving binding affinity with ACE2 via through a compensatory effect of R493Q and F486P convergent mutational hotspots. This study demonstrated that an integrative approach combining AlphaFold2 predictions with complementary atomistic molecular dynamics simulations and robust ensemble-based mutational profiling of spike residues can enable accurate and comprehensive characterization of structure, dynamics, and binding mechanisms of newly emerging Omicron variants.
17175442 | The cyanogenic glucoside composition of Zygaena filipendulae (Lepidoptera: Zygaenidae) as effected by feeding on wild-type and transgenic lotus populations with variable cyanogenic glucoside profiles. Zygaena larvae sequester the cyanogenic glucosides linamarin and lotaustralin from their food plants (Fabaceae) as well as carry out de novo biosynthesis of these compounds. In this study, Zygaena filipendulae were reared on wild-type Lotus corniculatus and wild-type and transgenic L. japonicus plants with differing content and ratios of the cyanogenic glucosides linamarin and lotaustralin and of the cyanoalkenyl glucosides rhodiocyanoside A and D. LC-MS analyses, free choice feeding experiments and developmental studies were used to examine the effect of varying content and ratios of these secondary metabolites on the feeding preferences, growth and development of Z. filipendulae. Larvae reared on cyanogenic L. corniculatus developed faster compared to larvae reared on L. japonicus although free choice feeding trials demonstrated that the latter plant source was the preferred food plant. Larvae reared on acyanogenic L. corniculatus showed decelerated development. Analysis of different life stages and tissues demonstrate that Z. filipendulae strive to maintain certain threshold content and ratios of cyanogenic glucosides regardless of the composition of the food plants. Despite this, the ratios of cyanogenic glucosides in Z. filipendulae remain partly affected by the ratio of the food plant due to the high proportion of sequestering that takes place.
28363650 | Role of phosphorylation of phosvitin in the phase transformation of mineralization. Phosvitin is a unique highly phosphorylated protein that plays a role in the regulation of mineralization. This study investigated the role of phosphorylation of phosvitin in the phase transformation of calcium phosphate in the mineralization solution. Partially dephosphorylated phosvitins (T1, T2, T3 and T4) were prepared with 2.98, 19.46, 43.39 and 71.07% of phosphate released from native phosvitin, respectively. And their effect on regulating the phase transformation was investigated, the characterization and composition analysis was performed by circular dichroism, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy. Results showed that phosvitin in the acceleration effect of phase transformation was dose-concentration effect by pH-stat titration. With lower dephosphorylation degree of phosvitin (<20%), the acceleration effect was weaker than native phosvitin, since phosphorylation and random structure of phosvitin were reduced. However, with higher dephosphorylation degree of phosvitin (>40%), the acceleration effect was enhanced compared to native phosvitin, in which the beta-sheet structure was increased and phosvitin was partially hydrolyzed to phosphopeptides. The acceleration effect of phase transformation was as follows: T4>T3>phosvitin>T1>T2> Control. This study clearly demonstrated that phosphorylation of phosvitin played an important role in the regulation of mineralization.
38482051 | Gypenoside induces apoptosis by inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway and enhances T-cell antitumor immunity by inhibiting PD-L1 in gastric cancer. Introduction: Gypenoside is a natural extract of Gynostemma pentaphyllum (Thunb.) Makino, a plant in the Cucurbitaceae family. It has been reported to have antitumor effects on the proliferation, migration and apoptosis of various types of cancer cells. However, the use of gypenoside in the treatment of gastric cancer has not been studied. In the present study, we explored the therapeutic effect of gypenoside on gastric cancer and the potential molecular mechanism. Methods and Results: Our results showed that gypenoside induced apoptosis in HGC-27 and SGC-7901 cells in a time-dependent and dose-dependent manner. Network pharmacology analyses predicted that gypenoside exerts its therapeutic effects through the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. Furthermore, molecular docking and western blot experiments confirmed that gypenoside induced the apoptosis of gastric cancer cells through the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. In addition, network pharmacological analysis revealed that the common targets of gypenoside in gastric cancer were enriched in the immune effector process, PD-L1 expression, the PD-1 checkpoint pathway, and the Jak-STAT signaling pathway. Furthermore, molecular docking and western blot assays demonstrated that gypenoside could bind to STAT3 and reduce its phosphorylation. Thus, the transcription of PD-L1 was inhibited in gastric cancer cells. Moreover, coculture experiments of gastric cancer cells with gypenoside and primary mouse CD8+ T cells showed that gastric cancer cells treated with gypenoside could enhance the antitumor ability of T cells. Animal experiments confirmed the antitumor effect of gypenoside, and the expression of PD-L1 was significantly downregulated in the gypenoside-treated group. Conclusion: Gypenoside induced the apoptosis of gastric cancer cells by inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway and simultaneously inhibited the expression of PD-L1 in gastric cancer cells, thus enhancing the antitumor immunity of T cells. This study provides a theoretical basis for applying gypenoside as a new therapeutic agent to enhance the efficacy of immunotherapy in gastric cancer.
38351516 | Utilizing local likelihood in regression discontinuity design: Investigating the impact of antiretroviral therapy eligibility on retention in clinical HIV care in South Africa. The regression discontinuity (RD) design is a widely utilized approach for assessing treatment effects. It involves assigning treatment based on the value of an observed covariate in relation to a fixed threshold. Although the RD design has been widely employed across various problems, its application to specific data types has received limited attention. For instance, there has been little research on utilizing the RD design when the outcome variable exhibits zero-inflation. This study introduces a novel RD estimator using local likelihood, which overcomes the limitations of the local linear regression model, a popular approach for estimating treatment effects in RD design, by considering the data type of the outcome variable. To determine the optimal bandwidth, we propose a modified Ludwig-Miller cross validation method. A set of simulations is carried out, involving binary, count, and zero-inflated outcome variables, to showcase the superior performance of the suggested method over local linear regression models. Subsequently, the proposed local likelihood model is employed on HIV care data, where antiretroviral therapy eligibility is determined by a CD4 count threshold. A comparison is made between the results obtained using the local likelihood model and those obtained using local linear regression.
38155414 | Correcting for measurement error under meta-analysis of z-transformed correlations. This study mainly concerns correction for measurement error using the meta-analysis of Fisher's z-transformed correlations. The disattenuation formula of Spearman (American Journal of Psychology, 15, 1904, 72) is used to correct for individual raw correlations in primary studies. The corrected raw correlations are then used to obtain the corrected z-transformed correlations. What remains little studied, however, is how to best correct for within-study sampling error variances of corrected z-transformed correlations. We focused on three within-study sampling error variance estimators corrected for measurement error that were proposed in earlier studies and is proposed in the current study: (1) the formula given by Hedges (Test validity, Lawrence Erlbaum, 1988) assuming a linear relationship between corrected and uncorrected z-transformed correlations (linear correction), (2) one derived by the first-order delta method based on the average of corrected z-transformed correlations (stabilized first-order correction), and (3) one derived by the second-order delta method based on the average of corrected z-transformed correlations (stabilized second-order correction). Via a simulation study, we compared performance of these estimators and the sampling error variance estimator uncorrected for measurement error in terms of estimation and inference accuracy of the mean correlation as well as the homogeneity test of effect sizes. In obtaining the corrected z-transformed correlations and within-study sampling error variances, coefficient alpha was used as a common reliability coefficient estimate. The results showed that in terms of the estimated mean correlation, sampling error variances with linear correction, the stabilized first-order and second-order corrections, and no correction performed similarly in general. Furthermore, in terms of the homogeneity test, given a relatively large average sample size and normal true scores, the stabilized first-order and second-order corrections had type I error rates that were generally controlled as well as or better than the other estimators. Overall, stabilized first-order and second-order corrections are recommended when true scores are normal, reliabilities are acceptable, the number of items per psychological scale is relatively large, and the average sample size is relatively large.
32392186 | Glutathione Peroxidase 8 as a Prognostic Biomarker of Gastric Cancer: An Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Data. BACKGROUND Glutathione peroxidase 8 (GPX8) has previously been shown to play a role in Keshan disease. In the present study, we explored the prognostic relevance of GPX8 expression in patients with gastric cancer (GC) based upon The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data. MATERIAL AND METHODS We assessed the relationship between the expression of GPX8 and clinicopathological findings in GC patients via logistic regression analyses, Kruskal-Wallis tests, and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests. We further assessed the prognostic relevance of specific variables using Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses. We lastly conducted gene set enrichment analyses (GSEA). RESULTS We detected a significant association between elevated GPX8 levels and more advanced GC tumor stage (OR=5.92 for I vs. IV), as well as more advanced T (OR=22.91 for T1 vs. T4) and N classification (OR=1.82 for N0 vs. N3). We found worse prognosis in patients expressing high levels of GPX8 relative to those with lower expression of this gene (P=0.021). In a univariate analysis, we found high GPX8 expression was strongly correlated with worse OS (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.05; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.01-1.08; P=0.018), and multivariate analysis confirmed that GPX8 expression independently predicts GC patient OS (HR: 1.04; CI: 1.00-1.08, P=0.041). GSEA revealed that elevated GPX8 expression was associated with enrichment of pathways consistent with MAPK signaling, JAK/STAT signaling, TGF-ss signaling, melanoma, and basal cell carcinoma. CONCLUSIONS The expression of GPX8 may have prognostic relevance, being positively associated with worse OS in GC patients.
34322810 | Bioinformatic analyses suggest augmented interleukin-17 signaling as the mechanism of COVID-19-associated herpes zoster. Herpes zoster results from latent varicella zoster virus reactivation in the dorsal root ganglia, causing blistering rash along the dermatomal distribution and post-herpetic neuralgia. Increasing studies indicated that there may be a correlation between herpes zoster and COVID-19. Nevertheless, the detailed pathophysiological mechanism is still unclear. We used bioinformatic analyses to study the potential genetic crosstalk between herpes zoster and COVID-19. COVID-19 and herpes zoster were associated with a similar subset of genes involved in \cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction,\ \Jak-STAT signaling pathway,\ and \IL-17 signaling pathway,\ including TNF, IL10, ESR1, INFG, HLA-A, CRP, STAT3, IL6, IL7, and IL17A. Protein-protein interaction network assay showed that the combined gene set indicated a raised connectivity as compared to herpes zoster or COVID-19 alone, particularly the potentiated interactions with APOE, ARSA, CCR2, CCR5, CXCL13, EGFR, GAL, GP2, HLA-B, HLA-DRB1, IL5, TECTA, and THBS1, and these genes are related to \cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction\. Augmented Th17 cell differentiation and the resulting enhanced IL-17 signaling were identified in both COVID-19 and herpes zoster. Our data suggested aberrant interleukin-17 signaling as one possible mechanism through which COVID-19 could raise the risk of herpes zoster.
38384415 | Systematic analysis of MASP-1 serves as a novel immune-related biomarker in sepsis and trauma followed by preliminary experimental validation. Background: Dysregulated immune response in trauma and sepsis leads to the abnormal activation of the complement and coagulation systems. Mannose-binding lectin (MBL)-associated serine protease-1 (MASP-1) activates the lectin pathway of the complement system and mediates proinflammatory and procoagulant reactions. However, the potential effects of MASP-1 in trauma and sepsis have not yet been explored. Methods: We obtained five sepsis, two trauma, and one sepsis and trauma RNA-sequencing dataset from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the expression pattern, biological functions, and diagnostic value of MASP-1 in trauma and sepsis. Additionally, we investigated the association between MASP-1 expression and clinicopathological characteristics of trauma and sepsis. Furthermore, we collected clinical specimens to preliminarily validate the expression level and diagnostic efficacy of MASP-1 as well as the correlation of MASP-1 with clinical features of trauma and sepsis. Subsequently, we conducted a correlation analysis among MASP-1, immune cell infiltration, and immune and molecular pathways. Finally, we mechanistically analyzed the relationship among MASP-1, specific immune cells, and pivotal molecular pathways. Results: MASP-1 expression was significantly upregulated in the trauma/sepsis samples compared to the control samples in the GEO datasets. MASP-1 exhibited excellent diagnostic values (AUC > 0.7) in multiple datasets and at multiple time points and could efficiently distinguish trauma/sepsis samples from the control samples. Moreover, MASP-1 expression was significantly positively correlated with the severity of the disease (APACHE-II, CRP, and neutrophil levels). These results were further validated by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that MASP-1 primarily promotes trauma and sepsis via the immune-related signaling pathway. MASP-1 was significantly correlated with the infiltration of specific immune cells (such as B cells, CD8 T cells, neutrophils, macrophages, and infiltrating lymphocytes) and immune and molecular pathways (such as checkpoint, HLA, IL6/JAK/STAT3 signaling, necrosis, T-cell co-inhibition, and T-cell co-stimulation). Finally, analysis of the transcription and single-cell data revealed that MASP-1 was specifically expressed in T cells, and further correlation analysis revealed a close correlation between MASP-1 expression, proportion of CD8 T cells, and IL6/JAK/STAT3 signaling scores. Conclusion: Our results suggest that MASP-1 can serve as an immune-related biomarker for the diagnosis and disease severity of trauma and sepsis. It may activate the IL6 JAK-STAT3 signaling pathway and promote CD8 T-cell depletion to trigger traumatic sepsis.
38525693 | Indolent T Cell Lymphoproliferation of the Gastrointestinal Tract: An Evolving Disease Entity. Background: Indolent T cell lymphoproliferation of the gastrointestinal tract is a novel entity recently added to the 2016 WHO classification of lymphoid neoplasms. Classically, these patients demonstrate an immunophenotype consistent with T cell proliferation and can be either CD4-positive or CD8-positive but with a low Ki67 index, highlighting the indolent nature of this disease compared to its more aggressive T cell lymphoma counterparts such as enteropathy-associated T cell lymphoma and monomorphic epitheliotropic intestinal T cell lymphoma. Methods: Here, we describe one rare case of such a neoplasm under our care, initially presenting with non-specific signs and symptoms and requiring extensive investigations to diagnose. Available cases in the literature reflect a wide variety of ages and ethnicities affected, and any part of the gastrointestinal sites can be affected, which makes diagnosis difficult and prolonged; however, progression beyond lymph nodes is rare, and prognosis is otherwise favourable, particularly if CD8-positive. The optimal management of these patients remains yet to be defined, given the paucity of available cases currently. The current evidence suggests the utility of steroids, cyclosporine, radiotherapy, and a potential role for JAK inhibitors. Conclusions: Our case showed an excellent response to the initial course of steroids, with a subsequent successful transition to cyclosporine, keeping symptoms at bay with ongoing stable disease.
37893073 | Cytokine-Induced iNOS in A549 Alveolar Epithelial Cells: A Potential Role in COVID-19 Lung Pathology. BACKGROUND: In COVID-19, an uncontrolled inflammatory response might worsen lung damage, leading to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Recent evidence points to the induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2/iNOS) as a component of inflammatory response since NOS2 is upregulated in critical COVID-19 patients. Here, we explore the mechanisms underlying the modulation of iNOS expression in human alveolar cells. METHODS: A549 WT and IRF1 KO cells were exposed to a conditioned medium of macrophages treated with SARS-CoV-2 spike S1. Additionally, the effect of IFNgamma, IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNFalpha, either alone or combined, was addressed. iNOS expression was assessed with RT-qPCR and Western blot. The effect of baricitinib and CAPE, inhibitors of JAK/STAT and NF-kB, respectively, was also investigated. RESULTS: Treatment with a conditioned medium caused a marked induction of iNOS in A549 WT and a weak stimulation in IRF1 KO. IFNgamma induced NOS2 and synergistically cooperated with IL-1beta and TNFalpha. The inhibitory pattern of baricitinb and CAPE indicates that cytokines activate both IRF1 and NF-kappaB through the JAK/STAT1 pathway. CONCLUSIONS: Cytokines secreted by S1-activated macrophages markedly induce iNOS, whose expression is suppressed by baricitinib. Our findings sustain the therapeutic efficacy of this drug in COVID-19 since, besides limiting the cytokine storm, it also prevents NOS2 induction.
38607233 | STAT activation in regulatory CD4+ T cells of patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. INTRODUCTION: Regulatory CD4+ T cells (Tregs) are pivotal for inhibition of autoimmunity. Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is an autoimmune cholestatic liver disease of unknown etiology where contribution of Tregs is still unclear. Activation of the JAK-STAT pathway critically modifies functions of Tregs. In PSC, we studied activation of STAT proteins and Treg functions in response to cytokines. METHODS: In 51 patients with PSC, 10 disease controls (chronic replicative hepatitis C), and 36 healthy controls we analyzed frequencies of Foxp3+CD25+CD127lowCD4+ Tregs, their expression of ectonucleotidase CD39, and cytokine-induced phosphorylation of STAT1, 3, 5, and 6 using phospho-flow cytometry. In parallel, we measured cytokines IFN-gamma, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-2, and IL-4 in serum via bead-based immunoassays. RESULTS: In patients with PSC, ex vivo frequencies of peripheral Tregs and their expression of CD39 were significantly reduced (p < .05 each). Furthermore, serum levels of IFN-gamma, IL-6, IL-2, and IL-4 were markedly higher in PSC (p < .05 each). Unlike activation of STAT1, STAT5, and STAT6, IL-6 induced increased phosphorylation of STAT3 in Tregs of PSC-patients (p = .0434). Finally, STAT3 activation in Tregs correlated with leukocyte counts. CONCLUSIONS: In PSC, we observed enhanced STAT3 responsiveness of CD4+ Tregs together with reduced CD39 expression probably reflecting inflammatory activity of the disease.
36139700 | Protein Profiling of Breast Carcinomas Reveals Expression of Immune-Suppressive Factors and Signatures Relevant for Patient Outcome. In cancer, the complex interplay between tumor cells and the tumor microenvironment results in the modulation of signaling processes. By assessing the expression of a multitude of proteins and protein variants in cancer tissue, wide-ranging information on signaling pathway activation and the status of the immunological landscape is obtainable and may provide viable information on the treatment response. Archived breast cancer tissues from a cohort of 84 patients (no adjuvant therapy) were analyzed by high-throughput Western blotting, and the expression of 150 proteins covering central cancer pathways and immune cell markers was examined. By assessing CD8alpha, CD11c, CD16 and CD68 expression, immune cell infiltration was determined and revealed a strong correlation between event-free patient survival and the infiltration of immune cells. The presence of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes was linked to the pronounced activation of the Jak/Stat signaling pathway and apoptotic processes. The elevated phosphorylation of PPARgamma (pS112) in non-immune-infiltrated tumors suggests a novel immune evasion mechanism in breast cancer characterized by increased PPARgamma phosphorylation. Multiplexed immune cell marker assessment and the protein profiling of tumor tissue provide functional signaling data facilitating breast cancer patient stratification.
37516153 | T4 bacteriophage nanoparticles engineered through CRISPR provide a versatile platform for rapid development of flu mucosal vaccines. Vaccines that trigger mucosal immune responses at the entry portals of pathogens are highly desired. Here, we showed that antigen-decorated nanoparticle generated through CRISPR engineering of T4 bacteriophage can serve as a universal platform for the rapid development of mucosal vaccines. Insertion of Flu viral M2e into phage T4 genome through fusion to Soc (Small Outer Capsid protein) generated a recombinant phage, and the Soc-M2e proteins self-assembled onto phage capsids to form 3M2e-T4 nanoparticles during propagation of T4 in E. coli. Intranasal administration of 3M2e-T4 nanoparticles maintains antigen persistence in the lungs, resulting in increased uptake and presentation by antigen-presenting cells. M2e-specific secretory IgA, effector (TEM), central (TCM), and tissue-resident memory CD4+ T cells (TRM) were efficiently induced in the local mucosal sites, which mediated protections against divergent influenza viruses. Our studies demonstrated the mechanisms of immune protection following 3M2e-T4 nanoparticles vaccination and provide a versatile T4 platform that can be customized to rapidly develop mucosal vaccines against future emerging epidemics.
2194213 | T-cell antigen-positive multiple myeloma. We report the simultaneous expression of T-cell antigens on the myeloma cells from six patients with multiple myeloma (MM). These six patients come from a total population of 215 samples (115 direct samples, clinical incidence of 5.2%) of plasmacytic malignancies immunotyped at the University of Arizona. Four patients expressed T helper antigen (Leu 3, CD4), one expressed T-cell antigen receptor (Leu 4, CD3), and one expressed E-rosette antigen receptor (Leu 5, CD2). The presenting clinical features, histology, and plasma cell morphology showed no differences from multiple myeloma patients who did not express T-cell antigen. However, although the survival duration ranged from 5 to 93 mo overall, survival from demonstration of T antigen expression was very short, (2 to 7+ mo), with five of six (80%) patients dying less than or equal to 5 mo after study. The reason for T antigen expression is unknown. It may indicate that myeloma can arise from a normally minor subpopulation of B cells involved with immunoregulation; conversely, it could be a coincidental aberrancy associated with malignant change in the plasma cells.
36823318 | Brain expression quantitative trait locus and network analyses reveal downstream effects and putative drivers for brain-related diseases. Identification of therapeutic targets from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) requires insights into downstream functional consequences. We harmonized 8,613 RNA-sequencing samples from 14 brain datasets to create the MetaBrain resource and performed cis- and trans-expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) meta-analyses in multiple brain region- and ancestry-specific datasets (n <= 2,759). Many of the 16,169 cortex cis-eQTLs were tissue-dependent when compared with blood cis-eQTLs. We inferred brain cell types for 3,549 cis-eQTLs by interaction analysis. We prioritized 186 cis-eQTLs for 31 brain-related traits using Mendelian randomization and co-localization including 40 cis-eQTLs with an inferred cell type, such as a neuron-specific cis-eQTL (CYP24A1) for multiple sclerosis. We further describe 737 trans-eQTLs for 526 unique variants and 108 unique genes. We used brain-specific gene-co-regulation networks to link GWAS loci and prioritize additional genes for five central nervous system diseases. This study represents a valuable resource for post-GWAS research on central nervous system diseases.
3106478 | Reversal of advanced murine lupus in NZB/NZW F1 mice by treatment with monoclonal antibody to L3T4. Murine lupus in NZB/NZW F1 (B/W) mice can be prevented by weekly treatment with monoclonal antibodies (MAb) to L3T4 (on \helper/inducer\ T cells) if treatment is begun prior to the onset of clinical illness. To determine whether anti-L3T4 could reverse as well as prevent murine lupus, we monitored a cohort of 30 B/W females until age 7 mo, when severe autoimmune disease was established, and then we examined the effects of weekly treatment with MAb to L3T4. The rate of target cell clearance by MAb was considerably slower in old B/W mice than it was in young B/W mice or in normal (BALB/c and C57BL/6) mice. Nonetheless, treatment with anti-L3T4 depleted 90% of circulating L3T4+ cells over 3 mo. In treated mice, the concentration of anti-DNA antibodies fell by 80%, renal insufficiency was reversed, and 1 yr survival was 75% compared to 17% in controls. These findings indicate that L3T4+ cells play an important role in perpetuating murine lupus in B/W mice even after severe disease is present. Because the L3T4 antigen in mice is homologous to the Leu-3/T4 (CD4) antigen in humans, these findings suggest that treatment with CD4 MAb may be effective in people with systemic lupus erythematosus.
2789493 | In vitro activity and beta-lactamase stability of a new carbapenem, SM-7338. SM-7338, a new carbapenem, inhibited most members of the family Enterobacteriaceae at MICs of 0.015 to 0.25 microgram/ml, including Klebsiella oxytoca, Citrobacter freundii, Enterobacter cloacae, and Proteus vulgaris isolates resistant to cefotaxime, ceftazidime, piperacillin, and gentamicin. It was two- to eightfold more active than imipenem, but it inhibited Pseudomonas aeruginosa at 1 to 8 micrograms/ml, which was comparable to the activity of imipenem. Haemophilus, Neisseria, and Branhamella species were inhibited by less than or equal to 0.25 microgram/ml, which was superior to the activity of imipenem. SM-7338 inhibited Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative staphylococci at 0.25 microgram/ml, but for methicillin-resistant isolates MICs were 4 to 16 micrograms/ml. Group A, B, and C streptococci and Streptococcus pneumoniae were inhibited by less than or equal to 0.03 microgram/ml. Bacteroides species, including clindamycin-resistant isolates, were inhibited by 0.25 microgram/ml. There was no major inoculum size effect, and the MBCs were within a dilution of the MICs. SM-7338 was more active than imipenem at an acid pH under anaerobic conditions. Plasmid beta-lactamases of TEM-1, TEM-2, TEM-3, TEM-5, SHV-1, SHV-2, PSE-1, PSE-2, PSE-3, OXA-2, OXA-3, OXA-4, OXA-5, and OXA-7; Staphylococcus aureus enzymes; and the chromosomal beta-lactamases P-99 and K-1; Morganella species; and Proteus vulgaris did not hydrolyze SM-7338. The repeated transfer of organisms increased the MICs of SM-7338, as it did the MICs of imipenem.
25974522 | Role of protein fluctuation correlations in electron transfer in photosynthetic complexes. We consider the dependence of the electron transfer in photosynthetic complexes on correlation properties of random fluctuations of the protein environment. The electron subsystem is modeled by a finite network of connected electron (exciton) sites. The fluctuations of the protein environment are modeled by random telegraph processes, which act either collectively (correlated) or independently (uncorrelated) on the electron sites. We derived an exact closed system of first-order linear differential equations with constant coefficients, for the average density matrix elements and for their first moments. Under some conditions, we obtained analytic expressions for the electron transfer rates and found the range of parameters for their applicability by comparing with the exact numerical simulations. We also compared the correlated and uncorrelated regimes and demonstrated numerically that the uncorrelated fluctuations of the protein environment can, under some conditions, either increase or decrease the electron transfer rates.
32726728 | Identification of genes related to dexamethasone-induced immunosuppression in chicken thymus using transcriptome analysis. The molecular mechanism of stress-induced immunosuppression (SIS) in certain poultry immune organs is not completely clear. In this study, we constructed a stress immunosuppression model by selecting 180 healthy 7-day-old Gushi chickens and dividing them randomly into two groups: a D_T group and a B_T group. The D_T group was given dexamethasone, and the B_T group was given normal saline, according to the treatment method established and reported in our previous study. Thymus samples were subsequently taken from both groups. RNA-seq was used to sequence the transcriptomes of the thymus samples from both groups, and 1278 significant differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were obtained, of which 845 genes were up-regulated and 433 genes were down-regulated (padj<0.05,  FC  >= 2, FPKM>1). We identified immune-related gene ontology (GO) terms including immune system processes, immune system process regulation, and T cell activation. The results of KEGG (http: //www.kegg.jp) analysis showed that the DEGs are involved in a variety of immune-related pathways, such as cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, Jak-STAT signaling pathways, and cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). The cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction pathway involves the DEGs CCR6, CCR5, CD40LG and FAS. The DEGs in the Jak-STAT signaling pathway were SPRY2, BCL2L1. These DEGS play an important role in cell apoptosis. CD40L, CD8, among other genes, are involved in the CAMs pathway. The results of this study add to existing data on the genomic study of stress affecting immune function, and provide a basis for further studies of the molecular mechanisms of stress-influenced immune function.
2549799 | Follicular lymphoid hyperplasia of the skin with high content of Ki-1 positive lymphocytes. We report the case of a spontaneously regressing lymphocytic lesion on the neck of a 76-year-old man. Routine histopathological examination revealed a heterogeneous infiltrate composed of both lymphoid follicles and preferentially perifollicular and interfollicular sheets of large atypical cells. Immunohistologically, large atypical cells were positive for Ki-1/Ber-H2 (CD30), anti-Il-2 (CD25), Ber T9, anti-HLA-DR, Leu-5b (CD2), T3 (CD3), Leu-3 (CD4), Leu-1 (CD5) and, occasionally, Leu-M1 (CD15); that is, they showed an arrangement and immunophenotype similar to those of perifollicular Ki-1 positive cells in reactive lymphoid tissue. In contrast, antibodies To15 (CD22), anti-immunoglobulins, and anti-CALLA (CD10) stained polyclonal B-cells restricted to lymphoid follicles and small clusters representing remnants of follicles. We suggest that this lesion be termed \follicular lymphoid hyperplasia of the skin with high content of activated T-helper cells.\
37489616 | Retrospective analysis of low-dose interleukin-2 therapy on chronic autoimmune thyroid disease with concurrent systemic lupus erythematosus. INTRODUCTION: Low-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2) regulates the homeostasis of CD4+ T cells by modulating the proportions of effector and regulatory T cells, thus reducing disease activity in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). However, to date, no research has been carried out on the efficacy of low-dose IL-2 for treating autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD). The aim of this study was to observe the effects of IL-2 on AITD patients with concurrent SLE, and explore potential mechanism of action. METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted on 29 SLE patients with concurrent AITD. Among them, 11 patients were in IL-2 therapy group and 18 patients without IL-2 treatment were considered as control group. Two groups had similar disease activities and were treated with comparable regular strategy. Free triiodothyronine (FT3), free thyroxine (FT4), thyroxine(T4), triiodothyronine(T3), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), thyroglobulin antibody (TG-Ab), thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPO-Ab) levels and immune cell subgroups were measured. RESULTS: After receiving low-dose IL-2 therapy, the TG-Ab and TPO-Ab levels decreased drastically (TG-Ab p = 0.008, TPO-Ab p = 0.007), and the majority of the AITD patients became seronegative, while there was no discernible change in control group. In IL-2 group, percentage of CD4+ T cells showed a significant increase after treatment (p = 0.029), with an upward trend in the ratio of regulatory T (Treg) cells to follicular helper T (Tfh) cells (Treg/Tfh). The percentage as well as absolute count of B cells demonstrated a decreasing trend. CONCLUSION: Low-dose IL-2 may downregulate the levels of TG-Ab and TPO-Ab by modulating the immune balance of Treg/Tfh and B-cells, providing new avenue for clinical treatment of AITD.
8335498 | The antimicrobial activity and beta-lactamase stability of cefpirome, a new fourth-generation cephalosporin in comparison with other agents. The antimicrobial activity of cefpirome was compared with amoxycillin/clavulanic acid, ampicillin/sulbactam, cefuroxime, ceftazidime, gentamicin and amikacin against 743 non-duplicate clinical isolates. MIC50 and MIC90 showed that the antibiotic was active against both Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms. Cefpirome was highly active against most of the Enterobacteriaceae, including indole-positive Proteus spp., Aeromonas spp. (MIC < or = 1 mg/L) and Salmonella spp. (MIC < or = 0.5 mg/L). Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Haemophilus influenzae (including beta-lactamase producers) were all susceptible, with MIC less than 0.5 and 0.25 mg/L respectively. Cefpirome was more active than cefuroxime and ceftazidime against Campylobacter spp. (MIC < or = 2 mg/L), but less active than ceftazidime against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Cefpirome was active against Streptococcus pneumoniae. Streptococcus bovis and coagulase-negative staphylococci (MIC < or = 0.5 mg/L) and methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MIC < or = 2 mg/L). Methicillin-resistant S. aureus, Gram-positive and Gram-negative anaerobes were resistant to cefpirome. The stability of cefpirome to TEM-1, TEM-2, PSE-1, SHV-1 and the chromosomal-mediated P99 and K-1 beta-lactamases was comparable to ceftazidime.
35105583 | Impact of surgical management of primary tumors in stage IV breast cancer patients: a retrospective observational study based on SEER database. OBJECTIVES: Although primary tumour surgery could prolong survival for patients with stage IV breast cancer, how to select candidates for primary tumour surgery is still a challenging problem for medical oncologists. DESIGN: This study is a retrospective database study. SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: In this study, we aimed at evaluating the primary site surgery effect and select the beneficial subgroups. 13 618 patients with stage IV breast cancer, diagnosed between 2010 and 2015, were collected from SEER*Stat database. INTERVENTIONS: Based on the local surgery at primary tumour site, patients were categorised into three groups: primary tumour surgery performed group, recommended for primary tumour surgery but refused (RBR) group and surgery not recommended (NR) group. PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: All-cause survival and breast cancer-specific survival (BCSS). RESULTS: Univariate Cox regression analyses showed that, compared with surgery group, patients in non-surgery (RBR and NR) groups tend to be older, T4, N0/NX, triple-negative and visceral metastatic. For both all-cause survival and BCSS, non-surgery, advanced T stage, triple-negative BC (TNBC) and visceral metastases were significant risk factors. Primary tumour surgery showed benefits for both all-cause survival (HR=0.44, 95% CI=0.39-0.49, p<0.0001) and BCSS (HR=0.43, 95% CI=0.38-0.49, p<0.0001). However, after propensity score matching, primary tumour surgery failed to demonstrate significant benefits for TNBC (HR=0.96, 95% CI=0.60-1.53, p=0.851) and patients with visceral metastases (HR=0.90, 95% CI=0.60-1.36, p=0.62). CONCLUSION: Surgery was associated with prolonged survival in stage IV breast cancers, but not in patients with TNBC and visceral metastases.
36141194 | Cross-Correlation- and Entropy-Based Measures of Movement Synchrony: Non-Convergence of Measures Leads to Different Associations with Depressive Symptoms. BACKGROUND: Several algorithms have been proposed to quantify synchronization. However, little is known about their convergent and predictive validity. METHODS: The sample included 30 persons who completed a manualized interview focusing on psychosomatic symptoms. The intensity of body motions was measured using motion-energy analysis. We computed several measures of movement synchrony based on the time series of the interviewer and participant: mutual information, windowed cross-recurrence analysis, cross-correlation, rMEA, SUSY, SUCO, WCLC-PP and WCLR-PP. Depressive symptoms were assessed with the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ9). RESULTS: According to the explorative factor analyses, all the variants of cross-correlation and all the measures of SUSY, SUCO and rMEA-WCC led to similar synchrony measures and could be assigned to the same factor. All the mutual-information measures, rMEA-WCLC, WCLC-PP-F, WCLC-PP-R2, WCLR-PP-F, and WinCRQA-DET loaded on the second factor. Depressive symptoms correlated negatively with WCLC-PP-F and WCLR-PP-F and positively with rMEA-WCC, SUCO-ES-CO, and MI-Z. CONCLUSION: More standardization efforts are needed because different synchrony measures have little convergent validity, which can lead to contradictory conclusions concerning associations between depressive symptoms and movement synchrony using the same dataset.
38214399 | Immune and metabolic perturbations in COVID-19-associated pulmonary mucormycosis: A transcriptome analysis of innate immune cells. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The mechanisms underlying COVID-19-associated pulmonary mucormycosis (CAPM) remain unclear. We use a transcriptomic analysis of the innate immune cells to investigate the host immune and metabolic response pathways in patients with CAPM. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We enrolled subjects with CAPM (n = 5), pulmonary mucormycosis (PM) without COVID-19 (n = 5), COVID-19 (without mucormycosis, n = 5), healthy controls (n = 5) without comorbid illness and negative for SARS-CoV-2. Peripheral blood samples from cases were collected before initiating antifungal therapy, and neutrophils and monocytes were isolated. RNA sequencing was performed using Illumina HiSeqX from monocytes and neutrophils. Raw reads were aligned with HISAT-2 pipeline and DESeq2 was used for differential gene expression. Gene ontology (GO) and metabolic pathway analysis were performed using Shiny GO application and R packages (ggplot2, Pathview). RESULTS: The derangement of core immune and metabolic responses in CAPM patients was noted. Pattern recognition receptors, dectin-2, MCL, FcRgamma receptors and CLEC-2, were upregulated, but signalling pathways such as JAK-STAT, IL-17 and CARD-9 were downregulated; mTOR and MAP-kinase signalling were elevated in monocytes from CAPM patients. The complement receptors, NETosis, and pro-inflammatory responses, such as S100A8/A9, lipocalin and MMP9, were elevated. The major metabolic pathways of glucose metabolism-glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, pentose phosphate pathway, HIF signalling and iron metabolism-ferroptosis were also upregulated in CAPM. CONCLUSIONS: We identified significant alterations in the metabolic pathways possibly leading to cellular iron overload and a hyperglycaemic state. Immune responses revealed altered recognition, signalling, effector functions and a pro-inflammatory state in monocytes and neutrophils from CAPM patients.
37815505 | Human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles restore Th17/Treg homeostasis in periodontitis via miR-1246. T-cell-mediated immunity is crucial in the immunopathology of periodontitis. The restoration of the homeostasis between the T helper cell 17 (Th17) and regulatory T cell (Treg) subsets by extracellular vesicles (EVs) obtained from human bone marrow stem cells (hBMSCs) promotes new bone formation and suppresses inflammation. Uncovering the functions of hBMSC-derived EVs in the immune microenvironment of periodontal tissue and their underlying regulatory mechanisms may shed new light on developing potential cell-free immunotherapies for periodontal regeneration. Here, we reported that the Th17/Treg ratio elevated in peripheral blood from periodontitis patients. Furthermore, we found that hBMSC-derived EVs could reduce the Th17/Treg ratio in CD4+ T cells from periodontitis patients in vitro and ameliorate conditions of experimental periodontitis in mice. Additionally, by investigating the differentially expressed miRNAs and target genes in EVs from hBMSCs stimulated with Porphyromonas gingivalis LPS using miRNA sequencing, we found that EV-miR-1246 is highly effective at downregulating the ratio of Th17/Treg in vitro. Mechanistically, EV-miR-1246 suppressed expression of its potential target angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and increased the p-Yes-associated protein (YAP)1/YAP1 ratio in CD4+ T cells. Our results indicated that hBMSC-derived EVs improve periodontitis via miR-1246, consequently downregulating Th17/Treg ratio, and represented a promising therapeutic target for precision treatment in periodontitis.
38520011 | Clinicopathological and molecular genetic alterations in monomorphic-epitheliotropic intestinal T-cell lymphoma of the small intestine. BACKGROUND: Small intestinal monomorphic-epitheliotropic intestinal T-cell lymphoma (MEITL) is a rare aggressive T-cell lymphoma originating in the gastrointestinal tract. This study aimed to investigate the clinicopathological features, immunophenotypes, and molecular genetic changes of MEITL. METHODS: The clinicopathological data for three patients with surgically resected MEITL of the small intestine were collected. Next, immunohistochemical labeling, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in situ hybridization, assessment of clonal rearrangement of T-cell receptor (TCR) genes, and next-generation sequencing (NGS) were performed. RESULTS: Of the three patients, two were male and one was female, with ages of 61, 67, and 73 years, respectively. Clinical manifestations were predominantly abdominal pain and distension. Histopathology revealed infiltrative growth of small-to-medium-sized lymphocytes with a consistent morphology between the intestinal walls, accompanied by an obvious pro-epithelial phenomenon. The expression of CD3, CD8, CD43, CD56, TIA-1, CD103, H3K36me3, and Bcl-2 was detected, and the Ki-67 proliferation index ranged from 50% to 80%. All three patients tested negative for EBER. However, monoclonal rearrangement of the TCR gene was detected in them. NGS testing showed a JAK3 mutation in all three cases. Further, STAT5B, SETD2, and TP53 mutations were each observed in two cases, and a BCOR mutation was found in one case. All patients were treated with chemotherapy after surgery. Two patients died 7 and 15 month post-operation, and one patient survived for 5 months of follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that mutations in JAK3 and STAT5B of the JAK/STAT pathway and inactivation of the oncogene SETD2 markedly contribute to the lymphomagenesis of MEITL.
32557565 | Rheumatoid arthritis synovial microenvironment induces metabolic and functional adaptations in dendritic cells. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease which causes degradation of cartilage and bone. It is well appreciated that the pathogenic hallmark of RA is the mass influx of inflammatory cells into the joint. However, the role that dendritic cells (DC) may play in this inflammatory milieu is still relatively unexplored. Moreover, the contribution this unique synovial microenvironment has on DC maturation is still unknown. Using monocyte-derived DC (MoDC), we established an in-vitro model to recapitulate the synovial microenvironment to explore DC maturation. MoDC treated with conditioned media from ex-vivo synovial tissue biopsy cultures [explant-conditioned media (ECM)] have increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines and adhesion molecules. ECM DC have increased expression of CD83 and CC-chemokine receptor (CCR)7 and decreased expression of CCR5 and phagocytic capacity, suggestive of heightened DC maturation. ECM-induced maturation is concomitant with altered cellular bioenergetics, whereby increased expression of glycolytic genes and increased glucose uptake are observed in ECM DC. Collectively, this results in a metabolic shift in DC metabolism in favour of glycolysis. These adaptations are in-part mediated via signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT-3), as demonstrated by decreased expression of proinflammatory cytokines and glycolytic genes in ECM DC in response to STAT-3 inhibition. Finally, to translate these data to a more in-vivo clinically relevant setting, RNA-seq was performed on RA synovial fluid and peripheral blood. We identified enhanced expression of a number of glycolytic genes in synovial CD1c+ DC compared to CD1c+ DC in circulation. Collectively, our data suggest that the synovial microenvironment in RA contributes to DC maturation and metabolic reprogramming.
37546823 | Interleukin-27-induced HIV-resistant dendritic cells suppress reveres transcription following virus entry in an SPTBN1, Autophagy, and YB-1 independent manner. Interleukin (IL)-27, a member of the IL-12 family of cytokines, induces human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-resistant monocyte-derived macrophages and T cells. This resistance is mediated via the downregulation of spectrin beta, non-erythrocytic 1 (SPTBN1), induction of autophagy, or suppression of the acetylation of Y-box binding protein-1 (YB-1); however, the role of IL-27 administration during the induction of immature monocyte-derived dendritic cells (iDC) is poorly investigated. In the current study, we investigated the function of IL-27-induced iDC (27DC) on HIV infection. 27DC inhibited HIV infection by 95 +- 3 % without significant changes in the expression of CD4, CCR5, and SPTBN1 expression, autophagy induction and acetylation of YB-1 compared to iDC. An HIV proviral DNA copy number assay displayed that 27DC suppressed reverse transcriptase (RT) reaction without influencing the virus entry. A DNA microarray analysis was performed to identify the differentially expressed genes between 27DC and iDC. Compared to iDC, 51 genes were differentially expressed in 27DC, with more than 3-fold changes in four independent donors. Cross-reference analysis with the reported 2,214 HIV regulatory host genes identified nine genes as potential interests: Ankyrin repeat domain 22, Guanylate binding protein (GBP)-1, -2, -4, -5, Stabilin 1, Serpin family G member 1 (SERPING1), Interferon alpha inducible protein 6, and Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3. A knock-down study using si-RNA failed to determine a key factor associated with the anti-HIV activity due to the induction of robust amounts of off-target effects. Overexpression of each protein in cells had no impact on HIV infection. Thus, we could not define the mechanism of the anti-HIV effect in 27DC. However, our findings indicated that IL-27 differentiates monocytes into HIV-resistant DC, and the inhibitory mechanism differs from IL-27-induced HIV-resistant macrophages and T cells.
38260276 | A Randomised Clinical Trial of the Safety and Pharmacokinetics of VRC07-523LS Administered via Different Routes and Doses (HVTN 127/HPTN 087). Background: Broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) are a promising approach for HIV-1 prevention. In the only bnAb HIV prevention efficacy studies to date, the Antibody Mediated Prevention (AMP) trials, a CD4-binding site targeting bnAb, VRC01, administered intravenously (IV), demonstrated 75% prevention efficacy against highly neutralization-sensitive viruses but was ineffective against less sensitive viruses. Greater efficacy is required before passively administered bnAbs become a viable option for HIV prevention; furthermore subcutaneous (SC) or intramuscular (IM) administration may be preferred. VRC07-523LS is a next-generation bnAb targeting the CD4-binding site and was engineered for increased neutralization breadth and half-life. Methods: Participants were recruited between 02 February 2018 and 09 October 2018. 124 healthy participants without HIV were randomized to receive five VRC07-523LS administrations via IV (T1: 2.5 mg/kg, T2: 5 mg/kg, T3: 20 mg/kg), SC (T4: 2.5 mg/kg, T5: 5 mg/kg) or IM (T6: 2.5 mg/kg or P6: placebo) routes at four-month intervals. Safety data were collected for 144 weeks following the first administration. VRC07-523LS serum concentrations were measured by ELISA after the first dose through Day 112 in all participants and by binding antibody multiplex assay (BAMA) thereafter in 60 participants (10 per treatment group) through Day 784. Compartmental population pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses were conducted to evaluate the VRC07-523LS serum pharmacokinetics. Neutralization activity was measured in a TZM-bl assay and anti-drug antibodies (ADA) were assayed using a tiered bridging assay testing strategy. Results: Injections were well-tolerated, with mild pain or tenderness reported commonly in the SC and IM groups, and mild to moderate erythema or induration reported commonly in the SC groups. Infusions were generally well-tolerated, with infusion reactions reported in 3 of 20 participants in the 20 mg/kg IV group. Peak geometric mean (GM) concentrations (95% confidence intervals) following the first administration were 29.0 mug/mL (25.2, 33.4), 58.5 mug/mL (49.4, 69.3), and 257.2 mug/mL (127.5, 518.9) in T1-T3 with IV dosing; 10.8 mug/mL (8.8, 13.3) and 22.8 mug/mL (20.1, 25.9) in T4-T5 with SC dosing; and 16.4 mug/mL (14.7, 18.2) in T6 with IM dosing. Trough GM concentrations immediately prior to the second administration were 3.4 mug/mL (2.5, 4.6), 6.5 mug/mL (5.6, 7.5), and 27.2 mug/mL (23.9, 31.0) with IV dosing; 0.97 mug/mL (0.65, 1.4) and 3.1 mug/mL (2.2, 4.3) with SC dosing, and 2.6 mug/mL (2.05, 3.31) with IM dosing. Peak VRC07-523LS serum concentrations increased linearly with the administered dose. At a given dose, peak and trough concentrations, as well as serum neutralization titres, were highest in the IV groups, reflecting the lower bioavailability following SC and IM administration. A single participant was found to have low titre ADA at a lone timepoint. VRC07-523LS has an estimated mean half-life of 42 days (95% CI: 40.5, 43.5), approximately twice as long as VRC01. Conclusions: VRC07-523LS was safe and well-tolerated across a range of doses and routes and is a promising long-acting bnAb for inclusion in HIV-1 prevention regimens.
31742150 | Correlation of CD4 counts with oral and systemic manifestations in HIV patients. AIM: Aim of the study was to correlate CD4 counts with oral and systemic manifestations in HIV patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Study population comprised of newly diagnosed 100 confirmed seropositive patients, before starting any antiretroviral therapy, were included. The oral lesions were diagnosed based on clinical manifestation using international criteria and CD4 count was determined within maximum 1 week of oral examination. Oral and systemic manifestations of HIV-positive patients were recorded and correlated with CD4 counts. RESULTS: It was found that decrease in CD4 count is associated with a wide range of oral and systemic manifestations which can be used as prognostic marker for immune suppression in AIDS patient. CONCLUSION: Correlation of CD4 count with oral and systemic manifestation in HIV patient demonstrate the role of oral physician in identification, diagnosis, and treatment of HIV-associated lesions, providing proper guidance to the patient and allowing for an early diagnosis and treatment of the disease, which is fundamental for a successful management of the life conditions of HIV infected patients.
38260287 | Innate Immune Activation and Mitochondrial ROS Invoke Persistent Cardiac Conduction System Dysfunction after COVID-19. Background: Cardiac risk rises during acute SARS-CoV-2 infection and in long COVID syndrome in humans, but the mechanisms behind COVID-19-linked arrhythmias are unknown. This study explores the acute and long term effects of SARS-CoV-2 on the cardiac conduction system (CCS) in a hamster model of COVID-19. Methods: Radiotelemetry in conscious animals was used to non-invasively record electrocardiograms and subpleural pressures after intranasal SARS-CoV-2 infection. Cardiac cytokines, interferon-stimulated gene expression, and macrophage infiltration of the CCS, were assessed at 4 days and 4 weeks post-infection. A double-stranded RNA mimetic, polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (PIC), was used in vivo and in vitro to activate viral pattern recognition receptors in the absence of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Results: COVID-19 induced pronounced tachypnea and severe cardiac conduction system (CCS) dysfunction, spanning from bradycardia to persistent atrioventricular block, although no viral protein expression was detected in the heart. Arrhythmias developed rapidly, partially reversed, and then redeveloped after the pulmonary infection was resolved, indicating persistent CCS injury. Increased cardiac cytokines, interferon-stimulated gene expression, and macrophage remodeling in the CCS accompanied the electrophysiological abnormalities. Interestingly, the arrhythmia phenotype was reproduced by cardiac injection of PIC in the absence of virus, indicating that innate immune activation was sufficient to drive the response. PIC also strongly induced cytokine secretion and robust interferon signaling in hearts, human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs), and engineered heart tissues, accompanied by alterations in electrical and Ca 2+ handling properties. Importantly, the pulmonary and cardiac effects of COVID-19 were blunted by in vivo inhibition of JAK/STAT signaling or by a mitochondrially-targeted antioxidant. Conclusions: The findings indicate that long term dysfunction and immune cell remodeling of the CCS is induced by COVID-19, arising indirectly from oxidative stress and excessive activation of cardiac innate immune responses during infection, with implications for long COVID Syndrome.
26851503 | The Janus kinase inhibitor ruxolitinib reduces HIV replication in human macrophages and ameliorates HIV encephalitis in a murine model. A hallmark of persistent HIV-1 infection in the central nervous system is increased activation of mononuclear phagocytes and surrounding astrogliosis, conferring persistent HIV-induced inflammation. This inflammation is believed to result in neuronal dysfunction and the clinical manifestations of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). The Jak/STAT pathway is activated in macrophages/myeloid cells upon HIV-1 infection, modulating many pro-inflammatory pathways that result in HAND, thereby representing an attractive cellular target. Thus, the impact of ruxolitinib, a Janus Kinase (Jak) 1/2 inhibitor that is FDA approved for myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera, was assessed for its potential to inhibit HIV-1 replication in macrophages and HIV-induced activation in monocytes/macrophages in culture. In addition, a murine model of HIV encephalitis (HIVE) was used to assess the impact of ruxolitinib on histopathological features of HIVE, brain viral load, as well as its ability to penetrate the blood-brain-barrier (BBB). Ruxolitinib was found to inhibit HIV-1 replication in macrophages, HIV-induced activation of monocytes (CD14/CD16) and macrophages (HLA-DR, CCR5, and CD163) without apparent toxicity. In vivo, systemically administered ruxolitinib was detected in the brain during HIVE in SCID mice and markedly inhibited astrogliosis. Together, these data indicate that ruxolitinib reduces HIV-induced activation and infiltration of monocytes/macrophages in vitro, reduces the replication of HIV in vitro, penetrates the BBB when systemically administered in mice and reduces astrogliosis in the brains of mice with HIVE. These data suggest that ruxolitinib will be useful as a novel therapeutic to treat humans with HAND.
38377177 | Activation of gp130 signaling in T cells drives TH17-mediated multi-organ autoimmunity. The IL-6-gp130-STAT3 signaling axis is a major regulator of inflammation. Activating mutations in the gene encoding gp130 and germline gain-of-function mutations in STAT3 (STAT3GOF) are associated with multi-organ autoimmunity, severe morbidity, and adverse prognosis. To dissect crucial cellular subsets and disease biology involved in activated gp130 signaling, the gp130-JAK-STAT3 axis was constitutively activated using a transgene, L-gp130, specifically targeted to T cells. Activating gp130 signaling in T cells in vivo resulted in fatal, early onset, multi-organ autoimmunity in mice that resembled human STAT3GOF disease. Female mice had more rapid disease progression than male mice. On a cellular level, gp130 signaling induced the activation and effector cell differentiation of T cells, promoted the expansion of T helper type 17 (TH17) cells, and impaired the activity of regulatory T cells. Transcriptomic profiling of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from these mice revealed commonly dysregulated genes and a gene signature that, when applied to human transcriptomic data, improved the segregation of patients with transcriptionally diverse STAT3GOF mutations from healthy controls. The findings demonstrate that increased gp130-STAT3 signaling leads to TH17-driven autoimmunity that phenotypically resembles human STAT3GOF disease.
38462549 | A specific inflammatory suppression fibroblast subpopulation characterized by MHCII expression in human dilated cardiomyopathy. Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a significant cause of heart failure that requires heart transplantation. Fibroblasts play a central role in the fibro-inflammatory microenvironment of DCM. However, their cellular heterogeneity and interaction with immune cells have not been well identified. An integrative analysis was conducted on single-cell RNA sequencing (ScRNA-Seq) data from human left ventricle tissues, which comprised 4 hearts from healthy donors and 6 hearts with DCM. The specific antigen-presenting fibroblast (apFB) was explored as a subtype of fibroblasts characterized by expressing MHCII genes, the existence of which was confirmed by immunofluorescence staining of 3 cardiac tissues from DCM patients with severe heart failure. apFB highly expressed the genes that response to IFN-gamma, and it also have a high activity of the JAK-STAT pathway and the transcription factor RFX5. In addition, the analysis of intercellular communication between apFBs and CD4+T cells revealed that the anti-inflammatory ligand-receptor pairs TGFB-TGFR, CLEC2B-KLRB1, and CD46-JAG1 were upregulated in DCM. The apFB signature exhibited a positive correlation with immunosuppression and demonstrated diagnostic and prognostic value when evaluated using a bulk RNA dataset comprising 166 donors and 166 DCM samples. In conclusion, the present study identified a novel subpopulation of fibroblasts that specifically expresses MHCII-encoding genes. This specific apFBs can suppress the inflammation occurring in DCM. Our findings further elucidate the composition of the fibro-inflammatory microenvironment in DCM, and provide a novel therapeutic target.
38506674 | A Bayesian approach based on discounting factor for consistency assessment in multi-regional clinical trial. Multi-regional clinical trial (MRCT) has become an increasing trend for its supporting simultaneous global drug development. After MRCT, consistency assessment needs to be conducted to evaluate regional efficacy. The weighted Z-test approach is a common consistency assessment approach in which the weighting parameter W does not have a good practical significance; the discounting factor approach improved from the weighted Z-test approach by converting the estimation of W in original weighted Z-test approach to the estimation of discounting factor D. However, the discounting factor approach is an approach of frequency statistics, in which D was fixed as a certain value; the variation of D was not considered, which may lead to un-reasonable results. In this paper, we proposed a Bayesian approach based on D to evaluate the treatment effect for the target region in MRCT, in which the variation of D was considered. Specifically, we first took D random instead of fixed as a certain value and specified a beta distribution for it. According to the results of simulation, we further adjusted the Bayesian approach. The application of the proposed approach was illustrated by Markov Chain Monte Carlo simulation.
23823820 | New insight into genes in association with asthma: literature-based mining and network centrality analysis. BACKGROUND: Asthma is a heterogeneous disease for which a strong genetic basis has been firmly established. Until now no studies have been undertaken to systemically explore the network of asthma-related genes using an internally developed literature-based discovery approach. This study was to explore asthma-related genes by using literature-based mining and network centrality analysis. METHODS: Literature involving asthma-related genes were searched in PubMed from 2001 to 2011. Integration of natural language processing with network centrality analysis was used to identify asthma susceptibility genes and their interaction network. Asthma susceptibility genes were classified into three functional groups by gene ontology (GO) analysis and the key genes were confirmed by establishing asthma-related networks and pathways. RESULTS: Three hundred and twenty-six genes related with asthma such as IGHE (IgE), interleukin (IL)-4, 5, 6, 10, 13, 17A, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha were identified. GO analysis indicated some biological processes (developmental processes, signal transduction, death, etc.), cellular components (non-structural extracellular, plasma membrane and extracellular matrix), and molecular functions (signal transduction activity) that were involved in asthma. Furthermore, 22 asthma-related pathways such as the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, hematopoietic cell lineage, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, chemokine signaling pathway, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and 17 hub genes, such as JAK3, CCR1-3, CCR5-7, CCR8, were found. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a remarkably detailed and comprehensive picture of asthma susceptibility genes and their interacting network. Further identification of these genes and molecular pathways may play a prominent role in establishing rational therapeutic approaches for asthma.
38244862 | The interference between SARS-COV-2 and Alzheimer's disease: Potential immunological and neurobiological crosstalk from a kinase perspective reveals a delayed pandemic. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has infected over 700 million people, with up to 30% developing neurological manifestations, including dementias. However, there is a lack of understanding of common molecular brain markers causing Alzheimer's disease (AD). COVID-19 has etiological cofactors with AD, making patients with AD a vulnerable population at high risk of experiencing more severe symptoms and worse consequences. Both AD and COVID-19 have upregulated several shared kinases, leading to the repositioning of kinase inhibitors (KIs) for the treatment of both diseases. This review provides an overview of the interactions between the immune system and the nervous system in relation to receptor tyrosine kinases, including epidermal growth factor receptors, vascular growth factor receptors, and non-receptor tyrosine kinases such as Bruton tyrosine kinase, spleen tyrosine kinase, c-ABL, and JAK/STAT. We will discuss the promising results of kinase inhibitors in pre-clinical and clinical studies for both COVID-19 and Alzheimer's disease (AD), as well as the challenges in repositioning KIs for these diseases. Understanding the shared kinases between AD and COVID-19 could help in developing therapeutic approaches for both.
14739298 | A cleaved form of MAGE-A4 binds to Miz-1 and induces apoptosis in human cells. Gankyrin, a recently discovered oncoprotein, is a promising target for drug therapy because it is overexpressed in most hepatocellular carcinomas. Since gankyrin interacts with MAGE-A4, we made several MAGE-A4 mutants and assessed their effects on cell growth. We found that the C-terminal 107 amino acids of MAGE-A4 (MAGE-A4DeltaN1) induced p53-dependent and p53-independent apoptosis. MAGE-A4DeltaN1 increased the p53 protein level, but decreased the p21(Cip1) transcript and protein levels. During apoptosis Bcl-xL was down-regulated and mitochondrial integrity was disrupted. A yeast two-hybrid screen identified Miz-1 as a MAGE-A4DeltaN1-binding protein. MAGE-A4DeltaN1 was recruited through association with Miz-1 to the p21(Cip1) promoter and down-regulated transcription of p21(Cip1). In 293T cells and U-2 OS cells, full-length MAGE-A4 was processed to generate a C-terminal fragment of 104 amino acids with activities similar to MAGE-A4DeltaN1. Processing was inhibited with a broad range caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK, but not by site-directed mutagenesis of aspartic acids in MAGE-A4, suggesting an indirect involvement of caspase(s) in the processing. The amount of the processed form was increased by exposure of cells to adriamycin. Transduction with a HIV Tat-MAGE-A4DeltaN1 fusion protein suppressed anchorage-independent growth of gankyrin-overexpressing cells in vitro and in vivo. These results demonstrate that the C-terminal fragment of MAGE-A4 induces apoptosis at least partly by binding to Miz-1, and that the fragment may be exploited as an anticancer agent. Furthermore, the finding that a C-terminal fragment with pro-apoptotic activity is generated from full-length MAGE-A4 after genotoxic stress in human cells suggests a novel function for MAGE-A4.
17411373 | Leukemia inhibitor factor (LIF) inhibits HIV-1 replication via restriction of stat 3 activation. Leukemia inhibitor factor (LIF) has been shown to potently inhibit HIV-1 replication in vitro and in human organ explant cultures. Furthermore, LIF activates the Jak/Stat signaling pathway with which many viruses, including HIV-1, interfere. We used CXCR4 and the LIF signaling receptor (gp130)-expressing cMAGI cells transfected with CD4, CCR5, and HIV-LTR-beta-galactosidase as a model system to investigate the potential involvement of Stat proteins in the anti-HIV-1 effect of LIF. Pretreatment with recombinant human (rh)LIF resulted in a significantly reduced uptake of HIV-1(BaL) , HIV-1(LAI), and SIVmac251 viral particles without affecting uptake of murine leukemia retroviral particles. HIV-1(BaL), HIV-1(LAI), as well as rhLIF selectively induced phosphorylation of Stat 3 but not Stat 1 or Stat 5. However, treatment of cMAGI cells with rhLIF prior to HIV-1 infection downregulated the HIV-1-mediated Stat 3 phosphorylation. In addition, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) transfected with Stat 3 siRNA prior to HIV-1(LAI) or HIV-1(BaL) infection produced significantly less HIV-1 p24 antigen as compared to nontransfected HIV-1(LAI) and HIV-1(BaL)-infected PBMCs. Thus, the Jak/Stat signaling pathway is important for the HIV-1 replication life cycle and rhLIF excerts its anti-HIV-1 activity by disrupting this signaling cascade.
32061245 | Incidence and predictors of nevirapine and efavirenz-associated rash among Indonesian HIV patients. BACKGROUND: Many drugs used for the treatment of HIV disease can cause drug hypersensitivity reactions. Since 2002, World Health Organization (WHO) has recommended the use of nevirapine and efavirenz as part of first line antiretroviral therapies for several years. Both of the drugs had equivalent clinical efficacy but differences in toxicity profile. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine the incidence and predictors of nevirapine and efavirenz-associated rash among Indonesian HIV-infected patients. METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was conducted among Indonesian patients who were using nevirapine or efavirenz between January 2004 to December 2013. All eligible predictors were analyzed using bivariate and multivariate analysis. RESULTS: 2,071 patients received nevirapine and 1,212 received efavirenz as first line therapies. The cumulative incidence of nevirapine-associated rash was 14% (95%CI: 12.5-15.5%) and evafirenz-associated rash was 4.5% (95%CI: 3.4-5.8%). Severe reactions occurred 1% patients receiving NVP and 0.1% patients receiving EFV, but no patients died due to these conditions. Predictors independently related with nevirapine-associated rash were female gender (adjusted RR = 1.622; 95%CI: 1.196-2.199; p = 0.002), baseline absolute CD4 count above 200 cells/mm3 (adjusted RR = 1.387; 95%CI: 1.041-1.847; p = 0.025), and hepatitis C co-infection (adjusted RR = 1.507; 95%CI: 1.138-1.995; p = 0.004). Baseline ALT level > 1.25 times upper normal limit (adjusted RR = 1.508; 95%CI: 0.998-2.278; p = 0.051) had a tendency to be a good predictor. None of the risk factors investigated was associated with developing efavirenz-associated rash. CONCLUSION: Female, baseline absolute CD4 count above 200 cells/mm3, hepatitis C co-infection and baseline ALT levels more than 1.25 times upper normal limit were predictors for nevirapine-associated rash in HIV patients.
24189438 | Expression of the mammary gland-specific tammar wallaby early lactation protein gene is maintained in vitro in the absence of prolactin. Marsupial ELP (early lactation protein) and its eutherian orthologue, CTI (colostrum trypsin inhibitor) are expressed in the mammary gland only for the first 100 days postpartum (Phase 2A) in the tammar wallaby and during the bovine and canine colostrogenesis period 24-36h postpartum respectively. The factors which regulate temporal ELP and CTI expression are unknown. A tammar mammary gland explant culture model was used to investigate ELP gene regulation during pregnancy and early- and mid-lactation (Phase 1, 2A and 2B respectively). Tammar ELP expression could only be manipulated in explants in vitro if the gene was already expressed in vivo. ELP expression was maximal in Phase 1 explants treated with lactogenic hormones (insulin, hydrocortisone and prolactin), but unlike LGB (beta-lactoglobulin), ELP expression was maintained in insulin or insulin and hydrocortisone over a 12-day culture period. In contrast, ELP was down-regulated when cultured without hormones. ELP could not be induced in explants cultured from mid-lactation which suggested that transcriptional repressors may prevent ELP expression during this period.
38016500 | Long-term efficacy of the peptide-based COVID-19 T cell activator CoVac-1 in healthy adults. BACKGROUND: T cell immunity is key for the control of viral infections including SARS-CoV-2, in particular with regard to immune memory and protection against arising genetic variants. METHOD: We recently evaluated a peptide-based SARS-CoV-2 T cell activator termed CoVac-1 in a first-in-human trial in healthy adults. Here, we report on long-term safety and efficacy data of CoVac-1 until month 12. RESULTS: CoVac-1 is well tolerated without long-term immune-related side effects and induces long-lasting anti-viral T cell responses in 100% of study participants, with potent expandability of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells targeting multiple different CoVac-1 T cell epitopes. T cell responses were associated with stronger injection site reaction. Beyond induction of T cell immunity, 89% of subjects developed CoVac-1-specific IgG antibodies which associated with the intensity of the T cell response, indicating that CoVac-1-specific CD4+ T cells support the induction of B cell responses. Vaccination with approved COVID-19 vaccines boosted CoVac-1-specific T cell responses. Overall, a low SARS-CoV-2 infection rate (8.3%) was observed. CONCLUSION: Together, a single application of CoVac-1 elicits long-lived and broad SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell immunity, which further supports the current evaluation of our T cell activator in patients with congenital or acquired B cell defects.
3443989 | In situ analysis with monoclonal antibodies of lymphocyte subsets in myocardial biopsies from patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and idiopathic (viral) myocarditis. This light- and electron-microscopic immunohistochemical study using monoclonal antibodies analyzes of the in situ lymphocyte subsets in endomyocardial biopsies from 11 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and three patients with idiopathic (viral) myocarditis (MYO). In the DCM patients both Leu 2a+ cytotoxic/suppressor T cells (Tc/s) and Leu 3+ helper/inducer T cells (Th/i) were identifiable in the myocardial lesions, and mean Th/i/Tc/s (T4/T8) ratio was 0.7 +/- 0.6 (mean +/- SD). In 9 of the 11 DCM patients, Tc/s were more numerous than Th/i cells, so the T4/T8 ratio was less than 1.0. On the other hand, the T4/T8 ratios varied widely in the three MYO patients; one of them had marked mononuclear cell infiltrates with many Th/i in the inflammatory foci and a T4/T8 ratio of 2.6. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed some Th/i in close contact with macrophages. These T cells in the myocardium of DCM and MYO patients appeared to be in vivo effector cells playing an important role in cell-mediated immune responses.
33898447 | Inhibition by Thyroid Hormones of Cell Migration Activated by IGF-1 and MCP-1 in THP-1 Monocytes: Focus on Signal Transduction Events Proximal to Integrin alphavbeta3. Interaction between thyroid hormones and the immune system is reported in the literature. Thyroid hormones, thyroxine, T4, but also T3, act non-genomically through mechanisms that involve a plasma membrane receptor alphavbeta3 integrin, a co-receptor for insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). Previous data from our laboratory show a crosstalk between thyroid hormones and IGF-1 because thyroid hormones inhibit the IGF-1-stimulated glucose uptake and cell proliferation in L-6 myoblasts, and the effects are mediated by integrin alphavbeta3. IGF-1 also behaves as a chemokine, being an important factor for tissue regeneration after damage. In the present study, using THP-1 human leukemic monocytes, expressing alphavbeta3 integrin in their cell membrane, we focused on the crosstalk between thyroid hormones and either IGF-1 or monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), studying cell migration and proliferation stimulated by the two chemokines, and the role of alphavbeta3 integrin, using inhibitors of alphavbeta3 integrin and downstream pathways. Our results show that IGF-1 is a potent chemoattractant in THP-1 monocytes, stimulating cell migration, and thyroid hormone inhibits the effect through alphavbeta3 integrin. Thyroid hormone also inhibits IGF-1-stimulated cell proliferation through alphavbeta3 integrin, an example of a crosstalk between genomic and non-genomic effects. We also studied the effects of thyroid hormone on cell migration and proliferation induced by MCP-1, together with the pathways involved, by a pharmacological approach and docking simulation. Our findings show a different downstream signaling for IGF-1 and MCP-1 in THP-1 monocytes mediated by the plasma membrane receptor of thyroid hormones, integrin alphavbeta3.
37954593 | Low levels of peripheral blood activated and senescent T cells characterize people with HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders. Background: HIV infection induces a 75% increase in the risk of developing neurocognitive impairment (NCI), which has been linked to immune activation. We therefore looked for immune activation markers correlating with NCI. Method: Sixty-five people aged 55-70 years living with controlled HIV-1 infection were enrolled in the study and their neurocognitive ability was assessed according to the Frascati criteria. Fifty-nine markers of T4 cell, T8 cell, NK cell, and monocyte activation, inflammation and endothelial activation were measured in their peripheral blood. White matter hyperintensities (WMH) were identified by magnetic resonance imaging. Double hierarchical clustering was performed for the activation markers and 240 patients including the 65 whose neurocognitive performance had been evaluated. Results: Thirty-eight percent of volunteers presented NCI. Twenty-four percent of them were asymptomatic and fourteen percent had a mild disorder. Strikingly, activated (HLA-DR+) as well as senescent (CD57+CD28-CD27+-) T4 cells and T8 cells were less prevalent in the peripheral blood of participants with NCI than in participants without the disorder. Accordingly, the percentage of HLA-DR+ T4 cells was lower in volunteers with periventricular and deep WMH. The double hierarchical clustering unveiled six different immune activation profiles. The neurocognitive performances of participants with two of these six profiles were poor. Here again, these two profiles were characterized by a low level of T4 and T8 cell activation and senescence. Conclusion: Our observation of low circulating levels of activated and senescent T cells in HIV-1 patients with NCI raises the interesting hypothesis that these lymphocytes may be recruited into the central nervous system.
26066194 | Decoherence and spin echo in biological systems. The spin-echo approach is extended to include biocomplexes for which the interaction with dynamical noise, produced by the protein environment, is strong. Significant restoration of the free induction decay signal due to homogeneous (decoherence) and inhomogeneous (dephasing) broadening is demonstrated analytically and numerically for both an individual dimer of interacting chlorophylls and for an ensemble of dimers. Our approach does not require the use of small interaction constants between the electron states and the protein fluctuations. It is based on an exact and closed system of ordinary differential equations that can be easily solved for a wide range of parameters that are relevant for bioapplications.
38533493 | Suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 expression and its regulation in relation to inflammation in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. Background: The family of Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling (SOCS) acts as a controller of the duration and intensity of cytokine function by negatively regulating the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. SOCS' role in inflammatory diseases in animal models is well demonstrated. However, its role in the development of human disease is still under investigation. SOCS3 plays an important role in tumor development where its downregulation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various solid tumors such as triple-negative breast cancer. Aim: The aim of this work was to study (1) the expression of SOCS3 in smokers' lungs and its relation to the degree of inflammation and (2) SOCS3 regulation by microRNA (miRNA) in alveolar-macrophage (AM)-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL). Methods: Group A: 35 smokers' [19 with COPD (SC) and 16 without COPD (S)] and 9 nonsmokers (NS); SOCS3, TNFalpha in AM, and CD8+ T cells were quantified by immunohistochemistry, in lung tissue. Group B: additional 9 SC, 11 S, and 5 NS; AM-EVs expressing SOCS3 (CD14+SOCS3+) and SOCS3 suppressors miRNA-19a-3p and 221-3p in EVs were quantified by flow cytometry and PCR, in BAL. Results: The percentage of SOCS3+ AM was higher in SC [68 (6.6-99)%] and S [48 (8-100)%] than in NS [9.6 (1.9-61)%; p = 0.002; p = 0.03] and correlated with % of TNFalpha+AM (r = 0.48; p = 0.0009) and CD8+ T cells (r = 0.44; p = 0.0029). In BAL, the CD14+SOCS3+ EVs/muL were increased in SC [33 (21-74)] compared to S [16 (8-37); p = 0.03] and NS [9 (7-21); p = 0.003]. Conversely, miRNA-19a-3p and miRNA-221-3p expression were increased in S when compared to SC [19 (2-53) vs. 3 (0.6-8); p = 0.03 and 3 (0.005-9.6) vs. 0.2 (0.08-0.7); p = 0.05]. Conclusions: The suppressor function of SOCS3 in COPD seems to be overridden by other factors and does not follow the animal-model paradigm. Expression of SOCS3 in BAL macrophage-derived EVs might be useful to assess the degree of inflammation and possible progression of COPD. Downregulation of SOCS3, by miRNA, in smokers without COPD might contribute to the risk of developing cancer in these patients.
2963547 | Expression of T-cell antigens on Reed-Sternberg cells in a subset of patients with nodular sclerosing and mixed cellularity Hodgkin's disease. Expression of T-cell antigens by Reed-Sternberg (RS) cells has not been detected in most studies of Hodgkin's disease (HD). The authors employed an improved method of fixation (paraformaldehyde-lysine-periodate), which sharply defined cell borders and revealed T-cell antigens on RS cells in 8 of 30 (27%) cases of HD. Antigen-specific staining was confirmed by immunoelectron microscopy. RS cells expressed T11 (8/8 cases), Leu-3 or T4 (4/8 cases), Leu-4 or T3 (3/8 cases), but not other T-cell specific antigens (Leu-1, T8, T6, 3A1). RS cells were negative for leukocyte common antigen (LCA/T200), in contrast to positive LCA/T200 staining of RS-like cells in T-cell lymphomas. RS cells in all HD cases were positive for Ki-1 and/or Leu-M1 antigens. The percentage of RS cells expressing T-cell antigens was less than 20% (2 cases), 20-50% (3 cases), or greater than 50% (3 cases). This percentage and the specific T-cell antigens expressed varied in tissues from different sites in each of 2 cases. Expression of T-cell antigens by RS cells was found in nodular sclerosis (6 of 20 cases) and mixed cellularity (2 of 5 cases) but not in lymphocyte predominance (2 cases), lymphocyte depletion (1 case), or unclassified types (2 cases). Two cases of nodular sclerosis contained areas of necrosis surrounded by sheets of lacunar cells (syncytial variant of NSHD). Two other cases were associated with cutaneous lymphoma. One of these cases was mixed cellularity HD, which appeared to be confined to the skin. In a second case, tumor cells of similar phenotype (T4+, Ki-1+) were found in skin and lymph nodes of a patient with coexistent mycosis fungoides and HD. These results are consistent with an origin of RS cells from T cells in some cases of nodular sclerosing and mixed cellularity HD. They also suggest that the same cell type, an activated helper T-cell, is involved in the pathogenesis of both skin lesions and lymphadenopathy of some patients with coexistent mycosis fungoides and HD.
23954656 | Immunopharmacological intervention for successful neural stem cell therapy: New perspectives in CNS neurogenesis and repair. The pharmacological support and stimulation of endogenous and transplanted neural stem cells (NSCs) is a major challenge in brain repair. Trauma to the central nervous system (CNS) results in a distinct inflammatory response caused by local and infiltrating immune cells. This makes NSC-supported regeneration difficult due to the presence of inhibitory immune factors which are upregulated around the lesion site. The continual and dual role of the neuroinflammatory response leaves it difficult to decipher upon a single modulatory strategy. Therefore, understanding the influence of cytokines upon regulation of NSC self-renewal, proliferation and differentiation is crucial when designing therapies for CNS repair. There is a plethora of partially conflicting data in vitro and in vivo on the role of cytokines in modulating the stem cell niche and the milieu around NSC transplants. This is mainly due to the pleiotropic role of many factors. In order for cell-based therapy to thrive, treatment must be phase-specific to the injury and also be personalized for each patient, i.e. taking age, sex, neuroimmune and endocrine status as well as other key parameters into consideration. In this review, we will summarize the most relevant information concerning interleukin (IL)-1, IL-4, IL-10, IL-15, IFN-gamma, the neuropoietic cytokine family and TNF-alpha in order to extract promising therapeutic approaches for further research. We will focus on the consequences of neuroinflammation on endogenous brain stem cells and the transplantation environment, the effects of the above cytokines on NSCs, as well as immunopharmacological manipulation of the microenvironment for potential therapeutic use.
28432512 | Squamous cell carcinoma of the breast in the United States: incidence, demographics, tumor characteristics, and survival. PURPOSE: Squamous cell carcinoma of breast accounts for less than 0.1% of all breast cancers. The purpose of this study is to describe the epidemiology and survival of this rare malignancy. METHODS: Data were extracted from the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results Registry to identify women diagnosed with squamous cell carcinoma of breast between 1998 and 2013. SEER*Stat 8.3.1 was used to calculate age-adjusted incidence, age-wise distribution, and annual percentage change in incidence. Kaplan-Meier curves were plotted for survival analysis. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression model was used to determine predictors of survival. RESULTS: A total of 445 cases of squamous cell carcinoma of breast were diagnosed during the study period. The median age of diagnosis was 67 years. The overall age-adjusted incidence between 1998 and 2013 was 0.62 per 1,000,000 per year, and the incidence has been on a decline. Approximately half of the tumors were poorly differentiated. Stage II was the most common stage at presentation. Majority of the cases were negative for expression of estrogen and progesterone receptor. One-third of the cases underwent breast conservation surgery while more than half of the cases underwent mastectomy (unilateral or bilateral). Approximately one-third of cases received radiation treatment. The 1-year and 5-year cause-specific survival was 81.6 and 63.5%, respectively. Excluding patient with metastasis or unknown stage at presentation, in multivariate Cox proportional hazard model, older age at diagnosis and higher tumor stage (T3 or T4) or nodal stage at presentation were significant predictors of poor survival. CONCLUSIONS: Our study describes the unique characteristics of squamous cell carcinoma of breast and demonstrates that it is an aggressive tumor with a poor survival. Older age and higher tumor or nodal stages at presentation were independent predictors of poor survival for loco-regional stages.
24710357 | Oncostatin M mediates STAT3-dependent intestinal epithelial restitution via increased cell proliferation, decreased apoptosis and upregulation of SERPIN family members. OBJECTIVE: Oncostatin M (OSM) is produced by activated T cells, monocytes, and dendritic cells and signals through two distinct receptor complexes consisting of gp130 and LIFR (I) or OSMR-beta and gp130 (II), respectively. Aim of this study was to analyze the role of OSM in intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) and intestinal inflammation. METHODS: OSM expression and OSM receptor distribution was analyzed by PCR and immunohistochemistry experiments, signal transduction by immunoblotting. Gene expression studies were performed by microarray analysis and RT-PCR. Apoptosis was measured by caspases-3/7 activity. IEC migration and proliferation was studied in wounding and water soluble tetrazolium assays. RESULTS: The IEC lines Caco-2, DLD-1, SW480, HCT116 and HT-29 express mRNA for the OSM receptor subunits gp130 and OSMR-beta, while only HCT116, HT-29 and DLD-1 cells express LIFR mRNA. OSM binding to its receptor complex activates STAT1, STAT3, ERK-1/2, SAPK/JNK-1/2, and Akt. Microarray analysis revealed 79 genes that were significantly up-regulated (adj.-p <= 0.05) by OSM in IEC. Most up-regulated genes belong to the functional categories \immunity and defense\ (p = 2.1 x 10(-7)), \apoptosis\ (p = 3.7 x 10(-4)) and \JAK/STAT cascade\ (p = 3.4 x 10(-6)). Members of the SERPIN gene family were among the most strongly up-regulated genes. OSM significantly increased STAT3- and MEK1-dependent IEC cell proliferation (p<0.05) and wound healing (p = 3.9 x 10(-5)). OSM protein expression was increased in colonic biopsies of patients with active inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). CONCLUSIONS: OSM promotes STAT3-dependent intestinal epithelial cell proliferation and wound healing in vitro. Considering the increased OSM expression in colonic biopsy specimens of patients with active IBD, OSM upregulation may modulate a barrier-protective host response in intestinal inflammation. Further in vivo studies are warranted to elucidate the exact role of OSM in intestinal inflammation and the potential of OSM as a drug target in IBD.
38145241 | Estimating SARS-CoV-2 seroprevalence. Governments and public health authorities use seroprevalence studies to guide responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. Seroprevalence surveys estimate the proportion of individuals who have detectable SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. However, serologic assays are prone to misclassification error, and non-probability sampling may induce selection bias. In this paper, non-parametric and parametric seroprevalence estimators are considered that address both challenges by leveraging validation data and assuming equal probabilities of sample inclusion within covariate-defined strata. Both estimators are shown to be consistent and asymptotically normal, and consistent variance estimators are derived. Simulation studies are presented comparing the estimators over a range of scenarios. The methods are used to estimate severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) seroprevalence in New York City, Belgium, and North Carolina.
36253414 | Characterizing the composition of iPSC derived cells from bulk transcriptomics data with CellMap. Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) derived cell types are increasingly employed as in vitro model systems for drug discovery. For these studies to be meaningful, it is important to understand the reproducibility of the iPSC-derived cultures and their similarity to equivalent endogenous cell types. Single-cell and single-nucleus RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) are useful to gain such understanding, but they are expensive and time consuming, while bulk RNA-seq data can be generated quicker and at lower cost. In silico cell type decomposition is an efficient, inexpensive, and convenient alternative that can leverage bulk RNA-seq to derive more fine-grained information about these cultures. We developed CellMap, a computational tool that derives cell type profiles from publicly available single-cell and single-nucleus datasets to infer cell types in bulk RNA-seq data from iPSC-derived cell lines.
31678138 | Paradoxical effects of continuous high dose gabapentin treatment on autonomic dysreflexia after complete spinal cord injury. Spinal cord injury (SCI) can have profound effects on the autonomic and cardiovascular systems, notably with injuries above high-thoracic levels that result in the development of autonomic dysreflexia (AD) characterized by volatile hypertension in response to exaggerated sympathetic reflexes triggered by afferent stimulation below the injury level. Pathophysiological changes associated with the development of AD include sprouting of both nociceptive afferents and ascending propriospinal 'relay' neurons below the injury, as well as dynamic changes in synaptic inputs onto sympathetic preganglionic neurons. However, it remains uncertain whether synapse formation between sprouted c-fibers and propriospinal neurons contributes to the development of exaggerated sympathetic reflexes produced during AD. We previously reported that once daily treatment with the anti-epileptic and neuropathic pain medication, gabapentin (GBP), at low dosage (50 mg/kg) mitigates experimentally induced AD soon after injections, likely by impeding glutamatergic signaling. Since much higher doses of GBP are reported to block the formation of excitatory synapses, we hypothesized that continuous, high dosage GBP treatment after SCI might prevent the formation of aforementioned aberrant synapses and, accordingly, reduce the incidence and severity of AD. Adult female rats implanted with aortic telemetry probes for hemodynamic monitoring underwent T4-transection SCI and immediately received 100 mg/kg (i.p.) of GBP and then every six hours (400 mg/kg/day) for 4-weeks after injury. We assessed daily body weight, mean arterial pressure, heart rate, frequency of spontaneous AD, and hemodynamic changes during colorectal distension (CRD) to establish whether high dose GBP treatment prophylactically mitigates both AD and associated aberrant synaptic plasticity. This regimen significantly reduced both the absolute blood pressure reached during experimentally induced AD and the time required to return to baseline afterwards. Conversely, GBP prevented return to pre-injury body weights and paradoxically increased the frequency of spontaneously occurring AD. While there were significant decreases in the densities of excitatory and inhibitory pre-synaptic markers in the lumbosacral dorsal horn following injury alone, they were unaltered by continuous GBP treatment. This indicates distinct mechanisms of action for acute GBP to mitigate induced AD whereas chronic GBP increases non-induced AD frequencies. While high dose prophylactic GBP is not recommended to treat AD, acute low dose GBP may hold therapeutic value to mitigate evoked AD, notably during iatrogenic procedures under controlled clinical conditions.
38567708 | New insights into the anticancer therapeutic potential of icaritin and its synthetic derivatives. Icaritin is a natural prenylated flavonoid derived from the Chinese herb Epimedium. The compound has shown antitumor effects in various cancers, especially hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Icaritin exerts its anticancer activity by modulating multiple signaling pathways, such as IL-6/JAK/STAT3, ER-alpha36, and NF-kappaB, affecting the tumor microenvironment and immune system. Several clinical trials have evaluated the safety and efficacy of icaritin in advanced HCC patients with poor prognoses, who are unsuitable for conventional therapies. The results have demonstrated that icaritin can improve survival, delay progression, and produce clinical benefits in these patients, with a favorable safety profile and minimal adverse events. Moreover, icaritin can enhance the antitumor immune response by regulating the function and phenotype of various immune cells, such as CD8+ T cells, MDSCs, neutrophils, and macrophages. These findings suggest that icaritin is a promising candidate for immunotherapy in HCC and other cancers. However, further studies are needed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms and optimal dosing regimens of icaritin and its potential synergistic effects with other agents. Therefore, this comprehensive review of the scientific literature aims to summarize advances in the knowledge of icaritin in preclinical and clinical studies as well as the pharmacokinetic, metabolism, toxicity, and mechanisms action to recognize the main challenge, gaps, and opportunities to develop a medication that cancer patients can use. Thus, our main objective was to clarify the current state of icaritin for use as an anticancer drug.
30824557 | Menarche, pregnancies, and breastfeeding do not modify long-term prognosis in multiple sclerosis. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of menarche, pregnancies, and breastfeeding on the risk of developing multiple sclerosis (MS) and disability accrual using a multivariate approach based on a large prospective cohort of patients with clinically isolated syndrome (CIS). METHODS: A cross-sectional survey of the reproductive information of female participants in a CIS cohort was performed. We examined the relationship of age at menarche with the risk of clinically definite MS (CDMS), McDonald 2010 MS, and Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) 3.0 and 6.0. The effect of pregnancy (before and after CIS) and breastfeeding in the risk of CDMS, McDonald 2010 MS, and EDSS 3.0 was also examined. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed and findings were confirmed using sensitivity analyses and a propensity score model. RESULTS: The data of 501 female participants were collected. Age at menarche did not correlate with age at CIS and was not associated with the risk of CDMS or EDSS 3.0 or 6.0. Pregnancy before CIS was protective for CDMS in the univariate analysis, but the effect was lost in the multivariate model and did not modify the risk of EDSS 3.0. Pregnancy after CIS was protective for both outcomes in univariate and multivariate analyses when pregnancy was considered a baseline variable, but the protective effect disappeared when analyzed as a time-dependent event. Breastfeeding did not modify the risk for the 3 outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that menarche, pregnancies, and breastfeeding did not substantially modify the risk of CDMS or disability accrual using a multivariable and time-dependent approach.
2541265 | Cell-mediated immune cardiocyte injury in viral myocarditis of mice and patients. The cellular immune mechanism of cardiocyte injury in viral myocarditis was investigated by observing and analyzing the interactions among cardiocytes, T cells, B cells, natural killer (NK) cells and macrophages in situ in the myocardium of our murine model (C3H/He mice) and of human patients. In murine coxsackie B3 virus myocarditis, lymphocyte subsets were identified by light and electron microscopic immunohistochemical techniques with antibodies against specific antigens of pan T (Thy 1.2), helper/inducer T (Th/i) (Lyt 1+), cytotoxic/suppressor T (Tc/s) (Lyt 2+), B (Ig+) and asialo GM1+ cells in the myocardium. In the acute phase of myocarditis, asialo GM1+ (mostly NK) cells predominated over pan T cells and peaked on day 9. Pan T cells then reached a peak on day 14. The T4/T8 (Lyt 1+/Lyt 2+) ratio was 1.3 +/- 0.5 on day 5 and reached a peak of 9.1 +/- 3.6 with an increase of Lyt 1+ cells on day 14. Thereafter, NK cells and T cells gradually decreased and could still be seen in fibrotic foci even 3 and 12 months later. B cells were so scarce that no quantitative evaluation could be made. Electron microscopy revealed that macrophages were in close contact with Th/i cells, target cardiocytes and less commonly, B cells; Tc/s and NK cells also occasionally conjugated with apparently viable or degenerated cardiocytes. Some lymphocytes were located in widened intercellular spaces of dissociated intercalated discs, and in intracytoplasmic widened confines of some cardiocytes (emperipolesis). These results suggest that in the acute phase of myocarditis, NK cells initiate the reaction, and then sensitized cytotoxic T cells and activated macrophages aggravate cell-mediated injury by their close contacts with target cardiocytes; close contacts among macrophages; Th/i cells and a few B cells, and the increased T4/T8 ratio may facilitate regulation of the complex immune network; in the chronic phase, residual but active NK and cytotoxic T cells may sustain cytotoxicity. In the endomyocardial biopsies obtained from 8 patients with viral or idiopathic myocarditis from 3 to 48 days after the clinical onset, conventional electron microscopy revealed actual contacts among cardiocytes, macrophages and lymphocytes. As in our murine model, some lymphocytes had emperipolesed in cardiocytes or were located in widened spaces of dissociated intercalated discs. In 4 of these 8 patients infiltration of Leu 2a+ Tc/s, Leu 3+ Th/i and Leu 7+ cells was identified immunohistochemically, and T4/T8 ratios varied widely from 0.1 to 3.8 in the endomyocardial biopsides.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
36406870 | Thyroiditis after mRNA Vaccination for COVID-19. Background: SARS-CoV-2 has been known to cause multisystemic involvement, gaining entry through ACE-2 and TMPRSS2 receptors. COVID-19 vaccine-associated thyroiditis cases are now being reported. Case Report. Case 1. A 36-year-old woman with a history of right hemithyroidectomy for a benign thyroid nodule, on a stable dose of levothyroxine with euthyroid labs, presented with progressively worsening left neck pain, episodic palpitations, and heat intolerance after the second dose of mRNA1273 (Moderna) vaccine. Examination revealed an enlarged and tender left lobe of the thyroid with suppressed TSH but normal free T4 and ESR, signifying subacute thyroiditis. She was managed conservatively without corticosteroids or beta-blockers, and her symptoms resolved. A follow-up revealed increasing TSH, and levothyroxine was restarted. Case 2. A 33-year-old man with a history of anxiety disorder on Sertraline, presented with a two-week history of palpitations, heat intolerance, and 10-pound weight loss after the second dose of BNT162b2 (Pfizer-BioNTech) vaccine. Examination revealed a normal thyroid gland with no tenderness with elevated thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies. Ultrasound showed a diffusely heterogeneous thyroid with increased vascularity, suggesting silent thyroiditis. Follow-up revealed a hypothyroid phase with high TSH for which levothyroxine supplementation was started. Discussion. COVID-19 vaccine-associated subacute and silent thyroiditis have occurred following all three kinds of available vaccines, characterized by an initial thyrotoxic phase, followed by a hypothyroid phase and a recovery phase. Hypotheses include an immune response triggering thyroid inflammation or cross-reactivity with viral proteins. Conclusions: COVID-19 vaccine-associated thyroiditis is rare, but long-term monitoring of these patients is essential to ensure appropriate diagnosis and management of the potential hypothyroid phase.
36411391 | A potent and broad neutralization of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern by DARPins. We report the engineering and selection of two synthetic proteins-FSR16m and FSR22-for the possible treatment of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. FSR16m and FSR22 are trimeric proteins composed of DARPin SR16m or SR22 fused with a T4 foldon. Despite selection by a spike protein from a now historical SARS-CoV-2 strain, FSR16m and FSR22 exhibit broad-spectrum neutralization of SARS-CoV-2 strains, inhibiting authentic B.1.351, B.1.617.2 and BA.1.1 viruses, with respective IC50 values of 3.4, 2.2 and 7.4 ng ml-1 for FSR16m. Cryo-EM structures revealed that these DARPins recognize a region of the receptor-binding domain (residues 456, 475, 486, 487 and 489) overlapping a critical portion of the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-binding surface. K18-hACE2 transgenic mice inoculated with B.1.617.2 and receiving intranasally administered FSR16m showed less weight loss and 10-100-fold lower viral burden in upper and lower respiratory tracts. The strong and broad neutralization potency makes FSR16m and FSR22 promising candidates for the prevention and treatment of infection by SARS-CoV-2.
27916934 | Immune-Related Gene Expression Patterns in GPV- or H9N2-Infected Goose Spleens. Goose parvovirus (GPV) and avian influenza virus subtype H9N2 are single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) and single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) viruses, respectively, both of which can spread in goslings and cause a significant economic loss. To explore the comprehensive transcriptome of GPV- or H9N2-infected goose spleens and to understand the immune responses induced by a DNA virus (GPV) or a RNA virus (H9N2), RNA-seq was performed on the spleens of goslings at the fifth day post infection. In the present study, 2604 and 2409 differentially expressed unigenes were identified in the GPV- and H9N2-infected groups, respectively. Through KEGG pathway enrichment analyses, the up-regulated transcripts in the two virus-infected groups were mainly involved in immune-related pathways. In addition, the two virus-infected groups displayed similar expression patterns in the immune response pathways, including pattern-recognition receptor signaling pathways, the antigen processing and presentation pathway, the NF-kappaB signaling pathway and the JAK-STAT signaling pathway, as well as cytokines. Furthermore, most of the immune-related genes, particularly TLR7, TRAF3, Mx, TRIM25, CD4, and CD8alpha, increased in response to GPV and H9N2 infection. However, the depression of NF-kappaB signaling may be a mechanism by which the viruses evade the host immune system or a strategy to achieve immune homeostasis.
24483507 | Laser-filament-induced snow formation in a subsaturated zone in a cloud chamber: experimental and theoretical study. 1 kHz, 2 mJ, 45 fs, 800 nm laser pulses were fired into a laboratory diffusion cloud chamber through a subsaturated zone (relative humidity ~73%, T ~ 4.3  C). After 60 min of laser irradiation, an oval-shaped snow pile was observed right below the filament center and weighed ~12.0 mg. The air current velocity at the edge of the vortices was estimated to be ~16.5 cm/s. Scattering scenes recorded from the side show that filament-induced turbulence were formed inside the cloud chamber with two vortices below the filament. Two-dimensional simulations of the air flow motion in two cross sections of the cloud chamber confirm that the turbulent vortices exist below the filament. Based upon this simulation, we deduce that the vortices indeed have a three-dimensional elliptical shape. Hence, we propose that inside vortices where the humidity was supersaturated or saturated the condensation nuclei, namely, HNO(3), N(2)(+), O(2)(+) and other aerosols and impurities, were activated and grew in size. Large-sized particles would eventually be spun out along the fast moving direction towards the cold plate and formed an oval-shaped snow pile at the end.
38317404 | Relative deficiency in interferon-gamma-secreting CD4+ T cells is strongly associated with poorer COVID-19 vaccination responses in older adults. Although the two-dose mRNA vaccination regime provides protection against SARS-CoV-2, older adults have been shown to exhibit poorer vaccination responses. In addition, the role of vaccine-induced T-cell responses is not well characterised. We aim to assess the impact of age on immune responses after two doses of the BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine, focussing on antigen-specific T-cells. A prospective 3-month study was conducted on 15 young (median age 31 years, interquartile range (IQR) 25-35 years) and 14 older adults (median age 72 years, IQR 70-73 years). We assessed functional, neutralising antibody responses against SARS-CoV-2 variants using ACE-2 inhibition assays, and changes in B and T-cell subsets by high-dimensional flow cytometry. Antigen-specific T-cell responses were also quantified by intracellular cytokine staining and flow cytometry. Older adults had attenuated T-helper (Th) response to vaccination, which was associated with weaker antibody responses and decreased SARS-CoV-2 neutralisation. Antigen-specific interferon-gamma (IFNgamma)-secreting CD4+ T-cells to wild-type and Omicron antigens increased in young adults, which was strongly positively correlated with their neutralising antibody responses. Conversely, this relationship was negative in older adults. Hence, older adults' relative IFNgamma-secreting CD4+ T cell deficiency might explain their poorer COVID-19 vaccination responses. Further exploration into the aetiology is needed and would be integral in developing novel vaccination strategies and improving infection outcomes in older adults.
32923146 | The role of circulating monocytes and JAK inhibition in the infectious-driven inflammatory response of myelofibrosis. Myelofibrosis (MF) is characterized by chronic inflammation and hyper-activation of the JAK-STAT pathway. Infections are one of the main causes of morbidity/mortality. Therapy with Ruxolitinib (RUX), a JAK1/2 inhibitor, may further increase the infectious risk. Monocytes are critical players in inflammation/immunity through cytokine production and release of bioactive extracellular vesicles. However, the functional behavior of MF monocytes, particularly during RUX therapy, is still unclear. In this study, we found that monocytes from JAK2V617F-mutated MF patients show an altered expression of chemokine (CCR2, CXCR3, CCR5) and cytokine (TNF-alpha-R, IL10-R, IL1beta-R, IL6-R) receptors. Furthermore, their ability to produce and secrete free and extracellular vesicles-linked cytokines (IL1beta, TNF-alpha, IL6, IL10) under lipopolysaccharides (LPS) stimulation is severely impaired. Interestingly, monocytes from RUX-treated patients show normal level of chemokine, IL10, IL1beta, and IL6 receptors together with a restored ability to produce intracellular and to secrete extracellular vesicles-linked cytokines after LPS stimulation. Conversely, RUX therapy does not normalize TNF-R1/2 receptors expression and the LPS-driven secretion of free pro/anti-inflammatory cytokines. Accordingly, upon LPS stimulation, in vitro RUX treatment of monocytes from MF patients increases their secretion of extracellular vesicles-linked cytokines but inhibits the secretion of free pro/anti-inflammatory cytokines. In conclusion, we demonstrated that in MF the infection-driven response of circulating monocytes is defective. Importantly, RUX promotes their infection-driven cytokine production suggesting that infections following RUX therapy may not be due to monocyte failure. These findings contribute to better interpreting the immune vulnerability of MF and to envisaging strategies to improve the infection-driven immune response.
1691492 | Immunophenotypic markers in renal cell carcinoma. UNLABELLED: We studied immunophenotypic and tumor cell markers in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) to determine if there are patterns of expression which may correlate with biologic behavior and response to therapy. Fourteen RCCs from 13 patients were stained by the immunoperoxidase technique using primary antibodies to Leu 4, Leu 14, Leu 2a, Leu 3a and b, lysozyme, dendritic reticulum cell (DRC), S-100, HLA-DR, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) and beta-2-microglobulin (B2-MG). Staining was correlated with tumor stage, nuclear grade, histologic patterns, degree of cellular infiltrate, and clinical followup. Four RCCs were stage T1, four T2, five T3, and one T4. Most tumors were clear or granular cell type, with a solid or tubular growth pattern. The number of infiltrating lymphocytes and monocytes correlated with tumor grade and stage. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) were predominantly Leu 3-positive (T-helper phenotype). B-cell markers were negative. Dendritic cells were rare. HLA-DR was present on endothelial cells in 11 tumors and on tumor cells in ten. HLA-DR expression increased with tumor grade. Tumor cells expressed EMA in 12 cases; B2-MG in four cases. Two patients, stages 3 and 4, died at 2 and 6 mo. CONCLUSIONS: (a) T-helper cells and monocytes infiltrate RCCs. Their numbers increase with tumor grade and stage. (b) HLA-DR expression by tumor cells tends to correlate with increasing stage and grade. (c) Dendritic cells are infrequent in RCCs.
38617634 | Theoretical Investigation of the Green-Synthesized Carbon-Based Nanomaterial Potential as Inhibitors of ACE2 for Blocking SARS-CoV-2 Binding. Since the emergence of SARS-CoV-2 in 2020, the world has faced a global pandemic, emphasizing the urgent need for effective treatments to combat COVID-19. This study explores the use of green-synthesized carbon-based nanomaterials as potential inhibitors of ACE2, a critical receptor for SARS-CoV-2 entry into host cells. Specifically, the study examines four carbon-based nanomaterials, namely, CD1, CD2, CD3, and CD4 in amino, graphitic, pyridinic, and pyrrolic forms, respectively, synthesized from curcumin, to investigate their binding affinity with ACE2. Molecular docking studies revealed that CD3 (pyridinic form) exhibited the highest binding affinity with ACE2, surpassing that of the control compound, curcumin. Notably, CD3 formed hydrophobic interactions and hydrogen bonds with key ACE2 residues, suggesting its potential to block the binding of SARS-CoV-2 to human cells. Moreover, molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated the stability of these ligand-ACE2 complexes, further supporting the promise of CD3 as an inhibitor. Quantum chemical analyses, including frontier molecular orbitals, natural bond orbital analysis, and the quantum theory of atoms in molecules, unveiled valuable insights into the reactivity and interaction strengths of these ligands. CD3 exhibited desirable chemical properties, signifying its suitability for therapeutic development. The study's findings suggest that green-synthesized carbon-based nanomaterials, particularly CD3, have the potential to serve as effective inhibitors of ACE2, offering a promising avenue for the development of treatments against COVID-19. Further experimental validation is warranted to advance these findings and establish new therapies for the ongoing global pandemic.
35677079 | Potent and pan-neutralization of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern by DARPins. We report the engineering and selection of two synthetic proteins - FSR16m and FSR22 - for possible treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infection. FSR16m and FSR22 are trimeric proteins composed of DARPin SR16m or SR22 fused with a T4 foldon and exhibit broad spectrum neutralization of SARS-Cov-2 strains. The IC 50 values of FSR16m against authentic B.1.351, B.1.617.2 and BA.1.1 variants are 3.4 ng/mL, 2.2 ng/mL and 7.4 ng/mL, respectively, comparable to currently used therapeutic antibodies. Despite the use of the spike protein from a now historical wild-type virus for design, FSR16m and FSR22 both exhibit increased neutralization against newly-emerged variants of concern (39- to 296-fold) in pseudovirus assays. Cryo-EM structures revealed that these DARPins recognize a region of the receptor binding domain (RBD, residues 455-456, 486-489) overlapping a critical portion of the ACE2-binding surface. K18-hACE2 transgenic mice inoculated with a B.1.617.2 variant and receiving intranasally-administered FSR16m were protected as judged by less weight loss and 10-100-fold reductions in viral burden in the upper and lower respiratory tracts. The strong and broad neutralization potency make FSR16m and FSR22 promising candidates for prevention and treatment of infection by current and potential future strains of SARS-CoV-2.
38487164 | Off-label use of Baricitinib improves moderate and severe atopic dermatitis in China through inhibiting MAPK and PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway via targeting JAK-STAT signaling of CD4+ cells. As an inflammatory disease with a disrupted immune system, cytokine disorders in atopic dermatitis (AD) are closely related to the abnormal activation of JAK-STAT signal pathway. The critical relevance of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway to the pathogenesis of AD provides a strong rationale for JAK inhibitor research. Baricitinib, a small-molecule oral JAK inhibitor, has been proven to inhibit JAK-STAT signaling in a variety of diseases, including AD. It is currently available in China for off-label use. However, its efficacy in China and its mechanism are rarely reported. In our study, we found that the immune status of patients with moderate and severe AD was hyperactive. Among the 49 known immunotherapy targets, JAK1 and JAK2 genes on lymphocytes of AD patients were significantly upregulated, which was closely related to the symptom severity in moderate and severe AD patients. Baricitinib can improve immune hyperresponsiveness and clinical symptoms in moderate and severe AD by inhibiting the activation of Th2 cell subsets and the secretion of Th2-type cytokines through MAPK, mTOR and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways, providing an important theoretical basis for clinical off-label use of Baricitinib to treat moderate and severe AD.
33490641 | A decrease in PPD specific CD4 T cell CD38 and HLA-DR expression in pulmonary tuberculosis patients after 8 weeks of therapy correlates with successful anti-tuberculosis treatment. Tuberculosis (TB) is a major health problem in Indonesia with a million new cases each year. The CD4 T cell adaptive immune response against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) is central to the control of this disease. We investigated whether standard therapy of TB causes changes to these cells in the early stages of treatment. To do this we took blood samples from 2 groups of TB patients in Banda Aceh, Indonesia; one from a group of patients before treatment, and the other from a group who become smear negative after 8 weeks treatment. MTB specific CD4 T cells were identified by ex vivo stimulation with PPD and flow cytometric measurement of intracellular cytokines and surface markers. We found no difference in total PPD specific CD4 T cells between the groups, but that the proportion of these cells CD38 + HLA-DR+ was significantly lower in the treatment group. This decrease was not specific to Interferon gamma (IFNg), Interleukin-2 (IL-2) or Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF) producing cells. Our findings show that anti-MTB treatment affects the adaptive immune response, and that measuring the decrease of the PPD specific CD4 T cell CD38+HLA-DR+ phenotype could be a useful parameter for determination of treatment success.
35566068 | Characterization of Bioactive Compounds from Acacia concinna and Citrus limon, Silver Nanoparticles' Production by A. concinna Extract, and Their Biological Properties. The applications of bioactive compounds from medicinal plants as therapeutic drugs are largely increasing. The present study selected the bioactive compounds from Acacia concinna (A. concinna) and Citrus limon (C. limon) to assess their phytochemicals, proteins, and biological activity. The plant material was collected, and extraction performed as per the standard procedure. Qualitative analysis was undertaken, and identification of functional organic groups was performed by FTIR and HPLC. Antibacterial, anticancer, antioxidant, antihyperglycemic, antihyperlipidemic, and inhibition kinetics studies for enzymes were performed to assess the different biological activities. Flavonoids and phenols were present in a significant amount in both the selected plants. A. concinna showed significant antimicrobial activity against Z. mobilis, E. coli, and S. aureus, with minimum inhibition zones (MIZ) of 24, 22, and 20 mm, respectively. C. limon strongly inhibited all the tested pathogenic bacteria with maximum and minimum MIZ of 32 and 17 mm. A. concinna silver nanoparticles also exhibited potent antimicrobial activity. Both extracts showed substantial antioxidant, antihyperlipidemic, antidiabetic, anticancer (MCF-7), and anti-urease (antiulcer) properties. To conclude, these plants can be used to treat hyperlipidemia, diabetes, cancer, and gastrointestinal ulcers. They can also serve as antimicrobial and antioxidant agents. Thus, the studied plants must be exploited cost-effectively to generate therapeutic drugs for various diseases.
3496845 | In vitro activity and beta-lactamase stability of a new penem, CGP 31608. The in vitro activity of CGP 31608, a new penem, against aerobic and anaerobic organisms was evaluated and compared with those of other beta-lactams. CGP 31608 inhibited Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, K. oxytoca, Proteus mirabilis, Citrobacter diversus, and Salmonella, Shigella, Aeromonas, and Yersinia spp. with MICs for 50% of the strains (MIC50s) of 2 to 4 micrograms/ml and MIC90s of 4 micrograms/ml, compared with cefotaxime, ceftazidime, aztreonam, and imipenem MICs of less than 0.25 microgram/ml. MIC90s were 8 micrograms/ml for Enterobacter species and C. freundii, for which other agents had MICs of 32 micrograms/ml, except imipenem, which had equal activity. The MIC90 for Proteus vulgaris, Morganella morganii, Providencia stuartii, and Providencia rettgeri was 8 micrograms/ml, compared with less than 2 micrograms/ml shown by the other agents. Acinetobacter species resistant to other agents except imipenem were inhibited by 4 micrograms/ml, as were Pseudomonas aeruginosa, including piperacillin-, ceftazidime-, and gentamicin-resistant isolates. The MIC for P. cepacia, P. fluorescens, and P. acidovorans was less than or equal to 8 micrograms/ml, but that for P. maltophilia was greater than or equal to 128 micrograms/ml. Hemolytic streptococci A, B, C, G, and F were inhibited by less than 1 micrograms/ml, but the MIC for Streptococcus faecalis was greater than or equal to 32 micrograms/ml. MICs for Staphylococcus aureus methicillin-susceptible and -resistant strains were less than or equal to 1 microgram/ml, as were those for methicillin-susceptible and -resistant S. epidermidis. Bacteroides fragilis and Clostridium species and Fusobacterium spp. were inhibited by less than or equal to 4 micrograms/ml. CGP 31608 was not hydrolyzed by plasmid beta-lactamases TEM-1, TEM-2, SHV-1, PSE-1, OXA-2, PSE-4, or by S. aureus. Chromosomal beta-lactamases of type Ia in Enterobacter cloacae P99 and Morganella morganii, Ic in P. vulgaris, K-1 in K. oxytoca, and Id in P. aeruginosa also did not hydrolyze CGP 31608. It inhibited TEM-1, but the 50% inhibitory concentration was 14.2 micrograms/ml compared with 0.15 micrograms/ml for the P99 enzyme. CGP 31608 induced beta-lactamases in P. aeruginosa, E. cloacae, C. freundii and Providencia rettgeri, but there was no increase in MICs for the isolates and it did not select strains derepressed for beta-lactamase production. Synergy of CGP 31608 and gentamicin was found against 90% P. aeruginosa, 60% Enterobacter cloacae, and 50% Serratia marcescens strains. No synergy was found with rifampin. A postantibiotic effect was found against E. coli.
32316719 | [A special on epidemic prevention and control: analysis on expression of 2019-nCoV related ACE2 and TMPRSS2 in eye tissues]. This article was published ahead of print on the official website of Chinese Journal of Ophthalmolog on Apirl 22,2020. Objective: Angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and Transmembrane serine protease 2 (TMPRSS2) are the key proteins for 2019-nCoV entry into host cells. To evaluate the potential infection risk of 2019-nCoV on ocular surface, we compared ACE2 and TMPRSS2 expression among different eye tissues. Methods: Experimental study. Thirty mice were assigned to male, female, aged, diabetic and non-diabetic groups, with 6 mice in each group. Real-time PCR was performed to quantify ACE2 and TMPRSS2 gene expression in conjunctiva, cornea, lacrimal gland, iris, lens, retina, lung, heart, kidney, and liver from male mice. Immunohistochemistry staining was applied to visualize the distribution of the two proteins in different mice tissues, and in human corneal and conjunctival sections. Published transcriptome datasets were extracted to generate the expression comparasion of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 between human conjunctival and corneal tissues, and results were analyzed using Mann-Whitney U test. Female mice, aged mice, STZ-induced diabetic mice, diabetic group control mice were also subjected to ACE2 expression analysis. Results were analyzed using Student's t-test. Results: The expression of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 genes were the highest in conjunctiva among all the six mice eye tissues explored. The expression of these two genes in conjunctiva were lower than that in kidney and lung. ACE2 and TMPRSS2 shared similar expression pattern with the staining concentrated in corneal epithelium, conjunctival epithelium and lacrimal gland serous cells. The expression levels of ACE2 showed gender difference. Female mice had lower ACE2 in conjunctiva and cornea than male mice, with the expression levels being only 43% (t=3.269, P=0.031) and 63% (t=4.080, P=0.015) of that in the male conjunctiva and cornea, respectively. Diabetic mice expressed more ACE2 in conjunctiva (1.21-fold, P>0.05) and lacrimal gland (1.10-fold, P>0.05) compared with the control group. No significant difference on ACE2 expression was found between the aged and young adult mice. The expression level of human conjunctiva ACE2 and TMPRSS2 were significantly higher than that in the cornea (P=0.007), with 5.74-fold and 12.84-fold higher in the conjunctiva than in the corneal epithelium cells, which resembled the situation in mice. Conclusion: The observation of high-level ACE2 and TMPRSS2 expression in conjunctiva among the 6 eye tissues examined suggests that conjunctiva serves as an infection target tissue of 2019-nCoV. (Chin J Ophthalmol, 2020, 56:438-446).
30687750 | Neuronal Signal Transduction-Involved Genes in Pig Hypothalamus Affect Feed Efficiency as Revealed by Transcriptome Analysis. Feed efficiency (FE) is an important trait affecting costs in swine industry. Investigation on FE-related genes in different tissues is valuable for molecular breeding. Hypothalamus is a convergent and integrated centre for multiple nutrient-related signals. The present study identified 363 differentially expressed (DE) genes and 14 DE lincRNAs in the hypothalamus of high- and low-FE Yorkshire pigs. Furthermore, 983 significantly correlated DE gene-lincRNA pairs were identified through weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) and Pearson correlation analysis. These DE genes were primarily enriched in the neuronal signal transduction process containing the upregulated genes of VIPR1, CCR1, CCR5, LEPR, INSR, ADRA1A, CCKAR, and ADORA3 and the downregulated genes of GRM1, GRM4, GRM5, and VIPR2, which were located in the cell membrane. These signal receptors were mainly connected to downstream Jak-STAT signaling that involved the increased genes (JAK2, STAT3, and POMC) and mTOR signaling pathway, including the decreased genes (CAMKK2, AMPK, and MTOR). STAT3 and AMPK genes also played a role in two major hypothalamic neurons of POMC and NPY/AGRP. A total of eight DE lincRNAs also participated in the potential network. In conclusion, neuronal signaling transduction-involved genes and lincRNAs were related to FE variation in pig hypothalamus.
28466814 | Association of leukemia inhibitory factor gene polymorphism and in vitro fertilization outcome in a population in northern Iran. Several studies have been demonstrated that endometrial leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is important in embryo implantation. LIF is a secreted glycoprotein with a variety of biological functions including stimulation of cell proliferation, differentiation and survival that are all essential for blastocyete development and implantation. The LIF receptor activates several signaling pathways in diverse cell types, including Jak/STAT, MAPK and PI3-kinase pathways in the endometrium of fertile woman. It has been suggested that the initial lower expression of LIF in proliferative phase may be one of the causes for multiple failure of implantation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between maternal genotype of SNP 3951C/T LIF and in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer (IVF-ET) outcome in infertile women. This case-control study was comprised of infertile patients (n=70) and women having one healthy child as controls (n=73). Genotyping for SNP-3951C/T was performed by PCR/RFLP. Allele and genotype distribution did not differ significantly between patients and controls (P>0.05). The LIF genotype frequencies amongst the 70 cases were C/C=40%, C/T=52.8% and T/T=7.2%; the C and T allele frequencies were 66% and 34%, respectively. The LIF genotype frequencies amongst the 73 controls were C/C=45.20%, C/T=50.70% and T/T=4.1%; the C and T allele frequencies were 70% and 30%, respectively. In conclusion, the results of this study indicate that SNP 3951C/T of LIF may not be associated with IVF-ET outcome in this population. Although more studies should be considered with larger number of patients and control subjects to confirm our results.
2431729 | Studies on B lymphoid tumors treated with monoclonal anti-idiotype antibodies: correlation with clinical responses. Monoclonal anti-idiotype antibodies can be made which are exquisitely specific for B lymphocytic malignancies. We have conducted a clinical trial in which some patients' tumors regressed after infusion of such antibodies. Here, we evaluated characteristics of the antibodies, the tumors, and the patients to determine which features best correlated with the clinical response. Neither the isotype of the murine antibodies, nor their avidity were predictive of clinical outcome. The specific epitope to which the antibodies bound was characterized by immunochemical techniques. Reactivity with a heavy-light chain combinatorial determinant correlated somewhat with clinical effect. Variations in the characteristics of the individual tumors such as antigen sites per cell and ability to modulate the surface immunoglobulin were not predictive of response. In one patient with prolymphocytic leukemia the anti-idiotype antibody had a direct antiproliferative effect on tumor cells in vitro. This patient's tumor response was explainable by such a direct mechanism. In the other patients, who had lymphomas, therapeutic outcome correlated with the number of host nontumor cells infiltrating the tumor. The vast majority of these nontumor cells were mature T lymphocytes of the Leu 4, Leu 3 (T3, T4) phenotype. Thus, a preexistent host-tumor interaction seems to be important in the in vivo effect of anti-idiotype antibodies in B cell tumors.
27482661 | Characterization and functional analyses of a novel chicken CD8alpha variant X1 (CD8alpha1). We provide the first description of cloning and of structural and functional analysis of a novel variant in the chicken cluster of differentiation 8 alpha (CD8a) family, termed the CD8alpha X1 (CD8alpha1) gene. Multiple alignments of CD8alpha1 with known CD8alpha and CD8beta sequences of other species revealed relatively low conservation of AA residues involved in the specific and unique structural domains among CD8alpha genes. For example, cysteine residues that are involved in disulfide bonding to form the V domain are conserved. In contrast, the O-linked glycosylation sites (XPXX motif) are not found in the chicken CD8alpha1 sequence, and the A beta strand and complementarity-determining region 1 and 2 sequences are poorly conserved between chicken CD8alpha1 and avian CD8alpha. Furthermore, the alignment showed that the transmembrane regions show relatively high sequence similarity, whereas the cytoplasmic regions show relatively low similarity, indicating poor conservation. Moreover, the motif (CXCP) that is thought to be responsible for binding the p56 lymphocyte cell kinase subunit (p56) is missing in the CD8alpha1 sequence. The chicken CD8alpha1 genomic structure is similar to that of chicken CD8alpha, but their protein structures differ. Phylogenetic analysis showed that chicken CD8alpha1 grouped with known avian CD8alpha sequences but was somewhat distantly related to the CD8alpha molecules of other species. Moreover, we analyzed the signal transduction and cytokine response to CD8alpha1 treatment to determine the specific biological functions of chicken CD8alpha1 in immune cells. The results showed that chicken CD8alpha1 is a key regulator of the expression of genes that are associated and cooperate with transcription factors in the major histocompatibility complex class I and II promoter regions and activates Janus kinase (JAK) 1/2, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT), and suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 signaling-related genes. Immune cells that express functional CD8alpha1 induce proinflammatory cytokines as well as innate immune responses. Therefore, our data indicate that CD8alpha1 may have immunoregulatory activity by regulating the expression of proinflammatory or anti-inflammatory cytokines via its effect on immune cells.
38567833 | Interferons and epigenetic mechanisms in training, priming and tolerance of monocytes and hematopoietic progenitors. Training and priming of innate immune cells involve preconditioning by PAMPs, DAMPs, and/or cytokines that elicits stronger induction of inflammatory genes upon secondary challenge. Previous models distinguish training and priming based upon whether immune activation returns to baseline prior to secondary challenge. Tolerance is a protective mechanism whereby potent stimuli induce refractoriness to secondary challenge. Training and priming are important for innate memory responses that protect against infection, efficacy of vaccines, and maintaining innate immune cells in a state of readiness; tolerance prevents toxicity from excessive immune activation. Dysregulation of these processes can contribute to pathogenesis of autoimmune/inflammatory conditions, post-COVID-19 hyperinflammatory states, or sepsis-associated immunoparalysis. Training, priming, and tolerance regulate similar \signature\ inflammatory genes such as TNF, IL6, and IL1B and utilize overlapping epigenetic mechanisms. We review how interferons (IFNs), best known for activating JAK-STAT signaling and interferon-stimulated genes, also play a key role in regulating training, priming, and tolerance via chromatin-mediated mechanisms. We present new data on how monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation modulates IFN-gamma-mediated priming, affects regulation of AP-1 and CEBP activity, and attenuates superinduction of inflammatory genes. We present a \training-priming continuum\ model that integrates IFN-mediated priming into current concepts about training and tolerance and proposes a central role for STAT1 and IRF1.
31160193 | Prognostic Variables in Patients With Non-metastatic Small-cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma of the Bladder: A Population-Based Study. BACKGROUND: Small-cell carcinoma of the bladder (SCCB) is a rare, highly aggressive, neoplasm. We retrospectively analyzed the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database to investigate the impact of chemotherapy, surgery, and radiotherapy on overall survival (OS) of patients with non-metastatic SCCB. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The SEER Research Data (2000-2014) were reviewed using the SEER*Stat software. Patients with pure or mixed SCCB, T2-T4, any N, M0, and who received either surgery or radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy (neo-adjuvant, adjuvant, or perioperative treatment) were included. We used the Kaplan-Meier method and log-rank test for estimating survival. Cox proportional hazard regression was used to evaluate the prognostic variables. RESULTS: A total of 384 cases of SCCB were included in the study (T2, n = 204; T3/4, n = 180), of whom 233 (60.7%) were treated with surgery, whereas 151 (39.3%) received radiotherapy. The median OS was 21.0 months (95% confidence interval [CI], 16.7-25.3 months). Age, race, chemotherapy, type of local treatment, and T and N staging were identified as independent prognostic variables (P < .05). In multivariate analysis, chemotherapy (n = 264) was associated with significant better OS (adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 0.56; 95% CI, 0.42-0.74; P < .000). Patients who underwent surgery showed longer outcome compared with those treated with radiotherapy (adjusted HR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.47-0.82; P = .001). However, only in the T2 subgroup did surgery (n = 92) retain a significant survival difference compared with radiotherapy (n = 112) (adjusted HR, 0.37; 95% CI, 0.24-0.57; P < .000). CONCLUSIONS: Surgery was associated with better outcome compared with radiotherapy in patients with T2 disease. Chemotherapy was associated with a longer survival in patients with non-metastatic SCCB.
28469959 | Treatment with the C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5)-inhibitor maraviroc suppresses growth and induces apoptosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common hematological malignancy diagnosed in children and is a malignant disorder that originates from one single hematopoietic precursor committed to B- or T-cell lineage. C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) is a chemokine and chemokine receptor pair playing critical roles in tumorigenesis. A highly potent competitive antagonist of CCR5, maraviroc, recently has been identified with suppression of cancer cells aggressive in a variety of cancers. However, the effects of maraviroc on ALL cells have not yet been defined. Here we report that CCR5 selective inhibitor significantly inhibited ALL cells SUP-B15 growth and induced SUP-B15 cells to undergo cell apoptosis. This cell apoptosis was associated with increased levels of cleavage of caspase-3 and caspase-9, and Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). Moreover, we demonstrated that maraviroc strongly inhibited SUP-B15 cells migration to C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12) and CXCL13, and adhesion to fibronectin and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1) in vitro. Importantly, CCR5-activated signaling proteins Janus Kinase 1 (JAK1), JAK2 and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT3) were inhibited by maraviroc. Finally, maraviroc suppressed the growth of SUP-B15 xenograft tumors in athymic mice. Collectively, this study demonstrated that CCR5 inhibition by maraviroc has the potential for the treatment of human ALL.
2976521 | Inhibitory effects of histamine on interleukin 2 and gamma interferon production of different human T helper cell subsets. We have previously demonstrated that histamine can inhibit human helper T cells by direct interaction with these cells. It has now been investigated whether histamine inhibits lymphokine production by various subsets of CD4+ human T cells separated with the Leu-8 (p80) and Leu-18 (anti-CD45R;p220) monoclonal antibodies (MoAb). Histamine was shown to suppress to a similar extent the production of interleukin 2 (IL-2) and gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) by Leu 3+, Leu 3+8+, and Leu 3+8- cell subsets. Mitogen-activated, unseparated Leu 3+ and purified Leu 3+8- cells produced maximal amounts of IL-2 after 24 h and IFN-gamma after 72 h of culture. In contrast, the Leu 3+18+ subset produced no IL-2 after 24 h, and maximal amounts of IL-2 no sooner than 48 h of culture, and only small amounts of IFN-gamma during the entire culture period of 96 h. Histamine suppressed the production of IL-2 by both subsets, both when produced early (after 24 h), as in the case of the Leu 3+18- subset, and late (after 48 h of culture), as for the Leu 3+18+ subset. The IFN-gamma production by the Leu 3+ and Leu 3+18- cells and the marginal production by Leu 3+18+ cells were significantly suppressed by histamine. Dual staining with Leu 8 and Leu 18 MoAb demonstrated that the Leu 18- cell compartment included both Leu 8+ and Leu 8- cells. It was shown that the inhibitory effect of histamine on the early production of IL-2 and the major production of IFN-gamma by T helper cells is mediated via action on both the Leu 3+18-8- and the Leu 3+18-8+ cells. The inhibitory effect of histamine on the late production of IL-2 is mediated mainly via action on Leu-18+ cells.
38509096 | Reciprocal inhibition between TP63 and STAT1 regulates anti-tumor immune response through interferon-gamma signaling in squamous cancer. Squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) are common and aggressive malignancies. Immune check point blockade (ICB) therapy using PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies has been approved in several types of advanced SCCs. However, low response rate and treatment resistance are common. Improving the efficacy of ICB therapy requires better understanding of the mechanism of immune evasion. Here, we identify that the SCC-master transcription factor TP63 suppresses interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) signaling. TP63 inhibition leads to increased CD8+ T cell infiltration and heighten tumor killing in in vivo syngeneic mouse model and ex vivo co-culture system, respectively. Moreover, expression of TP63 is negatively correlated with CD8+ T cell infiltration and activation in patients with SCC. Silencing of TP63 enhances the anti-tumor efficacy of PD-1 blockade by promoting CD8+ T cell infiltration and functionality. Mechanistically, TP63 and STAT1 mutually suppress each other to regulate the IFNgamma signaling by co-occupying and co-regulating their own promoters and enhancers. Together, our findings elucidate a tumor-extrinsic function of TP63 in promoting immune evasion of SCC cells. Over-expression of TP63 may serve as a biomarker predicting the outcome of SCC patients treated with ICB therapy, and targeting TP63/STAT/IFNgamma axis may enhance the efficacy of ICB therapy for this deadly cancer.
38639111 | A Comprehensive Network Map of Interleukin-26 Signaling Pathway. Interleukin-26 (IL-26) is a cytokine that belongs to the IL-20 subfamily and is primarily expressed in T helper 1 cells and Th17 memory CD4+ cells. Its receptor complex, consisting of IL-20R1 and IL-10R2, activates a signaling pathway involving several proteins such as Janus kinase 1 and tyrosine-protein kinase, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1, and STAT3. This leads to the initiation of downstream signaling cascades that play a crucial role in various biological processes, including inflammation, immune response regulation, atopic dermatitis, macrophage differentiation, osteoclastogenesis, antibacterial host defense, anti-apoptosis, and tumor growth. In this study, we curated literature data pertaining to IL-26 signaling. The curated map includes a total of seven activation/inhibition events, 16 catalysis events, 33 gene regulation events, 25 protein expression types, two transport events, and three molecular associations.
35706733 | Thyroid Function Abnormalities in the Acute Phase of COVID-19: A Cross-Sectional Hospital-Based Study From North India. Introduction Viral illnesses like mumps, cytomegalovirus (CMV), and Cocksakievirus have been shown to affect the endocrine system, specifically the thyroid as a product of their systemic inflammatory process. The thyroid gland, having high levels of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is also predisposed to dysfunction due to coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Methodology A cross-sectional study was conducted using retrospective data of thyroid function tests in patients with COVID-19. Results The majority of patients with COVID-19 had normal thyroid function while low serum T3, seen in 47.3% of patients with severe disease, stood out as the most common thyroid abnormality in the acute phase of the disease. The disease severity was seen to correlate with the extent of thyroid function abnormalities, with severely diseased patients having lower T3 values and normal to low thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) values. Furthermore, a significant negative correlation was seen between TSH and the bio-inflammatory marker, C-reactive protein (CRP). Conclusion The acute phase of COVID-19 affects thyroid function in direct correlation with the severity of the disease.
38527836 | [Efficacy and safety of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in 21 patients with Ph-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia]. Objective: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) in patients with Ph-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-ALL) . Methods: Patients with Ph-ALL who underwent CAR-T therapy followed by allo-HSCT from March 2018 to August 2023 at the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University were included, and their clinical data were retrospectively analyzed. Results: Of the 21 patients, 14 were male and 7 were female. The median age at the time of CAR-T therapy was 22 (6-50) years. Seven patients had ABL1-like rearrangements, and 14 had JAK-STAT rearrangements. Prior to CAR-T therapy, 12 patients experienced hematologic relapse; 7 were multiparameter flow cytometry minimal residual disease (MFC-MRD) -positive and 2 were MFC-MRD-negative. CAR-T cells were derived from patients' autologous lymphocytes. Nine patients were treated with CD19 CAR-T cells, and 12 were treated with CD19/CD22 CAR-T cells. After assessment on day 28 after CAR-T therapy, 95.2% of the patients achieved complete remission, with an MRD-negative remission rate of 75%. Nineteen patients developed grade 0-2 cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and 2 patients suffered grade 3 CRS, all cases of which resolved after treatment. All patients underwent allo-HSCT after CAR-T therapy. The median time from CAR-T therapy to allo-HSCT was 63 (38-114) days. Five patients experienced relapse after CAR-T therapy, including four with hematologic relapse and one with molecular relapse. The 3-year overall survival (OS) rates in the ABL1 and JAK-STAT groups were (83.3+-15.2) % and (66.6+-17.2) %, respectively (P=0.68) . The 3-year relapse-free survival (RFS) rates were (50.0+-20.4) % and (55.6+-15.4) % in the ABL1 and JAK-STAT groups, respectively. There was no significant difference in 3-year OS or RFS between the two groups. Conclusions: CAR-T therapy followed by allo-HSCT leads to rapid remission in most patients with Ph-ALL and prolongs leukemia-free survival.
25662403 | Tripchlorolide ameliorates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis by down-regulating ERK1/2-NF-kappaB and JAK/STAT signaling pathways. Tripchlorolide (T4), an extract of the natural herb Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F, has been found to possess anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive actions. In the current study, these actions were evaluated in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis by scoring the clinical signs, observing the infiltration of inflammatory cells and myelin sheath in the lumbar spinal cord of EAE mice. The results demonstrated that T4 (at a dose of 40 mug/kg) significantly reduced the severity of EAE and slowed down the ongoing EAE. Further analysis showed that T4 suppressed the mRNA and protein levels of the transcription factors T-bet and RoRrt and mRNA levels of IFN-gamma and IL-17 in the spinal cords. Furthermore, T4 down-regulated the ERK1/2-NF-kappaB and JAK/STAT signaling pathways. At 40 mug/kg, T4 did not induce side effects on hematological parameters. These findings suggest that T4 ameliorates EAE by immunosuppression, providing a new insight into T4 application in multiple sclerosis treatment.
3544885 | \Plasmacytoid T cells\ in Castleman's disease. Immunohistologic phenotype. Plasmacytoid T cells in two cases of Castleman's disease were stained with a panel of monoclonal antibodies to hematopoietic cell-associated antigens, using an immunoperoxidase technique on frozen sections. The immunohistologic phenotype of these cells was T4/Leu-3+, HLA-DR+, T1/Leu-1-, T3/Leu-4-, T8/Leu-2-, T11/Leu-5-, B1-, B2-, Leu-14-, Ig-, CALLA-, OKM1-, Leu-M1-. In contrast to plasma cells of B lineage, plasmacytoid T cells were T200+, T10-. The phenotype was similar to that of two previously reported lymphomas of plasmacytoid T cells. Plasmacytoid T cells appear to be a unique subset of lymphoid cells, whose function remains to be established.
38277610 | Observation of WZgamma Production in pp Collisions at sqrt[s]=13  TeV with the ATLAS Detector. This Letter reports the observation of WZgamma production and a measurement of its cross section using 140.1+-1.2  fb^{-1} of proton-proton collision data recorded at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The WZgamma production cross section, with both the W and Z bosons decaying leptonically, pp WZgamma l^{'}^{+-}nul^{+}l^{-}gamma (l^{(^{'})}=e, mu), is measured in a fiducial phase-space region defined such that the leptons and the photon have high transverse momentum and the photon is isolated. The cross section is found to be 2.01+-0.30(stat)+-0.16(syst)  fb. The corresponding standard model predicted cross section calculated at next-to-leading order in perturbative quantum chromodynamics and at leading order in the electroweak coupling constant is 1.50+-0.06  fb. The observed significance of the WZgamma signal is 6.3sigma, compared with an expected significance of 5.0sigma.
38570605 | Immunogenicity and efficacy of VLA2001 vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 infection in male cynomolgus macaques. BACKGROUND: The fight against COVID-19 requires mass vaccination strategies, and vaccines inducing durable cross-protective responses are still needed. Inactivated vaccines have proven lasting efficacy against many pathogens and good safety records. They contain multiple protein antigens that may improve response breadth and can be easily adapted every year to maintain preparedness for future seasonally emerging variants. METHODS: The vaccine dose was determined using ELISA and pseudoviral particle-based neutralization assay in the mice. The immunogenicity was assessed in the non-human primates with multiplex ELISA, neutralization assays, ELISpot and intracellular staining. The efficacy was demonstrated by viral quantification in fluids using RT-qPCR and respiratory tissue lesions evaluation. RESULTS: Here we report the immunogenicity and efficacy of VLA2001 in animal models. VLA2001 formulated with alum and the TLR9 agonist CpG 1018  adjuvant generate a Th1-biased immune response and serum neutralizing antibodies in female BALB/c mice. In male cynomolgus macaques, two injections of VLA2001 are sufficient to induce specific and polyfunctional CD4+ T cell responses, predominantly Th1-biased, and high levels of antibodies neutralizing SARS-CoV-2 infection in cell culture. These antibodies also inhibit the binding of the Spike protein to human ACE2 receptor of several variants of concern most resistant to neutralization. After exposure to a high dose of homologous SARS-CoV-2, vaccinated groups exhibit significant levels of protection from viral replication in the upper and lower respiratory tracts and from lung tissue inflammation. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that the VLA2001 adjuvanted vaccine is immunogenic both in mouse and NHP models and prevent cynomolgus macaques from the viruses responsible of COVID-19.
37255871 | Effects of mobile phone electromagnetic radiation on thyroid glands and hormones in Rattus norvegicus brain: An analysis of thyroid function, reactive oxygen species, and monocarboxylate transporter 8. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of mobile phone electromagnetic radiation (MP-EMR) on the thyroid glands and hormones in Rattus norvegicus brain in term of thyroid function, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8) concentration. Forty rats were divided into different groups: control (without EMR exposure), EMR1 (120-min/day exposure), EMR2 (150-min), and EMR3 (180-min). The levels of serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), thyroxine (T4), and malondialdehyde (MDA) and brain and MCT8 were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. One-way analysis of variance followed by the Duncan test was used to analyze the data. Our data indicated that the levels of serum TSH and T4 in all the EMR groups were lower significant postexposure compared to the control with P < 0.01 (EMR1 and EMR2) and P < 0.001 (EMR3), suggesting hypothyroidism due to MP-EMR exposure. Increased MDA and decreased MCT8 levels were also observed following the intervention; however, the changes in both concentrations were notably significant after being subjected to 150-min and 180-min of exposure. In conclusion, a significant reduction in TSH, T4, and MCT8 levels indicated thyroid dysfunction due to MP-EMR exposure.
1873972 | In vitro activity of an oxycephem OCP 9-176 compared with its sulfur analog and other beta-lactams. OCP 9-176 is an oxycephem antibiotic that contains a 2-aminothiazolyl, carboxypropyl side chain at C-7 and a pyridinium thiomethyl group at C-3. OCP 9-176 was generally twofold less active than its sulfur-containing analog ME 1228 against Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Providencia stuartii, Proteus vulgaris, and Serratia marcescens. Activity against Enterobacter cloacae and Citrobacter freundii was equivalent. OCP 9-176 was twofold less active than ME-1228 against Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter species. Activity of the two agents was similar against Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis. Although OCP 9-176 inhibited E. coli containing TEM-1 and TEM-2, it was less active than ME-1228. Klebsiella organisms with SHV-1 and K-2 beta-lactamases were inhibited, but TEM-3-containing isolates had MICs of 16 micrograms/ml. OCP 9-176 was minimally hydrolyzed by TEM-1, PSE-1, K-1, and P99, and it was a poor inhibitor of P99. Replacement of sulfur with oxygen does not increase the activity of compounds with sulfopyridinium methyl groups at C-3.
38346596 | Peri-operative individually tailored psychological intervention in breast cancer patients improves psychological indices and molecular biomarkers of metastasis in excised tumors. Perioperative stress and inflammatory signaling can invigorate pro-metastatic molecular processes in patients' tumors, potentially worsening long-term survival. Yet, it is unknown whether pre-operative psychotherapeutic interventions can attenuate such effects. Herein, three weeks before surgery, forty women diagnosed with stage I-III invasive ductal/lobular breast carcinoma were randomized to a 6-week one-on-one psychological intervention (6 meetings with a medical psychologist and bi-weekly phone calls) versus standard nursing-staff-attention. The intervention protocol was individually tailored based on evaluation of patients' emotional, cognitive, physiological, and behavioral stress response-patterns, and also included psychoeducation regarding medical treatments and recruitment of social support. Resected primary tumors were subjected to whole-genome RNA sequencing and bioinformatic analyses, assessing a priori hypothesized cancer-relevant molecular signatures. Self-report questionnaires (BSI-18, Hope-18, MSPSS, and a stress-scale) were collected three (T1) and one (T2) week before surgery, a day before (T3) and after (T4) surgery, and three weeks (T5) and 3-months (T6) following surgery. The intervention reduced distress (GSI), depression, and somatization scores (BSI-18: p < 0.01, p < 0.05, p < 0.05; T5 vs. T1). Additionally, tumors from treated patients (vs. controls) showed: (i) decreased activity of transcription control pathways involved in adrenergic and glucocorticoid signaling (CREB, GR) (p < 0.001), pro-inflammatory signaling (NFkB) (p < 0.01), and pro-malignant signaling (ETS1, STAT and GATA families) (p < 0.001, p < 0.01, p < 0.005); (ii) increased M1 macrophage polarization (p < 0.05), and CD4+ T cell activity (p < 0.01); and an unexpected increase in epithelial-to-mesenchymal-transition (EMT) signature (p < 0.005). This is the first randomized controlled trial to show beneficial effects of a psychological perioperative intervention on tumor pro-metastatic molecular biomarkers.
38579905 | Exploring the mechanism of Corbrin capsules in the intervention of AKI-COVID-19 based on network pharmacology combined with GEO dataset. AIM: of the study: This study used network pharmacology and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database to investigate the therapeutic effects of Corbrin capsules on acute kidney injury (AKI)-COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019). MATERIALS AND METHODS: The active constituents and specific molecular targets of Corbrin capsules were obtained from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) and Swiss Target Prediction databases. The targets related to AKI and COVID-19 disease were obtained from the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), GeneCards, and GEO databases. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed by utilizing Cytoscape. To enhance the analysis of pathways associated with the pathogenesis of AKI-COVID-19, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses were performed. Furthermore, immune infiltration analysis was performed by using single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) and CIBERSORT. Molecular docking was used to assess interactions between differentially expressed genes and active ingredients. Verification was performed by utilizing GEO databases and in vivo assays. RESULTS: This study revealed an overlap of 18 significantly differentially expressed genes between the Corbrin capsules group and the AKI-COVID-19 target group. Analysis of the PPI network identified TP53, JAK2, PIK3CA, PTGS2, KEAP1, and MCL1 as the top six core protein targets with the highest degrees. The results obtained from GO and KEGG analyses demonstrated that the target genes were primarily enriched in the apoptosis and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. Moreover, the analysis of immune infiltration revealed a notable disparity in the percentage of quiescent memory CD4+ T cells. Western blot analyses provided compelling evidence suggesting that the dysregulation of 6 core protein targets could be effectively reversed by Corbrin capsules. CONCLUSION: This study revealed the key components, targets, and pathways involved in treating AKI-related COVID-19 using Corbrin capsules. This study also provided a new understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying this treatment.
38004823 | Spring Viremia of Carp Virus Infection Induces Carp IL-10 Expression, Both In Vitro and In Vivo. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a pleiotropic cytokine with both immune enhancement and immunosuppression activities, but the main role is immunosuppression and anti-inflammatory ability. In order to use the immunosuppressive function of IL-10, many viruses, such as SARS-CoV-2, hepatitis B virus and EB virus, can evade the host's immune surveillance and clearance by increasing the expression of host IL-10. However, it has not been reported whether the aquatic animal infection virus can upregulate the expression of host IL-10 and the mechanisms are still unknown. Spring viremia of carp (SVC) is a fatal viral disease for many fish species and is caused by spring viremia of carp virus (SVCV). This disease has caused significant economic losses in the aquaculture industry worldwide. In this study, the expression of carp IL-10 with or without infection of SVCV in epithelioma papulosum cyprinid (EPC) cells, carp head kidney (cHK) primary cells and common carp tissues were analyzed using RT-PCR and ELISA. The results show that SVCV infection induced carp IL-10 mRNA and protein expression, both in vitro and in vivo. However, the upregulation of carp IL-10 by SVCV was hindered by specific inhibitors of the JAK inhibitor (CP-690550), STAT3 inhibitor (STA-21), NF-kappaB inhibitor (BAY11-7082) and p38 MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) inhibitor (SB202190), but not JNK inhibitor (SP600125). Furthermore, the results demonstrated that JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, TYK2 and STAT5 played important roles in carp IL-10 production induced by SVCV infection. Taken together, SVCV infection significantly induced carp IL-10 expression and the upregulation trigged in JAK-STAT, NF-kappaB and p38MAPK pathways. To our knowledge, this is the first time that a fish infection virus upregulated the host IL-10 expression through the JAK-STAT, NF-kappaB and p38MAPK pathways. Altogether, fish viruses may have a similar mechanism as human or other mammalian viruses to escape host immune surveillance and clearance.
37854696 | Development of a multiassay algorithm (MAA) to identify recent HIV infection in newly diagnosed individuals in Indonesia. Ongoing HIV transmission is a public health priority in Indonesia. We developed a new multiassay algorithm (MAA) to identify recent HIV infection. The MAA is a sequential decision tree based on multiple biomarkers, starting with CD4+ T cells >200/muL, followed by plasma viral load (pVL) > 1,000 copies/ml, avidity index (AI) < 0   7, and pol ambiguity <0   47%. Plasma from 140 HIV-infected adults from 19 hospitals across Indonesia (January 2018 - June 2020) was studied, consisting of a training set (N = 60) of longstanding infection (>12-month) and a test set (N = 80) of newly diagnosed (<=1-month) antiretroviral (ARV) drug naive individuals. Ten of eighty (12   5%) newly diagnosed individuals were classified as recent infections. Drug resistance mutations (DRMs) against reverse transcriptase inhibitors were identified in two individuals: one infected with HIV subtype C (K219Q, V179T) and the other with CRF01_AE (V179D). Ongoing HIV transmission, including infections with DRMs, is substantial in Indonesia.
37131143 | scRNASequest: an ecosystem of scRNA-seq analysis, visualization, and publishing. BACKGROUND: Single-cell RNA sequencing is a state-of-the-art technology to understand gene expression in complex tissues. With the growing amount of data being generated, the standardization and automation of data analysis are critical to generating hypotheses and discovering biological insights. RESULTS: Here, we present scRNASequest, a semi-automated single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) data analysis workflow which allows (1) preprocessing from raw UMI count data, (2) harmonization by one or multiple methods, (3) reference-dataset-based cell type label transfer and embedding projection, (4) multi-sample, multi-condition single-cell level differential gene expression analysis, and (5) seamless integration with cellxgene VIP for visualization and with CellDepot for data hosting and sharing by generating compatible h5ad files. CONCLUSIONS: We developed scRNASequest, an end-to-end pipeline for single-cell RNA-seq data analysis, visualization, and publishing. The source code under MIT open-source license is provided at https://github.com/interactivereport/scRNASequest . We also prepared a bookdown tutorial for the installation and detailed usage of the pipeline: https://interactivereport.github.io/scRNAsequest/tutorial/docs/ . Users have the option to run it on a local computer with a Linux/Unix system including MacOS, or interact with SGE/Slurm schedulers on high-performance computing (HPC) clusters.
37800814 | Identification of two immune subtypes and four hub immune-related genes in ovarian cancer through multiple analysis. Immune classification of ovarian cancer (OV) becomes more and more influential for its immunotherapy. However, current studies had few immune subtypes of OV. It is urgent to explore the immune subtypes and deeper hub immune-related genes (IRGs) of OV for follow-up treatment. A total number of 379 OV samples were obtained from UCSC online website. Single sample gene set enrichment analysis of 29 immune gene sets was used for identifying immune subtypes of OV and gene set variation analysis were used for exploring the hallmarks and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways of immune types. Two immunity subtypes (Immunity_H and Immunity_L) were identified by single sample gene set enrichment analysis. The OV patients in Immunity_H group had longer overall survival compared with those in Immunity_L group. The Immunity_H had higher stromal score, immune score and estimate score and the tumor purity had the adverse tendency. Besides, the gene set variation analysis enrichment results showed positive relationship between improved immunoreaction and pathways correlated to classical signaling pathway (PI3K/AKT/MTOR, P53, TNFA/NFkB signaling pathways) and immune responses (T/B cell receptor signaling pathways and primary immunodeficiency). Furthermore, 4 hub IRGs (CCR5, IL10RA, ITGAL and PTPRC) were jointly dug by weighted gene co-expression network construction and Cytoscape. Our team also explored the mutations of 4 hub IRGs and PTPRC showed nearly 7% amplification. Besides, 8 immune-checkpoint genes had higher expression in Immuity_H group compared with Immuity_L group, except CD276. The correlation between PD-1/PD-L1 and 4 hub IRGs were explored and gene set enrichment analysis were conducted to explore the underlying mechanisms of PTPRC in OV. Finally, western-blotting showed PTPRC could regulate immune checkpoint PD-L1 expression via JAK-STAT signaling pathway. In a word, 2 immune subtypes and 4 hub IRGs of OV were identified by multiple analysis.
37771863 | Comprehensive analysis of cell-extracellular matrix protein Ras suppressor-1 in function and prognosis of gastrointestinal cancers. BACKGROUND: Ras suppressor 1 (RSU1), a highly conserved protein, plays an important role in actin cytoskeleton remodeling and cell-extracellular matrix adhesion. Aberration of RSU1 activity can cause changes in cell adhesion and migration, thereby enhancing tumor proliferation and metastasis. However, the correlation between RSU1 and gastrointestinal cancers (GICs), as well as its prognostic role related to tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs) remains unclear. AIM: To shows RSU1 plays a potential promoting role in facilitating tumor immune escape in GIC. METHODS: Differential expression of RSU1 in different tumors and their corresponding normal tissues was evaluated by exploring the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA) dataset. The correlation between RSU1 expression and prognosis of GIC cancer patients was evaluated by Kaplan-Meier plotter. Then, RSU1-correlated genes were screened and functionally characterized via enrichment analysis. The correlation between RSU1 and TIICs was further characterized using the Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER). In addition, the correlation between RSU1 and immune cell surface molecules was also analyzed by TIMER. RESULTS: High RSU1 expression was associated with poor overall survival of gastric cancer patients, exhibiting a hazard ratio (HR) = 1.36, first progression HR = 1.53, and post progression survival HR = 1.6. Specifically, high RSU1 Levels were associated with prognosis of gastric cancer in females, T4 and N3 stages, and Her-2-negative subtypes. Regarding immune-infiltrating cells, RSU1 expression level was positively correlated with infiltration of CD4+ T cells, macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells (DCs) in colorectal adenocarcinoma and stomach adenocarcinoma. RSU1 expression was also predicted to be strongly correlated with immune marker sets in M2 macrophage, DCs and T cell exhaustion in GICs. CONCLUSION: In gastrointestinal cancers, RSU1 is increased in tumor tissues, and predicts poor survival of patients. Increased RSU1 may be involved in promoting macrophage polarization, DC infiltration, and T cell exhaustion, inducing tumor immune escape and the development of tumors in GICs. We suggest that RSU1 is a promising prognostic biomarker reflecting immune infiltration level of GICs, as well as a potential therapeutic target for precision treatment through improving the immune response.
38231281 | Evaluation of Genetic or Cellular Impairments in Type I IFN Immunity in a Cohort of Young Adults with Critical COVID-19. Several genetic and immunological risk factors for severe COVID-19 have been identified, with monogenic conditions relating to 13 genes of type I interferon (IFN) immunity proposed to explain 4.8% of critical cases. However, previous cohorts have been clinically heterogeneous and were not subjected to thorough genetic and immunological analyses. We therefore aimed to systematically investigate the prevalence of rare genetic variants causing inborn errors of immunity (IEI) and functionally interrogate the type I IFN pathway in young adults that suffered from critical COVID-19 yet lacked comorbidities. We selected and clinically characterized a cohort of 38 previously healthy individuals under 50 years of age who were treated in intensive care units due to critical COVID-19. Blood samples were collected after convalescence. Two patients had IFN-alpha autoantibodies. Genome sequencing revealed very rare variants in the type I IFN pathway in 31.6% of the patients, which was similar to controls. Analyses of cryopreserved leukocytes did not indicate any defect in plasmacytoid dendritic cell sensing of TLR7 and TLR9 agonists in patients carrying variants in these pathways. However, lymphocyte STAT phosphorylation and protein upregulation upon IFN-alpha stimulation revealed three possible cases of impaired type I IFN signaling in carriers of rare variants. Together, our results suggest a strategy of functional screening followed by genome analyses and biochemical validation to uncover undiagnosed causes of critical COVID-19.
38375948 | Thermal stimulus task fMRI in the cervical spinal cord at 7 Tesla. Although functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is widely applied in the brain, fMRI of the spinal cord is more technically demanding. Proximity to the vertebral column and lungs results in strong spatial inhomogeneity and temporal fluctuations in B0 . Increasing field strength enables higher spatial resolution and improved sensitivity to blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal, but amplifies the effects of B0 inhomogeneity. In this work, we present the first task fMRI in the spinal cord at 7 T. Further, we compare the performance of single-shot and multi-shot 2D echo-planar imaging (EPI) protocols, which differ in sensitivity to spatial and temporal B0 inhomogeneity. The cervical spinal cords of 11 healthy volunteers were scanned at 7 T using single-shot 2D EPI at 0.75 mm in-plane resolution and multi-shot 2D EPI at 0.75 and 0.6 mm in-plane resolutions. All protocols used 3 mm slice thickness. For each protocol, the BOLD response to 13 10-s noxious thermal stimuli applied to the right thumb was acquired in a 10-min fMRI run. Image quality, temporal signal to noise ratio (SNR), and BOLD activation (percent signal change and z-stat) at both individual- and group-level were evaluated between the protocols. Temporal SNR was highest in single-shot and multi-shot 0.75 mm protocols. In group-level analyses, activation clusters appeared in all protocols in the ipsilateral dorsal quadrant at the expected C6 neurological level. In individual-level analyses, activation clusters at the expected level were detected in some, but not all subjects and protocols. Single-shot 0.75 mm generally produced the highest mean z-statistic, while multi-shot 0.60 mm produced the best-localized activation clusters and the least geometric distortion. Larger than expected within-subject segmental variation of BOLD activation along the cord was observed. Group-level sensory task fMRI of the cervical spinal cord is feasible at 7 T with single-shot or multi-shot EPI. The best choice of protocol will likely depend on the relative importance of sensitivity to activation versus spatial localization of activation for a given experiment. PRACTITIONER POINTS: First stimulus task fMRI results in the spinal cord at 7 T. Single-shot 0.75 mm 2D EPI produced the highest mean z-statistic. Multi-shot 0.60 mm 2D EPI provided the best-localized activation and least distortion.
2220673 | Primary splenic lymphocyte-depletion Hodgkin's disease. A case of lymphocyte-depletion Hodgkin's disease is described for the purpose of reviewing the criteria currently used to distinguish this disease from other pleomorphic large-cell malignancies. A 76-year-old man with a 3-month history of daily fevers underwent extensive evaluation and exploratory laparotomy, which revealed only two large, separate splenic tumor nodules. Postoperatively, the patient remained asymptomatic. Histologically, the tumor was composed of giant cells, including both typical Reed-Sternberg forms and mononuclear variants with inflammatory stromal response along its borders. Immunoperoxidase showed tumor cells to be strongly reactive for Leu-M1 (CD15), BER-H2 (CD30), Leu-3 (CD4), and T11 (CD2) and weakly reactive for Leu-4 (CD3) but nonreactive for EMA, LCA, lysozyme, Leu-9, Leu-M3, Leu-M5, and immunoglobulin light chains. Southern blot analysis revealed an isolated clonal band for kappa light chain only. Included in the discussion of this case of primary splenic lymphocyte-depletion Hodgkin's disease is a review of clinical, histologic, immunohistochemical, and gene-rearrangement characteristics of what can be defined as lymphocyte-depletion Hodgkin's disease.
24120239 | Chemokine receptor CXCR4: role in gastrointestinal cancer. Chemokines (CK)s, small proinflammatory chemoattractant cytokines that bind to specific G-protein coupled seven-span transmembrane receptors, are major regulators of cell trafficking and adhesion. The CXCL12 [stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1)] binds primarily to CXC receptor 4 (CXCR4; CD184). The binding of CXCL12 to CXCR4 induces intracellular signaling through several divergent pathways initiating signals related to chemotaxis, cell survival and/or proliferation, increase in intracellular calcium, and gene transcription. CXCR4 is expressed on multiple cell types including lymphocytes, hematopoietic stem cells, endothelial and epithelial cells, and cancer cells. One of the most intriguing and perhaps important roles that CKs and the CK receptors have is in regulating metastasis. Here, CK receptors may potentially facilitate tumor dissemination at each of the key steps of metastasis, including adherence of tumor cells to endothelium, extravasation from blood vessels, metastatic colonization, angiogenesis, proliferation, and protection from the host response via activation of key survival pathways such as ERK/MAPK, PI-3K/Akt/mTOR, or Jak/STAT, etc. In addition, it is increasingly recognized that CKs play an important role in facilitating communication between cancer cells and non-neoplatic cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME), including endothelial cells and fibroblasts, promoting the infiltration, activation of neutrophils, and tumor-associated macrophages within the TME. In this review, we mainly focus on the roles of chemokines CXCL12 and its cognate receptors CXCR4 as they pertain to cancer progression. In particular, we summarizes our current understanding regarding the contribution of CXCR4 and SDF-1 to gastrointestinal tumor behavior and its role in local progression, dissemination, and immune evasion of tumor cells. Also, describes recent therapeutic approaches that target these receptors or their ligands.
38479724 | Rho-kinase inhibitor alleviates CD4+T cell mediated corneal graft rejection by modulating its STAT3 and STAT5 activation. Penetrating keratoplasty remains the most common treatment to restore vision for corneal diseases. Immune rejection after corneal transplantation is one of the major causes of graft failure. In recent years, Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitors have been found to be associated with the activation of the STATs pathway and are widely studied in autoimmune diseases. Therefore, it may be possible that the ROCK inhibitors also participate in the local and systemic immune regulation in corneal transplantation through activation of the STATs pathway and affect the CD4+ T cell differentiation. This study aimed to explore the role of ROCK-STATs pathway in the occurrence of immune rejection in corneal transplantation by applying Y27632, a ROCK inhibitor, to the recipient mice and peripheral CD4+ T cells. We found that Y27632 significantly up-regulated the phosphorylation level of STAT5 in both spleen and lymph nodes, down-regulated the phosphorylation level of STAT3 in the CD4+ T cells in the spleen. It also increased the proportion of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+Helios+ Tregs while decreased CD4+IL17A+ -Th17 cells. Moreover, Y27632 also reduced the proportion of dendritic cells in both spleen and lymph nodes, as well as the expression level of CD86 on their surfaces in the spleen, while the proportion of macrophages was not affected. The expression levels of ROCK1, ROCK2, CD11c and IL-17A mRNA were also found to be low in the graft tissue while the expression of Helios was upregulated. Rho-kinase inhibitor can modulate the balance of Tregs/Th17 by regulating the phosphorylation levels of both STAT3 and STAT5, thereby inhibiting the occurrence of immune rejection in allogeneic corneal transplantation.
26715125 | Cardiac ACE2/angiotensin 1-7/Mas receptor axis is activated in thyroid hormone-induced cardiac hypertrophy. OBJECTIVES: Thyroid hormone (TH) promotes marked effects on the cardiovascular system, including the development of cardiac hypertrophy. Some studies have demonstrated that the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is a key mediator of the cardiac growth in response to elevated TH levels. Although some of the main RAS components are changed in cardiac tissue on hyperthyroid state, the potential modulation of the counter regulatory components of the RAS, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme type 2 (ACE2), angiotensin 1-7 (Ang 1-7) levels and Mas receptor induced by hyperthyroidism is unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of hyperthyroidism on cardiac Ang 1-7, ACE2 and Mas receptor levels. METHODS: Hyperthyroidism was induced in Wistar rats by daily intraperitoneal injections of T4 for 14 days. RESULTS: Although plasma Ang 1-7 levels were unchanged by hyperthyroidism, cardiac Ang 1-7 levels were increased in TH-induced cardiac hypertrophy. ACE2 enzymatic activity was significantly increased in hearts from hyperthyroid animals, which may be contributing to the higher Ang 1-7 levels observed in the T4 group. Furthermore, elevated cardiac levels of Ang 1-7 levels were accompanied by increased Mas receptor protein levels. CONCLUSION: The counter-regulatory components of the RAS are activated in hyperthyroidism and may be contributing to modulate the cardiac hypertrophy in response to TH.
38155835 | Contrasting mechanistic susceptibilities of hematopoietic and endothelial stem-progenitor cells in respective pathogeneses of HIV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 infections. The multitude of cellular types can be expected to behave differently when receiving invading pathogens such as mammalian viruses. The nature-dictated causes for such intrinsic cellular diversity become the criteria for the emergence of specific virus-receptor interactions on that particular host cellular surface, in order to accommodate contact with various other living entities whether desirable to the host or not. At present, we are presented with an example of two contrasting behaviours wherein the well-known HIV-1 and the more recently emergent SARS-CoV-2 cause adverse consequences to the differentiation and functions of progenitor stem cells. These include the two different downstream multipotent CD34+ hematopoietic (HSPC) and CD133+ endothelial (ESPC) stem-progenitor cells of their common pluripotent hemangioblast precursors. The two viruses target the respective endothelial and hematopoietic stem-progenitor cells to thrive upon the relevant host cellular surrounded stromal microenvironments by adopting reciprocally-driven mechanistic routes, which incidentally cause pathogenesis either directly of ESPC (SARS-CoV-2), or indirectly of HSPC (HIV-1). HIV-1 utilizes the CD4+ T-lymphocyte receptor thereby advancing pathogenesis indirectly to the CD34+ HSPC. SARS-CoV-2 directly targets the CD133+ ESPC via ACE2 receptor causing cytokine storms of the CD4+ T-lymphocytes. In this manner, these two viruses cause and extend their damage to the other cellular sub/types coexisting in the host cellular microenvironments. The infected individuals require clinical interventions that are efficacious to prevent cellular dysfunction and ultimate cell depletion or death. We infer from these viruses mediated pathogeneses mechanisms a potential common origin of microRNA molecular therapies to address cellular dysfunctions and prevent cell loss.
24269868 | Sequestration, tissue distribution and developmental transmission of cyanogenic glucosides in a specialist insect herbivore. Considering the staggering diversity of bioactive natural products present in plants, insects are only able to sequester a small number of phytochemicals from their food plants. The mechanisms of how only some phytochemicals are sequestered and how the sequestration process takes place remains largely unknown. In this study the model system of Zygaena filipendulae (Lepidoptera) and their food plant Lotus corniculatus is used to advance the knowledge of insect sequestration. Z. filipendulae larvae are dependent on sequestration of the cyanogenic glucosides linamarin and lotaustralin from their food plant, and have a much lower fitness if reared on plants without these compounds. This study investigates the fate of the cyanogenic glucosides during ingestion, sequestration in the larvae, and in the course of insect ontogeny. To this purpose, double-labeled linamarin and lotaustralin were chemically synthesized carrying two stable isotopes, a (2)H labeled aglucone and a (13)C labeled glucose moiety. In addition, a small amount of (14)C was incorporated into the glucose residue. The isotope-labeled compounds were applied onto cyanogenic L. corniculatus leaves that were subsequently presented to the Z. filipendulae larvae. Following ingestion by the larvae, the destiny of the isotope labeled cyanogenic glucosides was monitored in different tissues of larvae and adults at selected time points, using radio-TLC and LC-MS analyses. It was shown that sequestered compounds are taken up intact, contrary to earlier hypotheses where it was suggested that the compounds would have to be hydrolyzed before transport across the gut. The uptake from the larval gut was highly stereo selective as the beta-glucosides were retained while the alpha-glucosides were excreted and recovered in the frass. Sequestered compounds were rapidly distributed into all analyzed tissues of the larval body, partly retained throughout metamorphosis and transferred into the adult insect where they were distributed to all tissues. During subsequent mating, isotope labeled cyanogenic glucosides were transferred from the male to the female in the nuptial gift.
38597801 | Pain during Cesarean Delivery: We Can and Must Do Better.
38258331 | Th2 and Th17-associated immunopathology following SARS-CoV-2 breakthrough infection in Spike-vaccinated ACE2-humanized mice. Vaccines have demonstrated remarkable effectiveness in protecting against COVID-19; however, concerns regarding vaccine-associated enhanced respiratory diseases (VAERD) following breakthrough infections have emerged. Spike protein subunit vaccines for SARS-CoV-2 induce VAERD in hamsters, where aluminum adjuvants promote a Th2-biased immune response, leading to increased type 2 pulmonary inflammation in animals with breakthrough infections. To gain a deeper understanding of the potential risks and the underlying mechanisms of VAERD, we immunized ACE2-humanized mice with SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein adjuvanted with aluminum and CpG-ODN. Subsequently, we exposed them to increasing doses of SARS-CoV-2 to establish a breakthrough infection. The vaccine elicited robust neutralizing antibody responses, reduced viral titers, and enhanced host survival. However, following a breakthrough infection, vaccinated animals exhibited severe pulmonary immunopathology, characterized by a significant perivascular infiltration of eosinophils and CD4+ T cells, along with increased expression of Th2/Th17 cytokines. Intracellular flow cytometric analysis revealed a systemic Th17 inflammatory response, particularly pronounced in the lungs. Our data demonstrate that aluminum/CpG adjuvants induce strong antibody and Th1-associated immunity against COVID-19 but also prime a robust Th2/Th17 inflammatory response, which may contribute to the rapid onset of T cell-mediated pulmonary immunopathology following a breakthrough infection. These findings underscore the necessity for further research to unravel the complexities of VAERD in COVID-19 and to enhance vaccine formulations for broad protection and maximum safety.
38455636 | Palliative radiotherapy for leptomeningeal metastases after photon-based intensity-modulated radiotherapy in a nasopharyngeal cancer patient. Leptomeningeal metastasis is a rare in nasopharyngeal carcinoma, affecting less than 5% of patients with a poor prognosis. The aim of this case report was to present management of palliative radiotherapy in leptomeningeal metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma patient. A 33-year-old female presented with nasopharyngeal carcinoma with stage III, T3N3M0, WHO type III. The patient has received chemoradiation with photon-based intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) technique at the dose of 70 Gy in 33 fractions and showed a satisfactory outcome in 12 months follow-up. Later, at 18 months after chemoradiation completion, the patient complained of worsening bilateral sciatic pain, particularly during coughing, with slight limitations in bilateral hip flexion observed during straight leg raises. The whole spine contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination showed nodular enhancement of leptomeningeal thickening at the T4 level of the spinal cord lower than S3. Palliative radiation therapy utilized a three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT) technique producing 35 Gy in 14 fractions placed in a field spanning the T4-S3 vertebral bodies. Methotrexate was administered intravenously every two weeks for three cycles to ensure central nervous system penetration. After four months of follow-up, no evidence of disease was found at the primary site and metastatic areas on subsequent physical examination or imaging with MRI and there was satisfactory improvement in neurologic symptoms. In conclusion, leptomeningeal metastases with primary nasopharyngeal carcinoma are rare and typically cause neurological impairments in patients. Hematogenous or cerebrospinal fluid-mediated spread of the cancer is considered the most likely pathway for leptomeningeal dissemination. Strategic modalities, such as radiotherapy with chemotherapy, may improve outcomes in symptoms and quality of life.
38455622 | Normal intellectual ability and hyperprolactinemia as unique clinical manifestations of congenital hypothyroidism: A case report and review of hypotheses. Congenital hypothyroidism is the deficiency of thyroid hormone in infants and hyperprolactinemia is frequently observed. Previously reported cases typically involve intellectual disability, highlighting this particular unique case report to the first reported patient demonstrating normal intellectual ability despite experiencing growth and gonad dysfunction. This study aims to present a case and review medical hypotheses related to the patient's condition. A 19-year-old female presented with a chief complaint of irregular menstruation for up to 40 days or not occurring at all. The patient experienced the first menstruation at the age of 16 years old. The patient's height was 133 cm, body weight 40 kg, and body mass index 22.61 kg/m2; other family members were normal. Physical examination showed no abnormalities, and laboratory examination showed suppressed serum free T4 (FT4) level (6.41 pmol/L), elevated thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level (333.700 microIU/mL), and elevated prolactin hormone level (32.03 ng/mL). Ultrasound of the thyroid gland found hypoplasia of the left and right thyroid glands. The patient was a college student enrolled in a public national university and had never complained about academic performance throughout the patient's education. The patient was diagnosed with congenital hypothyroidism and hyperprolactinemia. The patient was administered up to 100 microg daily of oral levothyroxine, which improved the patient's menstrual cycles. The patient's delayed diagnosis may be attributed to central congenital hypothyroidism being underdiagnosed. We hypothesized that thyroid-releasing hormone receptor (TRHR) gene mutation might contribute to the underlying cause of hyperprolactinemia and normal intellectual ability of the patient. Further study on the significance of TRHR gene mutations in congenital hypothyroidism is required to improve diagnosis and treatment.
29534942 | Revisiting the Prognostic Heterogeneity of AJCC Stage IV Carcinomas of the Upper Urinary Tract. BACKGROUND: Current staging paradigms from the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system for upper urinary tract carcinomas treat locoregionally advanced (T4 and N+) and metastatic (M1) patients as a single entity (stage IV). The current study proposes a modification of the AJCC staging system where these 2 entities are separated. METHODS: The Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database (2004-2014) was accessed through SEER*Stat program. Overall survival (OS) analyses according to AJCC and modified staging systems were conducted through Kaplan-Meier analysis. Moreover, cancer-specific survival analysis was conducted through a Cox proportional hazard model. RESULTS: OS was compared according to AJCC and modified AJCC staging systems. The P value for OS trend for both staging systems was < .0001. This was also found when OS was stratified by the site of the primary (renal pelvis vs. ureter) as well as when stratified by the staging approach (pathologic vs. clinical) (P < .0001). Cancer-specific Cox proportional hazard analysis (adjusted for age, grade, histology, and surgical treatment) was conducted for both staging systems. Pairwise hazard ratio comparisons between different stage categories for both staging systems were significant (P < .0001). The c index for cancer-specific survival for the AJCC staging system was 0.706 with standard error 0.006 (95% confidence interval, 0.695-0.717), while the c index for cancer-specific survival for the modified AJCC staging system was 0.714 with standard error 0.006 (95% confidence interval, 0.702-0.725). CONCLUSION: Dividing stage IV upper urinary tract carcinomas into locoregionally advanced and metastatic disease subcategories improves the prognostic utility of the staging system compared to the current AJCC staging system. Given the limitations of a SEER-based study, this concept needs to be externally validated in various settings.
27452878 | Comparison of cortisol and thyroid hormones between tuberculosis-suspect and healthy elephants of Nepal. We compared cortisol and thyroid hormone (T3 and T4) concentrations between tuberculosis (TB)-suspected (n=10) and healthy (n=10) elephants of Nepal. Whole blood was collected from captive elephants throughout Nepal, and TB testing was performed using the ElephantTB STAT-PAK  and DPP VetTB  serological assays that detect antibodies against Mycobacterium tuberculosis and M. bovis in elephant serum. Cortisol, T3 and T4 were quantified by competitive enzyme immunoassays, and the results showed no significant differences in hormone concentrations between TB-suspect and healthy elephants. These preliminary data suggest neither adrenal nor thyroid function is altered by TB disease status. However, more elephants, including those positively diagnosed for TB by trunk wash cultures, need to be evaluated over time to confirm results.
36601011 | COVID-19 and thyroid function: What do we know so far? Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was characterized as a pandemic in March, 2020 by the World Health Organization. COVID-19 is a respiratory syndrome that can progress to acute respiratory distress syndrome, multiorgan dysfunction, and eventually death. Despite being considered a respiratory disease, it is known that other organs and systems can be affected in COVID-19, including the thyroid gland. Thyroid gland, as well as hypothalamus and pituitary, which regulate the functioning of most endocrine glands, express angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), the main protein that functions as a receptor to which SARS-CoV-2 binds to enter host cells. In addition, thyroid gland is extremely sensitive to changes in body homeostasis and metabolism. Immune system cells are targets for thyroid hormones and T3 and T4 modulate specific immune responses, including cell-mediated immunity, natural killer cell activity, the antiviral action of interferon (IFN) and proliferation of T- and B-lymphocytes. However, studies show that patients with controlled hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism do not have a higher prevalence of COVID-19, nor do they have a worse prognosis when infected with the virus. On the other hand, retrospective observational studies, prospective studies, and case reports published in the last two years reported abnormal thyroid function related to acute SARS-CoV-2 infection or even several weeks after its resolution. Indeed, a variety of thyroid disorders have been documented in COVID-19 patients, including non-thyroidal illness syndrome (NTIS), subacute thyroiditis and thyrotoxicosis. In addition, thyroid disease has already been reported as a consequence of the administration of vaccines against SARS-CoV-2. Overall, the data revealed that abnormal thyroid function may occur during and in the convalescence post-COVID condition phase. Although the cellular and molecular mechanisms are not completely understood, the evidence suggests that the \cytokine storm\ is an important mediator in this context. Thus, future studies are needed to better investigate the pathophysiology of thyroid dysfunction induced by COVID-19 at both molecular and clinical levels.
38431635 | Th17/1 and ex-Th17 cells are detected in patients with polyarticular juvenile arthritis and increase following treatment. BACKGROUND: A better understanding of the pathogenesis of polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyJIA) is needed to aide in the development of data-driven approaches to guide selection between therapeutic options. One inflammatory pathway of interest is JAK-STAT signaling. STAT3 is a transcription factor critical to the differentiation of inflammatory T helper 17 cells (Th17s). Previous studies have demonstrated increased STAT3 activation in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis, but less is known about STAT3 activation in polyJIA. We hypothesized that Th17 cells and STAT3 activation would be increased in treatment-naive polyJIA patients compared to pediatric controls. METHODS: Blood from 17 patients with polyJIA was collected at initial diagnosis and again if remission was achieved (post-treatment). Pediatric healthy controls were also collected. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were isolated and CD4 + T cell subsets and STAT activation (phosphorylation) were evaluated using flow cytometry. Data were analyzed using Mann-Whitney U and Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed rank tests. RESULTS: Treatment-naive polyJIA patients had increased Th17 cells (CD3 + CD4 + interleukin(IL)-17 +) compared to controls (0.15% v 0.44%, p < 0.05), but Tregs (CD3 + CD4 + CD25 + FOXP3 +) from patients did not differ from controls. Changes in STAT3 phosphorylation in CD4 + T cells following ex vivo stimulation were not significantly different in patients compared to controls. We identified dual IL-17 + and interferon (IFN)gamma + expressing CD4 + T cells in patients, but not controls. Further, both Th17/1 s (CCR6 + CD161 + IFNgamma + IL-17 +) and ex-Th17s (CCR6 + CD161 + IFNgamma + IL-17neg) were increased in patients' post-treatment (Th17/1: 0.3% v 0.07%, p < 0.05 and ex-Th17s: 2.3% v 1.4%, p < 0.05). The patients with the highest IL-17 expressing cells post-treatment remained therapy-bound. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with polyJIA have increased baseline Th17 cells, potentially reflecting higher tonic STAT3 activation in vivo. These quantifiable immune markers may identify patients that would benefit upfront from pathway-focused biologic therapies. Our data also suggest that inflammatory CD4 + T cell subsets not detected in controls but increased in post-treatment samples should be further evaluated as a tool to stratify patients in remission on medication. Future work will explore these proposed diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers.
38565387 | Extracellular CIRP co-stimulated T cells through IL6R/STAT3 in pediatric IgA vasculitis. Immunoglobulin A vasculitis (IgAV) is the most common vasculitis of childhood. Disordered immune responses play important roles in its pathogenesis, but the comprehensive immune profile of the disease and the underlying mechanisms are still largely unknown. Here we found a potential disease biomarker cold inducible RNA binding protein (CIRP) in our pediatric IgAV cohort. Serum CIRP level in these patients were elevated and positively correlated with the increased early memory (CD45RA+CD62L+CD95+) T cells revealed using multicolor flow cytometry. Immune phenotyping of the patients showed they had more activated T cells with higher IL6Ra expression. T cell culture experiment showed CIRP further activated both human CD4+ and CD8+ T cells as indicated by increased perforin secretion and phosphorylation of STAT3. Blockade of IL6Ralpha attenuated CIRP-induced T cell toxicity in vitro. RNA-sequencing data further supported CIRP stimulation promoted human T cell activation and migration, fueled inflammation through the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Therefore, IL6Ra-mediated T cell activation by extracellular CIRP may contribute to pathogenesis of IgAV in children, both CIRP and IL6Ra could be new therapeutic targets for IgAV.
2279381 | In vitro activity of HRE 664, a penem antibiotic. HRE 664, a new penem antibiotic, inhibited 90% of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella, Citrobacter diversus, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Salmonella, Shigella, Providencia, Aeromonas, and Morganella at less than or equal to 2 micrograms/ml but was considerably less active than cefotaxime, ceftazidime, and imipenem. It did not inhibit Pseudomonas aeruginosa (MIC greater than 128 micrograms/ml). HRE 664 inhibited Enterobacter spp., Citrobacter freundii, and Serratia marcescens at 1-8 micrograms/ml, two- to fourfold higher MICs than imipenem. HRE 664 inhibited methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis at less than or equal to 0.12 micrograms/ml, but methicillin-resistant S. aureus and S. epidermidis were resistant. Group A, C, and G streptococci and Streptococcus pneumoniae were inhibited by 0.06 micrograms/ml. Bacteroides and Clostridium species were inhibited by 0.25 micrograms/ml comparable to imipenem. HRE 664 was not hydrolyzed by beta-lactamases TEM-1, TEM-2, TEM-3, TEM-5, SHV-1, PSE-1, PSE-4, OXA-2, OXA-3, K-1, P99, Morganella, P. vulgaris, and S. aureus PC-1 but was hydrolyzed by the beta-lactamase of Xanthomonas maltophilia.
2971408 | T cell subpopulations defined by monoclonal antibodies after HLA-identical sibling marrow transplantation. II. Activated and functional subsets of helper-inducer and cytotoxic-suppressor subpopulations defined by two-colour fluorescence flow cytometry. Two-colour fluorescence flow cytometry was utilized to define subsets within the Leu-3+ (T4+) helper-inducer and the Leu-2+ (T8+) cytotoxic-suppressor T cell subpopulations in recipients of unmanipulated HLA-identical sibling bone marrow transplants. The absolute number of activated cytotoxic-suppressor T cells expressing the HLA-DR and OKT10 activation antigens was increased. The proportion (or relative number) of cells bearing each of these activation antigens was also elevated in  both the Leu-2+ and the Leu-3+ subpopulations, with up to 60% of Leu-2+ cells and up to 40% of Leu-3+ cells expressing them. Interestingly, absolute numbers of cells expressing two other activation-associated antigens, the interleukin-2 (IL-2) and transferrin receptors, were not increased in either major T cell subpopulation, although the relative number of Leu-3+ cells expressing both these surface structures was increased early post-transplant. Three putative functional subsets were also enumerated: the Leu-3+, Leu-8+ suppressor-inducer subset was depressed in absolute and relative numbers at most time points post-transplant. The Leu-4+, Leu-15+ suppressor-effector subset subpopulation was normal at all time points posttransplant, while the Leu-2+, 9.3+ cytotoxic precursor subset showed low relative and absolute numbers both early and late post-transplant. None of the abnormalities demonstrated in the present study was correlated with presence or absence of graft-versus-host disease. The study further demonstrates the heterogeneity of the abnormalities in the immune system after human marrow transplantation and lays the basis for functional studies involving these cell populations.
21160047 | Functional characterization of a nonmammalian IL-21: rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss IL-21 upregulates the expression of the Th cell signature cytokines IFN-gamma, IL-10, and IL-22. In mammals, IL-21 is a common gamma chain cytokine produced by activated CD4(+) T cells and NKT cells that acts on multiple lineages of cells. Although IL-21 has also been discovered in birds, amphibians, and fish, to date, no functional studies have been reported for any nonmammalian IL-21 molecule. We have sequenced an IL-21 gene (tIL-21) in rainbow trout, which has a six-exon/five-intron structure, is expressed in immune tissues, and is induced by bacterial and viral infection and the T cell stimulant PHA. In contrast to mammals, calcium ionophore and PMA act synergistically to induce tIL-21. Recombinant tIL-21 (rtIL-21) induced a rapid and long-lasting (4-72 h) induction of expression of IFN-gamma, IL-10, and IL-22, signature cytokines for Th1-, Th2-, and Th17-type responses, respectively, in head kidney leukocytes. However, rtIL-21 had little effects on the expression of other cytokines studied. rtIL-21 maintained the expression of CD8alpha, CD8beta, and IgM at a late stage of stimulation when their expression was significantly decreased in controls and increased the expression of the Th cell markers CD4, T-bet, and GATA3. Intraperitoneal injection of rtIL-21 confirmed the in vitro bioactivity and increased the expression of IFN-gamma, IL-10, IL-21, IL-22, CD8, and IgM. Inhibition experiments revealed that the activation of JAK/STAT3, Akt1/2, and PI3K pathways were responsible for rtIL-21 action. This study helps to clarify the role of IL-21 in lower vertebrates for the first time, to our knowledge, and suggests IL-21 is a likely key regulator of T and B cell function in fish.
38500883 | Anti-synthetase syndrome is associated with a higher risk of hospitalization among patients with idiopathic inflammatory myopathy and COVID-19. Background: Data with fine granularity about COVID-19-related outcomes and risk factors were still limited in the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIMs) population. This study aimed to investigate clinical factors associated with hospitalized and severe COVID-19 in patients with IIMs, particularly those gauged by myositis-specific antibodies. Methods: This retrospective cohort study was conducted in the Renji IIM cohort in Shanghai, China, under an upsurge of SARS-CoV-2 omicron variant infections from December 2022 to January 2023. Clinical data were collected and analyzed by multivariable logistic regression to determine risk factors. High-dimensional flow cytometry analysis was performed to outline the immunological features. Results: Among 463 infected patients in the eligible cohort (n=613), 65 (14.0%) were hospitalized, 19 (4.1%) suffered severe COVID-19, and 10 (2.2%) died. Older age (OR=1.59/decade, 95% CI 1.18 to 2.16, p=0.003), requiring family oxygen supplement (2.62, 1.11 to 6.19, 0.028), patients with anti-synthetase syndrome (ASyS) (2.88, 1.12 to 7.34, 0.027, vs. other dermatomyositis), higher IIM disease activity, and prednisone intake >10mg/day (5.59, 2.70 to 11.57, <0.001) were associated with a higher risk of hospitalization. Conversely, 3-dose inactivated vaccination reduced the risk of hospitalization (0.10, 0.02 to 0.40, 0.001, vs. incomplete vaccination). Janus kinase inhibitor (JAKi) pre-exposure significantly reduced the risk of severe COVID-19 in hospitalized patients (0.16, 0.04 to 0.74, 0.019, vs. csDMARDs). ASyS patients with severe COVID-19 had significantly reduced peripheral CD4+ T cells, lower CD4/CD8 ratio, and fewer naive B cells but more class-switched memory B cells compared with controls. Conclusion: ASyS and family oxygen supplement were first identified as risk factors for COVID-19-related hospitalization in patients with IIMs. JAKi pre-exposure might protect IIM patients against severe COVID-19 complications.
38250478 | More Powerful Selective Inference for the Graph Fused Lasso. The graph fused lasso-which includes as a special case the one-dimensional fused lasso-is widely used to reconstruct signals that are piecewise constant on a graph, meaning that nodes connected by an edge tend to have identical values. We consider testing for a difference in the means of two connected components estimated using the graph fused lasso. A naive procedure such as a z-test for a difference in means will not control the selective Type I error, since the hypothesis that we are testing is itself a function of the data. In this work, we propose a new test for this task that controls the selective Type I error, and conditions on less information than existing approaches, leading to substantially higher power. We illustrate our approach in simulation and on datasets of drug overdose death rates and teenage birth rates in the contiguous United States. Our approach yields more discoveries on both datasets. Supplementary materials for this article are available online.
30744575 | Immune signatures for HIV-1 and HIV-2 induced CD4+T cell dysregulation in an Indian cohort. BACKGROUND: HIV-2 infection is characterised by a longer asymptomatic phase and slower AIDS progression than HIV-1 infection. Identifying unique immune signatures associated with HIV-2 pathogenesis may thus provide therapeutically useful insight into the management of HIV infection. This study examined the dynamics of the CD4+T cell compartment, critical in disease progression, focussing on chronic HIV-2 and HIV-1 infected individuals at various stages of disease progression. METHODS: A total of 111 participants including untreated and treated HIV infected individuals and seronegative individuals were enrolled in this study. The relative proportion of CD4+T cell subsets, expressing CD25 (IL-2Ralpha) and CD127 (IL-7R), in HIV infected individuals and seronegative controls were assessed by multiparametric flow cytometry. Additionally, levels of immune activation and cytotoxic T lymphocytes in both the CD4+T and CD8+T cell compartments was evaluated. RESULTS: Both treated and untreated, HIV-1 and HIV-2 infected individuals showed apparent dysregulation in CD4+ T cell subset frequency that was associated with disease progression. Furthermore, longitudinal sampling from a group of HIV-1 infected individuals on virologically effective ART showed no significant change in dysregulated CD4+T cell subset frequency. For both ART naive and receiving groups associations with disease progression were strongest and significant with CD4+ T cell subset frequency compared to per cell expression of IL-2Ralpha and IL-7Ralpha. In untreated HIV-2 infected individuals, T cell activation was lower compared to ART naive HIV-1 infected individuals and higher than seronegative individuals. Also, the level of Granzyme-B expressing circulating T cells was higher in both ART-naive HIV-1 and HIV-2 infected individuals compared to seronegative controls. CONCLUSION: Dysregulation of IL-2 and IL-7 homeostasis persists in CD4+T cell subsets irrespective of presence or absence of viremia or antiretroviral therapy in HIV infection. Furthermore, we report for the first time on levels of circulating Granzyme-B expressing CD4+T and CD8+T cells in chronic HIV-2 infection. Lower immune activation in these individuals indicates that persistent immune activation driven CD4+T cell depletion, as observed in untreated HIV-1 infected individuals, may not be as severe and provides evidence for a disparate pathogenesis mechanism. Our work also supports novel immunomodulatory therapeutic strategies for both HIV-1 and HIV-2 infection.
38221776 | A Bayesian framework for modeling COVID-19 case numbers through longitudinal monitoring of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in wastewater. Wastewater-based surveillance has become an important tool for research groups and public health agencies investigating and monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic and other public health emergencies including other pathogens and drug abuse. While there is an emerging body of evidence exploring the possibility of predicting COVID-19 infections from wastewater signals, there remain significant challenges for statistical modeling. Longitudinal observations of viral copies in municipal wastewater can be influenced by noisy datasets and missing values with irregular and sparse samplings. We propose an integrative Bayesian framework to predict daily positive cases from weekly wastewater observations with missing values via functional data analysis techniques. In a unified procedure, the proposed analysis models severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 RNA wastewater signals as a realization of a smooth process with error and combines the smooth process with COVID-19 cases to evaluate the prediction of positive cases. We demonstrate that the proposed framework can achieve these objectives with high predictive accuracies through simulated and observed real data.
38107402 | Crowdsourcing temporal transcriptomic coronavirus host infection data: Resources, guide, and novel insights. The emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) reawakened the need to rapidly understand the molecular etiologies, pandemic potential, and prospective treatments of infectious agents. The lack of existing data on SARS-CoV-2 hampered early attempts to treat severe forms of coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) during the pandemic. This study coupled existing transcriptomic data from severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus 1 (SARS-CoV-1) lung infection animal studies with crowdsourcing statistical approaches to derive temporal meta-signatures of host responses during early viral accumulation and subsequent clearance stages. Unsupervised and supervised machine learning approaches identified top dysregulated genes and potential biomarkers (e.g. CXCL10, BEX2, and ADM). Temporal meta-signatures revealed distinct gene expression programs with biological implications to a series of host responses underlying sustained Cxcl10 expression and Stat signaling. Cell cycle switched from G1/G0 phase genes, early in infection, to a G2/M gene signature during late infection that correlated with the enrichment of DNA damage response and repair genes. The SARS-CoV-1 meta-signatures were shown to closely emulate human SARS-CoV-2 host responses from emerging RNAseq, single cell, and proteomics data with early monocyte-macrophage activation followed by lymphocyte proliferation. The circulatory hormone adrenomedullin was observed as maximally elevated in elderly patients who died from COVID-19. Stage-specific correlations to compounds with potential to treat COVID-19 and future coronavirus infections were in part validated by a subset of twenty-four that are in clinical trials to treat COVID-19. This study represents a roadmap to leverage existing data in the public domain to derive novel molecular and biological insights and potential treatments to emerging human pathogens.
35341232 | Role of JAK/STAT in the Neuroinflammation and its Association with Neurological Disorders. Background: Innate immunity is mediated by a variety of cell types, including microglia, macrophages, and neutrophils, and serves as the immune system's first line of defense. There are numerous pathways involved in innate immunity, including the interferon (IFN) pathway, TRK pathway, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway, interleukin (IL) pathways, chemokine pathways (CCR5), GSK signaling, and Fas signaling. Summary: JAK/STAT is one of these important signaling pathways and this review focused on JAK/STAT signaling pathway only. The overactivation of microglia and astrocytes influences JAK/STAT's role in neuroinflammatory disease by initiating innate immunity, orchestrating adaptive immune mechanisms, and ultimately constraining inflammatory and immunological responses. The JAK/STAT signaling pathway is one of the critical factors that promotes neuroinflammation in neurodegenerative diseases. Key message: Given the importance of the JAK/STAT pathway in neurodegenerative disease, this review discussed the feasibility of targeting the JAK/STAT pathway as a neuroprotective therapy for neurodegenerative diseases in near future.
34785307 | A study of the mechanisms responsible for the action of new immunosuppressants and their effects on rat small intestinal transplantation. In a series of studies, using an identical rat intestinal transplantation model, we evaluated the effects of several drugs. FK-506 caused a significant attenuation in the proliferation of allogeneic CD4+ T cells and IFN-gamma secreting effector functions. FYT720 resulted in a marked reduction in the numbers of lymphocytes, associated with a reduction of T cell recruitment, in grafts. An anti-MAdCAM antibody was next reported to significantly down-regulate CD4+ T cell infiltration in intestinal grafts by blocking the adhesion molecule, and could be useful as an induction therapy. Concerning TAK-779, this CCR5 and CXCR3 antagonist diminished the number of graft-infiltrating cells by suppressing the expression of their receptors in the graft. As a result, it reduced the total number of recipient T cells involved in graft rejection. As the next step, we focused on the participation of monocytes/ macrophages in this field. PQA-18 has been the focus of a novel immunosuppressant that attenuates not only the production of various cytokines, such as IL-2 & TNF-alpha, on T cells, but the differentiation of macrophages by inhibiting PAK2 as well. In this report, we summarize our previous studies not only regarding the above drugs, but on an anti-complement drug and a JAK inhibitor as well.
37856551 | Regulatory T cell-like response to SARS-CoV-2 in Jamaican fruit bats (Artibeus jamaicensis) transduced with human ACE2. Insectivorous Old World horseshoe bats (Rhinolophus spp.) are the likely source of the ancestral SARS-CoV-2 prior to its spillover into humans and causing the COVID-19 pandemic. Natural coronavirus infections of bats appear to be principally confined to the intestines, suggesting fecal-oral transmission; however, little is known about the biology of SARS-related coronaviruses in bats. Previous experimental challenges of Egyptian fruit bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus) resulted in limited infection restricted to the respiratory tract, whereas insectivorous North American big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) showed no evidence of infection. In the present study, we challenged Jamaican fruit bats (Artibeus jamaicensis) with SARS-CoV-2 to determine their susceptibility. Infection was confined to the intestine for only a few days with prominent viral nucleocapsid antigen in epithelial cells, and mononuclear cells of the lamina propria and Peyer's patches, but with no evidence of infection of other tissues; none of the bats showed visible signs of disease or seroconverted. Expression levels of ACE2 were low in the lungs, which may account for the lack of pulmonary infection. Bats were then intranasally inoculated with a replication-defective adenovirus encoding human ACE2 and 5 days later challenged with SARS-CoV-2. Viral antigen was prominent in lungs for up to 14 days, with loss of pulmonary cellularity during this time; however, the bats did not exhibit weight loss or visible signs of disease. From day 7, bats had low to moderate IgG antibody titers to spike protein by ELISA, and one bat on day 10 had low-titer neutralizing antibodies. CD4+ helper T cells became activated upon ex vivo recall stimulation with SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid peptide library and exhibited elevated mRNA expression of the regulatory T cell cytokines interleukin-10 and transforming growth factor-beta, which may have limited inflammatory pathology. Collectively, these data show that Jamaican fruit bats are poorly susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 but that expression of human ACE2 in their lungs leads to robust infection and an adaptive immune response with low-titer antibodies and a regulatory T cell-like response that may explain the lack of prominent inflammation in the lungs. This model will allow for insight of how SARS-CoV-2 infects bats and how bat innate and adaptive immune responses engage the virus without overt clinical disease.
38240082 | Essential contribution of the JAK/STAT pathway to carcinogenesis, lytic infection of herpesviruses and pathogenesis of COVID-19 (Review). The intracellular pathway of Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) and modification of nucleosome histone marks regulate the expression of proinflammatory mediators, playing an essential role in carcinogenesis, antiviral immunity and the interaction of host proteins with Herpesviral particles. The pathway has also been suggested to play a vital role in the clinical course of the acute infection caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus type 2 (SARS-CoV-2; known as coronavirus infection-2019), a novel human coronavirus initially identified in the central Chinese city Wuhan towards the end of 2019, which evolved into a pandemic affecting nearly two million people worldwide. The infection mainly manifests as fever, cough, myalgia and pulmonary involvement, while it also attacks multiple viscera, such as the liver. The pathogenesis is characterized by a cytokine storm, with an overproduction of proinflammatory mediators. Innate and adaptive host immunity against the viral pathogen is exerted by various effectors and is regulated by different signaling pathways notably the JAK/STAT. The elucidation of the underlying mechanism of the regulation of mediating factors expressed in the viral infection would assist diagnosis and antiviral targeting therapy, which will help overcome the infection caused by SARS-CoV-2.
38435118 | Therapeutic role of miR-19a/b protection from influenza virus infection in patients with coronary heart disease. Patients with pre-existing medical conditions are at a heightened risk of contracting severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), SARS-CoV-2, and influenza viruses, which can result in more severe disease progression and increased mortality rates. Nevertheless, the molecular mechanism behind this phenomenon remained largely unidentified. Here, we found that microRNA-19a/b (miR-19a/b), which is a constituent of the miR-17-92 cluster, exhibits reduced expression levels in patients with coronary heart disease in comparison to healthy individuals. The downregulation of miR-19a/b has been observed to facilitate the replication of influenza A virus (IAV). miR-19a/b can effectively inhibit IAV replication by targeting and reducing the expression of SOCS1, as observed in cell-based and coronary heart disease mouse models. This mechanism leads to the alleviation of the inhibitory effect of SOCS1 on the interferon (IFN)/JAK/STAT signaling pathway. The results indicate that the IAV employs a unique approach to inhibit the host's type I IFN-mediated antiviral immune responses by decreasing miR-19a/b. These findings provide additional insights into the underlying mechanisms of susceptibility to flu in patients with coronary heart disease. miR-19a/b can be considered as a preventative/therapy strategy for patients with coronary heart disease against influenza virus infection.
2850139 | Beta-lactamase inhibition by acetylmethylene penicillanic acid compared to that of clavulanate and sulbactam. The beta-lactamase inhibitory properties of 6-acetylmethylene penicillanic acid (6-AMPA) were investigated and compared with those of other beta-lactamase inhibitors. 6-AMPA inhibited the TEM-1, TEM-2, SHV-1, PSE-1, PSE-2, PSE-3, PSE-4, OXA-2, OXA-3, and Staphylococcus aureus beta-lactamases. It also inhibited the chromosomally-mediated beta-lactamases of the Richmond-Sykes type Ia, Ic and Id type and the type IV Klebsiella enzymes. Beta-lactamases of Branhamella catarrhalis and Bacteroides fragilis were inhibited. The 6-AMPA I50 values for various enzymes were less than 0.01 microgram/ml TEM-1 and PSE-4, and 0.01 microgram/ml SHV-1, 0.02 microgram/ml S. aureus, 0.04 microgram/ml Proteus vulgaris, 0.04 microgram/ml K. oxytoca, 6.8 micrograms/ml P99, and 9.7 micrograms/ml Sabath-Abraham Pseudomonas enzyme. With isolated beta-lactamases 6-AMPA was a more potent inhibitor than clavulanate or sulbactam. 6-AMPA was an irreversible inhibitor of beta-lactamases. The penetration index for Escherichia coli JT4 was 23 compared to 3 for clavulanate. 6-AMPA at 10 micrograms/ml acted synergistically with ampicillin against beta-lactamase containing bacteria, but it was less active than clavulanate and did not act synergistically with ampicillin against Enterobacter, Citrobacter or Pseudomonas. Although 6-AMPA has excellent beta-lactamase inhibitory properties with isolated enzymes, it is less useful with intact organisms.
38252025 | SARS-CoV-2-induced disruption of a vascular bed in a microphysiological system caused by type-I interferon from bronchial organoids. Blood vessels show various COVID-19-related conditions including thrombosis and cytokine propagation. Existing in vitro blood vessel models cannot represent the consequent changes in the vascular structure or determine the initial infection site, making it difficult to evaluate how epithelial and endothelial tissues are damaged. Here, we developed a microphysiological system (MPS) that co-culture the bronchial organoids and the vascular bed to analyze infection site and interactions. In this system, virus-infected organoids caused damage in vascular structure. However, vasculature was not damaged or infected when the virus was directly introduced to vascular bed. The knockout of interferon-related genes and inhibition of the JAK/STAT pathway reduced the vascular damage, indicating the protective effect of interferon response suppression. The results demonstrate selective infection of bronchial epithelial cells and vascular damage by cytokines and also indicate the applicability of MPS to investigate how the infection influences vascular structure and functions.
38446698 | Differential Effects of JAK1 vs. JAK2 Inhibition in Mouse Models of Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis. Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) comprises a severe hyperinflammatory phenotype driven by the overproduction of cytokines, many of which signal via the JAK/STAT pathway. Indeed, the JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib has demonstrated efficacy in pre-clinical studies and early-phase clinical trials in HLH. Nevertheless, concerns remain for ruxolitinib-induced cytopenias, which are postulated to result from the blockade of JAK2-dependent hematopoietic growth factors. To explore the therapeutic effects of selective JAK inhibition in mouse models of HLH, we carried out studies incorporating the JAK1 inhibitor itacitinib, the JAK2 inhibitor fedratinib and the JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib. All three drugs were well-tolerated and at the doses tested, they suppressed interferon-gamma (IFNg)-induced STAT1 phosphorylation in vitro and in vivo. Itacitinib, but not fedratinib, significantly improved survival and clinical scores in CpG-induced secondary HLH. Conversely, in primary HLH, where perforin-deficient (Prf1-/-) mice are infected with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), itacitinib and fedratinib performed suboptimally. Ruxolitinib demonstrated excellent clinical efficacy in both HLH models. RNA-sequencing of splenocytes from LCMV-infected Prf1-/- mice revealed that itacitinib targeted inflammatory and metabolic pathway genes in CD8 T cells, while fedratinib targeted genes regulating cell proliferation and metabolism. In monocytes, neither drug conferred major transcriptional impacts. Consistent with its superior clinical effects, ruxolitinib exerted the greatest transcriptional changes in CD8 T cells and monocytes, targeting more genes across several biologic pathways, most notably JAK-dependent pro-inflammatory signaling. We conclude that JAK1 inhibition is sufficient to curtail CpG-induced disease, but combined inhibition of JAK1 and JAK2 is needed to best control LCMV-induced immunopathology.
38496355 | IFN-gamma, IL-17, IL-22+ CD4+ subset in patients with hepatitis C virus and correlation with clinical factor. BACKGROUND: CD4+ T cell responses in HCV infection have a crucial role in the immunopathology of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Our aim was to investigate the frequency of Th1, Th17, and Th22 cells in HCV-infected patients and elucidate their role in the progression of the disease. METHODS: Twenty-six HCV-infected patients and 26 healthy individuals were recruited. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were stained to separate CD4, IFN-gamma, IL-17, and IL-22 producing cells using flow cytometry. RESULTS: Results showed that the mean expression of IL-22 in CD4+ T cells was significantly lower in HCV-infected patients compared to healthy controls. About correlation with clinical factor and T subsets, a negative correlation between the frequency of CD4+ IFN-gamma+ cells and Thyroxine level (T4) was observed in the patients. The data showed a positive link between thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), cholesterol levels, and the frequency of Th17 cells. In addition, a positive correlation was seen between serum creatinine level with both Th1 and Th17. Ultimately, it was found that there was a positive link between viral burden and IL-17+ IL-22+ cells and a negative correlation between viral load and pure Th22. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that Th22 cells may play a part in the immunopathology of HCV and show the associations between Thelper subsets and the clinical signs of the disease.
35028605 | Soluble antigens derived from Coxiella burnetii elicit protective immunity in three animal models without inducing hypersensitivity. Q fever is caused by the intracellular bacterium Coxiella burnetii, for which there is no approved vaccine in the United States. A formalin-inactivated whole-cell vaccine (WCV) from virulent C. burnetii NMI provides single-dose long-lived protection, but concerns remain over vaccine reactogenicity. We therefore sought an alternate approach by purifying native C. burnetii antigens from the clonally derived avirulent NMII strain. A soluble bacterial extract, termed Sol II, elicits high-titer, high-avidity antibodies and induces a CD4 T cell response that confers protection in naive mice. In addition, Sol II protects against pulmonary C. burnetii challenge in three animal models without inducing hypersensitivity. An NMI-derived extract, Sol I, enhances protection further and outperforms the WCV gold standard. Collectively, these data represent a promising approach to design highly effective, non-reactogenic Q fever vaccines.
38401793 | Ruxolitinib Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics in Children with Acute and Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease. We evaluated the pharmacokinetics (PK) of oral ruxolitinib in children with steroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) (age <12 years) and chronic GVHD (cGVHD) (age <=18 years) using our published pediatric dosing. PK sampling was performed before and 2 hours after ruxolitinib administration in patients with established cGVHD. More extensive PK analyses were performed in patients with newly diagnosed aGVHD or cGVHD before and .5, 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours after ruxolitinib administration in patients weighing >10 kg and before, 3+, and 6+ hours in children weighing <10 kg. pSTAT1, pSTAT3, and pSTAT5 expression levels were measured on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells before and 2 hours after ruxolitinib administration as a pharmacodynamic marker of JAK/STAT inhibition. Thirteen patients were prospectively enrolled, including 8 with existing cGVHD (age 0 to <=18 years), 4 with new-onset steroid-refractory aGVHD (age 0 to <12 years) and 1 with newly diagnosed steroid-refractory cGVHD. Great variability in PK was seen. Mean oral clearance (CL/F) was 7.76 +- 4.09 L/h (range, 3.1 to 15.3 L/h). The average elimination half-life was 2.32 +- 1.0 hours. Mean ruxolitinib clearance was higher in children age <2 years versus those age >2 years (12.1 +- 3.0 L/h versus 5.7 +- 2.8 L/h; P = .005) and was reduced with concurrent treatment with azoles and azithromycin. We saw a variable reduction in pSTAT1/3/5 expression on T cells at time of peak ruxolitinib absorption (2 hours after dosing). Children <10 kg had lower ruxolitinib exposure, possibly due to inherent increased drug clearance or variability in dosing methods, leading to decreased drug absorption.
38580172 | Potential Convergence of Olfactory Dysfunction in Parkinson's Disease and COVID-19: The Role of Neuroinflammation. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder that affects 7-10 million individuals worldwide. A common early symptom of PD is olfactory dysfunction (OD), and more than 90% of PD patients suffer from OD. Recent studies have highlighted a high incidence of OD in patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. This review investigates the potential convergence of OD in PD and COVID-19, particularly focusing on the mechanisms by which neuroinflammation contributes to OD and neurological events. Starting from our fundamental understanding of the olfactory bulb, we summarize the clinical features of OD and pathological features of the olfactory bulb from clinical cases and autopsy reports in PD patients. We then examine SARS-CoV-2-induced olfactory bulb neuropathology and OD and emphasize the SARS-CoV-2-induced neuroinflammatory cascades potentially leading to PD manifestations. By activating microglia and astrocytes, as well as facilitating the aggregation of alpha-synuclein, SARS-CoV-2 could contribute to the onset or exacerbation of PD. We also discuss the possible contributions of NF-kappaB, the NLRP3 inflammasome, and the JAK/STAT, p38 MAPK, TLR4, IL-6/JAK2/STAT3 and cGAS-STING signaling pathways. Although olfactory dysfunction in patients with COVID-19 may be reversible, it is challenging to restore OD in patients with PD. With the emergence of new SARS-CoV-2 variants and the recurrence of infections, we call for continued attention to the intersection between PD and SARS-CoV-2 infection, especially from the perspective of OD.
24906993 | Gene expression profile of LPS-stimulated dendritic cells induced by a recombinant Sj16 (rSj16) derived from Schistosoma japonicum. Sj16, a 16-kDa protein secreted from Schistosoma japonicum, has been demonstrated an anti-inflammatory effect in vitro and in vivo, but its mechanism is still not clear. In this study, microarray analysis was performed to investigate the effects of recombinant Sj16 (rSj16) on the gene expression of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated dendritic cells (DCs). Immature DCs were treated with LPS, LPS + recombinant Sj16 (rSj16), or rSj16 alone for 24 h, and the gene expression profiles were examined using complementary DNA (cDNA) microarrays. With the cutoff value of 2-fold change in the expression, 509 genes were affected, 226 genes upregulated, and 283 genes downregulated after adding rSj16. Analysis by functional annotation clustering tool showed that rSj16-affected genes mainly associated with inflammatory response, defense response, regulation of immune system process, apoptosis, and cell migration. The results revealed that rSj16 reduced the LPS-induced pro-inflammatory genes such as cytokines (e.g., IL6, IL18, IFN-gamma, IL12a, IL1b), chemokines, and receptors (e.g., CXCL1, CXCL9, CCL5, CCR5, CCR1, CCR2, CXCR3) and increased the anti-inflammatory gene IL-10. Further data mining of these genes by pathway analysis showed that genes regulated by rSj16 were significantly involved in cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, NOD-like receptor signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, antigen processing and presentation, and Jak-STAT signaling pathway. In addition, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot analysis showed that rSj16 downregulated the expression of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-beta kinase subunit beta (IKKbeta) and nuclear factor-kappa beta p65 (NF-kappabeta) messenger RNA (mRNA) and inhibited the phosphorylation of IKKbeta and the NF-kappaB p65 protein, which implied that rSj16 exerting immunomodulatory effects by suppressing NF-kappaB signaling pathway. These results provide useful information in further understanding of the immunoregulation mechanisms of Sj16, and it is indicated that Sj16 could be as a potential molecule for the immunosuppressant drug development.
38458613 | Hydrogen-Assisted Thermal Treatment of Electrode Materials for Electrochemical Double-Layer Capacitors. The capacitance of electrode materials used in electrochemical double-layer capacitors (EDLCs) is currently limited by several factors, including inaccessible isolated micropores in high-surface area carbons, the finite density of states resulting in a quantum capacitance in series to Helmholtz double-layer capacitance, and the presence of surface impurities, such as functional groups and adsorbed species. To unlock the full potential of EDLC active materials and corresponding electrodes, several post-production treatments are commonly proposed to improve their capacitance and, thus, the energy density of the corresponding devices. In this work, we report a systematic study of the effect of a prototypical treatment, namely H2-assisted thermal treatment, on the chemical, structural, and thermal properties of activated carbon and corresponding electrodes. By combining multiple characterization techniques, we clarify the actual origins of the improvement of the performance (e.g., > +35% energy density for the investigated power densities in the 0.5-45 kW kg-1 range) of the EDLCs based on treated electrodes compared to the case based on the pristine electrodes. Contrary to previous works supporting a questionable graphitization of the activated carbon at temperatures <1000  C, we found that a \surface graphitization\ of the activated carbon, detected by spectroscopic analysis, is mainly associated with the desorption of surface contaminants. The elimination of surface impurities, including adsorbed species, improves the surface capacitance of the activated carbon (CsurfAC) by +37.1 and +36.3% at specific currents of 1 and 10 A g-1, respectively. Despite the presence of slight densification of the activated carbon upon the thermal treatment, the latter still improves the cell gravimetric capacitance normalized on the mass of the activated carbon only (CgAC), e.g., + 28% at 1 A g-1. Besides, our holistic approach identifies the change in the active material and binder contents as a concomitant cause of the increase of cell gravimetric capacitance (Cg), accounting for the mass of all of the electrode materials measured for treated electrodes compared to pristine ones. Overall, this study provides new insights into the relationship between the modifications of the electrode materials induced by H2-assisted thermal treatments and the performance of the resulting EDLCs.
31636630 | Crossroads of Cancer and HIV-1: Pathways to a Cure for HIV. Recently, a second individual (the \London patient\) with HIV-1 infection and concomitant leukemia was cured of both diseases by a conditioning myeloablative regimen followed by transplantation of stem cells bearing the homozygous CCR5 Delta32 mutation. The substantial risks and cost associated with this procedure render it unfeasible on a large scale. This strategy also indicates that a common pathway toward a cure for both HIV and cancer may exist. Successful approaches to curing both diseases should ideally possess three components, i.e., (1) direct targeting of pathological cells (neoplastic cells in cancer and the HIV-infected reservoir cells), (2) subsequent impediment to reconstitution of the pool of pathological cells and (3) sustained, immunologic control of the disease (both diseases are characterized by detrimental immune hyper-activation that hinders successful establishment of immunity). In this review, we explore medications that are either investigational or FDA-approved anticancer treatments that may be employed to achieve the goal of curing HIV-1. These include: thioredoxin reductase inhibitors (phases 1-3), immune checkpoint inhibitors (phases 1, 3), Jak inhibitors (FDA approved for arthritis and multiple cancer indications, summarized in Table 1). Of note, some of these medications such as arsenic trioxide and Jak inhibitors may also reversibly down regulate CCR5 expression on CD4+ T-cells, thus escaping the ethical issues of inducing or transferring mutations in CCR5 that are presently the subject of interest as it relates to HIV-1 cure strategies.
18552348 | Schizophrenia susceptibility genes directly implicated in the life cycles of pathogens: cytomegalovirus, influenza, herpes simplex, rubella, and Toxoplasma gondii. Many genes implicated in schizophrenia can be related to glutamatergic transmission and neuroplasticity, oligodendrocyte function, and other families clearly related to neurobiology and schizophrenia phenotypes. Others appear rather to be involved in the life cycles of the pathogens implicated in the disease. For example, aspartylglucosaminidase (AGA), PLA2, SIAT8B, GALNT7, or B3GAT1 metabolize chemical ligands to which the influenza virus, herpes simplex, cytomegalovirus (CMV), rubella, or Toxoplasma gondii bind. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGR/EGFR) is used by the CMV to gain entry to cells, and a CMV gene codes for an interleukin (IL-10) mimic that binds the host cognate receptor, IL10R. The fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR1) is used by herpes simplex. KPNA3 and RANBP5 control the nuclear import of the influenza virus. Disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) controls the microtubule network that is used by viruses as a route to the nucleus, while DTNBP1, MUTED, and BLOC1S3 regulate endosomal to lysosomal routing that is also important in viral traffic. Neuregulin 1 activates ERBB receptors releasing a factor, EBP1, known to inhibit the influenza virus transcriptase. Other viral or bacterial components bind to genes or proteins encoded by CALR, FEZ1, FYN, HSPA1B, IL2, HTR2A, KPNA3, MED12, MED15, MICB, NQO2, PAX6, PIK3C3, RANBP5, or TP53, while the cerebral infectivity of the herpes simplex virus is modified by Apolipoprotein E (APOE). Genes encoding for proteins related to the innate immune response, including cytokine related (CCR5, CSF2RA, CSF2RB, IL1B, IL1RN, IL2, IL3, IL3RA, IL4, IL10, IL10RA, IL18RAP, lymphotoxin-alpha, tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF]), human leukocyte antigen (HLA) antigens (HLA-A10, HLA-B, HLA-DRB1), and genes involved in antigen processing (angiotensin-converting enzyme and tripeptidyl peptidase 2) are all concerned with defense against invading pathogens. Human microRNAs (Hsa-mir-198 and Hsa-mir-206) are predicted to bind to influenza, rubella, or poliovirus genes. Certain genes associated with schizophrenia, including those also concerned with neurophysiology, are intimately related to the life cycles of the pathogens implicated in the disease. Several genes may affect pathogen virulence, while the pathogens in turn may affect genes and processes relevant to the neurophysiology of schizophrenia. For such genes, the strength of association in genetic studies is likely to be conditioned by the presence of the pathogen, which varies in different populations at different times, a factor that may explain the heterogeneity that plagues such studies. This scenario also suggests that drugs or vaccines designed to eliminate the pathogens that so clearly interact with schizophrenia susceptibility genes could have a dramatic effect on the incidence of the disease.
38615319 | Targeting high circDNA2v levels in colorectal cancer induces cellular senescence and elicits an anti-tumor secretome. The efficacy of immunotherapy against colorectal cancer (CRC) is impaired by insufficient immune cell recruitment into the tumor microenvironment. Our study shows that targeting circDNA2v, a circular RNA commonly overexpressed in CRC, can be exploited to elicit cytotoxic T cell recruitment. circDNA2v functions through binding to IGF2BP3, preventing its ubiquitination, and prolonging the IGF2BP3 half-life, which in turn sustains mRNA levels of the protooncogene c-Myc. Targeting circDNA2v by gene silencing downregulates c-Myc to concordantly induce tumor cell senescence and the release of proinflammatory mediators. Production of CXCL10 and interleukin-9 by CRC cells is elicited through JAK-STAT1 signaling, in turn promoting the chemotactic and cytolytic activities of CD8+ T cells. Clinical evidence associates increased circDNA2v expression in CRC tissues with reductions in CD8+ T cell infiltration and worse outcomes. The regulatory relationship between circDNA2v, cellular senescence, and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes thus provides a rational approach for improving immunotherapy in CRC.
1510436 | In vitro activity and beta-lactamase stability of LJC 10,627. The in vitro activity of LJC 10,627, a new carbapenem, was compared with those of imipenem, cefotaxime, ceftazidime, and gentamicin. LJC 10,627 inhibited 90% of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Enterobacter aerogenes, Enterobacter agglomerans, Enterobacter cloacae, Hafnia alvei, Citrobacter freundii, Citrobacter diversus, Proteus mirabilis, Morganella morganii, Proteus rettgeri, Serratia marcescens, Pseudomonas cepacia, salmonellae, shigellae, aeromonas, and yersiniae at less than or equal to 2 micrograms/ml. Haemophilus influenzae was inhibited by 0.5 microgram/ml, and moraxellae were inhibited by 0.12 microgram/ml. LJC 10,627 was twofold more active than imipenem against aerobic gram-negative organisms and inhibited ceftazidime-, cefotaxime-, and gentamicin-resistant members of the genera Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Citrobacter, and Serratia at less than or equal to 2 micrograms/ml. Xanthomonas maltophilia strains were resistant to the drug. Imipenem was two- to fourfold more active than LJC 10,627 against Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis. LJC 10,627 did not inhibit most methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis strains. LJC 10,627 inhibited Streptococcus pyogenes and Streptococcus pneumoniae at 0.06 and 0.12 microgram/ml, respectively. Bacteroides fragilis and other Bacteroides spp. were inhibited by 0.5 microgram of LJC 10,627 per ml. Serum (50%) did not affect the MICs. LJC 10,627 was not hydrolyzed by plasmid-mediated beta-lactamases of Bush types 2b, 2b', TEM-1, TEM-2, TEM-3, TEM-5, TEM-7, TEM-9, and SHV-1; the chromosomal beta-lactamases of Bush type 1; P-99; a Morganella enzyme; or a Citrobacter freundii enzyme. The Bush type 2c and 2d enzymes OXA-1, OXA-2, PSE-1, PSE-2, and PSE-4 did not hydrolyze LJC 10,627, nor did the beta-lactamases of Staphylococcus aureus, Moraxella spp., Bacteroides fragilis, and Proteus vulgaris. The beta-lactamase of Xanthomonas hydrolyzed LJC 10,627, albeit at approximately one-third the rate that imipenem was hydrolyzed.
25808225 | Downregulation of the vascular renin-angiotensin system by aerobic training - focus on the balance between vasoconstrictor and vasodilator axes - . BACKGROUND: Hyperactivity of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and functional deficits in hypertension are reduced after exercise training. We evaluate in arteries, kidney and plasma of hypertensive rats the sequential effects of training on vascular angiotensinogen, Ang II and Ang (1-7) content. METHODS AND RESULTS: Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were trained or kept sedentary (S) for 3 months. After hemodynamic measurements (weeks 0, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 12), blood, arteries and kidneys were obtained to quantify the angiotensin content (HPLC) and angiotensinogen expression (Western Blotting). SHR-S vs. WKY-S exhibited elevated pressure, increased angiotensinogen and angiotensins' content in the renal artery with a high Ang II/Ang (1-7) ratio (~5-fold higher than in the femoral artery, kidney and plasma, and 14-fold higher than in the aorta). Training promptly reduced angiotensinogen expression and downregulated the RAS in the renal SHR artery (1st-12th week), with a specific reduction of the vasoconstrictor axis; significant reduction of the AngII/Ang (1-7) ratio (36%, T4-T8) occurred simultaneously with significant pressure fall (5%). In other SHR arteries, plasma and kidneys and in all WKY tissues, T-induced AngII and Ang (1-7) reductions were proportional, maintaining the AngII/Ang (1-7) ratio. CONCLUSIONS: Vascular RAS is not equally expressed in vessels, having crucial importance in the renal artery. In the renal SHR artery, training downregulates the vasoconstrictor and preserves the vasodilator axis while in other tissues and plasma training reduces both RAS axes, thus maintaining the vasoconstriction/vasodilatation balance in a lower level.
29138292 | Impact of Regionalization of ST-Segment-Elevation Myocardial Infarction Care on Treatment Times and Outcomes for Emergency Medical Services-Transported Patients Presenting to Hospitals With Percutaneous Coronary Intervention: Mission: Lifeline Accelerator-2. BACKGROUND: Regional variations in reperfusion times and mortality in patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction are influenced by differences in coordinating care between emergency medical services (EMS) and hospitals. Building on the Accelerator-1 Project, we hypothesized that time to reperfusion could be further reduced with enhanced regional efforts. METHODS: Between April 2015 and March 2017, we worked with 12 metropolitan regions across the United States with 132 percutaneous coronary intervention-capable hospitals and 946 EMS agencies. Data were collected in the ACTION (Acute Coronary Treatment and Intervention Outcomes Network)-Get With The Guidelines Registry for quarterly Mission: Lifeline reports. The primary end point was the change in the proportion of EMS-transported patients with first medical contact to device time <=90 minutes from baseline to final quarter. We also compared treatment times and mortality with patients treated in hospitals not participating in the project during the corresponding time period. RESULTS: During the study period, 10 730 patients were transported to percutaneous coronary intervention-capable hospitals, including 974 in the baseline quarter and 972 in the final quarter who met inclusion criteria. Median age was 61 years; 27% were women, 6% had cardiac arrest, and 6% had shock on admission; 10% were black, 12% were Latino, and 10% were uninsured. By the end of the intervention, all process measures reflecting coordination between EMS and hospitals had improved, including the proportion of patients with a first medical contact to device time of <=90 minutes (67%-74%; P<0.002), a first medical contact to device time to catheterization laboratory activation of <=20 minutes (38%-56%; P<0.0001), and emergency department dwell time of <=20 minutes (33%-43%; P<0.0001). Of the 12 regions, 9 regions reduced first medical contact to device time, and 8 met or exceeded the national goal of 75% of patients treated in <=90 minutes. Improvements in treatment times corresponded with a significant reduction in mortality (in-hospital death, 4.4%-2.3%; P=0.001) that was not apparent in hospitals not participating in the project during the same time period. CONCLUSIONS: Organization of care among EMS and hospitals in 12 regions was associated with significant reductions in time to reperfusion in patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction as well as in in-hospital mortality. These findings support a more intensive regional approach to emergency care for patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction.
38561927 | Assessing efficacy in non-inferiority trials with non-adherence to interventions: Are intention-to-treat and per-protocol analyses fit for purpose? BACKGROUND: Non-inferiority trials comparing different active drugs are often subject to treatment non-adherence. Intention-to-treat (ITT) and per-protocol (PP) analyses have been advocated in such studies but are not guaranteed to be unbiased in the presence of differential non-adherence. METHODS: The REMoxTB trial evaluated two 4-month experimental regimens compared with a 6-month control regimen for newly diagnosed drug-susceptible TB. The primary endpoint was a composite unfavorable outcome of treatment failure or recurrence within 18 months post-randomization. We conducted a simulation study based on REMoxTB to assess the performance of statistical methods for handling non-adherence in non-inferiority trials, including: ITT and PP analyses, adjustment for observed adherence, multiple imputation (MI) of outcomes, inverse-probability-of-treatment weighting (IPTW), and a doubly-robust (DR) estimator. RESULTS: When non-adherence differed between trial arms, ITT, and PP analyses often resulted in non-trivial bias in the estimated treatment effect, which consequently under- or over-inflated the type I error rate. Adjustment for observed adherence led to similar issues, whereas the MI, IPTW and DR approaches were able to correct bias under most non-adherence scenarios; they could not always eliminate bias entirely in the presence of unobserved confounding. The IPTW and DR methods were generally unbiased and maintained desired type I error rates and statistical power. CONCLUSIONS: When non-adherence differs between trial arms, ITT and PP analyses can produce biased estimates of efficacy, potentially leading to the acceptance of inferior treatments or efficacious regimens being missed. IPTW and the DR estimator are relatively straightforward methods to supplement ITT and PP approaches.
37910521 | Interleukin-27-induced HIV-resistant dendritic cells suppress reveres transcription following virus entry in an SPTBN1, autophagy, and YB-1 independent manner. Interleukin (IL)-27, a member of the IL-12 family of cytokines, induces human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-resistant monocyte-derived macrophages and T cells. This resistance is mediated via the downregulation of spectrin beta, non-erythrocytic 1 (SPTBN1), induction of autophagy, or suppression of the acetylation of Y-box binding protein-1 (YB-1); however, the role of IL-27 administration during the induction of immature monocyte-derived dendritic cells (iDC) is poorly investigated. In the current study, we investigated the function of IL-27-induced iDC (27DC) on HIV infection. 27DC inhibited HIV infection by 95 +- 3% without significant changes in the expression of CD4, CCR5, and SPTBN1 expression, autophagy induction and acetylation of YB-1 compared to iDC. An HIV proviral DNA copy number assay displayed that 27DC suppressed reverse transcriptase (RT) reaction without influencing the virus entry. A DNA microarray analysis was performed to identify the differentially expressed genes between 27DC and iDC. Compared to iDC, 51 genes were differentially expressed in 27DC, with more than 3-fold changes in four independent donors. Cross-reference analysis with the reported 2,214 HIV regulatory host genes identified nine genes as potential interests: Ankyrin repeat domain 22, Guanylate binding protein (GBP)-1, -2, -4, -5, Stabilin 1, Serpin family G member 1 (SERPING1), Interferon alpha inducible protein 6, and Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3. A knock-down study using si-RNA failed to determine a key factor associated with the anti-HIV activity due to the induction of robust amounts of off-target effects. Overexpression of each protein in cells had no impact on HIV infection. Thus, we could not define the mechanism of the anti-HIV effect in 27DC. However, our findings indicated that IL-27 differentiates monocytes into HIV-resistant DC, and the inhibitory mechanism differs from IL-27-induced HIV-resistant macrophages and T cells.
38323709 | Innate immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection contributes to neuronal damage in human iPSC-derived peripheral neurons. Severe acute respiratory coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) causes neurological disease in the peripheral and central nervous system (PNS and CNS, respectively) of some patients. It is not clear whether SARS-CoV-2 infection or the subsequent immune response are the key factors that cause neurological disease. Here, we addressed this question by infecting human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived CNS and PNS neurons with SARS-CoV-2. SARS-CoV-2 infected a low number of CNS neurons and did not elicit a robust innate immune response. On the contrary, SARS-CoV-2 infected a higher number of PNS neurons. This resulted in expression of interferon (IFN) lambda1, several IFN-stimulated genes and proinflammatory cytokines. The PNS neurons also displayed alterations characteristic of neuronal damage, as increased levels of sterile alpha and Toll/interleukin receptor motif-containing protein 1, amyloid precursor protein and alpha-synuclein, and lower levels of cytoskeletal proteins. Interestingly, blockade of the Janus kinase and signal transducer and activator of transcription pathway by Ruxolitinib did not increase SARS-CoV-2 infection, but reduced neuronal damage, suggesting that an exacerbated neuronal innate immune response contributes to pathogenesis in the PNS. Our results provide a basis to study coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) related neuronal pathology and to test future preventive or therapeutic strategies.
38215170 | Monitoring SARS-CoV-2 genetic variability: A post-market surveillance workflow for combined bioinformatic and laboratory evaluation of commercial RT-PCR assay performance. OBJECTIVE: The speed at which Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) is mutating has made it necessary to frequently assess how these genomic changes impact the performance of diagnostic real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assays. Herein, we describe a generic three-step workflow to assess the effect of genomic mutations on inclusivity and sensitivity of RT-PCR assays. METHODS: Sequences collected from the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID) were mapped to a SARS-CoV-2 reference genome to evaluate the position and prevalence of mismatches in the oligonucleotide-binding sites of the QIAstat-Dx, an RT-PCR panel designed to detect SARS-CoV-2. The frequency of mutations and their impact on melting temperature were assessed, and sequences flagged by risk-based criteria were examined in vitro. RESULTS: Out of 8,900,393 SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences analyzed, only 173 (0.0019%) genomes contained potentially critical mutations for the QIAstat-Dx; follow-up in-vitro testing confirmed no impact on the assays' performance. CONCLUSIONS: The current study demonstrates that SARS-CoV-2 genetic variants do not affect the performance of the QIAstat-Dx device. It is recommended that manufacturers incorporate this workflow into obligatory post-marketing surveillance activities, as this approach could potentially enhance genetic monitoring of their product.
2422271 | Susceptibility of normal human lymphocytes to infection with HTLV-III/LAV. Normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes were tested for their susceptibility to infection with retroviruses isolated from patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or AIDS-related complex. Of 10 normal individuals tested, lymphocytes from all subjects became infected and produced virus as detected by assay for Mg+2-dependent reverse transcriptase. Lymphocytes from different individuals were demonstrated to be either high or low producers of reverse transcriptase after infection. The kinetics of virus production were similar in cells from both high- and low-producing individuals. A significant correlation was observed between high and low viral-producing lymphocytes and expression of the Leu-3/T4 (CD4) surface molecule. Mitogen-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes exposed to HTLV-III/LAV manifested productive viral infection, as reflected by the appearance of early syncytia, followed by reverse transcriptase. Unstimulated peripheral blood lymphocyte cultures displayed late syncytia but no detectable reverse transcriptase upon exposure to virus. The addition of anti-human interferon-alpha did not appear to have an appreciable effect on viral production in normal peripheral blood lymphocytes exposed to the virus.
33193341 | Transcriptomic Profiling of the Adaptive and Innate Immune Responses of Atlantic Salmon to Renibacterium salmoninarum Infection. Bacterial Kidney Disease (BKD), which is caused by a Gram-positive, intracellular bacterial pathogen (Renibacterium salmoninarum), affects salmonids including Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). However, the transcriptome response of Atlantic salmon to BKD remained unknown before the current study. We used a 44K salmonid microarray platform to characterise the global gene expression response of Atlantic salmon to BKD. Fish (~54 g) were injected with a dose of R. salmoninarum (H-2 strain, 2 x 108 CFU per fish) or sterile medium (control), and then head kidney samples were collected at 13 days post-infection/injection (dpi). Firstly, infection levels of individuals were determined through quantifying the R. salmoninarum level by RNA-based TaqMan qPCR assays. Thereafter, based on the qPCR results for infection level, fish (n = 5) that showed no (control), higher (H-BKD), or lower (L-BKD) infection level at 13 dpi were subjected to microarray analyses. We identified 6,766 and 7,729 differentially expressed probes in the H-BKD and L-BKD groups, respectively. There were 357 probes responsive to the infection level (H-BKD vs. L-BKD). Several adaptive and innate immune processes were dysregulated in R. salmoninarum-infected Atlantic salmon. Adaptive immune pathways associated with lymphocyte differentiation and activation (e.g., lymphocyte chemotaxis, T-cell activation, and immunoglobulin secretion), as well as antigen-presenting cell functions, were shown to be differentially regulated in response to BKD. The infection level-responsive transcripts were related to several mechanisms such as the JAK-STAT signalling pathway, B-cell differentiation and interleukin-1 responses. Sixty-five microarray-identified transcripts were subjected to qPCR validation, and they showed the same fold-change direction as microarray results. The qPCR-validated transcripts studied herein play putative roles in various immune processes including pathogen recognition (e.g., tlr5), antibacterial activity (e.g., hamp and camp), regulation of immune responses (e.g., tnfrsf11b and socs1), T-/B-cell differentiation (e.g., ccl4, irf1 and ccr5), T-cell functions (e.g., rnf144a, il13ra1b and tnfrsf6b), and antigen-presenting cell functions (e.g., fcgr1). The present study revealed diverse immune mechanisms dysregulated by R. salmoninarum in Atlantic salmon, and enhanced the current understanding of Atlantic salmon response to BKD. The identified biomarker genes can be used for future studies on improving the resistance of Atlantic salmon to BKD.
38485795 | Germline HAVCR2/TIM-3 Checkpoint Inhibitor Receptor Deficiency in Recurrent Autoinflammatory Myocarditis. Myocarditis can be caused by viral infection, drug reaction or general inflammatory condition. To provide understanding on inflammatory myocarditis, we describe clinical, genetic, and immunological properties of a young male patient who suffered from recurrent myocarditis episodes since the age of four years. Electrocardiography, troponin I/T, echocardiography, myocardial magnetic resonance imaging and histological findings were consistent with recurrent myocarditis episodes. Homozygous c.245 A > G p.Tyr82Cys pathogenic variant in Hepatitis A Virus Cellular Receptor 2 (HAVCR2) gene encoding T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-containing protein 3 (TIM-3) receptor was found. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were collected when the patient was asymptomatic; CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphoblasts, CD56+ natural killer cells and CD14+ monocytes were negative for surface TIM-3 expression. In vitro, TLR4 mediated interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) response was high after LPS/ATP stimulation. Clinical symptoms responded to IL-1 receptor antagonist anakinra. TIM-3 p.Tyr82Cys CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation in vitro was unrestrained. Findings on IL-2, interferon gamma, regulatory T cells, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1, 3 and 4 phosphorylation, and PD-1 and LAG-3 checkpoint inhibitor receptor analyses were comparable to controls. We conclude that TIM-3 deficiency due to homozygous HAVCR2 c.245 A > G p.Tyr82Cys pathogenic variant in the patient described here is associated with autoinflammatory symptoms limited to early onset recurrent febrile myocarditis. Excessive IL-1beta production and defective regulation of T cell proliferation may contribute to this clinical condition responsive to anakinra treatment.
2945787 | Human T helper cells specific for antigens of typhus group rickettsiae enhance natural killer cell activity in vitro. The peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 5 individuals immune to typhus group rickettsiae and from 13 nonimmune individuals were stimulated in vitro for 7 days with typhus group rickettsial antigen (TGRA). At the end of day 7, lysis of the natural killer (NK)-susceptible target K562 by these PBMC was determined. As controls, PBMC from both groups of donors were cultured in vitro for 7 days without antigen or were freshly isolated, and lysis of the K562 target was determined. There was no significant difference between the level of NK activity in freshly isolated PBMC from immune and nonimmune donors. PBMC from immune donors which were stimulated with antigen for 7 days exhibited significantly greater NK activity than did the control population, which was cultured for 7 days without antigen. PBMC from immune donors which were stimulated with TGRA demonstrated significantly higher NK activity than the same PBMC stimulated with antigen derived from an antigenically unrelated rickettsia, Coxiella burnetii. There was no significant difference, however, in the level of NK activity of nonimmune antigen-stimulated PBMC compared with that of the same PBMC population cultured without antigen. Most of the antigen-stimulated NK activity was mediated by Leu-11-positive cells as determined by electronic cell sorting. The ability of TGRA to sustain the NK activity of PBMC from immune donors was abolished when the T4/Leu-3-positive population of lymphocytes was eliminated by positive or negative selection prior to antigen stimulation. The ability of TGRA to sustain the NK activity of PBMC from immune donors was also significantly decreased in the presence of antibodies against human interleukin-2. The results suggest that the activity of human NK cells can be sustained in vitro by antigen-specific T helper cells and that the effect of the T helper cell is mediated, at least in part, by interleukin-2.
17027325 | Mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of a textile azo dye processing plant effluent that impacts a drinking water source. Recently a textile azo dye processing plant effluent was identified as one of the sources of mutagenic activity detected in the Cristais River, a drinking water source in Brazil [G.A. Umbuzeiro, D.A. Roubicek, C.M. Rech, M.I.Z. Sato, L.D. Claxton, Investigating the sources of the mutagenic activity found in a river using the Salmonella assay and different water extraction procedures, Chemosphere 54 (2004) 1589-1597]. Besides presenting high mutagenic activity in the Salmonella/microsome assay, the mutagenic nitro-aminoazobenzenes dyes CI Disperse Blue 373, CI Disperse Violet 93, and CI Disperse Orange 37 [G.A. Umbuzeiro, H.S. Freeman, S.H. Warren, D.P. Oliveira, Y. Terao, T. Watanabe, L.D. Claxton, The contribution of azo dyes in the mutagenic activity of the Cristais river, Chemosphere 60 (2005) 55-64] as well as benzidine, a known carcinogenic compound [T.M. Mazzo, A.A. Saczk, G.A. Umbuzeiro, M.V.B. Zanoni, Analysis of aromatic amines in surface waters receiving wastewater from textile industry by liquid chromatographic with eletrochemical detection, Anal. Lett., in press] were found in this effluent. After approximately 6 km from the discharge of this effluent, a drinking water treatment plant treats and distributes the water to a population of approximate 60,000. As shown previously, the mutagens in the DWTP intake water are not completely removed by the treatment. The water used for human consumption presented mutagenic activity related to nitro-aromatics and aromatic amines compounds probably derived from the cited textile processing plant effluent discharge [G.A. Umbuzeiro, D.A. Roubicek, C.M. Rech, M.I.Z. Sato, L.D. Claxton, Investigating the sources of the mutagenic activity found in a river using the Salmonella assay and different water extraction procedures, Chemosphere 54 (2004) 1589-1597; G.A. Umbuzeiro, H.S. Freeman, S.H. Warren, D.P. Oliveira, Y. Terao, T. Watanabe, L.D. Claxton, The contribution of azo dyes in the mutagenic activity of the Cristais river, Chemosphere 60 (2005) 55-64]. Therefore, it is important to evaluate the possible risks involved in the human consumption of this contaminated water. With that objective, one sample of the cited industrial effluent was tested for carcinogenicity in the aberrant crypt foci medium-term assay in colon of Wistar rats. The rats received the effluent in natura through drinking water at concentrations of 0.1%, 1%, and 10%. The effluent mutagenicity was also confirmed in the Salmonella/microsome assay with the strains TA98 and YG1041. There was an increased number of preneoplastic lesions in the colon of rats exposed to concentrations of 1% and 10% of the effluent, and a positive response for both Salmonella strains tested. These results indicate that the discharge of the effluent should be avoided in waters used for human consumption and show the sensitivity of the ACF crypt foci assay as an important tool to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of environmental complex mixtures.
12093286 | Bistranded oxidized purine damage clusters: induced in DNA by long-wavelength ultraviolet (290-400 nm) radiation? Bistranded clustered DNA damages involving oxidized bases, abasic sites, and strand breaks are produced by ionizing radiation and radiomimetic drugs, but it was not known whether they can be formed by other agents, e.g., nonionizing radiation. UV radiation produces clusters of cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimers, photoproducts that occur individually in high yield. Since long-wavelength UV (290-400 nm) radiation induces oxidized bases, abasic sites, and strand breaks at low yields, we tested whether it also produces clusters containing these lesions. We exposed supercoiled pUC18 DNA to UV radiation with wavelengths of >290 nm (UVB plus UVA radiation), and assessed the induction of bistranded clustered oxidized purine and abasic clusters, as recognized by Escherichia coli Fpg protein and E. coli Nfo protein (endonuclease IV), respectively, as well as double-strand breaks. These three classes of bistranded clusters were detected, albeit at very low yields (37 Fpg-OxyPurine clusters Gbp(-1) kJ(-1) m(2), 8.1 double-strand breaks Gbp(-1) kJ(-1) m(2), and 3.4 Nfo-abasic clusters Gbp(-1) kJ(-1) m(2)). Thus, these bistranded OxyPurine clusters, abasic clusters, and double-strand breaks are not uniquely induced by ionizing radiation and radiomimetic drugs, but their level of production by UVB and UVA radiation is negligible compared to the levels of frequent photoproducts such as pyrimidine dimers.
36756126 | Autophagy-related IFNG is a prognostic and immunochemotherapeutic biomarker of COAD patients. Background: Numerous studies have shown autophagy affects cellular immune responses. This study aims to explore prognosis and immunotherapeutic biomarkers related to autophagy in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD). Methods: Based on R software, we performed the ssGSEA, differential expression analysis, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, correlation analysis, and enrichment analysis. For wet experiment, we did qRT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and CCK-8 experiments. Results: Using autophagy-related genes (ARGs) and the ssGSEA, COAD patients were divided into low and high autophagy groups. For immune score, stromal score, tumor purity, tumor infiltrating immune cells, co-signaling molecules, tumor mutational burden, microsatellite instability, mismatch repair, immune-related pathways, immune signatures, somatic mutations and subtype analysis, high autophagy group might benefit more from immunotherapy. Among 232 ARGs, IFNG was generally significantly correlated with tumor immunotherapy biomarkers (PD-L1, CD8A and cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL)). The disease-free survival of high IFNG group was significantly longer than that of low group. On above-mentioned immune-related research, the high IFNG group reached the same conclusion. The qRT-PCR and IHC analysis confirmed that IFNG was significantly higher expressed in dMMR samples compared to pMMR samples. For chemotherapy, the autophagy and IFNG were significantly negatively related to the chemosensitivity to cisplatin; IFNG inhibitor glucosamine increased cisplatin chemoresistance while IFNG increased cisplatin chemosensitivity; IFNG could reverse glucosamine induced chemoresistance. The functional enrichment analysis of IFNG, PD-L1, CD8A and 20 similar proteins were related to the activation of the immune system. The GSEA and ceRNA network partly described interaction mechanisms of IFNG with PD-L1 and CD8A. Conclusion: Autophagy score and IFNG expression were novel immunotherapy predictive biomarkers, which might play predictive effects through the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. IFNG might be a potential targeted therapy for cisplatin resistant colon cancer. Besides, IFNG was also a prognostic indicator.
35643225 | Comprehensive analysis of placental gene-expression profiles and identification of EGFR-mediated autophagy and ferroptosis suppression in intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) was the most common liver disease specific to pregnancy. The symptoms of ICP were maternal pruritus and increased bile acid level in serum which was related to preterm birth, fetal distress, meconium-stained amniotic fluid and stillbirth. However, the mechanism of ICP progression on fetal development remained obscure. Sequencing data of 2 normal placenta samples and 4 intrahepatic cholestasis samples during pregnancy was analyzed by GEO2R. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) were used for analysis of differentially expressed genes. MCODE - A plug-in of Cytoscape was used for molecular complex detection. STRING, Cytoscape, GeneMANIA, NetworkAnalyst, TransmiR, JASPAR, DGIdb and DrugBank were used in this study. Furthermore, histopathological and cell experiments were used to verify our results. Our study identified the key KEGG pathway and four MCODEs which were closely with ICP development, further, sorted by degree centrality, we showed top 30 genes from 7209 differential genes, such as TP53, SRC, EGFR, ESR1, IL10, CD8A, MAPK3, PTPRC, EGF, KIT, ITGAM, LEP and CSF2, etc. Moreover, these hub genes participated in JAK-STAT3 signaling pathway and STAT1/3 regulated these genes expression in a direct way or miRNA-mediated manner. Drug-target analysis about up-regulated genes among hub genes showed that these genes contained multiple drug action site. Furthermore, hub gene-EGFR was associated with destroyed autophagy and ferroptosis. In conclusion, our study analyzed key genes and pathways in ICP development. JAK-STAT3 pathway and EGFR might be a potential target for ICP therapy.
33477250 | Utility of 1,3 beta-d-Glucan Assay for Guidance in Antifungal Stewardship Programs for Oncologic Patients and Solid Organ Transplant Recipients. The implementation of 1,3 beta-d-glucan (BDG) has been proposed as a diagnostic tool in antifungal stewardship programs (ASPs). We aimed to analyze the influence of serum BDG in an ASP for oncologic patients and solid organ transplant (SOT) recipients. We conducted a pre-post study. In the initial period (PRE), the ASP was based on bedside advice, and this was complemented with BDG in the post-period (POST). Performance parameters of the BDG assay were determined. Antifungal (AF) use adequacy was evaluated using a point score. Clinical outcomes and AF costs were also compared before and after the intervention. Overall, 85 patients were included in the PRE-period and 112 in the POST-period. Probable or proven fungal infections were similar in both groups (54.1% vs. 57.1%; p = 0.67). The determination of BDG contributed to improved management in 75 of 112 patients (66.9%). The AF adequacy score improved in the POST-period (mean 7.75 vs. 9.29; p < 0.001). Median days of empiric AF treatment was reduced in the POST-period (9 vs. 5 days, p = 0.04). All-cause mortality (44.7% vs. 34.8%; p = 0.16) was similar in both periods. The cost of AF treatments was reduced in the POST-period with a difference of 779.6 $/patient. Our data suggest that the use of BDG was a cost-effective strategy that contributed to safely improving the results of an ASP for SOT and oncologic patients.
3010463 | AIDS retrovirus induced cytopathology: giant cell formation and involvement of CD4 antigen. The formation of multinucleated giant cells with progression to cell death is a characteristic manifestation of the cytopathology induced by the AIDS retrovirus in infected T lymphoid cells. The mechanism of giant cell formation was studied in the CD4 (T4/Leu 3) positive T cell lines JM (Jurkat) and VB and in variants of these lines that are negative for cell surface CD4 antigen. By means of a two-color fluorescent labeling technique, multinucleated giant cells in infected cultures were shown to form through cell fusion. Antibody to CD4 specifically inhibited fusion, and uninfected CD4 negative cells, in contrast to uninfected CD4 positive cells, did not undergo fusion with infected cells, suggesting a direct role for the CD4 antigen in the process of syncytium formation. These results suggest that, in vivo, cell fusion involving the CD4 molecule may represent a mechanism whereby uninfected cells can be incorporated into AIDS virus infected syncytia. Because the giant cells die soon after they are formed, this process may contribute to the depletion of helper/inducer T cells characteristically observed in AIDS.
26558079 | Down-regulated claudin-7 immunoexpression in urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder. OBJECTIVES: To analyse the gene-expression level of claudin-7 in urothelial carcinoma (UC) of the urinary bladder, and its relationship with clinicopathological variables. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study included 68 specimens of UC of the bladder, comprising 35 with non-muscle-invasive (NMI), stage Ta-T1, and 33 with muscle-invasive (MI) tumours, T2-T4, and 26 of normal urothelium (NU). Total RNA was extracted and 1 mug was reverse transcribed using a cDNA kit. RT-PCR was conducted using SYBR Green I dye to examine the expression levels of the target gene (claudin-7) and the housekeeping gene glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. Using confocal-laser scanning light microscopy, immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to validate the RT-PCR data. The correlation between claudin-7 and the clinicopathological variables was assessed. RESULTS: Claudin-7 was down-regulated in UC samples compared to NU samples (P < 0.001). NMI (Ta-T1) tumours had significantly higher claudin-7 expression than MI (>=pT2) tumours (P = 0.012). There was no significant difference between patients with G1-2 tumours and those with G3 tumours (P = 0.19). There was no significant difference between patients with recurrent NMI UC and those with no recurrence (P = 0.61). IHC showed a lower expression of claudin-7 in the UC samples than NU samples, and in MI UC than in NMI UC. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that a reduced expression of claudin-7 correlates with the invasiveness and progression of UC of the urinary bladder. Further studies are needed to validate claudin-7 as a marker for UC.
33950983 | MicroRNA-363-3p promote the development of acute myeloid leukemia with RUNX1 mutation by targeting SPRYD4 and FNDC3B. BACKGROUND: Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is one of the most frequently mutated genes in most of hematological malignancies, especially in acute myeloid leukemia. In the present study, we aimed to identify the key genes and microRNAs based on acute myeloid leukemia with RUNX1 mutation. The newly finding targeted genes and microRNA associated with RUNX1 may benefit to the clinical treatment in acute myeloid leukemia. MATERIAL/METHODS: The gene and miRNA expression data sets relating to RUNX1 mutation and wild-type adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas database. Differentially expressed miRNAs and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by edgeR of R platform. Gene ontology and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses were performed by Metascape and Gene set enrichment analysis. The protein-protein interaction network and miRNA-mRNA regulatory network were performed by Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes database and Cytoscape software. RESULTS: A total of 27 differentially expressed miRNAs (25 upregulated and 2 downregulated) and 561 DEGs (429 upregulated and 132 downregulated) were identified. Five miRNAs (miR-151b, miR-151a-5p, let-7a-2-3p, miR-363-3p, miR-20b-5p) had prognostic significance in AML. The gene ontology analysis showed that upregulated DEGs suggested significant enrichment in MHC class II protein complex, extracellular structure organization, blood vessel development, cell morphogenesis involved in differentiation, embryonic morphogenesis, regulation of cell adhesion, and so on. Similarly, the downregulated DEGs were mainly enriched in secretory granule lumen, extracellular structure organization. In the gene set enrichment analysis of Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways, the RUNX1 mutation was associated with adherent junction, WNT signaling pathway, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, pathways in cancer, cell adhesion molecules CAMs, MAPK signaling pathway. Eleven genes (PPBP, APP, CCR5, HLA-DRB1, GNAI1, APLNR, P2RY14, C3AR1, HTR1F, CXCL12, GNG11) were simultaneously identified by hub gene analysis and module analysis. MicroRNA-363-3p may promote the development of RUNX1 mutation AML, targeting SPRYD4 and FNDC3B. In addition, the RUNX1 mutation rates in patient were obviously correlated with age, white blood cell, FAB type, risk(cyto), and risk(molecular) (P < .05). CONCLUSION: Our findings have indicated that multiple genes and microRNAs may play a crucial role in RUNX1 mutation AML. MicroRNA-363-3p may promote the development of RUNX1 mutation AML by targeting SPRYD4 and FNDC3B.
26980025 | A favorable role of prolactin in human breast cancer reveals novel pathway-based gene signatures indicative of tumor differentiation and favorable patient outcome. Prolactin (PRL) hormone is known to play a key role in mammary gland development allowing for successful lactation. The role of this hormone in breast tumorigenesis is still controversial. Here, we evaluated PRL protein and gene expression levels in human breast cancer using tissue microarray of 100 breast cancer cases, as well as different publically available human breast cancer gene profiling databases. Interestingly, our results showed a significant downregulation of PRL expression in breast cancer compared to normal adjacent tissue. Moreover, expression of PRL was associated with more differentiated tumors, early stage, smaller tumor size and absence of distant metastasis. Importantly, our results indicate that higher PRL mRNA levels are significantly associated with prolonged relapse-free survival (RFS) in breast cancer patients (P=3.7 x 10(-9)). Additionally, examining expression of PRL pathway-based gene signature composed of PRL, PRLR, Jak2 and Stat5a showed a significant association with more differentiated tumors (P<.00001), prolonged RFS (P=1.8 x 10(-6)) as well as overall survival (OS) (P=.0026). As well, our results indicate that PRL-directed differentiation program in mammary epithelial cells offer good prognosis in human breast cancer. Indeed, expression of a gene signature composed of PRL-upregulated genes showed a significant association with well-differentiated tumors (P<.00001). Whereas expression of a gene signature composed of PRL-downregulated genes showed a significant association with shortened distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS) (P=.0086). Altogether our results highlight that PRL hormone and its signaling pathway may play an important role in maintaining tumor differentiation state and in turn better patient outcome.
2690947 | Site-directed mutagenesis of the T4 endonuclease V gene: the role of arginine-3 in the target search. Endonuclease V, a pyrimidine dimer specific endonuclease in T4 bacteriophage, is able to scan DNA, recognize pyrimidine dimer photoproducts produced by exposure to ultraviolet light, and effectively incise DNA through a two-step mechanism at the damaged bases. The interaction of endonuclease V with nontarget DNA is thought to occur via electrostatic interactions between basic amino acids and the acidic phosphate DNA backbone. Arginine-3 was chosen as a potential candidate for involvement in this protein-nontarget DNA interaction and was extensively mutated to assess its role. The mutations include changes to Asp, Glu, Leu, and Lys and deleting it from the enzyme. Deletion of Arg-3 resulted in an enzyme that retained marginal levels of AP specificity, but no other detectable activity. Charge reversal to Glu-3 and Asp-3 results in proteins that exhibit AP-specific nicking and low levels of dimer-specific nicking. These enzymes are incapable of affecting cellular survival of repair-deficient Escherichia coli after irradiation. Mutations of Arg-3 to Lys-3 or Leu-3 also are unable to complement repair-deficient E. coli. However, these two proteins do exhibit a substantial level of in vitro dimer- and AP-specific nicking. The mechanism by which the Leu-3 and Lys-3 mutant enzymes locate pyrimidine dimers within a population of heavily irradiated plasmid DNA molecules appears to be significantly different from that for the wild-type enzyme. The wild-type endonuclease V processively incises all dimers on an individual plasmid prior to dissociation from that plasmid and subsequent reassociation with other plasmids, yet neither of these mutants exhibits any of the characteristics of this processive nicking activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
38559795 | Successful treatment of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus with ruxolitinib: a case report. Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a rare, life-threatening hematological disorder characterized by uncontrolled activation of CD8+ T and natural killer cells, leading to a cytokine storm and severe organ dysfunction. Although secondary HLH related to autoimmune diseases usually demonstrates a good treatment response to immunosuppressive therapy for underlying conditions, there is no consensus regarding the treatment in case of unresponsiveness to the treatment. Herein, we present a case of HLH that was unresponsive to high-dose glucocorticoid and cyclosporine treatment in a patient with newly diagnosed systemic lupus erythematosus. The patient's clinical features and laboratory abnormalities rapidly improved with ruxolitinib, an oral Janus kinase 1 and 2 (JAK1/2) inhibitor. This result suggests that blocking JAK-STAT pathway may be a potential treatment option in patients with refractory HLH secondary to autoimmune diseases.
38283114 | A Bayesian Spatial Scan Statistic for Multinomial Data. Spatial scan statistics are commonly used to detect clustering. We present a Bayesian spatial scan statistic for multinomial data. After validating our method with a simulation study, we use it to detect clusters of SARS-CoV-2 infection/immunity in South Carolina.
3084644 | Human T lymphocytes and monocytes bear the same Leu-3(T4) antigen. An analysis of the cellular distribution, biosynthesis, and structure of the human T lymphocyte antigen Leu-3(T4) was performed. By using a sensitive ELISA as well as FACS analysis, relative quantities of the Leu-3(T4) antigen from whole cell lysates and from cell surfaces of six cell lines were determined. The T-T hybrid cell line 255.88, and the monocyte/macrophage cell line U937, proved to be high producers of the antigen and were chosen for additional investigation. The Leu-3(T4) antigens from the T lymphocyte cell line and the monocyte/macrophage cell were shown to be identical by SDS-PAGE. Leu-3(T4) was a polypeptide of 55,000 AMW under reducing conditions, and 63,000 AMW under nonreducing conditions. In the 255.88 cell line, a second band of 41,000 AMW was associated with the true Leu-3(T4) molecule. The 55,000 AMW Leu-3(T4) molecule was shown to possess a high mannose sugar side chain, and to contain few accessible tyrosine residues. These studies demonstrate that human T lymphocytes and monocytes produce and process similar molecules that react with the anti-Leu-3(T4) monoclonal antibody. They also characterize this important associative antigen recognition structure and suggest that cells other than the T lymphocyte may be targets for the retrovirus HTLV-III.
37335032 | Changes of viral load, drug resistance, and CD4 cell count in HIV-1-infected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy in Hebei Province, China, 2003 - 2019. In this study, a total of 462 samples of whole blood were collected from 36 patients enrolled. During the entire course of ART from 2003 to 2019, both the CD4 cell count and VL of study patients were examined annually, and a HIV-1 genotypic DR assay was carried out using an in-house method when the HIV-1 VL was more than 1000 copies/ml. The Results indicated that 13 (36.1%) experienced treatment failure and 23 (63.9%) experienced treatment success among 36 patients. The proportion of patients with effective treatment after the adjustment of ART regimens was significantly higher than before adjustment (chi2=33.796, p<0.001). Furthermore, the frequencies of HIV-1 DR mutations before adjustment were higher than those after adjustment (t=3.345, p=0.002). In particular, among 23 patients with effective treatment after adjustment, the means +- standard deviations of the VLs and CD4 cell counts before adjustment were 3.85+-0.65 log RNA copies/ml and 226.83+-106.06 cells/mm3, respectively, compared with 2.19+-0.58 log RNA copies/ml and 367.68+-174.62 cells/mm3, respectively, after adjustment. Obviously, there were statistically significant differences in the changes in VL (t=8.728, p<0.001) and CD4 cell count (t=-4.476, p<0.001) before and after adjustment. Therefore, patients who received updated ART regimens containing LPV/r and TDF after adjustment achieved better therapeutic effects compared with patients who received initial ART regimens harboring D4T/AZT or NVP. This suggests that future research is needed to initiate the surveillance of DR, VLs, CD4 cell counts immediately after HIV diagnosis, and dynamic changes in these indicators so as to optimize ART effects.
3492033 | Characterization of mononuclear cells in cyclosporin A induced gingival enlargement. Gingival biopsies from five patients with cyclosporin A (CsA) induced enlargement of the gingiva contained prominent mononuclear infiltrates beneath the epithelial basement membrane. These infiltrates and surrounding tissues were studied using monoclonal antibodies directed against lymphocytes and their subgroups (OKT 3, OKT 4, OKT 8, Leu 3 and Leu 4), monocytes (OKM 1) and the framework structure of HLA-DR antigens (OKI al). As revealed by the reactivity of these antibodies the vast majority of the mononuclear cells in two individuals consisted of monocytes and in the others of T-lymphocytes. Virtually no B-lymphocytes were observed. The ratio between T-cells bearing T 4 and T 8 antigens, in separate biopsies, varied between 6 and 0.3. Control biopsies were obtained from the gingiva of seven healthy individuals without gingivitis. These biopsies contained relatively few mononuclear cells all of which had T-lymphocyte phenotype.
2424980 | Antigen-specific and MHC-restricted Plasmodium falciparum-induced human T lymphocyte clones. We established and analyzed human T lymphocyte clones induced by crude Plasmodium falciparum antigens of schizont-enriched asexual blood stages. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were stimulated for 6 days with antigen, and the T cell blasts were separated and were transferred to limiting dilution cultures with antigen, irradiated PBMC, and recombinant interleukin 2. The following observations were made. Malaria antigen (M.Ag) induced similar proportions of T blasts in PBMC from infected individuals and noninfected controls, and the M.Ag-dependent clone frequencies (1/79 to 1/216) obtained with the blasts were similar. The majority of established clones derived from infected and noninfected subjects specifically recognized M.Ag and would not proliferate in response to red blood cells or autologous PBMC alone. They also required HLA class II determinant-compatible antigen-presenting (E-) cells. With three clones from one malaria patient, DR 1 or DR 5 specificities correlated with antigen presentation. Although T4+ and T8+ blasts were induced by M.Ag in PBMC, only T4 (Leu-3+) clones were obtained in our culture system. These clones secreted IL 2 in response to M.Ag. 4) Differential patterns of reactivity to native M.Ag, heat-stable antigens, and heat-precipitated antigens were exhibited by T cell clones, and the tested clones did not recognize Plasmodium berghei antigen. In conclusion, it is important with regard to previous observations on apparently nonspecific, mitogen-like effects of M.Ag in bulk T cell cultures that our results demonstrate specific recognition of P. falciparum by human T cells. The T cell clones obtained will be an important tool in the quest for a better understanding of the mechanisms involved in resistance to malaria infection.
3086436 | Administration of monoclonal anti-T cell antibodies retards murine lupus in BXSB mice. Murine lupus in BXSB mice is associated with B cell hyperactivity, monocyte proliferation, and impaired T cell function. However, the significance of these abnormalities, and the relationship among them, has not been clearly established. To examine the role of T cells in the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease in BXSB mice, we depleted specific T cell subsets from BXSB males by using rat IgG2b monoclonal antibodies (MAb) to either Thy-1.2 (on all T cells) or L3T4 (on \helper/inducer\ T cells). A single injection of anti-Thy-1.2 (6 mg i.v.) at age 3 mo produced a sustained 40 to 50% reduction in circulating T cells for 6 mo. Treatment prevented monocytosis, reduced anti-DNA antibody concentration, and retarded renal disease, but it did not prolong life. Repeated injections of rat MAb to Thy-1.2 were precluded by the development of a host immune response to rat immunoglobulin (Ig) that can cause anaphylaxis in BXSB mice. In contrast, rat MAb to L3T4 stimulated little or no immune response to rat Ig. We therefore were able to treat BXSB mice weekly with anti-L3T4 (2 mg i.p.) from age 3 to 12 mo. Treatment reduced circulating L3T4+ cells beneath the level of detection by fluorescence analysis. It also significantly reduced monocytosis, anti-DNA antibody production, renal disease, and mortality. These findings establish that monocytosis and autoimmunity in BXSB mice are promoted by T cells. They extend our previous observation that MAb to L3T4 retard autoimmunity in NZB/NZW F1 mice. Our finding that treatment with MAb to L3T4 is effective in two strains of lupus-prone mice suggests that treatment with MAb to Leu-3/T4, the human homologue for L3T4, may be effective in people with systemic lupus erythematosus.
30206163 | The Novel Bromodomain and Extraterminal Domain Inhibitor INCB054329 Induces Vulnerabilities in Myeloma Cells That Inform Rational Combination Strategies. PURPOSE: Bromodomain and extraterminal domain (BET) proteins regulate the expression of many cancer-associated genes and pathways; BET inhibitors have demonstrated activity in diverse models of hematologic and solid tumors. We report the preclinical characterization of INCB054329, a structurally distinct BET inhibitor that has been investigated in phase I clinical trials. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We used multiple myeloma models to investigate vulnerabilities created by INCB054329 treatment that could inform rational combinations. RESULTS: In addition to c-MYC, INCB054329 decreased expression of oncogenes FGFR3 and NSD2/MMSET/WHSC1, which are deregulated in t(4;14)-rearranged cell lines. The profound suppression of FGFR3 sensitized the t(4;14)-positive cell line OPM-2 to combined treatment with a fibroblast growth factor receptor inhibitor in vivo. In addition, we show that BET inhibition across multiple myeloma cell lines resulted in suppressed interleukin (IL)-6 Janus kinase-signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK-STAT) signaling. INCB054329 displaced binding of BRD4 to the promoter of IL6 receptor (IL6R) leading to reduced levels of IL6R and diminished signaling through STAT3. Combination with JAK inhibitors (ruxolitinib or itacitinib) further reduced JAK-STAT signaling and synergized to inhibit myeloma cell growth in vitro and in vivo. This combination potentiated tumor growth inhibition in vivo, even in the MM1.S model of myeloma that is not intrinsically sensitive to JAK inhibition alone. CONCLUSIONS: Preclinical data reveal insights into vulnerabilities created in myeloma cells by BET protein inhibition and potential strategies that can be leveraged in clinical studies to enhance the activity of INCB054329.
38480165 | Revision of the Afrotropical genus Zetheumenidion Bequaert (Hymenoptera: Vespidae: Eumeninae). A taxonomic revision of the Afrotropical genus Zetheumenidion Bequaert, 1926 is presented. Four new species (Zetheumenidion abruptum sp. nov., Zetheumenidion concinnoide sp. nov., Zetheumenidion latum sp. nov. and Zetheumenidion minimum sp. nov.) are described; Zetheumenidion paeneplanum (Bequaert, 1926) stat. rev. is resurrected from synonymy with Z. pulchripenne (Cameron, 1910); Zetheumenidion femoratum flavissimum Giordani Soika, 1987 is raised to species level (Zetheumenidion flavissimum stat. nov.). A key to all known species is provided and the taxonomic placement of the genus is discussed.
30440128 | [Role of signaling pathway of long non-coding RNA growth arrest-specific transcript 5/microRNA-200c-3p/angiotensin converting enzyme 2 in the apoptosis of human lung epithelial cell A549 in acute respiratory distress syndrome]. Objective: To investigate whether long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) growth arrest-specific transcript 5 (GAS5)/microRNA-200c-3p/angiotensin converting enzyme 2(ACE2) involved in the regulation of the apoptosis of human lung epithelial cell A549 in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Methods: ARDS rat models were established and were divided into control, ARDS, ARDS+ pcDNA and ARDS+ pcDNA-GAS5 groups. Six hours after the establishment of ARDS rat model, arterial blood and lung tissues of the rats from the four groups were collected. The changes of partial pressure of oxygen (PO(2)) and partial pressure of CO(2) (PCO(2)) were analyzed and the expression of GAS5 in lung tissue was observed in these groups. Then, A549 cells were divided into control, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), LPS+ pcDNA, LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5, LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ pre-NC, LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ miR-200c-3p mimic groups. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was conducted to measure lncRNA GAS5, ACE2 and miR-200c-3p levels. RNA immunoprecipitation and RNA pull-down assay were used to detect the combination between GAS5 and miR-200c-3p. Western blotting was used to detect the protein level of ACE2. Flow cytometry was used to observe the apoptosis of A549 cells in those groups. The data between groups were compared by t test. Results: In ARDS rat model, PO(2) value was significantly increased in ARDS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group than that in ARDS+ pcDNA group[(81.5+-3.3) vs (57.5+-5.1) mmHg, t=4.850, P<0.05], and PCO(2) value was significantly decreased in ARDS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group than that in ARDS+ pcDNA group[(50.6+-1.9) vs (64.0+-1.9) mmHg, t=5.940, P<0.05]. LncRNA GAS5 level in A549 cells of LPS group decreased significantly than that in control group (0.43+-0.01 vs 1.01+-0.01, t=0.242, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA group, ACE2 expression increased significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group (0.85+-0.04 vs 0.34+-0.02, t=1.800, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ pre-NC group, ACE2 expression decreased significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ miR-200c-3p mimic group (0.62+-0.01 vs 0.84+-0.02, t=9.440, P<0.05). Compared with control group, the percentage of A549 cell apoptosis promoted significantly in LPS group (25.90+-0.61 vs 7.90+-0.22, t=0.257, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA group, the percentage of A549 cell apoptosis suppressed significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group (10.50+-0.37 vs 26.37+-0.45, t=1.760, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ pre-NC group, the percentage of A549 apoptosis promoted significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ miR-200c-3p mimic group (19.07+-0.56 vs 10.87+-0.26, t=0.643, P<0.05). Conclusion: In ARDS, down-regulation of lncRNA GAS5 decreases ACE2 expression through increasing miR-200c-3p to promote the apoptosis of A549 cells, thus to promote the progression of ARDS.
38508140 | STAT3 couples activated tyrosine kinase signaling to the oncogenic core transcriptional regulatory circuitry of anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) is an aggressive, CD30+ T cell lymphoma of children and adults. ALK fusion transcripts or mutations in the JAK-STAT pathway are observed in most ALCL tumors, but the mechanisms underlying tumorigenesis are not fully understood. Here, we show that dysregulated STAT3 in ALCL cooccupies enhancers with master transcription factors BATF3, IRF4, and IKZF1 to form a core regulatory circuit that establishes and maintains the malignant cell state in ALCL. Critical downstream targets of this network in ALCL cells include the protooncogene MYC, which requires active STAT3 to facilitate high levels of MYC transcription. The core autoregulatory transcriptional circuitry activity is reinforced by MYC binding to the enhancer regions associated with STAT3 and each of the core regulatory transcription factors. Thus, activation of STAT3 provides the crucial link between aberrant tyrosine kinase signaling and the core transcriptional machinery that drives tumorigenesis and creates therapeutic vulnerabilities in ALCL.
37020549 | Hormonal and inflammatory modulatory effects of hesperidin in hyperthyroidism-modeled rats. The goal of the current study was to investigate the hormonal modulatory efficiency of hesperidin, through its regulatory potential of immunological, inflammatory, and/or antioxidant changes in on hyperthyroidism modeled adult female albino rats. Both normal and hyperthyroidism modeled rats (140-160g) were randomly divided into four groups (10 animals each) as follows: 1) healthy animals were daily ingested with saline for six weeks, and served as control group, 2) healthy animals were intraperitoneally injected with hesperidin (50 mg/kg/day) for a similar period, 3) hyperthyroidism-modeled animals without any treatment acted as positive control, and 4) hyperthyroidism-modeled animals were treated intraperitoneally with hesperidin for a similar period. The findings showed that hesperidin significantly modulated hyperthyroidism deteriorations, this was evidenced by a remarkable decline in serum T4, FT4, T3, FT3, TNF-alpha, IL1beta-, IL4-, IL-6, and IL-10 levels, with a minor increase in TSH and significant raise in CD4+ level. Similarly, valuable improvement was observed in the oxidative status; serum SOD, GPx, CAT, and GSH levels were dramatically enhanced, associated with remarkable drop in MDA and NO levels. Also, hesperidin demonstrated nephro-hepatoprotective and anti-atherogenic potential, this was achieved from the notable reduction in ALAT and ASAT activities as well as urea, creatinine, cholesterol, and triglyceride close to the corresponding values of healthy group. These findings were supported by histological and immunohistochemical ones that showed a notable decrease in the expression of the calcitonin antibody. In conclusion, hesperidin possesses anti-hyperthyroidism, immunoinflammatory regulatory, and antioxidant activities that evidenced from the improvement of physio-architecture of the thyroid gland, reduction of inflammation and restoration of the impaired oxidative stress. This effect might be mechanized through immunological, inflammatory, apoptotic, and/or antioxidant modulatory pathways.
8954020 | Four families with loss of function mutations of the thyrotropin receptor. We observed four families with loss of function mutations of the TSH receptor gene. One patient had a homozygous Pro162 Ala substitution. The three other were compound heterozygotes: 1) Gln324-->Stop and Asp410 Asn2), Cys41 Ser and Phe525 Leu, 3) Cys390 Trp and Trp546-->Stop. In all patients, the plasma TSH concentration was increased, whereas T3 and T4 concentrations were normal. The TSH levels were normal in the heterozygous parents. These results confirmed the recessive character of TSH receptor defects. Expression of the various mutated receptors in transfected COS-7 cells demonstrated the impairment of their function. We studied the expression of the receptors on the cell surface by immunofluorescence, their ability to bind hormone, and their capacity to activate adenylate cyclase. Some mutations allowed us to identify sites that are especially important for receptor function. The substitution Cys390 Trp abolished high affinity hormone binding. Receptor mutated at Asp410 Asn bound the hormone normally, but failed to activate adenylate cyclase. This result underscores the role of this acidic extracellular residue, close to the first transmembrane segment, in signal transmission. The Phe525 Leu substitution also markedly impaired adenylate cyclase activation, underlining the importance of the second intracellular loop in receptor signaling.
38128800 | Recombinant bacteriophage T4 displaying key epitopes of the foot-and-mouth disease virus as a novel nanoparticle vaccine. Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) is a highly contagious pathogen that has caused significant economic losses in the livestock industry. Peptide vaccines engineered with the protective epitopes of FMDV have provided a safer alternative for disease prevention than the traditional inactivated vaccines. However, the immunogenicity of the peptide is usually poor and therefore an adjuvant is required. Here, we showed that recombinant T4 phages displaying the B-cell epitope of the FMDV VP1 protein (VP1130-158), without additional adjuvants, induced similar levels of antigen-specific IgG1 but higher levels of IgG2a compared to the peptide vaccine. Incorporation of a CD4+ T cell epitope, either 3A21-35 of FMDV 3A protein or P2830-844 of tetanus toxoid, further enhanced the immunogenicity of VP1-T4 phage nanoparticles. Interestingly, the extrinsic adjuvant cannot enhance the immunogenicity of the nanoparticles, indicating the intrinsic adjuvant activities of T4 phage. Furthermore, the recombinant T4 phage can be produced on a large scale within a short period of time at a relatively low-cost using Escherichia coli, heralding its potential in the development of a safe and effective FMDV vaccine.
38613800 | PROS1 is a crucial gene in the macrophage efferocytosis of diabetic foot ulcers: a concerted analytical approach through the prisms of computer analysis. BACKGROUND: Diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) pose a serious long-term threat because of elevated mortality and disability risks. Research on its biomarkers is still, however, very limited. In this paper, we have effectively identified biomarkers linked with macrophage excretion in diabetic foot ulcers through the application of bioinformatics and machine learning methodologies. These findings were subsequently validated using external datasets and animal experiments. Such discoveries are anticipated to offer novel insights and approaches for the early diagnosis and treatment of DFU. METHODS: In this work, we used the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database's datasets GSE68183 and GSE80178 as the training dataset to build a gene model using machine learning methods. After that, we used the training and validation sets to validate the model (GSE134431). On the model genes, we performed enrichment analysis using both gene set variant analysis (GSVA) and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). Additionally, the model genes were subjected to immunological association and immune function analyses. RESULTS: In this study, PROS1 was identified as a potential key target associated with macrophage efflux in DFU by machine learning and bioinformatics approaches. Subsequently, the key biomarker status of PROS1 in DFU was also confirmed by external datasets. In addition, PROS1 also plays a key role in macrophage exudation in DFU. This gene may be associated with macrophage M1, CD4 memory T cells, naive B cells, and macrophage M2, and affects IL-17, Rap1, hedgehog, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. CONCLUSIONS: PROS1 was identified and validated as a biomarker for DFU. This finding has the potential to provide a target for macrophage clearance of DFU.
32628899 | Coronaviruses and Integrin alphavbeta3: Does Thyroid Hormone Modify the Relationship? BACKGROUND: Uptake of coronaviruses by target cells involves binding of the virus by cell ectoenzymes. For the etiologic agent of COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2), a receptor has been identified as angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE2). Recently it has been suggested that plasma membrane integrins may be involved in the internalization and replication of clinically important coronaviruses. For example, integrin alphavbeta3 is involved in the cell uptake of a model porcine enteric alpha-coronavirus that causes human epidemics. ACE2 modulates the intracellular signaling generated by integrins. OBJECTIVE: We propose that the cellular internalization of alphavbeta3 applies to uptake of coronaviruses bound to the integrin, and we evaluate the possibility that clinical host T4 may contribute to target cell uptake of coronavirus and to the consequence of cell uptake of the virus. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: The viral binding domain of the integrin is near the Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) peptide-binding site and RGD molecules can affect virus binding. In this same locale on integrin alphavbeta3 is the receptor for thyroid hormone analogues, particularly, L-thyroxine (T4). By binding to the integrin, T4 has been shown to modulate the affinity of the integrin for other proteins, to control internalization of alphavbeta3 and to regulate the expression of a panel of cytokine genes, some of which are components of the 'cytokine storm' of viral infections. If T4 does influence coronavirus uptake by target cells, other thyroid hormone analogues, such as deaminated T4 and deaminated 3,5,3'-triiodo-L-thyronine (T3), are candidate agents to block the virus-relevant actions of T4 at integrin alphavbeta3 and possibly restrict virus uptake.
38578973 | American Society of Anesthesiologists 2023 Guidance on Neurologic Complications of Neuraxial Analgesia/Anesthesia in Obstetrics.
19954531 | 454 pyrosequencing based transcriptome analysis of Zygaena filipendulae with focus on genes involved in biosynthesis of cyanogenic glucosides. BACKGROUND: An essential driving component in the co-evolution of plants and insects is the ability to produce and handle bioactive compounds. Plants produce bioactive natural products for defense, but some insects detoxify and/or sequester the compounds, opening up for new niches with fewer competitors. To study the molecular mechanism behind the co-adaption in plant-insect interactions, we have investigated the interactions between Lotus corniculatus and Zygaena filipendulae. They both contain cyanogenic glucosides which liberate toxic hydrogen cyanide upon breakdown. Moths belonging to the Zygaena family are the only insects known, able to carry out both de novo biosynthesis and sequestration of the same cyanogenic glucosides as those from their feed plants. The biosynthetic pathway for cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis in Z. filipendulae proceeds using the same intermediates as in the well known pathway from plants, but none of the enzymes responsible have been identified. A genomics strategy founded on 454 pyrosequencing of the Z. filipendulae transcriptome was undertaken to identify some of these enzymes in Z. filipendulae. RESULTS: Comparisons of the Z. filipendulae transcriptome with the sequenced genomes of Bombyx mori, Drosophila melanogaster, Tribolium castaneum, Apis mellifera and Anopheles gambiae indicate a high coverage of the Z. filipendulae transcriptome. 11% of the Z. filipendulae transcriptome sequences were assigned to Gene Ontology categories. Candidate genes for enzymes functioning in the biosynthesis of cyanogenic glucosides (cytochrome P450 and family 1 glycosyltransferases) were identified based on sequence length, number of copies and presence/absence of close homologs in D. melanogaster, B. mori and the cyanogenic butterfly Heliconius. Examination of biased codon usage, GC content and selection on gene candidates support the notion of cyanogenesis as an \old\ trait within Ditrysia, as well as its origins being convergent between plants and insects. CONCLUSION: Pyrosequencing is an attractive approach to gain access to genes in the biosynthesis of bio-active natural products from insects and other organisms, for which the genome sequence is not known. Based on analysis of the Z. filipendulae transcriptome, promising gene candidates for biosynthesis of cyanogenic glucosides was identified, and the suitability of Z. filipendulae as a model system for cyanogenesis in insects is evident.
19127546 | Pharmaceutical metabolite profiling using quadrupole/ion mobility spectrometry/time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The use of hybrid quadrupole ion mobility spectrometry time-of-flight mass spectrometry (Q/IMS/TOFMS) in the metabolite profiling of leflunomide (LEF) and acetaminophen (APAP) is presented. The IMS drift times (T(d)) of the drugs and their metabolites were determined in the IMS/TOFMS experiments and correlated with their exact monoisotopic masses and other in silico generated structural properties, such as connolly molecular area (CMA), connolly solvent-excluded volume (CSEV), principal moments of inertia along the X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates (MI-X, MI-Y and MI-Z), inverse mobility and collision cross-section (CCS). The correlation of T(d) with these parameters is presented and discussed. IMS/TOF tandem mass spectrometry experiments (MS(2) and MS(3)) were successfully performed on the N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine glutathione (NAPQI-GSH) adduct derived from the in vitro microsomal metabolism of APAP. As comparison, similar experiments were also performed using hybrid triple quadrupole linear ion trap mass spectrometry (QTRAPMS) and quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (QTOFMS). The abilities to resolve the product ions of the metabolite within the drift tube and fragment the ion mobility resolved product ions in the transfer travelling wave-enabled stacked ring ion guide (TWIG) demonstrated the potential applicability of the Q/IMS/TOFMS technique in pharmaceutical metabolite profiling.
24012995 | Male-to-female transfer of 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside during mating in Zygaena filipendulae (Lepidoptera). Zygaena filipendulae accumulates the cyanogenic glucosides linamarin and lotaustralin by larval sequestration from the food plant or de novo biosynthesis. We have previously demonstrated that the Z. filipendulae male transfers linamarin and lotaustralin to the female in the course of mating. In this study we report the additional transfer of 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside (5-(beta-d-glucopyranosyloxy)-L-Tryptophan) from the Z. filipendulae male internal genitalia to the female spermatophore around 5 h into the mating process. 5-Hydroxytryptophan glucoside is present in the virgin male internal genitalia, and production continues during the early phase of mating. Following initiation of 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside transfer to the female, the amount in male internal genitalia is drastically reduced until after mating where it is slowly replenished. For unambiguous structural identification, 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside was chemically synthesized and used as an authentic standard. The biological function of 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside remains to be established, although we have indications that it may be involved in inducing the female to stay in copula and delay egg-laying to prevent re-mating of the female. To our knowledge 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside has not previously been reported present in animal tissues.
37991399 | Patterns of differential expression by association in omic data using a new measure based on ensemble learning. The ongoing development of high-throughput technologies is allowing the simultaneous monitoring of the expression levels for hundreds or thousands of biological inputs with the proliferation of what has been coined as omic data sources. One relevant issue when analyzing such data sources is concerned with the detection of differential expression across two experimental conditions, clinical status or two classes of a biological outcome. While a great deal of univariate data analysis approaches have been developed to address the issue, strategies for assessing interaction patterns of differential expression are scarce in the literature and have been limited to ad hoc solutions. This paper contributes to the problem by exploiting the facilities of an ensemble learning algorithm like random forests to propose a measure that assesses the differential expression explained by the interaction of the omic variables so subtle biological patterns may be uncovered as a result. The out of bag error rate, which is an estimate of the predictive accuracy of a random forests classifier, is used as a by-product to propose a new measure that assesses interaction patterns of differential expression. Its performance is studied in synthetic scenarios and it is also applied to real studies on SARS-CoV-2 and colon cancer data where it uncovers associations that remain undetected by other methods. Our proposal is aimed at providing a novel approach that may help the experts in biomedical and life sciences to unravel insightful interaction patterns that may decipher the molecular mechanisms underlying biological and clinical outcomes.
26172746 | Molecular behavior of DNA in a cell-sized compartment coated by lipids. The behavior of long DNA molecules in a cell-sized confined space was investigated. We prepared water-in-oil droplets covered by phospholipids, which mimic the inner space of a cell, following the encapsulation of DNA molecules with unfolded coil and folded globule conformations. Microscopic observation revealed that the adsorption of coiled DNA onto the membrane surface depended on the size of the vesicular space. Globular DNA showed a cell-size-dependent unfolding transition after adsorption on the membrane. Furthermore, when DNA interacted with a two-phase membrane surface, DNA selectively adsorbed on the membrane phase, such as an ordered or disordered phase, depending on its conformation. We discuss the mechanism of these trends by considering the free energy of DNA together with a polyamine in the solution. The free energy of our model was consistent with the present experimental data. The cooperative interaction of DNA and polyamines with a membrane surface leads to the size-dependent behavior of molecular systems in a small space. These findings may contribute to a better understanding of the physical mechanism of molecular events and reactions inside a cell.
37896850 | Comparative Analysis of Conformational Dynamics and Systematic Characterization of Cryptic Pockets in the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.2, BA.2.75 and XBB.1 Spike Complexes with the ACE2 Host Receptor: Confluence of Binding and Structural Plasticity in Mediating Networks of Conserved Allosteric Sites. In the current study, we explore coarse-grained simulations and atomistic molecular dynamics together with binding energetics scanning and cryptic pocket detection in a comparative examination of conformational landscapes and systematic characterization of allosteric binding sites in the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.2, BA.2.75 and XBB.1 spike full-length trimer complexes with the host receptor ACE2. Microsecond simulations, Markov state models and mutational scanning of binding energies of the SARS-CoV-2 BA.2 and BA.2.75 receptor binding domain complexes revealed the increased thermodynamic stabilization of the BA.2.75 variant and significant dynamic differences between these Omicron variants. Molecular simulations of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron spike full-length trimer complexes with the ACE2 receptor complemented atomistic studies and enabled an in-depth analysis of mutational and binding effects on conformational dynamic and functional adaptability of the Omicron variants. Despite considerable structural similarities, Omicron variants BA.2, BA.2.75 and XBB.1 can induce unique conformational dynamic signatures and specific distributions of the conformational states. Using conformational ensembles of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron spike trimer complexes with ACE2, we conducted a comprehensive cryptic pocket screening to examine the role of Omicron mutations and ACE2 binding on the distribution and functional mechanisms of the emerging allosteric binding sites. This analysis captured all experimentally known allosteric sites and discovered networks of inter-connected and functionally relevant allosteric sites that are governed by variant-sensitive conformational adaptability of the SARS-CoV-2 spike structures. The results detailed how ACE2 binding and Omicron mutations in the BA.2, BA.2.75 and XBB.1 spike complexes modulate the distribution of conserved and druggable allosteric pockets harboring functionally important regions. The results are significant for understanding the functional roles of druggable cryptic pockets that can be used for allostery-mediated therapeutic intervention targeting conformational states of the Omicron variants.
32950466 | Thyroid disorders and SARS-CoV-2 infection: From pathophysiological mechanism to patient management. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the COVID-19 epidemic to be a global pandemic in March 2020. COVID-19 is an infection caused by SARS-CoV-2, a coronavirus that utilizes the angiotensin-2 converting enzyme to penetrate thyroid and pituitary cells, and may result in a \cytokine storm\. Based on the pathophysiological involvement of the pituitary-thyroid axis, the current review discusses the diagnosis of abnormal thyroid function test, and the management of patients presenting with thyrotoxicosis, thyroid-associated orbitopathy and hypothyroidism in the context of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
38583453 | The Lancet Commission on prostate cancer: planning for the surge in cases.
37200378 | Enhanced stability of the SARS CoV-2 spike glycoprotein following modification of an alanine cavity in the protein core. The spike (S) glycoprotein of SARS CoV-2 is the target of neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) that are crucial for vaccine effectiveness. The S1 subunit binds ACE2 while the S2 subunit mediates virus-cell membrane fusion. S2 is a class I fusion glycoprotein subunit and contains a central coiled coil that acts as a scaffold for the conformational changes associated with fusion function. The coiled coil of S2 is unusual in that the 3-4 repeat of inward-facing positions are mostly occupied by polar residues that mediate few inter-helical contacts in the prefusion trimer. We examined how insertion of bulkier hydrophobic residues (Val, Leu, Ile, Phe) to fill a cavity next to Ala1016 and Ala1020 in the 3-4 repeat affects the stability and antigenicity of S trimers. Substitution of Ala1016 with bulkier hydrophobic residues in the context of a prefusion-stabilized S trimer, S2P-FHA, was associated with increased thermal stability. S glycoprotein membrane fusion function was retained with Ala1016/Ala1020 cavity-filling mutations associated with improved recombinant S2P-FHA thermostability, however 2 mutants, A1016L and A1016V/A1020I, lacked ability to mediate entry of S-HIV-1 pseudoparticles into 293-ACE2 cells. When assessed as immunogens, two thermostable S2P-FHA mutants derived from the ancestral isolate, A1016L (16L) and A1016V/A1020I (VI) elicited neutralizing antibody with 50%-inhibitory dilutions (ID50s) in the range 2,700-5,110 for ancestral and Delta-derived viruses, and 210-1,744 for Omicron BA.1. The antigens elicited antibody specificities directed to the receptor-binding domain (RBD), N-terminal domain (NTD), fusion peptide and stem region of S2. The VI mutation enabled the production of intrinsically stable Omicron BA.1 and Omicron BA.4/5 S2P-FHA-like ectodomain oligomers in the absence of an external trimerization motif (T4 foldon), thus representing an alternative approach for stabilizing oligomeric S glycoprotein vaccines.
22934077 | Effects of gabapentin on muscle spasticity and both induced as well as spontaneous autonomic dysreflexia after complete spinal cord injury. We recently reported that the neuropathic pain medication, gabapentin (GBP; Neurontin), significantly attenuated both noxious colorectal distension (CRD)-induced autonomic dysreflexia (AD) and tail pinch-induced spasticity compared to saline-treated cohorts 2-3 weeks after complete high thoracic (T4) spinal cord injury (SCI). Here we employed long-term blood pressure telemetry to test, firstly, the efficacy of daily versus acute GBP treatment in modulating AD and tail spasticity in response to noxious stimuli at 2 and 3 weeks post-injury. Secondly, we determined whether daily GBP alters baseline cardiovascular parameters, as well as spontaneous AD events detected using a novel algorithm based on blood pressure telemetry data. At both 14 and 21 days after SCI, irrespective of daily treatment, acute GBP given 1 h prior to stimulus significantly attenuated CRD-induced AD and pinch-evoked tail spasticity; conversely, acute saline had no such effects. Moreover, daily GBP did not alter 24 h mean arterial pressure (MAP) or heart rate (HR) values compared to saline treatment, nor did it reduce the incidence of spontaneous AD events compared to saline over the three week assessment period. Power spectral density (PSD) analysis of the MAP signals demonstrated relative power losses in mid frequency ranges (0.2-0.8 Hz) for all injured animals relative to low frequency MAP power (0.02-0.08 Hz). However, there was no significant difference between groups over time post-injury; hence, GBP had no effect on the persistent loss of MAP fluctuations in the mid frequency range after injury. In summary, the mechanism(s) by which acute GBP treatment mitigate aberrant somatosensory and cardiophysiological responses to noxious stimuli after SCI remain unclear. Nevertheless, with further refinements in defining the dynamics associated with AD events, such as eliminating requisite concomitant bradycardia, the objective repeatability of automatic detection of hypertensive crises provides a potentially useful tool for assessing autonomic function pre- and post-SCI, in conjunction with experimental pharmacotherapeutics for neuropathic pain, such as GBP.
36269668 | Quality Improvement Report: Safety Program for Prevention of Central Line-associated Bloodstream Infections. The increasing usage of peripherally inserted central catheters (PICCs) in medical imaging departments has led to a corresponding increase in cases of central line-associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI). However, this condition is preventable with proper monitoring and use of aseptic techniques. A Comprehensive Unit-based Safety Program (CUSP) is a quality improvement (QI) measure implemented by health care institutions to reduce the incidence of CLABSI. However, effective strategies have yet to be established. The authors describe a QI project that evaluated the implementation of CUSP at a teaching hospital to reduce PICC-associated bloodstream infection (BSI). The framework consists of a five-step process: understand and train staff on the science of safety, assemble a team, engage senior executives, identify defects through sensemaking, and implement teamwork and communication strategies in a series of related and sequential steps that use QI tools. Targets were identified for improvement from existing processes, and the workflow was reengineered. Nine months after the start of the CUSP intervention, PICC-associated BSI incidence in the hospital had been reduced from 3.4 to 2.7 per 1000 central lines days after intervention. The incidence of BSI was also reduced correspondingly from 8.8% to 5.9%. The QI processes in this study may be adopted by other hospitals, as they involve minimal cost with significant impact on patient safety and well-being. The QI sequential steps described capture the implementation processes that can be modified for use in other department settings where patient safety could be compromised. Online supplemental material is available for this article.  RSNA, 2022.
37904941 | Th2 and Th17-Associated Immunopathology Following SARS-CoV-2 Breakthrough Infection in Spike-Vaccinated ACE2-humanized Mice. Vaccines have demonstrated remarkable effectiveness in protecting against COVID-19; however, concerns regarding vaccine-associated enhanced respiratory diseases (VAERD) following breakthrough infections have emerged. Spike protein subunit vaccines for SARS-CoV-2 induce VAERD in hamsters, where aluminum adjuvants promote a Th2-biased immune response, leading to increased type 2 pulmonary inflammation in animals with breakthrough infections. To gain a deeper understanding of the potential risks and the underlying mechanisms of VAERD, we immunized ACE2-humanized mice with SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein adjuvanted with aluminum and CpG-ODN. Subsequently, we exposed them to increasing doses of SARS-CoV-2 to establish a breakthrough infection. The vaccine elicited robust neutralizing antibody responses, reduced viral titers, and enhanced host survival. However, following a breakthrough infection, vaccinated animals exhibited severe pulmonary immunopathology, characterized by a significant perivascular infiltration of eosinophils and CD4 + T cells, along with increased expression of Th2/Th17 cytokines. Intracellular flow cytometric analysis revealed a systemic Th17 inflammatory response, particularly pronounced in the lungs. Our data demonstrate that aluminum/CpG adjuvants induce strong antibody and Th1-associated immunity against COVID-19 but also prime a robust Th2/Th17 inflammatory response, which may contribute to the rapid onset of T cell-mediated pulmonary immunopathology following a breakthrough infection. These findings underscore the necessity for further research to unravel the complexities of VAERD in COVID-19 and to enhance vaccine formulations for broad protection and maximum safety. Significance statement: This research investigates the safety and efficacy of a Spike protein subunit vaccine adjuvanted with Alum and CpG in an ACE2-humanized mouse model, simulating SARS-CoV-2 breakthrough infections. The study reveals that despite robust protection against severe COVID-19, vaccinated mice exhibit substantial pulmonary immunopathology, including eosinophilia and enhanced Th2 effector immunity, following breakthrough infections. Surprisingly, the study also uncovers a significant systemic Th17 inflammatory response in vaccinated mice. This research sheds light on the potential risks associated with COVID-19 vaccine breakthrough infections and the need for a comprehensive understanding of vaccine-induced immune responses, emphasizing the importance of ongoing research, surveillance, and careful vaccine development for both protection and safety in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.
38128126 | Properties of the full random-effect modeling approach with missing covariate data. During drug development, a key step is the identification of relevant covariates predicting between-subject variations in drug response. The full random effects model (FREM) is one of the full-covariate approaches used to identify relevant covariates in nonlinear mixed effects models. Here we explore the ability of FREM to handle missing (both missing completely at random (MCAR) and missing at random (MAR)) covariate data and compare it to the full fixed-effects model (FFEM) approach, applied either with complete case analysis or mean imputation. A global health dataset (20 421 children) was used to develop a FREM describing the changes of height for age Z-score (HAZ) over time. Simulated datasets (n = 1000) were generated with variable rates of missing (MCAR) covariate data (0%-90%) and different proportions of missing (MAR) data condition on either observed covariates or predicted HAZ. The three methods were used to re-estimate model and compared in terms of bias and precision which showed that FREM had only minor increases in bias and minor loss of precision at increasing percentages of missing (MCAR) covariate data and performed similarly in the MAR scenarios. Conversely, the FFEM approaches either collapsed at  >= $$  ge $$  70% of missing (MCAR) covariate data (FFEM complete case analysis) or had large bias increases and loss of precision (FFEM with mean imputation). Our results suggest that FREM is an appropriate approach to covariate modeling for datasets with missing (MCAR and MAR) covariate data, such as in global health studies.
2830712 | Ki-1 lymphomas in childhood: immunohistochemical analysis and the significance of epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) as a new marker. Two cases of Ki-1 lymphomas in childhood were analyzed immunohistochemically and immunoelectron microscopically. They expressed Hodgkin's disease associated antigen, Ki-1, interleukin-2 receptor (IL2R), OKT9, and HLA-DR. Histologically, the tumour cells were large in size with abundant cytoplasm and atypical nuclei. Lymph node involvement was characterized by parafollicular and marginal sinus infiltration. These features were identical to those reported in Ki-1 lymphomas. Electron microscopically tumour cells had abundant cytoplasmic organelles with pleomorphic nuclei but had no specific granules. Some tumour cells had marked interdigitation of cell membrane. Immunoelectron microscopically Ki-1 was positive on cell membrane. Tumour cells had no T-cell or B-cell antigens except for Leu-3 (T4). Unexpectedly they expressed epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) strongly. EMA was positive on cell membrane and in the cytoplasm. EMA was detected effectively in paraffin-embedded sections. Among the malignant lymphomas in childhood tested, two cases were EMA-positive. The pattern of EMA-reactivity and the histology were very similar to Ki-1 lymphomas. These results strongly suggest that Ki-1 lymphomas in childhood may arise from non-lymphoid haematopoietic cells and that EMA can be used as a new marker to distinguish certain type of Ki-1 lymphomas in childhood.
32957816 | Proteomic profile of preeclampsia in the first trimester of pregnancy. OBJECTIVE: Preeclampsia (PE) is a leading cause of pregnancy-associated maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Detection of patients at risk before the clinical onset of PE is a priority. Proteomics have become a valuable tool for the discovery of new biomarkers; however, the understanding of the underlying mechanism is necessary. The aim of the study was to determine differences between proteomic serum profiles of PE and normotensive pregnancies using quantitative and qualitative approaches. STUDY DESIGN: Serum samples from pregnant women were taken at 10-12 weeks of gestation with follow-up to determine PE development. Samples were analyzed using nano 2-D liquid chromatography UPLC and qTOF-MS/MS. RESULTS: A total of 136 women were recruited, of which eight (5.9%) developed PE, and eight normotensive were randomly selected as a control group for comparison. A different profile was obtained between groups. Nine proteins showed quantitative differences with fold-change over 1.5: PRRC2C (217.02), HEATR5A (179.46), ATP6 (162.38), PRRC2B (83.09), RBM25 (5.36), NUP205 (3.38), HLA-I (2.27), ZC3H13 (2.15), and SREK1 (1.66); and two under 0.66: Importin-4 (0.55) and Cytochrome b (0.26). Using bilateral Fisher's exact test for the qualitative approach, LRRK1 had statistical significance (p = .044), while PRRC2B (p = .121), PRRC2C (p = .134), and NUP205 (p = .134) showed a tendency to be present in PE. CONCLUSION: The found proteins have plausibility with the early pathophysiological events that have been associated with this pathology. Further studies should be performed to confirm these findings and elucidate their specific roles.
38575075 | Modulating macrophage phenotype for accelerated wound healing with chlorogenic acid-loaded nanocomposite hydrogel. Wound healing involves distinct phases, including hemostasis, inflammation, proliferation, and remodeling, which is a complex and dynamic process. Conventional preparations often fail to meet multiple demands and provide prompt information about wound status. Here, a pH/ROS dual-responsive hydrogel (OHA-PP@Z-CA@EGF) was constructed based on oxidized hyaluronic acid (OHA), phenylboronic acid-grafted epsilon-polylysine (PP), chlorogenic acid (CA)-loaded ZIF-8 (Z-CA), and epidermal growth factor (EGF), which possesses intrinsic antibacterial, antioxidant, and angiogenic capacities. Due to the Schiff base and Phenylboronate ester bonds, the hydrogel exhibited excellent mechanical properties, strong adhesion, good biodegradability, high biocompatibility, stable rheological properties, and self-healing ability. Moreover, introducing Z-CA as an initiator and nanofiller led to the additional cross-linking of hydrogel through coordination bonds, which further improved the mechanical properties and antioxidant capabilities. Bleeding models of liver and tail amputations demonstrated rapid hemostatic properties of the hydrogel. Besides, the hydrogel regulated macrophage phenotypes via the NF-kappaB/JAK-STAT pathways, relieved oxidative stress, promoted cell migration and angiogenesis, and accelerated diabetic wound healing. The hydrogel also enabled real-time monitoring of the wound healing stages by colorimetric detection. This multifunctional hydrogel opens new avenues for the treatment and management of full-thickness diabetic wounds.
18006867 | Effects of 30 min of aerobic exercise on gene expression in human neutrophils. Relatively brief bouts of exercise alter gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), but whether exercise changes gene expression in circulating neutrophils (whose numbers, like PBMCs, increase) is not known. We hypothesized that exercise would activate neutrophil genes involved in apoptosis, inflammation, and cell growth and repair, since these functions in leukocytes are known to be influenced by exercise. Blood was sampled before and immediately after 30 min of constant, heavy ( approximately 80% peak O(2) uptake) cycle ergometer exercise in 12 healthy men (19-29 yr old) of average fitness. Neutrophils were isolated using density gradients; RNA was hybridized to Affymetrix U133+2 Genechip arrays. With false discovery rate (FDR) <0.05 with 95% confidence, a total of 526 genes were differentially expressed between before and after exercise. Three hundred and sixteen genes had higher expression after exercise. The Jak/STAT pathway, known to inhibit apoptosis, was significantly activated (EASE score, P < 0.005), but 14 genes were altered in a way likely to accelerate apoptosis as well. Similarly, both proinflammatory (e.g., IL-32, TNFSF8, and CCR5) and anti-inflammatory (e.g., ANXA1) were affected. Growth and repair genes like AREG and FGF2 receptor genes (involved in angiogenesis) were also activated. Finally, a number of neutrophil genes known to be involved in pathological conditions like asthma and arthritis were altered by exercise, suggesting novel links between physical activity and disease or its prevention. In summary, brief heavy exercise leads to a previously unknown substantial and significant alteration in neutrophil gene expression.
26382454 | Network geometry inference using common neighbors. We introduce and explore a method for inferring hidden geometric coordinates of nodes in complex networks based on the number of common neighbors between the nodes. We compare this approach to the HyperMap method, which is based only on the connections (and disconnections) between the nodes, i.e., on the links that the nodes have (or do not have). We find that for high degree nodes, the common-neighbors approach yields a more accurate inference than the link-based method, unless heuristic periodic adjustments (or \correction steps\) are used in the latter. The common-neighbors approach is computationally intensive, requiring O(t4) running time to map a network of t nodes, versus O(t3) in the link-based method. But we also develop a hybrid method with O(t3) running time, which combines the common-neighbors and link-based approaches, and we explore a heuristic that reduces its running time further to O(t2), without significant reduction in the mapping accuracy. We apply this method to the autonomous systems (ASs) Internet, and we reveal how soft communities of ASs evolve over time in the similarity space. We further demonstrate the method's predictive power by forecasting future links between ASs. Taken altogether, our results advance our understanding of how to efficiently and accurately map real networks to their latent geometric spaces, which is an important necessary step toward understanding the laws that govern the dynamics of nodes in these spaces, and the fine-grained dynamics of network connections.
32669382 | A Comprehensive Genomics Solution for HIV Surveillance and Clinical Monitoring in Low-Income Settings. Viral genetic sequencing can be used to monitor the spread of HIV drug resistance, identify appropriate antiretroviral regimes, and characterize transmission dynamics. Despite decreasing costs, next-generation sequencing (NGS) is still prohibitively costly for routine use in generalized HIV epidemics in low- and middle-income countries. Here, we present veSEQ-HIV, a high-throughput, cost-effective NGS sequencing method and computational pipeline tailored specifically to HIV, which can be performed using leftover blood drawn for routine CD4 cell count testing. This method overcomes several major technical challenges that have prevented HIV sequencing from being used routinely in public health efforts; it is fast, robust, and cost-efficient, and generates full genomic sequences of diverse strains of HIV without bias. The complete veSEQ-HIV pipeline provides viral load estimates and quantitative summaries of drug resistance mutations; it also exploits information on within-host viral diversity to construct directed transmission networks. We evaluated the method's performance using 1,620 plasma samples collected from individuals attending 10 large urban clinics in Zambia as part of the HPTN 071-2 study (PopART Phylogenetics). Whole HIV genomes were recovered from 91% of samples with a viral load of >1,000 copies/ml. The cost of the assay (30 GBP per sample) compares favorably with existing VL and HIV genotyping tests, proving an affordable option for combining HIV clinical monitoring with molecular epidemiology and drug resistance surveillance in low-income settings.
38523831 | Osband's principle for identification functions. Given a statistical functional of interest such as the mean or median, a (strict) identification function is zero in expectation at (and only at) the true functional value. Identification functions are key objects in forecast validation, statistical estimation and dynamic modelling. For a possibly vector-valued functional of interest, we fully characterise the class of (strict) identification functions subject to mild regularity conditions.
32885714 | A comparative analysis of four activated clotting time measurement devices in cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. BACKGROUND: In cardiac surgery on cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), heparin anticoagulation is monitored by point-of-care measurement of activated clotting time (ACT). The objective of this study was to compare four ACT systems in cardiac surgery in terms of their reproducibility, agreement and potential clinical impact at relevant medical decision points. METHODS: The study included 40 cardiac surgery patients. Samples were taken at five time points before (T1), after heparinization for CPB (T2, T3, T4), and after heparin reversal (T5). The reproducibility, correlation, and differences in ACT values were assessed with two devices from each of the four ACT systems: Instrumentation Laboratory Hemochron Elite (Hmch), Medtronic HMS Plus (HMS), Abbott i-STAT, and Helena Abrazo. Subrange analyses were performed for low ACT values (results from T1, T5) and high ACT values (results from T2, T3, T4). RESULTS: Within-system analysis showed strong linear correlation between paired measurements (R = 0.968-0.993). However, Hmch showed poorer reproducibility with highest proportion of values that exceed a difference of 10% and highest overall standard error of 74 seconds across the measurement range compared to that of the others (range 39-47 seconds, respectively). For inter-system comparison, using Hmch as reference, ACTs were strongly correlated as follows: HMS (R = 0.938), i-STAT (R = 0.911), and Abrazo (R = 0.911). Agreement analysis in the high ACT range showed HMS tended to have higher ACT values with +11% bias over Hmch, whereas i-STAT (-8% bias) and Abrazo (-13% bias) tended to underestimate. Post-protamine ACT results were dependent on device type where Hmch yielded highest post-protamine ACT (+13% higher than baseline) compared to -16% for HMS, -10% for iSTAT and 0% for Abrazo. CONCLUSIONS: Each device had individual reproducibility and biases, which may impact peri-operative heparin management. Careful validation must be undertaken when adopting a different method as decision limits would be affected. Clinicians should also be cautious using ACT as the only indicator for full heparin reversal.
42088505 | Transcriptomic rewiring of the JAK-STAT pathway in circulating CD4+CLA+ and CD4+ naive T cells from patients with atopic dermatitis and psoriasis. Background: Skin-homing cutaneous lymphocyte-associated antigen (CLA)-expressing T cells play a key role in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD) and psoriasis (Ps). We aimed to characterize the transcriptomic and epigenetic profiles of circulating CD4+CLA+ and CD4+ naive T cells from patients with AD and Ps to find shared and unique molecular signatures associated with the diseases. Methods: Circulating CD4+CLA+ and CD4+ naive T cells were sorted from the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with AD (n = 11), those with Ps (n = 10), and healthy individuals (n = 11), followed by assay for transposase-accessible chromatin sequencing (ATAC-seq) and mRNA sequencing and data analyses. Results: Transcriptomic and epigenetic landscapes differed markedly between CD4+CLA+ and CD4+ naive T cells. In both AD and Ps, transcriptomic alterations within these cell populations were substantial, whereas changes in chromatin accessibility were relatively modest. In CLA+ T cells, patients with AD and Ps exhibited altered expression of genes involved in T-cell activation, cell cycle, and JAK-STAT signaling. These effects were more pronounced in AD, while a stronger association with innate immune activation was seen in Ps. Notably, CD4+ naive T cells also exhibited disease-associated transcriptomic changes in both AD and Ps, including alterations in the JAK-STAT pathway and changes in the expression of IL-2 receptor components. Epigenetic profiling further revealed disease-associated chromatin regions linked to transcription factors involved in immune regulation. Conclusion: Both CD4+CLA+ and CD4+ naive T cells exhibit transcriptomic and epigenetic alterations in AD and Ps, suggesting the influence of the chronic inflammatory milieu leading to shared and disease-specific changes, including transcriptomic rewiring of the JAK-STAT pathway in both diseases.
41733593 | Screening Biomarkers for Nerve Injury Using Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis and Machine Learning. BACKGROUND: Nerve injury triggers complex molecular responses involving immune activation and neuronal damage, yet the key regulatory genes and their mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we integrated multi-transcriptomic datasets and machine learning to identify and validate novel biomarkers of nerve injury and elucidate their functional roles. METHODS: The RNA-seq data and the single-cell transcriptome data of nerve injury and sham-surgery samples were sourced from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), differential expression analysis, and three machine learning algorithms were used to identify hub genes associated with nerve injury. The expression patterns and diagnostic value of these hub genes were validated in independent datasets. The correlation between these genes and immune cell infiltration was analyzed using the CIBERSORT algorithm. Finally, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data were used to investigate the cell-specific expression patterns of the hub genes in neural cells. RESULTS: Seven nerve injury-related genes were identified via WGCNA and three machine learning methods, of which Atf3, Bin2, Fcgr2b, and Ucn exhibited robust diagnostic performance (AUC > 0.7) across validation cohorts. Functional enrichment implicated these genes in neuroinflammation, neuronal fate commitment, and JAK-STAT/NF-kappaB signaling. Immune infiltration analysis correlated their expression with M2 macrophage polarization and CD4+ T cell depletion, while scRNA-seq highlighted cell-specific patterns: Atf3 and Ucn were neuron-enriched, whereas Fcgr2b and Bin2 predominated in macrophages/NK cells. Moreover, Fcgr2b promoted the outgrowth of neurites in PC12 cells. CONCLUSION: Our study unveils Atf3, Bin2, Fcgr2b, and Ucn as critical nerve injury biomarkers with dual roles in neuroimmune crosstalk, offering novel insights into therapeutic targeting for nerve repair. Moreover, Fcgr2b may be involved in neurite outgrowth after nerve injury.
42134950 | GP burnout post-COVID-19 pandemic: a narrative review on burnout with consideration towards Deep End practices. BACKGROUND: Recent data suggest that GP burnout is of significant concern, particularly post-pandemic. Burnout is defined as a syndrome of fatigue and apathy resulting from chronic workplace stress; as many as 75% of GP trainees recently reported these symptoms. Increased workload and demand coupled with workforce shortages and systemic strain are contributing factors. GP burnout impacts continuity of care and threatens patient safety. These pressures significantly impact deprived Deep End practices. AIM: To review recent evidence on GP burnout in the UK over the pandemic period, with consideration of its impact on deprived practices. METHOD: Narrative review of 2019-2023 UK-based studies exploring GP burnout, synthesising findings from peer-reviewed literature, policy reports, and national surveys. The review focused on trends, potential drivers, and interventions. RESULTS: Evidence indicates a sustained rise in GP burnout, accelerated over the pandemic. Contributing factors include workload intensity, administrative burden, consulting pressures, and moral failure. Studies revealed that Deep End GPs experience disproportionate burnout rates due to complex patient needs, unprecedented demand, and limited resources. Interventions involving institutional and systemic changes to improve workflow and expand the multidisciplinary team must be assessed. A meta-analysis of UK-based GP data would be invaluable to evaluate preventative interventions across different practices. CONCLUSION: GP burnout is a growing problem, complicated by COVID-19. Future research should examine long-term trajectories and appraise protective factors, given the limitation of this review capturing small studies. UK policy should prioritise retention, resource allocation, and offer targeted support for practices, particularly Deep End, to not only protect practitioner wellbeing but service sustainability for patients.
39691299 | A multi-epitope self-amplifying mRNA SARS-CoV-2 vaccine design using a reverse vaccinology approach. Background and purpose: Massive vaccine distribution is a crucial step to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV2 as the causative agent of COVID-19. This research aimed to design the multi-epitope self-amplifying mRNA (saRNA) vaccine from the spike and nucleocapsid proteins of SARS-CoV2. Experimental approach: Commonly distributed constructions class I and II alleles of the Indonesian population were used to determine peptide sequences that trigger this population's high specificity T-cell response. The best vaccine candidate was selected through the analysis of tertiary structure validation and molecular docking of each candidate with TLR-4, TLR-8, HLA-A*24:02, and HLA-DRB1*04:05. The selected multi-epitope vaccine combined with the gene encoding the replication machinery that allows the RNA amplification in the host cell. Findings/Results: Seven B-cell and four T-cell epitopes from the protein target were highly antigenic and conserved, non-allergen, non-toxic, and hydrophilic. Tertiary structure validation then determined the best multi-epitope construction with 269 AA in length containing hBD-2 adjuvant and PADRE. Most residues are predicted to be accessible by solvent and show high population coverage (99,26%). Molecular docking analysis demonstrated a stable and strong binding affinity with immune receptors. A recombinant plasmid as the template for mRNA production was constructed by inserting the multi-epitope DNA and non-structural polyprotein 1-4 gene of VEEV, which encodes the RNA replication complex to the cloning site of pcDNA3.1(+). Conclusion and implication: In silico, design of self-amplifying mRNA could be a potential COVID-19 vaccine candidate since its ability to be amplified in the host cell can efficiently reduce the intake doses.
41987899 | Galectin-8 binds HIV envelope glycoproteins with high affinity and promotes viral infectivity. Target cell entry of HIV-1 is dependent on the binding of gp120, the outer component of the viral envelope glycoprotein complex (Env), to CD4 and a coreceptor, preferentially CCR5 or CXCR4. Still, other interactions may also contribute to the infectivity of the virus. One such interaction is between the highly glycosylated gp120 and carbohydrate-binding proteins, such as galectins. Here, we studied the interaction between HIV-1 Env and a panel of galectins and found that galectin-8 (Gal-8), bound with highest affinity (KD < 1microM) and also interacted with soluble CD4. Detailed analysis using probes for different parts of Gal-8 revealed that it was primarily the N-terminal carbohydrate recognition domain that interacted with HIV-1 Env expressing sialylated galactosides and both N- and O-linked glycans. Importantly, in cell cultures Gal-8 enhanced the infectivity of HIV-1, including strains with different coreceptor use and subtype origin, as well as HIV-2. This Gal-8 infectivity enhancement was particularly strong (up to 100-fold) at low virus inoculum doses. Next, we compared Gal-8 infectivity enhancement of primary HIV-1 isolates from people living with HIV at different stages of the infection. Of note, the infectivity of HIV-1 isolates obtained during the chronic, relatively immunocompetent phase, was significantly more enhanced by Gal-8 than isolates obtained at late-stage disease during severe immunodeficiency. Taken together, this study reveals novel carbohydrate dependent interactions between Gal-8 and HIV-1 Env, resulting in enhanced infectivity of HIV-1, with particularly strong effects at low dose exposure of strains circulating during the chronic infection phase. These results suggest that Gal-8 is a cell attachment protein that HIV-1 utilizes for optimized infectivity, which may guide the development of novel intervention strategies targeting this interaction.
41388195 | A T-cell receptor targeting RUNX1 frameshift mutations in acute myeloid leukemia. Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is a key regulator of hematopoietic differentiation. RUNX1 mutations in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) are associated with poor prognosis. One-third are frameshift mutations encoding an oncogenic protein with an elongated C-terminus translated in an alternative reading frame. Here, we investigated whether the alternative reading frame of oncogenic RUNX1 can be targeted by immunotherapy. We introduced a construct with a RUNX1 frameshift mutation into B-cell lines with common HLA class I alleles and identified 13 neopeptides by immunopeptidomics. To investigate whether these peptides are neoantigens, peptide-MHC tetramers were used to screen healthy individuals for RUNX1 neoantigen-specific CD8 T cells. T-cell clones were isolated against 5 neoantigens in 4 HLA alleles. Two neoantigens were recognized on an HLA-B*07:02-positive AML cell line with an endogenous RUNX1 frameshift mutation. The T-cell receptors (TCRs) of these clones were sequenced, and analyzed after transfer into CD8 T cells. One TCR induced effective killing of RUNX1-mutated AML cells in vitro and in immunodeficient mice. TCR-engineered T cells also killed patient-derived AML cells, including leukemic stem cells. In conclusion, we showed that RUNX1 frameshift mutations can be effectively targeted, demonstrating the potential relevance of TCR-based immunotherapy to treat patients with RUNX1-mutated AML.
41129307 | Age-associated T cell immunity decreases circulating endothelial progenitor cells. A reduction in circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) comprise an important part of vascular aging. However, the underlying mechanisms that mediate this EPC decline remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate a novel molecular mechanism where aging increases inhibitory T cell subsets and impairs SDF1-mediated increase of circulating EPCs. SomaScan proteomics and western blot analysis revealed FABP4 as the top upregulated protein in plasma and was also increased in the bone marrow in aging. Importantly, treatment with FABP4 in bone marrow cells increased inhibitory T cells while decreased SDF-1 receptor, CXCR4 in EPCs, whereas blocking FABP4 signaling by BMS309403 or depleting these T cells restored surface expression of CXCR4 in EPCs. Notably, FABP4-mediated decrease of circulating EPC in aging were restored by therapeutic administration of mitochondria, wherein plasma FABP4 was decreased along with reducing inhibitory T cell induction in bone marrow and increasing circulating EPCs in older mice. Collectively, these findings provide new insight into the involvement of age-associated T cell immunity in EPC dysregulation, and FABP4 may be a therapeutic target to detain vascular aging.
41803134 | CXCR4-tropic HIV-1 infection in an immunocompetent monkey model. Current animal models of HIV-1 infection are either immunocompromised or rely on proxy viruses instead of HIV-1. Here, we establish an immunocompetent animal model for CXCR4-tropic HIV-1 in owl monkeys (Aotus nancymaae). Through analysis of 191 owl monkeys, genetic characterization and functional testing demonstrate that CD4 and Tetherin in this species support HIV-1 replication. Although owl monkeys do carry restrictive TRIMCyp and APOBEC3G alleles, small changes to the HIV-1 genome allow the virus to overcome these barriers. The resulting virus remains 93% wildtype HIV-1 in sequence. Fully immunocompetent owl monkeys can be infected with this virus, recapitulating key aspects of HIV-1 infection in humans: an initial surge of virus replication, subsequent establishment of a durable set point viremia, seroconversion, and the formation of a viral reservoir. The owl monkey model broadens the experimental options for HIV-1 research, and future studies will explore its utility for CCR5-tropic virus strains.
20713965 | Prevalence of t(12;21)[ETV6-RUNX1]-positive cells in healthy neonates. t(12;21)(p13;q22)[ETV6-RUNX1] is the most common chromosomal translocation in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and it can often be backtracked to Guthrie cards supporting prenatal initiation and high levels of circulating t(12;21)-positive cells at birth. To explore the prevalence of ETV6-RUNX1-positive cells in healthy neonates, mononuclear cells from 1417 umbilical cord blood samples were isolated within 24 hours from birth and subsequently screened for ETV6-RUNX1 transcripts using a highly sensitive real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay. In first-run polymerase chain reaction, 14 samples were positive at levels below 10(-5), of which specific hybridization reflecting the relevant genetic region was positive in 9 cases. Repeated analyses using stored mRNA and flowcytometric sorting of a CD19(+), CD8(+), and CD19(-)/CD8(-) subpopulations from cryopreserved mononuclear cells from the same cord blood samples (mean sorted: 18 x 10(6) cells) revealed no positive findings, which demonstrates that the level and/or frequency of ETV6-RUNX1-positive cells is markedly lower than suggested in previous studies.
39571451 | The MICA deletion across different populations. The MICA gene encodes a glycoprotein upregulated upon cellular stress, particularly in oxidative stress, intracellular infections, and tumorigenesis. This stress-signaling molecule interacts with the activating receptor NKG2D from Natural Killer (NK) and some T lymphocytes, stimulating their cytotoxic activity. MICA is encoded within the human Major Histocompatibility Complex next to the HLA-B locus and is highly polymorphic. MICA might be absent from chromosome 6 due to a large deletion of approximately 100 Kb between HLA-B and MICB. Therefore, some individuals may not produce any isoform of MICA. The distribution of this phenotype may vary among different populations. We evaluated the distribution of the MICA*del and other MICA null alleles in different biogeographic regions and the Linkage Disequilibrium (LD) pattern between this allele and HLA-B. We detected at least two different patterns of deletion, one with full deletion of MICA and surrounding sequences and one partial MICA deletion. The presence of different patterns of deletion suggests independent deletion events. We confirm that the previously described MICA*del allele is mainly associated with B*48 and MICB*009N in Asia and America, but other haplotypes also occur. While most samples with complete or partial MICA deletion are heterozygous and present one functional copy of both MICA and MICB genes, we detected two samples with no functional MICA and one with no functional MIC genes. Therefore, other mechanisms might be in place to compensate for the absence of MIC molecules.
42134908 | Reaching the margins: examining equity in Indonesia's COVID-19 vaccination strategy. The COVID-19 pandemic profoundly affected health, social and economic systems worldwide. In less than a year, COVID-19 vaccines were developed and distributed. However, global and national distribution efforts faced significant challenges in ensuring equitable access, particularly for vulnerable populations. Despite WHO guidelines for national vaccine allocation, governments encountered difficulties in vaccine allocation and prioritisation. While Indonesia's COVID-19 primary dose coverage surpassed 70%, disparities persisted both across and within provinces as well as among different population groups. Discussion about the definition of vulnerable population and who should be prioritised remains critical to preparing for future pandemics. This paper argues for the establishment of clear guidelines for national governments on the allocation of vaccines, enabling timely action in future pandemics to prevent avoidable deaths and disabilities. Robust governance and data also remain a key area to improve. Drawing on Indonesia's experience with COVID-19, this paper offers recommendations for vaccine allocation during a respiratory pathogen pandemic.
41299016 | Caspase-3 deficiency inhibits the development and anti-tumor response of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells. This study investigated the impact of Caspase-3 gene deletion on bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) and their anti-tumor functions. BMDCs were generated in vitro using GM-CSF and IL-4 from Caspase-3 knockout (Casp3-KO) and heterozygous (Heter) mouse progenitors. Caspase-3 ablation reduced dendritic cell numbers in vivo and hindered BMDC generation in vitro. Casp3-KO BMDCs exhibited impaired maturation, characterized by diminished dendritic arborization and reduced expression of surface markers (CD80, CD86, CXCR4, MHCI, MHCII). Migration assays revealed Caspase-3 deficiency impaired BMDC motility both in vitro and in vivo. Critically, Casp3-KO BMDCs showed compromised capabilities in phagocytosing tumor antigens and activating naive T cells. In vivo tumorigenicity assays demonstrated that Caspase-3 deletion undermined the ability of BMDCs to suppress tumor growth. This attenuation correlated with reduced infiltration of CD4 + and CD8 + T lymphocytes at primary tumor sites and draining lymph nodes. These findings provide novel insights into the essential role of Caspase-3 in BMDC development, maturation, migration, antigen presentation, and anti-tumor efficacy. The data suggests Caspase-3 is crucial for the optimal function of dendritic cells in initiating anti-tumor immune responses, potentially informing the development of more effective cancer immunotherapies.
42139359 | Variability in the TLR3 type I interferon pathway is predictive of RNA vaccine responses. Biological predictors of variable vaccine responses are lacking. We hypothesized that variability in prevaccine innate immune responses, specifically for type I interferons (IFN-I), is predictive of postvaccine antigen-specific responses. To test this, we assessed prevaccine immune responses at protein and transcriptomic levels following whole blood stimulation with Toll-like receptor (TLR) viral agonists in healthy adolescents and adults. Four weeks after the second vaccine dose, with either the BNT162b2 mRNA or CoronaVac inactivated virus vaccine, we assessed antigen-specific T cell cytokine responses and plasma antibody levels. BNT162b2 vaccinees had increased production of the antigen-specific T cell cytokines interleukin-2 (IL-2), interferon-gamma, and IL-21 after severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 spike stimulation, as well as increased antibody levels and serum pseudo-neutralization compared with CoronaVac recipients. In direct support of our hypothesis, we find that prevaccine poly(I:C) (polyinosine-polycytidylic acid; TLR3 viral agonist) IFN-I responses were significantly associated with the postvaccine T cell cytokine responses. In an independent cohort of 990 healthy donors, we confirmed the significant association between poly(I:C)-induced IFN-alpha and spike-induced cytokines in mRNA vaccine recipients. We further confirmed this specific association in a cohort of healthy Europeans and identified a common genetic polymorphism in TLR3 that affects IFN-I induction and subsequent vaccine-specific T cell responses. This study shows that preexisting innate immune variability can predict the effectiveness of vaccine responses and identifies pathways relevant to mRNA vaccination. Targeting the specific innate immune pathway relevant for a vaccine may provide a new approach for tailoring vaccines to different populations.
41488362 | Pediatric critical illness endotypes reveal distinct outcomes and immune pathways shared across cause of illness. Characterization of shared patterns of immune responses in critical illnesses, known as \endotypes,\ may have therapeutic significance. Using unsupervised k-means clustering of genome-wide gene expression profiling, we derived, validated, and assigned endotype membership in 382 children with diverse critical illnesses recruited to the BASIC study. We identified two robust endotypes, BASIC endotype 1 (122, 31.9%, children) and BASIC endotype 2 (260, 68.1%, children), present in children with diverse illnesses and age groups. BASIC endotype 1 membership was associated with 4.1 days of increased duration of mechanical ventilation and a non-significant association with mortality. BASIC endotype 1 membership was associated with higher proportions of naive and resting memory CD4 T cells, lower proportions of neutrophils, and reduced expression of gene sets associated with tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interferon-gamma, interferon-alpha, and interleukin-6/JAK/STAT pathways in comparison with BASIC endotype 2. These BASIC endotypes may enable stratified trials of treatment for immune dysfunction.
41004226 | IFN-inducible human phospholipid scramblase 1 (PLSCR1) protein restricts HIV-1 infection by inhibiting membrane fusion. Human phospholipid scramblase 1 (PLSCR1) is an interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) that inhibits viral infections through various mechanisms. Here, we identify PLSCR1 as a host restriction factor that inhibits HIV-1 entry by impairing membrane fusion mediated by the envelope glycoprotein (Env). Using multiple cell types including the human SupT1 T cell line and purified CD4+ T cells, we demonstrate that PLSCR1 inhibits the replication of HIV-1 with diverse tropisms and subtypes, as well as HIV-2 and SIV. Mechanistically, we find that PLSCR1 blocks viral entry and cell-to-cell transmission, in part by restricting HIV-1 virion-cell and cell-cell fusion without affecting CD4 or CXCR4 expression or virus binding to the cell surface. Collectively, these findings establish PLSCR1 as a broad-spectrum lentiviral restriction factor that acts at the membrane fusion stage, thereby expanding our understanding of ISG-mediated antiviral defense.
41272830 | Modulation of transferrin receptor by HIV-2. BACKGROUND: Human immunodeficiency viruses (HIV-1 and HIV-2), are the causative agents of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), that share substantial genomic and structural similarities, yet differ in replication dynamics and disease progression. While HIV-1 primarily enters host cells via CD4 and the chemokine co-receptors CCR5 and CXCR4, HIV-2 engages a broader range of chemokine receptors. The transferrin receptor (TFRC/CD71), a membrane protein essential for iron uptake and immune function, has recently been implicated in viral entry by other pathogens. In this study, we investigated the modulation of TFRC expression following transduction with HIV-1 and HIV-2 pseudovirions. METHODS: Human embryonic kidney (HEK-293T), immortalized T lymphocyte (Jurkat), and monocytic (THP-1) cells were transduced with pseudotyped HIV-1 and HIV-2 virions. Quantitative PCR (qPCR) and western blotting were employed to assess changes in TFRC expression at the mRNA and protein levels, respectively. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, we examined the role of the HIV-2 regulatory protein Tat in TFRC modulation. Additionally, we assessed whether TFRC upregulation correlates with increased iron uptake during the early phase of infection. RESULTS: We observed a significant upregulation of TFRC mRNA and protein levels in HEK-293T cells 27 h post-transduction with HIV-2, but not with HIV-1. In Jurkat T cells, TFRC transcript levels were significantly increased at 36 and 40 h following HIV-2 transduction. At the proteomic level, TFRC abundance was modestly reduced in HIV-2-transduced cells at 36 and 48 h, suggesting a potential compensatory cellular response. In THP-1 cells, HIV-2 induced a significant downregulation of TFRC at both the transcriptomic and proteomic levels at 36 h. Mechanistic studies demonstrated that this modulation is likely dependent on a functional HIV-2 Tat protein. Furthermore, HIV-2 transduction led to elevated intracellular iron levels in Jurkat cells at 48 h post-transduction. CONCLUSION: These findings identify TFRC as a novel, Tat-dependent host target of HIV-2, providing new insights into the virus's broader receptor usage and its potential influence on host iron metabolism and viral tropism.
42134921 | Exploring the relationship between provision of online consultations in general practice and patient experience: an observational study in England. BACKGROUND: The NHS Long Term Plan prioritised digital transformation, including the rollout of the NHS App and online GP consultation. Since then, Online Consultations (OCs) use has expanded rapidly, accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic. These systems enable patients to contact their general practice digitally for clinical or administrative queries. AIM: As patient satisfaction is a key indicator of primary care quality, this study aimed to understand how OC use influences satisfaction, particularly as OC services become mandatory under the forthcoming GP Contract. METHOD: We analysed 2024 data on monthly online appointment volumes from practices in England, linked with 2025 GP Patient Survey responses to assess relationships between OC use and patient satisfaction. Measures included overall satisfaction, ability to see a preferred GP, acceptability of appointment wait time, and whether patient needs were met. We used linear regression models controlling for practice characteristics such as OC system, workforce, deprivation, and patient demographics. Sensitivity analyses examined variations by practice usage, deprivation level, and OC system type. RESULTS: Our sample included 4691 practices, averaging 352 monthly online consultations versus 4621 face-to-face appointments. Higher OC rates per 1000 registered patients were significantly associated with lower overall satisfaction and a reduced likelihood of seeing a preferred GP. No significant association was observed between OC use and perceived wait times or whether patient needs were met. CONCLUSION: At a population level, increased reliance on OC system may reduce overall patient satisfaction. Further research is needed to identify which types of online consultations work best and for whom.
41331613 | Single-cell transcriptomic profiling reveals aberrant CD4+ naive T cell differentiation driving immune activation in Behcet's uveitis. BACKGROUND: Behcet's uveitis (BU) is a severe inflammatory ocular manifestation of Behcet's disease, characterized by dysregulated T cell responses. However, the precise mechanisms underlying T cell dysfunction and local immune activation in BU remain poorly understood. METHODS: We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from BU patients and healthy controls (HCs). These data were integrated with publicly available single-cell transcriptomes of aqueous humor (AH) samples from BU patients. Key findings were validated using qPCR, flow cytometry, and functional assays. RESULTS: We observed a significant depletion of naive CD4+ T cells in BU, accompanied by their differentiation toward terminal effector states characterized by IL-32 and CXCR4 upregulation. IL-32 was identified as a central regulator promoting Th1 and Th17 polarization. Pseudotime trajectory analysis revealed a progressive differentiation process from circulating CD4+ T cells to Th17-like inflammatory cells within the AH, enriched for NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. CXCR4 expression was associated with T cell chemotaxis into the ocular microenvironment. Cell-cell interaction analyses further highlighted active crosstalk between macrophages and CD4+ T cells via the MIF-(CD74+CXCR4/CD44) signaling axis. CONCLUSION: Our study reveals a coordinated mechanism linking systemic T cell dysregulation to localized ocular inflammation in BU. Targeting IL-32 and CXCR4 may represent promising strategies for restoring immune balance and preventing tissue damage in BU.
39642776 | High rates of MHC mismatches in HLA matched unrelated donor/recipient pairs and potential impact on hematopoietic cell transplant outcome. INTRODUCTION: Donors for patients requiring hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) are selected based on matching genetic sequences encoding the antigen recognition domain of specific HLA loci. However, differences in transplant outcomes in fully matched unrelated HCT compared with sibling HCT suggest that other genetic regions within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) may contribute to HCT outcomes. METHODS: We sequenced the non-classical MHC loci (NCML) HLA-E, -F, -G, -H, MICA and MICB on a well-characterized retrospective cohort of 157 unrelated donor/recipient HCT pairs to determine the extent of MHC mismatching in matched pairs. RESULTS: Mismatches were seen in one or more NCML in 131 of the 157 pairs (83 %), including 44 of 60 pairs (73 %) that were matched at 4th field resolution for HLA-A, HLA-C and HLA-B and 3rd field resolution for HLA-DRB1, HLA-DRB3,4,5, HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1. Though not statistically significant, transplant outcome analysis suggested that highly HLA matched/NCML matched recipients had a greater risk of disease relapse and reduced likelihood of progression-free survival than recipients that were highly HLA matched/NCML mismatched. CONCLUSION: NCML mismatching is present in HLA-matched unrelated HCT donor and recipient pairs and may contribute to outcomes in unrelated HLA-matched HCT.
25948228 | [Advances in the Therapy of t(8;21) Acute Myeloid Leukemia]. The t(8;21)(q22;q22) translocation is the most common chromosomal abnormalities in AML, and the chromosomal translocation forms AML1-ETO. The t(8;21) AML is a heterogeneity disease. It is unclear for how to treat the relapsed or refractory AML. Recently, the clinical trials and pathogenesis have made great progress. This article summarizes the current clinical trials and recruiting t(8;21) AML clinical trials and researches that related to treatment are as followed: epigenetics, JAK/STAT signaling, steroid, Chinese traditional medicine, and interferon. With the progress of pathogenesis researches, more and more treatments will translate into clinical trials, which can provide more optional choice for relapsed or refractory t(8;21) AML. In this article the AML1-ETO structure and t(8;21) AML pathogenesis, the clinical researches of t(8;21) AML treatment and basic researches of t(8;21) AML treatment are summarized.
42058211 | STAT1 and IL-7 as potential diagnostic biomarkers for distinguishing high-grade from low-grade serous ovarian cancer: a multi-cohort analysis. Background: High-Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma (HGSOC) and Low-Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma (LGSOC) are distinct subtypes of epithelial ovarian cancer with significant differences in pathogenesis and prognosis, posing challenges for precise diagnosis. Identifying reliable biomarkers is crucial for improving differential diagnosis and clinical management. Methods: Transcriptome RNA-seq data of HGSOC and LGSOC were obtained from the GEO database (GSE27651, GSE126132). Differentially expressed immune-related genes (DIRGs) were identified. Functional enrichment analysis and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction were performed. The Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression and multiple Support Vector Machine Recursive Feature Elimination (mSVM-RFE) algorithms were used to select predictive genes. Diagnostic performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, and a nomogram was developed. Findings were validated in an independent dataset and via immunohistochemistry (IHC). The CIBERSORT algorithm assessed correlations between key DIRGs and tumor-infiltrating immune cells, with false discovery rate (FDR) correction applied for multiple testing. Results: Seventy-one DIRGs were identified in HGSOC versus LGSOC, predominantly enriched in cytokine-mediated signaling, cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and JAK-STAT pathways. STAT1 and IL-7 were selected as diagnostic biomarkers, with area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.908 and 0.842 in the train group. Respectively, validation in an independent merged cohort (GSE14001, GSE73168, GSE146965; 55 HGSOC, 13 LGSOC) yielded AUCs of 0.703 (95% CI: 0.517-0.889) for STAT1 and 0.706 (95% CI: 0.501-0.912) for IL-7. IHC confirmed significantly higher STAT1 and lower IL-7 protein expression in HGSOC tissues (P < 0.05). Immune microenvironment analysis revealed that HGSOC exhibited significantly higher fractions of naive B cells, M2 macrophages, and neutrophils, and lower fractions of resting memory CD4+ T cells and eosinophils after FDR correction (all q < 0.05). STAT1 expression was strongly positively correlated with M1 macrophages (rho = 0.688, q = 9.9x10- 8), and showed correlation trends with other immune cell types that did not remain significant after FDR correction. IL-7 expression exhibited a negative correlation trend with neutrophils (rho = -0.372, raw P = 0.0048, q = 0.100). Conclusion: STAT1 and IL-7 are consistently differentially expressed between HGSOC and LGSOC and may serve as ancillary diagnostic biomarkers in histologically ambiguous cases. However, their clinical utility-particularly in multi-gene combinations-requires prospective validation.
23812420 | JAK inhibitors suppress t(8;21) fusion protein-induced leukemia. Oncogenic mutations in components of the JAK/STAT pathway, including those in cytokine receptors and JAKs, lead to increased activity of downstream signaling and are frequently found in leukemia and other hematological disorders. Thus, small-molecule inhibitors of this pathway have been the focus of targeted therapy in these hematological diseases. We previously showed that t(8;21) fusion protein acute myeloid leukemia (AML)1-ETO and its alternatively spliced variant AML1-ETO9a (AE9a) enhance the JAK/STAT pathway via downregulation of CD45, a negative regulator of this pathway. To investigate the therapeutic potential of targeting JAK/STAT in t(8;21) leukemia, we examined the effects of a JAK2-selective inhibitor TG101209 and a JAK1/2-selective inhibitor INCB18424 on t(8;21) leukemia cells. TG101209 and INCB18424 inhibited proliferation and promoted apoptosis of these cells. Furthermore, TG101209 treatment in AE9a leukemia mice reduced tumor burden and significantly prolonged survival. TG101209 also significantly impaired the leukemia-initiating potential of AE9a leukemia cells in secondary recipient mice. These results demonstrate the potential therapeutic efficacy of JAK inhibitors in treating t(8;21) AML.
42129120 | Exploring the Chemotactic Effects of MIF on Neutrophils and T Cells and Methods for Selective Receptor Targeting. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a pleiotropic inflammatory cytokine and atypical chemokine that regulates both innate and adaptive immunity. Its broad expression and stress-induced release make MIF a key determinant of inflammation, cardiovascular diseases, and cancer. MIF acts as an upstream regulator within a complex ligand-receptor network comprising the more recently discovered MIF paralog, D-dopachrome tautomerase (D-DT, MIF-2), its cognate receptor CD74, and the chemokine receptors CXCR2, CXCR4, and ACKR3/CXCR7. MIF-driven effects, including leukocyte recruitment, cell migration, and inflammatory signaling, largely depend on the specific MIF receptor repertoire of the involved cell types, which can dynamically change in inflammatory settings. Here, we describe an optimized protocol for the ibidi 3D micro-Slide chemotaxis assay to study MIF-mediated pro-migratory effects on human neutrophils, a prototype of innate immune cells, and CD4+ T cells, a cornerstone of adaptive immunity. Additionally, we discuss the application of current inhibitor strategies to selectively target and identify the receptor pathways involved.
41592279 | Targeting Aurora Kinase A to Prevent GVHD and Relapse after Myeloablative Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation. The success of post-transplant cyclophosphamide (PTCy) for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis has driven efforts to optimize partner therapies that balance GVHD and relapse prevention. We report phase I dose-finding results of PTCy, sirolimus (SIR), and VIC-1911, a selective oral Aurora kinase A (AURKA) inhibitor, following myeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (alloHCT). Results from murine and in vitro studies informed the development of the novel drug combination. In the phase I trial (NCT05120570), patients aged 18-60 years received myeloablative conditioning, followed by, PTCy (50 mg/kg, days +3/+4), SIR (from day +5, target 8-12 ng/ml), and VIC-1911 (25, 50, or 75 mg BID, days +5 to +45). The primary endpoint was achieving <54% pH3ser10 expression in CD4+ T cells by day +21. Preclinical models show that combining SIR with AURKA inhibition suppresses signaling downstream of CD28, enhancing GVHD prevention while leveraging the anti-leukemia activity of AURKA inhibition. In the phase I trial, the optimal VIC-1911 dose achieving target pathway inhibition without dose-limiting toxicities was 75 mg BID. Clinical outcomes included no grade III-IV acute GVHD through day 180 (0%) and low rates of moderate/severe chronic GVHD (6%) and relapse (0%) through 1 year (5/16 received maintenance). The 1-year overall survival for this cohort was 94%.VIC-1911 at 75 mg BID, combined with PTCy and SIR, effectively suppresses AURKA activity, offering promising GVHD and relapse prevention with a favorable safety profile and promising early clinical outcomes.
41664486 | Effects of Fishmeal Replacement By Enzymatically Hydrolyzed Corn Protein on Growth Performance and T-Cell Immune Regulation in Juvenile Yellow Catfish (Pelteobagrus fulvidraco). Despite rapid expansion, the aquaculture industry faces the dual challenges of finite fishmeal resources and heightened disease susceptibility under intensive farming. To advance sustainability, plant proteins are being actively developed as fishmeal alternatives due to their lower cost. This study investigated the effects of replacing fishmeal with enzymatically hydrolyzed corn protein (EHCP) on intestinal digestion, absorption, and inflammatory response in juvenile yellow catfish (Pelteobagrus fulvidraco). The substitution of 6% EHCP enhanced the growth performance and intestinal function of juvenile yellow catfish. Following the Vibrio mimicus challenge, EHCP alleviated intestinal inflammation by promoting immune cell differentiation and suppressing pro-inflammatory cytokine expression. Mechanistically, EHCP promoted CD4+ T-cell differentiation into key effector subsets (Th1, Th2, Th17, and Treg) via JAK-STAT and NF-kappaB signaling pathways, thereby maintaining intestinal homeostasis. The optimal EHCP substitution levels (6.38 and 6.40%) provide an efficient and economically viable innovative solution for sustainable aquafeed development.
41801810 | Exosomal LINC01614 from Gastric Cancer Cells Drives Treg Differentiation. This study aimed to investigate the potential mechanism by which LINC01614, a long non-coding RNA (lncRNA), regulates the immune microenvironment of gastric cancer through exosomes. Methodologically, exosomes were isolated by ultracentrifugation (100,000 x g, 70 min) using a transwell co-culture system (human gastric cancer cell lines BGC823 and NCI-N87 were co-cultured with peripheral blood CD4 T cells for 24 h) and identified by transmission electron microscopy (80 kV) and immunoblotting (CD63, CD81, TSG101). Flow cytometry (Foxp3, CD25 antibodies) showed that gastric cancer exosomes induced the differentiation of CD4 T cells into regulatory T cells (Tregs). LINC01614 was identified as a key molecule by integrating GEO (GSE95667), TCGA, and exoRBase2.0 databases (screening criteria: logFC > 1), and its high expression in gastric cancer cells and exosomes was confirmed by qRT-PCR (internal reference GAPDH, 2-DeltaDeltaCq method). Functional experiments were performed using lentivirus-mediated overexpression/silencing of LINC01614 to treat BGC823 cells. ELISA revealed that LINC01614 overexpression of exosomes promoted IL-4 secretion by Tregs (p < 0.05), and drove THP-1-derived macrophages to M2 phenotype polarization and enhanced TGF-beta release through the JAK-STAT3 pathway (immunoblotting antibodies p-JAK, p-STAT3). CCK-8 and colony formation assay showed that this process together promoted gastric cancer cell proliferation (p < 0.05). At the mechanistic level, the RIP assay (anti-IL-4 antibody pull-down) suggests that LINC01614 may directly interact with IL-4. In summary, this study preliminarily reveals the mechanism by which LINC01614 promotes Treg differentiation and M2 polarization through the exosome pathway to regulate the immune microenvironment of gastric cancer, providing a theoretical basis for targeting LINC01614 to enhance immunotherapy.
11967309 | Expression of transcription factor AML-2 (RUNX3, CBF(alpha)-3) is induced by Epstein-Barr virus EBNA-2 and correlates with the B-cell activation phenotype. To identify cell proteins regulated by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) transcription factor EBNA-2, we analyzed a cell line with conditional EBNA-2 activity by using microarray expression profiling. This led to the identification of two novel target genes induced by EBNA-2. The first of these, interleukin-16, is an immunomodulatory cytokine involved in the regulation of CD4 T cells. The second, AML-2, is a member of the Runt domain family of transcription factors. Quiescent B cells initially expressed AML-1 but, 48 h after virus infection, the levels of AML-1 decreased dramatically, whereas the amount of AML-2 protein increased. Analysis of a panel of B-cell lines indicated that AML-2 expression is normally predominant in EBV latency III, whereas AML-1 is associated with EBV latency I or EBV-negative cells. The AML genes are the first example of cell transcription factors whose expression correlates with the latency I/III phenotype.
41918097 | Single-cell landscape of intratumoral heterogeneity and GABA-mediated remodeling of the immune microenvironment in breast cancer metastases.
41520175 | Clinical Trial Results Provide the Rationale to Protect Dual HIV-specific T Cells with a Signaling-Defective HIV Fusion Inhibitor. Coupling the HIV fusion inhibitor C34 with CXCR4 (C34-CXCR4) protected CD4 T cells from all strains of HIV. Escape from C34-CXCR4 expression proved difficult, requiring more than 21 serial passages, mutations at conserved gp41 sites, and a complete loss of Vpu activity. A dose-escalation, Phase I clinical trial was performed in which up to 10 billion C34-CXCR4 expressing T cells were infused into people with HIV (PWH). While these infusions were safe, we observed limited persistence of these C34-CXCR4 T cells, lack of reconstitution of HIV-specific CD8 T cell responses, and no effect on time to viral rebound after an analytical treatment interruption. We hypothesized that inappropriate expression of a signaling competent chemokine receptor resulted in the limited persistence of these engineered T cells so we screened several C34-CXCR4 mutants to identify those that could not respond to CXCL12 and still could mediate potent anti-viral activity. A single mutation (D97N) in CXCR4 fulfilled both criteria. T cells co-expressing Dual HIV-specific CARs and C34-CXCR4 D97N maintained high C34-expression in vivo and controlled HIV replication better than unprotected Dual CAR T cells, suggesting that this C34-CXCR4 D97N construct should be considered for future clinical development.
23582033 | Combined gene expression and DNA occupancy profiling as a strategy to identify therapeutic target(s) in t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia. Microarray technology has contributed valuable information to gene expression signatures of leukemia and other types of cancers and helped to identify biological markers and potential therapeutic targets for treating these diseases. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is often caused by aberrant fusion transcription factors resulting from chromosomal translocations, and the dysregulated genes detected by microarray include both direct and indirect targets of the oncogenic transcription factors. The ChIP-chip technology enables the identification of direct targets of a transcription factor based on its promoter occupancy and cellular context. Using AML1-ETO9a-induced AML as a cancer model and using a combined gene expression and promoter occupancy profiling approach, we recently identified CD45 as a direct down-regulated target of t(8;21) fusion proteins. This finding subsequently led us to discover the enhanced Janus activated kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway, which is negatively regulated by CD45, in t(8;21) AML. This review summarizes the background of t(8;21) leukemia, structural features of the translocation fusion proteins, and the merits of combining gene discovery technologies for the identification of therapeutic targets in t(8;21) leukemia.
40667341 | Identifying Key Hub Genes that Attribute Varying Host Responses: A Longitudinal RNA-seq Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Delta and Omicron Infections. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by SARS-CoV-2, has severely impacted global health, with different Variants of Concern (VOCs) resulting in varied clinical outcomes. Among these, the Delta and Omicron variants have drawn significant attention due to their distinct characteristics-Delta is associated with higher virulence and Omicron has greater transmissibility but reduced severity. This study compares host immune responses to the Delta and Omicron variants using RNA-seq data from infected primary human airway epithelial cells. Both variants triggered a robust antiviral innate immune response by 2 days post-infection (dpi). However, Omicron was found to elicit a more rapid immune response, showing pathway enrichment at 1 dpi. In contrast, Delta displayed no immune-related pathway activation within the first 24 hours, suggesting it may evade early immune detection, promoting increased viral replication. By 3 dpi, Delta induced a more aggressive immune response, particularly in pathways related to cell death and pro-inflammatory signaling, such as \programmed cell death\ and \regulation of cell death.\ Weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed distinct immune-related genes: Delta infections were characterized by hub genes like MYD88 and IL1R1 involved in pro-inflammatory responses, HLA-A & B, NLRC5 and PSMB9 involved in antigen presentation and TNSF10 and IFR1 involved in pro-apoptotic processes. Conversely, Omicron infections were marked by hub genes such as CXCL1 and CXCL8 involved in immune cells recruitment, MET and LYN involved in reducing hyperinflammatory responses and maintaining immune balance, and IFI44, EIF2AK2 and IFIT5 responsible for the sensing of viral RNA among others.
39772771 | Targeting the CD74 signaling axis suppresses inflammation and rescues defective hematopoiesis in RUNX1-familial platelet disorder. Familial platelet disorder (FPD) is associated with germline RUNX1 mutations, establishing a preleukemic state and increasing the risk of developing leukemia. Currently, there are no intervention strategies to prevent leukemia progression. Single-cell RNA sequencing (n = 10) combined with functional analysis of samples from patients with RUNX1-FPD (n > 75) revealed that FPD hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) displayed increased myeloid differentiation and suppressed megakaryopoiesis because of increased activation of prosurvival and inflammatory pathways. Bone marrow from patients with RUNX1-FPD contained an elevated cytokine milieu, exerting chronic inflammatory stress on HSPCs. RUNX1-FPD HSPCs were myeloid biased, had increased self-renewal, and were resistant to inflammation-mediated exhaustion. The bone marrow from patients with RUNX1-FPD showed high transcript and protein expression of CD74 at the preleukemic stage compared with that of healthy controls, which remained high upon patient transformation into leukemia. Further, CD74-mediated signaling was exaggerated in RUNX1-FPD HSPCs compared with healthy controls, leading to the activation of mTOR and JAK/STAT pathways with increased cytokine production. Genetic and pharmacological targeting of CD74 with ISO-1 and its downstream targets JAK1/2 and mTOR reversed RUNX1-FPD differentiation defects in vitro and in vivo and reduced inflammation. Our results highlight that inflammation is an early event in RUNX1-FPD pathogenesis, and CD74 signaling is one of the drivers of this inflammation. The repurposing of JAK1/2i (ruxolitinib) and mTORi (sirolimus) and promoting the advancement of CD74 inhibitors in clinical settings as an early intervention strategy would be beneficial to improve the phenotype of patients with RUNX1-FPD and prevent myeloid progression.
41061119 | Interleukin 16 in lupus nephritis - a role for Th1 and CD8+ T cell migration. INTRODUCTION: Dysregulation of interleukin (IL) 16 has been implicated in SLE, yet its cellular source and role in disease pathogenesis remain unclear. METHOD: We analysed circulating IL16+ immune cells from forty SLE patients, including 32 with active disease (SLEDAI-2K >= 4) using spectral flow cytometry. Plasma (pIL16) and urine IL16 (uIL16) levels were measured, and correlations with clinical variables were assessed. IL16 effects on T cell migration were studied in vitro. RESULTS: Active SLE patients showed broadly reduced proportions of cells expressing IL16, including CD4+T, CD8+T, B and NK cells. This reduction was prominent in several cell subsets including Th1-like cells and plasmablasts. Further sub-analyses of lupus nephritis (LN) versus non-LN, demonstrated significantly reduced IL16 expression e.g. in Th1-like and double negative B cell subsets in LN. In parallel, SLE patients displayed increased pIL16 levels, and LN patients showed increased uIL16 which associated positively with disease activity SLEDAI-2K index and negatively with complement C4 levels and IL16+CD4+T cell counts. In vitro, IL16 induced CXCR4 and CCR5 mediated migration of Th1-cells and attracted CD8+T cells via CXCR4, which was partially inhibited by IL16 blockade. CONCLUSION: We demonstrate reduced intracellular IL16 expression in SLE lymphocytes, with low IL16+CD4+T cell proportions in LN correlating with increased uIL16. Extracellular IL16 may drive Th1 and CD8+T cell infiltration, contributing to organ inflammation. IL16 blockade reduced T cell migration, highlighting its potential as therapeutic target.
41619069 | Low-dose IL-2 Ameliorates Experimental Autoimmune Myasthenia Gravis in Rats by Restoring the CD4-positive Helper T-cell Balance Via the JAK/STAT5 Pathway.
41799700 | Investigating the consequences of tape-stripping in ovalbumin-induced allergic mouse model: From physiology to gene regulation. Background: Food allergy is a growing global health concern, with increasing prevalence and significant impacts on patients quality of life. Epithelial barrier dysfunction, particularly through the skin-gut axis, has emerged as a critical factor in food allergy pathogenesis. However, the precise mechanisms linking epithelial barrier disruption to immune dysregulation remain poorly understood. This study investigates the effects of tape-stripping-induced epithelial barrier damage on the exacerbation of ovalbumin (OVA)-induced food allergy in a murine model, with a focus on histopathological, immunological, and transcriptomic changes. Methods: Female BALB/c mice were randomly assigned to three experimental groups for comparison: Control, OVA (OVA-sensitized/challenged), and OVA + T (OVA-sensitized/challenged with additional tape-stripping). Mice in the OVA group were sensitized and challenged with ovalbumin, while the OVA + T group underwent the same OVA protocol plus repeated tape-stripping to simulate epithelial barrier disruption. Allergic responses were evaluated using a comprehensive approach, including histopathological analysis, quantification of serum biomarkers (IgE, histamine, IL-6, IgG1), immune cell profiling via flow cytometry, and Western blot analysis of tight junction proteins such as occludin, Zonula Occludens (ZO)-1, and claudin. RNA sequencing-based transcriptomic analysis of jejunum tissues identified dysregulated pathways through integrated bioinformatics analyses (differential expression, pathway enrichment, and PPI network), with subsequent qRT-PCR validation pinpointing key target genes. Results: Tape-stripping exacerbated allergic symptoms, including diarrhea and elevated rectal temperature, and induced significant histopathological changes in both skin and intestinal tissues, characterized by increased inflammatory cell infiltration and mast cell accumulation. Serum analysis revealed elevated levels of IgE, histamine, IL-6, and IgG1, indicating a heightened allergic state. Flow cytometry demonstrated an increase in CD4+ Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) and IgE + cells in the spleen, suggesting systemic immune dysregulation. Western blot analysis confirmed the downregulation of tight junction proteins, indicating compromised intestinal barrier integrity. Transcriptomic analysis identified 444 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the jejunum, with significant enrichment in pathways related to calcium signaling, cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, PI3K-Akt signaling, and MAPK signaling. PPI network analysis identified Acta2, Kdr, and Cxcr4 as key target genes mediating tape-stripping-induced food allergy exacerbation. Conclusion: This study demonstrates that tape-stripping exacerbates food allergy by disrupting epithelial barrier integrity, inducing systemic immune dysregulation, and altering gene expression in intestinal tissues. The identification of key molecular pathways and target genes-particularly Acta2, Kdr, and Cxcr4, which are associated with angiogenesis and inflammatory responses-reveals novel mechanistic insights into food allergy exacerbation and proposes actionable therapeutic targets for simultaneous barrier repair and immune modulation. These findings underscore the importance of the skin-gut axis in food allergy pathogenesis and offer a foundation for developing targeted interventions to manage and prevent allergic diseases. Further research is needed to validate these findings and explore therapeutic strategies targeting the identified pathways.
42138923 | Early-Phase Oral Antiviral Use and Post-COVID-19 Condition in Outpatients. Importance: Post-COVID-19 condition (PCC) contributes substantially to long-term morbidity after severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. Information about the effectiveness of oral antivirals in preventing PCC in outpatient populations remains limited. Objective: To evaluate the association between early oral antiviral use and PCC risk among outpatients with COVID-19, with and without risk factors for severe disease. Design, Setting, and Participants: Prospective, nationwide, multicenter, registry-based cohort study conducted at 51 acute-care hospitals across Japan during the predominance of Omicron sublineages JN.1 and KP.3. Outpatients aged 12 years or older with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19, symptom onset of 5 days or less before enrollment, and no recent anti-SARS-CoV-2 treatment were enrolled between February and October 2024, with follow-up through February 2025. The primary analysis population included participants with complete baseline covariates and valid day 28 and day 84 assessments. Exposures: Oral antiviral use (ensitrelvir, nirmatrelvir, or molnupiravir) at enrollment vs no antiviral use. Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcome was PCC, defined as persistence of 1 or more of 5 prespecified symptoms (cough, shortness of breath, malaise, smell disorder, or taste disorder), with the same symptoms reported on both days 28 and 84. Exploratory outcomes included failure to return to usual health by day 84. Results: Among 7699 participants (2181 receiving antivirals: 1131 [51.9%] male; median [IQR] age, 58.0 [41-71] years; and 5518 without antivirals: 2928 [53.1%] female; median [IQR] age, 45.0 [29-57] years), most had mild COVID-19 (7599 participants [98.7%]) and received 2 or more vaccine doses (6902 participants [89.6%]). Participants receiving antivirals were older and had more comorbidities; other baseline characteristics were similar between groups. After prespecified adjustment, antiviral use was associated with a lower risk of PCC (adjusted risk ratio [aRR], 0.86; 95% CI, 0.78-0.93). Results were consistent for ensitrelvir (aRR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.79-0.95) and molnupiravir (aRR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.67-0.98). Failure to return to usual health by day 84 was less common among participants receiving antivirals than among participants without antivirals (9.9% vs 12.9%; aRR, 0.77; 95% CI, 0.67-0.89). Conclusions and Relevance: In this cohort study of outpatients with COVID-19, early oral antiviral use was associated with a lower risk of PCC. These findings suggest that early antiviral treatment may help mitigate long-term consequences of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
42138921 | Recent COVID-19 Vaccination and Risk of SARS-CoV-2 Transmission. Importance: COVID-19 vaccine effectiveness (VE) is typically studied in the context of reducing the risk of severe illness and death. Few studies have estimated VE in preventing transmission and infection with current levels of SARS-CoV-2 population immunity. Objective: To estimate COVID-19 VE against transmission and infection within households. Design, Setting, and Participants: This cohort study was a prospective, case-ascertained household transmission study (performed in New York, Tennessee, and Washington) in which the first household member with confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection (primary case participant) was identified through outpatient settings and enrolled with their household contacts from January 1, 2024, to January 31, 2025. Participants provided demographic information, and COVID-19 vaccination history was verified by study staff. After enrollment, participants were instructed to collect daily nasal swabs for 10 days regardless of symptoms. Nasal swabs were tested for SARS-CoV-2 via reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Exposure: COVID-19 vaccination history in primary case participants and household contacts categorized as time from most recent vaccination to COVID-19 onset in the primary case participant (<=6 months, 7-12 months, >12 months, and unvaccinated [reference group]). Main Outcomes and Measures: Household contacts were considered infected if at least 1 swab tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Secondary infection risk was calculated as the number of infected contacts divided by the total number of contacts. Adjusted relative risk (ARR) of infection was estimated using a multivariable Poisson regression model, with generalized estimating equations accounting for household-level clustering. Vaccine effectiveness was calculated as 1 minus the ARR of the primary case participant and household contacts' vaccination status to estimate VE against transmission and against infection, respectively. Results: This analysis included 362 primary case participants (median [IQR] age, 35 [10-53] years; 199 female [55.0%]) and 763 household contacts (median [IQR] age, 29 [12-44] years; 399 female [52.3%]). SARS-CoV-2 infection was detected in 476 household contacts during follow-up for a secondary infection risk of 62.4% (95% CI, 58.7%-65.5%). Household contacts of primary case participants vaccinated 6 months or less before onset had a lower infection risk compared with contacts of unvaccinated primary case participants (ARR, 0.57 [95% CI, 0.35-0.93]). There was no statistically significant difference in infection risk based on vaccination status of household contacts. Conclusions and Relevance: In this cohort study, recent COVID-19 vaccination was associated with a reduced risk of SARS-CoV-2 transmission. These findings suggest that COVID-19 vaccination may have an indirect benefit of decreasing transmission and thus reducing overall exposure to SARS-CoV-2.
39822248 | Novel biomarkers: the RUNX family as prognostic predictors in colorectal cancer. While biomarkers have been shown to enhance the prognosis of patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) compared to conventional treatments, there is a pressing need to discover novel biomarkers that can assist in assessing the prognostic impact of immunotherapy and in formulating individualized treatment plans. The RUNX family, consisting of RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3, has been recognized as crucial regulators in developmental processes, with dysregulation of these genes also being implicated in tumorigenesis and cancer progression. In our present study, we demonstrated a crucial regulatory role of RUNX in CD8+T and CD103+CD8+T cell-mediated anti-tumor response within the tumor microenvironment (TME) of human CRC. Specifically, RUNXs were significantly differentially expressed between tumor and normal tissues in CRC. Patients with a greater proportion of infiltrating CD8+RUNX1+, CD103+CD8+RUNX1+, CD8+RUNX2+, CD103+CD8+RUNX2+, CD8+RUNX3+, or CD103+CD8+RUNX3+ T cells demonstrated improved outcomes compared to those with lower proportions. Additionally, the proportions of infiltrating CD8+RUNX1+T and CD8+RUNX3+T cells may serve as valuable prognostic predictors for CRC patients, independent of other clinicopathological factors. Moreover, further bioinformatic analysis conducted utilizing the TISIDB and TIMER platforms demonstrated significant associations between the members of the RUNX family and immune-infiltrating cells, specifically diverse subpopulations of CD8+TILs. Our study of human colorectal cancer tissue microarray (TMA) also revealed positive and statistically significant correlations between the expressions of RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3 in both CD8+T cells and CD103+CD8+T cells. Our study comprehensively revealed the varied expressions and prognostic importance of the RUNX family in human colorectal cancer tissues. It underscored their potential as vital biomarkers for prognostic evaluation in colorectal cancer patients and as promising targets for immunotherapy in treating this disease.
39404479 | Behcet's syndrome: one year in review 2024. The aim of this review is to provide a critical summary of studies published during 2023 that contribute to our understanding of Behcet's syndrome. An increase in the incidence of BS was reported in Northern Spain after 2014.Studies on patient perspectives showed the impact of Behcet's syndrome on quality of life, daily activities, education, work, and relationships. Differences in genetics among Behcet's syndrome patients with different types of organ involvement were reported and an association between HLA-B/MICA and SLCO4A1 polymorphisms and eye involvement and between DDX60L polymorphisms and nervous system involvement were observed. It was suggested that Integrin alpha9beta1 plays a crucial role in the neutrophil-mediated inflammatory pathways underlying this syndrome and the dysfunction of the PDL1/PD-1 pathway may be associated with the hyperactivity of the Th-1/Th-17 axis. Vein wall thickness seems to be increased in patients with Behcet's syndrome, but its pathogenetic and clinical implications are not clear. There is growing evidence regarding the efficacy of TNF inhibitors in different types of organ involvement. A number of small case series point out to the potential role of TCZ and JAK inhibitors.
42142180 | Prevalence of common respiratory viruses of infants with respiratory tract infections in European countries in the past decade: a systematic review and meta-analysis comparing between the pre-COVID-19, pandemic, and post-COVID-19 periods. The purpose of this study is. to determine the leading cause of respiratory tract infections over the decade; this review examined the proportions of airway viruses in infants with respiratory tract infections in Europe before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic. The protocol for this systematic review was registered in the PROSPERO database (CRD42024497097). Literature searches in PubMed, Embase, Scopus, and Web of Science (WoS) identified 20,453 studies reporting respiratory viral testing in Europe over the past decade (2012/13-2022/23). Eligible studies were English-language full-text or grey articles with low risk of bias and complete data, and reports that explicitly provided the number of positive airway virus cases (n, virus) and the total infant population (N). Risk of bias was assessed using the Hoy et al. scoring system. Pooled prevalence estimates (pooled proportion [95% CI]) were calculated for pre-, during-, and post-COVID-19 periods using proportional meta-analysis with the MetaProp package in R. Fifty studies before, ten studies during, and 18 studies after the COVID-19 pandemic were eligible for proportional meta-analyses of viral testing in infants. Before the pandemic, the predominant viruses in infants with respiratory infections were Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) (0.48 [0.41-0.56]), Human rhinovirus (HRV) (0.24 [0.18-0.29]), and Influenza virus (IV) (0.08 [0.04-0.12]). Post-pandemic, the leading viruses were RSV (0.63 [0.51-0.75]), HRV (0.25 [0.11-0.40]), and IV (0.10 [0.00-0.20]) again. CONCLUSIONS:  RSV and HRV remained the two most identified viruses in infants with respiratory infections, pre- and post-COVID-19 pandemic. Interestingly, both RSV and IV were suppressed during the pandemic. The trajectory dynamics of respiratory viruses were divergent, with resilient viruses (RSV, HRV, and IV) regaining dominance more rapidly than persistently suppressed viruses. WHAT IS KNOWN:   The COVID-19 pandemic induced an infection precautions policy, which reduced the spread of respiratory infectious diseases.   Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) was estimated as one of the most common causes of respiratory infections in infants. Still, there are no reports summarising the geographical distributions of the various viral agents of infant respiratory diseases. WHAT IS NEW:   This meta-analysis shows that the prevalence of RSV and HRV infections in infants remains high in Europe following the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated precautionary policy. Furthermore, RSV proportionally experienced a marked reduction during COVID-19 pandemic (lockdown periods). However, the immunological debt may have led to a re-emergence in RSV positivity after the lockdown periods.   Our proportional meta-analysis indicates the heterogeneous post-pandemic recovery patterns of each respiratory virus commonly identified in infants, where HRV was shown to be resilient whilst RSV was rapidly rebound.
41181130 | Gut microbiome as a potential mediator linking sexual behaviors to immune profiles in HIV-negative men who have sex with men: a multi-omics study. Introduction: The effects of sexual behaviors on the gut microbiome and immune system in men who have sex with men (MSM) remain unclear. Here, we conducted a multi-omics study in MSM to investigate how sexual behaviors shape gut microbiome composition and immune profiles in this population. The interplay among high-risk sexual behaviors, gut microbiome, and systemic immune activation was also explored. Methods: HIV-negative MSM were enrolled in this study. Fecal samples were collected and subjected to 16S rRNA gene sequencing. Bulk and single-cell transcriptome sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were performed to investigate the systemic immune profiles. Primary component analysis and spearman correlation analysis were used to assess the associations between gut microbiome and immune signatures. BayesPrism algorithm was applied to predict cellular composition and gene expression in individual cell types by integrating bulk RNA sequencing and sc-RNA sequencing. Causal mediation analysis evaluated the contribution of gut microbiome in linking sexual behaviors to immune outcomes. Results: The gut microbiome of HIV-negative MSM was dominated by Segatella. Receptive anal intercourse had the most significant impact on the gut microbiome, characterized by increased diversity, depletion of Xylanibacter, and enrichment of Holdemania. We also identified altered immune gene expression, an elevated CD8:CD4 ratio, distinctive CD4+ T cell communications, and higher expression of CXCR4 in CD4+ T cells in MSM engaged in receptive anal intercourse. Mediation analysis indicated that Bilophila potentially mediated the effects of receptive anal intercourse on CD4+ T cell proportions (P = 0.026). MSM exposed to group sex and illicit drug had elevated HIV susceptibility index, possibly mediated by Bifidobacterium (P = 0.012, P = 0.02 respectively). Conclusion: Our study indicates that gut microbiome partially mediates the immunomodulatory effects of sexual behaviors, providing mechanistic insights into HIV susceptibility. These findings underscore the gut-immune axis as a potential target for HIV prevention strategies in high-risk MSM.
42144370 | COVID-19-related anxiety and sense of coherence associated with psychological distress among rural residents in Japan during the pandemic late phase. BACKGROUND: The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has imposed significant psychological stress worldwide. Although many studies have examined the mental health impacts during the pandemic's early phase, evidence from the late phase remains limited. This study investigated the associations between COVID-19-related anxiety and sense of coherence (SOC) with psychological distress among rural residents during the pandemic late phase in Japan. METHODS: This community-based cross-sectional study was conducted from July 2022 to March 2023, the late phase of the COVID-19 pandemic. The participants were residents of rural communities in the Shimane Prefecture, Japan. They were recruited through a health check-up program arranged by a cooperative organization for farmers. Psychological distress was assessed using the Kessler 6-item Psychological Distress Scale (K6); COVID-19-related anxiety and SOC were assessed using self-administered questionnaires. Multivariable logistic regression analyses were performed to examine the associations between pandemic-related anxiety, SOC, and psychological distress after adjusting for age, sex, subjective health status, and communicative health literacy. RESULTS: Of the 1,310 individuals who underwent health checkups, 743 agreed to participate in the study, and 664 who completed all questionnaires were included in the final analyses. Psychological distress (K6 >= 5) was observed in 29.2% of participants and was more prevalent among younger adults. Fear of infection (OR = 1.32, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.05-1.68), stress related to mask wearing (OR = 1.35, 95% CI: 1.10-1.68), and concern about reduced income (OR = 1.32, 95% CI: 1.08-1.61) were associated with higher odds of psychological distress. Higher SOC was inversely associated with psychological distress. CONCLUSIONS: During the late phase of the COVID-19 pandemic, several COVID-19-related anxiety factors, particularly fear of infection, stress related to mask wearing, and concern about reduced income, were associated with psychological distress among rural residents. Higher SOC was associated with lower psychological distress, suggesting that strengthening individual and community resilience may be important for mitigating the mental health impact of prolonged pandemic conditions in rural settings.
41459483 | Development of a humanized mouse model of graft-versus-host disease to assess human regulatory T cell function. Introduction: Regulatory T cells (Treg)-based therapies are increasingly used for treating autoimmune or graft-versus-host (GVHD) disease. Given their low frequency, several approaches aimed at amplifying them or at increasing their immunosuppressive activities are currently investigated. Unfortunately, the impact of these strategies on human Treg function has remained difficult to assess in vivo. Here, we report the development of a novel humanized mouse model of allogeneic and xenogeneic GVHD intended to characterize the immunosuppressive activity of human Treg in vivo. Methods: In this model, GVHD is induced by injecting CD25-depleted HLA-A2- peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) into irradiated NSG-HLA-A2-HHD mice. The CD25+ (Treg) fraction is maintained in vitro for 48h during which Treg-promoting treatments can be tested before infusion into mice. We took advantage of this model to investigate whether tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) priming of Treg would increase their suppressive function and improve their ability at preventing xenogeneic GVHD, after assessing the effect of TNF-alpha on Treg in vitro. Results: In vitro, single cell RNAseq analyses showed that eleven Hallmark pathways, including Interferon response, IL-6-JAK-STAT3 signaling, mTORC1 signaling, and TNF-alpha signaling via NF-kappaB, were significantly upregulated in Treg following TNF-alpha priming. In vivo, Treg infusion resulted in higher Treg levels, lower counts of human cells, lower conventional CD4+ (Tconv) and CD8+ T-cell counts, lower KI67 and HLA-DR expression by Tconv and lower Granzyme B expression by CD8+ T-cells in peripheral blood. No significant impact of TNF-alpha priming of Treg on survival was observed. Discussion: These results emphasize the importance of reliable techniques to assess Treg in vivo as efficient methods to activate them in vitro do not always result in an enhanced function in the in vivo setting. In summary, we present here the development of a novel humanized model of GVHD designed to evaluate the in vivo functionality of human Treg. Taking advantage of that model, we observed that TNF-alpha priming of human Treg did not increase their suppressive activity in vivo.
42145268 | Interventions for treating COVID-19 in people with chronic kidney disease. OBJECTIVES: This is a protocol for a Cochrane Review (intervention). The objectives are as follows: To assess the benefits and harms of interventions for treating coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in people with all chronic kidney disease (CKD) stages, including those undergoing dialysis and kidney transplant recipients.
41832194 | Capecitabine combined with fecal microbiota transplantation prevents colorectal cancer progression through correction of microbial dysbiosis and immune regulation.
41838743 | IL-6 is one of the key factors in the formation of gut tissue resident memory T cells from Naive T cells. Tissue resident memory CD4+ T cells (TRMs) populate mucosal sites and play a critical role in local immune responses. Gut TRM cells persist for extended periods in the gut mucosa where they rapidly respond to invading pathogens and provide long lasting protection. This study investigates the factors that mediate differentiation of naive CD4+ T cells into cells presenting a gut TRM phenotype. Naive CD4+ T cells were cultured under conditions that mimicked mucosal environments. This included signaling through MAdCAM-1 in the presence of Retinoic Acid (RA) and TGF-beta. This combination of stimuli primed naive CD4+ T cells to adopt a TRM phenotype. However, to fully differentiate into TRMs an additional soluble factor provided by memory T cells was required. Our results identified IL-6 as one of the key factors that induces the expression of TRM -associated markers, including CD69, CD103 and CCR5. This unique combination of stimuli promoted TRM differentiation despite low level proliferation. TRM differentiation was mediated through JAK/STAT signaling, and antagonists that target JAK/STAT pathways suppressed MAdCAM-1 mediated TRM cell formation. Our findings revealed that MAdCAM-1 works together with TGF-beta, RA and IL-6 in this process. Such information may aid in the design of next generation adjuvants and effective mucosal vaccines. Additionally, each of these factors may be targeted to treat excessive gut inflammation associated with conditions like inflammatory bowel disease. Overall, these findings provide new strategies aimed at modulating immune responses to invading pathogens and identify therapeutic approaches toward regulating gut inflammation.
42135001 | Comparing Bayesian and frequentist inference in biological models: A comparative analysis of accuracy, uncertainty, and identifiability. Mathematical models are widely used to study ecological and epidemiological systems, but the accuracy of the resulting inferences and forecasts depends on the estimation framework. This study compares Bayesian and frequentist approaches across three biological models using four datasets: The Lotka-Volterra predator-prey system, a generalized logistic model (GLM) applied to lung injury and mpox data, and the susceptible-exposed-infected (reported and unreported)-recovered (SEIUR) epidemic model for COVID-19. To ensure a fair comparison, both approaches were implemented with a normal error structure. We first examined the structural identifiability to determine which parameters can be recovered in principle. We then evaluated practical identifiability and fitting performance using four metrics: Mean absolute error, mean squared error, prediction interval coverage, and the weighted interval score. For the Lotka-Volterra model, we studied three types of observations: Prey only, predator only, and both species together. The frequentist workflow, implemented through QuantDiffForecast, uses nonlinear least squares and parametric bootstraping to quantify uncertainty. The Bayesian workflow, implemented through BayesianFitForecast, uses Hamiltonian Monte Carlo sampling to obtain posterior distributions and diagnostic measures. Our results show that frequentist inference performs well when the system comprises fully observed data, as in the GLM or in the Lotka-Volterra model when both species are observed. Bayesian inference performs better when uncertainty is high and observations are limited or indirect, as seen in the SEIUR epidemic model. The identifiability analysis helps explain these differences by showing how observability shapes the reliability of parameter recovery and uncertainty quantification.
42088414 | Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor 2 Inhibits HIV-1 Infection by Blocking the Binding of gp120 to CD4. The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein gp120 binds to the CD4 molecule and then undergoes conformational changes to interact with the co-receptors CCR5 or CXCR4, resulting in cellular entrance. However, certain types of cells, such as macrophages and CD4+Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs), have been shown to resist HIV-1 infection despite co-expressing CD4 and co-receptors. In this study, we found that tumor necrosis factor receptor type II (TNFR2) directly binds to gp120, with the binding site on gp120 in proximity to that of CD4. Intriguingly, exogenous TNFR2 had the capacity to inhibit the binding of gp120 to CD4+ T cells. Furthermore, the infection of CD4+CCR5+ cells by pseudoviruses containing the HIV-1 envelope was inhibited by TNFR2 protein. In contrast, TNFR1, which is structurally similar to TNFR2 and shares the same ligand, failed to inhibit the infection of CD4+ T cells by HIV-1 pseudoviruses. This property of TNFR2 may be harnessed in the prevention or treatment of HIV-1 infection and thus warrants future investigation.
41437267 | Cytotoxic T lymphocytes and their dual role in modulating blood-brain barrier integrity in immune-mediated neurological pathologies.
41656985 | JAK inhibitor tofacitinib alleviates secretory dysfunction and Th17/Treg imbalance in a Sjogren's disease murine model. OBJECTIVES: To examine whether the JAK inhibitor tofacitinib alleviates secretory dysfunction and modulates Th17/Treg balance in a Sjogren's disease (SjD) murine model. METHODS: Integrated analysis of SjD transcriptome sequencing (GSE159574, GSE247662) identified key signalling pathways, potential therapeutic agents, and immune cell infiltration. NOD/ShiLtj mice were administered with or without tofacitinib. Secretory function and inflammation were assessed via fluorescein ocular surface staining, tear flow rate, histopathology (HE, Masson, Sirius Red), saliva flow rate, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, and cytokine measurement. Pearson's linear regression evaluated the correlation between Th17/Treg balance and secretory function. RESULTS: Bioinformatics analysis showed the JAK-STAT pathway and CD4+ T cells contribute to SjD pathogenesis. Tofacitinib reduced corneal fluorescein staining, increased tear break-up time and secretion, diminished salivary gland lymphocytic inflammation, improved saliva flow rate, and altered phospho-JAK3-STAT1 expression. It also reduced Th17 cell proportion, increased Treg cell proportion in salivary glands and spleens, decreased IL-17, and increased IL-10 and TGF-beta in blood. A strong negative correlation existed between secretory function and Th17/Treg balance. CONCLUSIONS: Tofacitinib potently attenuated secretory dysfunction and inflammation in SjD mice, possibly by modulating Th17/Treg balance, suggesting it may be a therapeutic agent for SjD.
42145500 | Factors influencing the COVID-19 vaccine uptake among Ukrainian refugees in Poland: a cross-sectional study. Background: The COVID-19 vaccination of Ukrainian refugees (UR) should be a top priority. Methods: Between May and July 2023, we conducted a cross-sectional study that surveyed consecutive UR registering at a refugee center in Zielona Gora, Poland, about COVID-19 vaccination and influencing factors. A self-administered, anonymous questionnaire was used. Results: Response rate was 83.4%. A total of 837 Ukrainians participated in the study, including 41.6% males. The largest age group (31.6%) was between 31 and 40 years old. Most respondents (61.2%) had previously lived in Ukrainian cities with fewer than 250,000 inhabitants. The majority were single (68.9%), and 57.5% reported low socioeconomic status (SES). Slightly over half of the participants (51%) had graduated from primary or vocational school. Less than one-fifth of respondents (18.3%) had completed the full COVID-19 vaccination course. The most frequently reported motivation for vaccination was protection of one's own health (27.1%), followed by protection of family members' health (13.3%). In addition, 27.8% reported receiving an influenza vaccination within the last 5 years, 22.8% had previously been infected with SARS-CoV-2, and 25.6% reported COVID-19 infection in a family member. The multilevel logistic regression model showed strong associations between COVID-19 vaccination and prior SARS-CoV-2 infection (OR = 7.39; p < 0.0001), regular influenza vaccination (OR = 3.34; p < 0.0001), origin from a Ukrainian city with more than 250,000 inhabitants (OR = 1.89; p = 0.0001), and willingness to travel abroad (OR = 1.89; p = 0.0001). Conclusion: The uptake of the full COVID-19 vaccination course among UR in Poland was disturbingly low. UR seek vaccination primarily for altruistic motives, i.e., to protect themselves and others. Educational programs should emphasize the benefits of the COVID-19 vaccine and raise awareness of its importance, effectiveness, and safety, with targeted outreach to high-risk groups identified in this study.
41436686 | MIF Regulates the Th17/Treg Ratio to Exacerbate Kidney Injury in Chronic Kidney Disease. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is characterized by gradual and progressive deterioration of renal function over time, and its pathogenesis is strongly associated with immune cell imbalance, Th cell diversification, and oxidative stress. This study aimed to investigate the impact of alterations in the Th17/Treg ratio mediated by the secretory protein macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) on renal injury in CKD patients. Single-cell sequencing was performed on peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) from 15 CKD patients and 20 healthy individuals to compare the characteristics of T-cell subsets, followed by differential signaling pathway analysis. Peripheral blood samples from 20 CKD patients and 10 healthy donors were analyzed using flow cytometry to quantify CD4 + T cell subsets and MIF expression. A 5/6 nephrectomy mouse model and blood CD4 + T cells were extracted to verify the effects of MIF-related proteins on the Th17/Treg ratio and progression of CKD. Besides, AAV-MIF was locally administered into the renal tissue to achieve kidney-specific MIF suppression in CKD model. Single-cell sequencing revealed significant correlation between MIF levels and Th17/Treg ratios, identifying MIF-(CD74 + CXCR4) pathway involvement. Flow cytometry analysis of the clinical cohort demonstrated an elevated Th17/Treg ratio (p < 0.01) in CKD patients compared to normal controls. MIF levels also correlated with renal parameters (Crea, p < 0.001; BUN, p < 0.0001; eGFR, p < 0.0001). In vitro experiments confirmed a significant increase (p < 0.05) in Th17/Treg cells after MIF protein or serum from CKD patients, and these changes were partially reversed by an MIF inhibitor (ISO-1) (p < 0.001). Moreover, renal injury in CKD mice in the AAV-MIF group was significantly reversed. This study revealed that MIF promotes the progression of CKD by regulating the Th17/Treg ratio and that MIF serves as a potential target to prevent CKD.
26269126 | Somatic drivers of B-ALL in a model of ETV6-RUNX1; Pax5(+/-) leukemia. BACKGROUND: B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is amongst the leading causes of childhood cancer-related mortality. Its most common chromosomal aberration is the ETV6-RUNX1 fusion gene, with ~25% of ETV6-RUNX1 patients also carrying PAX5 alterations. METHODS: We have recreated this mutation background by inter-crossing Etv6-RUNX1 (Etv6 (RUNX1-SB)) and Pax5(+/-) mice and performed an in vivo analysis to find driver genes using Sleeping Beauty transposon-mediated mutagenesis and also exome sequencing. RESULTS: Combination of Etv6-RUNX1 and Pax5(+/-) alleles generated a transplantable B220 + CD19+ B-ALL with a significant disease incidence. RNA-seq analysis showed a gene expression pattern consistent with arrest at the pre-B stage. Analysis of the transposon common insertion sites identified genes involved in B-cell development (Zfp423) and the JAK/STAT signaling pathway (Jak1, Stat5 and Il2rb), while exome sequencing revealed somatic hotspot mutations in Jak1 and Jak3 at residues analogous to those mutated in human leukemias, and also mutation of Trp53. CONCLUSIONS: Powerful synergies exists in our model suggesting STAT pathway activation and mutation of Trp53 are potent drivers of B-ALL in the context of Etv6-RUNX1;Pax5(+/-).
42134840 | Impact of COVID-19 on the implementation of mental health interventions for adolescents living with HIV in sub-Saharan Africa: a systematic review protocol. INTRODUCTION: Adolescents living with HIV (ALHIV) in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) are a vulnerable population disproportionately affected by mental health disorders due to the combined burden of chronic illness, stigma and socioeconomic challenges. In response, numerous mental health interventions have been implemented to support ALHIV. However, the COVID-19 pandemic significantly disrupted health systems, particularly in-person services, potentially undermining the delivery and efficacy of these interventions. This protocol describes the methodology for a systematic review that will assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the implementation of mental health interventions for ALHIV in SSA and to explore the emergence or adaptation of interventions during this period. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Data will be collected, analysed and reported per the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. We will search PubMed, Web of Science, APA PsycINFO and Scopus for literature published from 2020 to 2025. Eligible studies will include both qualitative and quantitative designs that assess mental health interventions for ALHIV in SSA or explore pandemic-related implementation impacts. Both peer-reviewed and grey literature will be included. The primary outcomes of interest are implementation-related outcomes, including service disruptions, adaptations, feasibility, acceptability and barriers or facilitators influencing intervention delivery during the COVID-19 pandemic. Data, including study design, methodology and results, will be extracted and synthesised using an Excel spreadsheet. Specific inclusion and exclusion criteria will be used during literature screening and will include study type, location and language. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This review uses only publicly accessible data from previously published studies and does not involve the collection of primary data or identifiable human subjects. Therefore, ethical approval is not required. The results of the review will be disseminated through publication in a peer-reviewed journal and shared with stakeholders working in adolescent HIV and mental health services in SSA. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD420251147822.
41394715 | Uncovering structural determinants of peptide recognition by public and private T-cell receptors. Public T cell receptors (TCRs) recurrently emerge across individuals in response to common pathogens, yet the structural and biophysical basis distinguishing public from private clonotypes remains incompletely defined. Here, we combine epitope mapping, single-cell TCR sequencing, and single-particle cryo-electron microscopy to dissect CD8 + T cell responses to the immunodominant SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a(207-215) epitope presented by HLA-A*01:01. Among responding clonotypes, we identify a shared public TCR (TCRpub) and an individual-specific private TCR (TCRpriv) that use nearly identical TRBV5-1 beta chains but distinct alpha chains. Both clonotypes exhibit comparable micromolar affinity and functional avidity, yet their structures reveal different antigen-recognition modes. We determined cryo-EM structures of the TCR pub and TCR priv in complex with ORF3a (207-215) / HLA-A*01:01 at ~3 A resolution. Despite targeting the same epitope, the two receptors engaged the peptide-MHC complex with distinct CDR-loop orientations and contact footprints: TCRpub engages the peptide through a peptide-centric AGDL CDR3beta motif and focuses interactions on the MHC alpha2-helix, whereas TCRpriv distributes contacts across both MHC alpha-helices via a canonical CDR3beta configuration. These findings illustrate how near-identical beta chains can yield divergent recognition strategies to recognise the same pMHC ligand through alternative alpha-chain pairing. More broadly, this work establishes cryo-EM as a robust approach for resolving physiological-affinity TCR/pMHC complexes, providing mechanistic insight into how public TCRs emerge and persist in antiviral immunity.
42142007 | Prevalence of Acute Respiratory Infections Pre-, During, and Post-COVID-19 Pandemic Period Among the Pediatric Population in the United Arab Emirates: A Retrospective Observational Study. INTRODUCTION: Acute respiratory infections (ARIs) represent a significant burden among children globally. The COVID-19 pandemic and its associated public health measures disrupted the transmission and detection of common respiratory pathogens. Yet, little is known about how these parameters have changed in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). OBJECTIVES: This study aims to describe the prevalence, causative pathogens, and seasonal patterns of pediatric ARIs in the UAE during the pre-, during, and post-COVID-19 pandemic periods. METHODS: This retrospective observational study included pediatric patients, aged 0-18 years, diagnosed with ARIs across one hospital network between 2019 and 2024. Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS 26.0 and compared across three distinct time periods. RESULTS: A total of 20,976 cases were included in the analysis. Of these, 11,248 (53.6%) were male, with a median age of 5 (IQR = 2,9). Overall, the most frequently detected pathogens were Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus (34.6%), COVID-19 (22.6%), and Influenza A (14.8%). Seasonal peaks of all pathogens except Adenovirus became less pronounced after the pandemic, with reduced quarter-to-quarter variability in detection rates rather than a single dominant seasonal peak. We observed a shift in the peak of Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, from Q1 pre-pandemic to Q4 post-pandemic. CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric ARI patterns in the UAE changed during the COVID-19 pandemic, with an increase in cases after 2021 and a shift in seasonality for many common causative pathogens. COVID-19 was predominant during the pandemic, yet Human Rhinovirus/Enterovirus remained the most common pathogen overall.
42145969 | Time series-based forecasting of infectious disease outbreak using information systems in public health. Introduction: The escalating frequency of infectious disease outbreaks underscores the urgent need for reliable forecasting systems to support timely public health interventions. Existing approaches-ranging from statistical heuristics to black-box deep learning models-often lack domain awareness, adaptability, and interpretability, limiting their utility in dynamic outbreak scenarios. Methods: This study proposes EpiCastNet, a forecasting framework that integrates spatiotemporal attention mechanisms with a hybrid encoding architecture to jointly model empirical patterns and rule-based constraints. A key component is the Causal Regularization with Semantic Anchors (CRSA) module, which incorporates epidemiological principles, such as intervention efficacy and seasonal transmission dynamics, into the model's differentiable training process. This enhances both semantic alignment and robustness under real-world uncertainties. Results and discussion: Empirical evaluations on public health time-series datasets, including COVIDcast and JHU COVID-19, demonstrate that EpiCastNet consistently outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of RMSE, MAE, R2, and MAPE, while maintaining high stability under noisy and incomplete data conditions. These findings highlight the framework's effectiveness and interpretability in epidemic forecasting, offering a practical tool for data-driven decision-making in public health surveillance.
32378810 | High incidence of RAS pathway mutations among sentinel genetic lesions of Korean pediatric BCR-ABL1-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia. INTRODUCTION: Recent advances in genetic analysis have led to the discovery of novel genetic subtypes of precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) with prognostic relevance. In this study, we studied a cohort of pediatric B-ALL patients to retrospectively determine the incidence of patients harboring novel genetic subtypes, as well as their outcome. METHODS: B-ALL patients (N = 190) diagnosed in a single Korean hospital were included in the study. Patients' medical records were reviewed for data on established genetic abnormalities and outcome. CRLF2 expression was analyzed by quantitative RT-PCR. Anchored multiplex PCR-based enrichment was used to detect fusions and point mutations in 81 ALL-related genes. RESULTS: Incidence of established recurrent genetic subtypes was as follows: high hyperdiploidy (21.6%), ETV6-RUNX1 (21.6%), BCR-ABL1 (7.9%), KMT2A rearrangement (7.4%) TCF3-PBX1/TCF3-HLF (7.4%), and hypodiploidy (1.1%). Incidence of new genetic subtypes was as follows: BCR-ABL1-like (13.2%), ETV6-RUNX1-like (2.1%), EWSR1-ZNF384 (1.1%), and iAMP21 (1.1%). Median age at diagnosis of BCR-ABL1-like ALL was 6.8 years. According to type of genetic abnormality, BCR-ABL1-like ALL was divided into ABL class (12%), CRLF2 class (8%), JAK-STAT class (12%), and RAS class (68%). The 5-year event-free survival (EFS) of BCR-ABL1-like patients was significantly inferior to non-BCR-ABL1-like low- and standard-risk patients (71.5 +- 9.1% vs 92.5 +- 3.2%, P = .001) and comparable to non-BCR-ABL1-like high (75.2 +- 6.2%) and very high-risk patients (56.8 +- 7.4%). All four ETV6-RUNX1-like patients survived event-free. CONCLUSION: Analogous to previous studies, incidence of BCR-ABL1-like ALL in our cohort was 13.2% with outcome comparable to high and very high-risk patients. A significantly high number of RAS class mutations was a distinct feature of our BCR-ABL1-like ALL group.
42051317 | SATB1 is a targetable modulator of JAK-STAT signaling and cytokines in human Treg and Tconv cells. The chromatin organizer SATB1 is indispensable for thymic regulatory T cell (Treg cell) development and T helper cell induction. Several gene loci have been described to be SATB1-controlled, including the transcription factor GATA3 and the cytokine loci IL-4 and IL-17. However, the global effects of SATB1 on fully differentiated human CD4 conventional T cells (Tconv cells) and Treg cells, and thus SATB1's potential as a target for T cell engineering, are poorly understood. We describe SATB1-regulated gene signatures as largely subset-specific, with broader effects on Treg cells. Despite of the distinct gene-regulatory patterns, we observe overarching dysregulated cytokine and JAK-STAT signaling after SATB1 ablation. Functionally, SATB1 KO reduces human Treg cell suppressive capacities but boosts tumor clearance via CD4 CAR T cells in a preclinical, humanized mouse model. Together, Treg destabilization and simultaneous increased activation of CD4 CAR T cells by SATB1 modulation may be an interesting strategy to boost the efficiency of CAR T cell therapies.
41494967 | Protective role of PCED1B-expressing naive CD4+ T cells in sepsis. BACKGROUND: Sepsis is a global health challenge associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. Early diagnosis and treatment are challenging because of the limited understanding of its underlying mechanisms. This study aimed to identify effective biomarkers for diagnosing and treating sepsis through an integrated multi-method approach. METHODS: Publicly available single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and bulk RNA-seq datasets were analyzed for naive CD4+ T cell-specific genes. Based on these hub genes, Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis, followed by the MR-Bayesian model averaging (MR-BMA) algorithm, was implemented to explore the causality between these genes and sepsis. In addition, single-cell-type expression analysis, cell-cell communication detection, metabonomic evaluation, clinical samples, and both in vivo and in vitro studies were conducted to unveil the underlying mechanisms of potential therapeutic targets. RESULTS: scRNA-seq revealed significant depletion of naive CD4+ T cells in sepsis, identifying 33 key genes. Both MR and MR-BMA analyses confirmed that elevated proportion of naive CD4+ T cell in total CD4+ T cells (naive CD4+ T cell % CD4+ T cell) were related to sepsis occurrence (odds ratio [OR] = 0.90, 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.83-0.97, P = 0.007) and 28-day mortality associated with sepsis (OR = 0.75, 95% CI, 0.64-0.88, P <0.001). Notably, among the 33 hub genes, PC-esterase domain containing 1B (PCED1B) exhibited a strong causal association with 28-day mortality in patients with sepsis (OR = 0.64, 95% CI, 0.51-0.81, P <0.001), which was further validated by bulk RNA-seq analysis. PCED1B mediated the impact of proportion of naive CD4+ T cell in CD4+ T cell on sepsis-related mortality. In addition, clinical samples and both in vivo and in vitro experiments validated the elevated expression of PCED1B in naive CD4+ T cells derived from sepsis patients and mice. Mechanistic investigations revealed PCED1B+ CD4+ T cells may interact with monocytes/dendritic cells through the MIF-(CD74+CD44) axis, concurrently engaging with B cells/plasmablasts through the MIF-(CD74+CXCR4) axis, thereby regulating multiple metabolic alterations in sepsis. CONCLUSION: The interplay between PCED1B and naive CD4+ T cells, as revealed by this study, is instrumental in developing immunotherapeutic strategies for sepsis.
41967778 | Efficacy and safety of the Chinese herbal medicine Yiaikang capsule in treating AIDS: a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: The Shuyu pill is a traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) formula, used to treat Xu Lao for over 1800 years. Studies have reported the effectiveness of Yiaikang capsules (YAK), a modified form of Shuyu pills, in AIDS treatment. However, clinical evidence for the management of AIDS using YAK is lacking. We aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of YAK combined with antiretroviral therapy (ART) among people living with HIV infection. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients were assigned 1:1 to receive YAK combined with ART, or placebo combined with ART, for 48 weeks. The primary outcome was changes in CD4 counts. Secondary outcomes were changes in CD4+CCR5+ and CD4+CXCR4+ counts, HIV-1 load, inflammatory markers from the time of screening to week 48, and total TCM score every 4 weeks. RESULTS: We enrolled 144 patients from eight centers. No significant differences were observed in sex, age, CD4 counts, or other baseline characteristics between the two groups. At week 48, the adjusted mean CD4 count reached 488.7 cells/mm3 in the YAK group (95% confidence interval [CI]: 458.2, 519.2), compared with 385.9 cells/mm3 in the placebo group (95% CI: 354.1, 417.7), resulting in a substantial between-group difference of 102.8 cells/mm3 (95% CI: 59.6, 146.0; P<0.001). TCM syndrome scores indicated that YAK combined with ART was more effective than placebo after 8 weeks (each P<0.001). YAK significantly reduced the levels of activation markers (CD4+CCR5+, CD4+CXCR4+) and inflammatory cytokines (interleukin-4, interferon-gamma, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha) compared to placebo( P<0.05). No serious adverse events were reported. CONCLUSIONS: YAK combined with ART promoted CD4 count recovery, improved TCM syndrome, and alleviated immune activation.
11342299 | Transcription factors that regulate growth and differentiation of myeloid cells. Recently much progress has been made in our understanding of how myeloid progenitor cells undergo commitment and become mature granulocytes or monocytes/macrophages. Studies of normal and leukemic myeloid cells as well as those of cells derived from mice with targeted disruption showed that a series of transcription factors play a major role in both commitment and maturation of myeloid cells. This is primarily because these transcription factors direct an ordered pattern of gene expression according to a well-defined developmental program. PU.1, an Ets family member, is one of the master transcription factors identified to regulate development of both granulocytes and monocytes/macrophages. Further, C/EBPalpha and C/EBPvarepsilon of the bZip family have important roles in directing granulocytic maturation. A number of additional transcription factors such as AML1, RARalpha, MZF-1, Hox and STAT families of transcription factors, Egr-1 and c-myb etc are shown to play roles in myeloid cell differentiation. Our laboratory has recently obtained evidence that ICSBP, a member of the IRF family, is involved in lineage commitment during myeloid cell differentiation and stimulates maturation of functional macrophages. Future elucidation of pathways and networks through which these transcription factors act in various stages of development would provide a more definitive picture of myeloid cell commitment and maturation.
15542674 | Mutation of all Runx (AML1/core) sites in the enhancer of T-lymphomagenic SL3-3 murine leukemia virus unmasks a significant potential for myeloid leukemia induction and favors enhancer evolution toward induction of other disease patterns. SL3-3 murine leukemia virus is a potent inducer of T-lymphomas in mice. Using inbred NMRI mice, it was previously reported that a mutant of SL3-3 with all enhancer Runx (AML1/core) sites disrupted by 3-bp mutations (SL3-3dm) induces predominantly non-T-cell tumors with severely extended latency (S. Ethelberg, J. Lovmand, J. Schmidt, A. Luz, and F. S. Pedersen, J. Virol. 71:7273-7280, 1997). By use of three-color flow cytometry and molecular and histopathological analyses, we have now performed a detailed phenotypic characterization of SL3-3- and SL3-3dm-induced tumors in this mouse strain. All wild-type induced tumors had clonal T-cell receptor beta rearrangements, and the vast majority were CD3(+) CD4(+) CD8(-) T-lymphomas. Such a consistent phenotypic pattern is unusual for murine leukemia virus-induced T-lymphomas. The mutant virus induced malignancies of four distinct hematopoietic lineages: myeloid, T lymphoid, B lymphoid, and erythroid. The most common disease was myeloid leukemia with maturation. Thus, mutation of all Runx motifs in the enhancer of SL3-3 severely impedes viral T-lymphomagenicity and thereby discloses a considerable and formerly unappreciated potential of this virus for myeloid leukemia induction. Proviral enhancers with complex structural alterations (deletions, insertions, and/or duplications) were found in most SL3-3dm-induced T-lymphoid tumors and immature myeloid leukemias but not in any cases of myeloid leukemia with maturation, mature B-lymphoma, or erythroleukemia. Altogether, our results indicate that the SL3-3dm enhancer in itself promotes induction of myeloid leukemia with maturation but that structural changes may arise in vivo and redirect viral disease specificity to induction of T-lymphoid or immature myeloid leukemias, which typically develop with moderately shorter latencies.
41459752 | 3D enhancer architecture coordinated by CTCF determines immune-related gene expression patterns via RNA polymerase II pause-release in CD4+ T cells. CTCF (CCCTC-binding factor) is crucial for organizing mammalian genomes into domains and structural loops, yet its role in enhancer-promoter interactions remains unclear. Here, we demonstrate that 3D enhancer architecture undergoes marked reorganization upon CTCF depletion in activated CD4+ T cells. Despite this, active transcription, particularly driven by STAT5-bound super-enhancers, maintains enhancer loops independently of CTCF. Interestingly, robust enhancer-promoter interactions are associated with the release of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) pausing and require CTCF-dependent 3D genome organization to shape immune-related gene expression patterns in CD4+ T cells. Notably, CTCF depletion reprograms the transcriptional response of CD4+ T cells to JAK inhibitors by rewiring the STAT5 enhancer network rather than altering the upstream JAK/STAT signaling cascade. This study emphasizes the role of 3D enhancer architecture orchestrated by CTCF and active transcription in directing precise cell identity gene expression through RNAPII pause-release in CD4+ T cells.
15297309 | Haploinsufficiency of AML1 results in a decrease in the number of LTR-HSCs while simultaneously inducing an increase in more mature progenitors. The AML1/CBFbeta transcriptional complex is essential for the formation of definitive hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Moreover, development of the hematopoietic system is exquisitely sensitive to the level of this complex. To investigate the effect of AML1 dosage on adult hematopoiesis, we compared the hematopoietic systems of AML1+/- and AML1+/+ mice. Surprisingly, loss of a single AML1 allele resulted in a 50% reduction in long-term repopulating hematopoietic stem cells (LTR-HSCs). This decrease did not, however, extend to the next level of hematopoietic differentiation. Instead, AML1+/- mice had an increase in multilineage progenitors, an expansion that resulted in enhanced engraftment following transplantation. The expanded pool of AML1+/- progenitors remained responsive to homeostatic mechanisms and thus the number of mature cells in most lineages remained within normal limits. Two notable exceptions were a decrease in CD4(+) T cells, leading to an inversion of the CD4(+) to CD8(+) T-cell ratio and a decrease in circulating platelets. These data demonstrate a dosage-dependent role for AML1/CBFbeta in regulating the quantity of HSCs and their downstream committed progenitors, as well as a more restricted role in T cells and platelets. The latter defect mimics one of the key abnormalities in human patients with the familial platelet disorder resulting from AML1 haploinsufficiency.
41201241 | Highly efficient production of HIV-1AD8 gp120 in mammalian cells. Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) envelope glycoproteins (Envs) interact with the CD4 receptor and CCR5/CXCR4 coreceptor expressed on target cells to mediate viral entry. Infection is initiated when the HIV-1 gp120 subunit of Envs binds to host receptors. gp120 can also be expressed as a soluble protein and is routinely used for different biophysical and immunization studies. Here, we compared the transient and stable expression of monomeric HIV-1AD8 gp120 in two closely related 293 cell lines grown in suspension. We used an HIV-1AD8 gp120-expressing plasmid to generate 293 cell lines that stably expressed HIV-1AD8 gp120 under selection of puromycin. In parallel, we used polyethyleneimine (PEI) to transiently transfect FreeStyle 293 F cells with the identical HIV-1AD8 gp120-expressing plasmid. Stable 293-AD8gp120 cells grew in media complemented with a feed supplement to a density of >1E7 cells/mL and produced an average of ~150 mg of gp120/liter of the culture, which was about 50-fold higher than the yield of gp120 produced by transient transfection of FreeStyle 293 F cells. SDS-PAGE analysis of HIV-1AD8 gp120 produced by the two different methods showed similar patterns, but gp120 purified from the stable cell line exhibited higher homogeneity. Binding of anti-gp120 antibodies to gp120 that was produced by the two methods was comparable according to ELISA. Both gp120s could bind equally well to soluble CD4 and compete with infection of viruses pseudotyped with HIV-1AD8 Envs. Our findings highlight multiple advantages of producing HIV-1AD8 gp120 by stable expression for downstream applications.IMPORTANCEThere are approximately 40.8 million people living with HIV-1 (PLWH) worldwide, with an estimate of about 1.3 million new HIV-1 infections in 2024, highlighting the urgent need for an effective HIV-1 vaccine and cure strategies. Here, we describe a highly efficient method to produce soluble HIV-1 gp120, which is intensively used in viral assays and for vaccine development. The method may be helpful in research work that needs high amounts of proteins for diverse experiments.
21613253 | The only proposed T-cell epitope derived from the TEL-AML1 translocation is not naturally processed. Adoptive therapy with T-cell receptor (TCR)-engineered T cells is a promising approach in cancer treatment. While usage of T cells specific for tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) can lead to serious side effects because of autoimmunity, targeting true tumor-specific mutations, such as the products of translocations in leukemias, should reduce such a risk. A potentially ideal target might be the chimeric protein TEL-AML1, which results from the chromosomal translocation 12;21 and represents the most common fusion gene in childhood B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). Within the fusion region of TEL-AML1, a single epitope has been described by reverse immunology as immunogenic in HLA-A*0201 restriction settings. As a potential source of TCRs specific for this TEL-AML1 epitope, we have used mice expressing a human TCR-alphabeta repertoire and human MHC class I. Surprisingly, we have found that, although a specific functional CD8(+) T-cell response against this peptide could be evoked, the described epitope was in fact not endogenously processed. Analyses done with a potent antigen-presenting cell line, as well as with purified human proteasomes, support the conclusion that this peptide cannot be proposed as a potential target in immunotherapy of ALL in HLA-A*0201-restricted fashion.
42139264 | The Impact of Surfactant Protein-D Gene Polymorphism on COVID-19 Clinical Outcomes. BACKGROUND: COVID-19, caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), presents a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations, ranging from asymptomatic cases to severe, life-threatening respiratory complications. Pulmonary surfactant-associated protein D (SP-D) is a critical component of pulmonary immune defense. The objective of this study was to investigate the association between a specific single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the SP-D gene, designated as rs721917 (C/T Met31Thr), and its potential impact on susceptibility to and severity of COVID-19. METHODS: This retrospective case-control study enrolled 135 participants, including 111 confirmed COVID-19 patients and 24 asymptomatic or presymptomatic individuals, who were classified into five subgroups. Addressing a significant research gap, we identified the C/T polymorphism (rs721917, T > C) of the SP-D gene within the Iranian population using the tetra-amplification refractory mutation system polymerase chain reaction (T-ARMS PCR) method. RESULTS: Statistical analysis showed a significant association between the SP-D rs721917 TT genotype and T allele with increased COVID-19 severity and hospitalization risk. The TT genotype was more frequent in ICU and CCU-admitted patients compared to the CC genotype (p < 0.05) and was linked to higher hospitalization rates overall. However, no significant correlation was found with mortality rates or patients' age. CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that variations at the rs721917 locus within the SFTPD gene may provide valuable insights into the heterogeneity of COVID-19 outcomes across different populations, thereby offering potential for enhanced diagnostic and prognostic strategies.
42145947 | Qualification of a quantitative stability indicating potency assay for mRNA-LNP vaccine candidates. Potency assays assess the functional integrity of a target antigen to ensure that the final drug product is consistent between the commercial and clinical trial lots. Existing mRNA-LNP vaccine potency assays require complex quantification methods, such as flow cytometry, which are not widely adaptable to routine use by low- and middle-income country (LMIC) manufacturers or National Regulatory Agency (NRA) laboratories. To address the need for more accessible mRNA-LNP vaccine potency methods, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed to quantify the target proteins produced by an mRNA-LNP vaccine after cell transfection. SARS-CoV-2 mRNA-LNP targeting the wild-type (Wuhan) strain was used as a model vaccine for the development and qualification of an ELISA method. The adaptability of the ELISA to other mRNA-LNP vaccines was demonstrated by altering the method used for quantification of a commercial Omicron mRNA-LNP vaccine. Alternative mRNA-LNP potency methods, such as western blotting, fluorescence focus assay (FFA), and direct ELISA were used as analogous methods for comparison. The developed quantitative stability-indicating ELISA is a globally accessible potency method that utilizes existing equipment and knowledge. Testing conducted on wild type SARS CoV-2 and Omicron vaccines demonstrates the adaptability of the method to other mRNA vaccine targets.
34299194 | Expression of RUNX1-JAK2 in Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Hematopoietic Cells Activates the JAK-STAT and MYC Pathways. A heterogeneous genetic subtype of B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia is driven by constitutive kinase-activation, including patients with JAK2 fusions. In our study, we model the impact of a novel JAK2 fusion protein on hematopoietic development in human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs). We insert the RUNX1-JAK2 fusion into one endogenous RUNX1 allele through employing in trans paired nicking genome editing. Tagging of the fusion with a degron facilitates protein depletion using the heterobifunctional compound dTAG-13. Throughout in vitro hematopoietic differentiation, the expression of RUNX1-JAK2 is driven by endogenous RUNX1 regulatory elements at physiological levels. Functional analysis reveals that RUNX1-JAK2 knock-in cell lines yield fewer hematopoietic progenitors, due to RUNX1 haploinsufficiency. Nevertheless, these progenitors further differentiate toward myeloid lineages to a similar extent as wild-type cells. The expression of the RUNX1-JAK2 fusion protein only elicits subtle effects on myeloid differentiation, and is unable to transform early hematopoietic progenitors. However, phosphoprotein and transcriptome analyses reveal that RUNX1-JAK2 constitutively activates JAK-STAT signaling in differentiating hiPSCs and at the same time upregulates MYC targets-confirming the interaction between these pathways. This proof-of-principle study indicates that conditional expression of oncogenic fusion proteins in combination with hematopoietic differentiation of hiPSCs may be applicable to leukemia-relevant disease modeling.
41308987 | A CD25-chemokine receptor complex initiates non-canonical IL-2 signaling. An anti-mouse CD25 antibody, PC61, induces a complex formed by the IL-2-dependent association of CD25 with CCR7 and an alternative IL-2 signaling pathway that results in integrin activation in CD4+CD25HiFoxp3+ regulatory T cells (Treg). Here, we used structure-based design together with combinatorial screening to identify a human IL-2 mutant (IL-2(E52K)) that disrupts CD25-CCR7 complex formation while retaining the full CD25 affinity of the parent molecule. An anti-human CD25, 7G7B6, drove formation of IL-2-dependent human CD25-CCR7, CD25-CXCR4, and CD25-CCR5 complexes and induced integrin activation in human CD25-expressing IL-2Ralpha+ YT-1 cells, Jurkat T cells and primary Tregs. IL-2(E52K) failed to support activation in CCR5Lo Jurkat T cells and primary Tregs. In contrast, IL-2(E52K) supported activation in CCR5Hi IL-2Ralpha+ YT-1 cells which was blocked by the CCR5-specific antagonist, Maraviroc. Heparan sulfate (HS), a physiological ligand of IL-2, induced IL-2-dependent CD25-CCR7 association and IL-2(E52K) failed to support HS-induced CD25-CCR7 complex formation and integrin activation in Jurkat cells. Both HS and 7G7B6 did not block canonical IL-2 signaling. CD122 was present in the 7G7B6-induced CCR7-CD25 complex. CD122 forms a heterodimer with CD132 (the common gamma chain) that triggers canonical IL-2 signaling. Thus, both anti-CD25 antibody and HS require formation of a chemokine receptor-CD25 complex to initiate alternative IL-2 signaling. In addition, our findings suggest that alternative and canonical IL-2 signaling receptors can be incorporated into the same multi-protein assembly, allowing for a single complex to mediate divergent effects on downstream signaling.
42139284 | ThermiQuant  AquaStream: A portable instrument for quantitative colorimetric isothermal nucleic acid amplification reactions in paper and tube formats. Microfluidic paper-based analytical devices (microPADs) are an attractive format for colorimetric nucleic acid amplification tests (NAATs) because they enable low-cost, portable diagnostics in resource-limited settings. However, researchers often optimize colorimetric assays in liquid reactions in tubes before translating them to microPADs. Since both formats require separate instruments for incubation and real-time sensing, direct comparison of reactions between the two formats is difficult. To address these cross-platform limitations, we developed ThermiQuant  AquaStream, a portable benchtop device (15 x 20 x 16 cm, ~ 5 kg; cost: USD 327) that supports seamless colorimetric loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) reactions in both microPADs and tubes under a common workflow. The system enables real-time reaction tracking (every 30 seconds) through onboard image processing, precise isothermal control (+-0.5  C) using a repurposed consumer-grade sous-vide heater, and medium-throughput (24 tubes or 42 microPADs). Testing with synthetic SARS-CoV-2 orf7ab DNA fragments demonstrated a limit of detection corresponding to a 95% probability of detection (LOD95) of 110 copies per reaction in tube (22 copies/microL) and 39 copies per reaction in microPADs (5 copies/microL), estimated using probit regression. In both formats the limit of quantification (LOQ), defined as the lowest concentration yielding a coefficient of variation (CV) of quantification time (Tq) <= 10%, was 250 copies/reaction resulting in a strong linear (R2 = 0.98 & R2 = 0.96 respectively for tube and microPADs) standard calibration curves. ThermiQuant  AquaStream provides an affordable and versatile benchtop platform capable of supporting both tube- and microPAD-based colorimetric LAMP assays, serving as a proof-of-concept research tool for assay development and molecular diagnostics in One Health settings such as clinics, farms, and field environments.
42139270 | An alternative strategy for balancing profit maximization and risk reduction. Portfolio diversification is a central theme in modern investment theory. We revisit the classic return-risk trade-off and propose an alternative objective [Formula: see text] that balances higher expected returns with a direct penalty on portfolio volatility via the inverse standard deviation. This objective belongs to the axiomatic class of mean-variance preferences (as formalised by [1] for additively separable forms) and admits tractable solutions, including a closed-form characterisation in the two-asset case. In rolling out-of-sample backtests on standard Fama-French equity portfolios with realistic trading costs and long-only constraints, [Formula: see text] delivers statistically significantly lower realised volatility (paired t-test p < 0.01) and shallower maximum drawdowns than the Sharpe-maximising benchmark, while maintaining average performance comparable to Markowitz, equal-weight, and risk-parity strategies. These advantages persist across major stress episodes (GFC, COVID-19, 2022 rate shock) and are robust over a wide range of the trade-off parameter [Formula: see text]. The results position [Formula: see text] as a pragmatic alternative for investors who value smoother wealth paths and robust downside protection.
42139273 | A solo journey in the shadow of a double-edged pandemic: A qualitative study of women's experience of being pregnant during the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic profoundly affected the emotional well-being of pregnant women. In Sweden, no national lockdown was implemented; instead, healthcare restrictions were imposed, most notably limiting partner involvement in perinatal care. This marked a significant shift from standard practices that emphasize partner participation as a key component for maternal support and well-being. This study aimed to explore women's experiences of being pregnant during the COVID-19 pandemic. A qualitative interview study was conducted in Sweden, including 30 pregnant women. The data were analyzed using content analysis with an inductive approach. Four overarching themes were identified: Living in the Shadow of the Pandemic, Missing Out on the Shared Journey, Unpredictability Creates Worry and Fear, and Adaptation and Growth in a Threatening World. The findings describe pregnant women's experiences during the COVID-19 pandemic as a period marked by vulnerability, partner exclusion, uncertainty and emotional strain. However, many participants also demonstrated resilience and developed adaptive strategies. A recurring desire emerged for more inclusive, consistent healthcare practices and clearer communication tailored to the needs of expectant families. The findings highlight the importance of patient-centered, accessible perinatal healthcare and contribute to the existing research by emphasizing the role of support systems and national guidelines in safeguarding maternal and family well-being during future pandemics.
10545320 | The Ig fold of the core binding factor alpha Runt domain is a member of a family of structurally and functionally related Ig-fold DNA-binding domains. BACKGROUND: CBFA is the DNA-binding subunit of the transcription factor complex called core binding factor, or CBF. Knockout of the Cbfa2 gene in mice leads to embryonic lethality and a profound block in hematopoietic development. Chromosomal disruptions of the human CBFA gene are associated with a large percentage of human leukemias. RESULTS: Utilizing nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy we have determined the three-dimensional fold of the CBFA Runt domain in its DNA-bound state, showing that it is an s-type immunoglobulin (Ig) fold. DNA binding by the Runt domain is shown to be mediated by loop regions located at both ends of the Runt domain Ig fold. A putative site for CBFB binding has been identified; the spatial location of this site provides a rationale for the ability of CBFB to modulate the affinity of the Runt domain for DNA. CONCLUSIONS: Structural comparisons demonstrate that the s-type Ig fold found in the Runt domain is conserved in the Ig folds found in the DNA-binding domains of NF-kappaB, NFAT, p53, STAT-1, and the T-domain. Thus, these proteins form a family of structurally and functionally related DNA-binding domains. Unlike the other members of this family, the Runt domain utilizes loops at both ends of the Ig fold for DNA recognition.
37581927 | RUNX1 loss renders hematopoietic and leukemic cells dependent on interleukin-3 and sensitive to JAK inhibition. Disease-initiating mutations in the transcription factor RUNX1 occur as germline and somatic events that cause leukemias with particularly poor prognosis. However, the role of RUNX1 in leukemogenesis is not fully understood and effective therapies for RUNX1-mutant leukemias remain elusive. Here, we use primary patient samples and a RUNX1 knockout model in primary human hematopoietic cells to investigate how RUNX1 loss contributes to leukemic progression and to identify targetable vulnerabilities. Surprisingly, we found that RUNX1 loss decreased proliferative capacity and stem cell function. However, RUNX1-deficient cells selectively upregulated the interleukin-3 (IL-3) receptor. Exposure to IL-3, but not other JAK/STAT cytokines, rescued RUNX1 KO proliferative and competitive defects. Further, we demonstrated that RUNX1 loss repressed JAK/STAT signaling and rendered RUNX1-deficient cells sensitive to JAK inhibitors. Our study identifies a dependency of RUNX1-mutant leukemias on IL-3/JAK/STAT signaling, which may enable these aggressive blood cancers to be targeted with existing agents.
39829843 | APMAT analysis reveals the association between CD8 T cell receptors, cognate antigen, and T cell phenotype and persistence. Elucidating the relationships between a class I peptide antigen, a CD8 T cell receptor (TCR) specific to that antigen, and the T cell phenotype that emerges following antigen stimulation, remains a mostly unsolved problem, largely due to the lack of large data sets that can be mined to resolve such relationships. Here, we describe Antigen-TCR Pairing and Multiomic Analysis of T-cells (APMAT), an integrated experimental-computational framework designed for the high-throughput capture and analysis of CD8 T cells, with paired antigen, TCR sequence, and single-cell transcriptome. Starting with 951 putative antigens representing a comprehensive survey of the SARS-CoV-2 viral proteome, we utilize APMAT for the capture and single cell analysis of CD8 T cells from 62 HLA A*02:01 COVID-19 participants. We leverage this unique, comprehensive dataset to integrate with peptide antigen properties, TCR CDR3 sequences, and T cell phenotypes to show that distinct physicochemical features of the antigen-TCR pairs strongly associate with both T cell phenotype and T cell persistence. This analysis suggests that CD8+ T cell phenotype following antigen stimulation is at least partially deterministic, rather than the result of stochastic biological properties.
42135397 | The impact of psychological distress on working memory during COVID-19 by disentangling cognitive deficits from emotional burden. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound impact on public health and human cognitive functioning, with studies highlighting deficits in attention, executive function, and working memory. In this study, we examine the relationship between working memory performance and anxiety, psychosomatic symptoms, and psychological distress-variables known to influence cognitive functioning. Our findings reveal that psychological distress accounted for a significant portion of the variance in visual working memory performance, particularly during the early stages of the disease when distress levels were at their peak. These results underscore the importance of distinguishing the direct effects of COVID-19 on brain structures from the broader psychological toll. These findings highlight the need for rehabilitation programs to address not only cognitive impairments but also the psychological burden faced by patients, ensuring a more holistic approach to recovery.
39337964 | HLA-C Peptide Repertoires as Predictors of Clinical Response during Early SARS-CoV-2 Infection. The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) system plays a pivotal role in the immune response to viral infections, mediating the presentation of viral peptides to T cells and influencing both the strength and specificity of the host immune response. Variations in HLA genotypes across individuals lead to differences in susceptibility to viral infection and severity of illness. This study uses observations from the early phase of the COVID-19 pandemic to explore how specific HLA class I molecules affect clinical responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. By analyzing paired high-resolution HLA types and viral genomic sequences from 60 patients, we assess the relationship between predicted HLA class I peptide binding repertoires and infection severity as measured by the sequential organ failure assessment score. This approach leverages functional convergence across HLA-C alleles to identify relationships that may otherwise be inaccessible due to allelic diversity and limitations in sample size. Surprisingly, our findings show that severely symptomatic infection in this cohort is associated with disproportionately abundant binding of SARS-CoV-2 structural and non-structural protein epitopes by patient HLA-C molecules. In addition, the extent of overlap between a given patient's predicted HLA-C and HLA-A peptide binding repertoires correlates with worse prognoses in this cohort. The findings highlight immunologic mechanisms linking HLA-C molecules with the human response to viral pathogens that warrant further investigation.
42140729 | [Mental health symptoms during the Covid-19 pandemic and hypertension in Morocco]. The Covid-19 pandemic has had well-established effects on mental health. However, few studies have examined its specific impact on people with hypertension. To address this gap, a study was conducted in the Beni Mellal province, Morocco, to assess the psychological repercussions of Covid-19 in hypertensive patients compared to normotensive controls. Symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress were measured using the DASS-21 scale.
40702550 | Mandatory preventive vaccines for infectious diseases expressing T-cell epitopes for cancer prevention. We have previously reported that microorganism-associated antigens (MAAs) share high sequence and conformational homology with tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) as well as T cells cross-react with homologous MAA/TAA pairs. More recently, we have also shown that the SARS-CoV-2 preventive vaccine, besides the humoral response, is able to elicit also a T cell response which cross-react with homologous TAAs. In the present study we analyzed the mandatory pediatric vaccines, namely the hexavalent vaccine (Diphtheria, Tetanus, Pertussis (whooping cough), Polio, Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), Hepatitis B) and the MMR (measles, mumps and rubella), and the chickenpox vaccine. MHC class I epitopes (9 mers) from each of these vaccines were predicted for the most frequent 12 HLA A and B alleles. Overall, 3177 strong binders (SBs) were identified and the most frequently associated allele is the HLA-A*02:01. Of these, 397 are predicted for the hexavalent vaccine and 571 in the MMR vaccine. A molecular mimicry with 59 SBs derived from cellular proteins has been identified and 13 of these proteins are significantly overexpressed in several human cancers. All these results strongly suggest that the mandatory pediatric vaccinations may potentially elicit a CD8+ T cell response against several microbial epitopes in individuals with different genetic background. Such microbial epitopes show high homology with epitopes from cellular proteins overexpressed in multiple cancer types. Therefore, a potential anti-microbial CD8+ T cell response may cross-react against cancer cells. This would imply that the pediatric vaccinations may be a preventive measure against both microbial infections and a broad spectrum of tumors. A large-scale immune-epidemiological study will be needed to confirm the proposed suggestive results.
15621809 | The Kasumi-1 cell line: a t(8;21)-kit mutant model for acute myeloid leukemia. The Kasumi-1 cell line is an intensively investigated model system of Acute Myeloid Leukemia with t(8;21) translocation, that represents 1 of the 2 main subtypes of Core Binding Factor Leukemia (CBFL). Since establishment in 1991 the Kasumi-1 cell line has provided the tool to study the peculiar molecular, morphologic, immunophenotypic findings of AML with t(8;21) and the functional consequences of the AML1-ETO fusion oncogene on myeloid differentiation. Leukemogenesis involves multiple genetic changes and, as suggested by murine experiments and other findings in humans, AML1-ETO expression may not be sufficient for full blown leukemia. In agreement with the \two hits\ model of leukemogenesis, based on the cooperation between 1 class of mutations that impair hematopoietic differentiation and a second class of mutations that confer a proliferative and/or survival advantage to hematopoietic progenitors an activating mutation in the tyrosine kinase domain of the c-kit gene was identified in the AML1/ETO expressing Kasumi-1 cell line. The dosage of the Asn822Lys mutated allele was shown to be about 5-fold compared to the normal allele and c-kit amplification was found to map to minute 4cen-q11 marker chromosomes, likely derived from the extra chromosome 4 recorded in the newly established cell line. The combination of t(8;21) and trisomy 4 leading to enhanced dosage of a mutated kit allele is a feature of a few CBFL patients reproduced by the Kasumi-1 cell model. The Kasumi-1 cell line, paralleling the commitment stage of CBF leukemia also provides a valuable resource to investigate the effect of tyrosine kinase kit mutant on the main KIT-regulated signal transduction pathways, i.e. MAPK, PI3K/AKT and STAT3 and the diverse inhibitory effect exerted by STI 571 on these KIT mutant activated pathways. PI3K-dependent activation of AKT and STAT activation was observed in Kasumi-1 cells. Contrary to the expectations for an amplified tyrosine kinase kit mutant, we found that STI 571 inhibited KIT Asn822Lys tyrosine phosphorylation and downstream JNK and STAT3 effectors in Kasumi-1 cells, but had no effect on constitutive activation of AKT, suggesting that signaling by tyrosine kinases other than KIT may be responsible for its activation in Kasumi-1 cells. Independent findings on the same model system provide complementary insights into designing strategies for treatment of CBF leukemia associated with mutations in the KIT catalytic domain.
41303692 | Modeling Human Protein Physical Interactions Involved in HIV Attachment In Silico. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) remains a major global health challenge. A promising therapeutic strategy involves identifying human proteins capable of physically blocking viral entry by interacting with key components of the HIV attachment system. To address this challenge systematically, we developed a computational pipeline for prioritizing protein-protein interaction and applied it to identify host proteins interacting with the viral glycoprotein gp120 and cellular receptors (CD4, CCR5, CXCR4, CCR2). Our approach combined large-scale interaction modeling using AlphaFold 3 with a comprehensive comparative analysis framework. We screened a panel of 55 candidate human proteins selected through integrated bioinformatics analysis. The pipeline incorporated model confidence assessment, quantitative contact analysis, and normalization against reference interactions to generate a robust ranking of candidates. Key findings reveal several important patterns. Chemokine CCL27 uniquely demonstrated high binding potential to both CCR5 co-receptor and viral gp120, suggesting its potential for dual-blockade capability. Analysis of natural ligand interactions with chemokine receptors showed marked disparity: CC-chemokine family members exhibited significantly greater binding capacity for CCR5 and CCR2 receptors compared to CXC-family ligand interactions with CXCR4. This binding imbalance may potentially drive selective viral pressure and influence tropism evolution during disease progression. We also identified potential interactions between HIV entry components and neuropeptides including PNOC and NPY, as well as various membrane receptors beyond classical coreceptors. Furthermore, cluster analysis revealed clear separation between receptor-type and ligand-type interactors, supporting the biological plausibility of our predictions. While acknowledging limitations related to model refinement, this study provides a systematically ranked set of candidate targets for HIV therapeutic development. Beyond identifying specific HIV interaction candidates, this study establishes a generalizable computational pipeline for the prioritization of protein-protein interaction in pathogen-host systems, effectively bridging large-scale modeling.
42107746 | SAHA induces immunogenic cell death in triple negative breast cancer cells and its efficacy is enhanced by SOCS3 functional replacement. Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype associated with poor prognosis and limited therapeutic options. Epigenetic changes contribute to TNBC tumorigenesis, and histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) have emerged as promising therapeutic agents. However, their efficacy as monotherapy in solid tumors remains limited. Recent evidence highlights their immunomodulatory potential, supporting the development of combination strategies. We investigated the effect of the HDACi suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) on cell viability and immunogenic cell death (ICD), as well as its combinatory potential with a SOCS3 peptidomimetic (KIRCONG chim PEG), designed to inhibit STAT3 phosphorylation (pSTAT3), in TNBC cell lines. SAHA reduced TNBC cell viability and, at its IC25, induced ICD hallmarks in MDA-MB-231 cells, including ATP release, calreticulin surface exposure, and increased HMGB1 levels, accompanied by enhanced IL-6 secretion. In contrast, MDA-MB-468 cells showed limited ICD features under the same conditions. The higher IL-6 secretion observed in untreated MDA-MB-231 cells was associated with lower basal SOCS3 expression compared to MDA-MB-468 cells. Given the potential role of IL-6/JAK/STAT3 signaling in limiting HDACi efficacy, SAHA was combined with the SOCS3 peptidomimetic KIRCONG chim PEG. In MDA-MB-231 cells, co-treatment reduced pSTAT3 levels and increased BAK expression. Moreover, the combination shifted the IC25 of SAHA, indicating enhanced sensitivity to sub-toxic concentrations. Conditioned media from co-treated MDA-MB-231 cells promoted CD4+T cell activation, as shown by increased HLA-DR and CD69 expression. Overall, these findings indicate that SOCS3 functional replacement enhances SAHA anti-cancer and immunogenic effects in IL-6 high TNBC cells, supporting a context-dependent combinatory strategy targeting the IL-6/STAT3 axis.
41510294 | An HLA Association With COVID-19 Vaccine Reactogenicity Correlates With Fewer SARS-CoV-2 Infections and Monocyte Activation. Vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 has been the most effective tool in mitigating the COVID-19 pandemic. However, some individuals experience side effects that cause distress and interfere with daily activities, which can limit vaccine uptake, with important public health implications. Here, we considered the impact of HLA variation on the propensity for mild side effects with COVID-19 vaccination. We examined variation in HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, and -DQB1 for association with self-reported side effects in a large cohort of U.S. Euro-ancestry vaccinated individuals (N = 50,535) and confirmed results in an independent replication cohort (N = 4,575). We found that HLA-A*03:01 was significantly associated with systemic side effects (OR = 1.36, CI = 1.31-1.41, p = 6.79x10-57) and fewer breakthrough infections, and that this phenomenon is specific to the COVID-19 vaccine. Surprisingly, we observed limited activation of CD8+ T cells in HLA-A*03:01+ samples to the Spike-derived peptides, excluding them as a likely source of the reported vaccine side effects. Rather, examination of immune cell subsets, prior and after vaccination, points to a central role for monocytes in the production of IL-6 and IL-8, which significantly correlates with the reported severity of side effects in HLA-A*03:01+ donors. Meanwhile, the large, mostly naive, and low-affinity population of Spike-specific CD8+ T cells likely contribute to an inflammatory milieu in HLA-A*03:01 carriers through weak binding to antigen presenting cells. This work sheds light on the mechanisms underlying HLA-mediated COVID-19 vaccine reactogenicity and associated reduction in infections, providing important new insights that may support efforts to optimize vaccine efficacy and promote broader public involvement in vaccination programs.
42137955 | Beyond Breakfast: Exploring What Works for Schools Delivering School Breakfast Programs in Queensland, Australia. BACKGROUND: School-based food relief (SBFR) programs respond to students' immediate food needs by alleviating hunger. In Queensland, Australia, SBFR was expanded during the COVID-19 pandemic emergency response to address a perceived increase in food insecurity. This paper reports on an evaluation of programs supported by the Y Queensland, which aimed to highlight successful delivery practices and determine whether food insecurity improved. METHODS: An explanatory mixed-method, multi-case study methodology was used to explore the effects of the program across four schools from the perspectives and experiences of the school staff. A descriptive survey supplemented the case study methodology to collect information from all other schools receiving SBFR support regarding program operations, types of SBFR provided, perceived program impact, and continued need for support. RESULTS: A total of 56 surveys and six in-depth interviews were collected from staff working in 46 schools supported by the program. The evaluation identified five key characteristics of effective program delivery: welcoming physical environments, relationships that promote social connection, inclusion of all to reduce stigma, adaptability to feedback and observation, and collaboration with the community. Programs with strong delivery characteristics improved food security and school connectedness, impacts that were especially valuable during COVID-19 disruptions. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates how successful SBFR programs can operate as adaptable, equity-focused interventions that create supportive environments, reduce stigma, and strengthen social connectedness while addressing food insecurity during a public health emergency.
41371300 | Duplication in the HLA-B/-C region on the short arm of chromosome 6. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Many family investigations of the HLA region are performed in order to identify HLA identical related stem cell donors. In rare cases, deviations from the expected inheritance can be observed. Such a case is shown in this presentation. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Alleles of the HLA complex have been defined in the members of an Austrian family with atypical segregation of HLA alleles by using the following methods: HLA DNA typing by low-, medium- and high-resolution techniques; genotyping of short tandem repeat (STR) markers in the HLA region; and array-based genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analyses. RESULTS: A duplication of the HLA region encompassing HLA-B, HLA-C and the STR loci D6S2678 and STR-MICA is detected. CONCLUSION: A duplication in the HLA-B/-C region of the HLA system is observed, which results from an unequal crossing-over encompassing a chromosomal region of around 377 kb.
42135767 | Trust vs. knowledge during COVID-19: the dominance of trust in promoting preventive behaviours and its role in technology acceptance in Germany and India. BACKGROUND: Adherence to COVID-19 measures depended on a range of factors, including trust in authorities, knowledge of the virus, and public perception. This study compares Germany and India to examine the association of these factors on compliance and contributes to the debate between knowledge and trust. It also explores public acceptance of virus-deactivating technologies, which could reduce reliance on individual preventive behaviours and surveillance tools, offering new insights for pandemic response and public health strategies. METHODS: Data was collected through an online primary survey using stratified random sampling in India and Germany. The questionnaire consisted of five sections: socio-demographics, knowledge, trust, preventive behaviours, and technology acceptance. The data was analysed using descriptive statistics and statistical analyses of linear regression and ordinal logistic regression. RESULTS: Almost all preventive behaviours were more frequent in India than in Germany, while German respondents had higher overall knowledge scores. The regression analysis showed no significant relationship between knowledge and trust in India. In contrast, Germany showed a weak positive association, indicating knowledge is modestly associated with trust, though other factors are also significant. The logistic regression analysis highlighted that trust was associated with all preventive behaviours during the COVID-19 pandemic in India and Germany, consistently emerging as a significant factor. While socio-demographic factors like age, education, and income also predicted some behaviours, knowledge had only a limited association. Similar results were found for the acceptance of virus-deactivating air-purification technologies in both Germany and India. Specifically, UV-light-based air purification systems, seen as a potential replacement for measures like masks and school closures, showed high acceptance: 76% in Germany and 57% in India, suggesting a likelihood of real-world implementation. CONCLUSIONS: This study adds to existing discussions on the role of knowledge, finding that trust showed a stronger association with adherence to COVID-19 measures. Comparing Germany and India, findings show that despite vast differences in healthcare systems and priorities, trust played a similarly crucial role in both contexts for preventive behaviours and acceptance of virus-deactivating technologies. Transparent communication, co-design and co-creation approaches, as well as reflexive socio-technical collaboration may support trust-building and improve public health strategies during crises.
16652147 | RUNX1 associates with histone deacetylases and SUV39H1 to repress transcription. RUNX1 (AML1) is a gene that is frequently disrupted by chromosomal translocations in acute leukemia. Like its Drosophila homolog Runt, RUNX1 both activates and represses transcription. Both Runt and RUNX1 are required for gene silencing during development and a central domain of RUNX1, termed repression domain 2 (RD2), was defined as being required for transcriptional repression and for the silencing of CD4 during T-cell maturation in thymic organ cultures. Although transcriptional co-repressors are known to contact other repression domains in RUNX1, the factors that bind to RD2 had not been defined. Therefore, we tested whether RD2 contacts histone-modifying enzymes that may mediate both repression and gene silencing. We found that RD2 contacts SUV39H1, a histone methyltransferase, via two motifs and that endogenous Suv39h1 associates with a Runx1-regulated repression element in murine erythroleukemia cells. In addition, one of these SUV39H1-binding motifs is also sufficient for binding to histone deacetylases 1 and 3, and both of these domains are required for full RUNX1-mediated transcriptional repression. The association between RUNX1, histone deacetylases and SUV39H1 provides a molecular mechanism for repression and possibly gene silencing mediated by RUNX1.
41109057 | Apparent maternal exclusion explained by a MICA deletion. A 31-year-old male undergoing evaluation for an allogeneic stem cell transplant exhibited a complete mismatch at the MICA locus compared to his biological mother. The recipient was homozygous MICA*008:04, while the mother was homozygous MICA*002:01. Sample mix-up was ruled out and we sought an alternative explanation. Upon investigation of MICA and HLA-B allele linkage, multiple studies reported an association of a MICA deletion (MICAdel) with HLA-B*48. Interestingly, the patient and his mother both typed as HLA-B*48:02. Furthermore, the patient and his mother each typed as MICB*09:01N. Copy number analysis confirmed a single copy of MICA in both samples, thus providing supporting evidence of a MICAdel in both subjects, and consistent with previously published data on the association of a MICAdel with HLA-B*48. What initially appeared to be a maternal exclusion based on a MICA mismatch was instead attributable to a hemizygous loss of MICA. This case highlights two important considerations: 1) evaluating other loci, not generally considered in most clinical matching algorithms can uncover interesting genetic anomalies usually described only in research settings, 2) The appreciation of such findings can lead to studies that explore the clinical impact of such an evolutionary change.
42138851 | COVID-19-related voice disorders: a scoping review. PURPOSE: To map the available evidence on voice changes in non-intubated adults diagnosed with mild to moderate COVID-19. RESEARCH STRATEGIES: Scoping review conducted according to PRISMA-ScR guidelines, including studies published between 2019 and 2025. Systematic searches were performed in the MEDLINE (PubMed), EMBASE, LILACS, Scopus, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library databases and in grey literature sources (Google Scholar, MedRxiv, and ProQuest). Controlled descriptors and free terms related to COVID-19 and voice disorders were combined using Boolean operators. SELECTION CRITERIA: The review included studies with adults (18-65 years) with a confirmed diagnosis of mild to moderate COVID-19 and excluded studies with individuals undergoing endotracheal intubation and with a previous history of voice disorders or respiratory comorbidities. The selection was performed by two independent reviewers. DATA ANALYSIS: The data were extracted and analyzed descriptively and quantitatively, considering study characteristics, vocal assessment methods, and main outcomes. RESULTS: Of the 35,497 records identified, 19 studies met the inclusion criteria. The most frequent voice disorders were dysphonia, hoarseness, reduction in maximum phonation time, and changes in acoustic measures such as jitter, shimmer, and harmonic-to-noise ratio. Associated symptoms included vocal fatigue, cough, dyspnea, and laryngeal discomfort, as well as a negative impact on voice-related quality of life. CONCLUSION: Mild to moderate COVID-19 can lead to clinically relevant vocal impairments, reinforcing the need for speech-language-hearing follow-up and research to support vocal assessment and rehabilitation protocols in the post-infection period.
37057942 | A Case of Acute Mixed Cell Leukemia Resembling AML1-ETO Positive Acute Myeloid Leukemia. BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to improve the understanding of complex karyotype acute mixed cell leukemia containing pseudo Chediak-Higashi granules. METHODS: A case of acute mixed cell leukemia resembling AML1-ETO positive acute myeloid leukemia was reported. The results of morphological, immunophenotypic, and cytogenetic tests were analyzed by reviewing relevant literature. RESULTS: The patient was a young boy with clinical manifestations of recurrent fever. Bone marrow smear: Granulocyte system hyperplasia is obvious, visible at each stage, primitive cells account for 12%. These cells are large in volume, mostly round or class round, with abundant cell mass, stained gray blue, unbalanced development of some nuclear plasma, abnormal cytoplasmic staining, and visible \sunrise red\ -like changes. Typical Auer bodies, pseudo Chadiak-Higashi granules and phagocytic erythroid substances were observed. The nuclei are irregular in shape, distorted and depressed, with fine chromatin and prominent large nucleoli. Bone marrow was extracted 3 days later, the bone marrow smear showed 65% primitive cells. The morphology of primitive cells was similar to that of 3 days ago. The results of flow cytometry showed that the primary/naive T cells in the samples possessed nuclear cells. Flow cytometry showed two groups of abnormal cells. One group accounted for 3.87% of nuclear cells and was a primitive/naive T-cell phenotype, mainly expressing: CD34+, CD7+, CD5+, CD2dim+, MPO-, CCD3 + part, CD3-, CD4-, CD8 -, CD117 -, CD13-, CD33-, HLA - DR -, CD10-, CD11b-, CD56-. The other group which accounted for 79.8% of the nuclear cells was monocyte phenotype, mainly expressing: CD34-, CD117-, CD13+ small amount, CD33+, HLA-DR-, CD11b+, CD14+, CD15+, CD36+, CD56+, CD64+, CD4+, CD85J+, CD85K + part. It matched the immunophenotype of acute mixed cell leukemia (T/MMPAL). Immunophenotypic leukemia-related fusion genes were negative, and karyotype analysis results were 45, XY, T (11; 12)(p13; Q13), -12-17, + mar [12]/90 < n > 4, idem x 2 [6]/46, XY. Combined with the above results, acute mixed cell leukemia was diagnosed. CONCLUSIONS: The flow cytometry is the gold standard in the diagnosis of acute mixed cell leukemia. The diagnosis of acute mixed cell leukemia requires the combination of clinical manifestations, cellular morphology, immunology, cytogenetics and molecular biology, and the comprehensive diagnosis efficiency is obviously better than that of morphology.
38932717 | The impact of MICB mismatches in unrelated haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. MICA polymorphisms have been associated with increased incidence of acute GvHD and adverse outcome in allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). MICB is another expressed member of MHC class I-related chain genes and its impact on HSCT outcome is yet to be fully defined. We typed a large cohort of patients and donors for MICB polymorphisms and investigated the impact of MICB matching on outcome after unrelated HSCT. 69.2% of the patients were 10/10 human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matched and 30.8% were 9/10 HLA matched. MICB typing was performed using a short amplicon-based NGS typing assay on the Illumina MiSeq platform. Differences in proteins were considered as mismatches. MICA polymorphisms were identified as possible confounder and were therefore included as parameter in the multivariate analyses. Due to the strong linkage disequilibrium with the classical HLA-genes, sub-stratification for HLA matching status was necessary, and no effect of MICB mismatches was seen in the 10/10 HLA matched group when compared to the MICB matched cases. However, in the 9/10 HLA matched group, MICB mismatched cases showed significantly worse disease free survival (DFS), GvHD and relapse free survival (GRFS) compared to the MICB matched cases (DFS: HR 1.24, p = 0.011; GRFS: HR 1.26, p = 0.002). MICA mismatches had no impact on any outcome parameter. According to our findings, effects previously attributed to MICA differences may have been confounded by MICB polymorphisms. We show that MICB differences contribute a small but relevant effect in 9/10 HLA-matched transplantations, which in turn highlights the possible usefulness of MICB typing in donor selection among similarly suitable 9/10 matched donors, especially when HLA-B mismatches have to be accepted.
41659253 | CD4+CXCL13+ exhausted T cells drive immune microenvironment divergence in synchronous double primary lung adenocarcinoma with different degrees of invasiveness. Background: Synchronous double primary lung adenocarcinoma (sDPLA) is a distinct subtype of lung adenocarcinoma characterized by the co-existence of two independent lesions in the same patient. We conducted the first comprehensive analysis of the immune microenvironment of sDPLA lesions with different degrees of invasiveness to examine immune evolution during early lung adenocarcinoma progression. Methods: In total, 10 sDPLA patients undergoing synchronous surgical resection were enrolled in the study. The minimally invasive adenocarcinoma (MIA) and invasive adenocarcinoma (IAC) lesions were analyzed by next-generation sequencing (NGS) or single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), focusing on T/natural killer (NK) cell subsets. The key cell subsets and signaling pathways were identified using Mfuzz clustering, CellChat, and Monocle, and validated by multiplex immunofluorescence and flow cytometry. Results: We identified 11 T/NK cell subsets, among which the CD4+ exhausted T (Tex) cell CXCL13 population was significantly enriched in the IAC lesions. These cells exhibited high expression of PD-1 and TIM-3, enhanced interactions with epithelial cells, and enrichment of the JAK-STAT and PI3K-AKT pathways, suggesting a central role in immune suppression. Validation confirmed the preferential accumulation of this subset of cells in the IAC tissues. Conclusions: This study found significant immune heterogeneity between sDPLA lesions with different degrees of invasiveness and identified CD4+ Tex CXCL13 cells as key drivers of tumor immune progression. Our findings provide new insights into early immune evolution and may inform precision immunotherapy strategies.
41112247 | Circulating immune landscape and immune signatures in spontaneous HIV controllers. A subset of people with HIV, termed HIV controllers (HIC), maintain low viral loads without antiretroviral therapy. To identify the immune cell architecture of HIV control, we profiled peripheral blood from 54 HIC (including 21 elite controllers, EC) and 1,044 non-controllers (non-HIC) in the 2000HIV study (NCT03994835) using high-dimensional cytometry and confounder-adjusted regression analysis. Both HIC and EC exhibited distinct innate immune profiles compared to non-HIC, marked by reduced frequencies of CCR5+ NKT and TCRgammadelta1+ cells. EC further showed increased neutrophils and TCRgammadelta2+ cells, and reduced eosinophils. Unsupervised clustering revealed elevated CD11c and CD1c expression on TCRgammadelta2+ cells in EC, correlating with IFNgamma production, suggesting a proinflammatory gammadelta T cell program unique to EC. Adaptive immune profiling showed shared features between HIC and EC: increased CD4+ naive and Th1/17 cells, reduced Th17 and Tfh cells, and higher CD8+ TEMRA and Tc1/17 cells with reduced memory subsets. Both groups showed increased naive and immature B cells and decreased switched memory and plasma cells. EC uniquely exhibited increased IgA+ memory B cells -a feature consistent with enhanced mucosal immunity- and decreased IgG+ memory B cells and CD307d expression, suggestive of mucosal imprinting and reduced exhaustion. Comparison of HIC and EC revealed divergent CCR5 and CXCR4 expression: EC had higher frequencies of CCR5+ and CXCR4+ CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. These elevations correlated with circulating chemokines, notably MIF for CXCR4, implying protective ligand occupancy. HIC instead showed overall lower co-receptor expression and ligand correlations. In conclusion, while HIC and EC share a core immune phenotype linked to viral control, EC-specific features- gammadelta T cell activation, IgA+ memory enrichment, and chemokine receptor regulation-may underlie more robust or distinct immune control mechanisms. This profiling resource offers new avenues for HIV cure-focused strategies.
42138845 | COVID-19 pandemic in minor psychiatric disorders among mobile emergency service workers: cohort. OBJECTIVES: to measure the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on minor psychological disorders among Mobile Emergency Care Service workers. METHODS: this was a retrospective and prospective cohort study conducted in a southern Brazilian capital. Fifty-two workers (88.2% sample size) were monitored before the pandemic and two years later, using the Self-Reporting Questionnaire. Relative risk was estimated using the generalized estimating equations model and multiple analysis of variance for repeated measures, considering p<0.05. RESULTS: disorders increased from 32.7% (n=17) to 40.4% (n=21) after two years of the pandemic (effect 0.23; p=0.12), with an increased risk for females (RR=2.10; 95%CI 1.11-3.97), comorbidities (RR=2.33; 95%CI 1.13-4.08), medication use (RR=2.37; 95%CI 1.30-4.33), nursing technicians (RR=4.44; 95%CI 1.19-16.56), and nurses (RR=6.41; 95%CI 1.69-24.24). The disorders were associated with neck and low back pain, physical, social, and psychological harm (p<0.01). CONCLUSIONS: minor psychological disorders had a high prevalence, intensifying during the pandemic.
41134049 | Stoichiometry of HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein protomers with changes that stabilize or destabilize the pretriggered conformation. During human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) entry into host cells, binding to the receptors, CD4 and CCR5/CXCR4, triggers conformational changes in the metastable envelope glycoprotein (Env) trimer ((gp120-gp41)3). CD4 binding induces Env to make transitions from its pretriggered conformation (PTC) to more \open\ conformations that are sensitive to inhibition by antibodies, CD4-mimetic compounds (CD4mcs), and exposure to cold. Changes in functional membrane Envs that either stabilize or destabilize the PTC have been identified. Here, we investigate the stoichiometric requirements for the PTC-stabilizing and -destabilizing changes in the Env protomers. To this end, we generated viruses bearing Envs with mixed protomers exhibiting different degrees of PTC stability and determined the sensitivity of the viruses to cold (0 C) and, in some cases, to a CD4mc. The number of stabilized Env protomers required to achieve stabilization of the PTC was inversely related to the degree of PTC stabilization that resulted from the introduced Env change. For strongly stabilizing Env changes, modification of a single protomer was sufficient to achieve PTC stabilization; apparently, with adequate stability, the modified protomer can constrain the conformation of the other two protomers to maintain the PTC. Weakly stabilizing Env changes needed to be present in all three protomers to achieve efficient stabilization of the PTC. In many cases, the PTC was disrupted when destabilizing changes were present in only a single protomer. These complementary results suggest that conformational symmetry among the protomers of the functional Env trimer is conducive to the integrity of the PTC.IMPORTANCEThe human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) envelope glycoprotein (Env) trimer consists of three protomers. In response to receptor binding, the flexible Env changes its conformation to mediate virus entry into host cells. The shape-shifting ability of Env also contributes to HIV-1's capacity to evade the host immune system. The pretriggered (state 1) conformation (PTC) of Env is an important target for virus entry inhibitors and host antibodies but is unstable and therefore incompletely characterized. Changes in Env amino acids that either stabilize or destabilize the PTC have been identified. Here, we define how many Env protomers need to be modified by these changes to achieve stabilization or destabilization of the PTC. These results can guide the placement of changes in the HIV-1 Env protomers to control the movement of the Env trimer from the PTC, allowing better characterization of this elusive conformation and testing of its utility in vaccines.
41905023 | Characterization of an inherited HLA-B gene deletion in a candidate for hematopoietic cell transplantation. Accurate high-resolution genotyping of HLA genes for hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) recipients provides critical information for matching and donor selection. We describe unusual family typing for a pediatric transplant candidate which revealed that the patient and mother did not share a common HLA-B allele, although all other class I and class II HLA alleles inherited on the maternal haplotype were detected. Copy number analysis of hybrid capture next generation sequencing data showed 2 copies each of HLA-A, C, MICA, MICB, DRB1, DQA1, DQB1, DPA1, and DPB1, but revealed HLA-B allele hemizygosity in both the patient and mother. Binary alignment mapping to the HLA-B consensus sequence showed a drop in coverage in the 5' untranslated region, approximately 300 base pairs upstream of exon 1. Germline whole genome sequencing performed on DNA from a skin punch biopsy from the patient confirmed an ~ 85 kb deletion spanning the entire HLA-B gene locus. This case highlights the importance of family/haplotype studies and copy number analysis in workup for HCT and suggests that HLA locus deletions, although rare, may be underappreciated. Furthermore, haplotypes with deleted alleles may not be accurately reflected in population frequencies and donor search algorithms.
26674644 | RUNX1-Evi-1 fusion gene inhibited differentiation and apoptosis in myelopoiesis: an in vivo study. BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) 1-Evi-1 is a chimeric gene generated by the t (3; 21) (q26; q22) translocation, which leads into malignant transformation of hematopoietic stem cells by unclear mechanisms. This in vivo study aimed to establish a stable line of zebrafish expressing the human RUNX1-Evi-1 fusion gene under the control of a heat stress-inducible bidirectional promoter, and investigate its roles in hematopoiesis and hematologic malignancies. METHODS: We introduced human RUNX1-Evi-1 fusion gene into embryonic zebrafish through a heat-shock promoter to establish Tg(RE:HSE:EGFP) zebrafish. Two males and one female mosaic F0 zebrafish embryos (2.1%) were identified as stable positive germline transgenic zebrafish. RESULTS: The population of immature myeloid cells and hematopoietic blast cells were accumulated in peripheral blood and single cell suspension from kidney of adult Tg(RE:HSE:EGFP) zebrafish. RUNX1-Evi-1 presented an intensive influence on hematopoietic regulatory factors. Consequently, primitive hematopoiesis was enhanced by upregulation of gata2 and scl, while erythropoiesis was downregulated due to the suppression of gata1. Early stage of myelopoiesis was flourishing with the high expression of pu.1, but it was inhibited along with the low expression of mpo. Microarray analysis demonstrated that RUNX1-Evi-1 not only upregulated proteasome, cell cycle, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, tyrosine metabolism, drug metabolism, and PPAR pathway, but also suppressed transforming growth factor beta, Jak-STAT, DNA replication, mismatch repair, p53 pathway, JNK signaling pathway, and nucleotide excision repair. Interestingly, histone deacetylase 4 was significantly up-regulated. Factors in cell proliferation were obviously suppressed after 3-day treatment with histone deacetylase inhibitor, valproic acid. Accordingly, higher proportion of G1 arrest and apoptosis were manifested by the propidium iodide staining. CONCLUSION: RUNX1-Evi-1 may promote proliferation and apoptosis resistance of primitive hematopoietic cell, and inhibit the differentiation of myeloid cells with the synergy of different pathways and factors. VPA may be a promising choice in the molecular targeting therapy of RUNX1-Evi-1-related leukemia.
39447013 | Genome-wide identification of cell type-specific susceptibility genes for Juvenile dermatomyositis through the analysis of N6-methyladenosine-associated SNPs. Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have pinpointed genetic loci associated with juvenile dermatomyositis (JDM). Functional genes within the GWAS loci may be cell type-specific, but their identity remains largely unknown. N6-methyladenosine (m6A) plays a pivotal role in regulating various cellular processes and is linked to autoimmune diseases. This study aimed to underscore the potential functional genes within the GWAS loci through the analysis of m6A-associated SNPs (m6A-SNPs), specifically within relevant cell types. JDM-associated m6A-SNPs were identified from the GWAS summary dataset. The correlation between m6A-SNPs and gene expression was assessed through bulk tissue and single-cell eQTL analyses. To further investigate the relationship between gene expression and JDM, Mendelian randomization analysis was employed. Additionally, differential expression analyses were conducted on bulk tissues, as well as single-cell transcriptomic data comprising 6 JDM patients and 11 juvenile controls (99,396 cells). Seven m6A-SNPs associated with JDM were identified. Bulk tissue analysis revealed differential expression of HLA-DPA1, HLA-DPB1, MICB, HLA-A, HLA-F, HLA-DQB2, HLA-DRB5, TAP2, PSMB9, MICA, AIF1, and DDX39B influenced by m6A-SNPs, all showing associations with JDM in both differential expression and Mendelian randomization analyses. In single-cell analysis, the six m6A-SNPs within the HLA locus acted as cell-type-specific eQTLs, correlating with the expression of HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DPB1, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB1 and HLA-DRB1 in myeloid, T or B cells. Notably, these genes displayed abnormal expression in T, B, and myeloid cells of JDM patients. The present study identified m6A-SNPs within JDM susceptibility genes, shedding light on the intricate interplay between m6A-SNPs, gene expression, and JDM.
41754547 | Single-Cell Transcriptomic Profile Associated with Sub-Subtype A6 and CRF63-02A6 HIV-1 Strain Infection. We present the single-cell transcriptomic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from individuals during acute HIV-1 infection caused by viral strains circulating in Russia and the Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries. Using 10x Genomics single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) on the Illumina NextSeq 550 platform, we have analyzed scRNA-seq data from three treatment-naive patients (viral load > 1 x 106 copies/mL, estimated infection duration <= 4 weeks) and three healthy donors. Data integration (Seurat, Harmony), automated cell-type annotation (CellTypist), and GeneOntology (GO) enrichment analysis for highly expressed and low-expressed genes revealed a profound reorganization of transcriptional programs across key immune populations, including memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, non-classical monocytes and natural killer cells (NK-cells). We observed signatures of hyperactivation of pro-inflammatory pathways (NF-kB, TNF, and type I/II interferon signaling), upregulation of genes associated with cellular migration (CXCR4, CCR7) and metabolic adaptation (oxidative phosphorylation components), alongside a mixed pro- and anti-apoptotic expression profile. Notably, our data pointed to a pronounced dysregulation of the TGF-beta and mTOR signaling cascades, disrupted intercellular communication networks-particularly between cytotoxic cells and their regulators-altered expression of genes implicated in disease progression (OLR1, SERPINB2, COPS9) and viral persistence control (NEAT1, NAF1). This work provides an initial single-cell transcriptional atlas characterizing early immune responses to HIV-1 sub-subtypes A6 and CRF63_02A6, the predominant drivers of the HIV epidemic across the FSU region.
10488742 | Augmentation of immune response by altered peptide ligands of the antigenic peptide in a human CD4+ T-cell clone reacting to TEL/AML1 fusion protein. The 12;21 chromosomal translocation occurs in leukemic cells from 20(30% of patients with B-lineage childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the result being the TEL/AML1 fusion gene carrying a sequence different from TEL or AML1. Because the protein newly formed by TEL/ AML1 fusion is probably not tolerated by human immune system, the fusion region is a good candidate for tumor antigen expressed only in TEL/ AML1-positive leukemic cells. We established two human CD4+ alphabeta T-cell clones (T31.1 and Y41.2) reacting to the TEL/AML1 fusion region, from two unrelated healthy donors. In order to do this, we stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells with synthetic peptides corresponding to the TEL/ AML1 fusion region. Both T31.1 and Y41.2 proliferated in response to TEL/ AML1 fusion protein as well as to a peptide IGRIAECILGMNPSR, in the context of HLA-DP5 and DP17, respectively, and killed B lymphoblastoid cells pulsed with the peptide. Furthermore, these T-cell clones proliferated in response to several altered peptide ligands carrying a single residue substitution in the TEL/AML1 peptide, and some induced augmentation of proliferation and production of Th1-type cytokines. These superagonistic altered peptide ligands can be given consideration for anti-leukemic immunotherapy.
42144551 | Collaboration as a Catalyst for Advancing Rare Disease Research: The Experience of the Rare Diseases Clinical Research Network. The Rare Diseases Clinical Research Network (RDCRN) was established to improve diagnosis, treatment, and research collaboration across rare diseases through collaborative, multi-site, translational, and clinical research. Its governance framework promotes efficient data sharing and collaboration among research consortia, NIH representatives, and patient advocacy groups (PAGs). This infrastructure facilitates coordinated efforts to advance rare disease research through shared resources and communication. Prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic's impact on rare disease patients, the RDCRN recognized cross-consortia collaboration as a priority. Its policies promote data sharing while protecting participant confidentiality. PAGs participate in governance, study design, and regulatory discussions, helping to identify patient-relevant priorities, improve recruitment and retention, and strengthen trust between researchers and patients. Cross-consortia efforts have addressed challenges like biomarker identification and harmonization of clinical measures, leading to new methods and standardized data collection that benefit multiple rare diseases. Studies by teams focusing on different diseases have led to improved diagnostic tools by addressing overlapping disease presentations. The RDCRN offers scholars cross-consortia opportunities for presentations, competitions, and NIH training collaborations, fostering growth and networking. Network meetings promote exchange and process standardization; pilot projects facilitate independent grant submissions, forming a pipeline of skilled investigators. The RDCRN fosters trust, shared vision, and open communication by cultivating a culture of mutual respect, shared learning, and collective problem solving. By engaging a wide range of stakeholders, it has aligned its research with patient needs, advancing innovation. Its high-impact publications, effective mentoring programs, and pioneering cross-consortia initiatives underscore the value of collaboration in rare disease research.
15579639 | Enforced activation of STAT5A facilitates the generation of embryonic stem-derived hematopoietic stem cells that contribute to hematopoiesis in vivo. Little is known about the molecular mechanisms that direct the transition from primitive to definitive hematopoiesis. In this study, we cocultured murine embryonic stem (ES) cells on OP9 stroma to induce hematopoietic differentiation as a model to study factors involved in the generation of adult hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Overexpression of the constitutively activated mutant signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 5A(1*6) in ES cells facilitated the generation of cells that expressed the endothelial-hemangioblast marker Flk-1 within 5 days of coculture on OP9. The first CD41+/ CD45+/c-Kit+/(Flk-1)- hematopoietic cells arose in our culture conditions between days 5 and 7. Persistent activation of STAT5A greatly enhanced the generation of hematopoietic progenitors compared with controls, as determined by colony assays in methylcellulose. Moreover, whereas controls generated only a short transient wave of hematopoiesis lasting less than 3 weeks, expression of STAT5A(1*6) resulted in the generation of hematopoietic cobblestone area-forming cells (CAFCs) on OP9 that could be serially passaged onto new OP9, giving rise to second and third CAFCs that generated hematopoietic progenitors for > or = 5 weeks, indicating a role for STAT5A in HSC self-renewal in vitro. Several definitive hematopoietic genes were upregulated by STAT5A (1*6), as well as Runx1/AML1, vascular endothelial growth factor, oncostatin M receptor, HoxB4, Wnt5A, Delta-like-1, and Bmi-1. Furthermore, ES-derived hematopoietic cells expressing STAT5A(1*6) contributed to myeloid-lymphoid hematopoiesis in primary and secondary nonobese diabetic-severe combined immunodeficiency recipients, although no donor-derived cells could be detected after 7 weeks in the secondary recipients. These data indicate that a persistent activation of STAT5A allows the generation of ES-derived HSCs that can, at least for an intermediate period, contribute to hematopoiesis in vivo.
14630789 | Role of RUNX1 in adult hematopoiesis: analysis of RUNX1-IRES-GFP knock-in mice reveals differential lineage expression. The Runx1/core binding factor-beta (CBFbeta) transcriptional complex is required for the establishment of hematopoiesis during development. Despite its critical role during development, a detailed analysis of Runx1 expression within specific lineages and developmental stages of the adult hematopoietic system is lacking. To address this, we have developed a Runx1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) knock-in mouse. We show that Runx1 is expressed in several hematopoietic lineages, including myeloid, B-lymphoid, and T-lymphoid cells. By contrast, Runx1 is weakly expressed in early erythroid cells, and its expression is rapidly extinguished during later stages of erythropoiesis. Runx1 expression is induced during early B-cell development and is expressed at a uniform level during all subsequent stages of B-cell development. Within the thymus, Runx1 is expressed at the highest level in CD4-CD8- double-negative thymocytes. In peripheral T cells, Runx1 is differentially expressed, with CD4+ T cells expressing 2- to 3-fold higher levels of Runx1 than CD8+ cells. Taken together, these findings indicate that although widely expressed in the hematopoietic system, the expression of Runx1 is regulated in a cell type- and maturation stage-specific manner. In addition, the Runx1-IRES-GFP knock-in mouse strain should prove valuable for investigation of Runx1 function in adult hematopoiesis.
42134790 | Effectiveness of Telemedicine vs Face-to-Face Consultation in Fighting COVID-19: Retrospective Cohort Study of Adult Patients With COVID-19 in a Primary Care Setting. BACKGROUND: Telemedicine use expanded rapidly during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Hong Kong Hospital Authority (HA) launched both tele-designated clinics (Tele-DCs) and face-to-face physical designated clinics (PDCs) to manage mild cases. However, the comparative effectiveness of these models remains unclear. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to compare clinical outcomes, specifically hospitalization and severe complications, between patients with mild COVID-19 managed via Tele-DCs versus PDCs in Hong Kong's public primary care setting. METHODS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study involving all patients with COVID-19, aged 18 years or older, who visited a PDC (n=23,031) or a Tele-DC (n=38,628) at the Kowloon Central Cluster in Hong Kong from July 28, 2022, to January 29, 2023. Patients were matched 1:1 using propensity score matching based on age, sex, smoking status, comprehensive social security assistance (CSSA) status, and the Charlson comorbidity score, resulting in 17,199 patients per group. The primary outcome was the hospital admission rate between day 1 and day 28. Secondary outcomes included severe complications, mortality, accident and emergency department (AED) use, the antiviral prescription rate, and DC revisit. RESULTS: The average age of patients in the Tele-DC and PDC groups was 58.55 (SD 17.53) and 58.53 (SD 17.54) years, respectively (P=.93). In both groups, 9.05% (n=1557) of patients were on CSSA, and 11% (n=1892) were smokers. Compared to the PDC group, the Tele-DC group demonstrated similar hospital admission rates (Tele-DC: n=497, 2.89%; PDC: n=471, 2.74%; between-group difference 0.15%, 95% CI -0.20% to 0.50%, P=.40), lengths of stay (Tele-DC: mean 6.92, SD 0.47 days; PDC: mean 6.61, SD 0.50 days; between-group difference 0.31 days, 95% CI -1.65 to 1.04, P=.66), severe complication rates (Tele-DC: n=46, 0.27%; PDC: n=33, 0.19%; between-group difference 0.08%, 95% CI -0.03% to 0.18%, P=.18), and mortality rates (Tele-DC: n=23, 0.13%; PDC: n=18, 0.10%; between-group difference 0.03%, 95% CI -0.04% to 0.10%, P=.39). However, the Tele-DC group exhibited a higher AED visit rate (n=641, 3.73%, vs n=542, 3.15%; between-group difference 0.58%, 95% CI 0.19%-0.96%, P.003) and DC revisit rate (n=1446, 8.41%, vs n=1287, 7.48%; between-group difference 0.93%, 95% CI 0.09%-1.50%, P.002). In addition, the Tele-DC group had a lower antiviral prescription rate (n=9872, 57.4%, vs n=10,797, 62.78%; between-group difference -5.38%, 95% CI -6.41% to -4.32%, P<.001). CONCLUSIONS: The tele-DC demonstrated clinical safety comparable to the PDC regarding hospitalization and severe complications for patients with mild COVID-19. By validating a scalable model without complex home monitoring, these findings challenge the strict necessity of physical examinations for safe triage and support a digital-first strategy for future infectious surges. However, the disparities observed in AED visits and antiviral prescription rates suggest that integrated remote monitoring tools and improved medication logistics are needed to fully replicate the efficacy of conventional care.
42125834 | Candida albicans, HIV And Immune System in a Holobiont Perspective. Holobiont describes all types of relationships between hosts and their associated microbial communities, which can also attenuate the virulence of pathogens by the host microbiome. The cross-kingdom interactions between HIV, Candida albicans, and the human immune system have presented intriguing biological aspects. The human immunodeficiency 1 (HIV-1) virus is responsible for causing the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) by infecting CD4+ cells. HIV-1 internalization also depends on binding to coreceptors in the cell membrane, such as CCR5 and CXCR4. The expression of these chemokine receptors, as well as their ligands, can be modulated by the presence of Candida albicans PAMPs. Thus, this review discusses the inflammatory response mechanism activated by the commensal fungi Candida albicans that can modify the rate of immune cell infection by HIV-1. Despite the possibility of this crosstalk modulation, future research must validate the clinical significance of this holobiont interaction.
41851894 | Single-cell RNA sequencing uncovers neutrophil clusters associated with autoimmune neuroinflammation.
11673502 | Overexpression of AML1 transcription factor drives thymocytes into the CD8 single-positive lineage. To understand the gene regulation involved in the development of single-positive (SP) thymocytes, we generated transgenic mice in which the AML1 transcription factor is overexpressed. In these mice the number of CD8 SP thymocytes was greatly increased, and this continued to be true even when MHC class I was absent. This promotion to the CD8 SP lineage was not, however, observed when both class I and class II were absent. Furthermore, even thymocytes carrying MHC class II-restricted TCR differentiated into the CD8 SP lineage when AML1 was overexpressed. The selected CD8 SP cells were, however, unable to mature, as judged by the expression level of heat-stable Ag. Thus, overexpression of AML1 is able to skew class II-restricted thymocytes into the CD8 SP lineage, but not to drive the maturation of resulting selected CD8 SP cells.
41581364 | Discovery of the first dual PD-L1/JAK inhibitor with enhanced in vivo antitumor immunity. Programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitors are widely recognized as an effective therapeutic strategy for treating various types of tumors. However, single-target PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors frequently encounter primary resistance or secondary resistance, posing significant challenges to clinical treatment and creating an urgent need for novel therapeutic approaches. In this study, we designed and synthesized a dual PD-L1/JAK inhibitor PJ27 for the first time, which showed significant and balanced inhibitory activities against PD-1/PD-L1 (IC50 = 414 nM) and JAK1 (IC50 = 786 nM). Besides, PJ27 exhibited remarkable in vitro immune activation effects. Furthermore, PJ27 potently and dose-dependently inhibited tumor growth in the LLC lung cancer mouse model without obvious toxicity. Moreover, PJ27 enhanced the infiltration of CD3+ CD8+ and CD3+ CD4+ cells into the tumor microenvironment. Additionally, kinase spectrum analysis demonstrated that PJ27 possessed favorable selectivity towards JAK1. Collectively, PJ27 represented the first dual PD-L1/JAK inhibitor deserving further research as a tumor immunotherapy agent.
16206214 | T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia relapsing as acute myelogenous leukemia. We present the unusual case of a 16-year-old girl with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with an early thymocyte immunophenotype without myeloid markers, who after 13 months of complete hematological remission relapsed as acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) with minimal differentiation and died of her disease. Whether the AML represented a relapse with lineage switch of the original immature T-cell clone or a new secondary malignancy, could not be proven due to the absence of molecular or clonal markers. This report suggests that a subset of CD7+ T-cell leukemias without mature T-cell antigens (CD4-, CD8-) are minimally differentiated and can relapse as AML.
41963299 | Plasmodium yoelii infection induces lung injury by modulating type 2 conventional dendritic cells autophagy via the STAT3-IRF4 signaling. Malaria is an infectious disease caused by Plasmodium that severely impacts human health, often resulting in lung injury. Classical type 2 dendritic cells (cDC2) in the lungs play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of asthma and infectious diseases; however, their specific functions during Plasmodium infection remain poorly understood. In this study, we demonstrated a significant accumulation and activation of cDC2 in the lungs of mice infected with Plasmodium. While the phagocytosis ability of activated cDC2 decreases, it promotes the differentiation of CD4+ T cells towards Th1 cells, thereby exacerbating lung injury. During our investigation into cDC2 accumulation in the lungs, we discovered that this accumulation may occur through autophagy. Furthermore, mechanistic studies revealed that the effect of Plasmodium on cDC2 is mediated by the JAK/STAT3 signaling pathway. Inhibition of STAT3 phosphorylation by the JAK inhibitor JSI-124 almost completely abolished the influence of Plasmodium on cDC2. The role of cDC2 in lung injury induced by Plasmodium infection was further substantiated in IRF4-deficient mice infected with Plasmodium. In conclusion, our research significantly enriches our understanding of lung cDC2, further elucidates the pathogenic mechanisms of Plasmodium infection, and offers a novel theoretical foundation for malaria prevention and control.Schematic model demonstrated that Plasmodium infection suppressed autophagy in lung cDC2 via the TLR3/7-STAT3-IRF4 signaling pathway. Autophagy deficiency caused abnormal accumulation of cDC2 in lungs, impairing their phagocytosis capacity and clearance of malaria parasites. IL-12 secreted by cDC2 drove Th1-biased T-cell differentiation, which exacerbated pro-inflammatory responses and increased immunopathological damage in lung tissues. Inhibition of STAT3 or knockout of IRF4 within cDC2 restored cDC2 autophagy, reduced aberrant accumulation, re-established the phagocytic function of cDC2, and attenuated pro-inflammatory responses of Th1 cells, ultimately alleviating lung inflammatory damage.
42148073 | Pannexin-1-mediated ATP signaling as a driver of immune communication and chronic inflammation in HIV infection. Chronic inflammation is a hallmark of many diseases, including persistent viral infections. In human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, sustained immune activation contributes to end-organ damage and non-AIDS comorbidities, even during antiretroviral therapy. This mini-review examines the role of Pannexin-1 (PANX1) channel-mediated ATP signaling as a key mechanism of immune communication driving chronic inflammation in HIV infection. Viral engagement of host receptors, such as CD4 and CXCR4, induces PANX1 channel opening in infected or stressed cells, leading to the release of extracellular ATP. Extracellular ATP acts as a danger-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) that engages purinergic receptors. Activation of P2X7 initiates potassium efflux, NLRP3 inflammasome assembly, and caspase-1 cleavage, leading to the maturation of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta and IL-18. The review integrates findings from cellular, molecular, and neuroimmunologic studies to highlight how this PANX1-ATP-P2X7 axis amplifies intercellular communication and propagates chronic immune activation. By positioning HIV as a model system, we discuss how insights from this pathway may extend to other chronic inflammatory conditions. Finally, we explore therapeutic opportunities for targeting PANX1 channels or purinergic receptors to reduce inflammasome-driven pathology. Understanding the mechanisms by which extracellular ATP coordinates immune cell signaling provides a framework for decoding chronic inflammation and designing precision interventions to restore immune balance.
40659095 | Single-cell sequencing revealed the recurrence causes of ETV6:RUNX1 fusion-positive B-ALL in children. OBJECTIVE: The ETV6RUNX1 fusion is the most common genetic abnormality in childhood B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), yet nearly 50 % of relapses occur in patients initially classified as low-risk with this alteration. This study aimed to unravel the underlying pathways driving relapse in ETV6RUNX1 positive B-ALL. METHODS: Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on a cohort of four B-ALL patients with the ETV6RUNX1 fusion (three newly diagnosed and one relapsed case, selected from 25 patients). RESULTS: we discovered that relapsed samples exhibited a decline in T cell populations, an increase in CD8 Tex cells and B cells, and a higher proportion of malignant cells. Gene enrichment analysis demonstrated that IFN-gamma response signaling pathways and inflammatory responses were significantly enriched in newly diagnosed samples. Conversely, the relapsed samples showed enrichment in the oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis pathways. Additionally, analysis of cellular interactions revealed that malignant B cells could interact with T cells through LGALS9-HAVCR2, potentially leading to the exhaustion of effector T cells. Moreover, NPDC1, LEF1, and ERG exhibited higher activity levels in malignant B cells from relapsed patients, highlighting their roles in the progression and maintenance of leukemia. CONCLUSION: In summary, our study provides valuable insights into the potential causes of relapse in B-ALL patients with ETV6RUNX1, providing a foundation for the identification of prospective therapeutic targets.
42115154 | HTLV-1 subverts the innate immune effector gene IRF7 by viral HBZ protein for oncogenesis. Interferon regulatory factors (IRFs) are innate immune transcription factors responsible for inducing the expression of type I interferons (IFN-I), which combat pathogen invasions via initiating the downstream Janus kinase signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) pathway. Among them, IRF7 plays a central role by forming heterodimers with IRF3 to initiate IFN-I production and is therefore frequently targeted by viruses to evade immune detection. Contrary to this common paradigm, we show that IRF7 is activated and upregulated by the retrovirus human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1), via its oncoprotein HBZ. Moreover, IRF7 is highly expressed in HTLV-1 induced CD4 T-cell malignancy named adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL), and promotes the proliferation of infected cells both in vitro and in vivo. Intriguingly, HBZ is able to interfere with the interaction of IRF7 and IRF3, suppressing IFN-I pathway activation. On the other hand, IRF7 was found to upregulate and activate STAT5B, a transcription factor of the JAK-STAT pathway frequently mutated in hematological malignancies. Together, these findings reveal a mechanism by which HTLV-1 hijacks a critical innate immune effector to sustain persistent infection and drive oncogenesis without activating antiviral IFN-I pathway.
41029738 | Exploration and validation of the immune-related genes signatures and potential molecular mechanisms shared between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD).
42141891 | Clinical and economic benefits of seasonal COVID-19 vaccination in Germany: results from the ROUTINE-COV19 Study, September 2022 to March 2024. BACKGROUNDVaccinations against COVID-19 were integrated into routine care in Germany in April 2023. However, evidence of the impact of seasonal vaccination remains limited.AIMTo assess the clinical and economic impact of COVID-19 vaccination in routine care during the early SARS-CoV-2-endemic phase in Germany.METHODSA retrospective cohort study using statutory health insurance data from two German federal states (Saxony and Thuringia), covering over 3 million individuals, was conducted. Adults aged >= 18 years vaccinated against COVID-19 between 1 September and 30 November 2023 were matched 1:1 with unvaccinated individuals using propensity scores. Outcomes during the 4-month follow-up included occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 infection, long COVID, other respiratory infections, hospitalisations, mortality, healthcare costs and indirect costs caused by sick leave. Rate and hazard ratios (RR, HR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. Sensitivity analyses tested robustness.RESULTSA total of 146,132 individuals (73,066 per group) were matched. COVID-19 vaccination was associated with reduced rates of long COVID (RR: 0.43; 95% CI: 0.26-0.70), respiratory infections (RR: 0.91; 95% CI: 0.87-0.95) and COVID-19-related hospitalisations (RR: 0.41; 95% CI: 0.31-0.54). All-cause mortality was 25% lower among COVID-19-vaccinated individuals (HR: 0.76; 95% CI: 0.70-0.82). Healthcare costs were lower in the vaccinated cohort, particularly for inpatient care, e.g. EUR 1 million savings in COVID-19-related hospitalisations. Indirect costs caused by sick leave were also reduced by EUR 1.3 million.CONCLUSIONSeasonal COVID-19 vaccinations in routine care settings were associated with substantial clinical and economic benefits. These real-world findings support continued implementation of national immunisation recommendations during the endemic phase of SARS-CoV-2 circulation.
42138268 | Gut microbiome shift in long COVID: impact of disease and montelukast treatment. Background: Long COVID-19 is a post-infectious syndrome with persistent symptoms that can involve multiple organ systems. Evidence suggests that SARS-CoV-2 infection may disrupt gut microbiome composition, potentially contributing to long-term effects. As treatment remains symptom-based, interest has grown in repurposing drugs like montelukast. However, non-antibiotic medications may also alter gut microbial communities, raising questions about their impact. Here, we compare gut microbiota between long COVID patients and healthy controls and examine how montelukast treatment affects microbial composition. Methods: We analysed stool samples from long COVID patients and healthy controls using 16S rRNA gene sequencing (Illumina MiSeq). We evaluate alpha (Shannon) and beta (Bray-Curtis) diversity, followed by relative abundance and linear discriminant effect size analysis, to identify differentially abundant taxa. This proof-of-concept study included a cross-sectional comparison and a longitudinal analysis of montelukast-treated patients vs. placebo. Results: Cross-sectional analysis revealed a significant structural reorganisation of the gut microbial community in long COVID patients, although overall species richness was largely maintained. Linear discriminant effect size analysis revealed that this architectural shift was driven by an enrichment of Firmicutes (Agathobacter and Faecalibacterium genera) in the long COVID group, while healthy controls were characterised by higher abundances of the phyla Verrucomicrobiota and Actinobacteriota, as well as genera Alistipes and Akkermansia. Longitudinal analysis demonstrated that the broader community structure remained stable in both groups; however, montelukast treatment led to a specific enrichment of the genus Dialister, suggesting targeted and potentially transient effects without disrupting the overall microbial landscape. Conclusions: Long COVID is characterised by a significant restructure of the gut ecosystem. This qualitative dysbiosis reflects a shift in homeostatic balance, where the core microbial community remains present, but its proportions are altered. Short-term montelukast treatment shows a minimal impact on the microbial landscape, suggesting treatment does not further destabilise the gut environment. These findings highlight the specific and targeted nature of gastrointestinal involvement in long COVID.
41677991 | Pan-cancer analysis of cholesterol metabolism reveals the uptake as a modulator of tumor immune features and of the KRAS pathway. PURPOSE: Cholesterol dysregulation plays a central role in tumor progression and has emerged as a potential therapeutic target. Its dysregulation within the tumor microenvironment is increasingly considered a strong modifier of multiple cancer traits. Targeting cholesterol, particularly its biosynthetic pathway, has been explored to enhance therapy, yet outcomes remain inconsistent, likely reflecting a tumor-specific reprogramming of cholesterol metabolism. METHODS: TCGA and GTEx transcriptomic data from 11,735 samples was analyzed to conduct an integrative assessment of key cholesterol-related processes-biosynthesis, uptake, storage, efflux, and catabolism-across 26 cancer types. RESULTS: Cholesterol metabolism dysregulation was highly heterogeneous among tumors, affecting different metabolic pathways, the magnitude of those differences and the direction relative to normal tissue. Notably, we identified cholesterol uptake as the most consistently altered pathway across tumors, positively correlated with tumor aggressiveness and poorer patient survival. Uptake correlated positively with inflammatory pathways (e.g., Complement System and IL-6-JAK-STAT3 Signaling) and with immune microenvironment features, including Tregs, cytotoxic and CD4+ T cells, eosinophils, endothelial cells, as well as elevated expression of immune checkpoints. Cholesterol uptake also correlated with enhanced KRAS signaling. Particularly, KRAS mutations were more frequent in tumors with high uptake scores, and those patients had the worst overall survival. Nonetheless, high uptake tumors lacking KRAS mutations had higher KRAS signaling scores than KRAS-mutant tumors with low uptake, highlighting a central role of cholesterol uptake on the regulation of KRAS signaling. CONCLUSION: In summary, cholesterol uptake emerges as a conserved driver of tumor aggressiveness and a promising therapeutic target to synergize with immunotherapy and KRAS inhibition.
42149386 | Morphine potentiates HIV infection and receptor expression in 3d brain organoids. Opioid abuse is a major comorbidity of HIV, yet its direct effects on the brain remain unclear. Using iPSC-derived 3D human cerebral organoids (hCOs), we show that morphine directly upregulates HIV receptors CD4, CCR5, and CXCR4 in the absence of peripheral immune cells or a blood-brain barrier. This receptor induction drives a significant increase in HIV viral load within the CNS, revealing a brain-intrinsic mechanisms of opioid-mediated viral enhancement. These findings establish hCOs as a unique platform to investigate neuroHIV and provide critical insight into how opioids amplify CNS infection independently of peripheral factors.
41686453 | Brute force: the effects of ibrutinib on brexu-cel.
27690235 | Dnmt3a Is a Haploinsufficient Tumor Suppressor in CD8+ Peripheral T Cell Lymphoma. DNA methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A) is an enzyme involved in DNA methylation that is frequently mutated in human hematologic malignancies. We have previously shown that inactivation of Dnmt3a in hematopoietic cells results in chronic lymphocytic leukemia in mice. Here we show that 12% of Dnmt3a-deficient mice develop CD8+ mature peripheral T cell lymphomas (PTCL) and 29% of mice are affected by both diseases. 10% of Dnmt3a+/- mice develop lymphomas, suggesting that Dnmt3a is a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor in PTCL. DNA methylation was deregulated genome-wide with 10-fold more hypo- than hypermethylated promoters and enhancers, demonstrating that hypomethylation is a major event in the development of PTCL. Hypomethylated promoters were enriched for binding sites of transcription factors AML1, NF-kappaB and OCT1, implying the transcription factors potential involvement in Dnmt3a-associated methylation. Whereas 71 hypomethylated genes showed an increased expression in PTCL, only 3 hypermethylated genes were silenced, suggesting that cancer-specific hypomethylation has broader effects on the transcriptome of cancer cells than hypermethylation. Interestingly, transcriptomes of Dnmt3a+/- and Dnmt3aDelta/Delta lymphomas were largely conserved and significantly overlapped with those of human tumors. Importantly, we observed downregulation of tumor suppressor p53 in Dnmt3a+/- and Dnmt3aDelta/Delta lymphomas as well as in pre-tumor thymocytes from 9 months old but not 6 weeks old Dnmt3a+/- tumor-free mice, suggesting that p53 downregulation is chronologically an intermediate event in tumorigenesis. Decrease in p53 is likely an important event in tumorigenesis because its overexpression inhibited proliferation in mouse PTCL cell lines, suggesting that low levels of p53 are important for tumor maintenance. Altogether, our data link the haploinsufficient tumor suppressor function of Dnmt3a in the prevention of mouse mature CD8+ PTCL indirectly to a bona fide tumor suppressor of T cell malignancies p53.
41198533 | HIV-1 Entry Mechanisms: Protein-Host Receptor Interactions and Membrane Fusion Dynamics. This review provides a comprehensive analysis of recent advancements in elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 entry, focusing on the intricate interplay between the viral envelope glycoproteins (Env) and host cell receptors. We detail how structural insights into glycoprotein (gp)120-Cluster of Differentiation 4 (CD4)/coreceptor interactions and gp41-mediated membrane fusion inform therapeutic interventions, including fusion inhibitors and broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs). The HIV-1 Env trimer undergoes a series of highly coordinated conformational transitions from a metastable prefusion state to a stable postfusion structure. CD4 engagement induces allosteric remodeling of gp120, unveiling coreceptor (C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5)/C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4)) binding sites and priming gp41 activation. Fusion peptide insertion, six-helix bundle formation, and membrane merger are critical targets for inhibitors like T20 (enfuvirtide). Comparative analyses with other viruses reveal conserved fusion mechanisms despite distinct activation triggers, offering broader insights for antiviral development. By integrating structural biology, virology, and translational research, this review highlights how the mechanistic dissection of viral entry informs the design of next-generation therapeutics. We highlight strategies to disrupt Env-receptor interactions, block fusion intermediates, and harness cross-viral principles to counteract drug resistance and refine vaccine approaches. These insights not only deepen our understanding of HIV-1 pathogenesis but also drive the innovation of novel antiviral strategies.
17434163 | Frequent but nonrandom expression of myeloid markers on de novo childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The expression of the myeloid markers CD13, CD33, and CD15 in two hundred and eighty-three cases of de novo childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is examined. The expression of at least one marker is a frequent event which is noted in 64% and 74% of B- and T-lineage ALL cases, respectively. Certain patterns of myeloid antigen expression can be recognized including: no expression of CD13, CD33, and CD15 in mature B-ALL, significantly higher levels of CD13 and CD33 and significantly lower levels of CD15 in TEL-AML1-positive B cell precursor ALL, no expression of CD13 and CD33 in E2A-PBX1-positive B cell precursor ALL cases and common T-ALL (double positive for CD4 and CD8), and no expression of CD13 in MLL-AF4-positive B cell precursor ALL cases. Although the numbers in some ALL subtypes are small, these patterns are consistent with nonrandom expression of myeloid markers in de novo childhood ALL.
41740929 | Single-cell and spatial transcriptomics unveil myeloid-lymphoid crosstalk and the dermal immune niche underlying palmoplantar pustulosis. BACKGROUND: Palmoplantar pustulosis (PPP) is a chronic, recurrent inflammatory dermatosis characterized by sterile pustules on the palms and/or soles, and its pathogenesis remains incompletely understood. OBJECTIVE: We sought to investigate the immune landscape underlying PPP progression using a multi-omics approach. METHODS: We conducted single-cell RNA sequencing on pustular and non-pustular sole lesions from patients with PPP. Key findings were further validated at the tissue level using high-resolution spatial transcriptomics (ST). RESULTS: We identified elevated JAK-STAT signaling in keratinocytes and fibroblasts, accompanied by a stepwise increase in myeloid dendritic cells and Th17 cells from healthy control to non-pustular and pustular lesions. Cell-cell interaction analysis revealed CCL19-CCR7 interactions between fibroblastic reticular cell (FRC)-like fibroblasts and LAMP3+ migratory dendritic cells, and CCL22/CCL17-CCR4 interactions between dendritic cells and CD4 T cells, including Th17 populations. ST analysis confirmed these interactions in situ and identified a lymphoid-like immune niche within the CCL19+ upper dermis. Additionally, the pustule and surrounding keratinocytes were identified as major sources of CXCL1/6/8-ACKR1 signaling, facilitating neutrophil recruitment through interactions with endothelial cells. Together, these coordinated cell-cell interactions support an amplifying immune network that drives the formation of a spatially organized, dense immune niche during PPP progression. Finally, transcriptome-guided drug effect prediction identified JAK and PDE4 inhibitors as potential multi-target therapeutic candidates. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our findings provide a comprehensive view of the immune dynamics in PPP and offer insights into effective treatment strategies.
20691473 | Biologic activity of triptolide in t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia cells. Triptolide is a compound isolated from the traditional Chinese medicinal herb Tripterygium wilfordii that shows potent anti-tumor activities, but its effects on acute myeloid leukemia with t(8;21) remain unclear. Here we report that triptolide inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in a dose- and time-dependent manner of t(8;21)-bearing Kasumi-1, SKNO-1 and CD34+ cells harvested from bone marrow samples of patients with t(8;21) leukemia. We show that triptolide triggers cleavage of the resultant AML1-ETO fusion protein of t(8;21), and causes downregulation of C-KIT followed by inhibition of JAK-STAT signaling. Triptolide downregulates p65 and inhibits the DNA-binding activity of NF-kappaB. Our data indicate that triptolide might be an effective agent for t(8;21) leukemia.
16191436 | HLA-DM expression is elevated in ETV6-AML1 translocation-positive pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia. MHC Class II antigen processing and presentation to CD4+ T cells is important in anti-tumor immunity. ETV6-AML1-positive precursor-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia (pre-B ALL) is associated with good outcome and late relapse. We analyzed HLA-DR and the MHC Class II processing components HLA-DO, HLA-DM, and Class II-associated invariant chain peptide (CLIP) expression, in ETV6-AML1-positive and ETV6-AML1-negative ALL. Overall, CLIP expression was low, while HLA-DM was significantly higher in ETV6-AML1-positive cells. No significant difference in HLA-DO was observed. The HLA-DR(high)/CLIP(low)/HLA-DM(high) phenotype strongly suggests that ETV6-AML1 leukemia will induce favorable immune responses and may in part explain the characteristic late relapses associated with ETV6-AML1 pre-B ALL.
42094527 | The gp120 Envelope Glycoprotein of HIV-1 Triggers Macropinocytosis in Primary CD4+ T Cells to Promote HIV-1 Infection. Macropinocytosis is a large-scale, actin-driven, fluid-phase form of endocytosis that can be exploited by HIV-1 for entry into primary CD4+ T cells. Herein, we show that HIV-1 actively induces macropinocytosis in resting and activated primary CD4+ T cells. HIV-1-induced T cell macropinocytosis is triggered by the interaction of soluble gp120 Env with cell surface CD4, is clathrin-independent and actin-dependent, and does not require CXCR4 or any other known HIV-1 coreceptors. Notably, Env-induced macropinocytosis requires calcium-independent phospholipase A2 (iPLA2) activity, identifying a role for a lipid-signaling axis downstream of Env-CD4 engagement. Across a gp120 panel, multiple HIV-1 clade B gp120 Envs can induce CD4+ T cell macropinocytosis. However, the magnitude of macropinocytosis does not correlate with CD4-binding strength alone and instead aligns with Env-driven changes in CD4 epitope exposure in CD4 domains distal to the Env-binding domain. Importantly, inhibitors of Env-induced macropinocytosis block HIV-1 infection of resting CD4+ T cells. Therefore, Env-induced macropinocytosis is a functionally important mechanism that promotes HIV-1 infection of this cell type.
42141450 | SARS-CoV-2 membrane protein recruits PP2A to dephosphorylate the nucleocapsid and promote virion production. BACKGROUND: The nucleocapsid (N) protein of coronavirus harbors a conserved serine/arginine (SR)-rich motif whose phosphorylation by GSK-3 is essential for viral transcription and replication. Our previous studies in Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 1 (SARS-CoV-1) and the JHM strain of mouse hepatitis virus revealed a phosphorylation-to-dephosphorylation transition during the viral life cycle, with newly synthesized N highly phosphorylated and virion-associated N hypophosphorylated. Here, we characterize this transition in SARS-CoV-2 and define its functional significance. METHODS: Utilizing high-resolution gel analysis and the phospho-specific antibody, the phosphorylation levels of SARS-CoV-2 N proteins in the virus-infected Calu-3 cells and secreted virions from culture supernatants were compared between different viral strains. This phosphorylation-to-dephosphorylation transition was also verified in the SARS-CoV-2 virus-like particle (SC2-VLP) platform expressing N, membrane (M), envelope, and spike proteins. In this VLP system, the substantial contribution of N dephosphorylation status to particle secretion, either by blocking GSK-3 activity or phospho-related mutants, was assessed. With different viral structural protein-expressing clones and phosphatase inhibitors, we characterized the key viral factor and host phosphatase to mediate the N dephosphorylation process. Furthermore, we evaluated the antiviral efficacy of phosphatase inhibitors using the virus-infected Calu-3 culture. RESULTS: Our results showed that the phosphorylation change of SR motif in N was observed across multiple strains and recapitulated in the SC2-VLP system. GSK-3 inhibition or a phospho-deficient N mutant, but not a phospho-mimetic one, enhanced VLP release, indicating that N dephosphorylation promotes virion secretion. Mechanistically, the M protein, via its C-terminal domain, interacts with phosphorylated N to recruit protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) to the ERGIC, facilitating N dephosphorylation. Inhibition of PP2A, either by inhibitors or siRNA, impaired the M-induced N dephosphorylation, thereby suppressing viral assembly and progeny virion production. Blockade of PP2A also indirectly reduced N phosphorylation through the Akt-mediated inhibition of GSK-3, resulting in decreased genomic RNA synthesis. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these findings establish N dephosphorylation as a critical regulatory step in SARS-CoV-2 assembly and virion release. In ERGIC, this M protein-mediated process recruits host PP2A to dephosphorylate N, thus supporting PP2A as a promising pan-coronavirus antiviral target.
41725319 | Feiwei Mixture Exerts Antitumor Activity Against Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer via Regulating NR1D1-Mediated Immune Cell Infiltration. Feiwei Mixture (FWHJ), a hospital preparation for lung cancer, lacks a defined mechanism of action. Using Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) tumor-bearing mice and an LLC-CD8+ T cell co-culture model, we evaluated the effects of FWHJ on tumor growth, T cell infiltration, and apoptosis. Key signaling molecules (NR1D1, cGAS-STING, SOCS3-JAK-STAT3) and chemokines were analyzed using Western blot, flow cytometry, and immunoassays. Further knockout of NR1D1 confirmed its critical role in mediating the anti-tumor effects of FWHJ. FWHJ dose-dependently inhibited tumor growth in mice and enhanced CD4+/CD8+ T cell infiltration. It upregulated NR1D1, SOCS3, and the cGAS-STING pathway, while suppressing JAK-STAT3 signaling, leading to increased CCL5, CXCL10, and IFN-alpha. In co-culture model, FWHJ-containing serum promoted LLC cell apoptosis and suppressed malignant progression, recapitulating the signaling alterations observed in vivo. Crucially, NR1D1 knockout abolished the therapeutic effects of FWHJ. FWHJ inhibits non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) by activating NR1D1 to stimulate the cGAS-STING pathway and suppress the JAK-STAT3 signaling axis, thereby enhancing anti-tumor immunity. This study provides a foundation for further investigation into the anti-tumor mechanisms of FWHJ and establishes a scientific basis for its potential application in lung cancer therapy.
41740930 | Comprehensive single-cell transcriptomic profiling of the scalp from patients with moderate-to-severe alopecia areata. BACKGROUND: Alopecia areata (AA) is an autoimmune hair loss disorder characterized by follicular destruction. While bulk transcriptomic studies have identified contributory inflammatory axes, specific cell pathways remain underexplored. OBJECTIVE: To characterize the single-cell transcriptomic landscape underpinning AA scalp compared to healthy controls. METHODS: We performed single-cell RNA-sequencing on lesional and nonlesional scalp biopsies from 13 patients with moderate-to-severe AA (5 with alopecia totalis/universalis [AT/AU]) and 11 healthy controls. RESULTS: Overall, we profiled 41,067 high-quality cells. Lesional AA samples demonstrated robust Th1 activation and cytotoxicity, with upregulated IFNG, GZMH/K, and XCL1/2. Concurrently, Th2 skewing (IL13, IL13RA1, IL4R) and TNFRSF4/OX40 elevations in lesional CD4+ and regulatory T-cells were also observed. IL15, JAK2/3, and STAT1 levels were increased in distinct lesional dendritic cell subsets, with JAK/STAT genes also upregulated in fibroblasts and keratinocytes. Fibroblasts and smooth muscle cells exhibited enriched pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic markers (CXCL9, CCL26, POSTN, COL5A3, COL6A6). Lesional keratinocytes further demonstrated downregulated hair keratins and increased interferon signaling. AA endothelial cells showed increased angiogenic and interferon signatures. Compared to patchy AA and controls, AT/AU demonstrated higher expression of multiple cytotoxic, Th1, Th2, and JAK/STAT markers in immune cells, and proliferative and inflammatory signatures in non-immune cells. CONCLUSION: This comprehensive high-resolution single-cell map uncovers potential communication networks between immune and non-immune cell populations in AA scalp, possibly disrupting immune privilege at the hair follicle and driving disease progression and/or severity.
21091910 | Interplay of transcription factors in T-cell differentiation and function: the role of Runx. Over the past years, increasing numbers of distinct subsets have been discovered and identified for a T lymphocytes' entity. Differentiation and function of each T cell subset are controlled by a specific master transcription factor. Importantly, Runt-related transcription factors, particularly Runx1 and Runx3, interplay with these master regulators in various aspects of T cells' immunity. In this review article, we first explain roles of Th-Pok and Runx3 in differentiation of CD4 versus CD8 single positive cells, and later focus on cross-regulation of Th-Pok and Runx3 and their relationship with other factors such as TCR strength. Next, we provide evidences for the direct interplay of Runx1/3 with T-bet and GATA3 during Th1 versus Th2 commitment to activate or silence transcription of signature cytokine genes, IFNgamma and IL4. Lastly, we explain feed-forward relationship between Runx1 and Foxp3 and discuss roles of Runx1 in regulatory T cells' suppressive activity. This review highlights an essential importance of Runx molecules in controlling various T cell subsets' differentiation and functions through molecular interplay with the master transcription factors in terms of protein-protein interaction as well as regulation of gene expression.
41903503 | Key molecules and functional subsets of regulatory T cells in maternal-fetal immune tolerance: Recent advances. The establishment and maintenance of maternal-fetal immune tolerance constitutes a fundamental immunological adaptation essential for a successful pregnancy. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) are central orchestrators of this process, actively suppressing effector responses and fostering a tolerogenic microenvironment at the maternal-fetal interface. This review systematically synthesizes recent advances in deciphering the specialized molecular signature and functional heterogeneity of decidual Tregs. We first delineate the molecular profile of CD4+ Tregs, emphasizing critical inhibitory receptors-including PD-1, TIM-3, CTLA-4, and TIGIT-that endow decidual CD4+ Tregs with their potent suppressive capacity and stability. In parallel, we highlight the critical roles of chemokine receptors such as CCR8 and CXCR4 in orchestrating Treg recruitment, positioning, and functional specialization within decidua. Dysregulation of these molecular pathways is closely linked to clinical conditions like recurrent pregnancy loss and preeclampsia, underscoring their pathophysiological relevance. Beyond the well-characterized CD4+ lineage, we further examine the emerging role of CD8+ Tregs, which may exhibit potential functional complementarity with their CD4+ counterparts through distinct cytotoxic and immunomodulatory mechanisms. By integrating evidence from human studies and experimental models, we underscore how alterations in Treg-associated molecules and subset dynamics underpin pregnancy pathology. Finally, we discuss how this mechanistic understanding paves the way for novel immunotherapeutic strategies-including adoptive transfer of engineered, tissue-homing Tregs or the pharmacological modulation of specific checkpoint pathways-offering promising avenues to restore immune balance and improve outcomes in patients with reproductive immune disorders.
41488678 | Interferons in HIV-1 infection: mechanisms, antiviral potentials, and therapeutic challenges. Type I interferons (IFNs), particularly IFN-alpha, occupy a central paradox in HIV-1 infection: they provide an essential early antiviral barrier that limits initial dissemination, yet their sustained activation contributes to chronic immune activation, CD4+ T-cell dysfunction, and incomplete viral control. This duality-protective in acute infection but pathogenic during chronic disease-remains a major unresolved challenge for interferon-based therapeutic strategies in HIV-1. Recent advances in ISG functional profiling, IFN-alpha subtype-specific antiviral potency, and the development of targeted innate-pathway modulators (e.g., STING-selective agonists, ncRNA regulators, TLR7 activators) have renewed interest in reevaluating interferon-centered approaches. These developments make it timely to reassess whether IFN-alpha can be safely and effectively integrated into modern HIV-1 therapeutic concepts, particularly in early-infection windows or in rationally designed combination regimens. In this review, we synthesize current knowledge of interferon-mediated restriction mechanisms, the hierarchy of key antiviral ISGs (e.g., APOBEC3G, MX2, BST2), and HIV-1 evasion of the JAK-STAT and cGAS-STING pathways. We further analyze how dose, timing, and IFN-alpha subtype contribute to divergent antiviral versus inflammatory outcomes across different stages of infection. Emerging precision strategies that modulate interferon signaling without triggering systemic inflammation offer promising translational directions. Balancing antiviral efficacy with immune homeostasis will be essential for developing next-generation interferon-based interventions aimed at durable control or functional cure of HIV-1 infection.
41853258 | Integrative genomic and immune landscape analysis of intimal sarcomas for emerging therapeutic targets and immunotherapy strategies. Introduction: Intimal sarcomas are aggressive mesenchymal tumors arising from the tunica intima of large vessels, mainly the pulmonary artery. They are usually associated with MDM2 amplification. Due to their rarity and scarce sensitivity to chemotherapy, they are characterized by late diagnosis and high mortality. Thus, there is an urgent need to unravel novel therapeutic biomarkers. This study explored the role of the immune infiltrate and molecular profile in an intimal sarcoma cohort to evaluate their amenability to immunotherapy and detect potential targets, apart from MDM2. Methods: Whole transcriptome and whole exome sequencing were performed on 5 intimal sarcoma cases (FFPE) followed by computational analyses, including immune cell profiling, differential gene expression, variant calling and copy number alteration detection. Results: All samples presented the amplification of MDM2, confirming their diagnosis, and the co-amplification of CPM and SLC35E3. Interestingly, they also showed PD-L1 expression along with a prevalence of CD4+ memory resting T-cells, M2 macrophages and different concentrations of naive B-cells, CD8+ T-cells and monocytes. The upregulation of immunoglobulins and pathways involved in the immune response (e.g. IL6/JAK/STAT3 and TNF-alpha via NF-kB signaling, interferon gamma response) further suggested a potential sensitivity to immunotherapy. Discussion: Our findings provided basic evidence for immunotherapy efficacy in intimal sarcomas and identified potential molecular targets. Further studies involving larger case series are required to validate these results.
42136584 | Epidemiology of respiratory infectious diseases after the relaxation of COVID-19 policies: a retrospective study in Xiamen, China. Objective: This study aimed to analyze the epidemiological patterns of respiratory infectious diseases in Xiamen, Fujian Province, over the year following the relaxation of China's COVID-19 control measures. Methods: We conducted a comprehensive statistical analysis of testing data for the six prevalent respiratory pathogens, utilizing throat swab antigen tests, PCR assays, and serological IgM testing. For Mycoplasma pneumoniae, diagnosis relied on serological IgM or rapid PCR testing, with PCR results prioritized when both methods were applied. Influenza A/B viruses were identified through throat swab antigen or PCR testing, again favoring PCR outcomes. Respiratory syncytial virus, rhinovirus, and adenovirus were exclusively detected via PCR. Results: Influenza A virus emerged as the most prevalent pathogen (32.5%), followed by Mycoplasma pneumoniae (18.0%). Seasonal trends varied: influenza A peaked in spring, while M. pneumoniae surged in autumn and winter. Age-wise, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and human rhinovirus predominate in the 0-4 age group; other respiratory viruses predominate in the 5-14 age group; though influenza A and B viruses show relatively high positivity rates in the 15-44 age group. Notably, significant gender disparities were observed across several pathogens (p < 0.05). Conclusion: This study provides a detailed epidemiological snapshot of post-pandemic respiratory pathogens in Xiamen, highlighting distinct age-specific vulnerabilities and seasonal patterns. These findings offer practical guidance for developing targeted, stage-specific intervention strategies to mitigate disease burden in the post-pandemic era.
41673644 | Versatile HIV Rev-dependent reporter cell system for stringent and sensitive quantification of viral reservoirs, neutralizing antibodies, and restriction factors. Detecting and measuring HIV reservoirs, neutralizing antibodies, and restriction factors are important for HIV cure research and the development of new therapeutics and vaccines. Here we describe the development and validation of several HIV Rev-dependent indicator cell lines for these purposes. These reporter cells derive from different T-lymphoblast cell lines, including Molt4-CCR5, SupT1-CCR5, CEM-SS, A3R5, and from the adherent TZM cell platform based on HeLa clone JC53. These cells express CD4, CXCR4, and various levels of CCR5. We compared these cell lines for responsiveness to both X4 and R5-tropic viruses, and confirmed that reporter expression in these cells is not affected by stimulation from mitogens but is responsive to HIV Tat and Rev, reducing non-specific reporter induction from the leaky LTR promoter. To validate the sensitivity of the Rev-dependent reporter cell systems, we conducted a viral dilution assay with three primary HIV-1 clade C swarms from an adult in Malawi. We also validated the systems for quantifying antibody neutralization and screening restriction factors; these systems are also sensitive for viral outgrowth assays for quantifying viral reservoirs in clinical and basic research settings. Given that the systems can measure HIV accurately in complex environments with mitogens or other substances, they can be used for versatile applications, such as quantifying latent reservoirs, testing inhibitory compounds, conducting neutralizing antibody assays, and identifying new restriction factors.
41144786 | The CXCL12-CXCR4 Axis Mediates Lymphocyte Immune Overactivation in IgG4-Related Chronic Rhinosinusitis. BACKGROUND: IgG4-related chronic rhinosinusitis (IgG4-CRS) is a new clinical entity characterized by nasal lesions; however, its pathogenesis remains unclear. This study aimed to reveal single-cell transcriptomic changes in patients with IgG4-CRS via single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and illustrate its pathogenesis at the single-cell level. METHODS: Nasal mucosal tissues from five patients with IgG4-CRS were used for unbiased scRNA-seq. Bioinformatic analysis was performed using these five samples and three published control samples. Immunohistochemical and multicolor immunofluorescence analyses were performed to validate the sequencing results. RESULTS: A total of 49,063 cells and 11 sub-clusters were identified. CXCL12 secretion increased in endothelial cells and fibroblasts, and CXCR4 was upregulated in the immune cells of IgG4-CRS. Enhanced chemotaxis mediated by the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis recruits excess immune cells and overactivation. Compared with those in the control group, the immunocompetence of CD4+ T cells and cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells were enhanced in the IgG4-CRS group, and B cells were more differentiated to secrete IgG-type plasma cells. CONCLUSIONS: Chemotaxis of the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis plays a role in the pathogenesis of IgG4-CRS by influencing both the immune and nonimmune cells of IgG4-CRS.
42141925 | The Importance of Exercise Habits for Preventing Osteoporosis in Postmenopausal Women: Insights From the COVID-19 Pandemic. This study aimed to investigate the impact of COVID-19-related activity restrictions on bone mineral density (BMD) and muscle mass in postmenopausal women undergoing treatment for osteoporosis. Patients who maintained regular clinic visits and continued pharmacological therapy were retrospectively analyzed. BMD and whole-body muscle mass were assessed using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry during the pre-pandemic and pandemic periods, and changes were evaluated using the percentage of the young adult mean (%YAM). Exercise habits and dietary patterns were assessed using structured questionnaires. During the pandemic, approximately 40% of participants discontinued regular exercise. In contrast, dietary patterns and nutritional markers, including albumin and total protein, remained stable. Significant declines in %YAM were observed at the lumbar spine, femoral neck, and total hip, with greater reductions in the lumbar spine. Muscle mass also decreased significantly across all regions, with more pronounced reductions in the upper extremities. Changes in bone turnover markers suggested a shift toward a high-turnover state. Despite continued treatment and clinical follow-up, both bone and muscle parameters deteriorated during the pandemic. These findings indicate that reduced physical activity may adversely affect musculoskeletal health in patients with osteoporosis, even under appropriate pharmacological management. Strategies incorporating home-based exercise interventions may be essential to mitigate such effects during periods of restricted mobility.
42021102 | IXI triplet residues within the Env-V3 tip can influence the replication potential of R5-tropic HIV-1. The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env)-gp120 plays a critical role in viral entry by binding to the receptor CD4 and coreceptors CCR5/CXCR4. The V3 loop in CCR5-tropic HIV-1 Env-gp120 is a key domain responsible for interacting with CCR5. Based on virus mutation and adaptation studies, our structural modeling predicted that the IXI triplet residues within the V3 loop of Env-gp120 interact with hydrophobic cores in CCR5, potentially modulating viral infectivity. In this study, we investigated the functional significance of the IXI triplet in HIV-1 replication. Substitutions at the central \X\ position of the IXI triplet significantly affected viral replication in both macaque and human cell lines without altering Env expression. Combinatorial mutations with the V3 tip residue G310R showed either enhancing or suppressive effects on replication in macaque cells, highlighting a complex interplay between the IXI triplet and V3 tip. Furthermore, the impact of these mutations varied between different HIV-1 strains, suggesting that some strain-specific sequence/structural context(s) is critical for the observed biological effect. Taken together, these findings indicate that the IXI triplet can be a novel motif influencing HIV-1 replication and underscore the importance of V3 loop variability in coreceptor interaction and viral growth potential. J. Med. Invest. 73 : 80-87, February, 2026.
42138300 | Near-Source Wastewater Surveillance of SARS-CoV-2, Influenza A, and Respiratory Syncytial Virus With Spatiotemporal Evaluation of Pepper Mild Mottle Virus as a Fecal Indicator. Wastewater-based epidemiology (WBE) is increasingly transitioning from treatment plant scale monitoring toward community-scale surveillance to provide higher spatial resolution. However, the influence of monitoring scale on signal stability and normalization performance remains insufficiently characterized. This study evaluated the dynamics of SARS-CoV-2, influenza A (IAV), and Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) at five near-source pumping stations between October 2022 and September 2024. The monitoring sites were selected using the Social Vulnerability Index to ensure representative coverage, and the catchment populations were estimated by integrating census data with physical sewershed boundaries. Wastewater viral concentrations exhibited strong associations with clinical hospitalizations, with maximum Pearson correlations occurring at lead times of 1 day for RSV and 8 days for SARS-CoV-2. The performance of Pepper Mild Mottle Virus (PMMoV) as a fecal indicator was target-specific and scale-dependent. PMMoV normalization improved predictive correlations and extended the lead time for IAV to 7 days but reduced correlation strength for SARS-CoV-2 and RSV, suggesting that raw viral loads may better reflect community shedding for certain pathogens at the neighborhood scale. Comparison with downstream wastewater treatment plant influent revealed substantial signal smoothing at larger spatial scales, whereas upstream pumping stations exhibited higher hydraulic volatility. Small catchments serving fewer than 600 residents showed large signal instability and frequent stagnation. Significant PMMoV seasonality was observed, with consistent winter and spring peaks across sites. Together, these findings indicate that near-source WBE offers reliable neighborhood-level surveillance and that the effectiveness of normalization depends on both the viral target and catchment characteristics.
17377532 | Foxp3 controls regulatory T-cell function by interacting with AML1/Runx1. Naturally arising CD25+CD4+ regulatory T cells (T(R) cells) are engaged in the maintenance of immunological self-tolerance and immune homeostasis by suppressing aberrant or excessive immune responses, such as autoimmune disease and allergy. T(R) cells specifically express the transcription factor Foxp3, a key regulator of T(R)-cell development and function. Ectopic expression of Foxp3 in conventional T cells is indeed sufficient to confer suppressive activity, repress the production of cytokines such as interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), and upregulate T(R)-cell-associated molecules such as CD25, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4, and glucocorticoid-induced TNF-receptor-family-related protein. However, the method by which Foxp3 controls these molecular events has yet to be explained. Here we show that the transcription factor AML1 (acute myeloid leukaemia 1)/Runx1 (Runt-related transcription factor 1), which is crucially required for normal haematopoiesis including thymic T-cell development, activates IL-2 and IFN-gamma gene expression in conventional CD4+ T cells through binding to their respective promoters. In natural T(R) cells, Foxp3 interacts physically with AML1. Several lines of evidence support a model in which the interaction suppresses IL-2 and IFN-gamma production, upregulates T(R)-cell-associated molecules, and exerts suppressive activity. This transcriptional control of T(R)-cell function by an interaction between Foxp3 and AML1 can be exploited to control physiological and pathological T-cell-mediated immune responses.
42139648 | Quality of reporting of systematic reviews with meta-analysis of diagnostic test accuracy of rapid antigen tests for SARS-CoV-2 according to PRISMA-DTA: A meta-epidemiological survey. Introduction: Systematic reviews are crucial for informing health decisions and supporting evidence-based policymaking. Reporting guidelines aim to reduce ambiguity and confusion while promoting clarity, completeness, and transparency in reporting. Our study aimed to assess the completeness of reporting of diagnostic test accuracy systematic reviews with meta-analysis on rapid antigen tests for SARS-CoV-2 deployed during the COVID-19 pandemic using the PRISMA-DTA guideline. Methods: We conducted a meta-epidemiological survey of systematic reviews with meta-analysis of rapid antigen tests for SARS-CoV-2. We searched MEDLINE/PubMed, EMBASE, L OVE Covid-19, and Web of Science Clarivate, covering the period from inception to April 3, 2025, with no language restrictions. We included reviews that used explicit systematic review methodologies with summary estimates of test sensitivity and specificity. We assessed compliance with the 27 PRISMA-DTA items. Results: After screening 5252 publications, we included 38 reviews. We found no PRISMA-DTA item with a low reporting frequency. Regarding the number of items reported, 23 (60%) of the included studies reported over 66%, and 15 (40%) reported between 33% and 66%, with none reporting fewer than 33%. None of the included reviews complied with the full PRISMA-DTA checklist. Conclusions: Our meta-epidemiological survey reveals persistent shortcomings in the reporting quality of systematic reviews evaluating rapid antigen test accuracy for SARS-CoV-2. While some items were consistently addressed, numerous critical domains requiring a deeper understanding of the specific diagnostic test accuracy assessment methods showed low reporting adherence.
39762745 | Deep analysis of the major histocompatibility complex genetic associations using covariate analysis and haploblocks unravels new mechanisms for the molecular etiology of Elite Control in AIDS. INTRODUCTION: We have reanalyzed the genomic data from the International Collaboration for the Genomics of HIV (ICGH), focusing on HIV-1 Elite Controllers (EC). METHODS: A genome-wide association study (GWAS) was performed, comparing 543 HIV-1 EC individuals with 3,272 uninfected controls (CTR) of European ancestry. 8 million single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and HLA class I and class II gene alleles were imputed to compare EC and CTR. RESULTS: Two thousand six hundred twenty-six SNPs were associated with EC (p<5.10-8), all located within the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) region. Stepwise regression analysis narrowed this list to 17 SNPs. In parallel, 22 HLA class I and II alleles were associated with EC. Through meticulous mapping of the LD between all identified signals and employing reciprocal covariate analyses, we delineated a final set of 6 independent SNPs and 3 HLA class I gene alleles that accounted for most of the associations observed with EC. Our study revealed the presence of cumulative haploblock effects (SNP rs9264942 contributing to the HLA-B*57:01 effect) and that several HLA allele associations were in fact caused by SNPs in linkage disequilibrium (LD). Upon investigating SNPs in LD with the selected 6 SNPs and 3 HLA class I alleles for their impact on protein function (either damaging or differential expression), we identified several compelling mechanisms potentially explaining EC among which: a multi-action mechanism of HLA-B*57:01 involving MICA mutations and MICB differential expression overcoming the HIV-1 blockade of NK cell response, and overexpression of ZBTB12 with a possible anti-HIV-1 effect through HERV-K interference; a deleterious mutation in PPP1R18 favoring viral budding associated with rs1233396. CONCLUSION: Our results show that MHC influence on EC likely extends beyond traditional HLA class I or class II allele associations, encompassing other MHC SNPs with various biological impacts. They point to the key role of NK cells in preventing HIV-1 infection. Our analysis shows that HLA-B*57:01 is indeed associated with partially functional MICA/MICB proteins which could also explain this marker's involvement in other diseases such as psoriasis. More broadly, our findings suggest that within any HLA class I and II association in diseases, there may exist distinct causal SNPs within this crucial, gene-rich, and LD-rich MHC region.
42137841 | Development and diagnostic performance of a novel scoring system for predicting COVID-19 severity in a national referral hospital. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) shows a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations, ranging from mild illness to severe and critical disease. Early identification of patients at risk of deterioration remains important for timely clinical decision-making. The aim of this study was to develop a novel scoring system for predicting COVID-19 severity in a national referral hospital. This prospective cohort study included patients with confirmed COVID-19 admitted to Dr. M. Djamil Hospital, Padang, Indonesia, from May to December 2021. Demographic, clinical, and laboratory data were collected, and disease severity was classified according to the World Health Organization criteria. Univariate analysis was performed to identify candidate variables, followed by multivariable logistic regression analysis to determine independent predictors of severity. A scoring system was then constructed based on the retained predictors, and its diagnostic performance was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic analysis and the Youden index. Five variables were independently associated with COVID-19 severity: white blood cell count (WBC) >= 10,000/mm3, absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) < 1,500/mm3, platelet large cell ratio (PLCR) >= 30%, interleukin-6 (IL-6) >= 7 pg/mL, and D-dimer >=500 ng/mL. These variables were incorporated into a scoring system with a maximum total score of 6. Using a cut-off score of 3.5, the model showed a sensitivity of 96.15% and a specificity of 79.03% for differentiating severe from non-severe COVID-19. This study highlights that a novel scoring system based on WBC, ALC, PLCR, IL-6, and D-dimer performed well in predicting COVID-19 severity and may support early risk stratification in hospitalized patients.
9234679 | A conserved tissue-specific structure at a human T-cell receptor beta-chain core promoter. The T-cell receptor (TCR) beta-chain promoters have been characterized as nonstructured basal promoters that carry a single conserved ubiquitous cyclic AMP-responsive element. Our investigation of the human TCR beta gene uncovers a surprisingly complex and tissue-specific structure at the TCR Vbeta 8.1 promoter. The core of the promoter (positions -42 to +11) is recognized by the lymphoid cell-specific transcription factors Ets-1, LEF1, and AML1 as well as by CREB/ATF-1, as is demonstrated in gel shift and footprinting experiments. With the exception of LEF1, these factors activate transcription in T cells. Binding sites at the core region show little conservation with consensus sites. Nonetheless, CREB, Ets-1, and AML1 bind and activate cooperatively and very efficiently through the nonconsensus binding sites at the core promoter region. Moderate ubiquitous activation is further induced by CREB/ATF and Sp1 factors through proximal upstream elements. The tissue-specific core promoter structure is apparently conserved in other T-cell-specifically expressed genes such as the CD4 gene. Our observations suggest that both the enhancer and the promoter have a complex tissue-specific structure whose functional interplay potentiates T-cell-specific transcription.
15749889 | Functional domains of Runx1 are differentially required for CD4 repression, TCRbeta expression, and CD4/8 double-negative to CD4/8 double-positive transition in thymocyte development. Runx1 (AML1) has multiple functions in thymocyte development, including CD4 repression in immature thymocytes, expression of TCRbeta, and efficient beta-selection. To determine the functional domains of Runx1 important for thymocyte development, we cultured Runx1-deficient murine fetal liver (FL) cells on OP9-Delta-like 1 murine stromal cells, which express Delta-like 1 and support thymocyte development in vitro, and introduced Runx1 or C-terminal-deletion mutants of Runx1 into the FL cells by retrovirus infection. In this system, Runx1-deficient FL cells failed to follow normal thymocyte development, whereas the introduction of Runx1 into the cells was sufficient to produce thymocyte development that was indistinguishable from that in wild-type FL cells. In contrast, Runx1 mutants that lacked the activation domain necessary for initiating gene transcription did not fully restore thymocyte differentiation, in that it neither repressed CD4 expression nor promoted the CD4/8 double-negative to CD4/8 double-positive transition. Although the C-terminal VWRPY motif-deficient mutant of Runx1, which cannot interact with the transcriptional corepressor Transducin-like enhancer of split (TLE), promoted the double-negative to double-positive transition, it did not efficiently repress CD4 expression. These results suggest that the activation domain is essential for Runx1 to establish thymocyte development and that Runx1 has both TLE-dependent and TLE-independent functions in thymocyte development.
41813671 | CD8+ T cell loss induces autoinflammation in inborn errors of cell death. Systemic autoinflammatory diseases (SAID) with inborn errors of cell death (IECD) are caused by overactivation of programmed cell death (PCD). However, the pathogenesis by which PCD leads to autoinflammation remains unclear. Here, we identified IECD patients carrying compound heterozygous RIPK1 variants K377E/R390G with autoinflammatory manifestations. Mechanistically, K377E and R390G mutations suppress NF-kappaB signaling and activate RIPK1 to promote cell death. CD8+ T cells of the patients displayed overactivated RIPK1 and excessive cell death, leading to an elevated CD4/CD8 ratio, which could also be detected in patients with cleavage-resistant mutation of RIPK1 or SHARPIN deficiency. We show that the increased cell death of CD8+ T cells promotes TNF and IFN-gamma secretion to activate monocytes/macrophages, which triggers overproduction of proinflammatory cytokines. In addition, disruption of the communication between T cells and monocytes/macrophages through pharmacologic blockade of TNF and IFN attenuates proinflammatory cytokine production in macrophages and relieves all the symptoms in patients. This study further clarifies the mechanism for a group of IECD with SAID. Increased CD4/CD8 ratio and augmented RIPK1 activation in T cells provide potentially additional criteria for diagnosis of RIPK1-dependent IECD and a combination of TNF/JAK inhibitor could be an effective therapy for the diagnosed patients.
28513614 | Recurrent somatic JAK-STAT pathway variants within a RUNX1-mutated pedigree. Germline variants within the transcription factor RUNX1 are associated with familial platelet disorder and acute leukemia in over 40% of carriers. At present, the somatic events triggering leukemic transformation appear heterogeneous and profiles of leukemia initiation across family members are poorly defined. We report a new RUNX1 family where three sisters harboring a germline nonsense RUNX1 variant, c.601C>T (p.(Arg201*)), developed acute myelomonocytic leukemia (AML) at 5 years of age. Whole-exome sequencing of tumor samples revealed all three siblings independently acquired variants within the JAK-STAT pathway, specifically targeting JAK2 and SH2B3 (a negative regulator of JAK2), while also sharing the 46/1 haplotype linked with sporadic JAK2-positive myeloproliferative neoplasms. In-depth chromosomal characterization of tumors revealed acquired copy number gains and uniparental disomy amplifying RUNX1, JAK2 and SH2B3 variants, highlighting the significance of co-operation between these disrupted pathways. One sibling, presenting with myelodysplasia at 14 years, had no evidence of clonal or subclonal JAK2 or SH2B3 variants, suggesting the latter were specifically associated with leukemic transformation in her sisters. Collectively, the clinical and molecular homogeneity across these three young siblings provides the first notable example of convergent AML evolution in a RUNX1 pedigree, with the recurrent acquisition of JAK-STAT pathway variants giving rise to high-risk AML, characterized by chemotherapy resistance and relapse.
42138717 | Serological response to feline coronavirus in the UK domestic cat population. Feline coronavirus (FCoV) is a ubiquitous virus of cats, with highly variable seroprevalence, ranging between 4 and 95% worldwide in the domestic cat population. It is the causative agent of feline infectious peritonitis (FIP), a disease which, prior to the recent introduction of effective antiviral drug treatments, was invariably fatal. The recent outbreak of FIP, originating in Cyprus and caused by the novel recombinant FCoV-23, highlighted the need to increase understanding of the serological response to FCoV. This study aimed to characterize the serological response to the virus and to assess cross-neutralization of type II FCoV subtypes as well as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). In serum samples of 1117 UK cats collected between 2020 and 2023, we detected an FCoV-II neutralizing antibody (nAb) seroprevalence of 13.6% and an overall seroprevalence of 59.5%; commonly cited risk factors (sex, age and breed) did not significantly impact the nAb seroprevalence nor nAb titre against FCoV-II. Antibodies against subtypes FIPV-79-1146 and FIPV-DF-2 were found to be cross-reactive and additionally neutralized both isoforms of FCoV-23. In contrast, no cross-neutralization was observed against SARS-CoV-2. Overall, these results highlight that although FCoV infection offers effective cross-protection between FCoV strains and subtypes, this does not extend to betacoronaviruses.
41674942 | Integrated single-cell and transcriptomic analysis of CD8+CD101+TIM3+ T cells in hepatocellular carcinoma: implications for tumor microenvironment and prognostic modeling. Background: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) ranks as a leading global cause of cancer-related mortality. Our study investigates the functional role between CD8+CD101+TIM3+ T cells (CCT) and CD8+CD101-TIM3+ T cells in HCC, with a focus on their implications for immunotherapy. Methods: We utilized single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to delineate the transcriptional landscapes and intercellular crosstalk of CCT and CD8+CD101-TIM3+ T cells in HCC tissues. Clinical characteristics and scRNA-seq data were curated from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. For the differentially expressed genes (DEGs), Gene Ontology (GO) functional analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway-enrichment were performed. Prognostic model was constructed using univariate Cox and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression model, validated through Kaplan-Meier survival curves and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. A corresponding nomogram was also established to predict the prognosis of HCC patients. Results: Our results indicated that T cell re-clustering revealed four functionally distinct subsets: CD8+ T cells, CD8+CD101-TIM3+ T cells, CCT, and CD4+ T cells. Pseudotime trajectory analysis demonstrated that CD8+CD101-TIM3+ T cells progressively differentiated into CCT, a process mediated by MIF-CD74/CXCR4 and SPP1-CD44 signaling axes. Enrichment analysis identified 1,281 CCT-specific genes enriched in mitochondrial electron transport and oxidative phosphorylation pathways. The prognostic model showed strong discriminatory power for overall survival (OS), achieving areas under the curve of 0.825, 0.873, and 0.865 at 1, 3, and 5 years in the training cohort, compared to 0.654, 0.636, and 0.644 in the validation cohort. The developed nomogram effectively predicts OS for HCC patients. Conclusions: Our findings elucidate the functional alterations of CCT and precursor cells within the context of HCC. The novel prognostic framework provides actionable insights for stratifying patients likely to benefit from combinatorial immunotherapy and chemotherapy.
41985437 | Human immune aging clock identifies RUNX1 as a decelerator of T cell senescence. Immunosenescence drives organismal aging, yet quantifying its heterogeneity to uncover therapeutic targets remains challenging. We construct a human immune aging clock from single-cell multi-omics data of nearly 1.2 million human peripheral blood mononuclear cells from 230 individuals, precisely mapping immune aging. T cell (TC) transcriptomes are key predictors, revealing hallmarks such as naive cell loss and clonal contraction. This framework identifies the transcription factor RUNX1, whose expression declines with age in TCs, as a central regulator. Functional studies demonstrate that RUNX1 deletion in young TCs induces senescence, while its restoration in aged CD8+ TCs alleviates senescent phenotypes in vitro and in vivo. Our study provides a quantitative tool for assessing immunosenescence and nominates RUNX1 as a target for rejuvenating aged immunity.
42132422 | Genotypic and phenotypic characteristics of CXCR4-using transmitted/founder HIV-1 envelope glycoproteins. The characteristics of HIV-1 envelope glycoproteins (Env) that initiate infection remain incompletely understood. In the primary HIV infection (PHI) stage, Envs using CCR5 as entry coreceptor (R5-tropic Envs) are much more frequent than those using CXCR4, alone or in addition to CCR5 (X4 or R5X4 Envs). However, a comprehensive analysis of the genetic identity and functional properties of CXCR4-using Envs during PHI is lacking to attest whether they are less transmissible than R5 Envs. Here, Env populations in the plasma of 22 recently infected individuals with R5 or CXCR4-using viruses were characterized by single-genome amplification. Mathematical modeling of HIV evolution, phylogenetic analyses, and viral quasi-species complexity indices showed that infection with CXCR4-using viruses is most often initiated by one, occasionally two variants, similar to R5 viruses. After transmission, the diversity and complexity of CXCR4-using and R5 Env populations increase similarly during PHI, with mutations accumulating in preferential regions of the gp120 portion of Env, but not in gp41. Both Env types also shared similar traits influencing viral transmission (variable loop length, N-glycosylations) and T-cell- but non-macrophage-tropism. However, CXCR4-using Envs exhibited specific sensitivity profiles to neutralization by soluble CD4 and broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs), suggesting differences in epitope exposure and conformational dynamics compared to R5 Envs. These results, therefore, indicate that CXCR4-using viruses are equipped to initiate infection and, like R5 viruses, undergo a genetic bottleneck during transmission. The specific antigenicity of transmitted CXCR4-using Envs could help improve protocols using bNAbs for passive immunization and HIV vaccine development. IMPORTANCE: Transmitted/founder (T/F) viruses are predominantly R5-tropic, and only on rare occasions have T/F viruses that use CXCR4 been reported in the literature. Consistently, R5 viruses account for over 90% of the viruses present during primary HIV infection (PHI). However, it remains unclear whether CXCR4-using Envs, unlike R5 Envs, lack key properties for virus transmission and/or persistence in the new host. Here, we found that transmitted CXCR4-using Envs shared with R5 Envs common genetic and functional determinants, demonstrating their potential to transmit infection. So, the low prevalence of CXCR4-using viruses among donors probably explains why they are infrequently transmitted. As with R5 viruses, a genetic bottleneck occurs during transmission of CXCR4-using viruses, suggesting that the barriers determining this bottleneck are independent of viral tropism. Remarkably, transmitted CXCR4-using Envs exhibit distinct antigenic properties compared to R5 Envs, which could be leveraged to improve broadly neutralizing antibody-based preventive and therapeutic vaccine strategies.
42118136 | HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein modulates CXCR4 clustering and dynamics on the T cell membrane. HIV-1 entry into susceptible cells requires the dynamic interaction of its envelope (Env) glycoprotein with the host cell receptor CD4 and a co-receptor, either CCR5 or CXCR4. While the core molecular mechanisms driving Env-receptor interactions and subsequent membrane fusion are well characterized, the precise nanoscale spatial reorganization of these co-receptors at the viral binding site remains poorly defined. In this study, we employed single-particle tracking total internal reflection fluorescence (SPT-TIRF) microscopy to quantitatively analyze nanoscale organizational changes of CXCR4 on the surface of human CD4+ T cells following binding by X4-tropic HIV-1. Our data reveal that both recombinant X4-gp120 and virus-like particles expressing physiological levels of X4 Env proteins (gp120 and gp41) promote CXCR4 clustering, a phenomenon linked to cell infection. Furthermore, these ligands induced oligomerization of CXCR4R334X, a naturally occurring mutant associated with WHIM syndrome that supports HIV-1 infection, but fails to oligomerize in response to CXCL12. Our findings establish a link between CXCR4 clustering and HIV-1 infection, enhancing our understanding of the initial events in viral attachment and entry. These results further suggest that HIV-1 depends on a specific spatial arrangement of co-receptors, distinct from that induced by their natural chemokine ligands, highlighting the critical role of cell-surface receptor spatial organization in dictating cellular function.
41860697 | CD161+ Treg as a potential biomarker for evaluating disease activity and treatment efficacy in rheumatoid arthritis. BACKGROUND: CD161+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) are involved in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis. This study aimed to investigate the levels of circulating CD161+ Tregs in RA patients and to evaluate their associations with clinical features, laboratory indicators, and therapeutic responses. METHODS: A total of 172 RA patients meeting the 2010 ACR/EULAR criteria and 110 age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HCs) were enrolled. The proportion of CD161+ Tregs in peripheral blood was quantified by flow cytometry. Correlations between CD161+ Treg levels and clinical manifestations, laboratory parameters, and disease activity scores (DAS28) were assessed. Twenty-four RA patients were longitudinally followed to assess post-treatment changes in CD161+ Tregs and disease activity. RESULTS:  The proportions of CD161+ Tregs of the total Treg and CD4+ T cell populations were significantly elevated in RA patients compared to HCs (P < 0.001). Higher CD161+ Treg levels were associated with smoking history (P = 0.033) and inversely correlated with the presence of dry eye sicca (P = 0.030). These subsets showed positive correlations with IgA, IgM, rheumatoid factor (RF), RF-IgG, TNF-alpha+CD4+ T cell, Th17 and DAS28-ESR (P < 0.05), while exhibiting negative correlations with naive Th cells and effector T (Teff) cells (P < 0.05). CD161+ Treg levels were higher in patients with long-standing RA (LRA) than in HCs (P < 0.05), and in patients with high disease activity (DAS28-ESR > 5.1) compared to those with moderate/low disease activity (P < 0.05). After treatment, decreased CD161+ Treg and disease activity scores were observed (P < 0.05), which were particularly pronounced in the group receiving csDMARDs combined with tocilizumab (an IL-6 inhibitor). However, csDMARDs alone or in combination with JAK inhibitors showed no or only partial efficacy. CONCLUSION: CD161+ Tregs are elevated in RA and associated with disease activity and immunologic indicators. CD161+ Tregs might serve as a biomarker for assessing RA disease activity. Key Points   The proportion of circulating CD161+ regulatory T cells is significantly increased in rheumatoid arthritis patients compared to healthy controls.   Higher CD161+ Treg levels correlate positively with disease activity scores (DAS28-ESR) and key serological markers (RF, IgA, IgM).   CD161+ Treg levels decreased significantly following effective therapy, paralleling reductions in disease activity, particularly in the group receiving csDMARDs combined with tocilizumab.   CD161+ Tregs show positive correlations with pro-inflammatory cells (TNF-alpha+CD4+T cell, Th17) and peripheral T follicular helper cells, underscoring their role in RA immunopathology.
42002153 | CLONAL LYMPHOCYTE EXPANSIONS AND JAK-STAT PATHWAY MUTATIONS DEFINE A PATHOGENIC CONTINUUM DRIVING RESISTANCE TO GLUTEN-FREE DIET IN CELIAC DISEASE. BACKGROUND &AIMS: Despite recent advances, refractory celiac disease (RCD) poses challenging questions. In type 2 RCD (RCD2), the lack of response to the gluten-free diet is attributed to an intestinal intraepithelial lymphoma carrying driver JAK1 or STAT3 mutations. However, it remains unclear whether these can be safely targeted for therapy. In RCD1, pathogenic insights are still lacking. METHODS: Duodenal biopsies and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients with RCD1, RCD2, active CeD, CeD in remission, and controls were analyzed. Lymphocyte populations were characterized using single-cell transcriptomic, genomic, and TCR repertoire profiling. Functional and exome sequencing analyses were performed on patient-derived RCD2 cell lines exposed to JAK inhibitors. RESULTS: We show that clonal malignant RCD2 lymphocytes exhibit interpatient similarities but substantial intratumoral heterogeneity, and provide in vitro evidence that JAK inhibitors can select drug-resistant tumor cells, arguing against their use as monotherapy. In RCD1, we identified clonal T-cell expansions harboring mutations that enhance the JAK-STAT pathway. The detection of both RCD2 and a CD4+ lymphoproliferation in a patient initially diagnosed with RCD1 further illustrates the diversity of lymphoproliferative outcomes in celiac disease. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that RCD subtypes may share underlying mechanisms driven by clonal evolution and JAK-STAT dysregulation. They also highlight the potential limitations of JAK inhibitor monotherapy and the importance of molecularly informed therapeutic strategies.
41474729 | Exploring the molecular link between obstructive sleep apnea and interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome: A bioinformatics and machine learning study. BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome (IC/BPS) are chronic conditions that significantly impact patients' quality of life. OSA involves recurrent upper airway obstruction during sleep, causing hypoxia and fragmented sleep linked to cardiovascular and metabolic issues. IC/BPS is defined by chronic pelvic pain and urinary symptoms; its pathophysiology is complex and poorly understood. The overlap in the prevalence of OSA and IC/BPS suggests a possible shared pathophysiological link. This study aimed to identify shared molecular mechanisms and diagnostic biomarkers between OSA and IC/BPS through integrated bioinformatics approaches. METHODS: This study used bioinformatics and machine learning to analyze transcriptomic data for OSA and IC/BPS, identifying differential expressed genes (DEGs) and enriched pathways from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) constructed gene co-expression networks and identified hub genes, while immune infiltration analysis characterized the immune microenvironment. Four machine learning algorithms developed diagnostic models and also identified key markers. RESULTS: A total of 2,233 DEGs were identified in OSA and 1,183 in IC/BPS, with 93 overlapping genes. Among these, machine learning algorithms identified DUSP9 as the single common gene linking both disorders, forming two-gene signatures for each condition (DUSP9/CCDC68 for OSA and DUSP9/KPNA2 for IC/BPS). Key pathways for OSA included RIG-I-like and NOD-like receptor signaling. In contrast, IC/BPS was linked to cytokine interactions and JAK-STAT signaling. Immune infiltration analysis showed that DUSP9 expression was correlated with CD56dim natural killer cells in OSA and with activated CD4 T cells in IC/BPS, further supporting its role in the immune response associated with these disorders. CONCLUSIONS: This study established DUSP9 as a pivotal shared biomarker and central regulator linking OSA and IC/BPS through integrated bioinformatics analysis.
41192098 | Dual-phase study of CD4+CXCR4+ T cells in Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia: clinical correlations in children and therapeutic exploration with tofacitinib in mice. OBJECTIVE: This study had two primary objectives. First, we aimed to investigate whether differential expression of the chemokine receptor CXCR4 on CD4+ T lymphocytes could serve as a distinguishing immunological feature between pediatric patients with severe Mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia (SMPP) and those with on- Non-severe MPP. Second, we sought to explore the therapeutic potential of the JAK inhibitor Tofacitinib in MPP by examining its effects on CXCR4 pathway modulation, using both clinical observations and experimental validation through an established animal model of MPP. METHODS: We conducted a prospective cohort study involving 267 pediatric patients diagnosed with MPP at Jiading District Central Hospital between 2023 and 2024, comprising 42 SMPP cases and 225 Non-severe MPP cases. Baseline clinical and laboratory parameters were systematically collected within 24 h of hospital admission. Flow cytometry was employed to quantify the percentage of CD4+ T cells expressing CXCR4 (CD4+CXCR4+) in peripheral blood samples by flow cytometry. For mechanistic investigation, we established a murine model of MPP to evaluate the immunomodulatory effects of Tofacitinib. Treatment groups received either vehicle control or Tofacitinib, after which we analyzed bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) for inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, IP-10, IL-2) and CXCL12 levels via ELISA. Additionally, in vitro experiments were performed using the murine lung epithelial cell line MLE-12 to assess the combined effects of Tofacitinib and a CXCR4 inhibitor on key inflammatory signaling pathways (JAK-STAT and NF-kappaB) through Western blot analysis. RESULTS: Clinical analysis revealed that children with SMPP had significantly prolonged fever duration (P = 0.0062), extended hospitalization (P < 0.0001), elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (P = 0.0161), and higher proportions of CD4+CXCR4+ T lymphocytes (P < 0.0001) compared to Non-severe MPP patients. However, no statistically significant differences were observed in serum levels of C-reactive protein, procalcitonin, or lactate dehydrogenase between the two groups. In the MPP mouse model, BALF analysis demonstrated marked increases in pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6, IL-8, IP-10, IL-2) and CXCL12 (P < 0.05), all of which were significantly attenuated by Tofacitinib treatment. Furthermore, Tofacitinib administration reduced CXCR4 expression on CD4+ T cells in lung tissues. In vitro experiments confirmed that the combination of Tofacitinib and a CXCR4 inhibitor synergistically suppressed activation of the JAK-STAT and NF-kappaB pathways. CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that elevated CD4+CXCR4+ T cell proportions may serve as a predictive biomarker for disease severity in pediatric MPP. The experimental data demonstrate that Tofacitinib exerts protective effects in MPP by modulating the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis, leading to reduced inflammatory cytokine production. The observed suppression of JAK-STAT and NF-kappaB signaling pathways provides mechanistic support for the potential therapeutic application of Tofacitinib, either alone or in combination with CXCR4 inhibition, in the management of MPP. Further clinical studies are warranted to validate these findings and assess the translational potential of this treatment strategy.
41135092 | The HLA-B*57:01 Haplotype, Genetic Key Linking Innate Immunity and Longevity. In our recent research on AIDS Elite controllers, we demonstrated that the HLA-B*57:01 allele is part of an extensive MHC haplotype associated with impaired MICA/MICB function. Considering the pivotal role of natural killer (NK) cells and innate immunity in fighting cancer and infectious diseases, we investigated whether this allele could also influence human longevity. To this end, we performed a multinational European study including 2,597 centenarians and 9,973 controls. We found that HLA-B*57:01 was consistently less frequent in the European centenarian cohorts compared with the corresponding controls (OR   0.68, p &;lt 0.0005). These findings provide the first in vivo genetic evidence that innate immunity and NK cell function are key components of human longevity.
41793972 | Interleukin-30 promotes melanoma spreading and triggers LAG-3 expression and T cell exhaustion. Melanoma is an aggressive and highly metastatic malignancy with significant mortality. Although immune checkpoint inhibitors have improved outcomes in advanced disease, immune resistance remains a critical barrier to durable responses, emphasizing the need to define the molecular mechanisms underlying therapeutic failure. Interleukin (IL)30 has been identified as a cancer progression driver with immunosuppressive function in the tumour-microenvironment. Whether it is involved in melanoma aggressiveness and metastasis is unknown. Immunopathological studies, RNA-Seq and CIBERSORTx analyses of tissue samples from the TCGA-SKCM patient cohort, reveal that IL30 expression is absent in normal skin, while it can be found in melanoma and infiltrating immune cells, mostly macrophages. The putative IL30 receptor complex, IL-6Ralpha/gp130, is expressed by melanoma cells, which respond to IL30 stimulation with increased proliferation and migration, consistent with IL30-mediated upregulation of metastasis-associated genes, including ANG2, CXCR4, ITGB1, MMP2, NME, SNAI2, VEGFA, VEGFC, and L1CAM. Bioinformatic analysis of IL30 transcript levels in TCGA-SKCM tissue specimens, reveals increased IL30 expression in metastases compared with primary tumors, corroborating the experimental findings at the translational level. IL30 reprograms the melanoma immunophenotype by inducing multiple immune checkpoint molecules, including LSECtin, LGALS3, LGALS9, LAG-3, TIM-3, B7-H4, B7-H3, VISTA, and PD-1. Concurrently, IL30 suppresses T cell function by reducing CD25 and HLA-DR expression on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, inhibiting their activation and proliferation, decreasing TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma production, and boosting LAG-3 expression, which strongly correlates with IL30 levels in clinical samples. Collectively, these findings identify IL30 as a critical driver of melanoma dissemination and T cell exhaustion, providing a mechanistic link to immune resistance and failure of combination immunotherapies.
28007920 | Role of Interleukin 32 in Human Immunodeficiency Virus Reactivation and Its Link to Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Herpes Simplex Virus Coinfection. Background: Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2; herpes) exacerbates human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV) by unclear mechanisms. These studies tested the impact of HSV-2 on systemic T-cells and HIV reservoirs. Methods: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from HIV-infected women on antiretroviral therapy who were HSV-2 seropositive or seronegative and HIV-uninfected controls were analyzed by flow cytometry. Cell-associated HIV DNA and RNA were quantified in the absence or presence of activating stimuli, recombinant interleukin 32gamma (IL-32gamma), and a RUNX1 inhibitor. RNA was assessed by nanostring. Results: CD4, but not CD8, T-cell phenotypes differed in HIV+/HSV-2+ versus HIV+/HSV-2- (overall P = .002) with increased frequency of CCR5+, CXCR4+, PD-1+, and CD69+ and decreased frequency of CCR10+ and CCR6+ T-cells. The changes were associated with higher HIV DNA. Paradoxically, IL-32, a proinflammatory cytokine, was lower in subpopulations of CD4+ T-cells in HSV-2+ versus HSV-2- women. Recombinant IL-32gamma blocked HIV reactivation in CD4+ T-cells and was associated with an increase in RUNX1 expression; the blockade was overcome by a RUNX1 inhibitor. Conclusions: Herpes is associated with phenotypic changes in CD4+ T-cells, including a decrease in IL-32, which may contribute to increased HIV reservoirs. Blocking IL-32 may facilitate HIV reactivation to improve shock and kill strategies.
41992943 | Glucocorticoids intrinsically redirect naive CD4+ T cells to the bone marrow for preservation in malnourished mice. Malnutrition impairs immunity and contributes significantly to child mortality. Among other immune changes during malnutrition, effector T cells experience a decline in number and function. As little is known about the effect of malnutrition on naive T cells, we examined the impact of malnutrition on the naive T cell population. During malnutrition, the number of naive T cells decreased in the lymph nodes and increased in the bone marrow where naive CD4+ T cells experienced less apoptosis than controls. An adoptive transfer experiment revealed that malnourished naive CD4+ T cells preferentially migrated to the bone marrow, while ad libitum control cells preferentially migrated to the lymph nodes in a T cell-intrinsic fashion. Additionally, T cell-specific lack of the glucocorticoid receptor greatly reduced the number of naive T cells in the bone marrow of malnourished mice, while dexamethasone treatment elevated the number of naive CD4+ T cells in the bone marrow. T cell sensitivity to glucocorticoids was required for elevated expression of CXCR4 and CCR7 in naive CD4+ T cells during malnutrition. Overall, naive CD4+ T cell migration to the bone marrow during malnutrition is intrinsic, requires sensitivity to glucocorticoids, and likely contributes to naive T cell preservation in mice.
42112876 | T cells, the next big target in axSpA? Axial spondyloarthritis (axSpA) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by complex immune dysregulation, with T cells playing a central role in its pathogenesis. In this review we synthesize current knowledge on diverse T cell subsets in axSpA, their pathogenic mechanisms, and emerging therapeutic strategies targeting these cells. We highlight conventional alphabeta T cell receptor (TCR) expressing CD8+ T cells, CD4+ Th17and Treg cells, and CD103+CD49a+ tissue-resident memory (TRM) integrin expressing (InEx) T cells in axSpA initiation and progression. Innate-like T cell subsets, including gammadelta T cells, mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells, and invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells alongwith innate lymphoid cells (ILC3s, though not T cells), contribute substantially via interlukin-17 (IL-17) production via IL-23, driving inflammation and tissue damage. We discuss complex milieu of cytokines in T cell-mediated inflammation, offering potential explanations for inefficacy of some cytokine inhibitors. We explore alternative drivers of inflammation and their implications for developing more effective therapies targeting T cells in axSpA, either directly via anti-TRBV9 antibody therapy or janus kinase (JAK) inhibition or indirectly by inhibiting mediators such as IL-17 and TNF. This complex interplay of T cell subsets in disease pathogenesis underscores the need for research to develop more targeted treatments, opening new avenues for personalized therapies and combination approaches that address multiple aspects of the inflammatory cascade in axSpA.
23922928 | Ectopic Runx1 expression rescues Tal-1-deficiency in the generation of primitive and definitive hematopoiesis. The transcription factors SCL/Tal-1 and AML1/Runx1 control the generation of pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells (pHSC) and, thereby, primitive and definitive hematopoiesis, during embryonic development of the mouse from mesoderm. Thus, Runx1-deficient mice generate primitive, but not definitive hematopoiesis, while Tal-1-deficient mice are completely defective. Primitive as well as definitive hematopoiesis can be developed \in vitro\ from embryonic stem cells (ESC). We show that wild type, as well as Tal-1(-/-) and Runx1(-/-) ESCs, induced to differentiation, all expand within 5 days to comparable numbers of Flk1(+) mesodermal cells. While wild type ESCs further differentiate to primitive and definitive erythrocytes, to c-fms(+)Gr1(+)Mac1(+) myeloid cells, and to B220(+)CD19(+) B- and CD4(+)/CD8(+) T-lymphoid cells, Runx1(-/-) ESCs, as expected, only develop primitive erythrocytes, and Tal-1(-/-) ESCs do not generate any hematopoietic cells. Retroviral transduction with Runx1 of Runx1(-/-) ESCs, differentiated for 4 days to mesoderm, rescues definitive erythropoiesis, myelopoiesis and lymphopoiesis, though only with 1-10% of the efficiencies of wild type ESC hematopoiesis. Surprisingly, Tal-1(-/-) ESCs can also be rescued at comparably low efficiencies to primitive and definitive erythropoiesis, and to myelopoiesis and lymphopoiesis by retroviral transduction with Runx1. These results suggest that Tal-1 expression is needed to express Runx1 in mesoderm, and that ectopic expression of Runx1 in mesoderm is sufficient to induce primitive as well as definitive hematopoiesis in the absence of Tal-1. Retroviral transduction of \in vitro\ differentiating Tal-1(-/-) and Runx1(-/-) ESCs should be a useful experimental tool to probe selected genes for activities in the generation of hematopoietic progenitors \in vitro\, and to assess the potential transforming activities in hematopoiesis of mutant forms of Tal-1 and Runx1 from acute myeloid leukemia and related tumors.
41424846 | Searching for a HIV-1 Cure. Advances in stem cell transplantation, broadly neutralizing antibodies, ultra-long-acting antiretroviral drugs, therapeutic vaccines, cell engineering, gene therapy, and immune-based molecular therapies have highlighted efforts to cure human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). However, none of these are durable. The challenges to achieve complete viral eradication include durability, accessibility, delivery, off-target effects, and practicality. All approaches, including combinatorial therapies with ultra-long-acting antiretrovirals, broadly neutralizing antibodies, or latency-reversing agents, which reduce reservoir size and achieve durable viral suppression, are discussed. These include key translational insights for clinical relevance. Among these, gene-editing technologies have shown promise in disrupting proviral DNA and delivering targeted therapies by targeting latent reservoirs and host viral receptors. This review examines the scientific, clinical, and ethical considerations, focusing on direct viral excision and co-receptor editing as key strategies for a viral cure.
40207604 | Role of Protective and Predisposing HLA-B Alleles and MICA Variants (MICA*049 and MICA*00901) in South Indian Behcet's Disease.
42140499 | Lymph node remodelling underlies the attenuated form of HIV/AIDS in people with HIV-2. HIV-2 infection is associated with low-to-undetectable plasma viral load, broad and sustained specific antibody and T cell responses, and a slow course of CD4 T cell decline, even in the absence of antiretroviral therapy (ART). Here, we investigated the secondary lymphoid organs of people with HIV-2 (PWH2) as compared to people with HIV-1 (PWH1) and seronegative subjects. We found active HIV-2 replication and major disruption of lymph node architecture in PWH2, also attested by the alterations that we demonstrated in the blood counterparts of follicular T and B cells. These findings were corroborated by in vitro infection assays using tonsil organ cultures and HIV-2 or HIV-1 primary isolates with distinct co-receptor usage, CCR5 or CXCR4, which showed significant HIV-2 cytopathogenicity associated with post-transcriptional control of HIV-2 replication, revealed by high titres of cell-associated viral DNA and mRNA transcripts but reduced HIV-2 protein production. Overall, our findings support a major impact of HIV-2 on secondary lymphoid tissue organisation throughout the disease course, stressing the relevance of this neglected infection to understand host-pathogen equilibrium in retroviral zoonoses and to identify strategies toward a functional HIV cure.
38853761 | Optimizing in vitro T cell differentiation by using induced pluripotent stem cells with GFP-RUNX1 and mCherry-TCF7 labelling. In vitro T-cell differentiation from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) could potentially provide an unlimited source of T cells for cancer immunotherapy, which, however is still hindered by the inefficient obtaining functionally-matured, terminally-differentiated T cells. Here, we established a fluorescence reporter human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) line termed TCF7mCherryRUNX1GFP, in which the endogenous expression of RUNX1 and TCF7 are illustrated by the GFP and mCherry fluorescence, respectively. Utilizing TCF7mCherryRUNX1GFP, we defined that the feeder cells incorporating CXCL12-expressing OP9 cells with DL4-expressing OP9 cells at a 1:3 ratio (OP9-C1D3) significantly enhanced efficiency of CD8+ T cell differentiation from PSCs. Additionally, we engineered a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) targeting EGFR into iPSCs. The CAR-T cells differentiated from these iPSCs using OP9-C1D3 feeders demonstrated effective cytotoxicity toward lung cancer cells. We anticipate this platform will help the in vitro HSPC and T cell differentiation optimization, serving the clinical demands of these cells.
42144858 | Experiences of People With Long COVID Accessing Rehabilitation Services: A Qualitative Study. PURPOSE: Long COVID is associated with a range of physical, cognitive, and/or psychological symptoms that significantly affect daily functioning. These individuals require rehabilitation services to address their limitations. This study explored the experiences of people with long COVID regarding access to and receipt of rehabilitation services. METHODS: This qualitative study recruited 12 individuals with long COVID from a population-based survey among the population of Laval (Quebec). Semistructured telephone interviews were conducted, recorded, transcribed verbatim, and analyzed using inductive thematic content analysis. Relevant elements were extracted, coded, and organized into themes/subthemes. RESULTS: Twelve participants (seven females; five males) participated in the study. We identified three main themes, each with subthemes: (1) impact of long COVID on personal and professional life (e.g., professional life, leisure activities, and social life); (2) rehabilitation services (access barriers, perceptions of services received); and (3) psychosocial support (lack or presence of support). Access to rehabilitation services was hampered by several barriers: difficulties obtaining referrals, financial constraints, lack of awareness among health professionals, and service shortages. Participants who accessed rehabilitation services reported satisfaction with care they received and appreciated the multidisciplinary approach. CONCLUSIONS: Improving access to rehabilitation services for people with long COVID is essential to support their recovery, as timely and coordinated rehabilitation can facilitate reintegration into daily activities and reduce functional limitations. Strategies to enhance access include increasing health professional awareness, reducing financial and logistical barriers, and expanding service availability.
22740448 | Combined gene expression and DNA occupancy profiling identifies potential therapeutic targets of t(8;21) AML. Chromosome translocation 8q22;21q22 [t(8;21)] is commonly associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and the resulting AML1-ETO fusion proteins are involved in the pathogenesis of AML. To identify novel molecular and therapeutic targets, we performed combined gene expression microarray and promoter occupancy (ChIP-chip) profiling using Lin(-)/Sca1(-)/cKit(+) cells, the major leukemia cell population, from an AML mouse model induced by AML1-ETO9a (AE9a). Approximately 30% of the identified common targets of microarray and ChIP-chip assays overlap with the human t(8;21)-gene expression molecular signature. CD45, a protein tyrosine phosphatase and a negative regulator of cytokine/growth factor receptor and JAK/STAT signaling, is among those targets. Its expression is substantially down-regulated in leukemia cells. Consequently, JAK/STAT signaling is enhanced. Re-expression of CD45 suppresses JAK/STAT activation, delays leukemia development, and promotes apoptosis of t(8;21)-positive cells. This study demonstrates the benefit of combining gene expression and promoter occupancy profiling assays to identify molecular and potential therapeutic targets in human cancers and describes a previously unappreciated signaling pathway involving t(8;21) fusion proteins, CD45, and JAK/STAT, which could be a potential novel target for treating t(8;21) AML.
41614909 | Chemokine Networks in Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma: Tumor Microenvironment Remodeling and Therapeutic Targets. Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) is a heterogeneous malignancy characterized by the proliferation of skin-homing CD4+ T cells and profound immune dysregulation within the tumor microenvironment (TME). This review synthesizes evidence on chemokine-receptor networks that govern malignant T-cell trafficking among blood, skin, and lymph nodes, the formation of immunosuppressive niches, and clinically actionable biomarker candidates. Among the best-supported axes, CCL17/CCL22-CCR4 and CCL27/CCL28-CCR10 mediate skin tropism, CCL19/CCL21-CCR7 contributes to lymph node homing, and CXCL12-CXCR4 supports skin trafficking and is associated with disease progression. In contrast, CCR2/CCR5/CCR6/CCR8-centered circuits and CXCR3/CXCR5 pathways are emerging regulators of myeloid recruitment, regulatory T-cell accumulation, and context-dependent immune activation. Therapeutically, agents targeting chemokine pathways, most notably the CCR4 monoclonal antibody Mogamulizumab, have demonstrated clinical efficacy, while emerging inhibitors of CCR6, CCR5, and CXCR4 offer promising avenues for intervention. We further highlight how recent single-cell and other high-dimensional omics studies refine cell-type-specific chemokine sources and receptor expression, enabling more precise mapping of chemokine-driven intercellular communication programs in CTCL TME remodeling and better prioritization of therapeutic targets and biomarkers.
39470005 | Distributions of MICA and MICB Alleles Typed by Amplicon-Based Next-Generation Sequencing in South Koreans. Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related genes A and B (MICA and MICB) play a role as ligands in activating the NKG2D receptor expressed in natural killer cells, gammadelta T-cells and alphabeta CD8 T-cells and have been defined in human diseases and haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). MICA and MICB alleles were genotyped at the three-field level by amplicon-based next-generation sequencing (NGS) using a MiSeqDx system and compared with the results from previous studies in healthy South Korean donors. Exons 2-5 of MICA and exons 2-4 of MICB were amplified using a multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Sequence reads of >= 51 depth counts were consistently obtained for each sample exon, and target exons were determined to match reference sequences contained in the IPD-IMGT/HLA database. MICA and MICB alleles were tested using exon combinations. The program was designed to recognise specific sequences and discriminate between the MICA*008:01:01/*027 alleles. A total of 22 alleles were found in MICA and MICB. We observed 1 HLA-C ~ HLA-B ~ MICA ~ MICB ~ HLA-DRB1 haplotype with significant linkage disequilibrium between alleles at all neighbouring HLA loci. These results are consistent with previous microarray results. Genotyping of MICA and MICB was possible using 11-loci HLA genes. We updated the distribution of MICA and MICB based on three-field allele and haplotype frequencies containing linkage disequilibrium in South Koreans using amplicon-based NGS. These data suggest that high-resolution MICA and MICB typing data obtained using NGS may aid in performing HSCT and disease association studies.
26010396 | Loss of RUNX1/AML1 arginine-methylation impairs peripheral T cell homeostasis. RUNX1 (previously termed AML1) is a frequent target of human leukaemia-associated gene aberrations, and it encodes the DNA-binding subunit of the Core-Binding Factor transcription factor complex. RUNX1 expression is essential for the initiation of definitive haematopoiesis, for steady-state thrombopoiesis, and for normal lymphocytes development. Recent studies revealed that protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1), which accounts for the majority of the type I PRMT activity in cells, methylates two arginine residues in RUNX1 (R206 and R210), and these modifications inhibit corepressor-binding to RUNX1 thereby enhancing its transcriptional activity. In order to elucidate the biological significance of these methylations, we established novel knock-in mouse lines with non-methylable, double arginine-to-lysine (RTAMR-to-KTAMK) mutations in RUNX1. Homozygous Runx1(KTAMK) (/) (KTAMK) mice are born alive and appear normal during adulthood. However, Runx1(KTAMK) (/) (KTAMK) mice showed a reduction in CD3(+) T lymphoid cells and a decrease in CD4(+) T cells in peripheral lymphoid organs, in comparison to their wild-type littermates, leading to a reduction in the CD4(+) to CD8(+) T-cell ratio. These findings suggest that arginine-methylation of RUNX1 in the RTAMR-motif is dispensable for the development of definitive haematopoiesis and for steady-state platelet production, however this modification affects the role of RUNX1 in the maintenance of the peripheral CD4(+) T-cell population.
17592252 | FOXP3 actively represses transcription by recruiting the HAT/HDAC complex. The Forkhead box protein P3 (FOXP3) is a master cell lineage modulator in CD4(+)CD25(+) natural regulatory T cell (Treg) development. The Treg set of cells, also called T suppressor cells, play an essential role in natural Treg-mediated suppression of various types of immune cells. Suppression can be manifest by a cell-cell contact set of events, and recent evidence also supports soluble mediators. FOXP3 was previous identified as a passive transcriptional repressor which associates with nuclear factor of activated T-cells, cytoplasmic, and calcineurin-dependent 2 (NFATc2) as well as several other transcriptional factors including nuclear factor kappa-B (NFkappaB) and acute myeloid leukemia 1(AML1)/runt-related transcription factor 1(RUNX1). We found FOXP3 could actively repress transcription by recruiting distinct histone acetyltransferases and histone deacetylases to function as a co-repressor complex. The identification of enzymatic factors operative as essential participants in FOXP3-mediated transcriptional repression provides a practical basis for therapeutically modulating the activity of FOXP3 in immune suppression. Here we briefly summarize recent progress in our understanding of the biochemistry of FOXP3-mediated transcriptional regulation.
41542042 | Proteotranscriptomic Dissection of Breast Cancer T Cell States Identifies CD103+ Tfh-derived Cytotoxic Cells Linked to Immunotherapy Response. While cancer immunotherapies have primarily focused on activation of cytotoxic CD8 cells, CD4 T cell activity is also associated with survival and immunotherapeutic response in numerous cancers. We applied integrated single-cell RNA sequencing and multiplexed protein epitope profiling to breast cancer samples to resolve the complexity of immune cell states within the tumor microenvironment. This approach enhanced phenotypic resolution, identifying three distinct states within the CD4 T follicular helper-like (Tfh) cell cluster. A CXCR4high progenitor state gave rise to two differentiated states: an IGFL2high subset resembling conventional Tfh cells and localised to B cell-rich lymphoid aggregates, and a CD103+ subset, exhibiting features of tissue residency, exhaustion, and cytotoxicity, which co-localised with tumor foci. CD103+ Tfh-like cells were found to interact with CXCL10+ macrophages through production of CCL chemokines and CSF1. A higher CD103+ Tfh to IGFL2high Tfh ratio, together with the selective clonal expansion of the CD103+ subset, was strongly associated with improved tumour immunity and superior responses to anti-PD-1 checkpoint blockade, surpassing the predictive value of exhausted CD8 T cells. These findings integrate Tfh and CD4 with cytotoxic potential in breast cancer, offering new insight into anti-tumor immunity and response to checkpoint blockade.
42144907 | How Are Perceived Ambiguity and Risk Beliefs Related? Evidence From Longitudinal and Daily Diary Data. Ambiguity is widespread within health information. However, there remain important gaps in understanding how perceived ambiguity impacts health cognitions such as disease risk perceptions, a key precursor of health behavior engagement. Guided by theories concerning pessimistic appraisal and motivated reasoning, the present study investigated temporal relationships among perceived ambiguity and risk beliefs. Data on perceived ambiguity of COVID-19 information and risk beliefs (perceived likelihood, perceived severity, and worry) were collected across two participant panels (Panel 1: N = 548; Panel 2: N = 742) at baseline (Panel 1: March-April 2020; Panel 2: January-February 2021) and through a 10-day daily diary and a 1-year follow-up of each panel. Early in the pandemic, greater perceived ambiguity was concurrently associated with greater perceived likelihood and severity. One year later, the opposite relationship was found: greater perceived ambiguity was associated with lower perceived severity. In Panel 1, baseline perceived ambiguity was associated with lower perceived severity 1 year later; no lagged associations in Panel 2 were significant. Using both longitudinal and daily diary data, temporal relationships among perceived ambiguity and risk beliefs were generally not shown. However, across 2 years of a novel disease outbreak, the concurrent relationship between perceived ambiguity and risk beliefs changed from positive to negative, indicating both pessimistic appraisal and motivated reasoning. The findings suggest that how people respond to uncertain health information changes as a function of information novelty, highlighting a critical need to understand these relationships in an ever-evolving information landscape.
42141877 | Interim 2025/26 LP.8.1 vaccine effectiveness estimates against COVID-19 from the Canadian Sentinel Practitioner Surveillance Network (SPSN): insights into possible impact of influenza and other respiratory virus co-circulation. BACKGROUNDThe Canadian Sentinel Practitioner Surveillance Network routinely undertakes multiplex respiratory virus testing, vaccine effectiveness (VE) estimation by test-negative design (TND), and whole genome sequencing (WGS) of vaccine-targeted viruses.AIMTo estimate 2025/26 LP.8.1 VE against community-based COVID-19, including variant-specific, and explore the impact of other respiratory viruses among COVID-19 cases and/or controls.METHODSParticipants were >= 12-year-old outpatients presenting with acute respiratory illness between 26 October 2025 and 07 March 2026. COVID-19 vaccination information was registry-based. Primary TND analyses excluded influenza virus-infected controls. Sensitivity analyses explored inclusion and/or exclusion of influenza and other respiratory viral infections among COVID-19 cases and/or controls. WGS supported VE interpretation and variant-specific estimation.RESULTSWe included 3,802 participants (2,832 (74%) aged 12-64 years; 970 (26%) aged >= 65 years), with 310 COVID-19 cases (29 vaccinated; 9%) and 3,492 controls (577 vaccinated; 17%). At median 9 weeks post-vaccination, LP.8.1 VE was 48% (95%CI: 21 to 66): 44% (95%CI: -12 to 72) for 12-64 and 53% (95%CI: 21 to 73) for >= 65-year-olds. In sensitivity analyses, VE was stable for >= 65-year-olds. Among 12-64-year-olds, VE decreased when including influenza virus infections among controls but increased when excluding co-infections, recognising uncertainty with reduced sample size. Against viruses that failed vs succeeded WGS, VE was 26% (95%CI: -63 to 66) vs 53% (95%CI: 24 to 71), 63% (95%CI: 30 to 80) against the XFG variant. Most SARS-CoV-2 co-infections with semi-quantification, including those failing WGS, showed higher viral load for the non-SARS-CoV-2 infection.CONCLUSIONThe 2025/26 LP.8.1 vaccine approximately halved the medically attended COVID-19 risk. Multiplex testing to identify primary co-infections among cases, or correlated vaccine-preventable infections among controls, may address VE under-estimation.
42136017 | Fathering in a Pandemic: Low-Income Black Fathers' Experiences and Mental Health Stressors. COVID-19 interventions disrupted family life, disproportionately affecting low-income Black fathers. Although family relationships are critical aspects of men's mental health and overall well-being, studies examining the effect of the pandemic from a Black fathering lens are sparse. This study explored Black fathers' experiences and adaptive responses to fathering during the pandemic, highlighting mental health consequences of their experience. Data was collected through interviews with Black fathers participating in a fatherhood-focused program in a Midwestern U.S. urban area. The average age of the participants was 33 years, half were unmarried (50%), most had one biological child (58%), many earned less than $10,000 USD annually (42%), and most had at least a high school degree (89%). Seventeen fathers (six in two focus groups and eleven individual interviews) were interviewed from February to July 2021. Interviews were audio recorded, transcribed verbatim, and thematically analyzed. Five themes were identified from the data. Men consistently valued their role as fathers despite enduring pandemic-related economic and familial stressors that impacted their involvement with their children. A primary adaptation in response to these multilevel stressors was surrendering to absence to protect their child(ren) from disease. Fathers felt that the isolation from their children, due in part to increased maternal gatekeeping, consequently heightened their psychological distress. This study provides valuable insight into Black fatherhood during the COVID-19 pandemic. Findings indicate that COVID-19 strained already difficult parenting relationships and constrained father engagement, creating mental health consequences for some Black fathers.
36712661 | Chidamide-based 3-drug combination regimen reverses molecular relapse post transplantation in AML1-ETO-positive acute myeloid leukemia. Objective: We aimed to explore a new method to reverse early relapse in patients with AML1-ETO-positive acute myeloid cell transplantation. Methods: A chidamide-based 3-drug combination regimen was used in our center to treat patients with AML1-ETO-positive AML post transplantation but negative flow cytometry results. A retrospective analysis was performed of the survival rate and possible influencing factors of patients with relapse treated with this regimen in our center from January 2018 to January 2022. Results: The overall response rate was 95.8% (23/24), and the median number of treatment courses was 4 (range, 3-12 courses). The total molecular complete response (MCR) was 79.1% (19/24) after all treatments, and the molecular complete response was 37.5% (9/24) after one cycle of treatment but reached 58.3% (14/24) after four cycles; overall, the proportion of MCR increased gradually with the increase in treatment cycles. The projected 5-year overall survival rate was 73.9%. The projected 5-year leukemia-free survival rate was 64.8%, and the projected 1-year cumulative relapse rate was 35.5%. The incidence of grade II-IV graft-versus-host diseases (GVHD) was 29.2% (7/24), and that of grade III-IV GVHD was 20.8% (5/24), which could be effectively controlled by glucocorticoid therapy combined with calcineurin inhibitors The total incidence of chronic GVHD was 29.2% (7/24), and all cases were localized chronic GVHD. The total infection rate was 33.3% (8/24), mainly involving bacterial and fungal infections, and the incidence of life-threatening infections was 4.17% (1/24). The treatment-related mortality rate was 0%; and the total mortality rate was 20.8% (5/24). Nausea and vomiting, thrombocytopenia, and neutropenia were common adverse reactions, all of which were Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events grade 2-3 events and reversible after drug withdrawal. In terms of immunity, Th1 cell counts gradually increased, Th17 cell counts gradually decreased, and the Th1/Th17 ratio gradually increased after treatment. The CD8+ T lymphocyte count increased gradually, while the CD4+ T lymphocyte count did not change significantly. Conclusion: Our chidamide-based 3-drug combination regimen led to a high remission rate and tolerable adverse reactions in patients with AML1-ETO-positive post-transplant relapse, and most patients can achieve long-term survival with this regimen.
41148820 | Description of T-Cell and Monocyte Populations in the Circulation of People with HIV Prior to AIDS-NHL Diagnosis. People with HIV (PWH) are at an increased risk for AIDS-associated non-Hodgkin lymphoma (AIDS-NHL); however, the immune signatures underlying this risk are not well understood. In this study, we utilized mass cytometry by time-of-flight (CyTOF) to analyze T-cells and monocytes in the PBMCs of treatment-naive PWH, including those 3 to 36 months before an AIDS-NHL diagnosis (HIV-positive pre-NHL), as well as people without HIV (PWoH). Mass cytometry is an advanced single-cell analysis platform that combines flow cytometry principles with mass spectrometry. Unlike conventional flow cytometry, this technology employs antibodies conjugated to unique metal isotopes instead of fluorescent markers, enabling simultaneous measurement of over 40 distinct cellular markers per individual cell without spectral overlap limitations. Participants were enrolled at the Los Angeles site of the MACS/WIHS Combined Cohort Study (MWCCS). Unsupervised clustering and Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection (UMAP) analysis identified CD3+ T-cell and CD14+ monocyte metaclusters, and Spearman's rank correlation assessed their relationships with B-cell subsets exhibiting aberrant phenotypes. We observed elevated levels of CD8+CD20+ T-cells, CD8+CD14+ T-cells, and M2-like CD14+CD163+ monocytes in HIV-positive pre-NHL individuals compared to HIV-negative controls. Positive correlations were found between CD19+ AICDA+ cMYC+ B-cells and M1-like CD14+cMYC+ monocytes (metacluster, MC02), and between metaclusters of CD8+PD-1+CD27+CXCR4- T-cells (MC05) and CD4+FoxP3+PD-1+CD27+CD28+CXCR4- ICOS+ T-cells (MC08). In addition, a different CD19+ B-cell metacluster (FoxP3+AICDA+cMYC+) was positively associated with a metacluster of CD8+PD-1+CD27+CD28+CXCR4+ T-cells (MC03). Moreover, the metacluster of CD8+PD-1+CD27+CXCR4- T-cells (MC05) negatively correlated with M2-like CD14+CD163+ monocytes (MC06), while CD8+CD14+ T-cells positively correlated with AICDA+ Bregs and IL-10+ B-regs in HIV-positive pre-NHL individuals. Unsupervised analysis revealed increased frequencies of CD8+CD20+ T-cells in HIV-positive individuals compared to HIV-negative controls. These immune alterations provide valuable insights into potential biomarkers for early detection, monitoring, and therapeutic strategies for AIDS-NHL.
16314494 | Runx1 binds positive transcription elongation factor b and represses transcriptional elongation by RNA polymerase II: possible mechanism of CD4 silencing. Runx1 binds the silencer and represses CD4 transcription in immature thymocytes. In this study, we found that Runx1 inhibits P-TEFb, which contains CycT1, CycT2, or CycK and Cdk9 and stimulates transcriptional elongation by RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) in eukaryotic cells. Indeed, its inhibitory domain, spanning positions 371 to 411, not only bound CycT1 but was required for silencing CD4 transcription in vivo. Our chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that Runx1 inhibits the elongation but not initiation of transcription and that RNAPII is engaged at the CD4 promoter but is unable to elongate in CD4(-) CD8(+) thymoma cells. These results suggest that active repression by Runx1 occurs by blocking the elongation by RNAPII, which may contribute to CD4 silencing during T-cell development.
41031002 | IFN-inducible Human Phospholipid Scramblase 1 (PLSCR1) Protein Restricts HIV-1 Infection by Inhibiting Membrane Fusion. Human phospholipid scramblase 1 (PLSCR1) is an interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) that inhibits viral infections through various mechanisms. Here, we identify PLSCR1 as a host restriction factor that inhibits HIV-1 entry by impairing membrane fusion mediated by the envelope glycoprotein (Env). Using multiple cell types including the human SupT1 T cell line and purified CD4 + T cells, we demonstrate that PLSCR1 inhibits the replication of HIV-1 with diverse tropisms and subtypes, as well as HIV-2 and SIV. Mechanistically, we find that PLSCR1 blocks viral entry and cell-to-cell transmission by restricting HIV-1 virion-cell and cell-cell fusion without affecting CD4 or CXCR4 expression or virus binding to the cell surface. Notably, PLSCR1-mediated restriction of viral entry is independent of type I interferon signaling. Collectively, these findings establish PLSCR1 as a broad-spectrum lentiviral restriction factor that acts at the membrane fusion stage, thereby expanding our understanding of ISG-mediated antiviral defense.
41531792 | Identification of Comprehensive Landscape of Peripheral Immunity and Chemokine-Related Genes in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. Purpose: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease. Progressive loss of motor neuron function and disruption of the blood-brain barrier are key features of ALS. Under the influence of chemokines, peripheral immune cells migrate into the central nervous system, thereby affecting the neuronal microenvironment. The aim of this study is to classify ALS based on the immune characteristics of peripheral blood in patients with the disease, and to construct prognostic models. Patients and Methods: A total of 397 ALS patients and 645 healthy controls (GSE112676 and GSE112680) were included. ALS chemotactic subtypes were constructed based on differentially expressed genes of chemokine and chemokine receptors (CCRs). The Cibersort algorithm was used to investigate the abundance of immune cells in peripheral blood. Univariate Cox regression analysis was performed to screen for CCRs genes, clinical characteristics, and immune cells associated with prognosis. Prognostic models were constructed based on these variables. Finally, external validation was conducted using samples from ALS patients diagnosed at the First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University. Results: There were significant differences in the abundance of peripheral immune cells between ALS patients and healthy controls. 17 CCRs genes were identified as differentially expressed. CCL23, CCR8, CXCR4, site of onset, age of onset, and \CD4 naive T cells\ were demonstrated to be significantly correlated with survival time. Two chemotactic subtypes were established. Eight prognostic models could distinguish between high-risk and low-risk ALS patients. At year five, the areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves for the PlsRcox, Coxboost, and Xgboost algorithms were 0.747, 0.733, and 0.728, respectively. External test sets successfully validated these results. Conclusion: ALS patients exhibit peripheral immune abnormalities. Peripheral immune status could be used to distinguish ALS subtypes and construct prognostic models. Understanding peripheral immune changes in ALS patients may inform potential immunotherapies.
42144482 | Prevalence and Characteristics of Depression, Anxiety and Stress Among Older Persons in Malaysia during the COVID-19 Pandemic. The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has affected the physical and mental well-being of people worldwide. This study aimed to explore and address the prevalence and characteristics of depression, anxiety and stress symptoms among Malaysian individuals aged 60 years and older during the COVID-19 pandemic. The focus of the study involved the psychological health of older persons and the characteristics that influenced their mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic. Quantitative data were obtained from the TrAnsforminG CognitivE Frailty into Later-LifE Self-Sufficiency (AGELESS) study. Depression, anxiety and stress symptoms were measured by using the Geriatric Depression Scale; Depression Anxiety and Stress Scale-Anxiety domain; and Perceived Stress Scale, respectively. Individual items in the scale were examined to understand the associations between the items and depression, anxiety and stress levels. Depression, anxiety and stress data were available for 1354 participants, of whom 200 (14.8%) exhibited depressive symptoms, 148 (11%) exhibited mild symptoms and 52 (3.8%) exhibited moderate-to-severe symptoms. Among the 77 participants (5.7%) who reported anxiety symptoms, 40 (3%) demonstrated mild symptoms, and 37 (2.7%) demonstrated moderate-to-severe symptoms. More than one-fifth (294, 21.7%) of the participants reported mild-to-severe stress. The prevalence of depressive symptoms increased from 11.2% (pre-pandemic, NHMS 2018) to 14.8% during the COVID-19 pandemic (weighted prevalence: 14.3%). A cross-sectional study was conducted utilizing pre-existing cohort data involving depression and depressive symptoms among Malaysians aged 60 years and older during the COVID-19 pandemic. Future studies should seek to determine the factors that increase the risk of adverse psychological effects among older adults during major life-changing events to develop effective prevention strategies for such events, to which older adults are particularly susceptible.
42136400 | The impact of culturally tailored video interventions for Long COVID among Hispanic/Latino populations. Background: Long COVID has disproportionately affected Hispanic/Latino communities, particularly in Arizona. Structural inequities contribute to disparities, but limited culturally tailored health information remains an underexplored barrier to effective communication. This study evaluated the impact of culturally designed Long COVID educational videos for Hispanic/Latino audiences. Methods: We developed animated videos incorporating cultural symbols and diversity cues. Participants completed pre- and post-intervention surveys assessing Long COVID knowledge. Pre-post regression analyses examined knowledge gains, subgroup differences (education, gender, lived experience), and the influence of cultural design elements. Results: Baseline knowledge was higher among participants with greater educational attainment; however, post-intervention knowledge levels were similar across education groups. Female participants demonstrated lower scores than males, diverging from typical health information-seeking trends. Participants with lived experience of Long COVID reported higher baseline knowledge. Cultural design features, including symbolism and perceived diversity, showed modest effects, particularly among younger viewers. Overall, knowledge increased significantly following video exposure across all subgroups. Conclusions: Culturally tailored Long COVID videos effectively enhanced knowledge among Hispanic/Latino audiences, mitigating educational disparities and engaging individuals with diverse experiences. While cultural design elements had limited influence, they may enhance relevance for specific subgroups. These findings support the potential of culturally responsive video interventions to improve health education access in underserved communities and highlight areas for refinement in future multimedia health communication strategies.
40777454 | TCR2HLA: calibrated inference of HLA genotypes from TCR repertoires enables identification of immunologically relevant metaclonotypes. T cell receptors (TCRs) recognize peptides presented by polymorphic human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules, but HLA genotype data are often missing from TCR repertoire sequencing studies. To address this, we developed TCR2HLA, an open-source tool that infers HLA genotypes from TCRbeta repertoires. Expanding on work linking public TRBV-CDR3 sequences to HLA genotypes, we incorporated \quasi-public\ metaclonotypes - composed of rarer TCRbeta sequences with shared amino acid features - enriched by HLA genotypes. Using four TCRbetaseq datasets from 3,150 individuals, we applied TRBV gene partitioning and locality-sensitive hashing to identify ~96,000 TCRbeta features strongly associated with specific HLA alleles from 71M input TCRs. Binary HLA classifiers built with these features achieved high balanced accuracy (>0.9) across common HLA-A (9/12), B (9/12), C (6/13), DRB1 (11/11) alleles and prevalent DPA1/DPB1 (6/10), DQA1/DQB1 (8/17) heterodimers. We also introduced a high-sensitivity calibration to support predictions in samples with as few as 5,000 unique clonotypes. Calibrated predictions with confidence filtering improved reliability. Beyond genotype imputation, TCR2HLA enables the discovery of novel HLA- and exposure-associated TCRs, as shown by the identification of SARS-CoV-2 related TCRs in a large COVID-19 dataset lacking HLA data. TCR2HLA provides a scalable framework for bridging the gap between TCRseq data and HLA genotype for biomarker discovery.
41983147 | A Single Dose Study of Pembrolizumab in People With HIV Infection Who are Immunologic Nonresponders. Background: Some people with HIV (PWH) have a poor immunologic response to antiretroviral therapy (ART). Such immunologic nonresponders are at increased risk for HIV and non-HIV related complications. Immune exhaustion may contribute to poor immune reconstitution, and blockade of PD-1, an immune checkpoint molecule, may thus be beneficial. Method: We undertook a phase 1, 3:1 randomized, placebo-controlled trial of a single 200 mg dose of pembrolizumab in PWH with CD4+ T-cell counts between 100 and 350 cells/mm3, who had been on ART and were virally suppressed for at least 12 months. The primary endpoint was the frequency of either Grade 3 or higher adverse events or Grade 2 or higher autoimmune events requiring corticosteroid therapy. Additional endpoints included levels of PD-1 expression, and changes in immune and virologic parameters. Results: Of the 7 enrolled participants, 6 received pembrolizumab and 1 received placebo. The only grade 3 event, ophthalmic zoster, developed in the placebo recipient. There were no autoimmune events requiring corticosteroid therapy. CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell counts were stable over time, though both showed increased CD38 and HLA-DR expression. PD-1 expression declined from a baseline of 60.4% (SD, 7.4%) to a nadir of 0.8%-23.5% for CD4+ T cells, and from 45.2% (SD, 9.4%) to 0.1%-23.2% for CD8+ T cells. There were no significant changes in viral killing, plasma viral loads or proviral DNA levels. Conclusions: A single dose of pembrolizumab may be safely administered to PWH who are immunologic nonresponders.
41673717 | LDRT combined with anti-PD-1 promotes tumor regression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma through tumor metaprogram evolution and immune cell reprogramming.
16081688 | MN1-TEL myeloid oncoprotein expressed in multipotent progenitors perturbs both myeloid and lymphoid growth and causes T-lymphoid tumors in mice. The MN1-TEL (meningioma 1-translocation-ETS-leukemia) fusion oncoprotein is the product of the t(12;22)(p13;q11) in human myeloid leukemia consisting of N-terminal MN1 sequences, a transcriptional coactivator, fused to C-terminal TEL sequences, an E26-transformation-specific (ETS) transcription factor. To analyze the role of MN1-TEL in leukemogenesis, we created a site-directed transgenic (knock-in) mouse model carrying a conditional MN1-TEL transgene under the control of the Aml1 regulatory sequences. After induction, MN1-TEL expression was detected in both myeloid and lymphoid cells. Activation of MN1-TEL expression enhanced the repopulation ability of myeloid progenitors in vitro as well as partially inhibited their differentiation in vivo. MN1-TEL also promoted the proliferation of thymocytes while it blocked their differentiation from CD4-/CD8- to CD4+/CD8+ in vivo. After long latency, 30% of the MN1-TEL-positive mice developed T-lymphoid tumors. This process was accelerated by N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-induced mutations. MN1-TEL-positive T-lymphoid tumors showed elevated expression of the Notch-1, Hes-1, c-Myc, and Lmo-2 genes while their Ink4a/pRB and Arf/p53 pathways were impaired, suggesting that these alterations cooperatively transform T progenitors. We conclude that MN1-TEL exerts its nonlineage-specific leukemogenic effects by promoting the growth of primitive progenitors and blocking their differentiation, but cooperative mutations are necessary to fully induce leukemic transformation.
37951201 | Single-cell RNA-seq reveals novel immune-associated biomarkers for predicting prognosis in AML patients with RUNX1::RUNX1T1. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with t(8;21)(q22;q22);(RUNX1::RUNX1T1) is highly heterogeneous and malignant. It has a relapse rate of nearly 40 %, resulting in clinical resistance or refractoriness to chemotherapy. Immune cells, particularly CD4(+) T and CD8(+) T lymphocytes, have been discovered to be dysfunctional in this condition, and functional recovery shows promising efficiency in preclinical trials. Here, with single-cell transcriptomic data from de novo AML patients with RUNX1::RUNX1T1 and at various stages following disease progression, we investigated the genes correlated with T-cell proliferation and activation. In leukemia cells, ADA, AHCY, GPN3 and LTBR were markedly highly expressed compared to those in T-cell at diagnosis, and they tended to increase with disease progression. Additionally, we discovered that AHCY was an effective biomarker to predict the overall survival as well as relapse-free survival of AML patients with RUNX1::RUNX1T1. The correlation of AHCY with infiltrated immune cells and immune checkpoints was also investigated. AML cohorts from two other independent studies, TCGA LAML (n = 145) and the GEO dataset (n = 104), also demonstrated an inferior outcome for AML patients with high AHCY expression. In conclusion, our research revealed that AHCY might function as a novel indicator to predict the prognosis and efficiency of T-cell proliferation and activation in AML patients with RUNX1::RUNX1T1.
