38153635 | The Chaperone Protein Cct5 is Essential for Hematopoietic Stem Cell Maintenance. Proper proteostasis is indispensable for the long-term maintenance of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). The TRiC/CCT (chaperonin-containing TCP-1) complex, a key constituent of cellular machinery facilitating accurate protein folding, has remained enigmatic in its specific function within HSPCs. Here we show that conditional knockout (KO) of Cct5 significantly impairs the maintenance of murine HSPCs. Primary and secondary transplantation experiments unequivocally demonstrate the incapacity of Cct5 KO HSPCs to reconstitute both myeloid and lymphoid lineage cells in recipient mice, highlighting the pivotal role of the TRiC/CCT complex in governing these cellular lineages. Furthermore, leveraging an integrated approach that merges a Protein-Protein Interaction (PPI) database with RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data of HSPCs, our analysis reveals intricate interactions between Cct5 and vital transcription factors crucial for HSC homeostasis. Notably, Cct5 engages with MYC, PIAS1, TP53, ESR1, HOXA1, and JUN, intricately regulating the transcriptional landscape governing autophagy, myeloid differentiation, and cytoskeleton organization within HSPCs. Our study unveils the profound significance of TRiC/CCT complex-mediated proteostasis in orchestrating the maintenance and functionality of HSPCs.
17623776 | PIASxbeta is a key regulator of osterix transcriptional activity and matrix mineralization in osteoblasts. We recently reported that tensile stress induces osteoblast differentiation and osteogenesis in the mouse calvarial suture in vitro. Using this experimental system, we identified PIASxbeta, a splice isoform of Pias2, as one of the genes most highly upregulated by tensile stress. Further study using cell culture revealed that this upregulation was transient and was accompanied by upregulation of other differentiation markers, including osterix, whereas expression of Runx2 was unaffected. Runx2 and osterix are the two master proteins controlling osteoblast differentiation, with Runx2 being upstream of osterix. Targeted knockdown of PIASxbeta by small interfering RNA (siRNA) markedly suppressed osteoblastic differentiation and matrix mineralization, whereas transient overexpression of PIASxbeta caused the exact opposite effects. Regardless of PIASxbeta expression level, Runx2 expression remained constant. Reporter assays demonstrated that osterix enhanced its own promoter activity, which was further stimulated by PIASxbeta but not by its sumoylation-defective mutant. NFATc1 and NFATc3 additionally increased osterix transcriptional activity when co-transfected with PIASxbeta. Because osterix has no consensus motif for sumoylation, other proteins are probably involved in the PIASxbeta-mediated activation and NFAT proteins may be among such targets. This study provides the first line of evidence that PIASxbeta is indispensable for osteoblast differentiation and matrix mineralization, and that this signaling molecule is located between Runx2 and osterix.
37523265 | Interplay between CXCR4 and CCR2 regulates bone marrow exit of dendritic cell progenitors. Conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) are found in most tissues and play a key role in initiation of immunity. cDCs require constant replenishment from progenitors called pre-cDCs that develop in the bone marrow (BM) and enter the blood circulation to seed all tissues. This process can be markedly accelerated in response to inflammation (emergency cDCpoiesis). Here, we identify two populations of BM pre-cDC marked by differential expression of CXCR4. We show that CXCR4lo cells constitute the migratory pool of BM pre-cDCs, which exits the BM and can be rapidly mobilized during challenge. We further show that exit of CXCR4lo pre-cDCs from BM at steady state is partially dependent on CCR2 and that CCR2 upregulation in response to type I IFN receptor signaling markedly increases efflux during infection with influenza A virus. Our results highlight a fine balance between retention and efflux chemokine cues that regulates steady-state and emergency cDCpoiesis.
38015971 | Inhibitory effects of polysaccharides from Korean ginseng berries on LPS-induced RAW264.7 macrophages. Polysaccharides isolated from Korean ginseng berries (GBPs) have shown beneficial effects such as immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, and anti-diabetic properties. However, little is known about anti-inflammatory effects of GBPs. Thus, the purpose of this study was to investigate anti-inflammatory properties of four fractions of GBPs, namely GBP-C, GBP-F1, GBP-F2, and GBP-F3, in macrophages. Their toxicities and effects on NO production in RAW264.7 cells were assessed by culturing cells with various concentrations of GBPs and stimulating cells with LPS. Furthermore, expression levels of inflammatory mediators, cytokines, cell surface molecules, and immune signaling pathways were evaluated in LPS-stimulated macrophages using different fractions of GBPs at 450 mug/mL. These GBPs activated LPS-stimulated RAW264.7 cells to significantly reduce NO production. They suppressed the expression of mRNA and cell surface molecules via MAPK and NF-kappaB pathways. Collectively, results revealed that all four GBP fractions showed anti-inflammatory effects, with GBP-F1 having a more efficient anti-inflammatory effect than GBP-C, GBP-F2, and GBP-F3. The structure of GBP-F1 mainly consists of 1   3)- Araf, 1   4)- Glcp, and 1   6)-Galp glycosidic linkages. These results demonstrate that GBPs can be employed as alternative natural sources of anti-inflammatory agents.
38315878 | Biomarker analysis of the ASPEN study comparing zanubrutinib to ibrutinib in patients with Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia. The phase 3 ASPEN trial (NCT03053440) compared Bruton tyrosine kinase inhibitors (BTKi), zanubrutinib and ibrutinib, in patients with Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM). Post-hoc biomarker analysis was performed using next-generation sequencing on pretreatment bone marrow samples from 98 zanubrutinib-treated and 92 ibrutinib-treated patients with mutated (MUT) MYD88 and 20 zanubrutinib-treated patients with wild-type (WT) MYD88. Of 329 mutations in 52 genes, mutations in CXCR4 (25.7%), TP53 (24.8%), ARID1A (15.7%), and TERT (9.0%) were most common. TP53MUT, ARID1AMUT, and TERTMUT were associated with higher rates of CXCR4MUT (P<0.05). Patients with CXCR4MUT (frameshift [FS] or nonsense [NS] mutations) had lower very good partial response and complete response rate (VGPR+CR) (17.0% vs 37.2%, P=0.020) and longer time to response (11.1 vs 8.4 months) than CXCR4WT BTKi-treated patients. CXCR4NS was associated with inferior progression-free survival (PFS; HR=3.39, P=0.017) in ibrutinib-treated, but not zanubrutinib-treated patients (HR=0.67, P=0.598), but VGPR+CR rates were similar between treatment groups (14.3% vs 15.4%). Compared to ibrutinib, zanubrutinib-treated patients with CXCR4NS had a favorable major response rate (MRR; 85.7% vs 53.8%, P=0.09) and PFS (HR=0.30, P=0.093). In patients with TP53MUT, significantly lower MRR was observed in ibrutinib- (63.6% vs 85.7%, P=0.04) but not zanubrutinib-treated patients (80.8% vs 81.9%, P=0.978). In TP53MUT, compared to ibrutinib, zanubrutinib-treated patients had higher VGPR+CR (34.6% vs 13.6%, P<0.05), numerically improved MRR (80.8% vs 63.6%, P=0.11), and longer PFS (not reached vs 44.2 months, HR=0.66, P=0.37). Collectively, WM patients with CXCR4MUT or TP53MUT had worse prognosis compared to patients with WT alleles and zanubrutinib led to better clinical outcomes.
34971590 | Off-target lipid metabolism disruption by the mouse constitutive androstane receptor ligand TCPOBOP in humanized mice. The constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) controls xenobiotic clearance, regulates liver glucose, lipid metabolism, and energy homeostasis. These functions have been mainly discovered using the prototypical mouse-specific CAR ligand TCPOBOP in wild-type or CAR null mice. However, TCPOBOP is reported to result in some off-target metabolic effects in CAR null mice. In this study, we compared the metabolic effects of TCPOBOP using lipidomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic analyses in wild-type and humanized CAR-PXR-CYP3A4/3A7 mice. In the model, human CAR retains its constitutive activity in metabolism regulation; however, it is not activated by TCPOBOB. Notably, we observed that TCPOBOP affected lipid homeostasis by elevating serum and liver triglyceride levels and promoted hepatocyte hypertrophy in humanized CAR mice. Hepatic lipidomic analysis revealed a significant accumulation of triglycerides and decrease of its metabolites in humanized CAR mice. RNA-seq analysis has shown divergent gene expression levels in wild-type and humanized CAR mice. Gene expression regulation in humanized mice is mainly involved in lipid metabolic processes and in the PPAR, leptin, thyroid, and circadian clock pathways. In contrast, CAR activation by TCPOBOP in wild-type mice reduced liver and plasma triglyceride levels and induced a typical transcriptomic proliferative response in the liver. In summary, we identified TCPOBOP as a disruptor of lipid metabolism in humanized CAR mice. The divergent effects of TCPOBOP in humanized mice in comparison with the prototypical CAR-mediated response in WT mice warrant the use of appropriate model ligands and humanized animal models during the testing of endocrine disruption and the characterization of adverse outcome pathways.
34887661 | Therapeutic Potential of Exosomal circRNA Derived from Synovial Mesenchymal Cells via Targeting circEDIL3/miR-485-3p/PIAS3/STAT3/VEGF Functional Module in Rheumatoid Arthritis. BACKGROUND: Synovial inflammation and its associated activation of angiogenesis play critical roles in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Exosomes, as carriers of genetic information including circular RNAs (circRNAs), have been explored as delivery vehicles for therapeutic molecules. However, the effects of synovial mesenchymal stem cells (SMSCs)-derived exosomal circRNAs and their mechanisms of action in RA progression remain unclear. METHODS: SMSCs-derived exosomes (SMSCs-Exos) were administered to a co-culture of RA fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) and human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HDMECs) in vitro as well as to a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model in vivo. Their effects on VEGF expression and angiogenic activity in vitro and the therapeutic efficacy in vivo were evaluated. Exosomes from circEDIL3-overexpressing SMSCs (Ad-circEDIL3-SMSCs-Exos) were used to further determine the role of circEDIL3 in SMSCs-Exo-based therapy. RESULTS: Both SMSCs-Exos and Ad-circEDIL3-SMSCs-Exos significantly downregulated the expression of VEGF induced by the IL-6/sIL-6R complex in the supernatants of RA-FLS and HDMECs co-culture as well as in the cell lysate of co-cultured RA-FLS, and the extent of reduction was more pronounced in the latter. Subsequent experiments showed that angiogenic activity was significantly downregulated by SMSCs-Exos and Ad-circEDIL3-SMSCs-Exos due to reduced VEGF expression. CircEDIL3 functioned as a sponge for miR-485-3p, which targeted PIAS3. PIAS3 is known to suppress STAT3 activity and reduce downstream VEGF. Injection of SMSCs-Exos or Ad-circEDIL3-SMSCs-Exos reduced synovial VEGF and consequently ameliorated arthritis severity in the CIA mouse model. CONCLUSION: The intracellular transfer of circEDIL3 by SMSCs-Exos may be a potential novel therapeutic strategy for RA.
30634511 | Crohn's Disease-Associated Adherent-Invasive Escherichia coli Manipulate Host Autophagy by Impairing SUMOylation. The intestinal mucosa of Crohn's disease (CD) patients is abnormally colonized with adherent-invasive Escherichia coli (AIEC) that are able to adhere to and to invade intestinal epithelial cells (IECs), to survive in macrophages, and to induce a pro-inflammatory response. AIEC persist in the intestine, and induce inflammation in CEABAC10 transgenic mice expressing human CAECAM6, the receptor for AIEC. SUMOylation is a eukaryotic-reversible post-translational modification, in which SUMO, an ubiquitin-like polypeptide, is covalently linked to target proteins. Here, we investigated the role of SUMOylation in host responses to AIEC infection. We found that infection with the AIEC LF82 reference strain markedly decreased the levels of SUMO-conjugated proteins in human intestinal epithelial T84 cells. This was also observed in IECs from LF82-infected CEABAC10 transgenic mice. LF82-induced deSUMOylation in IECs was due in part to increased level of microRNA (miR)-18, which targets PIAS3 mRNA encoding a protein involved in SUMOylation. Over-expression of SUMOs in T84 cells induced autophagy, leading to a significant decrease in the number of intracellular LF82. Consistently, a decreased expression of UBC9, a protein necessary for SUMOylation, was accompanied with a decrease of LF82-induced autophagy, increasing bacterial intracellular proliferation and inflammation. Finally, the inhibition of miR-18 significantly decreased the number of intracellular LF82. In conclusion, our results suggest that AIEC inhibits the autophagy response to replicate intracellularly by manipulating host SUMOylation.
22082260 | Analysis of oxygen/glucose-deprivation-induced changes in SUMO3 conjugation using SILAC-based quantitative proteomics. Transient cerebral ischemia dramatically activates small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO2/3) conjugation. In cells exposed to 6 h of transient oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD), a model of ischemia, SUMOylation increases profoundly between 0 and 30 min following re-oxygenation. To elucidate the effect of transient OGD on SUMO conjugation of target proteins, we exposed neuroblastoma B35 cells expressing HA-SUMO3 to transient OGD and used stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) to quantify OGD-induced changes in levels of specific SUMOylated proteins. Lysates from control and OGD-treated cells were mixed equally, and HA-tagged proteins were immunoprecipitated and analyzed by 1D-SDS-PAGE-LC-MS/MS. We identified 188 putative SUMO3-conjugated proteins, including numerous transcription factors and coregulators, and PIAS2 and PIAS4 SUMO ligases, of which 22 were increased or decreased more than +-2-fold. In addition to SUMO3, the levels of protein-conjugated SUMO1 and SUMO2, as well as ubiquitin, were all increased. Importantly, protein ubiquitination induced by OGD was completely blocked by gene silencing of SUMO2/3. Collectively, these results suggest several mechanisms for OGD-modulated SUMOylation, point to a number of signaling pathways that may be targets of SUMO-based signaling and recovery from ischemic stress, and demonstrate a tightly controlled crosstalk between the SUMO and ubiquitin conjugation pathways.
36188600 | Exercise improves choroid plexus epithelial cells metabolism to prevent glial cell-associated neurodegeneration. Recent studies have shown that physical activities can prevent aging-related neurodegeneration. Exercise improves the metabolic landscape of the body. However, the role of these differential metabolites in preventing neurovascular unit degeneration (NVU) is still unclear. Here, we performed single-cell analysis of brain tissue from young and old mice. Normalized mutual information (NMI) was used to measure heterogeneity between each pair of cells using the non-negative Matrix Factorization (NMF) method. Astrocytes and choroid plexus epithelial cells (CPC), two types of CNS glial cells, differed significantly in heterogeneity depending on their aging status and intercellular interactions. The MetaboAnalyst 5.0 database and the scMetabolism package were used to analyze and calculate the differential metabolic pathways associated with aging in the CPC. These mRNAs and corresponding proteins were involved in the metabolites (R)-3-Hydroxybutyric acid, 2-Hydroxyglutarate, 2-Ketobutyric acid, 3-Hydroxyanthranilic acid, Fumaric acid, L-Leucine, and Oxidized glutathione pathways in CPC. Our results showed that CPC age heterogeneity-associated proteins (ECHS1, GSTT1, HSD17B10, LDHA, and LDHB) might be directly targeted by the metabolite of oxidized glutathione (GSSG). Further molecular dynamics and free-energy simulations confirmed the insight into GSSG's targeting function and free-energy barrier on these CPC age heterogeneity-associated proteins. By inhibiting these proteins in CPC, GSSG inhibits brain energy metabolism, whereas exercise improves the metabolic pathway activity of CPC in NVU by regulating GSSG homeostasis. In order to develop drugs targeting neurodegenerative diseases, further studies are needed to understand how physical exercise enhances NVU function and metabolism by modulating CPC-glial cell interactions.
35179955 | Muscle mitochondrial remodeling by intermittent glucocorticoid drugs requires an intact circadian clock and muscle PGC1alpha. Exogenous glucocorticoids interact with the circadian clock, but little attention is paid to the timing of intake. We recently found that intermittent once-weekly prednisone improved nutrient oxidation in dystrophic muscle. Here, we investigated whether dosage time affected prednisone effects on muscle bioenergetics. In mice treated with once-weekly prednisone, drug dosing in the light-phase promoted nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) levels and mitochondrial function in wild-type muscle, while this response was lost with dark-phase dosing. These effects depended on a normal circadian clock since they were disrupted in muscle from [Brain and muscle Arnt-like protein-1 (Bmal1)]-knockout mice. The light-phase prednisone pulse promoted BMAL1-dependent glucocorticoid receptor recruitment on noncanonical targets, including Nampt and Ppargc1a [peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1alpha (PGC1alpha)]. In mice with muscle-restricted inducible PGC1alpha ablation, bioenergetic stimulation by light-phase prednisone required PGC1alpha. These results demonstrate that glucocorticoid \chronopharmacology\ for muscle bioenergetics requires an intact clock and muscle PGC1alpha activity.
37250913 | Innovations in hematopoietic stem-cell mobilization: a review of the novel CXCR4 inhibitor motixafortide. Hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HCT) and stem-cell-based gene therapies rely on the ability to collect sufficient CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs), typically via peripheral blood mobilization. Commonly used HSPC mobilization regimens include single-agent granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), plerixafor, chemotherapy, or a combination of these agents. These regimens, however, frequently require multiple days of injections and leukapheresis procedures to collect adequate HSPCs for HCT (minimum = >2 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg; optimal = 5-6 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg). In addition, these regimens frequently yield suboptimal CD34+ HSPC numbers for HSPC-based gene-edited therapies, given the significantly higher HSPC number needed for successful gene-editing and manufacturing. Meanwhile, G-CSF is associated with common adverse events such as bone pain as well as an increased risk of rare but potentially life-threatening splenic rupture. Moreover, G-CSF is unsafe in patients with sickle-cell disease, a key patient population that may benefit from autologous HSPC-based gene-edited therapies, where it has been associated with unacceptable rates of serious vaso-occlusive and thrombotic events. Motixafortide is a novel CXCR4 inhibitor with extended in vivo activity (>48 h) that has been shown in preclinical and clinical trials to rapidly mobilize robust numbers of HSPCs in preparation for HCT, while preferentially mobilizing increased numbers of more primitive HSPCs by immunophenotyping and single-cell RNA expression profiling. In this review, we present a history of stem-cell mobilization and update of recent innovations in novel mobilization strategies with a specific focus on the development of motixafortide, a long-acting CXCR4 inhibitor, as a novel HSPC mobilizing agent.
10860663 | Mouse RNA helicase II/Gu: cDNA and genomic sequences, chromosomal localization, and regulation of expression. RNA helicase II/Gu (RH II/Gu) is a mammalian nucleolar RNA helicase previously identified using an autoimmune serum from a patient with watermelon stomach disease. RH II/Gu can unwind double-stranded RNA and can fold or introduce a secondary structure to a single-stranded RNA. These two enzymatic activities reside in two separate domains of the RH II/Gu molecule. The present study reports the molecular analysis of the cDNA and genomic sequences of the mouse RH II/Gu, its chromosomal localization, and the regulation of expression. The cDNA-derived amino acid sequence shows three tandem repeats at the NH(2)-terminal end of the protein, which are not conserved in the human homologue. Each repeat has 37 amino acids that are rich in basic residues. The helicase and foldase domains are highly conserved between the mouse and the human RH II/Gu. The basic promoter region of the mouse RH II/Gu gene is within 300 nucleotides upstream of a putative ATG initiation codon. Upstream of this promoter region is a silencer that represses transcription of the mouse RH II/Gu gene. This inhibitory region contains three 38-nucleotide repeats in tandem. The mouse RH II/Gu consists of 14 exons and 13 introns. The 3' flanking sequence of the gene contains three putative polyadenylation sites but only two sites are probably functional as shown by Northern blot analysis and 3' end sequences of mouse RH II/Gu cDNA in the EST database. These two alternative polyadenylation sites are approximately 240 and 2100 nucleotides from the TGA stop codon. Both mouse and human RH II/Gu genes are localized on chromosome 10. The availability of the mouse RH II/Gu gene will facilitate its functional analysis including creation of a mouse deficient in RH II/Gu protein.
32784646 | Homeoprotein Msx1-PIASy Interaction Inhibits Angiogenesis. Previously, we demonstrated that the homeoprotein Msx1 interaction with p53 inhibited tumor growth by inducing apoptosis. However, Msx1 can exert its tumor suppressive effect through the inhibition of angiogenesis since growth of the tumor relies on sufficient blood supply from the existing vessels to provide oxygen and nutrients for tumor growth. We hypothesized that the inhibition of tumor growth by Msx1 might be due to the inhibition of angiogenesis. Here, we explored the role of Msx1 in angiogenesis. Overexpression of Msx1 in HUVECs inhibited angiogenesis, and silencing of Msx1 by siRNA abrogated its anti-angiogenic effects. Furthermore, forced expression of Msx1 in mouse muscle tissue inhibited vessel sprouting, and application of an Ad-Msx1-transfected conditioned medium onto the chicken chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) led to a significant inhibition of new vessel formation. To explore the underlying mechanism of Msx1-mediated angiogenesis, yeast two-hybrid screening was performed, and we identified PIASy (protein inhibitor of activated STAT Y) as a novel Msx1-interacting protein. We mapped the homeodomain of Msx1 and the C-terminal domain of PIASy as respective interacting domains. Consistent with its anti-angiogenic function, overexpression of Msx1 suppressed the reporter activity of VEGF. Interestingly, PIASy stabilized Msx1 protein, whereas deletion of the Msx1-interacting domain in PIASy abrogated the inhibition of tube formation and the stabilization of Msx1 protein. Our findings suggest the functional importance of PIASy-Msx1 interaction in Msx1-mediated angiogenesis inhibition.
37327120 | Hematopoietic Stem Cell Mobilization for Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation by Motixafortide, a Novel CXCR4 Inhibitor. Peripheral blood stem cells are the most common source of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) used for hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). HSPC mobilization with G-CSF +/- plerixafor results in suboptimal HSPC yields in up to 30% of patients, despite multiple injections and leukapheresis procedures (LP). We evaluated motixafortide (BL-8040), a high-affinity, long-acting CXCR4 inhibitor with rapid mobilizing kinetics, in a multi-center, open-label, single-arm, 2-part, Phase II study to mobilize HSPCs in allogeneic HCT donors (NCT02639559). The primary endpoint was the efficacy of 1 dose of motixafortide to mobilize greater than or equal to 2.0x10^6 CD34+ cells/kg within 2 LPs. Twenty-five donor-recipient pairs were enrolled. Motixafortide was well-tolerated with 22/24 (92%) evaluable donors meeting the primary endpoint, including 11/11 donors receiving motixafortide at 1.25mg/kg. Engraftment and GVHD rates were comparable to historical data. Motixafortide preferentially mobilized large numbers of multipotent HSPCs and a smaller proportion of CD34+ plasmacytoid dendritic cell precursors with high CD123 expression. Motixafortide induced pan-mobilization of all major myeloid and lymphoid subsets, with maximum relative changes in plasmacytoid/myeloid dendritic cells, B-cells, basophils, CD8 T-cells and classical monocytes. In conclusion, a single injection of motixafortide results in rapid and sustained mobilization of multipotent HSPCs for allogeneic HCT.
26175529 | ZBTB17 (MIZ1) Is Important for the Cardiac Stress Response and a Novel Candidate Gene for Cardiomyopathy and Heart Failure. BACKGROUND: Mutations in sarcomeric and cytoskeletal proteins are a major cause of hereditary cardiomyopathies, but our knowledge remains incomplete as to how the genetic defects execute their effects. METHODS AND RESULTS: We used cysteine and glycine-rich protein 3, a known cardiomyopathy gene, in a yeast 2-hybrid screen and identified zinc-finger and BTB domain-containing protein 17 (ZBTB17) as a novel interacting partner. ZBTB17 is a transcription factor that contains the peak association signal (rs10927875) at the replicated 1p36 cardiomyopathy locus. ZBTB17 expression protected cardiac myocytes from apoptosis in vitro and in a mouse model with cardiac myocyte-specific deletion of Zbtb17, which develops cardiomyopathy and fibrosis after biomechanical stress. ZBTB17 also regulated cardiac myocyte hypertrophy in vitro and in vivo in a calcineurin-dependent manner. CONCLUSIONS: We revealed new functions for ZBTB17 in the heart, a transcription factor that may play a role as a novel cardiomyopathy gene.
36744765 | Mouse guanylate-binding protein 1 does not mediate antiviral activity against influenza virus in vitro or in vivo. Many interferon (IFN)-stimulated genes are upregulated within host cells following infection with influenza and other viruses. While the antiviral activity of some IFN-stimulated genes, such as the IFN-inducible GTPase myxoma resistance (Mx)1 protein 1, has been well defined, less is known regarding the antiviral activities of related IFN-inducible GTPases of the guanylate-binding protein (GBP) family, particularly mouse GBPs, where mouse models can be used to assess their antiviral properties in vivo. Herein, we demonstrate that mouse GBP1 (mGBP1) was upregulated in a mouse airway epithelial cell line (LA-4 cells) following pretreatment with mouse IFNalpha or infection by influenza A virus (IAV). Whereas doxycycline-inducible expression of mouse Mx1 (mMx1) in LA-4 cells resulted in reduced susceptibility to IAV infection and reduced viral growth, inducible mGBP1 did not. Moreover, primary cells isolated from mGBP1-deficient mice (mGBP1-/- ) showed no difference in susceptibility to IAV and mGBP1-/- macrophages showed no defect in IAV-induced NLRP3 (NLR family pyrin domain containing 3) inflammasome activation. After intranasal IAV infection, mGBP1-/- mice also showed no differences in virus replication or induction of inflammatory responses in the airways during infection. Thus, using complementary approaches such as mGBP1 overexpression, cells from mGBP1-/- mice and intranasal infection of mGBP1-/- we demonstrate that mGBP1 does not play a major role in modulating IAV infection in vitro or in vivo.
36709579 | A high-throughput sequencing approach identifies immunotherapeutic targets for bacterial meningitis in neonates. BACKGROUND: Worldwide, Escherichia coli is the leading cause of neonatal Gram-negative bacterial meningitis, but full understanding of the pathogenesis of this disease is not yet achieved. Moreover, to date, no vaccine is available against bacterial neonatal meningitis. METHODS: Here, we used Transposon Sequencing of saturated banks of mutants (TnSeq) to evaluate E. coli K1 genetic fitness in murine neonatal meningitis. We identified E. coli K1 genes encoding for factors important for systemic dissemination and brain infection, and focused on products with a likely outer-membrane or extra-cellular localization, as these are potential vaccine candidates. We used in vitro and in vivo models to study the efficacy of active and passive immunization. RESULTS: We selected for further study the conserved surface polysaccharide Poly-beta-(1-6)-N-Acetyl Glucosamine (PNAG), as a strong candidate for vaccine development. We found that PNAG was a virulence factor in our animal model. We showed that both passive and active immunization successfully prevented and/or treated meningitis caused by E. coli K1 in neonatal mice. We found an excellent opsonophagocytic killing activity of the antibodies to PNAG and in vitro these antibodies were also able to decrease binding, invasion and crossing of E. coli K1 through two blood brain barrier cell lines. Finally, to reinforce the potential of PNAG as a vaccine candidate in bacterial neonatal meningitis, we demonstrated that Group B Streptococcus, the main cause of neonatal meningitis in developed countries, also produced PNAG and that antibodies to PNAG could protect in vitro and in vivo against this major neonatal pathogen. INTERPRETATION: Altogether, these results indicate the utility of a high-throughput DNA sequencing method to identify potential immunotherapy targets for a pathogen, including in this study a potential broad-spectrum target for prevention of neonatal bacterial infections. FUNDINGS: ANR Seq-N-Vaq, Charles Hood Foundation, Hearst Foundation, and Groupe Pasteur Mutualite.
27177020 | The activity of the glucocorticoid receptor is regulated by SUMO conjugation to FKBP51. FK506-binding protein 51 (FKBP51) regulates the activity of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), and is therefore a key mediator of the biological actions of glucocorticoids. However, the understanding of the molecular mechanisms that govern its activity remains limited. Here, we uncover a novel regulatory switch for GR activity by the post-translational modification of FKBP51 with small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO). The major SUMO-attachment site, lysine 422, is required for FKBP51-mediated inhibition of GR activity in hippocampal neuronal cells. Importantly, impairment of SUMO conjugation to FKBP51 impacts on GR-dependent neuronal signaling and differentiation. We demonstrate that SUMO conjugation to FKBP51 is enhanced by the E3 ligase PIAS4 and by environmental stresses such as heat shock, which impact on GR-dependent transcription. SUMO conjugation to FKBP51 regulates GR hormone-binding affinity and nuclear translocation by promoting FKBP51 interaction within the GR complex. SUMOylation-deficient FKBP51 fails to interact with Hsp90 and GR thus facilitating the recruitment of the closely related protein, FKBP52, which enhances GR transcriptional activity. Moreover, we show that the modification of FKBP51 with SUMO modulates its binding to Hsp90. Our data establish SUMO conjugation as a novel regulatory mechanism in the Hsp90 cochaperone activity of FKBP51 with a functional impact on GR signaling in a neuronal context.
22210188 | Interaction of protein inhibitor of activated STAT 2 (PIAS2) with receptor of activated C kinase 1, RACK1. In this study, the evolutionarily conserved intracellular adaptor protein, receptor of activated C kinase 1 (RACK1) was identified as a novel interaction partner of protein inhibitor of activated STAT 2 (PIAS2) using a yeast two-hybrid screening system. The direct interaction and co-localization of RACK1 with PIAS2 was confirmed by immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence staining analysis, respectively. The 5th to 7th Trp-Asp 40 (5-7 WD40) repeats of RACK1 were identified as the minimal domain required for interaction with PIAS2 by deletion analysis. Furthermore, multiple PIAS2-domains, particularly the 'PINIT' and RLD domains, bind the RACK1 5-7 WD40 domain.
36845536 | Comprehensive Analyses of Muscle Function, Lean and Muscle Mass, and Myofiber Typing in Mice. Skeletal muscle disorders commonly affect the function and integrity of muscles. Novel interventions bring new potential to rescue or alleviate the symptoms associated with these disorders. In vivo and in vitro testing in mouse models allows quantitative evaluation of the degree of muscle dysfunction, and therefore, the level of potential rescue/restoration by the target intervention. Several resources and methods are available to assess muscle function and lean and muscle mass, as well as myofiber typing as separate concepts; however, a technical resource unifying these methods is missing. Here, we provide detailed procedures for analyzing muscle function, lean and muscle mass, and myofiber typing in a comprehensive technical resource paper. Graphical abstract.
34459572 | Super-resolution study of PIAS SUMO E3-ligases in hippocampal and cortical neurons. The SUMOylation machinery is a regulator of neuronal activity and synaptic plasticity. It is composed of SUMO isoforms and specialized enzymes named E1, E2 and E3 SUMO ligases. Recent studies have highlighted how SUMO isoforms and E2 enzymes localize with synaptic markers to support previous functional studies but less information is available on E3 ligases. PIAS proteins - belonging to the protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) SUMO E3-ligase family - are the best-characterized SUMO E3-ligases and have been linked to the formation of spatial memory in rodents. Whether however they exert their function co-localizing with synaptic markers is still unclear. In this study, we applied for the first time structured illumination microscopy (SIM) to PIAS ligases to investigate the co-localization of PIAS1 and PIAS3 with synaptic markers in hippocampal and cortical murine neurons. The results indicate partial co-localization of PIAS1 and PIAS3 with synaptic markers in hippocampal neurons and much rarer occurrence in cortical neurons. This is in line with previous super-resolution reports describing the co-localization with synaptic markers of other components of the SUMOylation machinery.
33439102 | Hydrogen-rich water protects against liver injury in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis through HO-1 enhancement via IL-10 and Sirt 1 signaling. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) could progress to hepatic fibrosis in the absence of effective control. The purpose of our experiment was to investigate the protective effect of drinking water with a high concentration of hydrogen, namely, hydrogen-rich water (HRW), on mice with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease to elucidate the mechanism underlying the therapeutic action of molecular hydrogen. The choline-supplemented, l-amino acid-defined (CSAA) or the choline-deficient, l-amino acid-defined (CDAA) diet for 20 wk was used to induce NASH and fibrosis in the mice model and simultaneously treated with the high-concentration 7-ppm HRW for different periods (4 wk, 8  wk, and 20 wk). Primary hepatocytes were stimulated by palmitate to mimic liver lipid metabolism during fatty liver formation. Primary hepatocytes were cultured in a closed vessel filled with 21% O2 + 5% CO2 + 3.8% H2 and N2 as the base gas to verify the response of primary hepatocytes in a high concentration of hydrogen gas in vitro. Mice in the CSAA + HRW group had lower serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and milder histological damage. The inflammatory cytokines were expressed at lower levels in the HRW group than in the CSAA group. Importantly, HRW reversed hepatocyte fatty acid oxidation and lipogenesis as well as hepatic inflammation and fibrosis in preexisting hepatic fibrosis specimens. Molecular hydrogen inhibits the lipopolysaccharide-induced production of inflammation cytokines through increasing heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression. Furthermore, HRW improved hepatic steatosis in the CSAA + HRW group. Sirtuin 1 (Sirt1) induction by molecular hydrogen via the HO-1/adenosine monophosphate activated protein kinase (AMPK)/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha)/peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-gamma) pathway suppresses palmitate-mediated abnormal fat metabolism. Orally administered HRW suppressed steatosis induced by CSAA and attenuated fibrosis induced by CDAA, possibly by reducing oxidative stress and the inflammation response.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The mRNA expression of inflammatory cytokines in the HRW group was lower than in the CSAA group. HRW reversed hepatocyte apoptosis as well as hepatic inflammation and fibrosis in NASH specimens. Molecular hydrogen inhibits LPS-induced inflammation via an HO-1/interleukin 10 (IL-10)-independent pathway. HRW improved hepatic steatosis in the CSAA + HRW group. Sirt1 induction by molecular hydrogen via the HO-1/AMPK/PPARalpha/PPARgamma pathway suppresses palmitate-mediated abnormal fat metabolism.
35927280 | Subversion of GBP-mediated host defense by E3 ligases acquired during Yersinia pestis evolution. Plague has caused three worldwide pandemics in history, including the Black Death in medieval ages. Yersinia pestis, the etiological agent of plague, has evolved a powerful arsenal to disrupt host immune defenses during evolution from enteropathogenic Y. pseudotuberculosis. Here, we find that two functionally redundant E3 ligase of Y. pestis, YspE1 and YspE2, can be delivered via type III secretion injectisome into host cytosol where they ubiquitinate multiple guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) for proteasomal degradation. However, Y. pseudotuberculosis has no such capability due to lacking functional YspE1/2 homologs. YspE1/2-mediated GBP degradations significantly promote the survival of Y. pestis in macrophages and strongly inhibit inflammasome activation. By contrast, Gbpchr3-/-, chr5-/- macrophages exhibit much lowered inflammasome activation independent of YspE1/2, accompanied with an enhanced replication of Y. pestis. Accordingly, Gbpchr3-/-, chr5-/- mice are more susceptible to Y. pestis. We demonstrate that Y. pestis utilizes E3 ligases to subvert GBP-mediated host defense, which appears to be newly acquired by Y. pestis during evolution.
38637842 | Discovery of a novel and highly selective JAK3 inhibitor as a potent hair growth promoter. JAK-STAT signalling pathway inhibitors have emerged as promising therapeutic agents for the treatment of hair loss. Among different JAK isoforms, JAK3 has become an ideal target for drug discovery because it only regulates a narrow spectrum of gammac cytokines. Here, we report the discovery of MJ04, a novel and highly selective 3-pyrimidinylazaindole based JAK3 inhibitor, as a potential hair growth promoter with an IC50 of 2.03 nM. During in vivo efficacy assays, topical application of MJ04 on DHT-challenged AGA and athymic nude mice resulted in early onset of hair regrowth. Furthermore, MJ04 significantly promoted the growth of human hair follicles under ex-vivo conditions. MJ04 exhibited a reasonably good pharmacokinetic profile and demonstrated a favourable safety profile under in vivo and in vitro conditions. Taken together, we report MJ04 as a highly potent and selective JAK3 inhibitor that exhibits overall properties suitable for topical drug development and advancement to human clinical trials.
30746772 | Editorial: simplifying screening for primary liver cancer - do the LCR1 and LCR2 tests hold the key?
24457965 | ROS-PIASgamma cross talk channelizes ATM signaling from resistance to apoptosis during chemosensitization of resistant tumors. With the existing knowledge of ATM's role in therapeutic resistance, the present study aimed at identifying the molecular mechanisms that influence ATM to oscillate between chemoresistance and chemosensitivity. We observed that the redox status of tumors functions as a major determinant of ATM-dependent 'resistance-to-apoptosis' molecular switch. At a low reactive oxygen species (ROS) condition during genotoxic insult, the ATM/sumoylated-IKKgamma interaction induced NFkappaB activation that resisted JNK-mediated apoptosis, whereas increasing cellular ROS restored ATM/JNK apoptotic signaling. A search for the upstream missing link revealed that high ROS induces oxidation and ubiquitin-mediated degradation of PIASgamma, thereby disrupting PIASgamma-IKKgamma cross talk, a pre-requisite for IKKgamma sumoylation and subsequent NFkappaB activation. Interruption in the PIASgamma-mediated resistance pathway channels ATM signaling toward ATM/JNK pro-death circuitry. These in vitro results also translated to sensitive and resistant tumor allograft mouse models in which low ROS-induced resistance was over-ruled in PIASgamma knockout tumors, while its overexpression inhibited high ROS-dependent apoptotic cues. Cumulatively, our findings identified an unappreciated yet critical combinatorial function of cellular ROS and PIASgamma in regulating ATM-mediated chemosensitization of resistant tumors. Thus, therapeutic strategies employing ROS upregulation to inhibit PIASgamma during genotoxic therapy may, in future, help to eliminate the problems of NFkappaB-mediated tumor drug resistance.
38332341 | Volumetric Parameters Derived from CXCR4-Directed PET/CT Predict Outcome in Patients with Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Carcinomas. BACKGROUND: Gastro-entero-pancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas (GEP-NECs) are an aggressive subgroup of neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs). In patients affected with NEN, there is a growing body of evidence that increased C-X-C motif chemokine receptor (CXCR4) expression is linked to decreasing overall survival (OS) in an ex-vivo setting. Thus, we aimed to determine whether the in-vivo-derived CXCR4-directed whole-body PET signal can also determine GEP-NEC patients with shorter OS. METHODS: We retrospectively included 16 patients with histologically proven GEP-NEC, who underwent CXCR4-directed PET/CT for staging and therapy planning. We assessed maximum, peak, and mean standardized uptake values as well as whole-body tumor volume (TV) and total-lesion uptake (TLU = SUVmean x TV) using a semi-automatic segmentation tool with a 50% threshold. Association of PET-based biomarkers and OS or radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS; according to RECIST 1.1 criteria) was analyzed using univariable and multivariable cox regression. RESULTS: Median OS and rPFS was 7.5 and 7 months, respectively. A significant correlation between TV and TLU was found for OS (TV: hazard ratio (HR) 1.007 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.000-1.014, p = 0.0309; TLU: HR 1.002 95% CI 1.000-1.003, p = 0.0350) and rPFS (TV: HR 1.010 95% CI 1.002-1.021; p = 0.0275; TLU: HR 1.002 95% CI 1.000-1.004, p = 0.0329), respectively. No significant correlation with OS or rPFS was found for non-volumetric parameters (p > 0.4). TV remained a significant predictive marker for OS and rPFS in multivariable analysis (OS: HR 1.012 95%, CI 1.003-1.022, p = 0.0084; rPFS: HR 1.009, 95% CI 0.9999-1.019, p = 0.0491), whereas TLU remained only prognostic for OS (HR 1.009, 95% CI 0.9999-1.019, p = 0.0194) but narrowly failed significance for rPFS (p = 0.0559). CONCLUSION: In-vivo assessment of CXCR4 PET-derived volumetric parameters is predictive for outcome of patients with GEP-NEC and could be used as a risk stratification tool, which detects patients prone to early progression.
24614299 | Tomosyn interacts with the SUMO E3 ligase PIASgamma. Protein modification by Small Ubiquitin-like MOdifier (SUMO) entities is involved in a number of neuronal functions, including synaptogenesis and synaptic plasticity. Tomosyn-1 (syntaxin-binding protein 5; STXPB5) binds to t-SNARE (Soluble NSF Attachment Protein Receptor) proteins to regulate neurotransmission and is one of the few neuronal SUMO substrate proteins identified. Here we used yeast two-hybrid screening to show that tomosyn-1 interacts with the SUMO E3 ligase PIASgamma (Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT; PIAS4 or ZMIZ6). This novel interaction involved the C-terminus of tomosyn-1 and the N-terminus of PIASgamma. It was confirmed by two-way immunoprecipitation experiments using the full-length proteins expressed in HEK293T cells. Tomosyn-1 was preferentially modified by the SUMO-2/3 isoform. PIASgamma-dependent modification of tomosyn-1 with SUMO-2/3 presents a novel mechanism to adapt secretory strength to the dynamic synaptic environment.
38095299 | CXCL12 promotes the crossing of retinal ganglion cell axons at the optic chiasm. Binocular vision requires the segregation of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons extending from the retina into the ipsilateral and contralateral optic tracts. RGC axon segregation occurs at the optic chiasm, which forms at the ventral diencephalon midline. Using expression analyses, retinal explants and genetically modified mice, we demonstrate that CXCL12 (SDF1) is required for axon segregation at the optic chiasm. CXCL12 is expressed by the meninges bordering the optic pathway, and CXCR4 by both ipsilaterally and contralaterally projecting RGCs. CXCL12 or ventral diencephalon meninges potently promoted axon outgrowth from both ipsilaterally and contralaterally projecting RGCs. Further, a higher proportion of axons projected ipsilaterally in mice lacking CXCL12 or its receptor CXCR4 compared with wild-type mice as a result of misrouting of presumptive contralaterally specified RGC axons. Although RGCs also expressed the alternative CXCL12 receptor ACKR3, the optic chiasm developed normally in mice lacking ACKR3. Our data support a model whereby meningeal-derived CXCL12 helps drive axon growth from CXCR4-expressing RGCs towards the diencephalon midline, enabling contralateral axon growth. These findings further our understanding of the molecular and cellular mechanisms controlling optic pathway development.
35007290 | Hyperinflammatory environment drives dysfunctional myeloid cell effector response to bacterial challenge in COVID-19. COVID-19 displays diverse disease severities and symptoms including acute systemic inflammation and hypercytokinemia, with subsequent dysregulation of immune cells. Bacterial superinfections in COVID-19 can further complicate the disease course and are associated with increased mortality. However, there is limited understanding of how SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis and hypercytokinemia impede the innate immune function against bacterial superinfections. We assessed the influence of COVID-19 plasma hypercytokinemia on the functional responses of myeloid immune cells upon bacterial challenges from acute-phase COVID-19 patients and their corresponding recovery-phase. We show that a severe hypercytokinemia status in COVID-19 patients correlates with the development of bacterial superinfections. Neutrophils and monocytes derived from COVID-19 patients in their acute-phase showed an impaired intracellular microbicidal capacity upon bacterial challenges. The impaired microbicidal capacity was reflected by abrogated MPO and reduced NETs production in neutrophils along with reduced ROS production in both neutrophils and monocytes. Moreover, we observed a distinct pattern of cell surface receptor expression on both neutrophils and monocytes, in line with suppressed autocrine and paracrine cytokine signaling. This phenotype was characterized by a high expression of CD66b, CXCR4 and low expression of CXCR1, CXCR2 and CD15 in neutrophils and low expression of HLA-DR, CD86 and high expression of CD163 and CD11b in monocytes. Furthermore, the impaired antibacterial effector function was mediated by synergistic effect of the cytokines TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma and IL-4. COVID-19 patients receiving dexamethasone showed a significant reduction of overall inflammatory markers in the plasma as well as exhibited an enhanced immune response towards bacterial challenge ex vivo. Finally, broad anti-inflammatory treatment was associated with a reduction in CRP, IL-6 levels as well as length of ICU stay and ventilation-days in critically ill COVID-19 patients. Our data provides insights into the transient functional dysregulation of myeloid immune cells against subsequent bacterial infections in COVID-19 patients and describe a beneficial role for the use of dexamethasone in these patients.
38475864 | Functionally-instructed modifiers of response to ATR inhibition in experimental glioma. BACKGROUND: The DNA damage response (DDR) is a physiological network preventing malignant transformation, e.g. by halting cell cycle progression upon DNA damage detection and promoting DNA repair. Glioblastoma are incurable primary tumors of the nervous system and DDR dysregulation contributes to acquired treatment resistance. Therefore, DDR targeting is a promising therapeutic anti-glioma strategy. Here, we investigated Ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related (ATR) inhibition (ATRi) and functionally-instructed combination therapies involving ATRi in experimental glioma. METHODS: We used acute cytotoxicity to identify treatment efficacy as well as RNAseq and DigiWest protein profiling to characterize ATRi-induced modulations within the molecular network in glioma cells. Genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 functional genomic screens and subsequent validation with functionally-instructed compounds and selected shRNA-based silencing were employed to discover and investigate molecular targets modifying response to ATRi in glioma cell lines in vitro, in primary cultures ex vivo and in zebrafish and murine models in vivo. RESULTS: ATRi monotherapy displays anti-glioma efficacy in vitro and ex vivo and modulates the molecular network. We discovered molecular targets by genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 loss-of-function and activation screens that enhance therapeutic ATRi effects. We validated selected druggable targets by a customized drug library and functional assays in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, our study leads to the identification of novel combination therapies involving ATRi that could inform future preclinical studies and early phase clinical trials.
37532089 | PIAS1 upregulation confers protection against Cerulein-induced acute pancreatitis via FTO downregulation by enhancing sumoylation of Foxa2. OBJECTIVE: This research discussed the specific mechanism by which PIAS1 affects acute pancreatitis (AP). METHODS: PIAS1, Foxa2, and FTO expression was assessed in Cerulein-induced AR42J cells and mice. Loss- and gain-of-function assays and Cerulein induction were conducted in AR42J cells and mice for analysis. The relationship among PIAS1, Foxa2, and FTO was tested. Cell experiments run in triplicate, and eight mice for each animal group. RESULTS: Cerulein-induced AP cells and mice had low PIAS1 and Foxa2 and high FTO. Cerulein induced pancreatic injury in mice and inflammation and oxidative stress in pancreatic tissues, which could be reversed by PIAS1 or Foxa2 upregulation or FTO downregulation. PIAS1 elevated SUMO modification of Foxa2 to repress FTO transcription. FTO upregulation neutralized the ameliorative effects of PIAS1 or Foxa2 upregulation on Cerulein-induced AR42J cell injury, inflammation, and oxidative stress. CONCLUSION: PIAS1 upregulation diminished FTO transcription by increasing Foxa2 SUMO modification, thereby ameliorating Cerulein-induced AP.
35100012 | Coxiella burnetii Virulent Phase I and Avirulent Phase II Variants Differentially Manipulate Autophagy Pathway in Neutrophils. Coxiella burnetii is an obligate intracellular Gram-negative bacterium that causes Q fever in humans. The virulent C. burnetii Nine Mile phase I (NMI) strain causes disease in animal models, while the avirulent NM phase II (NMII) strain does not. In this study, we found that NMI infection induces severe splenomegaly and bacterial burden in the spleen in BALB/c mice, while NMII infection does not. A significantly higher number of CD11b+ Ly6G+ neutrophils accumulated in the liver, lung, and spleen of NMI-infected mice than in NMII-infected mice. Thus, neutrophil accumulation correlates with NMI and NMII infection-induced inflammatory responses. In vitro studies also demonstrated that although NMII exhibited a higher infection rate than NMI in mouse bone marrow neutrophils (BMNs), NMI-infected BMNs survived longer than NMII-infected BMNs. These results suggest that the differential interactions of NMI and NMII with neutrophils may be related to their ability to cause disease in animals. To understand the molecular mechanism underlying the differential interactions of NMI and NMII with neutrophils, global transcriptomic gene expressions were compared between NMI- and NMII-infected BMNs by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analysis. Interestingly, several genes involved in autophagy-related pathways, particularly membrane trafficking and lipid metabolism, are upregulated in NMII-infected BMNs but downregulated in NMI-infected BMNs. Immunofluorescence and immunoblot analyses indicate that compared to NMI-infected BMNs, vacuoles in NMII-infected-BMNs exhibit increased autophagic flux along with phosphatidylserine translocation in the cell membrane. Similar to neutrophils, NMII activated LC3-mediated autophagy in human macrophages. These findings suggest that the differential manipulation of autophagy of NMI and NMII may relate to their pathogenesis.
38597446 | [High LINC00626 expression promotes esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma metastasis: the mediating role of the JAK1/STAT3/KHSRP axis]. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of JAK1/STAT3/KHSRP axis in mediating the regulatory effect of LINC00626 on progression of esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma. METHODS: We collected surgical tumor and adjacent tissue specimens from 64 patients with esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma and examined the expression levels of LINC00626 and KHSRP. qRT-PCR was used to detect the expressions of LINC00626 and KHSRP in 6 esophageal adenocarcinoma cell lines (OE-19, TE-7, Bic-1, Flo-1, SK-GT-4, and BE-3) and a normal esophageal epithelial cell line (HET-1A). OE-19 and TE-7 cell lines with stable LINC00626 knockdown and FLO-1 and SK-GT-4 cells stably overexpressing LINC00626 were constructed by lentiviral transfection, and the changes in proliferation, migration and invasion of the cells were evaluated using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and Transwell migration/invasion assay. The expressions of KHSRP and JAK/STAT pathway proteins in the transfected cells were detected with Western blotting. The effects of LINC006266 knockdown and overexpression on subcutaneous tumor formation and lung metastasis of OE-19 and FLO-1 cell xenografts were tested in nude mice. RESULTS: The expression levels of LINC00626 and KHSRP were significantly increased in esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma tissues and in esophageal adenocarcinoma cells. LINC00626 knockdown obviously inhibited the proliferation, migration and invasion of esophageal adenocarcinoma cells in vitro and decreased their tumor formation and lung metastasis abilities in nude mice, while overexpression of LINC00626 produced the opposite effects. In esophageal adenocarcinoma cells, LINC0626 knockdown significantly decreased and LINC00626 overexpression strongly enhanced the phosphorylation of JAK1 and STAT3. CONCLUSION: High LINC00626 expression promotes esophageal-gastric junction adenocarcinoma metastasis by activating the JAK1/STAT3/KHSRP signal axis.
15123625 | Transcriptional activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma is modulated by SUMO-1 modification. Covalent modification of many transcription factors with SUMO-1 is emerging as a key role of trans-activational regulation. Here, we demonstrate that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma, which is a ligand-activated nuclear receptor, is modified by SUMO-1. Sumoylation of PPARgamma mainly occurs at a lysine residue within the activation function 1 domain. Furthermore, we show that the PIAS family proteins, PIAS1 and PIASxbeta, function as E3 ligases (ubiquitin-protein isopeptide ligase) for PPARgamma. PPARgamma interacts directly with PIASxbeta in a ligand-independent manner. Analysis using a PPARgamma mutant with a disrupted sumoylation site shows that modification of PPARgamma by SUMO-1 represses its transcriptional activity. Interestingly, PIASxbeta and Ubc9 enhance the transcriptional activity of PPARgamma independent of PPARgamma sumoylation. Furthermore, PPARgamma ligand-induced apoptosis in a human hepatoblastoma cell line, HepG2, is significantly enhanced by ectopic production of the sumoylation-mutant PPARgamma. These results suggest that the PPARgamma-dependent transactivation pathway seems to be modulated by SUMO-1 modification and may serve as a novel target for apoptosis-induction therapy in cancer cells.
22539679 | Endometrial receptivity defects and impaired implantation in diabetic NOD mice. Implantation failure is a major hurdle to a successful pregnancy. The high rate of postimplantation fetal loss in nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice is believed to be related to an abnormal decidual production of interferon (IFN)gamma. To address whether diabetes alters the natural events associated with successful implantation, certain morphological and molecular features of uterine receptivity in diabetic NOD (dNOD) mice were examined in normally mated pregnancy and in concanavalin A (ConA)-induced pseudopregnancy. As opposed to normoglycemic NOD (cNOD) mice, dNOD mice expressed retarded maturation of their uterine pinopodes and overexpressed MUC1 mucin at implantation sites (P < 0.001). Uterine production of leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and phosphorylation of uterine NFkappaBp65 and STAT3-Ty705 were found to be low (P < 0.01) during Day 4.5 postcoitum, whereas IFNgamma was aberrantly overexpressed. Loss of temporal regulation of progesterone receptor A (PR A) and PR B, together with aberrantly increased expression of the protein inhibitor of activated STAT-y (PIASy) (P < 0.01) and reduced recruitment (P < 0.01) of the latter to nuclear progesterone receptor sites were prominent features of decidualization failure occurring at peri-implantation in dNOD mice. In conclusion, the aberrant expression of endometrial IFNgamma in dNOD mice is associated with a nonreceptive endometrial milieu contributing to peri-implantation embryo loss in type 1 diabetes.
27924068 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) regulates liver fibrosis through modulating SMAD3 activity. Excessive fibrogenesis disrupts normal liver structure, impairs liver function, and precipitates the development of cirrhosis, an irreversible end-stage liver disease. A host of factors including nutrition surplus contribute to liver fibrosis but the underlying mechanism is not fully understood. In the present study, we investigated the involvement of protein inhibitor for activated stat 4 (PIAS4) in liver fibrosis in a mouse model of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). We report that PIAS4 silencing using short hairpin RNA (shRNA) attenuated high-fat high-carbohydrate (HFHC) diet induced liver fibrosis in mice. Quantitative PCR and Western blotting analyses confirmed that PIAS4 knockdown downregulated a panel of pro-fibrogenic genes including type I and type III collagens, smooth muscle actin, and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase. Mechanistically, PIAS4 silencing blocked the recruitment of SMAD3, a potent pro-fibrogenic transcription factor, to the promoter regions of pro-fibrogenic genes and dampened SMAD3 acetylation likely by upregulating SIRT1 expression. In conclusion, PIAS4 may contribute to liver fibrosis by modulating SIRT1-dependent SMAD3 acetylation.
27323886 | Transcriptional repression of SIRT1 by protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) in hepatic stellate cells contributes to liver fibrosis. Interstitial fibrosis represents a key pathological process in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). In the liver, fibrogenesis is primarily mediated by activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) transitioning from a quiescent state in response to a host of stimuli. The molecular mechanism underlying HSC activation is not completely understood. Here we report that there was a simultaneous up-regulation of PIAS4 expression and down-regulation of SIRT1 expression accompanying increased hepatic fibrogenesis in an MCD-diet induced mouse model of NASH. In cultured primary mouse HSCs, stimulation with high glucose activated PIAS4 while at the same time repressed SIRT1. Over-expression of PIAS4 directly repressed SIRT1 promoter activity. In contrast, depletion of PIAS4 restored SIRT1 expression in HSCs treated with high glucose. Estrogen, a known NASH-protective hormone, antagonized HSC activation by targeting PIAS4. Lentivirus-mediated delivery of short hairpin RNA (shRNA) targeting PIAS4 in mice ameliorated MCD diet induced liver fibrosis by normalizing SIRT1 expression in vivo. PIAS4 promoted HSC activation in a SIRT1-dependent manner in vitro. Mechanistically, PIAS4 mediated SIRT1 repression led to SMAD3 hyperacetylation and enhanced SMAD3 binding to fibrogenic gene promoters. Taken together, our data suggest SIRT1 trans-repression by PIAS4 plays an important role in HSC activation and liver fibrosis.
37735875 | Expressing CXCR4 in CAR-T cells Suppresses MDSCs Recruitment via STAT3/NF-kappaB/SDF-1alpha axis to enhance Anti-tumor Efficacy against Pancreatic Cancer. Claudin18.2 (CLDN18.2)-specific chimeric antigen receptor (CAR-T) cells displayed limited efficacy in CLDN18.2 positive pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Strategies are needed to improve the trafficking capacity of CLDN18.2-specific CAR-T cells. PDAC has a unique microenvironment that consists of abundant cancer- associated fibroblasts (CAFs), which could secrete stromal cell-derived factor 1alpha (SDF-1alpha), the ligand of CXCR4. Then we constructed and explored CLDN18.2-targeted CAR-T cells with CXCR4 co-expression in treating immunocompetent mouse models of PDAC. The results indicated that CXCR4 could promote the infiltration of CAR-T cells and enhance their efficacy in vivo. Mechanistically, the activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3(STAT3) signaling was impaired in CXCR4 CAR-T cells, thereof reduced the release of inflammatory factors, such as TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL-17A. Then, the less release of inflammatory factors suppressed SDF-1alpha secretion in CAFs via NF-kappaB pathway. Therefore, the decreased secretion of SDF-1alpha in feedback decreased the migration of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in tumor sites. Overall, our study demonstrated that CXCR4 CAR-T cells could traffic more into tumor sites and meanwhile suppress MDSCs migration via STAT3/NF-kappaB/SDF-1alpha axis, to obtained better efficacy in CLDN18.2 positive pancreatic cancer. Our findings provide a theoretical rationale for CXCR4 CAR-T cell therapy in PDAC.
38621611 | Ruxolitinib-loaded cytokine nanosponge alleviated the cytokine storm and dampened macrophage overactivation for the treatment of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a life-threatening clinical syndrome characterized by a positive feedback loop between cytokine storm and macrophages and lymphocytes overactivation, which could serve as a valid therapeutic target for HLH treatment. In this study, the clinically extensively used JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib was encapsulated into macrophage membrane-coated nanoparticles (M@NP-R) with high drug-loading efficiency for targeted HLH treatment. In vitro and in vivo studies demonstrated that M@NP-R not only efficiently adsorbed extracellular proinflammation cytokines, like IFN-gamma and IL-6 to alleviate the cytokine storm, but also effectively dampened macrophage activation and proliferation by intracellular JAK/STAT signaling pathway inhibition. M@NP-R treatment significantly ameliorated the clinical and laboratory manifestations of HLH in mouse models, including trilineage cytopenia, hypercytokinemia, organomegaly, hepatorenal dysfunction, and tissue inflammation. Importantly, M@NP-R significantly enhanced the survival of the lethal HLH mice. Altogether, M@NP-R successfully blocked the positive feedback loop between the cytokine storm and macrophage overactivation by depleting extracellular inflammatory cytokines and inhibiting the intracellular JAK/STAT signaling pathway, both of which worked synergistically in HLH treatment. As ruxolitinib has already been extensively used in clinics with favorable safety, and M@NP is biodegradable and highly biocompatible, M@NP-R has good prospects for clinical translation.
20408817 | SUMO modification regulates the transcriptional activity of XBP1. The UPR (unfolded protein response), a cellular defence mechanism against misfolded protein accumulation in the ER (endoplasmic reticulum), is associated with many human diseases such as aging, cancer and diabetes. XBP1 (X-box-binding protein 1), a key transcription factor of the UPR, is critical in maintaining ER homoeostasis. Nevertheless, the mechanism by which XBP1 transcriptional activity is regulated remains unexplored. In the present study we show that XBP1s, the active spliced form of XBP1 protein, is SUMOylated, mainly by PIAS2 [protein inhibitor of activated STAT (signal transducer and activator of transcription) 2] at two lysine residues located in the C-terminal transactivation domain. Ablation of these SUMOylation events significantly enhances the transcriptional activity of XBP1s towards UPR target genes. Thus our results reveal an unexpected role for SUMO (small ubiquitin-related modifier) in the regulation of UPR activation and ER homeostasis.
38646919 | miR-146a-/- mice model reveals that NF-kappaB inhibition reverts inflammation-driven myelofibrosis-like phenotype. Emerging evidence shows the crucial role of inflammation (particularly NF-kappaB pathway) in the development and progression of myelofibrosis (MF), becoming a promising therapeutic target. Furthermore, tailoring treatment with currently available JAK inhibitors (such as ruxolitinib or fedratinib) does not modify the natural history of the disease and has important limitations, including cytopenias. Since recent studies have highlighted the role of miR-146a, a negative regulator of the NF-kappaB pathway, in the pathogenesis of MF; here we used miR-146a-/- (KO) mice, a MF-like model lacking driver mutations, to investigate whether pharmacological inhibition of JAK/STAT and/or NF-kappaB pathways may reverse the myelofibrotic phenotype of these mice. Specifically, we tested the JAK1/2 inhibitor, ruxolitinib; the NF-kappaB inhibitor via IKKalpha/beta, BMS-345541; both inhibitors in combination; or a dual inhibitor of both pathways (JAK2/IRAK1), pacritinib. Although all treatments decreased spleen size and partially recovered its architecture, only NF-kappaB inhibition, either using BMS-345541 (alone or in combination) or pacritinib, resulted in a reduction of extramedullary hematopoiesis, bone marrow (BM) fibrosis and osteosclerosis, along with an attenuation of the exacerbated inflammatory state (via IL-1beta and TNFalpha). However, although dual inhibitor improved anemia and reversed thrombocytopenia, the combined therapy worsened anemia by inducing BM hypoplasia. Both therapeutic options reduced NF-kappaB and JAK/STAT signaling in a context of JAK2V617F-driven clonal hematopoiesis. Additionally, combined treatment reduced both COL1A1 and IL-6 production in an in vitro model mimicking JAK2-driven fibrosis. In conclusion, NF-kappaB inhibition reduces, in vitro and in vivo, disease burden and BM fibrosis, which could provide benefits in myelofibrosis patients.
27658114 | Therapeutic targets in fibrotic pathways. The pathogenetic heterogeneity of pulmonary fibrosis yields both challenges and opportunities for therapy. Its complexity implicates a variety of cellular processes, signaling pathways, and genetics as drivers of disease. TGF-beta stimulation is one avenue, and is central to pro-fibrotic protein expression, leading to decreased pulmonary function. Here we report our recent findings, introducing the E3 ligase Fibrosis Inducing E3 Ligase 1 (FIEL1) as an important regulator of TGF-beta signaling through the selective degradation of PIAS4. FIEL1 exacerbates bleomycin-induced murine pulmonary fibrosis, while its silencing attenuates the fibrotic phenotype. Further, we developed a small molecule inhibitor of FIEL1 (BC-1485) that inhibits the degradation of PIAS4, and ameliorates fibrosis in murine models. New understanding of this pathway illustrates the many targeting opportunities among the complexity of pulmonary fibrosis in the continuing search for therapy.
38102979 | SUMOylation and coupling of eNOS mediated by PIAS1 contribute to maintenance of vascular homeostasis. Endothelial dysfunction (ED) is commonly considered a crucial initiating step in the pathogenesis of numerous cardiovascular diseases. The coupling of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is important in maintaining normal endothelial functions. However, it still remains elusive whether and how eNOS SUMOylation affects the eNOS coupling. In the study, we investigate the roles and possible action mechanisms of protein inhibitor of activated STAT 1 (PIAS1) in ED. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) treated with palmitate acid (PA) in vitro and ApoE-/- mice fed with high-fat diet (HFD) in vivo were constructed as the ED models. Our in vivo data show that PIAS1 alleviates the dysfunction of vascular endothelium by increasing nitric oxide (NO) level, reducing malondialdehyde (MDA) level, and activating the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-protein kinase B-endothelial nitric oxide synthase (PI3K-AKT-eNOS) signaling in ApoE-/- mice. Our in vitro data also show that PIAS1 can SUMOylate eNOS under endogenous conditions; moreover, it antagonizes the eNOS uncoupling induced by PA. The findings demonstrate that PIAS1 alleviates the dysfunction of vascular endothelium by promoting the SUMOylation and inhibiting the uncoupling of eNOS, suggesting that PIAS1 would become an early predictor of atherosclerosis and a new potential target of the hyperlipidemia-related cardiovascular diseases.
37342909 | Organized B cell sites in cartilaginous fishes reveal the evolutionary foundation of germinal centers. The absence of germinal centers (GCs) in cartilaginous fishes lies at odds with data showing that nurse sharks can produce robust antigen-specific responses and affinity mature their B cell repertoires. To investigate this apparent incongruity, we performed RNA sequencing on single nuclei, allowing us to characterize the cell types present in the nurse shark spleen, and RNAscope to provide in situ cellular resolution of key marker gene expression following immunization with R-phycoerythrin (PE). We tracked PE to the splenic follicles where it co-localizes with CXCR5high centrocyte-like B cells and a population of putative T follicular helper (Tfh) cells, surrounded by a peripheral ring of Ki67+ AID+ CXCR4+ centroblast-like B cells. Further, we reveal selection of mutations in B cell clones dissected from these follicles. We propose that the B cell sites identified here represent the evolutionary foundation of GCs, dating back to the jawed vertebrate ancestor.
37839636 | ZMIZ1 upregulation of TET3-mediated hydroxymethylation induces M2 polarization of Kupffer cells in hepatocellular carcinogenesis by mediating Notch1/c-Myc signaling. DNA hydroxymethylation mediated by the tet family of methylcytosine dioxygenases (TETs) represents a crucial epigenetic modification that manipulates gene expression in numerous biological processes. This study focuses on the effect of TET3 on the polarization of Kupffer cells (KCs) and its connection to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). TET3 is abundant in KCs and its knockdown induced an M2-M1 phenotype shift, resulting in the suppression of viability, migration, and invasion of co-cultured HCC cells. Additionally, it inhibited the tumorigenesis of HCC cells in nude mice. Downstream targets of TET3 were predicted using bioinformatics. TET3 mediated DNA hydroxymethylation of zinc finger MIZ-type containing 1 (ZMIZ1) promoter. The ZMIZ1 protein interacted with notch receptor 1 (Notch1) protein to activate transcription of c-Myc. Silencing of ZMIZ1 in KCs similarly suppressed M2 polarization of KCs and malignant phenotype of co-cultured HCC cells. However, these changes were counteracted by the overexpression of either Notch1 or c-Myc overexpression in KCs. In summary, this study demonstrates that TET3-mediated hydroxymethylation of ZMIZ1 enhances hepatocellular carcinogenesis by promoting M2 skewing of KCs through the Notch1/c-Myc axis.
32462635 | Regulation of ALS-Associated SOD1 Mutant SUMOylation and Aggregation by SENP and PIAS Family Proteins. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease specific to motor neurons. Pathogenic mutations in an ALS-associated gene encoding superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) have been identified in familial ALS (fALS) cases. SOD1 with fALS-linked mutations is prone to form cytotoxic aggregates that cause cellular dysfunction. We previously demonstrated that the modification of SOD1 by small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) 3 enhances the aggregation of fALS-linked SOD1 mutants. SUMOylation is a reversible post-translational modification targeting lysine residues. SUMO conjugation is mediated by the enzymes E1, E2, and E3, and deconjugation is catalyzed by deSUMOylation enzymes. To understand the process of SOD1 aggregation, we examined the involvement of protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family and sentrin-specific protease (SENP) family proteins in the SUMOylation of SOD1 mutants. We found that all four types of PIAS family proteins, E3 ligase of SUMOylation, increased SUMOylation of SOD1 mutants. Among three SENP family proteins tested, deSUMOylation enzymes, SENP1, exhibited the most efficient deconjugation effect. In co-expression experiments, PIASy and SENP1 increased and decreased the number of cells exhibiting SOD1-mutant aggregation, respectively, confirming the effect of these enzymes on SOD1 aggregation. These findings suggest that regulation of SUMOylation affects the pathogenesis of ALS.
31273062 | Deletion of the Miz-1 POZ Domain Increases Efficacy of Cytarabine Treatment in T- and B-ALL/Lymphoma Mouse Models. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is an aggressive blood cancer that mainly affects children. Relapse rates are high and toxic chemotherapies that block DNA replication and induce DNA damage lead to health problems later in life, underlining the need for improved therapies. MYC is a transcription factor that is hyperactive in a large proportion of cancers including leukemia but is difficult to target in therapy. We show that ablation of the function of the BTB/POZ domain factor Zbtb17 (Miz-1), an important cofactor of c-Myc, significantly delayed T- and B-ALL/lymphoma in mice and interfered with the oncogenic transcriptional activity of c-Myc. Leukemic cells that still emerged in this system activated DNA replication pathways that could be targeted by current chemotherapeutic drugs such as cytarabine. Acute ablation of the Miz-1 POZ domain enhanced the effect of cytarabine treatment. The combined treatment was effective in both Emu-Myc and Notch ICN-driven leukemia models and prolonged survival of tumor-bearing animals by accelerating apoptosis of leukemic cells. These observations suggest that targeting MIZ-1 could render current ALL chemotherapies more effective, with a better outcome for patients. SIGNIFICANCE: Ablation of the POZ domain of Miz-1 perturbs its interaction with c-MYC and delays the generation of T- and B-cell leukemias and lymphomas.
27312341 | A post-translational modification cascade employing HDAC9-PIASy-RNF4 axis regulates chondrocyte hypertrophy by modulating Nkx3.2 protein stability. While Nkx3.2/Bapx1 promotes chondrogenic differentiation and plays a role in maintaining chondrocyte viability and suppressing chondrocyte hypertrophy, the regulatory mechanisms of Nkx3.2 remain poorly understood. Here we show that p300- and HDAC9-induced Nkx3.2 acetylation and de-acetylation, respectively, play critical roles in controlling Nkx3.2 protein stability. In addition, we also found that HDAC9-dependent de-acetylation of Nkx3.2 triggers PIASy-mediated sumoylation and subsequent RNF4-mediated SUMO-targeted ubiquitination. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Nkx3.2 regulation by HDAC9 can be linked to the management of chondrocyte survival and hypertrophic maturation during cartilage development. Finally, our results together reveal a novel mechanism of protein stability control involving complex interplay between acetylation, de-acetylation, sumoylation, and ubiquitination, and suggest that this post-translational modification of Nkx3.2 employing HDAC9-PIASy-RNF4 axis plays a crucial role in controlling chondrocyte viability and hypertrophic maturation during skeletal development in vertebrates.
33327748 | CXCR4-Binding Positron Emission Tomography Tracers Link Monocyte Recruitment and Endothelial Injury in Murine Atherosclerosis. OBJECTIVE: vMIP-II (viral macrophage inflammatory protein 2)/vCCL2 (viral chemotactic cytokine ligand 2) binds to multiple chemokine receptors, and vMIP-II-based positron emission tomography tracer (64Cu-DOTA-vMIP-II: vMIP-II tracer) accumulates at atherosclerotic lesions in mice. Given that it would be expected to react with multiple chemokine receptors on monocytes and macrophages, we wondered if its accumulation in atherosclerosis lesion-bearing mice might correlate with overall macrophage burden or, alternatively, the pace of monocyte recruitment. Approach and Results: We employed a mouse model of atherosclerosis regression involving adenoassociated virus 8 vector encoding murine Apoe (AAV-mApoE) treatment of Apoe-/- mice where the pace of monocyte recruitment slows before macrophage burden subsequently declines. Accumulation of 64Cu-DOTA-vMIP-II at Apoe-/- plaque sites was strong but declined with AAV-mApoE-induced decline in monocyte recruitment, before macrophage burden reduced. Monocyte depletion indicated that monocytes and macrophages themselves were not the only target of the 64Cu-DOTA-vMIP-II tracer. Using fluorescence-tagged vMIP-II tracer, competitive receptor blocking with CXCR4 antagonists, endothelial-specific Cre-mediated deletion of CXCR4, CXCR4-specific tracer 64Cu-DOTA-FC131, and CXCR4 staining during disease progression and regression, we show endothelial cell expression of CXCR4 is a key target of 64Cu-DOTA-vMIP-II imaging. Expression of CXCR4 was low in nonplaque areas but strongly detected on endothelium of progressing plaques, especially on proliferating endothelium, where vascular permeability was increased and monocyte recruitment was the strongest. CONCLUSIONS: Endothelial injury status of plaques is marked by CXCR4 expression and this injury correlates with the tendency of such plaques to recruit monocytes. Furthermore, our findings suggest positron emission tomography tracers that mark CXCR4 can be used translationally to monitor the state of plaque injury and monocyte recruitment.
33151932 | A complementary study approach unravels novel players in the pathoetiology of Hirschsprung disease. Hirschsprung disease (HSCR, OMIM 142623) involves congenital intestinal obstruction caused by dysfunction of neural crest cells and their progeny during enteric nervous system (ENS) development. HSCR is a multifactorial disorder; pathogenetic variants accounting for disease phenotype are identified only in a minority of cases, and the identification of novel disease-relevant genes remains challenging. In order to identify and to validate a potential disease-causing relevance of novel HSCR candidate genes, we established a complementary study approach, combining whole exome sequencing (WES) with transcriptome analysis of murine embryonic ENS-related tissues, literature and database searches, in silico network analyses, and functional readouts using candidate gene-specific genome-edited cell clones. WES datasets of two patients with HSCR and their non-affected parents were analysed, and four novel HSCR candidate genes could be identified: ATP7A, SREBF1, ABCD1 and PIAS2. Further rare variants in these genes were identified in additional HSCR patients, suggesting disease relevance. Transcriptomics revealed that these genes are expressed in embryonic and fetal gastrointestinal tissues. Knockout of these genes in neuronal cells demonstrated impaired cell differentiation, proliferation and/or survival. Our approach identified and validated candidate HSCR genes and provided further insight into the underlying pathomechanisms of HSCR.
34951052 | A PIAS1 Protective Variant S510G Delays polyQ Disease Onset by Modifying Protein Homeostasis. BACKGROUND: Polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases are dominant neurodegenerative diseases caused by an expansion of the polyQ-encoding CAG repeats in the disease-causing gene. The length of the CAG repeats is the major determiner of the age at onset (AO) of polyQ diseases, including Huntington's disease (HD) and spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3). OBJECTIVE: We set out to identify common genetic variant(s) that may affect the AO of polyQ diseases. METHODS: Three hundred thirty-seven patients with HD or SCA3 were enrolled for targeted sequencing of 583 genes implicated in proteinopathies. In total, 16 genes were identified as containing variants that are associated with late AO of polyQ diseases. For validation, we further investigate the variants of PIAS1 because PIAS1 is an E3 SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) ligase for huntingtin (HTT), the protein linked to HD. RESULTS: Biochemical analyses revealed that the ability of PIAS1S510G to interact with mutant huntingtin (mHTT) was less than that of PIAS1WT , resulting in lower SUMOylation of mHTT and lower accumulation of insoluble mHTT. Genetic knock-in of PIAS1S510G in a HD mouse model (R6/2) ameliorated several HD-like deficits (including shortened life spans, poor grip strength and motor coordination) and reduced neuronal accumulation of mHTT. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that PIAS1 is a genetic modifier of polyQ diseases. The naturally occurring variant, PIAS1S510G , is associated with late AO in polyQ disease patients and milder disease severity in HD mice. Our study highlights the possibility of targeting PIAS1 or pathways governing protein homeostasis as a disease-modifying approach for treating patients with HD.   2021 International Parkinson and Movement Disorder Society.
26063058 | SUMOylation and Ubiquitylation Circuitry Controls Pregnane X Receptor Biology in Hepatocytes. Several nuclear receptor (NR) superfamily members are known to be the molecular target of either the small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) or ubiquitin-signaling pathways. However, little is currently known regarding how these two post-translational modifications interact to control NR biology. We show that SUMO and ubiquitin circuitry coordinately modifies the pregnane X receptor (PXR, NR1I2) to play a key role in regulating PXR protein stability, transactivation capacity, and transcriptional repression. The SUMOylation and ubiquitylation of PXR is increased in a ligand- and tumor necrosis factor alpha -: dependent manner in hepatocytes. The SUMO-E3 ligase enzymes protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT1) STAT-1 (PIAS1) and protein inhibitor of activated STAT Y (PIASy) drive high levels of PXR SUMOylation. Expression of protein inhibitor of activated stat 1 selectively increases SUMO(3)ylation as well as PXR-mediated induction of cytochrome P450, family 3, subfamily A and the xenobiotic response. The PIASy-mediated SUMO(1)ylation imparts a transcriptionally repressive function by ameliorating interaction of PXR with coactivator protein peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1-alpha. The SUMO modification of PXR is effectively antagonized by the SUMO protease sentrin protease (SENP) 2, whereas SENP3 and SENP6 proteases are highly active in the removal of SUMO2/3 chains. The PIASy-mediated SUMO(1)ylation of PXR inhibits ubiquitin-mediated degradation of this important liver-enriched NR by the 26S proteasome. Our data reveal a working model that delineates the interactive role that these two post-translational modifications play in reconciling PXR-mediated gene activation of the xenobiotic response versus transcriptional repression of the proinflammatory response in hepatocytes. Taken together, our data reveal that the SUMOylation and ubiquitylation of the PXR interface in a fundamental manner directs its biologic function in the liver in response to xenobiotic or inflammatory stress.
25701873 | The E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM32 regulates myoblast proliferation by controlling turnover of NDRG2. Limb girdle muscular dystrophy 2H is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the E3 ubiquitin ligase, TRIM32. Previously, we generated and characterized a Trim32 knockout mouse (T32KO) that displays both neurogenic and myopathic features. The myopathy in these mice is attributable to impaired muscle growth, associated with satellite cell senescence and premature sarcopenia. This satellite cell senescence is due to accumulation of the SUMO ligase PIASy, a substrate of TRIM32. The goal of this investigation was to identify additional substrates of TRIM32 using 2D fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) in order to further explore its role in skeletal muscle. Because TRIM32 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase, we reasoned that TRIM32's substrates would accumulate in its absence. 2D-DIGE identified 19 proteins that accumulate in muscles from the T32KO mouse. We focused on two of these proteins, NDRG2 and TRIM72, due to their putative roles in myoblast proliferation and myogenesis. Follow-up analysis confirmed that both proteins were ubiquitinated by TRIM32 in vitro; however, only NDRG2 accumulated in skeletal muscle and myoblasts in the absence of TRIM32. NDRG2 overexpression in myoblasts led to reduced cell proliferation and delayed cell cycle withdrawal during differentiation. Thus, we identified NDRG2 as a novel target for TRIM32; these findings further corroborate the hypothesis that TRIM32 is involved in control of myogenic cells proliferation and differentiation.
38346795 | Pharmacological characterization and radiolabeling of VUF15485, a high-affinity small-molecule agonist for the atypical chemokine receptor ACKR3. Atypical chemokine receptor 3 (ACKR3 is considered to be an interesting drug target. In this study we report on the synthesis, pharmacological characterization and radiolabeling of VUF15485, a new small-molecule agonist. VUF15485 binds with nanomolar affinity (pIC50 = 8.3) to human ACKR3, as measured in [125I]CXCL12 competition experiments. Moreover, in a BRET-based beta-arrestin2 recruitment assay VUF15485 acts as an ACKR3 agonist with high potency (pEC50 = 7.6) and shows a similar extent of receptor activation compared to CXCL12 when using a newly developed, FRET-based ACKR3 conformational sensor. Moreover, the ACKR3 agonist VUF15485 was tested against a chemokine receptor panel (agonist and antagonist mode) and proves to be selective for ACKR3. VUF15485 was subsequently labeled with tritium at one of its methoxy groups affording [3H]VUF15485. The small-molecule agonist radioligand binds saturably and with high affinity to human ACKR3 (Kd = 8.2 nM). [3H]VUF15485 shows rapid binding kinetics and consequently a short residence time (RT < 2 min) for its binding to ACKR3. Displacement of [3H]VUF15485 binding to membranes of HEK293T cells, transiently expressing ACKR3, with a number of CXCR3, CXCR4 or ACKR3 small-molecule ligands confirmed the ACKR3 profile of the [3H]VUF15485 binding site. Interestingly, the chemokine ligands CXCL11 and CXCL12 are not able to displace the binding of [3H]VUF15485 to ACKR3. The radiolabeled VUF15485 was subsequently used to evaluate its binding pocket. Site-directed mutagenesis and docking studies using a recently solved cryo-EM structure propose VUF15485 to bind in the major and the minor binding pocket of ACKR3. Significance Statement The atypical chemokine receptor ACKR3 is considered an interesting drug target in relation to e.g. cancer. The study reports on new chemical biology tools for ACKR3, i.e. a new agonist that can also be radiolabelled and a new ACKR3 conformational sensor, that both can be used to directly study the interaction of ACKR3 ligands with the GPCR.
38597583 | Interleukin-4 inhibits the hypothalamic appetite control by modulating the insulin-AKT and JAK-STAT signaling in leptin mutant mice. Our previous research identified interleukin-4 (IL-4) as a key regulator of glucose/lipid metabolism, circulatory leptin levels, and insulin action, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target for obesity and related complications. This study aimed to further elucidate the role of IL-4 in regulating hypothalamic appetite-controlling neuropeptides using leptin dysfunctional Leptin145E/145E mice as the experimental model. IL-4 significantly reduces body weight, food intake, and serum glucose levels. Our data demonstrated that IL-4 exhibits multiple functions in regulating hypothalamic appetite control, including downregulating orexigenic agouti-related peptide and neuropeptide Y levels, promoting expression of anorexigenic proopiomelanocortin, alleviating microenvironmental hypothalamic inflammation, enhancing leptin and insulin pathway, and attenuating insulin resistance. Furthermore, IL-4 promotes uncoupling protein 1 expression of white adipose tissue (WAT), suggesting its role in triggering WAT-beige switch. In summary, this study uncovers novel function of IL-4 in mediating food-intake behaviors and metabolic efficiency by regulating hypothalamic appetite-control and WAT browning activities. These findings support the therapeutic potential of targeting hypothalamic inflammation and reducing adiposity through IL-4 intervention for tackling the pandemic increasing prevalence of obesity and associated metabolic disorders.
37217705 | Spatial dysregulation of T follicular helper cells impairs vaccine responses in aging. The magnitude and quality of the germinal center (GC) response decline with age, resulting in poor vaccine-induced immunity in older individuals. A functional GC requires the co-ordination of multiple cell types across time and space, in particular across its two functionally distinct compartments: the light and dark zones. In aged mice, there is CXCR4-mediated mislocalization of T follicular helper (TFH) cells to the dark zone and a compressed network of follicular dendritic cells (FDCs) in the light zone. Here we show that TFH cell localization is critical for the quality of the antibody response and for the expansion of the FDC network upon immunization. The smaller GC and compressed FDC network in aged mice were corrected by provision of TFH cells that colocalize with FDCs using CXCR5. This demonstrates that the age-dependent defects in the GC response are reversible and shows that TFH cells support stromal cell responses to vaccines.
11477070 | DJ-1 positively regulates the androgen receptor by impairing the binding of PIASx alpha to the receptor. DJ-1 was first identified as a novel candidate of the oncogene product that transformed mouse NIH3T3 cells in cooperation with an activated ras. Later DJ-1 was also found to be an infertility-related protein that was reduced in rat sperm treated with sperm toxicants that cause infertility in rats. To determine the functions of DJ-1, cDNAs encoding DJ-1-binding proteins were screened by the yeast two-hybrid method. Of several proteins identified, PIASx alpha/ARIP3, a modulator of androgen receptor (AR), was first characterized as the DJ-1-binding protein in this study. DJ-1 directly bound to the AR-binding region of PIASx alpha by an in vitro coimmunoprecipitation assay and also bound to PIASx alpha in human 293T cells. Both proteins were co-localized in the nuclei. PIASx alpha inhibited the AR transcription activity in a dose-dependent manner in cotransfected monkey CV1 cells with an androgen responsive element-luciferase reporter. Introduction of DJ-1 into CV1 cells in a state of inhibition of AR activity by PIASx alpha restored AR transcription activity by absorbing PIASx alpha from the AR-PIASx alpha complex, while a DJ-1 mutant harboring an amino acid substitution at number 130 from lysine to arginine did not restore it. These results indicate that DJ-1 is a positive regulator of the androgen receptor.
35460552 | NRIP1 aggravates lung injury caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa in mice by increasing PIAS1 ubiquitination. Recently, evidence has shown that nuclear receptor interacting protein 1 (NRIP1) is involved in acute lung injury (ALI) progression, but the specific mechanism remains unclear. Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA)-treated TC-1 cells were transfected with pcDNA-NRIP1 or si-NRIP1, and we found that overexpression of NRIP1 inhibited cell viability and promoted cell apoptosis and secretion of inflammatory factors, and transfection of si-NRIP1 reversed these effects. Furthermore, online bioinformatics analysis and co-immunoprecipitation assay results indicated that NRIP1 could bind to Ubiquitin Conjugating Enzyme E2I (UBE2I), and promoted UBE2I expression. Next, the PA-treated TC-1 cells were transfected with si-NRIP1 alone or together with pcDNA-UBE2I, and we observed that transfection with si-NRIP1 inhibited UBE2I expression, promoted cell viability, and reduced cell apoptosis and inflammatory factor secretion, which could be reversed by UBE2I overexpression. Moreover, UBE2I could bind to protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activators of transcription 1 (PIAS1). Overexpression of NRIP1 promoted UBE2I expression and inhibited PIAS1 expression, and NRIP1 promoted PIAS1 ubiquitination and degradation by UBE2I. The PA-treated TC-1 cells were transfected with si-UBE2I alone or together with si-PIAS1, and the results indicated that transfection of si-UBE2I had the same effect as transfection of si-NRIP1. Finally, our in vivo findings indicated that the expression of NRIP1 and UBE2I was decreased, and PIAS1 expression was increased, in the lung tissues of mice with NRIP1 knocked-down, and the inflammatory infiltration in the lung tissue was reduced. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that NRIP1 aggravates PA-induced lung injury in mice by promoting PIAS1 ubiquitination.
38586891 | Insulin-like growth factor 1 knockdown attenuates high glucose-induced podocyte injury by promoting the JAK2/STAT signalling-mediated autophagy. PURPOSE: Podocyte injury plays a crucial role in the development of diabetic nephropathy (DN). A high serum level of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) has been observed in patients with DN. This paper is to study the role and mechanism of IGF-1 in high glucose (HG)-induced podocyte injury. METHODS: Mouse podocytes MPC-5 were treated with HG to establish a DN model in vitro. db/db diabetic mice and db/m nondiabetic mice were used to evaluate the IGF-1 role in vivo. Western blotting was used for measuring protein levels of IGF-1 receptor, Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signalling pathway-related markers, podocyte markers podocin and nephrin, apoptosis- and autophagy-related markers in MPC-5 cells. Immunofluorescence staining was implemented for measuring the expression of nephrin and the autophagy marker LC3. Flow cytometry was used for detecting podocyte apoptosis. RESULTS: IGF-1 expression was increased in HG-stimulated MPC-5 cells and the kidney of db/db diabetic mice compared with corresponding controls. Knocking down IGF-1 downregulated IGF-1R and inhibited JAK2/STAT signalling pathway in HG-treated MPC-5 cells and db/db diabetic mice. IGF-1 silencing attenuated HG-induced podocyte injury, apoptosis and reduction in autophagy. Activating the JAK2/STAT signalling pathway or inhibiting autophagy reversed the effects of IGF-1 silencing on HG-treated MPC-5 cells. CONCLUSION: Knocking down IGF-1 alleviates HG-induced podocyte injury and apoptosis by inactivating the JAK2/STAT signalling pathway and enhancing autophagy.
35881160 | Proteomic analysis of hepatic effects of phenobarbital in mice with humanized liver. Activation of the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) may induce adaptive but also adverse effects in rodent liver, including the induction of drug-metabolizing enzymes, transient hepatocellular proliferation, and promotion of liver tumor growth. Human relevance of CAR-related adverse hepatic effects is controversially debated. Here, we used the chimeric FRG-KO mouse model with livers largely repopulated by human hepatocytes, in order to study human hepatocytes and their response to treatment with the model CAR activator phenobarbital (PB) in vivo. Mice received an intraperitoneal injection with 50 mg/kg body weight PB or saline, and were sacrificed after 72-144 h. Non-repopulated FRG-KO mice were used as additional control. Comprehensive proteomics datasets were generated by merging data obtained by targeted as well as non-targeted proteomics approaches. For the first time, a novel proteomics workflow was established to comparatively analyze the effects of PB on human and murine proteins within one sample. Analysis of merged proteome data sets and bioinformatics data mining revealed comparable responses in murine and human hepatocytes with respect to nuclear receptor activation and induction of xenobiotic metabolism. By contrast, activation of MYC, a key regulator of proliferation, was predicted only for mouse but not human hepatocytes. Analyses of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine incorporation confirmed this finding. In summary, this study for the first time presents a comprehensive proteomic analysis of CAR-dependent effects in human and mouse hepatocytes from humanized FRG-KO mice. The data support the hypothesis that PB does induce adaptive metabolic responses, but not hepatocellular proliferation in human hepatocytes in vivo.
38164132 | Two birds with one stone: human SIRPalpha nanobodies for functional modulation and in vivo imaging of myeloid cells. Signal-regulatory protein alpha (SIRPalpha) expressed by myeloid cells is of particular interest for therapeutic strategies targeting the interaction between SIRPalpha and the \don't eat me\ ligand CD47 and as a marker to monitor macrophage infiltration into tumor lesions. To address both approaches, we developed a set of novel human SIRPalpha (hSIRPalpha)-specific nanobodies (Nbs). We identified high-affinity Nbs targeting the hSIRPalpha/hCD47 interface, thereby enhancing antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis. For non-invasive in vivo imaging, we chose S36 Nb as a non-modulating binder. By quantitative positron emission tomography in novel hSIRPalpha/hCD47 knock-in mice, we demonstrated the applicability of 64Cu-hSIRPalpha-S36 Nb to visualize tumor infiltration of myeloid cells. We envision that the hSIRPalpha-Nbs presented in this study have potential as versatile theranostic probes, including novel myeloid-specific checkpoint inhibitors for combinatorial treatment approaches and for in vivo stratification and monitoring of individual responses during cancer immunotherapies.
33478139 | Single-Molecule Super-Resolution Imaging of T-Cell Plasma Membrane CD4 Redistribution upon HIV-1 Binding. The first step of cellular entry for the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) occurs through the binding of its envelope protein (Env) with the plasma membrane receptor CD4 and co-receptor CCR5 or CXCR4 on susceptible cells, primarily CD4+ T cells and macrophages. Although there is considerable knowledge of the molecular interactions between Env and host cell receptors that lead to successful fusion, the precise way in which HIV-1 receptors redistribute to sites of virus binding at the nanoscale remains unknown. Here, we quantitatively examine changes in the nanoscale organisation of CD4 on the surface of CD4+ T cells following HIV-1 binding. Using single-molecule super-resolution imaging, we show that CD4 molecules are distributed mostly as either individual molecules or small clusters of up to 4 molecules. Following virus binding, we observe a local 3-to-10-fold increase in cluster diameter and molecule number for virus-associated CD4 clusters. Moreover, a similar but smaller magnitude reorganisation of CD4 was also observed with recombinant gp120. For one of the first times, our results quantify the nanoscale CD4 reorganisation triggered by HIV-1 on host CD4+ T cells. Our quantitative approach provides a robust methodology for characterising the nanoscale organisation of plasma membrane receptors in general with the potential to link spatial organisation to function.
37846815 | NMI promotes tumor progression and gemcitabine resistance in pancreatic cancer via STAT3-IFIT3 axis. N-myc and STAT interactor (NMI) has been reported to interact with several transcription factors, including STATs family, c-Myc, N-Myc, and BRCA1, to indirectly affect transcription events and participate in multiple cellular processes. However, its function in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has seldom been studied. In this study, we investigated the regulation of NMI on PDAC progression and uncovered the underlying molecular mechanisms. We found that NMI expression was significantly upregulated in PDAC and high NMI expression was related to a worse patient survival. Cell proliferation and migration assay, including cell viability, transwell assay, wound healing, and subcutaneous mouse model were utilized to confirm the function of NMI in PDAC progression. Downregulation of NMI abrogates tumor progression of PDAC both in vitro and in vivo. RNA sequencing was utilized to identify the downstream molecules of NMI and interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3 (IFIT3) was confirmed to be regulated by NMI in both mRNA and protein level. The binding function of NMI to STAT3 was essential in regulating the IFIT3 expression. Moreover, the NMI/STAT3-IFIT3 axis was identified to markedly facilitate the gemcitabine resistance in PDAC cells.
38593156 | Miz1 represses type I interferon production and limits viral clearance during influenza A virus infection. Type I interferons (IFNs) are critical for the antiviral immune response, and fine-tuning type I IFN production is critical to effectively clearing viruses without causing harmful immunopathology. We showed that the transcription factor Miz1 epigenetically repressed the expression of genes encoding type I IFNs in mouse lung epithelial cells by recruiting histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) to the promoters of Ifna and Ifnb. Loss of function of Miz1 resulted in augmented production of these type I IFNs during influenza A virus (IAV) infection, leading to improved viral clearance in vitro and in vivo. IAV infection induced Miz1 accumulation by promoting the cullin-4B (CUL4B)-mediated ubiquitylation and degradation of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Mule (Mcl-1 ubiquitin ligase E3; also known as Huwe1 or Arf-BP1), which targets Miz1 for degradation. As a result, Miz1 accumulation limited type I IFN production and favored viral replication. This study reveals a previously unrecognized function of Miz1 in regulating antiviral defense and a potential mechanism for influenza viruses to evade host immune defense.
38326333 | Chromosome level genome assembly of the Etruscan shrew Suncus etruscus. Suncus etruscus is one of the world's smallest mammals, with an average body mass of about 2 grams. The Etruscan shrew's small body is accompanied by a very high energy demand and numerous metabolic adaptations. Here we report a chromosome-level genome assembly using PacBio long read sequencing, 10X Genomics linked short reads, optical mapping, and Hi-C linked reads. The assembly is partially phased, with the 2.472 Gbp primary pseudohaplotype and 1.515 Gbp alternate. We manually curated the primary assembly and identified 22 chromosomes, including X and Y sex chromosomes. The NCBI genome annotation pipeline identified 39,091 genes, 19,819 of them protein-coding. We also identified segmental duplications, inferred GO term annotations, and computed orthologs of human and mouse genes. This reference-quality genome will be an important resource for research on mammalian development, metabolism, and body size control.
27012186 | N-Myc-interacting protein (NMI) negatively regulates epithelial-mesenchymal transition by inhibiting the acetylation of NF-kappaB/p65. The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays an essential role in embryonic development, wound healing, tissue regeneration, organ fibrosis, and tumor progression. However, the mechanisms underlying this process are poorly understood. Many signaling pathways, including the NF-kappaB signaling pathway, trigger EMT during development and differentiation. In the present study, we report that N-Myc interactor (NMI) inhibits EMT progression by suppressing transcriptional activities of NF-kappaB in human gastric cancer cells. We show that the expression of NMI is significantly reduced in invasive gastric cancer cells and gastric cancer tissues. Overexpression of NMI inhibited cell migration and invasion, and this inhibition was enhanced after TNF-alpha stimulation. Tumorigenicity assay in nude mice support the notion that NMI inhibits EMT in cancer cells. Mechanistically, NMI promotes the interaction between NF-kappaB/p65 and histone deacetylases (HDACs) and inhibits the acetylation and transcriptional activity of p65. The expression of p65 rescues NMI-mediated inhibition of EMT and the inhibition of the acetylation of p65 mediated by NMI is HDACs-dependent. Taken together, these findings suggest that NMI can suppress tumor invasion and metastasis by inhibiting NF-kappaB pathways, providing an alternative mechanism for EMT inhibition in stomach neoplasm.
37069359 | Motixafortide and G-CSF to mobilize hematopoietic stem cells for autologous transplantation in multiple myeloma: a randomized phase 3 trial. Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) improves survival in multiple myeloma (MM). However, many individuals are unable to collect optimal CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) numbers with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilization. Motixafortide is a novel cyclic-peptide CXCR4 inhibitor with extended in vivo activity. The GENESIS trial was a prospective, phase 3, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study with the objective of assessing the superiority of motixafortide + G-CSF over placebo + G-CSF to mobilize HSPCs for ASCT in MM. The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients collecting >=6 x 106 CD34+ cells kg-1 within two apheresis procedures; the secondary endpoint was to achieve this goal in one apheresis. A total of 122 adult patients with MM undergoing ASCT were enrolled at 18 sites across five countries and randomized (2:1) to motixafortide + G-CSF or placebo + G-CSF for HSPC mobilization. Motixafortide + G-CSF enabled 92.5% to successfully meet the primary endpoint versus 26.2% with placebo + G-CSF (odds ratio (OR) 53.3, 95% confidence interval (CI) 14.12-201.33, P < 0.0001). Motixafortide + G-CSF also enabled 88.8% to meet the secondary endpoint versus 9.5% with placebo + G-CSF (OR 118.0, 95% CI 25.36-549.35, P < 0.0001). Motixafortide + G-CSF was safe and well tolerated, with the most common treatment-emergent adverse events observed being transient, grade 1/2 injection site reactions (pain, 50%; erythema, 27.5%; pruritis, 21.3%). In conclusion, motixafortide + G-CSF mobilized significantly greater CD34+ HSPC numbers within two apheresis procedures versus placebo + G-CSF while preferentially mobilizing increased numbers of immunophenotypically and transcriptionally primitive HSPCs. Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov , NCT03246529.
21931855 | Complex SUMO-1 regulation of cardiac transcription factor Nkx2-5. Reversible post-translational protein modifications such as SUMOylation add complexity to cardiac transcriptional regulation. The homeodomain transcription factor Nkx2-5/Csx is essential for heart specification and morphogenesis. It has been previously suggested that SUMOylation of lysine 51 (K51) of Nkx2-5 is essential for its DNA binding and transcriptional activation. Here, we confirm that SUMOylation strongly enhances Nkx2-5 transcriptional activity and that residue K51 of Nkx2-5 is a SUMOylation target. However, in a range of cultured cell lines we find that a point mutation of K51 to arginine (K51R) does not affect Nkx2-5 activity or DNA binding, suggesting the existence of additional Nkx2-5 SUMOylated residues. Using biochemical assays, we demonstrate that Nkx2-5 is SUMOylated on at least one additional site, and this is the predominant site in cardiac cells. The second site is either non-canonical or a \shifting\ site, as mutation of predicted consensus sites and indeed every individual lysine in the context of the K51R mutation failed to impair Nkx2-5 transcriptional synergism with SUMO, or its nuclear localization and DNA binding. We also observe SUMOylation of Nkx2-5 cofactors, which may be critical to Nkx2-5 regulation. Our data reveal highly complex regulatory mechanisms driven by SUMOylation to modulate Nkx2-5 activity.
37393345 | SUMOylation of Rho-associated protein kinase 2 induces goblet cell metaplasia in allergic airways. Allergic asthma is characterized by goblet cell metaplasia and subsequent mucus hypersecretion that contribute to the morbidity and mortality of this disease. Here, we explore the potential role and underlying mechanism of protein SUMOylation-mediated goblet cell metaplasia. The components of SUMOylaion machinery are specifically expressed in healthy human bronchial epithelia and robustly upregulated in bronchial epithelia of patients or mouse models with allergic asthma. Intratracheal suppression of SUMOylation by 2-D08 robustly attenuates not only allergen-induced airway inflammation, goblet cell metaplasia, and hyperreactivity, but IL-13-induced goblet cell metaplasia. Phosphoproteomics and biochemical analyses reveal SUMOylation on K1007 activates ROCK2, a master regulator of goblet cell metaplasia, by facilitating its binding to and activation by RhoA, and an E3 ligase PIAS1 is responsible for SUMOylation on K1007. As a result, knockdown of PIAS1 in bronchial epithelia inactivates ROCK2 to attenuate IL-13-induced goblet cell metaplasia, and bronchial epithelial knock-in of ROCK2(K1007R) consistently inactivates ROCK2 to alleviate not only allergen-induced airway inflammation, goblet cell metaplasia, and hyperreactivity, but IL-13-induced goblet cell metaplasia. Together, SUMOylation-mediated ROCK2 activation is an integral component of Rho/ROCK signaling in regulating the pathological conditions of asthma and thus SUMOylation is an additional target for the therapeutic intervention of this disease.
30569507 | LCR1 and LCR2, two multi-analyte blood tests to assess liver cancer risk in patients without or with cirrhosis. BACKGROUND: No blood test has been shown to be effective in the prediction of primary liver cancer in patients without cirrhosis. AIM: To construct and internally validate two sequential tests for early prediction of liver cancer. These tests enable an algorithm which could improve the performance of the standard surveillance protocol recommended (imaging with or without AFP), limited to patients with cirrhosis. METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis in prospectively collected specimens from an ongoing cohort. We designed an early sensitive high-risk test (LCR1) that combined (using Cox model) hepatoprotective proteins (apolipoproteinA1, haptoglobin) with known risk factors (gender, age, gammaglutamyltranspeptidase), and a marker of fibrosis (alpha2-macroglobulin). To increase the specificity, we then combined (LCR2) these components with alpha-fetoprotein. RESULTS: A total of 9892 patients, 85.9% without cirrhosis, were followed up for 5.9 years [IQR: 4.3-9.4]. LCR1 and LCR2 time-dependent AUROCs were not different in construction and validation randomised subsets. Among 2027 patients with high-LCR1 then high-LCR2, 167 cancers (113 with cirrhosis, 54 without cirrhosis) were detected, that is 12 patients needed to screen one cancer. The negative predictive value was 99.5% (95% CI 99.0-99.7) in the 2026 not screened patients (11 cancers without cirrhosis) higher than the standard surveillance, which detected 113 cancers in 755 patients screened, that is seven patients needed to screen one cancer, but with a lower negative predictive value 98.0% (97.5-98.5; Z = 4.3; P < 0.001) in 3298 not screened patients (42 cancers without cirrhosis). CONCLUSIONS: In patients with chronic liver disease the LCR1 and LCR2 tests identify those with a high risk of liver cancer, including in those without cirrhosis. NCT01927133.
34501388 | Bone Marrow Microenvironment Interplay and Current Clinical Practice in Multiple Myeloma: A Review of the Balkan Myeloma Study Group. The course of multiple myeloma (MM) is influenced by a variety of factors, including the specificity of the tumour microenvironment (TME). The aim of this review is to provide insight into the interplay of treatment modalities used in the current clinical practice and TME. Bortezomib-based triplets are the standard for MM first-line treatment. Bortezomib is a proteasome inhibitor (PI) which inhibits the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) pathway. However, bortezomib is decreasing the expression of chemokine receptor CXCR4 as well, possibly leading to the escape of extramedullary disease. Immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs), lenalidomide, and pomalidomide downregulate regulatory T cells (Tregs). Daratumumab, anti-cluster of differentiation 38 (anti-CD38) monoclonal antibody (MoAb), downregulates Tregs CD38+. Bisphosphonates inhibit osteoclasts and angiogenesis. Sustained suppression of bone resorption characterises the activity of MoAb denosumab. The plerixafor, used in the process of stem cell mobilisation and harvesting, block the interaction of chemokine receptors CXCR4-CXCL12, leading to disruption of MM cells' interaction with the TME, and mobilisation into the circulation. The introduction of several T-cell-based immunotherapeutic modalities, such as chimeric-antigen-receptor-transduced T cells (CAR T cells) and bispecific antibodies, represents a new perspective in MM treatment affecting TME immune evasion. The optimal treatment approach to MM patients should be adjusted to all aspects of the individual profile including the TME niche.
22824807 | Identification of Pold2 as a novel interaction partner of protein inhibitor             of activated STAT2. Pold2 is a subunit of the DNA polymerase delta complex, encoding a protein involved in DNA replication and repair. In this study, using a yeast two-hybrid screening technique and the common cDNA fragment of the mouse PIAS2 as a bait, Pold2 was found to interact with PIAS2. A direct interaction between Pold2 and PIAS2 was confirmed by direct yeast two-hybrid. In vivo evidence of Pold2 association with PIAS2 was obtained by co-immunoprecipitation using HEK-293 cells. Subcellular localization studies demonstrated that Pold2 and PIAS2 were partially co-localized in mammalian cells. Collectively, our results suggest that Pold2 interacts under physiological conditions with PIAS2.
21624955 | PKCzeta mediates disturbed flow-induced endothelial apoptosis via p53 SUMOylation. Atherosclerosis is readily observed in regions of blood vessels where disturbed blood flow (d-flow) is known to occur. A positive correlation between protein kinase C zeta (PKCzeta) activation and d-flow has been reported, but the exact role of d-flow-mediated PKCzeta activation in atherosclerosis remains unclear. We tested the hypothesis that PKCzeta activation by d-flow induces endothelial cell (EC) apoptosis by regulating p53. We found that d-flow-mediated peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) increased PKCzeta activation, which subsequently induced p53 SUMOylation, p53-Bcl-2 binding, and EC apoptosis. Both d-flow and ONOO(-) increased the association of PKCzeta with protein inhibitor of activated STATy (PIASy) via the Siz/PIAS-RING domain (amino acids 301-410) of PIASy, and overexpression of this domain of PIASy disrupted the PKCzeta-PIASy interaction and PKCzeta-mediated p53 SUMOylation. En face confocal microscopy revealed increases in nonnuclear p53 expression, nitrotyrosine staining, and apoptosis in aortic EC located in d-flow areas in wild-type mice, but these effects were significantly decreased in p53(-/-) mice. We propose a novel mechanism for p53 SUMOylation mediated by the PKCzeta-PIASy interaction during d-flow-mediated EC apoptosis, which has potential relevance to early events of atherosclerosis.
33769609 | CDKN2A deregulation in fatty liver disease and its accelerative role in the process of lipogenesis. Previous literature has indicated that cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2 A (CDKN2A) is upregulated, while the Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT1 (PIAS1) is downregulated in the liver tissues of obese mice. The current study aimed to investigate the relationship between CDKN2A and PIAS1 in the lipogenesis of fatty liver disease. In the C57BL/6J db/db mouse model and hepatocyte model of fatty liver, the expression pattern of CDKN2A, PIAS1, Protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) and CASP8 and FADD-like apoptosis regulator (CFLAR) was characterized by RNA quantitative and Western blot analysis. The lipogenesis-related genes (Srebp1c and Fas) in the liver tissues and cells were employed in the assessment of lipogenesis in response to gain- or loss-of-function of CDKN2A, PIAS1, PRMT1, and CFLAR, while triglyceride and fat content were evaluated in relation to fat accumulation. Western blot analysis was conducted to determine c-Jun amino-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation, while the ubiquitination of CFLAR and SUMOylation of PIAS1 was examined by immunoprecipitation. PIAS1 and CFLAR were downregulated, while CDKN2A, PRMT1, and phosphorylation of JNK was elevated in the tissues and cells of the fatty liver models. Our results suggested that CDKN2A enhanced the SUMOylation of PIAS1 to reduce the expression of PIAS1. PRMT1 downregulated CFLAR by triggering its ubiquitination, while CFLAR repressed phosphorylation of JNK. The in vitro and in vivo results indicated that CDKN2A silencing prevented lipogenesis and fat accumulation by impairing the PRMT1-dependent ubiquitination of CFLAR and blocking the phosphorylation of JNK. Taken together, the central observations of our study demonstrate that targeting CDKN2A contributes to the suppression of lipogenesis and fat accumulation in fatty liver disease. The findings of our study highlight the potential of CDKN2A as a promising target against fatty liver.
37726278 | Translating genomic tools to Raman spectroscopy analysis enables high-dimensional tissue characterization on molecular resolution. Spatial transcriptomics of histological sections have revolutionized research in life sciences and enabled unprecedented insights into genetic processes involved in tissue reorganization. However, in contrast to genomic analysis, the actual biomolecular composition of the sample has fallen behind, leaving a gap of potentially highly valuable information. Raman microspectroscopy provides untargeted spatiomolecular information at high resolution, capable of filling this gap. In this study we demonstrate spatially resolved Raman \spectromics\ to reveal homogeneity, heterogeneity and dynamics of cell matrix on molecular levels by repurposing state-of-the-art bioinformatic analysis tools commonly used for transcriptomic analyses. By exploring sections of murine myocardial infarction and cardiac hypertrophy, we identify myocardial subclusters when spatially approaching the pathology, and define the surrounding metabolic and cellular (immune-) landscape. Our innovative, label-free, non-invasive \spectromics\ approach could therefore open perspectives for a profound characterization of histological samples, while additionally allowing the combination with consecutive downstream analyses of the very same specimen.
19161662 | Identification of N-nitrosamines in treated drinking water using nanoelectrospray ionization high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. We report a nanoelectrospray ionization (nESI) with high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) and tandem mass spectrometry (MS-MS) method for determination of small molecules of m/z 50 to 200 and its potential application in environmental analysis. Integration of nESI with FAIMS and MS-MS combines the advantages of these three techniques into one method. The nESI provides efficient sample introduction and ionization and allows for collection of multiple data from only microliters of samples. The FAIMS provides rapid separation, reduces or eliminates background interference, and improves the signal-to-noise ratio as much as 10-fold over nESI-MS-MS. The tandem quadrupole time-of-flight MS detection provides accurate mass and mass spectral measurements for structural identification. Characteristics of FAIMS compensation voltage (CV) spectra of seven nitrosamines, N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), N-nitrosomethylethylamine (NMEA), N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA), N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine (NDPA), N-nitrosodi-n-butylamine (NDBA), N-nitrosopiperidine (NPip), and N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPyr), were analyzed. The optimal CV of the nitrosamines (at DV -4000 V) were: -1.6 V, NDBA; 2.6 V, NDPA; 6.6 V, NPip; 8.8 V, NDEA; 13.2 V, NPyr; 14.4 V, NMEA; and 19.4 V, NDMA. Fragmentation patterns of the seven nitrosamines in the nESI-FAIMS-MS-MS were also obtained. The specific CV and MS-MS spectra resulted in positive identification of NPyr and NPip in a treated water sample, demonstrating the potential application of this technique in environmental analysis.
35263584 | Targeted intracellular delivery of Cas13 and Cas9 nucleases using bacterial toxin-based platforms. Targeted delivery of therapeutic proteins toward specific cells and across cell membranes remains major challenges. Here, we develop protein-based delivery systems utilizing detoxified single-chain bacterial toxins such as diphtheria toxin (DT) and botulinum neurotoxin (BoNT)-like toxin, BoNT/X, as carriers. The system can deliver large protein cargoes including Cas13a, CasRx, Cas9, and Cre recombinase into cells in a receptor-dependent manner, although delivery of ribonucleoproteins containing guide RNAs is not successful. Delivery of Cas13a and CasRx, together with guide RNA expression, reduces mRNAs encoding GFP, SARS-CoV-2 fragments, and endogenous proteins PPIB, KRAS, and CXCR4 in multiple cell lines. Delivery of Cre recombinase modifies the reporter loci in cells. Delivery of Cas9, together with guide RNA expression, generates mutations at the targeted genomic sites in cell lines and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived human neurons. These findings establish modular delivery systems based on single-chain bacterial toxins for delivery of membrane-impermeable therapeutics into targeted cells.
22745796 | SUMOylation represses Nanog expression via modulating transcription factors Oct4 and Sox2. Nanog is a pivotal transcription factor in embryonic stem (ES) cells and is essential for maintaining the pluripotency and self-renewal of ES cells. SUMOylation has been proved to regulate several stem cell markers' function, such as Oct4 and Sox2. Nanog is strictly regulated by Oct4/Sox2 heterodimer. However, the direct effects of SUMOylation on Nanog expression remain unclear. In this study, we reported that SUMOylation repressed Nanog expression. Depletion of Sumo1 or its conjugating enzyme Ubc9 increased the expression of Nanog, while high SUMOylation reduced its expression. Interestingly, we found that SUMOylation of Oct4 and Sox2 regulated Nanog in an opposing manner. SUMOylation of Oct4 enhanced Nanog expression, while SUMOylated Sox2 inhibited its expression. Moreover, SUMOylation of Oct4 by Pias2 or Sox2 by Pias3 impaired the interaction between Oct4 and Sox2. Taken together, these results indicate that SUMOylation has a negative effect on Nanog expression and provides new insights into the mechanism of SUMO modification involved in ES cells regulation.
23843607 | PIASy mediates hypoxia-induced SIRT1 transcriptional repression and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in ovarian cancer cells. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) has an essential role in organogenesis and contributes to a host of pathologies, including carcinogenesis. Hypoxia (low oxygen supply) aids tumor metastasis in part by promoting EMT in cancer cells. The underlying mechanism whereby hypoxia orchestrates EMT remains poorly defined. Here we report that SIRT1, a multifaceted player in tumorigenesis, opposed ovarian cancer metastasis in vitro and in vivo by impeding EMT. Hypoxic stress downregulated the expression of SIRT1, primarily at the transcriptional level, by reducing the occupancy of the transcriptional activator Sp1 on the proximal promoter of the SIRT1 gene in a SUMOylation-dependent manner. Further analysis revealed that the SUMO E3 ligase PIASy (also known as PIAS4) was induced by hypoxia and prevented Sp1 from binding to the SIRT1 promoter. Conversely, knockdown of PIASy by small interfering RNA (siRNA) restored Sp1 binding and SIRT1 expression in cancer cells challenged with hypobaric hypoxia, reversed cancer cell EMT, and attenuated metastasis in vivo in nude mice. Importantly, analysis of human ovarian tumor specimens indicated that PIASy expression was positively, whereas SIRT1 expression was inversely, correlated with cancer aggressiveness. In summary, our work has identified a new pathway that links downregulation of SIRT1 to hypoxia-induced EMT in ovarian cancer cells and, as such, sheds light on the development of novel anti-tumor therapeutics.
33980979 | Biased action of the CXCR4-targeting drug plerixafor is essential for its superior hematopoietic stem cell mobilization. Following the FDA-approval of the hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) mobilizer plerixafor, orally available and potent CXCR4 antagonists were pursued. One such proposition was AMD11070, which was orally active and had superior antagonism in vitro; however, it did not appear as effective for HSC mobilization in vivo. Here we show that while AMD11070 acts as a full antagonist, plerixafor acts biased by stimulating beta-arrestin recruitment while fully antagonizing G protein. Consequently, while AMD11070 prevents the constitutive receptor internalization, plerixafor allows it and thereby decreases receptor expression. These findings are confirmed by the successful transfer of both ligands' binding sites and action to the related CXCR3 receptor. In vivo, plerixafor exhibits superior HSC mobilization associated with a dramatic reversal of the CXCL12 gradient across the bone marrow endothelium, which is not seen for AMD11070. We propose that the biased action of plerixafor is central for its superior therapeutic effect in HSC mobilization.
36401044 | Effects of Glucocorticoids in Murine Models of Duchenne and Limb-Girdle Muscular Dystrophy. In vivo testing of glucocorticoid steroids in dystrophic mice offers important insights in benefits and risks of those drugs in the pathological context of muscular dystrophy. Frequency of dosing changes the spectrum of glucocorticoid effects on muscle and metabolic homeostasis. Here, we describe a combination of non-invasive and invasive methods to quantitatively discriminate the specific effects of intermittent (once-weekly) versus mainstay (once-daily) regimens on muscle fibrosis, muscle function, and metabolic homeostasis in murine models of Duchenne and limb-girdle muscular dystrophies.
36769182 | Mycobacterium tuberculosis Evasion of Guanylate Binding Protein-Mediated Host Defense in Mice Requires the ESX1 Secretion System. Cell-intrinsic immune mechanisms control intracellular pathogens that infect eukaryotes. The intracellular pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) evolved to withstand cell-autonomous immunity to cause persistent infections and disease. A potent inducer of cell-autonomous immunity is the lymphocyte-derived cytokine IFNgamma. While the production of IFNgamma by T cells is essential to protect against Mtb, it is not capable of fully eradicating Mtb infection. This suggests that Mtb evades a subset of IFNgamma-mediated antimicrobial responses, yet what mechanisms Mtb resists remains unclear. The IFNgamma-inducible Guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are key host defense proteins able to control infections with intracellular pathogens. GBPs were previously shown to directly restrict Mycobacterium bovis BCG yet their role during Mtb infection has remained unknown. Here, we examine the importance of a cluster of five GBPs on mouse chromosome 3 in controlling Mycobacterial infection. While M. bovis BCG is directly restricted by GBPs, we find that the GBPs on chromosome 3 do not contribute to the control of Mtb replication or the associated host response to infection. The differential effects of GBPs during Mtb versus M. bovis BCG infection is at least partially explained by the absence of the ESX1 secretion system from M. bovis BCG, since Mtb mutants lacking the ESX1 secretion system become similarly susceptible to GBP-mediated immune defense. Therefore, this specific genetic interaction between the murine host and Mycobacteria reveals a novel function for the ESX1 virulence system in the evasion of GBP-mediated immunity.
34267330 | SUMOylation activates large tumour suppressor 1 to maintain the tissue homeostasis during Hippo signalling. Large tumour suppressor (LATS) 1/2, the core kinases of Hippo signalling, are critical for maintaining tissue homeostasis. Here, we investigate the role of SUMOylation in the regulation of LATS activation. High cell density induces the expression of components of the SUMOylation machinery and enhances the SUMOylation and activation of Lats1 but not Lats2, whereas genetic deletion of the SUMOylation E2 ligase, Ubc9, abolishes this Lats1 activation. Moreover, SUMOylation occurs at the K830 (mouse K829) residue to activate LATS1 and depends on the PIAS1/2 E3 ligase. Whereas the K830 deSUMOylation mutation of LATS1 found in the human metastatic prostate cancers eliminates the kinase activity by attenuating the formation of the phospho-MOB1/phospho-LATS1 complex. As a result, the LATS1(K830R) transgene phenocopies Yap transgene to cause the oversized livers in mice, whereas Lats1(K829R) knock-in phenocopies the deletion of Lats1 in causing the reproductive and endocrine defects and ovary tumours in mice. Thus, SUMOylation-mediated LATS1 activation is an integral component of Hippo signalling in the regulation of tissues homeostasis.
33853349 | Vascular Regenerative Capacity and the Obesity Paradox in Coronary Artery Disease. [Figure: see text].
38131305 | Biological and mutational analyses of CXCR4-antagonist interactions and design of new antagonistic analogs. The chemokine receptor CXCR4 has become an attractive therapeutic target for HIV-1 infection, hematopoietic stem cell mobilization, and cancer metastasis. A wide variety of synthetic antagonists of CXCR4 have been developed and studied for a growing list of clinical applications. To compare the biological effects of different antagonists on CXCR4 functions and their common and/or distinctive molecular interactions with the receptor, we conducted head-to-head comparative cell-based biological and mutational analyses of the interactions with CXCR4 of eleven reported antagonists, including HC4319, DV3, DV1, DV1 dimer, V1, vMIP-II, CVX15, LY2510924, IT1t, AMD3100, and AMD11070 that were representative of different structural classes of D-peptides, L-peptide, natural chemokine, cyclic peptides, and small molecules. The results were rationalized by molecular modeling of CXCR4-antagonist interactions from which the common as well as different receptor binding sites of these antagonists were derived, revealing a number of important residues such as W94, D97, H113, D171, D262, and E288, mostly of negative charge. To further examine this finding, we designed and synthesized new antagonistic analogs by adding positively charged residues Arg to a D-peptide template to enhance the postulated charge-charge interactions. The newly designed analogs displayed significantly increased binding to CXCR4, which supports the notion that negatively charged residues of CXCR4 can engage in interactions with moieties of positive charge of the antagonistic ligands. The results from these mutational, modeling and new analog design studies shed new insight into the molecular mechanisms of different types of antagonists in recognizing CXCR4 and guide the development of new therapeutic agents.
37392066 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) attenuates psoriasis and associated inflammation. Psoriasis is a common chronic inflammatory multisystem disease accompanied by hyperproliferation and inflammation of epidermal keratinocytes. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is constitutively activated and plays an important role in epidermal keratinocytes of human psoriatic skin lesions. In this study, we investigated the effects of an endogenous STAT3 inhibitor, a protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3), on the proliferation and inflammation of psoriatic cells. The expression of PIAS3 in psoriatic tissues and healthy skin was analyzed using the Gene Expression Omnibus database and clinical samples. The human immortalized epidermal (HaCaT) cells were used to establish an in vitro psoriasis-like cell model. 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-thethrazolium (MTS) assay was used to detect cell proliferation. Flow cytometry was used to determine apoptosis levels. Real-time PCR, western blotting, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were used to detect the expression levels of related factors. Furthermore, a mouse model of imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriatic dermatitis was established to verify the in vitro experimental results. The results showed that the mRNA and protein expression levels of PIAS3 were lower in psoriatic lesions than in normal tissues. PIAS3 inhibited the proliferation and promoted apoptosis of M5-induced HaCaT cells. Simultaneously, the mRNA and protein expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 (IL-8), and keratin 17 (K17) were significantly decreased and that of p53 was increased, thereby inhibiting the inflammatory response and promoting apoptosis. PIAS3 inhibited the transcription activity of STAT3 and noncanonical nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Furthermore, PIAS3 attenuated IMQ-induced psoriasis-like inflammation in mice. Our findings suggest that PIAS3 plays an important role in psoriasis by regulating the STAT3/NF-kappaB signaling pathway and p53. The lack of PIAS3 may represent a novel mechanism underlying the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
32231468 | Activation of CREB Protein With Tabersonine Attenuates STAT3 During Atherosclerosis in Apolipoprotein E-Deficient Mice. OBJECTIVE: Atherosclerosis is a pathological condition of fat deposition in the arteries, which causes cardiovascular disorders. Management of atherosclerosis remains a challenge and conventional drugs used for its management have several limitations. This study evaluated the protective effect of tabersonine against atherosclerosis and assessed its molecular mechanism of action. METHODS: Atherosclerosis was induced by feeding apolipoprotein E (ApoE)-deficient mice a high-fat diet. Mice were treated with 20 or 40 mg/kg of tabersonine intraperitoneally for the 12-week duration of the study. Atherosclerosis markers and nitric oxide were measured in the sera of ApoE-deficient mice. Mediators of inflammation and markers of oxidative stress were assessed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. Western blotting, quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, and immunohistochemistry analyses were conducted to determine the protein expression in aortic tissue. RESULTS: The tabersonine-treatment groups had an improved lipid profile and enhanced liver function, compared to the ApoE treatment group. Tabersonine treatment resulted in reduced levels of nitric oxide, cytokines, and oxidative stress, compared to the ApoE group. The altered expression levels of protein inhibitor activated STAT-3 (PIAS3), signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT-3), and nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells inhibitor, alpha (IkBalpha) in ApoE-deficient mice were ameliorated by tabersonine treatment. Moreover, cAMP-response-element-binding (CREB) expression was elevated in aortic tissue of tabersonine treatment groups, compared to the ApoE group. CONCLUSION: These results suggested that tabersonine ameliorates the expression of STAT-3 by activating CREB protein in atherosclerotic ApoE-deficient mice.
33376963 | Non-full-length Water-Soluble CXCR4QTY and CCR5QTY Chemokine Receptors: Implication for Overlooked Truncated but Functional Membrane Receptors. It was posited that functionalities of GPCRs require full-length sequences that are negated by residue deletions. Here we report that significantly truncated nfCCR5QTY and nfCXCR4QTY still bind native ligands. Receptor-ligand interactions were discovered from yeast 2-hybrid screening and confirmed by mating selection. Two nfCCR5QTY (SZ218a, SZ190b) and two nfCXCR4QTY (SZ158a, SZ146a) were expressed in E. coli. Synthesized receptors exhibited alpha-helical structures and bound respective ligands with reduced affinities. SZ190b and SZ158a were reconverted into non-QTY forms and expressed in HEK293T cells. Reconverted receptors localized on cell membranes and functioned as negative regulators for ligand-induced signaling when co-expressed with full-length receptors. CCR5-SZ190b individually can perform signaling at a reduced level with higher ligand concentration. Our findings provide insight into essential structural components for CCR5 and CXCR4 functionality, while raising the possibility that non-full-length receptors may be resulted from alternative splicing and that pseudo-genes in genomes may be present and functional in living organisms.
37197494 | Bufalin suppresses esophageal squamous cell carcinoma progression by activating the PIAS3/STAT3 signaling pathway. Background: Esophageal cancer, especially esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), is a common malignant tumor of the digestive tract. Bufalin is an effective anti-tumor compound. However, little is known about the regulatory mechanisms of Bufalin in ESCC. To investigate the effect and molecular mechanism of Bufalin on the proliferation, migration and invasion of ESCC cells will provide a more reliable basis for the application of Bufalin in clinical tumor therapy. Methods: First, the half-inhibitory concentration (IC50) of Bufalin was evaluated by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assays. In vitro, the effects of Bufalin on the proliferation of the ECA109 cells was measured using CCK-8 and 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine assays. Wound-healing and transwell assays were used to evaluate the effects of Bufalin on the migration and invasion of the ECA109 cells. Further, to determine the mechanisms underlying the Bufalin-mediated suppression of cell progression in ESCC, total RNA was extracted from negative control (NC) and Bufalin treated cells to perform RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) to screen for abnormally expressed genes. In vivo, the ECA 109 cells were subcutaneously injected into BALB/c nude mice to determine the effects of Bufalin on tumor cell proliferation. The protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (PIAS3), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), and phosphorylated STAT3 (p-STAT3) protein expression levels in the ECA109 cells were detected by Western blot. Results: The CCK-8 assays showed that the IC50 of Bufalin was 200 nM. The proliferation, migration, and invasion ability of the ECA109 cells was significantly inhibited in the Bufalin group in a concentration-dependent manner. In vivo, the Xenograft tumor model showed that Bufalin decreased the tumor volume and weight of the subcutaneous tumors. The RNA-seq results showed that the expression of PIAS3 was upregulated in the Bufalin group. Additionally, down-regulation of PIAS3 decreased the inhibition of STAT3, thereby increasing p-STAT3 expression. Finally, PIAS3 knockdown reversed the inhibitory effects of Bufalin on the proliferation, migration, and invasion of the ECA109 cells. Conclusions: Bufalin may inhibit the proliferation, migration, and invasion of the ECA109 cells through the PIAS3/STAT3 signaling pathway.
36092961 | PIAS1 Alleviates Hepatic Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury in Mice through a Mechanism Involving NFATc1 SUMOylation. Recently, attentions have come to the alleviatory effect of protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1) in hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury (HIRI), but the underlying molecular mechanistic actions remain largely unknown, which were illustrated in the present study. Microarray-based analysis predicted a possible regulatory mechanism involving the PIAS1/NFATc1/HDAC1/IRF-1/p38 MAPK signaling axis in HIRI. Then, growth dynamics of hypoxia/reoxygenation- (H/R-) exposed hepatocytes and liver injury of HIRI-like mice were delineated after the alteration of the PIAS1 expression. We validated that PIAS1 downregulation occurred in H/R-exposed hepatocytes and HIRI-like mice, while the expression of NFATc1, HDAC1, and IRF-1 and phosphorylation levels of p38 were increased. PIAS1 inactivated p38 MAPK signaling by inhibiting HDAC1-mediated IRF-1 through NFATc1 SUMOylation, thereby repressing the inflammatory response and apoptosis of hepatocytes in vitro, and alleviated liver injury in vivo. Collectively, the NFATc1/HDAC1/IRF-1/p38 MAPK signaling axis is highlighted as a promising therapeutic target for potentiating hepatoprotective effects of PIAS1 against HIRI.
32571912 | TNF deficiency dysregulates inflammatory cytokine production, leading to lung pathology and death during respiratory poxvirus infection. Excessive tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is known to cause significant pathology. Paradoxically, deficiency in TNF (TNF-/-) also caused substantial pathology during respiratory ectromelia virus (ECTV) infection, a surrogate model for smallpox. TNF-/- mice succumbed to fulminant disease whereas wild-type mice, and those engineered to express only transmembrane TNF (mTNF), fully recovered. TNF deficiency did not affect viral load or leukocyte recruitment but caused severe lung pathology and excessive production of the cytokines interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta), and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma). Short-term blockade of these cytokines significantly reduced lung pathology in TNF-/- mice concomitant with induction of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) and/or suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3), factors that inhibit STAT3 activation. Consequently, inhibition of STAT3 activation with an inhibitor reduced lung pathology. Long-term neutralization of IL-6 or TGF-beta protected TNF-/- mice from an otherwise lethal infection. Thus, mTNF alone is necessary and sufficient to regulate lung inflammation but it has no direct antiviral activity against ECTV. The data indicate that targeting specific cytokines or cytokine-signaling pathways to reduce or ameliorate lung inflammation during respiratory viral infections is possible but that the timing and duration of the interventive measure are critical.
37940118 | Development of N-Terminally Modified Variants of the CXCR4-Antagonistic Peptide EPI-X4 for Enhanced Plasma Stability. EPI-X4, a natural peptide CXCR4 antagonist, shows potential for treating inflammation and cancer, but its short plasma stability limits its clinical application. We aimed to improve the plasma stability of EPI-X4 analogues without compromising CXCR4 antagonism. Our findings revealed that only the peptide N-terminus is prone to degradation. Consequently, incorporating d-amino acids or acetyl groups in this region enhanced peptide stability in plasma. Notably, EPI-X4 leads 5, 27, and 28 not only retained their CXCR4 binding and antagonism but also remained stable in plasma for over 8 h. Molecular dynamic simulations showed that these modified analogues bind similarly to CXCR4 as the original peptide. To further increase their systemic half-lives, we conjugated these stabilized analogues with large polymers and albumin binders. These advances highlight the potential of the optimized EPI-X4 analogues as promising CXCR4-targeted therapeutics and set the stage for more detailed preclinical assessments.
21199872 | PIASy inhibits virus-induced and interferon-stimulated transcription through distinct mechanisms. The protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family proteins regulates innate immune responses by controlling transcription induced by Toll-like receptor, RIG-I-like receptor signaling, and JAK/STAT pathways. Here, we show that PIASy negatively regulates type I interferon (IFN) transcription. Virus infection led to enhanced type I IFN induction in PIASy null cells, and conversely PIASy overexpression reduced IFN transcription. A mutation in the LXXLL motif of the SAP domain abolished inhibition of IFN-stimulated gene expression but did not affect virus or Toll-like receptor/RIG-I-like receptor-stimulated IFN transcription, indicating that PIASy employs distinct mechanisms to inhibit virus-induced and IFN-stimulated transcription. SUMO E3 activity was not required for PIASy inhibition of IFN transcription; however, PIASy relied on the SUMO modification mechanism to inhibit IFN transcription, because the activity of the SUMO-interacting motif was required for inhibition, and knockdown of SUMO E2 enzyme UBC9 decreased inhibitory activity of PIASy. Our results demonstrate that PIASy negatively regulates both IFN transcription and IFN-stimulated gene expression through multiple mechanisms utilizing the function of different domains.
37052473 | CAPRIN1 Is Required for Control of Viral Replication Complexes by Interferon Gamma. Replication complexes (RCs), formed by positive-strand (+) RNA viruses through rearrangements of host endomembranes, protect their replicating RNA from host innate immune defenses. We have shown that two evolutionarily conserved defense systems, autophagy and interferon (IFN), target viral RCs and inhibit viral replication collaboratively. However, the mechanism by which autophagy proteins target viral RCs and the role of IFN-inducible GTPases in the disruption of RCs remains poorly understood. Here, using murine norovirus (MNV) as a model (+) RNA virus, we show that the guanylate binding protein 1 (GBP1) is the human GTPase responsible for inhibiting RCs. Furthermore, we found that ATG16L1 mediates the LC3 targeting of MNV RC by binding to WIPI2B and CAPRIN1, and that IFN gamma-mediated control of MNV replication was dependent on CAPRIN1. Collectively, this study identifies a novel mechanism for the autophagy machinery-mediated recognition and inhibition of viral RCs, a hallmark of (+) RNA virus replication. IMPORTANCE Replication complexes provide a microenvironment important for (+) RNA virus replication and shield it from host immune response. Previously we have shown that interferon gamma (IFNG) disrupts the RC of MNV via evolutionarily conserved autophagy proteins and IFN-inducible GTPases. Elucidating the mechanism of targeting of viral RC by ATG16L1 and IFN-induced GTPase will pave the way for development of therapeutics targeting the viral replication complexes. Here, we have identified GBP1 as the sole GBP targeting viral RC and uncovered the novel role of CAPRIN1 in recruiting ATG16L1 to the viral RC.
36905375 | N-palmitoylethanolamide synergizes the antinociception of morphine and gabapentin in the formalin test in mice. OBJECTIVE: The antinociceptive pharmacological interaction between N-palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) and morphine (MOR), as well as gabapentin (GBP), was investigated to obtain synergistic antinociception at doses where side effects were minimal. In addition, the possible antinociceptive mechanism of PEA + MOR or PEA + GBP combinations was explored. METHODS: Individual dose-response curves (DRCs) of PEA, MOR and GBP were evaluated in female mice in which intraplantar nociception was induced with 2% formalin. Isobolographic method was used to detect the pharmacological interaction in the combination of PEA + MOR or PEA + GBP. KEY FINDINGS: The ED50 was calculated from the DRC; the order of potency was MOR > PEA > GBP. The isobolographic analysis was obtained at a 1:1 ratio to determine the pharmacological interaction. The experimental values of flinching (PEA + MOR, Zexp = 2.72 +- 0.2 mug/paw and PEA + GBP Zexp = 2.77 +- 0.19 mug/paw) were significantly lower than those calculated theoretically (PEA + MOR Zadd = 7.78 +- 1.07 and PEA + GBP Zadd = 24.05 +- 1.91 mug/paw), resulting in synergistic antinociception. Pretreatment with GW6471 and naloxone demonstrated that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) and opioid receptors are involved in both interactions. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that MOR and GBP synergistically enhance PEA-induced antinociception through PPARalpha and opioid receptor mechanisms. Furthermore, the results suggest that combinations containing PEA with MOR or GBP could be of interest in aiding the treatment of inflammatory pain.
34488445 | LncRNA XR_001779380 Primes Epithelial Cells for IFN-gamma-Mediated Gene Transcription and Facilitates Age-Dependent Intestinal Antimicrobial Defense. Interferon (IFN) signaling is key to mucosal immunity in the gastrointestinal tract, but cellular regulatory elements that determine interferon gamma (IFN-gamma)-mediated antimicrobial defense in intestinal epithelial cells are not fully understood. We report here that a long noncoding RNA (lncRNA), GenBank accession no. XR_001779380, was increased in abundance in murine intestinal epithelial cells following infection by Cryptosporidium, an important opportunistic pathogen in AIDS patients and a common cause of diarrhea in young children. Expression of XR_001779380 in infected intestinal epithelial cells was triggered by TLR4/NF-kappaB/Cdc42 signaling and epithelial-specific transcription factor Elf3. XR_001779380 primed epithelial cells for IFN-gamma-mediated gene transcription through facilitating Stat1/Swi/Snf-associated chromatin remodeling. Interactions between XR_001779380 and Prdm1, which is expressed in neonatal but not adult intestinal epithelium, attenuated Stat1/Swi/Snf-associated chromatin remodeling induced by IFN-gamma, contributing to suppression of IFN-gamma-mediated epithelial defense in neonatal intestine. Our data demonstrate that XR_001779380 is an important regulator in IFN-gamma-mediated gene transcription and age-associated intestinal epithelial antimicrobial defense. IMPORTANCE Epithelial cells along the mucosal surface provide the front line of defense against luminal pathogen infection in the gastrointestinal tract. These epithelial cells represent an integral component of a highly regulated communication network that can transmit essential signals to cells in the underlying intestinal mucosa that, in turn, serve as targets of mucosal immune mediators. LncRNAs are recently identified long noncoding transcripts that can regulate gene transcription through their interactions with other effect molecules. In this study, we demonstrated that lncRNA XR_001779380 was upregulated in murine intestinal epithelial cells following infection by a mucosal protozoan parasite Cryptosporidium. Expression of XR_001779380 in infected cells primed host epithelial cells for IFN-gamma-mediated gene transcription, relevant to age-dependent intestinal antimicrobial defense. Our data provide new mechanistic insights into how intestinal epithelial cells orchestrate intestinal mucosal defense against microbial infection.
35340039 | Cellular heterogeneity and transcriptomic profiles during intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma initiation and progression. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is not fully investigated, and how stromal cells contribute to ICC formation is poorly understood. We aimed to uncover ICC origin, cellular heterogeneity, and critical modulators during ICC initiation/progression, and to decipher how fibroblast and endothelial cells in the stromal compartment favor ICC progression. APPROACH AND RESULTS: We performed single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) using AKT/Notch intracellular domain-induced mouse ICC tissues at early, middle, and late stages. We analyzed the transcriptomic landscape, cellular classification and evolution, and intercellular communication during ICC initiation/progression. We confirmed the findings using quantitative real-time PCR, western blotting, immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence, and gene knockout/knockdown analysis. We identified stress-responding and proliferating subpopulations in late-stage mouse ICC tissues and validated them using human scRNA-seq data sets. By integrating weighted correlation network analysis and protein-protein interaction through least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression, we identified zinc finger, MIZ-type containing 1 (Zmiz1) and Y box protein 1 (Ybx1) as core transcription factors required by stress-responding and proliferating ICC cells, respectively. Knockout of either one led to the blockade of ICC initiation/progression. Using two other ICC mouse models (YAP/AKT, KRAS/p19) and human ICC scRNA-seq data sets, we confirmed the orchestrating roles of Zmiz1 and Ybx1 in ICC occurrence and development. In addition, hes family bHLH transcription factor 1, cofilin 1, and inhibitor of DNA binding 1 were identified as driver genes for ICC. Moreover, periportal liver sinusoidal endothelial cells could differentiate into tip endothelial cells to promote ICC development, and this was Dll4-Notch4-Efnb2 signaling-dependent. CONCLUSIONS: Stress-responding and ICC proliferating subtypes were identified, and Zmiz1 and Ybx1 were revealed as core transcription factors in these subtypes. Fibroblast-endothelial cell interaction promotes ICC development.
24936061 | A combined \omics\ approach identifies N-Myc interactor as a novel cytokine-induced regulator of IRE1 protein and c-Jun N-terminal kinase in pancreatic beta cells. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease with a strong inflammatory component. The cytokines interleukin-1beta and interferon-gamma contribute to beta cell apoptosis in type 1 diabetes. These cytokines induce endoplasmic reticulum stress and the unfolded protein response (UPR), contributing to the loss of beta cells. IRE1alpha, one of the UPR mediators, triggers insulin degradation and inflammation in beta cells and is critical for the transition from \physiological\ to \pathological\ UPR. The mechanisms regulating inositol-requiring protein 1alpha (IRE1alpha) activation and its signaling for beta cell \adaptation,\ \stress response,\ or \apoptosis\ remain to be clarified. To address these questions, we combined mammalian protein-protein interaction trap-based IRE1alpha interactome and functional genomic analysis of human and rodent beta cells exposed to pro-inflammatory cytokines to identify novel cytokine-induced regulators of IRE1alpha. Based on this approach, we identified N-Myc interactor (NMI) as an IRE1alpha-interacting/modulator protein in rodent and human pancreatic beta cells. An increased expression of NMI was detected in islets from nonobese diabetic mice with insulitis and in rodent or human beta cells exposed in vitro to the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta and interferon-gamma. Detailed mechanistic studies demonstrated that NMI negatively modulates IRE1alpha-dependent activation of JNK and apoptosis in rodent and human pancreatic beta cells. In conclusion, by using a combined omics approach, we identified NMI induction as a novel negative feedback mechanism that decreases IRE1alpha-dependent activation of JNK and apoptosis in cytokine-exposed beta cells
34717917 | Digitoxin promotes apoptosis and inhibits proliferation and migration by reducing HIF-1alpha and STAT3 in KRAS mutant human colon cancer cells. Colon cancer patients with mutant KRAS are resistant to cetuximab, an antibody directed against the epidermal growth factor receptor. New treatment options are needed to improve survival in patients with KRAS mutated colorectal cancer. Digitoxin is a cardiotonic drug, which has been demonstrated to exhibit anticancer effects in a number of cancers. However, the anticancer mechanisms of digitoxin in KRAS mutant human colon cancer cells remain elusive. Our result demonstrated that digitoxin but not cetuximab markedly decreased the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and p-STAT3 protein in KRAS mutant colon cancer cells. Further analysis revealed that digitoxin inhibited HIF-1alpha protein synthesis, without affecting the expression level of HIF-1alpha mRNA or degradation of HIF-1alpha protein. The phosphorylation levels of ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70S6K) and eIF4E binding protein-1 (4E-BP1) were significantly suppressed by digitoxin. Digitoxin inhibited the expression and activation of STAT3 through upregulation of phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN), SHP1 and protein inhibitors of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) and direct binding to STAT3. Meanwhile, digitoxin inhibited HIF-1alpha in STAT3-independent manner in KRAS mutant colon cancer cells. Moreover, digitoxin promoted apoptosis and inhibited proliferation and migration, which was potentially mediated by suppression of HIF-1alpha and STAT3. We also found that digitoxin administration inhibited tumor growth in a mouse xenograft model. Taken together, our findings highlight the therapeutic potential of digitoxin for the treatment of cetuximab-resistant human colon cancer.
38449806 | CCR5/CXCR3 antagonist TAK-779 prevents diffuse alveolar damage of the lung in the murine model of the acute respiratory distress syndrome. Introduction: The acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), secondary to viral pneumonitis, is one of the main causes of high mortality in patients with COVID-19 (novel coronavirus disease 2019)-ongoing SARS-CoV-2 infection- reached more than 0.7 billion registered cases. Methods: Recently, we elaborated a non-surgical and reproducible method of the unilateral total diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) of the left lung in ICR mice-a publicly available imitation of the ARDS caused by SARS-CoV-2. Our data read that two C-C chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) ligands, macrophage inflammatory proteins (MIPs) MIP-1alpha/CCL3 and MIP-1beta/CCL4, are upregulated in this DAD model up to three orders of magnitude compared to the background level. Results: Here, we showed that a nonpeptide compound TAK-779, an antagonist of CCR5/CXCR3, readily prevents DAD in the lung with a single injection of 2.5 mg/kg. Histological analysis revealed reduced peribronchial and perivascular mononuclear infiltration in the lung and mononuclear infiltration of the wall and lumen of the alveoli in the TAK-779-treated animals. Administration of TAK-779 decreased the 3-5-fold level of serum cytokines and chemokines in animals with DAD, including CCR5 ligands MIP-1alpha/beta, MCP-1, and CCL5. Computed tomography revealed rapid recovery of the density and volume of the affected lung in TAK-779-treated animals. Discussion: Our pre-clinical data suggest that TAK-779 is more effective than the administration of dexamethasone or the anti-IL6R therapeutic antibody tocilizumab, which brings novel therapeutic modality to TAK-779 and other CCR5 inhibitors for the treatment of virus-induced hyperinflammation syndromes, including COVID-19.
38146903 | Nasopharyngeal neutrophilic-retention signatures could predict disease progression in early SARS-CoV-2 infection. The nasopharynx is the initial site of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, and neutrophils play a critical role in preventing viral transmission into the lower airways or lungs during the early phases of infection. However, neutrophil dynamics, functional signatures, and predictive roles in the nasopharynx of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients have not yet been elucidated. In this study, we carried out RNA sequencing of nasopharyngeal swabs from a cohort of COVID-19 patients with mild, moderate, severe outcomes and healthy donors as controls. Over 32.7% of the differentially expressed genes associated with COVID-19 severity were neutrophil-related, including those involved in migration, neutrophil extracellular traps formation, and inflammasome activation. Multicohort single-cell RNA sequencing analysis further confirmed these findings and identified a population of neutrophils expressing Vacuolar-type ATPase (V-ATPase) and the chemokine receptor CXCR4 in the nasopharynx. This population of neutrophils preferentially expressed pro-inflammatory genes relevant to phagosomal maturation as well as local reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species production in the nasopharynx of patients with severe outcomes. A four-gene panel defined as a neutrophil signature associated with COVID-19 progression (NSAP) was identified as an early diagnostic predictor of severe COVID-19, which potentially distinguished severe patients from mild cases with influenza, respiratory syncytial virus, dengue virus, or hepatitis B virus infection. NSAP is mainly expressed on CXCR4high neutrophils and exhibits a significant association with the cell fraction of this neutrophil population. This study highlights novel potential therapeutic targets or diagnostic tools for predicting patients at a higher risk of severe outcomes.
31226106 | DPPA2/4 and SUMO E3 ligase PIAS4 opposingly regulate zygotic transcriptional program. The molecular mechanism controlling the zygotic genome activation (ZGA) in mammals remains poorly understood. The 2-cell (2C)-like cells spontaneously emerging from cultures of mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) share some key transcriptional and epigenetic programs with 2C-stage embryos. By studying the transition of ESCs into 2C-like cells, we identified developmental pluripotency associated 2 and 4 (Dppa2/4) as important regulators controlling zygotic transcriptional program through directly up-regulating the expression of double homeobox (Dux). In addition, we found that DPPA2 protein is sumoylated and its activity is negatively regulated by small ubiquitin-like modifier (Sumo) E3 ligase protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4). PIAS4 is down-regulated during ZGA process and during transitioning of ESCs into 2C-like cells. Depleting Pias4 or overexpressing Dppa2/4 is sufficient to activate 2C-like transcriptional program, whereas depleting Dppa2/4 or forced expression of Pias4 or Sumo2-Dppa2 inhibits 2C-like transcriptional program. Furthermore, ectopic expression of Pias4 or Sumo2-Dppa2 impairs early mouse embryo development. In summary, our study identifies key molecular rivals consisting of transcription factors and a Sumo2 E3 ligase that regulate zygotic transcriptional program upstream of Dux.
34229656 | Small heterodimer partner (SHP) aggravates ER stress in Parkinson's disease-linked LRRK2 mutant astrocyte by regulating XBP1 SUMOylation. BACKGROUND: Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is a common feature of Parkinson's disease (PD), and several PD-related genes are responsible for ER dysfunction. Recent studies suggested LRRK2-G2019S, a pathogenic mutation in the PD-associated gene LRRK2, cause ER dysfunction, and could thereby contribute to the development of PD. It remains unclear, however, how mutant LRRK2 influence ER stress to control cellular outcome. In this study, we identified the mechanism by which LRRK2-G2019S accelerates ER stress and cell death in astrocytes. METHODS: To investigate changes in ER stress response genes, we treated LRRK2-wild type and LRRK2-G2019S astrocytes with tunicamycin, an ER stress-inducing agent, and performed gene expression profiling with microarrays. The XBP1 SUMOylation and PIAS1 ubiquitination were performed using immunoprecipitation assay. The effect of astrocyte to neuronal survival were assessed by astrocytes-neuron coculture and slice culture systems. To provide in vivo proof-of-concept of our approach, we measured ER stress response in mouse brain. RESULTS: Microarray gene expression profiling revealed that LRRK2-G2019S decreased signaling through XBP1, a key transcription factor of the ER stress response, while increasing the apoptotic ER stress response typified by PERK signaling. In LRRK2-G2019S astrocytes, the transcriptional activity of XBP1 was decreased by PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation. Intriguingly, LRRK2-GS stabilized PIAS1 by increasing the level of small heterodimer partner (SHP), a negative regulator of PIAS1 degradation, thereby promoting XBP1 SUMOylation. When SHP was depleted, XBP1 SUMOylation and cell death were reduced. In addition, we identified agents that can disrupt SHP-mediated XBP1 SUMOylation and may therefore have therapeutic activity in PD caused by the LRRK2-G2019S mutation. CONCLUSION: Our findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism involving XBP1 in LRRK2-G2019S mutant astrocytes, and highlight the importance of the SHP/PIAS1/XBP1 axis in PD models. These findings provide important insight into the basis of the correlation between mutant LRRK2 and pathophysiological ER stress in PD, and suggest a plausible model that explains this connection.
37905062 | Glucocorticoid intermittence coordinates rescue of energy and mass in aging-related sarcopenia through the myocyte-autonomous PGC1alpha-Lipin1 transactivation. Sarcopenia burdens the elderly population through loss of muscle energy and mass, yet treatments to functionally rescue both parameters are missing. The glucocorticoid prednisone remodels muscle metabolism based on frequency of intake, but its mechanisms in sarcopenia are unknown. We found that once-weekly intermittent prednisone rescued muscle quality in aged 24-month-old mice to levels comparable to young 4-month-old mice. We discovered an age- and sex-independent glucocorticoid receptor transactivation program in muscle encompassing PGC1alpha and its co-factor Lipin1. Treatment coordinately improved mitochondrial abundance through isoform 1 and muscle mass through isoform 4 of the myocyte-specific PGC1alpha, which was required for the treatment-driven increase in carbon shuttling from glucose oxidation to amino acid biogenesis. We also probed the myocyte-specific Lipin1 as non-redundant factor coaxing PGC1alpha upregulation to the stimulation of both oxidative and anabolic capacities. Our study unveils an aging-resistant druggable program in myocytes to coordinately rescue energy and mass in sarcopenia.
31614335 | PIASy is a SUMOylation-independent negative regulator of the insulin transactivator MafA. Insulin plays a central role in glucose homeostasis and is produced exclusively by pancreatic islet beta-cells. Insulin gene transcription is regulated by a set of beta-cell-enriched transcription factors that bind to cis-regulatory elements within the promoter region, and regulation of the insulin gene promoter is closely linked to beta-cell functionality. PIASy, a member of the PIAS family of SUMO E3 ligases, is thought to affect insulin gene transcription, but its mechanism of action is not fully understood. Here, we demonstrate that PIASy interacts with MafA and represses insulin gene promoter activity. MafA is a beta-cell-restricted basic leucine-zipper transcriptional activator that binds to the C1 element of the insulin gene promoter. In line with previous studies showing the transactivator domain of MafA is SUMOylated, PIASy enhanced the SUMOylation of MafA. However, a SUMOylation-deficient mutant of MafA was still repressed by PIASy, indicating that this modification is dispensable for repression. Using a series of MafA and PIASy mutants, we found that the basic domain of MafA and the amino-terminal region of PIASy containing the SAP domain are necessary for their interaction. In addition, SUMO-interacting motif 1 (SIM1) at the carboxyl-terminal region of PIASy was required to repress the synergistic transactivation of MafA, Pdx1, and Beta2, transcription factors playing central roles in beta-cell differentiation and function. The PINIT and SP-RING domains in the middle region of PIASy were dispensable. These findings suggest that PIASy binds to MafA through the SAP domain and negatively regulates the insulin gene promoter through a novel SIM1-dependent mechanism.
30537729 | RNA-Seq Analyses of the Role of miR-21 in Acute Pancreatitis. BACKGROUND/AIMS: Our previous study demonstrated that a deficiency of microRNA 21 (miR-21) protects mice from acute pancreatitis, yet the underlying molecular networks associated with miR-21 in pancreatitis and pancreatitis-associated lung injury remain unexplored. METHODS: We used next generation sequencing to analyze gene expression profiles of pancreatic tissues from wild-type (WT) and miR-21 knockout (KO) mice treated with caerulein by using a 1-day treatment protocol. The Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery gene annotation tool and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis were used to analyze the molecular pathways, while quantitative real-time PCR, western blotting, and immunohistochemistry were used to explore the molecular mechanisms. RESULTS: We identified 152 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in pancreata between WT and KO mice treated with caerulein. Cellular biogenesis and metabolism were the major pathways affected between WT and KO mice, whereas cell death and inflammatory response discriminated between WT and KO mice under acute pancreatitis. We validated 16 DEGs, consisting of 6 upregulated genes and 10 downregulated genes, involved in pancreatic injury. In particular, the upregulation of Pias3 and downregulation of Hmgb1 in KO pancreata coincided with a reduced severity of pancreatitis. In addition, we found Hmgb1 stimulation resulted in the overexpression of miR-21 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and deletion of miR-21 led to a reduction of caerulein-induced acute pancreatitis-associated lung injury by repressing Hmgb1 expression. CONCLUSION: Our data support the hypothesis that miR-21 modulates the inflammatory response during acute pancreatitis through the upregulation of Pias3 and downregulation of Hmgb1. Our findings further underscore a role for miR-21 in the promotion of acute pancreatitis.
38459198 | Estrogen receptor activation remodels TEAD1 gene expression to alleviate hepatic steatosis. Sex-based differences in obesity-related hepatic malignancies suggest the protective roles of estrogen. Using a preclinical model, we dissected estrogen receptor (ER) isoform-driven molecular responses in high-fat diet (HFD)-induced liver diseases of male and female mice treated with or without an estrogen agonist by integrating liver multi-omics data. We found that selective ER activation recovers HFD-induced molecular and physiological liver phenotypes. HFD and systemic ER activation altered core liver pathways, beyond lipid metabolism, that are consistent between mice and primates. By including patient cohort data, we uncovered that ER-regulated enhancers govern central regulatory and metabolic genes with clinical significance in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) patients, including the transcription factor TEAD1. TEAD1 expression increased in MASLD patients, and its downregulation by short interfering RNA reduced intracellular lipid content. Subsequent TEAD small molecule inhibition improved steatosis in primary human hepatocyte spheroids by suppressing lipogenic pathways. Thus, TEAD1 emerged as a new therapeutic candidate whose inhibition ameliorates hepatic steatosis.
9831662 | Overexpression of chicken interferon regulatory factor-1 (Ch-IRF-1) induces constitutive expression of MHC class I antigens but does not confer virus resistance to a permanent chicken fibroblast cell line. The chicken fibroblast cell line C32 has been transfected with the chicken homolog (Ch-IRF-1) of the mammalian transcription factor IRF-1. Stable transfectants were generated, constitutively overexpressing Ch-IRF-1 mRNA and protein. Cells overexpressing Ch-IRF-1 showed enhanced constitutive expression of MHC class I (B-F, beta-microglobulin) antigens. With increasing number of passages cells with normal B-F IV surface antigen expression accumulated. In the revertants, the amount of Ch-IRF-1 mRNA was reduced. Overexpression of Ch-IRF-1 had no effect on the constitutive expression and the induction by chicken interferon type-I and type-II (Ch-IFN) of guanylate-binding protein (GBP). Susceptibility to vesicular stomatitis virus, sindbis virus, Newcastle disease virus and vaccinia virus was not altered by overexpression of Ch-IRF-1. An antiviral state could be induced against all viruses tested by similar amounts of Ch-IFN type I in clone 20-18 expressing Ch-IRF-1 and cells transfected with empty vector.
15713642 | The DEAD-box protein DP103 (Ddx20 or Gemin-3) represses orphan nuclear receptor activity via SUMO modification. Structural analysis of nuclear receptor subfamily V orphan nuclear receptors suggests that ligand-independent mechanisms must regulate this subclass of receptors. Here, we report that steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1) and liver receptor homolog 1 are repressed via posttranslational SUMO modification at conserved lysines within the hinge domain. Indeed, mutating these lysines or adding the SUMO isopeptidase SENP1 dramatically increased both native and Gal4-chimera receptor activities. The mechanism by which SUMO conjugation attenuates SF-1 activity was found to be largely histone deacetylase independent and was unaffected by the AF2 corepressor Dax1. Instead, our data suggest that SUMO-mediated repression involves direct interaction of the DEAD-box protein DP103 with sumoylated SF-1. Of potential E3-SUMO ligase candidates, PIASy and PIASxalpha strongly promoted SF-1 sumoylation, and addition of DP103 enhanced both PIAS-dependent receptor sumoylation and SF-1 relocalization to discrete nuclear bodies. Taken together, we propose that DEAD-box RNA helicases are directly coupled to transcriptional repression by protein sumoylation.
37095099 | BCR-ABL triggers a glucose-dependent survival program during leukemogenesis through the suppression of TXNIP. Imatinib is highly effective in the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), but the primary and acquired imatinib resistance remains the big hurdle. Molecular mechanisms for CML resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors, beyond point mutations in BCR-ABL kinase domain, still need to be addressed. Here, we demonstrated that thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) is a novel BCR-ABL target gene. Suppression of TXNIP was responsible for BCR-ABL triggered glucose metabolic reprogramming and mitochondrial homeostasis. Mechanistically, Miz-1/P300 complex transactivates TXNIP through the recognition of TXNIP core promoter region, responding to the c-Myc suppression by either imatinib or BCR-ABL knockdown. TXNIP restoration sensitizes CML cells to imatinib treatment and compromises imatinib resistant CML cell survival, predominantly through the blockage of both glycolysis and glucose oxidation which results in the mitochondrial dysfunction and ATP production. In particular, TXNIP suppresses expressions of the key glycolytic enzyme, hexokinase 2 (HK2), and lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), potentially through Fbw7-dependent c-Myc degradation. In accordance, BCR-ABL suppression of TXNIP provided a novel survival pathway for the transformation of mouse bone marrow cells. Knockout of TXNIP accelerated BCR-ABL transformation, whereas TXNIP overexpression suppressed this transformation. Combination of drug inducing TXNIP expression with imatinib synergistically kills CML cells from patients and further extends the survival of CML mice. Thus, the activation of TXNIP represents an effective strategy for CML treatment to overcome resistance.
216614 | Photolabile and paramagnetic derivatives of the nucleoside X and of Escherichia coli tRNAPhe. The synthesis of N3-[3-L-(5-azido-2-nitrobenzamido)-3-carboxypropyl]uridine (4b) and N3-[3-carboxy-3-L-(2,2,5,5-tetramethyl-3-pyrroline-3-carbonylamino)propyl]uridine Npyr-oxyl (4c) starting from the nucleoside X (4a) and the appropriate N-hydroxysuccinimide ester 1 or 2 is described. After acylation of tRNAPhe from E. coli (5a) with 1 or 2, the photolabile tRNAPhe derivative 5b and the paramagnetic tRNAPhe derivative 5c could be isolated. The position of modification in the polynucleotide chain was elucidated by comparison of the ribonuclease II/alkaline phosphatase digestion products of the substituted and unsubstituted tRNAPhe samples, and was identified as being exclusively the amino group of the nucleoside X in position 47 of E. coli tRNAPhe.
36557946 | Isolation and Identification of Anti-Inflammatory Peptide from Goose Blood Hydrolysate to Ameliorate LPS-Mediated Inflammation and Oxidative Stress in RAW264.7 Macrophages. This study was designed to isolate an anti-inflammatory activity oligopeptide from goose blood (GBP) for ameliorating LPS-mediated inflammation response and oxidative stress in RAW264.7 macrophages. In this study, GBP was isolated by tangential flow ultrafiltration system (TFUS) combined with size exclusion chromatography (SEC), ion exchange chromatography (IEC), and reversed-phase liquid chromatography (RP-LC), and then identified by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The experiment results indicated that the amino acid sequence of oligopeptide with the best anti-inflammatory activity was IIe-Val-Tyr-Pro-Trp-Thr-Gln-Arg (IVYPWTQR), which had a molecular weight of 1062.5720 Da, and was derived from haemoglobin subunit beta OS in goose blood. In addition, IVYPWTQR was confirmed to have satisfactory stability and maintained high anti-inflammatory activity in a simulated gastrointestinal digestion. The mechanism by which the IVYPWTQR protected against LPS-mediated inflammation response was attributed to downregulating the TLR4/NF-kB/iNOS pathway. Moreover, IVYPWTQR ameliorated oxidative stress damage in inflammatory state was attributed to activating antioxidant defence system, which was regulated by Keap-1/NRF2/HO-1 signalling pathway for decreasing the accumulation of reactive oxide species (ROS). In summary, these results indicated GBP could serve as a potential functional factor for prevention and improvement of inflammation mediated by LPS and provided an affordable dietary intervention strategy to prevent inflammation.
38187555 | Light-phase prednisone promotes glucose oxidation in heart through novel transactivation targets of cardiomyocyte-specific GR and KLF15. Circadian time of intake determines the cardioprotective outcome of glucocorticoids in normal and infarcted hearts. The cardiomyocyte-specific glucocorticoid receptor (GR) is genetically required to preserve normal heart function in the long-term. The GR co-factor KLF15 is a pleiotropic regulator of cardiac metabolism. However, the cardiomyocyte-autonomous metabolic targets of the GR-KLF15 concerted epigenetic action remain undefined. Here we report that circadian time of intake determines the activation of a transcriptional and functional glucose oxidation program in heart by the glucocorticoid prednisone with comparable magnitude between sexes. We overlayed transcriptomics, epigenomics and cardiomyocyte-specific inducible ablation of either GR or KLF15. Downstream of a light-phase prednisone stimulation in mice, we found that both factors are non-redundantly required in heart to transactivate the adiponectin receptor expression (Adipor1) and promote insulin-stimulated glucose uptake, as well as transactivate the mitochondrial pyruvate complex expression (Mpc1/2) and promote pyruvate oxidation. We then challenged this time-specific drug effect in obese diabetic db/db mice, where the heart shows insulin resistance and defective glucose oxidation. Opposite to dark-phase dosing, light-phase prednisone rescued glucose oxidation in db/db cardiomyocytes and diastolic function in db/db hearts towards control-like levels with sex-independent magnitude of effect. In summary, our study identifies novel cardiomyocyte-autonomous metabolic targets of the GR-KLF15 concerted program mediating the time-specific cardioprotective effects of glucocorticoids on cardiomyocyte glucose utilization.
38588989 | Exocarpium Citri Grandis ameliorates LPS-induced acute lung injury by suppressing inflammation, NLRP3 inflammasome, and ferroptosis. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Exocarpium Citri Grandis (ECG), the epicarp of C. grandis 'Tomentosa' which is also known as Hua-Ju-Hong in China, has been widely used for thousands of years to treat inflammatory lung disorders such as asthma, and cough as well as dispelling phlegm. However, its underlying pharmacological mechanisms in acute lung injury (ALI) remain unclear. AIM OF THE STUDY: To explore the therapeutic effect of ECG on ALI and reveal the potential mechanisms based on experimental techniques in vivo and in vitro. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) induced ALI in mice and induced RAW 264.7 cell inflammatory model were established to investigate the pharmacodynamics of ECG. ELISA kits, commercial kits, Western Blot, qPCR, Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) staining, immunohistochemistry, and immunofluorescence technologies were used to evaluate the pharmacological mechanisms of ECG in ameliorating ALI. RESULTS: ECG significantly attenuated pulmonary edema in LPS-stimulated mice and decreased the levels of IL1beta, IL6, and TNF-alpha in serum and BALF, reduced MDA and iron concentration as well as increased SOD and GSH levels in lung tissues, and also decreased the ROS level in BALF and Lung tissue. Further pharmacological mechanism studies showed that ECG significantly inhibited mRNA expression of inflammatory signaling factors and chemokines, and down-regulated the expression of TLR4, MyD88, NF-kappaB p65, NF-kappaB p-p65 (S536), COX2, iNOS, Txnip, NLRP3, ASC, Caspase-1, JAK1, p-JAK1 (Y1022), JAK2, STAT1, p-STAT1 (S727), STAT3, p-STAT3 (Y705), STAT4, p-STAT4 (Y693), and Keap1, and also up-regulated the expression of Trx-1, Nrf2, HO-1, NQO1, GPX4, PCBP1, and SLC40A1. In the LPS-induced RAW264.7 cell inflammatory model, ECG showed similar results to animal experiments. CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed that ECG alleviated ALI by inhibiting TLR4/MyD88/NF-kappaB p65 and JAK/STAT signaling pathway-mediated inflammatory response, Txnip/NLRP3 signaling pathway-mediated inflammasome activation, and regulating Nrf2/GPX4 axis-mediated ferroptosis. Our findings provide an experimental basis for the application of ECG.
31373534 | A fine-tuning mechanism underlying self-control for autophagy: deSUMOylation of BECN1 by SENP3. The roles of SUMOylation and the related enzymes in autophagic regulation are unclear. Based on our previous studies that identified the SUMO2/3-specific peptidase SENP3 as an oxidative stress-responsive molecule, we investigated the correlation between SUMOylation and macroautophagy/autophagy. We found that Senp3+- mice showed increased autophagy in the liver under basal and fasting conditions, compared to Senp3+/+ mice. We constructed a liver-specific senp3 knockout mouse; these Senp3-deficient liver tissues showed increased autophagy as well. Autophagic flux was accelerated in hepatic and other cell lines following knockdown of SENP3, both before and after the cells underwent starvation in the form of the serum and amino acid deprivation. We demonstrated that BECN1/beclin 1, the core molecule of the BECN1-PIK3C3 complex, could be SUMO3-conjugated by PIAS3 predominantly at K380 and deSUMOylated by SENP3. The basal SUMOylation of BECN1 was increased upon cellular starvation, which enhanced autophagosome formation by facilitating BECN1 interaction with other complex components UVRAG, PIK3C3 and ATG14, thus promoting PIK3C3 activity. In contrast, SENP3 deSUMOylated BECN1, which impaired BECN1-PIK3C3 complex formation or stability to suppress the PIK3C3 activity. DeSUMOylation of BECN1 restrained autophagy induction under basal conditions and especially upon starvation when SENP3 had accumulated in response to the increased generation of reactive oxygen species. Thus, while reversible SUMOylation regulated the degree of autophagy, SENP3 provided an intrinsic overflow valve for fine-tuning autophagy induction. ABBREVIATIONS: AL: autolysosome; AP: autophagosome; ATG: autophagy related; ATG14: autophagy related 14; BECN1: beclin 1, autophagy related; cKO: conditional knockout; co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; CQ: chloroquine; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; GFP: green fluorescent protein; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NAC: N-acetyl-L-cysteine; PIK3C3: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; PTM: post-translational modification; RFP: red fluorescent protein; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RUBCN/rubicon: RUN domain and cysteine-rich domain containing, BECN1-interacting protein; SENP3: SUMO specific peptidase 3; shRNA: small hairpin RNA; siRNA: small interfering RNA; SQSTM1: sequestosome 1; SUMO: small ubiquitin-like modifier; UVRAG: UV radiation resistance associated gene.
11893729 | Androgen receptor-interacting protein 3 and other PIAS proteins cooperate with glucocorticoid receptor-interacting protein 1 in steroid receptor-dependent signaling. Androgen receptor (AR)-interacting protein 3 (ARIP3/PIASxalpha) is a coregulator capable of modulating transcriptional activity of various steroid receptors. We have characterized functional regions of ARIP3 and studied its interaction with the glucocorticoid receptor (GR)-interacting protein 1 (GRIP1). We find that the potential zinc-binding domain is critical for ARIP3 to function as a coactivator; the deletion of amino acids 347-418 or the mutation of the conserved cysteines 385 and 388 to serines converts ARIP3 to a transcriptional repressor from AR-dependent minimal promoters and abolishes its ability to activate GR. By contrast, mutations in the two LXXLL motifs of ARIP3 have relatively minor effects on its ability to regulate AR or GR function. ARIP3 is able to interact with different regions of GRIP1, but the strongest interaction is detected with the C-terminal region (amino acids 1122-1462) of GRIP1. The interaction of ARIP3 with the latter GRIP1 domain or full-length GRIP1 and the ability of ARIP3 to cooperate with GRIP1 in the regulation of AR- or GR-dependent transcription are dependent on the ARIP3 zinc-binding region. We also find a strong synergism between GRIP1 and two other PIAS family members, Miz1 and PIAS1. Taken together, our results suggest that PIAS proteins and GRIP1 interact functionally in transcriptional regulation.
29153094 | Differences between chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and small lymphocytic lymphoma cells by proteomic profiling and SNP microarray analysis. The majority of malignant cells in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) circulate in the peripheral blood whereas small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) cells reside in tissues. The aim of this study was to detect differences in chemokine receptor expression, DNA single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarray analysis and proteomic profiling to help elucidate why the cells remain in their respective environments. We identified by flow cytometric studies of chemokine receptors and DNA SNP microarray analysis significant differences between cells from CLL and SLL patients. Proteomic analysis revealed two potential markers (m/z 3091 and 8707) to distinguish the two disorders. There was a significantly greater expression of leucocyte trafficking receptor CXCR3 (CD183) and migration and homing receptor CXCR4 (CD184), and significantly lower expression of cell adhesion molecule integrin alpha4 chain (CD49d), on CLL cells, compared with SLL cells. Conversely, SNP microarrays revealed greater numbers of copy-neutral loss of heterozygosity chromosomal aberrations, as well as gross chromosomal aberrations, in the SLL group, compared with the CLL group. These findings revealed that there was a significantly greater expression of trafficking, migration and homing receptors and significantly lower expression of adhesion molecules on CLL cells than on SLL cells, and that SLL may be a more progressive disease than CLL, with a more complex genotype.
33639371 | Hydrogen Gas Therapy Attenuates Inflammatory Pathway Signaling in Septic Mice. BACKGROUND: Molecular hydrogen (H2) has been used in clinical cases. However, there are few studies of H2 therapy to treat sepsis, and anti-inflammatory mechanisms of H2 are mostly unknown. We aimed to confirm effects of H2 therapy on sepsis and reveal its therapeutic mechanism via RNA sequencing in multiple organs in septic mice. METHODS: Nine-week-old C57BL/6 male mice underwent cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) or sham procedure. Subsequently, the CLP model received immediate +- continuous inhalation of 7% H2. Mice were observed for a week to assess survival rates. Serum inflammatory cytokines were evaluated at 24 h after CLP procedure. Liver, intestine, and lungs in CLP mice receiving 24-h +- H2 therapy were assessed by RNA sequencing. Data were analyzed with Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (QIAGEN Inc). RESULTS: Seven-day survival rate in septic mice was significantly improved in the H2 inhalation group compared with that in the control group (75% versus 40%, P < 0.05). H2 treatment attenuated serum interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels at 24 h after CLP, and blood glucose levels were maintained in the H2-treated group. In RNA sequencing, canonical pathway analysis revealed inactivity of various inflammatory signaling pathways, for example, acute phase response signaling and STAT3 pathways, in the liver and intestine in the CLP model after 24-h H2 inhalation. We detected significantly decreased expressions of upstream regulator genes such as the CD14 antigen gene in the liver and various cytokine receptor genes in the intestine and lungs in the H2-treated group. CONCLUSIONS: These findings may contribute to clarifying the mechanism of action of H2 therapy in sepsis.
36214307 | Bioinformatics analysis to identify intersection genes, associated pathways and therapeutic drugs between COVID-19 and Oral candidiasis. BACKGROUND: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has a serious threat to human health. Oral candidiasis (OC) may be one of the causes of morbidity in severe COVID-19 patients. However, there is currently no treatment for oral candidiasis and COVID-19 (OC/COVID-19). The purpose of this study was to use text mining and data analysis to investigate the target genes for treatment and explore potential therapeutic drugs for OC/COVID-19. METHODS: We used the text mining tool pubmed2ensembl to detect genes associated with OC, and the dataset GSE164805 was used for the data analysis. Then, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were performed on the two intersection genes using the Database of Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) platform. The protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed by STRING software, and gene module analysis was performed using Molecular Complex Detection (MCODE), a plug-in in Cytoscape. The most significant genes were selected as hub genes and their functions and pathways were analyzed using Metascape. We revealed the upstream pathway activity of the hub genes. The drug-gene interaction database (DGIdb) and the traditional Chinese medicines integrated database (TCMID) were used to discover potential drugs for the treatment of OC/COVID-19. RESULTS: The analysis indicated that there were 2869 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in GSE164805. We identified 161 unique genes associated with oral candidiasis through text mining. A total of 20 intersection genes were identified as the therapeutic targets for OC/COVID-19. Based on the bioinformatics analysis, nine genes (TNF, IL1B, IFNG, CSF2, ELANE, CCL2, MMP9, CXCR4, and IL1A) were identified as hub genes that were mainly enriched in the IL-17 signaling pathway, TNF signaling pathway, AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications and NOD-like receptor signaling pathway. We identified four of the nine genes that target five existing drugs, including BKT140, mavorixafor, sivelestat, canakinumab, and rilonacept. Furthermore, twenty herb ingredients were also screened as potential drugs. CONCLUSION: In this study, TNF, IL1B, IFNG, CSF2, ELANE, CCL2, MMP9, CXCR4, and IL1A were potentially key genes involved in the treatment of OC/COVID-19. Taken together five drugs and twenty herb ingredients were identified as potential therapeutic agents for OC/COVID-19 treatment and management.
25614517 | Starvation promotes REV1 SUMOylation and p53-dependent sensitization of melanoma and breast cancer cells. Short-term starvation or fasting can augment cancer treatment efficacy and can be effective in delaying cancer progression in the absence of chemotherapy, but the underlying molecular mechanisms of action remain elusive. Here, we describe the role of REV1, a specialized DNA polymerase involved in DNA repair, as an important signaling node linking nutrient sensing and metabolic control to cell fate. We show that REV1 is a novel binding partner of the tumor suppressor p53 and regulates its activity. Under starvation, REV1 is modified by SUMO2/3, resulting in the relief of REV1's inhibition of p53 and enhancing p53's effects on proapoptotic gene expression and apoptosis in breast cancer and melanoma cells. Thus, fasting in part through its effect on REV1 is a promising nontoxic strategy to increase p53-dependent cell death and to enhance the efficacy of cancer therapies.
28970247 | Chromatin remodeling: demethylating H3K4me3 of type I IFNs gene by Rbp2 through interacting with Piasy for transcriptional attenuation. Type I IFNs (IFNIs) are involved in the course of antiviral and antimicrobial activities; however, robust inductions of these can lead to host immunopathology. We have reported that the Pias (protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription) family member, Piasy, possesses the ability to suppress IFNI transcriptions in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), yet the specific molecular mechanism by which it acts remains elusive. Here, we identify that the H3K4me3 levels, one activation mark of genes, in MEFs that were stimulated by poly(I:C) were impaired by Piasy in the IFN-beta gene. Piasy bound to the promoter region of the IFN-beta gene in MEFs. Meanwhile, retinoblastoma binding protein 2 (Rbp2) was proven to be the only known and novel H3K4me3 demethylase that interacted with Piasy. Overexpression of Rbp2, but not its enzymatically inactive mutant Rbp2H483G/E485Q, retarded the transcription activities of IFNI, whereas small interfering RNA-mediated or short hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown of Rbp2 enhanced IFNI promoter responses. Above all, coexpression of Piasy and Rbp2 led to statistically less IFNI induction than overexpression of either Piasy or Rbp2 alone. Mechanistically, Piasy bound to the Jmjc domain (451-503 aa) of Rbp2 via its PINIT domain (101-218 aa), which is consistent with the domain required for their attenuation of transcription and H3K4me3 levels of IFNI genes. Our study demonstrates that Piasy may prevent exaggerated transcription of IFNI by Rbp2-mediated demethylation of H3K4me3 of IFNI, avoiding excessive immune responses.-Yu, X., Chen, H., Zuo, C., Jin, X., Yin, Y., Wang, H., Jin, M., Ozato, K., Xu, S. Chromatin remodeling: demethylating H3K4me3 of type I IFNs gene by Rbp2 through interacting with Piasy for transcriptional attenuation.
33548004 | The DOCK protein family in vascular development and disease. The vascular network is established and maintained through the processes of vasculogenesis and angiogenesis, which are tightly regulated during embryonic and postnatal life. The formation of a functional vasculature requires critical cellular mechanisms, such as cell migration, proliferation and adhesion, which are dependent on the activity of small Rho GTPases, controlled in part by the dedicator of cytokinesis (DOCK) protein family. Whilst the majority of DOCK proteins are associated with neuronal development, a growing body of evidence has indicated that members of the DOCK family may have key functions in the control of vasculogenic and angiogenic processes. This is supported by the involvement of several angiogenic signalling pathways, including chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), in the regulation of specific DOCK proteins. This review summarises recent progress in understanding the respective roles of DOCK family proteins during vascular development. We focus on existing in vivo and in vitro models and known human disease phenotypes and highlight potential mechanisms of DOCK protein dysfunction in the pathogenesis of vascular disease.
32398867 | Cancer exosome-derived miR-9 and miR-181a promote the development of early-stage MDSCs via interfering with SOCS3 and PIAS3 respectively in breast cancer. We previously identified that the development of early-stage myeloid-derived suppressor cells (eMDSCs) in breast cancer with high IL-6 (IL-6high) expression was correlated with the SOCS3 deficiency-dependent hyperactivation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. However, the regulatory mechanisms have not yet been elucidated. In this study, we aimed to investigate how the posttranscriptional regulation mediated by cancer exosome-derived miRNAs affected the JAK/STAT signaling pathway and the development of eMDSCs. Using miRNA microarray, we screened miR-9 and miR-181a which were exclusively upregulated in eMDSCs and inversely associated with SOCS3 expression. We found both miRNAs promoted the amplification of immature eMDSCs with the strong suppression on T-cell immunity in mice and humans. Furthermore, miR-9 and miR-181a promoted 4T1 tumor growth and immune escape via enhancing eMDSCs infiltration in situ. But miR-9 and miR-181a stimulated eMDSCs development by separately inhibiting SOCS3 and PIAS3, two crucial regulators in the negative feedback loop of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. Elevated miR-9 and miR-181a in eMDSCs was derived from tumor-derived exosomes, and blocking the exosome release could fully attenuate the miRNA-mediated regulation on eMDSCs development. In summary, our findings indicated that tumor exosome-derived miR-9 and miR-181a activated the JAK/STAT signaling pathway via targeting SOCS3 and PIAS3, respectively, and thus promoted the expansion of eMDSCs which might provide potential therapeutic target for IL-6high breast cancer treatment.
34234281 | PIAS2-mediated blockade of IFN-beta signaling: a basis for sporadic Parkinson disease dementia. Familial Parkinson disease (PD) is associated with rare genetic mutations, but the etiology in most patients with sporadic (s)PD is largely unknown, and the basis for its progression to dementia (sPDD) is poorly characterized. We have identified that loss of IFNbeta or IFNAR1, the receptor for IFNalpha/beta, causes pathological and behavioral changes resembling PDD, prompting us to hypothesize that dysregulated genes in IFNbeta-IFNAR signaling pathway predispose one to sPD. By transcriptomic analysis, we found defective neuronal IFNbeta-IFNAR signaling, including particularly elevated PIAS2 associated with sPDD. With meta-analysis of GWASs, we identified sequence variants in IFNbeta-IFNAR-related genes in sPD patients. Furthermore, sPDD patients expressed higher levels of PIAS2 mRNA and protein in neurons. To determine its function in brain, we overexpressed PIAS2 under a neuronal promoter, alone or with human alpha-synuclein, in the brains of mice, which caused motor and cognitive impairments and correlated with intraneuronal phosphorylated (p)alpha-synuclein accumulation and dopaminergic neuron loss. Ectopic expression of neuronal PIAS2 blocked mitophagy, increased the accumulation of senescent mitochondrial and oxidative stress, as evidenced by excessive oxDJ1 and 8OHdG, by inactivating ERK1/2-P53 signaling. Conversely, PIAS2 knockdown rescued the clinicopathological manifestations of PDD in Ifnb-/- mice on restoring mitochondrial homeostasis, oxidative stress, and pERK1/2-pP53 signaling. The regulation of JAK-STAT2-PIAS2 signaling was crucial for neurite outgrowth and neuronal survival and excitability and thus might prevent cognitive impairments. Our findings provide insights into the progression of sPD and dementia and have implications for new therapeutic approaches.
34889988 | Infection and protection responses of deletion mutants of non-structural proteins of foot-and-mouth disease virus serotype Asia1 in guinea pigs. The development of a negative marker vaccine against the foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) will enhance the capabilities to differentiate vaccinated from infected animals and move forward in the progressive control pathway for the control of FMD. Here, we report the development of mutant FMDV of Asia1 with partial deletion of non-structural proteins 3A and 3B and characterization of their infectivity and protection response in the guinea pig model. The deleted FMDV Asia1/IND/63/1972 mutants, pAsiaDelta3A and pAsiaDelta3A3B1 were constructed from the full-length infectious clone pAsiaWT, the viable virus was rescued, and the genetic stability of the mutants was confirmed by 20 monolayer passages in BHK21 cells. The mutant Asia1 viruses showed comparable growth pattern and infectivity with that of AsiaWT in the cell culture. However, the AsiaDelta3A3B1 virus showed smaller plaque and lower virus titer with reduced infectivity in the suckling mice. In guinea pigs, the AsiaDelta3A3B1 virus failed to induce the disease, whereas the AsiaDelta3A virus induced typical secondary lesions of FMD. Vaccination with inactivated Asia1 mutant viruses induced neutralizing antibody response that was significantly lower than that of the parent virus on day 28 post-vaccination (dpv) in guinea pigs (P < 0.05). Furthermore, challenging the vaccinated guinea pigs with the homologous vaccine strain of FMDV Asia1 conferred complete protection. It is concluded that the mutant AsiaDelta3A3B1 virus has the potential to replace the wild-type virus for use as a negative marker vaccine after assessing the vaccine worth attributes in suspension cell and protective efficacy study in cattle.Key points  Deletion mutant viruses of FMDV Asia1, developed by PCR-mediated mutagenesis of NSP 3A and 3B1, were genetically stable.  The growth kinetics and antigenic relatedness of the mutant viruses were comparable with that of the wild-type virus.  Vaccination of guinea pigs with the deletion mutant viruses conferred complete protection upon challenge with the homologous virus.
28689771 | Immunosuppression with tacrolimus improved implantation and rescued expression of uterine progesterone receptor and its co-regulators FKBP52 and PIASy at nidation in the obese and diabetic mice: Comparative studies with metformin. Diabesity is often associated with subfertility and recurrent miscarriages. Evidence links systemic and local uterine cytotoxicity to the pathogenesis of implantation failure (IF) in diabetes. Immunosuppression with tacrolimus improved pregnancy outcomes in obese and diabetic mice and repeated IF in women with elevated Th1/Th2 blood cell ratios. However the mode of action of tacrolimus in protecting against IF and the molecular mechanisms associated with recurrent miscarriages in the obese and diabetic subjects are yet to be elucidated. Here we administered tacrolimus (FK506) (0.1 mg/kg) for four consecutive weeks to the NONcNZO10/LtJ mice, a model of human PCOS, chronically fed with 60% kCal fat for 16 consecutive weeks to simulate human obesity-associated T2DM. Compared to those immunosuppressed with tacrolimus and their normative controls, high-fat fed (HFD) diabetic NONcNZO mice exhibited higher rates of peri- and post-implantation resorption and had aberrant expression of uterine IFNgamma and progesterone receptor (PGR) and its immunophilin co-chaperone FKBP52 at nidation. Immature uterodomes and lack of activation of uterine STAT3 and NFkappaB at implantation were characteristics of IF in the HFD-dNONcNZO dams also low in the deciduogenic factors IL11 and GM-CSF. Therapeutic interventions with tacrolimus or metformin normalized the expression of decidual IFNgamma, PGR and FKBP52, increased co-localization of protein inhibitor of activated STATy (PIASy) to PGR and resulted in the upregulation of uterine IL11and LIF. Rescued phosphorylation of STAT3 and NFkappaBp65 and uterodome maturation at nidation defined implantation success in treated dams. To our knowledge this is the first report to show that the impact of HFD on the hemochorial implantation is at least in part mediated through disruption of PGR signaling at nidation and that immunosuppression with tacrolimus or treatment with metformin restores PGR-mediated influences during implantation in the obese and diabetic subjects.
37533862 | Multivalent vaccines demonstrate immunogenicity and protect against Coxiella burnetii aerosol challenge. Vaccines are among the most cost-effective public health measures for controlling infectious diseases. Coxiella burnetii is the etiological agent of Q fever, a disease with a wide clinical spectrum that ranges from mild symptoms, such as fever and fatigue, to more severe disease, such as pneumonia and endocarditis. The formalin-inactivated whole-cell vaccine Q-VAX  contains hundreds of antigens and confers lifelong protection in humans, but prior sensitization from infection or vaccination can result in deleterious reactogenic responses to vaccination. Consequently, there is great interest in developing non-reactogenic alternatives based on adjuvanted recombinant proteins. In this study, we aimed to develop a multivalent vaccine that conferred protection with reduced reactogenicity. We hypothesized that a multivalent vaccine consisting of multiple antigens would be more immunogenic and protective than a monovalent vaccine owing to the large number of potential protective antigens in the C. burnetii proteome. To address this, we identified immunogenic T and B cell antigens, and selected proteins were purified to evaluate with a combination adjuvant (IVAX-1), with or without C. burnetii lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in immunogenicity studies in vivo in mice and in a Hartley guinea pig intratracheal aerosol challenge model using C. burnetii strain NMI RSA 493. The data showed that multivalent vaccines are more immunogenic than monovalent vaccines and more closely emulate the protection achieved by Q-VAX. Although six antigens were the most immunogenic, we also discovered that multiplexing beyond four antigens introduces detectable reactogenicity, indicating that there is an upper limit to the number of antigens that can be safely included in a multivalent Q-fever vaccine. C. burnetii LPS also demonstrates efficacy as a vaccine antigen in conferring protection in an otherwise monovalent vaccine formulation, suggesting that its addition in multivalent vaccines, as demonstrated by a quadrivalent formulation, would improve protective responses.
23515314 | Protein inhibitors of activated STAT (Pias1 and Piasy) differentially regulate pituitary homeobox 2 (PITX2) transcriptional activity. Protein inhibitors of activated STAT (Pias) proteins can act independent of sumoylation to modulate the activity of transcription factors and Pias proteins interacting with transcription factors can either activate or repress their activity. Pias proteins are expressed in many tissues and cells during development and we asked if Pias proteins regulated the pituitary homeobox 2 (PITX2) homeodomain protein, which modulates developmental gene expression. Piasy and Pias1 proteins are expressed during craniofacial/tooth development and directly interact and differentially regulate PITX2 transcriptional activity. Piasy and Pias1 are co-expressed in craniofacial tissues with PITX2. Yeast two-hybrid, co-immunoprecipitation and pulldown experiments demonstrate Piasy and Pias1 interactions with the PITX2 protein. Piasy interacts with the PITX2 C-terminal tail to attenuate its transcriptional activity. In contrast, Pias1 interacts with the PITX2 C-terminal tail to increase PITX2 transcriptional activity. The E3 ligase activity associated with the RING domain in Piasy is not required for the attenuation of PITX2 activity, however, the RING domain of Pias1 is required for enhanced PITX2 transcriptional activity. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays reveal PITX2 interactions with Piasy and Pias1 in the nucleus. Piasy represses the synergistic activation of PITX2 with interacting co-factors and Piasy represses Pias1 activation of PITX2 transcriptional activity. In contrast, Pias1 did not affect the synergistic interaction of PITX2 with transcriptional co-factors. Last, we demonstrate that Pias proteins form a complex with PITX2 and Lef-1, and PITX2 and beta-catenin. Lef-1, beta-catenin, and Pias interactions with PITX2 provide new molecular mechanisms for the regulation of PITX2 transcriptional activity and the activity of Pias proteins.
33567272 | Cardiolipin-mediated PPARgamma S112 phosphorylation impairs IL-10 production and inflammation resolution during bacterial pneumonia. Bacterial pneumonia is a global healthcare burden, and unwarranted inflammation is suggested as an important cause of mortality. Optimum levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 are essential to reduce inflammation and improve survival in pneumonia. Elevated levels of the mitochondrial-DAMP cardiolipin (CL), reported in tracheal aspirates of pneumonia patients, have been shown to block IL-10 production from lung MDSCs. Although CL-mediated K107 SUMOylation of PPARgamma has been suggested to impair this IL-10 production, the mechanism remains elusive. We identify PIAS2 to be the specific E3-SUMOligase responsible for this SUMOylation. Moreover, we identify a concomitant CL-mediated PPARgamma S112 phosphorylation, mediated by JNK-MAPK, to be essential for PIAS2 recruitment. Furthermore, using a clinically tested peptide inhibitor targeting JNK-MAPK, we blocked these post-translational modifications (PTMs) of PPARgamma and rescued IL-10 expression, improving survival in murine pneumonia models. Thus, we explore the mechanism of mito-DAMP-mediated impaired lung inflammation resolution and propose a therapeutic strategy targeting PPARgamma PTMs.
34404752 | The dimeric form of CXCL12 binds to atypical chemokine receptor 1. The pleiotropic chemokine CXCL12 is involved in diverse physiological and pathophysiological processes, including embryogenesis, hematopoiesis, leukocyte migration, and tumor metastasis. It is known to engage the classical receptor CXCR4 and the atypical receptor ACKR3. Differential receptor engagement can transduce distinct cellular signals and effects as well as alter the amount of free, extracellular chemokine. CXCR4 binds both monomeric and the more commonly found dimeric forms of CXCL12, whereas ACKR3 binds monomeric forms. Here, we found that CXCL12 also bound to the atypical receptor ACKR1 (previously known as Duffy antigen/receptor for chemokines or DARC). In vitro nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and isothermal titration calorimetry revealed that dimeric CXCL12 bound to the extracellular N terminus of ACKR1 with low nanomolar affinity, whereas the binding affinity of monomeric CXCL12 was orders of magnitude lower. In transfected MDCK cells and primary human Duffy-positive erythrocytes, a dimeric, but not a monomeric, construct of CXCL12 efficiently bound to and internalized with ACKR1. This interaction between CXCL12 and ACKR1 provides another layer of regulation of the multiple biological functions of CXCL12. The findings also raise the possibility that ACKR1 can bind other dimeric chemokines, thus potentially further expanding the role of ACKR1 in chemokine retention and presentation.
25434787 | Ubiquitously expressed transcript is a novel interacting protein of protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 2. Protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 2 (PIAS2) is a member of the PIAS protein family. This protein family modulates the activity of several transcription factors and acts as an E3 ubiquitin ligase in the sumoylation pathway. To improve understanding of the physiological roles of PIAS2, the current study used a yeast two-hybrid system to screen mouse stem cell cDNA libraries for proteins that interact with PIAS2. The screening identified an interaction between PIAS2 and ubiquitously expressed transcript (UXT). UXT, also termed androgen receptor trapped clone-27, is an alpha-class prefoldin-type chaperone that acts as a coregulator for various transcription factors, including nuclear factor-kappaB and androgen receptor (AR). A direct interaction between PIAS2 and UXT was confirmed by direct yeast two-hybrid analysis. In vitro evidence of the association of UXT with PIAS2 was obtained by co-immunoprecipitation. Colocalization between PIAS2 and UXT was identified in the nucleus and cytoplasm of HEK 293T and human cervical carcinoma HeLa cells. The results of the current study suggested that UXT is a binding protein of PIAS2, and interaction between PIAS2 and UXT may be important for the transcriptional activation of AR.
24379443 | PIASy-mediated sumoylation of SREBP1c regulates hepatic lipid metabolism upon fasting signaling. SREBP1c is a key transcription factor that regulates de novo lipogenesis during anabolic periods. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in the suppression of SREBP1c under nutritional deprivation are largely unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that the small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) E3 ligase, a protein inhibitor of activated STAT Y (PIASy), sumoylates SREBP1c at Lys98, leading to suppression of the hepatic lipogenic program upon fasting-induced signals. In primary hepatocytes, ablation of PIASy stimulated intracellular lipid accumulation through the induction of SREBP1c and its target genes. Given that protein kinase A (PKA) plays important roles in catabolic responses, activated PKA enhances the sumoylation of SREBP1c and potentiates the interaction between SREBP1c and PIASy. Notably, overexpression of PIASy in obese db/db mice ameliorated hepatic steatosis, while suppression of PIASy in lean (wild-type) mice stimulated hepatic lipogenesis with increased expression of SREBP1c target genes. Furthermore, PKA-mediated SREBP1c phosphorylation augmented SREBP1c sumoylation, subsequently leading to degradation of SREBP1c via ubiquitination. Together, these data suggest that PKA-induced SREBP1c sumoylation by PIASy is a key regulatory mechanism to turn off hepatic lipogenesis during nutritional deprivation.
38141281 | Sensitization of cholangiocarcinoma cells to chemotherapy through BCRP inhibition with beta-caryophyllene oxide. Cholangiocarcinomas (CCAs) are cancers originated in the biliary tree, which are characterized by their high mortality and marked chemoresistance, partly due to the activity of ATP-binding cassette (ABC) export pumps, whose inhibition has been proposed as a strategy for enhancing the response to chemotherapy. We have previously shown that beta-caryophyllene oxide (CRYO) acts as a chemosensitizer in hepatocellular carcinoma by inhibiting ABCB1, MRP1, and MRP2. Here, we have evaluated the usefulness of CRYO in inhibiting BCRP and improving the response of CCA to antitumor drugs. The TCGA-CHOL cohort (n = 36) was used for in silico analysis. BCRP expression (mRNA and protein) was assayed in samples from intrahepatic (iCCA) and extrahepatic (eCCA) tumors (n = 50) and CCA-derived cells (EGI-1 and TFK-1). In these cells, BCRP-dependent mitoxantrone transport was determined by flow cytometry. At non-toxic concentrations, CRYO inhibited BCRP function, which enhanced the cytostatic effect of drugs used in the treatment of CCA. The BCRP ability to confer resistance to a panel of antitumor drugs was determined in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells with stable BCRP expression. At non-toxic concentrations, CRYO markedly reduced BCRP-induced resistance to known substrate drugs (mitoxantrone and SN-38) and cisplatin, gemcitabine, sorafenib, and 5-FU but not oxaliplatin. Neither CRYO nor cisplatin alone significantly affected the growth of BCRP-expressing tumors subcutaneously implanted in immunodeficient mice. In contrast, intratumor drug content was enhanced when administered together, and tumor growth was inhibited. In sum, the combined treatment of drugs exported by BCRP with CRYO can improve the response to chemotherapy in CCA patients.
28000708 | Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT Y (PIASy) Regulates Insulin Secretion by Interacting with LIM Homeodomain Transcription Factor Isl1. It is known that the LIM homeodomain transcription factor Isl1 is highly expressed in all pancreatic endocrine cells and functions in regulating pancreatic development and insulin secretion. The Isl1 mutation has been found to be associated with type 2 diabetes, but the mechanism responsible for Isl1 regulation of insulin synthesis and secretion still needs to be elucidated. In the present study, the protein inhibitor of activated STAT Y (PIASy) was identified as a novel Isl1-interacting protein with a yeast two-hybrid system, and its interaction with Isl1 was further confirmed by a co-immunoprecipitation experiment. PIASy and Isl1 colocalize in human and mouse pancreas and NIT beta cells. Furthermore, PIASy and Isl1 upregulate insulin gene expression and insulin secretion in a dose-dependent manner by activating the insulin promoter. PIASy and Isl1 mRNA expression levels were also increased in type 2 diabetic db/db mice. In addition, our results demonstrate that PIASy and Isl1 cooperate to activate the insulin promoter through the Isl1 homeodomain and PIASy ring domain. These data suggest that that PIASy regulates insulin synthesis and secretion by interacting with Isl1 and provide new insight into insulin regulation, although the detailed molecular mechanism needs to be clarified in future studies.
35453704 | Myc-Interacting Zinc Finger Protein 1 (Miz-1) Is Essential to Maintain Homeostasis and Immunocompetence of the B Cell Lineage. Aging of the immune system is described as a progressive loss of the ability to respond to immunologic stimuli and is commonly referred to as immunosenescence. B cell immunosenescence is characterized by a decreased differentiation rate in the bone marrow and accumulation of antigen-experienced and age-associated B cells in secondary lymphoid organs (SLOs). A specific deletion of the POZ-domain of the transcription factor Miz-1 in pro-B cells, which is known to be involved in bone marrow hematopoiesis, leads to premature aging of the B cell lineage. In mice, this causes a severe reduction in bone marrow-derived B cells with a drastic decrease from the pre-B cell stage on. Further, mature, naive cells in SLOs are reduced at an early age, while post-activation-associated subpopulations increase prematurely. We propose that Miz-1 interferes at several key regulatory checkpoints, critical during B cell aging, and counteracts a premature loss of immunocompetence. This enables the use of our mouse model to gain further insights into mechanisms of B cell aging and it can significantly contribute to understand molecular causes of impaired adaptive immune responses to counteract loss of immunocompetence and restore a functional immune response in the elderly.
35950162 | Comparative transcriptional analysis of satellite glial cell injury response. Background: Satellite glial cells (SGCs) tightly surround and support primary sensory neurons in the peripheral nervous system and are increasingly recognized for their involvement in the development of neuropathic pain following nerve injury. SGCs are difficult to investigate due to their flattened shape and tight physical connection to neurons in vivo and their rapid changes in phenotype and protein expression when cultured in vitro. Consequently, several aspects of SGC function under normal conditions as well as after a nerve injury remain to be explored. The recent advance in single cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) technologies has enabled a new approach to investigate SGCs. Methods: In this study we used scRNAseq to investigate SGCs from mice subjected to sciatic nerve injury. We used a meta-analysis approach to compare the injury response with that found in other published datasets.  Furthermore, we also used scRNAseq to investigate how cells from the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) change after 3 days in culture. Results: From our meta-analysis of the injured conditions, we find that SGCs share a common signature of 18 regulated genes following sciatic nerve crush or sciatic nerve ligation, involving transcriptional regulation of cholesterol biosynthesis. We also observed a considerable transcriptional change when culturing SGCs, suggesting that some differentiate into a specialised in vitro state while others start resembling Schwann cell-like precursors. Conclusion: By using integrated analyses of new and previously published scRNAseq datasets, this study provides a consensus view of which genes are most robustly changed in SGCs after injury. Our results are available via the Broad Institute Single Cell Portal, so that readers can explore and search for genes of interest.
30420889 | The Myc/Max/Mxd Network Is a Target of Mutated Flt3 Signaling in Hematopoietic Stem Cells in Flt3-ITD-Induced Myeloproliferative Disease. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has poor prognosis due to various mutations, e.g., in the FLT3 gene. Therefore, it is important to identify pathways regulated by the activated Flt3 receptor for the discovery of new therapeutic targets. The Myc network of oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes is involved in mechanisms regulating proliferation and survival of cells, including that of the hematopoietic system. In this study, we evaluated the expression of the Myc oncogenes and Mxd antagonists in hematopoietic stem cell and myeloid progenitor populations in the Flt3-ITD-knockin myeloproliferative mouse model. Our data shows that the expression of Myc network genes is changed in Flt3-ITD mice compared with the wild type. Mycn is increased in multipotent progenitors and in the pre-GM compartment of myeloid progenitors in the ITD mice while the expression of several genes in the tumor suppressor Mxd family, including Mxd1, Mxd2, and Mxd4, is concomitantly downregulated, as well as the expression of the Mxd-related gene Mnt and the transcriptional activator Miz-1. LSKCD150+CD48- hematopoietic long-term stem cells are decreased in the Flt3-ITD cells while multipotent progenitors are increased. Of note, PKC412-mediated inhibition of Flt3-ITD signaling results in downregulation of cMyc and upregulation of the Myc antagonists Mxd1, Mxd2, and Mxd4. Our data provides new mechanistic insights into downstream alterations upon aberrant Flt3 signaling and rationale for combination therapies for tyrosine kinase inhibitors with Myc antagonists in treating AML.
34187905 | SLX4IP promotes RAP1 SUMOylation by PIAS1 to coordinate telomere maintenance through NF-kappaB and Notch signaling. The maintenance of telomere length supports repetitive cell division and therefore plays a central role in cancer development and progression. Telomeres are extended by either the enzyme telomerase or the alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) pathway. Here, we found that the telomere-associated protein SLX4IP dictates telomere proteome composition by recruiting and activating the E3 SUMO ligase PIAS1 to the SLX4 complex. PIAS1 SUMOylated the telomere-binding protein RAP1, which disrupted its interaction with the telomere-binding protein TRF2 and facilitated its nucleocytoplasmic shuttling. In the cytosol, RAP1 bound to IkappaB kinase (IKK), resulting in activation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB and its induction of Jagged-1 expression, which promoted Notch signaling and the institution of ALT. This axis could be targeted therapeutically in ALT-driven cancers and in tumor cells that develop resistance to antitelomerase therapies. Our results illuminate the mechanisms underlying SLX4IP-dependent telomere plasticity and demonstrate the role of telomere proteins in directly coordinating intracellular signaling and telomere maintenance dynamics.
30630513 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 reduces peripheral arthritis and gut inflammation and regulates the Th17/Treg cell imbalance via STAT3 signaling in a mouse model of spondyloarthritis. BACKGROUND: Spondyloarthritis (SpA) is chronic inflammatory arthritis, and interleukin (IL)-17 is crucial in SpA pathogenesis. Type 17 helper T (Th17) cells are one of major IL-17-secreting cells. Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-3 signaling induces Th17 differentiation. This study investigated the effects of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) on SpA pathogenesis. Curdlan was injected into SKG ZAP-70W163C mice for SpA induction. METHODS: The PIAS3 or Mock vector was inserted into mice for 10 weeks. Clinical and histologic scores of the paw, spine, and gut were evaluated. The expression of IL-17, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), STAT3, and bone morphogenic protein (BMP) was measured. Confocal microscopy and flow cytometry were used to assess Th cell differentiation. RESULTS: PIAS3 significantly diminished the histologic scores of the paw and gut. PIAS3-treated mice displayed decreased expression of IL-17, TNF-alpha, and STAT3 in the paw, spine, and gut. BMP-2/4 expression was lower in the spines of PIAS3-treated mice. Th cell differentiation was polarized toward the upregulation of regulatory T cells (Tregs) and the downregulation of Th17 in PIAS3-treated mice. CONCLUSION: PIAS3 had beneficial effects in mice with SpA by reducing peripheral arthritis and gut inflammation. Pro-inflammatory cytokines and Th17/Treg differentiation were controlled by PIAS3. In addition, BMPs were decreased in the spines of PIAS3-treated mice. These findings suggest that PIAS3 could have therapeutic benefits in patients with SpA.
29950561 | Nuclear Smad6 promotes gliomagenesis by negatively regulating PIAS3-mediated STAT3 inhibition. To date, the molecular mechanism underlying constitutive signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) activation in gliomas is largely unclear. In this study, we report that Smad6 is overexpressed in nuclei of glioma cells, which correlates with poor patient survival and regulates STAT3 activity via negatively regulating the Protein Inhibitors of Activated STAT3 (PIAS3). Mechanically, Smad6 interacts directly with PIAS3, and this interaction is mediated through the Mad homology 2 (MH2) domain of Smad6 and the Ring domain of PIAS3. Smad6 recruits Smurf1 to facilitate PIAS3 ubiquitination and degradation, which also depends on the MH2 domain and the PY motif of Smad6. Consequently, Smad6 reduces PIAS3-mediated STAT3 inhibition and promotes glioma cell growth and stem-like cell initiation. Moreover, the Smad6 MH2 transducible protein restores PIAS3 expression and subsequently reduces gliomagenesis. Collectively, we conclude that nuclear-Smad6 enhances glioma development by inducing PIAS3 degradation and subsequent STAT3 activity upregulation.
34943240 | IFP35 Is a Relevant Factor in Innate Immunity, Multiple Sclerosis, and Other Chronic Inflammatory Diseases: A Review. Discovered in 1993 by Bange et al., the 35-kDa interferon-induced protein (IFP35) is a highly conserved cytosolic interferon-induced leucine zipper protein with a 17q12-21 coding gene and unknown function. Belonging to interferon stimulated genes (ISG), the IFP35 reflects the type I interferon (IFN) activity induced through the JAK-STAT phosphorylation, and it can homodimerize with N-myc-interactor (NMI) and basic leucine zipper transcription factor (BATF), resulting in nuclear translocation and a functional expression. Casein kinase 2-interacting protein-1 (CKIP-1), retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I), and laboratory of genetics and physiology 2 Epinephelus coioides (EcLGP2) are thought to regulate IFP35, via the innate immunity pathway. Several in vitro and in vivo studies on fish and mammals have confirmed the IFP35 as an ISG factor with antiviral and antiproliferative functions. However, in a mice model of sepsis, IFP35 was found working as a damage associated molecular pattern (DAMP) molecule, which enhances inflammation by acting in the innate immune-mediated way. In human pathology, the IFP35 expression level predicts disease outcome and response to therapy in Multiple Sclerosis (MS), reflecting IFN activity. Specifically, IFP35 was upregulated in Lupus Nephritis (LN), Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), and untreated MS. However, it normalized in the MS patients undergoing therapy. The considered data indicate IFP35 as a pleiotropic factor, suggesting it as biologically relevant in the innate immunity, general pathology, and human demyelinating diseases of the central nervous system.
37457445 | CXCR4-Targeted Necrosis-Inducing Peptidomimetic for Treating Breast Cancer. Triple-negative breast cancer is an aggressive subtype with a high recurrence rate, potential for metastasis, and a poor prognosis. The chemokine receptor, CXCR4, is a promising molecular target in breast cancer therapy. Here, we have developed a CXCR4-targeted antitumor peptidomimetic (named CTCE-KLAK), which is a fusion of the CXCR4 receptor antagonist CTCE-9908 and the D-form of proapoptotic peptide (KLAKLAK)2, for the treatment of breast cancer. First, we investigated the in vitro antitumor activity of CTCE-KLAK against various breast cancer cells and noncancerous mammary epithelial cells. CTCE-KLAK showed cell-selective cytotoxicity and induced rapid necrotic cell death in breast cancer cells but not in normal cells. In contrast, unconjugated peptides such as the carboxylate analogues of CTCE-9908 and D(KLAKLAK)2 were not cytotoxic to these cells. The tumor selectivity of CTCE-KLAK for cytotoxic activity depends on its internalization into tumor cells. There was no cleavage of caspase-3, caspase-7, or PARP1 in CTCE-KLAK-treated cells. In addition, cell death by CTCE-KLAK was not prevented by z-VAD-fmk, a pan-caspase inhibitor that inhibits cisplatin-induced cell death. These data indicate that the CTCE-KLAK conjugate is a cell-selective inducer of necrosis. Furthermore, we evaluated the in vivo antitumor activity of CTCE-KLAK in the 4T1 mouse metastatic breast cancer model. Intravenous administration of CTCE-KLAK significantly inhibited tumor growth and lung metastasis. Together, these findings suggest that the necrosis-inducing peptidomimetic CTCE-KLAK is a promising CXCR4-targeted agent for treating triple-negative breast cancer.
37040097 | The CXCR4/miR-1910-5p/MMRN2 Axis Is Involved in Corneal Neovascularization by Affecting Vascular Permeability. Purpose: Chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) plays an essential role in the early stage of corneal neovascularization (CNV), but the underlying key molecular mechanism has yet to be addressed. This study aimed to explore the new molecular mechanism of CXCR4 in CNV and the related pathological events. Methods: CXCR4 was assayed by immunofluorescence or Western blotting. The function of the supernatant from hypoxia-treated human corneal epithelial cells (HCE-T) cells was examined by culturing with human umbilical vein endothelial cells. MicroRNA sequencing was used to detect the downstream microRNAs upon CXCR4 knockdown and analyzed by preliminary bioinformatics. The proangiogenic functions and downstream target genes of microRNA were investigated by gene interference and luciferase assay. An alkali-burned murine model was introduced to examine the function and mechanism of miR-1910-5p in vivo. Results: High CXCR4 expression was confirmed in corneal tissues of patients with CNV and hypoxic HCE-T cells. The supernatant from hypoxia-treated HCE-T cells is involved in the CXCR4-mediated angiogenesis of human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Notably, miR-1910-5p was demonstrated to be at a high level in wild-type HCE-T cells and its supernatant, and in CNV patient tears. The proangiogenic functions of miR-1910-5p were demonstrated with the assays of cell migration, tube formation, and aortic ring. Moreover, miR-1910-5p significantly inhibited multimerin-2 expression by targeting its 3' untranslated region and caused significant extracellular junctional defects in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. MiR-1910-5p antagomir could significantly increase multimerin-2 level and decrease vascular leakage, and ultimately inhibit CNV in a murine model. Conclusions: Our results revealed a novel CXCR4-mediated mechanism and proved that targeting the miR-1910-5p/multimerin-2 pathway could be a promising therapeutic target for CNV.
31468277 | Hydrogen water alleviates obliterative airway disease in mice. OBJECTIVE: Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome arising from chronic airway inflammation is a leading cause of death following lung transplantation. Several studies have suggested that inhaled hydrogen can protect lung grafts from ischemia-reperfusion injury via anti-inflammatory and -oxidative mechanisms. We investigated whether molecular hydrogen-saturated water can preserve lung allograft function in a heterotopic tracheal allograft mouse model of obliterative airway disease METHODS: Obliterative airway disease was induced by heterotopically transplanting tracheal allografts from BALB/c donor mice into C57BL/6 recipient mice, which were subsequently administered hydrogen water (10 ppm) or tap water (control group) (n = 6 each) daily without any immunosuppressive treatment. Histological and immunohistochemical analyses were performed on days 7, 14, and 21. RESULTS: Hydrogen water decreased airway occlusion on day 14. No significant histological differences were observed on days 7 or 21. The cluster of differentiation 4/cluster of differentiation 3 ratio in tracheal allografts on day 14 was higher in the hydrogen water group than in control mice. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay performed on day 7 revealed that hydrogen water reduced the level of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 and increased that of forkhead box P3 transcription factor, suggesting an enhancement of regulatory T cell activity. CONCLUSIONS: Hydrogen water suppressed the development of mid-term obliterative airway disease in a mouse tracheal allograft model via anti-oxidant and -inflammatory mechanisms and through the activation of Tregs. Thus, hydrogen water is a potential treatment strategy for BOS that can improve the outcome of lung transplant patients.
36304450 | Central gene transcriptional regulatory networks shaping monocyte development in bone marrow. The development of monocytes in bone marrow is a complex process with multiple steps. We used RNA-seq data to analyze the transcriptome profiles in developing stages of monocytes, including hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), common myeloid progenitors (CMPs), granulocyte-monocyte progenitors (GMPs), and monocytes. We found that genes related to potassium and other cation transmembrane activities and ion binding were upregulated during the differentiation of HSCs into CMPs. Protein transport and membrane surface functional molecules were significantly upregulated in the GMP stage. The CD42RAC and proteasome pathways are significantly upregulated during the development of HSCs into monocytes. Transcription factors Ank1, Runx2, Hmga2, Klf1, Nfia, and Bmyc were upregulated during the differentiation of HSCs into CMPs; Gfi1 and Hmgn2 were highly expressed during the differentiation of CMPs into GMPs; Seventeen transcription factors including Foxo1, Cdkn2d, Foxo3, Ep300, Pias1, Nfkb1, Creb1, Bcl6, Ppp3cb, Stat5b, Nfatc4, Mef2a, Stat6, Ifnar2, Irf7, Irf5, and Cebpb were identified as potentially involved in the development of GMPs into monocytes in mice and humans. In metabolism pathway regulation, HSCs have high glucose, lipid, and nucleic acid metabolism activities; CMPs mainly up regulate the TCA cycle related genes; and GMPs have extremely active metabolisms, with significantly elevated pentose phosphate pathway, TCA cycle, histidine metabolism, and purine metabolism. In the monocyte phase, the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle is reduced, and the anaerobic glycolysis process becomes dominated. Overall, our studies offer the kinetics and maps of gene transcriptional expressions and cell metabolisms during monocyte development in bone marrow.
1314162 | Dissection of the interferon gamma-MHC class II signal transduction pathway reveals that type I and type II interferon systems share common signalling component(s). We have used a herpes virus thymidine kinase (HSV-TK) based metabolic selection system to isolate mutants defective in the interferon gamma mediated induction of the MHC class II promoter. All the mutations act in trans and result in no detectable induction of MHC and invariant chain (Ii) gene expression. Scatchard analysis indicates that the mutants have a normal number of surface IFN gamma receptors with the same affinity constant. The mutants fall into two broad categories. One class of mutants is still able to induce MHC class I, IRF-1, 9-27, 1-8 and GBP genes by IFN gamma. A second class of mutants is defective for the IFN gamma induction of all the genes tested; surprisingly, the IFN alpha/beta induction of MHC class I, 9-27, ISG54 and ISG15 genes is also defective in these mutants, although different members of this class can be discriminated by the response of the GBP and IRF-1 genes to type I interferons. These data demonstrate that the signalling pathways of both type I and type II interferon systems share common signal transduction component(s). These mutants will be useful for the study of IFN gamma regulation of class II genes and Ii chain, and to elucidate molecular components of type I and type II interferon signal transduction.
8049075 | Differential responsiveness of human bronchial epithelial cells, lung carcinoma cells, and bronchial fibroblasts to interferon-gamma in vitro. The present study examines interferon-gamma (IFN gamma)-induced changes in the expression of immunomodulatory genes, proliferation-associated genes, and squamous-specific genes in primary cultures of human bronchial epithelial cells and fibroblasts. IFN gamma induced the expression of guanylate binding protein (GBP or p67) and the MHC class II antigen, HLADR alpha, in both epithelial cells and fibroblasts. In contrast, the expression of complement component C3 was induced in bronchial epithelial cells but not in fibroblasts. Similarly, IFN gamma induced growth arrest (EC50 approximately 50 U/ml) only in bronchial epithelial cells. This growth arrest was accompanied by a down-regulation of cdc2, E2F-1, and p53 mRNA levels and was associated with expression of the squamous-specific marker genes, transglutaminase type I and cornifin. These findings are consistent with IFN gamma inducing squamous differentiation in bronchial epithelial cells. In contrast, several lung carcinoma cell lines did not respond to IFN gamma with respect to the down-regulation of proliferation-associated genes or the induction of squamous-specific genes. However, GBP expression was induced in all the cell lines in response to IFN gamma. The present study demonstrates that cultured human bronchial epithelial cells are sensitive to the immunomodulatory, growth-inhibitory, and differentiation-inducing properties of IFN gamma. In contrast, several lung carcinoma cell lines are insensitive to the growth-inhibitory and differentiation-inducing actions of IFN gamma, suggesting they may have acquired defects in certain IFN gamma signaling pathways. Although the growth of human bronchial fibroblasts is not altered, expression of certain immunomodulatory genes is induced by IFN gamma.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
34142550 | Chemical Synthesis of TFF3 Reveals Novel Mechanistic Insights and a Gut-Stable Metabolite. TFF3 regulates essential gastro- and neuroprotective functions, but its molecular mode of action remains poorly understood. Synthetic intractability and lack of reliable bioassays and validated receptors are bottlenecks for mechanistic and structure-activity relationship studies. Here, we report the chemical synthesis of TFF3 and its homodimer via native chemical ligation followed by oxidative folding. Correct folding was confirmed by NMR and circular dichroism, and TFF3 and its homodimer were not cytotoxic or hemolytic. TFF3, its homodimer, and the trefoil domain (TFF310-50) were susceptible to gastrointestinal degradation, revealing a gut-stable metabolite (TFF37-54; t1/2 > 24 h) that retained its trefoil structure and antiapoptotic bioactivity. We tried to validate the putative TFF3 receptors CXCR4 and LINGO2, but neither TFF3 nor its homodimer displayed any activity up to 10 muM. The discovery of a gut-stable bioactive metabolite and reliable synthetic accessibility to TFF3 and its analogues are cornerstones for future molecular probe development and structure-activity relationship studies.
36723217 | A clinically translatable kit for MRI/NMI dual-modality nanoprobes based on anchoring group-mediated radiolabeling. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/nuclear medicine imaging (NMI) dual-modality imaging based on radiolabeled nanoparticles has been increasingly exploited for accurate diagnosis of tumor and cardiovascular diseases by virtue of high spatial resolution and high sensitivity. However, significant challenges exist in pursuing truly clinical applications, including massive preparation and rapid radiolabeling of nanoparticles. Herein, we report a clinically translatable kit for the convenient construction of MRI/NMI nanoprobes relying on the flow-synthesis and anchoring group-mediated radiolabeling (LAGMERAL) of iron oxide nanoparticles. First, homogeneous iron oxide nanoparticles with excellent performance were successfully obtained on a large scale by flow synthesis, followed by the surface anchoring of diphosphonate-polyethylene glycol (DP-PEG) to simultaneously render the underlying nanoparticles biocompatible and competent in robust labeling of radioactive metal ions. Moreover, to enable convenient and safe usage in clinics, the DP-PEG modified nanoparticle solution was freeze-dried and sterilized to make a radiolabeling kit followed by careful evaluations of its in vitro and in vivo performance and applicability. The results showed that 99mTc labeled nanoprobes are effectively obtained with a labeling yield of over 95% in 30 minutes after simply injecting Na[99mTcO4] solution into the kit. In addition, the Fe3O4 nanoparticles sealed in the kit can well stand long-term storage even for 300 days without deteriorating the colloidal stability and radiolabeling yield. Upon intravenous injection of the as-prepared radiolabeled nanoprobes, high-resolution vascular images of mice were obtained by vascular SPECT imaging and magnetic resonance angiography, demonstrating the promising clinical translational value of our radiolabeling kit.
35204787 | Mcm5 Represses Endodermal Migration through Cxcr4a-itgb1b Cascade Instead of Cell Cycle Control. Minichromosome maintenance protein 5 (MCM5) is a critical cell cycle regulator; its role in DNA replication is well known, but whether it is involved in the regulation of organogenesis in a cell cycle-independent way, is far from clear. In this study, we found that a loss of mcm5 function resulted in a mildly smaller liver, but that mcm5 overexpression led to liver bifida. Further, the data showed that mcm5 overexpression delayed endodermal migration in the ventral-dorsal axis and induced the liver bifida. Cell cycle analysis showed that a loss of mcm5 function, but not overexpression, resulted in cell cycle delay and increased cell apoptosis during gastrulation, implying that liver bifida was not the result of a cell cycle defect. In terms of its mechanism, our data proves that mcm5 represses the expression of cxcr4a, which sequentially causes a decrease in the expression of itgb1b during gastrulation. The downregulation of the cxcr4a-itgb1b cascade leads to an endodermal migration delay during gastrulation, as well as to the subsequent liver bifida during liver morphogenesis. In conclusion, our results suggest that in a cell cycle-independent way, mcm5 works as a gene expression regulator, either partially and directly, or indirectly repressing the expression of cxcr4a and the downstream gene itgb1b, to coordinate endodermal migration during gastrulation and liver location during liver organogenesis.
27285989 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) regulates pro-inflammatory transcription in hepatocytes by repressing SIRT1. Excessive nutrition promotes the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), characterized by the accumulation of pro-inflammation mediators in the liver. In the present study we investigated the regulation of pro-inflammatory transcription in hepatocytes by protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) in this process and the underlying mechanisms. We report that expression of the class III deacetylase SIRT1 was down-regulated in the livers of NASH mice accompanied by a simultaneous increase in the expression and binding activity of PIAS4. Exposure to high glucose stimulated the expression PIAS4 in cultured hepatocytes paralleling SIRT1 repression. Estrogen, a known NASH-protective hormone, ameliorated SIRT1 trans-repression by targeting PIAS4. Over-expression of PIAS4 enhanced, while PIAS4 knockdown alleviated, repression of SIRT1 transcription by high glucose. Lentiviral delivery of short hairpin RNA (shRNA) targeting PIAS4 attenuated hepatic inflammation in NASH mice by restoring SIRT1 expression. Mechanistically, PIAS4 promoted NF-kappaB-mediated pro-inflammatory transcription in a SIRT1 dependent manner. In conclusion, our study indicates that PIAS4 mediated SIRT1 repression in response to nutrient surplus contributes to the pathogenesis of NASH. Therefore, targeting PIAS4 might provide novel therapeutic strategies in the intervention of NASH.
37400551 | RUNX3 inactivates oncogenic MYC through disruption of MYC/MAX complex and subsequent recruitment of GSK3beta-FBXW7 cascade. MYC is one of the most commonly dysregulated proto-oncogenes in cancer. MYC promotes cancer initiation and maintenance by regulating multiple biological processes, such as proliferation and stem cell function. Here, we show that developmental regulator RUNX3 targets MYC protein for rapid degradation through the glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta-F-box/WD repeat-containing protein 7 (GSK3beta-FBXW7) proteolytic pathway. The evolutionarily conserved Runt domain of RUNX3 interacts directly with the basic helix-loop-helix leucine zipper of MYC, resulting in the disruption of MYC/MAX and MYC/MIZ-1 interactions, enhanced GSK3beta-mediated phosphorylation of MYC protein at threonine-58 and its subsequent degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway. We therefore uncover a previously unknown mode of MYC destabilization by RUNX3 and provide an explanation as to why RUNX3 inhibits early-stage cancer development in gastrointestinal and lung mouse cancer models.
30054984 | A positive feedback loop between miR-181b and STAT3 that affects Warburg effect in colon cancer via regulating PIAS3 expression. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between the expression of microRNA (miR)-181b, protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) and STAT3, and to examine the function of the miR-181b/PIAS3/STAT3 axis on the Warburg effect and xenograft tumour growth of colon cancer. Moreover, a positive feedback loop between miR-181b and STAT3 that regulated the Warburg effect in colon cancer was explored. A luciferase reporter assay was used to identify whether PIAS3 was a direct target of miR-181b. The gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments were performed on HCT 116 cells to investigate the effect of miR-181b/PIAS3/STAT3 on the Warburg effect and xenograft tumour growth of colon cancer, as determined by commercial kits and xenograft experiments. The relationship between the expression of miR-181b, PIAS3 and STAT3 in HCT 116 and HT-29 cells was determined using RT-qPCR and Western blot. We found miR-181b was a direct regulator of PIAS3. miR-181b promoted the Warburg effect and the growth of colon cancer xenografts; however, these effects could be reversed by PIAS3. miR-181b expression interacted with STAT3 phosphorylation in a positive feedback loop in colon cancer cells via regulating PIAS3 expression. In conclusion, this study for the first time demonstrated that miR-181b contributed to the Warburg effect and xenograft tumour growth of colon cancer by targeting PIAS3. Moreover, a positive feedback loop between miR-181b and STAT3 that regulated the Warburg effect in colon cancer was also demonstrated. This study suggested miR-181b/PIAS3/STAT3 axis as a novel target for colon cancer treatment.
37767160 | Targeting phosphoglycerate kinases by tatridin A, a natural sesquiterpenoid endowed with anti-cancer activity, using a proteomic platform. Tatridin A (TatA) is a germacrane sesquiterpenoid containing one E-double bond and one Z-double bond in its 10-membered ring, which is fused to a 3-methylene-dihydrofuran-2-one moiety. Tatridin A bioactivity has been poorly investigated despite its interesting chemical structure. Here, a functional proteomic platform was adapted to disclose its most reliable targets in leukemia monocytic cells, and phosphoglycerate kinases were recognized as the most affine enzymes. Through a combination of limited proteolysis and molecular docking, it has been discovered that tatridin A interacts with the active domains of phosphoglycerate kinase 1, altering its hinge region, and it can be accountable for tatridin A inhibition potency on enzyme activity. A more detailed tatridin A biological profile showed that it is also fully active against gastric cancer cells, downregulating the mRNA levels of chemokine receptor 4 and beta-catenin and inhibiting the invasiveness of living KATO III cells as a direct consequence of phosphoglycerate kinase 1 antagonism.
30143652 | The E3 SUMO ligase PIASgamma is a novel interaction partner regulating the activity of diabetes associated hepatocyte nuclear factor-1alpha. The transcription factor hepatocyte nuclear factor-1alpha (HNF-1A) is involved in normal pancreas development and function. Rare variants in the HNF1A gene can cause monogenic diabetes, while common variants confer type 2 diabetes risk. The precise mechanisms for regulation of HNF-1A, including the role and function of post-translational modifications, are still largely unknown. Here, we present the first evidence for HNF-1A being a substrate of SUMOylation in cellulo and identify two lysine (K) residues (K205 and K273) as SUMOylation sites. Overexpression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIASgamma) represses the transcriptional activity of HNF-1A and is dependent on simultaneous HNF-1A SUMOylation at K205 and K273. Moreover, PIASgamma is a novel HNF-1A interaction partner whose expression leads to translocation of HNF-1A to the nuclear periphery. Thus, our findings support that the E3 SUMO ligase PIASgamma regulates HNF-1A SUMOylation with functional implications, representing new targets for drug development and precision medicine in diabetes.
18683816 | The impact of tyrosine kinase 2 (Tyk2) on the proteome of murine macrophages and their response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Tyrosine kinase 2 (Tyk2) belongs to the Janus kinase (Jak) family and is involved in signalling via a number of cytokines. Tyk2-deficient mice are highly resistant to lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced endotoxin shock. Macrophages are key players in the pathogenesis of endotoxin shock and, accordingly, defects in the LPS responses of Tyk2(-/-) macrophages have been reported. In the present study, the molecular role of Tyk2 is investigated in more detail using a proteomics approach. 2-D DIGE was applied to compare protein patterns from wild-type and Tyk2(-/-) macrophages and revealed significant differences in protein expression patterns between the genotypes before and after LPS treatment. Twenty-one proteins deriving from 25 differentially expressed spots were identified by MALDI/ESI MS. Among them, we show for N-myc interactor that its mRNA transcription/stability is positively influenced by Tyk2. In contrast, LPS-induced expression of plasminogen activator 2 protein but not mRNA is strongly enhanced in the absence of Tyk2. Our data furthermore suggest an influence of Tyk2 on the subcellular distribution of elongation factor 2 and on LPS-mediated changes in the peroxiredoxin 1 spot pattern. Thus, our results imply regulatory roles of Tyk2 at multiple levels and establish novel connections between Tyk2 and several cellular proteins.
35377920 | PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation of influenza A virus PB2 restricts viral replication and virulence. Host defense systems employ posttranslational modifications to protect against invading pathogens. Here, we found that protein inhibitor of activated STAT 1 (PIAS1) interacts with the nucleoprotein (NP), polymerase basic protein 1 (PB1), and polymerase basic protein 2 (PB2) of influenza A virus (IAV). Lentiviral-mediated stable overexpression of PIAS1 dramatically suppressed the replication of IAV, whereas siRNA knockdown or CRISPR/Cas9 knockout of PIAS1 expression significantly increased virus growth. The expression of PIAS1 was significantly induced upon IAV infection in both cell culture and mice, and PIAS1 was involved in the overall increase in cellular SUMOylation induced by IAV infection. We found that PIAS1 inhibited the activity of the viral RNP complex, whereas the C351S or W372A mutant of PIAS1, which lacks the SUMO E3 ligase activity, lost the ability to suppress the activity of the viral RNP complex. Notably, the SUMO E3 ligase activity of PIAS1 catalyzed robust SUMOylation of PB2, but had no role in PB1 SUMOylation and a minimal role in NP SUMOylation. Moreover, PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation remarkably reduced the stability of IAV PB2. When tested in vivo, we found that the downregulation of Pias1 expression in mice enhanced the growth and virulence of IAV. Together, our findings define PIAS1 as a restriction factor for the replication and pathogenesis of IAV.
35190527 | Wnt signaling is boosted during intestinal regeneration by a CD44-positive feedback loop. Enhancement of Wnt signaling is fundamental for stem cell function during intestinal regeneration. Molecular modules control Wnt activity by regulating signal transduction. CD44 is such a positive regulator and a Wnt target gene. While highly expressed in intestinal crypts and used as a stem cell marker, its role during intestinal homeostasis and regeneration remains unknown. Here we propose a CD44 positive-feedback loop that boosts Wnt signal transduction, thus impacting intestinal regeneration. Excision of Cd44 in Cd44fl/fl;VillinCreERT2 mice reduced Wnt target gene expression in intestinal crypts and affected stem cell functionality in organoids. Although the integrity of the intestinal epithelium was conserved in mice lacking CD44, they were hypersensitive to dextran sulfate sodium, and showed more severe inflammation and delayed regeneration. We localized the molecular function of CD44 at the Wnt signalosome, and identified novel DVL/CD44 and AXIN/CD44 complexes. CD44 thus promotes optimal Wnt signaling during intestinal regeneration.
38409551 | Ubiquitin specific peptidase 38 epigenetically regulates KLF transcription factor 5 to augment malignant progression of lung adenocarcinoma. Protein ubiquitination is a common post-translational modification and a critical mechanism for regulating protein stability. This study aimed to explore the role and potential molecular mechanism of ubiquitin-specific peptidase 38 (USP38) in the progression of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). USP38 expression was significantly higher in patients with LUAD than in their counterparts, and higher USP38 expression was closely associated with a worse prognosis. USP38 silencing suppresses the proliferation of LUAD cells in vitro and impedes the tumorigenic activity of cells in xenograft mouse models in vivo. Further, we found that USP38 affected the protein stability of transcription factor Kruppel-like factors 5 (KLF5) by inhibiting its degradation. Subsequent mechanistic investigations showed that the N-terminal of USP38 (residues 1-400aa) interacted with residues 1-200aa of KLF5, thereby stabilizing the KLF5 protein by deubiquitination. Moreover, we found that PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation of USP38 was promoted, whereas SENP2-mediated de-SUMOylation of USP38 suppressed the deubiquitination effects of USP38 on KLF5. Additionally, our results demonstrated that KLF5 overexpression restored the suppression of the malignant properties of LUAD cells by USP38 knockdown. SUMOylation of USP38 enhances the deubiquitination and stability of KLF5, thereby augmenting the malignant progression of LUAD.
37586220 | Deficiency of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 exacerbates atherosclerosis by modulating VSMC phenotypic switching. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Phenotypic switching of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) plays an essential role in the development of atherosclerosis. Protein inhibitor of activated STAT (Pias) regulates VSMCs phenotype via acting as sumo E3 ligase to promote protein sumoylation. Our previous study indicated that Pias3 expression decreased in atherosclerotic lesions. Therefore, this study aimed to explore the role of Pias3 on VSMCs phenotype switching during atherosclerosis. METHODS: ApoE-/- and ApoE-/-Pias3-/- double-deficient mice were fed with high-fat/high-cholesterol diet to induce atherosclerosis. Aorta tissues and primary VSMCs were collected to assess plaque formation and VSMCs phenotype. In vitro, Pias3 was overexpressed in A7r5, a VSMCs cell line, by transfection with Pias3 plasmid. Real-time quantitative PCR, immunoblotting, immunoprecipitation, were used to analyze the effect of Pias3 on VSMCs phenotypic switching. RESULTS: Pias3 deficiency significantly exacerbated atherosclerotic plaque formation and promoted VSMCs phenotypic switching to a synthetic state within lesion. In vitro, overexpressing Pias3 in VSMCs increased the expression of contractile markers (myosin heavy chain 11, calponin 1), while it decreased the level of synthetic marker (vimentin). Additionally, Pias3 overexpression blocked PDGF-BB-induced VSMCs proliferation and migration. Immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry results showed that Pias3 enhanced sumoylation and ubiquitination of vimentin, and shortened its half-life. Moreover, the ubiquitination level of vimentin was impaired by 2-D08, a sumoylation inhibitor. This suggests that Pias3 might accelerate the ubiquitination-degradation of vimentin by promoting its sumoylation. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that Pias3 might ameliorate atherosclerosis progression by suppressing VSMCs phenotypic switching and reducing vimentin protein stability.
3953157 | N-nitrosamines and residual nitrite in cured meats from the Dutch market. A total of 140 samples of 16 kinds of cured meats were analyzed for contents of residual nitrite and N-nitrosamines. Nitrite was determined by reaction with sulfanilamide/naphthylethylenediamine and colorimetric measurement. N-nitrosamines were isolated from the samples by vacuum distillation and determined by gas-chromatography with chemiluminescence detection (GC-TEA). In six samples no nitrite was detectable (less than 1 mg NaNO2/kg), the remaining samples contained 1-140 mg NaNO2/kg, median value 6.8 mg/kg. In 46 samples (33%) no N-nitrosamines were detected, i.e. less than 0.1-0.5 microgram/kg of the individual nitrosamines, depending upon their structure. N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) was the nitrosamine present most frequently, in 75 samples, contents were 0.1-0.9 microgram/kg, mean 0.3 microgram/kg. Other N-nitrosamines found were: N-nitrosopiperidine (NPIP), 10 times, 0.3-25 micrograms/kg; N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA), three times, 0.2-0.9 microgram/kg; N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR), three times, 1.3-4.2 micrograms/kg; N-nitrosomorpholine, once, 0.7 microgram/kg and N-nitrosothiazolidine (NTHZ), 36 times, 0.5-91 micrograms/kg, mean 5.7 micrograms/kg. NTHZ was found most often and with the highest contents in smoked products. Frying of bacon and cured, smoked pork bellies led to substantially increased levels of NPYR in both products, and for the pork bellies also of NTHZ. In five samples of cured, smoked pork bellies after frying NTHZ-contents of 3.6-490 micrograms/kg (mean 179) were found. No correlation between residual nitrite levels and N-nitrosamine contents could be established. Investigations during the nineteen seventies gave much higher levels for NDMA, NDEA, NPIP and NPYR in Dutch cured meats than now found; at that time NTHZ was not measured.
23893515 | Sumoylation at chromatin governs coordinated repression of a transcriptional program essential for cell growth and proliferation. Despite numerous studies on specific sumoylated transcriptional regulators, the global role of SUMO on chromatin in relation to transcription regulation remains largely unknown. Here, we determined the genome-wide localization of SUMO1 and SUMO2/3, as well as of UBC9 (encoded by UBE2I) and PIASY (encoded by PIAS4), two markers for active sumoylation, along with Pol II and histone marks in proliferating versus senescent human fibroblasts together with gene expression profiling. We found that, whereas SUMO alone is widely distributed over the genome with strong association at active promoters, active sumoylation occurs most prominently at promoters of histone and protein biogenesis genes, as well as Pol I rRNAs and Pol III tRNAs. Remarkably, these four classes of genes are up-regulated by inhibition of sumoylation, indicating that SUMO normally acts to restrain their expression. In line with this finding, sumoylation-deficient cells show an increase in both cell size and global protein levels. Strikingly, we found that in senescent cells, the SUMO machinery is selectively retained at histone and tRNA gene clusters, whereas it is massively released from all other unique chromatin regions. These data, which reveal the highly dynamic nature of the SUMO landscape, suggest that maintenance of a repressive environment at histone and tRNA loci is a hallmark of the senescent state. The approach taken in our study thus permitted the identification of a common biological output and uncovered hitherto unknown functions for active sumoylation at chromatin as a key mechanism that, in dynamically marking chromatin by a simple modifier, orchestrates concerted transcriptional regulation of a network of genes essential for cell growth and proliferation.
20661221 | PIASy stimulates HIF1alpha SUMOylation and negatively regulates HIF1alpha activity in response to hypoxia. Hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF1alpha) is a crucial regulator of the cellular response to hypoxia through its regulation of genes that control erythropoiesis, angiogenesis and anaerobic metabolism. We have previously shown that HIF1alpha stability is regulated by SUMOylation under the hypoxic condition. However, how HIF1alpha became SUMOylated during hypoxia is still unknown. In this study we identify PIASy as a specific E3 ligase for hypoxia-induced HIF1alpha SUMOylation. Hypoxia promotes translocation of HIF1alpha to the nucleus to facilitate its binding to PIASy, enabling the conjugation of HIF1alpha by SUMO1. We further show that PIASy negatively regulates hypoxia-induced HIF1alpha stability and transactivation. Knocking down PIASy increases the angiogenic activity of endothelial cells. Moreover, we show an inverse relationship between expression of PIASy and tumor angiogenesis in colon cancer. Thus, we define an important role of PIASy in hypoxia signaling through promoting HIF1alpha SUMOylation.
35050146 | Methotrexate Disposition, Anti-Folate Activity, and Metabolomic Profiling to Identify Molecular Markers of Disease Activity and Drug Response in the Collagen-Induced Arthritis Mouse Model. Methotrexate (MTX) is widely used in the treatment of autoimmune arthritis but is limited by its unpredictable and variable response profile. Currently, no biomarkers exist to predict or monitor early therapeutic responses to MTX. Using a collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model, this study aimed to identify biochemical pathways and biomarkers associated with MTX efficacy in autoimmune arthritis. Following arthritis disease induction, DBA/1J mice were treated with subcutaneous MTX (20 mg/kg/week) and disease activity was assessed based on disease activity scores (DAS) and paw volume (PV) measurements. Red blood cell (RBC) and plasma samples were collected at the end of the study and were assessed for folate and MTX content. Plasma samples were analyzed by semitargeted global metabolomic profiling and analyzed by univariate and multivariate analysis. Treatment with MTX was associated with significant reductions in disease activity based on both DAS (p = 0.0006) and PV (p = 0.0006). MTX therapy resulted in significant reductions in 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (5mTHF) levels in plasma (p = 0.02) and RBCs (p = 0.001). Reductions in both RBC and plasma 5mTHF were associated with lower DAS (p = 0.0007, p = 0.01, respectively) and PV (p = 0.001, p = 0.005, respectively). Increases in RBC MTX were associated with lower DAS (p = 0.003) but not PV (p = 0.23). Metabolomic analysis identified N-methylisoleucine (NMI) and quinolone as metabolites significantly altered in disease mice, which were corrected towards healthy control levels in mice treated with MTX. Reductions in plasma NMI were associated with lower DAS (p = 0.0002) and PV (p = 9.5 x 10-6). Increases in plasma quinolone were associated with lower DAS (p = 0.02) and PV (p = 0.01). Receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis identified plasma NMI (AUC = 1.00, p = 2.4 x 10-8), RBC 5mTHF (AUC = 0.99, p = 2.4 x 10-5), and plasma quinolone (AUC = 0.89, p = 0.01) as top discriminating metabolites of MTX treatment. Our data support a relationship between MTX efficacy and its effect on circulating folates and identified 5mTHF, NMI, and quinolone as potential therapeutic biomarkers of disease activity and MTX response in the CIA mouse model of autoimmune arthritis.
35046942 | Single-Cell Analysis Reveals the Immune Characteristics of Myeloid Cells and Memory T Cells in Recovered COVID-19 Patients With Different Severities. Despite many studies on the immune characteristics of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients in the progression stage, a detailed understanding of pertinent immune cells in recovered patients is lacking. We performed single-cell RNA sequencing on samples from recovered COVID-19 patients and healthy controls. We created a comprehensive immune landscape with more than 260,000 peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 41 samples by integrating our dataset with previously reported datasets, which included samples collected between 27 and 47 days after symptom onset. According to our large-scale single-cell analysis, recovered patients, who had severe symptoms (severe/critical recovered), still exhibited peripheral immune disorders 1-2 months after symptom onset. Specifically, in these severe/critical recovered patients, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II and antigen processing pathways were downregulated in both CD14 monocytes and dendritic cells compared to healthy controls, while the proportion of CD14 monocytes increased. These may lead to the downregulation of T-cell differentiation pathways in memory T cells. However, in the mild/moderate recovered patients, the proportion of plasmacytoid dendritic cells increased compared to healthy controls, accompanied by the upregulation of HLA-DRA and HLA-DRB1 in both CD14 monocytes and dendritic cells. In addition, T-cell differentiation regulation and memory T cell-related genes FOS, JUN, CD69, CXCR4, and CD83 were upregulated in the mild/moderate recovered patients. Further, the immunoglobulin heavy chain V3-21 (IGHV3-21) gene segment was preferred in B-cell immune repertoires in severe/critical recovered patients. Collectively, we provide a large-scale single-cell atlas of the peripheral immune response in recovered COVID-19 patients.
38082192 | Upregulation of tumor suppressor PIAS3 by Honokiol promotes tumor cell apoptosis via selective inhibition of STAT3 tyrosine 705 phosphorylation. The natural product Honokiol exhibits robust antitumor activity against a range of cancers, and it has also received approval to undergo phase I clinical trial testing. We confrmed that honokiol can promote the apoptotic death of tumor cells through cell experiments. Then siRNA constructs specific for PIAS3, PIAS3 overexpression plasmid and the mutation of the STAT3 Tyr705 residue were used to confirm the mechanism of Honokiol-induced apoptosis. Finally, we confrmed that honokiol can promote PIAS3 upregulation, in turn suppressing STAT3 Tyr705 phosphorylation through the in vivo and in vitro experiments. Honokiol was ultimately found to reduce tumor cell viability by promoting apoptosis through a mechanism dependent on the ability of Honokiol to promote PIAS3 upregulation and the selective inhibition of p-STAT3 (Tyr705) without affecting p-STAT3 (Ser727) or p-STAT1 (Tyr701) levels. PIAS3 knockdown and overexpression in tumor cells altered STAT3 activation and associated DNA binding activity through the control of Tyr705 phosphorylation via PIAS3-STAT3 complex formation, ultimately shaping Honokiol-induced tumor cell apoptosis. Honokiol was also confirmed to significantly prolong the survival of mice bearing xenograft tumors in a PIAS3-dependent fashion. Together, these findings highlight a novel pathway through which Honokiol can promote PIAS3 upregulation, in turn suppressing STAT3 Tyr705 phosphorylation and promoting the apoptotic death of tumor cells.
30521142 | Interleukin-32epsilon induces caspase-independent apoptosis mediated by N-Myc interactor in macrophages infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is the pathogen responsible for tuberculosis, a leading cause of illness and death worldwide. Growing evidence suggests that the proinflammatory cytokine IL-32 plays a major role in host defences against pathogens such as Mtb. IL-32 exists in six alternatively spliced isoforms, but antituberculosis effects have been reported only for some of them. In this study, we examined the effect of all six IL-32 isoforms on Mtb replication in the murine macrophage cell line RAW 264.7. Compared with cells transfected with the other isoforms, IL-32epsilon-transfected cells exhibited the strongest antituberculosis effect and the highest rate of Mtb-induced apoptosis. Of note, this apoptosis pathway was independent of caspase-3 activation. Instead, N-Myc interactor (NMI), an inhibitor of Wnt signalling, was a key player in IL-32epsilon-mediated apoptosis by inhibiting Wnt/beta-catenin signalling and thereby activating c-Myc-mediated apoptosis. Moreover, we identified two cis-acting elements that are binding sites for the transcriptional regulators paired box 6 (PAX6) and transcription factor CP2 (TFCP2) in the promoter of NMI and these elements proved essential for IL-32epsilon-induced upregulation of Nmi expression. Furthermore, IL-32epsilon-mediated activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase p38 also contributed to NMI upregulation. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that Mtb infection-induced IL-32epsilon-mediated apoptosis in macrophages plays a key role in host defences against Mtb.
33759814 | Functional genomics study of protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 in mouse hippocampal neuronal cells revealed by RNA sequencing. Protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1), a small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) E3 ligase, was considered to be an inhibitor of STAT1 by inhibiting the DNA-binding activity of STAT1 and blocking STAT1-mediated gene transcription in response to cytokine stimulation. PIAS1 has been determined to be involved in modulating several biological processes such as cell proliferation, DNA damage responses, and inflammatory responses, both in vivo and in vitro. However, the role played by PIAS1 in regulating neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), has not been determined. In our study, significantly different expression levels of PIAS1 between normal controls and AD patients were detected in four regions of the human brain. Based on a functional analysis of Pias1 in undifferentiated mouse hippocampal neuronal HT-22 cells, we observed that the expression levels of several AD marker genes could be inhibited by Pias1 overexpression. Moreover, the proliferation ability of HT-22 cells could be promoted by the overexpression of Pias1. Furthermore, we performed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to evaluate and quantify the gene expression profiles in response to Pias1 overexpression in HT-22 cells. As a result, 285 significantly dysregulated genes, including 79 upregulated genes and 206 downregulated genes, were identified by the comparison of Pias1/+ cells with WT cells. Among these genes, five overlapping genes, including early growth response 1 (Egr1), early growth response 2 (Egr2), early growth response 3 (Egr3), FBJ osteosarcoma oncogene (Fos) and fos-like antigen 1 (Fosl1), were identified by comparison of the transcription factor binding site (TFBS) prediction results for STAT1, whose expression was evaluated by qPCR. Three cell cycle inhibitors, p53, p18 and p21, were significantly downregulated with the overexpression of Pias1. Analysis of functional enrichment and expression levels showed that basic region leucine zipper domain-containing transcription factors including zinc finger C2H2 (zf-C2H2), homeobox and basic/helix-loop-helix (bHLH) in several signaling pathways were significantly involved in PIAS1 regulation in HT-22 cells. A reconstructed regulatory network under PIAS1 overexpression demonstrated that there were 43 related proteins, notably Nr3c2, that directly interacted with PIAS1.
38625657 | Viperin inhibits interferon-gamma production to promote Mycobacterium tuberculosis survival by disrupting TBK1-IKKepsilon-IRF3-axis and JAK-STAT signaling. OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN: As an interferon-inducible protein, Viperin has broad-spectrum antiviral effects and regulation of host immune responses. We aim to investigate how Viperin regulates interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) production in macrophages to control Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection. METHODS: We use Viperin deficient bone-marrow-derived macrophage (BMDM) to investigate the effects and machines of Viperin on Mtb infection. RESULTS: Viperin inhibited IFN-gamma production in macrophages and in the lung of mice to promote Mtb survival. Further insight into the mechanisms of Viperin-mediated regulation of IFN-gamma production revealed the role of TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1), the TAK1-dependent inhibition of NF-kappa B kinase-epsilon (IKKepsilon), and interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3). Inhibition of the TBK1-IKKepsilon-IRF3 axis restored IFN-gamma production reduced by Viperin knockout in BMDM and suppressed intracellular Mtb survival. Moreover, Viperin deficiency activated the Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway, which promoted IFN-gamma production and inhibited Mtb infection in BMDM. Additionally, a combination of the anti-TB drug INH treatment in the absence of Viperin resulted in further IFN-gamma production and anti-TB effect. CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the involvement of TBK1-IKKepsilon-IRF3 axis and JAK-STAT signaling pathways in Viperin-suppressed IFN-gamma production in Mtb infected macrophages, and identifies a novel mechanism of Viperin on negatively regulating host immune response to Mtb infection.
9315472 | IFN-gamma inducibility of class II transactivator is specifically lacking in human tumour lines: relevance to retinoblastoma protein rescue of IFN-gamma inducibility of the HLA class II genes. We have previously reported that HLA class II induction by IFN-gamma is rescuable by reconstitution of functional retinoblastoma protein (RB) in two RB-defective tumour lines: the breast carcinoma line, MDA-468-S4 (S4) and the non-small cell lung carcinoma line, H2009. To determine the range of tumours and tumour types in which RB rescues HLA class II inducibility, we examined another RB-defective tumour line, the retinoblastoma line, WERI-Rb1. As in the case of S4 and H2009, HLA-DRA and -DRB were non-inducible by IFN-gamma in WERI-Rb1. However, neither inducibility of DRA nor DRB mRNA was resulted in an RB-positive stable transformant of WERI-Rb1, WLRB-8. While guanylate-binding protein (GBP) inducibility indicated that the basic IFN-gamma signal transduction pathway remained intact in WERI-Rb1, mRNA for class II transactivator (CIITA), a mediator of the IFN-gamma activation of the HLA class II genes and several other genes related to immune function, was not detectable in IFN-gamma-treated WERI-Rb1, indicating that the lack of CIITA expression was responsible, at least in part, for the inability of RB to rescue HLA class II-inducibility. The HLA class II-associated invariant chain (Ii), the expression of which is also up-regulated by CIITA, was non-inducible in WERI-Rb1, consistent with non-inducible CIITA. Also, IFN-gamma failed to activate the DRA, DRB and Ii promoters in WERI-Rb1. However, exogenous CIITA expression in WERI-Rb1 activated the DRA, DRB and Ii promoter-chloramphinocol acetyltransferase constructs, confirming that CIITA was not induced in WERI-Rb1 and indicating that other proteins required for activation of the class II and Ii promoters were functional in this cell line. Examination of additional cell lines for GBP and CIITA induction revealed that a specific lack of the CIITA IFN-gamma response is common in human tumour lines. The possible role of CIITA defects in tumorigenesis is discussed.
26390157 | TCR-induced sumoylation of the kinase PKC-theta controls T cell synapse organization and T cell activation. Sumoylation regulates many cellular processes, but its role in signaling via the T cell antigen receptor (TCR) remains unknown. We found that the kinase PKC-theta was sumoylated upon costimulation with antigen or via the TCR plus the coreceptor CD28, with Lys325 and Lys506 being the main sumoylation sites. We identified the SUMO E3 ligase PIASxbeta as a ligase for PKC-theta. Analysis of primary mouse and human T cells revealed that sumoylation of PKC-theta was essential for T cell activation. Desumoylation did not affect the catalytic activity of PKC-theta but inhibited the association of CD28 with PKC-theta and filamin A and impaired the assembly of a mature immunological synapse and central co-accumulation of PKC-theta and CD28. Our findings demonstrate that sumoylation controls TCR-proximal signaling and that sumoylation of PKC-theta is essential for the formation of a mature immunological synapse and T cell activation.
32415173 | ROR2 suppresses metastasis of prostate cancer via regulation of miR-199a-5p-PIAS3-AKT2 signaling axis. Bones are the most common metastatic sites for prostate cancer (PCa). Receptor tyrosine kinase-like orphan receptor 2 (ROR2), a noncanonical Wnt receptor, plays crucial roles in skeletal morphogenesis, osteoblast differentiation, and bone formation. The role of ROR2 in PCa metastasis is unclear. We analyzed online datasets from Oncomine as well as using IHC staining on tissue array to determine the relationship between ROR2 expression level and disease outcome of PCa. To investigate how ROR2 regulates migration and invasion of PCa cells, we performed transwell assay and orthotopic xenograft model in nude mice. We then applied the Micro-Western Array (MWA), a high-throughput western blotting platform to analyze the downstream signaling pathways being regulated by ROR2. Compared with nonmalignant PZ-HPV-7 and RWPE-1 cells, PCa cell lines express lower level of ROR2 protein. Constitutive expression of ROR2 in PC-3, DU-145, or C4-2B PCa cells significantly suppressed the cell migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) proteins. MWA, western blotting, and microRNA analysis showed that elevation of ROR2 suppressed the expression of miR-199a-5p, which in turn increased the expression of PIAS3. The upregulation of PIAS3 then decreased AKT2 and the phosphorylation of AKT, resulting in the inhibition of migration and invasion of PCa cells both in vitro and in orthotopic xenograft mice model. IHC staining of tissue array and Oncomine datasets analysis indicated that the gene and protein level of ROR2 is much lower in metastatic prostate tumors as compared with primary tumors or adjacent normal prostate tissues. Low level of ROR2 correlated to poor survival and high recurrent frequency in PCa patients. In conclusion, we discovered that ROR2 suppresses PCa metastasis via regulation of PIAS3-PI3K-AKT2 signaling axis.
22685230 | Moloney murine leukemia virus integrase and reverse transcriptase interact with PML proteins. Pull-down assay and co-immunoprecipitation of cell extracts in which the integrase or reverse transcriptase of Moloney murine leukemia virus was transiently expressed showed that both enzymes interacted with PML proteins. In infected cells, interaction between the integrase and PML was also observed. Transient expression of PIASy and SUMO proteins facilitated SUMOylation of the integrase but had no apparent effects on the interaction with PML. A FLAG-tagged integrase co-localized with PML protein possibly in the PML body. Knockdown of PML by small interfering RNA resulted in reduced viral cDNA levels and integration efficiency. This suggested that PML proteins activated reverse transcription.
26708148 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT xalpha depresses cyclin D and cyclin D kinase, and contributes to the inhibition of osteosarcoma cell progression. Previous studies have shown that protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAs)xalpha is crucial in protein sumoylation and is associated with cancer cell progression. However, the mechanism underlying the inhibitory effect on cancer cells, which may assist in developing novel treatment strategies in cancer remains to be elucidated. In present study, the expression levels of PIAsxalpha from tissue samples of osteosarcoma and adjacent tissues from 25 patients were analyzed using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction, western blot and immunohistochemical analyses. In addition, techniques using an overexpression vector and small interfering (si)RNAs were used to examine the effect of PIAsxalpha on osteosarcoma cells. Finally, using xenograft U2-OS osteosarcoma cells overexpressing PIAsxalpha, the effect of PIAsxalpha on osteosarcoma formation was determined. The results revealed low expression of PIAsxalpha in osteosarcoma tissues. In addition, following overexpression of PIAsxalpha, the apoptotic rates were significantly increased. The rate of G2/M arrest was at the highest level in the overexpression group, compared with other groups assessed. Furthermore, the expression levels of cyclin D1 and cyclin D3 were inhibited following PIAsxalpha increase, indicating the repressive effects of PIAsxalpha on cell cycle. Accordingly, cyclin D kinase (CDK) genes, including CDK4, CDK6 and CDK8, increased markedly following treatment with PIAsxalpha siRNAs. The expression levels of CDK4, CDK6 and CDK8 decreased significantly in the overexpression group, compared to the other groups. Furthermore, high expression levels of PIAsxalpha inhibited tumor formation in a nude mouse model. Taken together, these findings provide evidence for the effects of PIAsxalpha and its mechanism on osteosarcoma progression, which offers novel insight into sumoylation and the cell cycle in osteosarcoma.
31208233 | Hormonal and spatial control of SUMOylation in the human and mouse adrenal cortex. SUMOylation is a highly conserved and dynamic post-translational mechanism primarily affecting nuclear programs for adapting organisms to stressful challenges. Alteration of SUMOylation cycles leads to severe developmental and homeostatic defects and malignancy, but signals coordinating SUMOylation are still unidentified. The adrenal cortex is a zonated endocrine gland that controls body homeostasis and stress response. Here, we show that in human and in mouse adrenals, SUMOylation follows a decreasing centripetal gradient that mirrors cortical differentiation flow and delimits highly and weakly SUMOylated steroidogenic compartments, overlapping glomerulosa, and fasciculata zones. Activation of PKA signaling by acute hormonal treatment, mouse genetic engineering, or in Carney complex results in repression of small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) conjugation in the inner cortex by coordinating expression of SUMO pathway inducers and repressors. Conversely, genetic activation of canonical wingless-related integration site signaling maintains high SUMOylation potential in the outer neoplastic cortex. Thus, SUMOylation is tightly regulated by signaling pathways that orchestrate adrenal zonation and diseases.-Dumontet, T., Sahut-Barnola, I., Dufour, D., Lefrancois-Martinez, A.-M., Berthon, A., Montanier, N., Ragazzon, B., Djari, C., Pointud, J.-C., Roucher-Boulez, F., Batisse-Lignier, M., Tauveron, I., Bertherat, J., Val, P., Martinez, A. Hormonal and spatial control of SUMOylation in the human and mouse adrenal cortex.
15956336 | Disruption of the murine PIASx gene results in reduced testis weight. PIASx belongs to the PIAS protein family, the members of which modulate activities of several transcription factors and act as E3 ligases in the sumoylation pathway. The PIASx gene is highly expressed in testis, suggesting a role in spermatogenesis. To investigate the function of PIASx in vivo, we have disrupted the PIASx gene in mice. Interestingly, the knockout mice were viable and fertile. Despite the normal fertility, the testis weight of the mutant animals was reduced and their number of apoptotic testicular cells was increased. Also, the sperm count of mutant mice tended to be reduced, but the quality of their sperm cells was normal. No significant changes were observed in the serum levels of LH and FSH or in the intratesticular testosterone concentration between the knockout animals and their wild-type littermates. Compensatory increases in other PIAS protein mRNAs were not observed in the knockout mice. These results imply that PIASx is required quantitatively rather than qualitatively for normal spermatogenesis.
25425577 | A dysregulated acetyl/SUMO switch of FXR promotes hepatic inflammation in obesity. Acetylation of transcriptional regulators is normally dynamically regulated by nutrient status but is often persistently elevated in nutrient-excessive obesity conditions. We investigated the functional consequences of such aberrantly elevated acetylation of the nuclear receptor FXR as a model. Proteomic studies identified K217 as the FXR acetylation site in diet-induced obese mice. In vivo studies utilizing acetylation-mimic and acetylation-defective K217 mutants and gene expression profiling revealed that FXR acetylation increased proinflammatory gene expression, macrophage infiltration, and liver cytokine and triglyceride levels, impaired insulin signaling, and increased glucose intolerance. Mechanistically, acetylation of FXR blocked its interaction with the SUMO ligase PIASy and inhibited SUMO2 modification at K277, resulting in activation of inflammatory genes. SUMOylation of agonist-activated FXR increased its interaction with NF-kappaB but blocked that with RXRalpha, so that SUMO2-modified FXR was selectively recruited to and trans-repressed inflammatory genes without affecting FXR/RXRalpha target genes. A dysregulated acetyl/SUMO switch of FXR in obesity may serve as a general mechanism for diminished anti-inflammatory response of other transcriptional regulators and provide potential therapeutic and diagnostic targets for obesity-related metabolic disorders.
32249212 | SUMOylation of the transcription factor ZFHX3 at Lys-2806 requires SAE1, UBC9, and PIAS2 and enhances its stability and function in cell proliferation. SUMOylation is a posttranslational modification (PTM) at a lysine residue and is crucial for the proper functions of many proteins, particularly of transcription factors, in various biological processes. Zinc finger homeobox 3 (ZFHX3), also known as AT motif-binding factor 1 (ATBF1), is a large transcription factor that is active in multiple pathological processes, including atrial fibrillation and carcinogenesis, and in circadian regulation and development. We have previously demonstrated that ZFHX3 is SUMOylated at three or more lysine residues. Here, we investigated which enzymes regulate ZFHX3 SUMOylation and whether SUMOylation modulates ZFHX3 stability and function. We found that SUMO1, SUMO2, and SUMO3 each are conjugated to ZFHX3. Multiple lysine residues in ZFHX3 were SUMOylated, but Lys-2806 was the major SUMOylation site, and we also found that it is highly conserved among ZFHX3 orthologs from different animal species. Using molecular analyses, we identified the enzymes that mediate ZFHX3 SUMOylation; these included SUMO1-activating enzyme subunit 1 (SAE1), an E1-activating enzyme; SUMO-conjugating enzyme UBC9 (UBC9), an E2-conjugating enzyme; and protein inhibitor of activated STAT2 (PIAS2), an E3 ligase. Multiple analyses established that both SUMO-specific peptidase 1 (SENP1) and SENP2 deSUMOylate ZFHX3. SUMOylation at Lys-2806 enhanced ZFHX3 stability by interfering with its ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. Functionally, Lys-2806 SUMOylation enabled ZFHX3-mediated cell proliferation and xenograft tumor growth of the MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell line. These findings reveal the enzymes involved in, and the functional consequences of, ZFHX3 SUMOylation, insights that may help shed light on ZFHX3's roles in various cellular and pathophysiological processes.
34857740 | PIAS1 alleviates diabetic peripheral neuropathy through SUMOlation of PPAR-gamma and miR-124-induced downregulation of EZH2/STAT3. Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is a frequently occurring chronic complication of diabetes. In this study, we aim to explore the regulatory mechanism of protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 (PIAS1) in DPN in terms of autophagy and apoptosis of Schwann cells. The SUMOlation of PPAR-gamma by PIAS1 was examined, and ChIP was performed to verify the binding of PPAR-gamma to miR-124 promoter region. Dual-luciferase gene reporter assay was used to validate the binding affinity between miR-124 and EZH2/STAT3. Following loss- and gain-of-function experiments, in vitro assays in high glucose-treated Schwann cells (SC4) and in vivo assays in db/db and ob/ob mice were performed to detect the effects of PIAS1 on autophagy and apoptosis of Schwann cells as well as symptoms of DPN by regulating the PPAR-gamma-miR-124-EZH2/STAT3. The expression of PIAS1, PPAR-gamma, and miR-124 was downregulated in the sciatic nerve tissue of diabetic mice. PIAS1 enhanced the expression of PPAR-gamma through direct binding and SUMOlation of PPAR-gamma. PPAR-gamma enhanced the expression of miR-124 by enhancing the promoter activity of miR-124. Furthermore, miR-124 targeted and inversely modulated EZH2 and STAT3, promoting the autophagy of Schwann cells and inhibiting their apoptosis. In vivo experiments further substantiated that PIAS1 could promote the autophagy and inhibit the apoptosis of Schwann cells through the PPAR-gamma-miR-124-EZH2/STAT3 axis. In conclusion, PIAS1 promoted SUMOlation of PPAR-gamma to stabilize PPAR-gamma expression, which upregulated miR-124 to inactivate EZH2/STAT3, thereby inhibiting apoptosis and promoting autophagy of Schwann cells to suppress the development of DPN.
35363257 | Intermittent prednisone treatment in mice promotes exercise tolerance in obesity through adiponectin. The fat-muscle communication regulates metabolism and involves circulating signals like adiponectin. Modulation of this cross-talk could benefit muscle bioenergetics and exercise tolerance in conditions like obesity. Chronic daily intake of exogenous glucocorticoids produces or exacerbates metabolic stress, often leading to obesity. In stark contrast to the daily intake, we discovered that intermittent pulses of glucocorticoids improve dystrophic muscle metabolism. However, the underlying mechanisms, particularly in the context of obesity, are still largely unknown. Here we report that in mice with diet-induced obesity, intermittent once-weekly prednisone increased total and high-molecular weight adiponectin levels and improved exercise tolerance and energy expenditure. These effects were dependent upon adiponectin, as shown by genetic ablation of the adipokine. Upregulation of Adipoq occurred through the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), as this effect was blocked by inducible GR ablation in adipocytes. The treatment increased the muscle metabolic response of adiponectin through the CAMKK2-AMPK cascade. Our study demonstrates that intermittent glucocorticoids produce healthful metabolic remodeling in diet-induced obesity.
27162139 | Ubiquitin E3 ligase FIEL1 regulates fibrotic lung injury through SUMO-E3 ligase PIAS4. The E3 small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) protein ligase protein inhibitor of activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) is a pivotal protein in regulating the TGFbeta pathway. In this study, we discovered a new protein isoform encoded by KIAA0317, termed fibrosis-inducing E3 ligase 1 (FIEL1), which potently stimulates the TGFbeta signaling pathway through the site-specific ubiquitination of PIAS4. FIEL1 targets PIAS4 using a double locking mechanism that is facilitated by the kinases PKCzeta and GSK3beta. Specifically, PKCzeta phosphorylation of PIAS4 and GSK3beta phosphorylation of FIEL1 are both essential for the degradation of PIAS4. FIEL1 protein is highly expressed in lung tissues from patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), whereas PIAS4 protein levels are significantly reduced. FIEL1 overexpression significantly increases fibrosis in a bleomycin murine model, whereas FIEL1 knockdown attenuates fibrotic conditions. Further, we developed a first-in-class small molecule inhibitor toward FIEL1 that is highly effective in ameliorating fibrosis in mice. This study provides a basis for IPF therapeutic intervention by modulating PIAS4 protein abundance.
26083374 | SUMOylation Blocks the Ubiquitin-Mediated Degradation of the Nephronophthisis Gene Product Glis2/NPHP7. Glis2/NPHP7 is a transcriptional regulator mutated in type 7 nephronophthisis, an autosomal recessive ciliopathy associated with cystic and fibrotic kidney disease as well as characteristic extrarenal manifestations. While most ciliopathy-associated molecules are found in the cilium, Glis2/NPHP7 presumably localizes to the nucleus. However, the detection of endogenous Glis2/NPHP7 has remained unsuccessful, potentially due to its ubiquitylation-dependent rapid degradation. We report now that Glis2/NPHP7 is also SUMOylated, preferentially by PIAS4, which conjugates Glis2/NPHP7 to SUMO3. SUMOylation interferes with ubiquitylation and degradation of Glis2/NPHP7, suggesting that Glis2/NPHP7 protein levels are regulated by competing ubiquitylation/ SUMOylation. SUMOylation also alters the transcriptional activity of Glis2/NPHP7. While Glis2/NPHP7 activates the mouse insulin-2-promotor (mIns2), SUMOylated Glis2/NPHP7 lacks this property, and seems to act as a repressor. Taken together, our data reveal that Glis2/NPHP7 is extensively modified by post-translational modifications, suggesting that a tight control of this transcriptional regulator is required for normal development and tissue homeostasis.
21961235 | [Screening PIAS2-interacting proteins in the mouse using the yeast two-hybrid system]. OBJECTIVE: To screen and identify PIAS2-interacting proteins from the mouse spermatogonial cDNA library using the yeast two-hybrid system, and to investigate the action mechanism of PIAS2 in spermatogenesis. METHODS: With pGBKT7-PIAS2 as a bait plasmid, the positive clones interacting with pGBKT7-PIAS2 were screened from the mouse spermatogonial cDNA library, the inserted fragments were sequenced and underwent bioinformatic analysis, and their interaction was verified using the yeast two-hybrid system. RESULTS: Through screening, sequencing, homology analysis and yeast two-hybrid verification, we obtained 8 different candidate proteins interacting with PIAS2, including Cyfip2, Psmb3, Nmel, nischarin, Ints10, Nsun5, Gnb211 and Ndufaf3. CONCLUSION: Eight different genes were successfully obtained using the yeast two-hybrid system, and their encoding proteins interacted with PIAS2, which might be related with male fertility regulation. Our findings have offered some new clues to the action mechanism of PIAS2 in spermatogenesis.
23704280 | A SUMOylation-dependent pathway regulates SIRT1 transcription and lung cancer metastasis. BACKGROUND: Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays a pivotal role in lung cancer metastasis. The class III deacetylase sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) possesses both pro- and anticarcinogenic properties. The role of SIRT1 in lung cancer EMT is largely undefined. METHODS: The effect of SIRT1 on migration of lung cancer cells was evaluated by wound healing assay in vitro and metastasis assay in nude mice in vivo. Protein expression in human lung cancers and cultured lung cancer cells was assessed by western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Interaction between protein and DNA was measured by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. SIRT1 promoter activity was determined by reporter assay. RESULTS: SIRT1 activation antagonized migration of lung cancer cells by suppressing EMT in vitro. Activation of SIRT1 by resveratrol also statistically significantly hampered (by 68.33%; P < .001, two-sided test) lung cancer cell metastasis in vivo. Hypoxia repressed SIRT1 transcription through promoting the competition between Sp1 and HIC1 on the SIRT1 proximal promoter in a SUMOylation-dependent manner. Disruption of SUMOylation by targeting either Ubc9 or PIASy restored SIRT1 expression in and favored an epithelial-like phenotype of cancer cells, thereby preventing metastasis. Decreased SIRT1 combined with elevated PIASy expression was implicated in more-invasive types of lung cancers in humans. CONCLUSIONS: We have identified a novel pathway that links SIRT1 down-regulation to hypoxia-induced EMT in lung cancer cells and may shed light on the development of novel antitumor therapeutics.
38348040 | Evolutionary and functional characterization of lagomorph guanylate-binding proteins: a story of gain and loss and shedding light on expression, localization and innate immunity-related functions. Guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are an evolutionarily ancient family of proteins that are widely distributed among eukaryotes. They belong to the dynamin superfamily of GTPases, and their expression can be partially induced by interferons (IFNs). GBPs are involved in the cell-autonomous innate immune response against bacterial, parasitic and viral infections. Evolutionary studies have shown that GBPs exhibit a pattern of gene gain and loss events, indicative for the birth-and-death model of evolution. Most species harbor large GBP gene clusters that encode multiple paralogs. Previous functional and in-depth evolutionary studies have mainly focused on murine and human GBPs. Since rabbits are another important model system for studying human diseases, we focus here on lagomorphs to broaden our understanding of the multifunctional GBP protein family by conducting evolutionary analyses and performing a molecular and functional characterization of rabbit GBPs. We observed that lagomorphs lack GBP3, 6 and 7. Furthermore, Leporidae experienced a loss of GBP2, a unique duplication of GBP5 and a massive expansion of GBP4. Gene expression analysis by reverse transcriptase quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and transcriptome data revealed that leporid GBP expression varied across tissues. Overexpressed rabbit GBPs localized either uniformly and/or discretely to the cytoplasm and/or to the nucleus. Oryctolagus cuniculus (oc)GBP5L1 and rarely ocGBP5L2 were an exception, colocalizing with the trans-Golgi network (TGN). In addition, four ocGBPs were IFN-inducible and only ocGBP5L2 inhibited furin activity. In conclusion, from an evolutionary perspective, lagomorph GBPs experienced multiple gain and loss events, and the molecular and functional characteristics of ocGBP suggest a role in innate immunity.
37481182 | Therapeutic efficacy and underlying mechanisms of Gastrodia elata polysaccharides on dextran sulfate sodium-induced inflammatory bowel disease in mice: Modulation of the gut microbiota and improvement of metabolic disorders. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic inflammatory gastrointestinal disease, and an imbalance in the gut microbiota is a critical factor in its development. Gastrodia elata (G. elata), an Orchidaceae plant, is recognized for its nutritional and medicinal value. Studies have shown that G. elata polysaccharides (GBP) have anti-inflammatory properties that may ameliorate IBD. However, the therapeutic effects of GBP on gut microbiota metabolism remain unknown. Therefore, we aimed to examine the therapeutic potential of G. elata extract and GBP in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced IBD mice. GBP demonstrated the best therapeutic effect by reducing IBD symptoms in mice to the greatest extent. Administering GBP resulted in significant increases in the relative abundances of bacteria with potential anti-inflammatory effects, such as Ligilactobacillus and Alloprevotella, and decreases in the levels of bacteria associated with proinflammatory responses, such as Bacteroides and Escherichia-Shigella. Furthermore, 36 significant differential metabolites between the model and GBP groups were identified in feces, which were mainly enriched in amino acid metabolism, including tryptophan and cysteine, vitamin B6 metabolism and steroid hormone biosynthesis. Consequently, investigating the metabolic regulation of the gut microbiota is a promising approach to evaluate the therapeutic effect of GBP on IBD.
38641823 | Listeria-vectored cervical cancer vaccine candidate strains reduce MDSCs via the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. BACKGROUND: Immunosuppressive status is prevalent in cancer patients and increases the complexity of tumor immunotherapy. It has been found that Listeria-vectored tumor vaccines had the potential ability of two-side regulatory effect on the immune response during immunotherapy. RESULTS: The results show that the combined immunotherapy with the LM E6E7 and LI E6E7, the two cervical cancer vaccine candidate strains constructed by our lab, improves the antitumor immune response and inhibits the suppressive immune response in tumor-bearing mice in vivo, confirming the two-sided regulatory ability of the immune response caused by Listeria-vectored tumor vaccines. The immunotherapy reduces the expression level of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs)-inducing factors and then inhibits the phosphorylation level of STAT3 protein, the regulatory factor of MDSCs differentiation, to reduce the MDSCs formation ability. Moreover, vaccines reduce the expression of functional molecules associated with MDSCs may by inhibiting the phosphorylation level of the JAK1-STAT1 and JAK2-STAT3 pathways in tumor tissues to attenuate the immunosuppressive function of MDSCs. CONCLUSIONS: Immunotherapy with Listeria-vectored cervical cancer vaccines significantly reduces the level and function of MDSCs in vivo, which is the key point to the destruction of immunosuppression. The study for the first to elucidate the mechanism of breaking the immunosuppression.
36251411 | Integrative transcriptome analysis reveals TEKT2 and PIAS2 involvement in diabetic nephropathy. Cell heterogeneity has impeded the accurate interpretation of the bulk transcriptome data from patients with diabetic nephropathy (DN). We performed an analysis by integrating bulk and single-cell transcriptome datasets to uncover novel mechanisms leading to DN, especially in the podocytes. Microdissected glomeruli and tubules transcriptome datasets were selected from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). Then the consistency between datasets was evaluated. The analysis of the bulk dataset and single-nucleus RNA dataset was integrated to reveal the cell type-specific responses to DN. The candidate genes were validated in kidney tissues from DN patients and diabetic mice. We compared 4 glomerular and 4 tubular datasets and found considerable discrepancies among datasets regarding the deferentially expressed genes (DEGs), involved signaling pathways, and the hallmark enrichment profiles. Deconvolution of the bulk data revealed that the variations in cell-type proportion contributed greatly to this discrepancy. The integrative analysis uncovered that the dysregulation of spermatogenesis-related genes, including TEKT2 and PIAS2, was involved in the development of DN. Importantly, the mRNA level of TEKT2 was negatively correlated with the mRNA levels of NPHS1 (r = -.66, p < .0001) and NPHS2 (r = -.85, p < .0001) in human diabetic glomeruli. Immunostaining confirmed that the expression of TEKT2 and PIAS2 were up-regulated in podocytes of DN patients and diabetic mice. Knocking down TEKT2 resisted high glucose-induced cytoskeletal remodeling and down-regulation of NPHS1 protein in the cultured podocyte. In conclusion, the integrative strategy can help us efficiently use the publicly available transcriptomics resources. Using this approach and combining it with classical research methods, we identified TEKT2 and PIAS2, two spermatogenesis-related genes involved in the pathogenesis of DN. Furthermore, TEKT2 is involved in this pathogenesis by regulating the podocyte cytoskeleton.
7130088 | Confirmatory method for N-nitrosodimethylamine and N-nitrosopyrrolidine in food by multiple ion analysis with gas chromatography-low resolution mass spectrometry before and after ultraviolet photolysis. A confirmatory procedure is described for determining N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) and N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR) in bacon, beer, and malt by gas chromatography-low resolution quadrupole mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The presence of 3 monitored ions, m/z 30, 42, and 74 for NDMA, and m/z 30, 42, and 100 for NPYR, before and disappearance after photolysis under UV light at 365 nm without quantitation of peak areas was considered confirmatory evidence for their presence. The extracts, obtained by mineral oil distillation methods for bacon and malt, and dry column methods for bacon and beer, underwent cleanup procedures before capillary GC-MS analysis. Less than 100 ng nitrosamine in the total extract, or approximately 2 ng NDMA or 3 ng NPYR injected into the GC-MS instrument, can be confirmed by this method. This technique should also be applicable for other volatile nitrosamines.
38566145 | Double-negative T cells ameliorate psoriasis by selectively inhibiting IL-17A-producing gammadeltalow T cells. BACKGROUND: Psoriasis is a chronic immune-mediated skin condition. Although biologic treatments are effective in controlling psoriasis, some patients do not respond or lose response to these therapies. Thus, new strategies for psoriasis treatment are still urgently needed. Double-negative T cells (DNT) play a significant immunoregulatory role in autoimmune diseases. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the protective effect of DNT in psoriasis and explore the underlying mechanism. METHODS: We conducted a single adoptive transfer of DNT into an imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasis mouse model through tail vein injection. The skin inflammation and IL-17A producing gammadelta T cells were evaluated. RESULTS: DNT administration significantly reduced the inflammatory response in mouse skin, characterized by decreased skin folds, scales, and red patches. After DNT treatment, the secretion of IL-17A by RORc+ gammadeltalow T cells in the skin was selectively suppressed, resulting in an amelioration of skin inflammation. Transcriptomic data suggested heightened expression of NKG2D ligands in gammadeltalow T cells within the mouse model of psoriasis induced by IMQ. When blocking the NKG2D ligand and NKG2D (expressed by DNT) interaction, the cytotoxic efficacy of DNT against RORc+IL17A+ gammadeltalow T cells was attenuated. Using Ccr5-/- DNT for treatment yielded evidence that DNT migrates into inflamed skin tissue and fails to protect IMQ-induced skin lesions. CONCLUSIONS: DNT could migrate to inflamed skin tissue through CCR5, selectively inhibit IL-17-producing gammadeltalow T cells and finally ameliorate mouse psoriasis. Our study provides feasibility for using immune cell therapy for the prevention and treatment of psoriasis in the clinic.
37290620 | CXCR4 expression is elevated in TNBC patient derived samples and Z-guggulsterone abrogates tumor progression by targeting CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling axis in preclinical breast cancer model. Environmental factors such as exposure to ionizing radiations, certain environmental pollutants, and toxic chemicals are considered as risk factors in the development of breast cancer. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a molecular variant of breast cancer that lacks therapeutic targets such as progesterone receptor, estrogen receptor, and human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 which makes the targeted therapy ineffective in TNBC patients. Therefore, identification of new therapeutic targets for the treatment of TNBC and the discovery of new therapeutic agents is the need of the hour. In this study, CXCR4 was found to be highly expressed in majority of breast cancer tissues and metastatic lymph nodes derived from TNBC patients. CXCR4 expression is positively correlated with breast cancer metastasis and poor prognosis of TNBC patients suggesting that suppression of CXCR4 expression could be a good strategy in the treatment of TNBC patients. Therefore, the effect of Z-guggulsterone (ZGA) on the expression of CXCR4 in TNBC cells was examined. ZGA downregulated protein and mRNA expression of CXCR4 in TNBC cells and proteasome inhibition or lysosomal stabilization had no effect on the ZGA-induced CXCR4 reduction. CXCR4 is under the transcriptional control of NF-kappaB, whereas ZGA was found to downregulate transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB. Functionally, ZGA downmodulated the CXCL12-driven migration/invasion in TNBC cells. Additionally, the effect of ZGA on growth of tumor was investigated in the orthotopic TNBC mice model. ZGA presented good inhibition of tumor growth and liver/lung metastasis in this model. Western blotting and immunohistochemical analysis indicated a reduction of CXCR4, NF-kappaB, and Ki67 in tumor tissues. Computational analysis suggested PXR agonism and FXR antagonism as targets of ZGA. In conclusion, CXCR4 was found to be overexpressed in majority of patient-derived TNBC tissues and ZGA abrogated the growth of TNBC tumors by partly targeting the CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling axis.
37546987 | Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is necessary for GBP-mediated T. gondii restriction in murine macrophages via vacuole nitration and intravacuolar network collapse. Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular, protozoan pathogen of rodents and humans. T. gondii's ability to grow within cells and evade cell-autonomous immunity depends on the integrity of the parasitophorous vacuole (PV). Interferon-inducible guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are central mediators of T. gondii clearance, however, the precise mechanism linking GBP recruitment to the PV and T. gondii restriction is not clear. This knowledge gap is linked to heterogenous GBP-targeting across a population of vacuoles and the lack of tools to selectively purify the intact PV. To identify mediators of parasite clearance associated with GBP2-positive vacuoles, we employed a novel protein discovery tool automated spatially targeted optical micro proteomics (autoSTOMP). This approach identified inducible nitric oxide synthetase (iNOS) enriched at levels similar to the GBPs in infected bone marrow-derived myeloid cells. iNOS expression on myeloid cells was necessary for mice to control T. gondii growth in vivo and survive acute infection. T. gondii infection of IFNgamma-primed macrophage was sufficient to robustly induce iNOS expression. iNOS restricted T. gondii infection through nitric oxide synthesis rather than arginine depletion, leading to robust and selective nitration of the PV. Optimal parasite restriction by iNOS and vacuole nitration depended on the chromosome 3 GBPs. Notably, GBP2 recruitment and ruffling of the PV membrane occurred in iNOS knockouts, however, these vacuoles contained dividing parasites. iNOS activity was necessary for the collapse of the intravacuolar network of nanotubular membranes which connects parasites to each other and the host cytosol. Based on these data we conclude reactive nitrogen species generated by iNOS cooperate with the chromosome 3 GBPs to target distinct biology of the PV that are necessary for optimal parasite clearance in murine myeloid cells.
35256747 | Tricyclic antidepressants target FKBP51 SUMOylation to restore glucocorticoid receptor activity. FKBP51 is an important inhibitor of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) signaling. High FKBP51 levels are associated to stress-related disorders, which are linked to GR resistance. SUMO conjugation to FKBP51 is necessary for FKBP51's inhibitory action on GR. The GR/FKBP51 pathway is target of antidepressant action. Thus we investigated if these drugs could inhibit FKBP51 SUMOylation and therefore restore GR activity. Screening cells using Ni2+ affinity and in vitro SUMOylation assays revealed that tricyclic antidepressants- particularly clomipramine- inhibited FKBP51 SUMOylation. Our data show that clomipramine binds to FKBP51 inhibiting its interaction with PIAS4 and therefore hindering its SUMOylation. The inhibition of FKBP51 SUMOylation decreased its binding to Hsp90 and GR facilitating FKBP52 recruitment, and enhancing GR activity. Reduction of PIAS4 expression in rat primary astrocytes impaired FKBP51 interaction with GR, while clomipramine could no longer exert its inhibitory action. This mechanism was verified in vivo in mice treated with clomipramine. These results describe the action of antidepressants as repressors of FKBP51 SUMOylation as a molecular switch for restoring GR sensitivity, thereby providing new potential routes of antidepressant intervention.
36162807 | Single-cell RNA-seq reveals interferon-induced guanylate-binding proteins are linked with sarcopenia. BACKGROUND: Sarcopenia is defined as an age-related progressive loss of muscle mass and/or strength. Although different factors can contribute to this disease, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We assessed transcriptional heterogeneity in skeletal muscles from sarcopenic and control mice at single-cell resolution. METHODS: A mouse model was established to study sarcopenic skeletal muscles. Single-cell RNA-seq was performed on tibialis anterior (TA) muscle cells collected from sarcopenic and control mice. A series of bioinformatic analyses were carried out to identify and compare different cell types under different conditions. Immunofluorescence staining and western blotting were used to validate the findings from single-cell experiments. Tube formation assays were conducted to further evaluate the effects of Gbp2 on endothelial cells during angiogenesis. RESULTS: A murine sarcopenia model was successfully established using a senescence-accelerated mouse strain (SAMP6, n = 5). Sarcopenia phenotype was induced by administration of dexamethasone (20 mg/kg) and reduced physical activity. Senescence-resistant mice strain (SAMR1) and SAMP6 strain with similar activity but injected with PBS were recruited as two control groups. As signs of sarcopenia, body weight, muscle cell counts and cross-sectional fibre area were all significantly decreased in sarcopenic mice (P value = 0.004, 0.03 and 0.035, respectively). After quality control, 13 612 TA muscle single-cell transcriptomes were retained for analysis. Fourteen cell clusters were identified from the profiled cells. Among them, two distinct endothelial subtypes were found to be dominant in the sarcopenia group (42.2% cells) and in the two control groups (59.1% and 47.9% cells), respectively. 191 differentially expressed genes were detected between the two endothelial subtypes. Sarcopenia-specific endothelial cell subtype exhibited a dramatic increase in the interferon family genes and the interferon-inducible guanylate-binding protein (GBP) family gene expressions. For example, Igtp and Gbp2 in sarcopenic endothelial cells were 5.4 and 13.3 times higher than those in the control groups, respectively. We further validated our findings in muscle specimens of sarcopenia patients and observed that GBP2 levels were increased in endothelial cells of a subset of patients (11 of 40 patients, 27.5%), and we identified significantly higher CD31 and GBP2 co-localization (P value = 0.001128). Finally, we overexpressed Gbp2 in human umbilical vein endothelial cells in vitro. The endothelial cells with elevated Gbp2 expression displayed compromised tube formation. CONCLUSIONS: Our single-cell-based results suggested that endothelial cells may play critical roles in sarcopenia development through interferon-GBP signalling pathways, highlighting new therapeutic directions to slow down or even reverse age-related sarcopenia.
21447800 | c-MYC suppresses BIN1 to release poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1: a mechanism by which cancer cells acquire cisplatin resistance. Cancer cells acquire resistance to DNA-damaging therapeutic agents, such as cisplatin, but the genetic mechanisms through which this occurs remain unclear. We show that the c-MYC oncoprotein increases cisplatin resistance by decreasing production of the c-MYC inhibitor BIN1 (bridging integrator 1). The sensitivity of cancer cells to cisplatin depended on BIN1 abundance, regardless of the p53 gene status. BIN1 bound to the automodification domain of and suppressed the catalytic activity of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1, EC 2.4.2.30), an enzyme essential for DNA repair, thereby reducing the stability of the genome. The inhibition of PARP1 activity was sufficient for BIN1 to suppress c-MYC-mediated transactivation, the G(2)-M transition, and cisplatin resistance. Conversely, overexpressed c-MYC repressed BIN1 expression by blocking its activation by the MYC-interacting zinc finger transcription factor 1 (MIZ1) and thereby released PARP1 activity. Thus, a c-MYC-mediated positive feedback loop may contribute to cancer cell resistance to cisplatin.
32209106 | DDX39B interacts with the pattern recognition receptor pathway to inhibit NF-kappaB and sensitize to alkylating chemotherapy. BACKGROUND: Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) plays a prominent role in promoting inflammation and resistance to DNA damaging therapy. We searched for proteins that modulate the NF-kappaB response as a prerequisite to identifying novel factors that affect sensitivity to DNA damaging chemotherapy. RESULTS: Using streptavidin-agarose pull-down, we identified the DExD/H-box RNA helicase, DDX39B, as a factor that differentially interacts with kappaB DNA probes. Subsequently, using both RNA interference and CRISPR/Cas9 technology, we demonstrated that DDX39B inhibits NF-kappaB activity by a general mechanism involving inhibition of p65 phosphorylation. Mechanistically, DDX39B mediates this effect by interacting with the pattern recognition receptor (PRR), LGP2, a pathway that required the cellular response to cytoplasmic double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). From a functional standpoint, loss of DDX39B promoted resistance to alkylating chemotherapy in glioblastoma cells. Further examination of DDX39B demonstrated that its protein abundance was regulated by site-specific sumoylation that promoted its poly-ubiquitination and degradation. These post-translational modifications required the presence of the SUMO E3 ligase, PIASx-beta. Finally, genome-wide analysis demonstrated that despite the link to the PRR system, DDX39B did not generally inhibit interferon-stimulated gene expression, but rather acted to attenuate expression of factors associated with the extracellular matrix, cellular migration, and angiogenesis. CONCLUSIONS: These results identify DDX39B, a factor with known functions in mRNA splicing and nuclear export, as an RNA-binding protein that blocks a subset of the inflammatory response. While these findings identify a pathway by which DDX39B promotes sensitization to DNA damaging therapy, the data also reveal a mechanism by which this helicase may act to mitigate autoimmune disease.
35717025 | Impact of circadian time of dosing on cardiomyocyte-autonomous effects of glucocorticoids. OBJECTIVE: Mitochondrial capacity is critical to adapt the high energy demand of the heart to circadian oscillations and diseased states. Glucocorticoids regulate the circadian cycle of energy metabolism, but little is known about how circadian timing of exogenous glucocorticoid dosing directly regulates heart metabolism through cardiomyocyte-autonomous mechanisms. While chronic once-daily intake of glucocorticoids promotes metabolic stress and heart failure, we recently discovered that intermittent once-weekly dosing of exogenous glucocorticoids promoted muscle metabolism in normal and obese skeletal muscle. However, the effects of glucocorticoid intermittence on heart metabolism and heart failure remain unknown. Here we investigated the extent to which circadian time of dosing regulates the effects of the glucocorticoid prednisone in heart metabolism and function in conditions of single pulse or chronic intermittent dosing. METHODS AND RESULTS: In WT mice, we found that prednisone improved cardiac content of NAD+ and ATP with light-phase dosing (ZT0), while the effects were blocked by dark-phase dosing (ZT12). The drug effects on mitochondrial function were cardiomyocyte-autonomous, as shown by inducible cardiomyocyte-restricted glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ablation, and depended on an intact cardiomyocyte clock, as shown by inducible cardiomyocyte-restricted ablation of Brain and Muscle ARNT-like 1 (BMAL1). Conjugating time-of-dosing with chronic intermittence, we found that once-weekly prednisone improved metabolism and function in heart after myocardial injury dependent on circadian time of intake, i.e. with light-phase but not dark-phase dosing. CONCLUSIONS: Our study identifies cardiac-autonomous mechanisms through which circadian-specific intermittent dosing reconverts glucocorticoid drugs to metabolic boosters for the heart.
30232347 | Molecular hydrogen protects against ischemia-reperfusion injury in a mouse fatty liver model via regulating HO-1 and Sirt1 expression. Fatty liver has lower tolerance against ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in liver operations, including liver transplantation. Seeking to ameliorate liver injury following I/R in fatty liver, we examined the protective effect of hydrogen (H2) saline on I/R liver injury in a methionine and choline-deficient plus high fat (MCDHF) diet-induced fatty liver mouse model. Saline containing 7 ppm H2 was administrated during the process of I/R. Livers were obtained and analyzed. Primary hepatocytes and Kupffer cells (KCs) were obtained from fatty liver and subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation. Apoptosis-related proteins and components of the signaling pathway were analyzed after treatment with hydrogen gas. The MCDHF I/R group showed higher levels of AST and ALT in serum, TUNEL-positive apoptotic cells, F4/80 immunopositive cells, mRNA levels of inflammatory cytokines, constituents of the signaling pathway, pro-apoptotic molecules in liver, and KCs and/or primary hepatocytes, compared to the control group. In contrast, H2 treatment significantly suppressed the signs of I/R injury in fatty liver. Moreover, the expression of Bcl-2, HO-1, and Sirt1 in liver, KCs, and hepatocytes by hydrogen gas were increased, whereas caspase activation, Bax, and acetylation of p53 were suppressed by hydrogen gas. These results demonstrated that H2 treatment ameliorated I/R liver injury in a fatty liver model by reducing hepatocyte apoptosis, inhibiting macrophage activation and inflammatory cytokines, and inducing HO-1 and Sirt1 expression. Taken togather, treatment with H2 saline may have a protective effect and safe therapeutic activity during I/R events, such as in liver transplantation with fatty liver.
39204726 | Olive Leaf Mottling Virus: A New Member of the Genus Olivavirus. Studies of the virome of olive trees with symptoms of leaf mottling by high-throughput sequencing (HTS) revealed the presence of a new virus. Full coding genome sequences of two isolates were determined and consisted of a single RNA segment of 16,516 nt and 16,489, respectively. The genomic organization contained 10 open reading frames (ORFs) from 5' to 3': ORF1a, ORF1b (RdRp), ORF2 (p22), ORF3 (p7), ORF4 (HSP70h), ORF5 (HSP90h), ORF6 (CP), ORF7 (p19), ORF8 (p12), ORF9 (p23) and ORF10 (p9). Phylogenetic analyses clustered this virus in the genus Olivavirus, family Closteroviridae, with the closest species being Olivavirus flaviolae, commonly named olive leaf yellowing-associated virus (OLYaV). However, amino acid sequences of all taxonomically relevant proteins showed, in all cases, a divergence higher than 25% between OLYaV and the new virus, indicating that it represents a new species in the genus Olivavirus for which the common name of olive leaf mottling virus (OLMV) is proposed. This study represents an advance in the genus Olivavirus and provides new insights into the olive virome.
41505874 | Heterologous vs. homologous vaccine regimens: Sulfated lactosyl archaeol (SLA) archaeosome-adjuvanted SARS-CoV-2 spike protein boost following an mRNA/LNP prime induces robust and balanced immune responses. To combat the spread of and disease caused by SARS-CoV-2, mRNA/LNP vaccines were introduced into the clinic in 2020 with tremendous uptake and success. Since then, there have been multiple other SARS-CoV-2 vaccines approved across different countries based on various types of platforms including viral vector, inactivated virus and adjuvanted protein subunit vaccines. This has led to a scenario where there is a high probability of heterologous vaccinations in certain populations, whereby booster doses will differ from the initial vaccine formulations they received. We have previously demonstrated the immunogenicity of sulfated lactosyl archaeol (SLA) archaeosome-adjuvanted protein subunit vaccines and mRNA/LNPs in preclinical models within separate studies. Herein, we compared the immunological outcomes following homologous and heterologous vaccination regimens against SARS-CoV-2 spike based on mRNA/LNPs and/or SLA archaeosome-adjuvanted protein subunit vaccines in a mouse model. The homologous mRNA/LNP regimen induced a strong humoral response consisting of a more balanced IgG1:IgG2c ratio accompanied by robust CD4+ and CD8+ T cell activation, compared to the homologous protein subunit regimen which led to a dominating IgG1 response with robust CD4+ T cell activation only. With the heterologous regimens, the IgG1:IgG2c ratios were reflective of their priming vaccine, a potential impact of immunological imprinting. However, in the heterologous regimens, robust cellular responses were only achieved in animals which had received a priming mRNA/LNP vaccine and not in those which were primed with the adjuvanted protein vaccine. This regimen resulted in superior CD4+ T cell activation as compared to the homologous mRNA/LNP regimen, while maintaining similar levels of CD8+ T cells. This study illustrates the potential for different immunological profiles to be induced by different heterologous vaccination regimens, which may impact long-term outcomes in human populations, such as the waning immunity observed for SARS-CoV-2.
38848213 | Plasmodium infection induces phenotypic, clonal, and spatial diversity among differentiating CD4+ T cells. Naive CD4+ T cells must differentiate in order to orchestrate immunity to Plasmodium, yet understanding of their emerging phenotypes, clonality, spatial distributions, and cellular interactions remains incomplete. Here, we observe that splenic polyclonal CD4+ T cells differentiate toward T helper 1 (Th1) and T follicular helper (Tfh)-like states and exhibit rarer phenotypes not elicited among T cell receptor (TCR) transgenic counterparts. TCR clones present at higher frequencies exhibit Th1 skewing, suggesting that variation in major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) interaction influences proliferation and Th1 differentiation. To characterize CD4+ T cell interactions, we map splenic microarchitecture, cellular locations, and molecular interactions using spatial transcriptomics at near single-cell resolution. Tfh-like cells co-locate with stromal cells in B cell follicles, while Th1 cells in red pulp co-locate with activated monocytes expressing multiple chemokines and MHC-II. Spatial mapping of individual transcriptomes suggests that proximity to chemokine-expressing monocytes correlates with stronger effector phenotypes in Th1 cells. Finally, CRISPR-Cas9 gene disruption reveals a role for CCR5 in promoting clonal expansion and Th1 differentiation. A database of cellular locations and interactions is presented: https://haquelab.mdhs.unimelb.edu.au/spatial_gui/.
41268733 | Genetic Variants Specific to Critical COVID-19: Insights From Genome-Wide Association Studies and Structural Analysis. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified numerous genetic loci associated with COVID-19 susceptibility and severity. However, it remains unclear which variants specifically contribute to the progression from hospitalization to critical illness. To address this, we identified 394 symptom-differentiating SNPs (sdSNPs) by directly comparing GWAS summary statistics between critical and hospitalized COVID-19 cases. Among these, 13 were missense variants that may trigger phenotype conversion. To investigate their functional consequences, we performed structural modeling to evaluate the impact of these variants on protein stability. Eight proteins were predicted to be affected, including FUT2, ICAM5, IFNA10, PLSCR1, IZUMO1, ICAM1, RASIP1, and MICB, suggesting potential disruptions in immune signaling and host response pathways. Furthermore, Mendelian randomization analyses provided direct causal evidence: SMR analysis based on lung eQTL data demonstrated that higher FUT2 expression was significantly associated with increased risk of critical COVID-19 (beta = 0.227, p = 2.69 x 10-3), compared to a weaker effect in hospitalized COVID-19 (beta = 0.096, p = 3.97 x 10-2). In contrast, MR analysis using cis-pQTLs revealed that higher plasma levels of soluble ICAM5 (sICAM5) exerted protective effects, with stronger estimates in critical COVID-19 (beta = -0.186, p = 5.54 x 10-7) than in hospitalized COVID-19 (beta = -0.095, p = 1.69 x 10-4). These findings identify a distinct set of severity-specific genetic variants and offer mechanistic insights into how missense mutations may influence disease progression through structural and regulatory pathways.
41842707 | Therapeutic Targets for Lung Squamous Cell Carcinoma: Proteome-Wide Mendelian Randomization and Potential Drug Prediction. BACKGROUND: Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) is one of the most prevalent subtypes of lung cancer, accounting for approximately 25%. Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis of plasma proteins can identify potential drug targets for LUSC. METHODS: We obtained genetic instruments for plasma proteins from a GWAS by Sun BB et al. conducted on 3301 healthy adults. GWAS summary statistics of LUSC were from ILCCO. We conducted a two-sample MR analysis to investigate the causal relationships between plasma proteins and the risk to LUSC. Colocalization analysis was used to test whether two traits share the same causal variables. Survival analysis based on potential proteins was conducted using transcriptomic data from TCGA database to determine whether gene expression levels are associated with the prognosis of LUSC patients. Moreover, predictions of potential drug ligands and molecular dockings were performed to evaluate the pharmaceutical properties of the target genes. RESULTS: Proteome-wide MR analysis identified three proteins (MICB, SPINK2, TXNDC11) that showed a strong association with decreased risk of LUSC after FDR correction. Increased levels of MICB [OR(95% CI) = 0.72(0.63, 0.83); p = 3.90E-06], SPINK2 [OR (95% CI) = 0.74 (0.66, 0.84); p = 1.25E-06], TXNDC11 [OR (95% CI) = 0.63(0.51, 0.78); p = 2.69E-05] per SD decreased the risk of LUSC specifically. Sensitivity analysis revealed that there was no significant heterogeneity, pleiotropy, or reverse causality between these proteins and LUSC. Colocalization analysis indicated that three proteins shared the same variants with LUSC. Survival analysis showed that upregulation of SPINK2 was associated with a favorable prognosis in LUSC patients, while MICB and TXNDC11 were not. The expression of MICB, SPINK2, TXNDC11 was found to be potentially affected by specific substances, and our molecular docking showed a stable binding between SPINK2 and danazol, suggesting its potential as a drug target. CONCLUSION: This study identified SPINK2 causally associated with the risk and prognosis of LUSC, which is a promising target for LUSC. The drug prediction we performed illustrated the medicinal potential of SPINK2, and the high binding activity of molecular docking indicated its strong potential as a drug target.
41998137 | Neoantigens and shared MICB alpha3 antigen dual-targeted vaccine generates potent antitumor immunity. Immune suppression is one of the primary obstacles in neoantigen immunotherapy because tumors can rapidly adapt by reducing MHC-I expression or antigen presentation. Here, we developed a novel immunotherapy strategy that combined vaccination of neoantigens with MICB alpha3 antigen, by using bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) as a versatile vector and adjuvant. This approach aims to simultaneously induce a neoantigen-specific cellular immune response and an anti-MICB alpha3 humoral immune response, to enhance the recognition and killing of tumor cells by immune cells. This strategy significantly improves the infiltration of neoantigen-specific T cells and NK cells, and reverses immunosuppression across various preclinical models. Mechanistically, ILC1s characterized by high GZMA/GZMB expression represent the primary subset accumulating within tumors and are responsible for enhancing antitumor immunity, which can induce Gasdermin D cleavage in tumor cells to initiate tumor pyroptosis for a cascade of cancer-immunity cycle. Overall, this study demonstrated that combined neoantigens and shared MICB alpha3 antigen for tumor vaccination enhances immune efficacy by eliciting ILC1s-mediated tumor pyroptosis and support the rationale and clinical translation for cancer immunotherapy.
42102951 | Rapid and highly sensitive detection of MYD88/CXCR4 mutations in Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia by MAS-qPCR: A pilot study. BACKGROUND: Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM) is a subset of lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma characterized by bone marrow infiltration of tumor cells and IgM monoclonal gammopathy. MYD88 mutations are found in more than 90% of WM patients and CXCR4 mutations in approximately 30-40%. For this reason, MYD88 mutation analysis is particularly important for the definitive diagnosis of WM. Furthermore, the CXCR4 S338* mutation is clinically significant for treatment selection in WM patients, as Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitors have been reported to be less effective in patients harboring both MYD88 and CXCR4 mutations. However, there are currently no simple methods available for the simultaneous detection of MYD88 and CXCR4 mutations. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the multiplex allele-specific quantitative PCR (MAS-qPCR) assay we developed that is highly sensitive, inexpensive, and capable of simultaneously detecting these two WM-driver mutations using a single-tube reaction on a universal quantitative PCR instrument. METHOD: We established optimal PCR conditions using plasmid DNA containing MYD88 L265P(T > C) and CXCR4 S338*(C > G) or S338*(C > A) mutations. Using the established method, 12 patient specimens were used for comparison with existing methods. RESULTS: The results demonstrated optimal PCR conditions at an annealing temperature of 64 C for 40 cycles. The detection sensitivity of MYD88 L265P(T > C), CXCR4 S338*(C > G), and CXCR4 S338*(C > A) mutations were 0.1% for all variants. The MAS-qPCR method successfully detected mutations in WM patient samples with high accuracy. CONCLUSION: MAS-qPCR may be a highly sensitive and cost-effective screening method for detecting MYD88 L265P and CXCR4 S338* mutations in WM.
41917970 | CXCR4-antagonistic peptide-decorated lipid nanoparticles for co- delivery of AML1-ETO siRNA to enhance chemotherapy in refractory AML. Fusion protein AML1-ETO and chemokine receptor CXCR4 are crucial therapeutic targets for AML, the former plays a key role in differentiation blockade and leukemogenesis, and the latter is closely associated with drug resistance and relapse. This work developed a unified platform (referred as to E5-LNP@siAE) to integrate AML1-ETO-targeted RNA interference (RNAi) and CXCR4 antagonism by employing lipid nanoparticle (LNP) technology and antagonistic peptide E5 modification. The E5-LNP@siNC was slightly negative charged with 121.8 nm in diameter, showing homogenous spherical morphology and stability in PBS and 10% FBS. The E5-LNP@siAE could be specifically taken up by Kasumi-1 cells, down regulated levels of AML1-ETO, p-Erk and p-p38, and E5-LNP@siNC inhibited the CXCL12-mediated migration. In a refractory AML mouse model, E5-LNP@siAE monotherapy significantly reduced AML cells in peripheral blood, as well as infiltrations in the liver, lung and spleen. The expressions of CD11b, CD41a and Ter119 were upregulated while c-Kit decreased in the spleen of AML mice received E5-LNP@siAE treatment. The differentiation inductive effects were also observed in bone marrow mononuclear cells separated from AML patients with t(8;21) translocation. Moreover, E5-LNP@siAE significantly enhanced the therapeutic efficacy of doxorubicin (DOX) in the AML mice, evidenced by the reduced AML cells in peripheral blood, bone marrow and multiple organs, meanwhile, did not bring negative impacts on the counts of red blood cells and platelets. Consequently, the combination regimen achieved the much better result of survival prolongation than E5-LNP@siAE monotherapy, and the other control groups did not show therapeutic effects on the survival of the AML mice.
40716783 | Investigating shared genetic architecture between major depressive disorder and central obesity. OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the shared genetic architecture between major depressive disorder (MDD) and waist-hip ratio (WHR) to provide insights into the biological mechanisms underlying their comorbidity. METHODS: Using large-scale genome-wide association study summary statistics, we performed cross-trait genetic correlation and pleiotropic variant discovery analyses and bidirectional Mendelian randomization analysis, as well as drug target prioritization analysis. RESULTS: We identified significant genetic correlation between MDD and WHR (rg = 0.11, p = 4.18 x 10-5). Cross-trait analysis identified 26 pleiotropic loci, including a novel variant (rs2855812, intronic to MICB). Colocalization analysis confirmed six pleiotropic loci. Forward Mendelian randomization analysis demonstrated MDD is associated with increased WHR (beta = 0.079, 95% CI: 0.014-0.143; p = 0.017), with no reverse causation. Drug prioritization identified agents able to be repurposed targeting MICB, PSORS1C1, and C6orf15. Enrichment analyses highlighted immune pathways. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings establish pleiotropy between MDD and WHR, implicating dysregulated immunometabolic pathways as shared mechanisms. Prioritized drug targets represent translatable opportunities for comorbidity management.
40563539 | HIF-1a: A Key Factor Mediating Tumor Cells from Digestive System to Evade NK Cell Killing via Activating Metalloproteinases to Hydrolyze MICA/B. Malignant tumors of the digestive system are widespread and pose a serious threat to humans. Immune escape is an important factor promoting the deterioration of malignant tumors in the digestive system. Natural killer cells (NK cells) are key members of the anti-tumor and immune surveillance system, mainly exerting cytotoxic effects by binding to the activating receptor natural killer cell group 2D (NKG2D) on their cell surface with the corresponding ligands (major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related protein A/B, MICA/B) on the surface of tumor cells. Malignant tumors of epithelial origin usually highly express NKG2D ligands such as MICA, which can attract NK cells to kill tumor cells and also serve as an important basis for NK cell-based immunotherapy. Tumor cells highly express hypoxia-inducible factor-1a (HIF-1a), which promotes the expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and a disintegrin and metalloproteinases (ADAMs). These metalloproteinases hydrolyze MICA and other ligands on the surface of tumor cells to generate soluble molecules. These soluble ligands, when binding to NKG2D, cannot activate NK cells and also block the binding of NKG2D to MICA on the surface of tumor cells, enabling tumor cells to evade the killing effect of NK cells. Almost all organs in the digestive system originate from epithelial tissue, so the soluble ligands generated by the HIF-1a/MMPs or HIF-1a/ADAMs signaling pathways play a crucial role in evading NK cell killing. A comprehensive understanding of this immune escape process is helpful for a deeper understanding of the molecular mechanism of NK cell anti-tumor activity. This article reviews the molecular mechanisms of common digestive system malignancies evading NK cell killing, providing new insights into the mechanism of tumor immune escape.
40226616 | gammadeltaT cells, a key subset of T cell for cancer immunotherapy. gammadeltaT cells represent a unique and versatile subset of T cells characterized by the expression of T-cell receptors (TCRs) composed of gamma and delta chains. Unlike conventional alphabetaT cells, gammadeltaT cells do not require major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-dependent antigen presentation for activation, enabling them to recognize and respond to a wide array of antigens, including phosphoantigens, stress-induced ligands, and tumor-associated antigens. While gammadeltaT cells are relatively rare in peripheral blood, they are enriched in peripheral tissues such as the skin, intestine, and lung. These cells play a crucial role in tumor immunotherapy by exerting direct cytotoxicity through the production of inflammatory cytokines (e.g., interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and interleukin-17 (IL-17)) and cytotoxic molecules (e.g., perforin and granzyme). Recent advances in gammadeltaT cell research have elucidated their mechanisms of tumor recognition, including the detection of phosphoantigens and stress-induced ligands like MICA (MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence A), MICB (MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence B), and ULBP (UL16-binding protein). Furthermore, various strategies to enhance gammadeltaT cell-based tumor immunotherapy have been developed, such as in vitro expansion using phosphoantigen-based therapies, cytokine stimulation, and chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-gammadeltaT cell engineering. These advancements have shown promising results in both preclinical and clinical settings, paving the way for gammadeltaT cells to become a powerful tool in cancer immunotherapy. This review highlights the key mechanisms, functions, and strategies to harness the potential of gammadeltaT cells for effective tumor immunotherapy.
39988347 | Targeted delivery of CCL3 reprograms macrophage antigen presentation and enhances the efficacy of immune checkpoint blockade therapy in hepatocellular carcinoma. BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, especially in advanced stages where limited treatment options result in poor prognosis. The immunosuppressive tumor immune microenvironment (TIME), characterized by low immune cell infiltration and exhaustion, limits immunotherapy efficacy. To address this, our study investigates the role of C-C motif chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3) in modulating the HCC TIME. METHODS: We analyzed CCL3 expression in human HCC samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas database, focusing on its correlation with inflammatory gene signatures and immune cell infiltration. High-dimensional single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), flow cytometry, and multiplex immunofluorescence were used to investigate CCL3's effects on macrophage function and T cell activation. The biological impact of CCL3 on macrophages was assessed using co-culture systems, confocal imaging, metabolite detection, and inhibition assays. Preclinical HCC models and ex vivo tumor fragment assays further explored how CCL3 modulates immune responses and enhances immune checkpoint blockade efficacy. RESULTS: Our study shows that CCL3 is suppressed in the tumor microenvironment and positively correlates with immune infiltration and inflammatory responses. Targeted liver delivery of rAAV-Ccl3 reprograms the immune microenvironment in HCC, promoting immune cell recruitment and tertiary lymphoid structure formation, thus suppressing tumor growth via immune engagement. Through scRNA-seq, flow cytometry, and multiplex immunofluorescence, we found that CCL3 enhances macrophage antigen uptake and activates cytotoxic T cells. In vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed that CCL3 facilitates T cell infiltration and upregulates MHC II expression on macrophages, enhancing antigen presentation. The CCL3-CCR5 pathway also boosts macrophage metabolism, increasing lysosomal activity and antigen uptake, thereby strengthening adaptive immune responses and increasing sensitivity to immune checkpoint blockade therapies in preclinical models. CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the pivotal role of CCL3 in reshaping the TIME and enhancing antitumor immunity in HCC. By promoting immune cell recruitment and enhancing antigen presentation, CCL3 demonstrates significant potential to improve the efficacy of immunotherapy, particularly in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors. Targeting CCL3 may help to overcome the immunosuppressive TIME in HCC and improve patient outcomes.
40670925 | Methodological approach for allele-specific antibody responses to HEK-293T-based cell lines expressing single MHC class I chain-related gene B antigens. BACKGROUND: Antibodies against non-HLA antigens, such as MICA and MICB, have emerged as potential contributors to antibody-mediated rejection and graft failure. While MICA antibodies are well characterized, MICB-specific antibodies remain poorly understood due to the lack of standardized detection tools. To address this gap, we aimed to develop a cell-based platform expressing individual MICB antigens to evaluate the feasibility of detecting allele-specific anti-MICB antibodies in pre-kidney transplant sera. METHODS: HLA class I, MICA, and MICB-null human embryonic kidney (HEK)-293T cells were previously generated by CRISPR/Cas9. We established five cell lines expressing single MICB antigens (each MICB*002, *003, *004, *005:02, and *008 allele). A total of 64 pre-kidney transplant sera were tested to assess anti-MICB antibody responses to the five cell lines using flow cytometry. RESULTS: We successfully established and validated five HEK-293T cell lines each expressing a single MICB antigen using anti-MICB monoclonal antibody staining. No anti-MICB antibodies were detected in any of the 64 pre-transplant sera tested. This finding may reflect a low incidence of sensitization to MICB in this patient population and suggests the need for larger, more diverse cohorts in future studies to fully assess the prevalence of anti-MICB responses. The established cell lines provide a promising tool for future investigation of allele-specific anti-MICB antibody responses. CONCLUSIONS: While the present study did not detect allele-specific anti-MICB antibody responses, establishing HEK-293T cell lines expressing single MICB antigens represents a significant methodological advance. This platform enables the potential assessment of immune responses targeted to individual MICB allotypes, thus offering new avenues for the future study of MICB immunogenicity in transplantation settings.
39622733 | [The effect of c-Myc on regulating the immune-related ligands in Y subtype small cell lung cancer through histone deacetylase 1]. Objective: To explore the effect and mechanism of c-Myc on regulating the expression of immune-related ligands in Y subtype small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) characterized by high expression of immune-related molecules. Methods: The Y subtype SCLC cell line H196 was randomly divided into the control group, c-Myc inhibitor 10058-F4 group, histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) inhibitor pyroxamide group, and 10058-F4 plus pyroxamide group. The co-culture system with NK-92MI cells was used to determine the effect of H196 cells on the function of natural killer (NK) cells. Western Blotting and co-immunoprecipitation assays were used to detect the effect of c-Myc on class I HDAC, and flow cytometry was used to detect the regulatory effect of c-Mycon CD47, programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1), and CD155, which are highly expressed immune checkpoints in Y subtype SCLC, and major histocompatibility complex classI-related chains A and (MICA/B), which is a poorly expressed immune-activating ligand in SCLC, and the role of HDAC. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) were used to determine the regulatory mechanism of c-Myc-HDAC1 on MICA/B expression. Results: Inhibition of c-Myc decreased the mortality of H196 cells in the co-culture system and down-regulated the expression of MICA/B. Compared with the NK+H196 group [(42.54+-2.47)%], the proportion of cells killed by NK-92MI cells in the NK+H196+10058-F4 group was lower [(28.48+-3.38)%, P<0.001]. The mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of MICA/B on the cells in the 10058-F4 group (36.40+-0.82) was lower than that in the control group (91.23+-8.60, P<0.001). And c-Myc could bind to HDAC1, whose protein level was up-regulated by 10058-F4 while the mRNA level was not. Compared with the cells in the control group (90.10+-4.91), the MFI of MICA/B on the cells in the pyroxamide group was significantly increased (145.70+-5.86, P<0.001), and the MFI of MICA/B on the cells in the 10058-F4+pyroxamide group (54.60+-2.88) was significantly increased compared with the cells in the 10058-F4 group (35.97+-1.60, P<0.001). The percentage of MICA promoter gene fragments in the c-Myc antibody precipitation group (0.125+-0.037) was significantly higher than that in the IgG group (0.000 8+-0.000 3, P=0.004). MICB had a similar trend, suggesting that the c-Myc-HDAC1 complex could bind to the promoter region of MICA/B. The MFI of CD47 on the cells in the 10058-F4 group (60.07+-0.21) was significantly lower than cells in the control group (70.27+-1.37, P<0.001), but the MFIs of PD-L1 (13.50+-0.61) and CD155 (829.70+-41.19) were significantly higher than those on the cells in the control group (9.23+-0.94, P<0.01; 496.00+-4.36, P<0.001, respectively). Conclusions: c-Myc may promote the expression of MICA/B and CD47 in Y subtype SCLC cells by binding and inhibiting HDAC1, while it may also be involved in inhibiting the expression of PD-L1 and CD155 in SCLC cells.
42112396 | The CXCL12-CXCR4 axis in colorectal cancer: immune regulation, metastatic progression, and therapeutic implications. Metastasis remains the major cause of mortality in colorectal cancer (CRC) despite continued advances in diagnosis and treatment. Increasing evidence identifies the CXCL12/CXCR4 chemokine axis as a critical driver of CRC progression and metastatic dissemination. Through dynamic interactions between tumor cells and the tumor microenvironment, this axis regulates multiple processes essential for metastasis, including driving migration and invasion, angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis, and shaping the tumor immune microenvironment through recruitment of immunosuppressive populations, blockade of effector lymphocyte trafficking and function, and modulation of immunosuppressive cytokines including IL-10. In this review, we summarize the molecular mechanisms by which CXCL12/CXCR4 promotes CRC metastasis. These pleiotropic effects are mediated by crosstalk with PI3K/Akt, MAPK/ERK, and Wnt/beta-catenin pathways, and are regulated at transcriptional, post-transcriptional, and post-translational levels. Preclinical studies demonstrate that CXCR4 antagonists (e.g., plerixafor, LY2510924) suppress metastasis and, when combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors, can reverse the \cold\ immune phenotype of microsatellite-stable CRC. We also discuss recent advances in the regulation of CXCL12/CXCR4 expression, the role of related receptors such as CXCR7, and emerging strategies targeting this axis for therapeutic intervention. Collectively, current evidence supports the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis as a promising biomarker and therapeutic target in metastatic CRC, and further elucidation of its regulatory network may facilitate the development of more effective precision treatment strategies.
41989155 | Hierarchical strengthening and toughening design of superalloy joints via a chemically complex intermetallic alloy-modified diffusion bonding strategy. The design and fabrication of advanced interlayer materials are pivotal for the diffusion bonding (DB) of precision and slip-structure turbine components in aero-engines. Here, we developed a chemically complex intermetallic alloy (CCIMA) interlayer exhibiting exceptional mechanical properties at both room and elevated temperatures. Acting as the core of a tailored \BNi-2/CCIMA/BNi-2\ sandwich interlayer, the CCIMA plays a critical role in joining powder metallurgy superalloys via the multi-interlayer composite bonding (MICB) strategy. This innovative approach leads to the formation of a robust hetero-structured joint architecture comprising alternating diffusion-affected zones (DAZs), isothermally solidified zones (ISZs), and a central CCIMA region. The CCIMA core, featuring recrystallized L12-ordered grains, critically promotes the extensive precipitation of cuboidal L12-structured nanoparticles within the ISZs. Under the optimized bonding conditions (1150  C, 2 h), detrimental Nb-Ta-rich borides in the CCIMA region are completely suppressed, while a high-density (~57 vol%, ~367 nm diameter) of L12 precipitates forms in the ISZ. The resulting joints achieve an ultimate tensile strength of ~1325.7 MPa (>93% of the base metal (BM) strength) and elongation of ~27.7%, which is comparable to the BM's ductility. This outstanding performance is attributed to hierarchical strengthening and toughening mechanisms induced by the CCIMA interlayer, including macroscale strain delocalization enabled by the hetero-structured architecture, microscale dislocation pinning via grain boundaries/serrated bonded interfaces and L12 precipitates, and atomic-level bonding enhancement through tailored diffusion control. This study highlights the critical role of CCIMA as a functional interlayer material, establishing a new paradigm for manufacturing/repairing high-performance turbine components in next-generation aero-engines.
34974265 | Target genes used for biosensor development in COVID-19 diagnosis. In a published review entitled \COVID-19 diagnosis -A review of current methods\, the authors considered hemagglutinin esterase as one of the structural proteins of SARS-CoV-2 and also they did not represent ORF3b, ORF9b, and ORF9c in SARS-CoV-2 genome structure. However, according to the scientific evidence, among coronaviruses only some betacoronaviruses (Embecovirus subgenera) contain HE, and the genome of most of the coronaviruses such as SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV, and MERS-CoV lack the HE gene. In addition, the genome of SARS-CoV-2 contains several accessory proteins ORFs including ORF3a, ORF3b, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF7b, ORF8, ORF9b, ORF9c, and ORF10.
41663634 | Optimization of THP-1-CAR monocytes utilizing CD32a signaling phagocytosis for antigen-specific T cell activation. Chimeric antigen receptor macrophages (CAR-M) are emerging as a next-generation cellular modality for therapies ranging from viral infection to solid tumors, leveraging innate phagocytic and antigen-presenting functions. Here, we compared CAR constructs incorporating intracellular signaling domains (ICDs) derived from CD3zeta, Fc gamma receptor IIa (CD32a), complement receptor 3 (CR3), and Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in THP-1-derived monocytes and macrophages. Using an anti-viral SARS-CoV-2 model as a screening platform, we subsequently validated key findings in an anti-tumor mesothelin (MSLN) model. Results indicated that CARCD32a exhibited superior phagocytic capacity compared with CARCD3zeta in both monocytes and macrophages. While combining CR3 (CD11b and CD18) and CD32a domains did not enhance phagocytosis, it significantly increased the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha). The incorporation of TLR4 signaling domain reduced surface CAR expression and phagocytic capacity but markedly increased inflammatory cytokine induction, suggesting that TLR4-driven cytokine production can be enhanced despite diminished phagocytosis in this setting. Furthermore, following phagocytosis, CAR-monocytes induced antigen-specific CD8+ T cell activation via antigen presentation. Collectively, these findings highlight CD32a-based and combinatorial ICD designs as a framework for functionally tuned CAR-M platform for solid tumor immunotherapy and anti-viral applications.
41359125 | Thoracic Ultrasound-Guided Regional Nerve Blockade for Pain Management Following Open Heart Surgery in Children: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-analysis of Analgesic Efficacy and Impact on Postoperative Opioid Requirements. A new era of multimodal opioid-sparing pain management strategies has begun, aiming to control pain while limiting the use of opioids and their associated adverse effects. Peripheral nerve blockade, either single-shot or continuous catheter techniques, constitute an important cornerstone of these strategies. This systematic review and network meta-analysis aimed to compare and evaluate the effects of different single-shot ultrasound-guided regional anesthetic techniques on pain control following open cardiac surgical procedures in pediatric patients. A systematic review and comprehensive search were conducted to retrieve available randomized clinical trials focusing on the use of ultrasound-guided regional anesthesia nerve blockade as part of a multimodal analgesia approach in pediatric patients undergoing open cardiac surgery through median sternotomy. Our search was conducted in major databases, including MEDLINE, EMBASE, Scopus, Web of Science, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. The main outcomes of interest were perioperative opioid consumption and postoperative pain scores. A total of 1,511 articles were retrieved for the initial screening of titles, with 16 RCTs deemed eligible and included after full-text screening. Eleven different regional nerve blocks were assessed in the studies, including erector spinae plane block (ESPB), thoracic paravertebral block (PVB), deep parasternal block (DPB), superficial parasternal block (SPB), thoracic retrolaminar paravertebral block (TRLB), pectoral nerve block type II (PECS II), and multiple injection costotransverse block (MICB). Compared to no intervention, parasternal blocks particularly DPB and SPB were associated with a significant reduction in both intraoperative and 24-h postoperative fentanyl consumption. Postoperatively, fentanyl consumption was reduced by -4.92 microg/kg (95% CI: [-6.58 to -3.26]) with DPB, -2.54 microg/kg (95% CI: [-4.16 to -0.91]) with SPB, and -5.6 microg/kg (95% CI: [-8.31 to -2.89]) with TRLB. Intraoperatively, SPB reduced fentanyl use by -5.12 microg/kg (95% CI: [-6.8 to -3.43]) and DPB by -4.31 microg/kg (95% CI: [-5.9 to -2.71]). No significant postoperative opioid-sparing effect was observed with other blocks, such as ESPB, PVB, MICB, or PECS II. The pooled estimates showed considerable heterogeneity, with I2 values of 90.9% for intraoperative and 94.7% for postoperative fentanyl consumption. Ultrasound-guided regional anesthesia-particularly parasternal blocks-may offer superior opioid-sparing effects and enhanced recovery in children undergoing open-heart surgery, making them promising adjuncts to multimodal analgesia. In contrast, blocks such as ESPB, PVB, and MICB showed limited benefit for median sternotomy pain. Given the substantial heterogeneity in the current evidence, the routine use of these techniques should be guided by institutional experience and individualized patient factors.
41694368 | Immunoproteomic mediators of diabetic peripheral neuropathy: causal insights from Mendelian randomization and single-cell validation. Objective: To elucidate causal roles of circulating immune cells and plasma proteins in diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) pathogenesis using integrative Mendelian randomization (MR) and single-cell validation. Methods: We employed two-sample MR to assess causal effects of 731 immune traits and 4,719/2,923 plasma proteins on DPN risk (FinnGen: 2,843 cases/389,580 controls). Significant exposures underwent mediation MR to identify protein-immune interactions. Validation included scRNA-seq of sural nerves (4 DPN vs. 3 controls) and flow cytometry/immunofluorescence for dendritic cell infiltration. Results: Five HLA-DR+ immune phenotypes (predominantly dendritic subsets) increased DPN risk (OR = 1.27-1.63, FDR<0.05). Six plasma proteins conferred protection (MICB, HLA-DRA, CAPS, CD79B, AGER, PRKCG; OR = 0.10-0.58). Mediation MR revealed pathogenic immune cells suppress CAPS/HLA-DRA expression (mediating 26.3% of neurotoxicity, P<0.001), while MICB attenuated DPN by inhibiting immune phenotypes. scRNA-seq confirmed conventional dendritic cell infiltration in DPN nerves and disrupted reparative crosstalk with Schwann cells. Conclusion: We establish a causal neuroimmune network wherein HLA-DR+ dendritic cells drive DPN through suppression of protective plasma proteins (CAPS/HLA-DRA), while MICB exerts dual protection. These findings reveal novel therapeutic targets for DPN intervention.
39495239 | ACE2 Enhances Sensitivity to PD-L1 Blockade by Inhibiting Macrophage-Induced Immunosuppression and Angiogenesis. Anti-PD-L1-based combination immunotherapy has become the first-line treatment for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the objective response rate is lower than 40%, highlighting the need to identify mechanisms of tolerance to immune checkpoint inhibitors and accurate biomarkers of response. Here, we employed next-generation sequencing to analyze HCC samples from 10 patients receiving anti-PD-L1 therapy. Activation of the renin-angiotensin system was elevated in nonresponders compared with responders, and ACE2 expression was significantly downregulated in nonresponders. ACE2 deficiency promoted HCC development and anti-PD-L1 resistance, whereas ACE2 overexpression inhibited HCC progression in immune competent mice. Mass cytometry by time of flight (CyTOF) revealed that ACE2 deficient murine orthotopic tumor tissues featured elevated M2-like tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), displayed a CCR5+PD-L1+ immunosuppressive phenotype, and exhibited high VEGFalpha expression. ACE2 downregulated tumor intrinsic CCL5 expression by suppressing NF-kappaB signaling through the ACE2/angiotensin-(1-7)/Mas receptor axis. The lower CCL5 levels led to reduced activation of the JAK-STAT3 pathway and suppressed PD-L1 and VEGFalpha expression in macrophages, blocking macrophage infiltration and M2-like polarization. Pharmacological targeting of CCR5 using maraviroc enhanced the tumor suppressive effect of anti-PD-L1 therapy. Together, these findings suggest that activation of the ACE2 axis overcomes the immunosuppressive microenvironment of HCC and may serve as an immunotherapeutic target and predictive biomarker of response to PD-L1 blockade.
31028289 | Use of polymeric CXCR4 inhibitors as siRNA delivery vehicles for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common type of acute leukemia in adults and is associated with poor long-term survival often owing to relapse. Current treatments for AML are associated with considerable toxicity and are frequently not effective after relapse. Thus, it is important to develop novel therapeutic strategies. Short interfering RNA (siRNA)-based therapeutics targeting key oncogenes have been proposed as treatments for AML. We recently developed novel siRNA delivery polycations (PCX) based on AMD3100 (plerixafor), an FDA-approved inhibitor of the CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4). Inhibitors of CXCR4 have been shown to sensitize leukemia cells to chemotherapy. Therefore, PCX has the potential to target leukemia cells via two mechanisms: inhibition of CXCR4 and delivery of siRNAs against critical genes. In this report, we show that PCX exerts a cytotoxic effect on leukemia cells more effectively than other CXCR4 inhibitors, including AMD3100. In addition, we show that PCX can deliver siRNAs against the transcription factor RUNX1 to mouse and human leukemia cells. Overall, our study provides the first evidence that dual-function PCX/siRNA nanoparticles can simultaneously inhibit CXCR4 and deliver siRNAs, targeting key oncogenes in leukemia cells and that PCX/siRNA has clinical potential for the treatment of AML.
41717438 | Longitudinal Dynamics of Soluble NKG2D Ligands in Mild and Moderate Coronavirus Disease-2019. Background: The soluble form of NKG2D (sNKG2D) ligands has been implicated in the severity of coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19). However, their longitudinal dynamics from the acute phase to hospital discharge and their relationships with clinical parameters are unclear. This study aimed to investigate the longitudinal dynamics of these ligands and determine their relationship with clinical parameters. Methods: This retrospective observational cohort study evaluated 64 patients with mild or moderate COVID-19. sULBP-2, soluble MIC-A (sMIC-A), and soluble MIC-B (sMIC-B) concentrations at admission, recovery, and discharge were analyzed. Associations with patient characteristics and laboratory parameters (white blood cell count and C-reactive protein, lactate dehydrogenase, Krebs von den Lungen-6, ferritin, and interleukin-6 levels), natural killer (NK) cell and T cell counts, and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 viral copy numbers were examined. Principal component analysis (PCA) was performed in the moderate group, and the relationship between sNKG2D ligands and clinical parameters using hierarchical cluster analysis. Results: Serum sULBP-2 concentrations were significantly higher in the moderate group at both admission and discharge. In contrast, sMIC-A and sMIC-B levels did not significantly differ. Higher sULBP-2 levels at admission persisted until discharge. PCA demonstrated that admission sULBP-2 levels were associated with inflammatory components; admission sMIC-A levels were associated with components related to NK cells and lung injury. Their discharge levels both converged into a shared principal component closely associated with NK cell. Clusters characterized by older age, elevated sULBP-2, and increased inflammatory responses and lung injury markers had worse disease severity. Conclusion: NKG2D ligand levels increase via distinct mechanisms during acute COVID-19 but converge toward a shared dynamics during recovery. sULBP-2 is the only sNKG2D ligand related with disease severity, and its elevation persists through discharge, suggesting prolonged impairment of NK cell function after clinical recovery. sULBP-2 may be an important biomarker of disease severity.
19317219 | [Molecular diagnosis of and molecular targeting therapy for leukemia]. A number of molecular targets have been identified in leukemia, based on the understanding of signaling pathways controlling cell differentiation, proliferation, apoptosis, and malignant transformation. Growth factors and integrins interact with their receptors and activate signaling cascades with intimate interconnections. The specific niches within the bone marrow microenvironment may provide a sanctuary for subpopulations of leukemic cells to escape chemotherapy-induced death and acquire drug resistance. Investigations into bone marrow stroma-leukemia crosstalk may result in the development of strategies against the acquisition of a chemo-resistant phenotype and enhance the efficacy of therapies in leukemia. In recent studies, we proposed novel therapeutic interventions targeting the microenvironment/leukemia interaction focusing on SDF1/CXCR4, ILK/PI3K/Akt, TGF-beta, and Notch signaling. Gene transcriptional activity is regulated by chromatin modification and DNA methylation. Nuclear receptors such as RAR, RXR, and PPARgamma exert histone acetyl transferase activity (HAT). The transcription of target genes is initiated following the ligation of these receptors, recruitment of co-activators, and replacement of repressors. We demonstrated that histone acetylation by the PPARgamma agonist CDDO, RAR/RXR agonist ATRA, and/or histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACIs) reversed the silenced RARbeta and MDR1 genes in acute promyelocytic leukemia, and that HDACI induced apoptosis with phagocytosis through the induction of Annexin A1 in AML1/ETO-positive acute myelocytic leukemia (AML) cells. The translation of research findings into effective clinical laboratory tests is an important approach. The flow cytometric technique is a powerful tool in the field of clinical laboratory medicine, with its accurate and rapid analysis. We carried out phospho-specific flow cytometry to investigate protein phosphorylation in AML cells and detect ZAP-70 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells, including the evaluation of antibodies, staining epitopes, fixing and permeabilizing methods, and analyzing systems. Finally, we emphasize the potential applications of research findings and methods in the fields of clinical medicine, molecular diagnosis, and targeting therapy.
41475523 | MICA/B-driven NK cell dysfunction promotes cervical cancer via Toll signaling. The immune status is of crucial importance in the development of cervical cancer (CC). MICA/B, as a major histocompatibility complex Class I associated protein, mediates anti-tumor immunity by activating NK cell receptors. However, the precise mechanisms underlying MICA/B-mediated regulation of CC progression remain poorly understood. This study combined spatial transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatics analysis and found that MICA/B was significantly highly expressed in CC tissues and cells, accompanied by more NK cell infiltration. Flow cytometry and Cell Functional assays, Knockdown of MICA/MICB weakens the activation receptor efficacy of NK cells, enhances the inhibitory signal, leads to a decrease in cytotoxicity, and simultaneously upregulates Cyclin expression in CC cells while downregulating BCL-2/BAX. Tumor xenograft models indicated that tumors with MICA knockdown exhibited a growth tendency in the presence of natural killer (NK) cells. Mechanistically, MICA/B regulates inflammatory factors such as IL-6 and CXCL10/11 through the Toll-like signaling pathway, affecting the function of NK cells. Thus, MICA/B expression on cervical cancer cells plays a pivotal role in eliciting NK cell-mediated antitumor immunity. Their downregulation attenuates NK cell function, promoting cervical cancer cell proliferation and survival via the Toll signaling pathway. These findings highlight the potential of targeting MICA/B-NK cell interactions as a therapeutic strategy for cervical cancer.
40928428 | HLA Class Ib and MICA/MICB Expression in Human Tissues and Cell Types: Reshuffling Immune Players. Abnormal expression of HLA class Ib, MICA and MICB molecules is associated with the evolution of pathological conditions and clinical settings. Here, we use RNA-sequencing data from two publicly-available projects, from different human organs and tissues and at single-cell level, to present their transcriptional expression throughout the human body, in comparison to that of HLA class Ia, HLA class II, their costimulatory molecules, and the main HLA transcription factors. Our analyses for 21 target genes reveal that median gene expression differs by orders of magnitude and that the classical/non-classical HLA distinction is not absolute for overall expression. Sixteen of the 21 target genes show correlated expressions, although careful analyses of individual expression patterns in tissues and organs highlight specificities. Tissue and organ expression patterns reveal that the lymphoid organs, lungs, and gastrointestinal tract organs display the highest expression of the HLA and HLA-related genes. At single-cell level, adipocytes, endothelial cells, and immune cells all have unexpectedly close expression patterns. The expression pattern of the 21 target genes in non-immune organs, such as the lung or colon, and in non-immune cells like adipocytes, questions the role of these organs and cell types in immune homeostasis and suggests additional, non-immune functions of these molecules. The lack of impact of the HLA transcription factors studied here on HLA regulation in non-immune tissues also supports a role for additional HLA transcription factors in these tissues. Finally, classical/non-classical HLA classification based on molecule structure and genetic polymorphism does not seem to extend to their expression.
42111497 | Multiomics Characterization of GCSH + Macrophages Reveals Therapeutic Vulnerabilities and Immune-Metabolic Crosstalk in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. Background: Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are key regulators of immune homeostasis within the tumor microenvironment (TME) and play critical roles in malignant progression. However, the molecular mechanisms linking macrophage metabolic remodeling to immune regulation remain incompletely understood. Glycine cleavage system H protein (GCSH), a core regulator of copper-dependent cell death, has been implicated in metabolic regulation in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), suggesting a potential role in macrophage-mediated TME remodeling. Methods: We integrated single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomic data from TNBC tissues to systematically characterize macrophage subpopulations with high GCSH expression. Pseudotime trajectory analysis, cuproptosis-related scoring, cell-cell communication inference, metabolic pathway enrichment, and spatial localization analyses were performed to delineate their functional heterogeneity and microenvironmental context. In addition, mutation profiling, immunogenomic analysis, drug sensitivity prediction, and in vitro and in vivo functional experiments were conducted to comprehensively evaluate the biological and therapeutic relevance of GCSH. Results: GCSH expression was predominantly enriched in macrophages, particularly in early activated subsets, and was associated with enhanced amino acid and lipid metabolic activity. GCSH + macrophages exhibited extensive interactions with T cells via pathways such as MIF-CD74-CXCR4 and LGALS9-CD45, contributing to an immunosuppressive, tumor-promoting microenvironment. Spatial analysis revealed their preferential localization at the tumor core-stroma interface. Notably, GCSH missense mutations were associated with increased M1 macrophage infiltration and enrichment of immune and inflammatory pathways. Clinically, high GCSH expression correlated with poor survival, genomic instability, and chemotherapy resistance. Functional experiments demonstrated that GCSH silencing suppressed tumor cell proliferation, migration, and clonogenicity, induced apoptosis, enhanced proinflammatory cytokine secretion, and significantly inhibited tumor growth in vivo. Conclusion: GCSH acts as a central molecular link between macrophage metabolic reprogramming, immune suppression, and TNBC progression, highlighting its potential as both a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target.
22536342 | Anti-HIV-1 activity of a new scorpion venom peptide derivative Kn2-7. For over 30 years, HIV/AIDS has wreaked havoc in the world. In the absence of an effective vaccine for HIV, development of new anti-HIV agents is urgently needed. We previously identified the antiviral activities of the scorpion-venom-peptide-derived mucroporin-M1 for three RNA viruses (measles viruses, SARS-CoV, and H5N1). In this investigation, a panel of scorpion venom peptides and their derivatives were designed and chosen for assessment of their anti-HIV activities. A new scorpion venom peptide derivative Kn2-7 was identified as the most potent anti-HIV-1 peptide by screening assays with an EC(50) value of 2.76 microg/ml (1.65 microM) and showed low cytotoxicity to host cells with a selective index (SI) of 13.93. Kn2-7 could inhibit all members of a standard reference panel of HIV-1 subtype B pseudotyped virus (PV) with CCR5-tropic and CXCR4-tropic NL4-3 PV strain. Furthermore, it also inhibited a CXCR4-tropic replication-competent strain of HIV-1 subtype B virus. Binding assay of Kn2-7 to HIV-1 PV by Octet Red system suggested the anti-HIV-1 activity was correlated with a direct interaction between Kn2-7 and HIV-1 envelope. These results demonstrated that peptide Kn2-7 could inhibit HIV-1 by direct interaction with viral particle and may become a promising candidate compound for further development of microbicide against HIV-1.
42135452 | Combined PD-1 and TIGIT blockade via siRNA enhances anti-leukemic T-cell function and promotes AML cell apoptosis. This study introduces a novel siRNA-based dual checkpoint blockade approach using readily available leukoreduction filter-derived T-cells, exploring dual PD-1/TIGIT siRNA-mediated knockdown to enhance anti-leukemic activity against Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell lines with distinct molecular characteristics (KG-1, representing minimally differentiated AML-M0; THP-1, representing monocytic AML-M5). T-cells were isolated from leukoreduction filters (98.1% purity), activated with CD3/CD28 Dynabeads and IL-2 to upregulate PD-1 (40.5%) and TIGIT (46.4%), and transfected with siRNA (70.8% efficiency), reducing PD-1 to 11.9% and TIGIT to 19.4%. Transfected T-cells were co-cultured with AML cells at E: T ratios of 1:1, 2:1, and 5:1. Viability, cytotoxicity, IFN-gamma and caspase-3 levels, and Bax/Bcl-2 mRNA expression were assessed. Dual knockdown reduced THP-1 viability to 30% and KG-1 to 40% at 5:1, with cytotoxicity increasing to 44.3% (THP-1) and 48.8% (KG-1) (P < 0.01), outperforming single knockdowns (P < 0.01). IFN-gamma peaked at 80 pg/mL (THP-1, 5:1, P < 0.0001), caspase-3 rose by 70% (P < 0.0001), Bax increased 3.0-fold, and Bcl-2 decreased 70% (P < 0.001). CD8+ T-cells dominated (~ 60% post-transfection). Statistical significance was confirmed for differences between KG-1 and THP-1 responses (P < 0.05), with THP-1 demonstrating greater susceptibility to dual checkpoint blockade. Dual PD-1/TIGIT knockdown additively enhances cytotoxicity, apoptosis, and T-cell activation, with stable CD4+/CD8+ ratios ensuring effector function. While this approach provides a cost-effective foundation for AML immunotherapy research, clinical translation requires validation in primary AML samples and in vivo models to address the complex bone marrow microenvironment and optimize delivery systems.
35707599 | Expression of CD44+/CD24-, RAD6 and DDB2 on chemotherapy response in ovarian Cancer: A prospective flow cytometry study. Backgrounds: Ovarian cancer is the 8th deadliest common cancer in women around the world. Almost all ovarian cancer patients would experience chemoresistance, recurrence, and poor prognosis after cytoreductive surgery and platinum-based chemotherapy. Chemoresistant cancer cells have characteristic expressions of cancer stem cell proteins (CSCs) CD44+/CD24-, RAD6 and DDB2. The increased expression of CD44+/CD24-, RAD6, and decreased DDB2 are believed to be associated with chemoresistance, recurrence, and poor prognosis of the disease. Thus, this study's objective is to analyze the correlation between the expression of CD44+/CD24-, RAD6 and DDB2 with ovarian cancer chemoresistance. Materials and methods: This study was conducted with a prospective cohort of 64 patients who is divided into two groups (32 patients in each group) at the Obstetrics-gynecology and pathology department of Cipto Mangunkusumo, Tarakan, Dharmais, and Fatmawati Hospital. All suspected ovarian cancer patients underwent cytoreductive debulking and histopathological examination. Chemotherapy was given for six series followed by six months of observation. After the observation, we determined the therapy's response with the RECIST Criteria (Response Criteria in Solid Tumors) and then classified the results into chemoresistant or chemosensitive groups. Flow cytometry blood tests were then performed to examine the expression of CD44+/CD24-, RAD6 and DDB2. Results: There was a significant relationship between increased levels of CD44+/CD24-, and RAD6 (p < 0.05) levels with the chemoresistance of ovarian cancer. The logistic regression test showed that the CD44+/CD24- was better marker. Conclusions: These results indicate that CD44+/CD24 and RAD6 expressions are significantly associated with ovarian cancer chemoresistance, and CD44+/CD24- is the better marker to predict ovarian cancer chemoresistance.
41749070 | Alpha-Fetoprotein Stimulates Cleavage of Membranal MICA/B on Liver Cancer Cell Lead to Escape Immune Surveillance of Natural Killer Cells. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) could escape immune surveillance. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) serves as a significant biomarker for HCC; however, its influence on HCC immune surveillance remains elusive. RNA-Seq data of HCC were obtained from TCGA and GEO databases for the expression of AFP, MICA/B, and related genes. Immunohistochemistry for protein detection in tissues; the expression of target proteins was detected by Western blotting; membrane protein expression and cytotoxicity assessment were analysed by flow cytometry; protein localization was observed by immunofluorescence, cytokine levels were detected by ELISA; mRNA quantification was analysed by qRT-PCR, cell proliferation was measured by CCK-8, animal experiments were applied to observe immune response, and cytotoxicity assays were used to evaluate the killing effect of natural killer-92 (NK-92) cells. Results indicated that in both databases and patient tissues, AFP and MICA/B were highly expressed in the HCC tissues. AFP inhibits the membrane level of MICA/B in HCC cells and promotes the shedding of MICA/B by upregulating MMP9 expression via activation of the PI3K/AKT signalling pathway. Furthermore, AFP suppressed NK-92 cells from attacking HCC cells and restricted the release of cytokines by NK-92 cells, whereas interference with AFP had opposite effects. This finding indicated that AFP stimulated the cleavage of membrane MICA/B in HCC cells, increased the content of soluble MICA/B, and blocked the interaction between MICA/B and NKG2D, which may be involved in the upregulation of MMP9 expression via activation of the PI3K/AKT signalling pathway. These effects inhibited the activation of NK-92 cells, causing HCC cells to escape attack by NK-92 cells.
41417678 | A genetic atlas of rheumatoid arthritis integrating immune traits and plasma proteins identifies genetically-supported candidate effectors along the coagulation-inflammation axis. BACKGROUND: The upstream immunological drivers of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and their downstream proteomic effectors remain incompletely characterized. We employed an integrated genetic approach to identify causal immune and protein biomarkers for RA. METHODS: We performed a two-phase Mendelian randomization (MR) study. In Phase 1, we assessed the causal effects of 731 immune cell phenotypes on RA risk using two-sample MR with strict instrument validity criteria and multiple testing control. Phase 2 integrated cis-protein quantitative trait loci (pQTLs) from a large-scale proteomic GWAS (4,907 proteins) with RA through MR and Bayesian colocalization. Replication was conducted in the UK Biobank, followed by reverse MR and computational druggability assessment (DGIdb, molecular docking, dynamics simulations). RESULTS: Phase 1 MR identified 35 immune traits significantly associated with RA after false discovery rate (FDR) correction, including risk-associated myeloid dendritic cells and protective CD39+CD4+ T cells. Phase 2 revealed nine plasma proteins genetically associated with RA risk after Bonferroni correction, including F2 (prothrombin), thrombin, GP100, and sRAGE (AGER). Colocalization analysis supported shared genetic signals for GP100 and thrombin/prothrombin. Replication partially validated sRAGE, SCGN, and GP100. Reverse MR suggested minimal reverse causality. Docking and molecular dynamics suggested plausible binding of bortezomib (BTZ) and thrombin (binding energy: -5.53 kcal mol-1). CONCLUSIONS: Our genetics-anchored proteomic screen nominates a coagulation-inflammation axis-notably F2-as a therapeutic avenue in RA. Findings are hypothesis-generating and warrant mechanistic and preclinical validation, including safety profiling of anticoagulation-adjacent strategies.
33396801 | Computational Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-Like Coronavirus Diversity in Human, Bat and Pangolin Populations. In 2019, a novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2/nCoV-19, emerged in Wuhan, China, and has been responsible for the current COVID-19 pandemic. The evolutionary origins of the virus remain elusive and understanding its complex mutational signatures could guide vaccine design and development. As part of the international \CoronaHack\ in April 2020, we employed a collection of contemporary methodologies to compare the genomic sequences of coronaviruses isolated from human (SARS-CoV-2; n = 163), bat (bat-CoV; n = 215) and pangolin (pangolin-CoV; n = 7) available in public repositories. We have also noted the pangolin-CoV isolate MP789 to bare stronger resemblance to SARS-CoV-2 than other pangolin-CoV. Following de novo gene annotation prediction, analyses of gene-gene similarity network, codon usage bias and variant discovery were undertaken. Strong host-associated divergences were noted in ORF3a, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF8 and S, and in codon usage bias profiles. Last, we have characterised several high impact variants (in-frame insertion/deletion or stop gain) in bat-CoV and pangolin-CoV populations, some of which are found in the same amino acid position and may be highlighting loci of potential functional relevance.
41525819 | Replication-incompetent viral vaccine vectors ChAdOx1 and MVA as tools for evaluating T-cell responses to naturally processed antigens in vitro. Assessing T-cell responses is critical for vaccine development. In vitro methods using SARS-CoV-2 or recombinant vaccinia virus with B cells effectively activate T-cells but require stringent biosafety conditions. As an alternative, we explored attenuated, replication-incompetent viral vectors, such as modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) and chimpanzee adenoviral vectors (ChAdOx1 and ChAdOx2). These vectors successfully transduced B cells, as confirmed by GFP expression. B cells transduced with ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 (encoding SARS-CoV-2 Spike) activated autologous CD8+ and CD4+ T-cells. Similarly, B cells transduced with MVA encoding Spike activated autologous CD4+ T-cells. Our findings provide proof-of-concept support for the use of these safer viral vectors in in vitro studies of vaccine-induced cellular immunity.
25586117 | Immunosuppressive effects of Amblyomma cajennense tick saliva on murine bone marrow-derived dendritic cells. BACKGROUND: Dendritic cells (DCs) are professional antigen-presenting cells with vital roles in the activation of host immunity. Ticks are bloodsucking arthropods that secrete bioactive compounds with immunomodulatory properties via their saliva. It is known that some tick species modulate the biology of DCs with different intensities; however, studies on Amblyomma cajennense, the Cayenne tick, have not yet been performed, although this species is considered one of the most capable of modulating immune responses of different hosts. METHODS: Engorged female ticks were stimulated with dopamine to induce salivation, and saliva was pooled. The effects of tick saliva on the biology of dendritic cells were assessed by examining DC differentiation, maturation, migration, cellular viability, cytokine production and expression of surface markers by flow cytometry and ELISA. Competitive enzyme immunoassays (EIA) were used to measure saliva prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2). Statistical significance was determined by ANOVA followed by Tukey's post-test or by the Kruskal-Wallis test with the Dunns post-test. RESULTS: In this work, we demonstrated that the presence of A. cajennense saliva to bone marrow cultures inhibit DC differentiation. This inhibition was not accompanied by inhibition or induction of stimulatory and co-stimulatory molecules such as MHC-II, CD40, CD80 or CD86. Immature and mature DCs that were pre-exposed to saliva showed reduced migration toward the chemokines RANTES and MIP-3beta. This inhibition was associated to a reduced expression of CCR5 (the receptor for RANTES) or CCR7 (the receptor for MIP-3beta) induced by the presence of saliva in the cultures. Tick saliva also inhibited IL-12p40, IL-6 and TNF-alpha in a concentration-dependent manner while potentiating IL-10 cytokine production by DCs stimulated with Toll-like receptor-4 ligand. Additionally, A. cajennense tick saliva inhibited the expression of CD40 and CD86 in mature DCs while potentiating the expression of PD-L1. PGE2 was detected as one of the constituents of saliva at a concentration of ~ 80 ng/ml, and we believe that most of the results reported herein are due to the presence of PGE2. CONCLUSIONS: These results help to understand the tick-host interaction and demonstrate that A. cajennense ticks appear to have mechanisms for modulating host immune cells, including DCs.
42131337 | Single-cell CyTOF profiling reveals alterations in B, T and macrophage subsets during murine hepatic aging. Introduction: Population aging is a global demographic shift closely associated with immune dysregulation, which significantly increases the risk of chronic liver diseases. As a crucial immune and metabolic organ, the liver relies on a complex immune network consisting of innate and adaptive cell subsets to maintain homeostasis and defend against invading pathogens. However, the remodeling mechanism of the hepatic immune landscape with aging remains incompletely understood. Methods: We investigated the changes in hepatic immune cell subsets and related molecular profiles during aging, focusing on the identification and characterization of key immune cell populations and their associated gene expression patterns in aged livers. Results: We identified Igd+ B cells in the hepatic immune compartment, which showed a significant reduction in aged livers. This reduction was accompanied by the enrichment of B cell signal transduction pathways and downregulation of genes related to cell migration and receptor binding. Meanwhile, aged livers exhibited selective expansion of multiple CD4+ T cell subsets (Th1, Th2, Th17, Treg) and an increase in resident-derived pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages, whereas CD8+ T cells, double-negative T cells, and most innate lymphoid cell subsets remained stable. Our study delineated age-associated alterations in hepatic B, T, and macrophage subsets as a characteristic feature of murine hepatic immune aging. Discussion: These findings clarify the characteristics of the hepatic immune landscape during aging, providing a valuable reference for future studies on liver aging and the development of strategies to address age-related liver immune dysregulation.
27165816 | Natural killer cells play a critical role in mediating inflammation and graft failure during antibody-mediated rejection of kidney allografts. While the incidence of antibody-mediated kidney graft rejection has increased, the key cellular and molecular participants underlying this graft injury remain unclear. Rejection of kidney allografts in mice lacking the chemokine receptor CCR5 is dependent on production of donor-specific antibody. Here we determine if cells expressing cytotoxic function contributed to antibody-mediated kidney allograft rejection in these recipients. Wild-type C57BL/6, B6.CCR5(-/-), and B6.CD8(-/-)/CCR5(-/-) mice were transplanted with complete MHC-mismatched A/J kidney grafts, and intragraft inflammatory components were followed to rejection. B6.CCR5(-/-) and B6.CD8(-/-)/CCR5(-/-) recipients rejected kidney allografts by day 35, whereas 65% of allografts in wild-type recipients survived past day 80 post-transplant. Rejected allografts in wild-type C57BL/6, B6.CCR5(-/-), and B6.CD8(-/-)/CCR5(-/-) recipients expressed high levels of VCAM-1 and MMP7 mRNA that was associated with high serum titers of donor-specific antibody. High levels of perforin and granzyme B mRNA expression peaked on day 6 post-transplant in allografts in all recipients, but were absent in isografts. Depletion of natural killer cells in B6.CD8(-/-)/CCR5(-/-) recipients reduced this expression to background levels and promoted the long-term survival of 40% of the kidney allografts. Thus, natural killer cells have a role in increased inflammation during antibody-mediated kidney allograft injury and in rejection of the grafts.
41645835 | Cytomegalovirus-Based Viral Vectors Elicit Robust Systemic and Tissue-Resident Immune Response Against SARS-CoV-2 Antigens. Current COVID-19 vaccines face challenges such as waning immunity and limited mucosal protection. These limitations highlight the importance of developing next-generation vaccines that can induce strong tissue-specific and systemic immune responses. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) represents a promising vaccine vector due to its ability to elicit robust and durable immunity. In this study, we generated murine CMV (MCMV)-based vaccine vectors expressing the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein using either a wild-type or immunologically attenuated viral strain. By comparing intraperitoneal (IP) and intranasal (IN) immunization with both MCMV vectors, we show that IP administration induced higher, long-lasting S-specific antibody levels in serum. Both routes elicited strong systemic S-specific CD8+ T cell responses; however, CD8+ T cell responses induced by different immunization routes differed notably in their kinetics and phenotype. Importantly, IN immunization with recombinant MCMV vector expressing NKG2D ligand, RAE-1gamma, resulted in a robust accumulation of lung-resident S-specific CD8+ T cells, surpassing even the levels induced by licensed COVID-19 vaccines. Overall, we demonstrate the potential of CMV-based vector vaccines to fine-tune immune responses by combining vector design with the route of delivery. By leveraging these variables, it is possible to influence both the magnitude and the quality of the immunity induced.
42119231 | Exosomal circRNA_0023016 suppresses hepatocellular carcinoma progression by regulating the EIF4A3/RNF113A/CXCR4 axis in endothelial cells. The invasion and metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have been confirmed to be primarily associated with angiogenesis, and the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. In this study, we analyzed the GSE121714 database to identify circRNA_0023016, which is closely related to angiogenesis but has not been studied, as our target RNA for further investigation. The expression of circRNA_0023016 was identified to be downregulated in high invasion HCC cell lines and patients' tissues as well as serum exosomes. Inhibition of exosomal circRNA_0023016 downregulated eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A3 (EIF4A3) and ring finger protein 113 A (RNF113A), while elevating C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). EIF4A3 was found to be bound to circRNA_0023016 at RNA-protein level and to interact with RNF113A. The inhibition of RNF113A prevented the Cullin-RING E3 ligases (CRLs)-mediated K48-linked ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of CXCR4. Furthermore, the RNA level of circRNA_0023016 and the protein expression of EIF4A3/RNF113A/CXCR4 axis in angiogenic endothelial cells, which were isolated from mouse HCC tissues via flow sorting, were detected to minimize potential interference from other cells. Overall, a new exosomal circRNA_0023016/EIF4A3/RNF113A/CXCR4 axis was identified in HCC. Exosomal circRNA_0023016 may serve as a potential therapeutic target, particularly for high invasion HCC.
34163183 | Effect of Genomic and Amino Acid Sequence Mutation on Virulence and Therapeutic Target of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS COV-2). The COVID-19 pandemic is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). It is one of the RNA coronaviruses which share the highest mutation rates of RNA viruses when compared with that of their hosts. The collective mutation rate of RNA viruses is up to a million times higher than their hosts and is correlated with enhanced virulence of viruses. The RNA, genomic material of SARS-CoV-2, has the capacity of showing amplified fast changes as the infection spreads. These changes were frequently observed in genes for spike glycoprotein, nucleocapsid, ORF1ab, and ORF8, together with RNA dependent RNA polymerase. In contrast, genes for envelope, membrane, ORF6, ORF7a and ORF7b showed no observable changes in terms of amino acid substitutions. Mutated SARS COV-2 at these particular sites has been associated with viral infectivity, false laboratory results and viral genome mutation and interferes with therapeutic targets. Interferences with therapeutic targets is frequently observed in genes for RdRp. Additionally, mutated viral genes for RdRp render slow fidelity of RdRp protein, resulting in a high mutation rate. Such a high mutation rate might allow new virulent forms of the virus to emerge and influence the disease profile. This review aimed to elaborate on the effect of genomic and amino acid sequence mutations on the virulence and therapeutic targets of SARS COV-2. To achieve this objective, multiple literatures have been reviewed.
39211152 | A novel and potent MICA/B antibody is therapeutically effective in KRAS LKB1 mutant lung cancer models. Concurrent KRAS LKB1 (STK11, KL) mutant Non-Small Cell Lung Cancers (NSCLC) is particularly difficult to treat and does not respond well to current immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapies. This is due to numerous mechanisms including low antigen presentation limiting T cell mediated killing. To activate anti-tumor immunity, we targeted tumor cell - natural killer (NK) cell interactions. We tested whether a novel antibody based therapeutic strategy that predominantly activates natural killer (NK) cells demonstrates efficacy in pre-clinical mouse models of KL NSCLC. NK cells rely on binding of ligands, such as Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) class I-related chain A or B (MICA/B), to the activating receptor NKG2D. Importantly MICA and MICB are widely expressed in elevated levels across NSCLC subtypes including KL lung cancers. Proteases with the tumor microenvironment (TME) can cleave these proteins rendering tumor cells less visible to NK cells. We therefore developed a MICA monoclonal antibody, AHA-1031, which utilizes two NK cell activating receptors. AHA1031 prevents ligand shedding without interfering with binding to NKG2D while targeting cancer cells to antibody mediated cell dependent cytotoxicity (ADCC). Our therapeutic novel antibody has significant monotherapy activity in KL cancer models including xenografts of human cell lines and patient derived xenografts. Activating NK cells through MICA/B stabilization and inducing ADCC offers an alternative and potent therapy option in KL tumors. MICA/B are shed across different tumors making this therapeutic strategy universally applicable.
41792898 | HBx Promotes Liver Cancer Cells to Escape NK-92 Cell Attack by Mediating ADAM10 to Enzyme Cut MICA/B Shedding From Cancer Cell Membrane. MICA/B shedding from the membrane of cancer cells can inhibit natural killer (NK) cells from attacking hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study explored the role of HBx in mediating MICA/B shedding. The expression of HBx, MICA/B and HIF-1alpha in HBV-infected HCC was analysed using bioinformatics, and the localization of these proteins in tissues was verified using immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence. HBx-related signalling pathways were screened using RNA sequencing and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses. The expression of ADAM10 and MICA/B was detected by Western blotting, and the dynamic changes of MICA/B in the membrane and supernatant were evaluated by flow cytometry and ELISA. The HIF-1alpha inhibitor (LW-6) and ADAM10 inhibitor (GI254023X) were used to treat the HCC cells. The killing effect of NK-92 cells on HCC cells was evaluated using lactate dehydrogenase release, cytotoxicity assays, clone formation and live-cell imaging, and the secretion levels of IFN-gamma, IL-2 and IL-10 were measured. These results indicated that HBx, MICA/B and HIF-1alpha were highly expressed in HBV-infected HCC tissues. HBx promotes shedding of MICA/B from HCC cell membranes by upregulating the activity of ADAM10. LW-6 reversed the induction effect of HBx on ADAM10 and GI254023X significantly restored MICA/B levels on the membrane surface of HCC cells. Overexpression of HBx increases the resistance of HCC cells to NK-92 cells and inhibits the secretion of IFN-gamma, IL-2 and IL-10. In conclusion, HBx regulates the expression of ADAM10 by activating the HIF-1alpha signalling pathway. ADAM10 cuts MICA/B shedding from the membrane surface of HCC cells, resulting in escape attack by NK-92 cells.
42099745 | Progress in the application of 68Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT in lung cancer: a review. 68Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT, a molecular imaging technique targeting the C-X-C chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), has emerged as a promising tool in the diagnosis and therapeutic evaluation of lung cancer. Lung cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide, and accurate imaging modalities are critical for early detection, staging, and treatment monitoring. Current imaging approaches face challenges in differentiating tumor subtypes and assessing tumor biology, which limits personalized treatment strategies. This review systematically summarizes the application of 68Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT across various histological subtypes of lung cancer, including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), small cell lung cancer (SCLC), and rare lung cancer variants. We emphasize the correlation between PET imaging findings and immunohistochemical CXCR4 expression, highlighting the diagnostic value and unique imaging characteristics of this modality. Additionally, the potential role of 68Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT in guiding radioligand therapy is discussed, alongside its utility in tumor staging, therapeutic response assessment, and individualized treatment planning. By integrating recent clinical studies and systematic evaluations, this review aims to elucidate the advantages and limitations of 68Ga-Pentixafor PET/CT, providing theoretical insights and practical guidance for advancing precision medicine in lung cancer management.
18182569 | Pharmacogenetics of minimal residual disease response in children with B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a report from the Children's Oncology Group. Minimal residual disease (MRD) as a marker of antileukemic drug efficacy is being used to assess risk status and, in some cases, to adjust the intensity of therapy. Within known prognostic categories, the determinants of MRD are not known. We measured MRD by flow cytometry at day 8 (in blood) and at day 28 (in bone marrow) of induction therapy in more than 1000 children enrolled in Pediatric Oncology Group therapy protocols 9904, 9905, and 9906. We classified patients as \best risk\ if they had cleared MRD by day 8 of therapy and as \worst risk\ if they had MRD remaining in bone marrow at day 28, and tested whether MRD was related to polymorphisms in 16 loci in genes hypothesized to influence response to therapy in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). After adjusting for known prognostic features such as presence of the TEL-AML1 rearrangement, National Cancer Institute (NCI) risk status, ploidy, and race, the G allele of a common polymorphism in chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) was associated with more favorable MRD status than the A allele (P = .009, logistic regression), when comparing \best\ and \worst\ risk groups. These data are consistent with growing evidence that both acquired and host genetics influence response to cancer therapy.
41630303 | Identification of potential drug targets for Alzheimer's disease from genetic insights: A Mendelian randomization study. Alzheimer disease (AD) is a primary neurodegenerative disorder of the brain with an unknown cause and complex pathogenesis. It is the most common form of dementia and poses a significant threat to the health of the aging population worldwide. However, effective pharmacological treatments remain limited. This study employed publicly available genome-wide association study summary statistics, which included 4907 plasma proteins as exposures and AD as the outcome. To explore the causal relationship between plasma proteins and AD, 5 Mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were applied. Heterogeneity in the results was assessed using the Cochrane Q test. Horizontal pleiotropy was evaluated through the MR-Egger intercept test. Sensitivity analysis was conducted using a leave-one-out approach. Plasma proteins exhibiting significant associations with AD were subjected to Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses to elucidate their biological functions and pathways. The protein-protein interaction network was constructed via the STRING database, and hub genes were identified based on node degree and visualized with Cytoscape. Potential drug candidates targeting these hub genes were predicted via the Drug Signatures Database. The binding affinities of the candidate drugs to the hub gene-encoded proteins were subsequently validated through molecular docking via the CB-Dock2 platform. Finally, the expression patterns of the hub genes across various cell types were explored via single-cell sequencing analysis, and an external GEO validation dataset was established for verification. MR analysis revealed that 39 plasma proteins were significantly associated with AD. Functional and pathway enrichment analyses revealed that these proteins were predominantly enriched in the nuclear factor-kappaB signaling pathway. Further screening identified 10 hub genes: APOE, CSF3, TNFAIP3, PHGDH, PEBP1, MICB, LGMN, TGM1, CD55, and CCL21. The Drug Signatures Database predicted 5 potential drug candidates. Molecular docking analysis demonstrated strong binding affinities between these drug candidates and the hub genes. Single-cell sequencing analysis revealed that most hub genes presented elevated expression levels in oligodendrocytes. The results of the MR analysis were consistent with those of the external validation set, underscoring the reliability of this study. Through MR analysis, this study systematically identified 10 hub genes associated with AD and predicted 5 potential drug candidates. These findings offer novel insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying AD and may contribute to improved strategies for clinical diagnosis and targeted therapy.
26348250 | Malaria-derived hemozoin exerts early modulatory effects on the phenotype and maturation of human dendritic cells. Plasmodium falciparum (P. falciparum)-induced effects on the phenotype of human dendritic cells (DC) could contribute to poor induction of long-lasting protective immunity against malaria. DC ability to present antigens to naive T cells, thus initiating adaptive immune responses depends on complex switches in chemokine receptors, production of soluble mediators and expression of molecules enabling antigen-presentation and maturation. To examine the cellular basis of these processes in the context of malaria, we performed detailed analysis of early events following exposure of human monocyte-derived DC to natural hemozoin (nHZ) and the synthetic analog of its heme core, beta-hematin. DC exposed to either molecule produced high levels of the inflammatory chemokine MCP-1, showed continuous high expression of the inflammatory chemokine receptor CCR5, no upregulation of the lymphoid homing receptor CCR7 and no cytoskeletal actin redistribution with loss of podosomes. DC partially matured as indicated by increased expression of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II and CD86 following nHZ and beta-hematin exposure, however there was a lack in expression of the maturation marker CD83 following nHZ but not beta-hematin exposure. Overall our data demonstrate that exposure to nHZ partially impairs the capacity of DC to mature, an effect in part differential to beta-hematin.
41321564 | Emerging roles of natural killer cell ligands-HLA-E, HLA-F, HLA-G, MICA, and MICB-in in vitro fertilization outcomes. Infertility affects approximately one in six individuals globally and represents a complex public health concern influenced by a range of biological, environmental, and socioeconomic factors. In vitro fertilization (IVF) has emerged as a pivotal assisted reproductive technology (ART), yet its success is often hindered by recurrent implantation failure (RIF) and hypertensive complications such as preeclampsia (PE). Recent research highlights the critical role of the immune system particularly non-classical Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) class I molecules (HLA-G, HLA-E, HLA-F) and MHC class I chain-related proteins (MICA/B) in modulating maternal-fetal tolerance and determining IVF outcomes. This review synthesizes emerging evidence on the structure, expression, receptor interactions, and polymorphisms of these molecules, emphasizing their roles in embryo implantation, immune modulation, and pregnancy maintenance. Soluble HLA-G (sHLA-G) has shown promise as a biomarker for embryo viability, while variations in KIR-HLA interactions and polymorphisms in non-classical HLA genes have been linked to RIF and adverse reproductive outcomes. Despite promising findings, routine clinical testing of these markers remains limited due to methodological inconsistencies, lack of large-scale validation, and the multifactorial nature of implantation. Future research priorities include functional genomics, standardized diagnostic assays, AI-driven predictive tools, and translational trials of immunomodulatory therapies. Understanding the immunogenetic landscape offers new avenues for personalized reproductive care and improved IVF success rates.
41050431 | Enhanced solid tumor cell targeting by a neoepitope-encoding oncolytic measles virus combined with CAR therapy. Despite the success of cell therapy in treating hematological malignancies, the treatment of solid tumors remains challenging due to the tumor microenvironment (TME) and a lack of suitable antigens. To address this, we investigated a putative octapeptide neoepitope generated by proteolytic cleavage of the stress-induced protein MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence B (MICB). Antibodies developed via the hybridoma technique exhibited high affinity and specificity toward the octapeptide. Detection of the octapeptide was enhanced by inserting an alpha-helical linker before the transmembrane domain, improving accessibility on stably transduced cells. Two chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) constructs with differing single-chain variable fragment (scFv) chain orientations were expressed in primary T and natural killer (NK) cells, showing antigen-specific cytotoxicity, particularly when incorporating the rigid linker. Variations in sensitivity between CARs influenced killing efficacy and activation profiles. Oncolytic measles virus (MV) was used as a vector encoding the membrane-anchored octapeptide, selectively infecting tumor cells and enhancing CAR-T cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Combined use of CAR-T and (CAR-)NK cells demonstrated increased persistence of immune cells as well as potent and sustained antitumor effects following MV infection. This study underscores the potential of neoepitope-based CAR therapy for targeting solid tumor cells and highlights the potential synergistic effects of combining cell therapy with virotherapy for improved therapeutic outcomes.
29464499 | Catechin Attenuates Coronary Heart Disease in a Rat Model by Inhibiting Inflammation. Accumulating evidence has established that systemic inflammation is an important pathophysiologic factor of coronary heart disease (CHD). In this study, we investigated whether catechin exerts anti-inflammatory function in CHD rats. CHD model of rats was established by high-fat diet feeding and pituitrin injection. The successful building of CHD model was confirmed using blood liquid biochemical analyzer. Additionally, the effects of catechin on CHD parameters and several inflammatory signaling were investigated. The levels of total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein, low-density lipoprotein cholesterin, triglyceride and blood glucose were all significantly elevated in CHD rats compared to them in control rats, suggesting the successful establishment of CHD model. Administration of catechin attenuated CHD by reversing the levels of creatine kinase, creatine kinase-MB, lactate dehydrogenase, cardiac troponin (cTnT), ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and systolic internal diameter (LVIDs). Additionally, several inflammatory biomarkers or cytokines such as C-reactive protein, lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2), interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were inhibited by catechin. In contrast to nuclear factor-kappa beta (NF-kappaB), several proteins involved in inflammation such as farnesoid X receptor, signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT)-3 and protein kinase B (PKB/Akt) were all activated by catechin. Catechin could be used as a promising treatment for CHD based on its role in suppressing inflammation and balancing STAT-3 signaling.
31461746 | Alloreactive T Cells Display a Distinct Chemokine Profile in Response to Conditioning in Xenogeneic GVHD Models. BACKGROUND: Chemokines and chemokine receptors are potential targets for the prevention and treatment of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). The objective of the current study is to determine the clinical relevance of xenogeneic transplantation models in terms of host and donor chemokine profiles and, if this is the case, to assess the clinical efficacy of C-C chemokine receptor (CCR) 5 antagonist maraviroc for the prevention of GVHD using this model. METHODS: Xenogeneic GVHD was induced by intravenous injection of 5 x 10 human pan T cells into NOD/Shi-scid-IL2rgamma (NOG) mice or MHC class I/II-deficient NOG mice in the presence or absence of total body irradiation before transplantation. RESULTS: Extensive tissue destruction with human T-cell infiltration was observed throughout the body, particularly in lungs and liver, but relatively mild in gut. Consistent with this finding, quantitative polymerase chain reaction confirmed the upregulation of mouse CXC chemokine ligand (CXCL) 9 and CXCL10 in lungs and CCL4 in lungs and liver but not in gut. The addition of total body irradiation (1) led to the early release of mouse CCL4 and CXCL10, (2) upregulated a number of chemokine-related genes in human T cells, (3) induced higher expression of CCR5 on human CD4 and CD8 T cells and CXCR3 on human CD4 T cells, and (4) promoted their migration and proliferation in organs, resulting in more severe tissue damage. In this context, pharmacological CCR5 blockade neither ameliorated GVHD nor prolonged survival in NOG mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our experimental data do not demonstrate clinical benefit of CCR5 antagonist for the prevention of GVHD in a myeloablative setting.
40085416 | Efficacy of measuring natural killer-activating receptor ligands to predict the pathogenesis of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease. OBJECTIVE: The proportion of non-B/non-C hepatocellular carcinoma cases is increasing, and the principal cause is metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). The degree of intrahepatic natural killer (NK) cell infiltration has been reported to correlate with MASLD progression. However, reports on MASLD are limited. We aimed to investigate the involvement of NK cell-activating receptor ligands in MASLD pathogenesis. METHODS: This study cohort comprised 69 patients with biopsy-proven MASLD treated between 2012 and 2018 at our institute. The concentrations of major histocompatibility complex class I polypeptide-related sequences A and B (MICA and MICB, respectively) and B7H6 in patient sera were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits. Data were statistically compared between those with metabolic-associated steatotic liver (MASL, n = 25) and those with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH, n = 44). The clinical characteristics related to higher concentrations of each NK cell-activating receptor ligand were also investigated. RESULTS: The MASH group had a higher level of the ligands than the MASL group. Furthermore, the MASH group had a significantly higher level of the Mac-2-binding protein glycosylation isomer (M2BPGi) than the MASL group (p < 0.001). MICA and MICB were positively correlated, and all three ligands were strongly correlated with alpha-fetoprotein and protein induced by vitamin K absence 2. Although MICB levels positively correlated with aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase levels (p < 0.005), patients with higher MICA and B7H6 levels had higher M2BPGi levels. Interestingly, concentrations of B7H6 were significantly correlated with portal inflammation (p < 0.001), rather than lobular inflammation. CONCLUSION: The three NK-activating receptor ligands were higher in the sera of the MASH group than those of the MASL group and strongly correlated with tumor markers, indicating the potential for hepatocarcinogenesis. Higher concentrations of serum B7H6 were correlated with advanced fibrosis and the degree of portal inflammation, which is a potential biomarker for predicting the pathogenesis of MASH.
42144617 | Multitargeted nanoparticles inhibit cancer invasion by disrupting cancer-associated fibroblast-tumor cell crosstalk and modulating collagen pattern and EMT. BACKGROUND: Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), a major component of tumor stroma, play an important role in tumor progression and metastasis via paracrine signaling, extracellular matrix (ECM) remodelling, and the secretion of growth factors, cytokines, and chemokines promoting tumor growth. In this study, we aim to develop a multitargeted nanoparticle formulation to simultaneously target CAFs and triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells, aiming to block their crosstalk, remodel the ECM, and inhibit epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) to suppress tumor growth and metastatic processes. METHODS: The potential of CAFs as therapeutic target for TNBC was evaluated by analyzing RNA-seq data from TNBC patients. A novel iRGD-functionalized polymer-lipid hybrid nanoparticle (iRGD-DOX-oHA-PLN) was specifically designed to target alphavbeta3 and alphavbeta5 receptors on both tumor cells and CAFs. A murine TNBC cell line and its orthotopic in vivo model were used for efficacy evaluation. Within this model, a murine fibroblast cell line was incorporated as a source of CAFs for in vitro investigation of the crosstalk between CAFs and tumor cells. In addition, the mechanism of iRGD-DOX-oHA-PLN nanoparticles in disrupting CAF-tumor cell interactions by blocking downstream features associated with metastases including paracrine communication, collagen organization and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) associated with metastasis were investigated both in vitro and in vivo. RESULTS: The iRGD-DOX-oHA-PLN demonstrates higher cellular uptake and cytotoxicity in CAFs overexpressing integrins alphavbeta3 and alphavbeta5 compared to normal fibroblasts. The results demonstrate that iRGD-DOX-oHA-PLN significantly restricts the interaction of CAFs and cancer cells, due to interruption of paracrine communication induced by pro-metastatic TGF-beta and CXCL12 secretion together with a reduction of CXCR4 expression. Consistent with the in vitro results, in an orthotopic syngeneic TNBC murine model, iRGD-DOX-oHA-PLN effectively depletes CAFs, reducing tumor-associated collagen production, and altering tumor-associated collagen signatures (TACS). Thus, iRGD-DOX-oHA-PLN treatment impedes tumor invasion by reducing MMP-9 secretion and inhibiting EMT. CONCLUSION: The data reveals that simultaneously targeting CAFs and tumor cells, while blocking their crosstalk via application of a multitargeted nanomedicine, offers a compelling and effective strategy to inhibit metastasis of TNBC.
40863222 | Regulatory Effects of Endometriosis-Associated Genetic Variants: A Multi-Tissue eQTL Analysis. BACKGROUD: Endometriosis is a chronic, estrogen-dependent inflammatory disease characterized by the ectopic presence of endometrial-like tissue. Although genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified susceptibility variants, their tissue-specific regulatory impact remains poorly understood. OBJECTIVE: To functionally characterize endometriosis-associated variants by exploring their regulatory effects as expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) across six physiologically relevant tissues: peripheral blood, sigmoid colon, ileum, ovary, uterus, and vagina. METHODS: GWAS-identified variants were cross-referenced with tissue-specific eQTL data from the GTEx v8 database. We prioritized genes either frequently regulated by eQTLs or showing the strongest regulatory effects (based on slope values, which indicate the direction and magnitude of the effect on gene expression). Functional interpretation was performed using MSigDB Hallmark gene sets and Cancer Hallmarks gene collections. RESULTS: A tissue specificity was observed in the regulatory profiles of eQTL-associated genes. In the colon, ileum, and peripheral blood, immune and epithelial signaling genes predominated. In contrast, reproductive tissues showed the enrichment of genes involved in hormonal response, tissue remodeling, and adhesion. Key regulators such as MICB, CLDN23, and GATA4 were consistently linked to hallmark pathways, including immune evasion, angiogenesis, and proliferative signaling. Notably, a substantial subset of regulated genes was not associated with any known pathway, indicating potential novel regulatory mechanisms. CONCLUSIONS: This integrative approach highlights the com-plexity of tissue-specific gene regulation mediated by endometriosis-associated variants. Our findings provide a functional framework to prioritize candidate genes and support new mechanistic hypotheses for the molecular pathophysiology of endometriosis.
38849039 | Proteasome inhibitors FHND6091 enhance the ability of NK cells to kill tumor cells through multiple mechanisms. The immune system has a strong connection to tumors. When a tumor cell is recognized as an abnormal cell by the immune system, the immune system may initiate an immune response to kill the tumor cell. In this study, RNA sequencing was performed on multiple myeloma (MM) cells treated with the proteasome inhibitor FHND6091. The transcriptional changes induced by FHND6091 in RPMI8226 cells aligned notably with immune response activation and results indicated upregulation of cGAS-STING pathway-related genes in the FHND6091-treated group. In vivo and in vitro experiments had demonstrated that FHND6091 stimulated the immunoreaction of MM cells via activation of the cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine synthase/stimulator of interferon genes (cGAS-STING) pathway. This activation resulted in the generation of type-I interferons and the mobilization of natural killer (NK) cells. Notably, FHND6091 upregulated the levels of calreticulin and the protein ligands UL16-binding protein 2/5/6, MHC class I chain-related A (MICA), and MICB on the surface of MM cells. Subsequently, upon engaging with the surface activation receptors of NK cells, these ligands triggered NK cell activation, leading to the subsequent elimination of tumor cells. Thus, our findings elucidated the mechanism whereby FHND6091 exerted its immunotherapeutic activity as a STING agonist, enhancing the killing ability of NK cells against tumor cells.
26377647 | 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-Dioxin Alters Lipid Metabolism and Depletes Immune Cell Populations in the Jejunum of C57BL/6 Mice. 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a potent aryl hydrocarbon receptor agonist that elicits dose-dependent hepatic fat accumulation and inflammation that can progress to steatohepatitis. To investigate intestine-liver interactions that contribute to TCDD-elicited steatohepatitis, we examined the dose-dependent effects of TCDD (0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1, 3, 10, or 30 microg/kg) on jejunal epithelial gene expression in C57BL/6 mice orally gavaged every 4 days for 28 days. Agilent 4x44K whole-genome microarray analysis of the jejunal epithelium identified 439 differentially expressed genes ( fold change  >= 1.5, P1(t) >= 0.999) across 1 or more doses, many related to lipid metabolism and immune system processes. TCDD-elicited differentially expressed genes were associated with lipolysis, fatty acid/cholesterol absorption and transport, the Kennedy pathway, and retinol metabolism, consistent with increased hepatic fat accumulation. Moreover, several major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II genes (H2-Aa, H2-Ab1, H2-DMb1, Cd74) were repressed, coincident with decreased macrophage and dendritic cell levels in the lamina propria, suggesting migration of antigen-presenting cells out of the intestine. In contrast, hepatic RNA-Seq analysis identified increased expression of MHC class II genes, as well as chemokines and chemokine receptors involved in macrophage recruitment (Ccr1, Ccr5, Ccl5, Cx3cr1), consistent with hepatic F4/80 labeling and macrophage infiltration into the liver. Collectively, these results suggest TCDD elicits changes that support hepatic lipid accumulation, macrophage migration, and the progression of hepatic steatosis to steatohepatitis.
34721359 | A Novel Microviridae Phage (CLasMV1) From \Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus\. \Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus\ (CLas) is an unculturable phloem-limited alpha-proteobacterium associated with citrus Huanglongbing (HLB; yellow shoot disease). HLB is currently threatening citrus production worldwide. Understanding the CLas biology is critical for HLB management. In this study, a novel single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) phage, CLasMV1, was identified in a CLas strain GDHZ11 from Guangdong Province of China through a metagenomic analysis. The CLasMV1 phage had a circular genome of 8,869 bp with eight open reading frames (ORFs). While six ORFs remain uncharacterized, ORF6 encoded a replication initiation protein (RIP), and ORF8 encoded a major capsid protein (MCP). Based on BLASTp search against GenBank database, amino acid sequences of both MCP and RIP shared similarities (coverage > 50% and identity > 25%) to those of phages in Microviridae, an ssDNA phage family. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that CLasMV1 MCP and RIP sequences were clustered with genes from CLas and \Ca. L. solanacearum\ (CLso) genomes and formed a unique phylogenetic lineage, designated as a new subfamily Libervirinae, distinct to other members in Microviridae family. No complete integration form but partial sequence (~1.9 kb) of CLasMV1 was found in the chromosome of strain GDHZ11. Read-mapping analyses on additional 15 HiSeq data sets of CLas strains showed that eight strains harbored complete CLasMV1 sequence with variations in single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and small sequence insertions/deletions (In/Dels). PCR tests using CLasMV1-specific primer sets detected CLasMV1 in 577 out of 1,006 CLas strains (57%) from southern China. This is the first report of Microviridae phage associated with CLas, which expands our understanding of phage diversity in CLas and facilitates current research in HLB.
26550126 | Screening feature genes of lung carcinoma with DNA microarray analysis. Lung carcinoma is the most common and aggressive malignant tumor with poor clinical outcome. Identification of new marker of lung cancer is essential for the diagnosis and prognosis of the disease. To identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and find associated pathways that may function as targets of lung cancer. Gene expression profiling of GSE40791 were downloaded from GEO (Gene Expression Omnibus), including 100 normal specimens and 94 lung cancer samples. The DEGs were screened out by LIMMA package in R language. Besides, novel genes associated with lung cancer were identified by co-expression analysis. Then, GO enrichment and transcription binding site analysis were performed on these DEGs, and novel genes were predicted using DAVID. Finally, PPI network was constructed by String software in order to get the hub codes involved in cancer carcinoma. A total of 541 DEGs were filtered out between normal samples and patients with lung carcinoma, including 155 up-regulated genes and 386 down-regulated genes. Additionally, nine novel genes, CA4, CDC20, CHRDL1, DLGAP5, EMCN, GPM6A, NUSAP1, S1PR1 and TCF21, were figured out. The transcription biding site analysis showed that these genes were regulated by LHX3, HNF3B, CDP, HFH1, FOXO4, STAT, SOX5, MEF2, FOXO3 and SRY. Hub codes as BUB1B, MAD2L and TOP2A may play as target genes in lung carcinoma in the result of PPI network analysis. Newly predicted genes and hub codes can perform as target genes for diagnose and clinical therapy of lung cancer.
31077596 | Modulation of CRTh2 expression on allergen-specific T cells following peptide immunotherapy. BACKGROUND: Allergen immunotherapy using synthetic peptide T-cell epitopes (Cat-PAD) from the major cat allergen Fel d 1 has been shown, in allergen exposure studies, to significantly reduce symptoms of allergic rhinoconjunctivitis in cat-allergic subjects. However, the immunological mechanisms underlying clinical benefit remain only partially understood. Since previous studies of whole allergen immunotherapy demonstrated a reduction in the frequency of allergen-specific (MHC II tetramer+ ) CD4+ T cells expressing the chemokine receptor CRTh2, we assessed the impact of Cat-PAD on the frequency and functional phenotype of Fel d 1-specific CD4+ T cells. METHODS: Using before and after treatment samples from subjects enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of Cat-PAD, we employed Fel d 1 MHC II tetramers and flow cytometry to analyze the expression of chemokine receptors CCR3, CCR4, CCR5, CXCR3, and CRTh2, together with markers of memory phenotype (CD27 and CCR7) on Fel d 1-specific CD4+ T cells. RESULTS: No statistically significant change in the frequency of Fel d 1-specific CD4+ T cells, nor in their expression of chemokine receptors or memory phenotype, was observed. However, a significant reduction in cell surface expression of CRTh2 was observed between the placebo and active groups (P = 0.047). CONCLUSIONS: Peptide immunotherapy with Cat-PAD does not significantly alter the frequency or phenotype of Fel d 1-CD4+ T cells, but may decrease their expression of CRTh2.
41898293 | sMICA/sMICB and Immune Checkpoint in Endometriosis: Toward a Minimally Invasive Diagnostic Model Based on Machine Learning. Background: Endometriosis is a complex condition that impairs women's quality of life and reproductive potential. Its diagnosis remains significant challenge for clinicians. The aim of the study was to investigate cancer-like immune evasion mechanisms in endometriosis and to develop a novel diagnostic model using machine learning. Methods: In this study, we measured the levels of soluble forms of the following immune markers in blood serum and peritoneal fluid (PF): sMICA, sMICB, sEng, sCD25, s4-1BB, sB7.2, sCTLA-4, sPD-L1, sPD-1, sTIM-3, sLAG-3, and sGal-9. Results: sMICB levels in PF differed across endometriosis stages and were higher in patients with endometriosis-associated adhesions. sMICA levels in PF were elevated in women with endometriosis-associated infertility. The disease severity was inversely correlated with serum sB7.2 levels and positively correlated with serum sTIM-3 levels. A logistic regression model achieved an accuracy = 0.79, AUC = 0.94, and F1-score = 0.88, whereas XGBoost performed better with accuracy = 0.94, AUC = 0.95, and F1-score = 0.96. The key predictive features in both models were sMICB serum level and patients' pain score. Conclusions: Our results demonstrate the potential role of sMICA and sMICB shedding in endometriosis and present a novel, minimally invasive diagnostic approach.
40274283 | CLN-619, a MICA/B monoclonal antibody that promotes innate immune cell-mediated antitumor activity. BACKGROUND: Major histocompatibility complex class I-related protein A and B (MICA/B) are ligands for the natural killer group 2 member D (NKG2D) receptor and are broadly expressed on tumor cells but minimally on normal tissues. When cytotoxic NKG2D-expressing immune cells engage MICA/B, the ligand-expressing cells are targeted for lysis. Cancer cells can evade NKG2D-mediated destruction by shedding MICA/B from their cell surface via proteases present in the tumor microenvironment. CLN-619 is a humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody (mAb) which binds MICA/B and inhibits shedding resulting in accumulation of MICA/B on the tumor cell surface. CLN-619 may thereby have therapeutic effects in a broad range of malignancies by re-establishing the MICA/B-NKG2D axis to enable NKG2D-mediated, as well as Fc-gamma receptor-mediated, tumor cell lysis. METHODS: CLN-619 was characterized for binding epitope and affinity, effects on surface and soluble levels of MICA/B, and in vitro tumor cell killing. In mouse models, the mAb was tested for tumor growth inhibition. The contribution of the Fc-gamma (Fcgamma) 1 domain to CLN-619 activity was also assessed. RESULTS: CLN-619 bound with high affinity to the alpha-3 domain of MICA/B without encumbering the interaction with NKG2D on natural killer cells. CLN-619 increased the level of cell surface expression of MICA/B and concomitantly decreased the levels of soluble MICA/B in cell culture assays. Treatment of cancer cell lines with CLN-619 induced antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis. CLN-619 resulted in potent inhibition of tumor growth in multiple xenograft models and increased survival of mice in a disseminated cancer model. CONCLUSIONS: CLN-619 inhibited the shedding of MICA/B to effectively restore cytotoxic signaling pathways in immune cells. Potent antitumor activity of CLN-619 as a monotherapy was observed in several preclinical models. Activity of CLN-619 required a functional Fcgamma1 domain, suggesting the requirement of simultaneous engagement of NKG2D and cluster of differentiation 16A (CD16A) on immune cells for optimal cytotoxicity. The preclinical data reported here support the assessment of CLN-619 in patients with cancer.
41988198 | Chemotherapy driven alterations in NK cell receptors and ligands in high grade serous ovarian cancer. Introduction: Combination approaches are being explored to improve immunotherapy efficacy, yet the immunomodulatory effects of chemotherapy on NK cell receptors and their ligands remain unexplored in high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC). Therefore, understanding chemotherapy-induced immune modulation is essential in HGSOC. Methods: Immune profiling was conducted on clinical specimens from 33 chemo-naive patients undergoing primary debulking surgery (PDS), 57 chemotherapy-treated patients undergoing interval debulking surgery (IDS), and 17 patients in the IDS group were followed during chemotherapy cycles. Immune profiling was carried out using flow cytometry, Procartaplex immunoassay, and ELISA. Blood samples were collected from 50 age- and gender-matched healthy participants for comparison. Results: Primary investigation on follow-up patients reveals chemotherapy-mediated immune modulation on NK cell subsets. This was further validated in the chemo-treated surgical cohort. The Natural Cytotoxicity Receptors (NCRs) were downregulated on NK cells in chemo-naive surgical cohorts. The NCR group of receptors was normalized to a level comparable to that in healthy controls in the chemotherapy-treated surgical cohort, due to reduced soluble ligands. Surface MICA expression was also increased (p = 0.0466) on EpCAM+ cells in the chemo-treated surgical cohort compared to the chemo-naive surgical cohort, while NKG2D+ immune cells were reduced in both surgical cohorts compared to healthy controls. Moreover, proinflammatory cytokines IL-2 (p = 0.0001) and TNF-alpha (p = 0.0442) were reduced in the chemotherapy-treated surgical cohort, while intracellular levels of dual perforin and granzyme were elevated in the chemo-treated group, which may enhance cytolytic potential. High surface expressions of HLA-E, MIC-B, and LLT-1 ligands were associated with improved progression-free survival. Conclusions: Our findings highlight the broad immunomodulatory effects of chemotherapy on NK cell receptors, ligands, and cytokines, which may offer insights for combination therapies in HGSOC.
32460025 | The Drosophila Ortholog of Mammalian Transcription Factor Sox9 Regulates Intestinal Homeostasis and Regeneration at an Appropriate Level. Balanced stem cell self-renewal and differentiation is essential for maintaining tissue homeostasis, but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we identified the transcription factor SRY-related HMG-box (Sox) 100B, which is orthologous to mammalian Sox8/9/10, as a common target and central mediator of the EGFR/Ras and JAK/STAT signaling pathways that coordinates intestinal stem cell (ISC) proliferation and differentiation during both normal epithelial homeostasis and stress-induced intestinal repair in Drosophila. The two stress-responsive pathways directly regulate Sox100B transcription via two separate enhancers. Interestingly, an appropriate level of Sox100B is critical for its function, as its depletion inhibits ISC proliferation via cell cycle arrest, while its overexpression also inhibits ISC proliferation by directly suppressing EGFR expression and additionally promotes ISC differentiation by activating a differentiation-promoting regulatory circuitry composed of Sox100B, Sox21a, and Pdm1. Thus, our study reveals a Sox family transcription factor that functions as a stress-responsive signaling nexus that ultimately controls tissue homeostasis and regeneration.
42134095 | Impact of Blinatumomab and Inotuzumab Exposure on Apheresis Composition for CAR T in Patients With B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. Children with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) are increasingly treated with immunotherapeutic agents such as blinatumomab and inotuzumab. Thus, those who present in relapse for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy are likely to have prior exposure to these other immunotherapies. The effect of blinatumomab and inotuzumab exposure on cellular therapy, particularly, cell collection and the composition of apheresis products, is unknown. In this study, we analyzed the apheresis composition of 113 pediatric and young adult patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies across three CAR T-cell trials spanning from 2014 to 2024 and compared patients who did or did not have exposure to blinatumomab or inotuzumab prior to cell collection. We found no association between blinatumomab exposure and differences in apheresis composition, including total nucleated cell (TNC) yield, CD3 counts, CD56 counts, or CD4:CD8 ratio of CD45+ cells. The apheresis products from patients with inotuzumab exposure had lower CD4:CD8 ratios compared to those of patients without inotuzumab exposure. There were no other notable differences in T-cell phenotype or markers of exhaustion among the subset of samples with extended flow cytometry panels. With the exception of lower CD4:CD8 ratios in patients with prior inotuzumab, the comparable apheresis yield and composition observed after immunotherapy exposure is a reassuring finding, particularly in light increased use of upfront blinatumomab for B-ALL.
41830296 | Full-Length Sequence Characterisation of the Novel MICB Null Allele, MICB*068N. The novel null allele MICB*068N was identified by full-length MICB genotyping.
40943323 | The Role of MICA/B Molecules and the NKG2D Receptor in the Interaction Between NK-92 Cells and JEG-3 Cells. MICA/B molecules (MICs) are stress-induced molecules expressed by infected and tumor cells. Their expression also characterizes trophoblast cells. Cytotoxic lymphocytes, including natural killer (NK) cells, express the NKG2D receptor, aiding them in the recognition and destruction of target cells that present MICs. To evade destruction, target cells employ various defense mechanisms, including the secretion of soluble forms of MICs. Choriocarcinoma JEG-3 cells and NK-92 cells were used to assess the expression of MICs and NKG2D. The cytotoxicity of NK-92 cells against JEG-3 cells in the presence of trichostatin A (TSA), anti-MICA/B antibodies (anti-MICA/B), and recombinant MIC proteins (rMICA/B) was evaluated. JEG-3 cells and NK-92 cells express MICs. Additionally, NK-92 cells exhibit high levels of NKG2D receptor expression. TSA treatment reduced the surface expression of MICs on choriocarcinoma cells, and was also associated with the release of soluble MICB. However, the TSA-induced decrease in MIC expression by choriocarcinoma cells did not protect them from the cytotoxic effects of NK cells. Only the activation of NK cells by IL-12 resulted in a decline in susceptibility of TSA-treated choriocarcinoma cells to NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity. Thus, NK cells activated by IL-12 lose their ability to effectively kill TSA-treated choriocarcinoma cells through the MIC-mediated mechanisms.
41325449 | Statistical methods to disentangle genetic effects influencing infertility and early fetal viability with a genome-wide application. Genetic selection occurs at multiple stages before and during pregnancy. While parental genomes influence the probability of fertilization, the fetal genome, once established, plays a critical role in early fetal survival. However, when estimated separately, parental and fetal genetic effects may confound each other. To address this, we developed an extension of the case-parent triad design to jointly estimate the genetic contributions of the parents and the fetus. Our approach considers all offspring as carriers of the trait \fetal survival\. As use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) usually reflects fertility issues, we performed separate analyses on non-ART and ART family units, hypothesizing that parental and fetal effects differ between these groups. In the Norwegian Mother, Father, and Child Cohort Study, we had access to genotypes for approximately 43,000 family triads and dyads, including 1,336 offspring conceived through ART. In the non-ART sample, we identified genome-wide significant fetal effects on fetal survival for SNPs within regions harboring genes relevant to infertility and fetal development, such as MDC1, MICB, HCP5, and NOTCH4. These effects remained significant after adjusting for parental interaction effects, confirming their origin as fetal effects. When we replicated the analysis in the ART sample, we observed partial overlap in fetal effects with those identified in the non-ART sample. Parental interaction effects were observed in both the non-ART and ART samples, but the specific genetic associations differed between the groups. Notably, several SNPs associated with parental interaction effects in the ART sample mapped to genes previously implicated in male infertility, including ACTB, FSCN1, and RNF216. Our findings have broad implications for understanding the genetic architecture of infertility and fetal development. To support the interpretation of our results, we provide detailed descriptions of the models, highlighting their strengths and limitations.
41514644 | Inflammation Indices as Predictive Markers of Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer. INTRODUCTION: Prompt diagnosis and differentiation between non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) and muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) are essential in the treatment of bladder cancer. Inflammation-based biomarkers have recently emerged as potential tools for improving cancer diagnostics and prognostication. This study aims to evaluate the potential value of the Systemic Inflammation Index (SII), Systemic Inflammation Response Index (SIRI), Pan-immune Inflammation Value (PIV), and Platelet-to-Lymphocyte Ratio (PLR) as predictors of muscle-invasive disease. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Analyzed data included 310 bladder tumors. The SII, SIRI, PIV, and PLR were calculated from pre-TURBT complete blood-count results. Differences in inflammatory markers between pathological stages (pTa-pT4) were examined using ANOVA with Tukey's post hoc testing. Optimal cutoff values for distinguishing NMIBC from MIBC were identified using ROC curve analysis and Youden's J statistic. Logistic regression models incorporating age, sex, the number of recurrences, and each inflammatory index were developed to evaluate their predictive performance in patients treated with curative intent. RESULTS: All investigated inflammation indices significantly differed across tumor stages (p < 0.001), with lower values observed in pTa tumors compared with muscle-invasive disease. Determined cutoff values for muscle-invasive disease were 865.63 for SII, 2.02 for SIRI, 579.28 for PIV, and 166.35 for PLR. Logistic regression models demonstrated promising diagnostic performance, achieving AUC values of 0.812 (SII), 0.816 (SIRI), 0.821 (PIV), and 0.795 (PLR); sensitivity and specificity were 76% and 75% for SII, 79% and 77% for SIRI, 80% and 72% for PIV, and 88% and 59% for PLR. DISCUSSION: The presented results indicate that inflammation-based indices vary meaningfully between bladder cancer stages and may be utilized in early identification of muscle-invasive disease. As inexpensive and widely available biomarkers, they offer potential value in the evaluation of suspected MIBC before the final pathology report and could enhance the diagnostic process.
28514438 | Conversion of adult endothelium to immunocompetent haematopoietic stem cells. Developmental pathways that orchestrate the fleeting transition of endothelial cells into haematopoietic stem cells remain undefined. Here we demonstrate a tractable approach for fully reprogramming adult mouse endothelial cells to haematopoietic stem cells (rEC-HSCs) through transient expression of the transcription-factor-encoding genes Fosb, Gfi1, Runx1, and Spi1 (collectively denoted hereafter as FGRS) and vascular-niche-derived angiocrine factors. The induction phase (days 0-8) of conversion is initiated by expression of FGRS in mature endothelial cells, which results in endogenous Runx1 expression. During the specification phase (days 8-20), RUNX1+ FGRS-transduced endothelial cells commit to a haematopoietic fate, yielding rEC-HSCs that no longer require FGRS expression. The vascular niche drives a robust self-renewal and expansion phase of rEC-HSCs (days 20-28). rEC-HSCs have a transcriptome and long-term self-renewal capacity similar to those of adult haematopoietic stem cells, and can be used for clonal engraftment and serial primary and secondary multi-lineage reconstitution, including antigen-dependent adaptive immune function. Inhibition of TGFbeta and CXCR7 or activation of BMP and CXCR4 signalling enhanced generation of rEC-HSCs. Pluripotency-independent conversion of endothelial cells into autologous authentic engraftable haematopoietic stem cells could aid treatment of haematological disorders.
41797634 | Distribution and CWD Categories of HLA-E, -F, -G, -H, MICA and MICB Alleles, as Well as Homozygotes Across 17 Loci in the Chinese Population. Using next-generation sequencing technology, we analysed 17-locus typing data from 10,059 healthy Chinese individuals to establish common and well-documented categories for HLA-E, -F, -G, -H, MICA and MICB alleles. In total, we identified 8 HLA-E, 5 HLA-F, 8 HLA-G, 15 HLA-H, 39 MICA and 27 MICB alleles. Alleles with frequencies greater than 10% included E*01:03, E*01:01, F*01:01, G*01:01, G*01:04, H*01:01, H*02:07, MICA*010:01, MICA*002:01, MICA*008:04, MICA*008:01, MICB*005:02 and MICB*002:01. Among the globally common alleles E*01:03 and E*01:01, E*01:03 was more prevalent than E*01:01 in Chinese and East Asian populations, whereas the opposite pattern was observed in African, European, Admixed American and South Asian populations. Subsequently, we identified 24 types of 17-locus homozygous haplotypes. Although these homozygotes were present in only 0.53% of individuals, their cumulative haplotype frequency reached 12.57%. As the number of loci increased from 3 to 17, the homozygosity carrier rate declined from 1.46% to 0.53%, with a pronounced decrease observed after inclusion of the DPB1 locus. Notably, most of the homozygotes identified in this study had not been reported in the 18th International HLA & Immunogenetics Workshop. For example, 26 of 27 types of 11-locus homozygotes were previously unrecorded. The establishment of a database for HLA-E, -F, -G, -H, MICA and MICB alleles, as well as the distribution of homozygotes in the Chinese population, will provide valuable resources for genetic research, disease susceptibility, transplantation and cell therapy.
40667247 | Inhibition of De Novo Autoantibody Production Attenuates Chronic Antibody-Mediated Rejection of Kidney Allografts Despite Maintenance of High Donor-Specific Antibody Titers. Acute and chronic antibody mediated rejection (ABMR) continues to decrease clinical kidney graft function and survival. Dysregulated donor-specific antibody (DSA) responses are induced in B6.CCR5 -/- recipients of complete MHC-mismatched A/J kidney allografts with NK cells playing a critical role in the acute ABMR. We tested the role of neutrophils in ABMR by transplanting A/J kidneys to CCR5 -/- mice with a deletion in the neutrophil serine protease cathepsin G. Whereas B6.CCR5 -/- recipients rejected all kidney allografts between days 18-25, 70% of allografts survived beyond day 60 in B6.CCR5 -/- cG -/- recipients. At days 15-17 post-transplant DSA titers in B6.CCR5 -/- cG -/- recipients were 24.3-fold higher than those in wild-type C57BL/6 allograft recipients. Allografts from B6.CCR5 -/- cG -/- recipients on days 45 and 60 had typical characteristics of chronic graft injury including interstitial collagen deposition and peri-glomerular fibrosis that was accompanied by a fibrogenic transcript signature and late post-transplant production of autoantibodies to many targets, including structural proteins including collagen IV and fibronectin. Depletion of B cells at the time DSA peak titers were achieved on day 14 post-transplant decreased serum autoantibodies levels, the kidney allograft fibrogenic transcript signature, and the chronic kidney allograft injury, despite maintenance of the high DSA titers. These results indicate a critical role for neutrophil cathepsin G during acute ABMR of kidney allografts and in its absence, DSA induced late appearance of autoantibodies mediating development of chronic kidney allograft injury.
33514319 | Horizontal gene transfer and recombination analysis of SARS-CoV-2 genes helps discover its close relatives and shed light on its origin. BACKGROUND: The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic is one of  the greatest  global medical and social challenges that have emerged in recent history. Human coronavirus strains discovered during previous SARS outbreaks have been hypothesized to pass from bats to humans using intermediate hosts, e.g. civets for SARS-CoV and camels for MERS-CoV. The discovery of an intermediate host of SARS-CoV-2 and the identification of specific mechanism of its emergence in humans are topics of primary evolutionary importance. In this study we investigate the evolutionary patterns of 11 main genes of SARS-CoV-2. Previous studies suggested that the genome of SARS-CoV-2 is highly similar to the horseshoe bat coronavirus RaTG13 for most of the genes and to some Malayan pangolin coronavirus (CoV) strains for the receptor binding (RB) domain of the spike protein. RESULTS: We provide a detailed list of statistically significant horizontal gene transfer and recombination events (both intergenic and intragenic) inferred for each of 11 main genes of the SARS-CoV-2 genome. Our analysis reveals that two continuous regions of genes S and N of SARS-CoV-2 may result from intragenic recombination between RaTG13 and Guangdong (GD) Pangolin CoVs. Statistically significant gene transfer-recombination events between RaTG13 and GD Pangolin CoV have been identified in region [1215-1425] of gene S and region [534-727] of gene N. Moreover, some statistically significant recombination events between the ancestors of SARS-CoV-2, RaTG13, GD Pangolin CoV and bat CoV ZC45-ZXC21 coronaviruses have been identified in genes ORF1ab, S, ORF3a, ORF7a, ORF8 and N. Furthermore, topology-based clustering of gene trees inferred for 25 CoV organisms revealed a three-way evolution of coronavirus genes, with gene phylogenies of ORF1ab, S and N forming the first cluster, gene phylogenies of ORF3a, E, M, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF7b and ORF8 forming the second cluster, and phylogeny of gene ORF10 forming the third cluster. CONCLUSIONS: The results of our horizontal gene transfer and recombination analysis suggest that SARS-CoV-2 could not only be a chimera virus resulting from recombination of the bat RaTG13 and Guangdong pangolin coronaviruses but also a close relative of the bat CoV ZC45 and ZXC21 strains. They also indicate that a GD pangolin may be an intermediate host of this dangerous virus.
41683713 | Single-Cell RNA-Seq Profiling of Transposable Element Expression in Human Peripheral Blood Cells During Viral Infections. Transposable elements (TEs) are key regulators of immunity in both health and disease. It has been proven that the activity and transcriptional expression levels of TEs increase during viral infections, correlating with the antiviral response. This study investigates non-LTR TE (LINE, SINE, and SVA) transcriptomic signatures in human PBMCs during infections caused by influenza A virus, HIV, and SARS-CoV-2 (Delta/Omicron variants) using single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data from 98 patients. In the HIV and SARS-CoV-2 patient cohorts, unique cell-specific TE expression patterns were identified that allow for the differentiation of disease severity, prediction of disease progression, and assessment of the therapy's efficacy. The expression of LINE elements was found to be more dependent on the nature and course of the disease than that of SINE elements. The most variable TE expression profile was observed in precursor cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (T CD8+ Naive cells), which depended on the virus type and the severity of the viral disease. For this cell type, a bioinformatic analysis of the co-expression regulation of TE transcriptional networks and transcription factors during viral infections was performed. This analysis identified key players among those most involved in virus-specific responses, which could serve as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic targets for treating diseases caused by influenza A virus, HIV, and SARS-CoV-2. This work confirms the involvement of non-LTR TEs in mediating antiviral responses. Further research into the mechanisms of TE participation in antiviral defense is necessary to recommend them as potential biomarkers for the diagnosis, monitoring, and assessment of antiviral therapy, or as therapeutic targets for viral infections of various origins.
41533733 | Dynamics of lung-infiltrating virus-specific T cells associated with age-dependent SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia severity. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pneumonia is prevalent in the elderly infected with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2); however, the mechanisms underlying its age-dependent pathogenesis remain unclear. In this study, we established a mouse-adapted SARS-CoV-2 strain infected Nr4a3-Tocky mouse model to examine T-cell dynamics associated with disease severity. Nr4a3-Tocky mice allow the analysis of the dynamics and induction of antigen-reactive T cells following antigen recognition in vivo using fluorescent Timer protein. SARS-CoV-2-infected adult mice exhibited transient body weight loss and recovery, whereas aged mice developed severe pneumonia. BALF viral RNA was comparable between 1-4 days post-infection (d.p.i.), but declined in adults at 5 d.p.i. Aged mice displayed stronger inflammation as indicated by scRNA-seq, and higher levels of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, CCL2, CXCL10 and IL-6) in BALF correlated with weight loss. Timer analysis revealed induction of antigen-reactive T cells in the adult lungs at 5 and 8 d.p.i., which inversely correlated with disease severity. Additionally, S-specific IFN-gamma + CD8 + T cells were detected at 5 d.p.i. in adults, whereas detection of antigen-specific T cells was delayed in aged mice. These results suggest that the coexistence of age-related lung inflammation and delayed induction of antigen-specific T cells is linked to more severe pneumonia, while earlier T-cell responses are associated with improved viral control and milder disease. In this study, we utilized a novel mouse model enabling characterization of antigen-reactive T cells in the local tissue, and investigated inflammatory responses in the lung together with lung-infiltrating virus-specific T cells, finding the dynamics of these immunological parameters associated with the age of the mice. Our analysis provides new insights into understanding how age-related T-cell dysfunction is associated with the severity of SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia.
20653772 | Gene expression demonstrates increased resilience toward harmful inflammatory stimuli in the proliferating epidermis of human skin wounds. We examined the epidermal gene expression during the proliferative phase of wound healing. Matrix metalloproteases were the group of proteases most prominently up-regulated in skin wounds, whereas serine protease inhibitors were the most strongly up-regulated protease inhibitors. Furthermore, we found down-regulation of genes involved in the extrinsic pathway of apoptosis. This together with the up-regulation of inhibitors of leukocyte serine proteases likely represents a protective step to ensure survival of keratinocytes in the inflammatory wound environment. The down-regulation of proapoptotic genes in the extrinsic pathway of apoptosis was not accompanied by a down-regulation of receptors indicating that the keratinocytes in skin wounds did not become less responsive to external stimuli. Examining the transcription factor binding sites in the promoters of the most differentially expressed genes between normal skin and skin wounds a significant overrepresentation of binding sites were found for STAT-5, SRY and members of the FOXO-family of transcription factors.
36241000 | Nanomicelles co-loading CXCR4 antagonist and doxorubicin combat the refractory acute myeloid leukemia. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is featured with poor prognosis and high mortality, because chemo-resistance, nonspecific distribution and dose-limiting toxicity lead to a high rate of relapse and a very low 5-year survival percentage of less than 25%. CXCR4 is a highly expressed chemokine receptor in multiple types of AML cells and closely associated with the drug resistance and relapse. In this work, we integrate a chemically synthesized CXCR4 antagonistic peptide and doxorubicin using DSPE-mPEG2000 micelles (referred to as M-E5-Dox) that is applied to a very challenging refractory AML mouse model as well as human AML cell lines. Results showed that M-E5-Dox can effectively bind to the CXCR4-expressing AML cells, downregulating the signaling proteins mediated by CXCR4/CXCL12 axis and increasing the cellular uptake of Dox. Importantly, M-E5-Dox remarkably decreases the leukemic cells in the peripheral blood and bone marrow, as well as their infiltration in the spleen and liver of the AML mice, which in turn prolongs the survival significantly. Meanwhile, M-E5-Dox did not increase the cardiotoxicity of Dox. In conclusion, M-E5-Dox harnesses the functions of CXCR4 specific binding and CXCR4 antagonism of the peptide and the tumor cell killing capacity of Dox, which displays significant therapeutic effects and promising translational potentials for the treatment of refractory AML.
40451486 | Systematic Mendelian randomization of the human plasma proteome to identify therapeutic targets linking aging and frailty to perioperative delirium. BACKGROUND: Perioperative delirium is a growing concern in the aging population, posing significant risks to frail elderly patients. While frailty is associated with delirium, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. METHODS: We conducted an analysis of data derived from 3788 plasma proteins in a protein quantitative trait locus (pQTL) study encompassing 4709 participants. Utilizing Mendelian randomization (MR) in conjunction with genome-wide association study (GWAS) data, we identified proteins that exhibit significant associations with delirium. Additionally, we investigated the bidirectional relationship between delirium and aging-related indicators, such as the frailty index (FI), Intrinsic Epigenetic Age Acceleration (IEAA), PhenoAge, and life expectancy. This was achieved through mediation analysis and Bayesian colocalization to assess the intermediary effects of these indicators. Finally, we assessed the therapeutic potential of the identified proteins via molecular docking studies. RESULTS: MR analysis revealed causal relationships between delirium and several aging-related indicators, including FI, IEAA, PhenoAge, and life expectancy. Eleven proteins were causally associated with delirium. Mediation analysis showed that the effects of HIBCH and IMPAD1 on delirium were mediated by PhenoAge, while IEAA mediated the effect of MICB. MST1's effect on delirium was mediated by FI and life expectancy. Bayesian colocalization confirmed strong associations between HIBCH, MST1, and delirium. Molecular docking studies indicated that MST1 and HIBCH exhibited low binding energies with midazolam and dexmedetomidine, suggesting their potential as therapeutic targets. CONCLUSION: HIBCH and MST1 are key players in delirium pathophysiology and represent promising therapeutic candidates. Their involvement in delirium warrants further investigation in clinical research.
42147334 | Unraveling novel therapeutic targets for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: a plasma multi-omics study. Background: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most common non-Hodgkin lymphoma, exhibits genetic heterogeneity and variable treatment responses. Discovering new therapeutic targets is critical to improve outcomes. Given the lack of plasma protein studies for DLBCL, this study aims to first identify novel therapeutic targets based on plasma multi-omics and genome-wide association studies with further verifications. Methods: By two-step training (N = 456,948 participants) and validation (N = 288,927 participants), druggable genes and proteins were identified through the mendelian randomization analyses of expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) and protein quantitative trait loci (pQTL) using the largest DLBCL dataset of genome-wide association studies. Further verifications were conducted through colocalization analysis, risk factor and related disease analysis, single-cell analysis, ex-vivo experiments and transcriptomics. Results: A total of 16 genes, 2 cis- and 3 trans-regulated plasma proteins were found to be potential targets for DLBCL with significant risks. The colocalization analysis revealed that six genes (APOM, C4A, C4B, CYP21A2, HCP5 and NEU1) and two proteins (MICB and IL17F) shared the causal genetic variants with DLBCL, suggesting their potential as therapeutic targets. The single-cell analysis for DLBCL tumors confirmed their cell type-specific expressions, suggesting that TUBB, with high risk for DLBCL, was highly expressed in malignant B cells with expression levels increasing as the tumor malignancy worsens. Further experiments and transcriptomics using the TUBB inhibitor demonstrated its anti-DLBCL efficacy, highlighting the therapeutic promise of targeting TUBB. Conclusion: This study unravels a series of novel therapeutic targets that provide new insights into the development of DLBCL treatment.
30503624 | In the absence of natural killer cell activation donor-specific antibody mediates chronic, but not acute, kidney allograft rejection. Antibody mediated rejection (ABMR) is a major barrier to long-term kidney graft survival. Dysregulated donor-specific antibody (DSA) responses are induced in CCR5-deficient mice transplanted with complete major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-mismatched kidney allografts, and natural killer (NK) cells play a critical role in graft injury and rejection. We investigated the consequence of high DSA titers on kidney graft outcomes in the presence or absence of NK cell activation within the graft. Equivalent serum DSA titers were induced in CCR5-deficient B6 recipients of complete MHC mismatched A/J allografts and semi-allogeneic (A/J x B6) F1 kidney grafts, peaking by day 14 post-transplant. A/J allografts were rejected between days 16-28, whereas B6 isografts and semi-allogeneic grafts survived past day 65. On day 7 post-transplant, NK cell infiltration into A/J allografts was composed of distinct populations expressing high and low levels of the surface antigen NK1.1, with NK1.1low cells reflecting the highest level of activation. These NK cell populations increased with time post-transplant. In contrast, NK cell infiltration into semi-allogeneic grafts on day 7 was composed entirely of NK1.1high cells that decreased thereafter. On day 65 post-transplant the semi-allogeneic grafts had severe interstitial fibrosis, glomerulopathy, and arteriopathy, accompanied by expression of pro-fibrogenic genes. These results suggest that NK cells synergize with DSA to cause acute kidney allograft rejection, whereas high DSA titers in the absence of NK cell activation cannot provoke acute ABMR but instead induce the indolent development of interstitial fibrosis and glomerular injury that leads to late graft failure.
40301432 | Ophthalmological manifestations and plasma markers of inflammation in Ebola survivors in post-treatment era. This study aimed to characterize ophthalmological manifestations and associated inflammatory markers in EVD survivors in post-treatment era. Case-control study of ophthalmological manifestations and plasma inflammatory biomarker profile in EVD survivors (n = 120) from the 2018-2020 outbreak in DRC, their gender- and age-matched close contacts (n = 120) and non-contact (healthy) controls (n = 120). Expressions of inflammatory markers were assessed using the Olink Explore 384 Assay and compared across study groups before and after stratification by treatment with monoclonal antibodies (mAB114, ZMapp, or Regeneron) or antiviral drug (Remdesivir). Protein profiling was carried out using the Olink statistical package. Mean age (years) was comparable among survivors (29.7 +- 10.6), close contacts (28.9 +- 11.1) and non-contact controls (29.3 +- 10.6) (p = 0.85). Mean time from disease onset to clinical assessment was 3.5 +- 0.5 (2.5-4.2) years in survivors. Optic neuropathy was more common in survivors (6.7%) than in close contacts (0.8%) and non-contacts (0.0%) (p = 0.003). Survivors with optic neuropathy had significantly worse visual acuity in both eyes than those without optic neuropathy (all p < 0.001). Clinical evidence of past anterior uveitis was observed in 2.5% of survivors, 2.9% of close contacts, and 1.8% of healthy controls (p = 0.86). Plasma circulating DGKZ, INFGR1, ERBB3, and MICA-MICB showed differential expression patterns between survivors and controls (all p < 0.05). However, no clear separation could be detected on principal component analysis of multiplexed proteomic data between survivor and control samples. Three proteins (ITM2A, CLEC4D, NCLN) were differentially expressed and related to optic neuropathy. The comparison between treatment groups revealed a trend toward lower protein inflammatory markers in survivors treated with Remdesivir than those treated with monoclonal antibodies. We conclude that in treated EVD survivors, optic neuropathy was the only neuro-ophthalmologic abnormality. Uveitis was far less frequent than reported in West African cohorts. ITM2A, CLEC4D, and NCLN were differentially expressed in EVD survivors with optic neuropathy long after the acute phase of the infection. The true meaning of these findings will need further investigations.
41628524 | SARS-CoV-2 T-cell vaccine VB10.2210 induces broad T-cell responses in a phase 1/2 open-label clinical trial. The repeated emergence of highly transmissive SARS-CoV-2 variants requires a broadly protective vaccine. We developed a T-cell vaccine VB10.2210 that targets SARS-CoV-2 viral antigens to antigen presenting cells comprising 96 validated immunogenic T-cell epitopes covering a global HLA diversity. We report results from a first in human open-label dose-escalation phase 1/2 clinical trial evaluating safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of VB10.2210. The study investigated three dose levels (0.3, 1.0 and 3.0 mg), delivered intramuscularly as DNA plasmid by jet injection (NCT05069623), in 34 healthy adults previously vaccinated with mRNA SARS-CoV-2 vaccines. The safety profile was favorable with no observed dose-limiting toxicity. The 3 mg dose elicited the most potent immune response with enhanced breadth and a CD8+ dominated T cell response. T cell responses towards spike protein and de novo responses to non-spike antigens were confirmed by ELISpot. Expansion of VB10.2210 specific T-cell clones was confirmed by TCR sequencing. Further studies are needed to evaluate the clinical benefit of DNA vaccines inducing broad virus specific T-cell immunity in preventing severe COVID-19 or as treatment of patients with persistent infection.
34305949 | SARS-CoV-2 Accessory Proteins in Viral Pathogenesis: Knowns and Unknowns. There are still many unanswered questions concerning viral SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis in COVID-19. Accessory proteins in SARS-CoV-2 consist of eleven viral proteins whose roles during infection are still not completely understood. Here, a review on the current knowledge of SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins is summarized updating new research that could be critical in understanding SARS-CoV-2 interaction with the host. Some accessory proteins such as ORF3b, ORF6, ORF7a and ORF8 have been shown to be important IFN-I antagonists inducing an impairment in the host immune response. In addition, ORF3a is involved in apoptosis whereas others like ORF9b and ORF9c interact with cellular organelles leading to suppression of the antiviral response in infected cells. However, possible roles of ORF7b and ORF10 are still awaiting to be described. Also, ORF3d has been reassigned. Relevant information on the knowns and the unknowns in these proteins is analyzed, which could be crucial for further understanding of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis and to design strategies counteracting their actions evading immune responses in COVID-19.
25838430 | Identification of Pathogenic Cardiac CD11c+ Macrophages in Nod1-Mediated Acute Coronary Arteritis. OBJECTIVE: Nod1 is an intracellular pattern recognition receptor for bacterial peptidoglycan fragments. We previously reported that a synthetic Nod1 ligand, FK565, induced acute coronary arteritis in mice similar to that of Kawasaki disease. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this characteristic inflammation have remained elusive. APPROACH AND RESULTS: We found that CD11c(+)MHC class II(+) cells accumulated in the heart of FK565-treated mice before arteritis development. Morphological features and gene expression signatures of the cardiac CD11c(+)MHC class II(+) cells suggested that this population is closely related to macrophages, and thus, we designated them cardiac CD11c(+) macrophages. Nod1 in nonhematopoietic cells, rather than hematopoietic cells, was required for the increase of cardiac CD11c(+) macrophages and arteritis development. Among nonhematopoietic cells, cardiac endothelial cells produced a large amount of chemokines in response to FK565. Endothelial cell-specific blockade of Nod1 signaling suppressed FK565-induced expression of these chemokines, accumulation of cardiac CD11c(+) macrophages, and subsequent coronary arteritis development. We also found that CCR2(+)Ly6C(hi) inflammatory monocytes in peripheral blood supplied precursors of cardiac CD11c(+) macrophages. CCR2-deficient mice or pertussis toxin-treated mice exhibited decreased numbers of cardiac CD11c(+) macrophages and reduced arteritis. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that Ly6C(hi) monocytes are recruited to FK565-activated endothelial cells to generate cardiac CD11c(+) macrophages, which play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of acute coronary arteritis.
31368255 | Acute myeloid leukemia arising after Hodgkin lymphoma in a patient with WHIM syndrome.
28087520 | Atheroprotective vaccination with MHC-II-restricted ApoB peptides induces peritoneal IL-10-producing CD4 T cells. Although immunization with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-restricted apolipoprotein B (ApoB) peptides has been shown to be atheroprotective, the mechanism is unclear. Here, we investigated CD4+ T cell populations in immunized atherosclerotic mice. Peptides (16-mers) from mouse ApoB, the core protein of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), were screened for binding to I-Ab by computer prediction and confirmed by radiolabeled peptide competition. Three new peptides, P101 (FGKQGFFPDSVNKALY, 5.5 nM IC50), P102 (TLYALSHAVNSYFDVD, 6.8 nM), and P103 (LYYKEDKTSLSASAAS, 95 nM), were tested in an atherosclerosis model (Apoe-/- mice on Western diet). Immunization with each of the three peptides (1 time in complete Freund's adjuvant subcuntaneously and 4 time in incomplete Freund's adjuvant intraperitoneally) but not with adjuvant alone showed significantly reduced atherosclerotic plaques in the aortic root by serial sections and in the whole aorta by en face staining. There were no differences in body weight, LDL cholesterol, or triglycerides. Peritoneal leukocytes from ApoB peptide-immunized mice, but not control mice, secreted significant amounts of IL-10 (150 pg/ml). Flow cytometry showed that peptide immunization induced IL-10 in 10% of peritoneal CD4+ T cells, some of which also expressed chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (CCR5). Vaccination with ApoB peptides expanded peritoneal FoxP3+ regulatory CD4+ T cells and more than tripled the number of CCR5+FoxP3+ cells. Similar trends were also seen in the draining mediastinal lymph nodes but not in the nondraining inguinal lymph nodes. We conclude that vaccination with MHC class II-restricted autologous ApoB peptides induces regulatory T cells (Tregs) and IL-10, suggesting a plausible mechanism for atheroprotection.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Vaccination against apolipoprotein B (ApoB), the protein of LDL, attracts attention as a novel approach to prevent atherosclerosis. We discovered major histocompatibility complex class II-restricted ApoB peptides, which reduce atherosclerosis and induce IL-10-producing CD4+ T cells and chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 expression on regulatory T cells, suggesting that immunization with ApoB peptides inhibits atherosclerosis by inducing anti-inflammatory cytokines.
41711559 | Relevance of Chemokines in Mobilizing gammadelta T Cells in the Biliary Tract Cancer Microenvironment: Potential for gammadelta T-Cell-Based Adoptive Cell Therapy. OBJECTIVE: Biliary tract cancer (BTC) has a poor prognosis with limited therapeutic options. gammadelta T cells represent an MHC-independent immune cell population; however, their therapeutic efficacy in solid tumors is constrained by insufficient tumor infiltration. Chemokine-mediated trafficking is fundamental to T lymphocyte recruitment; however, the chemokine landscape of the BTC tumor microenvironment (TME) remains uncharacterized. Using single-cell RNA sequencing of BTC tissues, we delineated chemokine ligand expression patterns, stratified chemokine producers by lineage, assessed gammadelta T-cell recruitment mechanisms, and identified chemokine-mediated immune escape. METHODS: We analyzed single-cell RNA sequencing data from 3 independent GEO cohorts (GSE210066, GSE201425, and GSE213452; 19 patients) to comprehensively delineate gammadelta T-cell mobilization-related chemokine expression across the BTC TME using the Seurat v5.0 pipeline in R. RESULTS: Analysis identified a multiaxis chemokine profile within the BTC TME. High expression of CCL5, CCL4, and CCL3 established predominant CCR5-mediated recruitment axes supporting Vgamma9Vdelta2 T-cell infiltration, whereas CCL2 and modest CXCL8 supported CCR2+ and CXCR1+ Vdelta1 T-cell recruitment. Notably, CXCL16 expression supported epithelial gammadelta T-cell homing through CXCR6. However, critical deficiencies in CXCL9 and CXCL10 suppress the IFN-gamma-driven immunity. Paradoxically, chemokine axes supporting gammadelta T-cell recruitment (CCL2-CCR2, CXCL8-CXCR1, CXCL12-CXCR4) simultaneously recruit immunosuppressive populations, such as myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), regulatory T cells (Tregs), and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). CONCLUSION: Comprehensive single-cell analysis identified selective chemokine recruitment signatures supporting gammadelta T-cell infiltration but revealed paradoxical corecruitment of immunosuppressive populations. Patient stratification through chemokine profiling, combined with gammadelta T-cell enrichment and targeted chemokine antagonism, represents a rational therapeutic strategy.
40730869 | The role of selected NKG2DLs such as MICA, MICB and ULBP4 as potential markers in multiple sclerosis. The interaction between natural killer group 2 members D and their ligands (NKG2D-NKG2DLs) may play a role in the immunopathology of multiple sclerosis (MS). Owing to their measurable presence in biofluids, soluble NKG2DLs may serve as potential biomarkers for disease activity. NKG2DL family proteins have been previously investigated in the central nervous system (CNS) or biofluids of MS patients but have typically been analyzed individually rather than collectively. To our knowledge, this was the first study to comprehensively evaluate soluble forms of MHC class I chain-related proteins A and B (MICA and MICB), UL16 binding protein 4 (ULBP4), and neurofilament light chains (NFLs) in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of relapsing-remitting MS patients, patients with multifocal demyelinating CNS damage (Pre-MS observation group), and a control group. Results revealed comparable levels of NKG2DLs in the serum and CSF between the groups. This suggested that they may not be suitable as diagnostic and predictive markers in MS. However, the analysis confirmed the established significance of NFL, demonstrating its elevated levels in CSF and serum from MS patients compared with other groups, along with a notable correlation between NFL levels in serum and CSF.
33564691 | Mutational hotspots and conserved domains of SARS-CoV-2 genome in African population. BACKGROUND: Since outbreak in December 2019, the highly infectious and pathogenic severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused over a million deaths globally. With increasing burden, the novel coronavirus has posed a dire threat to public health, social interaction, and global economy. Mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 genome are moderately evolving which might have contributed to its genome variability, transmission, replication efficiency, and virulence in different regions of the world. RESULTS: The present study elucidated the mutational landscape in the SARS-CoV-2 genome among the African populace, which may have contributed to the virulence, spread, and pathogenicity observed in the region. A total of 3045 SARS-CoV-2 complete protein sequences with the reference viral sequence (EPI_ISL_402124) were mined and analyzed. SARS-CoV-2 ORF1ab, spike, ORF3, ORF8, and nucleocapsid proteins were observed as mutational hotspots in the African population and may be of keen interest in understanding the viral host relationship, while there is conservation in the ORF6, ORF7a, ORF7b, ORF10, envelope, and membrane proteins. CONCLUSIONS: The accumulation of moderate mutations (though slowly), in the SARS-CoV-2 genome as seen in this present study, could be a promising strategy to develop antiviral drugs or vaccines. These antiviral interventions should target viral conserved domains and host cellular proteins and/or receptors involved in viral invasion and replication to avoid a new viral wave due to drug resistance and vaccine evasion. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s43088-021-00102-1.
42146764 | High Mobility Group Protein B1 Promotes Interferon Regulatory Factor 1 SUMOylation to Prime Trained Immunity of Circulating Monocytes and Aggravate the Progressive Synovial Inflammation in Knee Osteoarthritis. Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is clinically characterized by recurrent and progressively worsening episodes; however, its underlying pathological mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Phenotypic changes and the specific migration of circulating monocytes may be key factors contributing to the recurrence and progressive exacerbation of synovial inflammation in KOA. In this study, we report a specific subtype of circulating monocytes in KOA that highly express interleukin 1A (IL1A), IL1R1, tumor necrosis factor, CXCL12, CXCL3, CXCL2, CCL20, and G0S2. These monocytes exhibit a trained immune phenotype, and their CXCR4-dependent migration to the synovium exacerbates synovial inflammation. HMGB1 (high mobility group protein B1) primes the trained immunity of this subtype, resulting in increased chromatin accessibility, and the transcriptional storage of multiple proinflammatory factors enables them to exhibit a more positive inflammatory response when restimulated by HMGB1. In addition, we find that MyD88, downstream of HMGB1, recruits cytoplasmic interferon regulatory factor 1 to the nucleus and then stabilizes interferon regulatory factor 1 in chromatin through SUMOylation of tripartite motif containing 28 to exert transcriptional activity and epigenetic enhancement of proinflammatory factor expression. Finally, we found that KOA inflammation was effectively attenuated by blocking HMGB1. Taken together, this study reveals the mechanism by which trained immunity of circulating monocytes promotes the progression of synovial inflammation, supporting a future therapeutic approach in the management of KOA.
40455858 | Trichomonas vaginalis extracellular vesicles activate the NLRP3 inflammasome and TLR3-mediated inflammatory cascades in host cells. Trichomonas vaginalis (TV) is a flagellated parasite that causes trichomoniasis, the most common non-viral sexually transmitted infection (STI), with over 275 million cases annually. TV has been shown to secrete extracellular vesicles (TV-EVs) to regulate intercellular communication between parasites and host immune response; however, the mechanisms by innate immunity against TV-EVs are largely unknown. Herein, we aim to investigate the molecular mechanisms of inflammation induced by TV-EVs and identify novel proteins modulating the immune response in host cells. Firstly, the morphological characteristics of TV-EVs have been analyzed by transmission electron microscope (TEM) and nanoparticle tracking analysis, revealing that the vesicles are round-shaped bilayer membrane structures with size mostly about 100-120 nm. Additionally, the internalization of TV-EVs by host cells has been validated through immunofluorescence and TEM analysis. The multiplex immunoassay identified that TV-EVs induce the secretion of inflammatory cytokines, including CXCL1, IL-6, IL-8 and MIP-1b in THP-1 macrophages and ectocervical cells (Ect). Mechanistically, TV-EVs induce TLR3 overexpression to activate the NF-kB/NLRP3 pathway in THP-1 macrophages. Additionally, TV-EVs activate the PI3K-mediated NF-kB, p38 MAPK and ERK pathways in Ect. Moreover, TV-EV-induced TLR3 overexpression positively regulates the PI3K and NF-kB pathways, while simultaneously suppressing the p38 MAPK and ERK pathways in Ect. Proteomic analysis identified that TV-EVs upregulate MICB and TRAF3IP2, which are also positively regulated by TLR3 and involved in TV-EV-induced inflammatory cascade. Altogether, this study significantly advances our understanding of the immunomodulatory roles of TV-EVs in host cells, paving the way for future treatment of trichomoniasis and TV-associated STIs.
41243692 | Stiffening the Soft Tumor: Biosilicification-Enabled Mechanical Immune Checkpoint Blockade Sono-Immunotherapy. Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has revolutionized cancer immunotherapy by reinvigorating anti-tumor immunity, while only a small proportion of patients derive benefit from this therapy, with many still facing tumor evasion. As cancer cells exploit cellular softness as a mechanical immune checkpoint to evade immune recognition, pioneering interventions to implement mechanical immune checkpoint blockade (MICB) hold significant promise in enhancing patient outcomes. Here, an innovative strategy is presented to achieve effective MICB sono-immunotherapy by leveraging the synergistic interplay between in situ biosilicification and sonodynamic therapy (SDT). This approach regulates tumor stiffness to block mechanical immune checkpoints, thereby enhancing T-cell force and cytotoxicity. The combination of a haematoporphyrin-silane conjugate, which serves as a sonosensitizer to induce immunogenic tumor cell death, further promotes T-cell infiltration. More importantly, the in situ biosilicification counteracts the reduction in cortical stiffness caused by SDT, thereby preventing tumor evasion, while also suppressing SDT-induced exosome secretion to inhibit metastasis. This method offers a novel and versatile alternative to expensive and unstable antibodies, serving as a promising complement to current ICB therapies. It establishes a MICB-based sono-immunotherapy approach with potential relevance for future clinical applications.
36473282 | The magnitude of CXCR4 signaling regulates resistance to quizartinib in FLT3/ITD+ cells via RUNX1. CXCR4 antagonists sensitize FLT3/ITD+ AML cells to FLT3 inhibitors; however, CXCR4 signaling can induce apoptosis in AML cells, raising the question of whether CXCR4 signaling exerts divergent effects on FLT3/ITD+ cells. The present study investigated the paradoxical function of CXCR4 in resistance to FLT3 inhibitors. The FLT3 inhibitor quizartinib significantly decreased the number of FLT3/ITD+ Ba/F3 cells, whereas 1 ng/ml CXCL12 showed a significant protective effect against quizartinib. In contrast, CXCL12 over 100 ng/ml significantly decreased FLT3/ITD+ cell viability with concomitant downregulation of Runx1. Moreover, the survival of FLT3/ITD+ Ba/F3 or MOLM13 cells with low surface CXCR4 expression incubated with quizartinib was significantly enhanced by 100 ng/ml CXCL12; however, this protective effect of CXCL12 against quizartinib was barely detected in cells with high surface CXCR4 expression. Although silencing Runx1 downregulated CXCR4 expression, RUNX1 expression levels were significantly higher in CXCR4LOW FLT3/ITD+ Ba/F3 cells incubated with 100 ng/ml CXCL12 than in CXCR4HIGH cells, coincident with an increase in FLT3 phosphorylation. Silencing RUNX1 partially abrogated resistance to quizartinib in CXCR4LOW cells incubated with CXCL12, whereas ectopic RUNX1 significantly restored resistance in CXCR4HIGH cells. These results indicate that CXCR4 signaling of different magnitudes paradoxically regulates resistance to quizartinib in FLT3/ITD+ cells via RUNX1.
26085682 | Hyaluronan Binding Identifies a Functionally Distinct Alveolar Macrophage-like Population in Bone Marrow-Derived Dendritic Cell Cultures. Although classical dendritic cells (DCs) arise from distinct progenitors in the bone marrow, the origin of inflammatory DCs and the distinction between monocyte-derived DCs and macrophages is less clear. In vitro culture of mouse bone marrow cells with GM-CSF is a well-established method to generate DCs, but GM-CSF has also been used to generate bone marrow-derived macrophages. In this article, we identify a distinct subpopulation of cells within the GM-CSF bone marrow-derived DC culture based on their ability to bind hyaluronan (HA), a major component of the extracellular matrix and ligand for CD44. HA identified a morphologically distinct subpopulation of cells within the immature DC population (CD11c(+) MHC II(mid/low)) that were CCR5(+)/CCR7(-) and proliferated in response to GM-CSF, but, unlike immature DCs, did not develop into mature DCs expressing CCR7 and high levels of MHC II, even after stimulation with LPS. The majority of these cells produced TNF-alpha in response to LPS but were unable to activate naive T cells, whereas the majority of mature DCs produced IL-12 and activated naive T cells. This HA binding population shared many characteristics with alveolar macrophages and was retained in the alveolar space after lung instillation even after LPS stimulation, whereas the MHC II(high) mature DCs were found in the draining lymph node. Thus, HA binding in combination with MHC II expression can be used to identify alveolar-like macrophages from GM-CSF-treated bone marrow cultures, which provides a useful in vitro model to study alveolar macrophages.
40514331 | Integrative exome sequencing and machine learning identify MICB and interferon pathway genes as contributors to SSc risk. OBJECTIVES: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a complex autoimmune disease with both known and unidentified genetic contributors. While genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have implicated multiple loci, many reside in noncoding regions. We aimed to identify novel protein-coding variants and pathogenic pathways using exome sequencing (ES) integrated with an Evolutionary Action-Machine Learning (EAML) framework, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq), and expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analysis. METHODS: GWAS was conducted in 2,559 SSc cases and 893 controls of Caucasian ancestry, with replication in 9,846 cases and 18,333 controls of European ancestry. EAML prioritized genes with high-impact missense variants predictive of disease. Public scRNA-seq data from SSc and control skin biopsies were analyzed to localize gene expression across cell types. Whole blood eQTL data were used to identify regulatory effects of risk variants. RESULTS: A novel SSc risk locus at MICB (rs2516497, P = 3.66   10<sup>-13</sup>) was identified and replicated. EAML highlighted 284 genes enriched in interferon signaling. scRNA-seq localized MICB and NOTCH4 to fibroblasts and endothelial cells, while HLA class II genes were enriched in macrophages and fibroblasts. eQTL analysis confirmed regulatory effects at MICB, NOTCH4, and other prioritized genes, linking SSc-associated variants to transcriptional dysregulation. CONCLUSIONS: This integrative genomic study identifies novel risk loci and mechanistic pathways in SSc, highlighting MICB, NOTCH4, and interferon-related genes. The findings provide insight into the cellular and regulatory architecture of SSc and support the utility of combining ES, machine learning, scRNA-seq, and eQTL data in complex disease genetics.
33622224 | SARS-CoV-2 Proteins: Are They Useful as Targets for COVID-19 Drugs and Vaccines? The proteins of coronavirus are classified as non-structural, structural, and accessory. There are 16 non-structural viral proteins besides their precursors (1a and 1ab polyproteins). The non-structural proteins are named nsp1 to nsp16, and they act as enzymes, coenzymes, and binding proteins to facilitate the replication, transcription, and translation of the virus. The structural proteins are bound to the RNA in the nucleocapsid (N- protein) or to the lipid bilayer membrane of the viral envelope. The lipid bilayer proteins include the membrane protein (M), an envelope protein (E), and spike protein (S). Besides their role as structural proteins, they are essential for the host cells' binding and invasion. The SARS-CoV-2 contains six accessory proteins which participate in the viral replication, assembly and virus-host interactions. The SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins are orf3a, orf6, orf7a, orf7b, orf8, and orf10. The functions of the SARS-CoV-2 are not well known, while the functions of their corresponding proteins in SARS-CoV are either well known or poorly studied. Recently, the Oxford University and Astrazeneca, Pfizer and BioNTech have made SARS-CoV-2 vaccines by targeting the spike protein gene. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the health authorities of the United Kingdom have approved and started conducting vaccinations using the Pfizer and BioNTech mRNA vaccine. Also, The FDA of the USA has approved the use of two monoclonal antibodies produced by Regeneron pharmaceuticals to target the spike protein for treating COVID-19. The SARS-CoV-2 proteins can be used for the diagnosis, as drug targets and in vaccination trials for COVID-19. In future COVID-19 research, more efforts should be made to elaborate the functions and structure of the SARS-CoV- 2 proteins so as to use them as targets for COVID-19 drugs and vaccines. Special attention should be paid to extensive research on the SARS-CoV-2 nsp3, orf8, and orf10.
23180319 | Double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase regulates insulin-stimulated chondrogenesis in mouse clonal chondrogenic cells, ATDC-5. Double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) is an interferon-induced protein that has been identified and characterized as a translational inhibitor in an interferon-regulated antiviral pathway. PKR is also reported to play important roles in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation. We have previously demonstrated that PKR inactivation suppresses osteoblast calcification and osteoclast formation. However, reports concerning the roles of PKR in chondrogenesis are limited. In this study, we have demonstrated that PKR is required for the in vitro differentiation of the mouse clonal chondrogenic cell line ATDC-5. ATDC-5 cells treated with insulin differentiated into chondrocytes and produced an alcian-blue-positive cartilage matrix. The protein expression of signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) peaked at day 7 of differentiation, whereas the expression of SRY-box-containing gene 9 (Sox-9), which is a transcription factor for chondrocyte differentiation, increased gradually. When the cells were treated with a PKR inhibitor (2-aminopurine), the cartilage matrix formation decreased. The protein expression of STAT1 continued to increase up to day 21, whereas the expression of Sox-9 was low and did not increase. We also demonstrated that PKR was localized to a marginal region of the mandibular condyle cartilage in mouse embryos. Our findings suggest that PKR has important functions in the differentiation of chondrocytes through the modulation of STAT1 and Sox-9 expression.
42126261 | Computational Insights into the Activation Mechanism of CXCR4: Implications for the Design of Small Molecule Agonists. G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are transmembrane proteins that mediate diverse signaling functions, making them important therapeutic targets. The chemokine receptor CXCR4, a GPCR, plays multifaceted roles in both normal physiological and pathological processes. Here, we constructed conformational free energy profiles of CXCR4 activation using Targeted Molecular Dynamics (TMD) and Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations combined with our refined Coarse-Grained (CG) model for membrane proteins. The simulations revealed that CXCR4 activation involves three distinct transition states. TS1, which exhibits the highest activation energy barrier, primarily involves conformational changes in intracellular loop 3 (ICL3) and the prerearrangement of transmembrane helices TM5 and TM6. Additionally, the stabilization of the specific active conformations of W94 and E288 within the CXCR4 active site was found to reduce the activation energy barriers of TS2 and TS3, respectively. Alanine scanning further revealed the dynamic roles of other residues whose putative crucial role in CXCR4 activation had previously been postulated, transitioning from stabilizing the inactive state to facilitating activation in later stages. Guided by these computational insights, we designed a small-molecule compound, HL82624, using a dual-moiety strategy combining the first two amino acids of SDF-1alpha (Lys and Pro) with the CXCR4 antagonist HF51116. Competitive binding and cell migration assays showed that HL82624 binds to CXCR4 and effectively triggers cell migration, confirming its activity as a CXCR4 agonist. Taken together, this study provides mechanistic insight into CXCR4 activation and a computational strategy for the rational design of small-molecule CXCR4 agonists.
41366520 | Loss of EHMT2 enhances NK cell-driven anti-tumor immunity through TGF-beta1 suppression. Natural Killer (NK) cells play a critical role in regulating tumor growth, but our understanding of the mechanisms underlying their anti-tumor activity remains limited. We identified the histone methyltransferase EHMT2 as a key suppressor of NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity. EHMT2 inhibition in cancer cells enhanced NK cell-mediated elimination of diverse cancers, including uveal melanoma, breast cancer, and pancreatic cancer. EHMT2 loss increased AZGP1 and decreased TGF-beta1 levels, resulting in the autocrine elevation of NKG2D ligands MICB and ULBP3, chemokines in cancer cells, and the paracrine stimulation of NK cell function. In a syngeneic pancreatic cancer model, EHMT2 inhibition suppressed tumors in an NK cell-dependent manner, as NK cell depletion restored tumor growth. This effect persisted and remained dependent on NK cells in Rag2 knockout mice (lacking T and B cells), but not in NSG mice (lacking T-, B- and NK-cells). Furthermore, EHMT2 and TGF-beta1 inhibitors suppressed tumors in immunocompetent, but not in immunodeficient mice. These findings establish EHMT2 as a suppressor of NK cell-mediated anti-tumor immunity and a promising therapeutic target.
39106432 | Inhibition of MICA and MICB shedding enhances memory-like NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity against multiple myeloma.
33850392 | The percentages of SARS-CoV-2 protein similarity and identity with SARS-CoV and BatCoV RaTG13 proteins can be used as indicators of virus origin. There are three types of proteins in coronaviruses: nonstructural, structural, and accessory proteins. Coronavirus proteins are essential for viral replication and for the binding and invasion of hosts and the regulation of host cell metabolism and immunity. This study investigated the amino acid sequence similarity and identity percentages of 10 proteins in SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV and the Rhinolophus affinis bat coronavirus (BatCoV RaTG13). The investigated proteins were the 1ab polyprotein, spike protein, orf3a, the envelope protein, the membrane protein, orf6, orf7a, orf7b, orf8, and the nucleocapsid protein. The online sequence alignment service of The European Molecular Biology Open Software Suite (EMBOSS) was used to determine the percentages of protein similarity and identity in the three viruses. The results showed that the similarity and identity percentages of the SARS-CoV-2 and BatCoV RaTG13 proteins were both greater than 95%, while the identity and similarity percentages of SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV were both greater than 38%. The proteins of SARS-CoV-2 and BatCoV RaTG13 have high identity and similarity compared to those of SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV. GRAPHIC ABSTRACT: The proteins of the SARS-CoV-2 are most identical and similar to those of BatCoV RaTG13 than to the proteins of SARS-CoV. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s42485-021-00060-3.
34834915 | Direct RNA Sequencing Reveals SARS-CoV-2 m6A Sites and Possible Differential DRACH Motif Methylation among Variants. The causative agent of COVID-19 pandemic, SARS-CoV-2, has a 29,903 bases positive-sense single-stranded RNA genome. RNAs exhibit about 150 modified bases that are essential for proper function. Among internal modified bases, the N6-methyladenosine, or m6A, is the most frequent, and is implicated in SARS-CoV-2 immune response evasion. Although the SARS-CoV-2 genome is RNA, almost all genomes sequenced thus far are, in fact, reverse transcribed complementary DNAs. This process reduces the true complexity of these viral genomes because the incorporation of dNTPs hides RNA base modifications. Here, we present an initial exploration of Nanopore direct RNA sequencing to assess the m6A residues in the SARS-CoV-2 sequences of ORF3a, E, M, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF7b, ORF8, N, ORF10 and the 3'-untranslated region. We identified fifteen m6A methylated positions, of which, six are in ORF N. Additionally, because m6A is associated with the DRACH motif, we compared its distribution in major SARS-CoV-2 variants. Although DRACH is highly conserved among variants, we show that variants Beta and Eta have a fourth position C > U change in DRACH at 28,884b that could affect methylation. This is the first report of direct RNA sequencing of a Brazilian SARS-CoV-2 sample coupled with the identification of modified bases.
39992613 | Plasma proteins and herpes simplex virus infection: a proteome-wide Mendelian randomization study. Proteomics plays a pivotal role in clinical diagnostics and monitoring. We conducted proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) study to estimate the causal association between plasma proteins and Herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection. Data for 2,923 plasma protein levels were obtained from a large-scale protein quantitative trait loci study involving 54,219 individuals, conducted by the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project. HSV-associated SNPs were derived from the FinnGen study, which included a total of 400,098 subjects infected with HSV. MR analysis was performed to assess the links between protein levels and the risk of HSV infection. Furthermore, a Phenome-wide MR analysis was utilized to explore potential alternative indications or predict adverse drug events. Finally, we evaluated the impact of 1,949 plasma proteins on HSV infection, identifying 48 proteins that were negatively associated with HSV infection and 54 proteins that were positively associated. Genetically higher HLA-E levels were significantly associated with increased HSV infection risk (OR = 1.39, 95% CI: 1.17-1.65, P = 2.13 x 10-4, while ULBP2 showed a significant negative association with HSV infection risk (OR = 0.81, 95% CI: 0.73-0.90, P = 6.25 x 10-5) in the primary analysis. No significant heterogeneity or pleiotropy was observed in any of the results. Additionally, we found a suggestive association of Lymphotoxin-beta, SMOC1, MICB_MICA, ASGR1, and ANXA10 with HSV infection risk (P < 0.003). In Phenome-wide MR analysis, HLA-E was associated with 214 phenotypes (PFDR < 0.10) while ULBP2 did not show significant associations with any diseases after FDR adjustment. The comprehensive MR analysis established a causal link between multiple plasma proteins and HSV infection, emphasizing the roles of HLA-E and ULBP2. These results provide new insights into the biological mechanisms of HSV and support the potential for early intervention and treatment strategies, although further research is needed to validate these plasma protein biomarkers.
30889423 | Chronic arsenic exposure in drinking water interferes with the balances of T lymphocyte subpopulations as well as stimulates the functions of dendritic cells in vivo. The immunomodulatory properties of arsenic are nowadays supposed be associated with pathological injuries of this toxicant and the details have not been clarified. Our objective was to explore inflammation, differentiation of diverse T cell subsets, as well as the phenotypic molecules and functions of dendritic cells (DCs) by chronic arsenic exposure in vivo. We exposed different concentrations of arsenic (0, 0.1, 1 and 10 mg/L) in drinking water for 6 and 12 months in C57BL/6 mice. We first confirmed that low levels of arsenic induced excess inflammation evidenced by accumulation of macrophages and lymphocytes in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta in BALF and serum, as well as histological analysis. Flow cytometry analysis revealed that arsenic disturbed CD4/CD8 T-cell ratio in isolated pneumonocytes and splenocytes, as well as enhanced IFN-gamma and reduced IL-4 in spleen. The mRNA expressions of transcription factors (T-bet, GATA3, ROR-gammat) and cytokines (IFN-gamma, IL-4, IL-10, IL-23, IL-22) showed the imbalanced Th1/Th2/Th17 differentiation in arsenic exposed lung and spleen. We further testified that arsenic enhanced the percentages of CD11c+ DCs, and promoted the expressions of antigen presentation molecule MHC II and cytokine IL-12, co-stimulatory molecules (CD86, CD80), and chemokine receptors (CCR7, CCR5) in vivo. Moreover, arsenic activated the expressions of immune-related MAPKs and NF-kappaB. Taken together, our study here demonstrated that chronic arsenic exposure could disrupt the immune homeostasis in vivo possibly by interfering with the differentiation of Th1/Th2/Th17 subsets as well as the function of DCs.
39866909 | The current state of knowledge on the role of NKG2D ligands in multiple sclerosis and other autoimmune diseases. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic central nervous system (CNS) disease with demyelinating inflammatory characteristics. It is the most common nontraumatic and disabling disease affecting young adults. The incidence and prevalence of MS have been increasing. However, its exact cause remains unclear. The main tests used to support the diagnosis are magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis. Nonetheless, to date, no sensitive or specific marker has been identified for the detection of the disease at its initial stage. In recent years, researchers have focused on the fact that the number of natural killer cell group 2 member D (NKG2D) family of C-type lectin-like receptor + (NKG2D+) T cells in the peripheral blood, CSF, and brain tissue has been shown to be higher in patients with MS than in controls. The activating receptor belonging to the NKG2D is stimulated by specific ligands: in humans these are major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I polypeptide-related sequence A (MICA) and MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence B (MICB) proteins and UL16 binding 1-6 proteins (ULBP1-6). Under physiological conditions, the aforementioned ligands are expressed at low or undetectable levels but can be induced in response to stress factors. NKG2D ligands (NKG2DLs) are involved in epigenetic regulation of their expression. To date, studies in cell cultures, animal models, and brain tissues have revealed elevated expression of MICA/B, ULPB4, and its mouse homolog murine UL16 binding protein-like transcript (MULT1), in oligodendrocytes and astrocytes from patients with MS. Furthermore, soluble forms of NKG2DLs were elevated in the plasma and CSF of patients with MS compared to controls. In this review, we aim to describe the role of NKG2D and NKG2DLs, and their interactions in the pathogenesis of MS, as well as in other autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and celiac disease (CeD). We also assess the potential of these proteins as diagnostic markers and consider future perspectives for targeting NKG2D ligands and their pathways as therapeutic targets in MS.
42116516 | Xylooligosaccharides ameliorate intestinal barrier injury by inhibiting apoptosis, RhoA/ROCK/MLCK signaling and NKG2DLs in intestinal epithelial cells. Intestinal barrier (IB) dysfunction contributes to metabolic endotoxemia and associated diseases. Specifically, intestinal inflammation upregulates natural killer cell receptor 2D ligands (NKG2DLs) in intestinal epithelial cells (IECs), which triggers excessive immune responses and exacerbates IB injury. The prebiotic xylooligosaccharides (XOS) hold promise for ameliorating such injury by regulating NKG2DLs, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. This study aimed to investigate the efficacy of XOS in improving IB injury and explore its role and molecular mechanisms in mitigating IB damage via NKG2DLs modulation. IB injury models were established in differentiated Caco-2 and MODE-K cells by treatment with 20 ng/mL tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), followed by XOS intervention at concentrations of 50, 100, 150, and 200 mug/mL. Tight junction (TJ) proteins (ZO-1, Occludin) were detected using Western blotting (WB) and immunofluorescence, while barrier permeability was evaluated via transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER), phenol red permeability assay, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Additionally, the RhoA/ROCK/MLCK signaling pathway, apoptosis-related factors (Caspase-3, Bcl-2), and the expression of human NKG2DLs (MICA, MICB, ULBP-1) and murine NKG2DLs (Rae-1epsilon, H60, MULT-1) were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) or WB, and apoptotic cells were labeled using the TUNEL assay. To further investigate the involvement of NKG2DLs in the protective effect of XOS, RNA interference (RNAi) was performed to knock down NKG2DLs in Caco-2 and MODE-K cells. This conserved mechanism relies on Argonaute (Ago) family proteins that associate with small RNAs to mediate sequence-specific degradation of complementary target RNAs. Subsequently, both cell lines were treated with TNF-alpha and XOS, and the expression levels of NKG2DLs, ZO-1, and Occludin were determined by qRT-PCR or WB. Compared with TNF-alpha treatment alone, XOS at the concentrations used in this study significantly attenuated the downregulation and mislocalization of ZO-1 and Occludin in both Caco-2 and MODE-K cells (p < 0.05), increased TEER in Caco-2 cell (p < 0.05), reduced phenol red permeability (p < 0.05), and improved the ultrastructure of TJs and the integrity of microvilli. XOS at the tested concentrations also inhibited the activation of the RhoA/ROCK/MLCK signaling pathway (p < 0.05), suppressed Caspase-3 (p < 0.05) and the number of TUNEL-positive apoptotic cells, and alleviated TNF-alpha-induced overexpression of both human and murine NKG2DLs (p < 0.05). Notably, RNAi-mediated knockdown of Rae-1epsilon or H60 in MODE-K cells abrogated the XOS-induced restoration of ZO-1 and Occludin expression under TNF-alpha challenge. Collectively, under the experimental conditions of this study, XOS mitigate IB injury by inhibiting apoptosis, RhoA/ROCK/MLCK signaling and NKG2DLs in IECs.
42139630 | Chemokine-Receptor Modulation Shapes Neuroinflammatory and Biomechanical Responses in Organotypic Hippocampal Cultures After Oxygen-Glucose Deprivation. Ischemic stroke is a life-threatening neurological condition that frequently leads to severe brain damage and long-term disability. Current therapeutic options remain limited and are largely confined to anticoagulant-based interventions. Despite extensive evidence implicating inflammation in stroke pathogenesis, effective therapies targeting neuroinflammatory mechanisms are still missing. Given that chemokines and their receptors have been successfully targeted in clinical contexts outside stroke, we identified these signaling axes as promising candidates for therapeutic modulation in ischemic injury. We tested the hypothesis that pharmacological modulation of selected chemokine-receptor pathways alters the neuroinflammatory response and tissue viability following ischemia. Using organotypic hippocampal cultures subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation, we demonstrate that inhibition of CX3CR1, CCR2, and CXCR4 differentially affects tissue viability under ischemic conditions. Owing to the pronounced biological effects observed upon CCR2 inhibition, we further investigated its mechanistic basis using atomic force microscopy. These analyses revealed that Irbesartan treatment is associated with cytoskeletal reorganization and significant alterations in the mechanical properties of ischemic brain tissue. In summary, our study establishes the organotypic hippocampal culture-oxygen-glucose deprivation model as a robust platform for investigating neuroinflammatory processes in ischemic stroke. We identify key chemokine-receptor circuits that modulate ischemic injury and uncover a previously underappreciated contribution of tissue biomechanics to the pathophysiological response to ischemia.
42135276 | The endosteal niche regulates breast cancer cell dormancy in bone: identification of new molecular determinants. Cellular dormancy compromises the long-term survival of breast cancer patients. Bone represents a frequent site for metastasis, where Spindle-shaped N-cadherin+CD45- osteoblasts (SNOs) hold dormant metastatic cells in the endosteal niche with a Notch2-dependent mechanism. In this work, we excluded the involvement of Notch1 in SNO-induced breast cancer cellular dormancy by immunofluorescence/immunohistochemistry and molecular approaches, using breast cancer tissues and cell lines. RNAdSeq in human bone metastatic MDA-MB231 breast cancer cells sorted for Notch1HIGH and Notch2HIGH expression demonstrated that, compared to their low counterpart, only Notch2HIGH cells expressed enriched pathways relevant for the metastatic process, including pluripotency and Hematopoietic Stem Cell (HSC) gene signatures. They expressed the HSC-associated genes CXCR4, CD34 and TIE2 and MDA-MB231 cells enriched in the encoded proteins showed lesser proliferation ability. Reduced incidence of osteolytic lesions was induced by CXCR4HIGH cells intratibially injected in immunocompromised mice, while lower lesion extension was induced by CXCR4HIGH and TIE2HIGH injected cells compared to CXCR4LOW and TIE2LOW cells. Notch2HIGH cells were enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress and unfolded protein response genes and overexpressed the CD177 protein, while the CD177 ligands, Plaur, Itgam and Ceacam 1, were highly expressed in SNOs. Kaplan-Meier plots showed positive correlation between high expression of CD177, ITGAM and CEACAM 1 - but not PLAUR - and overall survival of patients. CD177HIGH cells were also CXCR4HIGH, CD34HIGH and Notch2HIGH and proliferated less than CD177LOW cells. These results support the relevance of Notch2 in SNO-mediated cellular dormancy and identified new pathways implicated in bone metastatic breast cancer cell quiescence.
42135279 | Perivascular adipose single-cell atlas identifies CD55+ adipose-derived stem cells as vascular remodeling regulators in atherosclerosis. Atherosclerotic carotid stenosis is a major cause of stroke, yet the mechanisms driving plaque instability remain incompletely understood. Perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT), the fat surrounding blood vessels, has been implicated in advanced atherosclerosis progression, but its cellular contributions are largely unknown. Here we show that PVAT contains two distinct adipose-derived stem cell (ADSC, multipotent progenitor cells within fat tissue) subsets. By analyzing 169 clinical samples using single-cell RNA sequencing and flow cytometry and pathological staining, we identify CD55+ADSCs as elevated in patients with symptomatic carotid stenosis or prior stroke. These cells migrate into plaques, differentiate into endothelial cells and promote pathological angiogenesis and vascular remodeling through FGF2 secretion thereby destabilising plaques. A second population, CXCL14+ADSCs exacerbate inflammation by recruiting immune cells via the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis. Our findings identify perivascular CD55+ADSCs as a therapeutic target for atherosclerosis management.
27233453 | Thioredoxin (Trx1) regulates CD4 membrane domain localization and is required for efficient CD4-dependent HIV-1 entry. BACKGROUND: CD4 is a glycoprotein expressed on the surfaces of certain immune cells. On lymphocytes, an important function of CD4 is to co-engage Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) molecules with the T Cell Receptor (TCR), a process that is essential for antigen-specific activation of T cells. CD4 localizes dynamically into distinct membrane microdomains, an important feature of its immunoregulatory function that has also been shown to influence the efficiency of HIV replication. However, the mechanism by which CD4 localization is regulated and the biological significance of this is incompletely understood. METHODS: In this study, we used confocal microscopy, density-gradient centrifugation and flow cytometry to analyze dynamic redox-dependent effects on CD4 membrane domain localization. RESULTS: Blocking cell surface redox exchanges with both a membrane-impermeable sulfhydryl blocker (DTNB) and specific antibody inhibitors of Thioredoxin-1 (Trx1) induces translocation of CD4 into detergent-resistant membrane domains (DRM). In contrast, Trx1 inactivation does not change the localization of the chemokine receptor CCR5, suggesting that this effect is targeted. Moreover, DTNB treatment and Trx1 depletion coincide with strong inhibition of CD4-dependent HIV entry, but only moderate reductions in the infectivity of a CD4-independent HIV pseudovirion. CONCLUSIONS: Changes in the extracellular redox environment, potentially mediated by allosteric consequences of functional disulfide bond oxidoreduction, may represent a signal for translocation of CD4 into DRM clusters, and this sequestration, another potential mechanism by which the anti-HIV effects of cell surface oxidoreductase inhibition are exerted. GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: Extracellular redox conditions may regulate CD4 function by potentiating changes in its membrane domain localization.
28695282 | Host genetic variation and HIV disease: from mapping to mechanism. This review aims to provide a summary of current knowledge of host genetic effects on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease. Mapping of simple single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) has been largely successful in HIV, but more complex genetic associations involving haplotypic or epigenetic variation, for example, remain elusive. Mechanistic insights explaining SNP associations are incomplete, but continue to be forthcoming. The number of robust immunogenetic correlates of HIV is modest and their discovery mostly predates the genome-wide era. Nevertheless, genome-wide evaluations have nicely validated the impact of HLA and CCR5 variants on HIV disease, and importantly, made clear the many false positive associations that were previously suggested by studies using the candidate gene approach. We describe how multiple HIV outcome measures such as acquisition, viral control, and immune decline have been studied in adults and in children, but that collectively these identify only the two replicable loci responsible for modifying HIV disease, CCR5, and HLA. Recent heritability estimates in this disease corroborate the modest impact of genetic determinants and their oligogenic nature. While the mechanism of protection afforded by genetic variants that diminish CCR5 expression is clear, new aspects of HLA class I-mediated protection continue to be uncovered. We describe how these genetic findings have enhanced insights into immunobiology, been clinically translated into CCR5 antagonists, allowed prioritization of antigens for vaccination efforts, and identified targets for genome-editing interventions. Finally, we describe how studies of genetically complex parts of the genome using new tools may begin revealing additional correlates.
42125857 | Immune profiling in orthopaedic diseases using mass cytometry : a narrative review of applications and future directions. Aims: Musculoskeletal (MSK) diseases involve complex immune mechanisms. Conventional flow cytometry is restricted by spectral overlap, limiting multidimensional immune characterization. Mass cytometry by time-of-flight (CyTOF) can measure over 40 proteins per cell using metal-tagged antibodies and time-of-flight detection, providing deep immune phenotyping. The aim of this narrative review was to summarize the applications of CyTOF in the study of human orthopaedic and rheumatic diseases, highlight key immune findings including shared markers, and identify gaps to guide future research and panel standardization. Methods: A literature search of peer-reviewed studies published from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2024 was conducted using PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science. Search terms included \CyTOF\ and \mass cytometry\. Studies were included if CyTOF was applied to human MSK disorders with immune or inflammatory components and if the full text was available in English. Data extracted included disease type, sample source, computational pipeline, immune cell types analyzed, and main findings. Results: A total of 22 studies were included. Since some studies reported results for more than one disease, the total number of disease-specific entries was 26: rheumatoid arthritis (n = 13), osteoarthritis (n = 4), psoriatic arthritis (n = 3), juvenile idiopathic arthritis (n = 2), ankylosing spondylitis (n = 1), idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (n = 1), and post-surgical immune monitoring (n = 2). Human models were represented. CyTOF identified disease-specific immune cell subsets, cytokine profiles, and treatment-response signatures. No eligible studies addressed osteoporosis or osteonecrosis likely reflecting that these conditions would yield low immune-cell density and/or technical challenges in acquiring bone tissue. Eight recurrent markers emerged across diseases: program cell death protein 1 (PD-1), inducible T-cell costimulator (ICOS), CXC motif chemokine receptor (CXCR)5, CXCR4, phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 protein (pSTAT3), tumour necrosis factor receptor II (TNFRII), p16 inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinase 4a (p16INK4a), and cluster of differentiation (CD)180, which reflect shared pathways of inflammation, senescence, and tissue damage. Conclusion: CyTOF enables high-dimensional immune profiling in MSK diseases, offering insights into pathogenesis, treatment response, and patient stratification. Broader application of this technology to underexplored conditions is warranted. A minimal eight-marker backbone may enhance panel harmonization and support future multicentre translational studies in orthopaedic immunology.
42111233 | Neonatal small extracellular vesicle-loaded GelNB hydrogel reprograms the vascular-immune microenvironment for spinal cord injury repair. Adult mammals with spinal cord injury (SCI) face permanent disability from failed regeneration and scarring, while neonatal mice achieve scarless repair. We show neonatal mouse circulating blood-derived small extracellular vesicles (NCE) rejuvenate adult spinal cord microvascular endothelial cells (SCMECs), restoring lipid metabolism, easing immune imbalance, and supporting neuroaxonal regrowth. Post-SCI myelin debris triggers IRS1-mediated PI3K-Akt-mTOR overactivation in SCMECs, causing harmful lipid droplet buildup, organelle dysfunction, and endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndoMT). It also increases CXCL12 secretion from SCMECs, which recruits CXCR4+ macrophages. These macrophages release TNF-alpha and GDF15, promoting neuronal injury and EndoMT, and forming a destructive feedback loop. We create a \Microenvironment-Reprogramming Potent Hydrogel\ - a high-adhesion GelNB hydrogel loaded with NCE - as an efficient delivery tool. NCE targetedly deliver miR-487b-3p to block IRS1 and CXCL12, breaking the vicious cycle. This remodels microvasculature, normalizes SCMEC lipid metabolism, reduces macrophage infiltration, promotes neuroregeneration, and achieves functional recovery. Our study uncovers an endothelium-immune crosstalk axis hindering SCI repair and highlights miR-487b-3p-rich sEVs as a promising therapy.
26617765 | Bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells with CD47 high expression via the signal transducer and activators of transcription signaling pathway preventing myocardial fibrosis. UNLABELLED: This study was initiated to investigate the efficacy of myocardial fibrosis intervention via signal transducer and activators of transcription (STAT) signaling using bone marrow (BM) mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) in which being over-expressed with the aid of bispecific antibody (BiAb) and ultrasound-mediated microbubbles (MB). BiAb was prepared and combined with isolated MSC with CD47 overexpression from male mice and trans-fused into female mice with isoproterenol-induced myocardial fibrosis via the tail vein, followed by MB. This study included five groups. Five weeks after treatment, expression levels of the sex-determining region of Y-chromosome (SRY), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-9, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in myocardium were detected by fluorescent quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The protein expression of signal transducer and activators of transcription (STAT) 1 and STAT 3 was detected by Western blot. RESULTS: The highest homing number of MSC was in the CD47 + MSC + BiAb + MB group, second highest in the CD47 + MSC + BiAb group, and lowest in MSC alone. Compared with the Control group, CD47 + MSC + BiAb + MB, CD47 + MSC + BiAb, CD47 + MSC and MSC groups had decreased levels of MMP-9, TIMP-1, STAT 1 and collagen deposition, and increased levels of STAT 3. Up regulated STAT 3 and down regulated TIMP-1 were significantly different in CD47 + MSC + BiAb + MB compared with CD47 + MSC or CD47 + MSC + BiAb. CONCLUSION: CD47 can enhance the homing rate and repairing efficacy of MSC. MSC can improve MMP-TIMP expression in injured myocardium and interfere with myocardial fibrosis after homing, a mechanism that may be related to the STAT-mediated signaling pathway.
42133494 | Protocol for mapping tumor infiltration by murine T cells using multiplex immunofluorescence. Here, we present a 7-plex immunofluorescence staining protocol that enables the spatial analysis of murine tumor tissues to investigate the complex interplay between immune cells and the tumor microenvironment. We used a sequential antibody labeling strategy that identifies CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and characterizes their activation and regulatory states. This protocol also maps T cell infiltration within tumors, allowing researchers to investigate immune cell distribution, interactions, and the dynamic biology of the tumor immune landscape in murine tumor models. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Lim et al.1.
40355193 | Plasma proteins and different onset subtype of COPD: Proteome-wide Mendelian randomization study and co-localization analyses. Several studies have reported a strong association between plasma proteins and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, the directionality and causality of the association and whether proteins effected COPD remain unclear. Therefore, we used Proteome-wide Mendelian randomization (MR) study and co-localization analyses to estimate the casual relationship between them. Summary-level data of 2923 plasma protein levels were extracted from a large-scale protein quantitative trait loci study including 54,219 individuals by the UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project. The outcome data for COPD and its subtypes were sourced from the FinnGen study. MR analysis was conducted to estimate the associations between protein and COPD and its subtypes risk. Additionally, phenome-wide MR analysis, and candidate drug prediction were employed to identify potential causal circulating proteins and novel drug targets. STROBE MR guidelines are followed for the study. We assessed the effect of 1929 plasma proteins on COPD. We found that Seven proteins, 4 proteins, and 3 proteins were associated with overall COPD, early-onset COPD, and later-onset COPD risk, respectively. MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence B_A (MICB_MICA) and tyrosine-protein kinase receptor tie-1 (TIE-1) would increase 8% and 27% COPD risk (MICB_MICA: odds ratios [OR], 1.08; 95% CI, 1.05-1.10; PFDR = 2.53 x 10-5; TIE-1: OR, 1.27; 95% CI, 1.13-1.43; PFDR = .012). There was negative association of Septin-8 and Butyrophilin subfamily 1 member A1 (BTN1A1) with overall COPD risk (Septin-8: OR, 0.68; 95% CI, 0.57-0.79; PFDR = 8.00 x 10-4 BTN1A1: OR, 0.82; 95% CI, 0.75-0.90; PFDR = .010). There was a protective effect of BTN1A1 on early COPD incidence (OR, 0.72; 95% CI, 0.63-0.83; PFDR = .002). However, there was no evidence indicating a shared causal variant between the other proteins and COPD and its subtypes in these regions (all posterior probability.H4 < .8). The study revealed the causal relationship between several plasma proteins and COPD and its subtypes, providing new theoretical support for understanding COPD.
21174489 | Bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells with support of bispecific antibody and ultrasound-mediated microbubbles prevent myocardial fibrosis via the signal transducer and activators of transcription signaling pathway. BACKGROUND AIMS: This study was initiated to investigate the efficacy of myocardial fibrosis intervention via signal transducer and activators of transcription (STAT) signaling using bone marrow (BM) mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) with the aid of bispecific antibody (BiAb) and ultrasound-mediated microbubbles (MB). METHODS: BiAb (anti-CD29 x anti-myosin light chain antibody; AMLCA) was prepared and combined with isolated MSC from male mice and transfused into female mice with isoproterenol-induced myocardial fibrosis via the tail vein, followed by MB (MSC + BiAb + MB). This study included seven groups: MSC + BiAb + MB; MSC; BiAb; MB; MSC + BiAb; untreated; and control. Five weeks after treatment, expression levels of the sex-determining region of Y-chromosome (SRY), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-9, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in myocardium were detected by fluorescent quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Collagen distribution was observed using Sirius Red staining. The protein expression of signal transducer and activators of transcription (STAT)1 and STAT3 was detected by Western blot. RESULTS: The highest homing number of MSC was in the MSC + BiAb + MB group, second highest in the MSC + BiAb group, and lowest in MSC alone. Compared with the untreated group, MSC + BiAb + MB, MSC + BiAb and MSC groups had decreased levels of MMP-9, TIMP-1, STAT1 and collagen deposition, and increased levels of STAT3. Upregulated STAT3 and downregulated TIMP-1 were significantly different in MSC + BiAb + MB compared with MSC alone or MSC + BiAb. CONCLUSIONS: The homing rate and repairing efficacy of MSC improved with treatment utilizing a combination of BiAb and MB. MSC can improve MMP-TIMP expression in injured myocardium and interfere with myocardial fibrosis after homing, a mechanism that may be related to the STAT-mediated signaling pathway.
33925909 | Molecular Characterization and Functional Analysis of Two Steroidogenic Genes TSPO and SMAD4 in Yellow Catfish. The steroid hormones are required for gonadal development in fish. The present study was undertaken to characterize the cDNA and promoter sequences of TSPO and SMAD4 genes in yellow catfish Pelteobagrus fulvidraco, explored the mRNA tissue expression and deciphered their promoter regions. Yellow catfish TSPO and SMAD4 shared the similar domains to the corresponding genes from other vertebrates. The TSPO and SMAD4 mRNAs were widely expressed in the detected tissues, but at different levels. Several transcription factors were predicted, such as Sp, GATA, AP1, SOX1, SRY, STAT, HNF4alpha, PPARgamma, Pu.1 and FOXL2. PPARgamma overexpression increased but STAT3 overexpression reduced TSPO promoter activity, and FOXL2 overexpression inhibited the promoter activity of TSPO and SMAD4. The site mutation and EMSA analysis indicated that TSPO promoter possessed STAT3 and FOXL2 sites. Overall, our provided the novel understanding into the transcriptionally regulatory mechanisms of TSPO and SMAD4 in fish.
40658235 | Systematic proteome-wide Mendelian randomization using the human plasma proteome to identify therapeutic targets for osteomyelitis. Os teomyelitis is a severe bone infection characterized by inflammation and destruction of bone and bone marrow, often leading to significant morbidity and challenging treatment strategies. Although it is known that many factors such as autoimmune diseases are related to the progress of osteomyelitis, the relationship between plasma protein and osteomyelitis has not been fully studied. We applied two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) to evaluate causal effects of 4907 circulating plasma proteins on osteomyelitis risk. Proteomic exposure data were derived from a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of 35,559 Icelandic participants, while outcome statistics incorporated 2125 clinically validated osteomyelitis cases and 429,826 population controls from the FinnGen cohort. To ensure robustness, sensitivity analyses were conducted on the identified causal proteins. Additionally, to deepen our understanding of the biological processes, molecular functions, cellular compositions, and relevant metabolic and signaling pathways implicated in osteomyelitis, we performed Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis, KEGG pathway analysis, and GeneMANIA analysis. The study identified five plasma proteins-SYTL1, DEFA1, MICB, FTMT, and TMEM38B-significantly associated with osteomyelitis, with protective effects indicated (inverse variance weighted p < 0.001, OR < 1). The strong statistical evidence highlights the proteins' potential as osteomyelitis biomarkers, which are crucial for enhancing our molecular insights and guiding future therapeutic development. Our findings provide valuable insights into the role of the plasma proteome in osteomyelitis and underscore the significance of the ferroptosis pathway. By identifying potential therapeutic targets associated with this pathway, we can establish a robust biological foundation for future research and therapeutic development in osteomyelitis.
39126837 | The immunomodulatory effects of cannabidiol on Hsp70-activated NK cells and tumor target cells. BACKGROUND: Cannabidiol (CBD), the major non-psychoactive component of cannabis, exhibits anti-inflammatory properties, but less is known about the immunomodulatory potential of CBD on activated natural killer (NK) cells and/or their targets. Many tumor cells present heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) on their cell surface in a tumor-specific manner and although a membrane Hsp70 (mHsp70) positive phenotype serves as a target for Hsp70-activated NK cells, a high mHsp70 expression is associated with tumor aggressiveness. This study investigated the immuno-modulatory potential of CBD on NK cells stimulated with TKD Hsp70 peptide and IL-2 (TKD+IL-2) and also on HCT116 p53wt and HCT116 p53-/- colorectal cancer cells exhibiting high and low basal levels of mHsp70 expression. RESULTS: Apart from an increase in the density of NTB-A and a reduced expression of LAMP-1, the expression of all other activatory NK cell receptors including NKp30, NKG2D and CD69 which are significantly up-regulated after stimulation with TKD+IL-2 remained unaffected after a co-treatment with CBD. However, the release of major pro-inflammatory cytokines by NK cells such as interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and the effector molecule granzyme B (GrzB) was significantly reduced upon CBD treatment. With respect to the tumor target cells, CBD significantly reduced the elevated expression of mHsp70 but had no effect on the low basal mHsp70 expression. Expression of other NK cell ligands such as MICA and MICB remained unaffected, and the NK cell ligands ULBP and B7-H6 were not expressed on these target cells. Consistent with the reduced mHsp70 expression, treatment of both effector and target cells with CBD reduced the killing of high mHsp70 expressing tumor cells by TKD+IL-2+CBD pre-treated NK cells but had no effect on the killing of low mHsp70 expressing tumor cells. Concomitantly, CBD treatment reduced the TKD+IL-2 induced increased release of IFN-gamma, IL-4, TNF-alpha and GrzB, but CBD had no effect on the release of IFN-alpha when NK cells were co-incubated with tumor target cells. CONCLUSION: Cannabidiol (CBD) may potentially diminish the anti-tumor effectiveness of TKD+IL-2 activated natural killer (NK) cells.
42126757 | Association of CXCR7 and CXCR4 expression with tumor immune phenotypes in tubo-ovarian high-grade serous carcinoma. BACKGROUND: Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) are associated with favorable outcomes in high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSC); however, the tumor microenvironment may modulate immune cell infiltration. This study aimed to evaluate the association between tumor and stromal expression of CXCL12, tumor expression of CXCR4 and CXCR7, immune phenotypes, and survival outcomes in tubo-ovarian HGSC. METHODS: Eighty-six patients with primary tubo-ovarian HGSC who underwent cytoreductive surgery were retrospectively analyzed. Immunohistochemical expression of CXCL12 (tumor and stroma), CXCR4, and CXCR7 was assessed. TILs were semi-quantitatively scored and dichotomized as low (score 1) or high (scores 2-3). Immune phenotypes were classified as immunogenic, immune-excluded, or immune-ignorant. Recurrence-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods, log-rank tests, and Cox regression. Multivariable logistic regression was used to identify factors associated with high TILs. RESULTS: Median RFS was 23.2 months (95% CI, 19.2-27.1) and median OS was 47.3 months (95% CI, 36.3-55.0). RFS differed significantly across immune phenotypes (log-rank p=0.047), with shorter RFS observed in the immune-excluded phenotype compared with the immunogenic phenotype (hazard ratio, 2.20; 95% CI, 1.14-4.25). High tumor CXCR7 expression was independently associated with a lower likelihood of high TILs (adjusted odds ratio, 0.22; 95% CI, 0.07-0.65). CXCL12 expression was not associated with survival outcomes. CONCLUSION: Tumor CXCR7 expression is associated with reduced lymphocytic infiltration and an immune-excluded phenotype in HGSC, suggesting a potential role of the CXCR7 axis in shaping the tumor immune microenvironment.
40789868 | Dichloroacetate enhances Chemo-sensitivity in wild-type P53 breast cancer cells by modulating ABCG2 and NKG2DL. The chemotherapy drug called Adriamycin, often known as doxorubicin (Dox), is used to treat BC, including late stages. However, the emergence of resistance may reduce the efficacy of Dox in the treatment of BC. The objective of the current work is to assess how the stress ligands MICA, MICB, and ULBP1 and the expression of ABCG2 are affected by dichloroacetate (DCA). To determine the chemosensitivity of breast cancer cells, an MTT assay was performed. P-53 and ERK5 genes were silenced by Si-RNA, and gene expression level was monitored by qRT-PCR and confirmed by immunoblotting. When compared to untreated cells, our data show a significant decrease in the viability of all cell lines following a 24-hour incubation period with 5 microM of Dox in conjunction with 1 or 5 mM of DCA. The cell line MCF7 exhibited the highest rate of inhibition, followed by MDA-MB-231 and T47D. In addition, we found that DCA significantly decreases the level of ABCG2 mRNA in MCF7 cells. However, this effect was reversed in T47D and MDA-MB-231 cells. The expression of NKG2DL, MICA/B, and ULBP has also been studied. The findings indicate that DCA significantly increases the mRNA of MICA/B and ULBP1 exclusively in cells that express normal p53. ABCG2 mRNA expression is markedly upregulated in MCF7 cells upon P53 and ERK5 downregulation. Collectively, these findings showed that DCA increases the susceptibility of breast cancer cells to Dox through the upregulation of NKG2DL and the downregulation of ABCG2 expression via a p53-ERK5 dependent pathway.
41438618 | Investigating the Causal Relationship and Shared Genetic Basis Between Major Depression Disorder and Eight Types of Gastrointestinal Diseases. Background: Previous studies on the causal relationship or shared genetic basis between major depression disorder (MDD) and gastrointestinal (GI) diseases covered either a limited range and not comprehensive enough. Methods: We used linkage disequilibrium score regression (LDSC) to estimate the heritability for nine traits and the genetic correlation (r g ) between MDD and eight GI diseases, respectively. We further conducted a two-sample Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis to identify the causal relationship between MDD and eight GI diseases. Finally, based on the result of MR, we performed stratified LDSC (S-LDSC) to estimate the partitioned heritability and significantly enriched tissues, transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) to define shared genes, and colocalization analysis to define the pleiotropic single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and genes. Results: For the heritability, heritability of all nine traits was significant. For genetic correlation, six GI diseases showed significant correlations with MDD. For the result of MR, we revealed the causal relationship between MDD and acute appendicitis (OR = 1.09), irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) (OR = 1.14), and ulcer of esophagus (OR = 1.24). Additionally, we found no significant overlapping tissues after S-LDSC. Finally, we defined three shared genes: PRSS16, ZNF602P, and ZNF204P by TWAS and nine pleiotropic genes C4A, FLOT1, LINC00243, MICB, and PRSS16 by colocalization analysis between MDD and acute appendicitis. Conclusions: Our findings provided the evidence of genetic association, causal relationship, and shared pleiotropic genes between MDD and GI diseases especially acute appendicitis, offering new insights into our understanding of their shared genetic basis.
40640750 | Exploring and evaluating the in vitro antifungal, antibiofilm and antitoxin efficacy of Artabotrys brachypetalus Benth. against Candida spp. and its toxicity in vivo assays. BACKGROUND: Given the few studies found in the literature and the search for new substances with antifungal and antivirulence activities against Candida spp., the use of natural products provides us with an effective treatment of infections with minimized side effects. This study was aimed at evaluating the toxicity and antifungal activity of Artabotrys brachypetalus Benth. extract and fractions against Candida spp. METHODS: This study evaluated the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) and the minimum fungicidal concentration (MFC), the ability to inhibit and/or eradicate preformed biofilm, and the ability to reduce and/or inhibit exoenzymatic production (hemolytic, phospholipase and proteinase) by Candida albicans, C. glabrata, C. krusei, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis against Artabotrys brachypetalus Benth. extract and fractions., The most active extract and fractions were analyzed by HPLC-ESI-MS for compound annotation. In vivo toxicity assays were performed on C. elegans larvae. RESULTS: HPLC-ESI-MS analysis showed mainly the presence of alkaloids in the ethanolic root extract and fractions of A. brachypetalus. The ethanolic root extract exhibited the most promising results, being fungicidal for C. glabrata with MIC/MFC of 375 microg/mL, MICB50/IC50 of 1.46 and 1.59 microg/mL. The biofilm eradication resulted in an IC50 of 0.00028 microg/mL against C. tropicalis. For the expression of introducer exoenzymes (1/2MIC), the ethanolic root extract showed a significant hemolytic activity of 42.7% against C. albicans; in assays on C. elegans, it demonstrated toxicity above a concentration of 1,000 microg/mL. In the tests, the fractions obtained from the root demonstrated more significant results than did the ethanolic extract. CONCLUSION: The remarkable A. brachypetalus ethanolic root extract exhibits minimal toxicity in C. elegans assays, coupled with its potent antifungal, antibiofilm and antivirulence capabilities against Candida spp. marking it as a standout candidate for the control of these microorganisms.
39902633 | Detection and Quantification of Polymorphic MICA and MICB Molecules in Immunoassays: Initial Insights. The MICA and MICB molecules, expressed on the cell membrane in response to cellular stress or cancer transformation, pose significant challenges for immunoassays. They exhibit high sequence and structural similarity, alongside considerable allelic polymorphism, with 291 and 53 known protein sequences, respectively. Some researchers treat MICA and MICB as a unified target because of their structural and functional similarities, while others distinguish between them. However, which approach is superior and under what circumstances remains unknown. Moreover, information about assays' reactivity with MICA and MICB allelic variants is often missing. In this study, we developed 10 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and two sandwich ELISAs for the detection and quantification of these molecules. We assembled a panel of recombinant proteins representing the diversity of MICA and MICB in the European population and profiled the reactivities of the mAbs and ELISAs. The performance of these sandwich ELISAs was evaluated using samples from prostate cancer patients and pregnant women experiencing premature rupture of membranes. Our study assessed the impact of MICA and MICB polymorphism on their detection and quantification by immunological methods, providing evidence to support differential or non-differential approaches for their detection.
42143557 | Transcriptomic analysis reveals the regulatory role of LIPE in lipid metabolism and tumor-associated macrophage polarization in breast cancer. BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) is one of the most common malignancies in women. Lipase E, hormone-sensitive type (LIPE), is a key lipase with potential regulatory roles in tumor lipid metabolism and the immune microenvironment. However, the molecular mechanisms by which LIPE regulates BC progression remain unclear. METHODS: The Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database was used to download BC-related transcriptomic data. The Weishengxin platform was used for gene ontology (GO) and kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses. TNMplot and gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA) platforms were used to obtain LIPE expression in BC tissues and at different clinical stages. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot were used to detect messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein expression. Cell transfection, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU), transwell, and wound healing assays were used to evaluate gene overexpression, cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. Commercial kits were used to measure free fatty acid (FFA) and lipoprotein lipase (LPL). Flow cytometry was used to analyze the proportion of cluster of differentiation 206 (CD206)-positive cells. In vivo experiments were conducted to validate the effects of LIPE on BC lipid metabolism and macrophage polarization. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to detect CD206 and Ki-67 levels. RESULTS: BC transcriptomic analysis identified c-x-c motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), LIPE, and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1c (CDKN1C) as potential key regulators of BC progression. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses showed that lipid droplet, acylglycerol lipase activity, regulation of lipolysis in adipocytes, and leukocyte transendothelial migration were significantly enriched. LIPE was significantly downregulated in BC-related transcriptomic datasets, BC tissues, and cells. LIPE overexpression reduced BC cell proliferation, invasion, and migration, increased FFA and LPL levels and activity, and decreased fatty acid synthase (FASN) and atp-citrate lyase (ACLY) expression. It also reduced the proportion of CD206-positive cells and the levels of interleukin-10 (IL-10) and transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta1), while increasing the level of IL-1beta. In vivo, LIPE overexpression decreased tumor volume and weight, and reduced FASN, ACLY, CD206, and Ki-67 levels in BC tissues. CONCLUSION: LIPE regulates lipid metabolism and thereby influences macrophage polarization, affecting BC progression and providing new insights and targets for its mechanistic research and therapy.
42121358 | Exploring key biomarkers associated with axillary lymph node metastasis in breast cancer using single-cell RNA sequencing and Mendelian randomization. BackgroundAxillary lymph node metastasis (ALNM) serves as a critical prognostic determinant in breast cancer, yet the molecular drivers governing lymphatic dissemination remain poorly characterized. Integrating single-cell transcriptomic profiling with Mendelian-randomization (MR)-based genetic prioritization may help reveal cell type-specific mechanisms underlying metastatic progression.MethodsWe analyzed the GSE195861 single-cell RNA sequencing dataset encompassing six invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) samples and paired ALNM specimens. t-distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding-based clustering and SingleR annotation delineated cellular heterogeneity, while differential expression analysis identified metastasis-associated genes in epithelial compartments. MR analysis employing five robust methods (inverse variance-weighted, weighted median, MR-Egger, simple/weighted mode) integrated genome-wide association study data (GCST90018799) to establish causal gene-breast cancer associations. CellChat reconstructed ligand-receptor networks across nine annotated cell types.ResultsUnsupervised clustering resolved 27 cell clusters into nine lineages, revealing ALNM-specific expansion of monocytes, pre-B cells, and CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Epithelial cells exhibited 2421 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between IDC and ALNM, including 12 genes whose genetically predicted expression showed significant associations with breast cancer risk in MR analysis (P < 0.05). CD53 (odds ratio (OR) = 1.110, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.019-1.209, P = 0.017) and TCDD-inducible poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (TIPARP) (OR = 1.153, 95% CI = 1.032-1.288, P = 0.012) were prioritized as candidate genes, as their genetically predicted expression was associated with increased breast cancer risk in weighted median MR. Cell-cell communication analysis implicated macrophage-derived midkine-nucleolin signaling and B-cell-orchestrated macrophage migration inhibitory factor-(CD74 + CXCR4) axis in metastatic crosstalk. Functional enrichment linked DEGs to extracellular matrix remodeling and MAPK/PI3K-Akt activation.ConclusionThis multi-omics integration prioritizes CD53 and TIPARP as ALNM-associated candidate genes with genetically supported associations with breast cancer risk, with macrophage-epithelial and B-cell-HSC interactions serving as potential therapeutic targets. Our findings provide a roadmap for developing metastasis-interceptive strategies through precision targeting of the ALNM-associated tumor microenvironment.
31552029 | Mucosal-Associated Invariant T Cells Expressing the TRAV1-TRAJ33 Chain Are Present in Pigs. Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are a subpopulation of evolutionarily conserved innate-like T lymphocytes bearing invariant or semi-invariant TCRalpha chains paired with a biased usage of TCRbeta chains and restricted by highly conserved monomorphic MHC class I-like molecule, MR1. Consistent with their phylogenetically conserved characteristics, MAIT cells have been implicated in host immune responses to microbial infections and non-infectious diseases, such as tuberculosis, typhoid fever, and multiple sclerosis. To date, MAIT cells have been identified in humans, mice, cows, sheep, and several non-human primates, but not in pigs. Here, we cloned porcine MAIT (pMAIT) TCRalpha sequences from PBMC cDNA, and then analyzed the TCRbeta usage of pMAIT cells expressing the TRAV1-TRAJ33 chain, finding that pMAIT cells use a limited array of TCRbeta chains (predominantly TRBV20S and TRBV29S). We estimated the frequency of TRAV1-TRAJ33 transcripts in peripheral blood and tissues, demonstrating that TRAV1-TRAJ33 transcripts are expressed in all tested tissues. Analysis of the expression of TRAV1-TRAJ33 transcripts in three T-cell subpopulations from peripheral blood and tissues showed that TRAV1-TRAJ33 transcripts can be expressed by CD4+CD8-, CD8+CD4-, and CD4-CD8- T cells. Using a single-cell PCR assay, we demonstrated that pMAIT cells with the TRAV1-TRAJ33 chain express cell surface markers IL-18Ralpha, IL-7Ralpha, CCR9, CCR5, and/or CXCR6, and transcription factors PLZF, and T-bet and/or RORgammat. In conclusion, pMAIT cells expressing the TRAV1-TRAJ33 chain have characteristics similar to human and mouse MAIT cells, further supporting the idea that the pig is an animal model for investigating MAIT cell functions in human disease.
39762078 | Novel and potent MICA/B antibody is therapeutically effective in KRAS LKB1 mutant lung cancer models. BACKGROUND: Concurrent KRAS LKB1 (STK11, KL) mutant non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC) do not respond well to current immune checkpoint blockade therapies, however targeting major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain A or B (MICA/B), could pose an alternative therapeutic strategy through activation of natural killer (NK) cells. METHODS: Expression of NK cell activating ligands in NSCLC cell line and patient data were analyzed. Cell surface expression of MICA/B in NSCLC cell lines was determined through flow cytometry while ligand shedding in both patient blood and cell lines was determined through ELISA. We engineered an antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) enhanced MICA/B monoclonal antibody, AHA-1031, which prevents ligand shedding without interfering with binding to natural killer group 2D while targeting cancer cells via superior ADCC. We performed in vitro assays using ELISA and flow cytometry-based assays to confirm that our antibody potently binds to and stabilizes MICA/B expression across lung cancer and other solid tumor cell lines. Additionally, we used two KL mutant NSCLC cell lines and a KL mutant patient-derived xenograft (PDX) model to demonstrate in vivo antitumor efficacy and flow cytometry analysis for immune cell activation profiling. RESULTS: NSCLC cell lines exhibit high MICA/B expression and secrete soluble MICA/B in vitro. Soluble MICA/B is also detected in patient blood samples. AHA-1031 binds to the alpha3 domain of MICA/B, preventing shedding and targeting tumor cells to ADCC. AHA-1031 exhibits high affinity and specificity to MICA/B, preventing MICA/B shedding in tumor lines and inducing ADCC in vitro. Our antibody also effectively binds and stabilizes MICA/B expression in additional tumor types and demonstrates broad specificity. We show that in two KL mutant NSCLC xenograft models and a KL mutant PDX model, treatment with AHA-1031 monotherapy significantly inhibits tumor growth compared with vehicle-treated animals with no observable toxicity. Tumor tissues from treated mice exhibit significantly increased immune cell infiltrates and activated NK cell populations. CONCLUSIONS: Activating NK cells through MICA/B stabilization and inducing ADCC offers an alternative and potent therapy option in KL tumors. MICA/B are shed across different tumors making this therapeutic strategy universally applicable.
39283896 | Accurate multi-population imputation of MICA, MICB, HLA-E, HLA-F and HLA-G alleles from genome SNP data. In addition to the classical HLA genes, the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) harbors a high number of other polymorphic genes with less established roles in disease associations and transplantation matching. To facilitate studies of the non-classical and non-HLA genes in large patient and biobank cohorts, we trained imputation models for MICA, MICB, HLA-E, HLA-F and HLA-G alleles on genome SNP array data. We show, using both population-specific and multi-population 1000 Genomes references, that the alleles of these genes can be accurately imputed for screening and research purposes. The best imputation model for MICA, MICB, HLA-E, -F and -G achieved a mean accuracy of 99.3% (min, max: 98.6, 99.9). Furthermore, validation of the 1000 Genomes exome short-read sequencing-based allele calling against a clinical-grade reference data showed an average accuracy of 99.8%, testifying for the quality of the 1000 Genomes data as an imputation reference. We also fitted the models for Infinium Global Screening Array (GSA, Illumina, Inc.) and Axiom Precision Medicine Research Array (PMRA, Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc.) SNP content, with mean accuracies of 99.1% (97.2, 100) and 98.9% (97.4, 100), respectively.
26728370 | [beta-Glucan promotes the maturation and migration of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells]. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of beta-glucan on the maturation and migration of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs). METHODS: BMDCs were isolated from mouse bone marrow cells in vitro and induced by beta-glucan for maturation. The expressions of cell surface markers were detected by flow cytometry (FCM). The cytokines (IL-6, IL-12p40, tumor necrosis factor alpha) in the supernatants were measured by ELISA, and the expressions of intracellular CC chemokine receptor 1 (CCR1), CCR2, CCR5, CCR7 were determined by real-time quantitative PCR. Furthermore, the chemotactic response to CC chemokine ligand 19 (CCLl9) and CCL21, i.e. CCR7-1igands, was measured by Transwell(TM) migration assay. Moreover, the number of migrated cells in the draining lymph nodes was analyzed by FCM. RESULTS: Compared with the control group, the expressions of co-stimulation molecules (MHC II, CD40, CD80, CD86) on BMDCs were up-regulated in the presence of beta-glucan. Furthermore, beta-glucan could prompt BMDCs to secret high levels of IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-12 p40 and increase the production of CCR7 mRNA. After beta-glucan treatment, BMDCs were more sensitive to CCL19/CCL21. The number of BMDCs migrated from subcutaneous injection site into the draining lymph nodes significantly increased in beta-glucan group. CONCLUSION: beta-glucan can promote the maturation of BMDCs and enhance the migration ability of BMDCs in vitro and in vivo.
28405623 | BCG vaccination induces HIV target cell activation in HIV-exposed infants in a randomized trial. BACKGROUND. Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine is administered at birth to protect infants against tuberculosis throughout Africa, where most perinatal HIV-1 transmission occurs. We examined whether BCG vaccination alters the levels of activated HIV target T cells in HIV-exposed South African infants. METHODS. HIV-exposed infants were randomized to receive routine (at birth) or delayed (at 8 weeks) BCG vaccination. Activated and CCR5-expressing peripheral blood CD4+ T cell, monocyte, and NK cell frequencies were evaluated by flow cytometry and immune gene expression via PCR using Biomark (Fluidigm). RESULTS. Of 149 infants randomized, 92% (n = 137) were retained at 6 weeks: 71 in the routine BCG arm and 66 in the delayed arm. Routine BCG vaccination led to a 3-fold increase in systemic activation of HIV target CD4+CCR5+ T cells (HLA-DR+CD38+) at 6 weeks (0.25% at birth versus 0.08% in delayed vaccination groups; P = 0.029), which persisted until 8 weeks of age when the delayed arm was vaccinated. Vaccination of the infants in the delayed arm at 8 weeks resulted in a similar increase in activated CD4+CCR5+ T cells. The increase in activated T cells was associated with increased levels of MHC class II transactivator (CIITA), IL12RB1, and IFN-alpha1 transcripts within peripheral blood mononuclear cells but minimal changes in innate cells. CONCLUSION. BCG vaccination induces immune changes in HIV-exposed infants, including an increase in the proportion of activated CCR5+CD4+ HIV target cells. These findings provide insight into optimal BCG vaccine timing to minimize the risks of HIV transmissions to exposed infants while preserving potential benefits conferred by BCG vaccination. TRIAL REGISTRATION. ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02062580. FUNDING. This trial was sponsored by the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation (MV-00-9-900-01871-0-00) and the Thrasher Foundation (NR-0095); for details, see Acknowledgments.
41729824 | Revealing shared molecular markers and mechanisms in colorectal cancer and COVID-19 through bioinformatics and machine learning. Colorectal cancer (CRC) and Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) are distinct diseases that may share overlapping molecular mechanisms, particularly in immune dysregulation. However, the specific regulatory pathways driving this shared pathophysiology have remained elusive, as prior studies have been limited by single-level data. To dissect this common pathobiology, we implemented a synergistic computational framework, integrating bulk transcriptomics with single-cell data. Through a multi-tiered analysis pipeline employing differential expression, weighted gene co-expression networks, and machine learning-based feature selection, we pinpointed a core molecular signature of 31 shared hub genes. Among these, four core candidates-GPR15, PTGDR2, FCER1A, and MAL-were significantly downregulated, a finding robustly associated with impaired CD8+ T cell infiltration. Delving deeper into the regulatory architecture using a modified weighted out-degree centrality algorithm, we constructed an integrated transcription factor-microRNA-target network. Network analysis revealed upregulation of p53 and downregulation of miR-3619-5p as possible drivers of immune dysfunction. Finally, E-4031 was identified through molecular simulation as a potential therapeutic agent targeting all four core genes. These findings uncover a shared regulatory axis involving immune suppression and transcriptional disruption, and provide promising diagnostic and therapeutic targets for CRC and COVID-19.
33655259 | The SARS-CoV-2 antibody landscape is lower in magnitude for structural proteins, diversified for accessory proteins and stable long-term in children. BACKGROUND: Children are less clinically affected by SARS-CoV-2 infection than adults with the majority of cases being mild or asymptomatic and the differences in infection outcomes are poorly understood. The kinetics, magnitude and landscape of the antibody response may impact the clinical severity and serological diagnosis of COVID-19. Thus, a comprehensive investigation of the antibody landscape in children and adults is needed. METHODS: We tested 254 plasma from 122 children with symptomatic and asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections in Hong Kong up to 206 days post symptom onset, including 146 longitudinal samples from 58 children. Adult COVID-19 patients and pre-pandemic controls were included for comparison. We assessed antibodies to a 14-wide panel of SARS-CoV-2 structural and accessory proteins by Luciferase Immunoprecipitation System (LIPS). FINDINGS: Children have lower levels of Spike and Nucleocapsid antibodies than adults, and their cumulative humoral response is more expanded to accessory proteins (NSP1 and Open Reading Frames (ORFs)). Sensitive serology using the three N, ORF3b, ORF8 antibodies can discriminate COVID-19 in children. Principal component analysis revealed distinct serological signatures in children and the highest contribution to variance were responses to non-structural proteins ORF3b, NSP1, ORF7a and ORF8. Longitudinal sampling revealed maintenance or increase of antibodies for at least 6 months, except for ORF7b antibodies which showed decline. It was interesting to note that children have higher antibody responses towards known IFN antagonists: ORF3b, ORF6 and ORF7a. The diversified SARS-CoV-2 antibody response in children may be an important factor in driving control of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
31423275 | MicroRNA-144 targets APP to regulate AML1/ETO+ leukemia cell migration via the p-ERK/c-Myc/MMP-2 pathway. Extramedullary infiltration (EMI) is common in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and is closely associated with the prognosis of disease. We previously reported that patients carrying the AML1/ETO (A/E) fusion gene and expressing the amyloid precursor protein (APP) tended to develop EMI, and had a poor prognosis. In the present study, the relapse-free survival (RFS) time and overall survival (OS) time were significantly lower in patients with EMI. The results demonstrated that the EMI incidence was significantly higher (P<0.05), while the RFS and OS rates were significantly lower (P<0.05), in patients with high APP expression. Kasumi-1 cells, which are A/E+, and the APP gene were used as the in vitro cell model to detect the mechanism of action in detail. Following the knockdown of APP expression, cell migration was significantly reduced (P<0.05). Furthermore, western blotting demonstrated that the protein expression of phosphorylated extracellular-signal-regulated kinase (p-ERK), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and c-Myc was markedly reduced following interference of APP, while the expression of CXCR4 and MMP-9 was not altered. Kasumi-1 cells were co-cultured with p-ERK or c-Myc inhibitors and demonstrated that the APP/p-ERK/c-Myc/MMP-2 pathway was involved in signal transduction and regulation of cell migration. MicroRNA-144 (miR-144) mimics and transfected Kasumi-1 cells were generated. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blotting demonstrated that miR-144 was a negative regulator of APP. Taken together, the findings of the present study suggest that miR-144 negatively targets the APP gene and regulates cell migration via the APP/p-ERK/c-Myc/MMP-2 pathway.
39661372 | Pitavastatin, Procollagen Pathways, and Plaque Stabilization in Patients With HIV: A Secondary Analysis of the REPRIEVE Randomized Clinical Trial. Importance: In a mechanistic substudy of the Randomized Trial to Prevent Vascular Events in HIV (REPRIEVE) randomized clinical trial, pitavastatin reduced noncalcified plaque (NCP) volume, but specific protein and gene pathways contributing to changes in coronary plaque remain unknown. Objective: To use targeted discovery proteomics and transcriptomics approaches to interrogate biological pathways beyond low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), relating statin outcomes to reduce NCP volume and promote plaque stabilization among people with HIV (PWH). Design, Setting, and Participants: This was a post hoc analysis of the double-blind, placebo-controlled, REPRIEVE randomized clinical trial. Participants underwent coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA), plasma protein analysis, and transcriptomic analysis at baseline and 2-year follow-up. The trial enrolled PWH from April 2015 to February 2018 at 31 US research sites. PWH without known cardiovascular diseases taking antiretroviral therapy and with low to moderate 10-year cardiovascular risk were eligible. Data analyses were conducted from October 2023 to February 2024. Intervention: Oral pitavastatin calcium, 4 mg per day. Main Outcomes and Measures: Relative change in plasma proteomics, transcriptomics, and noncalcified plaque volume among those receiving treatment vs placebo. Results: Among 558 individuals (mean [SD] age, 51 [6] years; 455 male [82%]) included in the proteomics assessment, 272 (48.7%) received pitavastatin and 286 (51.3%) received placebo. After adjusting for false discovery rates, pitavastatin increased abundance of procollagen C-endopeptidase enhancer 1 (PCOLCE), neuropilin 1 (NRP-1), major histocompatibility complex class I polypeptide-related sequence A (MIC-A) and B (MIC-B), and decreased abundance of tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 10 (TRAIL), angiopoietin-related protein 3 (ANGPTL3), and mannose-binding protein C (MBL2). Among these proteins, the association of pitavastatin with PCOLCE (a rate-limiting enzyme of collagen deposition) was greatest, with an effect size of 24.3% (95% CI, 18.0%-30.8%; P < .001). In a transcriptomic analysis, individual collagen genes and collagen gene sets showed increased expression. Among the 195 individuals with plaque at baseline (88 [45.1%] taking pitavastatin, 107 [54.9%] taking placebo), changes in NCP volume were most strongly associated with changes in PCOLCE (%change NCP volume/log2-fold change = -31.9%; 95% CI, -42.9% to -18.7%; P < .001), independent of changes in LDL-C level. Increases in PCOLCE related most strongly to change in the fibro-fatty (<130 Hounsfield units) component of NCP (%change fibro-fatty volume/log2-fold change = -38.5%; 95% CI, -58.1% to -9.7%; P = .01) with a directionally opposite, although nonsignificant, increase in calcified plaque (%change calcified volume/log2-fold change = 34.4%; 95% CI, -7.9% to 96.2%; P = .12). Conclusions and Relevance: Results of this secondary analysis of the REPRIEVE randomized clinical trial suggest that PCOLCE may be associated with the atherosclerotic plaque stabilization effects of statins by promoting collagen deposition in the extracellular matrix transforming vulnerable plaque phenotypes to more stable coronary lesions. Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02344290.
25061103 | Cytoskeletal regulatory gene expression and migratory properties of B-cell progenitors are affected by the ETV6-RUNX1 rearrangement. UNLABELLED: Although the ETV6-RUNX1 fusion is a frequent initiating event in childhood leukemia, its role in leukemogenesis is only partly understood. The main impact of the fusion itself is to generate and sustain a clone of clinically silent preleukemic B-cell progenitors (BCP). Additional oncogenic hits, occurring even several years later, are required for overt disease. The understanding of the features and interactions of ETV6-RUNX1-positive cells during this \latency\ period may explain how these silent cells can persist and whether they could be prone to additional genetic changes. In this study, two in vitro murine models were used to investigate whether ETV6-RUNX1 alters the cellular adhesion and migration properties of BCP. ETV6-RUNX1-expressing cells showed a significant defect in the chemotactic response to CXCL12, caused by a block in CXCR4 signaling, as demonstrated by inhibition of CXCL12-associated calcium flux and lack of ERK phosphorylation. Moreover, the induction of ETV6-RUNX1 caused changes in the expression of cell-surface adhesion molecules. The expression of genes regulating the cytoskeleton was also affected, resulting in a block of CDC42 signaling. The abnormalities described here could alter the interaction of ETV6-RUNX1 preleukemic BCP with the microenvironment and contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease. IMPLICATIONS: Alterations in the expression of cytoskeletal regulatory genes and migration properties of BCP represent early events in the evolution of the disease, from the preleukemic phase to the clinical onset, and suggest new strategies for effective eradication of leukemia.
41513147 | Humoral and cellular immunogenicity of COVID-19 vaccine boosters in participants with advanced HIV disease. BACKGROUND: People living with HIV (PLWH) who experience advanced immunosuppression are susceptible to severe COVID-19 and demonstrate compromised vaccine responses due to low CD4 counts and uncontrolled HIV viral load. Although vaccine boosters enhance immunity in the general population, their immunogenicity in individuals with advanced HIV remains inadequately characterised. METHODS: This study evaluated the humoral and cellular immunogenicity of COVID-19 vaccine boosters in 41 individuals with advanced HIV at baseline and 4 weeks post-vaccination. Binding antibodies, neutralising antibodies, antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC), as well as spike-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses were quantified and characterised. RESULTS: Booster vaccination was found to increase binding antibody titres (7.7-fold) and neutralising activity (3.9-fold), even among participants with CD4 counts <100 cells/mm3, although absolute responses remained lower than the controls. ADCC activity also modestly increased post-vaccination (2.1-fold). Spike-specific CD4+ T-cell responses increased in magnitude (0.001% to 0.160%, p=0.0001) and responder frequency (49% to 83%, p=0.0167) post-vaccination, while CD8+ T-cell responses remained low. Compared to the controls, PLWH had similar magnitudes of spike-specific CD4+ T-cell responses but significantly lower CD8+ T-cell responses. CONCLUSION: COVID-19 vaccine boosters enhance immunity in PLWH, however, the responses remain suboptimal compared to immunocompetent individuals, emphasising the need for tailored vaccination strategies.
34937774 | sgDI-tector: defective interfering viral genome bioinformatics for detection of coronavirus subgenomic RNAs. Coronavirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerases produce subgenomic RNAs (sgRNAs) that encode viral structural and accessory proteins. User-friendly bioinformatic tools to detect and quantify sgRNA production are urgently needed to study the growing number of next-generation sequencing (NGS) data of SARS-CoV-2. We introduced sgDI-tector to identify and quantify sgRNA in SARS-CoV-2 NGS data. sgDI-tector allowed detection of sgRNA without initial knowledge of the transcription-regulatory sequences. We produced NGS data and successfully detected the nested set of sgRNAs with the ranking M > ORF3a > N>ORF6 > ORF7a > ORF8 > S > E>ORF7b. We also compared the level of sgRNA production with other types of viral RNA products such as defective interfering viral genomes.
30397034 | Blocking Matrix Metalloproteinase-9 Abrogates Collagen-Induced Arthritis via Inhibiting Dendritic Cell Migration. Trafficking of dendritic cells (DCs) to lymph nodes (LNs) to present Ags is a crucial step in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) is the key molecule for DC migration. Thus, blocking MMP-9 to inhibit DC migration may be a novel strategy to treat RA. In this study, we used anti-MMP-9 Ab to treat collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) in DBA/1J mice and demonstrated that anti-MMP-9 Ab treatment significantly suppressed the development of CIA via the modulation of DC trafficking. In anti-MMP-9 Ab-treated CIA mice, the number of DCs in draining LNs was obviously decreased. In vitro, anti-MMP-9 Ab and MMP-9 inhibitor restrained the migration of mature bone marrow-derived DCs in Matrigel in response to CCR7 ligand CCL21. In addition, blocking MMP-9 decreased T and B cell numbers in LNs of CIA mice but had no direct influence on the T cell response to collagen II by CD4+ T cells purified from LNs or spleen. Besides, anti-MMP-9 Ab did not impact on the expression of MHC class II, CD40, CD80, CD86, and chemokine receptors (CCR5 and CCR7) of DCs both in vivo and in vitro. Furthermore, we discovered the number of MMP-9-/- DCs trafficking from footpads to popliteal LNs was dramatically reduced as compared with wild type DCs in both MMP-9-/- mice and wild type mice. Taken together, these results indicated that DC-derived MMP-9 is the crucial factor for DC migration, and blocking MMP-9 to inhibit DC migration may constitute a novel strategy of future therapy for RA and other similar autoimmune diseases.
34959541 | Possible Role of Accessory Proteins in the Viral Replication for the 20I/501Y.V1 (B.1.1.7) SARS CoV-2 Variant. The emergence of new severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS CoV-2) has been a global concern. The B.1.1.7 variant of SARS CoV-2 is reported to cause higher transmission. The study investigates the replication cycle and transcriptional pattern of the B.1.1.7 to hypothesis the possible role of different genes in viral replication. It was observed that the B.1.1.7 variant required a longer maturation time. The transcriptional response demonstrated higher expression of ORF6 and ORF8 compared to nucleocapsid transcript till the eclipse period which might influence higher viral replication. The number of infectious viruses titer is higher in the B.1.1.7, despite a lesser copy number than B.1, indicating higher transmissibility. The experimental evidence published linked ORF6 and ORF8 to play important role in replication and we also observed their higher expression. This leads us to hypothesis the possible role of ORF6 and ORF8 in B.1.1.7 higher replication which causes higher transmission.
33468688 | Engineering a Reliable and Convenient SARS-CoV-2 Replicon System for Analysis of Viral RNA Synthesis and Screening of Antiviral Inhibitors. The etiologic agent of COVID-19 is highly contagious and has caused a severe global pandemic. Until now, there has been no simple and reliable system available in a lower-biosafety-grade laboratory for SARS-CoV-2 virologic research and inhibitor screening. In this study, we reported a replicon system which consists of four plasmids expressing the required segments of SARS-CoV-2. Our study revealed that the features for viral RNA synthesis and responses to antivirus drugs of the replicon are similar to those of wild-type viruses. Further analysis indicated that ORF6 provided potent in trans stimulation of the viral replication. Some viral variations, such as 5'UTR-C241T and ORF8-(T28144C) L84S mutation, also exhibit their different impact upon viral replication. Besides, the screening of clinically used drugs identified that several tyrosine kinase inhibitors and DNA-Top II inhibitors potently inhibit the replicon, as well as authentic SARS-CoV-2 viruses. Collectively, this replicon system provides a biosafety-worry-free platform for studying SARS-CoV-2 virology, monitoring the functional impact of viral mutations, and developing viral inhibitors.IMPORTANCE COVID-19 has caused a severe global pandemic. Until now, there has been no simple and reliable system available in a lower-biosafety-grade laboratory for SARS-CoV-2 virologic research and inhibitor screening. We reported a replicon system which consists of four ordinary plasmids expressing the required segments of SARS-CoV-2. Using the replicon system, we developed three application scenarios: (i) to identify the effects of viral proteins on virus replication, (ii) to identify the effects of mutations on viral replication during viral epidemics, and (iii) to perform high-throughput screening of antiviral drugs. Collectively, this replicon system would be useful for virologists to study SARS-CoV-2 virology, for epidemiologists to monitor virus mutations, and for industry to develop antiviral drugs.
42136470 | Anticancer Potential of Moringa Oleifera in Lung Cancer: A Mini Review of In vitro and In vivo Evidence. INTRODUCTION: Moringa Oleifera (MO) is a potential plant-derived cancer treatment. Its anticancer effects are multi-targeted and include immunological stimulation, regulation of oxidative stress, and induction of apoptosis. To fully evaluate the implications of MO on lung cancer in in vitro and in vivo models, this mini-review focuses on linking these observations with cytotoxic, molecular, and immunological effects. METHODS: Using PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science databases, comparative studies on MO extracts, phytochemicals, and nanoparticle-delivered anticancer activities against lung cancer were identified. Fourteen studies were included: twelve in vitro (primarily on A549 NSCLC adenocarcinoma cells) and two in vivo. Measures including immune responses, ROS modulation, apoptosis markers, and cell viability were used to evaluate the results. RESULTS: In vitro models, MO consistently reduced the viability of lung cancer cells, induced apoptosis by the mitochondrial pathway (Bax/Bcl-2 switch, cytochrome c release, caspase activation), and blocked oncogenic signaling pathways (NF-kB, EGFR, STAT3, VEGF). Nanoparticle formulations (AuNPs, AgNPs, CuO NPs, PdNPs) demonstrated greater cytotoxicity and pro-apoptotic activity than crude preparations. In vivo, MO leaf extracts suppressed tumor growth in urethane-treated rats in a manner comparable to cisplatin, and MO polysaccharides repolarized tumor-associated macrophages from an M2 to an M1 phenotype and enhanced CD4+/CD8+ T-cell infiltration in Lewis lung carcinoma mice. DISCUSSION: This mini-review highlights the potent anticancer activity of Moringa oleifera against lung cancer through apoptosis induction, oxidative stress modulation, and inhibition of oncogenic signaling and angiogenesis. Despite promising in vitro and in vivo results, further standardized and clinical studies are required to validate its therapeutic efficacy and safety. CONCLUSION: Through a variety of mechanisms, including apoptosis, redox balance, angiogenesis, and immune modulation, this review demonstrated Moringa oleifera's potent anticancer activity in both in vivo and in vitro models of lung cancer. These findings suggest that Moringa oleifera represents a promising preclinical candidate for further investigation as a supportive strategy in non-small cell lung cancer, pending validation through standardized in vivo and clinical studies.
42083506 | Oncogenic driver and therapeutic target: Prolactin signalling axis in retroperitoneal sarcoma. BACKGROUND: Retroperitoneal sarcoma (RPS) is a type of malignant tumour arising from mesenchymal tissues within the retroperitoneal space. RPSs tend to develop covertly and are often undiscovered when they have already grown significantly and invaded surrounding tissues and organs. These malignancies demonstrate high recurrence rates, present surgical challenges and exhibit limited responsiveness to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Serum-derived molecules are known to play critical roles in tumourigenesis and tumour progression. However, the serum molecular profile of RPS patients remains unclear. METHODS: We performed multi-omics analysis of serum samples from patients with retroperitoneal dedifferentiated liposarcoma. Prolactin concentrations were quantified using Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). RNA-seq facilitated the identification of candidate signalling pathways, while gene expression was validated through quantitative polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry and western blot analyses. Molecular mechanisms underlying transcriptional regulation were investigated through Chromatin Immunoprecipitation-qPCR (ChIP-qPCR) and dual-luciferase reporter gene assays. RESULTS: Integrative multi-omics profiling identified significant perturbations in galactose metabolism coupled with marked elevation of prolactin (PRL) levels in Retroperitoneal Liposarcoma (RLPS) patients. Further screening of serum prolactin levels in 100 patients with retroperitoneal tumours revealed that 90% of the cases exhibited hyperprolactinaemia in our research cohort, encompassing both malignant sarcomas and benign tumours. Studies at the clinical sample, cellular and animal levels have found that abnormally elevated prolactin in the serum can originate from sarcoma tissues. Mechanistic investigations identified SRY-box transcription factor 4 (SOX4) as a previously unrecognised transcriptional regulator of PRL. Functionally, PRL not only enhanced liposarcoma cell and fibrosarcoma cell proliferation but also conferred resistance to MDM2 inhibitors. Signalling pathway analysis revealed that PRL activates the Janus Kinase-Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription Pathway (JAK-STAT) signalling pathway and up-regulates c-MYC expression. CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates that PRL can serve as an oncogenic driver and therapeutic target. The identification of SOX4-PRL-c-MYC signalling axis provides actionable insights for developing novel therapeutic strategies against this malignancy. KEY POINTS: Retroperitoneal sarcoma cells can secrete prolactin into the bloodstream, inducing hyperprolactinaemia, which subsequently triggers metabolic reprogramming, such as glucose metabolism. SOX4 can function as a transcription factor that facilitates PRL transcription. PRL can activate the JAK-STAT signalling pathway by binding to PRLR on sarcoma cells, leading to the up-regulation of c-MYC.
39390361 | Occurrence and role of Tph cells in various renal diseases. A new population of peripheral helper T (Tph) cells has been identified and contributed to various autoimmune diseases. Tph cells can secrete interleukin-21 (IL-21), interferon (IFN) and C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 13 (CXCL13) to moderate renal disease. Moreover, Tph cells can congregate in huge numbers and immerse within inflamed tissue. Compared to Tfh cells, Tph cells express high programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), major histocompatibility complex II (MHC-II), C-C chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) and C-C chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) but often lack expression of the chemokine receptor C-X-C chemokine receptor 5 (CXCR5). They display features distinct from other T cells, which are uniquely poised to promote responses and antibody production of B cells within pathologically inflamed non-lymphoid tissues and a key feature of Tph cells. In this review, we summarize recent findings on the role of Tph cells in chronic kidney disease, acute kidney injury, kidney transplantation and various renal diseases.
39991723 | Sesamin induces cell cycle arrest and upregulation of NKG2D ligands in MG-63 cells and increases susceptibility to NK cell cytotoxicity. Osteosarcoma is a common solid malignancy in children and adolescents. Despite a success of standard therapeutic approaches, an effective therapeutic strategy is in a great need for improved outcomes. The aim of the present study was to investigate the anticancer effect of sesamin and its influence on NKG2D ligand expression in human osteosarcoma MG-63 cells and to compare the differences in NK cell elimination efficiency before and after treatment. Cell viability of MG-63 cells treated with serial concentrations of sesamin (0-100 microM) was measured using MTT. Induction of cell cycle arrest was determined with flow cytometry. Flow cytometry and reverse transcription-quantitative PCR were employed to detect the changes of protein and mRNA level of NKG2D ligands before and after treatment with sesamin. NK cell elimination assay was performed to determine the changes in NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity against MG-63 cells treated with sesamin. Sesamin induced G2/M cell cycle arrest in MG-63 cells with increased p21 expression. Expression of MICA, MICB and ULBP1 at the protein and mRNA level were significantly increased (P<0.05). MG-63 cells treated with sesamin were more susceptible to NK cell-mediated elimination (P<0.05). Enhanced NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity was correlated with expression of NKG2D ligands (P<0.05). In conclusion, sesamin can induce cell cycle arrest and upregulate the expression of NKG2D ligands in MG-63 cells, thereby enhancing NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity against osteosarcoma cells.
41480606 | Identification of novel therapeutic targets for diabetic neuropathy through integrated proteomics and transcriptomics approaches. BACKGROUND: Diabetic neuropathy (DN) is a progressive disorder with limited effective treatment options. AIM: To identify potential therapeutic targets for DN by integrating plasma proteomic and transcriptomic data. METHODS: A comprehensive analytical framework was developed to identify multi-omics biomarkers of DN. Protein-protein interaction network and Gene Ontology analyses were performed to explore the biological functions of biomarkers. Tier 1 target proteins were further analyzed. Candidate drug prediction and molecular docking studies were conducted to identify potential treatments while assessing the side effects of key target proteins. The mediation of immune cells in the association between proteins and DN was examined through two-step network Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis. RESULTS: Nine DN-associated proteins were identified by analyzing protein quantitative trait loci from extensive genome-wide association study data. BTN3A1 and MICB were confirmed using MR, summary data-based MR, and colocalization analyses. Of the nine, HSPA1B, PSMB9, BTN3A1, SCGN, NOTUM, and MICB showed negative associations with DN, whereas WARS, BRD2, and CSNK2B were positive. Gene Ontology analysis indicated enrichment in inflammatory response and neuronal injury pathways. BTN3A1 and MICB were identified as Tier 1 targets. Drug prediction and molecular docking analyses indicated cyclosporin A as a potential therapeutic candidate. Two-step network MR analysis showed that MICB mediated DN through human leukocyte antigen-DR++ monocytes. These integrated findings point to an immune-mediated mechanism with translational potential and nominate BTN3A1 and MICB for focused functional validation. CONCLUSION: Our integrated multi-omics approach identified two promising therapeutic targets for DN, laying the groundwork for new treatment strategies and enhancing our understanding of MICB's role in DN.
40954213 | Downregulation of MICA/MICB improves cell persistence and clinical activity of NKG2DL CAR T-cells in patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic neoplasia. The NKG2D receptor binds eight ligands (NKG2DL) overexpressed in a wide range of malignancies, but largely absent on non-neoplastic cells. Initial clinical evaluation of NKG2DL chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells (CYAD-01) in patients with relapsed or refractory (r/r) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic neoplasia (MDS) demonstrated low durability of responses and short cell persistence. Two Phase I trials were initiated to evaluate the effect of lymphodepletion prior to a single CAR T-cell infusion in a similar r/r AML/MDS patient population. The DEPLETHINK trial (NCT03466320) evaluated CYAD-01 while the CYCLE-1 trial (NCT04167696) evaluated a next-generation NKG2DL CAR, CYAD-02, where the two main NKG2D ligands MICA and B are downregulated, to increase CAR T-cell persistence. Seventeen and twelve patients were treated in the DEPLETHINK and CYCLE-1 trials, and confirmed the good tolerability of both products with cytokine release syndrome (CRS) grade 3 or 4 reported in 25% and 33.3% of patients, respectively. CYAD-02 presented an higher engraftment and an improved clinical activity (17% objective response rate) compared to CYAD-01 (no objective response). Altogether, our data provide proof of principle that knock-down of MICA/B can enhance CAR T-cell persistence and efficacy while maintaining a good safety profile.
41416066 | Targeting chemokine signaling networks for therapeutics in skeletal disorders. Chemokine signaling networks have emerged as pivotal regulators of skeletal homeostasis, integrating inflammation, angiogenesis, and immune activation with the processes of bone remodeling and regeneration. Recent evidence demonstrates that dysregulated chemokine-receptor interactions, including CCL2/CCR2, CCL5/CCR5, and CX3CL1/CX3CR1, disrupt the equilibrium between osteogenesis and osteoclastogenesis, thereby contributing to the pathogenesis of osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, multiple myeloma, and bone metastasis. This review synthesizes current insights into how chemokine-mediated signaling cascades intersect with canonical pathways such as JAK/STAT3, NF-kappaB, PI3K/Akt, and Wnt/beta-catenin to coordinate cellular communication within the bone microenvironment. Furthermore, it highlights recent progress in therapeutic strategies targeting chemokine axes to mitigate inflammatory bone loss and promote tissue regeneration, while addressing translational barriers including receptor redundancy, context-dependent specificity, and limited in vivo validation. By positioning chemokines as dynamic mediators at the interface of the immune and skeletal systems, this review establishes a conceptual foundation for the development of precision therapeutics aimed at restoring bone homeostasis and treating skeletal disorders.
33890205 | In Silico Study of Mutational Stability of SARS-CoV-2 Proteins. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), an enveloped RNA virus transmits by droplet infection thus affects the respiratory system. Different genomes have been reported globally for SARS-CoV-2 with moderate level of mutation which makes it harder to combat the virus. Mutational profiling and the relevant evolutionary aspect of coronavirus proteins namely spike glycoprotein, membrane protein, envelope protein, nucleoprotein, ORF1ab, ORF3a, ORF6, ORF7a, ORF7b and ORF8 were studied by in silico experiments. Clustering of the protein sequences and calculation of residue relative abundance were done to get an idea about the protein conservancy as well as finding out some representative sequences for phylogenetic and ancestral reconstruction. By mutational profiling and mutation analysis, the effect of mutations on the protein stability and their functional implication were studied. This study indicates the mutational effect on the proteins and their relevance in evolution, which directs us towards a better understanding of these variations and diversification of SARS-CoV-2 for useful future therapeutic study and thus aid in designing therapeutic agents keeping the highly variable regions in mind.
41808148 | Engineering NKG2D ligand affinity transforms EGFR-targeted NK cell engagers into high-potency effectors against pancreatic cancer.
33675655 | Emergence of a Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 Virus Variant With Novel Genomic Architecture in Hong Kong. Throughout the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, divergent severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) lineages have emerged continuously, mostly through the genomic accumulation of substitutions. We report the discovery of a SARS-CoV-2 variant with a novel genomic architecture characterized by absent ORF7a, ORF7b, and ORF8, and a C-terminally modified ORF6 product resulting from partial 5'-untranslated region (UTR) duplication and transposition.
26590316 | Regulatory T Cell Induction and Retention in the Lungs Drives Suppression of Detrimental Type 2 Th Cells During Pulmonary Cryptococcal Infection. Lethal disease caused by the fungus Cryptococcus neoformans is a consequence of the combined failure to control pulmonary fungal replication and immunopathology caused by induced type 2 Th2 cell responses in animal models. In order to gain insights into immune regulatory networks, we examined the role of regulatory T (Treg) cells in suppression of Th2 cells using a mouse model of experimental cryptococcosis. Upon pulmonary infection with Cryptococcus, Treg cells accumulated in the lung parenchyma independently of priming in the draining lymph node. Using peptide-MHC class II molecules to identify Cryptococcus-specific Treg cells combined with genetic fate-mapping, we noted that a majority of the Treg cells found in the lungs were induced during the infection. Additionally, we found that Treg cells used the transcription factor, IFN regulatory factor 4, to dampen harmful Th2 cell responses, as well as mediate chemokine retention of Treg cells in the lungs. Taken together, induction and IFN regulatory factor 4-dependent localization of Treg cells in the lungs allow Treg cells to suppress the deleterious effects of Th2 cells during cryptococcal infection.
42122240 | Diagnostic and Prognostic Significance of Chemokines in Head and Neck Cancers: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. BACKGROUND: Head and neck cancers (HNCs) represent a global health burden, with high morbidity and mortality largely driven by late-stage diagnosis and heterogeneous clinical outcomes. Reliable biomarkers are needed to improve early detection, prognostic stratification, and therapeutic decision-making. This study evaluates the diagnostic and prognostic value of chemokines in HNCs and identifies candidates with clinical relevance. METHODS: A comprehensive literature search was conducted on 28 March 2026 across PubMed, Embase, Scopus, Web of Science, and EBSCO. Observational studies involving patients or biological samples with confirmed HNCs were included if they evaluated chemokines as diagnostic or prognostic biomarkers. Risk of bias was assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) for prognostic studies and the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies-2 (QUADAS-2) tool for diagnostic studies. Meta-analyses were performed for chemokines evaluated in >=3 studies using the inverse-variance heterogeneity model. RESULTS: Forty-four studies encompassing 7294 participants were included. Prognostic findings were heterogeneous across biomarkers. MIP-3alpha demonstrated consistently significant associations with poorer survival outcomes. In contrast, IL-8, CXCL10, and CXCR4 showed inconsistent or predominantly non-significant associations with overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), and locoregional control (LRC). For diagnostic performance, IL-8, in saliva, demonstrated relatively high sensitivity and specificity for oral squamous cell carcinoma. Chemerin showed high diagnostic accuracy, although evidence remains limited. CONCLUSIONS: Certain chemokines show potential as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in HNCs. However, heterogeneity across tumor types, samples, and methodologies limits evidence. Larger, well-designed studies are needed to validate their clinical utility in risk stratification and personalized management of HNCs.
38870636 | Activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signal induces DCs to differentiate into immune tolerant regDCs in septic mice. BACKGROUND: Sepsis is a common complication among patients in intensive care units, and has a high mortality rate, with no effective therapies to date. As immunosuppression has become the research focus of sepsis, the regulatory role of dendritic cells (DCs) in the immune response to sepsis has received attention. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway in inducing the differentiation of splenic DCs in mice with sepsis caused by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). METHODS: C57bl/6 mice were randomly divided into three groups, namely the sham, 24 h post-CLP, and 72 h post-CLP groups. Levels of regulatory T cells (Tregs) among splenic mononuclear cells, suppressor T cells (TSs), and surface markers, such as major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II), co-stimulatory molecules (CD80 and CD86), negative co-stimulatory molecule death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), CC chemokine receptor-5 (CCR5), and CC chemokine receptor-7 (CCR7), were analyzed via flow cytometry for each group of mice post-surgery. CD11c+ DCs were purified from the splenic mononuclear cells of each group, and the expression of beta-catenin, Wnt5a, and Wnt3a was detected using RT-PCR and western blotting.Each group of DCs was incubated with LPS-containing culture solution, and the supernatant of the culture solution was collected after 24 hours to detect the level of Tumor necrosis factor-alpha(TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-6, IL-12, and IL-10. RESULTS: Compared with that in the sham group, the expression of beta-catenin, Wnt5a, and Wnt3a in splenic DCs of the other two groups of mice increased with prolonged CLP exposure (P<0.05). Meanwhile, the proportion of Tregs and TSs increased in the mouse spleens after CLP, and levels of DC surface molecules, such as CCR5, CCR7, CD80, CD86, and MHC-II, decreased to different degrees, whereas those of PD-L1 increased. These results suggested that DCs differentiate towards regulatory DCs (regDCs) after CLP in mice. The results of ELISA showed that the longer the exposure time after CLP, the lower the ability of DCs to secrete TNF-alpha and IL-12, but the higher the level of IL-10 and IL-6. CONCLUSION: The Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway activates and induces regDCs differentiation in the splenic DCs of mice with sepsis and participates in the regulation of immune tolerance in the organism.
42122287 | Prospects of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Therapy in Myelofibrosis: From Immunopathogenesis to Therapeutic Strategies. Myelofibrosis (MF) is a myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by clonal hematopoietic dysregulation, amplification of chronic inflammation, and progressive remodeling of the bone marrow fibrotic niche, clinically manifesting as bone marrow failure, splenomegaly, and systemic inflammatory symptoms. Although Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors can alleviate symptom burden and reduce spleen size, they have limited capacity to eradicate malignant clones or reverse fibrosis. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation remains the only potentially curative option; however, its application is constrained by advanced age, comorbidities, unavailable donor, and transplant-related risks. Therefore, the development of disease-modifying therapeutic strategies has become a central focus in MF research. Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T)-cell therapy has demonstrated robust efficacy across various hematologic malignancies. Its application in MF holds the potential not only to selectively eliminate malignant hematopoietic clones but also to modulate the immunosuppressive and profibrotic microenvironment through advanced cellular engineering, thereby enabling a dual therapeutic paradigm involving both clonal control and microenvironmental reprogramming. In this context, potential targets and pathways include CD123, myeloproliferative leukemia protein (MPL), fibroblast activation protein (FAP), the TGF-beta signaling axis, the CXCR4-CXCL12 niche-regulatory axis, and molecules associated with myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). Future strategies may optimize both efficacy and safety through combinatorial approaches, including integration with JAK inhibitors, development of armored CAR-T constructs, and bridging to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Collectively, CAR-T-cell therapy offers a promising avenue for shifting MF management from symptomatic control toward true disease modification.
