38331062 | PeptiVAX: A new adaptable peptides-delivery platform for development of CTL-based, SARS-CoV-2 vaccines. The emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) posed a threat to public health and the global economy, necessitating the development of various vaccination strategies. Mutations in the SPIKE protein gene, a crucial component of mRNA and adenovirus-based vaccines, raised concerns about vaccine efficacy, prompting the need for rapid vaccine updates. To address this, we leveraged PeptiCRAd, an oncolytic vaccine based on tumor antigen decorated oncolytic adenoviruses, creating a vaccine platform called PeptiVAX. First, we identified multiple CD8 T-cell epitopes from highly conserved regions across coronaviruses, expanding the range of T-cell responses to non-SPIKE proteins. We designed short segments containing the predicted epitopes presented by common HLA-Is in the global population. Testing the immunogenicity, we characterized T-cell responses to candidate peptides in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from pre-pandemic healthy donors and ICU patients. As a proof of concept in mice, we selected a peptide with epitopes predicted to bind to murine MHC-I haplotypes. Our technology successfully elicited peptide-specific T-cell responses, unaffected by the use of unarmed adenoviral vectors or adeno-based vaccines encoding SPIKE. In conclusion, PeptiVAX represents a fast and adaptable SARS-CoV-2 vaccine delivery system that broadens T-cell responses beyond the SPIKE protein, offering potential benefits for vaccine effectiveness.
38486464 | DA-6034 ameliorates hepatic steatosis and inflammation in high fat diet-induced obese mice. Background: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by an increase in hepatic triglyceride content and increased inflammatory macrophage infiltration through the C-C motif chemokine receptor (CCR) 5 pathway in the liver. DA-6034 (7-carboxymethyloxy-3',4',5-trimethoxy flavone), is a synthetic derivative of eupatilin that exhibits anti-inflammatory activity in inflammatory bowel disease. However, the effect of DA-6034 on the inflammatory response in NAFLD is not well elucidated. Therefore, we aimed to determine the effect of DA-6034 on hepatic steatosis and inflammation. Methods: Forty male C57BL/6J mice were divided into the following four groups: (1) regular diet (RD), (2) RD with DA-6034, (3) high fat diet (HFD), and (4) HFD with DA-6034. All mice were sacrificed 12 weeks after the start of the experiment. The effects of DA-6034 on macrophages were assessed using RAW264.7 cells. Results: DA-6034 not only reduced hepatic triglyceride levels and lipid accumulation but also macrophage infiltration and proinflammatory cytokines in HFD-fed mice. According to fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis, DA-6034 reduced the CD8+ T cell fraction in the liver of HFD-fed mice. DA-6034 also reduced CCR5 expression and the migration of liver macrophages in HFD-fed mice and inhibited CCR2 ligand and CCR4 ligand, which stimulated the migration of macrophages. Conclusion: Overall, DA-6034 attenuates hepatic steatosis and inflammation in obesity by regulating CCR5 expression in macrophages.
37863157 | Primary tumor-induced immunity suppresses bone metastases of breast Cancer in syngeneic immunocompetent mouse models. The immune system plays a crucial role in cancer development and progression. More than a century ago, mouse models showed that primary tumors suppressed the growth of newly implanted secondary tumors. This phenomenon, in which tumor-primed T cells mediate the rejection of tumor growth at a distant site, is known as concomitant tumor immunity. Here, we investigated the role of concomitant immunity in the development of breast cancer bone metastases using newly developed syngeneic immunocompetent mouse models. The presence of primary breast tumors developed by tumor cell injection into the mammary fat pads (MFPs) significantly reduced bone metastases of mouse breast cancer 4T1 and EMT6 cells induced by cell injection through the caudal artery (CA). Similar results were obtained when primary tumors were surgically resected prior to CA injection of tumor cells. In contrast, no inhibition was found when MFP and CA injections were performed using different cell combinations. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that the number of CD8+ T cells in bone metastases of 4T1 and EMT6 cells was significantly increased in the presence of primary tumors. The primary tumor-induced inhibition of bone metastases was not reproduced in T cell-deficient athymic nude mice. Furthermore, depletion of CD8+ T cells using an anti-CD8alpha antibody also abolished the primary tumor-induced inhibition of bone metastases. Taken together, these results suggest that immune cell priming by orthotopic breast tumors inhibits the development of breast cancer bone metastases, which is predominantly mediated by CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes.
3145195 | A second subunit of CD8 is expressed in human T cells. The CD8 glycoprotein plays important functions in T cell development and in T cell activation. In rodents, CD8 is a heterodimer, consisting of an alpha-chain (Lyt2) and a beta-chain (Lyt3). In humans, only the alpha-chain has been detected, and it has been thought that CD8 consists of homodimers of this protein. We have isolated functional cDNA clones encoding human CD8 beta, and show that the CD8 beta protein is expressed on the surface of CD8+ human T cells. cDNA clones encoding multiple forms of the human CD8 beta-chain have been isolated and characterized. These structural variants, which are likely to arise by alternative splicing, differ in the sequences encoding the cytoplasmic domain, which can consist of 19, 30, or 52 amino acids. One of the cDNAs lacks nucleotide sequences corresponding to a hydrophobic transmembrane domain, and may encode a secreted CD8 beta protein. The protein product of the human CD8 beta gene can be detected by a recently described anti-CD8 monoclonal antibody, 597. Expression of the epitope recognized by this antibody requires co-expression of the CD8 alpha and CD8 beta gene products. About 90% of human CD8 alpha positive thymocytes and peripheral blood lymphocytes express CD8 beta at the cell surface. Expression of the CD8 beta chain is thus conserved between human and rodents, and the variant CD8 beta polypeptides may have distinct roles in T cell function and development.
3145196 | The human Lyt-3 molecule requires CD8 for cell surface expression. We have previously identified a monoclonal antibody, T8/2T8-5H7, which clustered serologically with CD8 monoclonal antibodies, but lacked reactivity with L cell transfectants expressing the human CD8 molecule (Lyt-2 homologue). Based on these observations, we postulated that T8/2T8-5H7 might recognize the human Lyt-3 gene product. To test this hypothesis, we have isolated a full-length cDNA encoding the human Lyt-3 molecule and have characterized its product in additional transfection experiments. The results of these studies indicate that the human Lyt-3 cDNA encodes a product recognized by the antibody T8/2T8-5H7. Interestingly, the human Lyt-3 molecule cannot be expressed alone, but requires the human Lyt-2 homologue for efficient cell surface expression. A heterodimer composed of the human Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 molecules may have importance in T cell-target cell interactions.
3035575 | Molecular cloning of Lyt-3, a membrane glycoprotein marking a subset of mouse T lymphocytes: molecular homology to immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor variable and joining regions. Lyt-3 is a membrane glycoprotein expressed on thymocytes and class I major histocompatibility complex-restricted cytotoxic T cells. Lyt-3 is expressed as a heterodimer with Lyt-2, and this complex is considered to be a homologue of the human Leu-2/T8 (CD8) that has been postulated to be a receptor for the class I major histocompatibility complex. We have determined the complete primary structure of Lyt-3 from the nucleotide sequence of its cDNA clones. Analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence indicates that the Lyt-3 polypeptide has a 21-amino acid leader peptide, and the mature protein consists of an NH2-terminal region of 146 amino acids, a transmembrane region of 27 residues, and a C-terminal region of 19 amino acids. The NH2-terminal 110 residues show clear homology to the T-cell receptor and immunoglobulin variable region sequences. In addition, Lyt-3 has 11 residues that have strong homology to the joining region sequences of the T-cell receptor and the immunoglobulin heavy and light chains. The presence of immunoglobulin variable- as well as joining-region-related sequences in Lyt-3 further supports the idea that these molecules may be recognition molecules belonging to the immunoglobulin super gene family.
3036833 | ERp99, an abundant, conserved glycoprotein of the endoplasmic reticulum, is homologous to the 90-kDa heat shock protein (hsp90) and the 94-kDa glucose regulated protein (GRP94). We have isolated an expressible full-length cDNA clone encoding murine ERp99, an abundant, conserved transmembrane glycoprotein of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. ERp99 is synthesized as a 92,475-kDa precursor containing 802 amino acids. It possesses a signal peptide of 21 amino acids which is cleaved cotranslationally. Analysis of the amino acid sequence deduced from the nucleotide sequence of the cDNA clone led us to propose a model for the orientation of ERp99 in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. In this model, ERp99 possesses one membrane-spanning, stop transfer segment in the N-terminal region. The protein chain passes through the membrane only once, and approximately 75% of the protein remains on the cytoplasmic side of the ER membrane. Comparison of the ERp99 sequence to the sequence of other proteins revealed that ERp99 has extensive homology with the 90-kDa heat shock protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (hsp90) and the 83-kDa heat shock protein of Drosophila melanogaster. In addition, the N terminus of mature ERp99 is identical to that of the 94-kDa glucose regulated protein (GRP94) of mammalian cells.
26177202 | A Proline-Rich Domain in the Genotype 4 Hepatitis E Virus ORF3 C-Terminus Is Crucial for Downstream V105DLP108 Immunoactivity. The hepatitis E virus (HEV) is responsible for serious viral hepatitis worldwide. Animals are considered a reservoir of HEV, particularly pigs. While HEV infection in pigs and dogs is always asymptomatic, the virus causes high death rates in patients with pre-existing chronic liver disease and pregnant women in developing countries. HEV open reading frame 2 (ORF2) has been used as a diagnostic target to detect specific antibodies against HEV in serum samples. Recent research has additionally supported the potential utility of the ORF3 protein as a target in serum anti-HEV detection. However, the epitope distribution of ORF3 protein remains ambiguous. In the current study, we showed that continuous amino acid motif, VDLP, at the C-terminus of genotype 4 HEV ORF3 is a core sequence of the ORF3 protein epitope. Moreover, cooperative interaction with upstream elements is essential for its immunoactivity. Three proline residues (P99, P102 and P103) in the upstream proline-rich domain exerted significant effects on the immunocompetence of VDLP. ELISA results revealed that SAPPLPPVVDLP and SAPPLPPVVDLPQLGL peptides containing the identified VDLP epitope display weaker reactions with anti-HEV serum than the commercial ELISA kit. Our collective findings provide valuable information on the epitope distribution characteristics of HEV ORF3 and improve our understanding of the influence of the proline-rich domain on the immunoactivity of downstream amino acids in the C-terminal region.
9784381 | Cloning of a new gene (FB19) within HLA class I region. A novel gene (named FB19) has been identified within the HLA class I region at human chromosome 6p21.3. A 4.5-kb cDNA containing a 2820-bp open reading frame for a predicted protein of 940 aa was identified. No homology with known gene was detected at the DNA level, while the predicted protein is characterized by a glycine-rich region followed by a domain of 35 residues that shows high homology with the CAT56 gene, another gene of MHC class I. A 4. 5-kb transcript was detected in several tissues and cell lines, clearly indicating a wide distribution of expression. Once its function is defined, it could be possible to investigate the relationship between the FB19 gene and the several diseases already mapped within the HLA class I region.
36070233 | Antigen-guided depletion of anti-HLA antibody-producing cells by HLA-Fc fusion proteins. Platelet transfusion and transplantation of allogeneic stem cells and solid organs are life-saving therapies. Unwanted alloantibodies to nonself human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) on donor cells increase the immunological barrier to these therapies and are important causes of platelet transfusion refractoriness and graft rejection. Although the specificities of anti-HLA antibodies can be determined at the allelic level, traditional treatments for antibody-mediated rejection nonselectively suppress humoral immunity and are not universally successful. We designed HLA-Fc fusion proteins with a bivalent targeting module derived from extracellular domains of HLA and an Fc effector module from mouse IgG2a. We found that HLA-Fc with A2 (A2Fc) and B7 (B7Fc) antigens lowered HLA-A2- and HLA-B7-specific reactivities, respectively, in sera from HLA-sensitized patients. A2Fc and B7Fc bound to B-cell hybridomas bearing surface immunoglobulins with cognate specificities and triggered antigen-specific and Fc-dependent cytotoxicity in vitro. In immunodeficient mice carrying HLA-A2-specific hybridoma cells, A2Fc treatment lowered circulating anti-HLA-A2 levels, abolished the outgrowth of hybridoma cells, and prolonged survival compared with control groups. In an in vivo anti-HLA-A2-mediated platelet transfusion refractoriness model, A2Fc treatment mitigated refractoriness. These results support HLA-Fc being a novel strategy for antigen-specific humoral suppression to improve transfusion and transplantation outcomes. With the long-term goal of targeting HLA-specific memory B cells for desensitization, further studies of HLA-Fc's efficacy in immune-competent animal models are warranted.
37099813 | Humanized mouse models with endogenously developed human natural killer cells for in vivo immunogenicity testing of HLA class I-edited iPSC-derived cells. Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) genetically depleted of human leucocyte antigen (HLA) class I expression can bypass T cell alloimmunity and thus serve as a one-for-all source for cell therapies. However, these same therapies may elicit rejection by natural killer (NK) cells, since HLA class I molecules serve as inhibitory ligands of NK cells. Here, we focused on testing the capacity of endogenously developed human NK cells in humanized mice (hu-mice) using MTSRG and NSG-SGM3 strains to assay the tolerance of HLA-edited iPSC-derived cells. High NK cell reconstitution was achieved with the engraftment of cord blood-derived human hematopoietic stem cells (hHSCs) followed by the administration of human interleukin-15 (hIL-15) and IL-15 receptor alpha (hIL-15Ralpha). Such \hu-NK mice\ rejected HLA class I-null hiPSC-derived hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs), megakaryocytes and T cells, but not HLA-A/B-knockout, HLA-C expressing HPCs. To our knowledge, this study is the first to recapitulate the potent endogenous NK cell response to non-tumor HLA class I-downregulated cells in vivo. Our hu-NK mouse models are suitable for the non-clinical evaluation of HLA-edited cells and will contribute to the development of universal off-the-shelf regenerative medicine.
38168677 | Characterization of CD8+ T cells in immune-privileged organs of ZIKV-infected Ifnar1-/- mice. Zika virus (ZIKV) infection caused neurological complications and male infertility, leading to the accumulation of antigen-specific immune cells in immune-privileged organs (IPOs). Thus, it is important to understand the immunological responses to ZIKV in IPOs. We extensively investigated the ZIKV-specific T cell immunity in IPOs in Ifnar1-/- mice, based on an immunodominant epitope E294-302 tetramer. The distinct kinetics and functions of virus-specific CD8+ T cells infiltrated into different IPOs were characterized, with late elevation in the brain and spinal cord. Single epitope E294-302-specific T cells can account for 20-60% of the total CD8+ T cells in the brain, spinal cord, and testicle and persist for at least 90 days in the brain and spinal cord. The E294-302-specific TCRalphabetas within the IPOs are featured with the majority of clonotypes utilizing TRAV9N-3 paired with diverse TRBV chains, but with distinct alphabeta paired clonotypes in 7 and 30 days post-infection. Specific chemokine receptors, Ccr2 and Ccr5, were selectively expressed in the E294-302-specific CD8+ T cells within the brain and testicle, indicating an IPO-oriented migration of virus-specific CD8+ T cells after infection. Overall, this study adds to the understanding of virus-specific CD8+ T cell responses for controlling and clearing ZIKV infection in IPOs.IMPORTANCEThe immune-privileged organs (IPOs), such as the central nervous system and testicles, presented pathogenicity and inflammation after Zika virus (ZIKV) infection with infiltrated CD8+ T cells. Our data show that CD8+ T cells keep up with virus increases and decreases in immune-privileged organs. Furthermore, our study provides the first ex vivo comparative analyses of the composition and diversity related to TCRalpha/beta clonotypes across anatomical sites and ZIKV infection phases. We show that the vast majority of TCRalpha/beta clonotypes in tissues utilize TRAV9N-3 with conservation. Specific chemokine expression, including Ccr2 and Ccr5, was found to be selectively expressed in the E294-302-specific CD8+ T cells within the brain and testicle, indicating an IPO-oriented migration of the virus-specific CD8+ T cells after the infection. Our study adds insights into the anti-viral immunological characterization and chemotaxis mechanism of virus-specific CD8+ T cells after ZIKV infection in different IPOs.
38237887 | A novel antagonist of the CCL5/CCR5 axis suppresses the tumor growth and metastasis of triple-negative breast cancer by CCR5-YAP1 regulation. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive subtype of breast cancer (BC) with a high mortality rate, and few effective therapeutic strategies are available. CCL5/CCR5 is an appealing immunotherapeutic target for TNBC. However, its signaling mechanism is poorly understood and its direct antagonists have not been reported. Here, we developed a high-throughput screening (HTS) assay for discovering its antagonists. Verteporfin was identified as a more selective and potent antagonist than the known CCR5 antagonist maraviroc. Without photodynamic therapy, verteporfin demonstrated significant inhibition on TNBC tumor growth through immune regulation, remarkable suppression of lung metastasis by cell-intrinsic mechanism, and a significant extension of overall survival in vivo. Mechanistically, CCR5 was found to be essential for expression of the key hippo effector YAP1. It promoted YAP1 transcription via HIF-1alpha and exerted further control over the migration of CD8+ T, NK, and MDSC immune cells through chemokines CXCL16 and CXCL8 which were identified from RNA-seq. Moreover, the CCR5-YAP1 axis played a vital role in promoting metastasis by modulating beta-catenin and core epithelial-mesenchymal transition transcription factors ZEB1 and ZEB2. It is noteworthy that the regulatory relationship between CCR5 and YAP1 was observed across various BC subtypes, TNBC patients, and showed potential relevance in fifteen additional cancer types. Overall, this study introduced an easy-to-use HTS assay that streamlines the discovery of CCL5/CCR5 axis antagonists. Verteporfin was identified as a specific molecular probe of this axis with great potentials as a therapeutic agent for treating sixteen malignant diseases characterized by heightened CCR5 and YAP1 levels.
1970799 | Chromosomal localization of ZFX--a human gene that escapes X inactivation--and its murine homologs. The ZFY gene, found in the sex-determining region of the human Y chromosome, encodes a zinc-finger protein that may be the pivotal sex-determining signal. A closely related gene, ZFX, is found on the human X chromosome, and it may also function in sex determination. ZFX is one of a few genes on the human X chromosome that are known to escape X inactivation. We report the localization of ZFX, by meiotic linkage analysis and physical mapping, distal to POLA but proximal to DXS41 (p99-6), near the boundary of bands Xp21.3 and Xp22.1. (Our results suggest the following order of loci in Xp21-p22: cen-DMD-[GK,AHC]-DXS67 (pB24)-POLA-ZFX-[DXS41 (p99-6), DXS274 (CRI-L1391)]-DXS43 (pD2)-pter.) These findings contradict the model that escape from X inactivation is limited to genes near the short-arm telomere (i.e., in Xp22.3). Instead, escape from X inactivation is likely a property of several noncontiguous segments of the X chromosome. Curiously, in mouse, the homologous Zfx gene maps to X chromosome band D, near the center from which an X-inactivating signal is thought to spread. As judged by comparative mapping, it appears that an X-chromosomal segment that spans the ZFX and DMD genes has remained grossly intact during the divergence of mouse and human from a common ancestor. Conservation of this chromosomal segment may extent to marsupials, where homologs of the ZFX and DMD genes have been observed in proximity, but on an autosome. While autosomal homologs of ZFX have not been observed in other placental mammals, a locus derived from a processed Zfx transcript is found on mouse chromosome 10 band B3 or B4.
12091350 | Identification of CD8alpha+CD11c- lineage phenotype-negative cells in the spleen as committed precursor of CD8alpha+ dendritic cells. CD8alpha+ dendritic cells (DCs) represent a functionally distinct DC subset in vivo, which plays a critical role in initiating various cellular immune responses. However, the committed precursor of CD8alpha+ DCs remains to be identified. We reported here that murine splenic CD8alpha+CD11c- lineage phenotype (Lin)- cells could differentiate into CD8alpha+ DCs in vivo after intravenous transplantation. Immunohistochemistry staining showed that donor-derived DCs mainly located in T-cell areas of the spleen. Functionally, these CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cell-derived DCs were capable of stimulating allogenic T-cell response, as well as secreting bioactive interleukin 12 p70 and interferon gamma. Freshly isolated CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cells expressed CC chemokine receptor (CCR)2, CCR5, and CCR7 messenger RNA, whereas CD8alpha+ DCs derived from CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cells further obtained the expression of CCR6 and macrophage-derived chemokine. Flow cytometry analysis showed that CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cells were identified in bone marrow and lymph nodes. Moreover, transplanted splenic CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cells could also home to thymus and lymph nodes and were capable of developing into CD8alpha+ DCs in these locations. However, CD8alpha+CD11c-Li- cells failed to differentiate into CD8alpha- DCs, T cells, natural killer cells, or other myeloid lineage cells in irradiated chimeras. Taken together, all these findings suggest that CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cells are a committed precursor of CD8alpha+ DCs.
38566201 | Single-cell profiling of response to neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy in surgically resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. BACKGROUND: The efficacy of neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy (NAT) in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is challenged by the intricate interplay within the tumor microenvironment (TME). Unveiling the immune landscape of ESCC in the context of NAT could shed light on heterogeneity and optimize therapeutic strategies for patients. METHODS: We analyzed single cells from 22 baseline and 24 post-NAT treatment samples of stage II/III ESCC patients to explore the association between the immune landscape and pathological response to neoadjuvant anti-PD-1 combination therapy, including pathological complete response (pCR), major pathological response (MPR), and incomplete pathological response (IPR). RESULTS: Single-cell profiling identified 14 major cell subsets of cancer, immune, and stromal cells. Trajectory analysis unveiled an interesting link between cancer cell differentiation and pathological response to NAT. ESCC tumors enriched with less differentiated cancer cells exhibited a potentially favorable pathological response to NAT, while tumors enriched with clusters of more differentiated cancer cells may resist treatment. Deconvolution of transcriptomes in pre-treatment tumors identified gene signatures in response to NAT contributed by specific immune cell populations. Upregulated genes associated with better pathological responses in CD8 + effector T cells primarily involved interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) signaling, neutrophil degranulation, and negative regulation of the T cell apoptotic process, whereas downregulated genes were dominated by those in the immune response-activating cell surface receptor signaling pathway. Natural killer cells in pre-treatment tumors from pCR patients showed a similar upregulation of gene expression in response to IFNgamma but a downregulation of genes in the neutrophil-mediated immunity pathways. A decreased cellular contexture of regulatory T cells in ESCC TME indicated a potentially favorable pathological response to NAT. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed extensive interactions between CCL5 and its receptor CCR5 in various immune cells of baseline pCR tumors. Immune checkpoint interaction pairs, including CTLA4-CD86, TIGIT-PVR, LGALS9-HAVCR2, and TNFSF4-TNFRSF4, might serve as additional therapeutic targets for ICI therapy in ESCC. CONCLUSIONS: This pioneering study unveiled an intriguing association between cancer cell differentiation and pathological response in esophageal cancer patients, revealing distinct subgroups of tumors for which neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy might be effective. We also delineated the immune landscape of ESCC tumors in the context of clinical response to NAT, which provides clinical insights for better understanding how patients respond to the treatment and further identifying novel therapeutic targets for ESCC patients in the future.
38590799 | CCR2 and CCR5 co-inhibition modulates immunosuppressive myeloid milieu in glioma and synergizes with anti-PD-1 therapy. Immunotherapy has revolutionized the treatment of cancers. Reinvigorating lymphocytes with checkpoint blockade has become a cornerstone of immunotherapy for multiple tumor types, but the treatment of glioblastoma has not yet shown clinical efficacy. A major hurdle to treat GBM with checkpoint blockade is the high degree of myeloid-mediated immunosuppression in brain tumors that limits CD8 T-cell activity. A potential strategy to improve anti-tumor efficacy against glioma is to use myeloid-modulating agents to target immunosuppressive cells, such as myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in the tumor microenvironment. We found that the co-inhibition of the chemokine receptors CCR2 and CCR5 in murine model of glioma improves the survival and synergizes robustly with anti-PD-1 therapy. Moreover, the treatment specifically reduced the infiltration of monocytic-MDSCs (M-MDSCs) into brain tumors and increased lymphocyte abundance and cytokine secretion by tumor-infiltrating CD8 T cells. The depletion of T-cell subsets and myeloid cells abrogated the effects of CCR2 and CCR5 blockade, indicating that while broad depletion of myeloid cells does not improve survival, specific reduction in the infiltration of immunosuppressive myeloid cells, such as M-MDSCs, can boost the anti-tumor immune response of lymphocytes. Our study highlights the potential of CCR2/CCR5 co-inhibition in reducing myeloid-mediated immunosuppression in GBM patients.
19429178 | CAT53 and HFE alleles in Alzheimer's disease: a putative protective role of the C282Y HFE mutation. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex disorder, resulting from an interaction between environmental and genetic factors. Several studies addressed the association of AD with MHC class-I polymorphisms without definite conclusions. Considering the remarkable linkage disequilibrium at the MHC region, it is not possible to assume if the reported associations result from a direct effect of the respective genes or result from associations with other closely linked genes transmitted in an extended conserved haplotype. Recent evidence pointed to CAT53, a newly described gene located at the MHC class-I region in the vicinity of HLA-C, as a candidate modifier gene in AD. CAT53 encodes a phosphatase 1 nuclear inhibitor protein and is strongly expressed in brain regions involved in memory and AD. Here we tested the potential association of CAT53 with the risk of developing AD and searched for potential haplotypic associations of CAT53 with two common mutations (H63D, C282Y) in the HFE gene, also located at chromosome 6p21.3. The allele frequencies of these mutations in AD patients were compared to the expected frequencies previously established in the normal Portuguese population. We detected only one polymorphism (G>A) in CAT53, at position 8232, in intron 17. Screening of this polymorphism in 113 AD patients and 82 controls did not show any evidence of association, therefore excluding the hypothetical role of the CAT53 polymorphism as modifier in AD. In contrast, we found a significant negative association of the C282Y HFE mutation with AD, thus supporting a putative protective role of this protein variant in neurodegeneration.
28825698 | A regulated PNUTS mRNA to lncRNA splice switch mediates EMT and tumour progression. The contribution of lncRNAs to tumour progression and the regulatory mechanisms driving their expression are areas of intense investigation. Here, we characterize the binding of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein E1 (hnRNP E1) to a nucleic acid structural element located in exon 12 of PNUTS (also known as PPP1R10) pre-RNA that regulates its alternative splicing. HnRNP E1 release from this structural element, following its silencing, nucleocytoplasmic translocation or in response to TGFbeta, allows alternative splicing and generates a non-coding isoform of PNUTS. Functionally the lncRNA-PNUTS serves as a competitive sponge for miR-205 during epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). In mesenchymal breast tumour cells and in breast tumour samples, the expression of lncRNA-PNUTS is elevated and correlates with levels of ZEB mRNAs. Thus, PNUTS is a bifunctional RNA encoding both PNUTS mRNA and lncRNA-PNUTS, each eliciting distinct biological functions. While PNUTS mRNA is ubiquitously expressed, lncRNA-PNUTS appears to be tightly regulated dependent on the status of hnRNP E1 and tumour context.
38133138 | Magnetic Resonance Imaging as a Tool for Monitoring Intratibial Growth of Experimental Prostate Cancer Metastases in Mice. Bone metastases cause morbidity and mortality in several human cancer forms. Experimental models are used to unravel the mechanisms and identify possible treatment targets. The location inside the skeleton complicates accurate assessment. This study evaluates the performance of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of prostate cancer tumors growing intratibially in mice. MRI detected intratibial tumor lesions with a sensitivity and specificity of 100% and 89%, respectively, compared to histological evaluation. Location and some phenotypical features could also be readily detected with MRI. Regarding volume estimation, the correlation between MRI and histological assessment was high (p < 0.001, r = 0.936). In conclusion, this study finds MRI to be a reliable tool for in vivo, non-invasive, non-ionizing, real-time monitoring of intratibial tumor growth.
38335302 | Exhausted Tumor-infiltrating CD39+CD103+ CD8+ T Cells Unveil Potential for Increased Survival in Human Pancreatic Cancer. In pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, the infiltration of CD8+ T cells within the tumor microenvironment correlates with a favorable prognosis. However, a significant proportion of tumor-infiltrating T cells become trapped within the desmoplastic stroma and lack tumor reactivity. Here, we explored different T-cell subsets in pancreatic tumors and adjacent tissues. We identified a subset of CD8+ T cells, double positive (DP) for CD39 and CD103 in pancreatic tumors, which has recently been described to display tumor reactivity in other types of solid tumors. Interestingly, DP CD8+ T cells preferentially accumulated in central tumor tissues compared with paired peripheral tumor and adjacent non-tumor tissues. Consistent with an antigen encounter, DP CD8+ T cells demonstrated higher proliferative rates and displayed an exhausted phenotype, characterized by elevated expression of PD-1 and TIM-3, compared with CD39-CD103- CD8+ T cells. In addition, DP CD8+ T cells exhibited higher expression levels of the tissue trafficking receptors CCR5 and CXCR6, while displaying lower levels of CXCR3 and CXCR4. Importantly, a high proportion of DP CD8+ T cells is associated with increased patient survival. These findings suggest that DP CD8+ T cells with a phenotype reminiscent of that of tumor-reactive T cells are present in pancreatic tumors. The abundance of DP CD8+ T cells could potentially aid in selecting patients for pancreatic cancer immunotherapy trials. SIGNIFICANCE: Patients with pancreatic cancer with a high proportion of CD39+CD103+ CD8+ T cells exhibiting a tumor-reactive phenotype have improved survival rates, suggesting their potential utility in selecting candidates for immunotherapy trials.
38607373 | Exploratory mass cytometry analysis reveals immunophenotypes of cancer treatment-related pneumonitis. Anticancer treatments can result in various adverse effects, including infections due to immune suppression/dysregulation and drug-induced toxicity in the lung. One of the major opportunistic infections is Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), which can cause severe respiratory complications and high mortality rates. Cytotoxic drugs and immune-checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) can induce interstitial lung diseases (ILDs). Nonetheless, the differentiation of these diseases can be difficult, and the pathogenic mechanisms of such diseases are not yet fully understood. To better comprehend the immunophenotypes, we conducted an exploratory mass cytometry analysis of immune cell subsets in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from patients with PCP, cytotoxic drug-induced ILD (DI-ILD), and ICI-associated ILD (ICI-ILD) using two panels containing 64 markers. In PCP, we observed an expansion of the CD16+ T cell population, with the highest CD16+ T proportion in a fatal case. In ICI-ILD, we found an increase in CD57+ CD8+ T cells expressing immune checkpoints (TIGIT+ LAG3+ TIM-3+ PD-1+), FCRL5+ B cells, and CCR2+ CCR5+ CD14+ monocytes. These findings uncover the diverse immunophenotypes and possible pathomechanisms of cancer treatment-related pneumonitis.
38336631 | Emotions and worries during 1.5 years of the COVID-19 pandemic - how adults with and without mental health conditions coped with the crisis. BACKGROUND: During the COVID 19 pandemic, there were social restrictions with severe mental stress for a long time. Most studies on mental health consequences of the pandemic focused primarily on the beginning of the pandemic. The present study on families of patients or study participants of a child and adolescent psychiatry aimed to examine long-term profiles of emotions and worries in adults with and without mental health condition (mhc) during the first 1.5 years of the COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: We surveyed emotions and worries of 128 adults with (n = 32) and without (n = 96) pre-pandemic mhc over a 1.5-year study period from spring 2020 until summer/autumn 2021. Emotions and worries were captured at four time points: [i] pre-pandemic, [ii] spring 2020 (first lockdown was implemented), [iii] December 2020 (hard lockdown at Christmas time) and [iv] summer/autumn 2021 (considerable ease of regulations); [i] pre-pandemic and [iii] December 2020 were measured retrospectively). First, we run non-parametric tests to compare emotions and worries between adults with and without pre-pandemic mhc at the four time points. Next, we conducted latent profile analysis to identify subgroups from the total sample who share similar trajectories of emotions and worries. Finally, a logistic regression analysis was run to examine whether socio-demographic and psycho-social factors were related to identified trajectories of emotions and worries. RESULTS: Adults without pre-pandemic mhc reported a strong worsening of emotions and worries at the beginning of the pandemic and a lower worsening during the course, while adults with pre-pandemic mhc reported a constant worsening of emotions and worries. The latent profile analysis revealed three profiles of adults who show either i) an adaption, ii) no adaption or iii) a continuous high condition. With increasing age, higher perceived stress and pre-pandemic mhc, the likelihood of an adaption was increased. CONCLUSION: The results of the present study suggested that adults (both with and without pre-pandemic mhc) coped the crisis with different strategies and that most of them returned to their initial, pre-pandemic levels of emotions and worries when social restrictions were considerably eased or stopped.
8843288 | In vitro and in vivo activities of LB10522, a new catecholic cephalosporin. In vitro activity of LB10522 was compared with those of cefpirome, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, and cefoperazone against clinical isolates. Against gram-positive bacteria, LB10522 was most active among the compounds tested. It was fourfold more active than cefpirome against methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus faecalis. LB10522 was highly effective against most members of the family Enterobacteriaceae tested. Ninety percent of isolates of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella oxytoca, Proteus vulgaris, Proteus mirabilis, and Salmonella spp. were inhibited at a concentration of < or = 0.5 micrograms/ml. These activities were comparable to those of cefpirome. Against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, LB10522 with a MIC at which 90% of the isolates are inhibited of 2 micrograms/ml was 16- and 32-fold more active than ceftazidime and ceftazidime against systemic infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus giorgio, Streptococcus pneumoniae III, Pseudomonas aeruginosa 1912E, Escherichia coli 851E, Proteus mirabilis 1315E, Serratia marcescens 1826E, and Acinetobacter calcoaceticus Ac-54. LB10522 was very resistant to hydrolysis by various beta-lactamases such as TEM-3, TEM-7, SHV-1, FEC-1, and P-99. LB10522 did not induce beta-lactamase in Enterobacter cloacae 1194E, although most of the reference cephalosporins acted as inducers of beta-lactamase in this strain. Time-kill study showed that LB10522, at concentrations of two or four times the MIC, had a rapid bactericidal activity against Staphylococcus aureus 6538p, Escherichia coli 851E, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa 1912E.
26902653 | Genetic editing of HLA expression in hematopoietic stem cells to broaden their human application. Mismatch of human leukocyte antigens (HLA) adversely impacts the outcome of patients after allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (alloHSCT). This translates into the clinical requirement to timely identify suitable HLA-matched donors which in turn curtails the chances of recipients, especially those from a racial minority, to successfully undergo alloHSCT. We thus sought to broaden the existing pool of registered unrelated donors based on analysis that eliminating the expression of the HLA-A increases the chance for finding a donor matched at HLA-B, -C, and -DRB1 regardless of a patient's race. Elimination of HLA-A expression in HSC was achieved using artificial zinc finger nucleases designed to target HLA-A alleles. Significantly, these engineered HSCs maintain their ability to engraft and reconstitute hematopoiesis in immunocompromised mice. This introduced loss of HLA-A expression decreases the need to recruit large number of donors to match with potential recipients and has particular importance for patients whose HLA repertoire is under-represented in the current donor pool. Furthermore, the genetic engineering of stem cells provides a translational approach to HLA-match a limited number of third-party donors with a wide number of recipients.
32006464 | Localized Inhibition of Protein Phosphatase 1 by NUAK1 Promotes Spliceosome Activity and Reveals a MYC-Sensitive Feedback Control of Transcription. Deregulated expression of MYC induces a dependence on the NUAK1 kinase, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this dependence have not been fully clarified. Here, we show that NUAK1 is a predominantly nuclear protein that associates with a network of nuclear protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) interactors and that PNUTS, a nuclear regulatory subunit of PP1, is phosphorylated by NUAK1. Both NUAK1 and PNUTS associate with the splicing machinery. Inhibition of NUAK1 abolishes chromatin association of PNUTS, reduces spliceosome activity, and suppresses nascent RNA synthesis. Activation of MYC does not bypass the requirement for NUAK1 for spliceosome activity but significantly attenuates transcription inhibition. Consequently, NUAK1 inhibition in MYC-transformed cells induces global accumulation of RNAPII both at the pause site and at the first exon-intron boundary but does not increase mRNA synthesis. We suggest that NUAK1 inhibition in the presence of deregulated MYC traps non-productive RNAPII because of the absence of correctly assembled spliceosomes.
38165703 | Chemokine Receptor Profile of T Cells and Progression Rate of Geographic Atrophy Secondary to Age-related Macular Degeneration. Purpose: Geographic atrophy (GA) secondary to age-related macular degeneration is a progressive retinal degenerative disease. Systemic chemokine receptors and known risk-associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms have been associated with GA pathogenesis. Because halting progression is pivotal for patients, we investigated the association of candidate chemokine receptors and progression rate (PR) of atrophic lesions in patients with GA. Methods: This prospective observational study conducted at a single center included 85 patients with GA and 45 healthy controls. Patients were followed up after 13 months on average. Serial fundus autofluorescence images were used to determine the PR of atrophic lesions. The proportion of chemokine receptors on peripheral lymphocytes were determined by flow cytometric analysis. Results: Patients with GA had a lower proportion of CCR6 on CD8+T cells compared to healthy controls. Importantly, the proportion of CCR6 on CD4+T cells was lower in patients with fast GA progression compared to patients with slow progression of disease, suggesting that dysregulation of CCR6 could be involved in progression of GA. We also found that GA patients had a markedly higher percentage of CCR5 on CD4+ and CD8+T cells compared to healthy controls. After stratification according to ARMS2 polymorphism, we found a significantly lower level of CCR5 on CD8+T cells among patients with high-risk genotypes compared with patients with the low-risk genotype. Conclusions: Our study finds that chemokine receptors are dysregulated in patients with GA and that CCR6 might be involved in GA progression, making it a potential target for intervention.
33204151 | Clinical Significance of Down-Regulated CD70 and CD27 Expression in Poor Prognosis of Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma. INTRODUCTION: CD27 is a co-stimulatory immune checkpoint molecule in the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily. CD27 regulates the generation and maintenance of T cell immunity by binding to CD70 and regulating B-cell activation and immunoglobulin synthesis. MATERIALS AND METHODS: CD27 and CD70 expression were assessed in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) compared to normal tissue samples in the GSE53625 dataset of 179 paired cases and in 153 Chinese cases using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry. The correlation was also investigated between CD27 and CD70 expression and immune-related pathways, including CD8+ T cell recruitment, function, and other inhibitory immune checkpoints. RESULTS: Levels of both CD27 and CD70 expression were down-regulated in ESCC compared to the paired normal tissues. CD27 and CD70 expression was mainly present in lymphocytes surrounding and infiltrating the tumor lesions but rarely expressed in tumor cells. Lost expression of CD27 and CD70 was associated with clinicopathological features, including depth of tumor invasion and better patient survival. Furthermore, CD27 expression was significantly associated with levels of CD8A, GZMB, IFNG, the CD8+ T cell recruitment-associated chemokines (CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11), and CD8 receptors (CCR5, CXCR6, and CXCR3), while CD70 expression was inversely associated with levels of immunosuppressive checkpoints (PD-L1, PD-L2, and HHLA2). CONCLUSION: Detection of CD70/CD27 expression could be further verified as a biomarker for ESCC early detection and prognosis prediction.
36330810 | Uncover diagnostic immunity/hypoxia/ferroptosis/epithelial mesenchymal transformation-related CCR5, CD86, CD8A, ITGAM, and PTPRC in kidney transplantation patients with allograft rejection. The aim of this study was to identify predictive immunity/hypoxia/ferroptosis/epithelial mesenchymal transformation (EMT)-related biomarkers, pathways and new drugs in allograft rejection in kidney transplant patients. First, gene expression data were downloaded followed by identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis. Second, diagnostic model was construction based on key genes, followed by correlation analysis between immune/hypoxia/ferroptosis/EMT and key diagnostic genes. Finally, drug prediction of diagnostic key genes was carried out. Five diagnostic genes were further identified, including CCR5, CD86, CD8A, ITGAM, and PTPRC, which were positively correlated with allograft rejection after the kidney transplant. Highly infiltrated immune cells, highly expression of hypoxia-related genes and activated status of EMT were significantly positively correlated with five diagnostic genes. Interestingly, suppressors of ferroptosis (SOFs) and drivers of ferroptosis (DOFs) showed a complex regulatory relationship between ferroptosis and five diagnostic genes. CD86, CCR5, and ITGAM were respectively drug target of ABATACEPT, MARAVIROC, and CLARITHROMYCIN. PTPRC was drug target of both PREDNISONE and EPOETIN BETA. In conclusion, the study could be useful in understanding changes in the microenvironment within transplantation, which may promote or sustain the development of allograft rejection after kidney transplantation.
12106793 | Role of G-protein-coupled signaling in the induction and regulation of dendritic cell function by Toxoplasma gondii. The induction of IL-12 from dendritic cells (DCs) is thought to be a critical step in the initiation of IFN-gamma-dependent cell-mediated immunity to many intracellular pathogens. We have studied this response using an in vivo model in which IL-12 production by splenic CD8alpha+ DCs is followed after systemic injection of a soluble extract (STAg) of the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. Our findings indicate that G-protein-coupled signaling through the chemokine receptor CCR5 plays a major role in the induction of IL-12 from these cells and that downregulation of CCR5 function through endogenously produced lipoxin explains the loss of responsiveness (paralysis) seen upon STAg reinjection. Recent data on the inductive and regulatory pathways involved and their role in governing host resistance to parasite infection in vivo will be discussed.
30366957 | Limited Phenotypic and Functional Plasticity of Influenza Virus-Specific Memory CD8+ T Cells during Activation in an Alternative Cytokine Environment. Naive CD8+ T cells show phenotypic, functional, and epigenetic plasticity, enabling differentiation into distinct cellular states. However, whether memory CD8+ T cells demonstrate similar flexibility upon recall is poorly understood. We investigated the potential of influenza A virus (IAV)-specific memory CD8+ T cells from mice to alter their phenotype and function in response to reactivation in the presence of IL-4 and anti-IFN-gamma Ab (type 2 conditions). Compared with naive CD8+ T cells, only a small proportion of IAV-specific memory T cells exhibited phenotypic and functional plasticity after clonal activation under type 2 conditions. The potential for modulation of cell-surface phenotype (CD8alpha expression) was associated with specific epigenetic changes at the Cd8a locus, was greater in central memory T cells than effector memory T cells, and was observed in endogenous memory cells of two TCR specificities. Using a novel technique for intracellular cytokine staining of small clonal populations, we showed that IAV-specific memory CD8+ T cells reactivated under type 2 conditions displayed robust IFN-gamma expression and, unlike naive CD8+ T cells activated under type 2 conditions, produced little IL-4 protein. Secondary activation of memory cells under type 2 conditions increased GATA-3 levels with minimal change in T-bet levels. These data suggest that a small population of memory cells, especially central memory T cells, exhibits plasticity; however, most IAV-specific memory CD8+ T cells resist reprogramming upon reactivation and retain the functional state established during priming.
25548254 | A novel Cd8-cis-regulatory element preferentially directs expression in CD44hiCD62L+ CD8+ T cells and in CD8alphaalpha+ dendritic cells. CD8 coreceptor expression is dynamically regulated during thymocyte development and is tightly controlled by the activity of at least 5 different cis-regulatory elements. Despite the detailed characterization of the Cd8 loci, the regulation of the complex expression pattern of CD8 cannot be fully explained by the activity of the known Cd8 enhancers. In this study, we revisited the Cd8ab gene complex with bioinformatics and transgenic reporter gene expression approaches to search for additional Cd8 cis-regulatory elements. This led to the identification of an ECR (ECR-4), which in transgenic reporter gene expression assays, directed expression preferentially in CD44(hi)CD62L(+) CD8(+) T cells, including innate-like CD8(+) T cells. ECR-4, designated as Cd8 enhancer E8VI, was bound by Runx/CBFbeta complexes and Bcl11b, indicating that E8VI is part of the cis-regulatory network that recruits transcription factors to the Cd8ab gene complex in CD8(+) T cells. Transgenic reporter expression was maintained in LCMV-specific CD8(+) T cells upon infection, although short-term, in vitro activation led to a down-regulation of E8VI activity. Finally, E8VI directed transgene expression also in CD8alphaalpha(+) DCs but not in CD8alphaalpha-expressing IELs. Taken together, we have identified a novel Cd8 enhancer that directs expression in CD44(hi)CD62L(+) CD8(+) T cells, including innate-like and antigen-specific effector/memory CD8(+) T cells and in CD8alphaalpha(+) DCs, and thus, our data provide further insight into the cis-regulatory networks that control CD8 expression.
28939855 | Infection with Burkholderia pseudomallei - immune correlates of survival in acute melioidosis. Melioidosis, caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei, is a potentially lethal infection with no licensed vaccine. There is little understanding of why some exposed individuals have no symptoms, while others rapidly progress to sepsis and death, or why diabetes confers increased susceptibility. We prospectively recruited a cohort of 183 acute melioidosis patients and 21 control subjects from Northeast Thailand and studied immune parameters in the context of survival status and the presence or absence of diabetes. HLA-B*46 (one of the commonest HLA class I alleles in SE Asia) and HLA-C*01 were associated with an increased risk of death (odds ratio 2.8 and 3.1 respectively). Transcriptomic analysis during acute infection in diabetics indicated the importance of interplay between immune pathways including those involved in antigen presentation, chemotaxis, innate and adaptive immunity and their regulation. Survival was associated with enhanced T cell immunity to nine of fifteen immunodominant antigens analysed including AhpC (BPSL2096), BopE (BPSS1525), PilO (BPSS1599), ATP binding protein (BPSS1385) and an uncharacterised protein (BPSL2520). T cell immunity to GroEL (BPSL2697) was specifically impaired in diabetic individuals. This characterization of immunity associated with survival during acute infection offers insights into correlates of protection and a foundation for design of an effective multivalent vaccine.
27846843 | Strong inflammatory responses and apoptosis in the oviducts of egg-laying hens caused by genotype VIId Newcastle disease virus. BACKGROUND: Newcastle disease virus (NDV) can cause serious damage to the reproductive tracts of egg-laying hens and leads to egg production and quality reduction. However, the mechanism of severe pathological damage in the oviducts of egg-laying hens after NDV infection has not been fully elucidated. In this study, the correlation between the primary pathological lesions and viral load in the oviducts of egg-laying hens infected with the velogenic genotype VIId NDV strain was evaluated by pathological observation and virus detection. Subsequently, apoptosis, the expression of immune-related genes and lymphocyte infiltration into the infected oviducts were determined to explore the potential causes of the pathological changes. RESULTS: A higher viral load and severe tissue lesions and apoptotic bodies were observed in the oviduct of NDV-infected hens compared with the control. Immune-related genes, including TLR3/7/21, MDA5, IL-2/6/1beta, IFN-beta, CXCLi1/2, and CCR5, were significantly upregulated in the magnum and uterus. IL-2 presented the highest mRNA level change (137-fold) at 5 days post infection (dpi) in the magnum. Infection led to CD3+CD4+ and CD3+CD8alpha+ lymphocyte infiltration into the magnum of the oviduct. A higher viral load was found to be associated with pathological changes and the elevated expression of proinflammatory cytokines in the NDV-infected hens. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that the severe lesions and apoptosis in the oviducts of egg-laying hens caused by genotype VIId NDV strains are associated with the excessive release of inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and lymphocyte infiltration, which contribute to the dysfunction of the oviducts and the decrease of egg production in hens.
38358082 | Characterization of the novel HLA-B*14:121 allele by sequencing-based typing. HLA-B*14:121 differs from HLA-B*14:01:01:01 by one nucleotide substitution in codon 319 in exon 6.
3114136 | A human homolog of the mouse CD8 molecule, Lyt-3: genomic sequence and expression. The CD8 antigen is a marker for those cytotoxic T cells that recognize antigen in the context of class I major histocompatibility antigens (MHC) and has now been identified in many species. In rodents the CD8 antigen is a heterodimer of two distinct chains, Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 in the mouse and OX-8 Mr 32,000 and 37,000 chains in the rat. Human CD8 has consistently been described as a homodimer/homomultimer on mature T cells made up of one chain homologous to the Lyt-2 and OX-8 Mr 32,000 chains. This paper identifies a human equivalent of the second rodent CD8 chain (Lyt-3 and OX-8 Mr 37,000 chains) at the genomic level and shows that this gene is transcribed in human thymocytes and in some acute leukemic T-cell lines. The existence of a human Lyt-3 homolog raises the possibility that human CD8, like mouse CD8, may exist as a heterodimer.
36853094 | Spontaneous development of an autoimmune hepatitis - primary biliary cholangitis overlap syndrome in dnTGFbetaRII Aire-/- mice. Autoimmune regulator (Aire) and TGF-beta signaling play important roles in central tolerance and peripheral tolerance, respectively, by eliminating or suppressing the activity of autoreactive T cells. We previously demonstrated that dnTGFbetaRII mice develop a defect in peripheral tolerance and a primary biliary cholangitis (PBC)-like disease. We hypothesized that by introducing the Aire gene to this model, we would observe a more severe PBC phenotype. Interestingly, however, we demonstrated that, while dnTGFbetaRII Aire-/- mice do manifest key histological and serological features of autoimmune cholangitis, they also develop mild to moderate interface hepatitis and show high levels of alanine transaminase (ALT) and antinuclear antibodies (ANA), characteristics of autoimmune hepatitis (AIH). To further understand this unique phenotype, we performed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and flow cytometry to explore the functional pathways and immune cell pathways in the liver of dnTGFbetaRII Aire-/- mice. Our data revealed enrichments of programmed cell death pathways and predominant CD8+ T cell infiltrates. Depleting CD8+ T cells using an anti-CD8alpha antibody significantly alleviated hepatic inflammation and prolonged the life span of these mice. Finally, RNA-seq data indicated the clonal expansion of hepatic CD8+ T cells. In conclusion, these mice developed an autoreactive CD8+ T-cell-mediated autoimmune cholangitis with concurrent hepatitis that exhibited key histological and serological features of the AIH-PBC overlap syndrome, representing a novel model for the study of tolerance and autoimmune liver disease.   2023 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
37395402 | The Role of PRRC2B in Cerebral Vascular Remodeling Under Acute Hypoxia in Mice. High altitude exposure leads to various cognitive impairments. The cerebral vasculature system plays an integral role in hypoxia-induced cognitive defects by reducing oxygen and nutrition supply to the brain. RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is susceptible to modification and regulates gene expression in response to environmental changes, including hypoxia. However, the biological significance of m6A in endothelial cell performance under hypoxic conditions is unknown. Using m6A-seq, RNA immunoprcipitation-seq, and transcriptomic co-analysis, the molecular mechanism of vascular system remodeling under acute hypoxia is investigated. A novel m6A reader protein, proline-rich coiled-coil 2B (PRRC2B), exists in endothelial cells. PRRC2B knockdown promoted hypoxia-induced endothelial cell migration by regulating alternative splicing of the alpha 1 chain of collagen type XII in an m6A-dependent manner and the decay of matrix metallopeptidase domain 14 and ADAM metallopeptidase domain 19 mRNA in an m6A-independent manner. In addition, conditional knockout of PRRC2B in endothelial cells promotes hypoxia-induced vascular remodeling and cerebral blood flow redistribution, thus alleviating hypoxia-induced cognitive decline. Therefore, PRRC2B is integral in the hypoxia-induced vascular remodeling process as a novel RNA-binding protein. These findings provide a new potential therapeutic target for hypoxia-induced cognitive decline.
10899907 | CC chemokine receptor (CCR)2 is required for langerhans cell migration and localization of T helper cell type 1 (Th1)-inducing dendritic cells. Absence of CCR2 shifts the Leishmania major-resistant phenotype to a susceptible state dominated by Th2 cytokines, b cell outgrowth, and sustained neutrophilic inflammation. There is growing evidence that chemokines and their receptors regulate the movement and interaction of antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells (DCs) and T cells. We tested the hypothesis that the CC chemokine receptor (CCR)2 and CCR5 and the chemokine macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha, a ligand for CCR5, influence DC migration and localization. We found that deficiency of CCR2 but not CCR5 or MIP-1alpha led to distinct defects in DC biology. Langerhans cell (skin DC) density in CCR2-null mice was normal, and their ability to migrate into the dermis was intact; however, their migration to the draining lymph nodes was markedly impaired. CCR2-null mice had lower numbers of DCs in the spleen, and this was primarily due to a reduction in the CD8alpha(1) T helper cell type 1 (Th1)-inducing subset of DCs. Additionally, there was a block in the Leishmania major infection-induced relocalization of splenic DCs from the marginal zone to the T cell areas. We propose that these DC defects, in conjunction with increased expression of B lymphocyte chemoattractant, a B cell-specific chemokine, may collectively contribute to the striking B cell outgrowth and Th2 cytokine-biased nonhealing phenotype that we observed in CCR2-deficient mice infected with L. major. This disease phenotype in mice with an L. major-resistant genetic background but lacking CCR2 is strikingly reminiscent of that observed typically in mice with an L. major-susceptible genetic background. Thus, CCR2 is an important determinant of not only DC migration and localization but also the development of protective cell-mediated immune responses to L. major.
37839664 | The sacroiliac joint: An original and highly sensitive tool to highlight altered bone phenotype in murine models of skeletal disorders. Bone disorders may affect the skeleton in different ways, some bones being very impaired and others less severely. In translational studies using murine models of human skeletal diseases, the bone phenotype is mainly evaluated at the distal femur or proximal tibia. The sacroiliac joint (SIJ), which connects the spine to the pelvis, is involved in the balanced transfer of mechanical energy from the lumbar spine to the lower extremities. Because of its role in biomechanical stress, the SIJ is a region of particular interest in various bone diseases. Here we aimed to characterize the SIJ in several murine models to develop a highly reliable tool for studying skeletal disorders. We performed a 12-month in vivo micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) follow-up to characterize the SIJ in wild-type (WT) C57BL/J6 mice and compared the bone microarchitecture of the SIJ and the distal femur at 3 months by micro-CT and histology. To test the sensitivity of our methodology, the SIJ and distal femur were evaluated at 3 and 6 months, in 2 murine models of skeletal disorder, X-linked hypophosphatemia (Hyp mice) and HLA-B27 transgenic mice and compared to WT mice. A multimodal analysis was performed, using a combination of microCT and histological analysis. With the Hyp model, the SIJ displayed more bone microarchitecture alterations than the distal femur. Hyp mice showed a significant reduction in trabecular bone at both the distal femur and sacral slope as compared with WT mice, with a significant positive correlation between trabecular bone parameters of the distal femur and sacral side of the SIJ. Furthermore, trabecular bone parameters (Bone Volume/Total Volume (BV/TV), trabecular thickness (Tb.Th), trabecular separation (Tb.Sp), trabecular number (Tb.N), trabecular pattern factor (Tb.Pf)) were significantly increased compared to femoral parameters at the SIJ. The sacral articular cortical bone, which is indicative of osteoarticular lesions, was altered in Hyp mice. Interestingly, in accordance to previous studies, HLA-B27 transgenic mice did not show any osteoarticular lesions as compared with WT mice. Cortical bone parameters (thickness, porosity), as well as scoring performed with double blinding, did not show difference between the 2 genotypes. The characterization and evaluation of the SIJ surface appears very sensitive to emphasize alterations of bone and joint. The SIJ may represent a valuable tool to investigate both bone and local osteoarticular alterations in murine models of skeletal disorders and might be a relevant site for assessing the response to treatment of chronic bone diseases.
38433704 | Detection of the HLA-B*40:01:35 allele in a Taiwanese individual. Nucleotide substitutions in codons -1 and 84 of HLA-B*40:01:01 result in a novel allele, HLA-B*40:01:35.
25911114 | Apoptosis induction and release of inflammatory cytokines in the oviduct of egg-laying hens experimentally infected with H9N2 avian influenza virus. The H9N2 subtype avian influenza virus (AIV) can cause serious damage to the reproductive tract of egg-laying hens, leading to severe egg-drop and poor egg shell quality. However, previous studies in relation to the oviductal-dysfunction resulted from this agent have not clearly been elucidated. In this study, apoptosis and pathologic changes in the oviducts of egg-laying hens caused by H9N2 AIV were evaluated. To understand the immune response in the pathogenic processes, 30-week old specific pathogen free (SPF) egg-laying hens inoculated with H9N2 subtype of AIV through combined intra-ocular and intra-nasal routes. H9N2 AIV infection resulted in oviductal lesions, triggered apoptosis and expression of immune related genes accompanied with infiltration of CD3(+)CD4(+) and CD3(+)CD8alpha(+) cells. Significant tissue damage and apoptosis were observed in the five oviductal parts (infundibulum, magnum, isthmus, uterus and vagina) at 5 days post-inoculation (dpi). Furthermore, immune-related genes, including chicken TLR3 (7, 21), MDA5, IL-2, IFN-beta, CXCLi1, CXCLi2, XCL1, XCR1 and CCR5 showed variation in the egg-laying hens infected with H9N2 AIV. Notably, mRNA expression of IFN-alpha was suppressed during the infection. These results show distinct expression patterns of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines amongst segments of the oviduct. Differential gene expression of inflammatory cytokines and lymphocytes aggregation occurring in oviducts may initiate the infected tissue in response to virus replication which may eventually lead to excessive cellular apoptosis and tissue damage.
36778211 | The Gut Microbiota Metabolite Urolithin B Prevents Colorectal Carcinogenesis by Remodeling Microbiota and PD-L1/HLA-B. Colorectal cancer has risen to the third occurring cancer in the world. Fluorouracil (5-Fu), oxaliplatin, and cisplatin are the most effective chemotherapeutic agents for clinical chemotherapy. Nevertheless, due to chemotherapeutic drug resistance, the survival rate of patients with CRC remains very low. In this study, we used the inflammation-induced or mutation-family-inherited murine CRC models to study the anticancer and immunotherapy effects of urolithin B (UB), the final metabolite of polyphenols in the gastrointestinal tract. The label-free proteomics analysis and the gene ontology (GO) classifications were used to test and analyze the proteins affected by UB. And 16S rDNA sequencing and flow cytometry were utilized to uncover gut microbiome composition and immune defense improved by UB administration. The results indicated that urolithin B prevents colorectal carcinogenesis by remodeling gut microbial and tumor immune microenvironments, such as HLA-B, NK cells, regulatory T cells, and gammadelta TCR cells, and decreasing the PD-L1. The combination of urolithin B with first-line therapeutic drugs improved the colorectal intestinal hematochezia by shaping gut microbiota, providing a strategy for the treatment of immunotherapy treatment for CRC treatments. UB combined with anti-PD-1 antibody could inhibit the growth of colon cancer. Urolithin B may thus contribute to anticancer treatments and provide a high immune response microenvironment for CRC patients' further immunotherapy.
38580644 | Targeting pathogenic CD8+ tissue-resident T cells with chimeric antigen receptor therapy in murine autoimmune cholangitis. Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is a cholestatic autoimmune liver disease characterized by autoreactive T cell response against intrahepatic small bile ducts. Here, we use Il12b-/-Il2ra-/- mice (DKO mice) as a model of autoimmune cholangitis and demonstrate that Cd8a knockout or treatment with an anti-CD8alpha antibody prevents/reduces biliary immunopathology. Using single-cell RNA sequencing analysis, we identified CD8+ tissue-resident memory T (Trm) cells in the livers of DKO mice, which highly express activation- and cytotoxicity-associated markers and induce apoptosis of bile duct epithelial cells. Liver CD8+ Trm cells also upregulate the expression of several immune checkpoint molecules, including PD-1. We describe the development of a chimeric antigen receptor to target PD-1-expressing CD8+ Trm cells. Treatment of DKO mice with PD-1-targeting CAR-T cells selectively depleted liver CD8+ Trm cells and alleviated autoimmune cholangitis. Our work highlights the pathogenic role of CD8+ Trm cells and the potential therapeutic usage of PD-1-targeting CAR-T cells.
37199039 | Genome editing HLA alleles for a pilot immunocompatible hESC line in a Chinese hESC bank for cell therapies. Robust allogeneic immune reactions after transplantation impede the translational pace of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs)-based therapies. Selective genetic editing of human leucocyte antigen (HLA) molecules has been proposed to generate hESCs with immunocompatibility, which, however, has not been specifically designed for the Chinese population yet. Herein, we explored the possibility of customizing immunocompatible hESCs based on Chinese HLA typing characteristics. We generated an immunocompatible hESC line by disrupting HLA-B, HLA-C, and CIITA genes while retaining HLA-A*11:01 (HLA-A*11:01-retained, HLA-A11R ), which covers ~21% of the Chinese population. The immunocompatibility of HLA-A11R hESCs was verified by in vitro co-culture and confirmed in humanized mice with established human immunity. Moreover, we precisely knocked an inducible caspase-9 suicide cassette into HLA-A11R hESCs (iC9-HLA-A11R ) to promote safety. Compared with wide-type hESCs, HLA-A11R hESC-derived endothelial cells elicited much weaker immune responses to human HLA-A11+ T cells, while maintaining HLA-I molecule-mediated inhibitory signals to natural killer (NK) cells. Additionally, iC9-HLA-A11R hESCs could be induced to undergo apoptosis efficiently by AP1903. Both cell lines displayed genomic integrity and low risks of off-target effects. In conclusion, we customized a pilot immunocompatible hESC cell line based on Chinese HLA typing characteristics with safety insurance. This approach provides a basis for establishment of a universal HLA-AR bank of hESCs covering broad populations worldwide and may speed up the clinical application of hESC-based therapies.
29773025 | HLA Class I Chromosomal Region, Genes, and Products: Facts and Questions. Among the various areas of recent investigation in the field of human MHC class I antigens, the following have been selected for discussion in this review: (1) classical HLA class I genes: are they ubiquitously expressed?, what are the special features of their polymorphism?, are HLA-C molecules functional?, (2) non-classical HLA class I gene products: how restricted is their tissue distribution?, do they exhibit a little polymorphism?, what is their function, if any? (3) non-HLA genes recently detected in the HLA class I chromosomal region: are some of them involved in immunological function and development?, (4) other novel coding sequences present, or possibly present, in the region: the hemochromatosis gene, grc region and associated tumor suppressor genes, housekeeping genes, human equivalent of the murine H-2M region and Ped gene; (5) transcriptional regulation: are there cis-regulatory elements, including locus control region(s). located elsewhere than in the promoters? are CpG methylation, gene imprinting, chromatin structure, DNA rearrangement also implicated? what are the transcription factors involved and how do they interact with each other? is there HLA class I locus-, allele-, or isoform-specific regulation? is class I gene expression dysregulated in human tumors? The answers to these questions are crucial for the development of the future directions for research.
38357542 | Unraveling the potential of CD8, CD68, and VISTA as diagnostic and prognostic markers in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Introduction: Pancreatic cancer is a truculent disease with limited treatment options and a grim prognosis. Immunotherapy has shown promise in treating various types of cancer, but its effectiveness in pancreatic cancer has been lacking. As a result, it is crucial to identify markers associated with immunological pathways in order to improve the treatment outcomes for this deadly cancer. The purpose of this study was to investigate the diagnostic and prognostic significance of three markers, CD8, CD68, and VISTA, in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), the most common subtype of pancreatic cancer. Methods: We analyzed gene expression data from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database using bioinformatics tools. We also utilized the STRING online tool and Funrich software to study the protein-protein interactions and transcription factors associated with CD8, CD68, and VISTA. In addition, tissue microarray (TMA) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining were performed on 228 samples of PDAC tissue and 10 samples of normal pancreatic tissue to assess the expression levels of the markers. We then correlated these expression levels with the clinicopathological characteristics of the patients and evaluated their survival rates. Results: The analysis of the GEO data revealed slightly elevated levels of VISTA in PDAC samples compared to normal tissues. However, there was a significant increase in CD68 expression and a notable reduction in CD8A expression in pancreatic cancer. Further investigation identified potential protein-protein interactions and transcription factors associated with these markers. The IHC staining of PDAC tissue samples showed an increased expression of VISTA, CD68, and CD8A in pancreatic cancer tissues. Moreover, we found correlations between the expression levels of these markers and certain clinicopathological features of the patients. Additionally, the survival analysis revealed that high expression of CD8 was associated with better disease-specific survival and progression-free survival in PDAC patients. Conclusion: These findings highlight the potential of CD8, CD68, and VISTA as diagnostic and prognostic indicators in PDAC.
31841966 | T and B lymphocytes immune responses in flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus) induced by two forms of outer membrane protein K from Vibrio anguillarum: Subunit vaccine and DNA vaccine. To further elucidate the roles of T and B lymphocytes in fish subunit and DNA candidate vaccines for immunisation, the immune responses of T and B lymphocytes to recombinant protein (rOmpK) and plasmid OmpK (pOmpK) from Vibrio anguillarum plus cyclosporine A (CsA) were investigated in flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus). The results showed that in the rOmpK-immunised groups, the percentages of CD4-1+ and CD4-2+ T (PCD4-1+ and PCD4-2+ T) lymphocytes significantly increased to a peak on days 5 or 7. The percentages of IgM+ B (PIgM+ B) lymphocytes and specific antibodies markedly increased to a peak at weeks 4 or 5. The nine immune-related genes were significantly up-regulated and the expression levels of CD4-1, CD4-2 and MHC II genes were higher than that of CD8alpha, CD8beta and MHC I genes. The CD4+ T lymphocytes, IgM+ B lymphocytes, and specific antibodies were significantly inhibited by CsA. Therefore, the responses of CD4+ T lymphocytes influenced the responses of the B lymphocytes and antibodies. In the pOmpK-immunised groups, the PCD4-1+, PCD4-2+, and PCD8beta+ T lymphocytes significantly increased to a peak on days 11 or 14, days 9 or 11, and days 7 or 9, respectively. The PIgM+ B lymphocytes and specific antibodies significantly increased to a peak at weeks 5 or 6. Immune related genes upregulated, and CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes, IgM+ B lymphocytes and specific antibodies all suppressed by CsA, suggesting that the responses of T lymphocytes subpopulations influenced B lymphocytes and antibodies responses. Therefore, the subpopulations of T lymphocytes played an important role in the immune responses induced by subunit and DNA candidate vaccines of OmpK and regulated the immune responses of B lymphocytes in flounder.
35965624 | Identification of Hub Genes and Key Pathways Associated with Follicular Lymphoma. Follicular lymphoma (FL) is the second most prevalent form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and accounts for almost 20% of all NHL cases. Although FL patients' overall survival rates have steadily increased, there is still no accepted standard of care for individuals who experience recurrence or resistance to treatment. Hence, it is needed to evaluate the precise molecular cascades underlying FL to develop efficient diagnostic and treatment approaches. Herein, we aimed to evaluate variations in gene expression profiles, explore the underlying mechanisms, and find new FL targets. In the present study, Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database was employed to evaluate microarray datasets including GSE32018 and GSE55267. R software was employed to evaluate differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between FL and noncancer samples. The DEGs were evaluated using GO, KEGG pathway enrichment analysis, and PPI network to evaluate hub genes, which were then, examined using gene function enrichment analysis. According to the obtained results, a total of 190 upregulated and 162 downregulated DEGs were evaluated. Following the generation of PPI networks, 15 hub genes in highly connected upregulated DEGs were selected including FN1, MMP9, CCL2, CD8A, POSTN, CCR5, COL3A1, CXCL12, VCAM1, COL1A2, CCL5, SPARC, TIMP1, CXCL9, and IL18. The GO enrichment evaluation of the underlined hub genes indicated that the immunological response was the most considerably enriched term. Twelve significant cascades were found using the KEGG pathway analysis, most of which were linked to cellular structure and immunity. Our findings suggested that FN1, SPARC, POSTN, MMP9, and VCAM1 genes are potential biomarkers of FL, and cellular immunity contributes to the pathogenesis of FL. Moreover, the unique DEGs and cascades found in the present study may present new perspectives on the molecular basis of FL's underlying mechanisms as well as a new understanding of FL's future precise management.
24078448 | miR-34 is associated with poor prognosis of patients with gallbladder cancer through regulating telomere length in tumor stem cells. miR-34a has been identified as a tumor suppressor in several tumors, but its involvement in gallbladder cancer (GBC) has not been reported. In this study, the miR-34a level and telomere length were measured in 77 gallbladder adenocarcinomas and 36 peritumoral tissues by real-time PCR. Forced miR-34a expression was established by an adenovirus carrying a miR-34a expression cassette. The colony-forming ability of isolated CD44+CD133+ GBC tumor stem-like cells was measured by matrigel colony assay. The xenograft tumor models were established by inoculating nude mice with CD44+CD133+cells. Results showed that significantly lower miR-34a expression and longer telomere length were observed in gallbladder adenocarcinoma tissues, which correlated with poor prognosis of GBC patients. Forced overexpression of miR-34a inhibited the colony-forming ability of CD44+CD133+ GBC tumor stem-like cells in vitro and xenograft tumor growth in vivo. Injection of Ad-miR-34a downregulated PNUTS expression and reduced telomere length in xenograft GBC tumor cells. In conclusion, miR-34a is a tumor suppressor in gallbladder cancer. Both low miR-34a expression and long telomere length are markers for poor prognosis of patients with gallbladder adenocarcinoma. Our study also suggests that the miR-34a gene could be a target for targeting therapy of GBC.
38332154 | Virological characteristics of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron XBB.1.5 variant. Circulation of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron XBB has resulted in the emergence of XBB.1.5, a new Variant of Interest. Our phylogenetic analysis suggests that XBB.1.5 evolved from XBB.1 by acquiring the S486P spike (S) mutation, subsequent to the acquisition of a nonsense mutation in ORF8. Neutralization assays showed similar abilities of immune escape between XBB.1.5 and XBB.1. We determine the structural basis for the interaction between human ACE2 and the S protein of XBB.1.5, showing similar overall structures between the S proteins of XBB.1 and XBB.1.5. We provide the intrinsic pathogenicity of XBB.1 and XBB.1.5 in hamsters. Importantly, we find that the ORF8 nonsense mutation of XBB.1.5 resulted in impairment of MHC suppression. In vivo experiments using recombinant viruses reveal that the XBB.1.5 mutations are involved with reduced virulence of XBB.1.5. Together, our study identifies the two viral functions defined the difference between XBB.1 and XBB.1.5.
15501817 | Interactor-mediated nuclear translocation and retention of protein phosphatase-1. Protein Ser/Thr phosphatase-1 (PP1) is a ubiquitous eukaryotic enzyme that controls numerous cellular processes by the dephosphorylation of key regulatory proteins. PP1 is expressed in various cellular compartments but is most abundant in the nucleus. We have examined the determinants for the nuclear localization of enhanced green fluorescent protein-tagged PP1 in COS1 cells. Our studies show that PP1gamma(1) does not contain a functional nuclear localization signal and that its nuclear accumulation does not require Sds22, which has previously been implicated in the nuclear accumulation of PP1 in yeast (Peggie, M. W., MacKelvie, S. H., Bloecher, A., Knatko, E. V., Tatchell, K., and Stark, M. J. R. (2002) J. Cell Sci. 115, 195-206). However, the nuclear targeting of PP1 isoforms was alleviated by the mutation of their binding sites for proteins that interact via an RVXF motif. Moreover, one of the mutants with a cytoplasmic accumulation and decreased affinity for RVXF motifs (PP1gamma(1)-F257A) could be re-targeted to the nucleus by the overexpression of nuclear interactors (NIPP1 (nuclear inhibitor of PP1) and PNUTS (PP1 nuclear targeting subunit)) with a functional RVXF motif. Also, the addition of a synthetic RVXF-containing peptide to permeabilized cells resulted in the loss of nuclear enhanced green fluorescent protein-PP1gamma(1). Finally, NIPP1(-/-) mouse embryos showed a nuclear hyperphosphorylation on threonine, consistent with a role for NIPP1 in the nuclear targeting and/or retention of PP1. Our data suggest that both the nuclear translocation and the nuclear retention of PP1 depend on its binding to interactors with an RVXF motif.
17244753 | Kinetics of murine decidual dendritic cells. Dendritic cells (DCs) are professional antigen presenting cells (APC) capable of induction of primary immune responses as well as immunologic tolerance. Myeloid and lymphoid subsets of murine DCs are able to shift cytokine responses of T cells toward Th2 and Th1 profiles respectively. Thus, DCs would be suitable candidates to mediate the balance of maternal immune responses to conception. We analyzed pregnancy-related variations in uterus and splenic DCs in a murine model. C57BL/6-mated Balb/c female mice with vaginal plugs were scarified at early, middle, and late pregnancy. Frozen sections of uterus and spleen at each stage of pregnancy were immunostained with CD11c- and MHC-II-specific antibodies. Two-color immunohistochemistry was also carried out using anti-CD11c and one of the antibodies against CD11b, CD8alpha, CD86, and DEC-205. Using morphometric analysis, the average density of DCs and relative percentage of myeloid (CD11c+, CD11b+) and lymphoid DCs (CD11c+, CD8a+) were determined at each stage. Our results showed that DCs are present throughout the pregnancy in decidua. The average density of decidual DCs at early pregnancy was significantly higher relative to middle and late gestation or to those of endometrial DCs of non-pregnant mice. Interestingly, the average density of decidual and splenic DCs, followed the same variations at different stages of pregnancy. The relative percentage of decidual lymphoid DCs (LDC) was significantly higher at mid-gestation when compared with other stages of pregnancy or non-pregnant mice. Inversely, the frequency of myeloid DCs (MDC) and the MDC/LDC ratio were statistically lower at the middle stage of pregnancy. A majority of decidual DCs expressed MHC-II and CD86. At early pregnancy, DCs were more concentrated subadjacent to the luminal epithelial layers, whereas at mid-or late gestation, DCs were randomly distributed in the stroma and around the epithelium. Mid-pregnancy period was a critical point with regard to splenic DCs kinetics, as both the average density of DCs and the frequency of MDCs decreased significantly when compared with early or late pregnancy, although the relative percentage of splenic LDCs did not change. Our data suggest that the balance of MDC and LDC is finely tuned throughout pregnancy, pointing an eminent immunoregulatory role of DCs in the maintenance of pregnancy.
38403864 | The novel HLA-C*12:02:52 allele, identified by Sanger dideoxy nucleotide sequencing in a Chinese individual. HLA-C*12:02:52 differs from HLA-C*12:02:02:01 by one nucleotide in exon 1.
38447418 | Dihydroartemisinin alleviates erosive bone destruction by modifying local Treg cells in inflamed joints: A novel role in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Treg cell-based therapy has exhibited promising efficacy in combatting rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Dihydroartemisinin (DHA) exerts broad immunomodulatory effects across various diseases, with its recent spotlight on T-cell regulation in autoimmune conditions. The modulation of DHA on Treg cells and its therapeutic role in RA has yet to be fully elucidated. This study seeks to unveil the influence of DHA on Treg cells in RA and furnish innovative substantiation for the potential of DHA to ameliorate RA. To this end, we initially scrutinized the impact of DHA-modulated Treg cells on osteoclast (OC) formation in vitro using Treg cell-bone marrow-derived monocyte (BMM) coculture systems. Subsequently, employing the collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) rat model, we validated the efficacy of DHA and probed its influence on Treg cells in the spleen and popliteal lymph nodes (PLN). Finally, leveraging deep proteomic analysis with data-independent acquisition (DIA) and parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation (PASEF) technology, we found the alterations in the Treg cell proteome in PLN by proteomic analysis. Our findings indicate that DHA augmented suppressive Treg cells, thereby impeding OC formation in vitro. Consistently, DHA mitigated erosive joint destruction and osteoclastogenesis by replenishing splenic and joint-draining lymph node Treg cells in CIA rats. Notably, DHA induced alterations in the Treg cell proteome in PLN, manifesting distinct upregulation of alloantigen Col2a1 (Type II collagen alfa 1 chain) and CD8a (T-cell surface glycoprotein CD8 alpha chain) in Treg cells, signifying DHA's targeted modulation of Treg cells, rendering them more adept at sustaining immune tolerance and impeding bone erosion. These results unveil a novel facet of DHA in the treatment of RA.
19284475 | Regulation and function of neuronal GTP-Ras in facial motor nerve regeneration. Activation of Ras into the GTP-binding, 'ON' state is a key switch in the neurotrophin-mediated neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth, in vitro as well as in vivo. In the current study we explored changes in GTP-Ras levels following facial nerve injury and the ensuing regeneration and the effects of perturbing these changes in vivo using synapsin-promoter mediated neuronal expression of constitutively active Val12H-Ras (synRas). Quantification of GTP-Ras and total Ras revealed a precipitous drop in the relative GTP-Ras levels in the axotomized facial motor nucleus, to 40% of normal levels at 2 days after cut, followed by a partial recovery to 50-65% at 4-28 days. On western blots, control and axotomized nuclei from synRas mutants showed a 2.2- and 2.5-fold elevation in GTP-Ras, respectively, compared with their wild type littermate controls (p < 5%, anova, TUKEY post-hoc), with the levels in the axotomized synRas nucleus slightly but not significantly above that in the uninjured littermate control (p = 9.9%). Similar increase was also observed in the pERK but not pAKT targets of the Ras cascade. This moderate elevation of GTP-Ras strongly curtailed post-traumatic neuronal cell death (-65%), the influx of T-cells (-48%) as well as other parameters of neuroinflammatory response. Although synRas did not affect the speed of axonal regeneration or functional recovery it caused a very pronounced increase in central axonal sprouting. These current data emphasize the role of reduced active Ras, and by extension, the reduced overall level of retrograde neurotrophin signalling after axotomy, in mediating post-traumatic cell death and inflammation and in restricting the sprouting response. Moreover, the neuroprotective and central sprouting-enhancing effects of neuronal Val12H-Ras could help promote recovery in CNS injury.
38433683 | Genomic sequence of the novel HLA-B*41:02:01:11, and -C*08:266 alleles identified in a solid organ recipient. HLA-B*41:02:01:11 and -C*08:266 were detected in a solid organ recipient during the HLA typing process.
20372802 | PNUTS knockdown potentiates the apoptotic effect of Roscovitine in breast and colon cancer cells. The phosphorylation state of Retinoblastoma protein (Rb) plays a role in cell proliferation and apoptosis. Within cells, cyclin dependent kinases (cdks) phosphorylate Rb in response to growth stimulatory signals, whereas protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) dephosphorylates Rb when cells stop proliferating or undergo apoptosis in response to anti-proliferative or stress signals. Stimulation of PP1 activity via siRNA mediated knockdown of its interacting protein PNUTS (Phosphatase Nuclear Targeting Subunit) leads to Rb dephosphorylation and apoptosis in cancer cells. We utilized two separate methods to modulate the phosphorylation state of Rb in cancer cells. Kinase activity toward Rb is inhibited by the clinically relevant cdk inhibitor, Roscovitine. In addition, siRNA mediated PNUTS knockdown stimulates phosphatase activity toward Rb. Either of these treatments in cancer cells causes a 2-fold stimulation of apoptosis. When activation of phosphatase activity is combined with inhibition of cdk activity toward Rb, however, cells exhibit a 4-fold increase in apoptosis. The mechanism by which PNUTS knockdown mediated PP1 activation leads to apoptosis was determined to be dependent on the activity of the transcription factor E2F1. The Rb phosphorylation profiles resulting from each treatment were analyzed and found to be similar but not identical. In addition, the two treatments differentially effect the expression of bcl-2 family proteins. Thus inhibition of cdk activity and activation of PP1 activity toward pRb are functionally distinct processes that together increase the apoptotic effect in cells.
25416949 | lncRNA directs cooperative epigenetic regulation downstream of chemokine signals. lncRNAs are known to regulate a number of different developmental and tumorigenic processes. Here, we report a role for lncRNA BCAR4 in breast cancer metastasis that is mediated by chemokine-induced binding of BCAR4 to two transcription factors with extended regulatory consequences. BCAR4 binding of SNIP1 and PNUTS in response to CCL21 releases the SNIP1's inhibition of p300-dependent histone acetylation, which in turn enables the BCAR4-recruited PNUTS to bind H3K18ac and relieve inhibition of RNA Pol II via activation of the PP1 phosphatase. This mechanism activates a noncanonical Hedgehog/GLI2 transcriptional program that promotes cell migration. BCAR4 expression correlates with advanced breast cancers, and therapeutic delivery of locked nucleic acids (LNAs) targeting BCAR4 strongly suppresses breast cancer metastasis in mouse models. The findings reveal a disease-relevant lncRNA mechanism consisting of both direct coordinated protein recruitment and indirect regulation of transcription factors.
35936748 | Differential Expression and Prognostic Correlation of Immune Related Factors Between Right and Left Side Colorectal Cancer. Background: Growing evidence suggests that colorectal cancer (CRC) should be considered a heterogeneous disease. The right side (RCC) and left side (LCC) colorectal cancer have different clinical characteristics and immune landscapes. The aim of this study was to analyze differential expression and prognostic correlation of immune-related factors between RCC and LCC. Methods: The gene expression profile and clinical characteristics of CRC patients were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas data portal (n=525). Using a deconvolution algorithm, immune cell infiltration in RCC and LCC based on the RNA-seq data was analyzed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were obtained by performing differential gene expression analysis. Immune-related DEGs were derived by the intersection with immune-related factors downloaded from the IMMPORT database. To further validate the findings, we applied immunohistochemical (IHC) staining of a CRC tissue microarray (TMA). The distribution of immune cells in RCC and LCC and changes in the expression of immune molecules on their membranes were verified. The expression levels of circulating cytokines were measured by flow cytometry to detect the cytokines secreted by immune cells in RCC and LCC. Furthermore, to reveal the prognostic value of differential immune factors on RCC and LCC patients, survival analysis based on mRNA levels using TCGA cohort and survival analysis using protein levels was performed using our CRC patients. Results: The infiltration of immune cells differed between RCC and LCC, the infiltration degree of macrophages M0 was significantly higher in LCC, while the infiltration degree of differentiated macrophages M1 and M2, CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells was significantly higher in RCC. The expression of related molecules by immune cells also differed between RCC and LCC. The expression of 7 genes in RCC was higher than that in LCC, which were CCR5, CD209, CD8A, HCK, HLA-DPB1, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DRA, respectively. Meanwhile, the expression of 2 genes in LCC was higher than in RCC, which were IL-34 and PROCR. Patients with RCC having high expression of HLA-DQA1 mRNA or proteins had better survival and LCC patients with high expression of IL 34 mRNA or protein had better survival. Conclusions: In this study, we comprehensively compared differences in immune cells and regulating factors between left and right colorectal cancer. Different expression patterns and their effects on survival were identified. The analysis of immune-related factors may provide a theoretical basis for precise immunotherapy of RCC and LCC.
38433661 | Full-length sequence of the novel allele, HLA-B*58:01:40, identified in a Chinese individual. HLA-B*58:01:40 differs from HLA-B*58:01:01 by a single nucleotide change in exon 3, 507 C- > T (codon 145.3 CGC- > CGT).
38337023 | Investigating the genetic makeup of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) in the United Arab Emirates population through next-generation sequencing. The Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules are central to immune response and have associations with the phenotypes of various diseases and induced drug toxicity. Further, the role of HLA molecules in presenting antigens significantly affects the transplantation outcome. The objective of this study was to examine the extent of the diversity of HLA alleles in the population of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) using Next-Generation Sequencing methodologies and encompassing a larger cohort of individuals. A cohort of 570 unrelated healthy citizens of the UAE volunteered to provide samples for Whole Genome Sequencing and Whole Exome Sequencing. The definition of the HLA alleles was achieved through the application of the bioinformatics tools, HLA-LA and xHLA. Subsequently, the findings from this study were compared with other local and international datasets. A broad range of HLA alleles in the UAE population, of which some were previously unreported, was identified. A comparison with other populations confirmed the current population's unique intertwined genetic heritage while highlighting similarities with populations from the Middle East region. Some disease-associated HLA alleles were detected at a frequency of > 5%, such as HLA-B*51:01, HLA-DRB1*03:01, HLA-DRB1*15:01, and HLA-DQB1*02:01. The increase in allele homozygosity, especially for HLA class I genes, was identified in samples with a higher level of genome-wide homozygosity. This highlights a possible effect of consanguinity on the HLA homozygosity. The HLA allele distribution in the UAE population showcases a unique profile, underscoring the need for tailored databases for traditional activities such as unrelated transplant matching and for newer initiatives in precision medicine based on specific populations. This research is part of a concerted effort to improve the knowledge base, particularly in the fields of transplant medicine and investigating disease associations as well as in understanding human migration patterns within the Arabian Peninsula and surrounding regions.
38568169 | Detection of the novel HLA-B*55:01:31, HLA-C*07:1113 alleles and confirmation of HLA-C*12:392. Novel HLA-B*55:01:31, HLA-C*07:1113 alleles and confirmatory HLA-C*12:392 allele were detected during the HLA typing process.
38605632 | Characterization of the novel HLA-B*40:538 allele by next-generation sequencing. The HLA-B*40:538 allele differs from HLA-B*40:01:02:01 at position 905 C T in exon 5.
30541148 | Regulation of ATR activity via the RNA polymerase II associated factors CDC73 and PNUTS-PP1. Ataxia telangiectasia mutated and Rad3-related (ATR) kinase is a key factor activated by DNA damage and replication stress. An alternative pathway for ATR activation has been proposed to occur via stalled RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). However, how RNAPII might signal to activate ATR remains unknown. Here, we show that ATR signaling is increased after depletion of the RNAPII phosphatase PNUTS-PP1, which dephosphorylates RNAPII in its carboxy-terminal domain (CTD). High ATR signaling was observed in the absence and presence of ionizing radiation, replication stress and even in G1, but did not correlate with DNA damage or RPA chromatin loading. R-loops were enhanced, but overexpression of EGFP-RNaseH1 only slightly reduced ATR signaling after PNUTS depletion. However, CDC73, which interacted with RNAPII in a phospho-CTD dependent manner, was required for the high ATR signaling, R-loop formation and for activation of the endogenous G2 checkpoint after depletion of PNUTS. In addition, ATR, RNAPII and CDC73 co-immunoprecipitated. Our results suggest a novel pathway involving RNAPII, CDC73 and PNUTS-PP1 in ATR signaling and give new insight into the diverse functions of ATR.
37858067 | Overexpression of SH2D1A promotes cancer progression and is associated with immune cell infiltration in hepatocellular carcinoma via bioinformatics and in vitro study. BACKGROUND: SH2 domain containing 1A (SH2D1A) expression has been linked to cancer progression. However, the functions of SH2D1A in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have not been reported. METHODS: The effects of SH2D1A on the proliferation, migration, and invasion of HCC cells and the related pathways were re-explored in cell models with SH2D1A overexpression using the CCK-8, migration and invasion assays and western blotting. The functions and mechanisms of genes co-expressed with SH2D1A were analyzed using gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis. The relationship between SH2D1A expression and immune microenvironment features in HCC was explored. RESULTS: Elevated SH2D1A expression promoted cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, which was related to the overexpression of p-Nf-kappaB and BCL2A1 protein levels in HCC. SH2D1A expression was related to the immune, stromal, and ESTIMATE scores, and the abundance of immune cells, such as B cells, CD8+ T cells, and T cells. SH2D1A expression was significantly related to the expression of immune cell markers, such as PDCD1, CD8A, and CTLA4 in HCC. CONCLUSION: SH2D1A overexpression was found to promote cell growth and metastasis via the Nf-kappaB signaling pathway and may be related to the immune microenvironment in HCC. The findings indicate that SH2D1A can function as a biomarker in HCC.
3258885 | Molecular linkage of the Ly-3 and Ly-2 genes. Requirement of Ly-2 for Ly-3 surface expression. We have isolated the Ly-3 gene by chromosomal walking from the previously cloned Ly-2 gene. These genes are shown to be 36 kb apart and in the same transcriptional orientation. Transfection of the Ly-3 gene into mouse L cells results in cell surface expression of Ly-3 protein only in the presence of Ly-2 (or its human homolog, CD8), although Ly-2 surface expression is not similarly dependent on Ly-3. cDNA clones encoding Ly-3 have been isolated and sequenced and show little sequence similarity to Ly-2, whereas both Ly-2 and Ly-3 are homologous to Ig variable regions. One cDNA clone encodes a form of Ly-3 lacking a transmembrane region. Although two alleles of Ly-3 have been previously defined serologically, Northern blot analyses of Ly-3 mRNA from a series of inbred mouse strains show unusual polymorphisms in the lengths of Ly-3 mRNA species defining at least three allelic variants of this gene.
33408257 | MyD88 Costimulation in Donor CD8+ T Cells Enhances the Graft-versus-Tumor Effect in Murine Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation. Donor-derived lymphocytes from allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) or donor lymphocyte infusion can mediate eradication of host tumor cells in a process labeled the graft-versus-tumor (GVT) effect. Unfortunately, these treatments have produced limited results in various types of leukemia because of an insufficient GVT effect. In this context, molecular engineering of donor lymphocytes to increase the GVT effect may benefit cancer patients. Activating MyD88 signaling in CD8+ T cells via TLR enhances T cell activation and cytotoxicity. However, systemic administration of TLR ligands to stimulate MyD88 could induce hyperinflammation or elicit protumor effects. To circumvent this problem, we devised a synthetic molecule consisting of MyD88 linked to the ectopic domain of CD8a (CD8alpha:MyD88). We used this construct to test the hypothesis that MyD88 costimulation in donor CD8+ T cells increases tumor control following allo-HCT in mice by increasing T cell activation, function, and direct tumor cytotoxicity. Indeed, an increase in both in vitro and in vivo tumor control was observed with CD8alpha:MyD88 T cells. This increase in the GVT response was associated with increased T cell expansion, increased functional capacity, and an increase in direct cytotoxic killing of the tumor cells. However, MyD88 costimulation in donor CD8+ T cells was linked to increased yet nonlethal graft-versus-host disease in mice treated with these engineered CD8+ T cells. Given these observations, synthetic CD8alpha:MyD88 donor T cells may represent a unique and versatile approach to enhance the GVT response that merits further refinement to improve the effectiveness of allo-HCT.
27965016 | Cross-reactivity of monoclonal antibodies against CD4-1 and CD8alpha of ginbuna crucian carp with lymphocytes of zebrafish and other cyprinid species. We have monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against CD4-1 (6D1) and CD8alpha (2C3) in ginbuna crucian carp Carassius auratus langsdorfii. In our previous studies we showed that 2C3 mAb positive cells are the primary cell type showing specific cytotoxicity against allogeneic targets, suggesting that CD8alpha+ lymphocytes in ginbuna are equivalent to cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) in mammals. We further demonstrated the helper T cell function of 6D1 mAb positive cells by studying mixed leukocyte culture (MLC) and hapten/carrier effects. Here, we report that our mAbs cross-react with zebrafish lymphocytes. First, mAbs 6D1 and 2C3 recognized 7-11% of zebrafish lymphocytes that were ZAP-70 positive and had the typical morphology of lymphocytes. Second, to verify the cell types reacting with the 6D1 and 2C3 mAbs we examined the expression profiles of zebrafish lymphocyte surface markers in FACS-sorted lymphocytes from kidney. cd4-1 (cd8a) and tcrac but not iglc transcripts were detected in 6D1(2C3)+ lymphocytes, whereas cd4-1 (cd8a) transcripts were not found in 6D1 (2C3)- lymphocytes. Third, we further confirmed that 6D1 reacted with zebrafish CD4-1 but not CD4-2, and 2C3 recognized zebrafish CD8alpha expressed on HEK293T cells. Collectively, these findings suggest that 6D1+ and 2C3+ lymphocytes in zebrafish are equivalent to CD4+ and CD8alpha+ T lymphocytes in mammals, respectively. Furthermore, we found the cross-reactivity of our 6D1 and 2C3 mAbs with other cyprinid species including goldfish, common carp and grass carp.
7873667 | High yield, site-specific coupling of N-terminally modified beta-lactamase to a proteolytically derived single-sulfhydryl murine Fab'. The preparation of bispecific protein conjugates capable of performing diverse biological functions is an area of active investigation. Such conjugates are routinely prepared using techniques which employ random derivatization of lysine residues, but the overall utility of these methods is limited due to poor yields and heterogeneous conjugates. In this report we describe the development of site-specific linkage methodology for the chemical synthesis of a homogeneous enzyme-antibody Fab' conjugate with coupling efficiencies of at least 72%. The N-terminal threonine residue of beta-lactamase from the P99 strain of Enterobacter cloacae was oxidized to an aldehyde functional group under mild conditions with a 5-fold molar excess of sodium periodate. The murine Fab' with a single sulfhydryl at the hinge region was generated by further digestion of the peptic Fab' fragment with lysyl endopeptidase to remove a decapeptide containing two of the three cysteine residues. Coupling of the two modified proteins was accomplished through a bifunctional coupling reagent containing meleimide and aminooxy functional groups. Synthesis of the linker is described. Yields of 1:1 enzyme-Fab' were at least three times higher than for comparable random derivatization methods. Immunoreactivity and enzymatic activity were unaffected. Biodistribution studies showed a more favorable tumor to blood ratio with the site-specifically linked conjugate.
27006394 | Structure of an alpha-Helical Peptide and Lipopeptide Bound to the Nonclassical Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) Class I Molecule CD1d. Mouse CD1d is a nonclassical MHC molecule able to present lipids and glycolipids to a specialized subset of T cells known as natural killer T cells. The antigens presented by CD1d have been shown to cover a broad range of chemical structures and to follow precise rules determining the potency of the antigen in the context of T cell activation. Together with lipids, initial reports suggested that CD1d can also bind and present hydrophobic peptides with (F/W)XX(I/L/M)XXW. However, the exact location of peptide binding and the molecular basis for the required motif are currently unknown. Here we present the crystal structure of the first peptide identified to bind CD1d, p99, and show that it binds in the antigen-binding groove of CD1d in a manner compatible with its presentation to T cell receptors. Interestingly, the peptide adopts an alpha-helical conformation, which orients the motif residues toward its deep binding groove, therefore explaining the molecular requirements for peptide binding. Moreover, we demonstrate that a lipopeptide version of the same peptide is able to bind CD1d in a similar conformation, identifying another class of molecules binding this antigen-presenting molecule.
38470352 | Identification of the novel HLA-B*40:06:01:18 allele in a North Indian individual. HLA-B*40:06:01:18 differs from HLA-B*40:06:01:02 by one nucleotide change in the 5'UTR (T > C).
38575367 | Identification of the novel HLA-B*13:191 allele by next-generation sequencing. The novel HLA-B*13:191 allele was detected during the HLA typing for kidney transplantation.
23933420 | Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides) CD8a: cloning, tissue distribution and immunobiological in splenic mononuclear cells. CD8 molecule is a cell membrane glycoprotein, which plays an important role in cell-mediated immunity. Here, we identified Chinese goose CD8alpha (goCD8alpha) gene for the first time. The full-length cDNA of goCD8alpha is 1459bp in length and contains a 711bp open reading frame. Phylogenetic analysis shows that the waterfowl CD8alpha formed a monophyletic group. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that transcripts of goCD8alpha mRNA were high in the immune-related organs and mucosal immune system in gosling, and high in thymus and spleen comparing to other immune-related tissues in goose. The obvious increase of CD8alpha expression was observed in spleen of acute new type gosling viral enteritis virus (NGVEV) infected bird, while the increase of CD8alpha were observed in the thymus, bursa of fabricius, and cecum of chronic infected bird. The CD8alpha mRNA transcription level in spleen mononuclear cells was significantly up-regulated when stimulated by phytohemagglutinin, but not by lipopolysaccharide in vitro.
37523987 | Drug-induced altered self-presentation increases tumor immunogenicity. Anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) drug abacavir (ABC) binds to the specific allele of human leukocyte antigen (HLA-B*57:01) and activates CD8+ T cells by presenting altered abnormal peptides. Here, we examined the effect of ABC-induced altered self-presentation by HLA-B*57:01 on immunogenicity of cancer cells and CD8+ T-cell-dependent anti-tumor immunity. We established human-mouse chimeric HLA-B*57:01-expressing tumor cell lines (B16F10 and 3LL) and tested the anti-tumor effect of ABC in vivo. ABC treatment inhibited the growth of HLA-B*57:01-expressing tumors by a CD8+ T-cell-dependent mechanism. ABC treatment induced CXCR3-dependent infiltration of CD8+ T cells into HLA-B*57:01-expressing tumors, and activated those tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells to proliferate and secrete IFN-gamma. The activation of CD8+ T cells using drug-induced altered self-presentation may be a new strategy to increase tumor immunogenicity and improve the efficacy of immunotherapy.
343833 | [Edema of the paws of white mice--test for assessing the activity of E. coli enterotoxins]. The authors studied the paw edema test in mice for detection of the E. coli (strain P-99) enterotoxins activity. This test proved to be simple, sensitive and reproducible; it permitted to determine the activity of thermostable and thermolabile enterotoxins and endotoxin; the mentioned test was particularly useful in testing various preparations of enterotoxins obtained during their extraction and purification.
38525129 | Pathological changes in various organs in HLA-B*57:01 transgenic mice with abacavir-induced skin eruption. Several patients with cutaneous adverse drug reactions exhibit extracutaneous organ damages, and it becomes severe in a few patients resulting in death due to multiorgan failure. Understanding the sequential changes in various organs in patients with cutaneous eruption following drug administration will help understand disease onset and progression, aiding the development of prevention strategies and interventions. Therefore, we aimed to understand the effects of abacavir (ABC) on various organs in patients with ABC-induced eruptions by evaluating its effects in a mouse model. We found pathological changes in various organs of HLA-B*57:01 transgenic mice (B*57:01-Tg) following oral administration of ABC (20 mg/body/day). B*57:01-Tg exhibited a significant body weight decrease from day 1 of ABC administration, and reddening of the auricle was observed from day 5, and approximately 2/3 mice died by day 7. Histopathological examination revealed severe thymic atrophy after day 3, infiltration of inflammatory cells, predominantly lymphocytes with neutrophils, not only in the skin but also in the liver, kidney, and lung after day 5, and an increased number of lymphocytes with enlarged nuclei and granulocytic hematopoiesis were observed in the spleen after day 5. Blood chemistry revealed that albumin/globulin ratio was below 1.0 on day 5, reflecting a systemic inflammatory response, and the aspartate aminotransferase concentration rose to 193 +- 93.0 U/L on day 7, suggesting that cell damage may have occurred in various organs including liver accompanying inflammatory cell infiltration. These examinations of a mouse model of ABC-induced skin eruption show that disorders in various organs other than the skin should be considered and provide insights into the unexpected early systemic responses dependent on HLA-B*57:01. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43188-023-00220-1.
29305435 | An Immunotherapeutic CD137 Agonist Releases Eomesodermin from ThPOK Repression in CD4 T Cells. Agonists to the TNF/TNFR costimulatory receptors CD134 (OX40) and CD137 (4-1BB) elicit antitumor immunity. Dual costimulation with anti-CD134 plus anti-CD137 is particularly potent because it programs cytotoxic potential in CD8+ and CD4+ T cells. Cytotoxicity in dual-costimulated CD4 T cells depends on the T-box transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes), which we report is induced via a mechanism that does not rely on IL-2, in contrast to CD8+ CTL, but rather depends on the CD8 T cell lineage commitment transcription factor Runx3, which supports Eomes expression in mature CD8+ CTLs. Further, Eomes and Runx3 were indispensable for dual-costimulated CD4 T cells to mediate antitumor activity in an aggressive melanoma model. Runx3 is also known to be expressed in standard CD4 Th1 cells where it fosters IFN-gamma expression; however, the CD4 T cell lineage commitment factor ThPOK represses transcription of Eomes and other CD8 lineage genes, such as Cd8a Hence, CD4 T cells can differentiate into Eomes+ cytotoxic CD4+CD8+ double-positive T cells by terminating ThPOK expression. In contrast, dual-costimulated CD4 T cells express Eomes, despite the continued expression of ThPOK and the absence of CD8alpha, indicating that Eomes is selectively released from ThPOK repression. Finally, although Eomes was induced by CD137 agonist, but not CD134 agonist, administered individually, CD137 agonist failed to induce CD134-/- CD4 T cells to express Eomes or Runx3, indicating that both costimulatory pathways are required for cytotoxic Th1 programming, even when only CD137 is intentionally engaged with a therapeutic agonist.
30097855 | Candidate susceptibility variants in angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma. Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) is a subtype of peripheral T-cell lymphoma with a poor prognosis: the 5-year survival rate is approximately 30%. Somatic driver mutations have been found in TET2, IDH2, DNMT3A, RHOA, FYN, PLCG1, and CD28, whereas germline susceptibility to AITL has to our knowledge not been studied. The homogenous Finnish population is well suited for studies on genetic predisposition. Here, we performed an exome-wide rare variant analysis in 23 AITL patients. No germline mutations were found in the driver genes, implying that they are not frequently involved in genetic AITL predisposition. Potentially pathogenic variants present in at least two patients and showing significant (p < 0.01) enrichment in our sample set were found in ten genes: POLK, PRKCB, ZNF676, PRRC2B, PCDHGB6, GNL3L, TTC36, OTOG, OSGEPL1, and RASSF9. The most significantly enriched variants, causing p.Lys469Ter in a splice variant of POLK and p.Pro588His in PRKCB, are intriguing candidates as Polk deficient mice display a spontaneous mutator phenotype, whereas PRKCB was recently shown to be somatically mutated in 33% of another peripheral T-cell lymphoma, adult T-cell lymphoma. If validated, our findings would provide new insight into the pathogenesis of AITL, as well as tools for early detection in susceptible individuals.
12009566 | Positive and negative regulation of pathogen induced dendritic cell function by G-protein coupled receptors. The induction of IL-12 from dendritic cells (DC) is a major initiating step in host resistance to intracellular pathogens. We have studied the regulation of this response using an in vivo model in which IL-12 production by splenic CD8alpha+ DC is followed after injection of a soluble extract (STAg) of the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. Our findings indicate that the potent IL-12 response observed is highly dependent on both the chemokine receptor CCR5 and G(i)-protein coupled signaling. In addition, we have examined the basis of the unresponsiveness of DC to secondary STAg injection which occurs following primary exposure to this parasite stimulus. Our results demonstrate that this refractory state correlates with the down-regulation of CCR5 expression on DC which, in turn, appears to depend on the induction of endogenous lipoxin A(4) (LXA(4)), a product of arachidonic acid metabolism. Since LXA(4) is known to also signal through a G-protein coupled receptor pathway, these findings taken together support a major role for G-protein signaling in the regulation of microbial-induced DC function.
37430060 | ALK peptide vaccination restores the immunogenicity of ALK-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer. Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is treated with ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), but the lack of activity of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) is poorly understood. Here, we identified immunogenic ALK peptides to show that ICIs induced rejection of ALK+ tumors in the flank but not in the lung. A single-peptide vaccination restored priming of ALK-specific CD8+ T cells, eradicated lung tumors in combination with ALK TKIs and prevented metastatic dissemination of tumors to the brain. The poor response of ALK+ NSCLC to ICIs was due to ineffective CD8+ T cell priming against ALK antigens and is circumvented through specific vaccination. Finally, we identified human ALK peptides displayed by HLA-A*02:01 and HLA-B*07:02 molecules. These peptides were immunogenic in HLA-transgenic mice and were recognized by CD8+ T cells from individuals with NSCLC, paving the way for the development of a clinical vaccine to treat ALK+ NSCLC.
7868393 | Synthesis and biological activity of novel cephalosporins containing a (Z)-vinyl dimethylphosphonate group. A series of cephalosporins containing a novel 7-[2-(Z)-(2-amino-thiazol-4- yl)-3-(dimethoxy-phosphoryl)-acryloylamino] group were prepared and their antibacterial activity measured against a range of pathogens. In general the compounds displayed a broad spectrum of activity against both Gram positive and Gram negative organisms, except Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Activity against the latter could be achieved by introducing a catechol moiety at the 3 position of the cephalosporin. The methyl phosphonates in general were stable to a wide range of beta-lactamases, including the TEM enzymes and the Enterobacter cloacae P99 chromosomal enzyme. In addition, they showed the advantage of being highly water soluble.
18672801 | [Genetic diversity of the house mouse Mus musculus and geographic distribution of its subspecies-specific RAPD markers on the territory of Russia]. Genetic diversity and geographic distribution of taxon-specific RAPD markers was examined in ten local populations of the house mouse Mus musculus (n = 42). The house mice were generally characterized by moderate genetic variation: polymorphism P99 = 60%, P95 = 32.57%; heterozygosity H = 0.12; the observed allele number n(a) = 1.6; the effective allele number n(e) = 1.18; the within-population differentiation Theta = 0.388; and Shannon index I = 0.19. The degree of genetic isolation of individual local populations was greatly variable. The genetic subdivision index G(st) varied from 0.162 to 0.770 at the gene flow of Nm = 2.58-0.149, while the among-population distances D(N) varied from 0.026 to 0.178. of the largest part of the genetic diversity was found among the populations (H(T) = 0.125), while the within-population diversity was twice lower (H(S) = 0.06). The samples examined were well discriminated relative to the sets of RAPD markers. The character distribution pattern provided conditional subdivision of the mice into the \western\ and the \eastern\ groups with the putative boarder along the Baikal Lake. The first group was characterized by the prevalence of the markers typical of M. m. musculus and M. m. domesticus. The second group was characterized by the prevalence of the markers typical of M. m. musculus, M. m. gansuensis, M. m. castaneus, M. m. domesticus, and m. m. wagneri. The genotype of the nominative subspecies M. m. musculus was background for all populations. In the populations examined some of earlier described subspecies-specific molecular markers were found at different frequencies, pointing to the involvement of several subspecies of M. musculus in the process of hybridization.
38629729 | Characterisation of the novel HLA-B*58:02:04 allele by next-generation sequencing. HLA-B*58:02:04 differs from HLA-B*58:02:01 by one synonymous nucleotide in codon 215 in exon 4.
1901403 | [RU 51807 (cefpodoxime proxetil). In vitro and in vivo antibacterial activity of a new orally administered active cephalosporin]. Cefpodoxime proxetil (RU 51807) is an enterally absorbed ester prodrug which is rapidly cleaved in vivo after oral administration, with release of the active free acid metabolite cefpodoxime. The in vitro antibacterial activity of the sodium salt of cefpodoxime (RU 51746) against approximately 800 clinical isolates was evaluated comparatively with other orally active beta-lactams. RU 51746 was found to be active against enterobacteria normally susceptible to third generation cephalosporins, with MIC50 values ranging from 0.02 mg/l (Providencia sp) to 5 mg/l (C. freundii). RU 51746 was also active against H. influenzae, including beta-lactamase producing strains (MIC50 0.04 mg/l), oxa-S S. aureus (2,5), beta-hemolytic streptococci (0.05) and S. pneumoniae (0.002). Oxa-R staphylococci and P. aeruginosa were resistant to RU 51746 (MIC50 greater than 40 mg/l for both organisms). The antibacterial activity of RU 51746 was bactericidal in nature and independent from test conditions. The molecule was stable to all the beta-lactamases studied, with the exception of cefuroximase (type Ic). RU 51746 exhibited no strong inhibitory effects on these enzymes, except with Enterobacter P99 (type Ia). A good correlation was found between in vivo activity of RU 51807 and in vitro activity of RU 51746. Cefpodoxime proxetil was found to be more effective than cefaclor in mice with experimental septicemia caused by various streptococci, with a DP50 ratio in the 10-100 range. This advantage was again evidenced for septicemias due to various enterobacteria. In contrast, cefaclor proved more effective in experimental staphylococcus infections. In mice with experimental pneumonia, cefpodoxime proxetil caused sharp falls in K. pneumoniae lung counts. Six days after induction of the infection, 60% of animals under cefpodoxime proxetil had sterile lungs, versus 25% of animals under amoxicillin.
23355737 | CD8alpha+ dendritic cell trans presentation of IL-15 to naive CD8+ T cells produces antigen-inexperienced T cells in the periphery with memory phenotype and function. Various populations of memory phenotype CD8(+) T cells have been described over the last 15-20 y, all of which possess elevated effector functions relative to naive phenotype cells. Using a technique for isolating Ag-specific cells from unprimed hosts, we recently identified a new subset of cells, specific for nominal Ag, but phenotypically and functionally similar to memory cells arising as a result of homeostatic proliferation. We show in this study that these virtual memory (VM) cells are independent of previously identified innate memory cells, arising as a result of their response to IL-15 trans presentation by lymphoid tissue-resident CD8alpha(+) dendritic cells in the periphery. The absence of IL-15, CD8(+) T cell expression of either CD122 or eomesodermin or of CD8a(+) dendritic cells all lead to the loss of VM cells in the host. Our results show that CD8(+) T cell homeostatic expansion is an active process within the nonlymphopenic environment, is mediated by IL-15, and produces Ag-inexperienced memory cells that retain the capacity to respond to nominal Ag with memory-like function. Preferential engagement of these VM T cells into a vaccine response could dramatically enhance the rate by which immune protection develops.
38454413 | TMEM160 promotes tumor immune evasion and radiotherapy resistance via PD-L1 binding in colorectal cancer. BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of anti-programmed cell death protein 1(PD-1)/programmed cell death 1 ligand 1(PD-L1) therapy in treating certain types of cancer is associated with the level of PD-L1. However, this relationship has not been observed in colorectal cancer (CRC), and the underlying regulatory mechanism of PD-L1 in CRC remains unclear. METHODS: Binding of TMEM160 to PD-L1 was determined by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and GST pull-down assay.The ubiquitination levels of PD-L1 were verified using the ubiquitination assay. Phenotypic experiments were conducted to assess the role of TMEM160 in CRC cells. Animal models were employed to investigate how TMEM160 contributes to tumor growth.The expression and clinical significance of TMEM160 and PD-L1 in CRC tissues were evaluated by immunohistochemistry(IHC). RESULTS: In our study, we made a discovery that TMEM160 interacts with PD-L1 and plays a role in stabilizing its expression within a CRC model. Furthermore, we demonstrated that TMEM160 hinders the ubiquitination-dependent degradation of PD-L1 by competing with SPOP for binding to PD-L1 in CRC cells. Regarding functionality, the absence of TMEM160 significantly inhibited the proliferation, invasion, metastasis, clonogenicity, and radioresistance of CRC cells, while simultaneously enhancing the cytotoxic effect of CD8 + T cells on tumor cells. Conversely, the upregulation of TMEM160 substantially increased these capabilities. In severely immunodeficient mice, tumor growth derived from lentiviral vector shTMEM160 cells was lower compared with that derived from shNC control cells. Furthermore, the downregulation of TMEM160 significantly restricted tumor growth in immune-competent BALB/c mice. In clinical samples from patients with CRC, we observed a strong positive correlation between TMEM160 expression and PD-L1 expression, as well as a negative correlation with CD8A expression. Importantly, patients with high TMEM160 expression exhibited a worse prognosis compared with those with low or no TMEM160 expression. CONCLUSIONS: Our study reveals that TMEM160 inhibits the ubiquitination-dependent degradation of PD-L1 that is mediated by SPOP, thereby stabilizing PD-L1 expression to foster the malignant progress, radioresistance, and immune evasion of CRC cells. These findings suggest that TMEM160 holds potential as a target for the treatment of patients with CRC.
38329228 | Higher CCR5 density on CD4 + T cells in mothers and infants is associated with increased risk of in-utero HIV-1 transmission. OBJECTIVE: CCR5-tropic viruses are preferentially transmitted during perinatal HIV-1 infection. CCR5 density on CD4 + T cells likely impacts susceptibility to HIV-1 infection. DESIGN: Fifty-two mother-infant dyads were enrolled. All mothers were living with HIV-1, 27 of the infants acquired HIV-1 in utero and 25 infants remained uninfected. METHODS: CCR5 density, together with frequencies of CD4 + and CD8 + T cells expressing immune activation (CCR5, ICOS and HLA-DR) and immune checkpoint (TIGIT and PD-1) markers, were measured in whole blood from the dyads close to delivery. RESULTS: Compared with mothers who did not transmit, mothers who transmitted HIV-1 had less exposure to ART during pregnancy ( P = 0.015) and higher plasma viral load close to delivery ( P = 0.0005). These mothers, additionally, had higher CCR5 density on CD4 + and CD8 + T cells and higher frequencies of CCR5, ICOS and TIGIT-expressing CD8 + T cells. Similarly, compared with infants without HIV-1, infants with HIV-1 had higher CCR5 density on CD4 + and CD8 + T cells and higher frequencies of CCR5, TIGIT, and PD-1-expressing CD4 + and CD8 + T cells as well as higher frequencies of HLA-DR-expressing CD8 + T cells. CCR5 density on maternal CD4 + T cells remained significantly associated with transmission after adjusting for maternal viral load and CD4 + T cell counts. Mother-infant dyads with shared high CCR5 density phenotypes had the highest risk of transmission/acquisition of infection compared with dyads with shared low-CCR5 density phenotypes. CONCLUSION: This study provides strong evidence of a protective role for a combined mother-infant low CD4 + T-cell CCR5 density phenotype in in-utero transmission/acquisition of HIV-1.
26563160 | Recurrent Respiratory Infections Revealing CD8alpha Deficiency. CD8A encodes the CD8alpha chain of the dimeric CD8 protein, a critical coreceptor of cytotoxic T cells. We report here the comprehensive immunological evaluation of a child with a CD8A missense mutation, providing evidence that CD8 deficiency increases susceptibility to recurrent respiratory infections without interfering with the TCR-mediated proliferation of T cells. These observations expand the known phenotypes associated with CD8 deficiency.
35906236 | Mouse fetal growth restriction through parental and fetal immune gene variation and intercellular communications cascade. Fetal growth restriction (FGR) affects 5-10% of pregnancies, and can have serious consequences for both mother and child. Prevention and treatment are limited because FGR pathogenesis is poorly understood. Genetic studies implicate KIR and HLA genes in FGR, however, linkage disequilibrium, genetic influence from both parents, and challenges with investigating human pregnancies make the risk alleles and their functional effects difficult to map. Here, we demonstrate that the interaction between the maternal KIR2DL1, expressed on uterine natural killer (NK) cells, and the paternally inherited HLA-C*0501, expressed on fetal trophoblast cells, leads to FGR in a humanized mouse model. We show that the KIR2DL1 and C*0501 interaction leads to pathogenic uterine arterial remodeling and modulation of uterine NK cell function. This initial effect cascades to altered transcriptional expression and intercellular communication at the maternal-fetal interface. These findings provide mechanistic insight into specific FGR risk alleles, and provide avenues of prevention and treatment.
38299866 | SHIV-C109p5 NHP induces rapid disease progression in elderly macaques with extensive GI viral replication. CCR5-tropic simian/human immunodeficiency viruses (SHIV) with clade C transmitted/founder envelopes represent a critical tool for the investigation of HIV experimental vaccines and microbicides in nonhuman primates, although many such isolates lead to spontaneous viral control post infection. Here, we generated a high-titer stock of pathogenic SHIV-C109p5 by serial passage in two rhesus macaques (RM) and tested its virulence in aged monkeys. The co-receptor usage was confirmed before infecting five geriatric rhesus macaques (four female and one male). Plasma viral loads were monitored by reverse transcriptase-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), cytokines by multiplex analysis, and biomarkers of gastrointestinal damage by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Antibodies and cell-mediated responses were also measured. Viral dissemination into tissues was determined by RNAscope. Intravenous SHIV-C109p5 infection of aged RMs leads to high plasma viremia and rapid disease progression; rapid decrease in CD4+ T cells, CD4+CD8+ T cells, and plasmacytoid dendritic cells; and wasting necessitating euthanasia between 3 and 12 weeks post infection. Virus-specific cellular immune responses were detected only in the two monkeys that survived 4 weeks post infection. These were Gag-specific TNFalpha+CD8+, MIP1beta+CD4+, Env-specific IFN-gamma+CD4+, and CD107a+ T cell responses. Four out of five monkeys had elevated intestinal fatty acid binding protein levels at the viral peak, while regenerating islet-derived protein 3alpha showed marked increases at later time points in the three animals surviving the longest, suggesting gut antimicrobial peptide production in response to microbial translocation post infection. Plasma levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, interleukin-15, and interleukin-12/23 were also elevated. Viral replication in gut and secondary lymphoid tissues was extensive.IMPORTANCESimian/human immunodeficiency viruses (SHIV) are important reagents to study prevention of virus acquisition in nonhuman primate models of HIV infection, especially those representing transmitted/founder (T/F) viruses. However, many R5-tropic SHIV have limited fitness in vivo leading to many monkeys spontaneously controlling the virus post acute infection. Here, we report the generation of a pathogenic SHIV clade C T/F stock by in vivo passage leading to sustained viral load set points, a necessity to study pathogenicity. Unexpectedly, administration of this SHIV to elderly rhesus macaques led to extensive viral replication and fast disease progression, despite maintenance of a strict R5 tropism. Such age-dependent rapid disease progression had previously been reported for simian immunodeficiency virus but not for R5-tropic SHIV infections.
25828836 | Editorial: Crossing the divide: a novel Cd8 enhancer with activity in CTLs and CD8alphaalpha+ dendritic cells.
2896072 | Interactions between the Thy-1 and T-cell antigen receptor pathways in the activation of cytotoxic T cells: evidence from synergistic effects, loss variants, and anti-CD8 antibody-mediated inhibition. The relationship between activation of cytolytic T-lymphocyte (CTL) clones via the T-cell receptor (Ti) or the Thy-1 molecule was investigated. Anti-Ti and anti-Thy-1 monoclonal antibodies (mAb) can activate CTL clones to secrete interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Suboptimal doses of anti-Ti and anti-Thy-1 mAb, as well as suboptimal doses of two different anti-Thy-1 mAb, can synergize to activate T-cell clones. The addition of phorbol myristic acetate (PMA), which is not stimulatory by itself, can enhance the synergistic effect of mAb on IFN-gamma production. Although the Ti and Thy-1 molecules were not found associated at the cell surface, the results presented here indicate that these molecules are functionally associated. Use of Ti loss variants of a CTL clone confirms that Thy-1-mediated signaling is not an alternative to, but is dependent on the Ti-mediated activation pathway. Additionally, use of anti-Lyt-2/3 mAb, previously described as interfering with class I MHC-Ti binding and/or activation and, in some cases, with anti-Ti-mediated activation revealed that anti-Thy-1 mAb-mediated activation was also greatly reduced by the presence of Lyt-2/3-specific mAb. Thus the interaction between Thy-1 and Ti might also involve Lyt-2 (Lyt-3) molecules.
37963636 | Systemic infusion of TLR3-ligand and IFN-alpha in patients with breast cancer reprograms local tumor microenvironments for selective CTL influx. BACKGROUND: Presence of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) in the tumor microenvironment (TME) predicts the effectiveness of cancer immunotherapies. The ability of toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) ligands, interferons (IFNs) and COX2 inhibitors to synergistically induce CTL-attracting chemokines (but not regulatory T cell (Treg)-attractants) in the TME, but not in healthy tissues, observed in our preclinical studies, suggested that their systemic application can reprogram local TMEs. METHODS: Six evaluable patients (33-69 years) with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer received six doses of systemic chemokine-modulating (CKM) regimen composed of TLR3 ligand (rintatolimod; 200 mg; intravenous), IFN-alpha2b (20 MU/m2; intravenous) and COX2 inhibitor (celecoxib; 2x200 mg; oral) over 2 weeks. The predetermined primary endpoint was the intratumoral change in the expression of CTL marker, CD8alpha, in the post-CKM versus pre-CKM tumor biopsies. Patients received follow-up pembrolizumab (200 mg, intravenously, every 3 weeks), starting 3-8 days after completion of CKM. RESULTS: Post-CKM biopsies showed selectively increased CTL markers CD8alpha (average 10.2-fold, median 5.5-fold, p=0.034) and granzyme B (GZMB; 6.1-fold, median 5.8-fold, p=0.02), but not FOXP3 (Treg marker) relative to HPRT1 expression, resulting in the increases in average CD8alpha/FOXP3 ratio and GZMB/FOXP3 ratio. CKM increased intratumoral CTL-attractants CCL5 and CXCL10, but not Treg-attractants CCL22 or CXCL12. In contrast, CD8+ T cells and their CXCR3+ subset showed transient decreases in blood. One clinical response (breast tumor autoamputation) and three stable diseases were observed. The patient with clinical response remains disease free, with a follow-up of 46 months as of data cut-off. CONCLUSIONS: Short-term systemic CKM selectively increases CTL numbers and CTL/Treg ratios in the TME, while transiently decreasing CTL numbers in the blood. Transient effects of CKM suggest that its simultaneous application with checkpoint blockade and other forms of immunotherapy may be needed for optimal outcomes.
29289740 | Sequence-based HLA-A, B, C, DP, DQ, and DR typing of 714 adults from Colombo, Sri Lanka. DNA sequence-based typing at the HLA-A, -B, -C, -DPB1, -DQA1, -DQB1, and -DRB1 loci was performed on 714 healthy adult blood bank donors from Colombo, Sri Lanka, to characterize allele frequencies in support of studies on T cell immunity against pathogens, including Dengue virus. Deviations from Hardy Weinberg proportions were not detected at any locus. Several alleles were found in >30% of individuals, including the class II alleles DPB1 * 04:01, DPB1 * 02:01, DQB1 * 06:01 and DRB1 * 07:01, and the class I alleles A * 33:03 and A * 24:02. Genotype data will be available in the Allele Frequencies Net Database.
22068125 | Natural recovery from antiglomerular basement membrane glomerulonephritis is associated with glomeruli-infiltrating CD8alpha+CD11c+MHC class II+ cells. BACKGROUND/AIMS: In an antiglomerular basement membrane glomerulonephritis (GN) model, GN-resistant Lewis (LEW) rats naturally recover from early glomerular inflammation (days 21-23). We have previously identified a glomeruli-infiltrating CD8alpha(+)CD11(high)MHC II(+) cell (GIL CD8alpha(+) cell) in GN-prone Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats, which terminates glomerular inflammation through inducing T cell apoptosis prior to glomerular fibrosis at days 35-40. We investigated if GIL CD8alpha(+) cells were also associated with the recovery in LEW rats. METHODS: GIL CD8alpha(+) cells in LEW rats were characterized; their infiltration was observed in connection with T cell apoptosis in glomeruli. RESULTS: An influx of GIL CD8alpha(+) cells into inflamed glomeruli was confirmed in the immunized LEW rats at days 17-22, which was much earlier than days 28-35 in WKY rats. Notably, LEW rats had a GIL CD8alpha(+)CD11(high) subpopulation after day 17, while WKY rats lacked this population until after day 30. Analyses further revealed a large number of clustered apoptotic CD4(+) or CD3(+) T cells in the glomeruli during recovery (day 23) in LEW rats, as compared to day 35 (transition to fibrosis) in WKY rats. Thus, infiltration of GIL CD8alpha(+) cells coincided with decline of glomerular inflammation and T cell apoptosis during recovery in LEW rats. Isolated GIL CD8alpha(+) cells were able to infiltrate glomeruli in both WKY and LEW rats at day 20. CONCLUSION: Our data revealed a strong association between GIL CD8a+ cells and recovery from early glomerular inflammation. It raises a possibility of involvement of GIL CD8a+ cells in the recovery.
36319065 | Adaptive single-KIR+NKG2C+ NK cells expanded from select superdonors show potent missing-self reactivity and efficiently control HLA-mismatched acute myeloid leukemia. BACKGROUND: Natural killer (NK) cells hold great promise as a source for allogeneic cell therapy against hematological malignancies, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Current treatments are hampered by variability in NK cell subset responses, a limitation which could be circumvented by specific expansion of highly potent single killer immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR)+NKG2C+ adaptive NK cells to maximize missing-self reactivity. METHODS: We developed a GMP-compliant protocol to expand adaptive NK cells from cryopreserved cells derived from select third-party superdonors, that is, donors harboring large adaptive NK cell subsets with desired KIR specificities at baseline. We studied the adaptive state of the cell product (ADAPT-NK) by flow cytometry and mass cytometry as well as cellular indexing of transcriptomes and epitopes by sequencing (CITE-Seq). We investigated the functional responses of ADAPT-NK cells against a wide range of tumor target cell lines and primary AML samples using flow cytometry and IncuCyte as well as in a mouse model of AML. RESULTS: ADAPT-NK cells were >90% pure with a homogeneous expression of a single self-HLA specific KIR and expanded a median of 470-fold. The ADAPT-NK cells largely retained their adaptive transcriptional signature with activation of effector programs without signs of exhaustion. ADAPT-NK cells showed high degranulation capacity and efficient killing of HLA-C/KIR mismatched tumor cell lines as well as primary leukemic blasts from AML patients. Finally, the expanded adaptive NK cells had preserved robust antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity potential and combination of ADAPT-NK cells with an anti-CD16/IL-15/anti-CD33 tri-specific engager led to near-complete killing of resistant CD45dim blast subtypes. CONCLUSIONS: These preclinical data demonstrate the feasibility of off-the-shelf therapy with a non-engineered, yet highly specific, NK cell population with full missing-self recognition capability.
31961065 | Identification of Cartilage Microbial DNA Signatures and Associations With Knee and Hip Osteoarthritis. OBJECTIVE: Alterations of the gut microbiota have been implicated in many forms of arthritis, but an examination of cartilage microbial patterns has not been performed. This study was undertaken to characterize the microbial DNA profile of articular cartilage and determine changes associated with osteoarthritis (OA). METHODS: We performed 16S ribosomal RNA gene deep sequencing on eroded and intact cartilage samples from knee OA patients (n = 21 eroded and 21 intact samples) and hip OA patients (n = 34 eroded and 33 intact samples) and cadaver controls (n = 10 knee samples and 10 hip samples). Microbial DNA diversity was assessed, groups were compared, and metagenomic profiles were reconstructed. Confirmation was performed in an independent cohort by clade-specific quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Findings in human cartilage were compared to those in cartilage from OA-susceptible C57BL/6 (B6) mice and OA-resistant MRL/MpJ (MRL) mice. Germ-free B6 mouse cartilage was analyzed as a methodologic control. RESULTS: Alpha diversity was reduced in human OA versus control samples (P < 0.0001), and in hip versus knee samples (P < 0.0001). Numerous clades were different in human OA versus control samples, and similar findings were noted in comparisons of murine B6 versus MRL mice. Hip samples were microbiologically distinct from knee samples. OA microbial DNA demonstrated increased gram-negative constituents (P = 0.02). Functional analysis demonstrated increases in lipopolysaccharide production (P = 9.9 x 10-3 ), phosphatidylinositol signaling (P = 4.2 x 10-4 ), and nitrogen metabolism (P = 8 x 10-3 ) and decreases in sphingolipid metabolism (P = 7.7 x 10-4 ) associated with OA. CONCLUSION: Our study reveals a microbial DNA signature in human and mouse cartilage. Alterations in this signature, including increases in gram-negative constituents, occur during the development and progression of human OA. Furthermore, our findings indicate that strain-specific signatures exist within mouse cartilage that mirror human patterns. Further study of the establishment and potential pathogenic role of these DNA signatures is needed.
25853812 | Mucosal-associated invariant T cell is a potential marker to distinguish fibromyalgia syndrome from arthritis. BACKGROUND: Fibromyalgia (FM) is defined as a widely distributed pain. While many rheumatologists and pain physicians have considered it to be a pain disorder, psychiatry, psychology, and general medicine have deemed it to be a syndrome (FMS) or psychosomatic disorder. The lack of concrete structural and/or pathological evidence has made patients suffer prejudice that FMS is a medically unexplained symptom, implying inauthenticity. Furthermore, FMS often exhibits comorbidity with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or spondyloarthritis (SpA), both of which show similar indications. In this study, disease specific biomarkers were sought in blood samples from patients to facilitate objective diagnoses of FMS, and distinguish it from RA and SpA. METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients and healthy donors (HD) were subjected to multicolor flow cytometric analysis. The percentage of mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells in PBMCs and the mean fluorescent intensity (MFI) of cell surface antigen expression in MAIT cells were analyzed. RESULTS: There was a decrease in the MAIT cell population in FMS, RA, and SpA compared with HD. Among the cell surface antigens in MAIT cells, three chemokine receptors, CCR4, CCR7, and CXCR1, a natural killer (NK) receptor, NKp80, a signaling lymphocyte associated molecule (SLAM) family, CD150, a degrunulation marker, CD107a, and a coreceptor, CD8beta emerged as potential biomarkers for FMS to distinguish from HD. Additionally, a memory marker, CD44 and an inflammatory chemokine receptor, CXCR1 appeared possible markers for RA, while a homeostatic chemokine receptor, CXCR4 deserved for SpA to differentiate from FMS. Furthermore, the drug treatment interruption resulted in alternation of the expression of CCR4, CCR5, CXCR4, CD27, CD28, inducible costimulatory molecule (ICOS), CD127 (IL-7 receptor alpha), CD94, NKp80, an activation marker, CD69, an integrin family member, CD49d, and a dipeptidase, CD26, in FMS. CONCLUSIONS: Combined with the currently available diagnostic procedures and criteria, analysis of MAIT cells offers a more objective standard for the diagnosis of FMS, RA, and SpA, which exhibit multifaceted and confusingly similar clinical manifestations.
25166904 | The gene expression profile of CD11c+ CD8alpha- dendritic cells in the pre-diabetic pancreas of the NOD mouse. Two major dendritic cell (DC) subsets have been described in the pancreas of mice: The CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs (strong CD4+ T cell proliferation inducers) and the CD8alpha+ CD103+ DCs (T cell apoptosis inducers). Here we analyzed the larger subset of CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs isolated from the pancreas of pre-diabetic NOD mice for genome-wide gene expression (validated by Q-PCR) to elucidate abnormalities in underlying gene expression networks. CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs were isolated from 5 week old NOD and control C57BL/6 pancreas. The steady state pancreatic NOD CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs showed a reduced expression of several gene networks important for the prime functions of these cells, i.e. for cell renewal, immune tolerance induction, migration and for the provision of growth factors including those for beta cell regeneration. A functional in vivo BrdU incorporation test showed the reduced proliferation of steady state pancreatic DC. The reduced expression of tolerance induction genes (CD200R, CCR5 and CD24) was supported on the protein level by flow cytometry. Also previously published functional tests on maturation, immune stimulation and migration confirm the molecular deficits of NOD steady state DC. Despite these deficiencies NOD pancreas CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs showed a hyperreactivity to LPS, which resulted in an enhanced pro-inflammatory state characterized by a gene profile of an enhanced expression of a number of classical inflammatory cytokines. The enhanced up-regulation of inflammatory genes was supported by the in vitro cytokine production profile of the DCs. In conclusion, our data show that NOD pancreatic CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs show various deficiencies in steady state, while hyperreactive when encountering a danger signal such as LPS.
38358555 | Concise review: The heterogenous roles of BATF3 in cancer oncogenesis and dendritic cells and T cells differentiation and function considering the importance of BATF3-dependent dendritic cells. The transcription factor, known as basic leucine zipper ATF-like 3 (BATF3), is a crucial contributor to the development of conventional type 1 dendritic cells (cDC1), which is definitely required for priming CD8 + T cell-mediated immunity against intracellular pathogens and malignancies. In this respect, BATF3-dependent cDC1 can bring about immunological tolerance, an autoimmune response, graft immunity, and defense against infectious agents such as viruses, microbes, parasites, and fungi. Moreover, the important function of cDC1 in stimulating CD8 + T cells creates an excellent opportunity to develop a highly effective target for vaccination against intracellular pathogens and diseases. BATF3 has been clarified to control the development of CD8alpha+ and CD103+ DCs. The presence of BATF3-dependent cDC1 in the tumor microenvironment (TME) reinforces immunosurveillance and improves immunotherapy approaches, which can be beneficial for cancer immunotherapy. Additionally, BATF3 acts as a transcriptional inhibitor of Treg development by decreasing the expression of the transcription factor FOXP3. However, when overexpressed in CD8 + T cells, it can enhance their survival and facilitate their transition to a memory state. BATF3 induces Th9 cell differentiation by binding to the IL-9 promoter through a BATF3/IRF4 complex. One of the latest research findings is the oncogenic function of BATF3, which has been approved and illustrated in several biological processes of proliferation and invasion.
23406874 | Resequencing and fine-mapping of the chromosome 12q13-14 locus associated with multiple sclerosis refines the number of implicated genes. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system. Susceptibility to the disease is affected by both environmental and genetic factors. Genetic factors include haplotypes in the histocompatibility complex (MHC) and over 50 non-MHC loci reported by genome-wide association studies. Amongst these, we previously reported polymorphisms in chromosome 12q13-14 with a protective effect in individuals of European descent. This locus spans 288 kb and contains 17 genes, including several candidate genes which have potentially significant pathogenic and therapeutic implications. In this study, we aimed to fine-map this locus. We have implemented a two-phase study: a variant discovery phase where we have used next-generation sequencing and two target-enrichment strategies [long-range polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Nimblegen's solution phase hybridization capture] in pools of 25 samples; and a genotyping phase where we genotyped 712 variants in 3577 healthy controls and 3269 MS patients. This study confirmed the association (rs2069502, P = 9.9 x 10(-11), OR = 0.787) and narrowed down the locus of association to an 86.5 kb region. Although the study was unable to pinpoint the key-associated variant, we have identified a 42 (genotyped and imputed) single-nucleotide polymorphism haplotype block likely to harbour the causal variant. No evidence of association at previously reported low-frequency variants in CYP27B1 was observed. As part of the study we compared variant discovery performance using two target-enrichment strategies. We concluded that our pools enriched with Nimblegen's solution phase hybridization capture had better sensitivity to detect true variants than the pools enriched with long-range PCR, whilst specificity was better in the long-range PCR-enriched pools compared with solution phase hybridization capture enriched pools; this result has important implications for the design of future fine-mapping studies.
22896631 | Cutting edge: intravascular staining redefines lung CD8 T cell responses. Nonlymphoid T cell populations control local infections and contribute to inflammatory diseases, thus driving efforts to understand the regulation of their migration, differentiation, and maintenance. Numerous observations indicate that T cell trafficking and differentiation within the lung are starkly different from what has been described in most nonlymphoid tissues, including intestine and skin. After systemic infection, we found that >95% of memory CD8 T cells isolated from mouse lung via standard methods were actually confined to the pulmonary vasculature, despite perfusion. A respiratory route of challenge increased virus-specific T cell localization within lung tissue, although only transiently. Removing blood-borne cells from analysis by the simple technique of intravascular staining revealed distinct phenotypic signatures and chemokine-dependent trafficking restricted to Ag-experienced T cells. These results precipitate a revised model for pulmonary T cell trafficking and differentiation and a re-evaluation of studies examining the contributions of pulmonary T cells to protection and disease.
21937852 | Effect of Peucedanum japonicum Thunb on the expression of obesity-related genes in mice on a high-fat diet. The present study describes the effect of Peucedanum japonicum Thunb (PJT) intake on the expression of obesity-related genes in mice fed a high-fat diet. To explore the mechanism underlying the effect of PJT, This study focused on the expression of genes, especially those related to obesity and metabolism syndrome, in the liver and adipose tissues. In agreement with our previous observations, intake of 10 % PJT for 4 weeks significantly reduced serum triglyceride (TG), leptin, abdominal fat, and adipocyte size. PJT also significantly increased fecal excretion of TG, decreased that of bile acid, and tended to increase the fecal excretion of total cholesterol. Microarray analysis was used to monitor changes in 324 metabolic syndrome-related genes in the liver. Statistically significant upregulation of PPP1R10, RORC, and PBEF1 genes and downregulation of DUSP1, INSIG2, and SERPINA12 genes were noted and confirmed by real-time RT-PCR. These changes were indicative of increased fatty acid oxidation in the maintenance of lipid homeostasis and insulin sensitivity in the livers of PJT-fed mice. PJT increased the expression of PPARgamma, FXRalpha, DGAT1, and ATGL genes, suggesting an enhancement of adipocyte differentiation and normalization of functionality of adipose tissue.
38450869 | Discovery of the novel HLA-B*47:01:01:07 allele in a Greek volunteer bone marrow donor. HLA-B*47:01:01:07 differs from the HLA-B*47:01:01:03 allele by one nucleotide deletion in the 3'UTR.
22006066 | HLA associations reveal genetic heterogeneity in psoriatic arthritis and in the psoriasis phenotype. OBJECTIVE: Rigorously ascertained cases of psoriatic arthritis in subjects presenting to a rheumatology unit were compared with cases of psoriasis in subjects presenting to a dermatology unit, where subjects with musculoskeletal features were excluded, to address 1) the extent to which the contribution of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) to psoriatic arthritis susceptibility resembles that in psoriasis, and 2) whether MHC genes determine quantitative traits within the psoriatic arthritis phenotype. METHODS: Separate discovery and validation subcohorts of patients recruited from a relatively homogeneous population were studied by sequence-based HLA typing, in which frequencies of the HLA-B and HLA-C alleles and haplotypes were compared. RESULTS: In patients with psoriatic arthritis, the frequency of C*06:02 was lower than that in patients with psoriasis (28.7% versus 57.5%; P = 9.9 x 10(-12) ). Three haplotypes containing B*27:05 or B*39:01 were significantly increased in frequency in patients with psoriatic arthritis, but not in those with psoriasis. The structurally related B*39:06 allele was not increased in frequency. B*27 was associated with an interval of 0.98 years between skin and musculoskeletal disease (P = 2.05 x 10(-6) ), compared with an interval of 10.14 years for C*06. Preliminary evidence suggested that B*38:01 and B*08 may be associated with psoriatic arthritis susceptibility, and that allotypes encoding P2 pockets that bind side chains opposite in charge from those encoded by the B*27 and B*39 molecules may exert a protective role. CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the psoriasis phenotype results from two patterns of MHC effect. The first involves the classic psoriasis susceptibility gene C*06, which confers more penetrant skin disease with less prevalent and more time-dependent musculoskeletal phenotype development. The second pattern appears to be mediated by HLA-B alleles, notably B*27, and includes temporally more coincident musculoskeletal involvement that is nearly equivalent in penetrance to that of the skin disease.
38628599 | HLA-B*57:01-dependent intracellular stress in keratinocytes triggers dermal hypersensitivity reactions to abacavir. Specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) polymorphisms combined with certain drug administration strongly correlate with skin eruption. Abacavir hypersensitivity (AHS), which is strongly associated with HLA-B*57:01, is one of the most representative examples. Conventionally, HLA transmits immunological signals via interactions with T cell receptors on the cell surface. This study focused on HLA-mediated intracellular reactions in keratinocytes that might determine the onset of skin immunotoxicity by drug treatments. Abacavir exposure resulted in keratinocytes expressing HLA-B*57:01 exhibiting endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress responses, such as immediate calcium release into the cytosol and enhanced HSP70 expression. In contrast, keratinocytes expressing HLA-B*57:03 (closely related to HLA-B*57:01) did not show these changes. This indicated that HLA-B*57:01 has a specific intracellular response to abacavir in keratinocytes in the absence of lymphocytes. Furthermore, abacavir exposure in HLA-B*57:01-expressing keratinocytes elevated the expression of cytokines/chemokines such as interferon-gamma, interleukin-1beta, and CCL27, and induced T lymphoblast migration. These effects were suppressed by ER stress relief using 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PB). HLA-B*57:01-transgenic mice also exhibited ER stress in epidermal areas following abacavir administration, and abacavir-induced skin toxicity was attenuated by the administration of 4-PB. Moreover, abacavir bound to HLA-B*57:01 within cells and its exposure led to HLA-B*57:01 protein aggregation and interaction with molecular chaperones in the ER of keratinocytes. Our results underscore the importance of HLA-mediated intracellular stress responses in understanding the onset of HLA-B*57:01-mediated AHS. We provide the possibility that the intracellular behavior of HLA is crucial for determining the onset of drug eruptions.
37888903 | SIX4 Controls anti-PD-1 Efficacy by Regulating STING Expression. The cGAS/STING cytosolic DNA sensing pathway plays a significant role in anti-tumor immunity. Expression of STING is tightly regulated and commonly reduced or defective in many types of cancer. We have identified SIX4 as a significant regulator of STING expression in colon cancer cells. We showed that knockout of SIX4 decreased STING expression at the mRNA and protein levels while ectopic expression of SIX4 increased STING expression. Depletion of SIX4 led to attenuated STING activation and downstream signaling. Re-expression of SIX4 or ectopic expression of STING in SIX4 knockout cells reversed the effect. Ectopic expression of SIX4 enhanced DMXAA and cGAMP-induced STING activation and downstream signaling. Importantly, decrease of SIX4 expression substantially decreased tumor infiltration of CD8+ T-cells and reduced the efficacy of PD-1 antibodies to diminish tumor growth in immune competent mice in vivo. Finally, analysis of TCGA colon cancer dataset indicated that tumors with high SIX4 expression were significantly enriched in the Inflammatory Response pathway. SIX4 expression also correlated with expression of multiple IFN-stimulated genes, inflammatory cytokines and CD8A. Taken together, our results implicate that SIX4 is a principal regulator of STING expression in colon cancer cells, providing an additional mechanism and genetic marker to predict effective immune checkpoint blockade therapy responses.
8509140 | Expansion of alpha beta T-cell receptor-bearing intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes after microbial colonization in germ-free mice and its independence from thymus. A large proportion of intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) comprises alpha beta and gamma delta T-cell receptor (TcR)-bearing T cells. The numbers of alpha beta and gamma delta IEL are reported to be very different between germ-free and conventional microbial conditions. In this study, we investigated the kinetics of both types of TcR-bearing cells after microbial colonization in germ-free mice and the influence of thymus deprivation on IEL populations during the microbial association process. Immediately after association with microbes in germ-free animals, the number of alpha beta TcR-bearing IEL gradually increased. Fourteen days after microbial association the number of alpha beta IEL equalled that of gamma delta TcR-bearing IEL. Approximately 1 month after microbial association, the number of alpha beta IEL was several times greater than that of gamma delta IEL, having almost reached the level in conventional mice reared in a conventional animal room after birth. On the other hand the number of gamma delta IEL hardly changed throughout this microbial association process. Two-colour analysis involving anti-alpha beta TcR and anti-Lyt-2 or Lyt-3 antibodies showed that the major fraction of IEL that increased after microbial association comprised alpha beta TcR-bearing T cells expressing CD8 antigen composed of a homodimer of alpha-chains, which was not detected in other gut associated-lymphoid tissues (GALT) such as Peyer's patch, mesenteric lymph node and lamina propria tissue. The number of alpha beta T cells in these GALT increased within 1 week more quickly than that of IEL. The increase in alpha beta IEL after microbial association was not prevented by thymectomy. These results strongly suggest that the progenitors of alpha beta TcR-bearing IEL expand outside the thymus in response to microbial colonization in germ-free mice.
31992596 | The murine CD94/NKG2 ligand, Qa-1b, is a high-affinity, functional ligand for the CD8alphaalpha homodimer. The immune co-receptor CD8 molecule (CD8) has two subunits, CD8alpha and CD8beta, which can assemble into homo or heterodimers. Nonclassical (class-Ib) major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules (MHC-Ibs) have recently been identified as ligands for the CD8alphaalpha homodimer. This was demonstrated by the observation that histocompatibility 2, Q region locus 10 (H2-Q10) is a high-affinity ligand for CD8alphaalpha which also binds the MHC-Ib molecule H2-TL. This suggests that MHC-Ib proteins may be an extended source of CD8alphaalpha ligands. Expression of H2-T3/TL and H2-Q10 is restricted to the small intestine and liver, respectively, yet CD8alphaalpha-containing lymphocytes are present more broadly. Therefore, here we sought to determine whether murine CD8alphaalpha binds only to tissue-specific MHC-Ib molecules or also to ubiquitously expressed MHC-Ib molecules. Using recombinant proteins and surface plasmon resonance-based binding assays, we show that the MHC-Ib family furnishes multiple binding partners for murine CD8alphaalpha, including H2-T22 and the CD94/NKG2-A/B-activating NK receptor (NKG2) ligand Qa-1b We also demonstrate a hierarchy among MHC-Ib proteins with respect to CD8alphaalpha binding, in which Qa-1b > H2-Q10 > TL. Finally, we provide evidence that Qa-1b is a functional ligand for CD8alphaalpha, distinguishing it from its human homologue MHC class I antigen E (HLA-E). These findings provide additional clues as to how CD8alphaalpha-expressing cells are controlled in different tissues. They also highlight an unexpected immunological divergence of Qa-1b/HLA-E function, indicating the need for more robust studies of murine MHC-Ib proteins as models for human disease.
35265090 | Transcriptome Profiling of Porcine Naive, Intermediate and Terminally Differentiated CD8+ T Cells. The pig has the potential to become a leading research model for human diseases, pharmacological and transplantation studies. Since there are many similarities between humans and pigs, especially concerning anatomy, physiology and metabolism, there is necessity for a better understanding of the porcine immune system. In adaptive immunity, cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) are essential for host defense. However, most data on CTLs come from studies in mice, non-human primates and humans, while detailed information about porcine CD8+ CTLs is still sparse. Aim of this study was to analyze transcriptomes of three subsets of porcine CD8beta+ T-cell subsets by using next-generation sequencing technology. Specifically, we described transcriptional profiles of subsets defined by their CD11a/CD27 expression pattern, postulated as naive (CD8beta+CD27+CD11alow), intermediate differentiated (CD8beta+CD27dimCD11a+), and terminally differentiated cells (CD8beta+CD27-CD11ahigh). Cells were analyzed in ex vivo condition as well as upon in vitro stimulation with concanavalin A (ConA) and PMA/ionomycin. Our analyses show that the highest number of differentially expressed genes was identified between naive and terminally differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets, underlining their difference in gene expression signature and respective differentiation stages. Moreover, genes related to early (IL7-R, CCR7, SELL, TCF7, LEF1, BACH2, SATB1, ZEB1 and BCL2) and late (KLRG1, TBX21, PRDM1, CX3CR1, ZEB2, ZNF683, BATF, EZH2 and ID2) stages of CD8+ T-cell differentiation were highly expressed in the naive and terminally differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets, respectively. Intermediate differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets shared a more comparable gene expression profile associated with later stages of T-cell differentiation. Genes associated with cytolytic activity (GNLY, PRF1, GZMB, FASL, IFNG and TNF) were highly expressed in terminally and intermediate differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets, while naive CD8+ T cells lacked expression even after in vitro stimulation. Overall, PMA/ionomycin stimulation induced much stronger upregulation of genes compared to stimulation with ConA. Taken together, we provided comprehensive results showing transcriptional profiles of three differentiation stages of porcine CD8+ T-cell subsets. In addition, our study provides a powerful toolbox for the identification of candidate markers to characterize porcine immune cell subsets in more detail.
15331395 | Evidence for negative association of the chemokine receptor CCR5 d32 polymorphism with rheumatoid arthritis. BACKGROUND: Ligands of chemokine receptor CCR5, including MIP-1 alpha, MIP-1 beta, and RANTES, have been implicated in rheumatoid arthritis. OBJECTIVE: To test whether CCR5 d32 polymorphism has a negative association with rheumatoid arthritis in a New Zealand cohort. METHODS: 516 white patients with rheumatoid arthritis and 985 healthy controls were investigated by PCR amplification of the region flanking the known CCR5 d32 deletion, and the frequencies of CCR5 d32 compared. An early rheumatoid arthritis (ERA) cohort of 92 patients was followed prospectively for two years; disease severity and outcome were correlated with CCR5 d32 status. RESULTS: 12 control subjects (1.2%) were homozygous for d32; no d32 homozygous rheumatoid patients were detected (p = 0.012); 56 patients (10.9%) were heterozygous for the d32 polymorphism (d32/wt), compared with 169 controls (17.2%) (p = 0.0011). The CCR5 d32 allele frequency was lower in the rheumatoid patients than in the controls (frequencies of 0.054 and 0.098, respectively; p = 3.7 x 10(-5)). The frequency of CCR5 d32 did not differ significantly according to disease severity or outcome in the prospective ERA cohort, nor with HLA-DRB1 status. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides further evidence for a protective effect of the CCR5 d32 variant on rheumatoid arthritis, consistent with a role for CCR5 and its ligands in disease pathogenesis.
34045231 | Oncolytic Vaccinia Virus Gene Modification and Cytokine Expression Effects on Tumor Infection, Immune Response, and Killing. Oncolytic vaccinia viruses have promising efficacy and safety profiles in cancer therapy. Although antitumor activity can be increased by manipulating viral genes, the relative efficacy of individual modifications has been difficult to assess without side-by-side comparisons. This study sought to compare the initial antitumor activity after intravenous administration of five vaccinia virus variants of the same Western Reserve backbone and thymidine kinase gene deletion in RIP-Tag2 transgenic mice with spontaneous pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Tumors had focal regions of infection at 5 days after all viruses. Natural killer (NK) cells were restricted to these sites of infection, but CD8+ T cells and tumor cell apoptosis were widespread and varied among the viruses. Antitumor activity of virus VV-A34, bearing amino acid substitution A34K151E to increase viral spreading, and virus VV-IL2v, expressing a mouse IL2 variant (mIL2v) with attenuated IL2 receptor alpha subunit binding, was similar to control virus VV-GFP. However, antitumor activity was significantly greater after virus VV-A34/IL2v, which expressed mIL2v together with A34K151E mutation and viral B18R gene deletion, and virus VV-GMCSF that expressed mouse GM-CSF. Both viruses greatly increased expression of CD8 antigens Cd8a/Cd8b1 and cytotoxicity genes granzyme A, granzyme B, Fas ligand, and perforin-1 in tumors. VV-A34/IL2v led to higher serum IL2 and greater tumor expression of death receptor ligand TRAIL, but VV-GMCSF led to higher serum GM-CSF, greater expression of leukocyte chemokines and adhesion molecules, and more neutrophil recruitment. Together, the results show that antitumor activity is similarly increased by viral expression of GM-CSF or IL2v combined with additional genetic modifications.
35783265 | Transcriptome Profiling and Network Analysis Provide Insights Into the Pathogenesis of Vulvar Lichen Sclerosus. Vulvar lichen sclerosus (VLS) is a chronic inflammatory dermatosis that affects female anogenital skin. Although VLS is considered a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease, the diagnosis criteria, molecular mechanism, and universally accepted therapies for this disease remain largely unresolved. To explore disease pathogenesis and potential biomarkers, we performed an RNA-Seq-based transcriptome analysis to profile the gene expression of VLS lesions. Differentially expressed gene (DEG) analysis revealed profound changes in expressions of coding genes, microRNAs, and long non-coding RNAs. Pathway and network analysis suggested that T cell activation-associated genes, including CD3G, CD3D, CD8B, LAT, LCK, ZAP70, CCR5, CXCR3, CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11, were highly expressed in VLS, while NR4A family genes (NR4A1, NR4A2, NR4A3), whose coding products inhibit T cell activity, were significantly downregulated, suggesting heightened T cell response in VLS. Neutrophil chemoattractant genes CXCL1, CXCL2, CXCL3, CXCL8, and their cognate receptor CXCR2 were downregulated, suggesting dampened neutrophil activity. We also found the downregulation of genes involved in cell cycle progression, including cyclins (CCNB1, CCNB2, CCNL1, CCNE1, and CCNK) and centrosome factors (CENPA, CENPE, CENPF, and CENPN), while microRNA-203a and let-7, microRNAs known to inhibit cell growth, were found to be upregulated. These data collectively indicate that cell proliferation in VLS is compromised. In sum, these findings comprehensively deciphered key regulatory genes and networks in VLS, which could further our understanding of disease mechanisms and point toward therapeutic strategies.
3928497 | The in vitro activity and beta-lactamase stability of cefpirome (HR 810), a pyridine cephalosporin agent active against staphylococci, Enterobacteriaceae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The in vitro activity of cefpirome, a new cyclopyridinium cephalosporin, was evaluated against 947 aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. Cefpirome inhibited 90% of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella spp., Citrobacter diversus, Morganella morganii, Proteus vulgaris, Proteus mirabilis, Aeromonas spp., Salmonella spp., Shigella spp. and Haemophilus and Neisseria species at less than or equal to 0.4 mg/l. It had activity comparable to that of cefotaxime, ceftizoxime, ceftazidime, aztreonam, and moxalactam against these species. Only a few Citrobacter freundii, Enterobacter spp. and Serratia marcescens had MICs above 3.1 mg/l. The activity of cefpirome against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, 90% MIC of 12.5 mg/l, was superior to piperacillin, moxalactam, cefotaxime and cefoperazone. The 90% MIC against Staphylococcus aureus was 0.8 mg/l, but methicillin-resistant staphylococci were not inhibited. Cefpirome was not significantly hydrolyzed by most plasmid beta-lactamases (TEM, SHV-1, PSE, OXA) nor by chromosomal enzymes (P99, Branhamella catarrhalis, K1). Cefpirome did not inhibit chromosomal or plasmid beta-lactamases. Mice systemically infected with E. coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, P. aeruginosa and S. aureus were protected by concentrations of cefpirome ranging from 0.85 mg/kg for K. pneumoniae to 4.467 mg/kg for P. aeruginosa.
38352315 | A general platform for targeting MHC-II antigens via a single loop. Class-II major histocompatibility complexes (MHC-IIs) are central to the communications between CD4+ T cells and antigen presenting cells (APCs), but intrinsic structural features associated with MHC-II make it difficult to develop a general targeting system with high affinity and antigen specificity. Here, we introduce a protein platform, Targeted Recognition of Antigen-MHC Complex Reporter for MHC-II (TRACeR-II), to enable the rapid development of peptide-specific MHC-II binders. TRACeR-II has a small helical bundle scaffold and uses an unconventional mechanism to recognize antigens via a single loop. This unique antigen-recognition mechanism renders this platform highly versatile and amenable to direct structural modeling of the interactions with the antigen. We demonstrate that TRACeR-II binders can be rapidly evolved across multiple alleles, while computational protein design can produce specific binding sequences for a SARS-CoV-2 peptide of unknown complex structure. TRACeR-II sheds light on a simple and straightforward approach to address the MHC peptide targeting challenge, without relying on combinatorial selection on complementarity determining region (CDR) loops. It presents a promising basis for further exploration in immune response modulation as well as a broad range of theragnostic applications.
8970716 | Summary of track A: basic science. AIM: To review Track A, which is organized into five broad areas of emphasis. TOOLS: A variety of new virologic tools are allowing researchers to more effectively evaluate many aspects of HIV, from various therapies and vaccine candidates to the recombination and international spread of genotypes. PATHOGENESIS: The recent understandings of HIV-1 pathogenesis have led to potential new treatment strategies of early aggressive treatment with combination drugs and the potential for biologic or immunologic therapy directed to blocking viral entry through second receptors. TREATMENT: HIV treatment focused on chemical/drug advances and treatment, and immunologic/genetic advances. Some areas of development include optimizing combination therapies using the oncology model; continued work on new preclinical compounds (e.g. integrase and tat/rev inhibitors); evaluation of viral reduction in all compartments; and resistance surveillance and prevention. Biologics, including fusin/CC-CKR5 inhibitors and CD8 HIV-1 suppressor factors, ex vivo expansion of T cells and in vivo expansion of effector CD8 cells continue to be developed as possible future treatments. VACCINES: In order to obtain worldwide control over HIV, we must have a universally effective vaccine. The question remains as to what specifically is required for a protective response. Mechanisms of CD8 suppression, and cellular and antibody correlates of protection were discussed as areas of research that may shed light on the critical protective immune response. GENOTYPES: Discussion of HIV genotypes focused on international subtypes, correlates of diversity, and HIV-1 recombination. Numerous groups have shown an international intermixing of HIV-1 strains. Recombination during transcription was found to lead to extensive genomic shift and increased diversity, which may also increase HIV-1 fitness and enhance transmission. CONCLUSIONS: The spread and adaptation of HIV-1 is occurring independently of borders. Therefore, HIV-1 research must be global; vaccine development must be international in concept and application; collaboration in all areas is essential for success in combating HIV; and finally, the challenge for the future will be to actively involve all basic scientists in the science of the international epidemics.
34016721 | Peptide: MHC-based DNA vaccination strategy to activate natural killer cells by targeting killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors. BACKGROUND: Natural killer (NK) cells are increasingly being recognized as agents for cancer immunotherapy. The killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) are expressed by NK cells and are immunogenetic determinants of the outcome of cancer. In particular, KIR2DS2 is associated with protective responses to several cancers and also direct recognition of cancer targets in vitro. Due to the high homology between activating and inhibitory KIR genes to date, it has been challenging to target individual KIR for therapeutic benefit. METHODS: A novel KIR2DS2-targeting therapeutic peptide:MHC DNA vaccine was designed and used to immunize mice transgenic for KIR genes (KIR-Tg). NK cells were isolated from the livers and spleens of vaccinated mice and then analyzed for activation by flow cytometry, RNA profiling and cytotoxicity assays. In vivo assays of NK cell function using a syngeneic cancer model (B16 melanoma) and an adoptive transfer model for human hepatocellular carcinoma (Huh7) were performed. RESULTS: Injecting KIR-Tg mice with the vaccine construct activated NK cells in both liver and spleens of mice, with preferential activation of KIR2DS2-positive NK cells. KIR-specific activation was most marked on the CD11b+CD27+ mature subset of NK cells. RNA profiling indicated that the DNA vaccine upregulated genes associated with cellular metabolism and downregulated genes related to histone H3 methylation, which are associated with immune cell maturation and NK cell function. Vaccination led to canonical and cross-reactive peptide:MHC-specific NK cell responses. In vivo, DNA vaccination led to enhanced antitumor responses against B16F10 melanoma cells and also enhanced responses against a tumor model expressing the KIR2DS2 ligand HLA-C*0102. CONCLUSION: We show the feasibility of a peptide-based KIR-targeting vaccine strategy to activate NK cells and hence generate functional antitumor responses. This approach does not require detailed knowledge of the tumor peptidomes nor HLA matching with the patient. It therefore offers a novel opportunity for targeting NK cells for cancer immunotherapy.
31704286 | CD8 Binding of MHC-Peptide Complexes in cis or trans Regulates CD8+ T-cell Responses. The coreceptor CD8alphabeta can greatly promote activation of T cells by strengthening T-cell receptor (TCR) binding to cognate peptide-MHC complexes (pMHC) on antigen presenting cells and by bringing p56Lck to TCR/CD3. Here, we demonstrate that CD8 can also bind to pMHC on the T cell (in cis) and that this inhibits their activation. Using molecular modeling, fluorescence resonance energy transfer experiments on living cells, biochemical and mutational analysis, we show that CD8 binding to pMHC in cis involves a different docking mode and is regulated by posttranslational modifications including a membrane-distal interchain disulfide bond and negatively charged O-linked glycans near positively charged sequences on the CD8beta stalk. These modifications distort the stalk, thus favoring CD8 binding to pMHC in cis. Differential binding of CD8 to pMHC in cis or trans is a means to regulate CD8+ T-cell responses and provides new translational opportunities.
38329122 | Sema6D forward signaling impairs T cell activation and proliferation in head and neck cancer. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) are indicated for a diverse range of cancer types, and characterizing the tumor immune microenvironment is critical for optimizing therapeutic strategies, including ICIs. T cell infiltration and activation status in the tumor microenvironment greatly affects the efficacy of ICIs. Here, we show that semaphorin 6D (Sema6D) forward signaling, which is reportedly involved in coordinating the orientation of cell development and migration as a guidance factor, impaired the infiltration and activation of tumor-specific CD8+ T cells in murine oral tumors. Sema6D expressed by nonhematopoietic cells was responsible for this phenotype. Plexin-A4, a receptor for Sema6D, inhibited T cell infiltration and partially suppressed CD8+ T cell activation and proliferation induced by Sema6D stimulation. Moreover, mouse oral tumors, which are resistant to PD-1-blocking treatment in wild-type mice, showed a response to the treatment in Sema6d-KO mice. Finally, analyses of public data sets of human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, pan-cancer cohorts, and a retrospective cohort study showed that SEMA6D was mainly expressed by nonhematopoietic cells such as cancer cells, and SEMA6D expression was significantly negatively correlated with CD8A, PDCD1, IFNG, and GZMB expression. Thus, targeting Sema6D forward signaling is a promising option for increasing ICI efficacy.
20190758 | Alternative cross-priming through CCL17-CCR4-mediated attraction of CTLs toward NKT cell-licensed DCs. Cross-priming allows dendritic cells (DCs) to induce cytotoxic T cell (CTL) responses to extracellular antigens. DCs require cognate 'licensing' for cross-priming, classically by helper T cells. Here we demonstrate an alternative mechanism for cognate licensing by natural killer T (NKT) cells recognizing microbial or synthetic glycolipid antigens. Such licensing caused cross-priming CD8alpha(+) DCs to produce the chemokine CCL17, which attracted naive CTLs expressing the chemokine receptor CCR4. In contrast, DCs licensed by helper T cells recruited CTLs using CCR5 ligands. Thus, depending on the type of antigen they encounter, DCs can be licensed for cross-priming by NKT cells or helper T cells and use at least two independent chemokine pathways to attract naive CTLs. Because these chemokines acted synergistically, this can potentially be exploited to improve vaccinations.
32129705 | The humanized DRAGA mouse (HLA-A2. HLA-DR4. RAG1 KO. IL-2R g c KO. NOD) establishes inducible and transmissible models for influenza type A infections. We have engineered a Human Immune System (HIS)-reconstituted mouse strain (DRAGA mouse: HLA-A2. HLA-DR4. Rag1 KO. IL-2Rgammac KO. NOD) in which the murine immune system has been replaced by a long-term, functional HIS via infusion of CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) from cord blood. Herein, we report that the DRAGA mice can sustain inducible and transmissible H1N1 and H3N2 influenza A viral (IAV) infections. DRAGA female mice were significantly more resilient than the males to the H3N2/Aichi infection, but not to H3N2/Hong Kong, H3N2/Victoria, or H1N1/PR8 sub-lethal infections. Consistently associated with large pulmonary hemorrhagic areas, both human and murine Factor 8 mRNA transcripts were undetectable in the damaged lung tissues but not in livers of DRAGA mice advancing to severe H1N1/PR8 infection. Infected DRAGA mice mounted a neutralizing anti-viral antibody response and developed lung-resident CD103 T cells. These results indicate that the DRAGA mouse model for IAV infections can more closely approximate the human lung pathology and anti-viral immune responses compared to non-HIS mice. This mouse model may also allow further investigations into gender-based resilience to IAV infections, and may potentially be used to evaluate the efficacy of IAV vaccine regimens for humans.
31217245 | Identification of Immunodominant HIV-1 Epitopes Presented by HLA-C*12:02, a Protective Allele, Using an Immunopeptidomics Approach. Despite the fact that the cell surface expression level of HLA-C on both uninfected and HIV-infected cells is lower than those of HLA-A and -B, increasing evidence suggests an important role for HLA-C and HLA-C-restricted CD8+ T cell responses in determining the efficiency of viral control in HIV-1-infected individuals. Nonetheless, HLA-C-restricted T cell responses are much less well studied than HLA-A/B-restricted ones, and relatively few optimal HIV-1 CD8+ T cell epitopes restricted by HLA-C alleles have been defined. Recent improvements in the sensitivity of mass spectrometry (MS)-based approaches for profiling the immunopeptidome present an opportunity for epitope discovery on a large scale. Here, we employed an MS-based immunopeptidomic strategy to characterize HIV-1 peptides presented by a protective allele, HLA-C*12:02. We identified a total of 10,799 unique 8- to 12-mer peptides, including 15 HIV-1 peptides. The latter included 2 previously reported immunodominant HIV-1 epitopes, and analysis of T cell responses to the other HIV-1 peptides detected revealed an additional immunodominant epitope. These findings illustrate the utility of MS-based approaches for epitope definition and emphasize the capacity of HLA-C to present immunodominant T cell epitopes in HIV-infected individuals, indicating the importance of further evaluation of HLA-C-restricted responses to identify novel targets for HIV-1 prophylactic and therapeutic strategies.IMPORTANCE Mass spectrometry (MS)-based approaches are increasingly being employed for large-scale identification of HLA-bound peptides derived from pathogens, but only very limited profiling of the HIV-1 immunopeptidome has been conducted to date. Notably, a growing body of evidence has recently begun to indicate a protective role for HLA-C in HIV-1 infection, which may suggest that despite the fact that levels of HLA-C expression on both uninfected and HIV-1-infected cells are lower than those of HLA-A/B, HLA-C still presents epitopes to CD8+ T cells effectively. To explore this, we analyzed HLA-C*12:02-restricted HIV-1 peptides presented on HIV-1-infected cells expressing only HLA-C*12:02 (a protective allele) using liquid chromatography-tandem MS (LC-MS/MS). We identified a number of novel HLA-C*12:02-bound HIV-1 peptides and showed that although the majority of them did not elicit T cell responses during natural infection in a Japanese cohort, they included three immunodominant epitopes, emphasizing the contribution of HLA-C to epitope presentation on HIV-infected cells.
17195459 | A fully human chimeric immune receptor for retargeting T-cells to CEA-expressing tumor cells. BACKGROUND: Recombinant chimeric immune receptors (CIRs) with anti-CEA specificity can retarget grafted T-cells to CEA-expressing tumors in an HLA-independent manner. To reduce the immunogenicity of conventional CIR in humans, an attempt was made to generate a CIR encoded by all human genes. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A single-chain variable fragmented (scFv) antibody gene was prepared from variable region genes of the C2-45 human mAb clone specific for CEA. The scFv gene was connected to a gene construct comprised of the cDNAs for the human CD8a hinge region, the human CD28 transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains, and the human CD3zeta intracellular domain. The resulting human CIR gene, designated L45scFv-CIR, was inserted into the pcDNA3.1 expression vector and transfected into human primary T-cells. RESULTS: Flow cytometric analysis using allophycocyanin-labeled CEA demonstrated the expression of the L45scFv-CIR protein on the T-cells and its specific antigen binding activity. CONCLUSION: This L45scFv-CIR gene, consisting of four human genes, may be a useful tool for eradication of CEA-expressing but HLA-downregulated tumor cells.
6337042 | beta-Cell function relative to islet volume and hormone content in the isolated perfused mouse pancreas. The beta-cell function, total islet volume, and number were studied in 1- to 18-month-old mice, together with the extractable pancreatic insulin and glucagon. The beta-cell function, determined as the total amount of insulin released in response to glucose from the in vitro perfused pancreas showed an age-related increase, without any differences in the kinetics of insulin secretion between young and old mice. The total islet number and area in each individual pancreas was determined planimetrically after selective staining of the islets by perfusing the pancreas with dithizone. The islet area increased from 5.4 +/- 1.7 mm2 at 1 month to 16.3 +/- 2.1 mm2 at 18 months, whereas the number of islets remained virtually unchanged (1072 +/- 51). Pancreatic insulin increased with age by nearly 500%, in contrast to a 35% reduction in pancreatic glucagon. There was a strong relationship between body weight and total pancreatic DNA (P = 4.7 X 10(-8)), islet area (P = 3.2 X 10(-7)), insulin secretory capacity (P = 7 X 10(-4)), and total pancreatic insulin (P = 1.9 X 10(-5)), but no relationship between body weight and islet number. The insulin secretory capacity increased proportionally to the increase in islet area (P = 9.9 X 10(-3)). The islet area and total pancreatic insulin were closely related (P = 2.8 X 10(-12)), as were pancreatic insulin and the insulin secretory capacity (P = 3.3 X 10(-11)). There was a negative relationship between pancreatic glucagon and islet area (P = 0.005) and between pancreatic glucagon and insulin (P = 0.01). The close relationship between pancreatic insulin and islet area, shown to be an expression of islet volume, makes it possible to estimate the volume of the endocrine pancreas after standard RIA of pancreatic insulin. The combined morphometric and physiological analysis is unique in studying islet cell function relative to the volume of the endocrine pancreas.
8537123 | Autoimmune diabetes-prone NOD mice express the Lyt2 alpha (Lyt2.1) and Lyt3 alpha (Lyt3.1) alleles of CD8. Predisposition to Type I insulin-dependent diabetes (IDD) has a strong underlying genetic basis involving class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes as well as several non-MHC genetic systems. In the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse, a model for human IDD, genes associated with the appearance of immune cell infiltrates in the pancreatic islets (insulitis) and/or overt IDD have been mapped to chromosomes 1, 3, 6, 11, and 17. A recent report has suggested that CD8+ lymphocytes of the NOD mouse might be deficient in the expression of the CD8 beta molecule, a protein encoded by a gene on chromosome 6. The CD8 beta molecule is a T-cell surface marker, the lack of which could affect selection in the thymus, possibly permitting auto-reactive T-cell clones to populate the peripheral lymphoid tissues. For this reason, we examined the expression of the CD8 molecule by lymphocytes in the NOD mouse. Results indicate that the NOD mouse is not deficient in its transcription of detectable mRNA encoding either the CD8 alpha or beta subunits. However, the NOD mouse expresses the Lyt2 alpha and Lyt3 alpha alleles, suggesting that a portion of chromosome 6 centromeric to the diabetes-susceptibility genetic region is derived from an ancestry common to AKR and, like AKR, the CD8 alpha and CD8 beta 3.1 (but not CD8 beta 3.2) subunits are detected on the cell surface of T lymphocytes of the NOD mouse. Interestingly, though, the CD8 beta 3.1 molecule may not be expressed in the NOD mouse to the same extent as it is expressed in the AKR/J mouse, suggesting the possibility that the NOD mouse possesses a defect somewhere between transcription and cell surface expression of the CD8 beta molecule.
38279987 | The fatty acid-related gene signature stratifies poor prognosis patients and characterizes TIME in cutaneous melanoma. BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to build a prognostic model for cutaneous melanoma (CM) using fatty acid-related genes and evaluate its capacity for predicting prognosis, identifying the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) composition, and assessing drug sensitivity. METHODS: Through the analysis of transcriptional data from TCGA-SKCM and GTEx datasets, we screened for differentially expressed fatty acids-related genes (DEFAGs). Additionally, we employed clinical data from TCGA-SKCM and GSE65904 to identify genes associated with prognosis. Subsequently, utilizing all the identified prognosis-related fatty acid genes, we performed unsupervised clustering analysis using the ConsensusClusterPlus R package. We further validated the significant differences between subtypes through survival analysis and pathway analysis. To predict prognosis, we developed a LASSO-Cox prognostic signature. This signature's predictive ability was rigorously examined through multivariant Cox regression, survival analysis, and ROC curve analysis. Following this, we constructed a nomogram based on the aforementioned signature and evaluated its accuracy and clinical utility using calibration curves, cumulative hazard rates, and decision curve analysis. Using this signature, we stratified all cases into high- and low-risk groups and compared the differences in immune characteristics and drug treatment responsiveness between these two subgroups. Additionally, in this study, we provided preliminary confirmation of the pivotal role of CD1D in the TIME of CM. We analyzed its expression across various immune cell types and its correlation with intercellular communication using single-cell data from the GSE139249 dataset. RESULTS: In this study, a total of 84 DEFAGs were identified, among which 18 were associated with prognosis. Utilizing these 18 prognosis-related genes, all cases were categorized into three subtypes. Significant differences were observed between subtypes in terms of survival outcomes, the expression of the 18 DEFAGs, immune cell proportions, and enriched pathways. A LASSO-Cox regression analysis was performed on these 18 genes, leading to the development of a signature comprising 6 DEFAGs. Risk scores were calculated for all cases, dividing them into high-risk and low-risk groups. High-risk patients exhibited significantly poorer prognosis than low-risk patients, both in the training group (p < 0.001) and the test group (p = 0.002). Multivariate Cox regression analysis indicated that this signature could independently predict outcomes [HR = 2.03 (1.69-2.45), p < 0.001]. The area under the ROC curve for the training and test groups was 0.715 and 0.661, respectively. Combining risk scores with clinical factors including metastatic status and patient age, a nomogram was constructed, which demonstrated significant predictive power for 3  and 5 years patient outcomes. Furthermore, the high and low-risk subgroups displayed differences in the composition of various immune cells, including M1 macrophages, M0 macrophages, and CD8+ T cells. The low-risk subgroup exhibited higher StromalScore, ImmuneScore, and ESTIMATEScore (p < 0.001) and demonstrated better responsiveness to immune therapy for patients with PD1-positive and CTLA4-negative or positive expressions (p < 0.001). The signature gene CD1D was found to be mainly expressed in monocytes/macrophages and dendritic cells within the TIME. Through intercellular communication analysis, it was observed that cases with high CD1D expression exhibited significantly enhanced signal transductions from other immune cells to monocytes/macrophages, particularly the (HLA-A/B/C/E/F)-CD8A signaling from natural killer (NK) cells to monocytes/macrophages (p < 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: The prognostic signature constructed in this study, based on six fatty acid-related genes, exhibits strong capabilities in predicting patient outcomes, identifying the TIME, and assessing drug sensitivity. This signature can aid in patient risk stratification and provide guidance for clinical treatment strategies. Additionally, our research highlights the crucial role of CD1D in the CM's TIME, laying a theoretical foundation for future related studies.
37766594 | Deficiency of SR-B1 reduced the tumor load of colitis-induced or APCmin /+ -induced colorectal cancer. BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common tumors in the world. Cholesterol plays an important role in the pathogenesis of tumors. One of the cholesterol transporters, scavenger receptor class B type 1 (SR-B1), a multi-ligand membrane receptor protein, is expressed in the intestines which also highly expressed in various tumors. But the potential mechanism of SR-B1 in CRC development has not been reported. AIMS: This study aimed to clarify the importance of SR-B1 in the development and prognosis of CRC as much as possible to provide a possible strategy in CRC treatment. MATERIALS & METHODS: In this study, we used SR-B1 gene knockdown mice to study the effect of SR-B1 on colitis-induced or APCmin/+ -induced CRC. The expression of related molecules were detected through the immunohistochemistry and hematoxylin-eosin staining, western blot analysis, and Flow cytometry. The gene expression and microbiota in microenvironment of CRC mice were analyzed through eukaryotic mRNA sequencing and 16S rRNA high-throughput sequencing. RESULTS: The results showed that SR-B1 knockdown reduced the tumor load of colitis-induced or APCmin/+ -induced CRC. SR-B1 knockdown improved the immune microenvironment by affecting the level of tumor-associated macrophage (TAM), mononuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSCs), granulocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (G-MDSCs), programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), and human leukocyte antigen class I-B (HLA-B), and also reduced the level of low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDL-R), and increased the level of ATP binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) to regulate the cholesterol metabolism, and regulated the expression of related genes and intestinal microbiota. SR-B1 knockdown can also trigger the anti-CRC effect of anti-PD 1 in colitis-induced CRC. DISCUSSION: SR-B1 deficiency significantly improved the immunity in tumor microenvironment of colitis-induced or APCmin/+ -induced CRC. In addition, the microbiota changes caused by SR-B1 deficiency favor improving the immune response to chemotherapeutic drugs and anti-PD1 therapy. The mechanism of action of SR-B1 deficiency on the development of CRC still needs further in-depth research. CONCLUSION: This study provides a new treatment strategy for treating CRC by affecting the expression of SR-B1 in intestine.
37821882 | Characterization of endoplasmic reticulum stress unveils ZNF703 as a promising target for colorectal cancer immunotherapy. BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common malignant tumors globally, with high morbidity and mortality. Endoplasmic reticulum is a major organelle responsible for protein synthesis, processing, and transport. Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) refers to the abnormal accumulation of unfolded and misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum, which are involved in tumorigenesis and cancer immunity. Nevertheless, the clinical significance of ERS remains largely unexplored in CRC. METHODS: In present study, we performed an unsupervised clustering to identify two types of ERS-related subtypes [ERS clusters, and ERS-related genes (ERSGs) clusters] in multiple large-scale CRC cohorts. Through the utilization of machine learning techniques, we have successfully developed an uncomplicated yet robust gene scoring system (ERSGs signature). Furthermore, a series of analyses, including GO, KEGG, Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion (TIDE), the Consensus Molecular Subtypes (CMS), were used to explore the underlying biological differences and clinical significance between these groups. And immunohistochemical and bioinformatics analyses were performed to explore ZNF703, a gene of ERSGs scoring system. RESULTS: We observed significant differences in prognosis and tumor immune status between the ERS clusters as well as ERSGs clusters. And the ERSGs scoring system was an independent risk factor for overall survival; and exhibited distinct tumor immune status in multicenter CRC cohorts. Besides, analyses of TNM stages, CMS groups demonstrated that patients in advanced stage and CMS4 had higher ERSGs scores. In addition, the ERSGs scores inversely correlated with positive ICB response predictors (such as, CD8A, CD274 (PD-L1), and TIS), and directly correlated with negative ICB response predictors (such as, TIDE, T cell Exclusion, COX-IS). Notably, immunohistochemical staining and bioinformatics analyses revealed that ZNF70 correlated with CD3 + and CD8 + T cells infiltration. CONCLUSION: Based on large-scale and multicenter transcriptomic data, our study comprehensively revealed the essential role of ERS in CRC; and constructed a novel ERSGs scoring system to predict the prognosis of patients and the efficacy of ICB treatment. Furthermore, we identified ZNF703 as a potentially promising target for ICB therapy in CRC.
16491076 | Negative regulation of CD8 expression via Cd8 enhancer-mediated recruitment of the zinc finger protein MAZR. Coreceptor expression is tightly regulated during thymocyte development. Deletion of specific Cd8 enhancers leads to variegated expression of CD8alphabeta heterodimers in double-positive thymocytes. Here we show CD8 variegation is correlated with an epigenetic 'off' state, linking Cd8 enhancer function with chromatin remodeling of the adjacent genes Cd8a and Cd8b1 (Cd8). The zinc finger protein MAZR bound the Cd8 enhancer and interacted with the nuclear receptor corepressor N-CoR complex in double-negative thymocytes. MAZR was downregulated in double-positive and CD8 single-positive thymocytes. 'Enforced' expression of MAZR led to impaired Cd8 activation and variegated CD8 expression. Our results demonstrate epigenetic control of the Cd8 loci and identify MAZR as an important regulator of Cd8 expression.
37853469 | BRAF D594A mutation defines a unique biological and immuno-modulatory subgroup associated with functional CD8+ T cell infiltration in colorectal cancer. BACKGROUND: BRAF non-V600 mutation occupies a relatively small but critical subset in colorectal cancer (CRC). However, little is known about the biological functions and impacts of BRAF class III mutation in CRC. Here, we aim to explore how D594A mutation impacts on biological behaviors and immune related signatures in murine CRC cells. METHODS: BRAF V600E (class I), G469V (class II) and D594A (class III) mutant cell lines were established based on MC38 cells. The biological behaviors of cells were evaluated in respect of cell growth, cell proliferation, cell apoptosis, cell migration and invasion by the methods of colony-forming assay, CCK-8 assay, Annexin V/PI staining and transwell assay. The concentrations of soluble cytokines were detected by ELISA. The membrane expression of immuno-modulatory molecules and the pattern of tumor infiltrating lymphocyte were evaluated by flow cytometry. The molecular mechanism was explored by RNA sequencing. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining was used for the detection of CD8alpha in tumor tissues. qRT-PCR and western blot were performed to assess the mRNA and protein expression. Anti-PD-L1 treatment and cytokines neutralization experiments were conducted in in vivo models. RESULTS: D594A mutant cells displayed lower grade malignancy characteristics than V600E (class I) and G469V (class II) mutant cells. Meanwhile, D594A mutation led to evident immuno-modulatory features including upregulation of MHC Class I and PD-L1. In vivo experiments displayed that the frequency of infiltrated CD8+ T cells was significantly high within D594A mutant tumors, which may provide potential response to anti-PD-L1 therapy. RNA sequencing analysis showed that D594A mutation led to enhanced expression of ATF3 and THBS1, which thus facilitated CXCL9 and CXCL10 production upon IFN-gamma treatment. In addition, CXCL9 or CXCL10 neutralization reduced the infiltration of CD8+ T cells into THBS1-overexpressing tumors. CONCLUSIONS: D594A mutant CRC exhibited lower aggressiveness and immune-activated phenotype. ATF3-THBS1-CXCL9/CXCL10 axis mediated functional CD8+ T cells infiltration into the microenvironment of D594A mutant CRC. Our present study is helpful to define this mutation in CRC and provide important insights in designing effective immunotherapeutic strategies in clinic.
38411117 | Role of PD-1 and immune cells in HSV infection and latency. A large proportion of the world's population is infected with HSV-1. Antiviral CD8+ T cells and CD8alpha+ dendritic cells are closely related to HSV-1 infection and latency. Latency-associated transcript of HSV-1 and PD-1 are involved in the regulation of latency and reactivation of HSV-1. Here, the role of latency-associated transcript, PD-1, CD8+ T cells and CD8alpha+ dendritic cells in HSV-1 infection, the interrelationships between them and how these interactions lead to latency are discussed, possibly providing new ideas for the treatment of HSV-1 infection.
25416805 | Beta-catenin signaling drives differentiation and proinflammatory function of IRF8-dependent dendritic cells. Beta-catenin signaling has recently been tied to the emergence of tolerogenic dendritic cells (DCs). In this article, we demonstrate a novel role for beta-catenin in directing DC subset development through IFN regulatory factor 8 (IRF8) activation. We found that splenic DC precursors express beta-catenin, and DCs from mice with CD11c-specific constitutive beta-catenin activation upregulated IRF8 through targeting of the Irf8 promoter, leading to in vivo expansion of IRF8-dependent CD8a+, plasmacytoid, and CD103+ CD11b2 DCs. beta-catenin-stabilized CD8a+ DCs secreted elevated IL-12 upon in vitro microbial stimulation, and pharmacological beta-catenin inhibition blocked this response in wild-type cells. Upon infections with Toxoplasma gondii and vaccinia virus, mice with stabilized DC beta-catenin displayed abnormally high Th1 and CD8+ T lymphocyte responses, respectively. Collectively, these results reveal a novel and unexpected function for beta-catenin in programming DC differentiation toward subsets that orchestrate proinflammatory immunity to infection.
28607051 | Computationally optimized deimmunization libraries yield highly mutated enzymes with low immunogenicity and enhanced activity. Therapeutic proteins of wide-ranging function hold great promise for treating disease, but immune surveillance of these macromolecules can drive an antidrug immune response that compromises efficacy and even undermines safety. To eliminate widespread T-cell epitopes in any biotherapeutic and thereby mitigate this key source of detrimental immune recognition, we developed a Pareto optimal deimmunization library design algorithm that optimizes protein libraries to account for the simultaneous effects of combinations of mutations on both molecular function and epitope content. Active variants identified by high-throughput screening are thus inherently likely to be deimmunized. Functional screening of an optimized 10-site library (1,536 variants) of P99 beta-lactamase (P99betaL), a component of ADEPT cancer therapies, revealed that the population possessed high overall fitness, and comprehensive analysis of peptide-MHC II immunoreactivity showed the population possessed lower average immunogenic potential than the wild-type enzyme. Although similar functional screening of an optimized 30-site library (2.15 x 109 variants) revealed reduced population-wide fitness, numerous individual variants were found to have activity and stability better than the wild type despite bearing 13 or more deimmunizing mutations per enzyme. The immunogenic potential of one highly active and stable 14-mutation variant was assessed further using ex vivo cellular immunoassays, and the variant was found to silence T-cell activation in seven of the eight blood donors who responded strongly to wild-type P99betaL. In summary, our multiobjective library-design process readily identified large and mutually compatible sets of epitope-deleting mutations and produced highly active but aggressively deimmunized constructs in only one round of library screening.
34686187 | Ex vivo expanded allogeneic natural killer cells have potent cytolytic activity against cancer cells through different receptor-ligand interactions. BACKGROUND: Recently, allogeneic natural killer (NK) cells have gained considerable attention as promising immunotherapeutic tools due to their unique biological functions and characteristics. Although many NK expansion strategies have been reported previously, a deeper understanding of cryopreserved allogeneic NK cells is needed for specific therapeutic approaches. METHODS: We isolated CD3-CD56+ primary natural killer (pNK) cells from healthy donors and expanded them ex vivo using a GMP-compliant method without any feeder to generate large volumes of therapeutic pNK cells and cryopreserved stocks. After validation for high purity and activating phenotypes, we performed RNA sequencing of the expanded and cryopreserved pNK cells. The pNK cells were used against various cancer cell lines in 7-AAD/CFSE cytotoxicity assay. For in vivo efficacy study, NSG mice bearing subcutaneous cisplatin-resistant A2780cis xenografts were treated with our pNK cells or cisplatin. Antitumor efficacy was assessed by measuring tumor volume and weight. RESULTS: Compared to the pNK cells before expansion, pNK cells after expansion showed 2855 upregulated genes, including genes related to NK cell activation, cytotoxicity, chemokines, anti-apoptosis, and proliferation. Additionally, the pNK cells showed potent cytolytic activity against various cancer cell lines. Interestingly, our activated pNK cells showed a marked increase in NKp44 (1064-fold), CD40L (12,018-fold), and CCR5 (49-fold), and did not express the programmed cell death protein 1(PD-1). We also demonstrated the in vitro and in vivo efficacies of pNK cells against cisplatin-resistant A2780cis ovarian cancer cells having a high programmed death-ligand 1(PD-L1) and low HLA-C expression. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our study provides the first comprehensive genome wide analysis of ex vivo-expanded cryopreserved pNK cells. It also indicates the potential use of expanded and cryopreserved pNK cells as a highly promising immunotherapy for anti-cancer drug resistant patients.
38395454 | Patients with ankylosing spondylitis present a distinct CD8 T cell subset with osteogenic and cytotoxic potential. OBJECTIVES: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory rheumatic disease affecting mainly the axial skeleton. Peripheral involvement (arthritis, enthesitis and dactylitis) and extra-musculoskeletal manifestations, including uveitis, psoriasis and bowel inflammation, occur in a relevant proportion of patients. AS is responsible for chronic and severe back pain caused by local inflammation that can lead to osteoproliferation and ultimately spinal fusion. The association of AS with the human leucocyte antigen-B27 gene, together with elevated levels of chemokines, CCL17 and CCL22, in the sera of patients with AS, led us to study the role of CCR4+ T cells in the disease pathogenesis. METHODS: CD8+CCR4+ T cells isolated from the blood of patients with AS (n=76) or healthy donors were analysed by multiparameter flow cytometry, and gene expression was evaluated by RNA sequencing. Patients with AS were stratified according to the therapeutic regimen and current disease score. RESULTS: CD8+CCR4+ T cells display a distinct effector phenotype and upregulate the inflammatory chemokine receptors CCR1, CCR5, CX3CR1 and L-selectin CD62L, indicating an altered migration ability. CD8+CCR4+ T cells expressing CX3CR1 present an enhanced cytotoxic profile, expressing both perforin and granzyme B. RNA-sequencing pathway analysis revealed that CD8+CCR4+ T cells from patients with active disease significantly upregulate genes promoting osteogenesis, a core process in AS pathogenesis. CONCLUSIONS: Our results shed light on a new molecular mechanism by which T cells may selectively migrate to inflammatory loci, promote new bone formation and contribute to the pathological ossification process observed in AS.
30853558 | Targeted Disruption of HLA Genes via CRISPR-Cas9 Generates iPSCs with Enhanced Immune Compatibility. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have strong potential in regenerative medicine applications; however, immune rejection caused by HLA mismatching is a concern. B2M gene knockout and HLA-homozygous iPSC stocks can address this issue, but the former approach may induce NK cell activity and fail to present antigens, and it is challenging to recruit rare donors for the latter method. Here, we show two genome-editing strategies for making immunocompatible donor iPSCs. First, we generated HLA pseudo-homozygous iPSCs with allele-specific editing of HLA heterozygous iPSCs. Second, we generated HLA-C-retained iPSCs by disrupting both HLA-A and -B alleles to suppress the NK cell response while maintaining antigen presentation. HLA-C-retained iPSCs could evade T cells and NK cells in vitro and in vivo. We estimated that 12 lines of HLA-C-retained iPSCs combined with HLA-class II knockout are immunologically compatible with >90% of the world's population, greatly facilitating iPSC-based regenerative medicine applications.
15575505 | [Genetic and taxonomic diversity of the house mouse Mus musculus from the asian part of the former Soviet Union]. Genetic diversity of the house mouse Mus musculus from 12 local populations (n = 65) of the central and eastern parts of the former Soviet Union was examined using RAPD-PCR. About 400 loci were identified, encompassing approximately 500 kb of the mouse genome. Genetic diversity was assessed using NTSYS, POPGENE, TFPGA, and TREECON software programs. In general, the house mouse sample from the regions examined was characterized by moderate genetic variation: polymorphism P = 95.6%, P99 = 60.7%, P95 = 24.2%; heterozygosity H = 0.089; the mean observed number of alleles n(a) = 1.97; effective number of alleles n = 1.13; intrapopulation differentiation deltaS = 0.387; gene diversity h = 0.09. Individual local populations displayed different levels of genetic isolation: the genetic subdivision index G(st) varied from 0.086 to 0.324 at gene flow Nm varying from 5.3 to 1.05, while the interpopulation genetic distance D(N) ranged from 0.059 to 0.186. Most of the genetic diversity of the total sample resided within the local populations: H(S) = 0.6, total gene diversity H(T) = 0.09. The exact test for differentiation, however, did not confirm the affiliation of all the mice examined to one population: chi2 = 1446, d.f. = 724, P = 0.000. Molecular markers specific to four subspecies (musculus, castaneus, gansuensis, and wagneri) were identified. Moreover, in some cases the populations and individual animals exhibited traits of different subspecies, suggesting their introgressive hybridization. It was demonstrated that the house mouse fauna on the territories investigated was characterized by the prevalence of musculus-specific markers, while gansuensis-specific markers ranked second. The castaneus-specific markers were highly frequent in the Far East, but almost absent in Central Asia, where wagneri-specific markers were detected. It was suggested that house mice from Turkmenistan could belong to one of the southern subspecies, which had not deeply penetrated into the Asian fauna of the former Soviet Union. In phenogenetic (UPGMA) and phylogenetic (NJ) reconstructions this form with the high bootstrap support was placed at the tree base, while the isolation of other clusters was not statistically significant. It is thus likely that the house mice from Turkmenistan are closest to the ancestral form of the genus Mus on the territory of the former Soviet Union.
26891909 | Direct evidence for activated CD8+ T cell transmigration across portal vein endothelial cells in liver graft rejection. BACKGROUND: Lymphocyte recruitment into the portal tract is crucial not only for homeostatic immune surveillance but also for many liver diseases. However, the exact route of entry for lymphocytes into portal tract is still obscure. We investigated this question using a rat hepatic allograft rejection model. METHODS: A migration route was analyzed by immunohistological methods including a recently developed scanning electron microscopy method. Transmigration-associated molecules such as selectins, integrins, and chemokines and their receptors expressed by hepatic vessels and recruited T-cells were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. RESULTS: The immunoelectron microscopic analysis clearly showed CD8beta(+) cells passing through the portal vein (PV) endothelia. Furthermore, the migrating pathway seemed to pass through the endothelial cell body. Local vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) expression was induced in PV endothelial cells from day 2 after liver transplantation. Although intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression was also upregulated, it was restricted to sinusoidal endothelia. Recipient T-cells in the graft perfusate were CD25(+)CD44(+)ICAM-1(+)CXCR3(+)CCR5(-) and upregulated alpha4beta1 or alphaLbeta2 integrins. Immunohistochemistry showed the expression of CXCL10 in donor MHCII(high) cells in the portal tract as well as endothelial walls of PV. CONCLUSIONS: We show for the first time direct evidence of T-cell transmigration across PV endothelial cells during hepatic allograft rejection. Interactions between VCAM-1 on endothelia and alpha4beta1 integrin on recipient effector T-cells putatively play critical roles in adhesion and transmigration through endothelia. A chemokine axis of CXCL10 and CXCR3 also may be involved.
16474425 | IRF family proteins and type I interferon induction in dendritic cells. Dendritic cells (DC), although a minor population in hematopoietic cells, produce type I interferons (IFN) and other cytokines and are essential for innate immunity. They are also potent antigen presenters and regulate adaptive immunity. Among DC subtypes plasmacytoid DC (pDC) produce the highest amounts of type I IFN. In addition, pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-12 and IL-10 are induced in DC in response to Toll like receptor (TLR) signaling and upon viral infection. Proteins in the IRF family control many aspects of DC activity. IRF-8 and IRF-4 are essential for DC development. They differentially control the development of four DC subsets. IRF-8-/- mice are largely devoid of pDC and CD8alpha+ DC, while IRF-4-/- mice lack CD4+DC. IRF-8-/-, IRF4-/-, double knock-out mice have only few CD8a-CD4-DC that lack MHC II. IRF proteins also control type I IFN induction in DC. IRF-7, activated upon TLR signaling is required for IFN induction not only in pDC, but also in conventional DC (cDC) and non-DC cell types. IRF-3, although contributes to IFN induction in fibroblasts, is dispensable in IFN induction in DC. Our recent evidence reveals that type I IFN induction in DC is critically dependent on IRF-8, which acts in the feedback phase of IFN gene induction in DC. Type I IFN induction in pDC is mediated by MyD88 dependent signaling pathway, and differs from pathways employed in other cells, which mostly rely on TLR3 and RIG-I family proteins. Other pro-inflammatory cytokines are produced in an IRF-5 dependent manner. However, IRF-5 is not required for IFN induction, suggesting the presence of separate mechanisms for induction of type I IFN and other pro-inflammatory cytokines. IFN and other cytokines produced by activated DC in turn advance DC maturation and change the phenotype and function of DC. These processes are also likely to be governed by IRF family proteins.
18325784 | PNUTS forms a trimeric protein complex with GABA(C) receptors and protein phosphatase 1. Phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of neurotransmitter receptors represent an important mechanism to regulate synaptic signal transduction. Here, we identified PNUTS, a targeting subunit of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) as a new binding partner of GABA(C) receptors. In the mammalian retina, PNUTS is co-expressed with GABA(C) receptors and PP1 in bipolar cells. PNUTS and PP1 were detected in membrane protein preparations of the retina and precipitate with GABA(C) receptor specific antibodies. Furthermore, PNUTS shuttles from the nucleus to the membrane in cells co-expressing GABA(C) receptors. We show simultaneous binding of PP1 and GABA(C) receptors to different domains of PNUTS, demonstrating that PNUTS cross-links PP1 and GABA(C) receptors. Finally, modeling studies showed that the PP1 docking motif of PNUTS fits into the binding pocket on the enzyme surface, despite a C-terminal adjacent proline. We suggest that PNUTS targets PP1 to synaptic sites, acting as a temporary bridge between the phosphatase and GABA(C) receptors.
22898588 | Design and analysis of immune-evading enzymes for ADEPT therapy. The unparalleled specificity and activity of therapeutic proteins has reshaped many aspects of modern clinical practice, and aggressive development of new protein drugs promises a continued revolution in disease therapy. As a result of their biological origins, however, therapeutic proteins present unique design challenges for the biomolecular engineer. For example, protein drugs are subject to immune surveillance within the patient's body; this anti-drug immune response can compromise therapeutic efficacy and even threaten patient safety. Thus, there is a growing demand for broadly applicable protein deimmunization strategies. We have recently developed optimization algorithms that integrate computational prediction of T-cell epitopes and bioinformatics-based assessment of the structural and functional consequences of epitope-deleting mutations. Here, we describe the first experimental validation of our deimmunization algorithms using Enterobacter cloacae P99 beta-lactamase, a component of antibody-directed enzyme prodrug cancer therapies. Compared with wild-type or a previously deimmunized variant, our computationally optimized sequences exhibited significantly less in vitro binding to human type II major histocompatibility complex immune molecules. At the same time, our globally optimal design exhibited wild-type catalytic proficiency. We conclude that our deimmunization algorithms guide the protein engineer towards promising immunoevasive candidates and thereby have the potential to streamline biotherapeutic development.
30004616 | Fms-Like Tyrosine Kinase 3-Ligand Contributes to the Development and Function of the Subpopulation of CD8alpha+ Plasmacytoid Precursor Dendritic Cells in CD8+ /TCR- Facilitating Cells. Facilitating cells (FC) are a CD8+ TCR- bone marrow subpopulation that enhance engraftment of purified hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) and induce antigen-specific CD4+ CD25+ FoxP3+ regulatory T cell (Treg) in vivo. The major subpopulation in FC resembles plasmacytoid precursor dendritic cells (p-preDC) both phenotypically and functionally. Here, we report that the number of FC was significantly reduced in Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3-ligand-knockout (Flt3-L-KO) mice. Specifically, there was a selective decrease in the B220+ CD11c+ CD11b- p-preDC FC subpopulation. The p-preDC FC subpopulation in FC total is restored after Flt3-L administration to Flt3-L-KO mice. FC from Flt3-L-KO donors exhibit impaired facilitation of allogeneic HSC engraftment in ablatively conditioned mice (B6   NOD) as well as in mice conditioned with reduced intensity conditioning (B6   BALB/c). In addition, the number of CD4+ CD25+ Foxp3+ Treg from Flt3-L-KO mice is significantly decreased. This was associated with the expression of chemokine receptor CXCR3+ or CCR5+ on Treg. Treg from the spleen of Flt3-L-KO mice showed impaired facilitation of engraftment of allogeneic HSC compared to wild-type Treg. Flt3-L treatment significantly expanded Treg, and restored their facilitating function. These results suggest that Flt3-L is an important growth factor in the development and homeostasis of p-preDC FC and in the role of FC inducing generation of Treg. Flt3-L provides potent immunoregulatory properties that may be clinically useful to improve tolerance induction and enhance the function of allogeneic cell therapies. Stem Cells 2018;36:1567-1577.
16419163 | Characterization of colonic dendritic cells in normal and colitic mice. AIM: Recent studies demonstrating the direct involvement of dendritic cells (DC) in the activation of pathogenic T cells in animal models of inflammatory bowel disease identify DC as important antigen presenting cells in the colon. However, very little is known about the properties of colonic DC. METHODS: Using immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy and flow cytometry we have characterized and compared colonic DC in the colon of healthy animals and interleukin-2-deficient (IL2(-/-)) mice that develop colitis. RESULTS: In the healthy colon, DC resided within the lamina propria and in close association with the basement membrane of colonic villi. Type 1 myeloid (CD11c(+), CD11b(+), B220(-), CD8alpha(-)) DC made up the largest (40-45%) population and all DC expressed low levels of CD80, CD86, and CD40, and had high endocytic activity consistent with an immature phenotype. In colitic IL2(-/-) mice, colonic DC numbers increased four- to five-fold and were localized within the epithelial layer and within aggregates of T and B cells. They were also many more DC in mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN). The majority (>85%) of DC in the colon and MLN of IL2(-/-) mice were type 1 myeloid, and expressed high levels of MHC class II, CD80, CD86, CD40, DEC 205, and CCR5 molecules and were of low endocytic activity consistent with mature DC. CONCLUSION: These findings demonstrate striking changes in the number, distribution and phenotype of DC in the inflamed colon. Their intimate association with lymphocytes in the colon and draining lymph nodes suggest that they may contribute directly to the ongoing inflammation in the colon.
32081834 | Identification of biomarkers related to CD8+ T cell infiltration with gene co-expression network in clear cell renal cell carcinoma. Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is an extremely common kind of kidney cancer in adults. Immunotherapy and targeted therapy are particularly effective at treating ccRCC. In this study, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and a deconvolution algorithm that quantifies the cellular composition of immune cells were used to analyze ccRCC expression data from the Gene Expression Omnibus database, and identify modules related to CD8+ T cells. Ten hub genes (LCK, CD2, CD3D, CD3G, IRF1, IFNG, CCR5, CD8A, CCL5, and CXCL9) were identified by co-expression network and protein-protein interactions network analysis. Datasets obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas were analyzed and the data revealed that the hub genes were meaningfully up-regulated in tumor tissues and correlated with promotion of tumor progression. After Kaplan-Meier analysis and Oncomine meta-analysis, CCL5 was selected as a prognostic biomarker. Finally, the experimental results show that reduced expression of CCL5 decreased cell proliferation and invasion in the ccRCC cell line. Various analyses were performed and verified, CCL5 is a potential biomarker and therapeutic target which related to CD8+ T cell infiltration in ccRCC.
23426265 | MicroRNA-34a regulates cardiac ageing and function. Ageing is the predominant risk factor for cardiovascular diseases and contributes to a significantly worse outcome in patients with acute myocardial infarction. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as crucial regulators of cardiovascular function and some miRNAs have key roles in ageing. We propose that altered expression of miRNAs in the heart during ageing contributes to the age-dependent decline in cardiac function. Here we show that miR-34a is induced in the ageing heart and that in vivo silencing or genetic deletion of miR-34a reduces age-associated cardiomyocyte cell death. Moreover, miR-34a inhibition reduces cell death and fibrosis following acute myocardial infarction and improves recovery of myocardial function. Mechanistically, we identified PNUTS (also known as PPP1R10) as a novel direct miR-34a target, which reduces telomere shortening, DNA damage responses and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, and improves functional recovery after acute myocardial infarction. Together, these results identify age-induced expression of miR-34a and inhibition of its target PNUTS as a key mechanism that regulates cardiac contractile function during ageing and after acute myocardial infarction, by inducing DNA damage responses and telomere attrition.
29217518 | Enhancement of mammary tumour growth by IGFBP-3 involves impaired T cell accumulation. Epidemiological studies show an association between obesity and poor breast cancer prognosis. We previously demonstrated that global IGFBP-3 deficiency, in IGFBP-3-null mice, resulted in a 50% reduction in mammary tumour growth over 3 weeks relative to tumours in wild-type (WT) C57BL/6 mice. This growth reduction was ameliorated by high fat feeding-induced obesity. This study aimed to examine how IGFBP-3 promotes tumour growth by influencing the immune tumour microenvironment in healthy and obese mice. Syngeneic EO771 cells, which lack detectable IGFBP-3 expression, were grown as orthotopic tumours in WT and IGFBP-3-null C57BL/6 mice placed on either a control chow or a high-fat diet (HFD), and examined by quantitative PCR and immunohistochemistry. In WT mice, increased stromal expression of IGFBP-3 was positively associated with tumour growth, supporting the hypothesis that IGFBP-3 in the microenvironment promotes tumour progression. Examining markers of immune cell subsets, gene expression of Ifng, Cd8a, Cd8b1 and Tnf and CD8 measured by immunohistochemistry were elevated in tumours of IGFBP-3-null mice compared to WT, indicating an accumulation of CD8+ T cells, but this increase was absent if the IGFBP-3-null mice had been exposed to HFD. Expression of these genes was negatively associated with tumour growth. Although similar among groups overall, Nkg2d and Tnfsf10 tumoural expression was associated with decreased tumour growth. Overall, the results of this study provide an immune-based mechanism by which host IGFBP-3 may promote breast tumour growth in the EO771 murine breast cancer model, and suggest that targeting IGFBP-3 might make a novel contribution to immune therapy for breast cancer.
36224625 | Identification of human MHC-I HPV18 E6/E7-specific CD8 + T cell epitopes and generation of an HPV18 E6/E7-expressing adenosquamous carcinoma in HLA-A2 transgenic mice. BACKGROUND: Human Papillomavirus type 18 (HPV18) is a high-risk HPV that is commonly associated with cervical cancer. HPV18 oncogenes E6 and E7 are associated with the malignant transformation of cells, thus the identification of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-restricted E6/E7 peptide-specific CD8 + T cell epitopes and the creation of a HPV18 E6/E7 expressing cervicovaginal tumor in HLA-A2 transgenic mice will be significant for vaccine development. METHODS: In the below study, we characterized various human HLA class I-restricted HPV18 E6 and E7-specific CD8 + T cells mediated immune responses in HLA class I transgenic mice using DNA vaccines encoding HPV18E6 and HPV18E7. We then confirmed HLA-restricted E6/E7 specific CD8 + T cell epitopes using splenocytes from vaccinated mice stimulated with HPV18E6/E7 peptides. Furthermore, we used oncogenic DNA plasmids encoding HPV18E7E6(delD70), luciferase, cMyc, and AKT to create a spontaneous cervicovaginal carcinoma model in HLA-A2 transgenic mice. RESULTS: Therapeutic HPV18 E7 DNA vaccination did not elicit any significant CD8 + T cell response in HLA-A1, HLA-24, HLA-B7, HLA-B44 transgenic or wild type C57BL/6 mice, but it did generate a strong HLA-A2 and HLA-A11 restricted HPV18E7-specific CD8 + T cell immune response. We found that a single deletion of aspartic acid (D) at location 70 in HPV18E6 DNA abolishes the presentation of HPV18 E6 peptide (aa67-75) by murine MHC class I. We found that the DNA vaccine with this mutant HPV18 E6 generated E6-specific CD8 + T cells in HLA-A2. HLA-A11, HLA-A24 and HLA-b40 transgenic mice. Of note, HLA-A2 restricted, HPV18 E7 peptide (aa7-15)- and HPV18 E6 peptide (aa97-105)-specific epitopes are endogenously processed by HPV18 positive Hela-AAD (HLA-A*0201/Dd) cells. Finally, we found that injection of DNA plasmids encoding HPV18E7E6(delD70), AKT, cMyc, and SB100 can result in the development of adenosquamous carcinoma in the cervicovaginal tract of HLA-A2 transgenic mice. CONCLUSIONS: We characterized various human HLA class I-restricted HPV18 E6/E7 peptide specific CD8 + T cell epitopes in human HLA class I transgenic mice. We demonstrated that HPV18 positive Hela cells expressing chimeric HLA-A2 (AAD) do present both HLA-A2-restricted HPV18 E7 (aa7-15)- and HPV18 E6 (aa97-105)-specific CD8 + T cell epitopes. A mutant HPV18E6 that had a single deletion at location 70 obliterates the E6 presentation by murine MHC class I and remains oncogenic. The identification of these human MHC restricted HPV antigen specific epitopes as well as the HPV18E6/E7 expressing adenosquamous cell carcinoma model may have significant future translational potential.
37540821 | Causal Relations between Prodromal Infection and Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorder: A Mendelian Randomization Study. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Prodromal infection is associated with neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD), but which type of infection had causal relations with NMOSD remains unclear. We aimed to explore the causal relations between four herpesvirus infections (chickenpox, cold sores, mononucleosis and shingles) and NMOSD, as well as other types of infections and NMOSD. METHODS: For infections, the genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics from the 23andMe cohort were used. For outcomes, the GWAS of participants from European ancestry was used, including 215 NMOSD patients (132 anti-aquaporin-4 antibody [AQP4-ab]-positive patients and 83 AQP4-ab-negative patients) and 1244 normal controls. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) identification and two-sample mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were then performed. RESULTS: In 23andMe cohort, we identified one SNP (rs9266089 in HLA-B gene) for chickenpox, one SNP (rs885950 in POU5F1 gene) for cold scores, one SNP (rs2596465 in HCP5 gene) for mononucleosis, three SNPs (rs2523591 in HLA-B gene; rs7047299 in IFNA21 gene; rs9260809 in MICD gene) for shingles. The relation of cold sores and AQP4-ab-positive NMOSD reached statistical significance (OR [95%CI] = 745.318 [22.176, 25049.53], P < 0.001, Q < 0.001). The association of shingles and AQP4-ab-positive NMOSD was statistically significant (OR [95%CI] = 21.073 [4.271, 103.974], P < 0.001, Q < 0.001). No significant association was observed between other infections and AQP4-ab-positive or AQP4-ab-negative NMOSD. CONCLUSION: These findings suggested the positive associations between cold sores, shingles and AQP4-ab-positive NMOSD, indicating there may be causal relations between herpes simplex virus, varicella-zoster virus infection and AQP4-ab-positive NMOSD.
19099086 | Incomplete Killing And Enhanced Activation of Islet-Reactive CD8+ T Cells by FasL-Expressing Dendritic Cells Limits Protection from Diabetes. AIMS: Autologous dendritic cells (DC) are a promising tool for induction of cytotoxic CD8+ T cell immunity against tumors and chronic viral infections. When armed with the death-inducing Fas-ligand (FasL, CD195), DC attenuate delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions and allotransplant rejection by promoting activation-induced cell death in T cells. We investigated the possibility of using FasL-expressing DC to induce deletion of islet-reactive CD8+ T cells in vivo, and to prevent destruction of pancreatic islets in a model of autoimmune diabetes. METHODS: DC, propagated from mouse bone marrow cells, were purified and made to express FasL and islet-antigen via plasmid transfection. CD8+ T cells (OT-I cells) recognizing the antigen, ovalbumin, were adoptively transferred to transgenic mice expressing ovalbumin in islets (RIP-OVA(lo) mice), and these mice were primed with ovalbumin. To test the potential of DC to prevent diabetes in this model, the mice were later intravenously vaccinated with the transfected DC. RESULTS: Transfected DC induced partial deletion of antigen-reactive CD8+ T cells in vivo and reduced the level of lymphocyte infiltration into pancreatic islets. Diabetes developed less frequently in vaccinated mice, but this effect was limited. Further in vitro analysis showed that FasL-expressing DC not only deleted many of the responding CD8+ T cells but also promoted the expansion of surviving cells and their IFN-gamma production. CONCLUSIONS: FasL-expressing DC can also have stimulatory effects on CD8+ T cells warranting further investigation into the optimal design of tolerance-promoting DC-vaccination to prevent autoimmune diabetes.
17658607 | Gly111Ser mutation in CD8A gene causing CD8 immunodeficiency is found in Spanish Gypsies. We describe the second case of CD8 immunodeficiency. It confirms the pathogenic effect of p.Gly111Ser, leading to complete deficit of CD8+ lymphocytes, although the clinical manifestations may vary in severity. Similarly to the first case reported, our patient is also from Spanish Gypsy origin and homozygous for the p.Gly111Ser mutation in CD8alpha chain. The patient has suffered repeated respiratory infections from childhood but with conservation of her pulmonary parenchyma, on the contrary to the first patient, who died because of his respiratory injury. We developed an AluI-PCR-RFLP assay to screen a total of 1127 unrelated control individuals: 734 subjects of Gypsy ancestry from different sub-isolates and geographic locations in Europe, and 393 of Spanish (non-Gypsy) ethnicity. The results indicate that p.Gly111Ser is confined to the Spanish Gypsy population, where it occurs at a carrier rate of 0.4%. Analysis of microsatellite markers flanking the CD8A mutated gene revealed a shared polymorphic haplotype suggesting a common founder for p.Gly111Ser mutation that causes CD8 deficiency in the Spanish Gypsy population. CD8 immunodeficiency should be given diagnostic consideration in Spanish Gypsies with recurrent infections. Our findings may also have implications for these patients in terms of specific recommendations in vaccination and healthy habits and for genetic counseling of affected families.
36909458 | CD8+ cells and small viral reservoirs facilitate post-ART control of SIV in Mauritian cynomolgus macaques. Sustainable HIV remission after antiretroviral therapy (ART) withdrawal, or post-treatment control (PTC), remains a top priority for HIV treatment. We observed surprising PTC in an MHC-haplomatched cohort of MHC-M3+ SIVmac239+ Mauritian cynomolgus macaques (MCMs) initiated on ART at two weeks post-infection (wpi). For six months after ART withdrawal, we observed undetectable or transient viremia in seven of eight MCMs. In vivo depletion of CD8alpha+ cells induced rebound in all animals, indicating the PTC was mediated, at least in part, by CD8alpha+ cells. We found that MCMs had smaller acute viral reservoirs than a cohort of identically infected rhesus macaques, a population that rarely develops PTC. The mechanisms by which unusually small viral reservoirs and CD8alpha+ cell-mediated virus suppression enable PTC can be investigated using this MHC-haplomatched MCM model. Further, defining the immunologic mechanisms that engender PTC in this model may identify therapeutic targets for inducing durable HIV remission in humans.
37627243 | Cell Surface B2m-Free Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) Monomers and Dimers: Are They Neo-HLA Class and Proto-HLA? Cell surface HLA-I molecules (Face-1) consist of a polypeptide heavy chain (HC) with two groove domains (G domain) and one constant domain (C-domain) as well as a light chain, B2-microglobulin (B2m). However, HCs can also independently emerge unfolded on the cell surface without peptides as B2m-free HC monomers (Face-2), B2m-free HC homodimers (Face 3), and B2m-free HC heterodimers (Face-4). The transport of these HLA variants from ER to the cell surface was confirmed by antiviral antibiotics that arrest the release of newly synthesized proteins from the ER. Face-2 occurs at low levels on the normal cell surface of the lung, bronchi, epidermis, esophagus, breast, stomach, ilium, colorectum, gall bladder, urinary bladder, seminal vesicles ovarian epithelia, endometrium, thymus, spleen, and lymphocytes. They are upregulated on immune cells upon activation by proinflammatory cytokines, anti-CD3 antibodies, antibiotics (e.g., ionomycin), phytohemagglutinin, retinoic acid, and phorbol myristate acetate. Their density on the cell surface remains high as long as the cells remain in an activated state. After activation-induced upregulation, the Face-2 molecules undergo homo- and hetero-dimerization (Face-3 and Face-4). Alterations in the redox environment promote dimerization. Heterodimerization can occur among and between the alleles of different haplotypes. The glycosylation of these variants differ from that of Face-1, and they may occur with bound exogenous peptides. Spontaneous arthritis occurs in HLA-B27+ mice lacking B2m (HLA-B27+ B2m-/-) but not in HLA-B27+ B2m+/- mice. The mice with HLA-B27 in Face-2 spontaneous configuration develop symptoms such as changes in nails and joints, hair loss, and swelling in paws, leading to ankyloses. Anti-HC-specific mAbs delay disease development. Some HLA-I polyreactive mAbs (MEM series) used for immunostaining confirm the existence of B2m-free variants in several cancer cells. The upregulation of Face-2 in human cancers occurs concomitantly with the downregulation of intact HLAs (Face-1). The HLA monomeric and dimeric variants interact with inhibitory and activating ligands (e.g., KIR), growth factors, cytokines, and neurotransmitters. Similarities in the amino acid sequences of the HLA-I variants and HLA-II beta-chain suggest that Face-2 could be the progenitor of both HLA classes. These findings may support the recognition of these variants as a neo-HLA class and proto-HLA.
38617217 | Distinct Type 1 Immune Networks Underlie the Severity of Restrictive Lung Disease after COVID-19. The variable etiology of persistent breathlessness after COVID-19 have confounded efforts to decipher the immunopathology of lung sequelae. Here, we analyzed hundreds of cellular and molecular features in the context of discrete pulmonary phenotypes to define the systemic immune landscape of post-COVID lung disease. Cluster analysis of lung physiology measures highlighted two phenotypes of restrictive lung disease that differed by their impaired diffusion and severity of fibrosis. Machine learning revealed marked CCR5+CD95+ CD8+ T-cell perturbations in mild-to-moderate lung disease, but attenuated T-cell responses hallmarked by elevated CXCL13 in more severe disease. Distinct sets of cells, mediators, and autoantibodies distinguished each restrictive phenotype, and differed from those of patients without significant lung involvement. These differences were reflected in divergent T-cell-based type 1 networks according to severity of lung disease. Our findings, which provide an immunological basis for active lung injury versus advanced disease after COVID-19, might offer new targets for treatment.
36047204 | TARC/CCL17 Expression Is Associated with CD8+ T Cell Recruitment in Abacavir-Induced Skin Hypersensitivity in HLA-Transgenic Mice. Abacavir (ABC)-induced hypersensitivity (AHS) is strongly associated with human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B*57 : 01 expression. Previous studies have demonstrated the feasibility of applying the HLA-transgenic mouse model in this context. ABC-induced adverse reactions were observed in HLA-B*57 : 01 transgenic (B*57 : 01-Tg) mice. Moreover, regulating immune tolerance could result in severe AHS that mimics symptoms observed in the clinical setting, which were modeled in CD4+ T cell-depleted programmed death-1 receptor (PD-1) knockout B*57 : 01-Tg (B*57 : 01-Tg/PD-1-/-) mice. Here, we aimed to examine whether thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC)/CCL17 level can be used as a biomarker for AHS. Serum TARC levels increased in HLA-B*57 : 01-transgenic mice following oral administration of ABC; this increase was associated with the severity of skin toxicity. In ABC-fed CD4+ T cell-depleted B*57 : 01-Tg/PD-1-/- mice, TARC was detected in the epidermal keratinocytes of the ear. Skin toxicity was characterized by the infiltration of CD8+ T cells partially expressing C-C chemokine receptor type 4, which is the primary receptor for TARC. In vivo TARC neutralization effectively alleviated the symptoms of ear skin redness and blood vessel dilatation. Moreover, TARC neutralization suppressed the infiltration of CD8+ T cells to the ear skin but did not affect the ABC-induced adaptive immune response. Therefore, TARC was involved in ABC-induced skin toxicity and contributed to the recruitment of CD8+ T cells to skin. This evidence suggests that serum TARC level may be a functional biomarker for AHS.
25224099 | HLA-DRA variants predict penicillin allergy in genome-wide fine-mapping genotyping. BACKGROUND: Immediate reactions to beta-lactams are the most common causes of anaphylactic reactions and can be life-threatening. The few known genetic factors influencing these reactions suggest a link with atopy and inflammation. OBJECTIVE: We performed a fine-mapping genome-wide association study of the genetic predictors of beta-lactam allergy to better understand the underlying mechanisms. METHODS: We studied 387 patients with immediate allergic reactions to beta-lactams and 1124 paired control subjects from Spain. We replicated the results in 299 patients and 362 paired control subjects from Italy. RESULTS: We found significant associations with the single nucleotide polymorphisms rs4958427 of ZNF300 (c.64-471G>A, P = 9.9 x 10(-9)), rs17612 of C5 (c.4311A>C [p.Glu1437Asp], P = 7.5 x 10(-7)), rs7754768 and rs9268832 of the HLA-DRA   HLA-DRB5 interregion (P = 1.6 x 10(-6) and 4.9 x 10(-6)), and rs7192 of HLA-DRA (c.724T>G [p.Leu242Val], P = 7.4 x 10(-6)) in an allelic model, with similar results in an additive model. Single nucleotide polymorphisms of HLA-DRA and ZNF300 predicted skin test positivity to amoxicillin and other penicillins but not to cephalosporins. A haplotype block in HLA-DRA and the HLA-DRA   HLA-DRB5 interregion encompassed a motif involved in balanced expression of the alpha- and beta-chains of MHC class II, whereas rs7192 was predicted to influence alpha-chain conformation. HLA-DRA rs7192 and rs8084 were significantly associated with allergy to penicillins and amoxicillin (P = 6.0 x 10(-4) and P = 4.0 x 10(-4), respectively) but not to cephalosporins in the replication study. CONCLUSIONS: Gene variants of HLA-DRA and the HLA-DRA   HLA-DRB5 interregion were significant predictors of allergy to penicillins but not to cephalosporins. These data suggest complex gene-environment interactions in which genetic susceptibility of HLA type 2 antigen presentation plays a central role.
12022883 | Mitochondrial aconitase modification, functional inhibition, and evidence for a supramolecular complex of the TCA cycle by the renal toxicant S-(1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl)-L-cysteine. Metabolism of the common industrial gas tetrafluoroethylene in mammals results in the formation of S-(1,1,2,2)-tetrafluoroethyl-L-cysteine (TFEC), which can be bioactivated by a mitochondrial C-S lyase commonly referred to as beta-lyase. The resultant \reactive intermediate\, difluorothioacetyl fluoride (DFTAF), is a potent thioalkylating and protein-modifying species. Previously, we have identified mitochondrial HSP70, HSP60, aspartate aminotransferase, and the E2 and E3 subunits of the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (alphaKGDH) complex as specific proteins structurally modified during this process. Moreover, functional alterations to the alphaKGDH complex were also detected and implicated in the progression of injury. We report here the identification, by tandem mass spectrometry, and functional characterization of the final remaining major protein species modified by DFTAF, previously designated as P99(unk), as mitochondrial aconitase. Aconitase activity was maximally inhibited by 56.5% in renal homogenates after a 6 h exposure to TFEC. In comparison to alphaKGDH, aconitase inhibition (up to 79%) in a cell culture model for TFEC-mediated cytotoxicity was greater and preceded alphaKGDH inhibition, indicating that aconitase modification may constitute an early event in TFEC-mediated mitochondrial damage and cell death. These findings largely define the initial lesion of TFEC-mediated cell death and also have implications for the modeling of mitochondrial enzymatic architecture and the localization and identity of renal mitochondrial cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyase.
27030405 | KIR2DL2/2DL3-E(35) alleles are functionally stronger than -Q(35) alleles. KIR2DL2 and KIR2DL3 segregate as alleles of a single locus in the centromeric motif of the killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) gene family. Although KIR2DL2/L3 polymorphism is known to be associated with many human diseases and is an important factor for donor selection in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, the molecular determinant of functional diversity among various alleles is unclear. In this study we found that KIR2DL2/L3 with glutamic acid at position 35 (E(35)) are functionally stronger than those with glutamine at the same position (Q(35)). Cytotoxicity assay showed that NK cells from HLA-C1 positive donors with KIR2DL2/L3-E(35) could kill more target cells lacking their ligands than NK cells with the weaker -Q(35) alleles, indicating better licensing of KIR2DL2/L3(+) NK cells with the stronger alleles. Molecular modeling analysis reveals that the glutamic acid, which is negatively charged, interacts with positively charged histidine located at position 55, thereby stabilizing KIR2DL2/L3 dimer and reducing entropy loss when KIR2DL2/3 binds to HLA-C ligand. The results of this study will be important for future studies of KIR2DL2/L3-associated diseases as well as for donor selection in allogeneic stem cell transplantation.
38420798 | The Role of CD8A in the Immune Microenvironment of Breast Cancer. BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive form of breast cancer (BC), and it is often associated with a high tumor grade, a younger age at diagnosis, and a low survival rate. Conventional endocrine and anti-HER-2 therapies are usually ineffective against TNBC, creating treatment challenges and resulting in a poor prognosis. Hence, new targets and treatment strategies for TNBC are urgently required. METHODS: The GSE102818 dataset was used to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between primary BC and metastatic BC lesions. The Cancer Genome Atlas and the cBioPortal platform were employed to explore mutations in candidate genes. Utilizing the Tumor IMmune Estimation Resource (TIMER), the relationship between the expression of candidate genes and immune cell infiltration was assessed. Additionally, the cell-specific expression of the candidate genes was examined in the immune microenvironment of primary BC and metastatic BC lesions using the single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets GSE118389 and GSE202695. Finally, the protein expression of the candidate genes in clinical TNBC samples was evaluated. RESULTS: CD8A was identified as a hub gene in the DEG network and was found to be down-regulated in metastatic BC lesions. CD8A expression was highly correlated with the infiltration of CD8+ T cells, and elevated CD8A expression was correlated with improved survival. Interestingly, scRNA-seq data revealed that CD8A was down-regulated in CD8+ T cells in the immune microenvironment of metastatic BC lesions. Finally, the evaluation of clinical samples confirmed the down-regulation of CD8A in the immune microenvironment of BC lung metastases. CONCLUSIONS: In patients with metastatic TNBC, high levels of CD8A (especially in the immune microenvironment) are associated with a good prognosis.
28837860 | Pomegranate peel extract attenuates D-galactose-induced oxidative stress and hearing loss by regulating PNUTS/PP1 activity in the mouse cochlea. Oxidative stress is considered to be a major contributor to age-related hearing loss (ARHL). Here, we investigated whether pomegranate peel extract (PPE) protected against hearing loss by decreased oxidative stress in the cochlea of D-galactose-induced accelerated aging mice. The aging mice exhibited an increase in hearing threshold shifts and hair cells loss, which were improved in the PPE-treated aging mice. The aging mice also exhibited an increase in 4-hydroxynonenal, the expression of protein phosphatase 1 nuclear targeting subunit (PNUTS), p53 and caspase-3, and a decrease in protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) and MDM2 in the cochlea. PPE treatment reversed the changes in aforementioned molecules. Our results suggested that PPE can protect against ARHL, the underlying mechanisms may involve in the inhibition of oxidative damage of cochlea, possibly by regulating PNUTS/PP1 pathway. The results from the present study provide a new therapeutic strategy to use PPE for prevention of ARHL.
38342774 | Recognition of the HLA-B*15:01:17 allele in a Taiwanese individual. Nucleotide substitution in codon 129 of HLA-B*15:01:01:01 results in a novel allele, HLA-B*15:01:17.
38342777 | One nucleotide substitution in the 3'UTR generated the novel allele HLA-B*40:01:02:47 in a North Indian individual. HLA-B*40:01:02:47 differs from HLA-B*40:01:02:01 by one nucleotide change in the 3'UTR at position 2739 (A>T).
3084649 | Induction and blocking of cytolysis in CD2+, CD3- NK and CD2+, CD3+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes via CD2 50 KD sheep erythrocyte receptor. The 50 KD sheep red blood cell antigen receptor CD2 is the earliest T cell differentiation marker and is present on all blood-derived T cells, including natural killer (NK) cells. The CD2 antigen is also known to serve as an important activation site regulating various T cell functions. We report that anti-CD2 monoclonal antibodies (MAb) block MHC-restricted class I- and class II-specific cytolysis by CD2+, CD3+ clones of the relevant target cells, irrespective of whether lysis by these clones is blocked by anti-CD3 or anti-CD8 MAb. Moreover, anti-CD2 MAb (but not anti-CD3 MAb) are able to reduce MHC-nonrestricted, nonspecific cytolysis: a) by CD2+, CD3+ clones of K562 target cells; and b) by CD2+, CD3 NK clones of K562 as well as Daudi cells. Different preparations of anti-CD2 MAb vary in their capacity to inhibit cytolysis. For cloned effector cells, the percent inhibition of lysis by CLB-T11 greater than Lyt-3 MAb, whereas with \fresh\ NK cells, the lysis inhibitory ability of Lyt-3 greater than CLB-T11. The antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity by \fresh\ and cloned NK cells is not inhibited by anti-CD2 MAb. Anti-CD2 MAb also prevent the induction of lysis by cross-linked anti-CD3 MAb, e.g., by CD2+, CD3+ cloned cloned cells against (IgG-FcR+) Daudi cells. Anti-CD2 MAb can also induce cytolysis in some, but not all, CD2+, CD3- NK clones against xenogeneic P815 mouse mastocytoma cells. Anti-CD2 MAb, in combination with lectins (PHA or Con A: pretreatment of effector cells), can also induce cytolytic activity by CD2+, CD3+ clones against Daudi cells. Our data therefore support the concept that the CD2 antigen is an important activation site regulating a wide variety of T cell functions including cytolysis. Whether ligand interaction with the CD2 antigens results in augmentation or inhibition of T cell functions may very well depend on the type of CD2 antigen-ligand interaction, e.g., cross-linked ligand-receptor interaction may, in general, enhance the various T cell functions, whereas noncross-linked ligand-receptor interactions may inhibit such functions, as we and other investigators demonstrated earlier for the CD3/Ti antigen-receptor complex activation site.
33115945 | PD-1 inhibitor inducing exosomal miR-34a-5p expression mediates the cross talk between cardiomyocyte and macrophage in immune checkpoint inhibitor-related cardiac dysfunction. BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have been an important therapeutic advancement in the field of cancer medicine. Recent reports provided greater insights into the cardiovascular adverse events, which prohibited the use of ICIs. Cardiovascular adverse events occur in different forms, such as myocarditis and cardiomyopathy, myocardial fibrosis, heart failure and pericardial disease. Cardiac aging overlapped with the occurrence of some cardiac diseases. Exosomes mediate cell-cell cross talk in cardiac diseases by transferring a variety of biomolecules, including microRNAs (miRs). miR-34a-5p is a well-known miR associated with the cardiac senescence. This study aimed to investigate whether cardiovascular adverse effects of the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibitor, a widely used ICI, were related to exosomal-transferred miR-34a-5p in cardiac senescence in a mouse model. METHODS AND RESULTS: The upregulation of miR-34a-5p in cardiomyocytes induced by exosomes derived from PD-1 inhibitor-treated macrophages, accompanied by cardiac senescence, caused cardiac injury in mouse hearts. miR-34a-5p was identified as an exosomal transfer RNA to induce cardiac senescence-related injury. Inhibiting miR-34a-5p in macrophages attenuated the exosomePD-1 inhibitor-induced pro-senescent effect in cardiomyocytes. TargetScan and luciferase assay showed that miR-34a-5p targeted the serine/threonine-protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 10 (PNUTS) 3'-untranslated region. CONCLUSIONS: Exosomes derived from PD-1 inhibitor-treated macrophages exerted a pro-senescent effect by modulating the miR-34a-5p/PNUTS signaling pathway. The findings might supply new targets to ameliorate cardiac injury in patients with cancer receiving PD-1 inhibitor treatment.
38397027 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF7a Mutation Found in BF.5 and BF.7 Sublineages Impacts Its Functions. A feature of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron subvariants BF.5 and BF.7 that recently circulated mainly in China and Japan was the high prevalence of the ORF7a: H47Y mutation, in which the 47th residue of ORF7a has been mutated from a histidine (H) to a tyrosine (Y). Here, we evaluated the effect of this mutation on the three main functions ascribed to the SARS-CoV-2 ORF7a protein. Our findings show that H47Y mutation impairs the ability of SARS-CoV-2 ORF7a to antagonize the type I interferon (IFN-I) response and to downregulate major histocompatibility complex I (MHC-I) cell surface levels, but had no effect in its anti-SERINC5 function. Overall, our results suggest that the H47Y mutation of ORF7a affects important functions of this protein, resulting in changes in virus pathogenesis.
14673549 | Nucleotide sequencing analysis of the swine 433-kb genomic segment located between the non-classical and classical SLA class I gene clusters. Genome analysis of the swine leukocyte antigen ( SLA) region is needed to obtain information on the MHC genomic sequence similarities and differences between the swine and human, given the possible use of swine organs for xenotransplantation. Here, the genomic sequences of a 433-kb segment located between the non-classical and classical SLA class I gene clusters were determined and analyzed for gene organization and contents of repetitive sequences. The genomic organization and diversity of this swine non-class I gene region was compared with the orthologous region of the human leukocyte antigen ( HLA) complex. The length of the fully sequenced SLA genomic segment was 433 kb compared with 595 kb in the corresponding HLA class I region. This 162-kb difference in size between the swine and human genomic segments can be explained by indel activity, and the greater variety and density of repetitive sequences within the human MHC. Twenty-one swine genes with strong sequence similarity to the corresponding human genes were identified, with the gene order from the centromere to telomere of HCR - SPR1 - SEEK1 - CDSN - STG - DPCR1 - KIAA1885 - TFIIH - DDR - IER3 - FLOT1 - TUBB - KIAA0170 - NRM - KIAA1949 - DDX16 - FLJ13158 - MRPS18B - FB19 - ABCFI - CAT56. The human SEEK1 and DPCR1 genes are pseudogenes in swine. We conclude that the swine non-class I gene region that we have sequenced is highly conserved and therefore homologous to the corresponding region located between the HLA-C and HLA-E genes in the human.
18485203 | Comparative analysis of transcriptional profiling of CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells identifies novel immune response players in T-cell activation. BACKGROUND: T-cell activation is an essential step of the immune response and relies on the tightly controlled orchestration of hundreds of genes/proteins, yet the cellular and molecular events underlying this complex process are not fully understood, especially at the genome-scale. Significantly, a comparative genome-scale transcriptional analysis of two T-cell subsets (CD4+ and CD8+) against each other and against the naturally mixed population (CD3+ cells) remains unexplored. RESULTS: Comparison of the microarray-based gene expression patterns between CD3+ T cells, and the CD4+ and CD8+ subsets revealed largely conserved, but not identical, transcriptional patterns. We employed a Gene-Ontology-driven transcriptional analysis coupled with protein abundance assays in order to identify novel T-cell activation genes and cell-type-specific genes associated with the immune response. We identified potential genes involved in the communication between the two subsets (including IL23A, NR4A2, CD83, PSMB2, -8, MIF, IFI16, TNFAIP1, POU2AF1, and OTUB1) and would-be effector-function-specific genes (XCL2, SLAMF7, TNFSF4, -5, -9, CSF3, CD48 and CD244). Chemokines induced during T-cell activation, but not previously identified in T cells, include CCL20, CXCL9, -10, -11 (in all three populations), and XCL2 (preferentially in CD8+ T cells). Increased expression of other unexpected cytokines (GPI, OSM and MIF) suggests their involvement in T-cell activation with their functions yet to be examined. Differential expression of many receptors, not previously reported in the context of T-cell activation, including CCR5, CCR7, IL1R2, IL1RAP, IL6R, TNFRSF25 and TNFRSF1A, suggests their role in this immune process. Several receptors involved in TCR activation (CD3D, CD3G, TRAT1, ITGAL, ITGB1, ITGB2, CD8A and B (CD8+ T-cell specific) along with LCK, ZAP70 and TYROBP were synchronously downregulated. Members of cell-surface receptors (HLA-Ds and KLRs), none previously identified in the context of T-cell activation, were also downregulated. CONCLUSION: This comparative genome-scale, transcriptional analysis of T-cell activation in the CD4+ and CD8+ subsets and the mixed CD3+ populations made possible the identification of many immune-response genes not previously identified in the context of T-cell activation. Significantly, it made possible to identify the temporal patterns of many previously known T-cell activation genes, and also identify genes implicated in effector functions of and communication between CD4+ and CD8+ T cells.
25311805 | Uncovering the peptide-binding specificities of HLA-C: a general strategy to determine the specificity of any MHC class I molecule. MHC class I molecules (HLA-I in humans) present peptides derived from endogenous proteins to CTLs. Whereas the peptide-binding specificities of HLA-A and -B molecules have been studied extensively, little is known about HLA-C specificities. Combining a positional scanning combinatorial peptide library approach with a peptide-HLA-I dissociation assay, in this study we present a general strategy to determine the peptide-binding specificity of any MHC class I molecule. We applied this novel strategy to 17 of the most common HLA-C molecules, and for 16 of these we successfully generated matrices representing their peptide-binding motifs. The motifs prominently shared a conserved C-terminal primary anchor with hydrophobic amino acid residues, as well as one or more diverse primary and auxiliary anchors at P1, P2, P3, and/or P7. Matrices were used to generate a large panel of HLA-C-specific peptide-binding data and update our pan-specific NetMHCpan predictor, whose predictive performance was considerably improved with respect to peptide binding to HLA-C. The updated predictor was used to assess the specificities of HLA-C molecules, which were found to cover a more limited sequence space than HLA-A and -B molecules. Assessing the functional significance of these new tools, HLA-C*07:01 transgenic mice were immunized with stable HLA-C*07:01 binders; six of six tested stable peptide binders were immunogenic. Finally, we generated HLA-C tetramers and labeled human CD8(+) T cells and NK cells. These new resources should support future research on the biology of HLA-C molecules. The data are deposited at the Immune Epitope Database, and the updated NetMHCpan predictor is available at the Center for Biological Sequence Analysis and the Immune Epitope Database.
32219494 | Tuning of human NK cells by endogenous HLA-C expression. NK cells are primarily responsible for detecting malignant or pathogen-infected cells, and their function is influenced both by stress-associated activating signals and opposing inhibitory signals from receptors that recognize self MHC. The receptors that produce this inhibitory signal shift from the NKG2A:HLA-E system to that of KIR:HLA as the NK cells mature. This maturation is associated with an increase in lytic activity, as well as an increase in HLA-C protein levels controlled by the NK-specific HLA-C promoter, NK-Pro. We propose that modulation of the translatability of HLA-C transcripts in NK cells constitutes an evolutionary mechanism to control cis inhibitory signaling by HLA-C, which fine tunes NK cell activity. Furthermore, the high degree of variability in KIR receptor affinity for HLA alleles, as well as the variable expression levels of both KIR and HLA, suggest an evolutionary requirement for the tuning of NK lytic activity. Various data have demonstrated that mature NK cells may gain or lose lytic activity when placed in different environments. This indicates that NK cell activity may be more a function of constant tuning by inhibitory signals, rather than a static, irreversible \license to kill\ granted to mature NK cells. Inhibitory signaling controls the filling of the cytolytic granule reservoir, which becomes depleted if there are insufficient inhibitory signals, leading to a hyporesponsive NK cell. We propose a novel model for the tuning of human NK cell activity via cis interactions in the context of recent findings on the mechanism of NK education.
23012431 | Reduced numbers of dendritic cells with a tolerogenic phenotype in the prediabetic pancreas of NOD mice. The NOD mouse is a widely used animal model of autoimmune diabetes. Prior to the onset of lymphocytic insulitis, DCs accumulate at the islet edges. Our recent work indicated that these DCs may derive from aberrantly proliferating local precursor cells. As CD8alpha(+) DCs play a role in tolerance induction in steady-state conditions, we hypothesized that the autoimmune phenotype might associate with deficiencies in CD8alpha(+) DCs in the prediabetic NOD mouse pancreas. We studied CD8alpha(+) DCs in the pancreas and pLNs of NOD and control mice, focusing on molecules associated with tolerance induction (CD103, Langerin, CLEC9A, CCR5). mRNA expression levels of tolerance-modulating cytokines were studied in pancreatic CD8alpha(+) DCs of NOD and control mice. In the NOD pancreas, the frequency of CD8alpha(+)CD103(+)Langerin(+) cells was reduced significantly compared with control mice. NOD pancreatic CD8alpha(+)CD103(+)Langerin(+) DCs expressed reduced levels of CCR5, CLEC9A, and IL-10 as compared with control DCs. These alterations in the CD8alpha(+)CD103(+)Langerin(+) DC population were not present in pLNs. We demonstrate local abnormalities in the CD8alpha(+) DC population in the prediabetic NOD pancreas. These data suggest that abnormal differentiation of pancreatic DCs contributes to loss of tolerance, hallmarking the development of autoimmune diabetes.
2784466 | Isolation and characterization of the mouse CD8 beta-chain (Ly-3) genes. Absence of an intervening sequence between V- and J-like gene segments. We have isolated and determined the nucleotide sequence and genomic organization of the genes encoding Ly-3.1 and Ly-3.2. These genes span approximately 14 kb on chromosome 6 and consist of six exons and five introns. The exons correlate roughly with the putative functional domains, namely, a leader exon, a variable and joining region-like exon, a hinge region-like exon, a transmembrane exon, and two intracytoplasmic exons. There is no intervening sequence between V- and J-like gene segments, indicating that rearrangement is not necessary for the expression of the Ly-3 gene. In the 5'-flanking region there is no \TATA\ box nor \CAAT\ box; however, three \GC\ boxes are located upstream of the ATG initiator codon. There are short stretches of sequence homologous to 5'-flanking sequences of the Ly-2 gene. In addition, the sequences CTCTGTGGCA at -748 exhibits homology to the enhancer core sequence of the human Ig H chain and TCR genes. Comparison of the nucleotide sequence corresponding to the extracellular portion between Ly-3.1 and Ly-3.2 revealed a single base difference which results in an amino acid substitution. Therefore it is likely that this amino acid difference is responsible for the previously defined Ly-3 allotypes.
38207230 | Genomic and Immunophenotypic Landscape of Acquired Resistance to PD-(L)1 Blockade in Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. PURPOSE: Although immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) have extended survival in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), acquired resistance (AR) to ICI frequently develops after an initial benefit. However, the mechanisms of AR to ICI in NSCLC are largely unknown. METHODS: Comprehensive tumor genomic profiling, machine learning-based assessment of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, multiplexed immunofluorescence, and/or HLA-I immunohistochemistry (IHC) were performed on matched pre- and post-ICI tumor biopsies from patients with NSCLC treated with ICI at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute who developed AR to ICI. Two additional cohorts of patients with intervening chemotherapy or targeted therapies between biopsies were included as controls. RESULTS: We performed comprehensive genomic profiling and immunophenotypic characterization on samples from 82 patients with NSCLC and matched pre- and post-ICI biopsies and compared findings with a control cohort of patients with non-ICI intervening therapies between biopsies (chemotherapy, N = 32; targeted therapies, N = 89; both, N = 17). Putative resistance mutations were identified in 27.8% of immunotherapy-treated cases and included acquired loss-of-function mutations in STK11, B2M, APC, MTOR, KEAP1, and JAK1/2; these acquired alterations were not observed in the control groups. Immunophenotyping of matched pre- and post-ICI samples demonstrated significant decreases in intratumoral lymphocytes, CD3e+ and CD8a+ T cells, and PD-L1-PD1 engagement, as well as increased distance between tumor cells and CD8+PD-1+ T cells. There was a significant decrease in HLA class I expression in the immunotherapy cohort at the time of AR compared with the chemotherapy (P = .005) and the targeted therapy (P = .01) cohorts. CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the genomic and immunophenotypic heterogeneity of ICI resistance in NSCLC, which will need to be considered when developing novel therapeutic strategies aimed at overcoming resistance.
34785597 | Decidual NK cells kill Zika virus-infected trophoblasts. Zika virus (ZIKV) during pregnancy infects fetal trophoblasts and causes placental damage and birth defects including microcephaly. Little is known about the anti-ZIKV cellular immune response at the maternal-fetal interface. Decidual natural killer cells (dNK), which directly contact fetal trophoblasts, are the dominant maternal immune cells in the first-trimester placenta, when ZIKV infection is most hazardous. Although dNK express all the cytolytic molecules needed to kill, they usually do not kill infected fetal cells but promote placentation. Here, we show that dNK degranulate and kill ZIKV-infected placental trophoblasts. ZIKV infection of trophoblasts causes endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, which makes them dNK targets by down-regulating HLA-C/G, natural killer (NK) inhibitory receptor ligands that help maintain tolerance of the semiallogeneic fetus. ER stress also activates the NK activating receptor NKp46. ZIKV infection of Ifnar1 -/- pregnant mice results in high viral titers and severe intrauterine growth restriction, which are exacerbated by depletion of NK or CD8 T cells, indicating that killer lymphocytes, on balance, protect the fetus from ZIKV by eliminating infected cells and reducing the spread of infection.
38242488 | Herpesvirus activated NF-kappaB-mediated antigen processing and presentation to aggravate trichloroethylene-induced hypersensitivity dermatitis. Trichloroethylene-induced hypersensitivity dermatitis (TIHD) is a delayed hypersensitivity response that is affected by genetic and environmental factors. Occupational exposure to trichloroethylene (TCE) enhances antigen presentation, leading to hypersensitivity in workers with the HLA-B* 13:01 allele. Several studies have observed the activation of herpesviruses, such as EpsteinBarr virus (EBV), in TIHD patients. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of herpesvirus infection. This study aimed to explore whether TLRs serve as a shared mechanism for both herpesvirus and allergenic chemicals. In this study, HLA-B* 13:01-transfected Hmy2. A C1R cell model was constructed, and cells were treated with TCOH and EBV to explore the possible mechanisms. We established a mouse model of dermatitis and used a TLR4 agonist to verify the effect of herpesvirus on TIHD. The results showed that EBV and TCOH synergistically enhance antigen processing and presentation via the TLR2/NF-kappaB axis. Furthermore, TLR4 agonist further aggravated skin lesions and liver damage in TCE-sensitized mice through TLR4/NF-kappaB axis-mediated antigen processing and presentation. Together, this study indicates that viral infection further aggravates the inflammatory response in TIHD based on environment-gene interactions.
38563865 | Frequency and the effects of spondyloarthritis-spectrum disorders on the clinical course and management of Takayasu arteritis: an observational retrospective study. OBJECTIVES: Extravascular findings of Takayasu arteritis (TAK) often share features with the spondyloarthritis (SpA) spectrum of disorders. However, the characteristics of this overlap and its effect on the vascular manifestations of TAK are not fully known. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the frequency of SpA-related features in TAK patients. MATERIAL AND METHODS: In this observational retrospective study, 350 patients with TAK classified according to ACR 1990 criteria, from 12 tertiary rheumatology clinics, were included and evaluated for the presence of axSpA, IBD, or psoriasis. Demographic, clinical features, angiographic involvement patterns, disease activity, and treatments of TAK patients with or without SpA were analyzed. RESULTS: Mean age was 45.5 +- 13.6 years and mean follow-up period was 76.1 +- 65.9 months. Among 350 patients, 31 (8.8%) had at least one additional disease from the SpA spectrum, 8 had IBD, 8 had psoriasis, and 20 had features of axSpA. In the TAK-SpA group, TAK had significantly earlier disease onset, compared to TAK-without-SpA (p = 0.041). SpA-related symptoms generally preceded TAK symptoms. Biological treatments, mostly for active vasculitis, were higher in the TAK-SpA group (70.9%) compared to TAK-without-SpA (27.9%) (p < 0.001). Vascular involvements were similar in both. CONCLUSION: Our study confirmed that diseases in the SpA spectrum are not rare in TAK. Vascular symptoms appeared earlier in such patients, and more aggressive therapy with biological agents was required in the TAK-SpA group, suggesting an association between TAK and SpA spectrum. Key Points   The pathogenesis of Takayasu arteritis is mediated by an MHC class I alelle (HLA-B*52), similar to spondyloarthritis-disorders.   Extravascular findings of Takayasu arteritis are in the spectrum of spondyloarthritis disease.   This frequent coexistence between Takayasu arteritis and spondyloarthritic disorders suggests a relationship rather than a coincidence.
12709336 | In vitro and in vivo activities of AM-112, a novel oxapenem. AM-112 [(1'R,5R,6R)-3-(4-amino-1,1-dimethyl-butyl)-6-(1'-hydroxyethyl)oxapenem-3-carboxylate] is a novel oxapenem compound which possesses potent beta-lactamase-inhibitory properties. Fifty-percent inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)s) of AM-112 for class A enzymes were between 0.16 and 2.24 micro M for three enzymes, compared to IC(50)s of 0.008 to 0.12 micro M for clavulanic acid. Against class C and class D enzymes, however, the activity of AM-112 was between 1,000- and 100,000-fold greater than that of clavulanic acid. AM-112 had affinity for the penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) of Escherichia coli DC0, with PBP2 being inhibited by the lowest concentration of AM-112 tested, 0.1 micro g/ml. Ceftazidime was combined with AM-112 at 1:1 and 2:1 ratios in MIC determination studies against a panel of beta-lactamase-producing organisms. These studies demonstrated that AM-112 was effective at protecting ceftazidime against extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing strains and derepressed class C enzyme producers, reducing ceftazidime MICs by 16- and 2,048-fold. Similar results were obtained when AM-112 was combined with ceftriaxone, cefoperazone, or cefepime in a 1:2 ratio. Protection of ceftazidime with AM-112 was maintained against Enterobacter cloacae P99 and Klebsiella pneumoniae SHV-5 in a murine intraperitoneal sepsis model. The 50% effective dose of ceftazidime against E. cloacae P99 and K. pneumoniae SHV-5 was reduced from >100 and 160 mg/kg of body weight to 2 and 33.6 mg/kg, respectively, when it was combined with AM-112 at a 1:1 ratio. AM-112 demonstrates potential as a new beta-lactamase inhibitor.
38291496 | Single-cell combined bioinformatics analysis: construction of immune cluster and risk prognostic model in kidney renal clear cells based on CD8+ T cell-associated genes. BACKGROUND: Kidney cancer is an immunogenic solid tumor, characterized by high tumor burden and infiltration of CD8+ T cells. Although immunotherapy targeting the PD1/CTLA-4 axis has demonstrated excellent clinical efficacy, clinical outcomes in most patients are poor. METHODS: We used the RNA sequencing data from the GEO database for KIRC GSE121636 and normal kidney tissue GSE131685, and performed single-cell analysis for cluster identification, pathway enrichment, and CD8+ T cell-associated gene identification. Subsequently, the significance of different CD8+ T-cell associated gene subtypes was elucidated by consensus clustering, pathway analysis, mutated gene analysis, and KIRC immune microenvironment analysis in the TCGA-KIRC disease cohort. Single gene analysis identified LAG3 as the most critical CD8+ T-cell-associated gene and its function was verified by cell phenotype and immunohistochemistry in KIRC. RESULTS: In the present study, CD8+ T-cell associated genes in KIRC were screened, including GZMK, CD27, CCL4L2, FXYD2, LAG3, RGS1, CST7, DUSP4, CD8A, and TRBV20-1 and an immunological risk prognostic model was constructed (risk score =  - 0.291858656434841*GZMK - 0.192758342489394*FXYD2 + 0.625023643446193*LAG3 + 0.161324477181591*RGS1 - 0.380169045328895*DUSP4 - 0.107221347575037*TRBV20-1). LAG3 was identified and proved as the most critical CD8+ T cell-associated gene in KIRC. CONCLUSION: We proposed and constructed an immunological risk prognostic model for CD8+ T cell-associated genes and identified LAG3 as a pivotal gene for KIRC progression and CD8+ T-cell infiltration. The model comprehensively explained the immune microenvironment and provided novel immune-related therapeutic targets and biomarkers in KIRC.
20219829 | Cancer cell-specific internalizing ligands from phage displayed beta-lactamase-peptide fusion libraries. The present study was focused on identifying cancer cell-specific internalizing ligands using a new kind of phage display library in which the linear or cysteine-constrained random peptides were at amino-terminus fusion to catalytically active P99 beta-lactamase molecules. The size and quality of libraries were comparable to other reported phage display systems. Several cancer cell-specific binding and internalizing beta-lactamase-peptide fusion ligands were isolated by selecting these libraries on the live BT-474 human breast cancer cells. The identified ligands shared several significant motifs, which showed their selectivity and possible binding to some common cancer cell targets. The beta-lactamase fusion made the whole process of clone screening efficient and simple. The ligands selected from such libraries do not require peptide synthesis and modifications, and can be used directly for applications that require ligand tracking. In addition, the selected beta-lactamase-peptide ligands have a potential for their direct use in targeted enzyme prodrug therapy. The cancer-specific peptides can also be adopted for other kinds of targeted delivery protocols requiring cell-specific affinity reagents. This is first report on the selection of cell-internalized enzyme conjugates using phage display technology, which opens the possibility for new fusion libraries with other relevant enzymes.
27677155 | Changes in expression of genes involved in antitumor immunity in mice vaccinated with tumor vaccine composed of irradiated syngeneic tumor cells and CpG oligodeoxynucleotides. In our previous studies, it has been demonstrated that in more than 80% of mice long-lasting antitumor immunity has been established following intraperitoneal (i.p.) vaccination with tumor vaccine composed of irradiated syngeneic tumor cells and CpG ODNs class C. The aim of this study was, therefore, to investigate molecular mechanisms through which this vaccine triggers the immunity and to define genes particularly involved in this process. Changes in gene expression were followed in mononuclear cells isolated from peritoneal lavages, spleens and bone marrow samples. The expression of 84 genes significant for T-cell and B-cell activation as well as genes engaged in activation of macrophages, NK cells and DCs was determined using the RT2- Profiler PCR array. It has been observed that this tumor vaccine induces the up-regulation of genes involved in activation, proliferation and survival of memory T-cells (Cd8a, Cd8b1, Prlr, Was, Cxcl12, Il12, Sftpd, Tnfrsf13c, Il15, Il18), and prevents the activation of genes involved in generation of Treg and induction of immune tolerance (Sit1, Sla2, Cd1d1, Pdcd1lg2, Pawr, Socs5, Il27, Il4). We may conclude based on results of gene expression analysis, that tumor vaccine fine-tunes the proportion of cytotoxic to regulatory lymphocytes having an important impact on the induction and maintenance of memory cells in bone marrow.
8858110 | Identification of glycyrrhizin-binding protein kinase as casein kinase II and characterization of its associated phosphate acceptors in mouse liver. Two forms (G-I and G-II kinases) of casein kinase II(CK-II) in a partially purified CK-II fraction (Mono Q fraction) of mouse liver were separated by means of glycyrrhizin (GL)-affinity column chromatography. Biochemical characterization revealed that these two GL-binding kinases were identical to CK-II. Two phosphate acceptors [p99 (pI 7.0) and p56] copurified with CK-II were identified as ERp99 (Hsp-90-family protein) and calreticulin, respectively. Another protein [p100 (pI 9.0)], which crossreacted with anti-serum against human glucocorticoid receptor (GR), was associated with ERp99. Phosphorylation of p99 [a hetero-complex of p99 (pI 7.0) and p100 (pI 9.0)] and p56 by CK-II in vitro was stimulated significantly by low levels (1-3 microM) of GL, but inhibited significantly at doses above 20 microM. However, no effect of GL on autophosphorylation of ERp99 was detected. The data provided here suggest that GL can regulate CK-II-mediated phosphorylation involved in the GL-induced biological effects in mammalian cells.
18397267 | Differential regulation of SOCS-1 signalling in B and T lymphocytes by hepatitis C virus core protein. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is characterized by a strong propensity toward chronicity, autoimmune phenomena and lymphomagenesis, supporting a role for lymphocyte dysregulation during persistent viral infection. We have shown that HCV core protein inhibits T-cell functions through interaction with a complement receptor, gC1qR. Here, we further report that B cells also express gC1qR that can be bound by HCV core protein. Importantly, using flow cytometry, we demonstrated differential regulation of B and T lymphocytes by the HCV core-gC1qR interaction, with down-regulation of CD69 activation in T cells but up-regulation of CD69 activation and cell proliferation in B cells. HCV core treatment led to decreased interferon-gamma production in CD8+ T cells but to increased immunoglobulin M and immunoglobulin G production as well as cell surface expression of costimulatory and chemokine receptors, including CD86 (B7-2), CD154 (CD40L) and CD195 (CCR5), in CD20+ B cells. Finally, we showed down-regulation of suppressor of cytokine signalling-1 (SOCS-1) using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, accompanied by up-regulation of signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT1) phosphorylation in B cells in response to HCV core protein, with the opposite pattern observed in HCV core-treated T cells. This study demonstrates differential regulation of B and T lymphocytes by HCV core and supports a mechanism by which lymphocyte dysregulation occurs in the course of persistent HCV infection.
35726891 | KDM5A Inhibits Antitumor Immune Responses Through Downregulation of the Antigen-Presentation Pathway in Ovarian Cancer. The extent to which effector CD8+ T cells infiltrate into tumors is one of the major predictors of clinical outcome for patients with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC). Immune cell infiltration into EOC is a complex process that could be affected by the epigenetic makeup of the tumor. Here, we have demonstrated that a lysine 4 histone H3 (H3K4) demethylase, (lysine-specific demethylase 5A; KDM5A) impairs EOC infiltration by immune cells and inhibits antitumor immune responses. Mechanistically, we found that KDM5A silenced genes involved in the antigen processing and presentation pathway. KDM5A inhibition restored the expression of genes involved in the antigen-presentation pathway in vitro and promoted antitumor immune responses mediated by CD8+ T cells in vivo in a syngeneic EOC mouse model. A negative correlation between expression of KDM5A and genes involved in the antigen processing and presentation pathway such as HLA-A and HLA-B was observed in the majority of cancer types. In summary, our results establish KDM5A as a regulator of CD8+ T-cell infiltration of tumors and demonstrate that KDM5A inhibition may provide a novel therapeutic strategy to boost antitumor immune responses.
31385396 | Long-term repopulation of aged bone marrow stem cells using young Sca-1 cells promotes aged heart rejuvenation. Reduced quantity and quality of stem cells in aged individuals hinders cardiac repair and regeneration after injury. We used young bone marrow (BM) stem cell antigen 1 (Sca-1) cells to reconstitute aged BM and rejuvenate the aged heart, and examined the underlying molecular mechanisms. BM Sca-1+ or Sca-1- cells from young (2-3 months) or aged (18-19 months) GFP transgenic mice were transplanted into lethally irradiated aged mice to generate 4 groups of chimeras: young Sca-1+ , young Sca-1- , old Sca-1+ , and old Sca-1- . Four months later, expression of rejuvenation-related genes (Bmi1, Cbx8, PNUTS, Sirt1, Sirt2, Sirt6) and proteins (CDK2, CDK4) was increased along with telomerase activity and telomerase-related protein (DNA-PKcs, TRF-2) expression, whereas expression of senescence-related genes (p16INK4a , P19ARF , p27Kip1 ) and proteins (p16INK4a , p27Kip1 ) was decreased in Sca-1+ chimeric hearts, especially in the young group. Host cardiac endothelial cells (GFP- CD31+ ) but not cardiomyocytes were the primary cell type rejuvenated by young Sca-1+ cells as shown by improved proliferation, migration, and tubular formation abilities. C-X-C chemokine CXCL12 was the factor most highly expressed in homed donor BM (GFP+ ) cells isolated from young Sca-1+ chimeric hearts. Protein expression of Cxcr4, phospho-Akt, and phospho-FoxO3a in endothelial cells derived from the aged chimeric heart was increased, especially in the young Sca-1+ group. Reconstitution of aged BM with young Sca-1+ cells resulted in effective homing of functional stem cells in the aged heart. These young, regenerative stem cells promoted aged heart rejuvenation through activation of the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 pathway of cardiac endothelial cells.
25616911 | Age-related development and tissue distribution of T cell markers (CD4 and CD8a) in Chinese goose. Aquatic birds play n critical role in the transmission and dissemination of many important pathogens such as avian influenza virus. The cell-mediated immunity is very important in eliminating the intracellular antigens. Expression of CD4 and CD8 on T cell surface is essential for cell-mediated immune defence and T-cell development. However, the ontogeny of T lymphocytes in waterfowl is scarce and fragmentary. To address these questions, here we report the development and tissues distribution of CD4 and CD8alpha in goose embryo, gosling and goose by immunocytochemistry assay using monoclonal antibodies. Moreover, the age-related mRNA level of goose CD4 and CD8alpha in different immune tissues were study by real time quantitative PCR. Our results suggested that the high expression of CD4 and CD8alpha were readily found in thymus, which peaked at the first week post-hatch. And the highest expression level of CD4 and CD8alpha were detected in bursa of Fabricius, caecal tonsils, spleen and intestine at the second week, after that the expression level were gradually decreased. Interestingly, the remarkably high expression of CD4 and CD8alpha in Harderian gland were detected at the first week, which is about hundreds times more than that in other tissues. Our findings demonstrated that the development and the distribution of CD4 and CD8alpha are partly changed in an age-related way. Moreover, the histological morphogenesis of immune tissues were also discussed. Our results may shed lights on the better understand of T-cell mediate immunity in goose.
22638733 | Association between the chemokine receptor 5 delta32 polymorphism and rheumatoid arthritis: a meta-analysis. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine whether the functional chemokine receptor 5 delta32 (CCR5-Delta32) polymorphism confers susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). METHODS: Meta-analysis was conducted on associations between the CCR5-Delta32 polymorphism and RA and JIA using (1) allele contrast and (2) the recessive, (3) the dominant, and (4) the additive models. RESULTS: Eleven population comparisons based on the data obtained from nine studies involving 13,412 subjects (RA 3,848, controls 4,095; JIA 1,599, controls 3,870) were considered. In all study subjects, meta-analysis showed a significant negative association between RA and the CCR5-Delta32 allele (OR = 0.771, 95 % CI = 0.694-0.866, p = 6.5 x 10(-7)). Stratification by ethnicity indicated a significant association between the CCR5-Delta32 allele and RA in Europeans (OR = 0.8001, 95 % CI = 0.709-0.904, p = 3.2 x 10(-5)). Meta-analysis showed associations between the CCR5-Delta32 allele and JIA in Europeans and oligoarticular type (OR = 0.797, 95 % CI = 0.690-0.921, p = 0.002; OR = 0.475, 95 % CI = 0.352-0.693, p = 9.5 x 10(-8)). CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis demonstrates that the CCR5-Delta32 polymorphism may confer susceptibility to RA and JIA in Europeans, and suggests that the CCR5-Delta32 allele protects against the development of RA and JIA.
34433029 | Tandem bispecific antibody prevents pathogenic SHIVSF162P3CN infection and disease progression. Although progress has been made on constructing potent bi-specific broadly neutralizing antibody (bi-bNAb), few bi-bNAbs have been evaluated against HIV-1/AIDS in non-human primates (NHPs). Here, we report the efficacy of a tandem bi-bNAb, namely BiIA-SG, in Chinese-origin rhesus macaques (CRM) against the CRM-adapted R5-tropic pathogenic SHIVSF162P3CN challenge. Pre-exposure BiIA-SG injection prevents productive viral infection in 6 of 6 CRMs with unmeasurable proviral load, T cell responses, and seroconversion. Single BiIA-SG injection, at day 1 or 3 post viral challenge, significantly reduces peak viremia, achieves undetectable setpoint viremia in 8 of 13 CRMs, and delays disease progression for years in treated CRMs. In contrast, 6 of 8 untreated CRMs develop simian AIDS within 2 years. BiIA-SG-induced long-term protection is associated with CD8+ T cells as determined by anti-CD8beta antibody depletion experiments. Our findings provide a proof-of-concept that bi-bNAb treatment elicits T cell immunity in NHPs, which warrant the clinical development of BiIA-SG for HIV-1 prevention and immunotherapy.
16808956 | Specific interaction of CXCR4 with CD4 and CD8alpha: functional analysis of the CD4/CXCR4 interaction in the context of HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein-mediated membrane fusion. We investigated possible interactions between HIV-1 receptor (CD4) and the main coreceptors CXCR4 and CCR5. We found that CD4 and CXCR4 coexpressed in 293T cells form a complex that can be immunoprecipitated with antibodies directed against the extracellular domain of either protein. Mutagenesis revealed that the CD4/CXCR4 interaction maps to two previously uncharacterized basic motifs in the cytoplasmic domain of CD4. HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein-mediated membrane fusion was found to be independent of the ability of CD4 and CXCR4 to interact, whether fusion was studied in a virus-cell or a cell-cell model. However, this interaction might explain the adaptation of HIV-1 to CXCR4 as an alternative to CCR5. We found that CXCR4 also interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of CD8alpha in a way that is similar to the CD4/CXCR4 interaction. The CD4/CXCR4 and CD8alpha/CXCR4 interactions may thus be involved in cellular signaling pathways shared by the CD4 and CD8alpha molecules.
22404248 | Evaluation of cytotoxic T-cell activation, chemokine receptors, and adhesion molecules in blood and serum in patients with oral lichen planus. BACKGROUND: Our purpose is to study cytotoxic T-cell activation (through evaluation of CD8+CD40+ and CD8+CD154+ cells), chemokine receptors (through evaluation of CD8+CD184+ and CD8+CD195+ cells), and adhesion molecules (through evaluation of CD8+CD152+ cells) which play a part in cell activation in blood and serum samples of patients with OLP and then to compare them with healthy controls. METHODS: Thirty patients with OLP, and 30 matched healthy controls participated. The mean ages of OLP patients and controls were 51,10 +- 12,25 and 48,09 +- 11,92, respectively. Percentage of apoptotic cells, granzyme-B+, CD8+, CD8+CD40+, CD8+CD152+ (CTLA-4), CD8+CD154+(CD40L), CD8+CD184+(CXCR-4) and CD8+CD195+(CCR-5) were detected by immunophenotyping on flow cytometry. Apoptosis measurements were accomplished with Annexin V/Propidium Iodide kit. RESULTS: A higher percentage of CD8+CD154+ and granzyme-B+ and a lower percentage of CD8+, CD8+CD184+ and apoptotic cells were found in OLP patients than in controls. No statistical differences were observed in the percentages of the other markers between groups. CONCLUSIONS: It is observed that because of increase in granzyme B+ and CD154 which is the activation marker, CD8+ cells present efforts to sustain their activity even though decrease in their cell number. Lower levels of CD8+CD184+ cells in OLP than control is evaluated as a factor that makes OLP to be localised in our study. In addition, our findings lead us to think that there may be some changes in apoptosis pathways of the cells. But this needs to be clarified by further studies exploring the mechanisms of the apoptosis in OLP patients.
7757987 | In vitro and in vivo activities of a doxorubicin prodrug in combination with monoclonal antibody beta-lactamase conjugates. A cephalosporin derivative of doxorubicin (C-Dox) was evaluated as a prodrug for activation by mAb conjugates of the beta-lactamase from Enterobacter cloacae P99 (beta L; EC 3.5.2.6). The conjugates consisted of beta L and the F(ab') fragments of either of the mAbs L6, P1.17, or 96.5. L6 binds to antigens on a variety of carcinomas, including the two lung adenocarcinoma cell lines H2981 and H2987 used in this study. 96.5 binds to the melanoma-associated antigen p97, and P1.17 was used for the control conjugate. C-Dox was found to be less cytotoxic to three different tumor cell lines in vitro compared to the parent drug doxorubicin (Dox). Immunospecific activation took place when the cells were pretreated with beta L conjugates that could bind to antigens on the tumor cells. In vivo toxicity and pharmacokinetics studies in athymic female nu/nu mice revealed that C-Dox was at least 7-fold less toxic than Dox (on a molar basis), despite the fact that a > or = 320-fold greater area-under-the-curve (blood concentration versus time) of C-Dox compared to Dox was obtained 0-2 h after administration of the two agents. Pharmacokinetic studies at maximum tolerated doses in mice bearing xenografts of either H2981 or H2987 revealed that the intratumoral levels of Dox after treatment with L6-beta L in combination with C-Dox were higher than were obtained by either systemic treatment with Dox or a combination of P1.17-beta L and C-Dox. This finding suggested that the conversion of C-Dox to Dox was tumor specific and dependent on the presence of the targeted antigen. Furthermore, the best antitumor activity against both H2981 and H2987 tumors was obtained by treatment with L6-beta L and C-Dox compared to P1.17-beta L and C-Dox or Dox alone. Thus, higher levels of Dox corresponded to greater therapeutic effects in both of the tumor models studied.
38494835 | Detection of two HLA-B*35 variants: HLA-B*35:01:01:39 and -B*35:03:01:32. Two nucleotide substitutions in intronic regions give rise to the novel alleles: HLA-B*35:01:01:39 and -B*35:03:01:32.
38327056 | Chemokine receptor distribution on the surface of repolarizing T cells. T cells migrate constitutively with a polarized morphology, underpinned by signaling compartmentalization and discrete cytoskeletal organizations, giving rise to a dynamic and expansive leading edge, distinct from the stable and constricted uropod at the rear. In vivo, the motion and function of T cells at various stages of differentiation is highly directed by chemokine gradients. When cognate ligands bind chemokine receptors on their surface, T cells respond by reorientating their polarity axis and migrating toward the source of the chemokine signal. Despite the significance of such chemotactic repolarization to the accurate navigation and function of T cells, the precise signaling mechanisms that underlie it remain elusive. Notably, it remained unclear whether the distribution of chemokine receptors on the T cell surface is altered during repolarization. Here, we developed parallel cell-secreted and microfluidics-based chemokine gradient delivery methods and employed both fixed imaging and live lattice light-sheet microscopy to investigate the dynamics of chemokine receptor CCR5 on the surface of primary murine CD8+ T cells. Our findings show that, during constitutive migration, chemokine receptor distribution is largely isotropic on the T cell surface. However, upon exposure to a CCL3 gradient, surface chemokine receptor distributions exhibit a transient bias toward the uropod. The chemokine receptors then progressively redistribute from the uropod to cover the T cell surface uniformly. This study sheds new light on the dynamics of surface chemokine receptor distribution during T cell repolarization, advancing our understanding of the signaling of immune cells in the complex chemokine landscapes they navigate.
15894402 | CAT 53: a protein phosphatase 1 nuclear targeting subunit encoded in the MHC Class I region strongly expressed in regions of the brain involved in memory, learning, and Alzheimer's disease. We identified CAT 53 by cDNA hybridization selection as an expressed sequence tag (EST), located in the vicinity of HLA-C and designated as CAT (for HLA-C associated transcript) 53. CAT 53 encodes a protein described by others and commonly known as phosphatase 1 nuclear targeting subunit (PNUTS). PNUTS is a potent inhibitor of nuclear serine/threonine protein phosphatase 1 (PP1). We present the genomic organization of CAT 53, localize specific sites of mRNA transcription in thin sections of mouse brain by in-situ hybridization, and perform a structural analysis of the peptide domains. We also characterize the protein expression pattern for PNUTS by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry with PNUTS antibody in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains and age-matched control brains. In-situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry analysis of human and mouse brain show high CAT 53 expression in the olfactory cortex, piriform cortex, and hippocampus. Very high expression of CAT 53 was found mainly in the hippocampus, frontal, and entorhinal cortex of control brains and in the neurofibrillary tangles of AD brain. In the hippocampus, CAT 53 is expressed in CA1 and CA3 cell layers and in the dentate gyrus. The hippocampus is known to play a fundamental role in learning and episodic memories and has been implicated in a number of neurological and psychiatric disorders, including AD, epilepsy, and schizophrenia. Our findings suggest that PNUTS, encoded by CAT 53 on 6p21.3, may have a role in the progression of AD.
35963284 | Conjugation of human serum albumin and flucloxacillin provokes specific immune response in HLA-B*57:01 transgenic mice. Flucloxacillin (FLX) induces adverse liver reactions, which has been reported to be related to human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B*57:01. In a previous study, abacavir-induced hypersensitivity was induced in HLA-B*57:01-transgenic mice (B*57:01-Tg), originally constructed by our group (Susukida et al., 2021). In this study, B*57:01-Tg mice were used to reproduce FLX-induced liver injury. However, treatment of B*57:01-Tg mice with FLX alone did not increase serum ALT levels. Immune-deficient B*57:01-Tg/PD-1-/-mice were produced by mating B*57:01-Tg with PD-1-/- mice. The immune response of B*57:01-Tg/PD-1-/- mice was further modulated by co-administration of CpG-oligodeoxynucleotides and anti-CD4 mAb. Nevertheless, immune regulation in B*57:01-Tg mice did not contribute to the onset of FLX-induced liver injury or immune activation. Moreover, we generated an FLX-human serum albumin (HSA) conjugate and showed that FLX covalently bound to HSA in a time-dependent manner. The FLX-HSA conjugate was administered to the B*57:01-Tg mice. The immune response was investigated using flow cytometry, revealing the phenotype of CD44highCD62Llow in CD8+ T cells (TEM cells). Administration of the FLX-HSA conjugate resulted in an HLA-B*57:01 restricted immune response as shown by the stimulation of TEM cells in the draining lymph nodes. In conclusion, administration of FLX alone to B*57:01-Tg mice did not induce liver injury or immune activation. Immune system sensitivity does not play a decisive role in this process. The conjugation of FLX and HSA results in specific TEM cell stimulation, which suggests that HLA-B*57:01 drives a stronger interaction with CD8+ T cells. These results suggest that patients carrying HLA-B*57:01 could be more susceptible to a conjugate of FLX and albumin and drive CD8+ T cell activation, which may be a vital risk factor for FLX-induced liver injury. In addition, the application of the FLX-HSA adduct may be an effective method for the construction of FLX-induced idiosyncratic liver injury in mice.
38494862 | The novel HLA-B*46:01:42 allele, identified by Sanger dideoxy nucleotide sequencing in a Chinese individual. HLA-B*46:01:42 differs from HLA-B*46:01:01:01 by one nucleotide in exon 5.
35323192 | Ramifications of the HLA-I Allelic Reactivity of Anti-HLA-E*01:01 and Anti-HLA-E*01:03 Heavy Chain Monoclonal Antibodies in Comparison with Anti-HLA-I IgG Reactivity in Non-Alloimmunized Males, Melanoma-Vaccine Recipients, and End-Stage Renal Disease Patients. Serum anti-HLA-I IgG are present in non-alloimmunized males, cancer patients, and transplant recipients. Anti-HLA-I antibodies are also present in intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), prepared from the plasma of thousands of healthy donors. However, the HLA-Ia reactivity of IVIg diminishes markedly after passing through HLA-E HC-affinity columns, suggesting that the HLA-I reactivity is due to antibodies formed against HLA-E. Hence, we examined whether anti-HLA-E antibodies can react to HLA-I alleles. Monoclonal IgG antibodies (mAbs) against HCs of two HLA-E alleles were generated in Balb/C mice. The antibodies were analyzed using multiplex bead assays on a Luminex platform for HLA-I reactivity. Beads coated with an array of HLA heterodimers admixed with HCs (LABScreen) were used to examine the binding of IgG to different HLA-Ia (31-HLA-A, 50-HLA-B, and 16-HLA-C) and Ib (2-HLA-E, one each of HLA-F and HLA-G) alleles. A striking diversity in the HLA-Ia and/or HLA-Ib reactivity of mAbs was observed. The number of the mAbs reactive to (1) only HLA-E (n = 25); (2) all HLA-Ib isomers (n = 8); (3) HLA-E and HLA-B (n = 5); (4) HLA-E, HLA-B, and HLA-C (n = 30); (5) HLA-E, HLA-A*1101, HLA-B, and HLA-C (n = 83); (6) HLA-E, HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C (n = 54); and (7) HLA-Ib and HLA-Ia (n = 8), in addition to four other minor groups. Monospecificity and polyreactivity were corroborated by HLA-E monospecific and HLA-I shared sequences. The diverse HLA-I reactivity of the mAbs are compared with the pattern of HLA-I reactivity of serum-IgG in non-alloimmunized males, cancer patients, and ESKD patients. The findings unravel the diagnostic potential of the HLA-E monospecific-mAbs and immunomodulatory potentials of IVIg highly mimicking HLA-I polyreactive-mAbs.
3498943 | Molecular characterization of the murine cytotoxic T-cell membrane glycoprotein Ly-3 (CD8). The murine Ly-2/3 glycoprotein is a surface marker of T cells restricted by class I major histocompatibility complex antigens. It is a disulfide-bonded heterodimer in which either the alpha or alpha' polypeptide chain encoded by Ly-2 is covalently linked to the beta polypeptide chain encoded by Ly-3. The nucleotide and predicted amino acid sequence of the murine Ly-3 cDNA, isolated by using the rat Ly-3 cDNA clone pX9.15, together with the amino acid sequence of Ly-3.1 peptides and the N terminus, are presented here. The alignment of peptide data from the Ly-3.1 antigen with that of the predicted amino acid sequence of the Ly-3.2 antigen confirmed that the putative Ly-3 cDNA clones do in fact encode the Ly-3 protein. The Ly-3.2 cDNA clones encode a protein of 213 amino acids, which includes a 21-residue leader sequence and structural features in common with immunoglobulin variable, joining, and hinge regions. Searches of protein data bases revealed that Ly-3 is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily with significant homology to Ly-2, immunoglobulin variable region kappa and lambda light chains, and the beta chain of the T-cell receptor. A single N-linked glycosylation site was found at asparagine-13. The relative expression of two mRNA species (approximately 1.3 and 2.3 kilobases) varied according to the source of mRNA. A murine B1 repeat was located in the 3' untranslated region of Ly-3 cDNA clones.
3263917 | A CD8 polypeptide that is lost after passing the Golgi but before reaching the cell surface: a novel sorting mechanism. The murine CD8 T cell differentiation antigen is a glycoprotein expressed on the cell surface as a heterodimer comprising the products of two closely linked genes, Ly-2 and Ly-3. The Ly-2 gene encodes, through a mechanism of alternate splicing, two polypeptide chains, alpha and alpha', that differ from one another in the lengths of their cytoplasmic tails. All T cells transcribe and translate both the alpha and alpha' polypeptides of Ly-2 and form heterodimers of each of these polypeptides disulphide-bonded with the Ly-3 polypeptide. However, there is very specific, developmentally controlled regulation of the expression of these heterodimers on the cell surface. Namely, immature T cells show no discrimination of CD8 molecules and express on their cell surface heterodimers containing the Ly-3 polypeptide linked to either the alpha or alpha' chain of Ly-2. In contrast, mature T cells express on their cell surface predominantly the heterodimer containing the Ly-2 alpha chain, the species which has a cytoplasmic tail. Moreover, in mature T cells the complexes which contain the alpha' chain are retained within the cell late in processing. These data emphasize the importance of the CD8 accessory molecule in the development of the functional T cell repertoire and uncover a novel protein sorting mechanism in mature T cells.
3092111 | Striking similarities between antigen receptor J pieces and sequence in the second chain of the murine CD8 antigen. The CD8 antigen is a marker for T-lymphocyte subsets that is absent from helper T cells but expressed on cytotoxic T cells which recognize foreign determinants in association with class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens. It has been suggested that CD8 plays some part in recognition by CD8+ cytotoxic T cells since anti-CD8 antibodies can block their functions and the human CD8 antigen contains a domain with clear similarities to immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor (TCR) variable-region (V) domains. Human CD8 antigen is thought to be a homodimer but in the mouse and rat the equivalent antigens (alternatively called Lyt2,3 and OX8) are heterodimeric. Rat CD8 contains two chains of relative molecular mass 32,000 (32K) and 37K: the 32K chain is the rat homologue of human CD8 and mouse Lyt2. We describe here the molecular cloning of the rat 37K chain using an oligonucleotide probe predicted from peptide sequence. The full protein sequence is derived from the complementary DNA and matches limited peptide sequence for mouse Lyt3. The new sequence is more like immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor V domains than other T-cell antigens and includes a patch that is almost identical to some joining (J) piece sequences. This suggests that the CD8 and receptor heterodimers may have evolved directly from a common ancestor.
37984124 | Huaier improves the efficacy of anti-PD-L1 Ab in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma by regulating tumor immune microenvironment. BACKGROUND: Combination therapy is an effective method for augmenting the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). Huaier is a commonly used Chinese patent medicine with substantial antitumor effects. The combination of Huaier and ICIs may increase the efficacy of ICIs against hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). METHODS: The major components of Huaier were detected by high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The optimal antitumor dose of Huaier was investigated in H22-bearing mice. Next, Huaier was combined with anti-CD8alpha antibody (Ab) or anti-PD-L1 Ab to observe the antitumor effect. The safety of these combination drugs was evaluated through blood biochemical tests and hematoxylin and eosin staining of histological sections. RT-qPCR, immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, and transcriptome sequencing were performed to investigate the potential action mechanism of anti-PD-L1 Ab combined with Huaier against HCC. RESULTS: HPLC-MS/MS identified 333 components of Huaier, including carboxylic acids and derivatives, thienothiophenes, phenols, flavonoids and so on. Huaier exhibited significant antitumor effects, with the strongest effect noted at a dose of 4 g/kg. Huaier boosted CD8+ T cells infiltration into the tumor. Next, CD8+ T cells were depleted by with anti-CD8alpha Ab, and the antitumor effect of Huaier was suppressed. Flow cytometry results revealed that CD8+ T cells were reduced in the Huaier+anti-CD8alpha Ab group, with the antitumor effect of this group being inhibited. This indicated that CD8+ T cells were key players in the antitumor activity of Huaier. Meanwhile, Huaier inhibited microvessel density (MVD), downregulated vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA), and upregulated PD-L1 in tumor tissues. Finally, Huaier combined with anti-PD-L1 Ab exhibited a greater antitumor effect in the H22-bearing mice. And the results of liver and kidney function tests and histological section analysis unveiled that the safety of these drugs was excellent. According to the transcriptome sequencing results, Huaier combined with anti-PD-L1 Ab possibly exerted anti-HCC effects through immunomodulation, immune response, and so on. CONCLUSIONS: Huaier exhibited a significant antitumor effect. It promoted CD8+ T cells infiltration, upregulated PD-L1 expression, downregulated VEGFA expression, and inhibited MVD, thereby playing a significant antitumor immunoregulatory effect. The combination of Huaier and anti-PD-L1 Ab has significant antitumor effects, and this regimen has good safety. Therefore, Huaier combined with anti-PD-L1 Ab is a promising therapeutic approach against HCC.
33630764 | CD8+ T cells fail to limit SIV reactivation following ART withdrawal until after viral amplification. To define the contribution of CD8+ T cell responses to control of SIV reactivation during and following antiretroviral therapy (ART), we determined the effect of long-term CD8+ T cell depletion using a rhesusized anti-CD8beta monoclonal antibody on barcoded SIVmac239 dynamics on stable ART and after ART cessation in rhesus macaques (RMs). Among the RMs with full CD8+ T cell depletion in both blood and tissue, there were no significant differences in the frequency of viral blips in plasma, the number of SIV RNA+ cells and the average number of RNA copies/infected cell in tissue, and levels of cell-associated SIV RNA and DNA in blood and tissue relative to control-treated RMs during ART. Upon ART cessation, both CD8+ T cell-depleted and control RMs rebounded in fewer than 12 days, with no difference in the time to viral rebound or in either the number or growth rate of rebounding SIVmac239M barcode clonotypes. However, effectively CD8+ T cell-depleted RMs showed a stable, approximately 2-log increase in post-ART plasma viremia relative to controls. These results indicate that while potent antiviral CD8+ T cell responses can develop during ART-suppressed SIV infection, these responses effectively intercept post-ART SIV rebound only after systemic viral replication, too late to limit reactivation frequency or the early spread of reactivating SIV reservoirs.
42085485 | FuFiHLA: A tool for Full-Field HLA typing from long-read data. MOTIVATION: Allele typing for Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) genes has many important clinical applications. Popular short-read typing can only accurately distinguish alleles at the coding sequence level, which potentially limit our understanding of the effect of variants in non-coding region. Long read data has been proved to be useful in typing HLA alleles in full resolution, but only a few tools are publicly available and with significant limitations in practical application. RESULTS: We developed FuFiHLA, a lightweight open-source software, to type HLA alleles. Currently it supports typing alleles of six HLA genes (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQA1, and HLA-DQB1) from long reads. Evaluation using 233 PacBio HiFi WGS samples from HPRC shows that FuFiHLA achieves 99.6% accuracy in the full field allele typing and QV as 51.8 for consensus allele sequence construction. Additional testing on four Nanopore R10 reads demonstrates slightly reduced accuracy in the fourth field. AVAILABILITY: FuFiHLA is available at https://github.com/jingqing-hu/FuFiHLA under MIT License. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
42144794 | The Impact of COVID-19 Infection and Vaccination on Myocarditis Incidence: A Comparative Analysis of Pre-, Peri-, and Post-Pandemic Eras. BACKGROUND: The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic introduced a surge in cardiovascular complications, with myocarditis emerging as a concern due to both direct viral effects and rare vaccine-associated events. AIMS: This analysis examines the incidence and outcomes of myocarditis in patients across a large healthcare system in the Washington, DC Metropolitan Area, focusing on periods before, during, and after the COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was conducted using electronic health records from the MedStar Health System (2017-2024). Myocarditis cases were identified using ICD-10 codes, with cases stratified by pre- (2017-2019), peri- (2020-2022), and post-COVID-19 (2023-2024) pandemic periods, as well as by association with COVID-19 infection and/or vaccination. The overall incidence and inpatient mortality of myocarditis were compared over these eras. RESULTS: This study included 778 myocarditis patients admitted between January 2017 and December 2024, categorized into pre-COVID-19 (n = 207), peri-COVID-19 (n = 370), and post-COVID-19 (n = 201) periods. Total myocarditis incidence surged during the peri-pandemic period, peaking in 2022, and declined in 2023-2024. In the post-pandemic period, total myocarditis remained elevated and higher than in the pre-pandemic era. During the pandemic and post-pandemic periods, myocarditis patients were older, included a higher proportion of African American individuals, and had a greater burden of cardiometabolic comorbidities, compared to pre-pandemic myocarditis hospitalizations. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates a marked increase in myocarditis cases during the COVID-19 pandemic, driven initially by a surge in COVID-19-related myocarditis. Notably, total myocarditis cases remained elevated in the post-pandemic period compared to pre-pandemic levels. These findings, particularly the increased post-pandemic myocarditis patients, warrant further investigation into underlying risk factors and long-term outcomes.
41859107 | Case Report: Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in a patient with triple-allele expression at both HLA-B and HLA-C loci. Background: Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matching is critical for donor selection in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). Each HLA locus is normally biallelic; however, exceptionally rare cases with more than two alleles at a single locus have been reported. Case presentation: We describe a 17-year-old male with mixed phenotype acute leukemia (T/myeloid) who was found to carry three alleles at both the HLA-B and HLA-C loci during pre-transplant evaluation. Family-based HLA typing revealed that the additional alleles were inherited as part of a single maternal haplotype shared by multiple siblings. Flow cytometric analysis using antisera with known HLA specificity demonstrated that all three HLA-B and HLA-C alleles were expressed on the cell surface. Because this unusual immunogenetic configuration precluded the identification of an unrelated donor, a sibling donor sharing the same triple-allele haplotype was selected despite a single HLA-A mismatch. Allo-HSCT was successfully performed, with manageable graft-versus-host disease. Conclusion: This case highlights an extremely rare immunogenetic configuration in which triple-allele expression at two HLA class I loci directly influenced donor selection for allo-HSCT. Comprehensive interpretation of HLA typing results, including family analysis and protein-level expression, is essential when such atypical findings are encountered.
12580944 | In the belly of the beast: subversion of macrophage proinflammatory signalling cascades during Toxoplasma gondii infection. Macrophages (MO) are used as the intracellular niche by several bacterial and protozoan microorganisms. Such microbial pathogens adopt diverse strategies to avoid MO microbicidal effects. Recent insights into the Toxoplasma gondii-MO interaction reveal novel ways that intracellular parasites subvert MO function. In contrast to some microbial pathogens, Toxoplasma infection is not silent but induces rapid activation of transcription factors such as STAT-1 and NFkappaB. However, the parasite blocks nuclear translocation of both factors, and MO cannot produce IL-12 or TNF-alpha when subsequently triggered with lipopolysaccharide. The nuclear import blockade is lifted 24 h after infection, but cells remain actively suppressed in TNF-alpha production. Nevertheless, IL-12 synthesis is initiated at this later time point. Toxoplasma gondii-induced production of this cytokine occurs through both MyD88- and CCR5-dependent pathways. The balance of cytokine subversion and stimulation during infection probably results from the parasite's need to simultaneously avoid immune elimination and trigger immunity to prevent host death.
42018610 | Extended HLA Haplotypes and Transplant Survival. The benefit of extended HLA class I~class III~class II haplotypes in the reduction of mortality after hematopoietic-cell transplantation is unknown and requires information on functional class III variation. We identified a robust class III single-nucleotide-polymorphism (SNP), rs915654, informative for mortality and relapse in 1,436 patients and their haploidentical related donors through multivariable regression analysis of 26 candidate class III SNPs. Three-marker haplotypes as defined by one class I locus, one class II locus and rs915654 were determined in patients separately from donors. Inclusion of rs915654 into relapse and mortality models already containing patient HLA-E~DRB1 and donor HLA-B~DRB1 improved each model (likelihood ratio test P=0.06 and 0.004 respectively for relapse; P=0.10 and 0.01 respectively for mortality). The risks of mortality and relapse increased with decreasing numbers of favorable patient and donor markers. Re-testing in an independent cohort of 1,141 haploidentical transplants yielded similar results. The number of unfavorable markers additionally increased non-relapse mortality. HLA-A~C~B~DRB1~DQB1 haplotypes were defined according to their expected numbers of favorable markers, and the theoretical utility for selecting donors was explored. In summary, extended HLA class I~class III~class II haplotypes influence the success of transplantation and inform the biology of the MHC in health and disease. The selection of haploidentical donors for future patients may be optimized with knowledge of donor HLA haplotypes.
41628351 | The role of HLA transcription in unrelated hematopoietic cell transplantation. Expression levels of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) are associated with susceptibility to various diseases and outcomes after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT). However, there has been no comprehensive analysis of the effect of the expression levels of the HLA-A, -B, -C, and -DRB1 alleles in unrelated (UR)-HCT. Using the Capture RNA-Seq method, we analyzed the gene expression of HLA alleles in 443 healthy donors and determined the allele-specific transcription levels (AST levels). We assigned median (M)-AST levels to HLA typing data of patients who received a transplant from HLA-A, -B, -C, and -DRB1-matched unrelated donors using transplant registry data. All 6,084 patients were divided into low, middle, and high tertile groups according to the distribution of the sum of the two alleles of the M-AST level for each HLA locus and the sum of the eight alleles of the M-AST level for all four loci. The risk of grade II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was significantly higher in the middle group (hazard ratio, 1.11; P = 0.044) and high group (hazard ratio, 1.20; P < 0.001) than in the low group for the sum of the HLA-A, -B, -C, and -DRB1 loci. Similar results were observed at the HLA-A, -B, -C, and -DRB1 loci. Higher transcription levels were also associated with a lower risk of relapse at the HLA-B, -C, and -DRB1 loci. Our data suggest that a high transcription level of patient and/or donor HLA may evoke strong alloimmune responses and affect UR-HCT outcomes.
15943549 | A typing system for the major histocompatibility complex class I chain related genes A and B using polymerase chain reaction with sequence-specific primers. The Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) class I chain related (MIC) A and B genes are important additional loci within the MHC. We have developed a MICA and MICB typing system using the polymerase chain reaction with sequence-specific primers (PCR-SSP), which operates under the same conditions as our routine HLA-A, -B, and -C typing method. We designed 95 primers in 84 SSP mixtures for MICA and 39 primers in 29 mixtures for MICB. This detected and differentiated all 55 MICA and 19 MICB alleles (except MICA*00701 from MICA*026, MICA*00201 from MICA*020, and three MICB alleles, which are intronic variations). A computer program confirmed the MICA amplification reactivity of each SSP mixture and evaluated the typing set for MICA allele combination ambiguities. Seventy-six \reference\ DNA samples were used for validation: 50 from International Histocompatibility Workshop B lymphoblastoid cell lines (IHW BCLs) and 26 MICA-typed samples from two laboratories. The reference material identified 28 out of the 55 MICA alleles and 13 of the 19 MICB alleles, and directly validated 62 of the 84 MICA and 20 of the 29 MICB SSP mixtures. Our genotyping agreed with 283 out of the 286 (98.95%) MICA and MICB reference laboratories' allele assignments or the consensus assignments. Two of the discrepancies remain unresolved, whereas one was probably due to a reference laboratory's failure to differentiate alleles differing in exon 5 of the MICA gene. A comparison of the MICA and MICB allele assignments between laboratories identified a \disagreement rate\ of 19.4% for MICA alleles and 13.1% for MICB alleles. Accordingly, we have compiled \consensus\ MICA and MICB genotypes for the 50 IHW BCLs tested, which have been confirmed by our typing. We also typed 166 random blood donors. Their MICA and MICB carriage and allele frequencies and HLA-B, MICA, MICB linkage disequilibrium parameters and haplotype frequencies largely concurred with other published data on United Kingdom subjects, further supporting the validity of our typing system. This PCR-SSP system is a simple, reliable and rapid technique for typing MICA and MICB alleles. It is easily updated as new alleles are identified but clearly requires a continuing validation review until all known MICA and MICB alleles have been identified.
21513756 | MICA genetic polymorphism and HLA-A,C,B,MICA and DRB1 haplotypic variation in a southern Chinese Han population: identification of two new MICA alleles, MICA*060 and MICA*062. In this study, 201 healthy, unrelated Han subjects in Hunan province, southern China, were investigated by sequence-based typing (SBT) for the allelic variation of the human major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related gene A (MICA). Nineteen MICA alleles were observed, among which MICA*008:01 predominated with gene frequency of 30.35%. There was significant linkage disequilibrium (LD) of MICA*012:01 with HLA-B*54 and HLA-B*55, which was not observed in a northern Chinese Han population. Haplotype HLA-A*11-C*07-B60-MICA*008:01 (9.16%) was highly specific to this southern Chinese Han population. The most common five-locus haplotype in this population was HLA-A*02-C*01-B*46-MICA*010-DRB1*09 (8.73%). A new MICA allele, MICA*060, was identified on an HLA-A*02-C*01-B*55:02-DRB1*14 haplotype through extended family analysis. MICA*060 has probably arisen from MICA*012:01. Another new MICA allele, MICA*062, was identified by screening 1432 subjects using polymerase chain reaction-sequence-specific priming technology. MICA*062 has probably derived from MICA*010. Of particular interest is that MICA*062 was carried on an HLA-C*08-B*48:01-DRB1*14 haplotypic segment, as HLA-B*48 has been consistently shown to be primarily linked to MICA gene deletion in east Asian populations. Our results provide new insight into MICA genetic polymorphism in human populations. The findings reported here are of importance for future studies on the potential role of MICA in allogeneic organ transplantation and disease association in populations of Chinese ancestry.
41789101 | Identification of public neoantigens with broad HLA class I coverage as candidates for off-the-shelf cancer vaccine development in colorectal cancer. Introduction: Shared neoantigens derived from recurrent mutations represent promising targets for off-the-shelf (OTS) cancer immunotherapies; however, their clinical utility is often constrained by population-specific HLA diversity and variable immunogenicity. There remains a need for population-tailored neoantigen panels with broad HLA coverage and functional validation. Methods: We developed a colorectal cancer (CRC)-specific OTS neoantigen panel by integrating TCGA mutation data with HLA class I binding predictions across 68 alleles (18 HLA-A, 34 HLA-B, and 16 HLA-C), covering both Asian and Caucasian populations. Candidate neoantigens were evaluated in a Vietnamese CRC cohort (n = 67) based on mutation and HLA matching. Functional immunogenicity was assessed in patient-derived CD8+ T cells using IFN-gamma ELISpot assays and single-cell RNA sequencing. Results: The resulting panel comprised 73 recurrent nonsynonymous mutations, each generating at least one predicted HLA-I-restricted neoepitope, achieving >90% population coverage in both Asian and Caucasian groups. In the Vietnamese CRC cohort, 58% of patients harbored at least one matched neoantigen, with mutation frequency strongly correlating with predicted HLA presentation, particularly for HLA-A alleles. Functional validation in seven patients demonstrated robust CD8+ T-cell responses against TP53_R273H. Neoantigen-reactive T cells exhibited transcriptional signatures consistent with cytotoxic effector function and stem-like memory phenotypes. Discussion: These findings identify TP53_R273H as a clinically relevant shared neoantigen in CRC and support the translational feasibility of a population-tailored OTS neoantigen panel. Our integrative computational and experimental framework highlights the importance of combining population-level HLA coverage with functional validation to advance broadly applicable neoantigen-based immunotherapies.
40921355 | Curcumin inhibits HIV-1 by modulating FOXP3 and suppressing CCR5 via PI3K/AKT and JAK/STAT pathways. Despite advances in antiretroviral therapy, HIV-1 persistence and immune dysregulation remain unresolved challenges. Here, we demonstrate that curcumin, a low-toxicity natural compound, can inhibit HIV-1 through simultaneous inhibition of the PI3K/AKT and JAK/STAT pathways, leading to downregulation of the viral co-receptor CCR5 and the immune checkpoint transcription factor FOXP3. Using CHIP and EMSA experiments, we found that curcumin disrupts the binding of FOXP3 to the CCR5 promoter, thereby reducing viral entry. Network pharmacology and molecular docking identified STAT3 and AKT1 as key targets. Most importantly, we found that crosstalk between the PI3K/AKT and JAK/STAT pathways is a pharmacological axis for HIV-1 treatment through high-throughput sequencing technology, mass spectrometry and CO-IP experiments. Our findings provide a mechanistic basis for the repurposing of curcumin as an adjuvant to HAART, with implications for therapies targeting viral reservoirs.
23396137 | Identification of multiple independent susceptibility loci in the HLA region in Behcet's disease. Behcet's disease is an inflammatory disease characterized by recurrent oral and genital ulcers and significant organ involvement. Localizing the genetic association between HLA-B*51 and Behcet's disease and exploring additional susceptibility loci in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region are complicated by the strong linkage disequilibrium in this region. We genotyped 8,572 variants in the extended HLA locus and carried out imputation and meta-analysis of 24,834 variants in 2 independent Behcet's disease cohorts from 2 ancestry groups. Genotyped SNPs were used to infer classical HLA alleles in the HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB1 and HLA-DRB1 loci. Our data suggest that the robust HLA-B*51 association in Behcet's disease is explained by a variant located between the HLA-B and MICA genes (rs116799036: odds ratio (OR) = 3.88, P = 9.42 x 10(-50)). Three additional independent genetic associations within PSORS1C1 (rs12525170: OR = 3.01, P = 3.01 x 10(-26)), upstream of HLA-F-AS1 (rs114854070: OR = 1.95, P = 7.84 x 10(-14)) and with HLA-Cw*1602 (OR = 5.38, P = 6.07 x 10(-18)) were also identified and replicated.
41757185 | Self-reported health history from 70,724 individuals reveals novel HLA associations with allergy and other frequently underreported conditions. Background: Variation in the HLA loci, located on human chromosome 6p, has been associated with hundreds of diseases and conditions. However, high levels of polymorphism that characterize the HLA system, coupled with generally modest effect sizes for most phenotypes, necessitate relatively large sample sizes to power association studies; meanwhile, high resolution HLA genotyping remains relatively resource intensive. These constraints limit identification of novel associations. While phenome-wide association studies (PheWAS) in the context of large registries with available electronic health records (EHR) have revealed new insights into the role of HLA in disease, many common health conditions are poorly represented in EHR due to the temporal nature of their occurrence or general underreporting. Further, these studies have generally been conducted with HLA genotyping data imputed from microarrays, rather than direct measurement of high-resolution genotypes. Objective: To overcome these limitations and reveal novel HLA associations we undertook a PheWAS in many previously understudied health conditions. Methods: We queried over 300 hundred conditions, diseases and traits from 70,724 subjects registered with NMDP with available high-resolution HLA genotyping ( HLA-A , HLA-B , HLA-C , HLA-DRB1 , and HLA-DQB1 ). After stratifying according to ancestry, we performed a logistic regression analysis adjusting for sex and age for HLA-phenotype association. Results: We identified 48 significant HLA associations across ancestry groups, confirming several known associations and uncovered fifteen novel associations. Most novel associations pertained to common infectious or allergic phenotypes that often go under-reported in the EHR. Of particular translational importance, we identified a previously undetected yet very strong association between HLA-DRB1*04:01 and sensitivity to cefaclor, a specific class of cephalosporin (OR = 3.74, p-value 5.10E-28). Molecular docking simulations predict cefaclor binding in the P4 pocket of HLA-DRB1*04:01, with substantially greater affinity than non-associated antibiotics, including other cephalosporins. This pharmacogenomic signal highlights an opportunity for risk stratification and targeted prevention of adverse drug reactions. Other novel associations found, such as susceptibility to genital warts (HPV) and allergic rhinitis, reveals new insights into the role of specific HLA alleles in immune-mediated disease. The vast majority of these novel associations were replicated in the independent All of Us cohort, confirming the validity of this approach. Conclusion: Collectively, our findings demonstrate the value of integrating population-scale, high-resolution HLA genotypes with phenotyping beyond the EHR to reveal immunogenetic influences on common health outcomes. They also point to immediate translational avenues - particularly for drug hypersensitivity - while motivating future functional studies and prospective clinical validation to refine mechanistic understanding and clinical utility.
16413227 | STAT4/6-dependent differential regulation of chemokine receptors. The major cell fate decision of the CD4+ helper T cells is the development of Th1 and Th2 phenotype, the balance of which determines the outcome of a wide variety of autoimmune responses. Signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs), in particular STAT4 and STAT6, are essential for the development of Th1 and Th2 cells, respectively. We used Balb/c mice lacking STAT4 or STAT6 to explore the ability of helper T cells to express chemokine receptors. We demonstrated that both STAT4-/- and STAT6-/- CD4+ lymphocytes showed impaired expansion as well as differentiation into IFN-gamma-secreting Th1 cells and IL2-, IL4-, IL10-secreting Th2 cells. Interestingly, the expression of chemokine receptors, which is STAT4/6-dependent, was differentially regulated via two distinct mechanisms, positively (CCR3, CCR4) and negatively (CCR5, CCR7). These results provide the basis for STAT-dependent differential regulation of chemokine receptors in Th subsets.
41903305 | Molecular pharmacology of sulfated polysaccharides from Sargassum fusiforme: mechanistic insights into HIV inhibition and immune modulation- a review. BACKGROUND: Sargassum fusiforme is a brown marine macroalga abundant in biologically active compounds, in particular, sulfated polysaccharides, phlorotannins, and polyphenols. These bioactives have shown potential effects as antiviral agent particularly against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) by regulating viral entry as well as host immune responses. PURPOSE: The purpose of this review is the critical summary of the molecular mechanisms of the anti-HIV activity of S. fusiforme bioactives and the assessment of their role in the regulation of immunity and inhibition of viruses. STUDY DESIGN: Complete literature based literature review on molecular pharmacology, antiviral pathways and immunomodulatory pathways of S. fusiforme bioactives. METHODS: Database searches were conducted to reveal relevant peer-reviewed studies. The information on structural properties, molecular targets, and biological activities of S. fusiforme-derived products was coordinated through in vitro, in vivo, and preclinical models. RESULTS: Fucoidans of S. fusiforme react with the HIV gp120 and chemokine co-receptors (CCR5 and CXCR4), subsequently blocking viral entry. These compounds also regulate intracellular signaling cascades such as NF- kappaB, JAK/STAT, PI3K/ Akt and MAPK/ERK, which contribute to decreased viral replication and immune response. The degree of sulfaction and molecular weight are structural parameters that impact greatly on antiviral potency. Nevertheless, there is scanty evidence about pharmacokinetics, target validation and clinical translation. CONCLUSION: The S. fusiforme are the bioactive compound which have multitarget antiviral and immunomodulatory potentials and demonstrate potential as adjunctive therapeutic agents in management of HIV. To confirm the applicability of their therapeutic use, further mechanistic studies, standardized characterization, and clinical research are required.
42144735 | Dual mechanism of human ATG10S in suppressing MEF2A-Driven pro-inflammatory responses. Cytokine storm, characterized by excessive release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, contributes to the severity and exacerbation of various diseases. Current therapies targeting individual cytokines prove inadequate due to the complex and multifactorial nature of inflammatory cascades. Here, we report human ATG10S, a novel isoform of the autophagy-related protein ATG10, as a potential inhibitor of cytokine storms. Using SARS-CoV-2 Spike (S) protein- or LPS-induced pro-inflammatory zebrafish and co-cultured human cell models, we found that ATG10S significantly reduced the expression of key pro-inflammatory cytokines (IFNA, IFNG, IL1B, IL6, TNF/TNFA, IL8, and CCL2), all transcriptionally regulated by MEF2A (myocyte enhancer factor 2A). Mechanistically, ATG10S bound directly to MEF2A at residues D61/D63, facilitating its selective autolysosomal degradation through MAP1LC3B/LC3B interaction, while it also competed with MAPK7/ERK5 for MEF2A binding to disrupt the TLR4-MAPK7-MEF2A signaling axis. This dual mechanism reduced both MEF2A protein levels and transcriptional activity, thereby attenuating cytokine overproduction. Importantly, ATG10S restored autophagic flux impaired by inflammatory stimuli and exhibited high specificity, sparing unrelated transcription factors. These findings established MEF2A as a critical regulator of the cytokine storm and revealed ATG10S as a distinctive macroautophagy/autophagy-linked immunomodulator that integrated selective autophagic degradation and transcriptional interference. Our study provides mechanistic insight into autophagy-mediated inflammatory regulation and highlights ATG10S as a promising therapeutic candidate for cytokine storm-associated diseases.
42131416 | Human leukocyte antigen study on a cohort of 149 Vietnamese umbilical cord blood samples. Objectives: We here report the distribution of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, and -DQB1 alleles among 149 units of Vietnamese umbilical cord blood samples and deduced their most probable HLA haplotypes for HLA-A/B loci, HLA-B/C loci, HLA-DRB1/DQB1 loci, HLA-A/C/B loci, HLA-A/C/B/DRB1 loci, and HLA-A/C/B/DRB1/DQB1 loci. Our objective is to reveal the unprecedented information on the distribution of HLA alleles in the Vietnamese cord blood and to find out the most probable HLA haplotypes associated with the various HLA alleles detected in the cohort of 149 cord blood specimens. Materials and Methods: The material for this study was umbilical cord blood samples, preserved in acid citrate dextrose anticoagulants. The blood donors were umbilical cord blood donors whose parents voluntarily donated their newborn baby's cord blood to the Blood Transfusion and Hematology Hospital, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. DNA sequence-based typing of the Sanger's sequencing method was performed for the HLA allelic typing. Target exon sequence amplifications were achieved by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and the resulting amplicons were sequenced by BigDye Terminator Cycle Sequencing Ready Reaction Kit, according to the manufacturer's protocols. Results: In the total number of 149 randomized cord blood samples studied, we detected distinctive 22 HLA-A alleles, 23 HLA-C alleles, 44 HLA-B alleles, 27 HLA-DRB1 alleles, and 15 HLA-DQB1 alleles. In addition, we determined the most probable HLA haplotypes for the alleles detected. Conclusion: Our findings in this study are useful in research for the comprehensive understanding of the distribution of HLA alleles and their associated HLA haplotypes in Vietnamese cord blood. Further, the cord blood with HLA typing determined is now ready for matching search purpose for patients who are looking for suitable hematopoietic stem cell donations for transplantation therapeutic applications.
41633310 | Novel association of HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DPB1 alleles with Acute myeloid leukemia susceptibility in (Central Asian) Kazakhstani Population: A Case-Control study. BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a diverse hematological cancer characterized by clonal growth of myeloid precursors in the bone marrow. Although the core genetic pathways involved in AML development are not completely understood, a connection between specific HLA variants and a predisposition to AML, as well as graft-versus-leukemia effects in transplantation, has been observed across various ethnic groups. OBJECTIVE: Using high-resolution genotyping, this study investigates the relationship between HLA Class I and Class II alleles and the risk of developing AML in the Kazakhstani population. METHODS: The study included 123 patients diagnosed with AML and 350 unrelated healthy controls selected from the national registry of hematopoietic stem cell donors. HLA Class I (HLA-A, -C, -B) and Class II (HLA-DRB1, -DQA1, -DQB1, -DPB1) high-resolution genotyping was conducted using next-generation sequencing. Statistical significance was assessed with chi-square tests (and Fisher's exact tests where suitable). RESULTS: Class II alleles showed stronger associations with AML than Class I alleles. At the DQA1 locus, DQA1*05:01:01, DQA1*03:01:01, DQA1*01:01:01, and DQA1*01:02:01 were significantly protective (p < 0.001), while DQA1*04:01:01 was strongly linked to risk (p < 0.001). Protective DPB1 alleles included DPB1*04:01:01 and DPB1*02:01:01, whereas DPB1*01:01:01 increased susceptibility. Among Class I alleles, only HLA-C*02:02:01 was protective, while HLA-B*57:01:01 was associated with a higher AML risk. CONCLUSIONS: Class II alleles, especially those within DQA1 and DPB1, are important genetic factors influencing AML susceptibility in the Kazakhstani population.
11929593 | Linkage disequilibria between HLA-B, C1_4_1, MICA and MICB. The polymorphisms of MICA exon 5 (5 alleles), MICB intron 1 (13 alleles), C1_4_1 (6 alleles), HLA-B (29 alleles) and HLA-A (15 alleles) were investigated in a healthy German population. Sequencing was performed for the MICB alleles CA14, CA15, CA17, CA23 and CA26 isolated from different cell lines. Variation to the published sequence was observed for CA14, CA15 and for CA17. At the C1_4_1 locus a new allele (CAAA)9 was identified and confirmed by sequencing. Linkage disequilibria were investigated for two-point- and three-point-haplotypes. Although the average relative delta value correlates loosely with the physical distance from HLA-B to MICB: HLA-B-C1_4_1>HLA-B-MICA>HLA-B-MICB, there are several exceptions to this rule. Analyzing three-point-haplotypes for the segment MICB to HLA-A a wide variation of linkage disequilibria for some of the classical HLA-A, B haplotypes has been observed. While the HLA-A1, B8 haplotype displays strong relative delta values over the entire distance from HLA-A to MICB, other haplotypes have linkage disequilibria only in a limited region.
21565792 | Dominant suppression of Addison's disease associated with HLA-B15. CONTEXT: Autoimmune Addison's disease (AD) is the major cause of primary adrenal failure in developed nations. Autoantibodies to 21-hydroxylase (21OH-AA) are associated with increased risk of progression to AD. Highest genetic risk is associated with the Major Histocompatibility region (MHC), specifically human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR3 haplotypes (containing HLA-B8) and HLA-DR4. OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was the further characterization of AD risk associated with MHC alleles. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: MHC genotypes were determined for HLA-DRB1, DQA1, DQB1, MICA, HLA-B, and HLA-A in 168 total individuals with 21OH-AA (85 with AD at referral and 83 with positive 21OH-AA but without AD at referral). MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Genotype was evaluated in 21OH-AA-positive individuals. Outcomes were compared with general population controls and type 1 diabetes patients. RESULTS: In HLA-DR4+ individuals, HLA-B15 was found in only one of 55 (2%) with AD vs. 24 of 63 (40%) 21OH-AA-positive nonprogressors (P = 2 x 10(-7)) and 518 of 1558 (33%) HLA-DR4 patients with type 1 diabetes (P = 1 x 10(-8)). On prospective follow-up, none of the HLA-B15-positive, 21-hydroxylase-positive individuals progressed to AD vs. 25% non-HLA-B15 autoantibody-positive individuals by life table analysis (P = 0.03). Single nucleotide polymorphism analysis revealed the HLA-DR/DQ region associated with risk and HLA-B15 were separated by multiple intervening single-nucleotide polymorphism haplotypes. CONCLUSIONS: HLA-B15 is not associated with protection from 21OH-AA formation but is associated with protection from progression to AD in 21OH-AA-positive individuals. To our knowledge, this is one of the most dramatic examples of genetic disease suppression in individuals who already have developed autoantibodies and of novel dominant suppression of an autoimmune disease by a class I HLA allele.
41844957 | Molecular profiling of breast cancer in native American women reveals distinct genomic and transcriptomic features. Breast cancer outcomes vary across populations, yet Native American women remain scarcely represented in tumor-genomic resources, limiting population-specific molecular insights. We generated matched somatic mutation, copy-number, and RNA-seq profiles for 17 breast tumors from Native American women and performed race-stratified comparisons with White cases from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Breast Invasive Carcinoma (BRCA) cohort (TCGA-BRCA). We observed population-associated differences across molecular layers, including higher mutation frequencies in ARID1B, NOTCH4, and MHC class II genes (HLA-DRB1/HLA-DRB5) in Native American tumors, and broader CNV alterations in White tumors. Integrative analyses highlighted antigen processing/presentation and cell-adhesion pathways, with class II alterations in Native American tumors and class I gains (e.g., HLA-A/HLA-B) plus CD274 amplification in White tumors, suggesting differences in immune visibility and checkpoint modulation. We also noted contrasts in nucleotide-excision-repair involvement (ERCC5/POLE mutations vs ERCC1/CUL4A CNV gains), and mutational-signature analysis indicated greater MMR- and AID/POLE-associated exposures in the White cohort. To our knowledge, this study provides an initial multi-omics characterization of breast tumors from Native American women and offers a resource and hypotheses for larger, harmonized studies to assess prognostic and therapeutic relevance.
41397550 | HIGHER HLA-DRB1 EVOLUTIONARY DIVERGENCE (HED) IS ASSOCIATED WITH REDUCED RELAPSE AND IMPROVED SURVIVAL AFTER MATCHED UNRELATED HEMATOPOIETIC CELL TRANSPLANTATION. BACKGROUND: HLA evolutionary divergence (HED) can be used as a surrogate for the degree of immunopeptidome diversity of HLA phenotypes. Different degrees of HED in the patient-donor pair may influence the presentation of peptides relevant for alloreactive responses involved in graft-versus-host and graft-versus-leukemia (GvL) effects, potentially impacting outcomes after hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). OBJECTIVE(S): To test whether higher HED scores (both class I and class II) correlate with improved GvL and survival after HLA-matched HCT. STUDY DESIGN: Pediatric and adult patients (N=9,231) reported to the Center for International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research (CIBMTR) database who underwent a first HCT from 8/8 matched unrelated donors between 2008 and 2018 for the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, chronic myeloid leukemia, or lymphoma were included. HED was calculated on the amino acid sequences at HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, and HLA-DRB1, and class I (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C), and HLA-DRB1 HED scores were assigned to each patient-donor pair. The association between increasing HED (top quartile vs lower three quartiles) and HCT outcome was evaluated with malignant disease relapse and disease-free (DFS) and overall survival (OS) as primary endpoints. Secondary enpoints were transplant-related mortality (TRM), acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), and engraftment. RESULTS: Greater HLA-DRB1 HED was associated with significantly decreased malignant disease relapse [HR 0.86; 95% CI, 0.79-0.94; P=0.0014], better disease free survival [HR 0.92; 95% CI, 0.86-0.98; P=0.0067] and improved OS [HR 0.91; 95% CI, 0.85-0.96; p=0.0019] in the total population after adjustment for other significant clinical variables. There was no significant association between HLA-DRB1 HED and TRM, or risk of acute or chronic GVHD. Conversely, higher (upper quartile) HLA class I HED did not significantly impact OS, DFS, TRM, relapse, or acute and chronic GVHD, compared with the lower three quartiles. In addition, neither class I nor HLA-DRB1 HED significantly impact neutrophil or platelet engraftment post transplant. CONCLUSION(S): Higher HLA-DRB1 HED scores are associated with reduced relapse, improved DFS and OS in patients undergoing matched unrelated donor transplantation for hematological malignancies. These findings contribute to the growing evidence supporting the importance of HED in post-transplant outcomes. However, further refinement and validation are required before incorporating HED into clinical transplant risk assessment.
42146175 | Asymmetric Synthesis of the HIV Protease Inhibitor TMC-126, a PMX Antimalarial Protease Inhibitor, and a Putative COVID-19 Inhibitor Using a Highly Stereoselective Glycolate Aldol Addition Reaction Pathway. An asymmetric glycolate aldol addition pathway was developed for the synthetic preparation of a series of protease inhibitors based on the hydroxyethylamine structural motif. A single glycolate aldol adduct derived from a highly diastereoselective (>=95:5 d.r.) asymmetric aldol reaction served as the starting point for the synthesis of the inhibitors. The starting material is easily prepared and purified via recrystallization on multigram scales. This work describes the synthesis of the HIV protease inhibitor TMC-126, the Plasmepsin X (PMX) inhibitor 49c for the treatment of malaria, and a computationally derived inhibitor for the 3CLpro of the SARS-CoV-2 from a single common synthetic intermediate.
10369917 | Population study of allelic diversity in the human MHC class I-related MIC-A gene. The polymorphism of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I HLA-A, -B, and -C molecules may have evolved through pathogen-driven selection of alleles with diverse peptide-binding specificities. Two MHC-encoded molecules that are distantly related to class I, MIC-A and MIC-B, do not function in the presentation of pathogen-derived peptides to T cells with alphabeta T-cell receptors (TCRs), but are broadly recognized by intraepithelial T cells with gammadelta TCRs. However, both MIC-A and MIC-B are polymorphic, displaying an unusual distribution of a number of variant amino acids in their extracellular alpha1, alpha2, and alpha3 domains. In order to further define the polymorphism of MIC-A, we examined its alleles among 275 individuals with common and rare HLA genotypes. Of 16 previously defined alleles, 12 were confirmed and 5 new alleles were identified. A two-by-two analysis of MIC-A and HLA-B alleles uncovered a number of statistically significant associations. These results confirm and extend previous knowledge on the polymorphism of MIC-A. The strong positive linkage of certain MIC-A and HLA-B alleles may have implications for studies related to MHC-associated diseases and transplantation.
11591716 | Poxvirus infection rapidly activates tyrosine kinase signal transduction. Viruses have evolved a number of strategies to gain entry and replicate in host target cells that, for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the poxvirus, myxoma virus, involve appropriating chemokine receptors. In this report we demonstrate that activation of multiple intracellular tyrosine phosphorylation events rapidly ensues following virus adsorption to NIH 3T3.CD4.CCR5 cells and affects the ultimate level of myxoma virus replication. UV-inactivated myxoma virus induces the rapid phosphorylation of CCR5 on tyrosine residues, the association of CCR5 with Jaks and p56(lck), and their phosphorylation-activation within minutes of virus adsorption. Additionally, we provide evidence for myxoma virus-inducible signal transducers and activators of transcription (Stat) and insulin receptor substrate (IRS) activation. In contrast to CCR5 activation effected by HIV Env protein, these myxoma virus-inducible phosphorylation events are not sensitive to pertussis toxin treatment. Moreover, in cells that are non-permissive for myxoma virus infection, we provide evidence that myxoma virus fails to invoke this tyrosine phosphorylation cascade. Consistent with the observation that infection of CCR5-expressing cells is blocked by herbimycin A and the Jak 2 inhibitor, tyrophostin AG490, we infer that viral infectivity may be dependent on non-G-protein-coupled signal transduction pathways triggered by the infecting myxoma virus particle. This provides a novel post-binding mechanism by which viruses can co-opt a cellular receptor to permit productive virus infection.
41685425 | Fine Mapping of MHC Region Identifies Novel Susceptibility Loci in Multiple Myeloma When Comparing With Its Precursor Monoclonal Gammopathy of Unknown Significance. Genome-wide association studies have linked major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region loci to immune-related diseases, but their role in multiple myeloma (MM) progression from monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) remains unclear. This case-control study included 238 individuals with MGUS (> 5 years follow-up without MM progression) and 618 MM patients from MCW Froedtert Hospital (2011-2020). Using multivariable logistic regression, Omnibus test and conditional haplotype tests, we identified HLA alleles and amino acid positions associated with MM risk compared to MGUS. The HLA-A*30:01 (ORpooled = 7.90, 95% CI = 3.05-20.00, Ppooled = 2.04 x 10-5), HLA-B*08:01 (ORpooled = 0.40, 95% CI = 0.28-0.58, Ppooled = 1.16 x 10-6) and HLA-DRB1*15:03 (ORpooled = 0.26, 95% CI = 0.16-0.43, Ppooled 1.14 x 10-7) were consistently identified to be associated with the risk of MM when compared with MGUS across the four imputed datasets. Additional associations were observed for HLA-A*30:02 (ORpooled = 0.45, 95% CI = 0.28-0.72, Ppooled = 8.66 x 10-4) and HLA-C*07:01 (ORpooled = 0.62, 95% CI = 0.49-0.79, Ppooled = 6.49 x 10-5) in two or three imputation datasets. Omnibus test identified three amino acid positions associated with MM risk: HLA-A position 152 (POmnibus = 0.005), HLA-B position 9 (Pomnibus = 0.034) and HLA-C position 66 (Pomnibus = 0.011). These findings suggest an important role of HLA class I and II molecules in the genetic susceptibility of MM compared with MGUS, suggesting alterations in peptide-binding capabilities may impair immune recognition of malignant cells. Further studies are needed to validate our findings and elucidate the biological mechanisms.
21816777 | Multiple loci in the HLA complex are associated with Addison's disease. CONTEXT: A strong association between autoimmune Addison's disease (AAD) and major histocompatibility complex class II-encoded HLA-DRB1-DQA1-DQB1 haplotypes is well known. Recent evidence from other autoimmune diseases has suggested that class I-encoded HLA-A and HLA-B gene variants confer HLA-DRB1-DQA1-DQB1-independent effects on disease. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to explore AAD predisposing effects of HLA-A and -B and further investigate the role of MICA and HLA-DRB1-DQA1-DQB1 in a much larger material than has previously been studied. DESIGN: HLA-A, -B, -DRB1, and -DQB1 and a microsatellite in MICA were genotyped in 414 AAD patients and 684 controls of Norwegian origin. RESULTS: The strongest association was observed for the DRB1 locus, in which the DRB1*03:01 and DRB1*04:04 conferred increased risk of AAD, particularly in a heterozygous combination [odds ratio 22.13; 95% confidence interval (11.39-43.98); P = 6 x 10(-20)]. After conditioning on DRB1, association with AAD was still present for HLA-B and MICA, suggesting the presence of additional risk factors. CONCLUSIONS: The major histocompatibility complex harbors multiple risk loci for AAD, in which DRB1 appears to represent the main risk factor.
42141720 | HLA-B*44 Alleles and HLA-DQA1*03:01 as Genetic Risk Factors for Drug-Induced Liver Injury due to Fluoroquinolones. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Fluoroquinolone exposure can give rise to drug-induced liver injury. Genetic risk factors for this form of liver injury are poorly understood but some evidence suggests that HLA genes contribute. This study aimed to characterise HLA risk factors for fluoroquinolone-induced liver injury in a European population. METHODS: From the previously described iDILIC cohort, 22 cases of fluoroquinolone-induced liver injury were identified, with most cases (n = 13) related to ciprofloxacin. Liver injury cases due to other drugs (n = 458), also from iDILIC, served as controls. HLA genotypes were imputed from genome-wide association analysis data using SNPtoHLA. Frequency differences between cases and controls for HLA alleles, HLA amino acids and HLA families were assessed by applying a logistic regression model. RESULTS: HLA-significant associations were detected for HLA class I and II alleles with individual allelic associations detected for HLA-B*44:03, HLA-A*29:02, HLA-C*16:01, HLA-DQA1*03:01 and several HLA-DRB1 alleles. Combined HLA-B*44 alleles were associated with DILI with an odds ratio of 5.33 [95% confidence interval 2.45-11.61; p = 2.5 x 10-5]. Serine at position-167 in HLA-B, specific to B*44:02, B*44:03 and B*45:01, was associated with a significantly increased risk of liver injury (p = 4.7 x 10-6), but no other HLA-B amino acids were significant. The B*44 association was also significant among ciprofloxacin cases only. CONCLUSIONS: A novel HLA-B*44 association with fluoroquinolone-induced liver injury has been identified and a previously reported but weaker association with HLA-DQA1*03:01 confirmed. The B*44 findings suggest a mechanism involving inappropriate recognition of drug-modified self peptides by serine-167 in pocket A of the HLA-B protein.
11553854 | The SDF-1-CXCR4 axis stimulates VEGF secretion and activates integrins but does not affect proliferation and survival in lymphohematopoietic cells. To better define the role HIV-related chemokine receptor-chemokine axes play in human hematopoiesis, we investigated the function of the CXCR4 and CCR5 receptors in human myeloid, T- and B-lymphoid cell lines selected for the expression of these receptors (CXCR4(+), CXCR4(+) CCR5(+), and CCR5(+) cell lines). We evaluated the phosphorylation of MAPK p42/44, AKT, and STAT proteins and examined the ability of the ligands for these receptors (stromal-derived factor-1 [SDF-1] and macrophage inflammatory protein-1beta [MIP-1beta]) to influence cell growth, apoptosis, adhesion, and production of vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF), matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their tissue inhibitors (TIMPs) in these cell lines. We found that A) SDF-1, after binding to CXCR4, activates multiple signaling pathways and that in comparison with the MIP-1beta-CCR5 axis, plays a privileged role in hematopoiesis; B) SDF-1 activation of the MAPK p42/44 pathway and the PI-3K-AKT axis does not affect proliferation and apoptosis but modulates integrin-mediated adhesion to fibronectin, and C) SDF-1 induces secretion of VEGF, but not of MMPs or TIMPs. Thus the role of SDF-1 relates primarily to the interaction of lymphohematopoietic cells with their microenvironment and does not directly influence their proliferation or survival. We conclude that perturbation of the SDF-1-CXCR4 axis during HIV infection may affect interactions of hematopoietic cells with the hematopoietic microenvironment.
15009175 | Analysis of the CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) Delta32 polymorphism in Behcet's disease. Chemokines are important determinants of the early inflammatory response. The CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) Delta32 variant results in a non-functional form of the chemokine receptor, and has been implicated in a variety of immune-mediated diseases. To investigate its role in the pathogenesis of Behcet's disease, we studied 350 patients and 519 healthy controls from three ethnic groups. While significant inter-ethnic variation in allele frequency was observed, no association was identified with disease, even when data were stratified by the known susceptibility gene HLA-B*51.
41846355 | [Laboratory Diagnosis and Clinical Data Analysis of Neonatal Alloimmune Thrombocytopenia Caused by Anti-HLA Antibodies in Nanning]. OBJECTIVE: To explore the laboratory diagnosis of neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (NAIT) caused by anti-HLA antibodies and analyze the clinical data of affected newborns. METHODS: The platelet antibodies, HLA genotyping, and HPA-1~5, -15 genotyping of 5 newborns with thrombocytopenia and their parents were determined by flow cytometry, ELISA, Monoclonal antibody specific immobilization of platelet antigens (MAIPA), Sanger sequencing technology, and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time or flight mass spectrometry(MALDI-TOF MS), respectively. Additionally, these 5 cases were summarized with 17 similar cases reported in the literature to analyze the impact of NAIT mothers' pregnancy history and anti-HLA antibody types on platelet counts of newborns. RESULTS: Antibodies against the HLA antigen of the children's father were detected in plasma of the 5 mothers. The mother of Case 1 had anti-HLA-A29 and anti-HLA-B7 antibodies, and her newborn had anti-HLA-B7 antibody, HLA genotype was A*02:07,29:01; B*07:05,46:01; the mother of Case 2 had anti-HLA-B51 antibody, and the newborn had anti-HLA-B78 antibody, HLA genotype was A*11:01,11:01; B*38:02,51: 01; the mother of Case 3 had anti-HLA-B60 antibody, and her newborn's HLA genotype was A*02:07,11:01; B*39:15,40:01; the mother of Case 4 had anti-HLA-A11 antibody, and the newborn's HLA genotype was A*11:01,29:01; B*07:05,13:01; the mother of Case 5 had anti-HLA-A203 and anti-HLA-B60 antibodies, and the newborn had anti-HLA-A203 antibody, HLA genotype was A*02:03,11:01; B*39:15,40:01. Cases 2 and 3 showed compatible in HPA-1~5, -15 genotyping between the newborn and their mothers; the newborn of case 1 had HPA-2 and HPA-3 incompatibility with their mother; the newborn of Case 4 and Case 5 had HPA-15 and HPA-2 incompatibility with their mother, respectively. The HPA antibody was excluded by MAIPA technique. Among the 22 cases of anti-HLA antibodies induced NAIT, the platelet count of the newborns born to mothers with their first pregnancy was significantly lower than that of newborna born to mothers multiple gregnancies (P <0.01). Newborns whose mothers had both anti-HLA-A and anti-HLA-B antibodies had lower platelet counts than those with only one type of antibody (P <0.01). CONCLUSION: The identification of anti-HLA and HPA antibodies, genotyping are important for the diagnosis of NAIT. Newborns who are pregnant for the first time and whose mothers have multiple HLA antibody types simultaneously may face a higher risk of bleeding and require close monitoring as well as prompt treatment.
42051172 | HLA profile in paediatric ITP: Comparison with healthy controls and prognostic implications. Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by isolated low platelet counts. Although several studies have explored the relationship between the human leucocyte antigen (HLA) system and ITP, findings have been inconsistent. We compared HLA typing between paediatric ITP patients and healthy controls to assess its role in ITP susceptibility. We also evaluated the association between HLA alleles and clinical outcomes in our paediatric ITP cohort. This retrospective observational study included 135 patients with primary ITP and a control group of 929 healthy individuals. The median age of ITP patients was 5.71 years (Interquartile range 2.71-10.21). The HLA-DRB1*07 and HLA-DRB1*13 alleles were more prevalent in healthy controls than in ITP patients, suggesting a potential protective role (p < 0.05). In contrast, HLA-A*68, HLA-B*40 and HLA-DRB1*14 alleles were associated with an increased risk of ITP (p < 0.05). Regarding prognosis, HLA-A*26 allele correlated with lower recovery rates, while HLA-C*03 allele was associated with a higher recovery likelihood (p < 0.05). In addition, HLA-A*02 and HLA-C*04 alleles and the HLA-A02 supertype showed a significant association with a higher probability of chronicity (p < 0.05). Our results highlight the potential role of HLA typing as a diagnostic and prognostic tool for ITP. However, larger studies are required to validate these associations.
42143080 | Physics-based design and simulation of hollow-core anti-resonant fiber plasmonic sensors. Next-generation sensing technologies require high-performance sensors that offer ultra-low loss with enhanced sensitivity. To achieve this, we propose a hollow-core anti-resonant fiber (HC-ARF) refractive index (RI) sensor utilizing the surface plasmon resonance (SPR) detection mechanism for superior optical sensing performance. The proposed sensor model features a single ring of uniformly arranged regular cladding tubes, each coated with a thin plasmonic metal layer to facilitate strong coupling between the core and surface plasmon modes. Through rigorous finite-element modeling (FEM) simulations, the fiber structure is carefully optimized and sensing performance is investigated to obtain ultra-low loss and high detection sensitivity via wavelength interrogation. The simulation results show that the proposed HC-ARF sensor achieves losses up to two orders of magnitude lower than conventional solid-core fiber sensors. Notably, the sensor achieves enhanced wavelength sensitivity (WS) of 6500 and 11,500 nm/RIU for analyte RIs of 1.33 and 1.43, respectively, effectively spanning the visible to near-infrared spectrum with a broad sensing range from 1.25 to 1.44. Moreover, it shows stable performance under tight bending conditions with 10 cm bend radius and +-4% variations in geometric parameters. The combination of relatively low-loss, wide detection range, and high sensing performance makes this sensor effective for real-time RI monitoring applications such as glucose and sucrose concentration analysis, cancer cell detection, and SARS-CoV-2 identification.
21831970 | Evidence that HLA class I and II associations with type 1 diabetes, autoantibodies to GAD and autoantibodies to IA-2, are distinct. OBJECTIVE: A major feature of type 1 diabetes is the appearance of islet autoantibodies before diagnosis. However, although the genetics of type 1 diabetes is advanced, the genetics of islet autoantibodies needs further investigation. The primary susceptibility loci in type 1 diabetes, the HLA class I and II genes, are believed to determine the specificity and magnitude of the autoimmune response to islet antigens. We investigated the association of glutamic acid decarboxylase autoantibodies (GADA) and insulinoma-associated antigen-2 autoantibodies (IA-2A) with the HLA region. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Associations of GADA and IA-2A with HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQB1, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-A, MICA, and 3,779 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were analyzed in 2,531 childhood-onset case subjects (median time since diagnosis 5 years). All analyses were adjusted for age-at-diagnosis and duration of diabetes. RESULTS: GADA and IA-2A were associated with an older age-at-diagnosis (P < 10(-19)). For GADA, the primary association was with HLA-DQB1 (P = 9.00 x 10(-18)), with evidence of a second independent effect in the HLA class I region with SNP, rs9266722 (P = 2.84 x 10(-6)). HLA-DRB1 had the strongest association with IA-2A (P = 1.94 x 10(-41)), with HLA-A*24 adding to the association, albeit negatively (P = 1.21 x 10(-10)). There was no evidence of association of either IA-2A or GADA with the highly type 1 diabetes predisposing genotype, HLA-DRB1*03/04. CONCLUSIONS: Despite genetic association of type 1 diabetes and the islet autoantibodies localizing to the same HLA class II genes, HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQB1, the effects of the class II alleles and genotypes involved are quite different. Therefore, the presence of autoantibodies is unlikely to be causal, and their role in pathogenesis remains to be established.
23977232 | The clinical relevance of pre-formed anti-HLA and anti-MICA antibodies after cord blood transplantation in children. Preformed anti-HLA antibodies (AHA) are known to be associated with delayed engraftment and reduced overall survival after adult hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. However, limited data is available in pediatric patients. In this study, we explored the role of AHA on clinical outcomes in 70 pediatric patients who received a single unit of HLA mismatch cord blood for hematologic malignancies, immunodeficiencies or metabolic diseases. The presence of AHA was detected in 44% (31/70) of the patients. Preformed class I AHA was associated with an increased occurrence of grade 1-4 acute graft-versus host disease (p<0.05). The presence of anti- major-histocompatibility-complex class I-related chain A antigens (MICA) antibodies was significantly associated with a reduced platelet recovery after transplantation (p<0.05). AHA of class II with the strength of antibody titer measured as the mean fluorescence intensity above 2000 was associated with reduced event-free survival (p<0.05). A reduction of high titer of AHA and anti-MICA antibodies might have to be considered before cord blood transplantation in pediatric patients for better outcomes.
12466900 | Alternatively spliced forms of MICA and MICB lacking exon 3 in a human cell line and evidence of presence of similar RNA in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. MICA and MICB genes encode MHC class I chain-related proteins, which are polymorphic, do not appear to present peptides or associate with beta(2)-microglobulin, and are expressed predominantly in epithelial cells, endothelial cells, fibroblasts and several cultured cell lines. Alternatively spliced isoforms are known to exist for HLA-A and B, as well as HLA-G and the MHC class I-related gene, MR1. In the course of cloning MICA and MICB cDNA from the colon carcinoma cell line HCT 116, it was observed that two kinds of cDNAs were obtained: a 1161-bp cDNA, representing full-length MICA or MICB, and a shorter variant of 873 bp. The sequences of these short cDNAs were those of the correct MICA or MICB alleles but lacking exon 3. They were found in 7 of 72 clones examined or about 10% and were called MICA2 and MICB2. MICA1 and MICA2 were transfected into Chinese hamster ovary cells and found to be expressed both in the cells and on their surface. PCR with a primer based on a sequence formed by the joining of exons 2 and 4 allowed detection of the isoform RNA in different cells including freshly prepared normal PBMC.
21992116 | Gene expression profiling in acute allograft rejection: challenging the immunologic constant of rejection hypothesis. In humans, the role and relationship between molecular pathways that lead to tissue destruction during acute allograft rejection are not fully understood. Based on studies conducted in humans, we recently hypothesized that different immune-mediated tissue destruction processes (i.e. cancer, infection, autoimmunity) share common convergent final mechanisms. We called this phenomenon the \Immunologic Constant of Rejection (ICR).\ The elements of the ICR include molecular pathways that are consistently described through different immune-mediated tissue destruction processes and demonstrate the activation of interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs), the recruitment of cytotoxic immune cells (primarily through CXCR3/CCR5 ligand pathways), and the activation of immune effector function genes (IEF genes; granzymes A/B, perforin, etc.). Here, we challenge the ICR hypothesis by using a meta-analytical approach and systematically reviewing microarray studies evaluating gene expression on tissue biopsies during acute allograft rejection. We found the pillars of the ICR consistently present among the studies reviewed, despite implicit heterogeneity. Additionally, we provide a descriptive mechanistic overview of acute allograft rejection by describing those molecular pathways most frequently encountered and thereby thought to be most significant. The biological role of the following molecular pathways is described: IFN-gamma, CXCR3/CCR5 ligand, IEF genes, TNF-alpha, IL-10, IRF-1/STAT-1, and complement pathways. The role of NK cell, B cell and T-regulatory cell signatures are also addressed.
42144646 | Genomic characterization of uterine adenomatoid tumors reveals recurrent alterations in KMT5A and KMT2C. BACKGROUND: Uterine adenomatoid tumors (UATs) are rare benign mesothelial neoplasms with poorly characterized molecular features. Comprehensive genomic profiling of UATs remains limited. METHODS: Targeted sequencing of 20 pathologically confirmed UATs was performed using a 641-gene panel. Immunohistochemical (IHC) analyses were conducted to assess protein expression patterns. Functional assays were performed in the Ishikawa endometrial carcinoma cell line to provide preliminary insight into the potential biological impact of KMT5A knockdown. Publicly available datasets (TCGA and cBioPortal) were analyzed to place these alterations into a broader molecular context across gynecologic malignancies. RESULTS: Recurrent mutations in KMT5A and KMT2C were identified in all cases (20/20, 100%), with consistent co-occurrence across the cohort. Additional alterations were observed in HLA-B (65%), HLA-A (50%), ROS1 (45%), TRAF7 (45%), SDHA (30%), and KMT2A (30%). IHC analysis demonstrated higher expression of TRAF7, gamma-H2AX, CALB2, and Ki-67 in tumors with elevated KMT5A expression. KMT5A knockdown in Ishikawa cells reduced proliferative and migratory capacity. Comparative analyses indicated that KMT5A mutations are uncommon in gynecologic malignancies (< 3%), whereas KMT2C alterations are more broadly distributed. CONCLUSIONS: UATs exhibit a distinctive mutational profile characterized by recurrent KMT5A and KMT2C co-mutations. These findings provide a comprehensive molecular characterization of UATs and suggest that recurrent alterations in chromatin-regulatory genes may represent characteristic genomic features that warrant further investigation.
41892014 | Association Between HLA Polymorphisms and Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis: An Observational Study. BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: This observational study investigated associations between human leukocyte antigen (HLA) polymorphisms and imaging-defined hepatic steatosis (non-alcoholic fatty liver disease-NAFLD) and liver fibrosis in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: Steatosis was assessed by transient elastography (FibroScan) and defined as controlled attenuation parameter (CAP) >= 275 dB/m; fibrosis was defined as liver stiffness measurement >= 8 kPa. We tested 11 frequent HLA alleles (HLA-A*02, HLA-B*07, HLA-B*08, HLA-B*27, HLA-B*35, HLA-B*44, HLA-B*51, HLA-DRB1*11, HLA-DRB1*14, HLA-DRB1*15, and HLA-DRB1*16). Associations were evaluated using multivariable logistic regression (individual and omnibus models) adjusted for age, body mass index (BMI), triglycerides, and glucose. RESULTS: A total of 176 patients with rheumatoid arthritis were enrolled. NAFLD/steatosis was present in 35.2% of patients (n = 62), and fibrosis in 10.8% (n = 19). No HLA allele was significantly associated with steatosis or fibrosis after correction for multiple testing. BMI and triglycerides were independently associated with steatosis (BMI OR 1.22, 95% CI 1.12-1.34; triglycerides OR 1.48, 95% CI 1.04-2.18). For fibrosis, HLA-DRB1*15 showed the strongest trend-level association (OR ~2.6-2.9) but did not remain significant after correcting for multiple testing. CONCLUSIONS: In this RA cohort, metabolic factors (particularly BMI and triglycerides) were the dominant predictors of CAP-defined steatosis. No robust association between the tested HLA markers and steatosis or fibrosis was identified. Trend-level signals-most notably HLA-DRB1*15 for fibrosis-should be considered hypothesis-generating and warrant replication in larger, adequately powered cohorts.
25268662 | CC chemokine receptor polymorphism CCR5Delta32 in Portuguese Behcet's disease patients. OBJECTIVES: To investigate whether CCR5 deletion is associated with susceptibility to Behcet's disease (BD) in a Portuguese population. METHODS: A total of 122 BD patients and 227 ethnically-matched controls were studied. Genotyping of the CCR5Delta32 polymorphisms was performed using polymerase chain reaction product sizing. RESULTS: No significant differences were observed in the allelic frequencies of CCR532 between patients and controls (OR=0.820; p=0.512). Stratification for gender and for the presence of HLA-B*51 did not reveal any significant differences. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that CCR5Delta32 is unlikely to contribute to susceptibility to BD in Portuguese patients. This may be explained by the known functional redundancy of this signalling system.
26096009 | Targeted sequencing of cancer-associated genes in hepatocellular carcinoma using next generation sequencing. Liver cancer is one of the most common causes of cancer-associated mortality. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the major histological subtype among types of primary liver cancer. China is an area of high incidence of HCC, and >50% of the cases of HCC worldwide are in China. At present, the mechanism underlying the development of HCC remains to be fully elucidated, and previous studies have predominantly focused on HCC in southern and eastern China, with molecular data of the HCC cases in Western China remains limited. In the present study, a panel of 372 cancer-associated genes were screened using a next generation sequencing platform, which included a total of 12 cases from western China. The results confirmed mutations in previously identified HCC drivers, including p53 and Kras. Additionally, mutations in several cancer genes, which had not been previously associated with HCC, were identified, including RUNX1 and JAK3. The present study provided a mutation spectrum of HCC tissue in cases from western China, assisting in the investigation of the mechanism of liver carcinogenesis.
42069060 | Innovative CRISPR/Cas9-Based Strategy for Allele-Specific HLA Peptidome Analysis Using a Pan-HLA Antibody. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) immunopeptidomics is restricted by the limited availability of allele-specific antibodies and by potential artifacts introduced by HLA overexpression systems. To address these challenges, we developed a CRISPR/Cas9-based strategy that selectively deletes undesired classical class I alleles while preserving a single endogenous allele, thereby enabling allele-resolved peptidome profiling with a pan-HLA class I antibody. As a proof of concept, we edited JY cells to eliminate HLA-B*07:02 and HLA-C*07:02 while retaining HLA-A*02:01 (DeltaBC clones). Peptide-HLA complexes were immunoprecipitated from wild-type (WT) and DeltaBC clones using either the pan-HLA class I antibody W6/32 or the A*02:01-specific antibody PA2.1, followed by nanoLC-MS/MS and computational HLA assignment. Deletion of HLA-B and HLA-C alleles caused an expected ~55% reduction in total class I surface expression. Despite this, W6/32 immunoprecipitation from DeltaBC clones recovered a comparable peptide yield to PA2.1 in WT cells. Binding predictions showed that most peptides identified in DeltaBC clones using W6/32 were assigned to HLA-A*02:01, with near-complete loss of HLA-B*07:02 and HLA-C*07:02 derived peptides. Sequence logo analysis confirmed the canonical A*02:01 motif across conditions. The DeltaBC W6/32 immunopeptidome exhibited a high degree of overlap (~88%) with the WT PA2.1 repertoire, supporting the specificity and fidelity of the approach. These findings establish CRISPR-based editing of HLA alleles as a viable strategy for allele-specific immunopeptidome analysis using pan-HLA antibodies, supporting its potential application beyond this proof-of-concept system, reducing reliance on allele-specific reagents and facilitating the study of underrepresented HLA alleles.
20631027 | Haplotype analysis discriminates genetic risk for DR3-associated endocrine autoimmunity and helps define extreme risk for Addison's disease. CONTEXT: Multiple autoimmune disorders (e.g. Addison's disease, type 1 diabetes, celiac disease) are associated with HLA-DR3, but it is likely that alleles of additional genes in linkage disequilibrium with HLA-DRB1 contribute to disease. OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to characterize major histocompatability complex (MHC) haplotypes conferring extreme risk for autoimmune Addison's disease (AD). DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Eighty-six 21-hydroxylase autoantibody-positive, nonautoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1, Caucasian individuals collected from 1992 to 2009 with clinical AD from 68 families (12 multiplex and 56 simplex) were genotyped for HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQB1, MICA, HLA-B, and HLA-A as well as high density MHC single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis for 34. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: AD and genotype were measured. RESULT: Ninety-seven percent of the multiplex individuals had both HLA-DR3 and HLA-B8 vs. 60% of simplex AD patients (P = 9.72 x 10(-4)) and 13% of general population controls (P = 3.00 x 10(-19)). The genotype DR3/DR4 with B8 was present in 85% of AD multiplex patients, 24% of simplex patients, and 1.5% of control individuals (P = 4.92 x 10(-191)). The DR3-B8 haplotype of AD patients had HLA-A1 less often (47%) than controls (81%, P = 7.00 x 10(-5)) and type 1 diabetes patients (73%, P = 1.93 x 10(-3)). Analysis of 1228 SNPs across the MHC for individuals with AD revealed a shorter conserved haplotype (3.8) with the loss of the extended conserved 3.8.1 haplotype approximately halfway between HLA-B and HLA-A. CONCLUSION: Extreme risk for AD, especially in multiplex families, is associated with haplotypic DR3 variants, in particular a portion (3.8) but not all of the conserved 3.8.1 haplotype.
42142027 | Early Antibiotic Discontinuation for Children With a Positive Rapid Respiratory Viral Test Hospitalized for Suspected Bacterial Tracheostomy-Associated Infections. OBJECTIVE: Test the association between early antibiotic discontinuation and outcomes for children with a tracheostomy and positive respiratory viral PCR (RVP) hospitalized with suspected bTRAIN (bacterial TRacheostomy-Associated INfection; pneumonia/tracheitis). METHODS: We conducted a multicenter cohort study between September 1, 2021 and August 31, 2024 of children with pre-existing tracheostomy hospitalized for suspected bTRAIN (tracheal aspirate bacterial culture sent and bTRAIN antibiotics started) at six children's hospitals with: (1) a positive RVP test; (2) no antibiotic pre-treatment; and (3) length of stay (LOS) < 37 days (outlier). Mixed-effects regression models identified independent associations between early antibiotic discontinuation and our primary outcome, LOS (in days). Inverse probability treatment weighting based on propensity scoring adjusted for measured confounding. We explored the association between early antibiotic discontinuation and 3 secondary outcomes: late ICU transfer, in-hospital mortality, and 30-day bTRAIN rehospitalization rates. RESULTS: Of 542 hospitalizations in 365 children, the median admission age was 4 years (interquartile range [IQR]: 2-8 years). Common viruses included rhinovirus (n = 282; 52%), SARS-CoV-2 (n = 63; 12%), and respiratory syncytial virus (n = 61; 11%). The median LOS was 7 days (IQR: 5-11 days). Only 28% (n = 152) had early antibiotic discontinuation; full bTRAIN treatment was associated with a 23% (5%-45%) increased LOS, with estimated LOS means (95% CI) of 7.0 (5.8-8.4) days for early antibiotic discontinuation and 8.6 (7.8-9.4) days in the bTRAIN-treated group. Secondary outcome rates (late ICU transfer = 14.6%; in-hospital mortality = 0.9%; 30-day bTRAIN rehospitalization rate = 8.3%) were similar rates between both groups. CONCLUSIONS: Given similar rates of serious outcomes in both groups, clinicians could consider early discontinuation of antibiotic treatment in children with suspected bTRAINs who have a positive RVP test.
42144209 | Citrus depressa modulates endogenous aromatic amino acids to regulate the kynurenine pathway and ameliorate bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Citrus depressa, traditionally used in Chenpi preparations for respiratory ailments, was previously shown in our studies to exhibit anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity. AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aims to investigate the therapeutic potential of C. depressa and to clarify its underlying mechanism in pulmonary fibrosis. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We prepared an ethanolic extract of Citrus depressa (Cd) and assessed its activity following oral administration in a bleomycin-induced BEAS-2B cell and murine model by measuring TGF-beta1, epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and extracellular matrix (ECM) level. Metabolomics was performed on mouse blood, urine, feces, and lung tissue, with pathway enrichment analysis using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) highlighting aromatic amino acids (AAA). Serum pharmacology identified potential flavonoids, which, along with the AAA, were then validated in our established animal model. Finally, targeted metabolomics mapped in-vivo metabolic pathway, and enzyme expression in related pathways was measured. RESULTS: In this study, we demonstrated that C. depressa extract (Cd) alleviates bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis in both cell and murine models by reducing TGF-beta1 levels, suppressing EMT, and limiting EC accumulation. Metabolomic profiling revealed increased levels of endogenous aromatic amino acids and significant activation of the tryptophan catabolism pathway, suggesting its involvement in the anti-fibrotic effect. Notably, administration of AAA in fibrotic mice produced comparable therapeutic effects to Cd and restored kynurenine pathway in lung tissue, supporting the mechanistic link. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that Cd may mitigate lung fibrosis, possibly by raising endogenous aromatic amino acid levels and modulating the kynurenine pathway. Collectively, these results suggest that both Cd and AAA hold therapeutic potential for pulmonary fibrosis and warrant further investigation in clinical settings.
26331842 | Molecular Dynamics Simulation Reveals the Selective Binding of Human Leukocyte Antigen Alleles Associated with Behcet's Disease. Behcet's disease (BD), a multi-organ inflammatory disorder, is associated with the presence of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) HLA-B*51 allele in many ethnic groups. The possible antigen involvement of the major histocompatibility complex class I chain related gene A transmembrane (MICA-TM) nonapeptide (AAAAAIFVI) has been reported in BD symptomatic patients. This peptide has also been detected in HLA-A*26:01 positive patients. To investigate the link of BD with these two specific HLA alleles, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were applied on the MICA-TM nonapeptide binding to the two BD-associated HLA alleles in comparison with the two non-BD-associated HLA alleles (B*35:01 and A*11:01). The MD simulations were applied on the four HLA/MICA-TM peptide complexes in aqueous solution. As a result, stabilization for the incoming MICA-TM was found to be predominantly contributed from van der Waals interactions. The P2/P3 residue close to the N-terminal and the P9 residue at the C-terminal of the MICA-TM nonapeptide served as the anchor for the peptide accommodated at the binding groove of the BD associated HLAs. The MM/PBSA free energy calculation predicted a stronger binding of the HLA/peptide complexes for the BD-associated HLA alleles than for the non-BD-associated ones, with a ranked binding strength of B*51:01 > B*35:01 and A*26:01 > A*11:01. Thus, the HLAs associated with BD pathogenesis expose the binding efficiency with the MICA-TM nonapeptide tighter than the non-associated HLA alleles. In addition, the residues 70, 73, 99, 146, 147 and 159 of the two BD-associated HLAs provided the conserved interaction for the MICA-TM peptide binding.
41721246 | Survival after kidney retransplantation in Turkiye: a developing country perspective.
22032421 | HLA and MICA genes in patients with tuberculosis in Brazil. Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes have been investigated because of their crucial role in the defense against pathogens and their high degree of polymorphism. We performed a case-control study to assess a genetic association of MHC genes with susceptibility to tuberculosis (TB). The allelic lineages HLA-A*02 and B*18 were significantly less frequent in TB patients (n = 112, 44.6% women) than in controls (n = 224, 51.5% women): 18.8% vs 26.5%; odds ratio (OR) = 0.64; P = 0.037 and 2.7% vs 6.9%; OR = 0.37; P = 0.041. The negative association with haplotype HLA-B*18-MICA*018 (2.3% patients vs 6.4% controls; OR = 0.34; P = 0.035) was significant as a consequence of strong linkage disequilibrium (D' = 0.827 for patients and 0.923 for controls). These findings suggest a trend toward protection of the HLA-A*02 and HLA-B*18 alleles.
42002301 | HLA genotype testing for carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine and eslicarbazepine: A guideline developed by the UK Centre of Excellence in Regulatory Science and Innovation in Pharmacogenomics (CERSI-PGx). Carbamazepine is licensed in the United Kingdom for the treatment of epilepsy, bipolar disorder and trigeminal neuralgia. The related compounds oxcarbazepine and eslicarbazepine are licensed for the treatment of epilepsy. These drugs can cause immune-mediated hypersensitivity reactions, which typically affect the skin, and can be of variable severity. The liver and other organ systems can also be affected. The HLA alleles, HLA-B*15:02, HLA-B*15:11 and HLA-A*31:01, are known predisposing factors for these hypersensitivity reactions. Any treatment-naive patient, regardless of ancestry or indication for treatment, who is about to be prescribed carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine or eslicarbazepine, or has been on these drugs for less than 3 months, should undergo pharmacogenetic testing to identify all clinically relevant HLA alleles to reduce the risk of hypersensitivity reactions. Carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine and eslicarbazepine should be avoided in HLA-B*15:02-positive patients. These drugs should also be avoided in patients positive for HLA-A*31:01 or HLA-B*15:11 if an alternative is possible. Where it is not possible to use an alternative, treatment should only be commenced after careful consideration of the benefits and risks, with increased monitoring and advising patients on appropriate action to take if a skin rash occurs. Our guideline is compatible with other international pharmacogenetics prescribing guidelines. This guideline is grounded in the latest evidence but cannot account for all individual factors relevant to patient care. Therefore, prescribers must conduct a thorough assessment of each patient's risk-benefit profile, ensuring that therapy is optimised to maximise benefits whilst minimising potential harms.
18680696 | [Applicability of pharmacogenetic studies in daily clinical practice]. In the last few years, research in pharmacogenetics and pharmacogenomics has identified distinct variants or markers that can help to define the benefits and risk of patients requiring antiretroviral treatment. The beneficial effect of the deletion 32 allele of the CCR5 coreceptor on the natural history of HIV infection and, to a certain extent, on treatment response is well known. The bases of immune reconstitution after initiation of antiretroviral therapy, although the subject of intense study, are probably multifactorial and polygenetic and consequently conclusions with clear applicability to clinical practice are currently lacking. Among the risks, no significant progress has been made in lipodystrophy. The origin of dyslipidemia associated with antiretroviral treatment and the excess cardiovascular risk conferred by some antiretroviral drugs is probably polygenetic and, at present, poorly defined. The genetic bases of efavirenz-induced neurological toxicity and of hyperbilirubinemia secondary to atazanavir are fairly well known, although their application in daily clinical practice has not been adequately assessed. Some aspects that help to understand the molecular bases of hypersensitivity reaction to nevirapine and of nevirapine-induced hepatotoxicity have been described but are not applicable in most cases and consequently further studies are required. Some data correlate tenofovir-induced renal toxicity with genetic variations in some transport proteins. The most significant advance for clinical practice is the correlation between the presence of the HLA-B*5701 allele and hypersensitivity reaction to abacavir. In particular, one clinical trial with a large number of patients from distinct ethnic groups found that the probability of not developing hypersensitivity reaction (immunologically confirmed) was 100% if the patient was HLA-B*5701-negative. These data suggest the need to implement this test in daily clinical practice.
42014364 | Utility of Patch Testing, LTT, and HLA Genotyping in Identifying Culprit Drugs and Diagnosing Multiple Drug Hypersensitivity in Definite DRESS: A 10-Year Cohort Study. BACKGROUND/AIM: We evaluated the role of lymphocyte transformation test (LTT), patch testing (PT), and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genotyping in identifying culprit drugs in Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) and assessed long-term outcomes. METHODS: DRESS was diagnosed using Registry of Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions (RegiSCAR) criteria; only definite cases (score > 5) were included. Severe DRESS was defined as >= 1 major organ involvement with clinical and laboratory abnormalities, and RegiSCAR scores supported severity assessment. Patients were grouped by single- or multiple drug exposure. Drug causality was assessed using the WHO-UMC criteria. LTT, PT, and/or HLA genotyping were performed for \possible\ culprit drugs. Multiple drug hypersensitivity syndrome (MDHS) was defined as hypersensitivity to >= 2 unrelated drugs confirmed by testing. Hypersensitivity to a single drug was classified as single-drug hypersensitivity (SDH). Long-term follow-up assessed autoimmune diseases and neo-sensitization to unrelated drugs. RESULTS: Fifty patients with definite DRESS (median age 49 years; 50% were female) were included, and six (12%) had severe disease. Compared with non-severe cases (mild/moderate), severe cases had higher median RegiSCAR scores (8 [7-8] vs. 6 [6-7]; p = 0.012) and more frequent facial edema (p < 0.001) and lymphadenopathy (p = 0.029). MDHS was more common in severe cases (83% vs. 11%; p = 0.001), and HLA risk alleles were more prevalent (p = 0.016), including HLA-B*58:01, HLA-A*31:01, and HLA-B*13:02, associated with allopurinol, carbamazepine, and levofloxacin-induced DRESS, respectively. Among 20 patients with multiple drug exposures, 10 were diagnosed with MDHS: 5 simultaneous, 2 sequential, and 4 long-interval; one patient exhibited both simultaneous and long-interval reactions. Compared with SDH, MDHS patients had higher median RegiSCAR scores (7 [6-8] vs. 6 [6-8]; p < 0.001) and a higher prevalence of HLA risk alleles (p = 0.038), including HLA-B*58:01 (allopurinol), HLA-A*31:01 (carbamazepine), HLA-B*13:02 (levofloxacin) and HLA-A*24:02 (lamotrigine). Long-term complications occurred in eight patients: four developed autoimmune diseases, and four had neo-sensitization leading to subsequent DRESS, considered long-interval MDHS. CONCLUSION: PT and LTT effectively identified culprit drugs in DRESS, particularly in multiple drug exposure. MDHS was more frequent in severe DRESS and associated with a higher prevalence of drug-related HLA risk alleles; however, no single HLA marker defined MDHS. Long-term follow-up was essential to detect autoimmune sequelae and neo-sensitization, and to guide safe drug evaluation and reintroduction.
19063693 | Elite control of HIV infection: implications for vaccine design. BACKGROUND: 'Elite controllers' are rare HIV-infected individuals who are able to spontaneously control HIV replication without medication, maintaining viral loads that are consistently below the limits of detection by currently available commercial assays. OBJECTIVE: To examine studies of elite controllers that may elucidate mechanisms of HIV immune control useful in designing a vaccine. METHODS: Recent literature on HIV controllers and studies that have evaluated aspects of viral and host immunology that correlate with viral control are examined. RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: Although many elements of innate and adaptive immunity are associated with control of HIV infection, the specific mechanism(s) by which elite controllers achieve control remain undefined. Ongoing studies of elite controllers, including those examining host genetic polymorphisms, should facilitate the definition of an effective HIV-specific immune response and guide vaccine design.
41921040 | Pulmonary microbiota, local inflammation, and tumor progression impact immune checkpoint gene profiles in the lung microenvironment. Emerging data indicates that the lung microbiota contribute to the initiation and progression of lung cancer. Here, we investigate a wide range of immune checkpoint genes (ICGs) in the pulmonary microenvironment across lung carcinogenesis and explore the interplay between these immunoregulatory genes, the intratumoral microbiota, and inflammatory processes in the lungs. First, we estibalish that ICGs can considerably impact host immunity and efficacy of immunotherapy. Secondly, we identify CD160, HLA-DOA, and VTCN1 to significantly downregulate as tumors progress from early-stage to advanced-stage. In addition, the expression of CD86, HLA-DPB1, and HAVCR2 are significantly positively correlated with pulmonary inflammation. Finally, HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-E levels positively correlate to immune- and inflammation-associated Lachnoclostridium dominance. Taken together, our study uncovers ICG signatures linked to tumor progression and sheds light on the complex network of microbiota-host immunity interactions within the lung microenvironment. This study lays the groundwork for future mechanistic studies and underscores the significance of microbiota-host immunity interactions for predicting and tracking the response to cancer treatment.
42039606 | Classical HLA Allele and Haplotype Frequency Estimates in US Populations. The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) system is the primary determinant of donor selection in allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) and plays a central role in solid organ transplantation, immune-mediated disease studies, evolutionary population genetics, and immunotherapy. Large-scale sampling of registry participants reflecting major US ancestry groups allows for characterization of the complex landscape of HLA haplotype diversity for the classical HLA class I ( HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C ) and HLA class II ( HLA-DRB1, HLA-DRB3, HLA-DRB4, HLA-DRB5, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB1, HLA-DPA1, and HLA-DPB1 ) genes. Here we present nine-locus classical HLA allele and haplotype frequency estimates for five broad (Black, White, Asian or Pacific Islander, Hispanic and Native American) and 21 detailed US populations based on 9,671,082 donors with targeted genotyping by DNA-based methods. Frequency estimation used an expectation-maximization (EM) framework specifically adapted to handle mixed-resolution and ambiguous HLA genotyping data. Advancements in next-generation sequencing provide extensive HLA genotyping, offering new insights into the haplotype structure and diversity of the human MHC complex, expanding knowledge especially for HLA class II haplotypes. Population analyses reveal that the most common high-resolution haplotypes are predominantly population-specific, with only three haplotypes shared across the top-100 lists of all five broad population groups, and that Black populations exhibit the greatest nine-locus haplotypic diversity, a pattern that persists after controlling for differences in registry sample size. These frequencies, derived from the largest US cohort to date, support clinical decision-making and research in histocompatibility, immunogenetics, and transplantation and are publicly available at https://zenodo.org/records/17966993 .
41995725 | Predictors of Immune Checkpoint Blockade Response in dMMR Colorectal Cancer Using an Integrated Immune-Enhanced Multi-Omics Platform. PURPOSE: Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) induces frequent and durable responses in metastatic dMMR CRC, yet substantial molecular heterogeneity and resistance remain. We sought to identify candidate tumor- and immune-related biomarkers associated with clinical outcomes following anti-PD-1 therapy. METHODS: Consecutive patients with metastatic dMMR CRC (N=39) treated with anti-PD-1 therapy underwent tumor profiling using a validated immune-enhanced exome and transcriptome platform. MSI burden was quantified as the percentage of unstable microsatellite loci using MSIsensor-pro. Associations with objective response were evaluated, and progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were analyzed using Cox proportional hazards models. RESULTS: Higher MSI burden was associated with improved objective response (P=0.018) and survival. Dichotomized MSI level (Q2-4 vs Q1) was associated with longer PFS (HR, 0.18; 95% CI, 0.06-0.56, p=0.003) and OS (HR, 0.20; 95% CI, 0.07-0.58, p=0.003), with similar results when modeled continuously. MSI burden correlated with neoantigen clonality but not burden (R=0.53, p=0.01). Responders exhibited significantly greater T-cell receptor repertoire diversity; both T- and B- cell receptor diversity were associated with survival. Although HLA-A, -B, -C expression was not prognostic, the HLA-B*07:02 allele was associated with best overall response. In contrast, overexpression of immune exhaustion-related genes and cytotoxic T-cell and NK-cell exhaustion phenotypes were associated with ICB resistance and poorer prognosis. CONCLUSIONS: Integrated exome/transcriptome profiling with MSI quantification identified MSI burden and adaptive immune repertoire diversity as potential correlates of response and survival following ICB. These findings suggest a mechanistic link between genomic instability, antigen recognition diversity, and immunotherapy benefit.
40747422 | IL-6 is a Key Factor in the Formation of Gut Tissue Resident Memory T Cells from Naive T cells. Tissue resident memory CD4 + T cells (T RM s) populate mucosal sites and play a critical role in local immune responses. Gut T RM cells persist for extended periods in the gut mucosa where they rapidly respond to invading pathogens and provide long lasting protection. This study investigates the factors that mediate differentiation of naive CD4 + T cells into cells presenting a gut T RM phenotype. Naive CD4 + T cells were cultured under conditions that mimicked mucosal environments. This included signaling through MAdCAM-1 in the presence of Retinoic Acid (RA) and TGF-beta. This combination of stimuli primed naive CD4 + T cells to adopt a T RM phenotype. However, to fully differentiate into T RM s an additional soluble factor provided by memory T cells was required. Our results identified IL-6 as a key factor that induces the expression of T RM -associated markers, including CD69, CD103 and CCR5. This unique combination of stimuli promoted T RM differentiation despite low level proliferation. T RM differentiation was mediated through JAK/STAT signaling, and antagonists that target JAK/STAT pathways suppressed MAdCAM-1 mediated T RM cell formation. Our findings revealed that MAdCAM-1 works together with TGF-beta, RA and IL-6 in this process. Such information may aid in the design of next generation adjuvants and effective mucosal vaccines. Additionally, each of these factors may be targeted to treat excessive gut inflammation associated with conditions like inflammatory bowel disease. Overall, these findings provide new strategies aimed at modulating immune responses to invading pathogens and identify therapeutic approaches toward regulating gut inflammation. Author Summary: Immunologists and vaccinologists have long been interested in strategies aimed at boosting immune responses in mucosal tissues where pathogens are first encountered. Gut Tissue resident memory T cells (T RM s) play a central role in gut homeostasis and immunity. They provide a rapid long-lasting protection against pathogens. T RM s must target harmful pathogens and at the same time tolerate harmless commensal bacteria. This balance between immunity and tolerance in the complex environment of gut tissues is essential to the maintenance of gut homeostasis. In this study we have identified key factors present in the gut tissue milieu that are involved in T RM differentiation from naive T cells. These findings point to new therapeutic approaches that can potentially target immune responses in gut tissues and may help in developing effective mucosal vaccines. Conversely, these factors may be targeted in excessive gut inflammation involved in conditions like inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
41947660 | Association of Human Leucocyte Antigen with Tacrolimus Pharmacokinetics in Renal Transplant Patients. INTRODUCTION: Tacrolimus (Tac or FK-506) is an immunosuppressive agent that inhibits T-cell activation and proliferation. It has a narrow therapeutic index and shows inter-patient variabilities in its plasma concentration. Human Leucocyte Antigen (HLA) plays a major role in immune regulation and function. Tac inhibits the T-cells, and HLA antigens are expressed in T-cells. The objective of this study was to determine the role of the HLA Class I (HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C) and Class II (HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQB1, and HLA-DQA1) in influencing Tac PK among renal transplant patients. MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study included HLA genotyping data of 462 renal transplant patients. Tacrolimus blood trough concentration/dose (Co/D) was calculated on day 7 and months 1, 3, 6, and 12 post-transplantation, and the association with HLA alleles was studied. Furthermore, biopsy-proven toxicity, rejection, and pathological events were evaluated for their association with HLA alleles. RESULT: One-way ANOVA analysis showed that HLA-B*51:01 and HLA-C*16:02 were significantly associated with Tac Co/D at multiple time points, with a significance level of p < 0.05. In addition, HLA-DRB1*04:03 was associated with post-renal transplant toxicity [Hazard Ratio (HR) = 8.500, 95% Confidential Interval (CI) (1.517-47.619)] and pathological events [HR = 2.310, 95% CI (1.149-4.642)]. HLA-A*02:11 [HR = 3.530, 95% CI (1.074-11.601)], and HLA-DQB*03:01 [HR = 5.055, 95% CI (1.544-16.551)] were associated with high risk of transplant rejection. CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that HLA alleles influence the PK of Tac and affect graft survival in renal transplant patients.
15987650 | Natural controlled HIV infection: preserved HIV-specific immunity despite undetectable replication competent virus. Long-term non-progressive HIV infection, characterized by low but detectable viral load and stable CD4 counts in the absence of antiviral therapy, is observed in about 5% of HIV-infected patients. Here we identified four therapy naive individuals who are strongly seropositive for HIV-1 but who lack evidence of detectable HIV p24 antigen, plasma RNA, and proviral DNA in routine diagnostic testing. With an ultrasensitive PCR, we established that frequencies of pol proviral DNA sequences were as low as 0.2-0.5 copies/10(6) PBMC. HIV could not be isolated using up to 30x10(6) patient PBMC. One individual was heterozygous for CCR5 Delta32, but CCR5 expression on CD4+ T cells was normal to high in all four individuals. In vitro R5 and X4 HIV-1 susceptibility of CD8-depleted PBMC of all study subjects was significantly lower than the susceptibility of CD8-depleted PBMC of healthy blood donors. All individuals expressed protective HLA-B*58s alleles and showed evidence of HIV-specific cellular immunity either by staining with HLA-B*57 tetramers folded with an HIV RT or gag peptide or after stimulation with HIV-1 p24 gag, RT, or nef peptides in ELIspot analysis. HIV-specific CD4+ T helper cells were demonstrated by proliferation of CD4+ T cells and intracellular staining for IL-2 and IFNgamma after stimulation with an HIV-gag peptide pool. Sera of all individuals showed antibody-mediated neutralization of both R5 and X4 HIV-1 variants. These data implicate that very low-level antigen exposure is sufficient for sustained HIV-specific immunity and suggest the possibility of a multi-factorial control of HIV infection.
12753669 | Additional factor in some HLA DR3/DQ2 haplotypes confers a fourfold increased genetic risk of celiac disease. Although HLA-DQ genes are the major celiac disease (CD) susceptibility genes, results from Finnish families suggest that not all DQ2-encoding haplotypes confer equal susceptibility to CD, implying the effect of other gene(s) in the HLA region. The aim of the present work was to extend and confirm the aforementioned results in a southern European population ( Italian) and to better localize the additional risk factor/s. The association of nine loci spanning the HLA region from DR to HFE, 4.5-Mb telomeric of HLA-A, was tested. The analysis was performed by comparing marker frequencies in DR3-DQ2 haplotypes transmitted and non-transmitted to the affected offspring in 156 Italian CD families selected for having at least one DR3-positive parent. The same analysis was performed independently in 101 Finnish CD families selected with the same criteria. Three alleles, MICA-A5.1, MICB-CA24 and MIB-350, all characteristic of the B8-DR3 extended haplotype, showed a significantly increased frequency in DR3 transmitted haplotypes in the Italian families. DR3 haplotypes carrying the combination of these alleles conferred an approximate fourfold increased CD risk. B8-DR3 transmitted haplotypes were significantly more conserved telomerically down to the MIC-Class I region. Similar results were seen in the Finnish families. The major conclusion that holds true in both populations is that, while DQ2 is an absolute requirement for the development of CD, the presence of an additional genetic factor within the MIC-Class I region confers an approximate 4-fold increased risk of the disease.
42146025 | Relapsed Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura Following COVID-19 Vaccination in a Patient With Autoimmune Cytopenias. Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is a rare autoimmune condition characterized by isolated thrombocytopenia in the absence of an identifiable secondary cause. While most cases respond to first-line therapy, relapsed or refractory forms, particularly in patients with coexisting autoimmune disorders, pose significant diagnostic and treatment challenges. Recent reports have identified rare instances of autoimmune cytopenias following severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) mRNA vaccination, raising concern for potential immune reactivation in predisposed individuals with prior immune dysregulation. We present the case of a 68-year-old male with a history of ITP and autoimmune hemolytic anemia who developed a severe relapse of thrombocytopenia, epistaxis, and suspected gastrointestinal hemorrhage shortly after coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccination. Despite initial treatment with corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin, and platelet transfusions, the patient experienced a second relapse requiring escalation of care with additional immunosuppressive therapy and close hematologic follow-up. Ultimately, his condition improved with a multimodal approach and coordinated outpatient management. This case is clinically significant due to its temporal association with COVID-19 vaccination and the relapsing nature of ITP in the setting of systemic autoimmunity. It underscores the importance of early recognition, timely intervention, and vigilant monitoring in preventing life-threatening complications. The report adds to a growing body of literature highlighting the need for individualized care strategies and post-vaccine surveillance in patients at heightened risk of autoimmune reactivation.
41763455 | Routine detection of reactive Cyfra21-1-specific CD8+ T cells and its predictive value for responsiveness to PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor therapy in NSCLC patients. Immune checkpoint inhibitors are widely used in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but with limited overall response rates. Indicators predicting immunotherapy response are hard to routinely detect due to their invasiveness. This study systematically screened for CD8+ T-cell epitopes in Cytokeratin Fragment Antigen 21-1 (Cyfra21-1), a valuable NSCLC tumor marker, through a combination of in silico prediction, ex vivo co-cultures of peptides with patient-derived peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), peptide competition binding assays, and peptide immunization in humanized mice. A total of 37 novel CD8+ T-cell epitopes were confirmed to exhibit immunogenicity in a real-world lung cancer cohort comprising 150 patients. These epitopes were restricted by 13 HLA-A, 15 HLA-B, and 14 HLA-C prevalent allotypes which cover the majority of Northeast Asian population. Using these epitope peptides, a universal ELISpot assay was established to count reactive Cyfra21-1-specific CD8+ T cells, and a cohort of 70 NSCLC patients scheduled to receive PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor therapy was tested. The baseline count of reactive Cyfra21-1-specific CD8+ T cells in PBMCs was identified as an independent predictor of patient responsiveness to immunotherapy, with an AUC of 0.757 and a cut-off value of 25.5 SFUs/4 x 105 PBMCs that distinguished responders from non-responders. This study is the first to construct a broad-spectrum CD8+ T-cell epitope library of the Cyfra21-1 antigen in Northeast Asians, establish a universal assay for measuring Cyfra21-1-specific CD8+ T cell reactivity, and validate the predictive value of Cyfra21-1-specific CD8+ T cells for immunotherapy response in NSCLC patients.
15746416 | HIV/AIDS. HIV: experiencing the pressures of modern life.
41746066 | Correlation Analysis Between HLA Polymorphisms and Immune Response to Hepatitis B Vaccine in Children with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. BACKGROUND: The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is crucial for antigen presentation and vaccine efficacy. This study examined the association between HLA polymorphisms and the immune response to hepatitis B vaccination in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). METHODS: 101 pediatric ALL patients at Shanghai Children's Medical Center affiliated with Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine who tested negative for hepatitis B surface antibody (anti-HBs) and were not infected with hepatitis B received three doses of the hepatitis B vaccine. Anti-HBs titers were measured before and after vaccination. Participants were divided into high- and low-response groups based on post-vaccination anti-HBs titers. Sequence-specific primer polymerase chain reaction (PCR-SSP) was used to genotype HLA-A, -B, -Cw, -DRB1, and -DQB1 alleles. RESULTS: Pre-vaccination anti-HBs titers were 3.38 +- 2.97 mIU/mL, and the post-vaccination seroconversion rate was 100% with mean titers of 429.61 +- 303.13 mIU/mL (p < 0.001). Following immunization, the low-response group (11.88%) had an anti-HBs titer of 56.47 +- 28.38 mIU/mL, while the high-response group (88.12%) had an anti-HBs titer of 479.93 +- 287.70 mIU/mL. There were significant differences in allele frequencies of B*3501 and Cw*0303 between the two response groups (p < 0.05). Binary logistic regression analysis showed that the B*3501 allele was negatively correlated with the anti-HBs response level (p < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: HLA-B*3501 may be associated with lower antibody response levels in children with ALL who completed the full hepatitis B vaccination series. All these children demonstrated protection against the hepatitis B virus (HBV). We will subsequently validate the association between HLA-B*3501 and the level of hepatitis B vaccine immune response in children with ALL through expanding the sample size or conducting a multicenter study.
41764741 | Islet-derived T cells from both mice and humans recognize conserved insulin A-chain peptides presented by HLA-C*03:04. Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease in which T cells mediate the elimination of the insulin-producing beta cells in the pancreatic islets, resulting in the need for exogenous insulin. Studies of T1D in both patients and the nonobese diabetic (NOD) mouse model of the disease illustrate that beta cell-specific CD8+ T cells are central contributors to the beta cell destruction characterizing the disease. Compared to HLA-A and HLA-B, relatively little is known about the participation of HLA-C-restricted T cells in T1D. To tackle this question, we developed and characterized an NOD-based model of spontaneous T1D that transgenically expresses HLA-C*03:04, a common and enriched allotype in T1D patients. Using an unbiased screen of an exhaustive peptide library comprised of 8- to 11-mer peptides derived from the key autoantigen insulin, islet-infiltrating T cells from the mice were found to recognize the insulin A-chain peptides A11-19 and A13-21 presented by HLA-C*03:04. Guided by these findings, T-cell lines were established from the islets of HLA-C*03:04-positive human donors with T1D, including a donor with demise at onset of T1D. These human islet-derived T cells also responded to the conserved A11-19 and A13-21 peptides. The presence of HLA-C*03:04-restricted insulin-specific T cells in both mouse and human islets suggests the participation of peptides presented by HLA-C molecules in T1D pathogenesis. This work also demonstrates the utility of the mouse model in identifying human disease-relevant HLA-C-restricted epitopes and suggests a general strategy for the exploration and manipulation of HLA-C-restricted T cells in autoimmune diseases.
39379371 | Multiomic single-cell sequencing defines tissue-specific responses in Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis. Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN) is a rare but life-threatening cutaneous drug reaction mediated by human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I-restricted CD8+ T cells. For unbiased assessment of cellular immunopathogenesis, here we perform single-cell (sc) transcriptome, surface proteome, and T cell receptor (TCR) sequencing on unaffected skin, affected skin, and blister fluid from 15 SJS/TEN patients. From 109,888 cells, we identify 15 scRNA-defined subsets. Keratinocytes express markers indicating HLA class I-restricted antigen presentation and appear to trigger the proliferation of and killing by cytotoxic CD8+ tissue-resident T cells that express granulysin, granzyme B, perforin, LAG3, CD27, and LINC01871, and signal through the PKM, MIF, TGFbeta, and JAK-STAT pathways. In affected tissue, cytotoxic CD8+ T cells express private expanded and unexpanded TCRalphabeta that are absent or unexpanded in unaffected skin, and mixed populations of macrophages and fibroblasts express pro-inflammatory markers or those favoring repair. This data identifies putative cytotoxic TCRs and therapeutic targets.
42145596 | 7 Tesla MRI links poorer cognitive function to higher perivascular space burden in neuroPASC. Purpose: Post-acute sequalae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) are associated with persistent neurological symptoms (neuroPASC). Perivascular spaces (PVS) in the brain may enlarge in the context of inflammation and vascular dysfunction, reflecting impaired glymphatic clearance, and have been linked to cognitive decline. SARS-CoV-2 may disrupt the blood-brain barrier and impair glymphatic function, contributing to PVS burden. This study used 7 Tesla MRI to segment and quantify PVS in neuroPASC participants and uninfected comparators and examined associations with cognitive performance. Methods: Adult participants (36 neuroPASC (44.3 +- 12.7 years) and 33 comparators (38.4 +- 13.0 years)) underwent a 7 Tesla MRI scan. White matter masks of the whole brain and four lobes were segmented, and semi-automated segmentation was used to quantify PVS count and volume. All participants completed cognitive testing including Trails A and B sequencing tasks; neuroPASC participants also self-reported brain fog, fatigue, anxiety, and depression. PVS count, PVS volume, and total white matter volume (WMV) between groups were compared and associations between PVS metrics and cognitive function were assessed controlling for age, sex, and intracranial volume and corrected for multiple comparisons. Results: Among neuroPASC participants, those reporting anxiety ( p =0.009) and depression ( p =0.01) had higher WMV than those without. Greater PVS burden was associated with worse cognitive performance in PASC, particularly processing speed (Trails A) and executive function (Trails B). Specifically, processing speed was negatively associated with whole-brain PVS count ( p-FDR = 0.008, R 2 = 0.27), frontal PVS count ( p-FDR = 0.03, R 2 = 0.25), and frontal PVS volume ( p-FDR = 0.04, R 2 = 0.23). Trails B was also negatively associated with whole-brain PVS count ( p-FDR = 0.005, R 2 = 0.26). In comparators, higher PVS burden (volume and count) across multiple lobes was associated with worse semantic fluency (Animal Naming). There were no other significant associations between PVS measures and neuropsychiatric tests among participants within any of the subgroups to report. Conclusion: Although group-level differences in PVS were not observed, PVS burden was meaningfully negatively associated with cognitive performance in neuroPASC, with the strongest effects in frontal regions. These findings suggest that microvascular and glymphatic alterations may contribute to the characteristic processing speed and executive dysfunction seen in neuroPASC. Elevated WMV in those with anxiety and depression may reflect heightened inflammatory vulnerability. PVS may serve as a sensitive imaging marker of glymphatic dysfunction and neuroinflammation in neuroPASC, offering insight into the mechanisms underlying cognitive impairment and potential intervention targets.
15602704 | Improved understanding of human genetic control of HIV pathogenicity.
14688527 | Analysis of cytokine functions in graft rejection by gene expression profiles. BACKGROUND: The function of interferon (IFN)gamma in the regulation of the immune response after allogeneic transplantation is still poorly understood. Previous studies have suggested that IFNgamma can promote rejection and be important in tolerance induction. METHODS: To analyze the various IFNgamma-dependent functions in terms of T helpers 1 and 2 responses during rejection, we investigated mice deficient in the transcription factors (signal transducer of activated T cells [STAT]4 and 6) and IFNgamma in fully major histocompatibility complex-mismatched vascularized cardiac transplants. Serum levels of the cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha, IFNgamma, and interleukin (IL)-1beta were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and the graft-infiltrating cells were examined by immunohistochemical staining. To analyze a large panel of immune parameters, we determined the expression of chemokines, chemokine receptors, and clusters of differentiation markers by RNAase protection assays. The data were analyzed with algorithms that generated hierarchic clustering dendrograms. Also, the expression profiles of individual genes were determined with self-organizing maps. RESULTS: Our data show that both the STAT4- and STAT6-deficient groups have statistically prolonged graft survival (P<0.04 and P<0.01). Despite the absence of prolongation of graft survival in the IFNgamma-deficient group, our analysis of variance data show that more genes (18) were modulated in the IFNgamma-deficient group compared with the other two STAT4- and STAT6-deficient groups (five each). CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that IFNgamma plays a distinct role in the modulation of gene expression that includes STAT4-independent mechanisms. Our study identifies eight genes (IL-1beta, IL-1RA, macrophage inflammatory protein-1beta, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, CC-chemokine receptor (CCR)-1, CCR2, CCR5, and F4/80) that are highly expressed in all of our experimental groups. Thus, these genes become candidates for essential functions during rejection.
22466790 | Posttransplant major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related gene A antibodies and long-term graft outcomes in a multicenter cohort of 779 kidney transplant recipients. BACKGROUND: The impact of major histocompatibility class I chain-related A (MICA) antibodies on renal graft outcomes is unclear. The goal of this work was to assess the impact of posttransplant MICA antibodies, assayed at 1 year, with two commercially available kits, on long-term renal graft outcomes. METHODS: We retrospectively tested sera from 779 kidney transplant recipients with two single-antigen flow bead assays 1 year after transplantation. Samples were considered positive for MICA if they were positive in both tests or positive for MICA specificities that were present in one kit only. The main outcome was 4-year death-censored graft survival. RESULTS: The prevalence of MICA antibodies was 5.4% at 1 year. MICA+ patients were more frequently human leukocyte antigen (HLA) sensitized and regrafted. Four-year death-censored graft survival was not different between MICA+ and MICA- patients (97% vs. 94%, P=0.28). By Cox multivariate analysis, independent risk factors for graft loss were as follows: number of HLA DR mismatches, acute rejection within the first year posttransplantation, 1-year serum creatinine, and the presence of HLA antibodies at 1 year, but not the presence of MICA antibodies. CONCLUSIONS: These data do not support an independent pathogenic role for MICA in long-term renal graft injury and question the interest of posttransplant monitoring of MICA antibodies with single-antigen flow bead assays currently available.
30828910 | Immunogenomic correlates of response to cetuximab monotherapy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. BACKGROUND: Mechanisms of resistance to immune-modulating cancer treatments are poorly understood. Using a novel cohort of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), we investigated mechanisms of immune escape from epidermal growth factor receptor-specific monoclonal antibody (mAb) therapy. METHODS: HNSCC tumors (n = 20) from a prospective trial of neoadjuvant cetuximab monotherapy underwent whole-exome sequencing. Expression of killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) and human leukocyte antigen-C (HLA-C) and the effect of KIR blockade were assessed in HNSCC cell lines. RESULTS: Nonresponders to cetuximab had an increased rate of mutations in HLA-C compared to responders and HNSCC tumors (n = 528) in The Cancer Genome Atlas (P < 0.00001). In vitro, cetuximab-activated natural killer (NK) cells induced upregulation of HLA-C on HNSCC cells (P < 0.01) via interferon gamma. Treatment of NK cells with the anti-KIR mAb lirilumab increased killing of HNSCC cells (P < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: Alterations in HLA-C may provide a mechanism of immune evasion through disruption of NK activation.
20415637 | The relationship between antibody to R7V and progression of HIV type 1 infection. The presence of antibody to R7V (anti-R7VAb), a seven-amino acid sequence derived from beta(2)-microglobulin incorporated into HIV-1 virions from the surface of infected cells, has been proposed as an early marker of nonprogressive HIV-1 infection. The present study was undertaken because no prospective studies have tested this hypothesis. Stored samples collected prospectively from 361 HIV-1 seroconverting men in the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study (0.44-1.53 years after seroconversion) were assayed for the presence or absence of anti-R7VAb, using a standardized ELISA. Using Cox proportional hazards models, crude and adjusted relative hazards (RH) were determined for the following outcomes: (a) clinically defined AIDS, (b) clinically defined AIDS or CD4 T cell count of <200 cells/microl, and (c) death. A total of 143 (39.6%) men had early anti-R7VAb and 218 (60.4%) did not; 192 (53.2%) developed AIDS. At the visit tested, men with anti-R7VAb had significantly lower CD4 T cell counts and higher plasma HIV-1 viral loads than those without antibody. After adjustment for CD4 T cell count, HIV-1 viral load, CCR5 polymorphism, and use of combined antiretroviral therapy, the presence of anti-R7VAb was associated with a higher risk of progression for all outcomes, but not significantly so. Absence of anti-R7VAb was significantly associated with expression of HLA-B*5701 and -B*2705, two alleles associated with slower progression of HIV-1 disease. The early presence of anti-R7VAb in HIV-1 seroconverters was not associated with slower progression of HIV-1 disease.
39603348 | Monocyte transcriptome signatures of inflammation and enhanced neutrophil recruitment characterize immunopathology in the blood of TB patients. Tuberculosis (TB) is characterized by immunopathology in the blood and monocytes have been shown to be highly sensitive to plasma environment changes in TB patients. Here, we investigated TB plasma effects on 'reference monocytes' using RNA sequencing to characterize a potential immunomodulatory role of monocytes in TB. Candidate pathways induced by plasma samples from TB patients (n=99) compared to healthy controls (n=62) were analyzed for changes in signal transduction, phenotype and secreted cytokines by flow cytometry. Finally, potential implications were characterized in blood samples from corresponding patients and controls. Reference monocytes treated with TB plasma showed an enrichment of pathways involved in inflammation and chemotaxis. Inflammatory cytokines were accompanied by enhanced phosphorylation of STAT molecules (i.e., STAT1/3/5) and strong positive correlations were detected for Interleukin (IL)-6 only in TB plasma-treated monocytes. Moreover, monocyte chemokine receptors (i.e., CCR-1, CCR-5) and pro-inflammatory chemokines (i.e., CXCL-1, CXCL-2, CXCL-8, G-CSF, CCL-2) that attract granulocytes and monocytes were significantly higher in TB plasma-treated monocytes. Notably, corresponding clinical samples also showed higher plasma levels for a subset of inflammatory cytokines/chemokines and, in particular, high IL-6 levels correlated positively with accumulation of neutrophil granulocytes in the blood of TB patients. Finally, monocytes from TB patients were characterized by increased chemokine receptor expression, higher proportions of a CCR-2+ subpopulation and aberrant high SOCS3 expression. These results suggest that monocytes may play a significant role in amplifying plasma immunopathology, leading to sustained mobilization and accumulation of neutrophil granulocytes and chronic inflammation in the blood of TB patients.
34623329 | To T or not to B: germline RUNX1 mutation preferences in pediatric ALL predisposition. Germline RUNX1 variants have been identified in relation to myeloid malignancy predisposition, with lymphoid hematological malignancies present at a lower frequency in families. In this issue of the JCI, Li and Yang et al. examined the frequency and type of germline RUNX1 variants in pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Patients with T cell ALL (T-ALL) harbored rare, damaging RUNX1 mutations that were not seen in patients with B cell ALL (B-ALL). Further, several of the T-ALL-associated RUNX1 variants had potential dominant-negative activity. RUNX1-mutated T-ALL cases were also associated with somatic JAK3 mutations and enriched for the early T cell precursor (ETP) leukemia subtype, a finding that was validated when RUNX1 and JAK3 mutations were combined in mice. This study confirms germline RUNX1 predisposition beyond myeloid malignancy, demonstrates the importance of examining both germline and somatic mutations in malignancy cohorts, and demarcates the ETP ALL subtype as a flag for germline predisposition in patients.
41814487 | Ten New HLA Class I Alleles Identified in Russian Bone Marrow Donors. Ten novel HLA class I alleles detected by next-generation sequencing.
42144105 | Effectiveness of BNT162b2 and mRNA-1273 vaccines against COVID-19 omicron variants in children aged 6-11 years in Taiwan. BACKGROUND: Although COVID-19 is typically less severe in children, pediatric infections contribute to transmission and severe disease, particularly in those with comorbidities. This study evaluates the vaccine effectiveness (VE) of BNT162b2 and mRNA-1273 against Omicron BA.2/BA.5 in Taiwan, an infection-naive population at the time of vaccine introduction. MATERIAL AND METHODS: This nationwide observational study utilized the National Health Insurance Research Database and the National Immunization Information System. We included children aged 6-11 years who completed a two-dose primary series between May and June 2022 or remained unvaccinated. Propensity score weighting (PSW) adjusted for age, sex, and health status. Outcomes included SARS-CoV-2 infection confirmed via emergency department (ED) visits or hospitalization, and moderate-to-severe COVID-19. VE was estimated using weighted logistic regression. RESULTS: Among 347,715 children, 115,449 received BNT162b2, 91,531 received mRNA-1273, and 140,735 were unvaccinated. Compared with unvaccinated children, adjusted VE against ED-confirmed infection was 58.8% (95% CI: 53.6%-63.4%) for BNT162b2 and 73.9% (95% CI: 69.3%-77.8%) for mRNA-1273. For moderate-to-severe disease, VE was 69.9% (95% CI: 58.0%-78.5%) for BNT162b2 and 75.5% (95% CI: 63.2%-83.6%) for mRNA-1273. Protection remained consistent across clinical subgroups. CONCLUSIONS: A two-dose primary series of BNT162b2 or mRNA-1273 provided substantial protection against moderate-to-critical COVID-19 and reduced ED-confirmed infections during the Omicron period. These results support the public health value of pediatric mRNA vaccination in preventing severe outcomes in settings with low prior infection rates.
25940109 | On the genetics of the Silk Route: association analysis of HLA, IL10, and IL23R-IL12RB2 regions with Behcet's disease in an Iranian population. Despite that the association of Behcet's disease (BD) with the HLA-B5 was first established in the 1970s, a number of recent genome-wide association studies have both confirmed and furthered this association--in various populations--to individual SNPs both inside and outside the HLA. The former include HLA-B, MICA, and HLA-A, while the latter encompass IL10 and IL23R-IL12RB2 regions. The present study examined whether some of these SNPs could be replicated in an Iranian population, where the prevalence of disease is amply documented. Eight SNPs were selected and tested in 552 patients and 417 controls. These were rs7539328, rs12119179, rs1495965, rs1518111, and rs1800871 in IL10 and IL23R-IL12RB2 regions and rs114854070, rs12525170, and rs76546355 (formerly rs116799036) in the HLA locus. The well-known BD-associated genes HLA-B and MICA were independently genotyped. Although we were not able to formally replicate the association with IL10 and IL23R-IL12RB2, we do report that BD in Iran is strongly associated with HLA-B*51, MICA-A6, and the three HLA-linked SNPs (odds ratio (OR) = 3.38, P = 6.21 x 10(-14); OR = 2.08, P = 1.58 x 10(-13); and OR = 1.67-4.05, P = 1.45 x 10(-04) to 4.79 x 10(-34), respectively). Our data further indicate that the robust HLA-B/MICA association may be explained by a single variant (rs76546355) between the two genes. Overall, these data contribute to a better appraisal of the intriguing linkage between BD and the ancient Silk Route, spanning from the Mediterranean shores to Japan.
42145894 | An integrated computational antigen discovery pipeline with hierarchical filtering for emerging viral variants. Emerging and evolving viral diseases, such as SARS-CoV-2, continue to pose significant global health challenges, underscoring the urgent need for rapid and scalable antigen discovery pipelines. This work presents a computational pipeline that integrates diverse computational tools and machine learning models to accelerate the identification and optimization of antigen candidates. The pipeline employs efficient filtering and consensus-based strategies to highlight epitopes with high therapeutic potential. We demonstrate its utility by significantly narrowing the antigen search space for Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) and Mayaro virus (MAYV), and by effectively identifying conserved neutralizing epitopes in SARS-CoV-2. Our proposed computational antigen pipeline offers a powerful framework for expediting the development of future vaccines and therapeutics in response to emerging pathogens.
24171669 | The chemokine receptor 5 delta32 polymorphism and type 1 diabetes, Behcet's disease, and asthma: a meta-analysis. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine whether the functional chemokine receptor 5 delta32 (CCR5-Delta32) polymorphism is associated with susceptibility to type 1 diabetes (T1D), Behcet's disease (BD), and asthma. RESULTS: Fourteen studies encompassing 9,656 cases and 12,431 controls, including 6 on T1D, 5 on BD, and 3 on asthma, were available for meta-analysis. The meta-analysis showed a significant negative association between T1D and the CCR5-Delta32 allele (odds ratio [OR] = 0.854, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.800-0.912, p = 2.2 x 10-7). Stratification by ethnicity and analysis of the Delta32Delta32 + Delta32W genotype indicated a significant negative association between the CCR5-Delta32 allele and T1D in Europeans (OR = 0.857, 95% CI = 0.802-0.915, p = 3.5 x 10-8; OR = 0.896, 95% CI = 0.808-0.932, p = 9.3 x 10-6, respectively). The meta-analysis showed a positive association between BD and the Delta32Delta32 + Delta32W genotype (OR = 1.403, 95% CI = 1.008-1.954, p = 0.045). Stratification by HLA-B51 status indicated an association between the CCR5-Delta32 allele and HLA-B51-positive BD, but not HLA-B51-negative BD (OR = 1.619, 95% CI = 1.070-2.451, p = 0.023; OR = 1.036, 95% CI = 0.674-1.593, p = 0.872, respectively). No association was found between the CCR5-Delta32 polymorphism and asthma. CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis demonstrates that the CCR5-Delta32 polymorphism acts as a protective factor in T1D development in Europeans, and a risk factor for BD among HLA-B51 carriers. However, no association was found between the CCR5-Delta32 polymorphism and asthma.
23929683 | Increased expression of intrinsic antiviral genes in HLA-B*57-positive individuals. The genetic background of HIV-1-infected subjects, particularly the HLA class I haplotype, appears to be critical in determining disease progression rates, thought to be a result of the role of HIV-1-specific CD8(+) T cell responses. The HLA-B*57 allele is strongly associated with viremic suppression and slower disease progression. However, there is considerable heterogeneity in HIV-1 disease progression rates among HLA-B*57-positive subjects, suggesting that additional factors may help to contain viral replication. In this report, we investigated the association between host restriction factors, other established immunological parameters, and HLA type in HIV-1-seronegative individuals. Our results demonstrate that healthy, uninfected HLA-B*57-positive individuals exhibit significantly higher gene-expression levels of host restriction factors, such as APOBEC3A, APOBEC3B, BST-2/tetherin, and ISG15. Interestingly, HLA-B*57 individuals have significantly lower CD4(+) T cell frequencies but harbor slightly more activated CD4(+) T cells compared with their HLA-B*35 counterparts. We detected significant correlations between CD4(+) T cell activation and expression of several APOBEC3 family members, BST-2/tetherin, SAMHD1, and TRIM5alpha in HLA-B*57-positive individuals. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing distinct associations between host restriction factors and HLA class I genotype. Our results provide insights into natural protection mechanisms and immunity against HIV-1 that fall outside of classical HLA-mediated effects.
41644240 | Human leukocyte antigen alleles associated with inhibitor development in severe hemophilia A: analysis of the \My Life, Our Future\ hemophilia A cohort. BACKGROUND: An earlier analysis of the \My Life, Our Future\ Repository indicated the risk of individuals with severe hemophilia A (HA) developing neutralizing antifactor (F)VIII antibodies (inhibitors) was (1) higher in Black and Hispanic cohorts and (2) similar in intron-22 inversion mutations vs other large structural changes in the F8 gene. OBJECTIVES: This study determined whether specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles or haplotypes indicate either risk of or protection from inhibitor development in severe HA and if such associations correlate with race/ethnicity or F8 variant type. METHODS: HLA haplotypes were obtained from whole genome sequence data for 1841 subjects with severe HA and their racial/ethnic categories verified by principal component analysis. Pairwise and multivariable logistic regression analyses were performed for subcohorts of HLA alleles/haplotypes defined by HA mutation type and race/ethnicity. RESULTS: HLA-DRB1*15:01, DQB1*06:02, and DQA1*01:02 and B*07:02 were higher-risk alleles for the White/non-Hispanic cohort, while HLA-DRB*14:01, DQB1*05:03, DQB1*03:01, B*38:01, B*44:02, and C*05:01 were lower-risk alleles. HLA-B*15:03 and B*58:01 were higher-risk alleles for the Black/non-Hispanic cohort, while HLA-A*33:03 was a lower-risk allele. Additional alleles were associated with inhibitor risk across the following cohorts: all (N = 1841), intron-22 inversion (n = 836), missense (n = 288), not-missense (n = 1553). No associations of HLA with inhibitor risk were seen for the Hispanic/White cohort. Analysis of subjects carrying both higher-risk and lower-risk alleles revealed combinations affecting the risks associated with individual alleles. CONCLUSION: Our results implicate both innate and adaptive immune mechanisms, possibly including multiallelic HLA-associated effects on FVIII processing/presentation or signaling pathways in the development of inhibitors vs peripheral tolerance to FVIII.
24821759 | Behcet disease-associated MHC class I residues implicate antigen binding and regulation of cell-mediated cytotoxicity. The HLA protein, HLA-B*51, encoded by HLA-B in MHC, is the strongest known genetic risk factor for Behcet disease (BD). Associations between BD and other factors within the MHC have been reported also, although strong regional linkage disequilibrium complicates their confident disentanglement from HLA-B*51. In the current study, we examined a combination of directly obtained and imputed MHC-region SNPs, directly obtained HLA-B locus types, and imputed classical HLA types with their corresponding polymorphic amino acid residues for association with BD in 1,190 cases and 1,257 controls. SNP mapping with logistic regression of the MHC identified the HLA-B/MICA region and the region between HLA-F and HLA-A as independently associated with BD (P < 1.7 x 10(-8)). HLA-B*51, -A*03, -B*15, -B*27, -B*49, -B*57, and -A*26 each contributed independently to BD risk. We directly examined rs116799036, a noncoding SNP upstream of HLA-B that was recently suggested to underlie the association of HLA-B*51 with BD, but we were unable to replicate that finding in our collection. Instead, we mapped the BD association to seven MHC class I (MHC-I) amino acid residues, including anchor residues that critically define the selection and binding of peptides to MHC-I molecules, residues known to influence MHC-I-killer immunoglobulin-like receptor interactions, and a residue located in the signal peptide of HLA-B. The locations of these variants collectively implicate MHC-I peptide binding in the pathophysiology of BD. Furthermore, several lines of evidence suggest a role for altered regulation of cellular cytotoxicity in BD pathogenesis.
42142795 | Full-length SARS-CoV-2 envelope protein adopts an interfacial topology in lipid bilayers. The envelope protein is essential for the replication of coronaviruses. Several structures of the envelope protein of the SARS-CoV-2 and the closely related SARS viruses are available. However, an experimental structure of the entire full-length protein in a native lipid environment has not been determined. In addition, significant structural differences exist between published models, and the conformation adopted by the C-terminal domain is only partially understood. CW-EPR power saturation and EPR lineshape analysis of 15 different labeled sites were carried out on the full-length envelope protein of SARS-CoV-2 in POPC/POPG vesicles to determine the membrane topology. In conjunction with coarse-grained molecular dynamics, the results support a model where the C-terminal domain helices as well as the N-terminal domain are in direct contact with the lipid headgroups of the ER cytoplasmic leaflet of the membrane.
42142310 | Quantitative Detection of Hepatitis B Virus Particles via Dual-Targeting HBsAg and Nucleic Acid with Immunomolecular Assay. SARS-CoV-2, HBV, and other viral pathogens represent significant public health threats. While viral replication produces numerous subviral particles, only intact viral particles are infectious, making them essential biomarkers for assessing viral infection and replication. Current diagnostic methods primarily detect antigens or nucleic acids, but they do not accurately reflect the virus's infectious potential. Techniques such as plaque assays, electrochemical biosensors, and size exclusion chromatography (SEC) are limited by operational complexity and quantification precision. In this study, we present a novel quantitative assay for detecting HBV particles, utilizing a dual-target immune molecular approach to simultaneously quantify HBsAg and viral nucleic acids. PreS1 antibodies selectively enrich viral surface particles, followed by viral genome amplification for precise quantification. This method is also applicable to HBV core particles. The assay demonstrated high specificity, sensitivity, and stability, meeting clinical reagent standards. Analysis of serum samples from 220 chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients revealed a weak correlation between serum DNA levels of particle types and traditional biomarkers (HBsAg, HBcrAg, and total HBV DNA), indicating that intact viral particles could serve as novel biomarkers for clinical infection management. Furthermore, CHB patients treated with nucleotide analogs exhibited higher baseline levels of complete viral particles and faster clearance kinetics compared to core particles. This immune molecular assay offers reliable quantification of other intact viral particles, providing a valuable tool for assessing viral activity and holding significant potential for clinical viral diagnosis.
42144508 | Severity of COVID-19 Omicron Variants: A Global Systematic Review. INTRODUCTION: The continual emergence of new severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) variants drives the need to update evidence on coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) severity and disease burden, and better understand the impact on prevention, treatment, and healthcare systems. METHODS: This systematic review aimed to determine relative disease severity, through comparative measures of hospitalization, intensive care unit admission and mortality, between SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern emerging since Omicron was first identified. A protocol was registered a priori (PROSPERO ID: CRD42024619193). Systematic searches of MEDLINE and EMBASE databases were conducted in November 2024 and supplemented by conference searches from 2022-2024. Population, Exposure, Comparisons, Outcomes (PECO) criteria were used to screen publications for inclusion. Critical appraisal tools published in the Joanna Briggs Institute (JBI) Handbook for Evidence Synthesis were used to assess the risk of bias of the primary studies included. The outcomes associated with Omicron variants, identified by sequencing or predominance periods, included hospitalization, admission to intensive care, death, and various composite endpoints. RESULTS: Thirty-two studies fulfilled the eligibility criteria, most reported on relative disease severity for early Omicron BA.5 (n = 23) and XBB (n = 24) variants. Overall, COVID-19 severity appeared largely comparable across the various Omicron subvariants. Among the subset of studies that directly compared various severity outcomes to earlier SARS-CoV-2 variants (n = 7), some reported modest increases or decreases in severity. However, these differences were generally not statistically significant. Five studies stratifying outcomes by the presence of comorbid conditions noted that comorbidities were predictors of significantly worse COVID-19 disease outcomes (p = 0.000-0.027). CONCLUSIONS: Overall, this systematic review found the severity of COVID-19 disease to be comparable among Omicron subvariants. As SARS-CoV-2 subvariants continue to emerge, these results highlight the continuing need for vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 infection alongside early antiviral intervention to support short-term management and long-term reduction of COVID-19-associated morbidity and mortality.
41844718 | HLA - C*03:02:02 and DPA1*01:03:01 protect against discoid rash in Thai Systemic Lupus Erythematosus patients.
24769079 | HLA epitope based matching for transplantation. As important risk factors for transplant rejection and failure, HLA antibodies are now recognized as being specific for epitopes which can be defined structurally with amino acid differences between HLA alleles. Donor-recipient compatibility should therefore be assessed at the epitope rather than the antigen level. HLAMatchmaker is a computer algorithm that considers each HLA antigen as a series of small configurations of polymorphic residues referred to as eplets as essential components of HLA epitopes. It includes epitopes on antigens encoded by all HLA-A, B, C, DR, DQ and DP loci as well as MICA. HLA epitopes have two characteristics namely antigenicity, i.e. the reactivity with antibody and immunogenicity, i.e. the ability of eliciting an antibody response. This article addresses the relevance of determining epitope-specificities of HLA antibodies, the effect of epitope structure on technique-dependent antibody reactivity and the identification of acceptable mismatches for sensitized patients considered for transplantation. Permissible mismatching for non-sensitized patients aimed to prevent or reduce HLA antibody responses could consider epitope loads of mismatched antigens and the recently developed nonself-self paradigm of epitope immunogenicity.
15251452 | CCL3, acting via the chemokine receptor CCR5, leads to independent activation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and Gi proteins. The interaction of the chemokine receptor, CCR5, expressed in recombinant cells, with different G proteins was investigated and CCR5 was found to interact with Gi, Go and Gq species. Interaction with Gi leads to G protein activation, whereas Gq does not seem to be activated. Additionally, CCR5 activation also leads to phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2). Activation of JAK2 is independent of Gi or Gq activation. Gi protein activation was not prevented by inhibition of JAK, showing that heterotrimeric G protein activation and activation of the JAK/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway are independent of each other.
22100839 | Distribution of MICA haplotypes in a Chinese Han population. The MICA gene encodes nonclassical major histocompatibility complex class I molecules, centromeric to HLA-B and telomeric to HLA-DRB1. The MICA genes are polymorphic. The immune response against MICA may correlate with a decrease in graft survival after transplantation. However, data on the frequency of MICA polymorphisms in different populations are limited. In this study, we determined MICA allelic frequencies in a Han population living in Guangdong Province in south China. A total of 15 MICA alleles were identified using sequence-based typing. The most frequent allele was MICA*010 (22.22%), followed by MICA*002:01(18.56%), MICA*008:01(16.32%), and MICA*019(14.93%). The MICA null gene (MICA*Del) exhibited a frequency of 1.743% in this population. MICA and HLA, MICA-HLA-B, and MICA-HLA-A/HLA-B/HLA-DRB1 haplotype frequencies were estimated. The most common 2-, 3- and 4-locus haplotypes were HLA-B*40:01-MICA*008:01 (13.70%), HLA-A*11:01-B*40:01-MICA*008:01(8.25%), and HLA-A*33:03-B*58:01-DRB1*03:01-MICA*002:01(5.22%). A new MICA allele, MICA*061, was identified and appears to be evolutionarily related to MICA*012:01. This study provides high-resolution information on the distribution of haplotypes with MICA, HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-DRB1 in China. This information should help determine the mechanisms underlying diseases and allotransplant rejection associated with MICA polymorphisms in the southern Chinese Han population.
42141948 | COVID-19 and the ICU: Redesigning Critical Care Services for a New Era. BackgroundCoronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, was first identified in late 2019 and went on to profoundly disrupt health care systems worldwide. The pandemic led to unprecedented increases in healthcare delivery costs, widespread disruption in medical supply chains, workforce instability, and a loss of typical inpatient caregiver support. These challenges affected all levels of care, from primary health services to highly specialized intensive care units (ICUs). Before vaccines were available, ICUs were overwhelmed by critically ill patients requiring mechanical ventilation, saturating capacity and straining staff.ObjectivesThis article seeks to examine the effect that COVID-19 had on ICUs globally, acknowledging its impact with an aim to identify solutions that can be used to help mitigate the overburdening of this limited resource in future pandemics.MethodsA narrative review approach was used, drawing on published literature, observational data, and institutional responses from 2020 to 2025, to analyze structural, operational, and clinical adjustments in ICU design and function.ResultsKey adaptations included physical redesigns, rapid infection-control upgrades, the use of negative pressure rooms, expansion of tele-ICU systems, and virtual family engagement strategies. These interventions were implemented to address ICU crowding, equipment shortages, and staff burnout, and helped to maintain continuity of care during surge conditions.ConclusionsThe COVID-19 pandemic demonstrated the need for ICUs to be more agile, scalable, and future-facing. Lessons learned highlight the importance of preparedness strategies that strengthen ICU resilience and support critical care delivery in future public health emergencies.
16977379 | Gene expression profiling of skin and draining lymph nodes of rats affected with cutaneous contact hypersensitivity. OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN: The present study aimed at a broad genome expression analysis of rat skin and draining lymph nodes affected with allergic contact dermatitis (ACD). METHODS: ACD was elicited in sensitized SD rats with 0.5% 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene on skin areas distant from the sensitization sites. Involved skin and lymph nodes were dissected 8 and 24 h after challenge. RNA was hybridized on Affymetrix GeneChips. Expression data were analyzed with the GeneSpring software. RESULTS: Expression of 1,882 out of 8,799 examined genes in skin or lymph nodes was significantly (p < or = 0.01) changed compared to levels in normal tissue. After an additional 2- fold filtering, four expression patterns were selected and interpreted. Prominently up-regulated genes were IL-6, CCR-5, CCL-2, CCL-3, CXCL-1, CXCL-10, TIMP-1, OX-40, calgranulin b, ST2, beta-defensin, iNOS, STAT-1, MMP-3, MMP-9, MMP-12, and MMP-13. CONCLUSIONS: In addition to previously reported transcript changes, the present findings suggest/support that plasma cells, mast cells, and a specific IFN-gamma pathway play a substantial role in the pathogenesis of ACD.
41875007 | Pharmacogenomics of anti-seizure medications in Epilepsy: a systematic review of genetic predictors of response and tolerance. BACKGROUND: Effectiveness and tolerability of anti-seizure medications (ASM) vary widely among individuals with epilepsy. Genetic polymorphisms may influence pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic responses, yet available evidence is heterogeneous and inconsistently translated into clinical practice. METHODS: A systematic search of eight databases (2000-2024) identified observational studies assessing associations between genetic variants and ASM response or adverse drug reactions. The review protocol was registered in PROSPERO (CRD420251237140). Two reviewers independently performed screening, data extraction and quality assessment using the Newcastle - Ottawa Scale. Owing to methodological heterogeneity, a narrative synthesis was conducted. RESULTS: A total of 168 studies were eligible. The strongest and most consistent associations involved HLA-B * 15:02 and HLA-A *31:01 as predictors of severe cutaneous adverse reactions to carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine and phenytoin. CYP2C9 variants showed reproducible links to phenytoin toxicity. Associations involving ABCB1, SCN1A, SCN2A, GABRA1 and UGT2B7 for treatment response were reported, but findings varied across ASM classes and populations. Substantial ethnic variability was observed, particularly in Asian cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: Only a limited number of genetic polymorphisms currently demonstrate sufficient consistency for clinical translation, mainly HLA alleles predicting severe cutaneous reactions and CYP2C9 variants associated with phenytoin toxicity. Larger multiethnic studies with standardized outcome definitions are needed to clarify the therapeutic role of additional markers and support broader pharmacogenomic implementation.
39483478 | Humanized CXCL12 antibody delays onset and modulates immune response in alopecia areata mice: insights from single-cell RNA sequencing. It has been demonstrated that CXCL12 inhibits hair growth via CXCR4, and its neutralizing antibody (Ab) increases hair growth in alopecia areata (AA). However, the molecular mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. In the present study, we further prepared humanized CXCL12 Ab for AA treatment and investigated underlying molecular mechanisms using single-cell RNA sequencing. Subcutaneous injection of humanized CXCL12 Ab significantly delayed AA onset in mice, and dorsal skin was analyzed. T cells and dendritic cells/macrophages were increased in the AA model, but decreased after CXCL12 Ab treatment. Pseudobulk RNA sequencing identified 153 differentially expressed genes that were upregulated in AA model and downregulated after Ab treatment. Gene ontology analysis revealed that immune cell chemotaxis and cellular response to type II interferon were upregulated in AA model but downregulated after Ab treatment. We further identified key immune cell-related genes such as Ifng, Cd8a, Ccr5, Ccl4, Ccl5, and Il21r, which were colocalized with Cxcr4 in T cells and regulated by CXCL12 Ab treatment. Notably, CD8+ T cells were significantly increased and activated via Jak/Stat pathway in the AA model but inactivated after CXCL12 Ab treatment. Collectively, these results indicate that humanized CXCL12 Ab is promising for AA treatment via immune modulatory effects.
40565849 | Lamotrigine Therapy: Relation Between Treatment of Bipolar Affective Disorder and Incidence of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome-A Narrative Review of the Existing Literature. Lamotrigine is the drug of choice for the treatment of depressive episodes in bipolar disorder (BD). Despite its generally favorable tolerability profile, lamotrigine use is associated with a risk of Cutaneous Adverse Drug Reactions (cADRs), including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) and Lyell's syndrome, also known as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). Genetic markers HLA and, in particular, HLA-B 15:02 and HLA-A 31:01 are crucial in predicting individuals' susceptibility to developing the symptoms. The symptoms are triggered by type IV hypersensitivity developing because of CTL and NK cell activation, leading to keratinocyte apoptosis, epidermal necrosis and skin detachment. The exact pharmacotherapy that should be widely utilized in treating affected patients has not yet been established. New therapies including JAK inhibitors or cyclosporine show potential in improving outcomes by reducing mortality and enhancing the period of recovery. Key factors in preventing cADRs may include adequate patient observation, gradual titration of the patient's dose, and reduction of risk factors through screening for HLA polymorphisms. When the initial symptoms of cADR are identified, it is imperative to make an immediate decision to discontinue treatment, as this can significantly reduce the risk of progression to SJS/TEN and systemic complications. The purpose of this review is to identify a significant correlation between lamotrigine use in BD and the occurrence of SJS by showing the risk factors, neuropharmacological mechanisms, immune response and correctness of pharmacotherapy.
41751595 | Multi-System Genetic Architecture of Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome: Integrating Machine Learning with Subject-Level Genomic Analysis. Background/Objectives: Hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (hEDS) remains genetically unexplained despite decades of clinical investigation, with the molecular basis undefined for the vast majority of cases. This study employs integrated machine learning approaches with rigorous subject-level statistical methods to decode the genetic architecture underlying hEDS. Methods: We analyzed 35,923 rare genetic variants (gnomAD MAF < 0.2) across 116 subjects from 43 families (86 hEDS patients diagnosed per 2017 international criteria; 30 unaffected intrafamilial controls) using whole-exome sequencing. Machine learning analysis employed Random Forest feature selection, deep neural networks, and ensemble methods with subject-stratified cross-validation to prevent data leakage. Statistical association testing used subject-level Fisher's exact tests with Bonferroni correction (alpha = 3.77 x 10-6 for 13,281 genes). Sensitivity analyses assessed robustness to family structure. Results: Subject-level analysis identified statistically significant enrichment in variants associated with three major biological systems: (1) collagen biosynthesis pathway variants (present in 63% of hEDS subjects vs. 17% of controls, Fisher's p = 1.06 x 10-5, OR = 8.4), predominantly affecting COL5A1, COL18A1, COL17A1, and post-translational modification enzymes; (2) HLA/adaptive immune axis variants (74% of hEDS vs. 30% of controls, p = 2.23 x 10-5, OR = 6.8), involving HLA-B, HLA-A, HLA-C, and TAP transporters; (3) mitochondrial respiratory chain variants (34% of hEDS vs. 7% of controls, p = 2.29 x 10-3, OR = 7.1), with striking 4.2-fold enrichment in pediatric fracture cases (52% vs. 21%, p = 0.021, 95% CI: 1.2-14.6). These associations require independent validation and functional studies to determine their mechanistic relevance. Genome-wide analysis identified seven genes achieving Bonferroni significance (p < 3.77 x 10-6), all encoding structural/cytoskeletal proteins. Machine learning models with proper subject-stratified cross-validation achieved 80% accuracy (95% CI: 73-86%, sensitivity = 82%, specificity = 77%). Conclusions: Our findings suggest that hEDS may involve genetic variation across multiple biological systems beyond classical collagen pathways. These hypothesis-generating associations require validation in independent cohorts and functional studies before mechanistic or clinical conclusions can be drawn.
41737233 | Interaction between HLA-B leader peptide variants and cytomegalovirus serostatus is associated with early T cell-mediated rejection in kidney transplantation. Mismatches between mature recipient and donor HLA proteins can trigger alloreactivity upon transplantation. Recent studies suggest that also the leader peptide of HLA class I alleles may affect the transplantation outcome. In this retrospective study, we examined the association between the HLA-B leader -21 methionine (M)/threonine (T) dimorphism and T cell-mediated rejection (TCMR) early after kidney transplantation. In a hypothesis-generating cohort of 351 transplants, -21MM recipients experienced significantly increased odds of early TCMR within the first 90 days post-transplantation compared to -21TT recipients (odds ratio (OR) 4.57, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.87-10.95, p<0.001), irrespective of the donor's HLA-B leader peptide. This association was most prominent among CMV-seropositive recipients (OR 10.91, 95% CI 3.24-39.24, p<0.001). In an independent cohort (n=936), -21MM CMV-seropositive recipients seemed to be at increased odds of early TCMR. In parallel, among CMV-seropositive recipients, -21MT recipients had a significantly increased likelihood of developing early TCMR (OR 2.74, 95% 1.08-7.88, p=0.04). Combined, CMV-seropositivity in the presence of a -21M leader peptide associated with early TCMR with an OR of 2.95 (95% CI 1.49-5.86, p=0.002). In both cohorts, the effect of the -21M leader peptide was most prominent among recipients mismatched for an HLA-A/-C leader peptide. Conclusively, this study suggests that recipients with an HLA-B -21M leader peptide have increased odds of early TCMR, which is further influenced by the recipient's CMV serostatus. While the underlying mechanism remains speculative, these findings indicate that the HLA-B leader peptide of the recipient may affect immune regulation and early TCMR after kidney transplantation.
23302097 | 16(th) IHIW: global distribution of extended HLA haplotypes. This report describes the project to identify the global distribution of extended HLA haplotypes, a component of 16th International HLA and Immunogenetics Workshop (IHIW), and summarizes the initial analyses of data collected. The project aims to investigate extended HLA haplotypes, compare their distribution among different populations, assess their frequency in hematopoietic stem cell unrelated donor registries and initiate an international family studies database and DNA repository to be made publicly available. HLA haplotypes compiled in immunogenetics laboratories during the evaluation of transplant candidates and related potential donors were analysed. Haplotypes were determined using the pedigree analysis tool publicly available from the National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP) website. Nineteen laboratories from 10 countries (11 laboratories from North America, five from Asia, two from Latin America and one from Australia) contributed data on a total of 1719 families comprised of 7474 individuals. We identified 10393 HLA haplotypes, of which 1682 haplotypes included high-resolution typing at HLA-A, B, C, DRB1 and DQB1 loci. We also present haplotypes containing MICA and other HLA loci and haplotypes containing rare alleles seen in these families. The project will be extended through the 17th IHIW, and investigators interested in joining the project may communicate with the first author.
41892813 | Genetic Variants Associated with Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug-Induced Stevens-Johnson Syndrome and Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis. Background/Objectives: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are widely prescribed to help alleviate pain and treat inflammation, but they are also recognized as common causes of severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs), including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). Despite their clinical importance, pharmacogenetic markers to predict individual susceptibility to NSAID-induced SJS/TEN remain insufficiently defined. This study investigated associations between HLA class I and II alleles, CYP2C9 polymorphisms, and NSAID-induced SJS/TEN in a Thai population. Methods: A total of 18 patients with NSAID-induced SJS/TEN and 54 NSAID-tolerant controls were enrolled. Genotype data from 183 unrelated Thai individuals without a history of drug allergy were included as a general population control group. Genotyping was performed for HLA class I and II alleles and the CYP2C9*3 variant. Results: HLA-DQB1*03:02 was significantly associated with NSAID-induced SJS/TEN (OR = 9.23, 95% CI = 2.19-38.83, p = 0.0024, Pc = 0.0312), particularly those triggered by piroxicam (OR = 13.71, 95% CI = 2.81-66.86, p = 0.0012, Pc = 0.0156). Additional associations were identified for HLA-B*56:01 and HLA-A*68:01 in the overall NSAID-induced SJS/TEN group. The subgroup analysis suggested that these alleles, along with HLA-DRB1*04:03, were associated with an increased risk of piroxicam-induced SJS/TEN. However, these associations did not remain statistically significant after Bonferroni's correction. No significant association was identified for CYP2C9*3. Conclusions: This study identified specific HLA alleles, particularly HLA-DQB1*03:02, as candidate pharmacogenetic risk factors for NSAID-induced SJS/TEN in a Thai population, especially in piroxicam-associated cases. However, these associations should be considered exploratory. Larger, multicenter, multi-ethnic studies are required to validate these findings and clarify their potential clinical utility.
41742600 | High-Resolution (4th-Field) NGS-Based HLA Allele and Haplotype Frequencies in a Western Central Anatolian Turkish Population. This study presents the first 4th-field high resolution HLA allele and multi-locus haplotype frequencies from a regional cohort in Western Central Anatolia, including Eskisehir and its surrounding provinces, providing new insights into Turkiye's genetic diversity. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to genotype 138 unrelated healthy individuals for six HLA loci: -A, -B, -C, -DRB1, -DQB1 and -DPB1. MIA FORA NGS FLEX platform was used for genotyping and population genetic analyses were primarily conducted using the HLA-net GENE[RATE] pipeline, with PyPop applied for complementary analyses. Fifty-four HLA-A, 96 HLA-B, 62 HLA-C, 74 DRB1, 45 DQB1 and 33 DPB1 alleles were found at the 4th-field level. A*24:02:01:01 (15.5%), B*51:01:01:01 (6.9%), C*06:02:01:01 (8.7%), DRB1*11:04:01:01 (10.8%), DQB1*03:01:01:02 (18.5%) and DPB1*04:01:01:01 (17.7%) were the most common alleles. The study also identified several rare alleles and haplotypes. This finding highlights the significance of 4th-field resolution in revealing fine-scale diversity. Haplotype analyses observed population-specific combinations with strong linkage disequilibrium, especially between DRB1 and DQB1 (D' = 0.9702). All reported multi-locus haplotypes were validated through significant pairwise LD (standardised residual > 2) between neighbouring loci. For instance, the LD-supported haplotype A*01:01:01:01 ~ B*08:01:01 ~ DRB1*03:01:01:01 (1.45%). When compared to lower-field (2nd-field) data, a considerable amount of sub-allelic diversity was obscured. These results underline the significance of high-resolution HLA genotyping for clinical and population-based applications, as well as Turkiye's distinct immunogenetic structure as a genetic bridge connecting Europe, Asia and the Middle East.
42053151 | Population-Specific HLA Profiles in Generalised Pustular Psoriasis in Sarawak, Malaysia. Genetic studies mutations (IL36RN, CARD14 and AP1S3) account for only 28.6% of generalised pustular psoriasis (GPP) leaving much of its pathogenesis remained to be elucidated. Emerging evidence suggests Th17-mediated inflammation, potentially driven by specific HLA class alleles, may underlie dysregulated IL-36 signalling. This study explores the genotypic and phenotypic features of autochthonous GPP in Sarawak. A cross-sectional case-control study was conducted in Sarawak's three main dermatology centres. GPP patients (n = 43) fulfilling ERASPEN criteria between 1997 and June 2024 were included (23 with GPP alone); 20 with concomitant psoriasis vulgaris. HLA genotyping (HLA-A, -B, -C, -DR) was performed via polymerase chain reaction and sequence-specific oligonucleotide probe hybridisation (PCR-SSO) methods at the Institute of Medical Research (IMR). HLA frequencies were compared to 90 Sarawakian controls from Malaysian Stem Cell Registry. Female predominance was noted (1:4.4). Median age at GPP onset was 29 years. Family history of psoriasis was reported in 30.2%, with 16% females developing GPP during pregnancy. Treatment responses: corticosteroids (100%), ciclosporin (82.1%), acitretin (60%) and methotrexate (50%). While biologics were effective in 10 patients. Common alleles included HLA-DRB1*12:02, HLA-A*11:01 and HLA-C*07:02 while HLA-C06:02 was not observed. HLA-A*02:07 and HLA-B*46:01 were observed only in concomitant psoriasis patients. HLA-A*11:02 was seen in patients with ciclosporin non-response, HLA-A*24:02 in those with poorer responses to acitretin and methotrexate and HLA-B*38:02 in psoriatic arthritis. Lower frequencies of HLA-B*35:05 and HLA-C*04:01 were observed among Dayak patients. The absence of HLA-C*06:02 and variation in allele frequencies in this cohort may reflect population-specific patterns but require validation in larger studies.
42143270 | Healthcare-associated COVID-19 in Ontario, Canada: case classification and relative mortality. BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic placed immense strain on Canada's healthcare system and nosocomial infections increased risk for both healthcare workers and high-risk patients. Nosocomial COVID-19 surveillance typically relies on time-based case definitions that aim to balance sensitivity against specificity, yielding inconsistent estimates of relative mortality risk. We developed a latent class analysis approach to probabilistically classify healthcare-associated infections using multiple indicator variables and evaluated mortality risk in hospitalized COVID-19 patients. METHODS: We analyzed COVID-19 surveillance data from Ontario's Case Contact and Management System and COVaxON vaccine registry (March 17, 2020 to September 4, 2022). Latent class analysis (LCA) integrated five binary indicators (nosocomial flag, outbreak linkage, and three time intervals from admission to positive test) to classify 53,191 hospitalized cases by likelihood of healthcare-acquired infection. We estimated mortality odds and survival by classification using multivariable logistic regression and time-varying Cox models, adjusting for age, comorbidities, immunocompromised status, long-term care residence, vaccination, and pandemic wave. RESULTS: LCA identified three classes: unlikely (n = 46,819), moderately likely (n = 2,687), and likely (n = 3,685) healthcare-acquired infection. Compared to unlikely, moderately likely cases had elevated mortality (OR: 1.26, 95% CI: 1.14-1.40); likely cases showed no elevation in cumulative mortality (OR: 1.05, 95% CI: 0.96-1.15). Time-varying survival models revealed substantially higher mortality risk early in the period following infection: hazard ratios were 3.25 (95% CI: 2.99-3.52) for moderately likely and 4.88 (95% CI: 4.53-5.25) for likely healthcare-acquired infection. Single-indicator variable sensitivities ranged from 34% to 70%. CONCLUSION: Defining nosocomial infections early in the COVID-19 pandemic was challenging due to the volume of cases and number of patients hospitalized. Several different characteristics can indicate a case's likelihood of being healthcare-acquired, and using a single variable to define a nosocomial case often presents trade-offs in terms of sensitivity or specificity. These findings underscore the limitations of single-indicator definitions and the risk of misclassifying cases in a way that would underestimate the relative severity of hospital-acquired infection by biasing effects toward the null. Latent class modeling addresses sensitivity-specificity trade-offs inherent in time-based nosocomial definitions and reveals elevated mortality risk that strict definitions miss.
14674010 | Chemokine receptor expression and in vivo signaling pathways in the joints of rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. OBJECTIVE: This study was undertaken to characterize the role of CC chemokines and their receptors in rat adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA), a model for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Furthermore, we investigated the signaling pathways associated with CC receptors as well as the cell type distribution of the receptors. METHODS: Using TaqMan real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, Western blot analysis, and immunohistochemistry, we defined chemokine and chemokine receptor messenger RNA (mRNA) expression, CC chemokine receptor (CCR) protein activation during the disease course, CCR-associated signaling pathways, and immunopositive CCR5, phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (p-STAT-1), and p-STAT-3 cells in rat AIA versus control joints. RESULTS: We showed significant up-regulation of CCR1, CCR2, CCR5, and macrophage inflammatory protein 1beta/CCL4 mRNA in AIA on post-adjuvant injection day 18, coincident with peak inflammation. Additionally, increases in tyrosine phosphorylation of CCR1 (days 14, 18, 21, and 24), CCR2 (days 14 and 18), and CCR5 (days 14, 18, and 21) were detected in AIA rats compared with control (nonarthritic) rats. JAK-1, STAT-1, and STAT-3 were associated with CCR1 and were highly tyrosine phosphorylated on days 14 and 18. Moreover, CCR2 was associated with JAK-2, STAT-1, and STAT-3 on day 18. The association of STAT-1 and STAT-3 with CCR5 on days 18 and 21 correlated with JAK-1 phosphorylation and binding on day 18. However, the activation of JNK was not associated with CCR5 activation in rat AIA. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that the expression of CCR5, p-STAT-1, and p-STAT-3 was detected on synovial lining cells, macrophages, and endothelial cells in arthritic rat ankles on post-adjuvant injection day 18. While the majority of the CCR5 and p-STAT-1 immunostaining was on synovial lining cells and macrophages, p-STAT-3 was predominantly expressed on endothelial cells. CONCLUSION: CCR1, CCR2, and CCR5 mRNA expression and tyrosine phosphorylation increased with peak inflammation in the AIA model. CCR1, CCR2, and CCR5 tyrosine phosphorylation are associated with the JAK/STAT-1/STAT-3 pathway at different stages of rat AIA, as well as with macrophage and endothelial cell infiltration. However, their signaling activation overlaps with peak inflammation. Up-regulation and activation of CCRs may play a role in macrophage and endothelial cell infiltration in rat AIA joints in addition to activating the associated signaling pathways. The downstream intermediate signaling proteins associated with CC receptors may be used as potential tools to control inflammation in RA.
41811037 | [Analysis of the distribution frequencies of HLA-A and HLA-B alleles in patients with immune-mediated Platelet transfusion refractoriness]. OBJECTIVE: To analyze the distribution frequency and characteristics of HLA-A and HLA-B loci in patients with immune-mediated Platelet transfusion refractoriness (iPTR) in order to provide data support for investigating HLA gene matching strategies for platelet transfusion and improving transfusion efficacy. METHODS: A total of 532 iPTR patients who applied for gene matched platelet at the Blood Center of Zhejiang Province between January 2020 and June 2024 were selected as the study subjects. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood samples from the patients, and the HLA-A and HLA-B loci were detected simultaneously using a PCR-sequence specific oligonucleotide probe method (PCR-SSO) and PCR-sequence based typing (PCR-SBT). Statistical methods were used to analyze the distributions of HLA-A and HLA-B antigens and genotypes on the platelet surface of the patients. An analysis of the differences was conducted to compare the results with the Common and Well-Documented (CWD) allele in the Chinese population from the China Marrow Donor Program (CMDP) database. This study was approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of the Blood Center of Zhejiang Province (Ethics No.: Provincial Blood Center Ethics Review 2023Yan No.004). RESULTS: Among the 532 iPTR patients, 19 HLA-A antigens (including 32 HLA-A alleles) and 37 HLA-B antigens (including 64 HLA-B alleles) were detected. The antigens with the highest frequencies were A2, A11, A24, and B46, B60, B58, with the combined distribution frequency of the top three antigens reaching 71.43% and 36.94%, respectively. The most prevalent alleles of the HLA-A and HLA-B loci were A*11:01, A*24:02, A*02:07 and B*46:01, B*40:01, B*58:01. The frequencies of common alleles A*01:01, A*02:07, A*11:02, A*30:01 and B*13:02, B*27:04, B*40:01, B*44:03, B*46:01 showed significant differences (P < 0.05) compared to the normal population in the CWD table (version 2.4) of CMDP. CONCLUSION: The HLA-A and HLA-B genes of the iPTR patients showed great divergence, and the distribution frequencies of certain alleles have differed significantly from those of the normal population. This study has provided genetic data for exploring the molecular mechanism underlying iPTR, which is of significant clinical importance for searching HLA gene matched donors.
41732890 | Unravelling the Immunogenetic Landscape: KIR-HLA Interactions in Chinese Northern Han. The Han Chinese are divided into Chinese Northern Han (CNH) and Chinese Southern Han (CSH) by the Yangtze River. CSH shows enriched KIR-HLA-A/B interactions due to historical migrations, while the research on CNH's KIR-HLA diversity and evolution remains insufficient. This study elucidated the KIR-HLA immunogenetic landscape in CNH and compared it with CSH and global populations. Peripheral blood samples from 530 healthy, unrelated CNH individuals were analysed for KIR and HLA-A, -B, -C genes, using the Lifecodes KIR-SSO typing and SeCore HLA genotyping kits. Data were compared with global populations using the Allele Frequency Net Database and the 13th International Histocompatibility Workshop and Conference. Statistical analyses included principal component analysis, genetic distance calculations, and hierarchical clustering. Based on the distribution of 16 KIR genes, CNH was clustered within the East Asian genetic sphere, closest to Inner Mongolia Han (distance = 0.587) and CSH (0.685). The global average KIR AA1 frequency was 29.06%, with CNH's frequency (52.1%) being substantially above this average. CNH exhibited a Delta genetic distance of -0.4 between KIR+HLA pairs and HLA ligands when compared with CSH, highlighting their close genetic relationship in KIR-HLA interactions. HLA class I haplotypes in CNH encoded more KIR ligands compared to other populations, with a significant difference between CNH and CSH (pc = 0.017). This study showed CNH had a unique KIR-HLA profile in East Asia, with higher KIR AA1 frequencies and more KIR ligands encoded by HLA class I haplotypes, reflecting its genetic diversity and impact on immunity and disease.
27352183 | The Transcriptome Study of Subtype M2 Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia. Our objective is to explore the tumor-specific mutated genes by transcriptome sequencing of patients with acute myeloblastic leukemia. 96 patients with subtype M2 acute myeloid leukemia (AML), admitted during January 2007 to January 2012, were selected. Bone marrow and peripheral blood samples from the patients after the first visit and the patients who were improved or alleviated, were subjected to high-throughput sequencing to compare the gene expression. The single nucleotide mutation related to subtype M2 AML was detected. Meanwhile, real-time fluorescent quantitation RT-PCR was used to detect the AML1/ETO fusion gene and its correlation with prognosis after treatment. Among 96 patients, AML1-ETO fusion gene was positive in 52 cases, the positive rate was 54.17 %. The complete relief (CR) rate of AML1-ETO fusion gene positive patients was 84.62 %, and the CR rate of AML1/ETO fusion gene negative patients was 77.27 %; the CR rate of AML1-ETO positive patients was higher than that of patients without the fusion gene, however there was no statistical difference. In the analysis of recurrent gene mutation in AML-M2 patients, IDH2, ASXL1, TET2, JAK1 and JAK2 gene expressions were not significantly different before treatment and after CR, however, IDHI, JAK3, ABL1 and BCR gene expressions were significantly different. In the study of transcriptome in AML-M2 patients, high-throughput sequencing could effectively detect the difference of the gene expression before treatment and after CR. Furthermore, positive expression of AML1-ETO fusion gene had effect on the prognosis of patients.
42145722 | Intrahost viral evolution of SARS-CoV-2 infections in rheumatic versus hematological patients with severe iatrogenic immunosuppression. Objectives: Immunocompromised patients with B-cell depletion are at risk of ongoing SARS-CoV-2 replication that can lead to intra-host genomic divergence, immune escape during treatment and potentially emergence of novel variants. Methods: We conducted a prospective observational study including severely immunocompromised rheumatic and hematologic patients with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19. SARS-CoV-2 virome sequencing was performed on respiratory samples, followed by phylogenetic and intrahost single nucleotide variants (iSNVs) analysis. In a subset of patients, lymphocyte subpopulations were assessed by flow cytometry. Results: Twenty-six patients were included (median age: 71 years, rheumatic disease: 50%, treated with B-cell depleting agent: 88%, prior COVID-19 infection: 68%, relapsing COVID-19: 65%, >= 3 vaccine doses: 68%). Twenty-two patients (85%) were hospitalized with 23% mortality. Three unique RdRP and 3CLPro gene mutations were identified with a prevalence < 0.1%, not known to confer antiviral resistance. We identified 30 mutations in the spike gene with prevalence < 0.1% or leading to a new N-glycosylation site. In patients with paired samples, we noticed a statistically significant iSNVs accumulation with an average substitution rate per site per day of 7 x 10-6 (p < 0.001). We did not observe statistically significant difference in the substitution rates between rheumatic and hematologic patients. Conclusion: In our cohort, a significant proportion of patients had relapsing COVID-19. Unique and rare mutations were detected mainly in the spike gene, whereas those in the polymerase and protease genes were not of known significance. We found a positive correlation of iSNVs accumulation with infection duration, without difference in substitution rates between rheumatic and hematologic patients.
41834397 | Decoding TCR recognition via geometric deep learning of immunological fingerprints. T cell receptor (TCR) recognition of peptide-major histocompatibility complex (pMHC) molecules is the critical first step in adaptive immune activation, shaping immunity against pathogens and tumors, as well as tolerance to self. Despite extensive structural characterization of TCR-pMHC complexes, the molecular principles underlying this process remain incompletely understood, hindered by the inherent duality of TCR specificity and cross-reactivity. Traditional structural analyses often fall short in capturing the multidimensional features that govern TCR-pMHC engagement. Here, we introduce a multimodal geometric deep learning framework that systematically extracts and learns various physicochemical and spatial features from pMHC interfaces, which encode key immunological cues for TCR recognition. Applied to a curated dataset of human leukocyte antigens HLA-A*02-peptide-TCR crystal structures, our model robustly predicts TCR binding preferences and uncovers interfacial \immunological fingerprints\ that inform receptor engagement. Through an integrated explainability module, we identify critical contact residues and interaction motifs, thus providing interpretable insights into the determinants of TCR specificity. We further demonstrate the model's generalizability by analyzing HLA-B*27-peptide complexes, revealing potential TCR cross-reactivity between self-derived and bacterial peptides-highlighting its utility in probing molecular mimicry. This work establishes a scalable, structure-based approach for decoding T cell recognition and offers a powerful tool for guiding antigen design, vaccine development, and TCR-based immunotherapies.
42142220 | Backbone resonance assignment of the third domain of the human staphylococcal nuclease domain-containing protein 1 (SND1). Staphylococcal nuclease and Tudor domain-containing protein 1 (SND1) is a multifunctional RNA-binding protein implicated in transcriptional regulation, post-transcriptional RNA control, oncogenesis, and viral infection. Initially identified as a transcriptional coactivator, SND1 was later established as a component of the RNA-induced silencing complex, where it contributes to RNA turnover and microRNA regulation. SND1's diverse activities stem from its modular architecture, comprising four staphylococcal nuclease-like domains, capable of direct RNA binding, and an extended Tudor domain that together form an integrated RNA-binding and catalytic platform. This versatility also underlies its role in viral infection: SND1 acts as an m6A reader and is exploited by RNA viruses, such as SARS-CoV-2. Recent work showed that SND1 depletion, particularly loss of its third structured domain (SN3), reduces recruitment of the viral protein Nsp9 to the 3' untranslated region of the SARS-CoV-2 genome, impairing viral RNA synthesis through a direct SN3-Nsp9 interaction. Here, we report expression, purification, and near-complete backbone NMR assignments of the SN3 domain of SND1. Secondary structure elements calculated by TALOS-N based on these assignments are in good agreement with the existing crystal structure of SN3. Our data provide an excellent foundation for future structural studies of SND1-RNA complexes and their roles in viral RNA priming in SARS-CoV-2.
42038576 | Study of HLA-A, HLA-B and HLA-DR on Lung Carcinoma Patients at a Tertiary Care Hospital in Northern India. According to GLOBOCAN 2022 estimates, lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer morbidity and mortality in 2022. 5 year survival rate is dismal for the disease, despite advances in therapeutic modalities. Current research into lung cancer therapy is largely focused on molecular advancements. Our study was focused on finding association between the HLA expression in lung carcinoma patients, in northern region of India. It contributes data for basic molecular understanding of pathogenesis in lung cancer patients. This study was conducted in the Department of Pathology and Department of Pulmonary critical care and sleep medicine, Vardhman Mahavir Medical College & Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi. A total of 35 lung cancer cases and 35 healthy controls were taken over a period of 18 months and results were compared. In our study the mean age of presentation for lung carcinoma patients was 52.29 years HLA-A11 (p value = 0.028) and HLA-B51 (p value = 0.035), were under expressed in the patients as compared to control group, and HLA-DRB1*15 (p value = 0.037) was over expressed in the patients as compared to control group. However, no statistically significant result was seen in co-relation to the clinical staging. The results of this small sample study provide data for a completely new population and might help to guide in understanding the role of HLA in lung carcinoma patients for future studies.
25226169 | Disentangling human tolerance and resistance against HIV. In ecology, \disease tolerance\ is defined as an evolutionary strategy of hosts against pathogens, characterized by reduced or absent pathogenesis despite high pathogen load. To our knowledge, tolerance has to date not been quantified and disentangled from host resistance to disease in any clinically relevant human infection. Using data from the Swiss HIV Cohort Study, we investigated if there is variation in tolerance to HIV in humans and if this variation is associated with polymorphisms in the human genome. In particular, we tested for associations between tolerance and alleles of the Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) genes, the CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5), the age at which individuals were infected, and their sex. We found that HLA-B alleles associated with better HIV control do not confer tolerance. The slower disease progression associated with these alleles can be fully attributed to the extent of viral load reduction in carriers. However, we observed that tolerance significantly varies across HLA-B genotypes with a relative standard deviation of 34%. Furthermore, we found that HLA-B homozygotes are less tolerant than heterozygotes. Lastly, tolerance was observed to decrease with age, resulting in a 1.7-fold difference in disease progression between 20 and 60-y-old individuals with the same viral load. Thus, disease tolerance is a feature of infection with HIV, and the identification of the mechanisms involved may pave the way to a better understanding of pathogenesis.
16574782 | (5R)-5-hydroxytriptolide attenuated collagen-induced arthritis in DBA/1 mice via suppressing interferon-gamma production and its related signaling. (5R)-5-Hydroxytriptolide (LLDT-8) displays strong immunosuppressive activities both in vitro and in vivo in our previous studies. This study aims to investigate whether LLDT-8 has antiarthritic potential in a murine model of type II bovine collagen (CII)-induced arthritis (CIA) and to show the mechanism(s) of LLDT-8 action. DBA/1 mice were immunized with CII to induce arthritis and administered with LLDT-8. The severity of arthritis was evaluated according to the clinical score and joint damage. The effects of LLDT-8 on immune responses were determined by measurement of serum antibody levels, lymphocyte proliferation assay, cytokine assay, nitric oxide (NO) production, arginase activity assays, fluorescence-activated cell sorting analysis of splenic Mac-1+ cells, as well as polymerase chain reaction analysis for interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-related gene expression. We showed that LLDT-8 treatment significantly reduced the incidence and severity of CIA. The preventive and therapeutic effects of LLDT-8 are associated with 1) reduction of serum anti-CII immunoglobulin (Ig) G, IgG2a, and IgG1 levels; 2) inhibition of CII-specific lymphocyte proliferation, IFN-gamma and interleukin-2 production; 3) blockade of gene expressions in IFN-gamma signaling, including IFN-gamma production pathways [signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1, T-box transcription factor, interleukin 12Rbeta2, and STAT4] and IFN-gamma-induced chemokine transcription [macrophage inflammatory protein (Mip)-1alpha, Mip-1beta, regulated on activation normally T cell expressed and secreted, and inducible protein 10]; and 4) retardation of the abnormal increase of NO via IFN-gamma/STAT1/interferon regulatory factor 1/inducible nitric-oxide synthase pathway and arginase activity. Moreover, the mRNA transcription of chemokine receptors was also suppressed [including C-C chemokine receptor (CCR) 1, CCR5, and C-X-C chemokine receptor 3]. In conclusion, our data suggest that the antiarthritic effect of LLDT-8 is closely related to the blockade of IFN-gamma signaling. LLDT-8 may have a therapeutic value in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
12495636 | Chemokines: attractive mediators of the immune response. An effective inflammatory immune response first requires the recruitment of cells to the site of inflammation and then their appropriate activation and regulation. Chemokines are critical in this response since they are both chemotactic and immunoregulatory molecules. In this regard, the interaction between CCL5 and CCR5 may be critical in regulating T cell functions, by mediating their recruitment and polarization, activation, and differentiation. Various tyrosine phosphorylation signaling cascades can be engaged following chemokine receptor aggregation on T cells, including the Jak-Stat pathway, FAK activation, the MAP kinase pathway, PI3-kinase activation, and transactivation of the T cell receptor. This review will address specific aspects related to chemokine-T cell interactions and the molecular signaling mechanisms that influence T cell function in an inflammatory immune response.
25239464 | Very early ART resulting in the absence of HIV-1 antibodies and in a sustained undetectable plasma HIV-1-RNA and proviral-DNA in an HLA-B*5701 and Delta32 heterozygote HIV-1-infected patient was not associated with functional cure.
39676862 | Entry into the lytic cycle exposes EBV-infected cells to NK cell killing via upregulation of the MICB ligand for NKG2D and activation of the CD56bright and NKG2A+KIR+CD56dim subsets. The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is usually acquired during infancy as an asymptomatic infection and persists throughout life in a latent state under the control of the host immune system. However, EBV is associated with various malignant diseases that preferentially develop in immunodeficient individuals. Accumulating evidence suggests an important role for NK cells, though the mechanisms by which EBV evades or triggers NK cell responses are poorly understood. Here, we generated EBV-immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines stably expressing an inducible form of the BZLF1 early lytic viral protein (LCL-Z) to challenge primary NK cells with EBV+ targets in either the latent or lytic phase of infection. We show that entry into the lytic phase results in drastic downregulation of HLA-E but not HLA-A, -B, and -C molecules and in increased expression of ligands for the activating NKG2D receptor, with MICB being upregulated at the cell membrane and released in a soluble form while ULBP2 and ULBP4 accumulate intracellularly. Furthermore, LCL-Z cells are killed by NK cells in an NKG2D-dependent manner and to a much higher extent during the lytic phase, but HLA-class I molecules constrain killing throughout the viral life cycle; unexpectedly, the antibody-mediated block of the inhibitory NKG2A receptor results in reduced lysis of lytic LCL-Z cells that are nearly devoid of the cognate HLA-E ligand. Accordingly, we show that NKG2A+ NK cell subsets, specifically CD56bright and NKG2A+KIR+CD56dim cells, are those that preferentially respond against cells with lytic EBV replication. Overall, these results shed light on NK/EBV+ cell interactions providing new information for improving NK cell-based immunotherapies to treat EBV-induced diseases.
18184081 | Genetic and biological characterization of recombinant HIV type 1 with Env derived from long-term nonprogressor (LTNP) viruses. Multiple factors are known to contribute to nonprogressive disease in long-term nonprogressors (LTNP). We previously selected LTNPs, in which broadly neutralizing antibodies against HIV-1 very likely contribute to disease prevention. Here, we characterize those LTNPs further. We analyzed sequences of the viral genes env, nef, vpr, tat, and rev as well as the cellular ccr5, HLA-B*5701, and HLA-B*27 genes derived from eight LTNPs, as mutations in these genes have been associated with the LTNP status in some studies. Furthermore, we compared the replication rates of recombinant reporter viruses carrying envelope proteins from LTNPs to control viruses from patients with similar CD4 count and viral load. Concerning the cellular factors, none of the eight LTNPs showed the 32-base pair deletion in the ccr5 gene, and HLA-B*5701 and HLA-B*27 alleles were detected in only one LTNP, respectively. The reading frames for the regulatory genes nef, vpr, tat, and rev were all open. Although Env sequences from LTNPs differed from those of control patients with respect to the length of variable domains and the number of N-glycosylation sites, these differences were not statistically significant and did not lead to differences in infectivity of recombinant reporter viruses.
42143953 | SARS-CoV-2 Ancestral and Omicron variant immunity in Australian children in 2023, a seroprevalence study. BACKGROUND: The emergence of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant in late 2021 led to widespread infection in Australian children, many unvaccinated. The breadth and magnitude of antibody responses to SARS-CoV-2 variant infections and vaccination in children remain incompletely understood. We aimed to estimate seroprevalence against SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) and nucleocapsid (N) antigens and explore antibody kinetics, focusing on Omicron subvariants. METHODS: Between 1 November and 7 December 2023, blood samples were collected from children aged 0-16 years undergoing anaesthetic procedures at eight tertiary paediatric hospitals. SARS-CoV-2 antibodies to ancestral spike and nucleocapsid protein and eight Omicron spike proteins were tested. Crude and adjusted seroprevalence estimates derived using multilevel regression and poststratification were obtained. Geometric mean concentrations (GMCs) were calculated for S- and N- antibodies and analysed by age and vaccination status. RESULTS: Of 1065 children tested, adjusted seroprevalence to ancestral S-antibody was 93.1% (95% CrI, 91.4-94.5) and N-antibody was 79.8% (77.1-82.2). Seroprevalence was high across jurisdictions, socioeconomic quintiles, and remoteness categories, and lowest in infants aged 6-11 months (S-antibody, 69.5% [95% CrI: 54.7-81.8] and N-antibody 35.2% [95% CrI: 21.1-49.1]). GMCs to nine distinct SARS-CoV-2 spike variants were uniformly high and increased with age and vaccination. GMC to ancestral S-antibody was highest in two-dose vaccinated children while unvaccinated children aged >1 year had highest GMC to Omicron BA.5. DISCUSSION: By late 2023, nearly all participants had serological evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection, with highest concentrations to ancestral strain and Omicron BA.5 spike proteins, suggesting variant-specific immune imprinting.
42095996 | Mapping HLA class I and II allele associations with hepatitis C related liver disease progression in an Egyptian cohort. BACKGROUND AND AIM: Host genetic factors, particularly human leukocyte antigen (HLA) polymorphisms, play a crucial role in determining the immunological outcome of Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. These genetic variations may influence susceptibility, disease progression, and the development of severe liver complications such as liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Given the predominance of HCV genotype 4 in Egypt, this study was designed to investigate the association between specific HLA Class I and Class II alleles and clinical outcomes in an Egyptian cohort of patients with chronic HCV infection. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 223 participants were enrolled and stratified into four clinically defined categories: healthy controls (n = 55), patients with chronic hepatitis C (n = 86), liver cirrhotic patients (n = 42), and individuals with HCV-related HCC (n = 40). HLA genotyping was performed using the LABType  sequence-specific oligonucleotide (SSO) probe assay. Clinical and demographic data were collected between 2014 and 2016, before the implementation of Egypt's nationwide HCV eradication program, launched in 2018. RESULTS: This study identified differential HLA allele frequencies across HCV-related liver disease outcomes in an Egyptian cohort. HLA-DQB1*03, HLA-B*27, HLA-C*05, and HLA-A*26 showed high frequencies in healthy controls, whereas HLA-DRB1*14, HLA-A*69, HLA-B*52, HLA-B*58, and HLA-DRB1*15 appeared enriched in disease groups. Only HLA-DQB1*03 remained significant after Bonferroni correction. However, given the small sample size and lack of comprehensive national HLA data for direct comparison, these observations should be interpreted with caution. Alleles, such as HLA-B*44 and HLA-C*05, appeared absent in the HCC subgroup, though the significance of this finding remains uncertain due to low background frequencies in the control group. CONCLUSION: These preliminary data suggest possible associations of certain HLA alleles and HCV-related liver disease progression in Egyptian patients, possibly serving as candidate biomarkers for risk stratification. Nonetheless, larger, population-based studies with confirmed HCV genotyping, comprehensive treatment data, and updated controls reflecting current Egyptian HLA allele frequencies are needed to substantiate these associations.
42145716 | Correction: Neurological manifestations of SARS-CoV-2 infection: protocol for a sub-analysis of the COVID-19 critical care consortium observational study. [This corrects the article DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2022.930217.].
25249698 | CYP21A2 polymorphisms in patients with autoimmune Addison's disease, and linkage disequilibrium to HLA risk alleles. OBJECTIVE: Steroid 21-hydroxylase, encoded by CYP21A2, is the major autoantigen in autoimmune Addison's disease (AAD). CYP21A2 is located in the region of the HLA complex on chromosome 6p21.3, which harbours several risk alleles for AAD. The objective was to investigate whether CYP21A2 gene variants confer risk of AAD independently of other risk alleles in the HLA loci. DESIGN: DNA samples from 381 Norwegian patients with AAD and 340 healthy controls (HC) previously genotyped for the HLA-A, -B, -DRB1, and -DQB1 and MICA loci were used for genotyping of CYP21A2. METHODS: Genotyping of CYP21A2 was carried out by direct sequencing. Linkage of CYP21A2 to the HLA loci was assessed using UNPHASED version 3.0.10 and PHASE version 2.1. RESULTS: Heterozygotes of the single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs397515394, rs6467, rs6474, rs76565726 and rs6473 were detected significantly more frequently in AAD patients compared with HC (P<0.005), but all SNPs were in a linkage disequilibrium (LD) with high-risk HLA-DRB1 haplotypes. rs6472C protected against AAD (odds ratio=0.15, 95% CI (0.08-0.30), P=3.8x10(-10)). This SNP was not in an LD with HLA loci (P=0.02), but did not increase protection when considering the effect of HLA-DRB1 alleles. Mutations causing congenital adrenal hyperplasia were found in heterozygosity in <1.5% of the cases in both groups. CONCLUSION: Genetic variants of CYP21A2 associated to AAD are in LD with the main AAD risk locus HLA-DRB1, and CYP21A2 does not constitute an independent susceptibility locus.
42109632 | HLA Profiles of Patients With Chronic Kidney Disease in Central South Africa. Background: The human leucocyte antigen (HLA) complex has been associated with the susceptibility of several hundred human diseases, increasingly so with kidney disease. HLA data are under-represented in South Africa, and thus, their contribution to disease characterisation remains poorly understood. Therefore, there is a need for HLA typing studies among high-risk disease populations in our region. Methods: We recruited a total of 100 participants with biopsy-proven chronic kidney disease (CKD) attending a nephrology clinic in central South Africa. Exploratory analyses of demographic, clinical and serological characteristics were performed. High-resolution HLA typing was conducted using DNA microarray technology. Results: Among 100 participants, a large proportion had early-stage CKD based on glomerular filtration rate (GFR) category (CKD stage 1 and 2: 64%), yet many were classified as being at high or very high risk of disease progression to end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) according to the 'Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes' (KDIGO) criteria. This risk was predominantly driven by severely increased proteinuria (proteinuria category A3: 41.8%) rather than reduced estimated GFR (eGFR). Hypertension was the most common comorbidity/complication, and roughly a fifth of the cohort were HIV positive. The most prevalent autoimmune serology was antinuclear antibody (ANA) positivity, occurring in the context of a high frequency of lupus nephritis (LN) in this cohort. We observed the following recurring set of HLA alleles in this CKD cohort, alongside specific clinical and/or serological features: HLA-A*23:01; HLA-A*68:02; HLA-B*15:10; HLA-B*44:03; HLA-DRB1*03:01; HLADQB1*02:01; HLA-DQB1*02:02 and/or HLA-DPB1*04:01. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that specific HLA alleles may be associated with CKD susceptibility and/or the increased risk of disease progression in this regional cohort, warranting further investigation into specific CKD-related immunological and molecular mechanisms to establish causality in larger studies. Furthermore, by increasing our global representation in population-specific reference panels, we can improve our understanding of South Africa's extensive genetic diversity.
42144848 | Quantitative Analysis of Protein-Receptor Binding Using Solid-State Nanopores: Accurate Measurement of Dissociation Constants for KREMEN1 and ASGR1 with SARS-CoV-2 Spike RBD Protein. Accurately quantifying protein-protein binding at the single-molecule level is essential for understanding the mechanisms of viral infection and therapeutic targeting. Here, we use solid-state nanopores (SSNs) to detect complex formation between the SARS-CoV-2 Spike receptor-binding domain (Spike RBD) and the alternative host receptors KREMEN1 and Asialoglycoprotein Preceptor 1 (ASGR1). Single-molecule translocation events were analyzed using unsupervised Gaussian mixture modeling and a control-anchored semisupervised classification framework to resolve overlapping free-protein and complex populations. This approach enabled direct identification of receptor-Spike RBD complexes and calculation of apparent dissociation constants under experimental conditions. The inferred affinities were 261.1 nM for ASGR1 and 56.6 nM for KREMEN1, in good agreement with reported literature values and can be used as rough estimates on Spike and its receptor affinities. A negative control using human serum transferrin and Spike RBD showed no emergent high-DeltaI population, supporting the specificity of the observed interactions. These results establish SSNs as a scalable and quantitative platform for single-molecule affinity measurements.
40193066 | Allele and Haplotype Frequencies of 17 HLA-Related Loci in Shenzhen Chinese Population by Next-Generation Sequencing. Although the allele and haplotype frequencies of 11 HLA loci (HLA-A, B, C, DRB1, DRB3/4/5, DQA1, DQB1, DPA1 and DPB1) have been reported in different populations, rare studies have simultaneously assessed the allele distributions of non-classical HLA class I genes (HLA-E/F/G/H) and MICA/MICB together with the 11 classical HLA loci, or further analysed the haplotype frequencies covering the 17 loci. The present study aims to investigate the allele diversity and haplotype frequencies of 17 HLA-related loci including HLA genes and MICA/MICB simultaneously using a hybrid capture (HC)-based NGS method. A total of 358 HLA alleles including 177 class I and 137 class II alleles, as well as 29 MICA and 15 MICB alleles were identified in this project. The most frequent alleles at each locus were A*11:01 (29.10%), B*40:01 (14.46%), C*01:02 (19.90%), DRB1*09:01 (15.61%), DQB1*03:01 (18.48%), DPB1*05:01 (40.13%), DQA1*01:02 (22.58%), DPA1*02:02 (55.27%), DRB3*02:02 (65.95%), DRB4*01:03 (95.20%), DRB5*01:01 (75.97%), E*01:03 (62.63%), F*01:01 (97.07%), G*01:01 (70.74%), H*01:01 (35.87%), MICA*010:01 (19.90%) and MICB*005:02 (57.53%), respectively. The haplotype frequencies for different combinations of HLA loci were estimated and linkage disequilibrium (LD) between alleles for all pairs of neighbouring loci were calculated. The most frequent haplotype covering 17 loci was F*01:01-G*01:01-H*01:01-A*02:07-E*01:03-C*01:02-B*46:01-MICA*010:01-MICB*005:02-DRB4*01:03-DRB1*09:01-DQA1*03:02-DQB1*03:03-DPA1*02:02-DPB1*05:01 with a frequency of 3.18%. This is the first study on allelic polymorphism, haplotype inference and LD covering 17 HLA-related loci simultaneously in the Shenzhen Chinese population. These results will extend our knowledge of the allelic diversity of the HLA complex and provide population genetics data for transplantation and HLA-associated disease studies.
41984822 | Development of structural damage in the spine in patients with psoriatic arthritis: findings from a longitudinal cohort study. OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to examine associations between disease activity/severity markers across multiple PsA domains and structural damage development in the spine in a large longitudinal cohort. METHODS: We analyzed patients from a prospective longitudinal PsA cohort and evaluated structural damage in the spine by assessing the development of new syndesmophytes (a binary outcome) on radiographs of the cervical and lumbar spine. We used Cox regression to examine the association between syndesmophyte development and disease activity and severity variables, including nail involvement, PASI, swollen joint count, SPARCC enthesitis score, dactylitis, cDAPSA, modified Steinbrocker score, radiographic sacroiliitis score (range 0-8), BASDAI, ESR, and CRP. Separate multivariable models were conducted and adjusted for age, sex, PsA duration, BMI, smoking status, decade of observation, HLA-B*27, HLA-A*29, NSAID use, and, where applicable, radiographic sacroiliitis score and b/tsDMARD use. RESULTS: Among 1584 PsA patients (median age 45), 218 (13.8%) had syndesmophytes at baseline (clinic entry). Median follow-up was 8.5 years [IQR: 4.4-14.3]. Among 922 patients without baseline syndesmophytes who underwent repeat radiographs, 166 (18.0%) developed new syndesmophytes, with a median time to development of 5.8 years [IQR: 2.4-9.9]. The incidence of new syndesmophytes appeared to decline in more recent calendar years. In multivariable models, higher ESR (HR 1.02, 95% CI 1.01-1.03) and higher radiographic sacroiliitis score (HR 1.19, 95% CI 1.07-1.32) were associated with syndesmophyte development. CONCLUSION: Syndesmophytes developed in approximately one-fifth of patients with PsA during long-term follow-up. Systemic inflammation and radiographic sacroiliitis are major, independent predictors of spinal structural damage.
37312464 | [Genomics of next generation sequencing in pediatric B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia and its impact on minimal residual disease]. Objective: To describe the gene mutation profile of newly diagnosed pediatric B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and analyze its effect on minimal residual disease (MRD). Methods: A total of 506 newly diagnosed B-ALL children treated in Institute of Hematology & Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences from September 2018 to July 2021 were enrolled in this retrospective cohort study. The enrolled children were divided into MRD >=1.00% group and <1.00% group according to MRD results on the 19th day since chemotherapy, and MRD >=0.01% group and <0.01% group according to MRD results on the 46th day. Clinical characteristics and gene mutations of two groups were compared. Comparisons between groups were performed with chi-square test or Fisher's exact test. Independent risk factors of MRD results on the 19th day and the 46th day were analyzed by Logistic regression model. Results: Among all 506 patients, there were 318 males and 188 females. On the 19th day, there were 114 patients in the MRD >=1.00% group and 392 patients in the MRD <1.00% group. On the 46th day, there were 76 patients in the MRD >=0.01% group and 430 patients in the MRD <0.01% group. A total of 187 gene mutations were detected in 487 (96.2%) of 506 children. The most common gene mutations were signal transduction-related KRAS gene mutations in 111 cases (22.8%) and NRAS gene mutations in 99 cases (20.3%). Multivariate analysis showed that PTPN11 (OR=1.92, 95%CI 1.00-3.63), KMT2A (OR=3.51, 95%CI 1.07-11.50) gene mutations and TEL-AML1 (OR=0.48, 95%CI 0.27-0.87), BCR-ABL1 (OR=0.27, 95%CI 0.08-0.92) fusion genes and age >10 years (OR=1.91, 95%CI 1.12-3.24) were independent influencing factors for MRD >=1.00% on the 19th day. BCORL1 (OR=2.96, 95%CI 1.18-7.44), JAK2 (OR=2.99, 95%CI 1.07-8.42) and JAK3 (OR=4.83, 95%CI 1.50-15.60) gene mutations and TEL-AML1 (OR=0.43, 95%CI 0.21-0.87) fusion gene were independent influencing factors for MRD >=0.01% on the 46th day. Conclusions: Children with B-ALL are prone to genetic mutations, with abnormalities in the RAS signaling pathway being the most common. Signal transduction related PTPN11, JAK2 and JAK3 gene mutations, epigenetic related KMT2A gene mutation and transcription factor related BCORL1 gene mutation are independent risk factors for MRD.
22591692 | CD56+ T cells inhibit HIV-1 infection of macrophages. CD56+ T cells, the crucial component of the host innate immune system, play an important role in defense against viral infections. We investigated the noncytolytic anti-HIV-1 activity of primary CD56+ T cells. SNs collected from CD56+ T cell cultures inhibited HIV-1 infection and replication. This CD56+ T SN-mediated anti-HIV-1 activity was broad-spectrum, as CD56+ T SNs could inhibit infections by laboratory-adapted and clinical strains of HIV-1. The antibody to IFN-gamma could partially block the CD56+ T SN-mediated anti-HIV effect. Investigation of mechanism(s) of the CD56+ T cell action on HIV-1 showed that although CD56+ T SN had little effect on HIV-1 entry coreceptor CCR5 expression, CD56+ T SN induced the expression of CC-chemokines, the ligands for CCR5. The antibodies to CC-chemokines also significantly blocked CD56+ T SN-mediated anti-HIV activity. Furthermore, CD56+ T SN up-regulated the expression of STAT-1/-2 and enhanced the expression of IRF1, -3, -7, and -9, resulting in the induction of endogenous IFN-alpha/beta expression in macrophages. Moreover, CD56+ T SN up-regulated intracellular expression of APOBEC3G/3F, the recently identified HIV-1 restriction factors. These findings provide compelling evidence that CD56+ T cells may have a critical role in innate immunity against HIV-1 infection.
41983543 | Quantitative Assessment of Analytical Ambiguity in Reverse Sequence-Specific Oligonucleotide (rSSO)-Based HLA Typing Platforms. Analytical ambiguity is an inherent and expected feature of reverse sequence-specific oligonucleotide (rSSO)-based HLA genotyping and reflects the size of the candidate allele space compatible with a given probe pattern at the analytical interpretation level. However, ambiguity is often treated as a binary attribute, which may obscure differences in its magnitude across platforms. We conducted a between-subject comparison of two commercial rSSO HLA typing platforms, One Lambda (386 patients; 6176 allele-level observations) and Immucor GTI (1003 patients; 16,048 allele-level observations). Analytical ambiguity was quantified as candidate allele count (CandidateCount) across eight HLA loci (A, B, C, DRB1, DQB1, DQA1, DPB1 and DPA1). Generalized estimating equations with a negative binomial family were used to account for within-patient clustering, with rate ratios estimated using Immucor GTI as the reference and p-values adjusted for multiple testing. Four loci showed significantly larger analytical candidate allele spaces on One Lambda than on Immucor GTI after Benjamini-Hochberg correction, with the largest effect observed at DPA1, where mean CandidateCount values were more than doubled (18.3 vs. 8.3). Moderate but significant differences were also observed at HLA-A, DQB1 and DPB1, whereas no significant platform differences were detected at HLA-B, HLA-C, DRB1 or DQA1. These findings demonstrate that analytical ambiguity differs between commercial rSSO HLA typing platforms in a locus-specific manner. Quantitative characterization of ambiguity at the raw interpretation level may help set expectations regarding locus-specific resolution burden and support workflow planning in laboratories using rSSO as a first-line typing approach.
12913253 | Interleukin-10-induced CCR5 expression in macrophage like HL-60 cells: involvement of Erk1/2 and STAT-3. As an immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-10 was recently reported to play roles in CCR5 expression in human monocytes. CCR5 promoter regions contain Oct-2, TCF-1alpha, GATA, and STAT binding sites. Here, we studied the signals involved in the CCR5 expression in IL-10-stimulated cells using the HL-60 cell line. HL-60 cells were stimulated with PMA and differentiated to macrophage-like cells, then stimulated with IL-10. IL-10 induced significant expression of CCR5 protein and CCR5 mRNA in these cells. The induction of CCR5 by IL-10 was inhibited by a MEK-1 inhibitor, PD98059. In addition, IL-10 induced tyrosine (Tyr) phosphorylation of Erk, as well as serine (Ser) and Tyr phosphorylation of STAT-3. Tyr phosphorylation of Erk and Ser phosphorylation of STAT-3 were inhibited by PD98059, while Tyr phosphorylation of STAT-3 was not inhibited by PD98059. DNA binding activity of STAT-3 was observed by the stimulation with IL-10, which was inhibited by PD98059. These results first indicate that Erk1/2 and STAT-3 regulate CCR5 expression, and that Erk-mediated phosphorylation of Ser is required for full stimulation of STAT-3 in CCR5 expression.
9694358 | Sequencing-based typing reveals six novel MHC class I chain-related gene B (MICB) alleles. The MHC class I chain-related gene A (MICA) is highly polymorphic. In this paper we demonstrate polymorphism in the other expressing member of the MIC family of genes: MICB. Using a sequencing-based typing approach on cDNA, analysis of exons 2 through 6 revealed eight polymorphic sites resulting in six unique MICB sequences. Although MICB has high nucleotide homology with MICA, its polymorphism is restricted and at different sites compared to those in MICA.
22966075 | CC chemokine receptor 5 polymorphism in Italian patients with Behcet's disease. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the potential role of CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5)Delta32 polymorphism in the susceptibility to and clinical expression of Behcet's disease (BD) in a cohort of Italian patients. METHODS: One hundred and ninety-six consecutive Italian patients satisfying the ISG criteria for BD were followed up for 8 years, and 180 healthy age- and sex-matched blood donors were molecularly genotyped for the CCR5Delta32 polymorphism. A standard microlymphocytotoxicity technique was used to serotype HLA-B51. The patients were subgrouped on the basis of the presence or absence of clinical manifestations. RESULTS: The distribution of the CCR5Delta32 genotype differed between BD patients and controls (P = 0.02). The CCR5Delta32 allele was more common in BD patients than in controls [P = 0.02, odds ratio (OR) 2.28 (95% CI 1.1, 4.8)]. Carriers of the CCR5Delta32 allele (Delta32/Delta32 + CCR5/Delta32) were significantly more common in BD patients than in controls [P = 0.02, OR 2.37 (95% CI 1.1, 5.1)]. Population-attributable risk was 7.1%. In categorizing patients according to gender, the association between CCR5Delta32 polymorphism and BD was similar in females and males (ORs 2.76 and 2.0, respectively). No significant differences were found when the frequencies of clinical manifestations were compared between CC5RDelta32 allele carriers and non-carriers. CONCLUSION: CCR5Delta32 polymorphism is associated with an increased susceptibility to develop BD. Chemokines may have a role in the pathophysiology of BD.
17542839 | Kin selection and evolution of infectious disease resistance. Discoveries of mutations conferring resistance to infectious diseases have led to increased interest in the evolutionary dynamics of disease resistance. Several recent papers have estimated the historical strength of selection for mutations conferring disease resistance. These studies are based on simple population genetic models that do not take account of factors such as spatial and family structure. Such factors may have a substantial impact on the strength of natural selection through inclusive fitness effects. That is, people have a strong tendency to live with relatives and therefore have a high probability of transmitting infectious diseases to them. Thus, an allele that protects an individual against disease infection also protects that individual's family members. Because some of these family members are likely to also be carrying the allele, selection for that allele is magnified by family structure. In this paper, I use mathematical modeling techniques to explore the impact of such kin selection on the strength of selection for infectious disease resistance alleles. I show that if the resistance allele has the same proportional effect on both within- and between-family transmission, then the impact of kin selection is relatively minor. Selection coefficients are increased by 5-35%, with a greater benefit for weaker alleles. The reason is that an individual with a strong resistance allele does not need much protection from infection by family members and thus does not benefit much from their alleles. The effect of kin selection can be dramatic, however, if the resistance allele has a larger effect on between-family transmission than within-family transmission (which can occur if between-family infection rates are much smaller than within-family rates), increasing selection coefficients by as much as two- to threefold. These results show conditions when it is important to consider family structure in estimates of the strength of selection for infectious disease resistance alleles.
18781860 | Genetic factors that confer sensitivity to HAART in HIV-infected subjects: implication of a benefit of an earlier initiation of HAART. EVALUATION OF: Ahuja SK, Kulkarni H, Catano G et al.: CCL3L1-CCR5 genotype influences durability of immune recovery during antiretroviral therapy of HIV-1-infected individuals. Nat. Med. 14(4), 413-420 (2008). It is widely accepted that the effect of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) varies widely among HIV-infected individuals. Host genetic factors are thought to be linked to the sensitivity to HAART in HIV-infected individuals. Ahuja et al. attempted to identify the genes that determine the sensitivity to HAART in HIV-infected subjects. Based on the hypothesis that CD4+ depletion and the recovery process in HIV-infected subjects are under the control of specific common genetic pathways, they evaluated the associations of genetic variations, such as CCR5 genotype, CCL3L1 copy number variation and HLA alleles, with the sensitivity to HAART in two cohorts from the USA. They found that the CCL3L1-CCR5 genetic risk status, but not HLA-B*57, is apparently a good predictor of the recovery rate of CD4+ T cells during HAART. In particular, the recovery rate of CD4+ T cells during HAART has the most sensitive association with the copy number of CCL3L1. Furthermore, Ahuja et al. studied the impact of CCL3L1-CCR5 genetic risks in HIV-infected individuals initiating HAART during acute or early infection. They suggested that CCL3L1-CCR5 genetic risk status may be a useful guide in deciding whether to initiate HAART in HIV-infected subjects with a level of 350 CD4+ T cells/mm(3)or more. This study has provided a critical breakthrough in predicting the response to HAART in HIV-infected subjects.
42146210 | Synthesis and Biological Evaluation of Modified Peptide Derivatives Targeting the SARS-CoV-2 Nsp3 Macrodomain (Mac1) Replication Domain. Modified peptide derivatives (D1-D15) containing hydrophobic (phenylalanine and tryptophan) and positively charged (histidine) amino acid residues, were designed and synthesized. The cytotoxicity of the compounds was evaluated in healthy (CCD1079Sk) cell lines, revealing no significant cytotoxic effects and indicating favorable safety profiles. Molecular modeling studies were performed for all compounds and indicated that compounds D13, D14, and D15 form favorable binding interactions with the Nsp3 macrodomain 1 (Mac1) active site. The affinity of these compounds is expected to be moderate to high, although lower than that of ADP-ribose. Subsequent bioactivity assays, performed using a cell-based SARS-CoV-2 replicon system, revealed that compound D15 displays the most potent inhibition of viral replication (IC50 = 22.2 muM (95% CI: 15.4-35.7 muM)), while compound D14 shows the second most potent inhibitory activity (IC50 = 61.2 muM (95% CI: 39.2-143.9 muM)). Considering these results, it has been shown that compounds with a histidine side chain exhibit higher biological activity, suggesting a structure-activity relationship driven by positively charged residues.
41687086 | Personalized pain management: The use of pharmacogenomics in pain treatment strategies. Pain is commonly experienced among Canadians but can be difficult to treat due to complex mechanisms. Several medications used for analgesia (e.g., acetaminophen, NSAIDs, opioids, antidepressants, anticonvulsants), can have variable responses, limiting their safety and effectiveness. Pharmacogenomics studies have uncovered genetic variation found within drug processing (i.e., pharmacokinetic) and response (i.e., pharmacodynamic) pathways that are linked to the development of ineffectiveness and/or adverse effects to analgesics. As a result, several gene-drug associations with strong evidence have been incorporated into clinical practice guidelines. For example, individuals are currently recommended to undergo genetic testing for variation within CYP2C9 (adverse effects to some NSAIDs and anticonvulsants), CYP2D6 (ineffectiveness/adverse effects to some opioids, antidepressants, and anticonvulsants), CYP2C19 (ineffectiveness/adverse effects to some antidepressants), CYP2B6 (adverse effects to some antidepressants), and HLA-A and HLA-B (adverse effects to some anticonvulsants) so that modifications can be made to reduce the likelihood of treatment ineffectiveness/adverse effects. As there is limited evidence for treatment recommendations for all analgesics, and in children and minority ancestral groups, further pharmacogenomics studies are needed to identify additional genetic variation that contributes to undesirable outcomes. Ultimately, pharmacogenomics is helping to develop personalized pain management strategies to improve pain treatment outcomes for all patients.
41943918 | Immunological features of acquired pure red cell aplasia: Specific human leucocyte antigen alleles, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 mutations and a unique T-cell receptor beta motif. T-cell abnormalities have been implicated in the pathogenesis of acquired pure red cell aplasia (PRCA), particularly in its major subtypes such as idiopathic PRCA, thymoma-associated PRCA and large granular lymphocytic leukaemia (LGLL)-associated PRCA, and the precise details remain unclear. Furthermore, signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) mutations are frequently detected in PRCA patients, but their association with cellular immune abnormalities is not well understood. In order to elucidate the immunogenetic backgrounds of PRCA, we conducted human leucocyte antigen (HLA) typing in 39 PRCA patients. The results showed a significantly higher allele frequency of HLA-B*44:03:01, -C*14:03, -DRB1*13:02, compared to HLA database. Additionally, analysis of inferred HLA haplotypes revealed significantly increased frequencies of two haplotypes: HLA-A*24:02-C*07:02-B*07:02-DRB1*01:01 and -A*33:03-C*14:03-B*44:03:01-DRB1*13:02. Clonotypic analyses of T-cell receptor beta (TCRbeta) chain revealed that 80% of the PRCA cases possessed mono- or oligoclonally expanded T cells. Particularly among those with STAT3 mutations, the 'QGXG' motif in 15 AA sequences of TCRbeta complementarity-determining regions 3 (CDR3) regions was specifically recognized. These findings suggest that a specific immunogenetic background defined by particular HLA alleles, the expansion of somewhat limited T-cell clones and STAT3-mutated T cells are involved in the pathogenesis of chronic acquired PRCA.
41839705 | Identification of the Novel HLA-A*02:1185N and HLA-B*41:87 Alleles, and Confirmation of HLA-A*02:1034. The novel alleles HLA-A*02:1185N and HLA-B*41:87 and the confirmation allele HLA-A*02:1034 were identified during routine HLA typing.
38992170 | A genetic variant in the TAPBP gene enhances cervical cancer susceptibility by increasing m6A modification. Genetic variants can affect gene expression by altering the level of N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modifications. A better understanding of the association of these genetic variants with susceptibility to cervical cancer (CC) can promote advances in disease screening and treatment. Genome-wide identification of m6A-associated functional SNPs for CC was performed using the TCGA and JENGER databases, incorporating the data from RNA-seq and MeRIP-seq. The screened risk-associated SNP rs1059288 (A>G), which is located in the 3' UTR of TAPBP, was further validated in a case-control study involving 921 cases and 1077 controls. The results revealed a significant association between rs1059288 and the risk of CC (OR 1.48, 95% CI 1.13-1.92). Mechanistically, the presence of the risk G allele of rs1059288 was associated with increased m6A modification of TAPBP compared with the A allele. This modification was facilitated by the m6A methyltransferase METTL14 and the reading protein YTHDF2. Immunohistochemical staining of tissue microarrays containing 61 CC and 45 normal tissues showed an overexpression of TAPBP in CC. Furthermore, the upregulation of TAPBP promoted the growth and migration of CC cells as well as tumor-forming ability, inhibited apoptosis, and conferred increased resistance to commonly used chemotherapeutic drugs such as bleomycin, cisplatin, and doxorubicin. Knockdown of TAPBP inhibited the JAK/STAT/MICB signaling pathway in CC cells and upregulated certain immune genes including ISG15, IRF3, PTPN6, and HLA-A. These findings offer insights into the involvement of genetic variations in TAPBP in the development and progression of CC.
21059670 | Genetic susceptibility to Behcet's disease: role of genes belonging to the MHC region. OBJECTIVE: To review the progress in the field of MHC-related genetic susceptibility to Behcet's disease (BD). METHOD: Systematic review of the English literature between 1 January 1980 and 31 January 2010 using Medline. Case-control, population-based, observational cohort studies investigating the association between BD and HLA-B*51 subtypes, classical and non-classical HLA alleles and other HLA-related genes were selected. The geographical distribution of BD and these susceptibility genes was also taken into consideration. Case and familial case reports were excluded except for case series with more than two patients. RESULTS: Ninety articles plus 17 obtained from other sources were included in the systematic review. We have found high evidence that a core component of genetic susceptibility to BD is within the MHC region being primarily related to an HLA-B*51 subtype: HLA-B*5101/B*510101. Moreover, HLA-A*26, HLA-B*15, HLA-B*5701 and TNF-alpha -1031C were independently associated with BD. Data suggest that other HLA (HLA-C, HLA-DR) and HLA-related [MHC Class I chain-related gene A (MIC-A), TNF-alpha] genes may play a role in BD co-susceptibility or pathogenesis. Finally, the distinctive geographical distribution of BD suggested an evolutionary selection of HLA-B*51 subtypes as the major susceptibility factors for BD. CONCLUSION: Further studies must be addressed to clarify the functional relevance of the different genes found to be associated with disease susceptibility and the potential interactions between genes located within and outside the MHC region.
21674475 | IL-9 is important for T-cell activation and differentiation in autoimmune inflammation of the central nervous system. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is generally believed to be an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) caused by myelin-specific Th1 and/or Th17 effector cells. The underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms, however, are not fully understood. Using mice deficient in IL-9 (IL-9(-/-) ), we showed that IL-9 plays a critical role in EAE. Specifically, IL-9(-/-) mice developed significantly less severe EAE than their WT counterparts following both immunization with myelin proteolipid protein (PLP)(180-199) peptide in the presence of Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA), and adoptive transfer of PLP(180-199) peptide-specific effector T cells from WT littermates. EAE-resistant IL-9(-/-) mice exhibited considerably fewer infiltrating immune cells in the CNS, with lower levels of IL-17 and IFN-gamma expression, than their WT littermates. Further studies revealed that null mutation of the IL-9 gene resulted in significantly lower levels of PLP(180-199) peptide-specific IL-17 and IFN-gamma production. Moreover, IL-9(-/-) memory/activated T cells exhibited decreased C-C chemokine receptors (CCR)2, CCR5, and CCR6 expression. Interestingly, IL-10 was significantly increased in IL-9(-/-) mice compared with WT littermates. Importantly, we found that IL-9-mediated Th17-cell differentiation triggers complex STAT signaling pathways.
