36232721 | Vascular and Liver Homeostasis in Juvenile Mice Require Endothelial Cyclic AMP-Dependent Protein Kinase A. During vascular development, endothelial cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) regulates angiogenesis by controlling the number of tip cells, and PKA inhibition leads to excessive angiogenesis. Whether this role of endothelial PKA is restricted to embryonic and neonatal development or is also required for vascular homeostasis later on is unknown. Here, we show that perinatal (postnatal days P1-P3) of later (P28-P32) inhibition of endothelial PKA using dominant-negative PKA expressed under the control of endothelial-specific Cdh5-CreERT2 recombinase (dnPKAiEC mice) leads to severe subcutaneous edema, hypoalbuminemia, hypoglycemia and premature death. These changes were accompanied by the local hypersprouting of blood vessels in fat pads and the secondary enlargement of subcutaneous lymphatic vessels. Most noticeably, endothelial PKA inhibition caused a dramatic disorganization of the liver vasculature. Hepatic changes correlated with decreased gluconeogenesis, while liver albumin production seems to be unaffected and hypoalbuminemia is rather a result of increased leakage into the interstitium. Interestingly, the expression of dnPKA only in lymphatics using Prox1-CreERT2 produced no phenotype. Likewise, the mosaic expression in only endothelial subpopulations using Vegfr3-CreERT2 was insufficient to induce edema or hypoglycemia. Increased expression of the tip cell marker ESM1 indicated that the inhibition of PKA induced an angiogenic response in the liver, although tissue derived pro- and anti-angiogenic factors were unchanged. These data indicate that endothelial PKA is a gatekeeper of endothelial cell activation not only in development but also in adult homeostasis, preventing the aberrant reactivation of the angiogenic program.
36680072 | Structure-Based Design, Synthesis, and Biological Evaluation of the Cage-Amide Derived Orthopox Virus Replication Inhibitors. Despite the fact that the variola virus is considered eradicated, the search for new small molecules with activity against orthopoxviruses remains an important task, especially in the context of recent outbreaks of monkeypox. As a result of this work, a number of amides of benzoic acids containing an adamantane fragment were obtained. Most of the compounds demonstrated activity against vaccinia virus, with a selectivity index SI = 18,214 for the leader compound 18a. The obtained derivatives also demonstrated activity against murine pox (250 <= SI <= 6071) and cowpox (125 <= SI <= 3036). A correlation was obtained between the IC50 meanings and the binding energy to the assumed biological target, the p37 viral protein with R2 = 0.60.
37421238 | Hearing Following Prolonged and Delayed Ganciclovir Treatment in a Murine Cytomegalovirus Model. OBJECTIVE: Compare hearing outcomes utilizing standard, prolonged and delayed ganciclovir (GCV) therapy in a murine model of cytomegalovirus (CMV). METHODS: BALB/c mice were inoculated with mouse cytomegalovirus (mCMV) or saline via intracerebral injection on postnatal day 3 (p3). Intraperitoneal GCV or saline was administered at 12 h intervals for the duration of the standard (p3-p17), delayed (p30-p44), or prolonged treatment windows (p3-p31). Auditory thresholds were assessed using distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) and auditory brainstem response (ABR) testing at 4, 6, and 8 weeks of age. Blood and tissue samples were harvested from mice on p17 and p37 one hour after GCV administration, and their concentrations were assessed via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. RESULTS: A delayed course of GCV improved ABR but not DPOAE thresholds in mCMV-infected mice. A prolonged course of GCV did not provide better hearing thresholds than those administered standard treatment. The average GCV concentration in all 17-day-old mice tissue was significantly higher than those in older 37-day-old mice. CONCLUSION: Delayed GCV treatment provided a hearing benefit on ABR over untreated mCMV infected mice. Prolonged CGV administration showed no benefit compared to a shorter duration GCV treatment. GCV drug concentrations both systemically and in the cochlea are much lower in older mice. These results have potential implications for the clinical management of cCMV infected children. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: NA Laryngoscope, 2023.
37537117 | Sevoflurane anaesthesia induces cognitive impairment in young mice through sequential tau phosphorylation. BACKGROUND: The volatile anaesthetic sevoflurane induces time (single or multiple exposures)-dependent effects on tau phosphorylation and cognitive function in young mice. The underlying mechanism for this remains largely undetermined. METHODS: Mice received 3% sevoflurane for 0.5 h or 2 h daily for 3 days on postnatal day (P) 6, 9, and 12. Another group of mice received 3% sevoflurane for 0.5 h or 1.5 h (3 x 0.5) on P6. We investigated effects of sevoflurane anaesthesia on tau phosphorylation on P6 or P12 mice, on cognitive function from P31 to P37, and on protein interactions, using in vivo studies, in vitro phosphorylation assays, and nanobeam single-molecule level interactions in vitro. RESULTS: An initial sevoflurane exposure induced CaMKIIalpha phosphorylation (132 [11]% vs 100 [6]%, P<0.01), leading to tau phosphorylation at serine 262 (164 [7]% vs 100 [26]%, P<0.01) and tau detachment from microtubules. Subsequent exposures to the sevoflurane induced GSK3beta activation, which phosphorylated detached or free tau (tau phosphorylated at serine 262) at serine 202 and threonine 205, resulting in cognitive impairment in young mice. In vitro phosphorylation assays also demonstrated sequential tau phosphorylation. Nanobeam analysis of molecular interactions showed different interactions between tau or free tau and CaMKIIalpha or GSK3beta, and between tau and tubulin at a single-molecule level. CONCLUSIONS: Multiple exposures to sevoflurane can induce sequential tau phosphorylation, leading to cognitive impairment in young mice, highlighting the need to investigate the underlying mechanisms of anaesthesia-induced tau phosphorylation in developing brain.
37930331 | Andrographolide Attenuates Oxidized LDL-Induced Activation of the NLRP3 Inflammasome in Bone Marrow-Derived Macrophages and Mitigates HFCCD-Induced Atherosclerosis in Mice. Andrographolide (AND) is a bioactive component of the herb Andrographis paniculata and a well-known anti-inflammatory agent. Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the vasculature, and oxidized LDL (oxLDL) is thought to contribute heavily to atherosclerosis-associated inflammation. The aim of this study was to investigate whether AND mitigates oxLDL-mediated foam cell formation and diet-induced atherosclerosis (in mice fed a high-fat, high-cholesterol, high-cholic acid [HFCCD] diet) and the underlying mechanisms involved. AND attenuated LPS/oxLDL-mediated foam cell formation, IL-1[Formula: see text] mRNA and protein (p37) expression, NLR family pyrin domain containing 3 (NLRP3) mRNA and protein expression, caspase-1 (p20) protein expression, and IL-1[Formula: see text] release in BMDMs. Treatment with oxLDL significantly induced protein and mRNA expression of CD36, lectin-like oxLDL receptor-1 (LOX-1), and scavenger receptor type A (SR-A), whereas pretreatment with AND significantly inhibited protein and mRNA expression of SR-A only. Treatment with oxLDL significantly induced ROS generation and Dil-oxLDL uptake; however, pretreatment with AND alleviated oxLDL-induced ROS generation and Dil-oxLDL uptake. HFCCD feeding significantly increased aortic lipid accumulation, ICAM-1 expression, and IL-1[Formula: see text] mRNA expression, as well as blood levels of glutamic pyruvic transaminase (GPT), total cholesterol, and LDL-C. AND co-administration mitigated aortic lipid accumulation, the protein expression of ICAM-1, mRNA expression of IL-1[Formula: see text] and ICAM-1, and blood levels of GPT. These results suggest that the working mechanisms by which AND mitigates atherosclerosis involve the inhibition of foam cell formation and NLRP3 inflammasome-dependent vascular inflammation as evidenced by decreased SR-A expression and IL-1[Formula: see text] release, respectively.
38458287 | Development and characterization of monoclonal antibodies against p37 protein of African swine fever virus. African Swine Fever Virus (ASFV) is a highly contagious pathogen posing a serious threat to the global swine industry. Despite this, there is currently no effective vaccine against this virus. Within ASFV's core shell structure, p37, a product of polyprotein pp220, shares sequence similarity with SUMO-1 proteases. Localization studies show p37 in various nuclear regions during early infection, shifting to the cytoplasm later on. Research indicates active export of p37 from the nucleus, mediated by CRM1-dependent and -independent pathways. Hydrophobic amino acids in p37 are crucial for these pathways, highlighting their importance throughout the ASFV replication cycle. Additionally, p37 serves as the first nucleocytoplasmic shuttle protein encoded by ASFV, participating in the intranuclear material transport process during ASFV infection of host cells. In this study, we successfully screened five murine monoclonal antibodies targeting p37. Through the truncated expression method, we identified four dominant antigenic epitopes of p37 for the first time. Furthermore, utilizing alanine scanning technology, we determined the key amino acid residues for each epitope. This research not only provides essential information for a deeper understanding of the protein's function but also establishes a significant theoretical foundation for the design and development of ASFV vaccines.
38582276 | Neuroprotective effects of VCE-004.8 in a rat model of neonatal stroke. BACKGROUND: Currently there is no effective treatment for neonatal stroke, an acute neurologic syndrome with sequelae, due to focal ischemic, thrombotic, or hemorrhagic event occurring in the perinatal period. VCE-004.8, an aminoquinone exhibiting activity on CB2 and PPARgamma receptors, is neuroprotective in adult mice models of acute and chronic brain damaging conditions. We hereby aimed to study VCE-004.8 neuroprotection in a rat model of neonatal stroke. METHODS: 7-day-old (P7) Wistar rats of both sexes were submitted to Middle Cerebral Artery Occlusion (MCAO), receiving i.p. 30 min after vehicle (MCAO + VEH) or VCE-004.8 5 mg/kg (MCAO + VCE). Non-occluded rats served as controls (SHAM). MCAO consequences were assessed at P14 by MRI, histological (TUNEL staining), biochemical (lactate/n-acetyl aspartate ratio by 1H-NMR spectroscopy) and motor studies (grasp test), and at P37 assessing myelination (MBP signal), hemiparesis and hyperlocomotion. Effects of VCE-004.8 on excitotoxicity (glutamate/n-acetyl aspartate, 1H-NMR), oxidative stress (protein nitrosylation, Oxyblot) and neuroinflammation (Toll-like receptor 4 and TNFa expression, Western blot) were assessed at P14. Therapeutic window was assessed by delaying drug administration for 12 or 18 h. RESULTS: Post-MCAO administration of VCE-004.8 reduced the volume of infarct and histological and biochemical brain damage, reducing hyperlocomotion, restoring motor performance and preserving myelination, in a manner linked to the modulation of excitotoxicity, oxidative stress and neuroinflammation. VCE-004.8 was still effective being administered 12-18 h post-insult. CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that this drug could be effective for the treatment of stroke in newborns.
6161166 | Continuous cytotoxic T cell lines reactive against murine plasmacytoma tumor-associated antigens. Continuous cytotoxic T cell lines against murine tumor-associated antigens (TAA) were generated from normal BALB/c and (C57BL/6 X BALB/c)F1 spleen lymphocytes by sensitizing these cells in vitro to the BALB/c plasmacytoma (PCT) MPC-11. These cytotoxic T cell lines (CTLL) were maintained for periods of over 1 yr in T cell growth factor from cultures of mitogen-stimulated rat spleen cells. The lines were highly cytotoxic against the immunizing tumor, as well as against a select number of other tumor cell lines, and the patterns of reactivity of 3 of these lines against the various tumor cell targets indicated that these lines each recognized different PCT TAA. The antigens recognized included an MHC-restricted PCT antigen, an antigen shared by PCT and T lymphomas, and an MPC-11 unique PCT antigen. phenotypic characterization of the CTLL populations for cell surface marker expression indicated that they were largely homogeneous with respect to their differentiation state, and expressed Thy-1.2, Lyt-2, Lyt-3.2, and T30 antigens on their cell surface. In addition, 1 of the lines demonstrated variable low-level expression of Lyt-1. Thus, the populations were characteristics of mature T cells, and did not express cell surface markers characteristic of other lymphocyte subpopulations.
6774049 | Expression of an idiotype (Id-460) during in vivo anti-dinitrophenyl antibody responses. I. Mapping of genes for Id-460 expression to the variable region of immunoglobulin heavy-chain locus and to the variable region of immunoglobulin kappa-light-chain locus. The genetic contro of the expression of an idiotype (Id-460) associated with the 2,4-dinitrophenyl (DNP)-binding BALB/c myeloma protein MOPC 460 was studied using congenic strains of mice. It was shown that the expression of high levels of Id-460 during secondary in vivo anti-DNP-ovalbumin responses was determined by genes governing immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable and kappa-light chain variable regions (V kappa). Appropriate alleles at both loci were required for the expression of Id-460. Genes in the major histocompatability complex and the X-linked immune deficiency gene found in strain CBA/N did not greatly affect Id-460 expression. The V kappa gene controlling Id-460 expression can be differentiated from Lyt-3, and it is the first instance in which expression of an idiotype subdivides the V kappa genes associated with the Lyt-3a allele. Although it is likely that the V kappa gene(s) involved are structural, the involvememt of a regulatory gene linked to the structural gene can not be excluded.
17157914 | Engineered promiscuous T helper peptides for the induction of immune responses. Following recognition of antigens by T helper (Th) lymphocytes, T cell help is elicited to induce humoral and cellular immune responses. These antigens are presented as short peptides, T helper peptides (THP), bound to MHC class II molecules. Since both endogenous THP (from antigens of interest) or exogenous THP (not encompassed by the sequence of the antigen of interest) are able to elicit T cell help, we decided to engineer promiscuous exogenous THP capable of binding to several HLA-DR molecules, in order to cover an important proportion of the human population. Some of these exogenous THP were able to bind to all seven HLA-DR molecules tested and were immunogenic in vivo in HLA-DR4 transgenic mice. Among them, peptides p37, p62 and p45 elicited Th1 cytokine profiles in vivo, providing help for the induction of potent CTL responses. Finally, in vitro stimulation assays carried out using human cells, showed that these peptides could induce T cell responses using cells obtained from individuals with a broad spectrum of HLA-DR molecules. Thus, engineered exogenous THP may be a valuable tool for the induction of immune responses in a large proportion of human population.
22013062 | Down-modulation of CD8alphabeta is a fundamental activity of primate lentiviral Nef proteins. It is well established that the Nef proteins of human and simian immunodeficiency viruses (HIV and SIV) modulate major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) cell surface expression to protect infected cells against lysis by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). Recent data supported the observation that Nef also manipulates CTLs directly by down-modulating CD8alphabeta (J. A. Leonard, T. Filzen, C. C. Carter, M. Schaefer, and K. L. Collins, J. Virol. 85:6867-6881, 2011), but it remained unknown whether this Nef activity is conserved between different lineages of HIV and SIV. In this study, we examined a total of 42 nef alleles from 16 different primate lentiviruses representing most major lineages of primate lentiviruses, as well as nonpandemic HIV-1 strains and the direct precursors of HIV-1 (SIVcpz and SIVgor). We found that the vast majority of these nef alleles strongly down-modulate CD8beta in human T cells. Primate lentiviral Nefs generally interacted specifically with the cytoplasmic tail of CD8beta, and down-modulation of this receptor was dependent on the conserved dileucine-based motif and two adjacent acidic residues (DD/E) in the C-terminal flexible loop of SIV Nef proteins. Both of these motifs are known to be important for the interaction of HIV-1 Nef with AP-2, and they were also shown to be critical for down-modulation of CD4 and CD28, but not MHC-I, by SIV Nefs. Our results show that down-modulation of CD4, CD8beta, and CD28 involves largely overlapping (but not identical) domains and is most likely dependent on conserved interactions of primate lentiviral Nefs with cellular adaptor proteins. Furthermore, our data demonstrate that Nef-mediated down-modulation of CD8alphabeta is a fundamental property of primate lentiviruses and suggest that direct manipulation of CD8+ T cells plays a relevant role in viral immune evasion.
23089138 | CD4 and CD8 homologues in Japanese flounder, Paralichthys olivaceus: Differences in the expressions and localizations of CD4-1, CD4-2, CD8alpha and CD8beta. CD4 and CD8 molecules are co-receptors of T cell receptors which interact specifically with MHC class II and I, respectively, during antigen presentation. Here we investigated CD4 and CD8 expression patterns in a fish, Japanese flounder, Paralichthys olivaceus in response to infection and tuberculin injection. The CD4-1 mRNA level was gradually and weakly increased in trunk kidney after infection with Streptococcus iniae, Edwardsiella tarda and viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus (VHSV), while the CD4-2 mRNA level was dramatically increased after E. tarda and VHSV infection, but not increased after S. iniae infection. CD4-2 mRNA but not CD4-1mRNA increased in the kidney during tuberculin response which is mediated by memory Th1 cells. The patterns for the change of mRNA level in CD8alpha and CD8beta were similar to those of the CD4-2 during the infections and tuberculin response. Fluorescent in situ hybridization detected CD4-1 mRNAs on melano-macrophage centers and CD4-2 mRNAs at some cell clusters located near the melano-macrophage centers. CD8alpha and CD8beta mRNAs were detected at the same cell clusters in the spleen and head kidney. These results suggest that CD4-1 and CD4-2 are expressed in different cells and that CD4-2-positive cells, rather than CD4-1-positive cells, have a main role in Th1-related immune responses collaborating with CD8alpha- and CD8beta-positive cells in Japanese flounder.
24101382 | Antigen-loaded MR1 tetramers define T cell receptor heterogeneity in mucosal-associated invariant T cells. Mucosal-associated invariant T cells (MAIT cells) express a semi-invariant T cell receptor (TCR) alpha-chain, TRAV1-2-TRAJ33, and are activated by vitamin B metabolites bound by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-related class I-like molecule, MR1. Understanding MAIT cell biology has been restrained by the lack of reagents to specifically identify and characterize these cells. Furthermore, the use of surrogate markers may misrepresent the MAIT cell population. We show that modified human MR1 tetramers loaded with the potent MAIT cell ligand, reduced 6-hydroxymethyl-8-D-ribityllumazine (rRL-6-CH2OH), specifically detect all human MAIT cells. Tetramer(+) MAIT subsets were predominantly CD8(+) or CD4(-)CD8(-), although a small subset of CD4(+) MAIT cells was also detected. Notably, most human CD8(+) MAIT cells were CD8alpha(+)CD8beta(-/lo), implying predominant expression of CD8alphaalpha homodimers. Tetramer-sorted MAIT cells displayed a T(H)1 cytokine phenotype upon antigen-specific activation. Similarly, mouse MR1-rRL-6-CH2OH tetramers detected CD4(+), CD4(-)CD8(-) and CD8(+) MAIT cells in Valpha19 transgenic mice. Both human and mouse MAIT cells expressed a broad TCR-beta repertoire, and although the majority of human MAIT cells expressed TRAV1-2-TRAJ33, some expressed TRAJ12 or TRAJ20 genes in conjunction with TRAV1-2. Accordingly, MR1 tetramers allow precise phenotypic characterization of human and mouse MAIT cells and revealed unanticipated TCR heterogeneity in this population.
24594598 | Duality of the murine CD8 compartment. CD8alphabeta plays crucial roles in the thymic selection, differentiation, and activation of some, but not all, CD8(+) T cells, whereas CD8alphaalpha does not. To investigate these roles, we produced mice that expressed transgene P14 T-cell receptor beta (TCRbeta) chain and CD8beta or did not (WT and KO mice, respectively). The primary CD8(+) T-cell response to acute lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection was predominantly D(b)/GP33 specific and CD8 independent in KO mice and was mostly CD8 dependent in WT mice. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) from KO mice failed to mobilize intracellular Ca(2+) and to kill via perforin/granzyme. Their strong Fas/FasL-mediated cytotoxicity and IFN-gamma response were signaled via a Ca(2+)-independent, PI3K-dependent pathway. This was also true for 15-20% of CD8-independent CTL found in WT mice. Conversely, the perforin/granzyme-mediated killing and IFN-gamma response of CD8-dependent CTL were signaled via a Ca(2+), p56(lck), and nuclear factor of activated T cells-dependent pathway. Deep sequencing of millions of TCRalpha chain transcripts revealed that the TCR repertoires of preimmune CD8(+) T cells were highly diverse, but those of LCMV D(b)/GP33-specific CTL, especially from KO mice, were narrow. The immune repertoires exhibited biased use of Valpha segments that encoded different complementary-determining region 1alpha (CDR1alpha) and CDR2alpha sequences. We suggest that TCR from WT CD8-independent T cells may engage MHC-peptide complexes in a manner unfavorable for efficient CD8 engagement and Ca(2+) signaling but permissive for Ca(2+)-independent, PI3K-dependent signaling. This duality of the CD8 compartment may provide organisms with broader protective immunity. 
26664914 | Salmonella Virchow Infection of the Chicken Elicits Cellular and Humoral Systemic and Mucosal Responses, but Limited Protection to Homologous or Heterologous Re-Challenge. Salmonella enterica serovar Virchow usually causes mild gastroenteritis in humans; however, it is frequently invasive and many isolates are resistant to a broad-range of therapeutic antimicrobials. Poultry meat is considered a major source of human infection. In this study, we characterize the infection biology and immune response to S. Virchow in chickens and determine protection against homologous and heterologous re-challenge, with S. Virchow or S. Typhimurium. Following oral infection of 7-day-old chickens, S. Virchow colonized the gastrointestinal tract and the spleen. Infection elicited an increase in specific IgA, IgG, and IgM antibodies and relative quantitative changes in several leukocyte populations, including CD3, CD4, CD8alpha, CD8beta, MHC II, KuL01, and gammadelta TCR positive cells, both in the gastrointestinal tract and systemically. Increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta and IL-6 and the chemokine CXCLi2 was also found. Primary infection with S. Virchow offered limited systemic protection against re-challenge with S. Virchow or S. Typhimurium, but no protection against cecal colonization. In conclusion, S. Virchow exhibits similar infection biology and immune responses in the chicken to that previously described for S. Typhimurium. Unlike S. Typhimurium, S. Virchow infection is poorly protective to homologous and heterologous re-challenge. These findings suggest that S. Virchow is capable of colonizing the chicken well and therefore, presents a risk of entering the food chain in meat production. Furthermore, the development of vaccines that protect effectively against S. Virchow and indeed multivalent vaccines that protect across all Salmonella serogroups in the chicken would appear to remain a challenging proposition. 
30548472 | Canine non-epitheliotropic CD4-positive cutaneous T-cell lymphoma: a case report. A 5-year-old, spayed female French Bulldog presented with multiple papules on the skin of the scapular area. Histopathological examination of punch biopsy samples revealed dense infiltration of small lymphoid cells in the superficial dermis and in areas surrounding hair follicles. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated that these cells were positive for CD3, CD4, and TCRalphabeta, but negative for CD1c, CD8alpha, CD8beta, CD11c, CD20, CD45RA, CD90, MHC-II, and TCRgammadelta. In addition, CD45 was highly expressed, and the proliferation fraction was very low. Molecular clonality of T-cell receptor G chains yielded a clonal result. The skin lesions were surgically excised because they had progressed to the lateral front leg. Postoperative clinical course was favorable, and recurrence was not observed until the dog died in a traffic accident, approximately 1 year later.
34136383 | Overexpression of Multifunctional Protein p32 Promotes a Malignant Phenotype in Colorectal Cancer Cells. p32 is a multifunctional and multicompartmental protein that has been found upregulated in numerous adenocarcinomas, including colorectal malignancy. High levels of p32 expression have been correlated with poor prognosis in colorectal cancer. However, the functions performed by p32 in colorectal cancer have not been characterized. Here we show that p32 is overexpressed in colorectal cancer cell lines compared to non-malignant colon cells. Colon cancer cells also display higher nuclear levels of p32 than nuclear levels found in non-malignant cells. Moreover, we demonstrate that p32 regulates the expression levels of genes tightly related to malignant phenotypes such as HAS-2 and PDCD4. Remarkably, we demonstrate that knockdown of p32 negatively affects Akt/mTOR signaling activation, inhibits the migration ability of colon malignant cells, and sensitizes them to cell death induced by oxidative stress and chemotherapeutic agents, but not to cell death induced by nutritional stress. In addition, knockdown of p32 significantly decreased clonogenic capacity and in vivo tumorigenesis in a xenograft mice model. Altogether, our results demonstrate that p32 is an important promoter of malignant phenotype in colorectal cancer cells, suggesting that it could be used as a therapeutic target in colorectal cancer treatment.
34421919 | Mitochondrial Reactive Oxygen Species Are Essential for the Development of Psoriatic Inflammation. Psoriasis is a common immune-mediated, chronic, inflammatory skin disease that affects approximately 2-3% of the population worldwide. Although there is increasing evidence regarding the essential roles of the interleukin (IL)-23/IL-17 axis and dendritic cell (DC)-T cell crosstalk in the development of skin inflammation, the contributions of mitochondrial function to psoriasis are unclear. In a mouse model of imiquimod (IMQ)-induced psoriasiform skin inflammation, we found that hematopoietic cell-specific genetic deletion of p32/C1qbp, a regulator of mitochondrial protein synthesis and metabolism, protects mice from IMQ-induced psoriatic inflammation. Additionally, we demonstrate that p32/C1qbp is an important regulator of IMQ-induced DC activation, both in vivo and in vitro. We also found that p32/C1qbp-deficient DCs exhibited impaired production of IL-1beta, IL-23, and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS) after IMQ stimulation. Because the inhibition of mtROS suppressed IMQ-induced DC activation and psoriatic inflammation, we presume that p32/C1qbp and mtROS can serve as therapeutic targets in psoriasis.
34690714 | Baseline Depression-Like Behaviors in Wild-Type Adolescent Mice Are Strain and Age but Not Sex Dependent. Depression is a major neuropsychiatric disorder, decreasing the ability of hundreds of millions of individuals worldwide to function in social, academic, and employment settings. Beyond the alarming public health problem, depression leads to morbidity across the entire age including adolescence and adulthood. Modeling depression in rodents has been used to understand the pathophysiological mechanisms behind this disorder and create new therapeutics. Although women are two times more likely to be diagnosed with depression compared to men, behavioral experiments on rodent models of depression are mainly performed in males based on the assumption that the estrous cycles in females may affect the behavioral outcome and cause an increase in the intrinsic variability compared to males. Still, the inclusion of female rodents in the behavioral analysis is mandatory to establish the origin of sex bias in depression. Here, we investigated the baseline depression-like behaviors in male and female mice of three adolescent wild-type inbred strains, C57BL/6N, DBA/2, and FVB/N, that are typically used as background strains for mouse models of neuropsychiatric disorders. Our experiments, performed at two different developmental stages during adolescence (P22-P26 and P32-P36), revealed strain but no sex differences in a set of depression-related tests, including tail suspension, sucrose preference and forced swim tests. Additionally, the 10-day interval during this sensitive period uncovered a strong impact on the behavioral outcome of C57BL/6N and FVB/N mice, highlighting a significant effect of maturation on behavioral patterns. Since anxiety-related behavioral tests are often performed together with depression tests in mouse models of neuropsychiatric disorders, we extended our study and included hyponeophagia as an anxiety test. Consistent with a previous study revealing sex differences in other anxiety tests in adolescent mice, male and females mice behaved differently in the hyponeophagia test at P27. Our study gives insight into the behavioral experiments assessing depression and stresses the importance of considering strain, age and sex when evaluating neuropsychiatric-like traits in rodent models.
34711805 | p32 promotes melanoma progression and metastasis by targeting EMT markers, Akt/PKB pathway, and tumor microenvironment. Melanoma originates from melanin-producing cells called melanocytes. Melanoma poses a great risk because of its rapid ability to spread and invade new organs. Cellular metastasis involves alteration in the gene expression profile and their transformation from epithelial to mesenchymal state. Despite of several advances, metastatic melanoma being a key cause of therapy failure and mortality remains poorly understood. p32 has been found to be involved in various physiological and pathophysiological conditions. However, the role of p32 in melanoma progression and metastasis remains underexplored. Here, we identify the role of p32 in the malignancy of both murine and human melanoma. p32 knockdown leads to reduced cell proliferation, migration, and invasion in murine and human melanoma cells. Furthermore, p32 promotes in vitro tumorigenesis, inducing oncogenes and EMT markers. Mechanistically, we show p32 regulates tumorigenic and metastatic properties through the Akt/PKB signaling pathway in both murine and human melanoma. Furthermore, p32 silencing attenuates melanoma tumor progression and lung metastasis in vivo, modulating the tumor microenvironment by inhibiting the angiogenesis, infiltration of macrophages, and leukocytes in mice. Taken together, our findings identify that p32 drives melanoma progression, metastasis, and regulates the tumor microenvironment. p32 can be a target of a novel therapeutic approach in the regulation of melanoma progression and metastasis.
34725364 | Gait performance of adolescent mice assessed by the CatWalk XT depends on age, strain and sex and correlates with speed and body weight. The automatization of behavioral tests assessing motor activity in rodent models is important for providing robust and reproducible results and evaluating new therapeutics. The CatWalk system is an observer-independent, automated and computerized technique for the assessment of gait performance in rodents. This method has previously been used in adult rodent models of CNS-based movement disorders such as Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases. As motor and gait abnormalities in neuropsychiatric disorders are observed during infancy and adolescence, it became important to validate the CatWalk XT in the gait analysis of adolescent mice and unravel factors that may cause variations in gait performance. Three adolescent wild-type inbred mouse strains, C57BL/6N, DBA/2 and FVB/N, were tested using the CatWalk XT (Version 10.6) for suitable detection settings to characterize several gait parameters at P32 and P42. The same detection settings being suitable for C57BL/6N and DBA/2 mice allowed a direct comparison between the two strains. On the other hand, due to their increased body weight and size, FVB/N mice required different detection settings. The CatWalk XT reliably measured the temporal, spatial, and interlimb coordination parameters in the investigated strains during adolescence. Additionally, significant effects of sex, development, speed and body weight within each strain confirmed the sensitivity of motor and gait functions to these factors. The CatWalk gait analysis of rodents during adolescence, taking the effect of age, strain, sex, speed and body weight into consideration, will decrease intra-laboratory discrepancies and increase the face validity of rodent models of neuropsychiatric disorders.
34938155 | Developmental Exposure to a Human-Relevant Polychlorinated Biphenyl Mixture Causes Behavioral Phenotypes That Vary by Sex and Genotype in Juvenile Mice Expressing Human Mutations That Modulate Neuronal Calcium. Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are putative environmental risks for neurodevelopmental disorders. Here, we tested two hypotheses: (1) developmental exposure to a human-relevant PCB mixture causes behavioral phenotypes relevant to neurodevelopmental disorders; and (2) expression of human mutations that dysregulate neuronal Ca2+ homeostasis influence sensitivity to behavioral effects of developmental PCB exposures. To test these hypotheses, we used mice that expressed a gain-of-function mutation (T4826I) in ryanodine receptor 1 (RYR1), the X-linked fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) CGG repeat expansion or both mutations (double mutant; DM). Transgenic mice and wildtype (WT) mice were exposed to the MARBLES PCB mix at 0, 0.1, 1, and 6 mg/kg/day in the maternal diet throughout gestation and lactation. The MARBLES PCB mix simulates the relative proportions of the 12 most abundant PCB congeners found in the serum of pregnant women at increased risk for having a child with a neurodevelopmental disorder. We assessed ultrasonic vocalizations at postnatal day 7 (P7), spontaneous repetitive behaviors at P25-P30, and sociability at P27-P32. Developmental PCB exposure reduced ultrasonic vocalizations in WT litters in all dose groups, but had no effect on ultrasonic vocalizations in transgenic litters. Developmental PCB exposure significantly increased self-grooming and decreased sociability in WT males in the 0.1 mg/kg dose group, but had no effect on WT females in any dose group. Genotype alone influenced ultrasonic vocalizations, self-grooming and to a lesser extent sociability. Genotype alone also influenced effects of PCBs on sociability. PCB levels in the brain tissue of pups increased in a dose-dependent manner, but within any dose group did not differ between genotypes. In summary, developmental PCB exposure phenocopied social behavior phenotypes observed in mice expressing human mutations that modify intracellular Ca2+ dynamics, and expression of these mutations alleviated PCB effects on ultrasonic vocalizations and repetitive behavior, and modified the dose-response relationships and sex-dependent effects of PCB effects on social behavior. These findings suggest that: (1) developmental PCB exposure causes behavioral phenotypes that vary by sex and genotype; and (2) sex-specific responses to environmental factors may contribute to sex biases in the prevalence and/or severity of neurodevelopmental disorders.
35122996 | Sevoflurane induced neurotoxicity in neonatal mice links to a GSK3beta/Drp1-dependent mitochondrial fission and apoptosis. Mitochondria damage and apoptosis were found associated with sevoflurane induced neurotoxicity in developing brains of rodent and neuro cell lines. The detailed upstream mechanism remains unclear. This study explored whether sevoflurane induces neurotoxicity by activating a GSK3beta (glycogen synthase kinase 3beta)/Drp1 (dynamin-related protein-1)-dependent mitochondrial fission and apoptosis. Our results showed that sevoflurane exposure promoted mitochondria fission in hippocampus of neonatal mice, resulted in a prolonged escape latency from P32 (32-day-postnatal) to P35, and decreased platform crossing times on P36 as compared to the control treatment. Additionally, sevoflurane upregulated GSK3beta stability and activation, promoted phosphorylation of Drp1 at Ser616 along with its translocation to mitochondria and resulted in increasing cytochrome c and cleaved casepase-3 in hippocampus of neonatal mice and in human SK-N-SH cells. Simultaneously, sevoflurane promoted the interaction between Drp1 and GSK3beta. Furthermore, GSK3beta activated phosphorylation of Drp1 at Ser616, induced mitochondrial fission, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and apoptosis in SK-N-SH cells, which was attenuated by TDZD-8, an inhibitor of GSK3beta. In conclusion, sevoflurane induced neurotoxicity links to a GSK3beta/Drp1 dependent mitochondrial fission and apoptosis.
35337150 | In Vitro and In Vivo Evaluation of a Cyclic LyP-1-Modified Nanosystem for Targeted Endostatin Delivery in a KYSE-30 Cell Xenograft Athymic Nude Mice Model. This work investigated the use of LyP-1 as a homing peptide for p32 receptor targeting on the surface of an endostatin (ENT)-loaded chitosan-grafted nanosystem intended for intracellular delivery of ENT and mitochondrial targeting in a squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) cell line (KYSE-30) model. The angiogenic factors for VEGF-C and MMP2 were assessed with in vivo evaluation of the nanosystem upon ENT release and tumor necrosis in nude mice with a KYSE-30 cell xenograft. The LyP-1-modified nanosystem revealed a three-fold decrease in proliferation at 1000 microg/mL compared with the control and facilitated receptor-mediated cellular uptake and internalization. In addition, targeting of the Lyp-1-functionalized nanosystem to mitochondrial and nuclear proteins in vitro and in vivo was achieved. Up to 60% inhibition of KYSE-30 cell migration was observed and the expressions of VEGF-C and MMP-2 as angiogenic markers were reduced 3- and 2-fold, respectively. A marked reduction in tumor mass was recorded (43.25%) with the control, a 41.36% decrease with the nanoparticles and a 61.01% reduction with the LyP-1-modified nanosystem following treatment in mice. The LyP-1-functionalized nanosystem targeted tumor lymphatics, instigated nuclear rupture and mitochondrial distortion, and decreased cell proliferation and migration with inhibition of VEGF-C and MMP2 expression.
36425142 | Effect of thioredoxin on the immunogenicity of the recombinant P32 protein of lumpy skin disease virus. Background and Aim: The rapid spread of lumpy skin disease (LSD) globally poses a serious threat to the agricultural sector. The timely and accurate diagnosis of the disease is crucial to control LSD. This study aimed to determine the effect of thioredoxin on the immunogenicity of the recombinant P32 (rP32) protein of LSD virus (LSDV). Since the P32 protein is poorly soluble, it is often expressed by adding an auxiliary sequence of a highly soluble partner protein such as thioredoxin. Materials and Methods: The P32 gene fragment was amplified using a polymerase chain reaction from genomic DNA used as a template. The resulting DNA fragments were cloned into the pET32a vector, and transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) cells through electroporation. Purification of the rP32 protein was performed using a HisTrap column. Purified rP32 protein fused with thioredoxin (rP32Trx) was characterized by western blotting, liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry and indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Results: Indirect ELISA revealed that, despite the lower molecular weight, the main part of the antibodies in the serum of immunized mice was directed against thioredoxin and not the target P32 protein. Thus, the antibody titers against rP32Trx were 1:102400, whereas antibody titers against heterologous recombinant 3BTrx and PD1Trx proteins were 1:25600 and 1:51200, respectively. Concurrently, the antibodies did not bind to the heterologous recombinant PD1 protein, which did not contain thioredoxin. Conclusion: The results showed that the rP32 protein fused with the partner protein thioredoxin could not be used to obtain polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. However, the recombinant fusion protein rP32Trx can be used to develop a serological test to detect antibodies, since antibodies against thioredoxin were not detected in the animal sera.
36495605 | Spatial and temporal alterations of developing oligodendrocytes induced by repeated sevoflurane exposure in neonatal mice. The general anesthesia associated with long-term cognitive impairment has been causing the concern of the whole society. In particular, repeated anesthetic exposures may affect executive function, processing speed, and fine motor skills, which all directly depended on the functions of oligodendrocytes, myelin, and axons. However, the underlying mechanisms are still largely unknown. To investigate the spatial and temporal alterations in oligodendrocytes in the corpus callosum (CC) and hippocampus following repeated sevoflurane exposures (3%, for 2 h) from postnatal day 6 (P6) to P8, we used immunofluorescence, Western blot, and a battery of behavioral tests. As previously stated, we confirmed that early anesthetic exposures hampered both cognitive and motor performance during puberty in the rotarod and banes tests. Intriguingly, we discovered that the proliferation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) was immediately enhanced after general anesthesia in the CC and hippocampus from P8 to P32. From P8 through P15, the overall oligodendrocyte population remained constant. However, along with the structural myelin abnormalities, the matured oligodendrocytes statistically reduced in the CC (from P15) and hippocampus (from P32). Administration of clemastine, which could induce OPC differentiation and myelin formation, significantly increased matured oligodendrocytes and promoted myelination and cognition. Collectively, we first demonstrated the bi-directional influence of early sevoflurane exposures on oligodendrocyte maturation and proliferation, which contributes to the cognitive impairment induced by general anesthesia. These findings illustrated the dynamic changes in oligodendrocytes in the developing brain following anesthetic exposures, as well as possible therapeutic strategies for multiple general anesthesia associated cognitive impairment.
36590588 | Identification of novel immune-related targets mediating disease progression in acute pancreatitis. Introduction: Acute pancreatitis (AP) is an inflammatory disease with very poor outcomes. However, the order of induction and coordinated interactions of systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and compensatory anti-inflammatory response syndrome (CARS) and the potential mechanisms in AP are still unclear. Methods: An integrative analysis was performed based on transcripts of blood from patients with different severity levels of AP (GSE194331), as well as impaired lung (GSE151572), liver (GSE151927) and pancreas (GSE65146) samples from an AP experimental model to identify inflammatory signals and immune response-associated susceptibility genes. An AP animal model was established in wild-type (WT) mice and Tlr2-deficient mice by repeated intraperitoneal injection of cerulein. Serum lipase and amylase, pancreas impairment and neutrophil infiltration were evaluated to assess the effects of Tlr2 in vivo. Results: The numbers of anti-inflammatory response-related cells, such as M2 macrophages (P = 3.2 x 10-3), were increased with worsening AP progression, while the numbers of pro-inflammatory response-related cells, such as neutrophils (P = 3.0 x 10-8), also increased. Then, 10 immune-related AP susceptibility genes (SOSC3, ITGAM, CAMP, FPR1, IL1R1, TLR2, S100A8/9, HK3 and MMP9) were identified. Finally, compared with WT mice, Tlr2-deficient mice exhibited not only significantly reduced serum lipase and amylase levels after cerulein induction but also alleviated pancreatic inflammation and neutrophil accumulation. Discussion: In summary, we discovered SIRS and CARS were stimulated in parallel, not activated consecutively. In addition, among the novel susceptibility genes, TLR2might be a novel therapeutic target that mediates dysregulation of inflammatory responses during AP progression.
37129099 | Drug suspending during wound healing effectively weakens immunosuppression-related complications by preserving CD8+ T cell function. Immunosuppressive medications, which interfere with the activation and proliferation of T and B cells, increase the risk of wound healing complications. To address it, this study aimed to validate the feasibility of drug suspending during wound healing, whilst exploring the mechanisms exerted by T cells, which are important in the wound healing process. For this, a mouse skin wound model was set up. Tacrolimus (FK506) and fingolimod (FTY720) were both administered intraperitoneally prior to wounding to inhibit the T cell activation and migration, respectively. Flow-cytometric analysis subsequently revealed the functional T cell subtypes detected during the healing process. A CD8a antibody was also administered to deplete CD8+ T cells in vivo to verify their specific function. It was found that FK506 or FTY720 administration delayed the early phase of wound healing by reducing collagen production, which was also supported by the downregulation of col1a1, col3a1 and tgfb1. However, there was no significant difference in the total healing period. Both spleen- and skin-derived CD8+ T cells were proliferated and activated after injury without intervention, whereas CD4+ T cells showed no significant changes. Furthermore, selectively depleting CD8+ T cells retarded the healing process by downregulating collagen production-associated genes (col1a1, col3a1, tgfbeta1 and en1) and proteins (collagen type 1 and 3). In addition, the CD8a antibody decreased the expression of genes lta, tnfa, il13 and il13ra, and protein interleukin-13Ralpha. In conclusion, suspending immunosuppressive drugs during wound healing was shown to be feasible through restraining the migration of activated T cells. CD8+ T cells represented the primary functional subtype positively associated with wound healing.
37217189 | Preclinical safety evaluation of a bivalent inactivated EV71-CA16 vaccine in mice immunized intradermally. Hand, foot and mouth disease is a common acute viral infectious disease that poses a serious threat to the life and health of young children. With the development of an effective inactivated EV71 vaccine, CA16 has become the main pathogen causing HFMD. Effective and safe vaccines against this disease are urgently needed. In our previous study, a bivalent inactivated vaccine was shown to have good immunogenicity and to induce neutralizing antibodies in mice and monkeys. Repeated administration toxicity is a critical safety test in the preclinical evaluation of vaccines. In this study, BALB/c mice were used to evaluate the toxicity of the bivalent vaccine after multiple intradermal administrations. Clinical observation was performed daily, and body weight, food intake, hematological characteristics, serum biochemical parameters, antinuclear antibodies, CD4+/CD8a+ T-cell proportions, bone marrow smear results and pathology results were recorded. The results showed that there was no significant change at the injection site and no adverse reactions related to the vaccine. The bivalent inactivated EV71-CA16 vaccine exhibits good safety in mice, and these results provide a sufficient basis for further clinical trials.
37264710 | A Dual-Targeting Liposome Enhances Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Chemoimmunotherapy through Inducing Immunogenic Cell Death and Inhibiting STAT3 Activation. Immunotherapy gains increasing focus in treating triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), while its efficacy is greatly restricted owing to low tumor immunogenicity and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (ITM). Herein, a LyP-1 and chondroitin sulfate (CS) dual-modified liposome co-loaded with paclitaxel (PTX) and cryptotanshinone (CTS), namely CS/LyP-1-PC Lip, is engineered for TNBC chemoimmunotherapy via induction of immunogenic cell death (ICD) and inhibition of signal transducer and activator of transcript-3 (STAT3) activation. CS/LyP-1-PC Lip enhances cellular uptake through p32 and CD44 dual receptor-mediated endocytosis. Within the tumor, the CS layer is continuously detached by hyaluronidase to release drugs. Subsequently, CTS sensitizes the cytotoxicity of PTX to 4T1 tumor cells. PTX induces ICD of tumor cells and facilitates infiltration of cytotoxic T lymphocyte to provoke immune response. Meanwhile, the concomitant delivery of CTS inhibits STAT3 activation to decrease infiltration of regulatory T cell, M2-type tumor-associated macrophage, and myeloid-derived suppressor cell, thus reversing ITM. Markedly, the dual-targeting liposome shows superior anti-tumor efficacy in subcutaneous TNBC mice and significant lung metastasis suppression in tumor metastasis model. Overall, this work offers a feasible combination regimen and a promising nanoplatform for the development of TNBC chemoimmunotherapy.
37532798 | Dopamine transporter blockade during adolescence increases adult dopamine function, impulsivity, and aggression. Sensitive developmental periods shape neural circuits and enable adaptation. However, they also engender vulnerability to factors that can perturb developmental trajectories. An understanding of sensitive period phenomena and mechanisms separate from sensory system development is still lacking, yet critical to understanding disease etiology and risk. The dopamine system is pivotal in controlling and shaping adolescent behaviors, and it undergoes heightened plasticity during that time, such that interference with dopamine signaling can have long-lasting behavioral consequences. Here we sought to gain mechanistic insight into this dopamine-sensitive period and its impact on behavior. In mice, dopamine transporter (DAT) blockade from postnatal (P) day 22 to 41 increases aggression and sensitivity to amphetamine (AMPH) behavioral stimulation in adulthood. Here, we refined this sensitive window to P32-41 and identified increased firing of dopaminergic neurons in vitro and in vivo as a neural correlate to altered adult behavior. Aggression can result from enhanced impulsivity and cognitive dysfunction, and dopamine regulates working memory and motivated behavior. Hence, we assessed these behavioral domains and found that P32-41 DAT blockade increases impulsivity but has no effect on cognition, working memory, or motivation in adulthood. Lastly, using optogenetics to drive dopamine neurons, we find that increased VTA but not SNc dopaminergic activity mimics the increase in impulsive behavior in the Go/NoGo task observed after adolescent DAT blockade. Together our data provide insight into the developmental origins of aggression and impulsivity that may ultimately improve diagnosis, prevention, and treatment strategies for related neuropsychiatric disorders.
37572797 | HDACs Alters Negatively to The Tumor Immune Microenvironment in Gynecologic Cancers. The role of histone deacetylases (HDACs) in the tumor immune microenvironment of gynecologic tumors remains unexplored. We integrated data from The Cancer Genome Atlas and Human Protein Atlas to examine HDAC expression in breast, cervical, ovarian, and endometrial cancers. Elevated HDAC expression correlated with poor prognosis and highly malignant cancer subtypes. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis revealed positive associations between HDAC expression and tumor proliferation signature, while negative associations were found with tumor inflammation signature. Increased HDAC expression was linked to reduced infiltration of natural killer (NK), NKT, and CD8+ T cells, along with negative associations with the expression of PSMB10, NKG7, CCL5, CD27, HLA-DQA1 and HLA-DQB1. In a murine 4T1 breast cancer model, treatment with suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA; HDAC inhibitor) and PD-1 antibody significantly inhibited tumor growth and infiltration of CD3+ and CD8+ T cells. Real-time polymerase chain reaction revealed upregulated expressions of Psmb10, Nkg7, Ccl5, Cd8a, Cxcr6, and Cxcl9 genes, while Ctnnb1 and Myc genes were inhibited, indicating tumor suppression and immune microenvironment activation. Our study revealed that HDACs play tumor-promoting and immunosuppressive roles in gynecologic cancers, suggesting HDAC inhibitors as potential therapeutic agents for these cancers.
37625993 | Bacterial ghost cell based bivalent candidate vaccine against Salmonella Typhi and Salmonella Paratyphi A: A prophylactic study in BALB/c mice. Typhoid and emerging paratyphoid fever are a severe enteric disease worldwide with high morbidity and mortality. Licensed typhoid vaccines are in the market, but no paratyphoid vaccine is currently available. In the present study we developed a bivalent vaccine against Salmonella Typhi and Paratyphi A using a bacterial ghost platform. Bacterial ghost cells (BGs) are bacteria-derived cell membranes without cytoplasmic contents that retain their cellular morphology, including all cell surface features. Furthermore, BGs have inherent adjuvant properties that promote an enhanced humoral and cellular immune reaction to the target antigen. Sodium hydroxide was used to prepare ghost cells of Salmonella Typhi and Paratyphi A. The bacterial ghost cells were characterised using electron microscopy. Then BALB/c mice were immunized three times (0th, 14th and 28th day) with the bivalent typhoidal bacterial ghost cells. Haematological study of adult mice throughout immunization period reflected that the immunogen was safe to administer and does not affect the animals' health. After complete immunization, we found significant serum antibody titter against whole cell lysate, outer membrane protein and lipopolysaccharide of both bacteria, and cell-mediated immunity was observed in an ex-vivo experiment. CD4+, CD8a+ and CD19+ splenic cell populations were increased in immunized animals. Bivalent Typhoidal ghost cell immunized mice showed better survival, less bacterial colonization in systemic organs, and less inflammation and/or destruction of tissue in histopathological analysis than non-immunized control mice.Serum antibodies of immunized animals can significantly inhibit bacterial motility and mucin penetration ability with better killing properties against Salmonella Typhi and Paratyphi A. Furthermore, significant passive protection was observed through the adoptive transfer of serum antibody and lymphocytes of immunized animals to naive animals after bacterial infection. In summary, Bivalent Typhoidal Bacterial Ghost cells (BTBGs) enhances immunogenic properties and serves as a safe and effective prevention strategy against Salmonella Typhi and Paratyphi A.
37634288 | Innate and adaptive immune gene expression in the brain is associated with neuropathological changes after infection with bovine alpha-herpesvirus-5 in mice. Bovine alpha herpesvirus-5 (BoAHV-5) is related to the development of meningoencephalitis in cattle. Very little is known about the molecular pathways involved in the central nervous system (CNS) damage associated with inflammation during BoHV-5 infection in mice. To better identify the specific immunological pathways triggered by BoAHV-5 infection in mice, we evaluated the mRNA expression of 84 genes involved in innate and adaptive immune responses. We compared gene expression changes in the cerebrum from noninfected and infected mice with BoHV-5 at a 1 x 107 TCID50. Then, we analyzed the association of these genes with neurological signs, neuropathology, and activation of glial cells in response to BoHV-5 infection. Three days after BoAHV-5 infection, increased expression of TNF, IL-2, CXCL10, CXCR3, CCR4, CCL5, IFN-gamma, IL-10, IRF7, STAT1, MX1, GATA 3 C3, LIZ2, caspase-1 and IL-1b was found. We also observed the upregulated expression of the CD8a, TBX21 and CD40LG genes and the downregulated expression of the CD4 gene after BoAHV-5 infection. In addition, BoHV-5-infected animals showed higher levels of all the evaluated inflammatory mediators (TNF, IFN-gamma and IL-10) on day 3 postinfection. BoAHV-5-infected animals showed neurological changes along with meningoencephalitis, neuropil vacuolation, hemorrhage and reactive gliosis. Astrogliosis and microgliosis, indicated by increased expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 (Iba-1), were found throughout the neuropil in infected brains. Moreover, cleaved caspase-3 immunopositive glio-inflammatory cells were visualized around some blood vessels in areas of neuroinflammation in the cerebrum. In agreement on that we found higher cleaved caspase-3 and Iba-1 expression evaluated by western blot analysis in the brains of infected mice compared to control mice. In conclusion, our results revealed.
37662951 | Comparative transcriptomics of porcine liver-resident CD8alphadim, liver CD8alphahigh and circulating blood CD8alphahigh NK cells reveals an intermediate phenotype of liver CD8alphahigh NK cells. Liver-resident NK (lrNK) cells have been studied in humans as well as in mice. Unfortunately, important differences have been observed between murine and human lrNK cells, complicating the extrapolation of data obtained in mice to man. We previously described two NK cell subsets in the porcine liver: A CD8alphahigh subset, with a phenotype much like conventional CD8alphahigh NK cells found in the peripheral blood, and a specific liver-resident CD8alphadim subset which phenotypically strongly resembles human lrNK cells. These data suggest that the pig might be an attractive model for studying lrNK cell biology. In the current study, we used RNA-seq to compare the transcriptome of three porcine NK cell populations: Conventional CD8alphahigh NK cells from peripheral blood (cNK cells), CD8alphahigh NK cells isolated from the liver, and the liver-specific CD8alphadim NK cells. We found that highly expressed transcripts in the CD8alphadim lrNK cell population mainly include genes associated with the (adaptive) immune response, whereas transcripts associated with cell migration and extravasation are much less expressed in this subset compared to cNK cells. Overall, our data indicate that CD8alphadim lrNK cells show an immature and anti-inflammatory phenotype. Interestingly, we also observed that the CD8alphahigh NK cell population that is present in the liver appears to represent a population with an intermediate phenotype. Indeed, while the transcriptome of these cells largely overlaps with that of cNK cells, they also express transcripts associated with liver residency, in particular CXCR6. The current, in-depth characterization of the transcriptome of porcine liver NK cell populations provides a basis to use the pig model for research into liver-resident NK cells.
37793777 | Improving lysosomal ferroptosis with NMN administration protects against heart failure. Myocardial mitochondria are primary sites of myocardial energy metabolism. Mitochondrial disorders are associated with various cardiac diseases. We previously showed that mice with cardiomyocyte-specific knockout of the mitochondrial translation factor p32 developed heart failure from dilated cardiomyopathy. Mitochondrial translation defects cause not only mitochondrial dysfunction but also decreased nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) levels, leading to impaired lysosomal acidification and autophagy. In this study, we investigated whether nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) administration, which compensates for decreased NAD+ levels, improves heart failure because of mitochondrial dysfunction. NMN administration reduced damaged lysosomes and improved autophagy, thereby reducing heart failure and extending the lifespan in p32cKO mice. We found that lysosomal damage due to mitochondrial dysfunction induced ferroptosis, involving the accumulation of iron in lysosomes and lipid peroxide. The ameliorative effects of NMN supplementation were found to strongly affect lysosomal function rather than mitochondrial function, particularly lysosome-mediated ferroptosis. NMN supplementation can improve lysosomal, rather than mitochondrial, function and prevent chronic heart failure.
37898694 | Shared biomarkers and immune cell infiltration signatures in ulcerative colitis and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. The coexistence of ulcerative colitis (UC) and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) involves a intricate interplay, though the precise pathophysiological mechanisms remain elusive. To shed light on this, our study endeavors to unravel the shared gene signatures and molecular mechanisms by employing quantitative bioinformatics analysis on a publicly available RNA-sequencing database. Gene expression profiles of UC (GSE87466) and NASH (GSE89632) were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were analyzed using R software. After identifying common DEGs, functional enrichment analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis and module construction were performed to obtain candidate hub genes. GSE47908 for UC and GSE159676 for NASH were selected to validate the obtained candidate genes. A total of 119 common DEGs were found in NASH and UC patients. Functional and pathway analyses emphasized that viral infection, inflammation and immune response were enriched in these two diseases. After module construction and validation, CD2, CD8A, GNLY, IFI44, NKG7 and OAS2 were identified as hub genes. 6 hub genes and their combined prediction scores were found with an impressive accuracy and sensitivity. Functional estimation, gene set enrichment analysis and immune infiltration signature identification showed notable associations of the six hub genes with T cells, natural killer cells and type I interferon levels. In addition, we constructed UC combined with NASH mice model successfully with significantly higher expression of hub genes in both liver and colonic tissues than those in control group. Our study elucidates 6 hub genes of UC and NASH, which may participate in immune, inflammatory and antiviral effects. These findings provide some potential biochemical markers for further exploration of UC coexistence with NASH.
37905138 | Microglia are dispensable for experience-dependent refinement of visual circuitry. Microglia are proposed to be critical for the refinement of developing neural circuitry. However, evidence identifying specific roles for microglia has been limited and often indirect. Here we examined whether microglia are required for the experience-dependent refinement of visual circuitry and visual function during development. We ablated microglia by administering the colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) inhibitor PLX5622, and then examined the consequences for retinal function, receptive field tuning of neurons in primary visual cortex (V1), visual acuity, and experience-dependent plasticity in visual circuitry. Eradicating microglia by treating mice with PLX5622 beginning at postnatal day (P) 14 did not alter visual response properties of retinal ganglion cells examined three or more weeks later. Mice treated with PLX5622 from P14 lacked more than 95% of microglia in V1 by P18, prior to the opening of the critical period. Despite the absence of microglia, the receptive field tuning properties of neurons in V1 were normal at P32. Similarly, eradicating microglia did not affect the maturation of visual acuity. Mice treated with PLX5622 displayed typical ocular dominance plasticity in response to brief monocular deprivation. Thus, none of these principal measurements of visual circuit development and function detectibly differed in the absence of microglia. We conclude that microglia are dispensable for experience-dependent refinement of visual circuitry. These findings challenge the proposed critical role of microglia in refining neural circuitry.
37924157 | CD276-CAR T cells and Dual-CAR T cells targeting CD276/FGFR4 promote rhabdomyosarcoma clearance in orthotopic mouse models. BACKGROUND: Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is the most common soft tissue sarcoma in childhood, whose prognosis is still poor especially for metastatic, high-grade, and relapsed RMS. New treatments are urgently needed, especially systemic therapies. Chimeric Antigen Receptor T cells (CAR Ts) are very effective against hematological malignancies, but their efficacy against solid tumors needs to be improved. CD276 (B7-H3) is a target upregulated in RMS and detected at low levels in normal tissues. FGFR4 is a very specific target for RMS. Here, we optimized CAR Ts for these two targets, alone or in combination, and tested their anti-tumor activity in vitro and in vivo. METHODS: Four different single-domain antibodies were used to select the most specific FGFR4-CAR construct. RMS cell killing and cytokine production by CD276- and FGFR4-CAR Ts expressing CD8alpha or CD28 HD/TM domains in combination with 4-1BB and/or CD28 co-stimulatory domains were tested in vitro. The most effective CD276- and FGFR4-CAR Ts were used to generate Dual-CAR Ts. Tumor killing was evaluated in vivo in three orthotopic RMS mouse models. RESULTS: CD276.V-CAR Ts (276.MG.CD28HD/TM.CD28CSD.3zeta) showed the strongest killing of RMS cells, and the highest release of IFN-gamma and Granzyme B in vitro. FGFR4.V-CAR Ts (F8-FR4.CD28HD/TM.CD28CSD.3zeta) showed the most specific killing. CD276-CAR Ts successfully eradicated RD- and Rh4-derived RMS tumors in vivo, achieving complete remission in 3/5 and 5/5 mice, respectively. In CD276low JR-tumors, however, they achieved complete remission in only 1/5 mice. FGFR4 CAR Ts instead delayed Rh4 tumor growth. Dual-CAR Ts promoted Rh4-tumors clearance in 5/5 mice. CONCLUSIONS: CD276- and CD276/FGFR4-directed CAR Ts showed effective RMS cell killing in vitro and eradication of CD276high RMS tumors in vivo. CD276low tumors escaped the therapy highlighting a correlation between antigen density and effectiveness. FGFR4-CAR Ts showed specific killing in vitro but could only delay RMS growth in vivo. Our results demonstrate that combined expression of CD276-CAR with other CAR does not reduce its benefit. Introducing immunotherapy with CD276-CAR Ts in RMS seems to be feasible and promising, although CAR constructs design and target combinations have to be further improved to eradicate tumors with low target expression.
37937368 | Ventral posterolateral and ventral posteromedial thalamocortical neurons have distinct physiological properties. Somatosensory information is propagated from the periphery to the cerebral cortex by two parallel pathways through the ventral posterolateral (VPL) and ventral posteromedial (VPM) thalamus. VPL and VPM neurons receive somatosensory signals from the body and head, respectively. VPL and VPM neurons may also receive cell-type-specific GABAergic input from the reticular nucleus of the thalamus. Although VPL and VPM neurons have distinct connectivity and physiological roles, differences in their functional properties remain unclear as they are often studied as one ventrobasal thalamus neuron population. Here, we directly compared synaptic and intrinsic properties of VPL and VPM neurons in C57Bl/6J mice of both sexes aged P25 - P32. VPL neurons showed greater depolarization-induced spike firing and spike frequency adaptation than VPM neurons. VPL and VPM neurons fired similar numbers of spikes during hyperpolarization rebound bursts, but VPM neurons exhibited shorter burst latency compared to VPL neurons, which correlated with larger sag potential. VPM neurons had larger membrane capacitance and more complex dendritic arbors. Recordings of spontaneous and evoked synaptic transmission suggested that VPL neurons receive stronger excitatory synaptic input, whereas inhibitory synapse strength was stronger in VPM neurons. This work indicates that VPL and VPM thalamocortical neurons have distinct intrinsic and synaptic properties. The observed functional differences could have important implications for their specific physiological and pathophysiological roles within the somatosensory thalamocortical network.
38198970 | Myeloid-specific deletion of group VIA calcium-independent phospholipase A2 induces pro-inflammatory LPS response predominantly in male mice via MIP-1alpha activation. Polymorphisms of group VIA calcium-independent phospholipase A2 (PLA2G6) are associated with blood C-reactive protein suggesting its role in inflammation. We showed that myeloid-specific Pla2g6-deficiency in Pla2g6M-/- mice led to exaggerated inflammation and fibrosis in a lean fatty liver model. We here investigated whether these mutants display alteration in immune response after treatment with E. coli lipopolysaccharides (LPS) under acute (a single dose) and persistent (four doses) conditions. Without LPS treatment, male Pla2g6M-/- (but not Flox) mice at 12 months of age exhibited splenomegaly and hepatic necrosis, and ~ 30 % of them exhibited autoimmune hepatitis showing lymphoplasma cells with CD3(+) and CD45R(+) staining. Under acute LPS, male mutants showed an elevation of plasma MIP-1alpha and immunoglobulinA as well as upregulation of hepatic apoptosis and fibrosis PARP-1, Bax, MCP-1, alpha-SMA, and collagen I proteins. Their bone-marrow-derived macrophages also showed an elevation of MIP-1alpha release upon LPS stimulation in vitro. Female mutants under acute LPS showed a moderate increase in plasma KC/CXCL1, MCP-1, and IL10, and they showed no remarkable increase in hepatic fibrosis under acute or persistent LPS. Male mutants under persistent LPS displayed an elevation of aspartate aminotransferase, blood eosinophils, and hepatic apoptosis. Moreover, ~30 % of these mutants exhibited eosinophilic sclerosing portal hepatitis associated with an upregulated protein expression of hepatic CD8alpha, CD68, eosinophilic cationic protein, and Ly6G. Thus, myeloid-PLA2G6 deficiency led to an autoimmune and LPS-induced inflammatory liver disease via MIP-1alpha in a male-predominant manner. Our results may be applicable to patients with PLA2G6 mutations who undergo bacterial infection and sepsis.
38257177 | Effects of Soy Protein Isolate on Fragile X Phenotypes in Mice. Obesity is a pediatric epidemic that is more prevalent in children with developmental disabilities. We hypothesize that soy protein-based diets increase weight gain and alter neurobehavioral outcomes. Our objective herein was to test matched casein- and soy protein-based purified ingredient diets in a mouse model of fragile X syndrome, Fmr1KO mice. The experimental methods included assessment of growth; 24-7 activity levels; motor coordination; learning and memory; blood-based amino acid, phytoestrogen and glucose levels; and organ weights. The primary outcome measure was body weight. We find increased body weight in male Fmr1KO from postnatal day 6 (P6) to P224, male wild type (WT) from P32-P39, female Fmr1KO from P6-P18 and P168-P224, and female Fmr1HET from P9-P18 as a function of soy. Activity at the beginning of the light and dark cycles increased in female Fmr1HET and Fmr1KO mice fed soy. We did not find significant differences in rotarod or passive avoidance behavior as a function of genotype or diet. Several blood-based amino acids and phytoestrogens were significantly altered in response to soy. Liver weight was increased in WT and adipose tissue in Fmr1KO mice fed soy. Activity levels at the beginning of the light cycle and testes weight were greater in Fmr1KO versus WT males irrespective of diet. DEXA analysis at 8-months-old indicated increased fat mass and total body area in Fmr1KO females and lean mass and bone mineral density in Fmr1KO males fed soy. Overall, dietary consumption of soy protein isolate by C57BL/6J mice caused increased growth, which could be attributed to increased lean mass in males and fat mass in females. There were sex-specific differences with more pronounced effects in Fmr1KO versus WT and in males versus females.
38283796 | Erzhiwan Ameliorates Restraint Stress- and Monobenzone-Induced Depigmentation in Mice by Inhibiting Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor and 8-Hydroxy-2-Deoxyguanosine. Purpose: Vitiligo is an autoimmune disease that results in the loss of epidermal melanocytes. The treatments for patients with vitiligo remain lacking. Erzhiwan (EZW), a traditional Chinese Medicine composed of Ligustri Lucidi Fructus and Ecliptae Herba, was used to ameliorate depigmentation since ancient China. This study aims to investigate the effect of EZW on vitiligo-related depigmentation. Methods: A vitiligo-related depigmentation mouse model was induced by monobenzone and restraint stress. The experimental depigmentation mice were treated with EZW. Histological observation of skin was conducted. Cutaneous oxidative damage and inflammation were determined. A network pharmacology analysis was carried out. Results: EZW reduced depigmentation score (p<0.01), cutaneous inflammatory infiltration (p<0.01), and CD8alpha-positive expression (p<0.01), and increased cutaneous melanin content in experimental depigmentation mice. EZW reduced stress reaction in experimental depigmentation mice (p<0.01). EZW inhibited 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG)-related DNA oxidative damage in the skin (p<0.05, p<0.01). In addition, EZW reduced cutaneous macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF)-CD74-NF-kappaB signaling (p<0.01). The network pharmacology analysis demonstrated that EZW regulated necroptosis, apoptosis, and FoxO signaling pathways in vitiligo. An in vitro experiment showed that the main ingredient of EZW, specnuezhenide, protected against monobenzone and MIF-induced cell death in HaCaT cells (p<0.01). Conclusion: EZW ameliorates restraint stress- and monobenzone-induced depigmentation via the inhibition of MIF and 8-OHdG signaling. The findings provide a data basis of an utilization of EZW in vitiligo.
38348045 | Lung single-cell RNA profiling reveals response of pulmonary capillary to sepsis-induced acute lung injury. Background: Sepsis-induced acute lung injury (ALI) poses a significant threat to human health. Endothelial cells, especially pulmonary capillaries, are the primary barriers against sepsis in the lungs. Therefore, investigating endothelial cell function is essential to understand the pathophysiological processes of sepsis-induced ALI. Methods: We downloaded single-cell RNA-seq expression data from GEO with accession number GSE207651. The mice underwent cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) surgery, and lung tissue samples were collected at 0, 24, and 48 h. The cells were annotated using the CellMarker database and FindAllMarkers functions. GO enrichment analyses were performed using the Metascape software. Gene set enrichment Analysis (GSEA) and variation Analysis (GSVA) were performed to identify differential signaling pathways. Differential expression genes were collected with the \FindMarkers\ function. The R package AUCell was used to score individual cells for pathway activities. The Cellchat package was used to explore intracellular communication. Results: Granulocytes increased significantly as the duration of endotoxemia increased. However, the number of T cells, NK cells, and B cells declined. Pulmonary capillary cells were grouped into three sub-clusters. Capillary-3 cells were enriched in the sham group, but declined sharply in the CLP.24 group. Capillary-1 cells peaked in the CLP.24 group, while Capillary-2 cells were enriched in the CLP.48 group. Furthermore, we found that Cd74+ Capillary-3 cells mainly participated in immune interactions. Plat+ Capillary-1 and Clec1a+ Capillary-2 are involved in various physiological processes. Regarding cell-cell interactions, Plat+ Capillary-1 plays the most critical role in granulocyte adherence to capillaries during ALI. Cd74+ Capillary cells expressing high levels of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and mainly interacted with Cd8a+ T cells in the sham group. Conclusion: Plat+ capillaries are involved in the innate immune response through their interaction with neutrophils via ICAM-1 adhesion during endotoxemia, while Cd74+ capillaries epxressed high level of MHC proteins play a role in adaptive immune response through their interaction with T cells. However, it remains unclear whether the function of Cd74+ capillaries leans towards immunity or tolerance, and further studies are needed to confirm this.
38351322 | Distinct ontogenetic lineages dictate cDC2 heterogeneity. Conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) include functionally and phenotypically diverse populations, such as cDC1s and cDC2s. The latter population has been variously subdivided into Notch-dependent cDC2s, KLF4-dependent cDC2s, T-bet+ cDC2As and T-bet- cDC2Bs, but it is unclear how all these subtypes are interrelated and to what degree they represent cell states or cell subsets. All cDCs are derived from bone marrow progenitors called pre-cDCs, which circulate through the blood to colonize peripheral tissues. Here, we identified distinct mouse pre-cDC2 subsets biased to give rise to cDC2As or cDC2Bs. We showed that a Siglec-H+ pre-cDC2A population in the bone marrow preferentially gave rise to Siglec-H- CD8alpha+ pre-cDC2As in tissues, which differentiated into T-bet+ cDC2As. In contrast, a Siglec-H- fraction of pre-cDCs in the bone marrow and periphery mostly generated T-bet- cDC2Bs, a lineage marked by the expression of LysM. Our results showed that cDC2A versus cDC2B fate specification starts in the bone marrow and suggest that cDC2 subsets are ontogenetically determined lineages, rather than cell states imposed by the peripheral tissue environment.
38395884 | Magnetic resonance imaging-based approaches for detecting the efficacy of combining therapy following VEGFR-2 and PD-1 blockade in a colon cancer model. BACKGROUND: Angiogenesis inhibitors have been identified to improve the efficacy of immunotherapy in recent studies. However, the delayed therapeutic effect of immunotherapy poses challenges in treatment planning. Therefore, this study aims to explore the potential of non-invasive imaging techniques, specifically intravoxel-incoherent-motion diffusion-weighted imaging (IVIM-DWI) and blood oxygenation level-dependent magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD-MRI), in detecting the anti-tumor response to the combination therapy involving immune checkpoint blockade therapy and anti-angiogenesis therapy in a tumor-bearing animal model. METHODS: The C57BL/6 mice were implanted with murine MC-38 cells to establish colon cancer xenograft model, and randomly divided into the control group, anti-PD-1 therapy group, and combination therapy group (VEGFR-2 inhibitor combined with anti-PD-1 antibody treatment). All mice were imaged before and, on the 3rd, 6th, 9th, and 12th day after administration, and pathological examinations were conducted at the same time points. RESULTS: The combination therapy group effectively suppressed tumor growth, exhibiting a significantly higher tumor inhibition rate of 69.96% compared to the anti-PD-1 group (56.71%). The f value and D* value of IVIM-DWI exhibit advantages in reflecting tumor angiogenesis. The D* value showed the highest correlation with CD31 (r = 0.702, P = 0.001), and the f value demonstrated the closest correlation with vessel maturity (r = 0.693, P = 0.001). While the BOLD-MRI parameter, R2* value, shows the highest correlation with Hif-1alpha(r = 0.778, P < 0.001), indicating the capability of BOLD-MRI to evaluate tumor hypoxia. In addition, the D value of IVIM-DWI is closely related to tumor cell proliferation, apoptosis, and infiltration of lymphocytes. The D value was highly correlated with Ki-67 (r = - 0.792, P < 0.001), TUNEL (r = 0.910, P < 0.001) and CD8a (r = 0.918, P < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The combination of VEGFR-2 inhibitors with PD-1 immunotherapy shows a synergistic anti-tumor effect on the mouse colon cancer model. IVIM-DWI and BOLD-MRI are expected to be used as non-invasive approaches to provide imaging-based evidence for tumor response detection and efficacy evaluation.
38475814 | CD19/CD20 dual-targeted chimeric antigen receptor-engineered natural killer cells exhibit improved cytotoxicity against acute lymphoblastic leukemia. BACKGROUND: Chimeric antigen receptor natural killer (CAR-NK) cells represent a promising advancement in CAR cell therapy, addressing limitations observed in CAR-T cell therapy. However, our prior study revealed challenges in CAR-NK cells targeting CD19 antigens, as they failed to eliminate CD19+ Raji cells in NSG tumor-bearing mice, noting down-regulation or loss of CD19 antigen expression in some Raji cells. In response, this study aims to enhance CD19 CAR-NK cell efficacy and mitigate the risk of tumor recurrence due to target antigen escape by developing CD19 and CD20 (CD19/CD20) dual-targeted CAR-NK cells. METHODS: Initially, mRNA encoding anti-CD19 CARs (FMC63 scFv-CD8alpha-4-1BB-CD3zeta) and anti-CD20 CARs (LEU16 scFv-CD8alpha-4-1BB-CD3zeta) was constructed via in vitro transcription. Subsequently, CD19/CD20 dual-targeted CAR-NK cells were generated through simultaneous electrotransfection of CD19/CD20 CAR mRNA into umbilical cord blood-derived NK cells (UCB-NK). RESULTS: Following co-electroporation, the percentage of dual-CAR expression on NK cells was 86.4% +- 1.83%, as determined by flow cytometry. CAR expression was detectable at 8 h post-electric transfer, peaked at 24 h, and remained detectable at 96 h. CD19/CD20 dual-targeted CAR-NK cells exhibited increased specific cytotoxicity against acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cell lines (BALL-1: CD19+CD20+, REH: CD19+CD20-, Jurkat: CD19-CD20-) compared to UCB-NK, CD19 CAR-NK, and CD20 CAR-NK cells. Moreover, CD19/CD20 dual-targeted CAR-NK cells released elevated levels of perforin, IFN-gamma, and IL-15. Multiple activation markers such as CD69 and cytotoxic substances were highly expressed. CONCLUSIONS: The creation of CD19/CD20 dual-targeted CAR-NK cells addressed the risk of tumor escape due to antigen heterogeneity in ALL, offering efficient and safe 'off-the-shelf' cell products. These cells demonstrate efficacy in targeting CD20 and/or CD19 antigens in ALL, laying an experimental foundation for their application in ALL treatment.
38605414 | Chitin-mediated blockade of chitinase-like proteins reduces tumor immunosuppression, inhibits lymphatic metastasis and enhances anti-PD-1 efficacy in complementary TNBC models. BACKGROUND: Chitinase-like proteins (CLPs) play a key role in immunosuppression under inflammatory conditions such as cancer. CLPs are enzymatically inactive and become neutralized upon binding of their natural ligand chitin, potentially reducing CLP-driven immunosuppression. We investigated the efficacy of chitin treatment in the context of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) using complementary mouse models. We also evaluated the immunomodulatory influence of chitin on immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) and compared its efficacy as general CLP blocker with blockade of a single CLP, i.e. chitinase 3-like 1 (CHI3L1). METHODS: Female BALB/c mice were intraductally injected with luciferase-expressing 4T1 or 66cl4 cells and systemically treated with chitin in combination with or without anti-programmed death (PD)-1 ICB. For single CLP blockade, tumor-bearing mice were treated with anti-CHI3L1 antibodies. Metastatic progression was monitored through bioluminescence imaging. Immune cell changes in primary tumors and lymphoid organs (i.e. axillary lymph nodes and spleen) were investigated through flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, cytokine profiling and RNA-sequencing. CHI3L1-stimulated RAW264.7 macrophages were subjected to 2D lymphatic endothelial cell adhesion and 3D lymphatic integration in vitro assays for studying macrophage-mediated lymphatic remodeling. RESULTS: Chitin significantly reduced primary tumor progression in the 4T1-based model by decreasing the high production of CLPs that originate from tumor-associated neutrophils (TANs) and Stat3 signaling, prominently affecting the CHI3L1 and CHI3L3 primary tumor levels. It reduced immunosuppressive cell types and increased anti-tumorigenic T-cells in primary tumors as well as axillary lymph nodes. Chitin also significantly reduced CHI3L3 primary tumor levels and immunosuppression in the 66cl4-based model. Compared to anti-CHI3L1, chitin enhanced primary tumor growth reduction and anti-tumorigenicity. Both treatments equally inhibited lymphatic adhesion and integration of macrophages, thereby hampering lymphatic tumor cell spreading. Upon ICB combination therapy, chitin alleviated anti-PD-1 resistance in both TNBC models, providing a significant add-on reduction in primary tumor and lung metastatic growth compared to chitin monotherapy. These add-on effects occurred through additional increase in CD8alpha+ T-cell infiltration and activation in primary tumor and lymphoid organs. CONCLUSIONS: Chitin, as a general CLP blocker, reduces CLP production, enhances anti-tumor immunity as well as ICB responses, supporting its potential clinical relevance in immunosuppressed TNBC patients.
1901941 | Stereospecific alignment of the X and Y elements is required for major histocompatibility complex class II DRA promoter function. The regulatory mechanisms controlling expression of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II genes involve several cis-acting DNA elements, including the X and Y boxes. These two elements are conserved within all murine and human class II genes and are required for accurate and efficient transcription from MHC class II promoters. Interestingly, the distance between the X and Y elements is also evolutionarily conserved at 18 to 20 bp. To investigate the function of the invariant spacing in the human MHC class II gene, HLA-DRA, we constructed a series of spacing mutants which alters the distance between the X and Y elements by integral and half-integral turns of the DNA helix. Transient transfection of the spacing constructs into Raji cells revealed that inserting integral turns of the DNA helix (+20 and +10 bp) did not reduce promoter activity, while inserting or deleting half-integral turns of the DNA helix (+15, +5, and -5 bp) drastically reduced promoter activity. The loss of promoter function in these half-integral turn constructs was due neither to the inability of the X and Y elements to bind proteins nor to improper binding of the X- and Y-box-binding proteins. These data indicate that the X and Y elements must be aligned on the same side of the DNA helix to ensure normal function. This requirement for stereospecific alignment strongly suggests that the X- and Y-box-binding proteins either interact directly or are components of a larger transcription complex which assembles on one face of the DNA double helix.
3115247 | Biochemical aspects of constitutive and facultative expression of MHC class II molecules at the pre- and posttranslational level. Biosynthetic properties of Ia antigens derived from B cells, from T cell clone BK-BI-2.6.C6 and from rIFN-gamma induced bone marrow macrophages (BMMO) were evaluated before and after translation. Gross features of B and T cell Ia were found to be very similar. At the pretranslational level no obvious differences were noticed. Following translation in both cases alpha, beta heterodimers associate noncovalently with invariant proteins of the gamma-chain group. These proteins, in particular the principal gamma-chain (p32) become the target of extensive posttranslational modification by sialic acid. The effect is much more pronounced in T cells than in B cells. Unlike in B cells, at the cell surface the bulk of terminally glycosylated gamma-chain (p35) remains attached to the alpha, beta isotypic complexes. This finding renders such T cells very useful for studies on the possible role of the invariant chain during antigen presentation. In BMMO rIFN-gamma elicited high levels of transcripts of polymorphic alpha, beta and invariant gamma chains. However, translation of the polymorphic subunits and their expression at the cell surface occurred in substantial amounts in the total absence of invariant chains. This finding argues against the notion of gamma being required for assembly of alpha, beta isotypes and their intracellular transport to and expression at the plasma membrane.
9348308 | Specific activation of the cysteine protease CPP32 during the negative selection of T cells in the thymus. Cysteine proteases of the CED-3 and ICE family have been recently proposed as the ultimate executioners in several mammalian cell death pathways. Among them, the cysteine protease CPP32 has been shown to participate in programmed cell death (PCD), or apoptosis, affecting lymphoid cells in vitro. In the thymus, negative selection is a mechanism through which developing thymocytes expressing a TcR with high affinity for self peptide-MHC complexes are eliminated by PCD. In order to investigate the role of CPP32 in thymic apoptosis, isolated thymocytes were submitted to cell surface CD3 crosslinking by immobilized anti-CD3 mAb or to dexamethasone treatment. Although apoptosis occurred in the absence or after crosslinking with anti-CD3 mAb, specific activation of CPP32, as assessed by the extent of proteolytic cleavage of the p32 zymogen, was only detected in thymocytes cultured in the presence of the immobilized antibody or dexamethasone. This activation was a very early event during apoptosis as it occurred before the exposure of phosphatidyl serine to the upper side of the cell membrane. This was observed both in anti-CD3- and dexamethasone-induced apoptosis. Moreover, using mice transgenic for pigeon cytochrome C (PCC)-specific TcR, we were able to show that, after injection of PCC, the activation of CPP32 and cleavage of its substrate occurred in thymocytes obtained from mice expressing a permissive MHC haplotype for PCC presentation (H-2k). Moreover, PCC induced apoptosis was blocked by the caspase inhibitor zVAD. While spontaneous apoptosis was not accompanied by detectable levels of CPP32 processing, it was characterized by the proteolysis of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and was blocked by the cysteine protease inhibitor, zVAD-CH2F. Taken together, these results support the concept that CPP32 is among the earliest effectors of the pathway leading to negative selection of autoreactive thymocytes. Our results also suggest the involvement of a distinct CPP32-like cysteine protease in spontaneous apoptosis of thymocytes.
19853635 | Comparative 90-day dietary study of paraffin wax in Fischer-344 and Sprague-Dawley rats. Highly refined mineral hydrocarbons (MHCs) such as low melting point paraffin wax (LMPW) and low viscosity white oils can cause inflammatory changes in the liver and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) of the Fischer-344 (F-344) rat. In contrast, only minimal MLN changes are seen in the Sprague-Dawley (S-D) rat with no changes in the liver. In this study, the response of female F-344 and S-D rats was compared after 90days dietary treatment with 0%, 0.2% or 2% LMPW. Effects in the F-344 rats were significantly greater than in the S-D rats: increased liver and splenic weights and inflammatory changes (hepatic microgranulomas) in these tissues were observed only in the F-344 rats. Microgranulomas in the MLNs were observed in both strains but the effects were substantially greater in the F-344 rats. Cellular markers of inflammation were examined in a subset of rats from each group using immunohistochemical staining. An increase in staining for CD3 (T-cells), CD8a (suppresser/cytotoxic T-cells) and CD4 (helper T-cells) correlated with an increase in lymphoid cells in the livers of treated F-344 rats. The majority of macrophages in the hepatic microgranulomas of treated F-344 rats were negative for the ED2 marker, indicating a likely origin from non-resident macrophages. Electron microscopy showed Kupffer cell hypertrophy and hyperplasia in treated F-344 rats. However, lysozyme staining (indicating activation of epithelioid macrophages) decreased with increasing granuloma size. Non-ED2 expressing cells may have been recruited but not sufficiently activated to be lysozyme positive. Inflammatory changes in the cardiac mitral valve noted in previous studies of LMPW were also seen in the F-344 rats in this study but not in the S-D rats. Chemical analysis showed that MHC accumulated in livers from treated F-344 but not S-D rats and the concentration was more than 2-fold greater in MLNs from the F-344 than from the S-D rats. The F-344 appears to be more immunologically sensitive to a number of agents than other rat strains and the results of this study suggest that this may contribute, along with pharmacokinetic differences, to the inflammatory response of F-344 rats to dietary MHCs.
21963575 | A novel experimental in vivo model of cerebral immunomodulation induced by inactivated Staphylococcus epidermidis. The genesis and appropriate treatment of neuroinflammation in various infectious and non-infectious disorders of the central nervous system is still a matter of debate. We introduce an alternative and simple experimental model for the investigation of the cellular inflammatory response to bacterial antigens by stereotactic intracerebral injection of heat-inactivated Staphylococcus epidermidis (HISE). HISE-injection resulted in well-circumscribed intraparenchymal deposits encompassed by an early micro- and astroglial response and a selective but sustained opening of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). After 24h, the HISE collections were densely infiltrated by granulocytes and few circumjacent macrophages that became the predominating immunocompetent cell type from day 4 on. CD8a+ lymphocytes peaked at day 4, whereas CD4+ and CD20+ lymphocytes increased gradually in number, developing a scattered infiltrate until day 17, indicating the initiation of an adaptive immune response. MHC class II presenting cells were abundantly recruited from day 1 and eventually shaped an increasingly dense accumulation within the lesion. Intracerebral HISE administration provides a controlled, highly reproducible and well defined influx of immunocompetent cells across the BBB leading to a distinct and condensed inflammatory reaction. The technique is straightforward, easily feasible and may significantly enable further investigations of the initiation, maintenance and therapeutic modulation of acute neuroinflammation.
24921432 | Porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide upregulates insulin secretion from pancreatic beta cell line MIN6. BACKGROUND: A close association between periodontitis and diabetes has been demonstrated in human cross-sectional studies, but an exact relationship between periodontitis and prediabetes has not been established. Previous studies using animal model systems consistently have shown that hyperinsulinemia occurs in animals with periodontitis compared to animals with healthy periodontium (while maintaining normoglycemia). Because bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of periodontitis, we hypothesized that LPS may stimulate insulin secretion through a direct effect on beta cell function. To test this hypothesis, pancreatic beta cell line MIN6 cells were used to determine the effect of Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg) LPS on insulin secretion. Furthermore, expression of genes altered by Pg LPS in innate immunity and insulin-signaling pathways was determined. METHODS: MIN6 cells were grown in medium with glucose concentration of normoglycemia (5.5 mM). Pg LPS was added to each well at final concentrations of 50, 200, and 500 ng/mL. Insulin secretion was measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Gene expression levels altered by Pg LPS were determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) array for mouse innate and adaptive immunity response and mouse insulin-signaling pathways, and results were confirmed for specific genes of interest by quantitative PCR. RESULTS: Pg LPS stimulated insulin secretion in the normoglycemic condition by  1.5- to 3.0-fold depending on the concentration of LPS. Pg LPS treatment altered the expression of several genes involved in innate and adaptive immune response and insulin-signaling pathway. Pg LPS upregulated the expression of the immune response-related genes cluster of differentiation 8a (Cd8a), Cd14, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (Icam1) by about two-fold. LPS also increased the expression of two insulin signaling-related genes, glucose-6-phosphatase catalytic subunit (G6pc) and insulin-like 3 (Insl3), by three- to four-fold. CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated for the first time that Pg LPS stimulates insulin secretion by pancreatic beta cell line MIN cells. Pg LPS may have significant implications on the development of beta cell compensation and insulin resistance in prediabetes in individuals with periodontitis.
25013909 | Intraperitoneal administration of a tumor-associated antigen SART3, CD40L, and GM-CSF gene-loaded polyplex micelle elicits a vaccine effect in mouse tumor models. Polyplex micelles have demonstrated biocompatibility and achieve efficient gene transfection in vivo. Here, we investigated a polyplex micelle encapsulating genes encoding the tumor-associated antigen squamous cell carcinoma antigen recognized by T cells-3 (SART3), adjuvant CD40L, and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) as a DNA vaccine platform in mouse tumor models with different types of major histocompatibility antigen complex (MHC). Intraperitoneally administrated polyplex micelles were predominantly found in the lymph nodes, spleen, and liver. Compared with mock controls, the triple gene vaccine significantly prolonged the survival of mice harboring peritoneal dissemination of CT26 colorectal cancer cells, of which long-term surviving mice showed complete rejection when re-challenged with CT26 tumors. Moreover, the DNA vaccine inhibited the growth and metastasis of subcutaneous CT26 and Lewis lung tumors in BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice, respectively, which represent different MHC haplotypes. The DNA vaccine highly stimulated both cytotoxic T lymphocyte and natural killer cell activities, and increased the infiltration of CD11c+ DCs and CD4+/CD8a+ T cells into tumors. Depletion of CD4+ or CD8a+ T cells by neutralizing antibodies deteriorated the anti-tumor efficacy of the DNA vaccine. In conclusion, a SART3/CD40L+GM-CSF gene-loaded polyplex micelle can be applied as a novel vaccine platform to elicit tumor rejection immunity regardless of the recipient MHC haplotype. 
26871478 | Mutanome and expression of immune response genes in microsatellite stable colon cancer. The aim of this study was to analyze the impact of the mutanome in the prognosis of microsatellite stable stage II CRC tumors. The exome of 42 stage II, microsatellite stable, colon tumors (21 of them relapse) and their paired mucosa were sequenced and analyzed. Although some pathways accumulated more mutations in patients exhibiting good or poor prognosis, no single somatic mutation was associated with prognosis. Exome sequencing data is also valuable to infer tumor neoantigens able to elicit a host immune response. Hence, putative neoantigens were identified by combining information about missense mutations in each tumor and HLAs genotypes of the patients. Under the hypothesis that neoantigens should be correctly presented in order to activate the immune response, expression levels of genes involved in the antigen presentation machinery were also assessed. In addition, CD8A level (as a marker of T-cell infiltration) was measured. We found that tumors with better prognosis showed a tendency to generate a higher number of immunogenic epitopes, and up-regulated genes involved in the antigen processing machinery. Moreover, tumors with higher T-cell infiltration also showed better prognosis. Stratifying by consensus molecular subtype, CMS4 tumors showed the highest association of expression levels of genes involved in the antigen presentation machinery with prognosis. Thus, we hypothesize that a subset of stage II microsatellite stable CRC tumors are able to generate an immune response in the host via MHC class I antigen presentation, directly related with a better prognosis. 
27042761 | A higher aspect ratio enhanced bioaccumulation and altered immune responses due to intravenously-injected aluminum oxide nanoparticles. Aluminum oxide nanoparticles (AlO NP) have been widely utilized in a variety of areas, including in the optical, biomedical and electronic fields and in the overall development of nanotechnologies. However, their toxicological profiles are still not fully developed. This study compared the distribution and immunotoxicity of two rod-types of AlO NP. As reported previously, the two types of AlO NP had different aspect ratios (long-type: 6.2 +- 0.6, short-type: 2.1 +- 0.4), but the size and surface charge were very similar. On Day 14 after a single intravenous (IV) injection (1.25 or 5 mg/kg), both AlO NP accumulated primarily in the liver and spleen and altered the levels of redox response-related elements. The accumulated level was higher in mice exposed to the long-type AlO NP compared to the short-type. Additionally, it was noted that the levels of IL-1beta, IL-8 and MCP-1 were enhanced in the blood of mice exposed to both types of AlO NP and the percentages of neutrophils and monocytes among all white blood cells were increased only in mice injected with the long-type AlO NP (5 mg/kg). In addition, as compared to the control, co-expression of CD80 and CD86 (necessary for antigen presentation) on splenocytes together with a decreased expression of chemotaxis-related marker (CD195) was attenuated by exposure to the AlO NP, especially the long-type. Taken together, the data suggest that accumulation following a single IV injection with rod-types of AlO NP is strengthened by a high aspect ratio and, subsequently, this accumulation has the potential to influence immune functions in an exposed host.
28242001 | Comparative study of the vaccine potential of six outer membrane proteins of Edwardsiella tarda and the immune responses of flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus) after vaccination. To obtain effective vaccine candidates for Edwardsiella tarda, six outer membrane proteins (OMPs) of E. tarda were selected and recombinantly expressed. Western blotting analysis showed that flounder anti-E. tarda serum could recognize rOmpV, rOmpK, rOmpX and rOmpI, but not rOmpH and rOmpR. Immunization of flounder with different rOMPs resulted in high levels of protection following the E. tarda challenge with relative percent survivals (RPS) of 92.1% (rOmpI), 84.2% (rOmpX), 68.4% (rOmpK), 60.5% (rOmpV), 57.9% (rOmpH) and 39.5% (rOmpR). Meanwhile, the immune response of flounder induced by rOMPs was investigated, and the results showed that: (1) The levels of specific antibodies against E. tarda induced by rOmpI and rOmpX were significantly higher at weeks 3 and 4 post-vaccination than those of the other rOMPs; (2) all six rOMPs could induce the proliferation of sIg+ lymphocytes, and the peaks of sIg+ lymphocytes in the blood and spleen of rOmpI-, rOmpX- and rOmpH-vaccinated fish were significantly higher than those of other rOMPs; (3) all six rOMPs could induce up-regulation of the MHC IIalpha, CD4-1, CD4-2, CD8alpha, CD8beta, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma genes. Among them, the mRNA levels of the CD4-1 and CD4-2 genes induced by rOmpI and rOmpX were generally higher than those induced by the other rOMPs, while there was no significant difference in the expression of TLR2, TLR5M and MHC Ialpha between the rOMPs-vaccinated group and control group. These results demonstrate that rOmpI and rOmpX could produce a RPS of over 80% against the challenge of E. tarda and induce stronger immune responses in flounder, which indicates that OmpI and OmpX are promising vaccine candidates against E. tarda infection.
28455608 | Expansion of CD11b+Ly6Ghigh and CD11b+CD49d+ myeloid cells with suppressive potential in mice with chronic inflammation and light-at-night-induced circadian disruption. OBJECTIVE: Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) are important negative regulators of immune processes in cancer and other pathological conditions. We suggested that MDSCs play a key role in pathogenesis of chronic inflammation, which precedes and, to a certain extent, induces carcinogenesis. The present study aimed at investigation of MDSCs arising during chronic inflammation and light-at-night (LN)-induced stress, which is shown to accelerate chronic diseases. SUBJECTS: 67 CD-1 mice and in vitro MDSC cultures. TREATMENT: Adjuvant arthritis was induced by a subdermal injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. LN was induced by illumination of 750 lx at night. METHODS: Flow cytometry for evaluation of cell phenotypes and MTT standard test for cell proliferation were used. RESULTS: Increased levels of splenic CD11b+Ly6Ghigh and CD11b+CD49d+ myeloid cells possessing suppressive potential in mice with adjuvant arthritis are shown. LN amplifies the process of CD11b+Ly6Ghigh expansion in mice with adjuvant arthritis. Expression of CD62L and CD195 is elevated on the myeloid cells during exposure to LN. CONCLUSIONS: Our study raises the possibility that CD11b+Ly6Ghigh and CD11b+CD49d+ MDSCs play an important role in the induction of immunosuppressive environment typical for chronic inflammation. Also, LN can affect immune responses during chronic inflammation through recruitment of MDSCs from the bone marrow.
28587645 | Transcriptome profiling of Staphylococci-infected cow mammary gland parenchyma. BACKGROUND: Genome-wide gene expression profiling allows for identification of genes involved in the defense response of the host against pathogens. As presented here, transcriptomic analysis and bioinformatics tools were applied in order to identify genes expressed in the mammary gland parenchyma of cows naturally infected with coagulase-positive and coagulase-negative Staphylococci. RESULTS: In cows infected with coagulase-positive Staphylococci, being in 1st or 2nd lactation, 1700 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified. However, examination of the 3rd or 4th lactations revealed 2200 DEGs. Gene ontology functional classification showed the molecular functions of the DEGs overrepresented the activity of cytokines, chemokines, and their receptors. In cows infected with coagulase-negative Staphylococci, in the 1st or 2nd lactations 418 DEGs, while in the 3rd or 4th lactations, 1200 DEGs were identified that involved in molecular functions such as protein, calcium ion and lipid binding, chemokine activity, and protein homodimerization. Gene network analysis showed DEGs associated with inflammation, cell migration, and immune response to infection, development of cells and tissues, and humoral responses to infections caused by both types of Staphylococci. CONCLUSION: A coagulase-positive Staphylococci infection caused a markedly stronger host response than that of coagulase-negative, resulting in vastly increased DEGs. A significant increase in the expression of the FOS, TNF, and genes encoding the major histocompatibility complex proteins (MHC) was observed. It suggests these genes play a key role in the synchronization of the immune response of the cow's parenchyma against mastitis-causing bacteria. Moreover, the following genes that belong to several physiological pathways (KEGG pathways) were selected for further studies as candidate genes of mammary gland immune response for use in Marker Assisted Selection (MAS): chemokine signaling pathway (CCL2, CXCL5, HCK, CCR1), cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) pathway (BOLA-DQA2, BOLA-DQA1, F11R, ITGAL, CD86), antigen processing and presentation pathway (CD8A, PDIA3, LGMN, IFI30, HSPA1A), and NOD-like receptor signaling pathway (TNF, IL8, IL18, NFKBIA).
28670908 | Effects of Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG on the maturation and differentiation of dendritic cells in rotavirus-infected mice. Rotavirus-related diarrhoea is considered one of the most important diseases in field animal production. In addition to the classic vaccine strategy, a number of studies have utilised probiotics, such as Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG), to prevent rotavirus-induced diarrhoea. Although it has been partially revealed that Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are involved in the LGG-mediated protection against rotavirus infection, the details of the underlying immunologic mechanisms remain largely unknown. In this study, three-to-four-week-old female BALB/c mice were divided into three groups and orally administered phosphate buffered saline (PBS), PBS plus rotavirus or LGG plus rotavirus, respectively. The differentiation and maturation of dendritic cells (DCs) were then determined by FACS, the expression levels of TLR-3 and nuclear factor kappa beta (NF-kappaB) were evaluated using real time PCR, and the production of inflammatory cytokines in mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) were determined by ELISA. The results demonstrated that rotavirus infection significantly increased the percentage of CD11c+CD11b+CD8a- DCs and decreased the percentage of CD11c+CD11b-CD8a+ DCs in MLNs. By contrast, the presence of LGG significantly decreased the percentage of CD11c+CD11b+CD8a- DCs and increased the percentage of CD11c+CD11b-CD8a+ DCs, which indicates that the differentiation of DCs is involved in the protective effects of LGG. Rotavirus infection also resulted in the increased expression of surface markers such as CD40, CD80 and MHC-II in DCs, and the administration of LGG significantly increased the expression level further. The mRNA levels of TLR-3 and NF-kappaB in the intestine and MLNs were also significantly increased in the presence of rotavirus, which was further increased in the presence of LGG. The production of inflammatory cytokines was also determined, and the results showed that rotavirus caused the increased production of interleukin (IL)-12 and tumour necrosis factor alpha; this effect was further enhanced by LGG. Meanwhile, although rotavirus infection led to the increased production of IL-6 and IL-10, the presence of LGG significantly decreased the mRNA levels of these cytokines. By contrast, rotavirus infection resulted in the decreased production of interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), and the administration of LGG significantly increased the levels of IFN-gamma. Taken together, the protective effects of LGG were partially due to the modulation of the differentiation and maturation of DCs, the increased production of TLR-3 and NF-kappaB, and the modulation of inflammatory cytokines.
28853313 | Immunomodulatory effects of heat-killed Mycobacterium obuense on human blood dendritic cells. Heat-killed (HK) Mycobacterium obuense is a novel immunomodulator, currently undergoing clinical evaluation as an immunotherapeutic agent in the treatment of cancer. Here, we examined the effect of in vitro exposure to HK M. obuense on the expression of different categories of surface receptors on human blood myeloid (m) and plasmacytoid (p) DCs. Moreover, we have characterized the cytokine and chemokine secretion patterns of purified total blood DCs stimulated with HK M. obuense. HK M. obuense significantly up-regulated the expression of CD11c, CD80, CD83, CD86, CD274 and MHC class II in whole-blood mDCs and CD80, CD123 and MHC class II in whole-blood pDCs. Down-regulation of CD195 expression in both DC subpopulations was also noted. Further analysis showed that HK M. obuense up-regulated the expression of CD80, CD83 and MHC class II on purified blood DC subpopulations. TLR2 and TLR1 were also identified to be engaged in mediating the HK M. obuense-induced up-regulation of surface receptor expression on whole blood mDCs. In addition, our data demonstrated that HK M. obuense augmented the secretion of CCL4, CCL5, CCL22, CXCL8, IL-6, IL-12p40 and TNF-alpha by purified total blood DCs. Taken together, our data suggest that HK M. obuense exerts potent differential immunomodulatory effects on human DC subpopulations.
30031032 | Cigarette smoke condensate may disturb immune function with apoptotic cell death by impairing function of organelles in alveolar macrophages. Considering that cigarette smoke condensate (CSC) is primarily absorbed through the alveoli in the lungs, herein, we used a mouse alveolar macrophage cell line (MH-S cells). After 24 h exposure, CSC decreased dose-dependently cell viability accompanying an increase in intracellular ROS and NO level. CSC structurally or functionally damaged organelles including mitochondria, ER and lysosome and enhanced the expression of proteins related to apoptosis, ER stress and DNA damage accompanying an elevated proportion of annexin V-bound cells. Meanwhile, the expression of certain proteins related to mitochondrial dynamics (OPA1 and DRP1) and autophagy (ATG5) did not overall show significant dose-dependent change in cells exposed to CSC. More importantly, conversion of LC3-I to LC3B-II, a representative marker for autophagy, was also unclear. Considering that intracellular organelles work together in harmony to perform defense mechanism against foreign bodies, we investigated changes in immune response following CSC exposure. The level of IFN-gamma and MIP-1alpha was elevated in CSC-exposed cells, whereas the MCP-1alpha level decreased. The expression of chemokine receptors (CD195 and CXCR2) and an adhesion molecule (CD54) increased by CSC treatment, the expression of certain antigen presentation-related proteins (MHC class II, CD40, and CD80) were also enhanced. Meanwhile, the expression of CD86, a co-stimulatory molecule for antigen presentation, dose-dependently decreased. In conclusion, we suggest that CSC may induce apoptotic cell death and disturbance in host defense mechanisms by impairing function of cellular components.
30038050 | Two HLA Class II Gene Variants Are Independently Associated with Pediatric Osteosarcoma Risk. Background: The genetic etiology of osteosarcoma remains poorly understood despite the publication of a genome-wide association study. Association between HLA genetic variants and risk of several cancers has been observed, but HLA variation is not well captured by standard SNP arrays.Methods: We genotyped 207 Californian pediatric osteosarcoma cases and 696 controls of European ancestry using a custom genome-wide array supplemented with approximately 6,000 additional probes across the MHC region. We subsequently imputed 4-digit classical HLA alleles using a reference panel of 5,225 individuals who underwent high-resolution HLA typing via next-generation sequencing. Case-control comparisons were adjusted for ancestry-informative principal components, and top associations from the discovery analysis underwent replication in an independent dataset of 657 cases and 1,183 controls.Results: Three highly correlated HLA class II variants (r 2 = 0.33-0.98) were associated with osteosarcoma risk in discovery analyses, including HLA-DRB1*0301 (OR = 0.52; P = 3.2 x 10-3), HLA-DQA1*0501 (OR = 0.74; P = 0.031), and HLA-DQB1*0201 (OR = 0.51; P = 2.7 x 10-3). Similar associations were observed in the replication data (P range = 0.011-0.037). Meta-analysis of the two datasets identified HLA-DRB1*0301 as the most significantly associated variant (ORmeta = 0.62; P meta = 1.5 x 10-4), reaching Bonferroni-corrected statistical significance. The meta-analysis also revealed a second significant independent signal at HLA-DQA1*01:01 (ORmeta = 1.33, P meta = 1.2 x 10-3), and a third suggestive association at HLA-DQB1*0302 (ORmeta = 0.73, P meta = 6.4 x 10-3).Conclusions: Multiple independent HLA class II alleles may influence osteosarcoma risk.Impact: Additional work is needed to extend our observations to other patient populations and to clarify the potential causal mechanisms underlying these associations. Understanding immunologic contributions to the etiology of osteosarcoma may inform rational therapeutic targets. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev; 27(10); 1151-8.  2018 AACR.
31646061 | Molecular profiling of primary uveal melanomas with tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. In contrast to other cancers, the presence of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in uveal melanoma is associated with a poor prognosis. However, how TILs may promote disease progression and what regulates their infiltration has not yet been established. To address these clinically relevant outstanding questions, T cell, immune regulatory, and chemokine gene expression profiles of 57 enucleated uveal melanoma tumors were compared, encompassing 27 with TILs and 30 without,. Tumors with infiltrating lymphocytes expressed more CD8A mRNA, as well as IFNG, TGFB1, and FOXP3 transcripts. Other T helper associated cytokines and T helper transcription factors were not differentially expressed, nor were mediators of lymphocyte cytotoxicity. The immune inhibitors INDO, PDCA1, CTLA4, and LAG3, and the non-classical MHC Class I target of CD8+ T regulatory cells, HLA-E, were significantly higher in tumors with TILs. FAS was also significantly higher. The C-C chemokine ligands CCL4, CCL5, and CCL20 were higher in tumors with TILs. Levels of CCL5 were most strongly correlated with levels of CD8A. Chemokine receptors were not differentially expressed. Molecular profiling of uveal melanoma tumors with TILs supports the existence of an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment and suggests roles for CD8+ regulatory T cells, as well as specific chemokines, in fostering uveal melanoma disease progression.
32816604 | Autophagic protein ATG5 controls antiviral immunity via glycolytic reprogramming of dendritic cells against respiratory syncytial virus infection. Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a leading cause of respiratory tract infections in infants. Macroautophagy/autophagy is a catalytic metabolic process required for cellular homeostasis. Although intracellular metabolism is important for immune responses in dendritic cells, the link between autophagy and immunometabolism remains unknown. Here, we show that the autophagy-related protein ATG5 regulates immunometabolism. Atg5-deficient mouse dendritic cells showed increased CD8A+ T-cell response and increased secretion of proinflammatory cytokines upon RSV infection. Transcriptome analysis showed that Atg5 deficiency alters the expression of metabolism-related genes. Atg5-deficient dendritic cells also showed increased activation of glycolysis and the AKT-MTOR-RPS6KB1 pathway and decreased mitochondrial activity, all of which are cellular signatures for metabolic activation. These cells also showed elevated CD8A+ T-cell priming and surface major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I expression. Our results suggested that ATG5 regulated host immune responses by modulating dendritic cell metabolism. These findings may help develop potential antiviral therapies that alter host immunity by regulating autophagy and immunometabolism.Abbreviations : 2-DG: 2-deoxyglucose; AAK1: AP2 associated kinase 1; AKT: AKT serine/threonine kinase; AM: alveolar macrophage; ATG: autophagy; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BAL: bronchoalveolar lavage; BMDC: bone marrow dendritic cell; CSF2/GM-CSF: colony-stimulating factor 2 (granulocyte-macrophage); CTL: cytotoxic T lymphocyte; ELISA: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GSEA: gene-set enrichment analysis; H-2Db: H-2 class I histocompatibility antigen, D-B alpha chain; H-2Kb: MHC class I H2-K-b; HIF1A: hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha; IFNG: interferon-gamma; IL: interleukin; ITGAX: integrin alpha X; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MHC: major histocompatibility complex; MTORC1: mammalian target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; PBS: phosphate-buffered saline; PFU: plaque-forming unit; RLR: retinoic acid-inducible-I-like receptor; ROS: reactive oxygen species; RPMI: Roswell Park Memorial Institute; RPS6KB1/S6K: ribosomal protein S6 kinase, polypeptide 1; RSV: respiratory syncytial virus; Th: T helper; TLR: toll-like receptor; Treg: regulatory T cells; UMAP: uniform manifold approximation and projection.
34011522 | Th17 Cells Contribute to the Pathology of Autoimmune Hypophysitis. Autoimmune hypophysitis is classified as primary if its origin is idiopathic and secondary if it develops as a consequence of treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors. Expanding use of immunotherapy has been paralleled by the increasing hypophysitis prevalence. However, understanding of the immune responses driving the disease remains limited. Using a mouse model of primary hypophysitis, we have identified CD4+ T lymphocytes to be the main pituitary-infiltrating immune cell population. Functional analysis showed that they display a Th17 and Th1/Th17 phenotype. To examine involvement of proinflammatory Th1, Th17, and Th1/17 subsets in hypophysitis, we have isolated RNA from the formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded pituitary specimens from 16 hypophysitis patients (three of whom had hypophysitis secondary to immune checkpoint inhibitors), 10 patients with adenoma, and 23 normal pituitaries obtained at autopsy. Transcript levels of IFN-gamma, IL-17A, IL-4, IL-10, TGF-beta, CD4, CD8alpha, and class II MHC transactivator were analyzed by the reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). Pituitary glands of patients with hypophysitis showed significantly higher IL-17A, CD4, and class II MHC transactivator mRNA levels compared with adenoma and normal pituitaries. All three secondary hypophysitis patients showed detectable IL-17A levels, but other cytokines were not detected in their pituitaries. Levels of IFN-gamma, IL-4, IL-10, and TGF-beta did not differ between the groups. TGF-beta transcript was found in significantly fewer hypophysitis pituitaries (2 out of 16) compared with adenoma (7 out of 10) and normal pituitaries (11 out of 23). Presence of TGF-beta in two hypophysitis patients was associated with significantly lower IL-17A mRNA levels compared with hypophysitis patients with no detectable TGF-beta (p = 0.03).
34015493 | Functional characterization of VscCD, an important component of the type III secretion system of Vibrio harveyi. Vibrio harveyi is a Gram-negative bacterium that occurs widely in the ocean and a kind of pathogenic bacteria associated with vibriosis in grouper. We investigated whether the VscCD protein of the type III secretion system (T3SS) was important for pathogenicity of V. harveyi. Mutations to the vscC and vscD genes (DeltavscCD) and complementation of the DeltavscCD mutant (C-DeltavscCD) were created. Moreover, the biological characteristics of the wild-type (WT) and mutant strains of V. harveyi 345 were compared. The results showed that deletion of the vscCD genes had no effect on bacterial growth, swimming/swarming ability, secretion of extracellular protease, or biofilm formation. However, as compared with the V. harveyi 345: pMMB207 (WT+) and complementary (C-DeltavscCD) strains, the DeltavscCD: pMMB207 (DeltavscCD+) mutant displayed decreased resistance to acid stress, H2O2, and antibiotics. In addition, infection of the pearl gentian grouper ( Epinephelus fuscoguttatus x  Epinephelus lanceolatu) showed that as compared with the WT+ and C-DeltavscCD strains, the DeltavscCD+ strain significantly reduced cumulative mortality of the host. The colonization ability of the DeltavscCD+ mutant in the spleen and liver tissues of the pearl gentian grouper was significantly lower than that of the WT+ and C-DeltavscCD strains. In the early stage of infection with the DeltavscCD+ strain, the expression levels of IL-1beta, IL-16, TLR3, TNF-alpha, MHC-Ialpha, and CD8alpha were up-regulated to varying degrees. As compared with the WT+ and C-DeltavscCD strains, luxR expression was significantly up-regulated in the DeltavscCD+ strain, while the expression of vcrH and vp1668 was significantly down-regulated. As an important component of the T3SS, VscCD seemed to play a significant role in the pathogenesis of V. harveyi.
34081944 | Immune adjuvant effects of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) of flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus) against Edwardsiella tarda. IFN-gamma plays a key role in T-cell activation and the establishment of the adaptive immune response, which has a potential as a cytokine adjuvant in the context of vaccination. In this study, we evaluated the immune adjuvant effects of two forms of flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus) IFN-gamma, including pcDNA3.1-IFN-gamma (pcIFN-gamma) and recombinant IFN-gamma (rIFN-gamma), and comparatively analyzed the immune responses of flounder to E. tarda subunit vaccine rOmpV. The results showed that vaccination with rOmpV plus pcIFN-gamma or rIFN-gamma produced a relative percent survival of 57% and 71%, respectively, which were significantly higher than that of the control groups, rOmpV plus pcN3 (36%) or rHis (40%). Compared with the two control groups, vaccination with rOmpV plus pcIFN-gamma or rIFN-gamma could induce significantly higher levels of specific serum antibodies and sIg + lymphocytes in peripheral blood, spleen and head kidney, and significantly higher upregulated expressions of CD4-1, CD8alpha, IgM, MHC Ialpha, MHC IIalpha, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha were also detected in rOmpV plus pcIFN-gamma or rIFN-gamma vaccinated fish. In addition, compared with pcIFN-gamma, rOmpV co-vaccination with rIFN-gamma elicited higher levels of sIg + lymphocytes, specific serum antibodies and several immune-related genes expressions in vaccinated flounder. These results demonstrated that rOmpV co-vaccination with rIFN-gamma or pcIFN-gamma could both boost the immune responses and evoke highly protective effects against E. tarda, indicating that flounder IFN-gamma is a promising adjuvant candidate for fish vaccination via an injection administering route.
34330662 | Switched phenotypes of macrophages during the different stages of Schistosoma japonicum infection influenced the subsequent trends of immune responses. BACKGROUND: Macrophages play crucial roles in immune responses during the course of schistosomal infections. METHODS: We currently investigated influence of immunocompetent changes in macrophages via microarray-based analysis, mRNA expression analysis, detection of serum cytokines, and subsequent evaluation of the immune phenotypes following the differentiation of infection-induced lymphocytes in a unique T1/T2 double-transgenic mouse model. RESULTS: The gradual upregulation of genes encoding YM1, YM2, and interleukin (IL)-4/IL-13 receptors in infected mice indicated the role of type 2 alternatively activated macrophages (M2, AAMphis) in immune responses after Schistosoma japonicum egg production. FACS analysis showed that surface markers MHC class II (IA/IE) and CD8alpha+ of the macrophages also exhibited a dramatic change at the various time points before and after egg-production. The transgenic mouse experiments further demonstrated that the shifting of macrophage phenotypes influenced the percentage of helper T (Th)-2 cells, which was observed to be higher than that of Th1 cells, which increased only at 3 and 5 weeks post-infection. The differentiation of effector B cells showed a similar but more significant trend toward type-2 immunity. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the infection of mice with S. japonicum resulted in a final Th2- and Be2-skewed immune response. This may be due to phenotypic changes in the macrophages. The influence of alternatively activated macrophages was also activated by S. japonicum egg production. This study elucidated the existence of variations in immune mechanisms at the schistosome infection stages.
34334971 | Immune gene expression in cyprinid herpesvirus-2 (CyHV-2)-sensitized peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs) co-cultured with CyHV-2-infected goldfish fin cell line. Goldfish is one of the preferred ornamental fish which is highly susceptible to cyprinid herpesvirus-2 (CyHV-2) infection. The present study aimed to analyse immune gene expression in a co-culture of CyHV-2-sensitized goldfish peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs) with CyHV-2-infected fantail goldfish fin cell lines (FtGF). Goldfish were sensitized with intraperitoneal TCID50 dose (107.8+-0.26/mL) of CyHV-2. After 2 weeks, PBLs were collected and co-cultured with CyHV-2-infected FtGF cells keeping both uninfected FtGF cells and PBL control groups. After 2 days of co-culture, WST-1 assay for cell proliferation was performed at 450 nm during the 2nd, 4th and 6th days of co-culture. The results showed a significant increase (p < 0.05) in cell density in CyHV-2-infected PBL and virus-infected FtGF cells during the 4th day post co-culture which confirmed effector cell generation. Expressions of few immune genes were checked taking RNA samples of CyHV-2-induced PBLs post co-culture with infected FtGF cells along with uninfected FtGF cells as control group at different time periods (2nd, 4th and 6th days) in triplicate. The results indicated increased expression of CD8alpha, IFNgamma, b2m, MHC I, LMP 7, IL-10, IL-12 and GATA3 except Tapasin. From the above study, we concluded that goldfish showed both Th1- and Th2-mediated immune responses to CyHV-2. The current findings support the scope for further vaccine development against CyHV-2 for goldfish.
34523824 | Genetic variation in genes regulating skeletal muscle regeneration and tissue remodelling associated with weight loss in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the third leading cause of death globally. COPD patients with cachexia or weight loss have increased risk of death independent of body mass index (BMI) and lung function. We tested the hypothesis genetic variation is associated with weight loss in COPD using a genome-wide association study approach. METHODS: Participants with COPD (N = 4308) from three studies (COPDGene, ECLIPSE, and SPIROMICS) were analysed. Discovery analyses were performed in COPDGene with replication in SPIROMICS and ECLIPSE. In COPDGene, weight loss was defined as self-reported unintentional weight loss > 5% in the past year or low BMI (BMI < 20 kg/m2 ). In ECLIPSE and SPIROMICS, weight loss was calculated using available longitudinal visits. Stratified analyses were performed among African American (AA) and Non-Hispanic White (NHW) participants with COPD. Single variant and gene-based analyses were performed adjusting for confounders. Fine mapping was performed using a Bayesian approach integrating genetic association results with linkage disequilibrium and functional annotation. Significant gene networks were identified by integrating genetic regions associated with weight loss with skeletal muscle protein-protein interaction (PPI) data. RESULTS: At the single variant level, only the rs35368512 variant, intergenic to GRXCR1 and LINC02383, was associated with weight loss (odds ratio = 3.6, 95% confidence interval = 2.3-5.6, P = 3.2 x 10-8 ) among AA COPD participants in COPDGene. At the gene level in COPDGene, EFNA2 and BAIAP2 were significantly associated with weight loss in AA and NHW COPD participants, respectively. The EFNA2 association replicated among AA from SPIROMICS (P = 0.0014), whereas the BAIAP2 association replicated in NHW from ECLIPSE (P = 0.025). The EFNA2 gene encodes the membrane-bound protein ephrin-A2 involved in the regulation of developmental processes and adult tissue homeostasis such as skeletal muscle. The BAIAP2 gene encodes the insulin-responsive protein of mass 53 kD (IRSp53), a negative regulator of myogenic differentiation. Integration of the gene-based findings participants with PPI data revealed networks of genes involved in pathways such as Rho and synapse signalling. CONCLUSIONS: The EFNA2 and BAIAP2 genes were significantly associated with weight loss in COPD participants. Collectively, the integrative network analyses indicated genetic variation associated with weight loss in COPD may influence skeletal muscle regeneration and tissue remodelling.
34613801 | Toll-Like Receptor 4 Regulates Rabies Virus-Induced Humoral Immunity through Recruitment of Conventional Type 2 Dendritic Cells to Lymph Organs. Rabies, caused by rabies virus (RABV), is fatal to both humans and animals around the world. Effective clinical therapy for rabies has not been achieved, and vaccination is the most effective means of preventing and controlling rabies. Although different vaccines, such as live attenuated and inactivated vaccines, can induce different immune responses, different expressions of pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) also cause diverse immune responses. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is a pivotal PRR that induces cytokine production and bridges innate and adaptive immunity. Importantly, TLR4 recognizes various virus-derived pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) and virus-induced damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), usually leading to the activation of immune cells. However, the role of TLR4 in the humoral immune response induced by RABV has not yet been revealed. Based on TLR4-deficient (TLR4-/-) and wild-type (WT) mouse models, we report that TLR4-dependent recruitment of the conventional type 2 dendritic cells (CD8alpha- CD11b+ cDC2) into secondary lymph organs (SLOs) is critical for antigen presentation. cDC2-initiated differentiation of follicular helper T (Tfh) cells promotes the proliferation of germinal center (GC) B cells, the formation of GCs, and the production of plasma cells (PCs), all of which contribute to the production of RABV-specific IgG and virus-neutralizing antibodies (VNAs). Collectively, our work demonstrates that TLR4 is necessary for the recruitment of cDC2 and for the induction of RABV-induced humoral immunity, which is regulated by the cDC2-Tfh-GC B axis. IMPORTANCE Vaccination is the most efficient method to prevent rabies. TLR4, a well-known immune sensor, plays a critical role in initiating innate immune response. Here, we found that TLR4-deficient (TLR4-/-) mice suppressed the induction of humoral immune response after immunization with rabies virus (RABV), including reduced production of VNAs and RABV-specific IgG compared to that occurred in wild-type (WT) mice. As a consequence, TLR4-/- mice exhibited higher mortality than that of WT mice after challenge with virulent RABV. Importantly, further investigation found that TLR4 signaling promoted the recruitment of cDC2 (CD8alpha+ CD11b-), a subset of cDCs known to induce CD4+ T-cell immunity through their MHC-II presentation machinery. Our results imply that TLR4 is indispensable for an efficient humoral response to rabies vaccine, which provides new insight into the development of novel rabies vaccines.
34630435 | Ubiquitin Ligases CBL and CBL-B Maintain the Homeostasis and Immune Quiescence of Dendritic Cells. Dendritic cells (DCs) are composed of multiple lineages of hematopoietic cells and orchestrate immune responses upon detecting the danger and inflammatory signals associated with pathogen and damaged tissues. Under steady-state, DCs are maintained at limited numbers and the functionally quiescent status. While it is known that a fine balance in the DC homeostasis and activation status is also important to prevent autoimmune diseases and hyperinflammation, mechanisms that control DC development and activation under stead-state remain not fully understood. Here we show that DC-specific ablation of CBL and CBL-B (CBL-/-CBL-B-/-) leads to spontaneous liver inflammation and fibrosis and early death of the mice. The mutant mice have a marked expansion of classic CD8alpha+/CD103+ DCs (cDC1s) in peripheral lymphoid organs and the liver. These DCs exhibit atypical activation phenotypes characterized by an increased production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines but not the cell surface MHC-II and costimulatory ligands. While the mutant mice also have massive T cell activation, lymphocytes are not required for the disease development. The CBL-/-CBL-B-/- mutation enhances FLT3-mTOR signaling, due to defective FLT3 ubiquitination and degradation. Blockade of FLT3-mTOR signaling normalizes the homeostasis of cDC1s and attenuates liver inflammation. Our result thus reveals a critical role of CBLs in the maintenance of DC homeostasis and immune quiescence. This regulation could be relevant to liver inflammatory diseases and fibrosis in humans.
35720391 | Post Transplantation Bilirubin Nanoparticles Ameliorate Murine Graft Versus Host Disease via a Reduction of Systemic and Local Inflammation. Allogeneic stem cell transplantation is a curative immunotherapy where patients receive myeloablative chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy, followed by donor stem cell transplantation. Graft versus host disease (GVHD) is a major complication caused by dysregulated donor immune system, thus a novel strategy to modulate donor immunity is needed to mitigate GVHD. Tissue damage by conditioning regimen is thought to initiate the inflammatory milieu that recruits various donor immune cells for cross-priming of donor T cells against alloantigen and eventually promote strong Th1 cytokine storm escalating further tissue damage. Bilirubin nanoparticles (BRNP) are water-soluble conjugated of bilirubin and polyethylene glycol (PEG) with potent anti-inflammatory properties through its ability to scavenge reactive oxygen species generated at the site of inflammation. Here, we evaluated whether BRNP treatment post-transplantation can reduce initial inflammation and subsequently prevent GVHD in a major histocompatibility (MHC) mismatched murine GVHD model. After myeloablative irradiation, BALB/c mice received bone marrow and splenocytes isolated from C57BL/6 mice, with or without BRNP (10 mg/kg) daily on days 0 through 4 post-transplantation, and clinical GVHD and survival was monitored for 90 days. First, BRNP treatment significantly improved clinical GVHD score compared to untreated mice (3.4 vs 0.3, p=0.0003), and this translated into better overall survival (HR 0.0638, p=0.0003). Further, BRNPs showed a preferential accumulation in GVHD target organs leading to a reduced systemic and local inflammation evidenced by lower pathologic GVHD severity as well as circulating inflammatory cytokines such as IFN-gamma. Lastly, BRNP treatment post-transplantation facilitated the reconstitution of CD4+ iNK T cells and reduced expansion of proinflammatory CD8alpha+ iNK T cells and neutrophils especially in GVHD organs. Lastly, BRNP treatment decreased ICOS+ or CTLA-4+ T cells but not PD-1+ T cells suggesting a decreased level of T cell activation but maintaining T cell tolerance. In conclusion, we demonstrated that BRNP treatment post-transplantation ameliorates murine GVHD via diminishing the initial tissue damage and subsequent inflammatory responses from immune subsets.
36276947 | Gene set-based identification of two immune subtypes of diffuse large B cell lymphoma for guiding immune checkpoint blocking therapy. Background: Diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common lymphoma in adults. Tumour microenvironment is closely related to tumour prognosis and immune checkpoint blocking therapy (ICBT). This study aimed to investigate the immunological and prognostic characteristics of the tumour microenvironment (TME), as well as the regulatory mechanisms. Methods: Gene expression profiles and clinical data of patients with DLBCL were obtained from GEO database. ESTIMATE, CIBERSORT, and ssGSEA analyses were used to explore microenvironment characteristics and regulatory mechanism of the immune subtypes, which were identified by consistent clustering. The differences in enriched pathways were showed by GSEA. Hub genes associated with CD8+ T cells, which were identified by WCGNA, were exhibited biological functions through GO and KEGG. Immune-related gene scores (IRGSs) based on hub genes were used to evaluate the prediction of immune subtypes and ICBT, and retrospective analysis was used for validation. Finally, prognostic genes were screened to construct risk models. Results: Consensus clustering divided patients with DLBCL into two subtypes with significant heterogeneities in prognosis and immune microenvironment. Low immune infiltration was associated with poor prognosis. Subtype C1 with high immune infiltration was enriched in multiple immune pathways. We observed that two common mutated genes (B2M and EZH2) in DLBCL were closely related to MHC-I and microenvironment. Our further analysis manifested that MYD88L265P may be the main cause of TLR signalling pathway activation in subtype C1. Hub genes (SH2D1A, CD8A, GBP2, ITK, CD3D, RORA, IL1R2, CD28, CD247, CD3G, PRKCQ, CXCR6, and CD3E) in relation with CD8+ T cells were used to establish IRGS, which was proved an accurate predictor of immune subtypes, and patients in high-IRGS group were more likely to benefit from ICBT. Retrospective analysis showed that absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) was higher in the group that responded to the PD-1 inhibitor. Finally, the risk model was constructed based on two genes (CD3G and CD3D), and the low-risk group showed better prognosis. Conclusion: DLBCL immune classifications with highly heterogeneity are a powerful predictor of prognosis and ICBT. The IRGS is proved to be a reliable tool to distinguish immune subtypes as a substitute for gene expression profile.
36352832 | Immune-enhancing effects of Astragalus polysaccharides and Ganoderma lucidum polysaccharides on Vibrio harveyi flgJ DNA vaccine in grouper. Astragalus polysaccharides (APS) and Ganoderma lucidum polysaccharides (GLP) have been shown to possess strong immunoregulatory properties in aquatic animals. In this study, the fragment containing Vibrio harveyi flgJ gene was ligated into pcDNA3.1(+) vector and pcDNA3.1(+)-flgJ was constructed as DNA vaccine. APS and GLP were used as DNA vaccine adjuvants to evaluate the immunoregulatory effect by intramuscular injection to pearl gentian grouper ( Epinephelus fuscoguttatus x  E. lanceolatus). The results showed that pcDNA3.1(+)-flgJ combined with APS or GLP could significantly up-regulate the innate and adaptive immune response in fish, including serum-specific antibody titres, catalase and lysozyme activities. At the same time, DNA vaccine combined with APS or GLP significantly up-regulated the expression levels of CD8alpha, IgM, IL-1beta, MHC-Ialpha, MyD88 and TLR3 genes in thymus, head kidney, spleen and liver of pearl gentian grouper in comparison with those of the pFlgJ group. After 42 days post-vaccination, V. harveyi was used to challenge pearl gentian grouper by intraperitoneal injection. The relative percentage of survival (RPS) of pFlgJ, pFlgJ +APS, pFlgJ +GLP and pFlgJ+APS+GLP groups were 69%, 81%, 77% and 88%, respectively. These results suggested APS and GLP were potential adjuvants for DNA vaccine against V. harveyi infection in pearl gentian grouper.
37105428 | Cyberlindnera jadinii yeast as a functional protein source for Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.): Early response of intestinal mucosal compartments in the distal intestine. The interplay between nutrition and the immune system is well recognized, and several studies show that experimental diets elicit local morphological changes and alteration of gene and protein expression in the intestinal mucosa of Atlantic salmon. In this study the pathophysiological effects of experimental diets on mucosal responses in the distal intestine of Atlantic salmon were investigated. Atlantic salmon were fed diets with inclusion of soybean meal (SBM) and Cyberlindnera jadinii (CJ) yeast for 7 days. A standard fish meal (FM) diet was used as a control. Morphological, immunohistochemical and gene expression analyses were used to evaluate the presence of immune cells, proliferating cells, and stem cell populations in mucosal compartments of the simple folds in the distal intestine. Fish fed SBM developed morphological changes consistent with SBM induced enteritis. Immunohistochemistry showed an increased presence of apoptotic cells, CD3epsilon and CD8alpha labelled cells in the simple fold epithelium of SBM group compared with the CJ group. For the investigated genes, expression levels in all three groups were mostly higher in the epithelial compartment of the simple fold than in the compartment beneath the folds. Most changes within the epithelial compartment were observed in fish fed SBM, where expression of CD3zeta, CD8alpha, MHC I and MHC II were lower than the FM control group. The CJ group had an increased expression of the stem cell marker Lgr5 in the epithelial compartment compared with SBM group. The division of the simple fold into an apical and basal compartment showed that the increase in Lgr5 was evident along the whole length of the simple folds and not confined to the base of the folds. Similarly, proliferation (PCNA, MCM2) and apoptosis (Caspase-3) gene expression was present in the entire length of the simple folds, suggesting that intestinal epithelial cell turnover is not confined to the basal or apical part of the fold. This study shows that the epithelial compartment is active in the early immunoregulatory response towards dietary stimuli and that the level of an intestinal stem cell marker in salmon was influenced by a diet containing CJ yeast.
37575977 | Identification of Potential Biomarkers of Septic Shock Based on Pathway and Transcriptome Analyses of Immune-Related Genes. Immunoregulation is crucial to septic shock (SS) but has not been clearly explained. Our aim was to explore potential biomarkers for SS by pathway and transcriptional analyses of immune-related genes to improve early detection. GSE57065 and GSE95233 microarray data were used to screen differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in SS. Gene Ontology and KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathway enrichment analyses of DEGs were performed, and correlations between immune cell and pathway enrichment scores were analyzed. The predictive value of candidate genes was evaluated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. GSE66099, GSE4607, and GSE13904 datasets were used for external validation. Blood samples from six patients and six controls were collected for validation by qRT-PCR and western blotting. In total, 550 DEGs in SS were identified; these genes were involved in the immune response, inflammation, and infection. Immune-related pathways and levels of infiltration of CD4 + TCM, CD8 + T cells, and preadipocytes differed between SS cases and controls. Seventeen genes were identified as potential biomarkers of SS (areas under ROC curves >0.9). The downregulation of CD8A, CD247, CD3G, LCK, and HLA-DRA in SS was experimentally confirmed. We identified several immune-related biomarkers in SS that may improve early identification of disease risk.
38324114 | Downregulation of LILRB4 Promotes Human Aortic Smooth Muscle Cell Contractile Phenotypic Switch and Apoptosis in Aortic Dissection. Aortic dissection (AD) is a severe vascular disease with high rates of mortality and morbidity. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of AD remain unclear. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened by bioinformatics methods. Alterations of histopathology and inflammatory factor levels in beta-aminopropionitrile (BAPN)-induced AD mouse model were evaluated through Hematoxylin-Eosin (HE) staining and Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively. Reverse transcription quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was performed to detect DEGs expression. Furthermore, the role of LILRB4 in AD was investigated through Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), wound healing, and flow cytometry. Western blotting was employed to assess the phenotypic switch and extracellular matrix (ECM)-associated protein expressions in platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB)-stimulated in vitro model of AD. In the AD mouse model, distinct dissection formation was observed. TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-8, and IL-6 levels were higher in the AD mouse model than in the controls. Six hub genes were identified, including LILRB4, TIMP1, CCR5, CCL7, MSR1, and CLEC4D, all of which were highly expressed. Further exploration revealed that LILRB4 knockdown inhibited the cell vitality and migration of PDGF-BB-induced HASMCs while promoting apoptosis and G0/G1 phase ratio. More importantly, LILRB4 knockdown promoted the protein expression of alpha-SMA and SM22alpha, while decreasing the expression of Co1, MMP2, and CTGF, which suggested that LILRB4 silencing promoted contractile phenotypic transition and ECM stability. LILRB4 knockdown inhibits the progression of AD. Our study provides a new potential target for the clinical treatment of AD.
38335276 | Th17 cells secrete TWEAK to trigger epithelial-mesenchymal transition and promote colorectal cancer liver metastasis. Liver metastasis is the leading cause of mortality in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). Given the significance of both epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of tumor cells and the immune microenvironment in CRC liver metastasis (CRLM), the interplay between them could hold the key for developing improved treatment options. We employed multi-omics analysis of 130 samples from 18 synchronous CRLM patients integrated with external datasets to comprehensively evaluate the interaction between immune cells and EMT of tumor cells in liver metastasis. Single-cell RNA sequencing analysis revealed distinct distributions of non-malignant cells between primary tumors from patients with metastatic CRC (mCRC) and non-metastatic CRC, showing that Th17 cells were predominantly enriched in the primary lesion of mCRC. TWEAK, a cytokine secreted by Th17 cells, promoted EMT by binding to receptor Fn14 on tumor cells, and the TWEAK-Fn14 interaction enhanced tumor migration and invasion. In mouse models, targeting Fn14 using CRISPR-induced knockout or lipid-nanoparticle-encapsulated siRNA alleviated metastasis and prolonged survival. Mice lacking Il17a or Tnfsf12 (encoding TWEAK) exhibited fewer metastases compared to wild-type mice, while co-transfer of Th17 with tumor cells promoted liver metastasis. Higher TWEAK expression was associated with a worse prognosis in CRC patients. Additionally, CD163L1+ macrophages interacted with Th17 cells, recruiting Th17 via the CCL4-CCR5 axis. Collectively, this study unveils the role of immune cells in the EMT process and identifies TWEAK secreted by Th17 as a driver of CRLM.
38432392 | 5-HT7R enhances neuroimmune resilience and alleviates meningitis by promoting CCR5 ubiquitination. INTRODUCTION: Excessive immune activation induces tissue damage during infection. Compared to external strategies to reconstruct immune homeostasis, host balancing ways remain largely unclear. OBJECTIVES: Here we found a neuroimmune way that prevents infection-induced tissue damage. METHODS: By FACS and histopathology analysis of brain Streptococcus pneumonia meningitis infection model and behavioral testing. Western blot, co-immunoprecipitation, and ubiquitination analyze the Fluoxetine initiate 5-HT7R-STUB1-CCR5 K48-linked ubiquitination degradation. RESULTS: Fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, or the agonist of serotonin receptor 5-HT7R, protects mice from meningitis by inhibiting CCR5-mediated excessive immune response and tissue damage. Mechanistically, the Fluoxetine-5-HT7R axis induces proteasome-dependent degradation of CCR5 via mTOR signaling, and then recruits STUB1, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, to initiate K48-linked polyubiquitination of CCR5 at K138 and K322, promotes its proteasomal degradation. STUB1 deficiency blocks 5-HT7R-mediated CCR5 degradation. CONCLUSION: Our results reveal a neuroimmune pathway that balances anti-infection immunity via happiness neurotransmitter receptor and suggest the 5-HT7R-CCR5 axis as a potential target to promote neuroimmune resilience.
38436231 | Mixed Metal Components in PM2.5 Contribute to Chemokine Receptor CCR5-Mediated Neuroinflammation and Neuropathological Changes in the Mouse Olfactory Bulb. Particulate matter, especially PM2.5, can invade the central nervous system (CNS) via the olfactory pathway to induce neurotoxicity. The olfactory bulb (OB) is the key component integrating immunoprotection and olfaction processing and is necessarily involved in the relevant CNS health outcomes. Here we show that a microglial chemokine receptor, CCR5, is the target of environmentally relevant PM2.5 in the OB to trigger neuroinflammation and then neuropathological injuries. Mechanistically, PM2.5-induced CCR5 upregulation results in the pro-inflammatory paradigm of microglial activation, which subsequently activates TLR4-NF-kappaB neuroinflammation signaling and induces neuropathological changes that are closely related to neurodegenerative disorders (e.g., Abeta deposition and disruption of the blood-brain barrier). We specifically highlight that manganese and lead in PM2.5 are the main contributors to CCR5-mediated microglial activation and neuroinflammation in synergy with aluminum. Our results uncover a possible pathway of PM2.5-induced neuroinflammation and identify the principal neurotoxic components, which can provide new insight into efficiently diminishing the adverse health effects of PM2.5.
38459557 | TYROBP/DAP12 knockout in Huntington's disease Q175 mice cell-autonomously decreases microglial expression of disease-associated genes and non-cell-autonomously mitigates astrogliosis and motor deterioration. INTRODUCTION: Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expansion of the CAG trinucleotide repeat in the Huntingtin gene (HTT). Immune activation is abundant in the striatum of HD patients. Detection of active microglia at presymptomatic stages suggests that microgliosis is a key early driver of neuronal dysfunction and degeneration. Recent studies showed that deletion of Tyrobp, a microglial protein, ameliorates neuronal dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease amyloidopathy and tauopathy mouse models while decreasing components of the complement subnetwork. OBJECTIVE: While TYROBP/DAP12-mediated microglial activation is detrimental for some diseases such as peripheral nerve injury, it is beneficial for other diseases. We sought to determine whether the TYROBP network is implicated in HD and whether Tyrobp deletion impacts HD striatal function and transcriptomics. METHODS: To test the hypothesis that Tyrobp deficiency would be beneficial in an HD model, we placed the Q175 HD mouse model on a Tyrobp-null background. We characterized these mice with a combination of behavioral testing, immunohistochemistry, transcriptomic and proteomic profiling. Further, we evaluated the gene signature in isolated Q175 striatal microglia, with and without Tyrobp. RESULTS: Comprehensive analysis of publicly available human HD transcriptomic data revealed that the TYROBP network is overactivated in the HD putamen. The Q175 mice showed morphologic microglial activation, reduced levels of post-synaptic density-95 protein and motor deficits at 6 and 9 months of age, all of which were ameliorated on the Tyrobp-null background. Gene expression analysis revealed that lack of Tyrobp in the Q175 model does not prevent the decrease in the expression of striatal neuronal genes but reduces pro-inflammatory pathways that are specifically active in HD human brain, including genes identified as detrimental in neurodegenerative diseases, e.g. C1q and members of the Ccr5 signaling pathway. Integration of transcriptomic and proteomic data revealed that astrogliosis and complement system pathway were reduced after Tyrobp deletion, which was further validated by immunofluorescence analysis. CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide molecular and functional support demonstrating that Tyrobp deletion prevents many of the abnormalities in the HD Q175 mouse model, suggesting that the Tyrobp pathway is a potential therapeutic candidate for Huntington's disease.
38497114 | The myokine CCL5 recruits subcutaneous preadipocytes and promotes intramuscular fat deposition in obese mice. Intramuscular fat (IMF) refers to the lipid stored in skeletal muscle tissue. The number and size of intramuscular adipocytes are the primary factors that regulate IMF content. Intramuscular adipocytes can be derived from either in situ or ectopic migration. In this study, it was discovered that the regulation of IMF levels is achieved through the chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 5 (CCL5)/chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (CCR5) pathway by modulating adipocyte migration. In coculture experiments, C2C12 myotubes were more effective in promoting the migration of 3T3-L1 preadipocytes than C2C12 myoblasts, along with increasing CCL5. Correspondingly, overexpressing the CCR5, one of the receptors of CCL5, in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes facilitated their migration. Conversely, the application of the CCL5/CCR5 inhibitor, MARAVIROC (MVC), reduced this migration. In vivo, transplanted experiments of subcutaneous adipose tissue (SCAT) from transgenic mice expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) provided evidence that injecting recombinant CCL5 (rCCL5) into skeletal muscle promotes the migration of subcutaneous adipocytes to the skeletal muscle. The level of CCL5 in skeletal muscle increased with obesity. Blocking the CCL5/CCR5 axis by MVC inhibited IMF deposition, whereas elevated skeletal muscle CCL5 promoted IMF deposition in obese mice. These results establish a link between the IMF and the CCL5/CCR5 pathway, which could have a potential application for modulating IMF through adipocyte migration.
38537684 | CX3CR1 deficiency promotes resolution of hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury by regulating homeostatic function of liver infiltrating macrophages. Hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury(HIRI) remains to be an unsolved risk factor that contributes to organ failure after liver surgery. Our clinical retrospective study showed that lower donor liver CX3-C chemokine receptor-1(CX3CR1) mRNA expression level were correlated with upregulated pro-resolved macrophages receptor MERTK, as well as promoted restoration efficiency of allograft injury in liver transplant. To further characterize roles of CX3CR1 in regulating resolution of HIRI, we employed murine liver partial warm ischemia-reperfusion model by Wt &Cx3cr1-/- mice and the reperfusion time was prolonged from 6 h to 4-7 days. Kupffer cells(KCs) were depleted by clodronate liposome(CL) in advance to focus on infiltrating macrophages, and repopulation kinetics were determined by FACS, IF and RNA-Seq. CX3CR1 antagonist AZD8797 was injected i.p. to interrogate potential pharmacological therapeutic strategies. In vitro primary bone marrow macrophages(BMMs) culture by LXR agonist DMHCA, as well as molecular and functional studies, were undertaken to dissect roles of CX3CR1 in modulating macrophages cytobiological development and resolutive functions. We observed that deficiency or pharmacological inhibition of CX3CR1 facilitated HIRI resolution via promoted macrophages migration in CCR1/CCR5 manner, as well as enhanced MerTK-mediated efferocytosis. Our study demonstrated the critical roles of CX3CR1 in progression of HIRI and identified it as a potential therapeutic target in clinical liver transplantation.
38623335 | A LTB4/CD11b self-amplifying loop drives pyogranuloma formation in chronic granulomatous disease. Sterile pyogranulomas and heightened cytokine production are hyperinflammatory hallmarks of Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD). Using peritoneal cells of zymosan-treated CGD (gp91phox-/-) versus wild-type (WT) mice, an ex vivo system of pyogranuloma formation was developed to determine factors involved in and consequences of recruitment of neutrophils and monocyte-derived macrophages (MoMacs). Whereas WT cells failed to aggregate, CGD cells formed aggregates containing neutrophils initially, and MoMacs recruited secondarily. LTB4 was key, as antagonizing BLT1 blocked neutrophil aggregation, but acted only indirectly on MoMac recruitment. LTB4 upregulated CD11b expression on CGD neutrophils, and the absence/blockade of CD11b inhibited LTB4 production and cell aggregation. Neutrophil-dependent MoMac recruitment was independent of MoMac Nox2 status, BLT1, CCR1, CCR2, CCR5, CXCR2, and CXCR6. As proof of concept, CD11b-deficient CGD mice developed disrupted pyogranulomas with poorly organized neutrophils and diminished recruitment of MoMacs. Importantly, the disruption of cell aggregation and pyogranuloma formation markedly reduced proinflammatory cytokine production.
38627586 | Autophagy degrades immunogenic endogenous retroelements induced by 5-azacytidine in acute myeloid leukemia. The hypomethylating agent 5-azacytidine (AZA) is the first-line treatment for AML patients unfit for intensive chemotherapy. The effect of AZA results in part from T-cell cytotoxic responses against MHC-I-associated peptides (MAPs) deriving from hypermethylated genomic regions such as cancer-testis antigens (CTAs), or endogenous retroelements (EREs). However, evidence supporting higher ERE MAPs presentation after AZA treatment is lacking. Therefore, using proteogenomics, we examined the impact of AZA on the repertoire of MAPs and their source transcripts. AZA-treated AML upregulated both CTA and ERE transcripts, but only CTA MAPs were presented at greater levels. Upregulated ERE transcripts triggered innate immune responses against double-stranded RNAs but were degraded by autophagy, and not processed into MAPs. Autophagy resulted from the formation of protein aggregates caused by AZA-dependent inhibition of DNMT2. Autophagy inhibition had an additive effect with AZA on AML cell proliferation and survival, increased ERE levels, increased pro-inflammatory responses, and generated immunogenic tumor-specific ERE-derived MAPs. Finally, autophagy was associated with a lower abundance of CD8+ T-cell markers in AML patients expressing high levels of EREs. This work demonstrates that AZA-induced EREs are degraded by autophagy and shows that inhibiting autophagy can improve the immune recognition of AML blasts in treated patients.
38627815 | Inhibition of autophagy-related protein 7 enhances anti-tumor immune response and improves efficacy of immune checkpoint blockade in microsatellite instability colorectal cancer. BACKGROUND: The efficacy of anti-PD-1 therapy is primarily hindered by the limited T-cell immune response rate and immune evasion capacity of tumor cells. Autophagy-related protein 7 (ATG7) plays an important role in autophagy and it has been linked to cancer. However, the role of ATG7 in the effect of immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) treatment on high microsatellite instability (MSI-H)/mismatch repair deficiency (dMMR) CRC is still poorly understood. METHODS: In this study, patients from the cancer genome altas (TCGA) COAD/READ cohorts were used to investigate the biological mechanism driving ATG7 development. Several assays were conducted including the colony formation, cell viability, qRT-PCR, western blot, immunofluorescence, flow cytometry, ELISA, immunohistochemistry staining and in vivo tumorigenicity tests. RESULTS: We found that ATG7 plays a crucial role in MSI-H CRC. Its knockdown decreased tumor growth and caused an infiltration of CD8+ T effector cells in vivo. ATG7 inhibition restored surface major histocompatibility complex I (MHC-I) levels, causing improved antigen presentation and anti-tumor T cell response by activating reactive oxygen species (ROS)/NF-kappaB pathway. Meanwhile, ATG7 inhibition also suppressed cholesterol accumulation and augmentation of anti-tumor immune responses. Combining ATG7 inhibition and statins improved the therapeutic benefit of anti-PD-1 in MSI-H CRC. Importantly, CRC patients with high expression of both ATG7 and recombinant 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR) experienced worse prognosis compared to those with low ATG7 and HMGCR expression. CONCLUSIONS: Inhibition of ATG7 leads to upregulation of MHC-I expression, augments immune response and suppresses cholesterol accumulation. These findings demonstrate that ATG7 inhibition has therapeutic potential and application of statins can increase the sensitivity to immune checkpoint inhibitors.
38631714 | Efficacy of LCMV-based cancer immunotherapies is unleashed by intratumoral injections of polyI:C. BACKGROUND: Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) belongs to the Arenavirus family known for inducing strong cytotoxic T-cell responses in both mice and humans. LCMV has been engineered for the development of cancer immunotherapies, currently undergoing evaluation in phase I/II clinical trials. Initial findings have demonstrated safety and an exceptional ability to activate and expand tumor-specific T lymphocytes. Combination strategies to maximize the antitumor effectiveness of LCMV-based immunotherapies are being explored. METHODS: We assessed the antitumor therapeutic effects of intratumoral administration of polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly(I:C)) and systemic vaccination using an LCMV-vector expressing non-oncogenic versions of the E6 and E7 antigens of human papillomavirus 16 (artLCMV-E7E6) in a bilateral model engrafting TC-1/A9 cells. This cell line, derived from the parental TC-1, exhibits low MHC class I expression and is highly immune-resistant. The mechanisms underlying the combination's efficacy were investigated through bulk RNA-seq, flow cytometry analyses of the tumor microenvironment, selective depletions using antibodies and clodronate liposomes, Batf3 deficient mice, and in vivo bioluminescence experiments. Finally, we assessed the antitumor effectiveness of the combination of artLCMV-E7E6 with BO-112, a GMP-grade poly(I:C) formulated in polyethyleneimine, currently under evaluation in clinical trials. RESULTS: Intratumoral injection of poly(I:C) enhanced the antitumor efficacy of artLCMV-E7E6 in both injected and non-injected tumor lesions. The combined treatment resulted in a significant delay in tumor growth and often complete eradication of several tumor lesions, leading to significantly improved survival compared with monotherapies. While intratumoral administration of poly(I:C) did not impact LCMV vector biodistribution or transgene expression, it significantly modified leucocyte infiltrates within the tumor microenvironment and amplified systemic efficacy through proinflammatory cytokines/chemokines such as CCL3, CCL5, CXCL10, TNF, IFNalpha, and IL12p70. Upregulation of MHC on tumor cells and a reconfiguration of the gene expression programs related to tumor vasculature, leucocyte migration, and the activation profile of tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T lymphocytes were observed. Indeed, the antitumor effect relied on the functions of CD8+ T lymphocytes and macrophages. The synergistic efficacy of the combination was further confirmed when BO-112 was included. CONCLUSION: Intratumoral injection of poly(I:C) sensitizes MHClow tumors to the antitumor effects of artLCMV-E7E6, resulting in a potent therapeutic synergy.
38636332 | Sa-TTCA: An SVM-based approach for tumor T-cell antigen classification using features extracted from biological sequencing and natural language processing. Accurately predicting tumor T-cell antigen (TTCA) sequences is a crucial task in the development of cancer vaccines and immunotherapies. TTCAs derived from tumor cells, are presented to immune cells (T cells) through major histocompatibility complex (MHC), via the recognition of specific portions of their structure known as epitopes. More specifically, MHC class I introduces TTCAs to T-cell receptors (TCR) which are located on the surface of CD8+ T cells. However, TTCA sequences are varied and lead to struggles in vaccine design. Recently, Machine learning (ML) models have been developed to predict TTCA sequences which could aid in fast and correct TTCA identification. During the construction of the TTCA predictor, the peptide encoding strategy is an important step. Previous studies have used biological descriptors for encoding TTCA sequences. However, there have been no studies that use natural language processing (NLP), a potential approach for this purpose. As sentences have their own words with diverse properties, biological sequences also hold unique characteristics that reflect evolutionary information, physicochemical values, and structural information. We hypothesized that NLP methods would benefit the prediction of TTCA. To develop a new identifying TTCA model, we first constructed a based model with widely used ML algorithms and extracted features from biological descriptors. Then, to improve our model performance, we added extracted features from biological language models (BLMs) based on NLP methods. Besides, we conducted feature selection by using Chi-square and Pearson Correlation Coefficient techniques. Then, SMOTE, Up-sampling, and Near-Miss were used to treat unbalanced data. Finally, we optimized Sa-TTCA by the SVM algorithm to the four most effective feature groups. The best performance of Sa-TTCA showed a competitive balanced accuracy of 87.5% on a training set, and 72.0% on an independent testing set. Our results suggest that integrating biological descriptors with natural language processing has the potential to improve the precision of predicting protein/peptide functionality, which could be beneficial for developing cancer vaccines.
38646638 | Hypofractionated radiotherapy combined with lenalidomide improves systemic antitumor activity in mouse solid tumor models. Background: Hypofractionated radiotherapy (hRT) can induce a T cell-mediated abscopal effect on non-irradiated tumor lesions, especially in combination with immune checkpoint blockade (ICB). However, clinically, this effect is still rare, and ICB-mediated adverse events are common. Lenalidomide (lena) is an anti-angiogenic and immunomodulatory drug used in the treatment of hematologic malignancies. We here investigated in solid tumor models whether lena can enhance the abscopal effect in double combination with hRT. Methods: In two syngeneic bilateral tumor models (B16-CD133 melanoma and MC38 colon carcinoma), the primary tumor was treated with hRT. Lena was given daily for 3 weeks. Besides tumor size and survival, the dependence of the antitumor effects on CD8+ cells, type-I IFN signaling, and T cell costimulation was determined with depleting or blocking antibodies. Tumor-specific CD8+ T cells were quantified, and their differentiation and effector status were characterized by multicolor flow cytometry using MHC-I tetramers and various antibodies. In addition, dendritic cell (DC)-mediated tumor antigen cross-presentation in vitro and directly ex vivo and the composition of tumor-associated vascular endothelial cells were investigated. Results: In both tumor models, the hRT/lena double combination induced a significant abscopal effect. Control of the non-irradiated secondary tumor and survival were considerably better than with the respective monotherapies. The abscopal effect was strongly dependent on CD8+ cells and associated with an increase in tumor-specific CD8+ T cells in the non-irradiated tumor and its draining lymph nodes. Additionally, we found more tumor-specific T cells with a stem-like (TCF1+ TIM3- PD1+) and a transitory (TCF1- TIM3+ CD101- PD1+) exhausted phenotype and more expressing effector molecules such as GzmB, IFNgamma, and TNFalpha. Moreover, in the non-irradiated tumor, hRT/lena treatment also increased DCs cross-presenting a tumor model antigen. Blocking type-I IFN signaling, which is essential for cross-presentation, completely abrogated the abscopal effect. A gene expression analysis of bone marrow-derived DCs revealed that lena augmented the expression of IFN response genes and genes associated with differentiation, maturation (including CD70, CD83, and CD86), migration to lymph nodes, and T cell activation. Flow cytometry confirmed an increase in CD70+ CD83+ CD86+ DCs in both irradiated and abscopal tumors. Moreover, the hRT/lena-induced abscopal effect was diminished when these costimulatory molecules were blocked simultaneously using antibodies. In line with the enhanced infiltration by DCs and tumor-specific CD8+ T cells, including more stem-like cells, hRT/lena also increased tumor-associated high endothelial cells (TA-HECs) in the non-irradiated tumor. Conclusions: We demonstrate that lena can augment the hRT-induced abscopal effect in mouse solid tumor models in a CD8 T cell- and IFN-I-dependent manner, correlating with enhanced anti-tumor CD8 T cell immunity, DC cross-presentation, and TA-HEC numbers. Our findings may be helpful for the planning of clinical trials in (oligo)metastatic patients.
1394850 | Inhibition of repairable DNA-damage in Escherichia coli K-12 cells recovered from various organs of nitrosamine-treated mice by vitamin A, phenethylisothiocyanate, oleic acid and triolein. The influence of various dietary constituents--phenethylisothiocyanate (PEITC), oleic acid (OA), triolein (TO), and vitamin A (ROL)--on the genotoxic activity of nitrosamines (NDMA, NDELA, NPYR) was investigated. For this purpose differential DNA repair assays with Escherichia coli K-12 strains were performed in vitro and in vivo with mice. Under in vitro conditions (liquid holding), all compounds reduced nitrosamine induced DNA-damage in the indicator bacteria in the dose range 1-10 micrograms/ml, the ranking order of efficiency being PEITC greater than OA greater than ROL greater than or equal to TO. In animal-mediated assays, acute oral treatment with PEITC (17-150 mg/kg), 2 h before nitrosamine administration, resulted in a marked decrease of nitrosamine genotoxicity in liver, kidneys, lungs and in the blood. Also in other organs (spleen, testes) an increase in differential survival (which serves as a measure for repairable DNA damage) occurred. With ROL only a comparatively moderate antigenotoxic effect was obtained at a high dose level (250 mg/kg) under identical experimental conditions. OA (2000 mg/kg) and TO (16,000 mg/kg) were completely inactive. Upon repeated treatment (consecutive oral administration of the putative antigenotoxins over 4 days, a final treatment 24 h before nitrosamine administration) PEITC (150 mg/kg/day), ROL (80 mg/kg/day) and OA (2000 mg/kg/day) had no influence on the genotoxic effects of the nitrosamines. Repeated treatment with TO (4000-16,000 mg/kg/day) resulted in a moderate dose-dependent reduction of NDMA-induced DNA-damage in the indicator bacteria, whereas in combination with NPYR only a marginal effect was observed. Biochemical experiments indicated that the antigenotoxic effects of PEITC seen under in vivo conditions were due to inhibition of alpha-hydroxylation of the nitrosamines, whereas ROL and TO appeared not to interfere strongly with this metabolic activation step. Our results indicate that in vitro assays do only partly reflect the antigenotoxic properties of the different food constituents in vivo and that animal-mediated DNA repair assays with E. coli strains are an appropriate approach to study the effects of modifiers of nitrosamine genotoxicity in the living animal.
2013122 | Formation and persistence of a DNA adduct in rodents treated with N-nitrosopyrrolidine. The rate of formation and the persistence of an exocyclic guanine adduct formed in DNA of rodents treated with various doses of N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR) have been determined. NPYR is hepatocarcinogenic to the rat and forms a covalent adduct in liver DNA; this adduct was recently identified as 2-amino-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-9-hydroxypyrido[2, 1-f]purine-4[3H]-one. Dose-dependent amounts of adduct formed in liver, kidney and lung DNA of rats, hamsters and mice given oral doses (56-900 mg/kg body wt) of NPYR. The persistence of the adduct in DNA after administration of low doses of NPYR to rats was greatest in the target organ, i.e. the liver; at high doses of NPYR, adduct levels in DNA changed little over a period of at least 72 h. In the hamster, in which NPYR is carcinogenic to the lung but apparently not the liver, the adduct level in liver DNA was an order of magnitude greater than in lung or kidney DNA for a dose of NPYR of 225 or 900 mg/kg body wt; persistence of the adduct in lung DNA was only slightly longer than in liver DNA. The formation and persistence of the 7,8-pyridoguanine adduct in the rat appeared to be consistent with the organotropy of this carcinogen, but this was not true for the hamster, a species that seems to be more resistant to induction of liver and kidney cancer by this carcinogen. Imidazole, an inhibitor of microsomal amine oxidase, and disulfiram, an inhibitor of aldehyde dehydrogenase, decreased metabolic activation of NPYR to an alkylating intermediate; inducers and inhibitors of cytochrome P450 monooxygenases had little effect on the metabolic activation of NPYR to an alkylating agent.
2736720 | Detection of cyclic 1,N2-propanodeoxyguanosine adducts in DNA of rats treated with N-nitrosopyrrolidine and mice treated with crotonaldehyde. Cyclic 1,N2-propanodeoxyguanosine adducts are formed in vitro in DNA treated with alpha-acetoxy-N-nitrosopyrrolidine or its metabolite, crotonaldehyde. However, the in vivo formation of these cyclic adducts in DNA has not been demonstrated due to the lack of a sensitive detection method. In this study, a 32P-postlabeling method specific for the detection of 1,N2-propanodeoxyguanosine adducts was developed by using the corresponding 3'-monophosphates as standards. This method was validated by using DNA modified in vitro. It was then applied for the in vivo experiments in which hepatic DNA of rats treated with N-nitosopyrrolidine (NPYR) (total dose, 1.0 mmol) in drinking water or skin DNA of Sencar mice treated topically with crotonaldehyde (1.4 mmol) was isolated and subjected to 32P-postlabeling analysis. 1,N2-Propanodeoxyguanosine adducts were detected in these DNA samples. The minimal levels of adducts from liver DNA and skin DNA detected were estimated to be approximately 0.06 and approximately 0.24 mumol/mol guanine respectively. Interestingly, a background adduct spot chromatographically indistinguishable from the 1,N2-cyclic adducts was observed in the liver DNA of untreated rats. However, no such background adduct was detected in skin DNA of mice. This method demonstrated for the first time the in vivo formation of the cyclic 1,N2-propanodeoxyguanosine adducts.
3180033 | A study of tobacco carcinogenesis. XLII. Bioassay in A/J mice of some structural analogues of tobacco-specific nitrosamines. The tumorigenic activities in A/J mouse lung of the tobacco-specific nitrosamines, N'-nitrosonornicotine (NNN), 4-(methyl-nitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) and several structural analogues were evaluated. The analogues were N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR), 5'-carboxy-N'-nitrosonornicotine (CNNN), N-nitrosoproline (NPRO) and 1-(3-pyridyl)-2-buten-1-one (PBO). The results were as follows (dose in mumol per mouse/lung tumors per mouse): NNN (100/1.8 +/- 1.4); NPYR (100/3.9 +/- 1.5); CNNN (200/0.3 +/- 0.5); CNNN (100/0.5 +/- 0.6); NPRO (100/0.6 +/- 0.7); NNK (20/7.2 +/- 3.4); PBO (20/0.7 +/- 1.0); saline control (0.0.5 +/- 0.7). Several conclusions were drawn from this assay. NNK and NPYR were more tumorigenic than NNN. CNNN was non-tumorigenic and thus appears to have potential as a monitor for endogenous formation of tobacco-specific nitrosamines. The alpha,beta-unsaturated ketone PBO does not appear to be an ultimate tumorigen of NNK or NNN.
3383193 | Reconstitution of rabbit liver microsomal N-nitrosopyrrolidine alpha-hydroxylase activity. The in vitro alpha-hydroxylation of N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR) by both isolated rabbit liver microsomes and purified cytochrome P-450 isozymes was investigated. Microsomes from untreated rabbits catalyzed the alpha-hydroxylation of NPYR at rates similar to those reported previously for rats, mice, and hamsters. The effect of established inducers of microsomal P-450 caused complex changes in apparent rates of alpha-hydroxylation of NPYR which made interpretation of responses to inducer pretreatment difficult and suggested the participation of multiple cytochrome P-450 isozymes in the metabolism of NPYR. Partial inhibition of alpha-hydroxylase activity by antibodies against rabbit isozymes 2, 3a, and 5 indicated the participation of at least these three isozymes in microsomal catalysis. Reconstitution studies using purified rabbit isozymes 2, 3a, 3b, 3c, 4, and 6 indicated that isozymes 2, 3a, 4, and 6 possessed significant alpha-hydroxylase activity with isozymes 3a and 6 exhibiting the highest activity when assayed at 20 mM NPYR. As NPYR concentrations were decreased, the rates of catalysis for the reconstituted systems were differentially decreased such that isozyme 3a exhibited the highest activity at low NPYR concentrations. These data indicate that isozyme 3a is the preferred catalyst for the alpha-hydroxylation of NPYR at low substrate concentrations and suggest that conditions such as chronic ethanol consumption which lead to the induction of isozyme 3a in rabbits or its orthologue in other species can account for enhanced rates of alpha-hydroxylation and metabolic activation of NPYR.
3679422 | Mutagenicity and carcinogenicity of masheri, a pyrolysed tobacco product, and its content of tobacco-specific nitrosamines. Masheri, an indigenous pyrolysed tobacco product in India, was studied for its chemical, mutagenic and carcinogenic profile. Masheri extract was found to be rich in N-nitrosamines and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. It was highly mutagenic in the presence of an exogenous metabolic system in the Ames test and in the micronucleus test, in a dose-dependent manner. It also induced 8-azaguanine-resistant mutants in Chinese hamster V79 cells. On skin painting, it showed a weak carcinogenic effect in Swiss nude mice. The saliva of masheri users showed high levels of N'-nitrosonornicotine (NNN; 14-43 ppb) and N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR; 2.2-8.3 ppb). Thus, this widespread habit, predominant among women, could be an additive risk factor in the high incidence of oropharyngeal cancer prevalent in India.
8313517 | Effects of ethanol treatment on DNA damage induced in Escherichia coli K-12 in various organs of mice by N-nitro-sonornicotine, 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone and N-nitrosopyrrolidine. DNA damage induced by tobacco-related nitrosamines was quantitatively determined in animal-mediated DNA-repair assays with Escherichia coli K-12 strains. Intraperitoneal administration of N-nitrosonornicotine (NNN), 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) and N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR) caused dose-dependent genotoxic effects in indicator bacteria recovered from various organs of nitrosamine-pretreated mice. Oral administration of ethanol (6.3 g/kg body wt) 1 h prior to administration of NNN, NNK or NPYR resulted in a substantial reduction of genotoxicity that was more pronounced in the liver as compared to lungs, spleen, kidneys and blood. However, when the same ethanol dose was given 26 h before NNN or NPYR, an increase of DNA damage was found, that was, in most cases, higher in the kidneys than in the liver. Significant enhancement of genotoxic activity was also measured in lungs and spleen, whereas only a marginal increase was detectable in the blood. Repeated administration of smaller ethanol doses (2.0 g/kg body wt at 12 h intervals) for 4 days caused a comparable increase. Similar enhancement of genotoxicity was also measured when acetone (3.5 g/kg) was given orally 15 h before the nitrosamine administration. The stimulating effect of ethanol was dose dependent and was absent when the alcohol was administered 60 h prior to the nitrosamine. Neither ethanol nor acetone had an effect on the genotoxicity of NNK under identical experimental conditions. The same E. coli K-12 strains were used to test NNN, NNK and NPYR in in vitro assays. The ranking order of activation capacity was liver S-9 > kidney S-9 > lung S-9 for all three nitrosamines. Blood S-9 did not markedly activate the nitrosamines. S-9 mixtures prepared from mice that had been treated with ethanol (6.3 g/kg body wt) for 26 h before death activated NNN and NPYR more efficiently than those S-9s from untreated animals. The increase of genotoxic activity was more pronounced with S-9 from kidneys and lungs than from liver. No difference was seen with S-9 from ethanol-treated and untreated mice with NNK.
8641440 | Cloning and characterization of a novel receptor to pancreatic polypeptide, a member of the neuropeptide Y receptor family. We report isolation of a murine gene, NPYR-D, which predicts an intronless novel G protein-coupled receptor of 375 amino acids. Percent identities of NPYR-D to the clone Y1, Y2, rat Y4/PP1 and human Y4/PP1 receptors are 45, 32, 92 and 76, respectively. Southern blots indicate that NPYR-D and human Y4/PP1 receptor genes are species homologues. Rat [125I]pancreatic polypeptide ([125I]rPP) bound to NPYR-D transfected COS-7 cell membranes with a high affinity, i.e. IC50=90 pM. Pharmacological characterization of [125I]rPP binding showed a rank order of potency of P >> PYY > or = NPY, such that PYY and NPY were at least 5000-fold weaker than PP. Interestingly, [125I]rPYY binding produced the same rank order, but PYY and NPY were only 25-fold weaker than PP, which had an IC50 value of approximately 120 pM. Tissue distribution studies in mouse and humans suggest potential roles of this novel receptor in the gastrointestinal tract, heart, prostate, as well as in neural and endocrine signalling.
8688157 | Synthesis of tobacco-specific N-nitrosamines and their metabolites and results of related bioassays. Tobacco-specific N-nitrosamines (TSNA) are the most abundant, strong carcinogens in tobacco smoke. Seven TSNA have been identified in tobacco products: N'-nitrosonornicotine (NNN), N'-nitrosoanabasine (NAB), N'-nitrosoanatabine (NAT), 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanol (NNAL), 4-(methylnitrosamino)-4-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanol (iso-NNAL), and 4-(methylnitrosamino)-4-3-pyridyl)butyric acid (iso-NNAC). The syntheses of these compounds are reviewed. The syntheses of 14C- and 3H-labeled NNK as well as metabolites of NNK and NNN are also discussed. Comparative assays for lung tumorigenesis in female A/J mice were carried out for six of the TSNA and for two related compounds, N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) and N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR). They yielded the following ranking of potency: NDMA > NNK > NNAL > NPYR > NNN > NAB. Iso-NNAL and iso-NNAC were inactive. These results are also compared with previous assays of TSNA carcinogenicity in rats and hamsters.
15651850 | Cytochrome P450 2A-catalyzed metabolic activation of structurally similar carcinogenic nitrosamines: N'-nitrosonornicotine enantiomers, N-nitrosopiperidine, and N-nitrosopyrrolidine. N'-Nitrosonornicotine (NNN) and N-nitrosopiperidine (NPIP) are potent esophageal and nasal cavity carcinogens in rats and pulmonary carcinogens in mice. N-Nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR) induces mainly liver tumors in rats and is a weak pulmonary carcinogen in mice. These nitrosamines may be causative agents in human cancer. alpha-Hydroxylation is believed to be the key activation pathway in their carcinogenesis. P450 2As are important enzymes of nitrosamine alpha-hydroxylation. Therefore, a structure-activity relationship study of rat P450 2A3, mouse P450 2A4 and 2A5, and human P450 2A6 and 2A13 was undertaken to compare the catalytic activities of these enzymes for alpha-hydroxylation of (R)-NNN, (S)-NNN, NPIP, and NPYR. Kinetic parameters differed significantly among the P450 2As although their amino acid sequence identities were 83% or greater. For NNN, alpha-hydroxylation can occur at the 2'- or 5'-carbon. P450 2As catalyzed 5'-hydroxylation of (R)- or (S)-NNN with Km values of 0.74-69 microM. All of the P450 2As except P450 2A6 catalyzed (R)-NNN 2'-hydroxylation with Km values of 0.73-66 microM. (S)-NNN 2'-hydroxylation was not observed. Although P450 2A4 and 2A5 differ by only 11 amino acids, they were the least and most efficient catalysts of NNN 5'-hydroxylation, respectively. The catalytic efficiencies (kcat/Km) for (R)-NNN differed by 170-fold whereas there was a 46-fold difference for (S)-NNN. In general, P450 2As catalyzed (R)- and (S)-NNN 5'-hydroxylation with significantly lower Km and higher kcat/Km values than NPIP or NPYR alpha-hydroxylation (p <0.05). Furthermore, P450 2As were better catalysts of NPIP alpha-hydroxylation than NPYR. P450 2A4, 2A5, 2A6, and 2A13 exhibited significantly lower Km and higher kcat/Km values for NPIP than NPYR alpha-hydroxylation (p <0.05), similar to previous reports with P450 2A3. Taken together, these data indicate that critical P450 2A residues determine the catalytic activities of NNN, NPIP, and NPYR alpha-hydroxylation.
21468772 | Of mice and men: neuropeptide Y and its receptors are associated with atherosclerotic lesion burden and vulnerability. Neuropeptide Y (NPY), a sympathetic and platelet-derived vascular mitogen and angiogenic factor, has been implicated in atherosclerosis in animal and human genetic studies. Here we evaluate its association with human and murine atherosclerosis, and assess the role of platelet-derived NPY in lesion vulnerability. NPY immunoreactivity (NPY-ir) was measured in the platelet-poor and platelet-rich (PRP) plasmas, and NPY receptors (mitogenic Y1R and angiogenic Y2 and Y5Rs), CD26/DPPIV (a protease forming Y2/Y5-selective agonist), CD31-positive vascularity, and lesion morphology assessed by histo- and immunocyto-chemistry-in patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD) and healthy volunteers, and in lard-fed ApoE-/- mice. NPY and NPY-R immunostaining was greater in lesions from PAD patients compared to normal vessels of healthy volunteers (p < 0.001), and localized to smooth muscle cells, macrophages, and adventitial/neovascular endothelial cells. CD26/DPPIV staining co-localized with CD31-positive endothelial cells only in atherosclerotic lesions. NPY-ir in PRP (but not plasma) and vascular immunostaining was higher (p < 0.05 and 0.001, respectively) in men (not women) with PAD compared to healthy subjects. A similar gender specificity was observed in mice. PRP NPY-ir levels correlated with lesion area (p = 0.03), necrotic core area, and the necrotic core-to-lesion area ratio (p < 0.01) in male, but not female, mice. Also males with neovascularized lesions had higher PRP NPY-ir levels than those lacking lesion microvessels (p < 0.05). NPY and its Rs are up-regulated in human and murine atherosclerotic lesions suggesting pathogenic role. DPPIV expression by microvascular endothelium in atherosclerotic tissue may shift NPY's affinity toward angiogenic Y2/Y5Rs, and thus enhance angiogenesis and lesion vulnerability. Remarkably, plaque neovascularization was associated with increased NPY-ir in PRP in males but not females, suggesting that platelet NPY may be a novel mediator/marker of lesion vulnerability particularly in males, for reasons that remain to be determined. Both animal and human data suggest that NPY is an important contributor to, and platelet NPY-ir a marker of, atherosclerotic lesion burden and vulnerability but only in males, perhaps due to androgen-dependent up-regulation of NPY, previously shown in rats.
22059948 | Further studies on n-nitrosopyrrolidine and its precursors: Effects of ascorbic acid and vitamin E on tumor development in mice as related to consumption of cured meat. Two experiments were carried out to ascertain if supplementation of a semipurified diet to Swiss-ICR mice with either ascorbic acid (AA), vitamin E (Vit E) or a combination of the two would modulate the carcinogenic effects of N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPyr) and of its probable precursors (nitrite-N0(2) and pyrrolidine-Pyr) in Experiment I or of NPyr in Experiment II. Results indicated that neither AA nor Vit E modulated the carcinogenic effects of NPyr or of its probable precursors (NO(2) and Pyr). Results verified a previous report from our laboratory showing that NPyr increased the number of malignant tumors by some 5-8 fold over controls. There was a lower incidence of tumors in the control group on the semi-purfied diet than in the groups given NO(2) and Pyr, although both treatments had a low frequency of malignant tumors (1 63  versus 5 72  survivors). Results support our earlier study suggesting that neither NO(2) nor Pyr alone or in combination together contribute to cancer-at least in the laboratory mouse.
22963768 | Comparative testing of various pancreatic cancer stem cells results in a novel class of pancreatic-cancer-initiating cells. No systemic therapy is effective against pancreatic cancer (PC). Pancreatic cancer stem cells (PCSC) are hypothesized to account for therapeutic resistance. Several PCSC subpopulations were reported, each characterized by different markers. To be able to target PCSC, we sought to better define this putative heterogeneity. Therefore, we tested most of the known putative PCSC markers in established and fresh tumor cell lines. CD20, CD24, CD44, CD133, CD184 (CXCR4), CD326 (EpCam, ESA), Sox-2, OCT 3/4, and the side-population (SP) were tested in five PC cell lines, and the effects of confluency, hypoxia, radiation, and gemcitabine on the SP. The testing phase suggested several putative PCSC populations that were further tested and validated for their tumor-initiating capacity against known PCSC in 3 established and 1 fresh PC cell lines. Cell surface and intracellular markers showed significant variability among cell lines. SP was the only common marker in all cell lines and consistently less than 1%. SP response to confluence, hypoxia, radiation, and gemcitabine was inconsistent between cell lines. The initial testing phase suggested that SP/CD44-CD24-CD326+ cells might be a novel PCSC subpopulation. Tumor initiation capacity tests in nude mice confirmed their increased tumorigenicity over previously reported PCSC. Our data better define the heterogeneity of reported PCSC in cell lines tested in this study. We propose that prior to targeting PC via PCSC, one will need to gain more insight into this heterogeneity. Finally, we show that SP/CD44-CD24-CD326+ cells are a novel subpopulation of pancreatic cancer tumor initiating cells. Further mechanistic studies may lead to better targeting of PC via targeting this novel PCSC.
24403451 | A novel approach for enriching cancer stem cells from the human SW-13 adrenocortical carcinoma cell line. The present study was undertaken to develop a new method for enriching cancer stem cells (CSCs) from the human adrenal cortical carcinoma (ACC) cell line SW-13. Given that the existence of CSCs in ACC causes resistance to conventional chemotherapies, treatment with cyclophosphamide was used for in vivo selection of CSCs in a BALB/c nude mouse tumor xenograft model established using the ACC cell line SW-13. The characteristics of CSCs in three generations of tumor xenografts were assessed for single-cell colony formation, flat colony formation, and cell sphere formation in serum-free suspension culture. The formation rates of single-cell colonies, flat colonies, and cell spheres were significantly higher for tumor xenograft cells treated with cyclophosphamide than for untreated engrafted tumor cells. Flow cytometry to examine expression of the CSC markers C-X-C chemokine receptor type-4 (CXCR4; CD184) and ATP-binding cassette sub-family G member-2 (ABCG2; CDw338) revealed markedly higher levels of CXCR4 and ABCG2 in cyclophosphamide-treated xenograft tumor cells compared to untreated tumor cells. Together, these results indicate that cyclophosphamide treatment of tumor xenograft cells caused enrichment of CSCs with a strong capability for self-renewal and proliferation. In this method, the administration of cyclophosphamide selectively kills cancer cells without toxicity to CSCs and thereby provides a practical approach for achieving the enrichment of CSCs in ACC. 
24628854 | Inhibitors of differentiation-1 promotes nitrosopyrrolidine-induced transformation of HPV 16-immortalized cervical epithelial cell. Our previous study implied a correlation between inhibitors of differentiation-1 (Id-1) and cervical cancer development. However, how Id-1 contributes to cervical carcinogenesis is unknown. In the present study, we used an in vitro transformation model to investigate the role of Id-1 in the transformation of cervical cells. Human papillomavirus (HPV)-immortalized cervical epithelial cells (H8) were successfully transformed by exposure to the carcinogen N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR). The expression of both Id-1 RNA and protein was significantly increased in transformed H8 cells, suggesting a possible role of Id-1 in cervical cell transformation. Ectopic expression of Id-1 in H8 cells potentiated NPYR-induced cell transformation. In contrast, silencing of Id-1 suppressed NPYR-induced H8 cell transformation. In addition, the expression of HPV E6 and E7 oncoproteins was upregulated while that of the tumor suppressors p53 and pRb was suppressed after H8 cell transformation. Our results suggest that Id-1 plays an oncogenic role in HPV-related cervical carcinogenesis, which sheds light on cervical cancer development mechanisms and implies that Id-1 is a potential target for cervical cancer prevention and therapy.
24638886 | A novel potential therapy for vascular diseases: blood-derived stem/progenitor cells specifically activated by dendritic cells. BACKGROUND: Vascular diseases are a major cause of morbidity and mortality, particularly in diabetic patients. Stem/progenitor cell treatments with bone marrow-derived cells show safety and promising outcomes, albeit not without some preprocedural adverse events related to cell collection and mobilization. We describe a novel technology for generating a therapeutic population (BGC101) of enriched endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) from non-mobilized blood, using dendritic cells to specifically direct stem/progenitor cell activity in vitro. METHODS AND RESULTS: Selected immature plasmacytoid and myeloid dendritic cells from 24 healthy and two diabetic donors were activated with anti-inflammatory and pro-angiogenic molecules to induce specific activation signals. Co-culturing of activated dendritic cells with stem/progenitor cells for 12-66 h generated 83.7 +- 7.4 x 10(6) BGC101 cells with 97% viability from 250 mL of blood. BGC101, comprising 52.4 +- 2.5% EPCs (expressing Ulex-lectin, AcLDL uptake, Tie2, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 and 2, and CD31), 16.1 +- 1.9% stem/progenitor cells (expressing CD34 and CD184) and residual B and T helper cells, demonstrated angiogenic and stemness potential and secretion of interleukin-8, interleukin-10, vascular endothelial growth factor and osteopontin. When administered to immunodeficient mice with limb ischemia (n = 40), BGC101 yielded a high safety profile and significantly increased blood perfusion, capillary density and leg function after 21 days. Cell tracking and biodistribution showed that engraftment was restricted to the ischemic leg. CONCLUSIONS: These observations provide preliminary evidence that alternatively activated dendritic cells can promote the generation of EPC-enriched stem/progenitor cells within a 1-day culture. The resulting product BGC101 has the potential for treatment of various vascular conditions such as coronary heart disease, stroke and peripheral ischemia.
24762436 | Epigenetic reprogramming induces the expansion of cord blood stem cells. Cord blood (CB) cells that express CD34 have extensive hematopoietic capacity and rapidly divide ex vivo in the presence of cytokine combinations; however, many of these CB CD34+ cells lose their marrow-repopulating potential. To overcome this decline in function, we treated dividing CB CD34+ cells ex vivo with several histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACIs). Treatment of CB CD34+ cells with the most active HDACI, valproic acid (VPA), following an initial 16-hour cytokine priming, increased the number of multipotent cells (CD34+CD90+) generated; however, the degree of expansion was substantially greater in the presence of both VPA and cytokines for a full 7 days. Treated CD34+ cells were characterized based on the upregulation of pluripotency genes, increased aldehyde dehydrogenase activity, and enhanced expression of CD90, c-Kit (CD117), integrin alpha6 (CD49f), and CXCR4 (CD184). Furthermore, siRNA-mediated inhibition of pluripotency gene expression reduced the generation of CD34+CD90+ cells by 89%. Compared with CB CD34+ cells, VPA-treated CD34+ cells produced a greater number of SCID-repopulating cells and established multilineage hematopoiesis in primary and secondary immune-deficient recipient mice. These data indicate that dividing CB CD34+ cells can be epigenetically reprogrammed by treatment with VPA so as to generate greater numbers of functional CB stem cells for use as transplantation grafts. 
26065307 | Evaluation of repeated dose micronucleus assays of the liver using  N-nitrosopyrrolidine: a report of the collaborative study by  CSGMT/JEMS.MMS. The repeated dose liver micronucleus (RDLMN) assay has the potential to detect liver carcinogens, and can be integrated into a general toxicological study. To assess the performance of the assay, N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR), a genotoxic hepatocarcinogen, was tested in 14- or 28-day RDLMN assays. NPYR was orally administered to rats at a daily dose of 25, 50 or 100 mg/kg. One day after the last administration, a portion of the liver was removed and hepatocyte micronucleus (MN) specimens were prepared by the new method recently established by Narumi et al. In addition, a bone marrow MN assay and a histopathological examination of the liver were conducted. The detection of Phospho-Histone H3 was performed by immunohistochemistry to evaluate the proliferation rate of hepatocytes. The results showed significant increase in the number of micronucleated hepatocytes and Phospho-Histone H3-positive cells from the lowest dose in both 14- and 28-day RDLMN assays. On the other hand, the bone marrow MN assay yielded a negative result, which was in accordance with the existing report of the bone marrow MN assay using mice. Upon histopathological examination, inflammatory lesions and hypertrophy were noted, which may explain the increase in the hepatocyte proliferation and the enhancement of MN induction by NPYR. Our findings indicate that the RDLMN assay could be a useful tool for comprehensive risk assessment of carcinogenicity by providing information on both genotoxicity and histopathology when integrated into a general repeat dosing toxicity assay.
26409626 | Chronic administration of methamphetamine promotes atherosclerosis formation in ApoE-/- knockout mice fed normal diet. OBJECTIVE: Chronic methamphetamine (METH) abuse could induce neurotoxicity due to reactive oxygen species generation and sympathetic activation. Both factors are associated with atherosclerosis, so we tested the hypothesis that chronic METH administration might also promote atherosclerosis formation in Apo E-/- knockout mice fed normal diet. METHODS AND RESULTS: Male ApoE-/- mice (6 weeks-old) were treated with saline (NS) or METH [4 mg/kg/day (M4) or 8 mg/kg/day (M8) through intraperitoneal injection] for 24 weeks. Atherosclerotic lesion area on oil red O stained en face aorta was dose-dependently increased in M4 and M8 groups compared to NS group. Percentage of atherosclerotic lesion area was significantly higher in M8 group compared to NS and M4 groups. Plasma CRP was increased and inflammatory cytokine (ICAM-1, VCAM-1, TNF-alpha, and INF-gamma) expression on aortic root was upregulated in METH groups compared to NS group. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) protein and mRNA expressions in aortic root and myocardial tissue were determined by Western blot and real time PCR, which were significantly upregulated in M4 and M8 groups. Moreover, mRNA expressions of NPY1R, NPY2R and NPY5R in aortic and myocardial tissue were also significantly upregulated in M4 and M8 groups. Raw264.7 cells were treated with NPY, NPY receptor antagonists, METH (10 muM or 100 muM) with or without lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and the expressions of TNF-alpha, CRP, MCP-1 and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production were significantly increased in METH and LPS + METH groups compared to control and LPS groups. Co-treatment with NPY1R antagonist decreased the expressions of TNF-alpha, CRP and MCP-1 in NPY and METH treated cells. CONCLUSIONS: Chronic METH administration can promote inflammation and atherosclerotic plague formation in ApoE-/- mice fed normal chow. NPY might be involved in the pathogenesis of METH-induced atherogenic effects through NPY Y1 receptor pathway.
26439684 | HIF2alpha is involved in the expansion of CXCR4-positive cancer stem-like cells in renal cell carcinoma. BACKGROUND: Hypoxia and the subsequent activation of hypoxia-inducible factor-2alpha (HIF2alpha) contribute to the progression of a variety of cancers. However, their role in the generation of renal cell carcinoma-derived stem cells has not been fully addressed. METHODS: A sphere formation assay, cell proliferation, RT-PCR, western blot, FACS, immunohistochemistry and tumour xenograft were used to study the role of HIF2alpha. RESULTS: Propagation of four renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cell lines (Caki-1, Caki-2, 786-O, 769-P) in anchorage-independent floating spheres led to the expansion of cells bearing the CXCR4 (CD184) surface marker. Inhibition of the CXCR4 pathway reduced sphere expansion. The enhanced self-renewal activity of the CXCR4-positive spheres was preceded by the upregulation of HIF2alpha. Knockdown of HIF2alpha abrogated CXCR4 expression and sphere formation. Finally, RCC-derived spheres showed an undifferentiated phenotype in vivo and formed subcutaneous tumours that highly expressed HIF2alpha and CXCR4. Inhibition of HIF2alpha abolished tumour growth in animal models. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the generation of RCC-derived CSCs involves the activation of HIF2alpha and may provide a foundation for the development of new strategies to prevent the induction of CSCs in RCC.
26590329 | Immunophenotype of mouse cerebral hemispheres-derived neural precursor cells. Postnatally isolated neural precursor cells (piNPCs) from mouse cerebral tissue have been studied in cell-based therapeutic approaches for Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis (EAE). Transplantation experiments in EAE rodents revealed that piNPCs manage to integrate into the host tissue and ameliorate clinical symptoms. When cultured in vitro, mouse cerebral piNPCs form neurospheres consisting of immature cells positive for polysialylated neural adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) that differentiate mainly towards glial cells, but also neurons. Herein, we have characterized piNPCs immunophenotype, with flow cytometry. NPCs were positive for CD24, CD44, and CD133 though negative for CD15, CD184 and CD49d. This immunophenotype, determined for the first time, among cells isolated from neonates might be useful for the identification of NPC population aiming at the development of transplantation protocols. 
26876314 | Effect of hyperglycemia on the number of CD117+ progenitor cells and their differentiation toward endothelial progenitor cells in young and old ages. Dysfunction of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) has been reported either in aging or diabetes, though the influence of an \old\ environment on numerical and functional changes of diabetes associated EPCs is not known. We evaluated the effect of both aging and early stage of streptozotocin-induced diabetes on the number of bone marrow-derived CD117+ progenitor cells, and on their differentiation in vitro toward EPCs. The phenotype of progenitor cells and the uptake of acetylated-low density lipoprotein (Ac-LDL) were evaluated after cell culture in VEGF, FGF-1, and IGF-1 supplemented medium. Hyperglycemia similarly reduced the number of CD117+ cells both in young and old mice. CD117+ cells from young mice differentiated better than those from old animals \in vitro\, with a greater reduction of CD117+ cells and an higher increase of CD184+VEGFR-2+ cells. In diabetic mice, in vitro CD117+ cells differentiation was significantly reduced in young animals. Diabetes did not impact on the scarce differentiation of CD117+ cells from old mice. Hyperglycemia reduced the uptake of acLDL by EPCs greatly in young than in old mice. These findings indicate that part of the EPCs functional alterations induced by hyperglicemia in young mice are observed in normal aged mice.
27465830 | Islet distribution of Peptide YY and its regulatory role in primary mouse islets and immortalised rodent and human beta-cell function and survival. Recent evidence suggests that the classic gut peptide, Peptide YY (PYY), could play a fundamental role in endocrine pancreatic function. In the present study expression of PYY and its NPY receptors on mouse islets and immortalised rodent and human beta-cells was examined together with the effects of both major circulating forms of PYY, namely PYY(1-36) and PYY(3-36), on beta-cell function, murine islet adaptions to insulin deficiency/resistance, as well as direct effects on cultured beta-cell proliferation and apoptosis. In vivo administration of PYY(3-36), but not PYY(1-36), markedly (p < 0.05) decreased food intake in overnight fasted mice. Neither form of PYY affected glucose disposal or insulin secretion following an i.p. glucose challenge. However, in vitro, PYY(1-36) and PYY(3-36) inhibited (p < 0.05 to p < 0.001) glucose, alanine and GLP-1 stimulated insulin secretion from immortalised rodent and human beta-cells, as well as isolated mouse islets, by impeding alterations in membrane potential, [Ca(2+)]i and elevations of cAMP. Mice treated with multiple low dose streptozotocin presented with severe (p < 0.01) loss of beta-cell mass accompanied by notable increases (p < 0.001) in alpha and PP cell numbers. In contrast, hydrocortisone-induced insulin resistance increased islet number (p < 0.01) and beta-cell mass (p < 0.001). PYY expression was consistently observed in alpha-, PP- and delta-, but not beta-cells. Streptozotocin decreased islet PYY co-localisation with PP (p < 0.05) and somatostatin (p < 0.001), whilst hydrocortisone increased PYY co-localisation with glucagon (p < 0.05) in mice. More detailed in vitro investigations revealed that both forms of PYY augmented (p < 0.05 to p < 0.01) immortalised human and rodent beta-cell proliferation and protected against streptozotocin-induced cytotoxicity, to a similar or superior extent as the well characterised beta-cell proliferative and anti-apoptotic agent GLP-1. Taken together, these data highlight the significance and potential offered by modulation of pancreatic islet NPY receptor signalling pathways for preservation of beta-cell mass in diabetes.
27485481 | Synthesis and evaluation of an (18)F-labeled pyrimidine-pyridine amine for targeting CXCR4 receptors in gliomas. INTRODUCTION: Chemokine receptor-4 (CXCR4, fusin, CD184) is expressed on several tissues involved in immune regulation and is upregulated in many diseases including malignant gliomas. A radiolabeled small molecule that readily crosses the blood-brain barrier can aid in identifying CXCR4-expressing gliomas and monitoring CXCR4-targeted therapy. In the current work, we have synthesized and evaluated an [(18)F]-labeled small molecule based on a pyrimidine-pyridine amine for its ability to target CXCR4. EXPERIMENTAL: The nonradioactive standards and the nitro precursor used in this study were prepared using established methods. An HPLC method was developed to separate the nitro-precursor from the nonradioactive standard and radioactive product. The nitro-precursor was radiolabeled with (18)F under inert, anhydrous conditions using the [(18)F]-kryptofix 2.2.2 complex to form the desired N-(4-(((6-[(18)F]fluoropyridin-2-yl)amino)methyl)benzyl)pyrimidin-2-amine ([(18)F]-3). The purified radiolabeled compound was used in serum stability, partition coefficient, cellular uptake, and in vivo cancer targeting studies. RESULTS: [(18)F]-3 was synthesized in 4-10% decay-corrected yield (to start of synthesis). [(18)F]-3 (tR   27 min) was separated from the precursor (tR   30 min) using a pentafluorophenyl column with an isocratic solvent system. [(18)F]-3 displayed acceptable serum stability over 2 h. The amount of [(18)F]-3 bound to the plasma proteins was determined to be > 97%. The partition coefficient (LogD7.4) is 1.4 +- 0.5. Competitive in vitro inhibition indicated 3 does not inhibit uptake of (67)Ga-pentixafor. Cell culture media incubation and ex vivo urine analysis indicate rapid metabolism of [(18)F]-3 into hydrophilic metabolites. Thus, in vitro uptake of [(18)F]-3 in CXCR4 overexpressing U87 cells (U87 CXCR4) and U87 WT indicated no specific binding. In vivo studies in mice bearing U87 CXCR4 and U87 WT tumors on the left and right shoulders were carried out using [(18)F]-3 and (68)Ga-pentixafor on consecutive days. The CXCR4 positive tumor was clearly visualized in the PET study using (68)Ga-pentixafor, but not with [(18)F]-3. CONCLUSIONS: We have successfully synthesized both a radiolabeled analog to previously reported CXCR4-targeting molecules and a nitro precursor. Our in vitro and in vivo studies indicate that [(18)F]-3 is rapidly metabolized and, therefore, does not target CXCR4-expressing tumors. Optimization of the structure to improve the in vivo (and in vitro) stability, binding, and solubility could lead to an appropriate CXCR4-targeted radiodiagnositic molecule.
27692806 | Human vascular progenitor cells derived from renal arteries are endothelial-like and assist in the repair of injured renal capillary networks. Vascular progenitor cells show promise for the treatment of microvasculature endothelial injury. We investigated the function of renal artery progenitor cells derived from radical nephrectomy patients, in animal models of acute ischemic and hyperperfusion injuries. Present in human adventitia, CD34positive/CD105negative cells were clonal and expressed transcription factors Sox2/Oct4 as well as surface markers CXCR4 (CD184)/KDR(CD309) consistent with endothelial progenitor cells. Termed renal artery-derived vascular progenitor cells (RAPC), injected cells were associated with decreased serum creatinine after ischemia/reperfusion, reduced albuminuria after hyperperfusion, and improved blood flow in both models. A small population of RAPC integrated with the renal microvasculature following either experimental injury. At a cellular level, RAPC promoted local endothelial migration in co-culture. Profiling of RAPC microRNA identified high levels of miRNA 218; also found at high levels in exosomes isolated from RAPC conditioned media after cell contact for 24 hours. After hydrogen peroxide-induced endothelial injury, RAPC exosomes harbored Robo-1 transcript; a gene known to be regulated by mir218. Such exosomes enhanced endothelial cell migration in culture in the absence of RAPC. Thus, our work shows the feasibility of pre-emptive pro-angiogenic progenitor cell procurement from a targeted patient population and potential therapeutic use in the form of autologous cell transplantation.
27867005 | Temporal expression of CD184(CXCR4) and CD171(L1CAM) identifies distinct early developmental stages of human retinal ganglion cells in embryonic stem cell derived retina. Human retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) derived from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) have anticipated value for human disease study, drug screening, and therapeutic applications; however, their full potential remains underdeveloped. To characterize RGCs in human embryonic stem cell (hESC) derived retinal organoids we examined RGC markers and surface antigen expression and made comparisons to human fetal retina. RGCs in both tissues exhibited CD184 and CD171 expression and distinct expression patterns of the RGC markers BRN3 and RBPMS. The retinal progenitor cells (RPCs) of retinal organoids expressed CD184, consistent with its expression in the neuroblastic layer in fetal retina. In retinal organoids CD184 expression was enhanced in RGC competent RPCs and high CD184 expression was retained on post-mitotic RGC precursors; CD171 was detected on maturing RGCs. The differential expression timing of CD184 and CD171 permits identification and enrichment of RGCs from retinal organoids at differing maturation states from committed progenitors to differentiating neurons. These observations will facilitate molecular characterization of PSC-derived RGCs during differentiation, critical knowledge for establishing the veracity of these in vitro produced cells. Furthermore, observations made in the retinal organoid model closely parallel those in human fetal retina further validating use of retinal organoid to model early retinal development.
28069397 | Influence of neuropeptide Y and pancreatic polypeptide on islet function and beta-cell survival. BACKGROUND: In the present study we assessed the impact of neuropeptide Y receptor (NPYR) modulators, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and pancreatic polypeptide (PP), on islet function and beta-cell survival. METHODS: The effects of NPY and PP on beta-cell function were examined in BRIN BD11 and 1.1B4 beta-cells, as well as isolated mouse islets. Involvement of both peptides in pancreatic islet adaptations to streptozotocin and hydrocortisone, as well as effects on beta-cell proliferation and apoptosis was also evaluated. RESULTS: Neither NPY nor PP affected in vivo glucose disposal or insulin secretion in mice. However, both peptides inhibited (p<0.05 to p<0.001) glucose stimulated insulin secretion from rat and human beta-cells. NPY exerted similar insulinostatic effects in isolated mouse islets. NPY and PP inhibited alanine-induced changes in BRIN BD11 cell membrane potential and (Ca2+)i. Streptozotocin treatment decreased and hydrocortisone treatment increased beta-cell mass in mice. In addition, streptozotocin, but not hydrocortisone, increased PP cell area. Streptozotocin also shifted the normal co-localisation of NPY with PP, towards more pronounced co-expression with somatostatin in delta-cells. Both streptozotocin and hydrocortisone increased pancreatic exocrine expression of NPY. More detailed in vitro investigations revealed that NPY, but not PP, augmented (p<0.01) BRIN BD11 beta-cell proliferation. In addition, both peptides exerted protective effects against streptozotocin-induced DNA damage in beta-cells. CONCLUSION: These data emphasise the involvement of PP, and particularly NPY, in the regulation of beta-cell mass and function. GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: Modulation of PP and NPY signalling is suitable for further evaluation and possible clinical development for the treatment of diabetes.
28892258 | Sitagliptin and Roux-en-Y gastric bypass modulate insulin secretion via regulation of intra-islet PYY. AIMS: The gut hormone peptide tyrosine tyrosine (PYY) is critical for maintaining islet integrity and restoring islet function following Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB). The expression of PYY and its receptors (NPYRs) in islets has been documented but not fully characterized. Modulation of islet PYY by the proteolytic enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP-IV) has not been investigated and the impact of DPP-IV inhibition on islet PYY function remains unexplored. Here we have addressed these gaps and their effects on glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS). We have also investigated changes in pancreatic PYY in diabetes and following RYGB. METHODS: Immunohistochemistry and gene expression analysis were used to assess PYY, NPYRs and DPP-IV expression in rodent and human islets. DPP-IV activity inhibition was achieved by sitagliptin. Secretion studies were used to test PYY and the effects of sitagliptin on insulin release, and the involvement of GLP-1. Radioimmunoassays were used to measure hormone content in islets. RESULTS: PYY and DPP-IV localized in different cell types in islets while NPYR expression was confined to the beta-cells. Chronic PYY application enhanced GSIS in rodent and diabetic human islets. DPP-IV inhibition by sitagliptin potentiated GSIS; this was mediated by locally-produced PYY, and not GLP-1. Pancreatic PYY was markedly reduced in diabetes. RYGB strongly increased islet PYY content, but did not lead to full restoration of pancreatic GLP-1 levels. CONCLUSION: Local regulation of pancreatic PYY, rather than GLP-1, by DPP-IV inhibition or RYGB can directly modulate the insulin secretory response to glucose, indicating a novel role of pancreatic PYY in diabetes and weight-loss surgery.
29381243 | Neural crest-derived cells migrate from nerve to participate in Achilles tendon remodeling. During tendon injury, nerve ingrowth is one of the earliest events of tendon repair and remodeling. Since peripheral neurons and associated cells are mostly derived from neural crest (NC) cells, we sought to investigate the role of NC-derived cells in tendon regeneration. Thus, we used Sox10-Cre/ROSA26-Flox-Red Fluorescent Protein (RFP) transgenic mice to trace these cells during tendon regeneration. After 4 weeks of Achilles tendon rupture, the injured tendon tissues were harvested for immunohistological analyses, cell isolation, and phenotype identification. In addition, the tenocytes were co-cultured with RFP labeled cells to examine cellular functions. Following the injury, a significant number of RFP-labeled cells penetrated into the wound site and reached a peak (~30% of cells) after 2 weeks, and then stabilized at a level of approximately 20%. Interestingly, 36.9% RFP labeled cells in the injured area expressed Tuj1, suggesting that most of the cells are peripheral neurons. Some RFP+ /Tuj1+ cells were also found adjacent to newly formed blood vessels in the tendon. Importantly, the existing neuropeptide Y (NPY) and neuropeptide Y receptor (NPYr) in the invading nerve and blood vessels were directly correlated. In addition, there were also RFP+ cells (~30%) negative for neuronal markers but positive for fibroblast markers, that is, FAP (34.7%) and Vimentin (Vmt) (27.2%), and approximately 10% positive for Sox10. Indeed, many RFP+ cells isolated from the ruptured Achilles tendon showed long spindle shapes and expressed fibroblast phenotypic markers FSP1 and FAP. Part of the Sox10+ RFP-labeled cells exhibited osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation ability. It is concluded that after Achilles tendon injury, nerves sprout into the wound site. The NC-derived Vmt+ /FAP+ mesenchymal cells and peripheral nerves participate in tendon regeneration.
29772458 | Phenotyping and Target Expression Profiling of CD34+/CD38- and CD34+/CD38+ Stem- and Progenitor cells in Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. Leukemic stem cells (LSCs) are an emerging target of curative anti-leukemia therapy. In acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), LSCs frequently express CD34 and often lack CD38. However, little is known about markers and targets expressed in ALL LSCs. We have examined marker- and target expression profiles in CD34+/CD38- LSCs in patients with Ph+ ALL (n = 22) and Ph- ALL (n = 27) by multi-color flow cytometry and qPCR. ALL LSCs expressed CD19 (B4), CD44 (Pgp-1), CD123 (IL-3RA), and CD184 (CXCR4) in all patients tested. Moreover, in various subgroups of patients, LSCs also displayed CD20 (MS4A1) (10/41 = 24%), CD22 (12/20 = 60%), CD33 (Siglec-3) (20/48 = 42%), CD52 (CAMPATH-1) (17/40 = 43%), IL-1RAP (13/29 = 45%), and/or CD135 (FLT3) (4/20 = 20%). CD25 (IL-2RA) and CD26 (DPPIV) were expressed on LSCs in Ph+ ALL exhibiting BCR/ABL1p210, whereas in Ph+ ALL with BCR/ABL1p190, LSCs variably expressed CD25 but did not express CD26. In Ph- ALL, CD34+/CD38- LSCs expressed IL-1RAP in 6/18 patients (33%), but did not express CD25 or CD26. Normal stem cells stained negative for CD25, CD26 and IL-1RAP, and expressed only low amounts of CD52. In xenotransplantation experiments, CD34+/CD38- and CD34+/CD38+ cells engrafted NSG mice after 12-20 weeks, and targeting with antibodies against CD33 and CD52 resulted in reduced engraftment. Together, LSCs in Ph+ and Ph- ALL display unique marker- and target expression profiles. In Ph+ ALL with BCR/ABL1p210, the LSC-phenotype closely resembles the marker-profile of CD34+/CD38- LSCs in chronic myeloid leukemia, confirming the close biologic relationship of these neoplasms. Targeting of LSCs with specific antibodies or related immunotherapies may facilitate LSC eradication in ALL.
29973594 | Peptide density targets and impedes triple negative breast cancer metastasis. The C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4, CD184) pathway is a key regulator of cancer metastasis. Existing therapeutics that block CXCR4 signaling are dependent on single molecule-receptor interactions or silencing CXCR4 expression. CXCR4 localizes in lipid rafts and forms dimers therefore CXCR4 targeting and signaling may depend on ligand density. Herein, we report liposomes presenting a CXCR4 binding peptide (DV1) as a three-dimensional molecular array, ranging from 9k to 74k molecules mum-2, target triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). TNBC cells exhibit a maxima in binding and uptake of DV1-functionalized liposomes (L-DV1) in vitro at a specific density, which yields a significant reduction in cell migration. This density inhibits metastasis from a primary tumor for 27 days, resulting from peptide density dependent gene regulation. We show that complementing cell membrane receptor expression may be a strategy for targeting cells and regulating signaling.
30105036 | Elevated Pentraxin 3 in Obese Adipose Tissue Promotes Adipogenic Differentiation by Activating Neuropeptide Y Signaling. Obesity is accompanied by chronic systemic inflammation characterized by macrophage infiltration of obese tissues, an elevated plasma level of inflammatory substances, and excessive accumulation of lipids. The pro-inflammatory factor pentraxin 3 (PTX3) is also elevated in obese tissues, suggesting its potential role in adipogenesis. We found by analyzing murine preadipocyte 3T3-L1 cells, and human adipocytes derived from mesenchymal stem cells, which locally elevated PTX3 in obese adipose tissue augments adipocyte differentiation and subsequent lipid accumulation. This occurs via the upregulation of adipogenesis-related transcription factors. PTX3 enhanced lipid accumulation in murine 3T3-L1 cells by upregulating the expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY)/NPY receptor (NPYR) expression in preadipocytes. Pharmacological inhibition by NPYR antagonists abolished these effects. NPY also promoted the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), a known trigger of adipogenesis. NPYR antagonists as well as antioxidant N-acetylcysteine showed anti-adipogenic effects by reducing the ROS levels, indicating that PTX3 mediates adipogenesis through NPY-dependent ROS production. These findings suggest that PTX3 plays a key role in the development of obesity by enhancing adipocyte differentiation and lipid synthesis via NPY/NPYR signaling. These observations provide a mechanistic explanation for the adipogenesis mediated by PTX3.
30783845 | Effect of Different Regimens of Co-Transplantation of Hemopoietic and Mesenchymal Hemopoietic Stem Cells on the Rates of Hemopoietic Recovery in Laboratory Mice Treated with Cyclophosphamide in Sublethal Doses. We studied the effect of mesenchymal stem cells and hemopoietic stem cells co-transplanted in different regimens (sequence and intervals between the injections within 0-48 h) on the rate of the bone marrow hemopoiesis recovery in 468 inbred mice with cytostatic aplasia caused by a single injection of cyclophosphamide in a dose of 500 mg/kg. The efficacy of stem cells was evaluated by animal survival and general physical condition, body weight dynamics, peripheral blood counts (leucocytes, platelets, and reticulocytes), total cellularity and the presence of hemopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow on day 9 after cyclophosphamide injection. The relative content of hemopoietic stem cells in the total myelokaryocyte pool was assessed by flow cytofluorometry using specific monoclonal antibodies to CD117 and CD184. The stimulating effect of co-transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells and hemopoietic stem cells on hemopoiesis was demonstrated by the indices of total cellularity and the relative content of CD117+ hemopoietic stem cells. The schemes with injection of mesenchymal stem cells 24-48 h prior to injection of hemopoietic stem cells were most effective.
32395369 | Reblastatins Inhibit Phenotypic Changes of Monocytes/Macrophages in a Milieu Rich in 27-Hydroxycholesterol. We investigated effects of reblastatins on phenotypic changes in monocytes/macrophages induced by 27-hydroxycholesterol (27OHChol). Treatment of THP-1 monocytic cells with reblastatin derivatives, such as 17-demethoxy-reblastatin (17-DR), 18-dehydroxyl-17-demethoxyreblastatin (WK88-1), 18-hydroxyl-17-demethoxyreblastatin (WK88-2), and 18-hydroxyl-17-demethoxy-4,5-dehydroreblastatin (WK88-3), resulted in blockage of CCL2, CCL3, and CCL4 expression at the transcription and protein levels, which, in turn, impaired migration of monocytes/macrophages and Jurkat T cells expressing CCR5, and almost complete inhibition of transcription of M1 marker cytokines, like CXCL10, CXCL11, and TNF-alpha. Reblastatins also downregulated surface CD14 as well as soluble CD14 along with inhibition of LPS response and matrix metalloprotease-9 expression. Surface levels of mature dendritic cell (mDC)-specific markers, including CD80, CD83, CD88, CD197, and MHC class I and II molecules, were remarkably down-regulated, and 27OHChol-induced decrease of endocytic activity was recovered following treatment with 17-DR, WK88-1, WK88-2, and WK88-3. However, 15-hydroxyl-17-demethoxyreblastatin (DHQ3) did not affect the molecular or functional changes in monocytic cells induced by 27OHChol. Furthermore, surface levels of CD105, CD137, and CD166 were also down-regulated by 17-DR, WK88-1, WK88-2, and WK88-3, but not by DHQ3. Collectively, results of the current study indicate that, except DHQ3, reblastatins regulate the conversion and differentiation of monocytic cells to an immunostimulatory phenotype and mDCs, respectively, which suggests possible applications of reblastatins for immunomodulation in a milieu rich in oxygenated cholesterol molecules.
32582696 | Cathepsin S and Protease-Activated Receptor-2 Drive Alloimmunity and Immune Regulation in Kidney Allograft Rejection. Alloantigen presentation is an essential process in acute allorejection. In this context, we speculated on a pathogenic role of cathepsin S (Cat-S), a cysteine protease known to promote antigenic peptide loading into MHC class II and to activate protease-activated receptor (PAR)-2 on intrarenal microvascular endothelial and tubular epithelial cells. Single-cell RNA sequencing and immunostaining of human kidney allografts confirmed Cat-S expression in intrarenal mononuclear phagocytes. In vitro, Cat-S inhibition suppressed CD4 + T cell lymphocyte activation in a mixed lymphocyte assay. In vivo, we employed a mouse model of kidney transplantation that showed preemptive Cat-S inhibition significantly protected allografts from tubulitis and intimal arteritis. To determine the contribution of PAR-2 activation, first, Balb/c donor kidneys were transplanted into Balb/c recipient mice without signs of rejection at day 10. In contrast, kidneys from C57BL/6J donor mice revealed severe intimal arteritis, tubulitis, interstitial inflammation, and glomerulitis. Kidneys from Par2-deficient C57BL/6J mice revealed partial protection from tubulitis and lower intrarenal expression levels for Fasl, Tnfa, Ccl5, and Ccr5. Together, we conclude that Cat-S and PAR-2 contribute to immune dysregulation and kidney allograft rejection, possibly involving Cat-S-mediated activation of PAR-2 on recipient parenchymal cells in the allograft.
32727125 | Pyrogallol-Phloroglucinol-6,6-Bieckolon Attenuates Vascular Smooth Muscle Cell Proliferation and Phenotype Switching in Hyperlipidemia through Modulation of Chemokine Receptor 5. Hyperlipidemia induces vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation and phenotype switching from contractile to synthetic. This process is involved in arterial remodeling via the chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5)/chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) pathway. Arterial remodeling is related to atherosclerosis or intimal hyperplasia. The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether pyrogallol-phloroglucinol-6,6-bieckol (PPB) from E. cava reduces VSMC proliferation and phenotype switching via the CCL5/CCR5 pathway. The CCL5/CCR5 expression, VSMC proliferation and phenotypic alterations were evaluated using a cell model of VSMC exposed in hyperlipidemia, and an animal model of mice fed a high-fat-diet (HFD). The expression of CCL5/CCR5 increased in both the cell and animal models of hyperlipidemia. Treatment with PPB decreased CCL5/CCR5 expression in both models. The expression of contractile markers of VSMCs, including alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), smooth muscle myosin heavy chain (SM-MHC), and smooth muscle protein 22 alpha (SM22alpha), were decreased by hyperlipidemia and restored after treatment with PPB. The silencing of CCR5 attenuated the effects of PPB treatment. VSMC proliferation and the intima-media thickness of the aortas, increased with HFD and decreased after treatment with PPB. The VSMC proliferation ratio and messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of cell cycle regulatory factors increased in the in vitro model and were restored after treatment with PPB. PPB treatment reduced VSMC proliferation and phenotype switching induced by hyperlipidemia through inhibition of the CCL5/CCR5 pathway.
32880687 | Mucosal-associated invariant T cell alterations during the development of human type 1 diabetes. AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells are innate-like T cells that recognise derivatives of bacterial riboflavin metabolites presented by MHC-Ib-related protein 1 (MR1) molecules and are important effector cells for mucosal immunity. Their development can be influenced by the intestinal microbiome. Since the development of type 1 diabetes has been associated with changes in the gut microbiome, this can be hypothesised to lead to alterations in circulating MAIT cells. Accordingly, peripheral blood MAIT cell alterations have been reported previously in patients with type 1 diabetes. However, a comprehensive analysis of the frequency and phenotype of circulating MAIT cells at different stages of type 1 diabetes progression is currently lacking. METHODS: We analysed the frequency, phenotype and functionality of peripheral blood MAIT cells, as well as gammadelta T cells, invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells and natural killer (NK) cells with flow cytometry in a cross-sectional paediatric cohort (aged 2-15) consisting of 51 children with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes, 27 autoantibody-positive (AAb+) at-risk children, and 113 healthy control children of similar age and HLA class II background. The frequency of MAIT cells was also assessed in a separate cross-sectional adult cohort (aged 19-39) of 33 adults with established type 1 diabetes and 37 healthy individuals of similar age. RESULTS: Children with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes displayed a proportional increase of CD8-CD27- MAIT cells compared with healthy control children (median 4.6% vs 3.1% of MAIT cells, respectively, p = 0.004), which was associated with reduced expression of C-C chemokine receptor (CCR)5 (median 90.0% vs 94.3% of MAIT cells, p = 0.02) and beta7 integrin (median 73.5% vs 81.7% of MAIT cells, p = 0.004), as well as decreased production of IFN-gamma (median 57.1% vs 69.3% of MAIT cells, p = 0.04) by the MAIT cells. The frequency of MAIT cells was also decreased in AAb+ children who later progressed to type 1 diabetes compared with healthy control children (median 0.44% vs 0.96% of CD3+ T cells, p = 0.04), as well as in adult patients with a short duration of type 1 diabetes (less than 6 years after diagnosis) compared with control individuals (median 0.87% vs 2.19% of CD3+ T cells, p = 0.007). No alterations in gammadelta T cell, iNKT cell or NK cell frequencies were observed in children with type 1 diabetes or in AAb+ children, with the exception of an increased frequency of IL-17A+ gammadelta T cells in children with newly diagnosed diabetes compared with healthy control children (median 1.58% vs 1.09% of gammadelta T cells, p = 0.002). CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Changes in the frequency and phenotype of circulating MAIT cells were detectable before, at the onset and after diagnosis of type 1 diabetes in cross-sectional cohorts. Our results suggest a possible temporal association between peripheral blood MAIT cell alterations and the clinical onset of type 1 diabetes. Graphical abstract.
33116147 | Genome editing of CCR5 by CRISPR-Cas9 in Mauritian cynomolgus macaque embryos. The discovery that CCR5 serves as an R5-HIV-1 co-receptor, coupled with findings of protection from HIV infection in individuals lacking CCR5, led to the exploration of novel therapeutic strategies for HIV infection based on genome editing of CCR5. Advancing translation of CCR5-mutant-based cellular therapies for HIV requires development of novel physiologically relevant animal models. Mauritian cynomolgus macaques (MCMs), with high degree of MHC allele sharing, are valuable models for HIV-1 research and stem cell therapies. To facilitate the generation of a CCR5-mutant MHC-defined MCM model, we explored editing the CCR5 gene in MCM embryos via CRISPR-Cas9. We refined ovarian stimulation and in vitro fertilization (IVF) methods established for Chinese cynomolgus macaques to generate in vitro MCM embryos. Time-lapse embryo imaging was performed to assess the timing of MCM embryonic developmental events in control and CRISPR-Cas9 microinjected embryos. Using a dual-guide gene targeting approach, biallelic deletions in the CCR5 gene were introduced into ~ 23-37% of MCM embryos. In addition, single blastomere PCR analysis revealed mosaicism in CCR5 editing within the same embryo. Successful development of IVF and CCR5 editing protocols in MCM embryos lays a foundation for the creation of CCR5-mutant MCMs to assess novel stem cell-based HIV therapeutics.
34081629 | Recipient myeloperoxidase-producing cells regulate antibody-mediated acute versus chronic kidney allograft rejection. Antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) continues to be a major problem undermining the success of kidney transplantation. Acute ABMR of kidney grafts is characterized by neutrophil and monocyte margination in the tubular capillaries and by graft transcripts indicating NK cell activation, but the myeloid cell mechanisms required for acute ABMR have remained unclear. Dysregulated donor-specific antibody (DSA) responses with high antibody titers are induced in B6.CCR5-/- mice transplanted with complete MHC-mismatched A/J kidneys and are required for rejection of the grafts. This study tested the role of recipient myeloid cell production of myeloperoxidase (MPO) in the cellular and molecular components of acute ABMR. Despite induction of equivalent DSA titers, B6.CCR5-/- recipients rejected A/J kidneys between days 18 and 25, with acute ABMR, whereas B6.CCR5-/-MPO-/- recipients rejected the grafts between days 46 and 54, with histopathological features of chronic graft injury. On day 15, myeloid cells infiltrating grafts from B6.CCR5-/- and B6.CCR5-/-MPO-/- recipients expressed marked phenotypic and functional transcript differences that correlated with the development of acute versus chronic allograft injury, respectively. Near the time of peak DSA titers, activation of NK cells to proliferate and express CD107a was decreased within allografts in B6.CCR5-/-MPO-/- recipients. Despite high titers of DSA, depletion of neutrophils reproduced the inhibition of NK cell activation and decreased macrophage infiltration but increased monocytes producing MPO. Overall, recipient myeloid cells producing MPO regulate graft-infiltrating monocyte/macrophage function and NK cell activation that are required for DSA-mediated acute kidney allograft injury, and their absence switches DSA-mediated acute pathology and graft outcomes to chronic ABMR.
34432853 | Robust innate immune responses at the placenta during early gestation may limit in utero HIV transmission. In 2019, >90% of new HIV infections in infants globally occurred vertically. Studies suggest intrauterine transmission most often occurs in the third trimester; however, there are no mechanistic studies to support these observations. We therefore obtained early/mid-gestation and term placentae from 20 HIV/Hepatitis B/CMV negative women. Isolated primary placental macrophages (Hofbauer cells [HCs]) were exposed to HIV-1BaL and/or interferon (IFN)-alpha, IFN-beta, IFN-lambda1, and RIG-I-like receptor (RLR) agonists. qRT-PCR, FACS, ELISA, Luminex, and Western blot analyses determined expression of activation markers, co-receptors, viral antigen, cytokines, antiviral genes, and host proteins. Early gestation HCs express higher levels of CCR5 and exhibit a more activated phenotype. Despite downregulation of CCR5, term HCs were more susceptible to HIV replication. Early gestation HCs displayed a more activated phenotype than term HCs and HIV exposure lead to the further up-regulation of T-cell co-stimulatory and MHC molecules. Limited HIV replication in early/mid gestation HCs was associated with increased secretion of anti-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, and a more robust antiviral immune response. In contrast, term HCs were more susceptible to HIV replication, associated with dampening of IFN-induced STAT1 and STAT2 protein activation. Treatment of early/mid gestation and term HCs, with type I IFNs or RLR agonists reduced HIV replication, underscoring the importance of IFN and RLR signaling in inducing an antiviral state. Viral recognition and antiviral immunity in early gestation HCs may prevent in utero HIV infection, whereas diminished antiviral responses at term can facilitate transmission. Defining mechanisms and specific timing of vertical transmission are critical for the development of specific vaccines and antiviral therapeutics to prevent new HIV infections in children globally.
35101171 | Genetic Predisposition and the Variable Course of Infectious Diseases. BACKGROUND: Contact with a pathogen is followed by variable courses of infectious disease, which are only partly explicable by classical risk factors. The susceptibility to infection is variable, as is the course of disease after infection. In this review, we discuss the extent to which this variation is due to genetic factors of the affected individual (the host). METHODS: Selective review of the literature on host genetics in infectious disease, with special attention to the pathogens SARSCoV- 2, influenza viruses, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). RESULTS: Genetic variants of the host contribute to the pathogenesis of infectious diseases. For example, in HIV infection, a relatively common variant leading to a loss of function of the HIV co-receptor CCR5 affects the course of the disease, as do variants in genes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region. Rare monogenic variants of the interferon immune response system contribute to severe disease courses in COVID-19 and influenza (type I interferon in these two cases) and in tuberculosis (type II interferon). An estimated 1.8% of life-threatening courses of COVID-19 in men under age 60 are caused by a deficiency of toll-like receptor 7. The scientific understanding of host genetic factors has already been beneficial to the development of effective drugs. In a small number of cases, genetic information has also been used for individual therapeutic decision-making and for the identification of persons at elevated risk. CONCLUSION: A comprehensive understanding of host genetics can improve the care of patients with infectious diseases. Until the present, the clinical utility of host genetics has been limited to rare cases; in the future, polygenic risk scores summarizing the relevant genetic variants in each patient will enable a wider benefit. To make this possible, multicenter studies are needed that will systematically integrate clinical and genetic data.
35140134 | Mucosa-Associated Invariant T Cell Hypersensitivity to Staphylococcus aureus Leukocidin ED and Its Modulation by Activation. Mucosa-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells recognize bacterial riboflavin metabolite Ags presented by MHC class Ib-related protein (MR1) and play important roles in immune control of microbes that synthesize riboflavin. This includes the pathobiont Staphylococcus aureus, which can also express a range of virulence factors, including the secreted toxin leukocidin ED (LukED). In this study, we found that human MAIT cells are hypersensitive to LukED-mediated lysis and lost on exposure to the toxin, leaving a T cell population devoid of MAIT cells. The cytolytic effect of LukED on MAIT cells was rapid and occurred at toxin concentrations lower than those required for toxicity against conventional T cells. Furthermore, this coincided with high MAIT cell expression of CCR5, and loss of these cells was efficiently inhibited by the CCR5 inhibitor maraviroc. Interestingly, exposure and preactivation of MAIT cells with IL-12 and IL-18, or activation via TCR triggering, partially protected from LukED toxicity. Furthermore, analysis of NK cells indicated that LukED targeted the mature cytotoxic CD57+ NK cell subset in a CCR5-independent manner. Overall, these results indicate that LukED efficiently eliminates immune cells that can respond rapidly to S. aureus in an innate fashion without the need for clonal expansion, and that MAIT cells are exceptionally vulnerable to this toxin. Thus, the findings support a model where LukED secretion may allow S. aureus to avoid recognition by the rapid cell-mediated responses mediated by MAIT cells and NK cells.
35755031 | Tph Cells Expanded in Primary Sjogren's Syndrome. Objectives: PD-1+CXCR5-CD4+T peripheral helper cells, named Tph cells, contribute to B-cell immune responses and the production of antibodies in systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis. However, the role of Tph cells was unknown in the pathogenesis of primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS). Here, we aim to explore the contribution of Tph cells in the development of pSS. Methods: Sixty patients with pSS and 61 age and sex-matched healthy individuals were recruited for this study. The frequency of Tph cells in the blood was measured by flow cytometry. The expression of inducible T-cell costimulator (ICOS), MHC-II, IL-21, CCR2, CCR5, and CCR9 was evaluated in Tph cells. The relationship between Tph cells and indicators of clinical disease was assessed. Co-expression levels of PD-1, CXCR5, CD4, CCR2, and CCR5 in the salivary gland specimens from patients with pSS and patients with dry mouth and eyes but normal pathology were also analyzed. Results: We demonstrated increased circulating Tph cells (7.53 +- 6.65% vs. 3.08 +- 1.31%, p < 0.0001) in patients with pSS (n = 60) compared to healthy controls (n = 61). Tph cells were significantly associated with the ESSDAI disease activity scores, IgG, ESR, IL-21, anti-SSA antibody, and CD138+/CD19+ plasma cells. Furthermore, ICOS was highly expressed in Tfh and Tph cells in patients with pSS. IL-21, MHC-II, CCR2, and CCR5 expression was higher in pSS Tph cells, and CCR9 expression was lower in pSS Tph cells than in pSS Tfh cells. Moreover, Tph cells and CCR2+CD4+T and CCR5+CD4+T cells were found in the labial gland of patients with pSS. Conclusion: Our data show that Tph cells were enriched in peripheral blood and labial gland of patients with pSS. Circulating Tph cells correlated with disease activity scores, suggesting a crucial role of Tph in the development of pSS.
35853970 | Allogeneic MHC-matched T-cell receptor alpha/beta-depleted bone marrow transplants in SHIV-infected, ART-suppressed Mauritian cynomolgus macaques. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplants (allo-HSCTs) dramatically reduce HIV reservoirs in antiretroviral therapy (ART) suppressed individuals. However, the mechanism(s) responsible for these post-transplant viral reservoir declines are not fully understood. Therefore, we modeled allo-HSCT in ART-suppressed simian-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV)-infected Mauritian cynomolgus macaques (MCMs) to illuminate factors contributing to transplant-induced viral reservoir decay. Thus, we infected four MCMs with CCR5-tropic SHIV162P3 and started them on ART 6-16 weeks post-infection (p.i.), maintaining continuous ART during myeloablative conditioning. To prevent graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), we transplanted allogeneic MHC-matched alpha/beta T cell-depleted bone marrow cells and prophylactically treated the MCMs with cyclophosphamide and tacrolimus. The transplants produced ~ 85% whole blood donor chimerism without causing high-grade GvHD. Consequently, three MCMs had undetectable SHIV DNA in their blood post-transplant. However, SHIV-harboring cells persisted in various tissues, with detectable viral DNA in lymph nodes and tissues between 38 and 62 days post-transplant. Further, removing one MCM from ART at 63 days post-transplant resulted in SHIV rapidly rebounding within 7 days of treatment withdrawal. In conclusion, transplanting SHIV-infected MCMs with allogeneic MHC-matched alpha/beta T cell-depleted bone marrow cells prevented high-grade GvHD and decreased SHIV-harboring cells in the blood post-transplant but did not eliminate viral reservoirs in tissues.
37006246 | Varicella Zoster Virus infects mucosal associated Invariant T cells. Introduction: Mucosal Associated Invariant T (MAIT) cells are innate-like T cells that respond to conserved pathogen-derived vitamin B metabolites presented by the MHC class I related-1 molecule (MR1) antigen presentation pathway. Whilst viruses do not synthesize these metabolites, we have reported that varicella zoster virus (VZV) profoundly suppresses MR1 expression, implicating this virus in manipulation of the MR1:MAIT cell axis. During primary infection, the lymphotropism of VZV is likely to be instrumental in hematogenous dissemination of virus to gain access to cutaneous sites where it clinically manifests as varicella (chickenpox). However, MAIT cells, which are found in the blood and at mucosal and other organ sites, have yet to be examined in the context of VZV infection. The goal of this study was to examine any direct impact of VZV on MAIT cells. Methods: Using flow cytometry, we interrogated whether primary blood derived MAIT cells are permissive to infection by VZV whilst further analysing differential levels of infection between various MAIT cell subpopulations. Changes in cell surface extravasation, skin homing, activation and proliferation markers after VZV infection of MAIT cells was also assessed via flow cytometry. Finally the capacity of MAIT cells to transfer infectious virus was tested through an infectious center assay and imaged via fluorescence microscopy. Results: We identify primary blood-derived MAIT cells as being permissive to VZV infection. A consequence of VZV infection of MAIT cells was their capacity to transfer infectious virus to other permissive cells, consistent with MAIT cells supporting productive infection. When subgrouping MAIT cells by their co- expression of a variety cell surface markers, there was a higher proportion of VZV infected MAIT cells co-expressing CD4+ and CD4+/CD8+ MAIT cells compared to the more phenotypically dominant CD8+ MAIT cells, whereas infection was not associated with differences in co-expression of CD56 (MAIT cell subset with enhanced responsiveness to innate cytokine stimulation), CD27 (co-stimulatory) or PD-1 (immune checkpoint). Infected MAIT cells retained high expression of CCR2, CCR5, CCR6, CLA and CCR4, indicating a potentially intact capacity for transendothelial migration, extravasation and trafficking to skin sites. Infected MAIT cells also displayed increased expression of CD69 (early activation) and CD71 (proliferation) markers. Discussion: These data identify MAIT cells as being permissive to VZV infection and identify impacts of such infection on co- expressed functional markers.
37236188 | Allogeneic immunity clears latent virus following allogeneic stem cell transplantation in SIV-infected ART-suppressed macaques. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (alloHSCT) from donors lacking C-C chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5Delta32/Delta32) can cure HIV, yet mechanisms remain speculative. To define how alloHSCT mediates HIV cure, we performed MHC-matched alloHSCT in SIV+, anti-retroviral therapy (ART)-suppressed Mauritian cynomolgus macaques (MCMs) and demonstrated that allogeneic immunity was the major driver of reservoir clearance, occurring first in peripheral blood, then peripheral lymph nodes, and finally in mesenteric lymph nodes draining the gastrointestinal tract. While allogeneic immunity could extirpate the latent viral reservoir and did so in two alloHSCT-recipient MCMs that remained aviremic >2.5 years after stopping ART, in other cases, it was insufficient without protection of engrafting cells afforded by CCR5-deficiency, as CCR5-tropic virus spread to donor CD4+ T cells despite full ART suppression. These data demonstrate the individual contributions of allogeneic immunity and CCR5 deficiency to HIV cure and support defining targets of alloimmunity for curative strategies independent of HSCT.
37408185 | HIV-Host Cell Interactions. The development of antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) was a great milestone in the management of HIV infection. ARVs suppress viral activity in the host cell, thus minimizing injury to the cells and prolonging life. However, an effective treatment has remained elusive for four decades due to the successful immune evasion mechanisms of the virus. A thorough understanding of the molecular interaction of HIV with the host cell is essential in the development of both preventive and curative therapies for HIV infection. This review highlights several inherent mechanisms of HIV that promote its survival and propagation, such as the targeting of CD4+ lymphocytes, the downregulation of MHC class I and II, antigenic variation and an envelope complex that minimizes antibody access, and how they collaboratively render the immune system unable to mount an effective response.
38599607 | Bardoxolone methyl prevents metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis by inhibiting macrophage infiltration. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Bardoxolone methyl (2-cyano-3,12-dioxooleana-1,9(11)-dien-28-oic acid methyl ester, CDDO-Me) is a potent activator of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), which induces the expression of antioxidative-associated genes. CDDO-Me exerts protective effects against chronic inflammatory diseases in the kidneys and lungs. However, its pharmacological effects on metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH) caused by fat accumulation remain unknown. In this study, we examined the hepatoprotective effects of CDDO-Me in a diet-induced MASH mouse model and elucidated its pharmacological mechanisms using RNA-seq analysis. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: CDDO-Me was orally administered to mice fed a choline-deficient, L-amino acid-defined, high-fat diet (CDAHFD), and histological, biochemical, and transcriptomic analyses were performed on livers of mice that developed MASH. KEY RESULTS: CDDO-Me administration induced the expression of antioxidant genes and cholesterol transporters downstream of Nrf2 and significantly prevented the symptoms of MASH. Whole-transcriptome analysis revealed that CDDO-Me inhibited the inflammatory pathway that led to phagocyte recruitment, in addition to activating the Nrf2-dependent pathway. Among inflammatory pathways, CC chemokine ligands (CCL)3 and CCL4, which are downstream of NF-kappaB and are associated with the recruitment of macrophages expressing CC chemokine receptors (CCR)1 and CCR5, were released into the blood in MASH mice. However, CDDO-Me directly inhibited the expression of CCL3-CCR1 and CCL4-CCR5 in macrophages. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Overall, we revealed the potent hepatoprotective effect of CDDO-Me in a MASH mouse model and demonstrated that its pharmacological effects were closely associated with a reduction of macrophage infiltration, through CCL3-CCR1 and CCL4-CCR5 inhibition, in addition to Nrf2-mediated hepatoprotective effects.
38612597 | CC Chemokine Family Members' Modulation as a Novel Approach for Treating Central Nervous System and Peripheral Nervous System Injury-A Review of Clinical and Experimental Findings. Despite significant progress in modern medicine and pharmacology, damage to the nervous system with various etiologies still poses a challenge to doctors and scientists. Injuries lead to neuroimmunological changes in the central nervous system (CNS), which may result in both secondary damage and the development of tactile and thermal hypersensitivity. In our review, based on the analysis of many experimental and clinical studies, we indicate that the mechanisms occurring both at the level of the brain after direct damage and at the level of the spinal cord after peripheral nerve damage have a common immunological basis. This suggests that there are opportunities for similar pharmacological therapeutic interventions in the damage of various etiologies. Experimental data indicate that after CNS/PNS damage, the levels of 16 among the 28 CC-family chemokines, i.e., CCL1, CCL2, CCL3, CCL4, CCL5, CCL6, CCL7, CCL8, CCL9, CCL11, CCL12, CCL17, CCL19, CCL20, CCL21, and CCL22, increase in the brain and/or spinal cord and have strong proinflammatory and/or pronociceptive effects. According to the available literature data, further investigation is still needed for understanding the role of the remaining chemokines, especially six of them which were found in humans but not in mice/rats, i.e., CCL13, CCL14, CCL15, CCL16, CCL18, and CCL23. Over the past several years, the results of studies in which available pharmacological tools were used indicated that blocking individual receptors, e.g., CCR1 (J113863 and BX513), CCR2 (RS504393, CCX872, INCB3344, and AZ889), CCR3 (SB328437), CCR4 (C021 and AZD-2098), and CCR5 (maraviroc, AZD-5672, and TAK-220), has beneficial effects after damage to both the CNS and PNS. Recently, experimental data have proved that blockades exerted by double antagonists CCR1/3 (UCB 35625) and CCR2/5 (cenicriviroc) have very good anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive effects. In addition, both single (J113863, RS504393, SB328437, C021, and maraviroc) and dual (cenicriviroc) chemokine receptor antagonists enhanced the analgesic effect of opioid drugs. This review will display the evidence that a multidirectional strategy based on the modulation of neuronal-glial-immune interactions can significantly improve the health of patients after CNS and PNS damage by changing the activity of chemokines belonging to the CC family. Moreover, in the case of pain, the combined administration of such antagonists with opioid drugs could reduce therapeutic doses and minimize the risk of complications.
38615035 | alpha-Synuclein triggers cofilin pathology and dendritic spine impairment via a PrPC-CCR5 dependent pathway. Cognitive dysfunction and dementia are critical symptoms of Lewy Body dementias (LBD). Specifically, alpha-synuclein (alphaSyn) accumulation in the hippocampus leading to synaptic dysfunction is linked to cognitive deficits in LBD. Here, we investigated the pathological impact of alphaSyn on hippocampal neurons. We report that either alphaSyn overexpression or alphaSyn pre-formed fibrils (PFFs) treatment triggers the formation of cofilin-actin rods, synapse disruptors, in cultured hippocampal neurons and in the hippocampus of synucleinopathy mouse models and of LBD patients. In vivo, cofilin pathology is present concomitantly with synaptic impairment and cognitive dysfunction. Rods generation prompted by alphaSyn involves the co-action of the cellular prion protein (PrPC) and the chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5). Importantly, we show that CCR5 inhibition, with a clinically relevant peptide antagonist, reverts dendritic spine impairment promoted by alphaSyn. Collectively, we detail the cellular and molecular mechanism through which alphaSyn disrupts hippocampal synaptic structure and we identify CCR5 as a novel therapeutic target to prevent synaptic impairment and cognitive dysfunction in LBD.
7729921 | A recombinant Leishmania chagasi antigen that stimulates cellular immune responses in infected mice. Cellular immune mechanisms resulting in gamma interferon production are critical for protection against visceral leishmaniasis. Antigens stimulating T-cell responses are likely present in the intracellular amastigote form of the parasite, since this is the form found in a mammalian host. To identify T-cell antigens of Leishmania chagasi, the parasite causing South American visceral leishmaniasis, we used a double antibody-T-cell technique to screen an amastigote cDNA library. One cDNA selected (Lcr1) encodes an antigen that stimulated proliferation of splenic T lymphocytes from infected mice that were either resistant (C3H.HeJ) or susceptible (BALB/c) to L. chagasi infection. The Lcr1 cDNA contains four highly divergent 201-bp repeats homologous to the 204-bp repeat of a Trypanosoma cruzi flagellar antigen gene. Results are consistent with a single copy of the Lcr1 gene producing an mRNA of > 10 kb and a protein of > 200 kDa. Recombinant Lcr1, cloned adjacent to polyhistidine and purified on a nickel affinity column, stimulated gamma interferon but not interleukin-4 (IL-4), IL-5, or IL-10 secretion by T-cell-enriched splenocytes from either susceptible or resistant mice during L. chagasi infection. Immunization with Lcr1 partially protected BALB/c mice against challenge with L. chagasi, indicating the utility of the double screening approach in selecting relevant T-cell antigens.
10372401 | [Expression of a new family of receptors similar to CXC chemokine receptors in endothelial cell precursors]. Characterization of a new family of G protein-coupled receptors is reported. Expression of these receptors is associated with endothelial lineage. Cloning of the Xenope X-msr receptor allowed to show that embryonic expression of this receptor occurred in the heart and developing primary blood vessels. Furthermore, within these cardiovascular structures, expression was restricted to the endothelial layer. Because structural similarities with the human orphan receptor h-APJ were found, the msr/apj receptor was cloned in mice. This showed that embryonic expression of this receptor was also confirmed to endothelial precursors. Thus, this receptor is the orthological equivalent in mice to the amphibian receptor X-msr. Molecular phylogenesis studies showed that the X-msr, msr/apj, and h-APJ receptors shared considerable homology with two CXC chemokine receptors, namely LCR1, whose name was recently changed to CXCR4, and RDC1, which is structurally similar to the CXCR2 receptor. The human h-APJ receptor is a co-receptor for entry of the HIV into T cells, a property associated only with CXC chemokine receptors in the lymphocyte population. These data suggest that this new signaling system may participate in endothelial precursor migration during developmental angiogenesis and in endothelial cell migration and proliferation during neoangiogenesis in adults.
10377412 | Reprogramming of intestinal differentiation and intercalary regeneration in Cdx2 mutant mice. The homeobox gene Cdx2, a homologue of the Drosophila gene caudal, has been implicated in the control of cell differentiation in the intestinal epithelium. Recently, we showed that mice in which one allele of the Cdx2 gene had been inactivated by homologous recombination developed multiple intestinal polyp-like lesions that did not express Cdx2 and that contained areas of squamous metaplasia in the form of keratinizing stratified squamous epithelium, similar to that occurring in the mouse esophagus and forestomach. We have now examined colonic lesions from 98 Cdx2+/- mice and report that the lesions are composed of heterotopic stomach and small intestinal mucosa. We conclude that Cdx2 directs endodermal differentiation toward a caudal phenotype and that haploinsufficient levels of expression in the developing distal intestine lead to homeotic transformation to a more rostral endodermal phenotype, such as forestomach epithelium that does not express Cdx2 during normal development. Intercalary growth (epimorphic regeneration), which previously has never been described in mammals, then occurs, resulting in the ordered \filling in\ of tissue types at the discontinuity between the gastric and colonic epithelia. This intercalary growth in a restricted space results in the formation of the polypoid lesions observed.
10631078 | BCG expressing LCR1 of Leishmania chagasi induces protective immunity in susceptible mice. Cellular immune responses are required for protective immunity against Leishmania chagasi. Immunization strategies using live intracellular bacteria (e.g., bacille-Calmette Guerin strain of Mycobacterium bovis) expressing recombinant antigens can induce cellular immune responses to these antigens. Previous studies demonstrated that the L. chagasi antigen LCR1 stimulates IFN-gamma production from T cells of infected BALB/c mice, and immunization with recombinant LCR1 partially protects against L. chagasi infection. To determine whether live bacteria could enhance the immunization potential of LCR1, we engineered BCG expressing LCR1 (BCG-LCR1). Subcutaneous immunization with BCG-LCR1, but not with BCG containing plasmid only (BCG-pMV261), elicited better protective immunity against L. chagasi infection than LCR1 protein alone. BCG-LCR1 administered intraperitoneally did not protect. Splenocytes from mice immunized s.c. with either BCG-LCR1 or BCG-pMV261 and then infected with L. chagasi promastigotes had increased antigen-induced IFN-gamma and reduced IL-10 production compared to splenocytes of control mice. We propose that BCG-LCR1 promotes a Th1-type protective immune response, and it may be a useful component of a Leishmania vaccine.
12171973 | Homeobox genes in gut development. Classical descriptions of gut development specify subdivision into foregut, midgut, and hindgut together with their derivatives. This is based on the anatomical localisation of the anterior and posterior intestinal portals separating the roof of the yolk sac from the foregut and hindgut diverticulae. When considering the molecular basis of intestinal differentiation, it is necessary to think in terms of the genes involved, and in this respect those containing the homeobox motif are important players in specifying the fate of both the endodermal and mesodermal components of the gut. In this review, evidence is considered for their role, with particular regard to the acquisition of positional information.
12648499 | A study of regional gut endoderm potency by analysis of Cdx2 null mutant chimaeric mice. Inactivation of Cdx2 by homologous recombination results in the development of forestomach epithelium at ectopic sites in pericaecal areas of the midgut of heterozygote mice. Local factors subsequently result in the secondary induction of tissues exhibiting an orderly sequence of tissue types between the ectopic forestomach tissue and the surrounding colon. Clonal analysis of this secondarily generated tissue using Y chromosome painting in chimaeric mice indicates that once differentiated to express Cdx2, host colonic epithelium can only form small intestinal-type epithelium, while Cdx2 mutant cells give rise to a succession of gastric-type tissue but never to a small intestine morphology. Our results indicate a difference in potency between forestomach and midgut precursor endodermal cells.
25339334 | [Effect of lentiviral vector mediated CXCR4 gene overexpressed mesenchymal stem cell on the protection of mice against graft-versus-host disease]. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of the lentiviral vector mediated CXCR4 overexpressed mesenchymal stem cell (MSCs) on graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). METHODS: Lentiviral vector containing CXCR4 was constructed. CXCR4 overexpressed MSC by lentiviral vector mediated were assessed. A major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-mismatched mouse model of bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from C57BL/6 donors to BALB/c recipients was constructed. Mice were divided into five groups: total body irradiation (TBI) group, mice received irradiation only; BMT group, mice were transplanted with bone marrow (BM) after TBI; GVHD group, mice were transplanted with BM and splencytes after TBI; CXCR4-MSC group, mice were transplanted with CXCR4-MSC, BM and splencytes after TBI; EGFP-MSC group, mice were transplanted with EGFP-MSC, BM and splencytes after TBI. The survival, body weight and clinical score of GVHD in transplanted mice were monitored. Liver, intestine and skin from mice in each group were obtained for histological examination. Plasma concentrations of inflammation factors such as interleukin (IL)-2, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha were also determined using a cytometric bead array cytokine kit. RESULTS: All mice in TBI group died within 14 days, while all of BMT group survived. The mean survival times for GVHD, EGFP-MSC and CXCR4-MSC groups were (17.0 +- 2.3) d, (21.7 +- 4.8) d and (30.1 +- 9.1) d, respectively. Treatment with CXCR4 over-expressing MSCs could decrease the mortality rate. All mice in each group developed clinical signs such as hunched posture, dull fur, diarrhea and weight loss. Meanwhile, histopathological findings in target organs were confirmed the presence of GVHD. While, clinical GVHD scores and histopathological scores in CXCR4-MSC group were significantly lower than that of GVHD group. Moreover, compared with control groups, the plasma IL-2, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha level in recipients infused with CXCR4-MSC were significantly decreased (P<0.05). CONCLUSION: The results revealed that CXCR4- transduced MSCs could effectively control the occurrence of mouse GVHD following allogeneic BM transplantation.
25814933 | Prenatal stress is a vulnerability factor for altered morphology and biological activity of microglia cells. Several lines of evidence suggest that the dysregulation of the immune system is an important factor in the development of depression. Microglia are the resident macrophages of the central nervous system and a key player in innate immunity of the brain. We hypothesized that prenatal stress (an animal model of depression) as a priming factor could affect microglial cells and might lead to depressive-like disturbances in adult male rat offspring. We investigated the behavioral changes (sucrose preference test, Porsolt test), the expression of C1q and CD40 mRNA and the level of microglia (Iba1 positive) in 3-month-old control and prenatally stressed male offspring rats. In addition, we characterized the morphological and biochemical parameters of potentially harmful (NO, iNOS, IL-1beta, IL-18, IL-6, TNF-alpha, CCL2, CXCL12, CCR2, CXCR4) and beneficial (insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)) phenotypes in cultures of microglia obtained from the cortices of 1-2 days old control and prenatally stressed pups. The adult prenatally stressed rats showed behavioral (anhedonic- and depression-like) disturbances, enhanced expression of microglial activation markers and an increased number of Iba1-immunopositive cells in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. The morphology of glia was altered in cultures from prenatally stressed rats, as demonstrated by immunofluorescence microscopy. Moreover, in these cultures, we observed enhanced expression of CD40 and MHC II and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-1beta, IL-18, TNF-alpha and IL-6. Prenatal stress significantly up-regulated levels of the chemokines CCL2, CXCL12 and altered expression of their receptors, CCR2 and CXCR4 while IGF-1 production was suppressed in cultures of microglia from prenatally stressed rats. Our results suggest that prenatal stress may lead to excessive microglia activation and contribute to the behavioral changes observed in depression in adulthood. 
25977164 | Expression of genes involved in immune response and in vitro immunosuppressive effect of equine MSCs. The immunomodulatory capacities of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have made them the subject of increased clinical interest for tissue regeneration and repair. We have studied the immunomodulatory capacity of equine MSCs derived from bone marrow (BM-MSCs) and adipose tissue (AT-MSCs) in cocultures with allogeneic peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Different isoforms and concentrations of phytohaemaglutinin (PHA) were tested to determine the best stimulation conditions for PBMC proliferation and a proliferation assay was performed for 7 days to determine the optimal day of stimulation of PBMCs. The effect of the dose and source of MSCs was evaluated in cocultures of 10(5) PBMCs with different ratios of AT- and BM-MSCs (1:1, 1:10, 1:20 and 1:50). Proliferation rates of the PBMCs were evaluated using BrdU ELISA colorimetric assay. PHA stimulated equine PBMCs reached their peak of growth after 3 days of culture. The immunoassay showed a decrease of the PBMCs growth at high ratio cocultures (1:1 and 1:10). Equine BM-MSCs and AT-MSCs demonstrated an ability to suppress the proliferation of stimulated PBMCs. Although MSCs derived from both sources displayed immunosuppressive effects, AT-MSCs were slightly more potent than BM-MSCs. In addition, the expression of 26 genes coding for different molecules implicated in the immune response was analyzed in cocultures of BM-MSCs and PHA stimulated PBMSCs by reverse transcriptase real time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). An upregulation in genes associated with the production of interleukins and cytokines such as TNF-alpha and TGF-beta1 was observed except for IFN-gamma whose expression significantly decreased. The variations of interleukins and cytokine receptors showed no clear patterns. COX-1 and COX-2 showed similar expression patterns while INOs expression significantly decreased in the two cell types present in the coculture. Cyclin D2 and IDO-1 showed an increased expression and CD90, ITG-beta1 and CD44 expression decreased significantly in BM-MSCs cocultured with PHA stimulated PBMCs. On the contrary, CD6 and VCAM1 expression increased in these cells. With regard to the expression of the five genes involved in antigen presentation, an upregulation was observed in both cocultured MSCs and stimulated PBMCs. This study contributes to the knowledge of the immunoregulatory properties of equine MSCs, which are notably important for the treatment of inflammation processes, such as tendinitis and osteoarthritis. 
26209354 | Pre-treatment of allogeneic bone marrow recipients with the CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100 transiently enhances hematopoietic chimerism without promoting donor-specific skin allograft tolerance. Hematopoietic chimerism established by allogeneic bone marrow transplantation is known to promote donor-specific organ allograft tolerance; however, clinical application is limited by the need for toxic host conditioning and \megadoses\ of donor bone marrow cells. A potential solution to this problem has been suggested by the observation that recipient bone marrow mobilization by the CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100 promotes chimerism in congenic bone marrow transplantation experiments in mice. Here we report that a single subcutaneous dose of 10 mg/kg AMD3100 in recipient C57BL/6 mice was able to enhance hematopoietic chimerism when complete MHC-mismatched BALB/c donor bone marrow cells were transplanted 1h after drug dosing. However, levels of chimerism measured 30 days post-transplantation were not sustained when mice were reexamined on day 90 post-transplantation. Moreover, transient chimerism induced by this protocol did not support robust donor-specific skin allograft tolerance. Using the same transient immunosuppression protocol, we confirmed that \megadoses\ of donor bone marrow cells could induce durable chimerism associated with donor-specific skin allograft tolerance without AMD3100 pre-treatment. We conclude that in this protocol AMD3100 pretreatment may empty bone marrow niches that become reoccupied by allogeneic donor hematopoietic progenitor cells but not by true long-lived donor hematopoietic stem cells, resulting in short-lived chimerism and failure to support durable donor-specific allograft tolerance.
26402676 | Transcriptome Analysis and Identification of Differentially Expressed Transcripts of Immune-Related Genes in Spleen of Gosling and Adult Goose. The goose (Anser cygnoides), having high nutritional value, high-quality feathers and high economic benefit, is an economically important poultry species. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the higher susceptibility to pathogens in goslings than in adult geese remains poorly understood. In this study, the histological sections of spleen tissue from a two-week-old gosling and an adult goose, respectively, were subjected to comparative analysis. The spleen of gosling was mainly composed of mesenchyma, accompanied by scattered lymphocytes, whereas the spleen parenchyma was well developed in the adult goose. To investigate goose immune-related genes, we performed deep transcriptome and gene expression analyses of the spleen samples using paired-end sequencing technology (Illumina). In total, 50,390 unigenes were assembled using Trinity software and TGICL software. Moreover, these assembled unigenes were annotated with gene descriptions and gene ontology (GO) analysis was performed. Through Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) analysis, we investigated 558 important immune-relevant unigenes and 23 predicted cytokines. In addition, 22 immune-related genes with differential expression between gosling and adult goose were identified, among which the three genes showing largest differences in expression were immunoglobulin alpha heavy chain (IgH), mannan-binding lectin serine protease 1 isoform X1 (MASP1) and C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4). Finally, of these 22 differentially expressed immune-related genes, seven genes, including tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 13B (TNFRSF13B), C-C motif chemokine 4-like (CCL4), CXCR4, interleukin 2 receptor alpha (IL2RA), MHC class I heavy chain (MHCIalpha), transporter of antigen processing 2 (TAP2) IgH, were confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). The expression levels of all the candidate unigenes were up-regulated in adult geese other than that of TNFRSF13B. The comparative analysis of the spleen transcriptomes of gosling and adult goose may promote better understanding of immune molecular development in goose. 
26817997 | Post-Sepsis State Induces Tumor-Associated Macrophage Accumulation through CXCR4/CXCL12 and Favors Tumor Progression in Mice. Survivors from sepsis are in an immunosuppressed state that is associated with higher long-term mortality and risk of opportunistic infections. Whether these factors contribute to neoplastic proliferation, however, remains unclear. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAM) can support malignant cell proliferation, survival, and angiogenesis. We addressed the relationship between the post-sepsis state, tumor progression and TAM accumulation, and phenotypic and genetic profile, using a mouse model of sepsis resolution and then B16 melanoma in mice. In addition, we measured the serum concentrations of TNFalpha, TGFbeta, CCL2, and CXCL12 and determined the effect of in vivo CXCR4/CXCL12 inhibition in this context. Mice that survived sepsis showed increased tumor progression both in the short and long term, and survival times were shorter. TAM accumulation, TAM local proliferation, and serum concentrations of TGFbeta, CXCL12, and TNFalpha were increased. Naive mice inoculated with B16 together with macrophages from post-sepsis mice also had faster tumor progression and shorter survival. Post-sepsis TAMs had less expression of MHC-II and leukocyte activation-related genes. Inhibition of CXCR4/CXCL12 prevented the post-sepsis-induced tumor progression, TAM accumulation, and TAM in situ proliferation. Collectively, our data show that the post-sepsis state was associated with TAM accumulation through CXCR4/CXCL12, which contributed to B16 melanoma progression.
28039356 | Immunophenotyping and Transcriptomic Outcomes in PDX-Derived TNBC Tissue. Cancer tissue functions as an ecosystem of a diverse set of cells that interact in a complex tumor microenvironment. Genomic tools applied to biopsies in bulk fail to account for this tumor heterogeneity, whereas single-cell imaging methods limit the number of cells which can be assessed or are very resource intensive. The current study presents methods based on flow cytometric analysis and cell sorting using known cell surface markers (CXCR4/CD184, CD24, THY1/CD90) to identify and interrogate distinct groups of cells in triple-negative breast cancer clinical biopsy specimens from patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. The results demonstrate that flow cytometric analysis allows a relevant subgrouping of cancer tissue and that sorting of these subgroups provides insights into cancer cell populations with unique, reproducible, and functionally divergent gene expression profiles. The discovery of a drug resistance signature implies that uncovering the functional interaction between these populations will lead to deeper understanding of cancer progression and drug response.Implications: PDX-derived human breast cancer tissue was investigated at the single-cell level, and cell subpopulations defined by surface markers were identified which suggest specific roles for distinct cellular compartments within a solid tumor. Mol Cancer Res; 15(4); 429-38.  2016 AACR.
28351707 | Chemokine receptor CCR5 and CXCR4 might influence virus replication during IBDV infection. Both CCR5 and CXCR4 are important chemokine receptors and take vital role in migration, development and distribution of T cells, however, whether they will influence the process of T cell infiltration into bursa of Fabricius during infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) infection is unclear. In the current study, CCR5 and CXCR4 antagonists, Maraviroc and AMD3100, were administrated into chickens inoculated with IBDV, and the gene levels of IBDV VP2, CCR5, CXCR4 and related cytokines were determined by real-time PCR. The results showed that large number of T cells began to migrate into the bursae on Day 3 post infection with IBDV and the mRNA of chemokine receptors CCR5 and CXCR4 began to increase on Day 1. Moreover, antagonist treatments have increased the VP2, CCR5 and CXCR4 gene transcriptions and influenced on the gene levels of IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, IFN-gamma, TGF-beta4, MHC-I and MDA5. In conclusion, the chemokine receptors CCR5 and CXCR4 might influence virus replication during IBDV infection and further study would focus on the interaction between chemokine receptors and their ligands.
28698642 | Progressive Changes in CXCR4 Expression That Define Thymocyte Positive Selection Are Dispensable For Both Innate and Conventional alphabetaT-cell Development. The ordered migration of immature thymocytes through thymic microenvironments generates both adaptive MHC restricted alphabetaT-cells and innate CD1d-restricted iNKT-cells. While several chemokine receptors and ligands control multiple stages of this process, their involvement during early thymocyte development often precludes direct analysis of potential roles during later developmental stages. For example, because of early lethality of CXCR4-/- mice, and stage-specific requirements for CXCR4 in thymus colonisation and pre-TCR mediated selection, its role in thymic positive selection is unclear. Here we have examined CXCR4-CXCL12 interactions during the maturation of CD4+CD8+ thymocytes, including downstream stages of iNKT and alphabetaT-cell development. We show CXCL12 expression is a common feature of cortical thymic epithelial cells, indicating widespread availability throughout the cortex. Moreover, CXCR4 expression by CD4+CD8+ pre-selection thymocytes is progressively downregulated following both MHC and CD1d-restricted thymic selection events. However, using CD4Cre-mediated deletion to bypass its involvement in CD4-CD8- thymocyte development, we show CXCR4 is dispensable for the maintenance and intrathymic positioning of CD4+CD8+ thymocytes, and their ability to generate mature alphabetaT-cells and CD1d-restricted iNKT-cells. Collectively, our data define dynamic changes in CXCR4 expression as a marker for intrathymic selection events, and show its role in T-cell development is restricted to pre-CD4+CD8+ stages.
29476963 | LPS-mediated cell surface expression of CD74 promotes the proliferation of B cells in response to MIF. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a chemokine-like inflammatory cytokine, which plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory and cardiovascular diseases as well as cancer. We previously identified MIF as a novel B cell chemokine that promotes B cell migration through non-cognate interaction with the CXC chemokine receptor CXCR4 and CD74, the surface form of MHC class II invariant chain. In this study, we have analyzed the regulation of the MIF receptors under inflammatory conditions by investigating the impact of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) on CD74 and CXCR4 expression in B lymphocytes. We found that both LPS and TNF-alpha stimulation of primary B cells and the human B myeloma cell line RPMI-8226 enhanced protein expression as well as mRNA levels of CD74 in a time- and dose-dependent manner. By contrast, no effect on CXCR4 expression was observed. Selective inhibition of IkappaBalpha phosphorylation significantly attenuated LPS-induced expression of CD74, suggesting the contribution of NF-kappaB signaling pathways to the regulation of CD74 expression. Importantly, individual or simultaneous blockade of MIF or CD74 using specific neutralizing antibodies markedly affected B cell proliferation after LPS exposure. Taken together, our findings unveil a connection between the pro-proliferative activity of MIF/CD74 signaling in B cells and inflammation, offering novel target mechanisms in inflammatory cardiovascular or autoimmune pathogenesis.
29508538 | Does the tumour microenvironment alter tumorigenesis and clinical response in transmissible venereal tumour in dogs? The canine transmissible venereal tumour (CTVT) is a transmissible cancer that is spread naturally between dogs, with the ability to develop and evade the immune system, despite strict immune surveillance of the host. Furthermore, molecular signalling between cells of the immune system and the tumour microenvironment appear to influence the behaviour and development of the tumour. Thus, this study aimed to quantify the expression of genes related to the immune system such as IL-6, IFN-gamma, and TGF-beta, as well as angiogenic factors (VEGF, CXCR4), in CTVT cells in vivo and in vitro (primary culture), correlating with the clinical response of the animals treated with vincristine. As expected, the most prevalent subtype was plasmacytoid cells, although lymphocytic cells were also found, indicating the possibility of polyclonality. When we compared the gene expressions of IFN-gamma and IL-6, we mostly found low expression, concluding that MHC expression was probably not occurring in tumour cells, and no activation of immune cells to eliminate the tumour. The TGF-beta gene was normal in the majority of animals but demonstrated decreased expression in vincristine resistant animals, leading to the hypothesis that the concentration of tumour-derived TGF-beta was affecting and even suppressing the real TGF-beta expression, favouring tumour proliferation and progression in these cases. VEGF expression was extremely high, demonstrating its angiogenic role in tumour growth, while CXCR4 was decreased, possibly because of CTVT's low metastatic potential. Thus, we concluded that the tumour microenvironment, together with the immune system of the host, influences CTVT, presumably altering its tumorigenesis and the animal's clinical response to treatment.
30203045 | Immunological differences between primary and metastatic breast cancer. Background: Little is known about how the immune microenvironment of breast cancer evolves during disease progression. Patients and methods: We compared tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) count, programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) protein expression by immunohistochemistry and mRNA levels of 730 immune-related genes using Nanostring technology in primary and metastatic cancer samples. Results: TIL counts and PD-L1 positivity were significantly lower in metastases. Immune cell metagenes corresponding to CD8, T-helper, T-reg, Cytotoxic T, Dendritic and Mastoid cells, and expression of 13 of 29 immuno-oncology therapeutic targets in clinical development including PD1, PD-L1, and CTLA4 were significantly lower in metastases. There was also coordinated down regulation of chemoattractant ligand/receptor pairs (CCL19/CCR7, CXCL9/CXCR3, IL15/IL15R), interferon regulated genes (STAT1, IRF-1,-4,-7, IFI-27,-35), granzyme/granulysin, MHC class I and immune proteasome (PSMB-8,-9,-10) expression in metastases. Immunotherapy response predictive signatures were also lower. The expression of macrophage markers (CD163, CCL2/CCR2, CSF1/CSFR1, CXCR4/CXCL12), protumorigenic toll-like receptor pathway genes (CD14/TLR-1,-2,-4,-5,-6/MyD88), HLA-E, ecto-nuclease CD73/NT5E and inhibitory complement receptors (CD-59,-55,-46) remained high in metastases and represent potential therapeutic targets. Conclusions: Metastatic breast cancers are immunologically more inert than the corresponding primary tumors but some immune-oncology targets and macrophage and angiogenesis signatures show preserved expression and suggest therapeutic combinations for clinical testing.
31310013 | Molecular cloning, characterization and expression analysis of MHCI and chemokines CXCR3 and CXCR4 gene from freshwater carp, Catla catla. The immune system with large number of molecules protects the host against a plethora of continuously evolving microbes. Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules serve as cardinal elements of the adaptive immune system responsible for the activation of the adaptive immunity in the host. The present study reports MHCI molecule in freshwater carp, Catla catla, and its differential expression in immunologically relevant tissues post-infection with Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria. The MHCI sequence of C. catla had 502 bp nucleotides encoding putative 146 amino acids. The phylogenetic analysis exhibited its evolutionary conservation within the Cyprinidae family and formed a different clade with the higher vertebrates. Simultaneously, CXCR3 and CXCR4 chemokines were cloned and characterized for their expression in infected tissues. Analysis of immunologically relevant tissues of the infected fish exhibited an increase of MHCI gene expression and the down-regulation of CXCR3 and CXCR4 chemokines, indicating a tricky interaction between the innate and adaptive immune system. It was found that intestine, skin and spleen played a crucial role in the contribution of the defense activity which instigated the self-immunity. These immune activities can provide useful information to understand the interaction of self and non-self- immune system in freshwater fish, Catla catla.
31940843 | Cannabinoid Receptor 2 Modulates Maturation of Dendritic Cells and Their Capacity to Induce Hapten-Induced Contact Hypersensitivity. Contact hypersensitivity (CHS) is an established animal model for allergic contact dermatitis. Dendritic cells (DCs) play an important role in the sensitization phase of CHS by initiating T cell responses to topically applied haptens. The cannabinoid receptors 1 (CB1) and 2 (CB2) modulate DC functions and inflammatory skin responses, but their influence on the capacity of haptenized DCs to induce CHS is still unknown. We found lower CHS responses to 2,4-dinitro-1-fluorobenzene (DNFB) in wild type (WT) mice after adoptive transfer of haptenized Cnr2-/- and Cnr1-/-/Cnr2-/- bone marrow (BM) DCs as compared to transfer of WT DCs. In contrast, induction of CHS was not affected in WT recipients after transfer of Cnr1-/- DCs. In vitro stimulated Cnr2-/- DCs showed lower CCR7 and CXCR4 expression when compared to WT cells, while in vitro migration towards the chemokine ligands was not affected by CB2. Upregulation of MHC class II and co-stimulatory molecules was also reduced in Cnr2-/- DCs. This study demonstrates that CB2 modulates the maturation phenotype of DCs but not their chemotactic capacities in vitro. These findings and the fact that CHS responses mediated by Cnr2-/- DCs are reduced suggest that CB2 is a promising target for the treatment of inflammatory skin conditions.
31959787 | Radiation-induced alterations in immunogenicity of a murine pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cell line. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) is highlighted by resistance to radiotherapy with the possible exception of hypofractionated irradiation. As single photon doses were reported to increase immunogenicity, we investigated dose-dependent irradiation effects on clonogenic survival, expression of immunologically relevant cell surface molecules and susceptibility to cytotoxic T cell (CTL) mediated killing using a murine PDA cell line. Clonogenicity decreased in a dose-responsive manner showing enhanced radioresistance at single photon doses below 5 Gy. Cell cycle analysis revealed a predominant G2/M arrest, being most pronounced 12 h after irradiation. Polyploidy increased in a dose- and time-dependent manner reaching a maximum frequency 60 h following irradiation with 10 Gy. Irradiation increased surface expression of MHC class I molecules and of immunological checkpoint molecules PDL-1 and CD73, especially at doses >= 5 Gy, but not of MHC class II molecules and CXCR4 receptors. Cytotoxicity assays revealed increased CTL lysis of PDA cells at doses >= 5 Gy. For the PDA cell line investigated, our data show for the first time that single photon doses >= 5 Gy effectively inhibit colony formation and induce a G2/M cell cycle arrest. Furthermore, expression levels of immunomodulatory cell surface molecules became altered possibly enhancing the susceptibility of tumour cells to CTL lysis.
32264938 | Differential CpG DNA methylation in peripheral naive CD4+ T-cells in early rheumatoid arthritis patients. BACKGROUND: The genetic risk associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) includes genes regulating DNA methylation, one of the hallmarks of epigenetic re-programing, as well as many T-cell genes, with a strong MHC association, pointing to immunogenetic mechanisms as disease triggers leading to chronicity. The aim of our study was to explore DNA methylation in early, drug-naive RA patients, towards a better understanding of early events in pathogenesis. RESULT: Monocytes, naive and memory CD4+ T-cells were sorted from 6 healthy controls and 10 RA patients. DNA methylation was assessed using a genome-wide Illumina 450K CpG promoter array. Differential methylation was confirmed using bisulfite sequencing for a specific gene promoter, ELISA for several cytokines and flow cytometry for cell surface markers. Differentially methylated (DM) CpGs were observed in 1047 genes in naive CD4+ T-cells, 913 in memory cells and was minimal in monocytes with only 177 genes. Naive CD4+ T-cells were further investigated as presenting differential methylation in the promoter of > 500 genes associated with several disease-relevant pathways, including many cytokines and their receptors. We confirmed hypomethylation of a region of the TNF-alpha gene in early RA and differential expression of 3 cytokines (IL21, IL34 and RANKL). Using a bioinformatics package (DMRcate) and an in-house analysis based on differences in beta values, we established lists of DM genes between health and RA. Publicly available gene expression data were interrogated to confirm differential expression of over 70 DM genes. The lists of DM genes were further investigated based on a functional relationship database analysis, which pointed to an IL6/JAK1/STAT3 node, related to TNF-signalling and engagement in Th17 cell differentiation amongst many pathways. Five DM genes for cell surface markers (CD4, IL6R, IL2RA/CD25, CD62L, CXCR4) were investigated towards identifying subpopulations of CD4+ T-cells undergoing these modifications and pointed to a subset of naive T-cells, with high levels of CD4, IL2R, and CXCR4, but reduction and loss of IL6R and CD62L, respectively. CONCLUSION: Our data provided novel conceptual advances in the understanding of early RA pathogenesis, with implications for early treatment and prevention.
32518311 | Donor bone-marrow CXCR4+ Foxp3+ T-regulatory cells are essential for costimulation blockade-induced long-term survival of murine limb transplants. Vascularized composite allotransplantation (VCA) allows tissue replacement after devastating loss but is currently limited in application and may be more widely performed if maintenance immunosuppression was not essential for graft acceptance. We tested whether peri-transplant costimulation blockade could prolong VCA survival and required donor bone-marrow cells, given that bone-marrow might promote graft immunogenicity or graft-versus-host disease. Peritransplant CD154 mAb/rapamycin (RPM) induced long-term orthotopic hindlimb VCA survival (BALB/c->C57BL/6), as did CTLA4Ig/RPM. Surprisingly, success of either protocol required a bone-marrow-associated, radiation-sensitive cell population, since long-bone removal or pre-transplant donor irradiation prevented long-term engraftment. Rejection also occurred if Rag1-/- donors were used, or if donors were treated with a CXCR4 inhibitor to mobilize donor BM cells pre-transplant. Donor bone-marrow contained a large population of Foxp3+ T-regulatory (Treg) cells, and donor Foxp3+ Treg depletion, by diphtheria toxin administration to DEREG donor mice whose Foxp3+ Treg cells expressed diphtheria toxin receptor, restored rejection with either protocol. Rejection also occurred if CXCR4 was deleted from donor Tregs pre-transplant. Hence, long-term VCA survival is possible across a full MHC disparity using peritransplant costimulation blockade-based approaches, but unexpectedly, the efficacy of costimulation blockade requires the presence of a radiation-sensitive, CXCR4+ Foxp3+ Treg population resident within donor BM.
33085758 | Delineation of target expression profiles in CD34+/CD38- and CD34+/CD38+ stem and progenitor cells in AML and CML. In an attempt to identify novel markers and immunological targets in leukemic stem cells (LSCs) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), we screened bone marrow (BM) samples from patients with AML (n = 274) or CML (n = 97) and controls (n = 288) for expression of cell membrane antigens on CD34+/CD38- and CD34+/CD38+ cells by multicolor flow cytometry. In addition, we established messenger RNA expression profiles in purified sorted CD34+/CD38- and CD34+/CD38+ cells using gene array and quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Aberrantly expressed markers were identified in all cohorts. In CML, CD34+/CD38- LSCs exhibited an almost invariable aberration profile, defined as CD25+/CD26+/CD56+/CD93+/IL-1RAP+. By contrast, in patients with AML, CD34+/CD38- cells variably expressed \aberrant\ membrane antigens, including CD25 (48%), CD96 (40%), CD371 (CLL-1; 68%), and IL-1RAP (65%). With the exception of a subgroup of FLT3 internal tandem duplication-mutated patients, AML LSCs did not exhibit CD26. All other surface markers and target antigens detected on AML and/or CML LSCs, including CD33, CD44, CD47, CD52, CD105, CD114, CD117, CD133, CD135, CD184, and roundabout-4, were also found on normal BM stem cells. However, several of these surface targets, including CD25, CD33, and CD123, were expressed at higher levels on CD34+/CD38- LSCs compared with normal BM stem cells. Moreover, antibody-mediated immunological targeting through CD33 or CD52 resulted in LSC depletion in vitro and a substantially reduced LSC engraftment in NOD.Cg-PrkdcscidIl2rgtm1Wjl/SzJ (NSG) mice. Together, we have established surface marker and target expression profiles of AML LSCs and CML LSCs, which should facilitate LSC enrichment, diagnostic LSC phenotyping, and development of LSC-eradicating immunotherapies.
33464309 | Developing T cells form an immunological synapse for passage through the beta-selection checkpoint. The beta-selection checkpoint of T cell development tests whether the cell has recombined its genomic DNA to produce a functional T cell receptor beta (TCRbeta). Passage through the beta-selection checkpoint requires the nascent TCRbeta protein to mediate signaling through a pre-TCR complex. In this study, we show that developing T cells at the beta-selection checkpoint establish an immunological synapse in in vitro and in situ, resembling that of the mature T cell. The immunological synapse is dependent on two key signaling pathways known to be critical for the transition beyond the beta-selection checkpoint, Notch and CXCR4 signaling. In vitro and in situ analyses indicate that the immunological synapse promotes passage through the beta-selection checkpoint. Collectively, these data indicate that developing T cells regulate pre-TCR signaling through the formation of an immunological synapse. This signaling platform integrates cues from Notch, CXCR4, and MHC on the thymic stromal cell to allow transition beyond the beta-selection checkpoint.
36814396 | Phenotypic characterization of disease-initiating stem cells in JAK2- or CALR-mutated myeloproliferative neoplasms. Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) are characterized by uncontrolled expansion of myeloid cells, disease-related mutations in certain driver-genes including JAK2, CALR, and MPL, and a substantial risk to progress to secondary acute myeloid leukemia (sAML). Although behaving as stem cell neoplasms, little is known about disease-initiating stem cells in MPN. We established the phenotype of putative CD34+ /CD38- stem cells and CD34+ /CD38+ progenitor cells in MPN. A total of 111 patients with MPN suffering from polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, or primary myelofibrosis (PMF) were examined. In almost all patients tested, CD34+ /CD38- stem cells expressed CD33, CD44, CD47, CD52, CD97, CD99, CD105, CD117, CD123, CD133, CD184, CD243, and CD274 (PD-L1). In patients with PMF, MPN stem cells often expressed CD25 and sometimes also CD26 in an aberrant manner. MPN stem cells did not exhibit substantial amounts of CD90, CD273 (PD-L2), CD279 (PD-1), CD366 (TIM-3), CD371 (CLL-1), or IL-1RAP. The phenotype of CD34+ /CD38- stem cells did not change profoundly during progression to sAML. The disease-initiating capacity of putative MPN stem cells was confirmed in NSGS mice. Whereas CD34+ /CD38- MPN cells engrafted in NSGS mice, no substantial engraftment was produced by CD34+ /CD38+ or CD34- cells. The JAK2-targeting drug fedratinib and the BRD4 degrader dBET6 induced apoptosis and suppressed proliferation in MPN stem cells. Together, MPN stem cells display a unique phenotype, including cytokine receptors, immune checkpoint molecules, and other clinically relevant target antigens. Phenotypic characterization of neoplastic stem cells in MPN and sAML should facilitate their enrichment and the development of stem cell-eradicating (curative) therapies.
37642473 | Elevated Layilin-Positive Monocyte Levels in the Peripheral Blood of Patients with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Reflect Their Autoimmune Status. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression of layilin (LAYN) in human circulating monocytes and lymphocytes and its clinical significance in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). METHODS: Blood samples were collected from 51 SLE patients and 50 healthy controls. Flow cytometry was used to analyze LAYN in lymphocytes and monocyte subsets. Functionally characterized molecules including human HLA, CD74 and CD62L were studied in LAYN+ monocytes. A correlation analysis was conducted between LAYN-related subsets and clinical indicators of SLE such as anti-double-stranded DNA and complements levels. ROC curves were used to explore the potential clinical diagnostic value of LAYN in SLE. RESULTS: LAYN was significantly higher in monocytes than in lymphocytes and higher in CD14+CD16+ monocytes than in CD14-CD16+ and CD14+CD16- monocytes. CD74 was upregulated and CD62L was downregulated in LAYN+ monocytes compared with LAYN- monocytes. The absolute number of LAYN+ monocytes was increased in SLE patients, and the median fluorescence intensity of HLA was decreased. LAYN+ monocytes were positively correlated with complement C4, while decreased CD62L+ percentages in LAYN+ monocytes were negatively correlated with C4. The ROC analysis revealed that the area under the curve (AUCs) for CD62L+ percentages in LAYN+ monocytes, LAYN+ lymphocyte numbers, and LAYN+ monocyte numbers to distinguish SLE from healthy individuals were 0.6245, 0.6196 and 0.6173, respectively. CONCLUSION: LAYN is differentially expressed in monocytes and their subpopulations and has corresponding functional differences. Changes in LAYN expression on monocytes are associated with complement C4 levels in SLE patients. These suggest that LAYN may be involved in the pathogenesis of SLE. ABBREVIATION: ANOVA: analysis of variance; anti-dsDNA: anti-double-stranded DNA; anti-ENA: anti-extractable nuclear antigen; anti-SSA: anti-Sjogren syndrome A; anti-SSB: anti-Sjogren syndrome B; anti-U1RNP: anti-U1 ribonucleoprotein; AUC: area under the ROC curve; CBC: complete blood count; CD62L: L-selectin; CD74/Ii: MHC class II invariant chain; CD44/HCAM: homing cell adhesion molecule; cMos: classical monocytes; CRP: C-reactive protein; CXCR2: C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 2; CXCR4: C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4; ESR: erythrocyte sedimentation rate; HCs: healthy controls; HA: hyaluronan; HLA: human leukocyte antigen; Ig: immunoglobulin; iMos: intermediate monocytes; LAYN: layilin; MFI: median fluorescence intensity; MIF: migration inhibitory factor; ncMos: nonclassical monocytes; PBMCs: peripheral blood mononuclear cells; ROC: receiver operating characteristic curve; SLE: systemic lupus erythematosus; SLEDAI, SLE disease activity index; Treg: regulatory T cells; WBCs: white blood cells.
38126879 | Cx4Mab-1: A Novel Anti-Mouse CXCR4 Monoclonal Antibody for Flow Cytometry. The CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4, CD184) is a member of the G protein-coupled receptor family that is expressed in most leukocytes. Overexpression of CXCR4 is associated with poor prognosis in not only hematopoietic malignancy but also solid tumors. Because CXCR4 is an attractive target for tumor therapy, reliable preclinical murine models using anti-CXCR4 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) have been warranted. This study established a novel anti-mouse CXCR4 (mCXCR4) mAb using the Cell-Based Immunization and Screening method. Flow cytometric analysis showed that an anti-mCXCR4 mAb, Cx4Mab-1 (rat IgG2a, kappa), recognized mCXCR4-overexpressed Chinese hamster ovary-K1 (CHO/mCXCR4) cells and endogenously mCXCR4-expressing mouse myeloma P3X63Ag8U.1 (P3U1) cells. Furthermore, Cx4Mab-1 did not recognize mCXCR4-knockout P3U1 cells. The dissociation constants of Cx4Mab-1 for CHO/mCXCR4 and P3U1 were determined as 6.4 x 10-9 M and 2.3 x 10-9 M, respectively, indicating that Cx4Mab-1 possesses a high affinity to both endogenous and exogenous mCXCR4-expressing cells. These results indicate that Cx4Mab-1 could be a useful tool for preclinical mouse models.
38154064 | ALK signaling primes the DNA damage response sensitizing ALK-driven neuroblastoma to therapeutic ATR inhibition. High-risk neuroblastoma (NB) is a significant clinical challenge. MYCN and Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK), which are often involved in high-risk NB, lead to increased replication stress in cancer cells, suggesting therapeutic strategies. We previously identified an ATR (ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related)/ALK inhibitor (ATRi/ALKi) combination as such a strategy in two independent genetically modified mouse NB models. Here, we identify an underlying molecular mechanism, in which ALK signaling leads to phosphorylation of ATR and CHK1, supporting an effective DNA damage response. The importance of ALK inhibition is supported by mouse data, in which ATRi monotreatment resulted in a robust initial response, but subsequent relapse, in contrast to a 14-d ALKi/ATRi combination treatment that resulted in a robust and sustained response. Finally, we show that the remarkable response to the 14-d combined ATR/ALK inhibition protocol reflects a robust differentiation response, reprogramming tumor cells to a neuronal/Schwann cell lineage identity. Our results identify an ability of ATR inhibition to promote NB differentiation and underscore the importance of further exploring combined ALK/ATR inhibition in NB, particularly in high-risk patient groups with oncogene-induced replication stress.
38198032 | Oncostatin M: Dual Regulator of the Skeletal and Hematopoietic Systems. PURPOSE OF THE REVIEW: The bone and hematopoietic tissues coemerge during development and are functionally intertwined throughout mammalian life. Oncostatin M (OSM) is an inflammatory cytokine of the interleukin-6 family produced by osteoblasts, bone marrow macrophages, and neutrophils. OSM acts via two heterodimeric receptors comprising GP130 with either an OSM receptor (OSMR) or a leukemia inhibitory factor receptor (LIFR). OSMR is expressed on osteoblasts, mesenchymal, and endothelial cells and mice deficient for the Osm or Osmr genes have both bone and blood phenotypes illustrating the importance of OSM and OSMR in regulating these two intertwined tissues. RECENT FINDINGS: OSM regulates bone mass through signaling via OSMR, adaptor protein SHC1, and transducer STAT3 to both stimulate osteoclast formation and promote osteoblast commitment; the effect on bone formation is also supported by action through LIFR. OSM produced by macrophages is an important inducer of neurogenic heterotopic ossifications in peri-articular muscles following spinal cord injury. OSM produced by neutrophils in the bone marrow induces hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell proliferation in an indirect manner via OSMR expressed by bone marrow stromal and endothelial cells that form hematopoietic stem cell niches. OSM acts as a brake to therapeutic hematopoietic stem cell mobilization in response to G-CSF and CXCR4 antagonist plerixafor. Excessive OSM production by macrophages in the bone marrow is a key contributor to poor hematopoietic stem cell mobilization (mobilopathy) in people with diabetes. OSM and OSMR may also play important roles in the progression of several cancers. It is increasingly clear that OSM plays unique roles in regulating the maintenance and regeneration of bone, hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, inflammation, and skeletal muscles. Dysregulated OSM production can lead to bone pathologies, defective muscle repair and formation of heterotopic ossifications in injured muscles, suboptimal mobilization of hematopoietic stem cells, exacerbated inflammatory responses, and anti-tumoral immunity. Ongoing research will establish whether neutralizing antibodies or cytokine traps may be useful to correct pathologies associated with excessive OSM production.
38203690 | Study of the Effect of Wild-Type and Transiently Expressing CXCR4 and IL-10 Mesenchymal Stromal Cells in a Mouse Model of Peritonitis. Sepsis due to peritonitis is a process associated with an inflammatory state. Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) modulate the immune system due to the paracrine factors released and may be a therapeutic alternative. Three treatment groups were developed in a murine model of peritonitis to verify the effect of human adipose mesenchymal stem cell (hASCs). Additionally, a temporary modification was carried out on them to improve their arrival in inflamed tissues (CXCR4), as well as their anti-inflammatory activity (IL-10). The capacity to reduce systemic inflammation was studied using a local application (peritoneal injection) as a treatment route. Comparisons involving the therapeutic effect of wild-type ASCs and ASCs transiently expressing CXCR4 and IL-10 were carried out with the aim of generating an improved anti-inflammatory response for sepsis in addition to standard antibiotic treatment. However, under the experimental conditions used in these studies, no differences were found between both groups with ASCs. The peritoneal administration of hASCs or genetically modified hASCs constitutes an efficient and safe therapy in our model of mouse peritonitis.
38212005 | [Yigong Powder regulates CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling to reduce glutamate release and prevent cognitive decline in mouse model of aging]. This study aims to explore the effect of preventive administration of Yigong Powder on the learning and memory abilities of the mouse model of aging induced by D-galactose and decipher the underlying mechanism, so as to provide a basis for the application of Yigong Powder in the prevention and treatment of cognitive decline. Forty KM mice were randomized into control, model, donepezil(1.5 mg kg~(-1)), and high-dose(7.5 g kg~(-1)) and low-dose(3.75 g kg~(-1)) Yigong Powder groups. The mice in other groups except the control group were injected with D-galactose(200 g kg~(-1)) at the back of the neck for the modeling of aging. At the same time, the mice were administrated with corresponding drugs by gavage for one month. Morris water maze was used to examine the learning and memory abilities of the mice. Hematoxylin-eosin staining was employed to observe the pathological and morphological changes of the hippocampus. The immunofluorescence assay was employed to detect the expression of ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1(IBA1), glial fibrillary acidic protein(GFAP), chemokine C-X-C-motif ligand 12(CXCL12), chemokine C-X-C-motif receptor 4(CXCR4) in the hippocampus and observe the positional relationship between IBA1, GFAP, and CXCR4. Western blot was employed to determine the protein levels of extracellular regulated kinase(ERK), p-ERK, and tumor necrosis factor receptor 1(TNFR1). Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was employed to measure the levels of glutamate and tumor necrosis factor(TNF-alpha) in the brain tissue and the level of TNF-alpha in the serum and spleen. Yigong Powder significantly shortened the escape latency, increased the times crossing platforms, and prolonged the cumulative time in quadrants of the aging mice. It alleviated the nerve cell disarrangement, increased intercellular space, and cell degeneration or death in the hippocampus and reduced the pathology score of the damaged nerve. Moreover, Yigong Powder reduced the positive area of IBA1 and GFAP, reduced the levels of TNF-alpha in the brain tissue, serum, and spleen, and decreased spleen index. Furthermore, Yigong Powder decreased the average fluorescence intensity of CXCL12 and CXCR4, reduced CXCR4-positive astrocytes and microglia, down-regulated the protein levels of p-ERK/ERK and TNFR1, and lowered the level of glutamate in the brain tissue. This study showed that the preventive administration of Yigong Powder can ameliorate the learning and memory decline of the D-galactose-induced aging mice by regulating the immune function of the spleen and the CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling in the brain to reduce glutamate release. However, the mechanism of Yigong San in preventing and treating dementia via regulating spleen and stomach function remains to be studied.
38213100 | C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 promotes tubular cell senescence and renal fibrosis through beta-catenin-inhibited fatty acid oxidation. The prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is highly increasing. Renal fibrosis is a common pathological feature in various CKD. Previous studies showed tubular cell senescence is highly involved in the pathogenesis of renal fibrosis. However, the inducers of tubular senescence and the underlying mechanisms have not been fully investigated. C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), a G-protein-coupled seven-span transmembrane receptor, increases renal fibrosis and plays an important role in tubular cell injury. Whereas, whether CXCR4 could induce tubular cell senescence and the detailed mechanisms have not studied yet. In this study, we adopted adriamycin nephropathy and 5/6 nephrectomy models, and cultured tubular cell line. Overexpression or knockdown of CXCR4 was obtained by injection of related plasmids. We identified CXCR4 increased in injury tubular cells. CXCR4 was expressed predominantly in renal tubular epithelial cells and co-localized with adipose differentiation-related protein (ADRP) as well as the senescence-related protein P16INK4A . Furthermore, we found overexpression of CXCR4 greatly induced the activation of beta-catenin, while knockdown of CXCR4 inhibited it. We also found that CXCR4 inhibited fatty acid oxidation and triggered lipid deposition in tubular cells. To inhibit beta-catenin by ICG-001, an inhibitor of beta-catenin, could significantly block CXCR4-suppressed fatty acid oxidation. Taken together, our results indicate that CXCR4 is a key mediator in tubular cell senescence and renal fibrosis. CXCR4 promotes tubular cell senescence and renal fibrosis by inducing beta-catenin and inhibiting fatty acid metabolism. Our findings provide a new theory for tubular cell injury in renal fibrosis.
38291527 | Interplay between androgen and CXCR4 chemokine signaling in myelin repair. In men, reduced levels of testosterone are associated with the prevalence and progression of multiple sclerosis (MS), a chronic and disabling demyelinating disorder. Testosterone has been shown to promote myelin repair. Here, we demonstrate that the cooperation between testosterone and CXCR4 signaling involving astrocytes is required for myelin regeneration after focal demyelination produced in the ventral mouse spinal cord by the infusion of lysolecithin. The testosterone-dependent remyelination of axons by oligodendrocytes was accompanied by an increase in astrocytes expressing CXCR4, its ligand CXCL12 and the androgen receptor (AR) within the demyelinated area. Depriving males of their testosterone or pharmacological inhibition of CXCR4, with the selective antagonist AMD3100, prevented the appearance of astrocytes expressing CXCR4, CXCL12 and AR within the demyelinated area and the concomitant recruitment of myelin forming oligodendrocytes. Conditional genetic ablation of either CXCR4 or AR in astrocytes also completely blocked the formation of new myelin by oligodendrocytes. Interestingly, the gain of function mutation in CXCR4 causing WHIM syndrome allows remyelination to take place, even in the absence of testosterone, but its potentiating effects remained observable. After testosterone deprivation or CXCR4 inhibition, the absence of astrocytes within the demyelinated area led to the incursion of Schwann cells, most likely derived from spinal nerves, and the formation of peripheral nerve type myelin. In patients with progressive MS, astrocytes expressing CXCR4 and AR surrounded myelin lesions, and their presence opposed the incursion of Schwann cells. These results highlight a mechanism of promyelinating testosterone signaling and the importance of normalizing its levels in combined myelin repair therapies.
38306929 | Enriching new transplantable RGC-like cells from retinal organoids for RGC replacement therapy. Optic neuropathies, such as glaucoma, are due to progressive retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) degeneration, result in irreversible vision loss. The promising RGCs replacement therapy for restoring vision are impeded by insufficient RGC-like cells sources. The present work was enriched one new type RGC-like cells using two surface markers CD184 and CD171 from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) by FACS sorting firstly. These new kind cells have well proliferation ability and possessed passage tolerance in vitro 2D or 3D spheroids culture, which kept expressing Pax6, Brn3b and betaIII-Tubulin and so on. The transplanted CD184+CD171+ RGC-like cells could survive and integrate into the normal and optic nerve crush (ONC) mice retina, especially they were more inclined to across the optic nerve head and extend to the damaged optic nerve. These data support the feasible application for cell replacement therapy in RGC degenerative diseases, as well as help to develop new commercial cells sorting reagents and establish good manufacturing practice (GMP) grade RGC-like donor cells for further clinical application.
38308301 | NLRP3 exacerbates EAE severity through ROS-dependent NET formation in the mouse brain. BACKGROUND: Neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) has been implicated in the pathology of multiple sclerosis (MS) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). However, the specific contributions of NLRP3, a NET-associated molecule, to EAE pathogenesis and its regulatory role in NET formation remain unknown. METHODS: To investigate the detrimental effect of NETs supported by NLRP3 in MS pathogenesis, we induced EAE in WT and NLRP3 KO mice and monitored the disease severity. At the peak of the disease, NET formation was assessed by flow cytometry, immunoblotting, and immunofluorescence staining. To further identify the propensity of infiltrated neutrophils, NET-related chemokine receptors, degranulation, ROS production, and PAD4 expression levels were evaluated by flow cytometry. In some experiments, mice were injected with DNase-1 to eliminate the formed NETs. RESULTS: Our data revealed that neutrophils significantly infiltrate the brain and spinal cord and form NETs during EAE pathogenesis. NLRP3 significantly elevates NET formation, primarily in the brain. NLRP3 also modulated the phenotypes of brain-infiltrated and circulating neutrophils, augmenting CXCR2 and CXCR4 expression, thereby potentially enhancing NET formation. NLRP3 facilitates NET formation in a ROS-dependent and PAD4-independent manner in brain-infiltrated neutrophils. Finally, NLRP3-supported NET formation exacerbates disease severity, triggering Th1 and Th17 cells recruitment. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our findings suggest that NLRP3-supported NETs may be an etiological factor in EAE pathogenesis, primarily in the brain. This study provides evidence that targeting NLRP3 could be a potential therapeutic strategy for MS, specifically by attenuating NET formation.
38338930 | CXCL14 as a Key Regulator of Neuronal Development: Insights from Its Receptor and Multi-Omics Analysis. CXCL14 is not only involved in the immune process but is also closely related to neurodevelopment according to its molecular evolution. However, what role it plays in neurodevelopment remains unclear. In the present research, we found that, by crossbreeding CXCL14+/- and CXCL14-/- mice, the number of CXCL14-/- mice in their offspring was lower than the Mendelian frequency; CXCL14-/- mice had significantly fewer neurons in the external pyramidal layer of cortex than CXCL14+/- mice; and CXCL14 may be involved in synaptic plasticity, neuron projection, and chemical synaptic transmission based on analysis of human clinical transcriptome data. The expression of CXCL14 was highest at day 14.5 in the embryonic phase and after birth in the mRNA and protein levels. Therefore, we hypothesized that CXCL14 promotes the development of neurons in the somatic layer of the pyramidal cells of mice cortex on embryonic day 14.5. In order to further explore its mechanism, CXCR4 and CXCR7 were suggested as receptors by Membrane-Anchored Ligand and Receptor Yeast Two-Hybrid technology. Through metabolomic techniques, we inferred that CXCL14 promotes the development of neurons by regulating fatty acid anabolism and glycerophospholipid anabolism.
38363205 | Cutting Edge: The Tetraspanin CD53 Promotes CXCR4 Signaling and Bone Marrow Homing in B Cells. B cell trafficking involves the coordinated activity of multiple adhesive and cytokine-receptor interactions, and the players in this process are not fully understood. In this study, we identified the tetraspanin CD53 as a critical regulator of both normal and malignant B cell trafficking. CXCL12 is a key chemokine in B cell homing to the bone marrow and secondary lymphoid organs, and both normal and malignant B cells from Cd53-/- mice have reduced migration toward CXCL12 in vitro, as well as impaired marrow homing in vivo. Using proximity ligation studies, we identified the CXCL12 receptor, CXCR4, as a novel, to our knowledge, CD53 binding partner. This interaction promotes receptor function, because Cd53-/- B cells display reduced signaling and internalization of CXCR4 in response to CXCL12. Together, our data suggest that CD53 interacts with CXCR4 on both normal and malignant B cells to promote CXCL12 signaling, receptor internalization, and marrow homing.
38447691 | Epigenetic Mechanism of SETD1B-mediated Histone Methylation in Cognitive Impairment Induced by Sevoflurane Anesthesia in Neonatal Mice. Sevoflurane (Sev) anesthesia is associated with cognitive deficits and neurotoxicity. This study explores the epigenetic mechanism of SET domain containing 1B (SETD1B) in Sev-induced cognitive impairment in neonatal mice. Neonatal mice (C57BL, n = 72) were exposed to 3% Sev for 2 h per day at P6, 7, and 8, and the control neonatal mice were only separated from the mother for 2 h. The mice were divided into groups of 12 individuals, with an equal number of male and female mice in each group. Mice were intraperitoneally injected with adenovirus-packaged SETD1B overexpression vector. Behavioral tests (Morris water maze, open field test, T-maze, novel object recognition, etc.) were performed at P30. Mouse hippocampal neuronal cells were cultured in vitro. SETD1B, C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), NLR family pyrin domain containing 1 (NLRP1), Cleaved Caspase1, and GSDMD-N expressions in hippocampal tissues or cells were determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. SETD1B and histone H3 lysine 4 methylation (H3K4me1, H3K4me2, and H3K4me3) enrichment on the CXCR4 promoter was analyzed by ChIP. Sev insulted cognitive impairment and diminished SETD1B expression in mouse hippocampal tissues. SETD1B overexpression mitigated cognitive impairment, enhanced H3K4me3 levels in hippocampal tissues, and restrained hippocampal neuronal pyroptosis. SETD1B increased CXCR4 expression by elevating the H3K4me3 level on the CXCR4 promoter, thereby curbing NLRP1/Caspase1-mediated hippocampal neuronal pyroptosis. To conclude, SETD1B enhances CXCR4 expression by elevating the H3K4me3 level on the CXCR4 promoter, thereby suppressing NLRP1/Caspase1-triggered hippocampal neuronal pyroptosis and alleviating Sev-induced cognitive impairment in neonatal mice.
38533538 | CXCR4-Targeted Macrophage-Derived Biomimetic Hybrid Vesicle Nanoplatform for Enhanced Cancer Therapy through Codelivery of Manganese and Doxorubicin. Immune-cell-derived membranes have garnered significant attention as innovative delivery modalities in cancer immunotherapy for their intrinsic immune-modulating functionalities and superior biocompatibilities. Integrating additional parental cell membranes or synthetic lipid vesicles into cellular vesicles can further potentiate their capacities to perform combinatorial pharmacological activities in activating antitumor immunity, thus providing insights into the potential of hybrid cellular vesicles as versatile delivery vehicles for cancer immunotherapy. Here, we have developed a macrophage-membrane-derived hybrid vesicle that has the dual functions of transporting immunotherapeutic drugs and shaping the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages for cancer immunotherapy. The platform combines M1 macrophage-membrane-derived vesicles with CXCR4-binding-peptide-conjugated liposomes loaded with manganese and doxorubicin. The hybrid nanovesicles exhibited remarkable macrophage-targeting capacity through the CXCR4-binding peptide, resulting in enhanced macrophage polarization to the antitumoral M1 phenotype characterized by proinflammatory cytokine release. The manganese/doxorubicin-loaded hybrid vesicles in the CXCR4-expressing tumor cells evoked potent cancer cytotoxicity, immunogenic cell death of tumor cells, and STING activation. Moreover, cotreatment with manganese and doxorubicin promoted dendritic cell maturation, enabling effective tumor growth inhibition. In murine models of CT26 colon carcinoma and 4T1 breast cancer, intravenous administration of the manganese/doxorubicin-loaded hybrid vesicles elicited robust tumor-suppressing activity at a low dosage without adverse systemic effects. Local administration of hybrid nanovesicles also induced an abscessive effect in a bilateral 4T1 tumor model. This study demonstrates a promising biomimetic manganese/doxorubicin-based hybrid nanovesicle platform for effective cancer immunotherapy tailored to the tumor microenvironment, which may offer an innovative approach to combinatorial immunotherapy.
38553476 | Cell surface patching via CXCR4-targeted nanothreads for cancer metastasis inhibition. The binding of therapeutic antagonists to their receptors often fail to translate into adequate manipulation of downstream pathways. To fix this 'bug', here we report a strategy that stitches cell surface 'patches' to promote receptor clustering, thereby synchronizing subsequent mechano-transduction. The \patches\ are sewn with two interactable nanothreads. In sequence, Nanothread-1 strings together adjacent receptors while presenting decoy receptors. Nanothread-2 then targets these decoys multivalently, intertwining with Nanothread-1 into a coiled-coil supramolecular network. This stepwise actuation clusters an extensive vicinity of receptors, integrating mechano-transduction to disrupt signal transmission. When applied to antagonize chemokine receptors CXCR4 expressed in metastatic breast cancer of female mice, this strategy elicits and consolidates multiple events, including interception of metastatic cascade, reversal of immunosuppression, and potentiation of photodynamic immunotherapy, reducing the metastatic burden. Collectively, our work provides a generalizable tool to spatially rearrange cell-surface receptors to improve therapeutic outcomes.
38581990 | The nanobody targeting PD-L1 and CXCR4 counteracts pancreatic stellate cell-mediated tumour progression by disrupting tumour microenvironment. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is the most lethal malignancy worldwide owing to its complex tumour microenvironment and dense physical barriers. Stromal-derived factor-1 (SDF-1), which is abundantly secreted by tumour stromal cells, plays a pivotal role in promoting PDAC growth and metastasis. In this study, we investigated the impact and molecular mechanisms of the anti-PD-L1&CXCR4 bispecific nanobody on the TME and their consequent interference with PDAC progression. We found that blocking the SDF-1/CXCR4 signalling pathway delayed the epithelial-mesenchymal transition in pancreatic cancer cells. Anti-PD-L1&CXCR4 bispecific nanobody effectively suppress the secretion of SDF-1 by pancreatic stellate cells and downregulate the expression of smooth muscle actin alpha(alpha-SMA), thereby preventing the activation of cancer-associated fibroblasts by downregulating the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. This improves the pancreatic tumour microenvironment, favouring the infiltration of T cells into the tumour tissue. In conclusion, our results suggest that the anti-PD-L1&CXCR4 bispecific nanobody exerts an antitumor immune response by changing the pancreatic tumour microenvironment. Hence, the anti-PD-L1&CXCR4 bispecific nanobody is a potential candidate for pancreatic cancer treatment.
38598844 | Impact of surgery-induced myeloid-derived suppressor cells and the NOX2/ROS axis on post-operative survival in human pancreatic cancer. Preclinical studies imply that surgery triggers inflammation that may entail tumor outgrowth and metastasis. The potential impact of surgery-induced inflammation in human pancreatic cancer is insufficiently explored. This study included 17 patients with periampullary cancer (pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) n=14, ampullary carcinoma n=2, cholangiocarcinoma n=1) undergoing major pancreatic cancer surgery with curative intent. We analyzed the potential impact of pre- and postoperative immune phenotypes and function on postoperative survival with >30 months follow-up. The surgery entailed prompt expansion of monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSC) that generated NOX2-derived reactive oxygen species (ROS). Strong induction of immunosuppressive M-MDSC after surgery predicted poor post-operative survival and coincided with reduced functionality of circulating NK cells. The negative impact of surgery-induced M-MDSC on survival remained significant in separate analysis of PDAC patients. M-MDSC-like cells isolated from patients after surgery significantly suppressed NK cell function ex vivo, which was reversed by inhibition of NOX2-derived ROS. High NOX2 subunit expression within resected tumors from PDAC patients correlated with poor survival whereas high expression of markers of cytotoxic cells associated with longer survival. The surgery-induced myeloid inflammation was recapitulated in vivo in a murine model of NK cell-dependent metastasis. Surgical stress thus induced systemic accumulation of M-MDSC-like cells and promoted metastasis of NK cell-sensitive tumor cells. Genetic or pharmacological suppression of NOX2 reduced surgery-induced inflammation and distant metastasis in this model. We propose that NOX2-derived ROS generated by surgery-induced M-MDSC may be targeted for improved outcome after pancreatic cancer surgery.
38614386 | Circulating tumor cells with metastasis-initiating competence survive fluid shear stress during hematogenous dissemination through CXCR4-PI3K/AKT signaling. To seed lethal secondary lesions, circulating tumor cells (CTCs) must survive all rate-limiting factors during hematogenous dissemination, including fluid shear stress (FSS) that poses a grand challenge to their survival. We thus hypothesized that CTCs with the ability to survive FSS in vasculature might hold metastasis-initiating competence. This study reported that FSS of physiologic magnitude selected a small subpopulation of suspended tumor cells in vitro with the traits of metastasis-initiating cells, including stemness, migration/invasion potential, cellular plasticity, and biophysical properties. These shear-selected cells generated local and metastatic tumors at the primary and distal sites efficiently, implicating their metastasis competence. Mechanistically, FSS activated the mechanosensitive protein CXCR4 and the downstream PI3K/AKT signaling, which were essential in shear-mediated selection of metastasis-competent CTCs. In summary, these findings conclude that CTCs with metastasis-initiating competence survive FSS during hematogenous dissemination through CXCR4-PI3K/AKT signaling, which may provide new therapeutic targets for the early prevention of tumor metastasis.
9346884 | Activation of HIV-1 coreceptor (CXCR4) mediates myelosuppression. Chemokines are cytokines that activate and induce the migration of leukocytes. Stroma-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) is a novel chemokine that blocks the entry of T-tropic HIV-1 mediated by fusin/CXCR4/LESTR (leukocyte-derived seven-transmembrane domain receptor). In this work we demonstrate that SDF-1 triggers increases in intracellular calcium and inhibits the proliferation of myeloid progenitor cell line 32D. By contrast, SDF-1 neither triggers a calcium response nor affects the proliferation of the myeloid progenitor cell line 32D-GR that is deficient in CXCR4. Responsiveness to SDF-1 was rescued by transfection of 32D-GR cells with a cDNA encoding the human CXCR4. The data indicate that SDF-1 induces myelosuppression by activation of CXCR4. The constitutive production of SDF-1 by bone marrow stromal cells argues for a major role of SDF-1 on the regulation of myelopoiesis.
9616148 | The chemokine receptor CXCR-4 is expressed on CD34+ hematopoietic progenitors and leukemic cells and mediates transendothelial migration induced by stromal cell-derived factor-1. The chemokine stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) and its receptor CXCR-4 (fusin, LESTR) are likely to be involved in the trafficking of hematopoietic progenitor and stem cells, as suggested by the reduced bone marrow hematopoiesis in SDF-1-deficient mice and the chemotactic effect of SDF-1 on CD34+ progenitor cells. Migration of leukemic cells might also depend on the expression of chemokine receptors. Therefore, we analyzed expression of CXCR-4 on mobilized normal CD34+ progenitors and leukemic cells. In addition, SDF-1-induced transendothelial migration across a bone marrow endothelial cell layer was assessed in vitro. By flow cytometry, CXCR-4 was found to be expressed in significant amounts on circulating CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells, including more primitive subsets (CD34+/CD38- and CD34+/Thy-1+ cells). In accordance with the immunofluorescence data, CD34+ progenitors efficiently migrated across endothelium in response to SDF-1 containing conditioned medium from the stromal cell line MS-5. Leukemic blasts (mostly CD34+) from patients with acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML) expressed variable amounts of CXCR-4, which was functionally active, as demonstrated by a positive correlation between the SDF-1-induced transendothelial migration and the cell surface density of CXCR-4 (r = 0.97). Also recombinant SDF-1beta induced migration of CXCR-4-positive leukemic blasts. The effect of both conditioned medium and recombinant SDF-1 was inhibited by a CXCR-4 blocking antibody. In contrast, CD34+ leukemic cell lines (KG1, KG1a, Kasumi-1, MOLM-1) expressed low levels or were negative for CXCR-4, and did not migrate. By reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), however, basal levels of CXCR-4 mRNA were also detected in all leukemic cell lines. We conclude that CXCR-4 is expressed on CD34+ cells including more primitive, pluripotent progenitors, and may therefore play a role in the homing of hematopoietic stem cells. CXCR-4 expressed in variable amounts on primary AML leukemic cells is functionally active and may be involved in the trafficking of malignant hematopoietic cells.
11739738 | Formation of Tap/NXT1 heterodimers activates Tap-dependent nuclear mRNA export by enhancing recruitment to nuclear pore complexes. The Tap protein has been shown to activate the nuclear export of mRNA species bearing retroviral constitutive transport elements and is also believed to play an essential role in the sequence nonspecific export of cellular mRNAs. However, it has remained unclear how Tap activity is regulated in vivo. Here, we report that the small NXT1/p15-1 protein functions as a critical cofactor for Tap-mediated mRNA export in both human and invertebrate cells. In the absence of NXT1 binding, the Tap protein is unable to effectively interact with components of the nuclear pore complex and both Tap nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and the nuclear export of mRNA molecules tethered to Tap are therefore severely attenuated. Formation of a Tap/NXT1 heterodimer enhances nucleoporin binding both in vitro and in vivo and induces the formation of a Tap/NXT1/nucleoporin ternary complex that is likely to be a key intermediate in the process of nuclear mRNA export. The critical importance of NXT1 for the nuclear export of poly(A)(+) RNA is emphasized by the finding that specific inhibition of the expression of the Drosophila homolog of human NXT1, by using RNA interference, results in the nuclear accumulation of poly(A)(+) RNA in cultured insect cells. These data suggest that NXT1 may act as a molecular switch that regulates the ability of Tap to mediate nuclear mRNA export by controlling the interaction of Tap with components of the nuclear pore.
12524273 | Molecular dynamics simulations on SDF-1alpha: binding with CXCR4 receptor. Insights into the interacting mode of CXCR4 with SDF-1alpha are crucial in understanding the structural and functional characteristics of CXCR4 receptor. In this paper a computational pipeline, integrating protein structure prediction, molecular dynamics simulations, automated molecular docking, and Brownian dynamics simulations were employed to investigate the dynamic and energetic aspects of CXCR4 associating with SDF-1alpha. The entire simulation revealed the surface distribution feature of electrostatic potentials and conformational \open-close\ process of the receptor. The possible binding conformation of CXCR4 was identified, and the CXCR4-SDF-1alpha binding complex was generated. Arg188-Glu277 salt bridge plays an important role for both the extracellular domain conformational change and SDF-1alpha binding. Two binding sites were mapped at the extracellular domain (Site 1) and inside the transmembrane domain (Site 2), which are composed of conserved residues. Sites 1 and 2 contribute approximately 60% and 40% to the binding affinity with SDF-1alpha, respectively. The binding model is in agreement with most of the experimental data. Transmembrane VI has more significant motion in the harmonious conformational transition of CXCR4 during SDF-1alpha binding, which may be possibly associated with signal transduction. Based on the modeling and simulation, a binding mechanism hypothesis between CXCR4 and SDF-1alpha and its relationship to the signal transduction has been proposed.
32454255 | Proteome changes induced by a short, non-cytotoxic exposure to the mycoestrogen zearalenone in the pig intestine. Intestinal epithelial homeostasis is regulated by a complex network of signaling pathways. Among them is estrogen signaling, important for the proliferation and differentiation of epithelial cells, immune signaling and metabolism. The mycotoxin zearalenone (ZEN) is an estrogen disruptor naturally found in food and feed. The exposure of the intestine to ZEN has toxic effects including alteration of the immune status and is possibly implicated in carcinogenesis, but the molecular mechanisms linked with these effects are not clear. Our objective was to explore the proteome changes induced by a short, non-cytotoxic exposure to ZEN in the intestine using pig jejunal explants. Our results indicated that ZEN promotes little proteome changes, but significantly related with an induction of ERalpha signaling and a consequent disruption of highly interrelated signaling cascades, such as NF-kappaB, ERK1/2, CDX2 and HIF1alpha. The toxicity of ZEN leads also to an altered immune status characterized by the activation of the chemokine CXCR4/SDF-1 axis and an accumulation of MHC-I proteins. Our results connect the estrogen disrupting activity of ZEN with its intestinal toxic effect, associating the exposure to ZEN with cell-signaling disorders similar to those involved in the onset and progression of diseases such as cancer and chronic inflammatory disorders. SIGNIFICANCE: The proteomics results presented in our study indicate that the endocrine disruptor activity of ZEN is able to regulate a cascade of highly inter-connected signaling events essential for the small intestinal crypt-villus cycle and immune status. These molecular mechanisms are also implicated in the onset and progress of intestinal immune disorders and cancer indicating that exposure to ZEN could play an important role in intestinal pathogenesis.
34535679 | Recurrence biomarkers of triple negative breast cancer treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and anti-EGFR antibodies. To find metastatic recurrence biomarkers of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) treated by neoadjuvant chemotherapy and anti-EGFR antibodies (NAT), we evaluated tumor genomic, transcriptomic, and immune features, using MSK-IMPACT assay, gene arrays, Nanostring technology, and TIL assessment on H&E. Six patients experienced a rapid fatal recurrence (RR) and other 6 had later non-fatal recurrences (LR). Before NAT, RR had low expression of 6 MHC class I and 13 MHC class II genes but were enriched in upregulated genes involved in the cell cycle-related pathways. Their TIL number before NAT in RR was very low (<5%) and did not increase after treatment. In post-NAT residual tumors, RR cases showed high expression of SOX2 and CXCR4. Our results indicate that high expression of cell cycle genes, combined with cold immunological phenotype, may predict strong TNBC resistance to NAT and rapid progression after it. This biomarker combination is worth validation in larger studies.
35002459 | Designing an immunoinformatic vaccine for peri-implantitis using a structural biology approach. OBJECTIVES: Peri-implantitis is a destructive inflammatory process that affects the soft and hard tissues around dental implants. porphyromonas gingivalis, an anaerobic gram-negative bacterium, appears to be the main culprit. Since there is no efficient and specific vaccine to treat peri-implantitis, the goal of our research has been to develop a multi-epitope vaccination utilizing an immunoinformatics approach that targeted P. gingivalis type I fim A. MATERIALS AND METHODS: P. gingivalis peptides 6JKZ and 6KMF are suitable for vaccine development. B- and T-cell epitopes from 6KMF and 6JKZ were detected and evaluated based on critical factors to produce a multi-epitope vaccine construct. It was assessed based on allergenicity, antigenicity, stability. The vaccine's dual major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I and MHC-II) binding epitopes allowed it to reach a larger population. P. gingivalis fimbriae induce immune subversion through TLR -CXCR4 receptor complex pathway. The ClusPro 2.0 server was used to do the molecular docking using TLR2 - CXCR4 and vaccine epitopes as receptor and ligand respectively. RESULTS: The designed vaccine was non-allergenic and had a high antigenicity, solubility, and stability. The 3D structure of the vaccine revealed strong interaction with CXCR4(TLR2) using molecular docking. The vaccine-CXCR4 interface was more consistent, possibly because the vaccination has a higher affinity for the CXCR4-TLR2 complex. CONCLUSION: This study details the vaccine's distinct and sustained interaction with the CXCR4(TLR2) immunological receptor and its consistent and effective utterance in the bacterial system. As a result, our vaccine formulation will evoke a significant memory response and induce an adaptive immune response against P. gingivalis.
35016591 | Immunosuppressive effects of dimethyl fumarate on dendritic cell maturation and migration: a potent protector for coronary heart disease. Dendritic cells (DCs), as a bridge between innate and adaptive immunity, play key roles in atherogenesis, particularly in plaque rupture, the underlying pathophysiologic cause of myocardial infarction. Targeting DC functions, including maturation and migration to atherosclerotic plaques, may be a novel therapeutic approach to atherosclerotic disease. Dimethyl fumarate (DMF), an agent consisting of a combination of fumaric acid esters, in current study were found to be able to suppress DC maturation by reducing the expression of costimulatory molecules and MHC class II and by blocking cytokine secretion. In addition, DMF efficiently inhibited the migration of activated DCs in vitro and in vivo by reducing the expression of chemokine receptor 7 (CCR7). Additionally, DMF efficiently inhibited the expression of the costimulatory molecule CD86, as well as the chemokine receptor CCR7 and the C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), in healthy donor-derived purified DCs that had been stimulated by ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patient serum. This study points to the potent therapeutic value of DMF for protecting against cardiovascular disease by suppressing DC functions.
36579657 | Ablation of CXCR4 expression in cardiomyocytes exacerbates isoproterenol-induced cell death and heart failure. CXCR4 is a seven-transmembrane-spanning Gi-coupled receptor for the SDF-1 chemokine and plays a critical role in cardiovascular development and post-injury repair. However, the specific role of CXCR4 in cardiomyocytes is incompletely understood. It was hypothesized that CXCR4 activation in cardiomyocytes antagonizes beta-adrenoceptor/Gs signaling-induced cardiac dysfunction. Cardiomyocyte-specific CXCR4 knockout (CXCR4-CMKO) mice were generated by crossing CXCR4fl/fl and MHC-Cre+/- mice. Their cardiac structure and function in the basal state are equivalent to that of the control MHC-Cre+/- littermates until at least 4 months old. However, following continuous subcutaneous administration of isoproterenol (Iso) via an osmotic mini-pump, the ventricular myocardial contractility, dilation, cardiomyocyte apoptosis, and interstitial fibrosis are worse in CXCR4-CMKO mice than in MHC-Cre+/- littermates. In the cultured H9C2 cardiomyocytes, SDF-1 treatment markedly attenuated Iso-induced apoptosis and reduction in phospho-Akt, and this protective effect was lost by knockdown of CXCR4 or by co-treatment with Gi inhibitors. In conclusion, CXCR4 promotes cardiomyocyte survival and heart function during beta-adrenergic stress.
36709495 | Single-Cell Transcriptomic Analysis of Primary and Metastatic Tumor Ecosystems in Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma. Lymph node metastasis, the leading cause of mortality in esophageal squamous carcinoma (ESCC) with a highly complex tumor microenvironment, remains underexplored. Here, the transcriptomes of 85 263 single cells are analyzed from four ESCC patients with lymph node metastases. Strikingly, it is observed that the metastatic microenvironment undergoes the emergence or expansion of interferon induced IFIT3+ T, B cells, and immunosuppressive cells such as APOC1+ APOE+ macrophages and myofibroblasts with highly expression of immunoglobulin genes (IGKC) and extracellular matrix component and matrix metallopeptidase genes. A poor-prognostic epithelial-immune dual expression program regulating immune effector processes, whose activity is significantly enhanced in metastatic malignant epithelial cells and enriched in CD74+ CXCR4+ and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II genes upregulated malignant epithelia cells is discovered. Comparing with primary tumor, differential intercellular communications of metastatic ESCC microenvironment are revealed and furtherly validated via multiplexed immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry staining, which mainly rely on the crosstalk of APOC1+ APOE+ macrophages with tumor and stromal cell. The data highlight potential molecular mechanisms that shape the lymph-node metastatic microenvironment and may inform drug discovery and the development of new strategies to target these prometastatic nontumor components for inhibiting tumor growth and overcoming metastasis to improve clinical outcomes.
36813133 | Novel characterization of CXCR4 expressing cells in uninfected and herpes simplex virus-1 infected corneas. PURPOSE: To characterize CXCR4-expressing cells in uninfected and herpes simplex virus-1 (HSV-1) infected corneas. METHODS: The corneas of C57BL/6J mice were infected with HSV-1 McKrae. The RT-qPCR assay detected CXCR4 and CXCL12 transcripts in uninfected and HSV-1-infected corneas. Immunofluorescence staining for CXCR4 and CXCL12 protein was performed in the frozen sections of herpes stromal keratitis (HSK) corneas. Flow cytometry assay characterized the CXCR4-expressing cells in uninfected and HSV-1-infected corneas. RESULTS: Flow cytometry data showed CXCR4 expressing cells in the separated epithelium and stroma of uninfected corneas. In the uninfected stroma, CD11b + F4/80+ macrophages are the predominant CXCR4-expressing cells. In contrast, most CXCR4 expressing cells in the uninfected epithelium were CD207 (langerin)+, CD11c+, and expressed MHC class II molecule, documenting the Langerhans cells (LCs) phenotype. After corneal HSV-1 infection, CXCR4 and CXCL12 mRNA levels increased significantly in HSK corneas than in uninfected corneas. Immunofluorescence staining showed CXCR4 and CXCL12 protein localization in the newly formed blood vessels in the HSK cornea. Furthermore, the infection resulted in LCs proliferation, causing an increase in their numbers in the epithelium at 4 days post-infection (p.i.). However, by 9-day p.i., the LCs numbers declined to the counts observed in naive corneal epithelium. Our results also showed neutrophils and vascular endothelial cells as the prominent CXCR4-expressing cell types in the stroma of HSK corneas. CONCLUSIONS: Together, our data demonstrate the expression of CXCR4 on resident antigen presenting cells in the uninfected cornea and on infiltrating neutrophils and newly formed blood vessels in the HSK cornea.
37619860 | Tong-Xie-Yao-Fang promotes dendritic cells maturation and retards tumor growth in colorectal cancer mice with chronic restraint stress. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Depression is one of the important risk factors that accelerate the progression of colorectal cancer (CRC). Tong-Xie-Yao-Fang (TXYF) is a widely used classical formula for treating psychiatric-related intestinal diseases in traditional Chinese medicine, that is composed of four different herbs: Atractylodes macrocephala Koidz. (Baizhu), Paeonia lactiflora Pall. (Baishaoyao), Citrus reticulata Blanco (Chenpi), Saposhnikovia divaricata (Turcz.) Schischk (Fangfeng). TXYF has over a hundred years of history and can significantly improve depression and reduce intestinal symptoms. However, the intervention effect and mechanism of TXYF on colorectal cancer accompanied by psychological stress are not still clear. AIM OF STUDY: This study investigated the therapeutic effect of TXYF on CRC mice with chronic restraint stress (CRS) and to explore its mechanism. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We constructed a mouse model of chronic stress by CRS and subcutaneous injection of CT26-Luc cells, and administered TXYF by gavage. We measured the body weight, tumor size, and tumor weight of each group of mice. The tumor growth was monitored dynamically of by vivo bioluminescence analysis. The depressive state of each group of mice were evaluated by tail hanging test, forced swimming test, and hormone level changes. We used flow cytometry to detect the ratio of CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, Th1 cells, Th2 cells, and dendritic cells (DCs) phenotype (MHC II, CD80, and CD86) and chemotaxis ability (CXCR4 and CCR7) of in peripheral blood and tumor tissue. the levels of IL-12, IL-18, Th1 cytokines, and Th2 cytokines in the serum of each group of mice were determined by ELISA. RESULTS: TXYF can improve the body weight of CRC mice with CRS, inhibit tumor volume and weight, alleviate depressive state, upregulate 5-HT levels, and inhibit HPA axis hormone secretion. The results of flow cytometry showed that TXYF can promote the maturation of DCs phenotype and function, enhance antigen presentation ability, increase the ratio of CD4+ T cells and CD4+/CD8+ T cells, and shift Th1/Th2 balance towards Th1 cells, thus increasing serum levels of IFN-gamma, IL-18, IL-2, and IL-12, while decreasing serum levels of IL-4 and IL-10, and effectively triggering T cell-mediated immune response. CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that TXYF inhibits the growth of tumors in CRC mice with CRS by stimulating immune response. The mechanism may be inhibiting the HPA axis and promoting DCs maturation, thus activating T cells and enhancing anti-tumor immune response, ultimately preventing the progression of CRC.
37954617 | Development and function of chicken XCR1+ conventional dendritic cells. Conventional dendritic cells (cDCs) are antigen-presenting cells (APCs) that play a central role in linking innate and adaptive immunity. cDCs have been well described in a number of different mammalian species, but remain poorly characterised in the chicken. In this study, we use previously described chicken cDC specific reagents, a novel gene-edited chicken line and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNAseq) to characterise chicken splenic cDCs. In contrast to mammals, scRNAseq analysis indicates that the chicken spleen contains a single, chemokine receptor XCR1 expressing, cDC subset. By sexual maturity the XCR1+ cDC population is the most abundant mononuclear phagocyte cell subset in the chicken spleen. scRNAseq analysis revealed substantial heterogeneity within the chicken splenic XCR1+ cDC population. Immature MHC class II (MHCII)LOW XCR1+ cDCs expressed a range of viral resistance genes. Maturation to MHCIIHIGH XCR1+ cDCs was associated with reduced expression of anti-viral gene expression and increased expression of genes related to antigen presentation via the MHCII and cross-presentation pathways. To visualise and transiently ablate chicken XCR1+ cDCs in situ, we generated XCR1-iCaspase9-RFP chickens using a CRISPR-Cas9 knockin transgenesis approach to precisely edit the XCR1 locus, replacing the XCR1 coding region with genes for a fluorescent protein (TagRFP), and inducible Caspase 9. After inducible ablation, the chicken spleen is initially repopulated by immature CD1.1+ XCR1+ cDCs. XCR1+ cDCs are abundant in the splenic red pulp, in close association with CD8+ T-cells. Knockout of XCR1 prevented this clustering of cDCs with CD8+ T-cells. Taken together these data indicate a conserved role for chicken and mammalian XCR1+ cDCs in driving CD8+ T-cells responses.
37966525 | Computational design and evaluation of mRNA- and protein-based conjugate vaccines for influenza A and SARS-CoV-2 viruses. BACKGROUND: Israel confirmed the first case of \flurona\-a co-infection of seasonal flu (IAV) and SARS-CoV-2 in an unvaccinated pregnant woman. This twindemic has been confirmed in multiple countries and underscores the importance of managing respiratory viral illnesses. RESULTS: The novel conjugate vaccine was designed by joining four hemagglutinin, three neuraminidase, and four S protein of B-cell epitopes, two hemagglutinin, three neuraminidase, and four S proteins of MHC-I epitopes, and three hemagglutinin, nine neuraminidase, and five S proteins of MHC-II epitopes with linkers and adjuvants. The constructed conjugate vaccine was found stable, non-toxic, non-allergic, and antigenic with 0.6466 scores. The vaccine contained 14.87% alpha helix, 29.85% extended strand, 9.64% beta-turn, and 45.64% random coil, which was modeled to a 3D structure with 94.7% residues in the most favored region of the Ramachandran plot and Z-score of -3.33. The molecular docking of the vaccine with TLR3 represented -1513.9 kcal/mol of binding energy with 39 hydrogen bonds and 514 non-bonded contacts, and 1.582925e-07 of eigenvalue complex. Immune stimulation prediction showed the conjugate vaccine could activate T and B lymphocytes to produce high levels of Th1 cytokines and antibodies. CONCLUSION: The in silico-designed vaccine against IAV and SARS-CoV-2 showed good population coverage and immune response with predicted T- and B-cell epitopes, favorable molecular docking, Ramachandran plot results, and good protein expression. It fulfilled safety criteria, indicating potential for preclinical studies and experimental clinical trials.
