2784466 | Isolation and characterization of the mouse CD8 beta-chain (Ly-3) genes. Absence of an intervening sequence between V- and J-like gene segments. We have isolated and determined the nucleotide sequence and genomic organization of the genes encoding Ly-3.1 and Ly-3.2. These genes span approximately 14 kb on chromosome 6 and consist of six exons and five introns. The exons correlate roughly with the putative functional domains, namely, a leader exon, a variable and joining region-like exon, a hinge region-like exon, a transmembrane exon, and two intracytoplasmic exons. There is no intervening sequence between V- and J-like gene segments, indicating that rearrangement is not necessary for the expression of the Ly-3 gene. In the 5'-flanking region there is no \TATA\ box nor \CAAT\ box; however, three \GC\ boxes are located upstream of the ATG initiator codon. There are short stretches of sequence homologous to 5'-flanking sequences of the Ly-2 gene. In addition, the sequences CTCTGTGGCA at -748 exhibits homology to the enhancer core sequence of the human Ig H chain and TCR genes. Comparison of the nucleotide sequence corresponding to the extracellular portion between Ly-3.1 and Ly-3.2 revealed a single base difference which results in an amino acid substitution. Therefore it is likely that this amino acid difference is responsible for the previously defined Ly-3 allotypes.
2896072 | Interactions between the Thy-1 and T-cell antigen receptor pathways in the activation of cytotoxic T cells: evidence from synergistic effects, loss variants, and anti-CD8 antibody-mediated inhibition. The relationship between activation of cytolytic T-lymphocyte (CTL) clones via the T-cell receptor (Ti) or the Thy-1 molecule was investigated. Anti-Ti and anti-Thy-1 monoclonal antibodies (mAb) can activate CTL clones to secrete interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Suboptimal doses of anti-Ti and anti-Thy-1 mAb, as well as suboptimal doses of two different anti-Thy-1 mAb, can synergize to activate T-cell clones. The addition of phorbol myristic acetate (PMA), which is not stimulatory by itself, can enhance the synergistic effect of mAb on IFN-gamma production. Although the Ti and Thy-1 molecules were not found associated at the cell surface, the results presented here indicate that these molecules are functionally associated. Use of Ti loss variants of a CTL clone confirms that Thy-1-mediated signaling is not an alternative to, but is dependent on the Ti-mediated activation pathway. Additionally, use of anti-Lyt-2/3 mAb, previously described as interfering with class I MHC-Ti binding and/or activation and, in some cases, with anti-Ti-mediated activation revealed that anti-Thy-1 mAb-mediated activation was also greatly reduced by the presence of Lyt-2/3-specific mAb. Thus the interaction between Thy-1 and Ti might also involve Lyt-2 (Lyt-3) molecules.
3035575 | Molecular cloning of Lyt-3, a membrane glycoprotein marking a subset of mouse T lymphocytes: molecular homology to immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor variable and joining regions. Lyt-3 is a membrane glycoprotein expressed on thymocytes and class I major histocompatibility complex-restricted cytotoxic T cells. Lyt-3 is expressed as a heterodimer with Lyt-2, and this complex is considered to be a homologue of the human Leu-2/T8 (CD8) that has been postulated to be a receptor for the class I major histocompatibility complex. We have determined the complete primary structure of Lyt-3 from the nucleotide sequence of its cDNA clones. Analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence indicates that the Lyt-3 polypeptide has a 21-amino acid leader peptide, and the mature protein consists of an NH2-terminal region of 146 amino acids, a transmembrane region of 27 residues, and a C-terminal region of 19 amino acids. The NH2-terminal 110 residues show clear homology to the T-cell receptor and immunoglobulin variable region sequences. In addition, Lyt-3 has 11 residues that have strong homology to the joining region sequences of the T-cell receptor and the immunoglobulin heavy and light chains. The presence of immunoglobulin variable- as well as joining-region-related sequences in Lyt-3 further supports the idea that these molecules may be recognition molecules belonging to the immunoglobulin super gene family.
3084649 | Induction and blocking of cytolysis in CD2+, CD3- NK and CD2+, CD3+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes via CD2 50 KD sheep erythrocyte receptor. The 50 KD sheep red blood cell antigen receptor CD2 is the earliest T cell differentiation marker and is present on all blood-derived T cells, including natural killer (NK) cells. The CD2 antigen is also known to serve as an important activation site regulating various T cell functions. We report that anti-CD2 monoclonal antibodies (MAb) block MHC-restricted class I- and class II-specific cytolysis by CD2+, CD3+ clones of the relevant target cells, irrespective of whether lysis by these clones is blocked by anti-CD3 or anti-CD8 MAb. Moreover, anti-CD2 MAb (but not anti-CD3 MAb) are able to reduce MHC-nonrestricted, nonspecific cytolysis: a) by CD2+, CD3+ clones of K562 target cells; and b) by CD2+, CD3 NK clones of K562 as well as Daudi cells. Different preparations of anti-CD2 MAb vary in their capacity to inhibit cytolysis. For cloned effector cells, the percent inhibition of lysis by CLB-T11 greater than Lyt-3 MAb, whereas with \fresh\ NK cells, the lysis inhibitory ability of Lyt-3 greater than CLB-T11. The antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity by \fresh\ and cloned NK cells is not inhibited by anti-CD2 MAb. Anti-CD2 MAb also prevent the induction of lysis by cross-linked anti-CD3 MAb, e.g., by CD2+, CD3+ cloned cloned cells against (IgG-FcR+) Daudi cells. Anti-CD2 MAb can also induce cytolysis in some, but not all, CD2+, CD3- NK clones against xenogeneic P815 mouse mastocytoma cells. Anti-CD2 MAb, in combination with lectins (PHA or Con A: pretreatment of effector cells), can also induce cytolytic activity by CD2+, CD3+ clones against Daudi cells. Our data therefore support the concept that the CD2 antigen is an important activation site regulating a wide variety of T cell functions including cytolysis. Whether ligand interaction with the CD2 antigens results in augmentation or inhibition of T cell functions may very well depend on the type of CD2 antigen-ligand interaction, e.g., cross-linked ligand-receptor interaction may, in general, enhance the various T cell functions, whereas noncross-linked ligand-receptor interactions may inhibit such functions, as we and other investigators demonstrated earlier for the CD3/Ti antigen-receptor complex activation site.
3092111 | Striking similarities between antigen receptor J pieces and sequence in the second chain of the murine CD8 antigen. The CD8 antigen is a marker for T-lymphocyte subsets that is absent from helper T cells but expressed on cytotoxic T cells which recognize foreign determinants in association with class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens. It has been suggested that CD8 plays some part in recognition by CD8+ cytotoxic T cells since anti-CD8 antibodies can block their functions and the human CD8 antigen contains a domain with clear similarities to immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor (TCR) variable-region (V) domains. Human CD8 antigen is thought to be a homodimer but in the mouse and rat the equivalent antigens (alternatively called Lyt2,3 and OX8) are heterodimeric. Rat CD8 contains two chains of relative molecular mass 32,000 (32K) and 37K: the 32K chain is the rat homologue of human CD8 and mouse Lyt2. We describe here the molecular cloning of the rat 37K chain using an oligonucleotide probe predicted from peptide sequence. The full protein sequence is derived from the complementary DNA and matches limited peptide sequence for mouse Lyt3. The new sequence is more like immunoglobulin and T-cell receptor V domains than other T-cell antigens and includes a patch that is almost identical to some joining (J) piece sequences. This suggests that the CD8 and receptor heterodimers may have evolved directly from a common ancestor.
3114136 | A human homolog of the mouse CD8 molecule, Lyt-3: genomic sequence and expression. The CD8 antigen is a marker for those cytotoxic T cells that recognize antigen in the context of class I major histocompatibility antigens (MHC) and has now been identified in many species. In rodents the CD8 antigen is a heterodimer of two distinct chains, Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 in the mouse and OX-8 Mr 32,000 and 37,000 chains in the rat. Human CD8 has consistently been described as a homodimer/homomultimer on mature T cells made up of one chain homologous to the Lyt-2 and OX-8 Mr 32,000 chains. This paper identifies a human equivalent of the second rodent CD8 chain (Lyt-3 and OX-8 Mr 37,000 chains) at the genomic level and shows that this gene is transcribed in human thymocytes and in some acute leukemic T-cell lines. The existence of a human Lyt-3 homolog raises the possibility that human CD8, like mouse CD8, may exist as a heterodimer.
3145195 | A second subunit of CD8 is expressed in human T cells. The CD8 glycoprotein plays important functions in T cell development and in T cell activation. In rodents, CD8 is a heterodimer, consisting of an alpha-chain (Lyt2) and a beta-chain (Lyt3). In humans, only the alpha-chain has been detected, and it has been thought that CD8 consists of homodimers of this protein. We have isolated functional cDNA clones encoding human CD8 beta, and show that the CD8 beta protein is expressed on the surface of CD8+ human T cells. cDNA clones encoding multiple forms of the human CD8 beta-chain have been isolated and characterized. These structural variants, which are likely to arise by alternative splicing, differ in the sequences encoding the cytoplasmic domain, which can consist of 19, 30, or 52 amino acids. One of the cDNAs lacks nucleotide sequences corresponding to a hydrophobic transmembrane domain, and may encode a secreted CD8 beta protein. The protein product of the human CD8 beta gene can be detected by a recently described anti-CD8 monoclonal antibody, 597. Expression of the epitope recognized by this antibody requires co-expression of the CD8 alpha and CD8 beta gene products. About 90% of human CD8 alpha positive thymocytes and peripheral blood lymphocytes express CD8 beta at the cell surface. Expression of the CD8 beta chain is thus conserved between human and rodents, and the variant CD8 beta polypeptides may have distinct roles in T cell function and development.
3145196 | The human Lyt-3 molecule requires CD8 for cell surface expression. We have previously identified a monoclonal antibody, T8/2T8-5H7, which clustered serologically with CD8 monoclonal antibodies, but lacked reactivity with L cell transfectants expressing the human CD8 molecule (Lyt-2 homologue). Based on these observations, we postulated that T8/2T8-5H7 might recognize the human Lyt-3 gene product. To test this hypothesis, we have isolated a full-length cDNA encoding the human Lyt-3 molecule and have characterized its product in additional transfection experiments. The results of these studies indicate that the human Lyt-3 cDNA encodes a product recognized by the antibody T8/2T8-5H7. Interestingly, the human Lyt-3 molecule cannot be expressed alone, but requires the human Lyt-2 homologue for efficient cell surface expression. A heterodimer composed of the human Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 molecules may have importance in T cell-target cell interactions.
3258885 | Molecular linkage of the Ly-3 and Ly-2 genes. Requirement of Ly-2 for Ly-3 surface expression. We have isolated the Ly-3 gene by chromosomal walking from the previously cloned Ly-2 gene. These genes are shown to be 36 kb apart and in the same transcriptional orientation. Transfection of the Ly-3 gene into mouse L cells results in cell surface expression of Ly-3 protein only in the presence of Ly-2 (or its human homolog, CD8), although Ly-2 surface expression is not similarly dependent on Ly-3. cDNA clones encoding Ly-3 have been isolated and sequenced and show little sequence similarity to Ly-2, whereas both Ly-2 and Ly-3 are homologous to Ig variable regions. One cDNA clone encodes a form of Ly-3 lacking a transmembrane region. Although two alleles of Ly-3 have been previously defined serologically, Northern blot analyses of Ly-3 mRNA from a series of inbred mouse strains show unusual polymorphisms in the lengths of Ly-3 mRNA species defining at least three allelic variants of this gene.
3263917 | A CD8 polypeptide that is lost after passing the Golgi but before reaching the cell surface: a novel sorting mechanism. The murine CD8 T cell differentiation antigen is a glycoprotein expressed on the cell surface as a heterodimer comprising the products of two closely linked genes, Ly-2 and Ly-3. The Ly-2 gene encodes, through a mechanism of alternate splicing, two polypeptide chains, alpha and alpha', that differ from one another in the lengths of their cytoplasmic tails. All T cells transcribe and translate both the alpha and alpha' polypeptides of Ly-2 and form heterodimers of each of these polypeptides disulphide-bonded with the Ly-3 polypeptide. However, there is very specific, developmentally controlled regulation of the expression of these heterodimers on the cell surface. Namely, immature T cells show no discrimination of CD8 molecules and express on their cell surface heterodimers containing the Ly-3 polypeptide linked to either the alpha or alpha' chain of Ly-2. In contrast, mature T cells express on their cell surface predominantly the heterodimer containing the Ly-2 alpha chain, the species which has a cytoplasmic tail. Moreover, in mature T cells the complexes which contain the alpha' chain are retained within the cell late in processing. These data emphasize the importance of the CD8 accessory molecule in the development of the functional T cell repertoire and uncover a novel protein sorting mechanism in mature T cells.
3498943 | Molecular characterization of the murine cytotoxic T-cell membrane glycoprotein Ly-3 (CD8). The murine Ly-2/3 glycoprotein is a surface marker of T cells restricted by class I major histocompatibility complex antigens. It is a disulfide-bonded heterodimer in which either the alpha or alpha' polypeptide chain encoded by Ly-2 is covalently linked to the beta polypeptide chain encoded by Ly-3. The nucleotide and predicted amino acid sequence of the murine Ly-3 cDNA, isolated by using the rat Ly-3 cDNA clone pX9.15, together with the amino acid sequence of Ly-3.1 peptides and the N terminus, are presented here. The alignment of peptide data from the Ly-3.1 antigen with that of the predicted amino acid sequence of the Ly-3.2 antigen confirmed that the putative Ly-3 cDNA clones do in fact encode the Ly-3 protein. The Ly-3.2 cDNA clones encode a protein of 213 amino acids, which includes a 21-residue leader sequence and structural features in common with immunoglobulin variable, joining, and hinge regions. Searches of protein data bases revealed that Ly-3 is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily with significant homology to Ly-2, immunoglobulin variable region kappa and lambda light chains, and the beta chain of the T-cell receptor. A single N-linked glycosylation site was found at asparagine-13. The relative expression of two mRNA species (approximately 1.3 and 2.3 kilobases) varied according to the source of mRNA. A murine B1 repeat was located in the 3' untranslated region of Ly-3 cDNA clones.
8509140 | Expansion of alpha beta T-cell receptor-bearing intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes after microbial colonization in germ-free mice and its independence from thymus. A large proportion of intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) comprises alpha beta and gamma delta T-cell receptor (TcR)-bearing T cells. The numbers of alpha beta and gamma delta IEL are reported to be very different between germ-free and conventional microbial conditions. In this study, we investigated the kinetics of both types of TcR-bearing cells after microbial colonization in germ-free mice and the influence of thymus deprivation on IEL populations during the microbial association process. Immediately after association with microbes in germ-free animals, the number of alpha beta TcR-bearing IEL gradually increased. Fourteen days after microbial association the number of alpha beta IEL equalled that of gamma delta TcR-bearing IEL. Approximately 1 month after microbial association, the number of alpha beta IEL was several times greater than that of gamma delta IEL, having almost reached the level in conventional mice reared in a conventional animal room after birth. On the other hand the number of gamma delta IEL hardly changed throughout this microbial association process. Two-colour analysis involving anti-alpha beta TcR and anti-Lyt-2 or Lyt-3 antibodies showed that the major fraction of IEL that increased after microbial association comprised alpha beta TcR-bearing T cells expressing CD8 antigen composed of a homodimer of alpha-chains, which was not detected in other gut associated-lymphoid tissues (GALT) such as Peyer's patch, mesenteric lymph node and lamina propria tissue. The number of alpha beta T cells in these GALT increased within 1 week more quickly than that of IEL. The increase in alpha beta IEL after microbial association was not prevented by thymectomy. These results strongly suggest that the progenitors of alpha beta TcR-bearing IEL expand outside the thymus in response to microbial colonization in germ-free mice.
8537123 | Autoimmune diabetes-prone NOD mice express the Lyt2 alpha (Lyt2.1) and Lyt3 alpha (Lyt3.1) alleles of CD8. Predisposition to Type I insulin-dependent diabetes (IDD) has a strong underlying genetic basis involving class II major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes as well as several non-MHC genetic systems. In the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse, a model for human IDD, genes associated with the appearance of immune cell infiltrates in the pancreatic islets (insulitis) and/or overt IDD have been mapped to chromosomes 1, 3, 6, 11, and 17. A recent report has suggested that CD8+ lymphocytes of the NOD mouse might be deficient in the expression of the CD8 beta molecule, a protein encoded by a gene on chromosome 6. The CD8 beta molecule is a T-cell surface marker, the lack of which could affect selection in the thymus, possibly permitting auto-reactive T-cell clones to populate the peripheral lymphoid tissues. For this reason, we examined the expression of the CD8 molecule by lymphocytes in the NOD mouse. Results indicate that the NOD mouse is not deficient in its transcription of detectable mRNA encoding either the CD8 alpha or beta subunits. However, the NOD mouse expresses the Lyt2 alpha and Lyt3 alpha alleles, suggesting that a portion of chromosome 6 centromeric to the diabetes-susceptibility genetic region is derived from an ancestry common to AKR and, like AKR, the CD8 alpha and CD8 beta 3.1 (but not CD8 beta 3.2) subunits are detected on the cell surface of T lymphocytes of the NOD mouse. Interestingly, though, the CD8 beta 3.1 molecule may not be expressed in the NOD mouse to the same extent as it is expressed in the AKR/J mouse, suggesting the possibility that the NOD mouse possesses a defect somewhere between transcription and cell surface expression of the CD8 beta molecule.
16474425 | IRF family proteins and type I interferon induction in dendritic cells. Dendritic cells (DC), although a minor population in hematopoietic cells, produce type I interferons (IFN) and other cytokines and are essential for innate immunity. They are also potent antigen presenters and regulate adaptive immunity. Among DC subtypes plasmacytoid DC (pDC) produce the highest amounts of type I IFN. In addition, pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-12 and IL-10 are induced in DC in response to Toll like receptor (TLR) signaling and upon viral infection. Proteins in the IRF family control many aspects of DC activity. IRF-8 and IRF-4 are essential for DC development. They differentially control the development of four DC subsets. IRF-8-/- mice are largely devoid of pDC and CD8alpha+ DC, while IRF-4-/- mice lack CD4+DC. IRF-8-/-, IRF4-/-, double knock-out mice have only few CD8a-CD4-DC that lack MHC II. IRF proteins also control type I IFN induction in DC. IRF-7, activated upon TLR signaling is required for IFN induction not only in pDC, but also in conventional DC (cDC) and non-DC cell types. IRF-3, although contributes to IFN induction in fibroblasts, is dispensable in IFN induction in DC. Our recent evidence reveals that type I IFN induction in DC is critically dependent on IRF-8, which acts in the feedback phase of IFN gene induction in DC. Type I IFN induction in pDC is mediated by MyD88 dependent signaling pathway, and differs from pathways employed in other cells, which mostly rely on TLR3 and RIG-I family proteins. Other pro-inflammatory cytokines are produced in an IRF-5 dependent manner. However, IRF-5 is not required for IFN induction, suggesting the presence of separate mechanisms for induction of type I IFN and other pro-inflammatory cytokines. IFN and other cytokines produced by activated DC in turn advance DC maturation and change the phenotype and function of DC. These processes are also likely to be governed by IRF family proteins.
16491076 | Negative regulation of CD8 expression via Cd8 enhancer-mediated recruitment of the zinc finger protein MAZR. Coreceptor expression is tightly regulated during thymocyte development. Deletion of specific Cd8 enhancers leads to variegated expression of CD8alphabeta heterodimers in double-positive thymocytes. Here we show CD8 variegation is correlated with an epigenetic 'off' state, linking Cd8 enhancer function with chromatin remodeling of the adjacent genes Cd8a and Cd8b1 (Cd8). The zinc finger protein MAZR bound the Cd8 enhancer and interacted with the nuclear receptor corepressor N-CoR complex in double-negative thymocytes. MAZR was downregulated in double-positive and CD8 single-positive thymocytes. 'Enforced' expression of MAZR led to impaired Cd8 activation and variegated CD8 expression. Our results demonstrate epigenetic control of the Cd8 loci and identify MAZR as an important regulator of Cd8 expression.
17195459 | A fully human chimeric immune receptor for retargeting T-cells to CEA-expressing tumor cells. BACKGROUND: Recombinant chimeric immune receptors (CIRs) with anti-CEA specificity can retarget grafted T-cells to CEA-expressing tumors in an HLA-independent manner. To reduce the immunogenicity of conventional CIR in humans, an attempt was made to generate a CIR encoded by all human genes. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A single-chain variable fragmented (scFv) antibody gene was prepared from variable region genes of the C2-45 human mAb clone specific for CEA. The scFv gene was connected to a gene construct comprised of the cDNAs for the human CD8a hinge region, the human CD28 transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains, and the human CD3zeta intracellular domain. The resulting human CIR gene, designated L45scFv-CIR, was inserted into the pcDNA3.1 expression vector and transfected into human primary T-cells. RESULTS: Flow cytometric analysis using allophycocyanin-labeled CEA demonstrated the expression of the L45scFv-CIR protein on the T-cells and its specific antigen binding activity. CONCLUSION: This L45scFv-CIR gene, consisting of four human genes, may be a useful tool for eradication of CEA-expressing but HLA-downregulated tumor cells.
17244753 | Kinetics of murine decidual dendritic cells. Dendritic cells (DCs) are professional antigen presenting cells (APC) capable of induction of primary immune responses as well as immunologic tolerance. Myeloid and lymphoid subsets of murine DCs are able to shift cytokine responses of T cells toward Th2 and Th1 profiles respectively. Thus, DCs would be suitable candidates to mediate the balance of maternal immune responses to conception. We analyzed pregnancy-related variations in uterus and splenic DCs in a murine model. C57BL/6-mated Balb/c female mice with vaginal plugs were scarified at early, middle, and late pregnancy. Frozen sections of uterus and spleen at each stage of pregnancy were immunostained with CD11c- and MHC-II-specific antibodies. Two-color immunohistochemistry was also carried out using anti-CD11c and one of the antibodies against CD11b, CD8alpha, CD86, and DEC-205. Using morphometric analysis, the average density of DCs and relative percentage of myeloid (CD11c+, CD11b+) and lymphoid DCs (CD11c+, CD8a+) were determined at each stage. Our results showed that DCs are present throughout the pregnancy in decidua. The average density of decidual DCs at early pregnancy was significantly higher relative to middle and late gestation or to those of endometrial DCs of non-pregnant mice. Interestingly, the average density of decidual and splenic DCs, followed the same variations at different stages of pregnancy. The relative percentage of decidual lymphoid DCs (LDC) was significantly higher at mid-gestation when compared with other stages of pregnancy or non-pregnant mice. Inversely, the frequency of myeloid DCs (MDC) and the MDC/LDC ratio were statistically lower at the middle stage of pregnancy. A majority of decidual DCs expressed MHC-II and CD86. At early pregnancy, DCs were more concentrated subadjacent to the luminal epithelial layers, whereas at mid-or late gestation, DCs were randomly distributed in the stroma and around the epithelium. Mid-pregnancy period was a critical point with regard to splenic DCs kinetics, as both the average density of DCs and the frequency of MDCs decreased significantly when compared with early or late pregnancy, although the relative percentage of splenic LDCs did not change. Our data suggest that the balance of MDC and LDC is finely tuned throughout pregnancy, pointing an eminent immunoregulatory role of DCs in the maintenance of pregnancy.
17658607 | Gly111Ser mutation in CD8A gene causing CD8 immunodeficiency is found in Spanish Gypsies. We describe the second case of CD8 immunodeficiency. It confirms the pathogenic effect of p.Gly111Ser, leading to complete deficit of CD8+ lymphocytes, although the clinical manifestations may vary in severity. Similarly to the first case reported, our patient is also from Spanish Gypsy origin and homozygous for the p.Gly111Ser mutation in CD8alpha chain. The patient has suffered repeated respiratory infections from childhood but with conservation of her pulmonary parenchyma, on the contrary to the first patient, who died because of his respiratory injury. We developed an AluI-PCR-RFLP assay to screen a total of 1127 unrelated control individuals: 734 subjects of Gypsy ancestry from different sub-isolates and geographic locations in Europe, and 393 of Spanish (non-Gypsy) ethnicity. The results indicate that p.Gly111Ser is confined to the Spanish Gypsy population, where it occurs at a carrier rate of 0.4%. Analysis of microsatellite markers flanking the CD8A mutated gene revealed a shared polymorphic haplotype suggesting a common founder for p.Gly111Ser mutation that causes CD8 deficiency in the Spanish Gypsy population. CD8 immunodeficiency should be given diagnostic consideration in Spanish Gypsies with recurrent infections. Our findings may also have implications for these patients in terms of specific recommendations in vaccination and healthy habits and for genetic counseling of affected families.
22068125 | Natural recovery from antiglomerular basement membrane glomerulonephritis is associated with glomeruli-infiltrating CD8alpha+CD11c+MHC class II+ cells. BACKGROUND/AIMS: In an antiglomerular basement membrane glomerulonephritis (GN) model, GN-resistant Lewis (LEW) rats naturally recover from early glomerular inflammation (days 21-23). We have previously identified a glomeruli-infiltrating CD8alpha(+)CD11(high)MHC II(+) cell (GIL CD8alpha(+) cell) in GN-prone Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats, which terminates glomerular inflammation through inducing T cell apoptosis prior to glomerular fibrosis at days 35-40. We investigated if GIL CD8alpha(+) cells were also associated with the recovery in LEW rats. METHODS: GIL CD8alpha(+) cells in LEW rats were characterized; their infiltration was observed in connection with T cell apoptosis in glomeruli. RESULTS: An influx of GIL CD8alpha(+) cells into inflamed glomeruli was confirmed in the immunized LEW rats at days 17-22, which was much earlier than days 28-35 in WKY rats. Notably, LEW rats had a GIL CD8alpha(+)CD11(high) subpopulation after day 17, while WKY rats lacked this population until after day 30. Analyses further revealed a large number of clustered apoptotic CD4(+) or CD3(+) T cells in the glomeruli during recovery (day 23) in LEW rats, as compared to day 35 (transition to fibrosis) in WKY rats. Thus, infiltration of GIL CD8alpha(+) cells coincided with decline of glomerular inflammation and T cell apoptosis during recovery in LEW rats. Isolated GIL CD8alpha(+) cells were able to infiltrate glomeruli in both WKY and LEW rats at day 20. CONCLUSION: Our data revealed a strong association between GIL CD8a+ cells and recovery from early glomerular inflammation. It raises a possibility of involvement of GIL CD8a+ cells in the recovery.
22896631 | Cutting edge: intravascular staining redefines lung CD8 T cell responses. Nonlymphoid T cell populations control local infections and contribute to inflammatory diseases, thus driving efforts to understand the regulation of their migration, differentiation, and maintenance. Numerous observations indicate that T cell trafficking and differentiation within the lung are starkly different from what has been described in most nonlymphoid tissues, including intestine and skin. After systemic infection, we found that >95% of memory CD8 T cells isolated from mouse lung via standard methods were actually confined to the pulmonary vasculature, despite perfusion. A respiratory route of challenge increased virus-specific T cell localization within lung tissue, although only transiently. Removing blood-borne cells from analysis by the simple technique of intravascular staining revealed distinct phenotypic signatures and chemokine-dependent trafficking restricted to Ag-experienced T cells. These results precipitate a revised model for pulmonary T cell trafficking and differentiation and a re-evaluation of studies examining the contributions of pulmonary T cells to protection and disease.
23355737 | CD8alpha+ dendritic cell trans presentation of IL-15 to naive CD8+ T cells produces antigen-inexperienced T cells in the periphery with memory phenotype and function. Various populations of memory phenotype CD8(+) T cells have been described over the last 15-20 y, all of which possess elevated effector functions relative to naive phenotype cells. Using a technique for isolating Ag-specific cells from unprimed hosts, we recently identified a new subset of cells, specific for nominal Ag, but phenotypically and functionally similar to memory cells arising as a result of homeostatic proliferation. We show in this study that these virtual memory (VM) cells are independent of previously identified innate memory cells, arising as a result of their response to IL-15 trans presentation by lymphoid tissue-resident CD8alpha(+) dendritic cells in the periphery. The absence of IL-15, CD8(+) T cell expression of either CD122 or eomesodermin or of CD8a(+) dendritic cells all lead to the loss of VM cells in the host. Our results show that CD8(+) T cell homeostatic expansion is an active process within the nonlymphopenic environment, is mediated by IL-15, and produces Ag-inexperienced memory cells that retain the capacity to respond to nominal Ag with memory-like function. Preferential engagement of these VM T cells into a vaccine response could dramatically enhance the rate by which immune protection develops.
23933420 | Chinese goose (Anser cygnoides) CD8a: cloning, tissue distribution and immunobiological in splenic mononuclear cells. CD8 molecule is a cell membrane glycoprotein, which plays an important role in cell-mediated immunity. Here, we identified Chinese goose CD8alpha (goCD8alpha) gene for the first time. The full-length cDNA of goCD8alpha is 1459bp in length and contains a 711bp open reading frame. Phylogenetic analysis shows that the waterfowl CD8alpha formed a monophyletic group. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that transcripts of goCD8alpha mRNA were high in the immune-related organs and mucosal immune system in gosling, and high in thymus and spleen comparing to other immune-related tissues in goose. The obvious increase of CD8alpha expression was observed in spleen of acute new type gosling viral enteritis virus (NGVEV) infected bird, while the increase of CD8alpha were observed in the thymus, bursa of fabricius, and cecum of chronic infected bird. The CD8alpha mRNA transcription level in spleen mononuclear cells was significantly up-regulated when stimulated by phytohemagglutinin, but not by lipopolysaccharide in vitro. 
25416805 | Beta-catenin signaling drives differentiation and proinflammatory function of IRF8-dependent dendritic cells. Beta-catenin signaling has recently been tied to the emergence of tolerogenic dendritic cells (DCs). In this article, we demonstrate a novel role for beta-catenin in directing DC subset development through IFN regulatory factor 8 (IRF8) activation. We found that splenic DC precursors express beta-catenin, and DCs from mice with CD11c-specific constitutive beta-catenin activation upregulated IRF8 through targeting of the Irf8 promoter, leading to in vivo expansion of IRF8-dependent CD8a+, plasmacytoid, and CD103+ CD11b2 DCs. beta-catenin-stabilized CD8a+ DCs secreted elevated IL-12 upon in vitro microbial stimulation, and pharmacological beta-catenin inhibition blocked this response in wild-type cells. Upon infections with Toxoplasma gondii and vaccinia virus, mice with stabilized DC beta-catenin displayed abnormally high Th1 and CD8+ T lymphocyte responses, respectively. Collectively, these results reveal a novel and unexpected function for beta-catenin in programming DC differentiation toward subsets that orchestrate proinflammatory immunity to infection.
25548254 | A novel Cd8-cis-regulatory element preferentially directs expression in CD44hiCD62L+ CD8+ T cells and in CD8alphaalpha+ dendritic cells. CD8 coreceptor expression is dynamically regulated during thymocyte development and is tightly controlled by the activity of at least 5 different cis-regulatory elements. Despite the detailed characterization of the Cd8 loci, the regulation of the complex expression pattern of CD8 cannot be fully explained by the activity of the known Cd8 enhancers. In this study, we revisited the Cd8ab gene complex with bioinformatics and transgenic reporter gene expression approaches to search for additional Cd8 cis-regulatory elements. This led to the identification of an ECR (ECR-4), which in transgenic reporter gene expression assays, directed expression preferentially in CD44(hi)CD62L(+) CD8(+) T cells, including innate-like CD8(+) T cells. ECR-4, designated as Cd8 enhancer E8VI, was bound by Runx/CBFbeta complexes and Bcl11b, indicating that E8VI is part of the cis-regulatory network that recruits transcription factors to the Cd8ab gene complex in CD8(+) T cells. Transgenic reporter expression was maintained in LCMV-specific CD8(+) T cells upon infection, although short-term, in vitro activation led to a down-regulation of E8VI activity. Finally, E8VI directed transgene expression also in CD8alphaalpha(+) DCs but not in CD8alphaalpha-expressing IELs. Taken together, we have identified a novel Cd8 enhancer that directs expression in CD44(hi)CD62L(+) CD8(+) T cells, including innate-like and antigen-specific effector/memory CD8(+) T cells and in CD8alphaalpha(+) DCs, and thus, our data provide further insight into the cis-regulatory networks that control CD8 expression. 
25616911 | Age-related development and tissue distribution of T cell markers (CD4 and CD8a) in Chinese goose. Aquatic birds play n critical role in the transmission and dissemination of many important pathogens such as avian influenza virus. The cell-mediated immunity is very important in eliminating the intracellular antigens. Expression of CD4 and CD8 on T cell surface is essential for cell-mediated immune defence and T-cell development. However, the ontogeny of T lymphocytes in waterfowl is scarce and fragmentary. To address these questions, here we report the development and tissues distribution of CD4 and CD8alpha in goose embryo, gosling and goose by immunocytochemistry assay using monoclonal antibodies. Moreover, the age-related mRNA level of goose CD4 and CD8alpha in different immune tissues were study by real time quantitative PCR. Our results suggested that the high expression of CD4 and CD8alpha were readily found in thymus, which peaked at the first week post-hatch. And the highest expression level of CD4 and CD8alpha were detected in bursa of Fabricius, caecal tonsils, spleen and intestine at the second week, after that the expression level were gradually decreased. Interestingly, the remarkably high expression of CD4 and CD8alpha in Harderian gland were detected at the first week, which is about hundreds times more than that in other tissues. Our findings demonstrated that the development and the distribution of CD4 and CD8alpha are partly changed in an age-related way. Moreover, the histological morphogenesis of immune tissues were also discussed. Our results may shed lights on the better understand of T-cell mediate immunity in goose. 
25828836 | Editorial: Crossing the divide: a novel Cd8 enhancer with activity in CTLs and CD8alphaalpha+ dendritic cells. 
26563160 | Recurrent Respiratory Infections Revealing CD8alpha Deficiency. CD8A encodes the CD8alpha chain of the dimeric CD8 protein, a critical coreceptor of cytotoxic T cells. We report here the comprehensive immunological evaluation of a child with a CD8A missense mutation, providing evidence that CD8 deficiency increases susceptibility to recurrent respiratory infections without interfering with the TCR-mediated proliferation of T cells. These observations expand the known phenotypes associated with CD8 deficiency. 
27965016 | Cross-reactivity of monoclonal antibodies against CD4-1 and CD8alpha of ginbuna crucian carp with lymphocytes of zebrafish and other cyprinid species. We have monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against CD4-1 (6D1) and CD8alpha (2C3) in ginbuna crucian carp Carassius auratus langsdorfii. In our previous studies we showed that 2C3 mAb positive cells are the primary cell type showing specific cytotoxicity against allogeneic targets, suggesting that CD8alpha+ lymphocytes in ginbuna are equivalent to cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) in mammals. We further demonstrated the helper T cell function of 6D1 mAb positive cells by studying mixed leukocyte culture (MLC) and hapten/carrier effects. Here, we report that our mAbs cross-react with zebrafish lymphocytes. First, mAbs 6D1 and 2C3 recognized 7-11% of zebrafish lymphocytes that were ZAP-70 positive and had the typical morphology of lymphocytes. Second, to verify the cell types reacting with the 6D1 and 2C3 mAbs we examined the expression profiles of zebrafish lymphocyte surface markers in FACS-sorted lymphocytes from kidney. cd4-1 (cd8a) and tcrac but not iglc transcripts were detected in 6D1(2C3)+ lymphocytes, whereas cd4-1 (cd8a) transcripts were not found in 6D1 (2C3)- lymphocytes. Third, we further confirmed that 6D1 reacted with zebrafish CD4-1 but not CD4-2, and 2C3 recognized zebrafish CD8alpha expressed on HEK293T cells. Collectively, these findings suggest that 6D1+ and 2C3+ lymphocytes in zebrafish are equivalent to CD4+ and CD8alpha+ T lymphocytes in mammals, respectively. Furthermore, we found the cross-reactivity of our 6D1 and 2C3 mAbs with other cyprinid species including goldfish, common carp and grass carp.
29217518 | Enhancement of mammary tumour growth by IGFBP-3 involves impaired T cell accumulation. Epidemiological studies show an association between obesity and poor breast cancer prognosis. We previously demonstrated that global IGFBP-3 deficiency, in IGFBP-3-null mice, resulted in a 50% reduction in mammary tumour growth over 3 weeks relative to tumours in wild-type (WT) C57BL/6 mice. This growth reduction was ameliorated by high fat feeding-induced obesity. This study aimed to examine how IGFBP-3 promotes tumour growth by influencing the immune tumour microenvironment in healthy and obese mice. Syngeneic EO771 cells, which lack detectable IGFBP-3 expression, were grown as orthotopic tumours in WT and IGFBP-3-null C57BL/6 mice placed on either a control chow or a high-fat diet (HFD), and examined by quantitative PCR and immunohistochemistry. In WT mice, increased stromal expression of IGFBP-3 was positively associated with tumour growth, supporting the hypothesis that IGFBP-3 in the microenvironment promotes tumour progression. Examining markers of immune cell subsets, gene expression of Ifng, Cd8a, Cd8b1 and Tnf and CD8 measured by immunohistochemistry were elevated in tumours of IGFBP-3-null mice compared to WT, indicating an accumulation of CD8+ T cells, but this increase was absent if the IGFBP-3-null mice had been exposed to HFD. Expression of these genes was negatively associated with tumour growth. Although similar among groups overall, Nkg2d and Tnfsf10 tumoural expression was associated with decreased tumour growth. Overall, the results of this study provide an immune-based mechanism by which host IGFBP-3 may promote breast tumour growth in the EO771 murine breast cancer model, and suggest that targeting IGFBP-3 might make a novel contribution to immune therapy for breast cancer.
29305435 | An Immunotherapeutic CD137 Agonist Releases Eomesodermin from ThPOK Repression in CD4 T Cells. Agonists to the TNF/TNFR costimulatory receptors CD134 (OX40) and CD137 (4-1BB) elicit antitumor immunity. Dual costimulation with anti-CD134 plus anti-CD137 is particularly potent because it programs cytotoxic potential in CD8+ and CD4+ T cells. Cytotoxicity in dual-costimulated CD4 T cells depends on the T-box transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes), which we report is induced via a mechanism that does not rely on IL-2, in contrast to CD8+ CTL, but rather depends on the CD8 T cell lineage commitment transcription factor Runx3, which supports Eomes expression in mature CD8+ CTLs. Further, Eomes and Runx3 were indispensable for dual-costimulated CD4 T cells to mediate antitumor activity in an aggressive melanoma model. Runx3 is also known to be expressed in standard CD4 Th1 cells where it fosters IFN-gamma expression; however, the CD4 T cell lineage commitment factor ThPOK represses transcription of Eomes and other CD8 lineage genes, such as Cd8a Hence, CD4 T cells can differentiate into Eomes+ cytotoxic CD4+CD8+ double-positive T cells by terminating ThPOK expression. In contrast, dual-costimulated CD4 T cells express Eomes, despite the continued expression of ThPOK and the absence of CD8alpha, indicating that Eomes is selectively released from ThPOK repression. Finally, although Eomes was induced by CD137 agonist, but not CD134 agonist, administered individually, CD137 agonist failed to induce CD134-/- CD4 T cells to express Eomes or Runx3, indicating that both costimulatory pathways are required for cytotoxic Th1 programming, even when only CD137 is intentionally engaged with a therapeutic agonist.
30366957 | Limited Phenotypic and Functional Plasticity of Influenza Virus-Specific Memory CD8+ T Cells during Activation in an Alternative Cytokine Environment. Naive CD8+ T cells show phenotypic, functional, and epigenetic plasticity, enabling differentiation into distinct cellular states. However, whether memory CD8+ T cells demonstrate similar flexibility upon recall is poorly understood. We investigated the potential of influenza A virus (IAV)-specific memory CD8+ T cells from mice to alter their phenotype and function in response to reactivation in the presence of IL-4 and anti-IFN-gamma Ab (type 2 conditions). Compared with naive CD8+ T cells, only a small proportion of IAV-specific memory T cells exhibited phenotypic and functional plasticity after clonal activation under type 2 conditions. The potential for modulation of cell-surface phenotype (CD8alpha expression) was associated with specific epigenetic changes at the Cd8a locus, was greater in central memory T cells than effector memory T cells, and was observed in endogenous memory cells of two TCR specificities. Using a novel technique for intracellular cytokine staining of small clonal populations, we showed that IAV-specific memory CD8+ T cells reactivated under type 2 conditions displayed robust IFN-gamma expression and, unlike naive CD8+ T cells activated under type 2 conditions, produced little IL-4 protein. Secondary activation of memory cells under type 2 conditions increased GATA-3 levels with minimal change in T-bet levels. These data suggest that a small population of memory cells, especially central memory T cells, exhibits plasticity; however, most IAV-specific memory CD8+ T cells resist reprogramming upon reactivation and retain the functional state established during priming.
33408257 | MyD88 Costimulation in Donor CD8+ T Cells Enhances the Graft-versus-Tumor Effect in Murine Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation. Donor-derived lymphocytes from allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) or donor lymphocyte infusion can mediate eradication of host tumor cells in a process labeled the graft-versus-tumor (GVT) effect. Unfortunately, these treatments have produced limited results in various types of leukemia because of an insufficient GVT effect. In this context, molecular engineering of donor lymphocytes to increase the GVT effect may benefit cancer patients. Activating MyD88 signaling in CD8+ T cells via TLR enhances T cell activation and cytotoxicity. However, systemic administration of TLR ligands to stimulate MyD88 could induce hyperinflammation or elicit protumor effects. To circumvent this problem, we devised a synthetic molecule consisting of MyD88 linked to the ectopic domain of CD8a (CD8alpha:MyD88). We used this construct to test the hypothesis that MyD88 costimulation in donor CD8+ T cells increases tumor control following allo-HCT in mice by increasing T cell activation, function, and direct tumor cytotoxicity. Indeed, an increase in both in vitro and in vivo tumor control was observed with CD8alpha:MyD88 T cells. This increase in the GVT response was associated with increased T cell expansion, increased functional capacity, and an increase in direct cytotoxic killing of the tumor cells. However, MyD88 costimulation in donor CD8+ T cells was linked to increased yet nonlethal graft-versus-host disease in mice treated with these engineered CD8+ T cells. Given these observations, synthetic CD8alpha:MyD88 donor T cells may represent a unique and versatile approach to enhance the GVT response that merits further refinement to improve the effectiveness of allo-HCT.
34045231 | Oncolytic Vaccinia Virus Gene Modification and Cytokine Expression Effects on Tumor Infection, Immune Response, and Killing. Oncolytic vaccinia viruses have promising efficacy and safety profiles in cancer therapy. Although antitumor activity can be increased by manipulating viral genes, the relative efficacy of individual modifications has been difficult to assess without side-by-side comparisons. This study sought to compare the initial antitumor activity after intravenous administration of five vaccinia virus variants of the same Western Reserve backbone and thymidine kinase gene deletion in RIP-Tag2 transgenic mice with spontaneous pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Tumors had focal regions of infection at 5 days after all viruses. Natural killer (NK) cells were restricted to these sites of infection, but CD8+ T cells and tumor cell apoptosis were widespread and varied among the viruses. Antitumor activity of virus VV-A34, bearing amino acid substitution A34K151E to increase viral spreading, and virus VV-IL2v, expressing a mouse IL2 variant (mIL2v) with attenuated IL2 receptor alpha subunit binding, was similar to control virus VV-GFP. However, antitumor activity was significantly greater after virus VV-A34/IL2v, which expressed mIL2v together with A34K151E mutation and viral B18R gene deletion, and virus VV-GMCSF that expressed mouse GM-CSF. Both viruses greatly increased expression of CD8 antigens Cd8a/Cd8b1 and cytotoxicity genes granzyme A, granzyme B, Fas ligand, and perforin-1 in tumors. VV-A34/IL2v led to higher serum IL2 and greater tumor expression of death receptor ligand TRAIL, but VV-GMCSF led to higher serum GM-CSF, greater expression of leukocyte chemokines and adhesion molecules, and more neutrophil recruitment. Together, the results show that antitumor activity is similarly increased by viral expression of GM-CSF or IL2v combined with additional genetic modifications.
34433029 | Tandem bispecific antibody prevents pathogenic SHIVSF162P3CN infection and disease progression. Although progress has been made on constructing potent bi-specific broadly neutralizing antibody (bi-bNAb), few bi-bNAbs have been evaluated against HIV-1/AIDS in non-human primates (NHPs). Here, we report the efficacy of a tandem bi-bNAb, namely BiIA-SG, in Chinese-origin rhesus macaques (CRM) against the CRM-adapted R5-tropic pathogenic SHIVSF162P3CN challenge. Pre-exposure BiIA-SG injection prevents productive viral infection in 6 of 6 CRMs with unmeasurable proviral load, T cell responses, and seroconversion. Single BiIA-SG injection, at day 1 or 3 post viral challenge, significantly reduces peak viremia, achieves undetectable setpoint viremia in 8 of 13 CRMs, and delays disease progression for years in treated CRMs. In contrast, 6 of 8 untreated CRMs develop simian AIDS within 2 years. BiIA-SG-induced long-term protection is associated with CD8+ T cells as determined by anti-CD8beta antibody depletion experiments. Our findings provide a proof-of-concept that bi-bNAb treatment elicits T cell immunity in NHPs, which warrant the clinical development of BiIA-SG for HIV-1 prevention and immunotherapy.
36853094 | Spontaneous development of an autoimmune hepatitis - primary biliary cholangitis overlap syndrome in dnTGFbetaRII Aire-/- mice. Autoimmune regulator (Aire) and TGF-beta signaling play important roles in central tolerance and peripheral tolerance, respectively, by eliminating or suppressing the activity of autoreactive T cells. We previously demonstrated that dnTGFbetaRII mice develop a defect in peripheral tolerance and a primary biliary cholangitis (PBC)-like disease. We hypothesized that by introducing the Aire gene to this model, we would observe a more severe PBC phenotype. Interestingly, however, we demonstrated that, while dnTGFbetaRII Aire-/- mice do manifest key histological and serological features of autoimmune cholangitis, they also develop mild to moderate interface hepatitis and show high levels of alanine transaminase (ALT) and antinuclear antibodies (ANA), characteristics of autoimmune hepatitis (AIH). To further understand this unique phenotype, we performed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and flow cytometry to explore the functional pathways and immune cell pathways in the liver of dnTGFbetaRII Aire-/- mice. Our data revealed enrichments of programmed cell death pathways and predominant CD8+ T cell infiltrates. Depleting CD8+ T cells using an anti-CD8alpha antibody significantly alleviated hepatic inflammation and prolonged the life span of these mice. Finally, RNA-seq data indicated the clonal expansion of hepatic CD8+ T cells. In conclusion, these mice developed an autoreactive CD8+ T-cell-mediated autoimmune cholangitis with concurrent hepatitis that exhibited key histological and serological features of the AIH-PBC overlap syndrome, representing a novel model for the study of tolerance and autoimmune liver disease.   2023 The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
36909458 | CD8+ cells and small viral reservoirs facilitate post-ART control of SIV in Mauritian cynomolgus macaques. Sustainable HIV remission after antiretroviral therapy (ART) withdrawal, or post-treatment control (PTC), remains a top priority for HIV treatment. We observed surprising PTC in an MHC-haplomatched cohort of MHC-M3+ SIVmac239+ Mauritian cynomolgus macaques (MCMs) initiated on ART at two weeks post-infection (wpi). For six months after ART withdrawal, we observed undetectable or transient viremia in seven of eight MCMs. In vivo depletion of CD8alpha+ cells induced rebound in all animals, indicating the PTC was mediated, at least in part, by CD8alpha+ cells. We found that MCMs had smaller acute viral reservoirs than a cohort of identically infected rhesus macaques, a population that rarely develops PTC. The mechanisms by which unusually small viral reservoirs and CD8alpha+ cell-mediated virus suppression enable PTC can be investigated using this MHC-haplomatched MCM model. Further, defining the immunologic mechanisms that engender PTC in this model may identify therapeutic targets for inducing durable HIV remission in humans.
37853469 | BRAF D594A mutation defines a unique biological and immuno-modulatory subgroup associated with functional CD8+ T cell infiltration in colorectal cancer. BACKGROUND: BRAF non-V600 mutation occupies a relatively small but critical subset in colorectal cancer (CRC). However, little is known about the biological functions and impacts of BRAF class III mutation in CRC. Here, we aim to explore how D594A mutation impacts on biological behaviors and immune related signatures in murine CRC cells. METHODS: BRAF V600E (class I), G469V (class II) and D594A (class III) mutant cell lines were established based on MC38 cells. The biological behaviors of cells were evaluated in respect of cell growth, cell proliferation, cell apoptosis, cell migration and invasion by the methods of colony-forming assay, CCK-8 assay, Annexin V/PI staining and transwell assay. The concentrations of soluble cytokines were detected by ELISA. The membrane expression of immuno-modulatory molecules and the pattern of tumor infiltrating lymphocyte were evaluated by flow cytometry. The molecular mechanism was explored by RNA sequencing. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining was used for the detection of CD8alpha in tumor tissues. qRT-PCR and western blot were performed to assess the mRNA and protein expression. Anti-PD-L1 treatment and cytokines neutralization experiments were conducted in in vivo models. RESULTS: D594A mutant cells displayed lower grade malignancy characteristics than V600E (class I) and G469V (class II) mutant cells. Meanwhile, D594A mutation led to evident immuno-modulatory features including upregulation of MHC Class I and PD-L1. In vivo experiments displayed that the frequency of infiltrated CD8+ T cells was significantly high within D594A mutant tumors, which may provide potential response to anti-PD-L1 therapy. RNA sequencing analysis showed that D594A mutation led to enhanced expression of ATF3 and THBS1, which thus facilitated CXCL9 and CXCL10 production upon IFN-gamma treatment. In addition, CXCL9 or CXCL10 neutralization reduced the infiltration of CD8+ T cells into THBS1-overexpressing tumors. CONCLUSIONS: D594A mutant CRC exhibited lower aggressiveness and immune-activated phenotype. ATF3-THBS1-CXCL9/CXCL10 axis mediated functional CD8+ T cells infiltration into the microenvironment of D594A mutant CRC. Our present study is helpful to define this mutation in CRC and provide important insights in designing effective immunotherapeutic strategies in clinic.
37863157 | Primary tumor-induced immunity suppresses bone metastases of breast Cancer in syngeneic immunocompetent mouse models. The immune system plays a crucial role in cancer development and progression. More than a century ago, mouse models showed that primary tumors suppressed the growth of newly implanted secondary tumors. This phenomenon, in which tumor-primed T cells mediate the rejection of tumor growth at a distant site, is known as concomitant tumor immunity. Here, we investigated the role of concomitant immunity in the development of breast cancer bone metastases using newly developed syngeneic immunocompetent mouse models. The presence of primary breast tumors developed by tumor cell injection into the mammary fat pads (MFPs) significantly reduced bone metastases of mouse breast cancer 4T1 and EMT6 cells induced by cell injection through the caudal artery (CA). Similar results were obtained when primary tumors were surgically resected prior to CA injection of tumor cells. In contrast, no inhibition was found when MFP and CA injections were performed using different cell combinations. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that the number of CD8+ T cells in bone metastases of 4T1 and EMT6 cells was significantly increased in the presence of primary tumors. The primary tumor-induced inhibition of bone metastases was not reproduced in T cell-deficient athymic nude mice. Furthermore, depletion of CD8+ T cells using an anti-CD8alpha antibody also abolished the primary tumor-induced inhibition of bone metastases. Taken together, these results suggest that immune cell priming by orthotopic breast tumors inhibits the development of breast cancer bone metastases, which is predominantly mediated by CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes.
37963636 | Systemic infusion of TLR3-ligand and IFN-alpha in patients with breast cancer reprograms local tumor microenvironments for selective CTL influx. BACKGROUND: Presence of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) in the tumor microenvironment (TME) predicts the effectiveness of cancer immunotherapies. The ability of toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) ligands, interferons (IFNs) and COX2 inhibitors to synergistically induce CTL-attracting chemokines (but not regulatory T cell (Treg)-attractants) in the TME, but not in healthy tissues, observed in our preclinical studies, suggested that their systemic application can reprogram local TMEs. METHODS: Six evaluable patients (33-69 years) with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer received six doses of systemic chemokine-modulating (CKM) regimen composed of TLR3 ligand (rintatolimod; 200 mg; intravenous), IFN-alpha2b (20 MU/m2; intravenous) and COX2 inhibitor (celecoxib; 2x200 mg; oral) over 2 weeks. The predetermined primary endpoint was the intratumoral change in the expression of CTL marker, CD8alpha, in the post-CKM versus pre-CKM tumor biopsies. Patients received follow-up pembrolizumab (200 mg, intravenously, every 3 weeks), starting 3-8 days after completion of CKM. RESULTS: Post-CKM biopsies showed selectively increased CTL markers CD8alpha (average 10.2-fold, median 5.5-fold, p=0.034) and granzyme B (GZMB; 6.1-fold, median 5.8-fold, p=0.02), but not FOXP3 (Treg marker) relative to HPRT1 expression, resulting in the increases in average CD8alpha/FOXP3 ratio and GZMB/FOXP3 ratio. CKM increased intratumoral CTL-attractants CCL5 and CXCL10, but not Treg-attractants CCL22 or CXCL12. In contrast, CD8+ T cells and their CXCR3+ subset showed transient decreases in blood. One clinical response (breast tumor autoamputation) and three stable diseases were observed. The patient with clinical response remains disease free, with a follow-up of 46 months as of data cut-off. CONCLUSIONS: Short-term systemic CKM selectively increases CTL numbers and CTL/Treg ratios in the TME, while transiently decreasing CTL numbers in the blood. Transient effects of CKM suggest that its simultaneous application with checkpoint blockade and other forms of immunotherapy may be needed for optimal outcomes.
37984124 | Huaier improves the efficacy of anti-PD-L1 Ab in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma by regulating tumor immune microenvironment. BACKGROUND: Combination therapy is an effective method for augmenting the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). Huaier is a commonly used Chinese patent medicine with substantial antitumor effects. The combination of Huaier and ICIs may increase the efficacy of ICIs against hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). METHODS: The major components of Huaier were detected by high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The optimal antitumor dose of Huaier was investigated in H22-bearing mice. Next, Huaier was combined with anti-CD8alpha antibody (Ab) or anti-PD-L1 Ab to observe the antitumor effect. The safety of these combination drugs was evaluated through blood biochemical tests and hematoxylin and eosin staining of histological sections. RT-qPCR, immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry, and transcriptome sequencing were performed to investigate the potential action mechanism of anti-PD-L1 Ab combined with Huaier against HCC. RESULTS: HPLC-MS/MS identified 333 components of Huaier, including carboxylic acids and derivatives, thienothiophenes, phenols, flavonoids and so on. Huaier exhibited significant antitumor effects, with the strongest effect noted at a dose of 4 g/kg. Huaier boosted CD8+ T cells infiltration into the tumor. Next, CD8+ T cells were depleted by with anti-CD8alpha Ab, and the antitumor effect of Huaier was suppressed. Flow cytometry results revealed that CD8+ T cells were reduced in the Huaier+anti-CD8alpha Ab group, with the antitumor effect of this group being inhibited. This indicated that CD8+ T cells were key players in the antitumor activity of Huaier. Meanwhile, Huaier inhibited microvessel density (MVD), downregulated vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA), and upregulated PD-L1 in tumor tissues. Finally, Huaier combined with anti-PD-L1 Ab exhibited a greater antitumor effect in the H22-bearing mice. And the results of liver and kidney function tests and histological section analysis unveiled that the safety of these drugs was excellent. According to the transcriptome sequencing results, Huaier combined with anti-PD-L1 Ab possibly exerted anti-HCC effects through immunomodulation, immune response, and so on. CONCLUSIONS: Huaier exhibited a significant antitumor effect. It promoted CD8+ T cells infiltration, upregulated PD-L1 expression, downregulated VEGFA expression, and inhibited MVD, thereby playing a significant antitumor immunoregulatory effect. The combination of Huaier and anti-PD-L1 Ab has significant antitumor effects, and this regimen has good safety. Therefore, Huaier combined with anti-PD-L1 Ab is a promising therapeutic approach against HCC.
38358555 | Concise review: The heterogenous roles of BATF3 in cancer oncogenesis and dendritic cells and T cells differentiation and function considering the importance of BATF3-dependent dendritic cells. The transcription factor, known as basic leucine zipper ATF-like 3 (BATF3), is a crucial contributor to the development of conventional type 1 dendritic cells (cDC1), which is definitely required for priming CD8 + T cell-mediated immunity against intracellular pathogens and malignancies. In this respect, BATF3-dependent cDC1 can bring about immunological tolerance, an autoimmune response, graft immunity, and defense against infectious agents such as viruses, microbes, parasites, and fungi. Moreover, the important function of cDC1 in stimulating CD8 + T cells creates an excellent opportunity to develop a highly effective target for vaccination against intracellular pathogens and diseases. BATF3 has been clarified to control the development of CD8alpha+ and CD103+ DCs. The presence of BATF3-dependent cDC1 in the tumor microenvironment (TME) reinforces immunosurveillance and improves immunotherapy approaches, which can be beneficial for cancer immunotherapy. Additionally, BATF3 acts as a transcriptional inhibitor of Treg development by decreasing the expression of the transcription factor FOXP3. However, when overexpressed in CD8 + T cells, it can enhance their survival and facilitate their transition to a memory state. BATF3 induces Th9 cell differentiation by binding to the IL-9 promoter through a BATF3/IRF4 complex. One of the latest research findings is the oncogenic function of BATF3, which has been approved and illustrated in several biological processes of proliferation and invasion.
38411117 | Role of PD-1 and immune cells in HSV infection and latency. A large proportion of the world's population is infected with HSV-1. Antiviral CD8+ T cells and CD8alpha+ dendritic cells are closely related to HSV-1 infection and latency. Latency-associated transcript of HSV-1 and PD-1 are involved in the regulation of latency and reactivation of HSV-1. Here, the role of latency-associated transcript, PD-1, CD8+ T cells and CD8alpha+ dendritic cells in HSV-1 infection, the interrelationships between them and how these interactions lead to latency are discussed, possibly providing new ideas for the treatment of HSV-1 infection.
38580644 | Targeting pathogenic CD8+ tissue-resident T cells with chimeric antigen receptor therapy in murine autoimmune cholangitis. Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is a cholestatic autoimmune liver disease characterized by autoreactive T cell response against intrahepatic small bile ducts. Here, we use Il12b-/-Il2ra-/- mice (DKO mice) as a model of autoimmune cholangitis and demonstrate that Cd8a knockout or treatment with an anti-CD8alpha antibody prevents/reduces biliary immunopathology. Using single-cell RNA sequencing analysis, we identified CD8+ tissue-resident memory T (Trm) cells in the livers of DKO mice, which highly express activation- and cytotoxicity-associated markers and induce apoptosis of bile duct epithelial cells. Liver CD8+ Trm cells also upregulate the expression of several immune checkpoint molecules, including PD-1. We describe the development of a chimeric antigen receptor to target PD-1-expressing CD8+ Trm cells. Treatment of DKO mice with PD-1-targeting CAR-T cells selectively depleted liver CD8+ Trm cells and alleviated autoimmune cholangitis. Our work highlights the pathogenic role of CD8+ Trm cells and the potential therapeutic usage of PD-1-targeting CAR-T cells.
27677155 | Changes in expression of genes involved in antitumor immunity in mice vaccinated with tumor vaccine composed of irradiated syngeneic tumor cells and CpG oligodeoxynucleotides. In our previous studies, it has been demonstrated that in more than 80% of mice long-lasting antitumor immunity has been established following intraperitoneal (i.p.) vaccination with tumor vaccine composed of irradiated syngeneic tumor cells and CpG ODNs class C. The aim of this study was, therefore, to investigate molecular mechanisms through which this vaccine triggers the immunity and to define genes particularly involved in this process. Changes in gene expression were followed in mononuclear cells isolated from peritoneal lavages, spleens and bone marrow samples. The expression of 84 genes significant for T-cell and B-cell activation as well as genes engaged in activation of macrophages, NK cells and DCs was determined using the RT2- Profiler PCR array. It has been observed that this tumor vaccine induces the up-regulation of genes involved in activation, proliferation and survival of memory T-cells (Cd8a, Cd8b1, Prlr, Was, Cxcl12, Il12, Sftpd, Tnfrsf13c, Il15, Il18), and prevents the activation of genes involved in generation of Treg and induction of immune tolerance (Sit1, Sla2, Cd1d1, Pdcd1lg2, Pawr, Socs5, Il27, Il4). We may conclude based on results of gene expression analysis, that tumor vaccine fine-tunes the proportion of cytotoxic to regulatory lymphocytes having an important impact on the induction and maintenance of memory cells in bone marrow.
30097855 | Candidate susceptibility variants in angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma. Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) is a subtype of peripheral T-cell lymphoma with a poor prognosis: the 5-year survival rate is approximately 30%. Somatic driver mutations have been found in TET2, IDH2, DNMT3A, RHOA, FYN, PLCG1, and CD28, whereas germline susceptibility to AITL has to our knowledge not been studied. The homogenous Finnish population is well suited for studies on genetic predisposition. Here, we performed an exome-wide rare variant analysis in 23 AITL patients. No germline mutations were found in the driver genes, implying that they are not frequently involved in genetic AITL predisposition. Potentially pathogenic variants present in at least two patients and showing significant (p < 0.01) enrichment in our sample set were found in ten genes: POLK, PRKCB, ZNF676, PRRC2B, PCDHGB6, GNL3L, TTC36, OTOG, OSGEPL1, and RASSF9. The most significantly enriched variants, causing p.Lys469Ter in a splice variant of POLK and p.Pro588His in PRKCB, are intriguing candidates as Polk deficient mice display a spontaneous mutator phenotype, whereas PRKCB was recently shown to be somatically mutated in 33% of another peripheral T-cell lymphoma, adult T-cell lymphoma. If validated, our findings would provide new insight into the pathogenesis of AITL, as well as tools for early detection in susceptible individuals.
31704286 | CD8 Binding of MHC-Peptide Complexes in cis or trans Regulates CD8+ T-cell Responses. The coreceptor CD8alphabeta can greatly promote activation of T cells by strengthening T-cell receptor (TCR) binding to cognate peptide-MHC complexes (pMHC) on antigen presenting cells and by bringing p56Lck to TCR/CD3. Here, we demonstrate that CD8 can also bind to pMHC on the T cell (in cis) and that this inhibits their activation. Using molecular modeling, fluorescence resonance energy transfer experiments on living cells, biochemical and mutational analysis, we show that CD8 binding to pMHC in cis involves a different docking mode and is regulated by posttranslational modifications including a membrane-distal interchain disulfide bond and negatively charged O-linked glycans near positively charged sequences on the CD8beta stalk. These modifications distort the stalk, thus favoring CD8 binding to pMHC in cis. Differential binding of CD8 to pMHC in cis or trans is a means to regulate CD8+ T-cell responses and provides new translational opportunities.
31841966 | T and B lymphocytes immune responses in flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus) induced by two forms of outer membrane protein K from Vibrio anguillarum: Subunit vaccine and DNA vaccine. To further elucidate the roles of T and B lymphocytes in fish subunit and DNA candidate vaccines for immunisation, the immune responses of T and B lymphocytes to recombinant protein (rOmpK) and plasmid OmpK (pOmpK) from Vibrio anguillarum plus cyclosporine A (CsA) were investigated in flounder (Paralichthys olivaceus). The results showed that in the rOmpK-immunised groups, the percentages of CD4-1+ and CD4-2+ T (PCD4-1+ and PCD4-2+ T) lymphocytes significantly increased to a peak on days 5 or 7. The percentages of IgM+ B (PIgM+ B) lymphocytes and specific antibodies markedly increased to a peak at weeks 4 or 5. The nine immune-related genes were significantly up-regulated and the expression levels of CD4-1, CD4-2 and MHC II genes were higher than that of CD8alpha, CD8beta and MHC I genes. The CD4+ T lymphocytes, IgM+ B lymphocytes, and specific antibodies were significantly inhibited by CsA. Therefore, the responses of CD4+ T lymphocytes influenced the responses of the B lymphocytes and antibodies. In the pOmpK-immunised groups, the PCD4-1+, PCD4-2+, and PCD8beta+ T lymphocytes significantly increased to a peak on days 11 or 14, days 9 or 11, and days 7 or 9, respectively. The PIgM+ B lymphocytes and specific antibodies significantly increased to a peak at weeks 5 or 6. Immune related genes upregulated, and CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes, IgM+ B lymphocytes and specific antibodies all suppressed by CsA, suggesting that the responses of T lymphocytes subpopulations influenced B lymphocytes and antibodies responses. Therefore, the subpopulations of T lymphocytes played an important role in the immune responses induced by subunit and DNA candidate vaccines of OmpK and regulated the immune responses of B lymphocytes in flounder.
31992596 | The murine CD94/NKG2 ligand, Qa-1b, is a high-affinity, functional ligand for the CD8alphaalpha homodimer. The immune co-receptor CD8 molecule (CD8) has two subunits, CD8alpha and CD8beta, which can assemble into homo or heterodimers. Nonclassical (class-Ib) major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules (MHC-Ibs) have recently been identified as ligands for the CD8alphaalpha homodimer. This was demonstrated by the observation that histocompatibility 2, Q region locus 10 (H2-Q10) is a high-affinity ligand for CD8alphaalpha which also binds the MHC-Ib molecule H2-TL. This suggests that MHC-Ib proteins may be an extended source of CD8alphaalpha ligands. Expression of H2-T3/TL and H2-Q10 is restricted to the small intestine and liver, respectively, yet CD8alphaalpha-containing lymphocytes are present more broadly. Therefore, here we sought to determine whether murine CD8alphaalpha binds only to tissue-specific MHC-Ib molecules or also to ubiquitously expressed MHC-Ib molecules. Using recombinant proteins and surface plasmon resonance-based binding assays, we show that the MHC-Ib family furnishes multiple binding partners for murine CD8alphaalpha, including H2-T22 and the CD94/NKG2-A/B-activating NK receptor (NKG2) ligand Qa-1b We also demonstrate a hierarchy among MHC-Ib proteins with respect to CD8alphaalpha binding, in which Qa-1b > H2-Q10 > TL. Finally, we provide evidence that Qa-1b is a functional ligand for CD8alphaalpha, distinguishing it from its human homologue MHC class I antigen E (HLA-E). These findings provide additional clues as to how CD8alphaalpha-expressing cells are controlled in different tissues. They also highlight an unexpected immunological divergence of Qa-1b/HLA-E function, indicating the need for more robust studies of murine MHC-Ib proteins as models for human disease.
33630764 | CD8+ T cells fail to limit SIV reactivation following ART withdrawal until after viral amplification. To define the contribution of CD8+ T cell responses to control of SIV reactivation during and following antiretroviral therapy (ART), we determined the effect of long-term CD8+ T cell depletion using a rhesusized anti-CD8beta monoclonal antibody on barcoded SIVmac239 dynamics on stable ART and after ART cessation in rhesus macaques (RMs). Among the RMs with full CD8+ T cell depletion in both blood and tissue, there were no significant differences in the frequency of viral blips in plasma, the number of SIV RNA+ cells and the average number of RNA copies/infected cell in tissue, and levels of cell-associated SIV RNA and DNA in blood and tissue relative to control-treated RMs during ART. Upon ART cessation, both CD8+ T cell-depleted and control RMs rebounded in fewer than 12 days, with no difference in the time to viral rebound or in either the number or growth rate of rebounding SIVmac239M barcode clonotypes. However, effectively CD8+ T cell-depleted RMs showed a stable, approximately 2-log increase in post-ART plasma viremia relative to controls. These results indicate that while potent antiviral CD8+ T cell responses can develop during ART-suppressed SIV infection, these responses effectively intercept post-ART SIV rebound only after systemic viral replication, too late to limit reactivation frequency or the early spread of reactivating SIV reservoirs.
35265090 | Transcriptome Profiling of Porcine Naive, Intermediate and Terminally Differentiated CD8+ T Cells. The pig has the potential to become a leading research model for human diseases, pharmacological and transplantation studies. Since there are many similarities between humans and pigs, especially concerning anatomy, physiology and metabolism, there is necessity for a better understanding of the porcine immune system. In adaptive immunity, cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) are essential for host defense. However, most data on CTLs come from studies in mice, non-human primates and humans, while detailed information about porcine CD8+ CTLs is still sparse. Aim of this study was to analyze transcriptomes of three subsets of porcine CD8beta+ T-cell subsets by using next-generation sequencing technology. Specifically, we described transcriptional profiles of subsets defined by their CD11a/CD27 expression pattern, postulated as naive (CD8beta+CD27+CD11alow), intermediate differentiated (CD8beta+CD27dimCD11a+), and terminally differentiated cells (CD8beta+CD27-CD11ahigh). Cells were analyzed in ex vivo condition as well as upon in vitro stimulation with concanavalin A (ConA) and PMA/ionomycin. Our analyses show that the highest number of differentially expressed genes was identified between naive and terminally differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets, underlining their difference in gene expression signature and respective differentiation stages. Moreover, genes related to early (IL7-R, CCR7, SELL, TCF7, LEF1, BACH2, SATB1, ZEB1 and BCL2) and late (KLRG1, TBX21, PRDM1, CX3CR1, ZEB2, ZNF683, BATF, EZH2 and ID2) stages of CD8+ T-cell differentiation were highly expressed in the naive and terminally differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets, respectively. Intermediate differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets shared a more comparable gene expression profile associated with later stages of T-cell differentiation. Genes associated with cytolytic activity (GNLY, PRF1, GZMB, FASL, IFNG and TNF) were highly expressed in terminally and intermediate differentiated CD8+ T-cell subsets, while naive CD8+ T cells lacked expression even after in vitro stimulation. Overall, PMA/ionomycin stimulation induced much stronger upregulation of genes compared to stimulation with ConA. Taken together, we provided comprehensive results showing transcriptional profiles of three differentiation stages of porcine CD8+ T-cell subsets. In addition, our study provides a powerful toolbox for the identification of candidate markers to characterize porcine immune cell subsets in more detail.
35726891 | KDM5A Inhibits Antitumor Immune Responses Through Downregulation of the Antigen-Presentation Pathway in Ovarian Cancer. The extent to which effector CD8+ T cells infiltrate into tumors is one of the major predictors of clinical outcome for patients with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC). Immune cell infiltration into EOC is a complex process that could be affected by the epigenetic makeup of the tumor. Here, we have demonstrated that a lysine 4 histone H3 (H3K4) demethylase, (lysine-specific demethylase 5A; KDM5A) impairs EOC infiltration by immune cells and inhibits antitumor immune responses. Mechanistically, we found that KDM5A silenced genes involved in the antigen processing and presentation pathway. KDM5A inhibition restored the expression of genes involved in the antigen-presentation pathway in vitro and promoted antitumor immune responses mediated by CD8+ T cells in vivo in a syngeneic EOC mouse model. A negative correlation between expression of KDM5A and genes involved in the antigen processing and presentation pathway such as HLA-A and HLA-B was observed in the majority of cancer types. In summary, our results establish KDM5A as a regulator of CD8+ T-cell infiltration of tumors and demonstrate that KDM5A inhibition may provide a novel therapeutic strategy to boost antitumor immune responses.
35783265 | Transcriptome Profiling and Network Analysis Provide Insights Into the Pathogenesis of Vulvar Lichen Sclerosus. Vulvar lichen sclerosus (VLS) is a chronic inflammatory dermatosis that affects female anogenital skin. Although VLS is considered a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease, the diagnosis criteria, molecular mechanism, and universally accepted therapies for this disease remain largely unresolved. To explore disease pathogenesis and potential biomarkers, we performed an RNA-Seq-based transcriptome analysis to profile the gene expression of VLS lesions. Differentially expressed gene (DEG) analysis revealed profound changes in expressions of coding genes, microRNAs, and long non-coding RNAs. Pathway and network analysis suggested that T cell activation-associated genes, including CD3G, CD3D, CD8B, LAT, LCK, ZAP70, CCR5, CXCR3, CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11, were highly expressed in VLS, while NR4A family genes (NR4A1, NR4A2, NR4A3), whose coding products inhibit T cell activity, were significantly downregulated, suggesting heightened T cell response in VLS. Neutrophil chemoattractant genes CXCL1, CXCL2, CXCL3, CXCL8, and their cognate receptor CXCR2 were downregulated, suggesting dampened neutrophil activity. We also found the downregulation of genes involved in cell cycle progression, including cyclins (CCNB1, CCNB2, CCNL1, CCNE1, and CCNK) and centrosome factors (CENPA, CENPE, CENPF, and CENPN), while microRNA-203a and let-7, microRNAs known to inhibit cell growth, were found to be upregulated. These data collectively indicate that cell proliferation in VLS is compromised. In sum, these findings comprehensively deciphered key regulatory genes and networks in VLS, which could further our understanding of disease mechanisms and point toward therapeutic strategies.
35963284 | Conjugation of human serum albumin and flucloxacillin provokes specific immune response in HLA-B*57:01 transgenic mice. Flucloxacillin (FLX) induces adverse liver reactions, which has been reported to be related to human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B*57:01. In a previous study, abacavir-induced hypersensitivity was induced in HLA-B*57:01-transgenic mice (B*57:01-Tg), originally constructed by our group (Susukida et al., 2021). In this study, B*57:01-Tg mice were used to reproduce FLX-induced liver injury. However, treatment of B*57:01-Tg mice with FLX alone did not increase serum ALT levels. Immune-deficient B*57:01-Tg/PD-1-/-mice were produced by mating B*57:01-Tg with PD-1-/- mice. The immune response of B*57:01-Tg/PD-1-/- mice was further modulated by co-administration of CpG-oligodeoxynucleotides and anti-CD4 mAb. Nevertheless, immune regulation in B*57:01-Tg mice did not contribute to the onset of FLX-induced liver injury or immune activation. Moreover, we generated an FLX-human serum albumin (HSA) conjugate and showed that FLX covalently bound to HSA in a time-dependent manner. The FLX-HSA conjugate was administered to the B*57:01-Tg mice. The immune response was investigated using flow cytometry, revealing the phenotype of CD44highCD62Llow in CD8+ T cells (TEM cells). Administration of the FLX-HSA conjugate resulted in an HLA-B*57:01 restricted immune response as shown by the stimulation of TEM cells in the draining lymph nodes. In conclusion, administration of FLX alone to B*57:01-Tg mice did not induce liver injury or immune activation. Immune system sensitivity does not play a decisive role in this process. The conjugation of FLX and HSA results in specific TEM cell stimulation, which suggests that HLA-B*57:01 drives a stronger interaction with CD8+ T cells. These results suggest that patients carrying HLA-B*57:01 could be more susceptible to a conjugate of FLX and albumin and drive CD8+ T cell activation, which may be a vital risk factor for FLX-induced liver injury. In addition, the application of the FLX-HSA adduct may be an effective method for the construction of FLX-induced idiosyncratic liver injury in mice.
36047204 | TARC/CCL17 Expression Is Associated with CD8+ T Cell Recruitment in Abacavir-Induced Skin Hypersensitivity in HLA-Transgenic Mice. Abacavir (ABC)-induced hypersensitivity (AHS) is strongly associated with human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B*57 : 01 expression. Previous studies have demonstrated the feasibility of applying the HLA-transgenic mouse model in this context. ABC-induced adverse reactions were observed in HLA-B*57 : 01 transgenic (B*57 : 01-Tg) mice. Moreover, regulating immune tolerance could result in severe AHS that mimics symptoms observed in the clinical setting, which were modeled in CD4+ T cell-depleted programmed death-1 receptor (PD-1) knockout B*57 : 01-Tg (B*57 : 01-Tg/PD-1-/-) mice. Here, we aimed to examine whether thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC)/CCL17 level can be used as a biomarker for AHS. Serum TARC levels increased in HLA-B*57 : 01-transgenic mice following oral administration of ABC; this increase was associated with the severity of skin toxicity. In ABC-fed CD4+ T cell-depleted B*57 : 01-Tg/PD-1-/- mice, TARC was detected in the epidermal keratinocytes of the ear. Skin toxicity was characterized by the infiltration of CD8+ T cells partially expressing C-C chemokine receptor type 4, which is the primary receptor for TARC. In vivo TARC neutralization effectively alleviated the symptoms of ear skin redness and blood vessel dilatation. Moreover, TARC neutralization suppressed the infiltration of CD8+ T cells to the ear skin but did not affect the ABC-induced adaptive immune response. Therefore, TARC was involved in ABC-induced skin toxicity and contributed to the recruitment of CD8+ T cells to skin. This evidence suggests that serum TARC level may be a functional biomarker for AHS.
36070233 | Antigen-guided depletion of anti-HLA antibody-producing cells by HLA-Fc fusion proteins. Platelet transfusion and transplantation of allogeneic stem cells and solid organs are life-saving therapies. Unwanted alloantibodies to nonself human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) on donor cells increase the immunological barrier to these therapies and are important causes of platelet transfusion refractoriness and graft rejection. Although the specificities of anti-HLA antibodies can be determined at the allelic level, traditional treatments for antibody-mediated rejection nonselectively suppress humoral immunity and are not universally successful. We designed HLA-Fc fusion proteins with a bivalent targeting module derived from extracellular domains of HLA and an Fc effector module from mouse IgG2a. We found that HLA-Fc with A2 (A2Fc) and B7 (B7Fc) antigens lowered HLA-A2- and HLA-B7-specific reactivities, respectively, in sera from HLA-sensitized patients. A2Fc and B7Fc bound to B-cell hybridomas bearing surface immunoglobulins with cognate specificities and triggered antigen-specific and Fc-dependent cytotoxicity in vitro. In immunodeficient mice carrying HLA-A2-specific hybridoma cells, A2Fc treatment lowered circulating anti-HLA-A2 levels, abolished the outgrowth of hybridoma cells, and prolonged survival compared with control groups. In an in vivo anti-HLA-A2-mediated platelet transfusion refractoriness model, A2Fc treatment mitigated refractoriness. These results support HLA-Fc being a novel strategy for antigen-specific humoral suppression to improve transfusion and transplantation outcomes. With the long-term goal of targeting HLA-specific memory B cells for desensitization, further studies of HLA-Fc's efficacy in immune-competent animal models are warranted.
36224625 | Identification of human MHC-I HPV18 E6/E7-specific CD8 + T cell epitopes and generation of an HPV18 E6/E7-expressing adenosquamous carcinoma in HLA-A2 transgenic mice. BACKGROUND: Human Papillomavirus type 18 (HPV18) is a high-risk HPV that is commonly associated with cervical cancer. HPV18 oncogenes E6 and E7 are associated with the malignant transformation of cells, thus the identification of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-restricted E6/E7 peptide-specific CD8 + T cell epitopes and the creation of a HPV18 E6/E7 expressing cervicovaginal tumor in HLA-A2 transgenic mice will be significant for vaccine development. METHODS: In the below study, we characterized various human HLA class I-restricted HPV18 E6 and E7-specific CD8 + T cells mediated immune responses in HLA class I transgenic mice using DNA vaccines encoding HPV18E6 and HPV18E7. We then confirmed HLA-restricted E6/E7 specific CD8 + T cell epitopes using splenocytes from vaccinated mice stimulated with HPV18E6/E7 peptides. Furthermore, we used oncogenic DNA plasmids encoding HPV18E7E6(delD70), luciferase, cMyc, and AKT to create a spontaneous cervicovaginal carcinoma model in HLA-A2 transgenic mice. RESULTS: Therapeutic HPV18 E7 DNA vaccination did not elicit any significant CD8 + T cell response in HLA-A1, HLA-24, HLA-B7, HLA-B44 transgenic or wild type C57BL/6 mice, but it did generate a strong HLA-A2 and HLA-A11 restricted HPV18E7-specific CD8 + T cell immune response. We found that a single deletion of aspartic acid (D) at location 70 in HPV18E6 DNA abolishes the presentation of HPV18 E6 peptide (aa67-75) by murine MHC class I. We found that the DNA vaccine with this mutant HPV18 E6 generated E6-specific CD8 + T cells in HLA-A2. HLA-A11, HLA-A24 and HLA-b40 transgenic mice. Of note, HLA-A2 restricted, HPV18 E7 peptide (aa7-15)- and HPV18 E6 peptide (aa97-105)-specific epitopes are endogenously processed by HPV18 positive Hela-AAD (HLA-A*0201/Dd) cells. Finally, we found that injection of DNA plasmids encoding HPV18E7E6(delD70), AKT, cMyc, and SB100 can result in the development of adenosquamous carcinoma in the cervicovaginal tract of HLA-A2 transgenic mice. CONCLUSIONS: We characterized various human HLA class I-restricted HPV18 E6/E7 peptide specific CD8 + T cell epitopes in human HLA class I transgenic mice. We demonstrated that HPV18 positive Hela cells expressing chimeric HLA-A2 (AAD) do present both HLA-A2-restricted HPV18 E7 (aa7-15)- and HPV18 E6 (aa97-105)-specific CD8 + T cell epitopes. A mutant HPV18E6 that had a single deletion at location 70 obliterates the E6 presentation by murine MHC class I and remains oncogenic. The identification of these human MHC restricted HPV antigen specific epitopes as well as the HPV18E6/E7 expressing adenosquamous cell carcinoma model may have significant future translational potential.
36778211 | The Gut Microbiota Metabolite Urolithin B Prevents Colorectal Carcinogenesis by Remodeling Microbiota and PD-L1/HLA-B. Colorectal cancer has risen to the third occurring cancer in the world. Fluorouracil (5-Fu), oxaliplatin, and cisplatin are the most effective chemotherapeutic agents for clinical chemotherapy. Nevertheless, due to chemotherapeutic drug resistance, the survival rate of patients with CRC remains very low. In this study, we used the inflammation-induced or mutation-family-inherited murine CRC models to study the anticancer and immunotherapy effects of urolithin B (UB), the final metabolite of polyphenols in the gastrointestinal tract. The label-free proteomics analysis and the gene ontology (GO) classifications were used to test and analyze the proteins affected by UB. And 16S rDNA sequencing and flow cytometry were utilized to uncover gut microbiome composition and immune defense improved by UB administration. The results indicated that urolithin B prevents colorectal carcinogenesis by remodeling gut microbial and tumor immune microenvironments, such as HLA-B, NK cells, regulatory T cells, and gammadelta TCR cells, and decreasing the PD-L1. The combination of urolithin B with first-line therapeutic drugs improved the colorectal intestinal hematochezia by shaping gut microbiota, providing a strategy for the treatment of immunotherapy treatment for CRC treatments. UB combined with anti-PD-1 antibody could inhibit the growth of colon cancer. Urolithin B may thus contribute to anticancer treatments and provide a high immune response microenvironment for CRC patients' further immunotherapy.
37199039 | Genome editing HLA alleles for a pilot immunocompatible hESC line in a Chinese hESC bank for cell therapies. Robust allogeneic immune reactions after transplantation impede the translational pace of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs)-based therapies. Selective genetic editing of human leucocyte antigen (HLA) molecules has been proposed to generate hESCs with immunocompatibility, which, however, has not been specifically designed for the Chinese population yet. Herein, we explored the possibility of customizing immunocompatible hESCs based on Chinese HLA typing characteristics. We generated an immunocompatible hESC line by disrupting HLA-B, HLA-C, and CIITA genes while retaining HLA-A*11:01 (HLA-A*11:01-retained, HLA-A11R ), which covers ~21% of the Chinese population. The immunocompatibility of HLA-A11R hESCs was verified by in vitro co-culture and confirmed in humanized mice with established human immunity. Moreover, we precisely knocked an inducible caspase-9 suicide cassette into HLA-A11R hESCs (iC9-HLA-A11R ) to promote safety. Compared with wide-type hESCs, HLA-A11R hESC-derived endothelial cells elicited much weaker immune responses to human HLA-A11+ T cells, while maintaining HLA-I molecule-mediated inhibitory signals to natural killer (NK) cells. Additionally, iC9-HLA-A11R hESCs could be induced to undergo apoptosis efficiently by AP1903. Both cell lines displayed genomic integrity and low risks of off-target effects. In conclusion, we customized a pilot immunocompatible hESC cell line based on Chinese HLA typing characteristics with safety insurance. This approach provides a basis for establishment of a universal HLA-AR bank of hESCs covering broad populations worldwide and may speed up the clinical application of hESC-based therapies.
37395402 | The Role of PRRC2B in Cerebral Vascular Remodeling Under Acute Hypoxia in Mice. High altitude exposure leads to various cognitive impairments. The cerebral vasculature system plays an integral role in hypoxia-induced cognitive defects by reducing oxygen and nutrition supply to the brain. RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is susceptible to modification and regulates gene expression in response to environmental changes, including hypoxia. However, the biological significance of m6A in endothelial cell performance under hypoxic conditions is unknown. Using m6A-seq, RNA immunoprcipitation-seq, and transcriptomic co-analysis, the molecular mechanism of vascular system remodeling under acute hypoxia is investigated. A novel m6A reader protein, proline-rich coiled-coil 2B (PRRC2B), exists in endothelial cells. PRRC2B knockdown promoted hypoxia-induced endothelial cell migration by regulating alternative splicing of the alpha 1 chain of collagen type XII in an m6A-dependent manner and the decay of matrix metallopeptidase domain 14 and ADAM metallopeptidase domain 19 mRNA in an m6A-independent manner. In addition, conditional knockout of PRRC2B in endothelial cells promotes hypoxia-induced vascular remodeling and cerebral blood flow redistribution, thus alleviating hypoxia-induced cognitive decline. Therefore, PRRC2B is integral in the hypoxia-induced vascular remodeling process as a novel RNA-binding protein. These findings provide a new potential therapeutic target for hypoxia-induced cognitive decline.
37430060 | ALK peptide vaccination restores the immunogenicity of ALK-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer. Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is treated with ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), but the lack of activity of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) is poorly understood. Here, we identified immunogenic ALK peptides to show that ICIs induced rejection of ALK+ tumors in the flank but not in the lung. A single-peptide vaccination restored priming of ALK-specific CD8+ T cells, eradicated lung tumors in combination with ALK TKIs and prevented metastatic dissemination of tumors to the brain. The poor response of ALK+ NSCLC to ICIs was due to ineffective CD8+ T cell priming against ALK antigens and is circumvented through specific vaccination. Finally, we identified human ALK peptides displayed by HLA-A*02:01 and HLA-B*07:02 molecules. These peptides were immunogenic in HLA-transgenic mice and were recognized by CD8+ T cells from individuals with NSCLC, paving the way for the development of a clinical vaccine to treat ALK+ NSCLC.
37523987 | Drug-induced altered self-presentation increases tumor immunogenicity. Anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) drug abacavir (ABC) binds to the specific allele of human leukocyte antigen (HLA-B*57:01) and activates CD8+ T cells by presenting altered abnormal peptides. Here, we examined the effect of ABC-induced altered self-presentation by HLA-B*57:01 on immunogenicity of cancer cells and CD8+ T-cell-dependent anti-tumor immunity. We established human-mouse chimeric HLA-B*57:01-expressing tumor cell lines (B16F10 and 3LL) and tested the anti-tumor effect of ABC in vivo. ABC treatment inhibited the growth of HLA-B*57:01-expressing tumors by a CD8+ T-cell-dependent mechanism. ABC treatment induced CXCR3-dependent infiltration of CD8+ T cells into HLA-B*57:01-expressing tumors, and activated those tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells to proliferate and secrete IFN-gamma. The activation of CD8+ T cells using drug-induced altered self-presentation may be a new strategy to increase tumor immunogenicity and improve the efficacy of immunotherapy.
37540821 | Causal Relations between Prodromal Infection and Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorder: A Mendelian Randomization Study. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Prodromal infection is associated with neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD), but which type of infection had causal relations with NMOSD remains unclear. We aimed to explore the causal relations between four herpesvirus infections (chickenpox, cold sores, mononucleosis and shingles) and NMOSD, as well as other types of infections and NMOSD. METHODS: For infections, the genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics from the 23andMe cohort were used. For outcomes, the GWAS of participants from European ancestry was used, including 215 NMOSD patients (132 anti-aquaporin-4 antibody [AQP4-ab]-positive patients and 83 AQP4-ab-negative patients) and 1244 normal controls. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) identification and two-sample mendelian randomization (MR) analyses were then performed. RESULTS: In 23andMe cohort, we identified one SNP (rs9266089 in HLA-B gene) for chickenpox, one SNP (rs885950 in POU5F1 gene) for cold scores, one SNP (rs2596465 in HCP5 gene) for mononucleosis, three SNPs (rs2523591 in HLA-B gene; rs7047299 in IFNA21 gene; rs9260809 in MICD gene) for shingles. The relation of cold sores and AQP4-ab-positive NMOSD reached statistical significance (OR [95%CI] = 745.318 [22.176, 25049.53], P < 0.001, Q < 0.001). The association of shingles and AQP4-ab-positive NMOSD was statistically significant (OR [95%CI] = 21.073 [4.271, 103.974], P < 0.001, Q < 0.001). No significant association was observed between other infections and AQP4-ab-positive or AQP4-ab-negative NMOSD. CONCLUSION: These findings suggested the positive associations between cold sores, shingles and AQP4-ab-positive NMOSD, indicating there may be causal relations between herpes simplex virus, varicella-zoster virus infection and AQP4-ab-positive NMOSD.
37627243 | Cell Surface B2m-Free Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) Monomers and Dimers: Are They Neo-HLA Class and Proto-HLA? Cell surface HLA-I molecules (Face-1) consist of a polypeptide heavy chain (HC) with two groove domains (G domain) and one constant domain (C-domain) as well as a light chain, B2-microglobulin (B2m). However, HCs can also independently emerge unfolded on the cell surface without peptides as B2m-free HC monomers (Face-2), B2m-free HC homodimers (Face 3), and B2m-free HC heterodimers (Face-4). The transport of these HLA variants from ER to the cell surface was confirmed by antiviral antibiotics that arrest the release of newly synthesized proteins from the ER. Face-2 occurs at low levels on the normal cell surface of the lung, bronchi, epidermis, esophagus, breast, stomach, ilium, colorectum, gall bladder, urinary bladder, seminal vesicles ovarian epithelia, endometrium, thymus, spleen, and lymphocytes. They are upregulated on immune cells upon activation by proinflammatory cytokines, anti-CD3 antibodies, antibiotics (e.g., ionomycin), phytohemagglutinin, retinoic acid, and phorbol myristate acetate. Their density on the cell surface remains high as long as the cells remain in an activated state. After activation-induced upregulation, the Face-2 molecules undergo homo- and hetero-dimerization (Face-3 and Face-4). Alterations in the redox environment promote dimerization. Heterodimerization can occur among and between the alleles of different haplotypes. The glycosylation of these variants differ from that of Face-1, and they may occur with bound exogenous peptides. Spontaneous arthritis occurs in HLA-B27+ mice lacking B2m (HLA-B27+ B2m-/-) but not in HLA-B27+ B2m+/- mice. The mice with HLA-B27 in Face-2 spontaneous configuration develop symptoms such as changes in nails and joints, hair loss, and swelling in paws, leading to ankyloses. Anti-HC-specific mAbs delay disease development. Some HLA-I polyreactive mAbs (MEM series) used for immunostaining confirm the existence of B2m-free variants in several cancer cells. The upregulation of Face-2 in human cancers occurs concomitantly with the downregulation of intact HLAs (Face-1). The HLA monomeric and dimeric variants interact with inhibitory and activating ligands (e.g., KIR), growth factors, cytokines, and neurotransmitters. Similarities in the amino acid sequences of the HLA-I variants and HLA-II beta-chain suggest that Face-2 could be the progenitor of both HLA classes. These findings may support the recognition of these variants as a neo-HLA class and proto-HLA.
37766594 | Deficiency of SR-B1 reduced the tumor load of colitis-induced or APCmin /+ -induced colorectal cancer. BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common tumors in the world. Cholesterol plays an important role in the pathogenesis of tumors. One of the cholesterol transporters, scavenger receptor class B type 1 (SR-B1), a multi-ligand membrane receptor protein, is expressed in the intestines which also highly expressed in various tumors. But the potential mechanism of SR-B1 in CRC development has not been reported. AIMS: This study aimed to clarify the importance of SR-B1 in the development and prognosis of CRC as much as possible to provide a possible strategy in CRC treatment. MATERIALS & METHODS: In this study, we used SR-B1 gene knockdown mice to study the effect of SR-B1 on colitis-induced or APCmin/+ -induced CRC. The expression of related molecules were detected through the immunohistochemistry and hematoxylin-eosin staining, western blot analysis, and Flow cytometry. The gene expression and microbiota in microenvironment of CRC mice were analyzed through eukaryotic mRNA sequencing and 16S rRNA high-throughput sequencing. RESULTS: The results showed that SR-B1 knockdown reduced the tumor load of colitis-induced or APCmin/+ -induced CRC. SR-B1 knockdown improved the immune microenvironment by affecting the level of tumor-associated macrophage (TAM), mononuclear myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSCs), granulocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (G-MDSCs), programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), and human leukocyte antigen class I-B (HLA-B), and also reduced the level of low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDL-R), and increased the level of ATP binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) to regulate the cholesterol metabolism, and regulated the expression of related genes and intestinal microbiota. SR-B1 knockdown can also trigger the anti-CRC effect of anti-PD 1 in colitis-induced CRC. DISCUSSION: SR-B1 deficiency significantly improved the immunity in tumor microenvironment of colitis-induced or APCmin/+ -induced CRC. In addition, the microbiota changes caused by SR-B1 deficiency favor improving the immune response to chemotherapeutic drugs and anti-PD1 therapy. The mechanism of action of SR-B1 deficiency on the development of CRC still needs further in-depth research. CONCLUSION: This study provides a new treatment strategy for treating CRC by affecting the expression of SR-B1 in intestine.
37821882 | Characterization of endoplasmic reticulum stress unveils ZNF703 as a promising target for colorectal cancer immunotherapy. BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common malignant tumors globally, with high morbidity and mortality. Endoplasmic reticulum is a major organelle responsible for protein synthesis, processing, and transport. Endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) refers to the abnormal accumulation of unfolded and misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum, which are involved in tumorigenesis and cancer immunity. Nevertheless, the clinical significance of ERS remains largely unexplored in CRC. METHODS: In present study, we performed an unsupervised clustering to identify two types of ERS-related subtypes [ERS clusters, and ERS-related genes (ERSGs) clusters] in multiple large-scale CRC cohorts. Through the utilization of machine learning techniques, we have successfully developed an uncomplicated yet robust gene scoring system (ERSGs signature). Furthermore, a series of analyses, including GO, KEGG, Tumor Immune Dysfunction and Exclusion (TIDE), the Consensus Molecular Subtypes (CMS), were used to explore the underlying biological differences and clinical significance between these groups. And immunohistochemical and bioinformatics analyses were performed to explore ZNF703, a gene of ERSGs scoring system. RESULTS: We observed significant differences in prognosis and tumor immune status between the ERS clusters as well as ERSGs clusters. And the ERSGs scoring system was an independent risk factor for overall survival; and exhibited distinct tumor immune status in multicenter CRC cohorts. Besides, analyses of TNM stages, CMS groups demonstrated that patients in advanced stage and CMS4 had higher ERSGs scores. In addition, the ERSGs scores inversely correlated with positive ICB response predictors (such as, CD8A, CD274 (PD-L1), and TIS), and directly correlated with negative ICB response predictors (such as, TIDE, T cell Exclusion, COX-IS). Notably, immunohistochemical staining and bioinformatics analyses revealed that ZNF70 correlated with CD3 + and CD8 + T cells infiltration. CONCLUSION: Based on large-scale and multicenter transcriptomic data, our study comprehensively revealed the essential role of ERS in CRC; and constructed a novel ERSGs scoring system to predict the prognosis of patients and the efficacy of ICB treatment. Furthermore, we identified ZNF703 as a potentially promising target for ICB therapy in CRC.
37839664 | The sacroiliac joint: An original and highly sensitive tool to highlight altered bone phenotype in murine models of skeletal disorders. Bone disorders may affect the skeleton in different ways, some bones being very impaired and others less severely. In translational studies using murine models of human skeletal diseases, the bone phenotype is mainly evaluated at the distal femur or proximal tibia. The sacroiliac joint (SIJ), which connects the spine to the pelvis, is involved in the balanced transfer of mechanical energy from the lumbar spine to the lower extremities. Because of its role in biomechanical stress, the SIJ is a region of particular interest in various bone diseases. Here we aimed to characterize the SIJ in several murine models to develop a highly reliable tool for studying skeletal disorders. We performed a 12-month in vivo micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) follow-up to characterize the SIJ in wild-type (WT) C57BL/J6 mice and compared the bone microarchitecture of the SIJ and the distal femur at 3 months by micro-CT and histology. To test the sensitivity of our methodology, the SIJ and distal femur were evaluated at 3 and 6 months, in 2 murine models of skeletal disorder, X-linked hypophosphatemia (Hyp mice) and HLA-B27 transgenic mice and compared to WT mice. A multimodal analysis was performed, using a combination of microCT and histological analysis. With the Hyp model, the SIJ displayed more bone microarchitecture alterations than the distal femur. Hyp mice showed a significant reduction in trabecular bone at both the distal femur and sacral slope as compared with WT mice, with a significant positive correlation between trabecular bone parameters of the distal femur and sacral side of the SIJ. Furthermore, trabecular bone parameters (Bone Volume/Total Volume (BV/TV), trabecular thickness (Tb.Th), trabecular separation (Tb.Sp), trabecular number (Tb.N), trabecular pattern factor (Tb.Pf)) were significantly increased compared to femoral parameters at the SIJ. The sacral articular cortical bone, which is indicative of osteoarticular lesions, was altered in Hyp mice. Interestingly, in accordance to previous studies, HLA-B27 transgenic mice did not show any osteoarticular lesions as compared with WT mice. Cortical bone parameters (thickness, porosity), as well as scoring performed with double blinding, did not show difference between the 2 genotypes. The characterization and evaluation of the SIJ surface appears very sensitive to emphasize alterations of bone and joint. The SIJ may represent a valuable tool to investigate both bone and local osteoarticular alterations in murine models of skeletal disorders and might be a relevant site for assessing the response to treatment of chronic bone diseases.
37858067 | Overexpression of SH2D1A promotes cancer progression and is associated with immune cell infiltration in hepatocellular carcinoma via bioinformatics and in vitro study. BACKGROUND: SH2 domain containing 1A (SH2D1A) expression has been linked to cancer progression. However, the functions of SH2D1A in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have not been reported. METHODS: The effects of SH2D1A on the proliferation, migration, and invasion of HCC cells and the related pathways were re-explored in cell models with SH2D1A overexpression using the CCK-8, migration and invasion assays and western blotting. The functions and mechanisms of genes co-expressed with SH2D1A were analyzed using gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis. The relationship between SH2D1A expression and immune microenvironment features in HCC was explored. RESULTS: Elevated SH2D1A expression promoted cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, which was related to the overexpression of p-Nf-kappaB and BCL2A1 protein levels in HCC. SH2D1A expression was related to the immune, stromal, and ESTIMATE scores, and the abundance of immune cells, such as B cells, CD8+ T cells, and T cells. SH2D1A expression was significantly related to the expression of immune cell markers, such as PDCD1, CD8A, and CTLA4 in HCC. CONCLUSION: SH2D1A overexpression was found to promote cell growth and metastasis via the Nf-kappaB signaling pathway and may be related to the immune microenvironment in HCC. The findings indicate that SH2D1A can function as a biomarker in HCC.
37888903 | SIX4 Controls anti-PD-1 Efficacy by Regulating STING Expression. The cGAS/STING cytosolic DNA sensing pathway plays a significant role in anti-tumor immunity. Expression of STING is tightly regulated and commonly reduced or defective in many types of cancer. We have identified SIX4 as a significant regulator of STING expression in colon cancer cells. We showed that knockout of SIX4 decreased STING expression at the mRNA and protein levels while ectopic expression of SIX4 increased STING expression. Depletion of SIX4 led to attenuated STING activation and downstream signaling. Re-expression of SIX4 or ectopic expression of STING in SIX4 knockout cells reversed the effect. Ectopic expression of SIX4 enhanced DMXAA and cGAMP-induced STING activation and downstream signaling. Importantly, decrease of SIX4 expression substantially decreased tumor infiltration of CD8+ T-cells and reduced the efficacy of PD-1 antibodies to diminish tumor growth in immune competent mice in vivo. Finally, analysis of TCGA colon cancer dataset indicated that tumors with high SIX4 expression were significantly enriched in the Inflammatory Response pathway. SIX4 expression also correlated with expression of multiple IFN-stimulated genes, inflammatory cytokines and CD8A. Taken together, our results implicate that SIX4 is a principal regulator of STING expression in colon cancer cells, providing an additional mechanism and genetic marker to predict effective immune checkpoint blockade therapy responses.
38207230 | Genomic and Immunophenotypic Landscape of Acquired Resistance to PD-(L)1 Blockade in Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. PURPOSE: Although immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) have extended survival in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), acquired resistance (AR) to ICI frequently develops after an initial benefit. However, the mechanisms of AR to ICI in NSCLC are largely unknown. METHODS: Comprehensive tumor genomic profiling, machine learning-based assessment of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, multiplexed immunofluorescence, and/or HLA-I immunohistochemistry (IHC) were performed on matched pre- and post-ICI tumor biopsies from patients with NSCLC treated with ICI at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute who developed AR to ICI. Two additional cohorts of patients with intervening chemotherapy or targeted therapies between biopsies were included as controls. RESULTS: We performed comprehensive genomic profiling and immunophenotypic characterization on samples from 82 patients with NSCLC and matched pre- and post-ICI biopsies and compared findings with a control cohort of patients with non-ICI intervening therapies between biopsies (chemotherapy, N = 32; targeted therapies, N = 89; both, N = 17). Putative resistance mutations were identified in 27.8% of immunotherapy-treated cases and included acquired loss-of-function mutations in STK11, B2M, APC, MTOR, KEAP1, and JAK1/2; these acquired alterations were not observed in the control groups. Immunophenotyping of matched pre- and post-ICI samples demonstrated significant decreases in intratumoral lymphocytes, CD3e+ and CD8a+ T cells, and PD-L1-PD1 engagement, as well as increased distance between tumor cells and CD8+PD-1+ T cells. There was a significant decrease in HLA class I expression in the immunotherapy cohort at the time of AR compared with the chemotherapy (P = .005) and the targeted therapy (P = .01) cohorts. CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the genomic and immunophenotypic heterogeneity of ICI resistance in NSCLC, which will need to be considered when developing novel therapeutic strategies aimed at overcoming resistance.
38242488 | Herpesvirus activated NF-kappaB-mediated antigen processing and presentation to aggravate trichloroethylene-induced hypersensitivity dermatitis. Trichloroethylene-induced hypersensitivity dermatitis (TIHD) is a delayed hypersensitivity response that is affected by genetic and environmental factors. Occupational exposure to trichloroethylene (TCE) enhances antigen presentation, leading to hypersensitivity in workers with the HLA-B* 13:01 allele. Several studies have observed the activation of herpesviruses, such as EpsteinBarr virus (EBV), in TIHD patients. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of herpesvirus infection. This study aimed to explore whether TLRs serve as a shared mechanism for both herpesvirus and allergenic chemicals. In this study, HLA-B* 13:01-transfected Hmy2. A C1R cell model was constructed, and cells were treated with TCOH and EBV to explore the possible mechanisms. We established a mouse model of dermatitis and used a TLR4 agonist to verify the effect of herpesvirus on TIHD. The results showed that EBV and TCOH synergistically enhance antigen processing and presentation via the TLR2/NF-kappaB axis. Furthermore, TLR4 agonist further aggravated skin lesions and liver damage in TCE-sensitized mice through TLR4/NF-kappaB axis-mediated antigen processing and presentation. Together, this study indicates that viral infection further aggravates the inflammatory response in TIHD based on environment-gene interactions.
38279987 | The fatty acid-related gene signature stratifies poor prognosis patients and characterizes TIME in cutaneous melanoma. BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to build a prognostic model for cutaneous melanoma (CM) using fatty acid-related genes and evaluate its capacity for predicting prognosis, identifying the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) composition, and assessing drug sensitivity. METHODS: Through the analysis of transcriptional data from TCGA-SKCM and GTEx datasets, we screened for differentially expressed fatty acids-related genes (DEFAGs). Additionally, we employed clinical data from TCGA-SKCM and GSE65904 to identify genes associated with prognosis. Subsequently, utilizing all the identified prognosis-related fatty acid genes, we performed unsupervised clustering analysis using the ConsensusClusterPlus R package. We further validated the significant differences between subtypes through survival analysis and pathway analysis. To predict prognosis, we developed a LASSO-Cox prognostic signature. This signature's predictive ability was rigorously examined through multivariant Cox regression, survival analysis, and ROC curve analysis. Following this, we constructed a nomogram based on the aforementioned signature and evaluated its accuracy and clinical utility using calibration curves, cumulative hazard rates, and decision curve analysis. Using this signature, we stratified all cases into high- and low-risk groups and compared the differences in immune characteristics and drug treatment responsiveness between these two subgroups. Additionally, in this study, we provided preliminary confirmation of the pivotal role of CD1D in the TIME of CM. We analyzed its expression across various immune cell types and its correlation with intercellular communication using single-cell data from the GSE139249 dataset. RESULTS: In this study, a total of 84 DEFAGs were identified, among which 18 were associated with prognosis. Utilizing these 18 prognosis-related genes, all cases were categorized into three subtypes. Significant differences were observed between subtypes in terms of survival outcomes, the expression of the 18 DEFAGs, immune cell proportions, and enriched pathways. A LASSO-Cox regression analysis was performed on these 18 genes, leading to the development of a signature comprising 6 DEFAGs. Risk scores were calculated for all cases, dividing them into high-risk and low-risk groups. High-risk patients exhibited significantly poorer prognosis than low-risk patients, both in the training group (p < 0.001) and the test group (p = 0.002). Multivariate Cox regression analysis indicated that this signature could independently predict outcomes [HR = 2.03 (1.69-2.45), p < 0.001]. The area under the ROC curve for the training and test groups was 0.715 and 0.661, respectively. Combining risk scores with clinical factors including metastatic status and patient age, a nomogram was constructed, which demonstrated significant predictive power for 3  and 5 years patient outcomes. Furthermore, the high and low-risk subgroups displayed differences in the composition of various immune cells, including M1 macrophages, M0 macrophages, and CD8+ T cells. The low-risk subgroup exhibited higher StromalScore, ImmuneScore, and ESTIMATEScore (p < 0.001) and demonstrated better responsiveness to immune therapy for patients with PD1-positive and CTLA4-negative or positive expressions (p < 0.001). The signature gene CD1D was found to be mainly expressed in monocytes/macrophages and dendritic cells within the TIME. Through intercellular communication analysis, it was observed that cases with high CD1D expression exhibited significantly enhanced signal transductions from other immune cells to monocytes/macrophages, particularly the (HLA-A/B/C/E/F)-CD8A signaling from natural killer (NK) cells to monocytes/macrophages (p < 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: The prognostic signature constructed in this study, based on six fatty acid-related genes, exhibits strong capabilities in predicting patient outcomes, identifying the TIME, and assessing drug sensitivity. This signature can aid in patient risk stratification and provide guidance for clinical treatment strategies. Additionally, our research highlights the crucial role of CD1D in the CM's TIME, laying a theoretical foundation for future related studies.
38291496 | Single-cell combined bioinformatics analysis: construction of immune cluster and risk prognostic model in kidney renal clear cells based on CD8+ T cell-associated genes. BACKGROUND: Kidney cancer is an immunogenic solid tumor, characterized by high tumor burden and infiltration of CD8+ T cells. Although immunotherapy targeting the PD1/CTLA-4 axis has demonstrated excellent clinical efficacy, clinical outcomes in most patients are poor. METHODS: We used the RNA sequencing data from the GEO database for KIRC GSE121636 and normal kidney tissue GSE131685, and performed single-cell analysis for cluster identification, pathway enrichment, and CD8+ T cell-associated gene identification. Subsequently, the significance of different CD8+ T-cell associated gene subtypes was elucidated by consensus clustering, pathway analysis, mutated gene analysis, and KIRC immune microenvironment analysis in the TCGA-KIRC disease cohort. Single gene analysis identified LAG3 as the most critical CD8+ T-cell-associated gene and its function was verified by cell phenotype and immunohistochemistry in KIRC. RESULTS: In the present study, CD8+ T-cell associated genes in KIRC were screened, including GZMK, CD27, CCL4L2, FXYD2, LAG3, RGS1, CST7, DUSP4, CD8A, and TRBV20-1 and an immunological risk prognostic model was constructed (risk score =  - 0.291858656434841*GZMK - 0.192758342489394*FXYD2 + 0.625023643446193*LAG3 + 0.161324477181591*RGS1 - 0.380169045328895*DUSP4 - 0.107221347575037*TRBV20-1). LAG3 was identified and proved as the most critical CD8+ T cell-associated gene in KIRC. CONCLUSION: We proposed and constructed an immunological risk prognostic model for CD8+ T cell-associated genes and identified LAG3 as a pivotal gene for KIRC progression and CD8+ T-cell infiltration. The model comprehensively explained the immune microenvironment and provided novel immune-related therapeutic targets and biomarkers in KIRC.
38329122 | Sema6D forward signaling impairs T cell activation and proliferation in head and neck cancer. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) are indicated for a diverse range of cancer types, and characterizing the tumor immune microenvironment is critical for optimizing therapeutic strategies, including ICIs. T cell infiltration and activation status in the tumor microenvironment greatly affects the efficacy of ICIs. Here, we show that semaphorin 6D (Sema6D) forward signaling, which is reportedly involved in coordinating the orientation of cell development and migration as a guidance factor, impaired the infiltration and activation of tumor-specific CD8+ T cells in murine oral tumors. Sema6D expressed by nonhematopoietic cells was responsible for this phenotype. Plexin-A4, a receptor for Sema6D, inhibited T cell infiltration and partially suppressed CD8+ T cell activation and proliferation induced by Sema6D stimulation. Moreover, mouse oral tumors, which are resistant to PD-1-blocking treatment in wild-type mice, showed a response to the treatment in Sema6d-KO mice. Finally, analyses of public data sets of human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, pan-cancer cohorts, and a retrospective cohort study showed that SEMA6D was mainly expressed by nonhematopoietic cells such as cancer cells, and SEMA6D expression was significantly negatively correlated with CD8A, PDCD1, IFNG, and GZMB expression. Thus, targeting Sema6D forward signaling is a promising option for increasing ICI efficacy.
38357542 | Unraveling the potential of CD8, CD68, and VISTA as diagnostic and prognostic markers in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Introduction: Pancreatic cancer is a truculent disease with limited treatment options and a grim prognosis. Immunotherapy has shown promise in treating various types of cancer, but its effectiveness in pancreatic cancer has been lacking. As a result, it is crucial to identify markers associated with immunological pathways in order to improve the treatment outcomes for this deadly cancer. The purpose of this study was to investigate the diagnostic and prognostic significance of three markers, CD8, CD68, and VISTA, in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), the most common subtype of pancreatic cancer. Methods: We analyzed gene expression data from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database using bioinformatics tools. We also utilized the STRING online tool and Funrich software to study the protein-protein interactions and transcription factors associated with CD8, CD68, and VISTA. In addition, tissue microarray (TMA) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining were performed on 228 samples of PDAC tissue and 10 samples of normal pancreatic tissue to assess the expression levels of the markers. We then correlated these expression levels with the clinicopathological characteristics of the patients and evaluated their survival rates. Results: The analysis of the GEO data revealed slightly elevated levels of VISTA in PDAC samples compared to normal tissues. However, there was a significant increase in CD68 expression and a notable reduction in CD8A expression in pancreatic cancer. Further investigation identified potential protein-protein interactions and transcription factors associated with these markers. The IHC staining of PDAC tissue samples showed an increased expression of VISTA, CD68, and CD8A in pancreatic cancer tissues. Moreover, we found correlations between the expression levels of these markers and certain clinicopathological features of the patients. Additionally, the survival analysis revealed that high expression of CD8 was associated with better disease-specific survival and progression-free survival in PDAC patients. Conclusion: These findings highlight the potential of CD8, CD68, and VISTA as diagnostic and prognostic indicators in PDAC.
38420798 | The Role of CD8A in the Immune Microenvironment of Breast Cancer. BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive form of breast cancer (BC), and it is often associated with a high tumor grade, a younger age at diagnosis, and a low survival rate. Conventional endocrine and anti-HER-2 therapies are usually ineffective against TNBC, creating treatment challenges and resulting in a poor prognosis. Hence, new targets and treatment strategies for TNBC are urgently required. METHODS: The GSE102818 dataset was used to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between primary BC and metastatic BC lesions. The Cancer Genome Atlas and the cBioPortal platform were employed to explore mutations in candidate genes. Utilizing the Tumor IMmune Estimation Resource (TIMER), the relationship between the expression of candidate genes and immune cell infiltration was assessed. Additionally, the cell-specific expression of the candidate genes was examined in the immune microenvironment of primary BC and metastatic BC lesions using the single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) datasets GSE118389 and GSE202695. Finally, the protein expression of the candidate genes in clinical TNBC samples was evaluated. RESULTS: CD8A was identified as a hub gene in the DEG network and was found to be down-regulated in metastatic BC lesions. CD8A expression was highly correlated with the infiltration of CD8+ T cells, and elevated CD8A expression was correlated with improved survival. Interestingly, scRNA-seq data revealed that CD8A was down-regulated in CD8+ T cells in the immune microenvironment of metastatic BC lesions. Finally, the evaluation of clinical samples confirmed the down-regulation of CD8A in the immune microenvironment of BC lung metastases. CONCLUSIONS: In patients with metastatic TNBC, high levels of CD8A (especially in the immune microenvironment) are associated with a good prognosis.
38447418 | Dihydroartemisinin alleviates erosive bone destruction by modifying local Treg cells in inflamed joints: A novel role in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Treg cell-based therapy has exhibited promising efficacy in combatting rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Dihydroartemisinin (DHA) exerts broad immunomodulatory effects across various diseases, with its recent spotlight on T-cell regulation in autoimmune conditions. The modulation of DHA on Treg cells and its therapeutic role in RA has yet to be fully elucidated. This study seeks to unveil the influence of DHA on Treg cells in RA and furnish innovative substantiation for the potential of DHA to ameliorate RA. To this end, we initially scrutinized the impact of DHA-modulated Treg cells on osteoclast (OC) formation in vitro using Treg cell-bone marrow-derived monocyte (BMM) coculture systems. Subsequently, employing the collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) rat model, we validated the efficacy of DHA and probed its influence on Treg cells in the spleen and popliteal lymph nodes (PLN). Finally, leveraging deep proteomic analysis with data-independent acquisition (DIA) and parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation (PASEF) technology, we found the alterations in the Treg cell proteome in PLN by proteomic analysis. Our findings indicate that DHA augmented suppressive Treg cells, thereby impeding OC formation in vitro. Consistently, DHA mitigated erosive joint destruction and osteoclastogenesis by replenishing splenic and joint-draining lymph node Treg cells in CIA rats. Notably, DHA induced alterations in the Treg cell proteome in PLN, manifesting distinct upregulation of alloantigen Col2a1 (Type II collagen alfa 1 chain) and CD8a (T-cell surface glycoprotein CD8 alpha chain) in Treg cells, signifying DHA's targeted modulation of Treg cells, rendering them more adept at sustaining immune tolerance and impeding bone erosion. These results unveil a novel facet of DHA in the treatment of RA.
38450869 | Discovery of the novel HLA-B*47:01:01:07 allele in a Greek volunteer bone marrow donor. HLA-B*47:01:01:07 differs from the HLA-B*47:01:01:03 allele by one nucleotide deletion in the 3'UTR.
38454413 | TMEM160 promotes tumor immune evasion and radiotherapy resistance via PD-L1 binding in colorectal cancer. BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of anti-programmed cell death protein 1(PD-1)/programmed cell death 1 ligand 1(PD-L1) therapy in treating certain types of cancer is associated with the level of PD-L1. However, this relationship has not been observed in colorectal cancer (CRC), and the underlying regulatory mechanism of PD-L1 in CRC remains unclear. METHODS: Binding of TMEM160 to PD-L1 was determined by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and GST pull-down assay.The ubiquitination levels of PD-L1 were verified using the ubiquitination assay. Phenotypic experiments were conducted to assess the role of TMEM160 in CRC cells. Animal models were employed to investigate how TMEM160 contributes to tumor growth.The expression and clinical significance of TMEM160 and PD-L1 in CRC tissues were evaluated by immunohistochemistry(IHC). RESULTS: In our study, we made a discovery that TMEM160 interacts with PD-L1 and plays a role in stabilizing its expression within a CRC model. Furthermore, we demonstrated that TMEM160 hinders the ubiquitination-dependent degradation of PD-L1 by competing with SPOP for binding to PD-L1 in CRC cells. Regarding functionality, the absence of TMEM160 significantly inhibited the proliferation, invasion, metastasis, clonogenicity, and radioresistance of CRC cells, while simultaneously enhancing the cytotoxic effect of CD8 + T cells on tumor cells. Conversely, the upregulation of TMEM160 substantially increased these capabilities. In severely immunodeficient mice, tumor growth derived from lentiviral vector shTMEM160 cells was lower compared with that derived from shNC control cells. Furthermore, the downregulation of TMEM160 significantly restricted tumor growth in immune-competent BALB/c mice. In clinical samples from patients with CRC, we observed a strong positive correlation between TMEM160 expression and PD-L1 expression, as well as a negative correlation with CD8A expression. Importantly, patients with high TMEM160 expression exhibited a worse prognosis compared with those with low or no TMEM160 expression. CONCLUSIONS: Our study reveals that TMEM160 inhibits the ubiquitination-dependent degradation of PD-L1 that is mediated by SPOP, thereby stabilizing PD-L1 expression to foster the malignant progress, radioresistance, and immune evasion of CRC cells. These findings suggest that TMEM160 holds potential as a target for the treatment of patients with CRC.
38470352 | Identification of the novel HLA-B*40:06:01:18 allele in a North Indian individual. HLA-B*40:06:01:18 differs from HLA-B*40:06:01:02 by one nucleotide change in the 5'UTR (T > C).
38494835 | Detection of two HLA-B*35 variants: HLA-B*35:01:01:39 and -B*35:03:01:32. Two nucleotide substitutions in intronic regions give rise to the novel alleles: HLA-B*35:01:01:39 and -B*35:03:01:32.
38525129 | Pathological changes in various organs in HLA-B*57:01 transgenic mice with abacavir-induced skin eruption. Several patients with cutaneous adverse drug reactions exhibit extracutaneous organ damages, and it becomes severe in a few patients resulting in death due to multiorgan failure. Understanding the sequential changes in various organs in patients with cutaneous eruption following drug administration will help understand disease onset and progression, aiding the development of prevention strategies and interventions. Therefore, we aimed to understand the effects of abacavir (ABC) on various organs in patients with ABC-induced eruptions by evaluating its effects in a mouse model. We found pathological changes in various organs of HLA-B*57:01 transgenic mice (B*57:01-Tg) following oral administration of ABC (20 mg/body/day). B*57:01-Tg exhibited a significant body weight decrease from day 1 of ABC administration, and reddening of the auricle was observed from day 5, and approximately 2/3 mice died by day 7. Histopathological examination revealed severe thymic atrophy after day 3, infiltration of inflammatory cells, predominantly lymphocytes with neutrophils, not only in the skin but also in the liver, kidney, and lung after day 5, and an increased number of lymphocytes with enlarged nuclei and granulocytic hematopoiesis were observed in the spleen after day 5. Blood chemistry revealed that albumin/globulin ratio was below 1.0 on day 5, reflecting a systemic inflammatory response, and the aspartate aminotransferase concentration rose to 193 +- 93.0 U/L on day 7, suggesting that cell damage may have occurred in various organs including liver accompanying inflammatory cell infiltration. These examinations of a mouse model of ABC-induced skin eruption show that disorders in various organs other than the skin should be considered and provide insights into the unexpected early systemic responses dependent on HLA-B*57:01. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43188-023-00220-1.
38628599 | HLA-B*57:01-dependent intracellular stress in keratinocytes triggers dermal hypersensitivity reactions to abacavir. Specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) polymorphisms combined with certain drug administration strongly correlate with skin eruption. Abacavir hypersensitivity (AHS), which is strongly associated with HLA-B*57:01, is one of the most representative examples. Conventionally, HLA transmits immunological signals via interactions with T cell receptors on the cell surface. This study focused on HLA-mediated intracellular reactions in keratinocytes that might determine the onset of skin immunotoxicity by drug treatments. Abacavir exposure resulted in keratinocytes expressing HLA-B*57:01 exhibiting endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress responses, such as immediate calcium release into the cytosol and enhanced HSP70 expression. In contrast, keratinocytes expressing HLA-B*57:03 (closely related to HLA-B*57:01) did not show these changes. This indicated that HLA-B*57:01 has a specific intracellular response to abacavir in keratinocytes in the absence of lymphocytes. Furthermore, abacavir exposure in HLA-B*57:01-expressing keratinocytes elevated the expression of cytokines/chemokines such as interferon-gamma, interleukin-1beta, and CCL27, and induced T lymphoblast migration. These effects were suppressed by ER stress relief using 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PB). HLA-B*57:01-transgenic mice also exhibited ER stress in epidermal areas following abacavir administration, and abacavir-induced skin toxicity was attenuated by the administration of 4-PB. Moreover, abacavir bound to HLA-B*57:01 within cells and its exposure led to HLA-B*57:01 protein aggregation and interaction with molecular chaperones in the ER of keratinocytes. Our results underscore the importance of HLA-mediated intracellular stress responses in understanding the onset of HLA-B*57:01-mediated AHS. We provide the possibility that the intracellular behavior of HLA is crucial for determining the onset of drug eruptions.
10899907 | CC chemokine receptor (CCR)2 is required for langerhans cell migration and localization of T helper cell type 1 (Th1)-inducing dendritic cells. Absence of CCR2 shifts the Leishmania major-resistant phenotype to a susceptible state dominated by Th2 cytokines, b cell outgrowth, and sustained neutrophilic inflammation. There is growing evidence that chemokines and their receptors regulate the movement and interaction of antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells (DCs) and T cells. We tested the hypothesis that the CC chemokine receptor (CCR)2 and CCR5 and the chemokine macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha, a ligand for CCR5, influence DC migration and localization. We found that deficiency of CCR2 but not CCR5 or MIP-1alpha led to distinct defects in DC biology. Langerhans cell (skin DC) density in CCR2-null mice was normal, and their ability to migrate into the dermis was intact; however, their migration to the draining lymph nodes was markedly impaired. CCR2-null mice had lower numbers of DCs in the spleen, and this was primarily due to a reduction in the CD8alpha(1) T helper cell type 1 (Th1)-inducing subset of DCs. Additionally, there was a block in the Leishmania major infection-induced relocalization of splenic DCs from the marginal zone to the T cell areas. We propose that these DC defects, in conjunction with increased expression of B lymphocyte chemoattractant, a B cell-specific chemokine, may collectively contribute to the striking B cell outgrowth and Th2 cytokine-biased nonhealing phenotype that we observed in CCR2-deficient mice infected with L. major. This disease phenotype in mice with an L. major-resistant genetic background but lacking CCR2 is strikingly reminiscent of that observed typically in mice with an L. major-susceptible genetic background. Thus, CCR2 is an important determinant of not only DC migration and localization but also the development of protective cell-mediated immune responses to L. major.
12009566 | Positive and negative regulation of pathogen induced dendritic cell function by G-protein coupled receptors. The induction of IL-12 from dendritic cells (DC) is a major initiating step in host resistance to intracellular pathogens. We have studied the regulation of this response using an in vivo model in which IL-12 production by splenic CD8alpha+ DC is followed after injection of a soluble extract (STAg) of the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. Our findings indicate that the potent IL-12 response observed is highly dependent on both the chemokine receptor CCR5 and G(i)-protein coupled signaling. In addition, we have examined the basis of the unresponsiveness of DC to secondary STAg injection which occurs following primary exposure to this parasite stimulus. Our results demonstrate that this refractory state correlates with the down-regulation of CCR5 expression on DC which, in turn, appears to depend on the induction of endogenous lipoxin A(4) (LXA(4)), a product of arachidonic acid metabolism. Since LXA(4) is known to also signal through a G-protein coupled receptor pathway, these findings taken together support a major role for G-protein signaling in the regulation of microbial-induced DC function.
12091350 | Identification of CD8alpha+CD11c- lineage phenotype-negative cells in the spleen as committed precursor of CD8alpha+ dendritic cells. CD8alpha+ dendritic cells (DCs) represent a functionally distinct DC subset in vivo, which plays a critical role in initiating various cellular immune responses. However, the committed precursor of CD8alpha+ DCs remains to be identified. We reported here that murine splenic CD8alpha+CD11c- lineage phenotype (Lin)- cells could differentiate into CD8alpha+ DCs in vivo after intravenous transplantation. Immunohistochemistry staining showed that donor-derived DCs mainly located in T-cell areas of the spleen. Functionally, these CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cell-derived DCs were capable of stimulating allogenic T-cell response, as well as secreting bioactive interleukin 12 p70 and interferon gamma. Freshly isolated CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cells expressed CC chemokine receptor (CCR)2, CCR5, and CCR7 messenger RNA, whereas CD8alpha+ DCs derived from CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cells further obtained the expression of CCR6 and macrophage-derived chemokine. Flow cytometry analysis showed that CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cells were identified in bone marrow and lymph nodes. Moreover, transplanted splenic CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cells could also home to thymus and lymph nodes and were capable of developing into CD8alpha+ DCs in these locations. However, CD8alpha+CD11c-Li- cells failed to differentiate into CD8alpha- DCs, T cells, natural killer cells, or other myeloid lineage cells in irradiated chimeras. Taken together, all these findings suggest that CD8alpha+CD11c-Lin- cells are a committed precursor of CD8alpha+ DCs.
12106793 | Role of G-protein-coupled signaling in the induction and regulation of dendritic cell function by Toxoplasma gondii. The induction of IL-12 from dendritic cells (DCs) is thought to be a critical step in the initiation of IFN-gamma-dependent cell-mediated immunity to many intracellular pathogens. We have studied this response using an in vivo model in which IL-12 production by splenic CD8alpha+ DCs is followed after systemic injection of a soluble extract (STAg) of the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. Our findings indicate that G-protein-coupled signaling through the chemokine receptor CCR5 plays a major role in the induction of IL-12 from these cells and that downregulation of CCR5 function through endogenously produced lipoxin explains the loss of responsiveness (paralysis) seen upon STAg reinjection. Recent data on the inductive and regulatory pathways involved and their role in governing host resistance to parasite infection in vivo will be discussed.
15331395 | Evidence for negative association of the chemokine receptor CCR5 d32 polymorphism with rheumatoid arthritis. BACKGROUND: Ligands of chemokine receptor CCR5, including MIP-1 alpha, MIP-1 beta, and RANTES, have been implicated in rheumatoid arthritis. OBJECTIVE: To test whether CCR5 d32 polymorphism has a negative association with rheumatoid arthritis in a New Zealand cohort. METHODS: 516 white patients with rheumatoid arthritis and 985 healthy controls were investigated by PCR amplification of the region flanking the known CCR5 d32 deletion, and the frequencies of CCR5 d32 compared. An early rheumatoid arthritis (ERA) cohort of 92 patients was followed prospectively for two years; disease severity and outcome were correlated with CCR5 d32 status. RESULTS: 12 control subjects (1.2%) were homozygous for d32; no d32 homozygous rheumatoid patients were detected (p = 0.012); 56 patients (10.9%) were heterozygous for the d32 polymorphism (d32/wt), compared with 169 controls (17.2%) (p = 0.0011). The CCR5 d32 allele frequency was lower in the rheumatoid patients than in the controls (frequencies of 0.054 and 0.098, respectively; p = 3.7 x 10(-5)). The frequency of CCR5 d32 did not differ significantly according to disease severity or outcome in the prospective ERA cohort, nor with HLA-DRB1 status. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides further evidence for a protective effect of the CCR5 d32 variant on rheumatoid arthritis, consistent with a role for CCR5 and its ligands in disease pathogenesis.
16419163 | Characterization of colonic dendritic cells in normal and colitic mice. AIM: Recent studies demonstrating the direct involvement of dendritic cells (DC) in the activation of pathogenic T cells in animal models of inflammatory bowel disease identify DC as important antigen presenting cells in the colon. However, very little is known about the properties of colonic DC. METHODS: Using immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy and flow cytometry we have characterized and compared colonic DC in the colon of healthy animals and interleukin-2-deficient (IL2(-/-)) mice that develop colitis. RESULTS: In the healthy colon, DC resided within the lamina propria and in close association with the basement membrane of colonic villi. Type 1 myeloid (CD11c(+), CD11b(+), B220(-), CD8alpha(-)) DC made up the largest (40-45%) population and all DC expressed low levels of CD80, CD86, and CD40, and had high endocytic activity consistent with an immature phenotype. In colitic IL2(-/-) mice, colonic DC numbers increased four- to five-fold and were localized within the epithelial layer and within aggregates of T and B cells. They were also many more DC in mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN). The majority (>85%) of DC in the colon and MLN of IL2(-/-) mice were type 1 myeloid, and expressed high levels of MHC class II, CD80, CD86, CD40, DEC 205, and CCR5 molecules and were of low endocytic activity consistent with mature DC. CONCLUSION: These findings demonstrate striking changes in the number, distribution and phenotype of DC in the inflamed colon. Their intimate association with lymphocytes in the colon and draining lymph nodes suggest that they may contribute directly to the ongoing inflammation in the colon.
16808956 | Specific interaction of CXCR4 with CD4 and CD8alpha: functional analysis of the CD4/CXCR4 interaction in the context of HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein-mediated membrane fusion. We investigated possible interactions between HIV-1 receptor (CD4) and the main coreceptors CXCR4 and CCR5. We found that CD4 and CXCR4 coexpressed in 293T cells form a complex that can be immunoprecipitated with antibodies directed against the extracellular domain of either protein. Mutagenesis revealed that the CD4/CXCR4 interaction maps to two previously uncharacterized basic motifs in the cytoplasmic domain of CD4. HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein-mediated membrane fusion was found to be independent of the ability of CD4 and CXCR4 to interact, whether fusion was studied in a virus-cell or a cell-cell model. However, this interaction might explain the adaptation of HIV-1 to CXCR4 as an alternative to CCR5. We found that CXCR4 also interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of CD8alpha in a way that is similar to the CD4/CXCR4 interaction. The CD4/CXCR4 and CD8alpha/CXCR4 interactions may thus be involved in cellular signaling pathways shared by the CD4 and CD8alpha molecules.
18485203 | Comparative analysis of transcriptional profiling of CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells identifies novel immune response players in T-cell activation. BACKGROUND: T-cell activation is an essential step of the immune response and relies on the tightly controlled orchestration of hundreds of genes/proteins, yet the cellular and molecular events underlying this complex process are not fully understood, especially at the genome-scale. Significantly, a comparative genome-scale transcriptional analysis of two T-cell subsets (CD4+ and CD8+) against each other and against the naturally mixed population (CD3+ cells) remains unexplored. RESULTS: Comparison of the microarray-based gene expression patterns between CD3+ T cells, and the CD4+ and CD8+ subsets revealed largely conserved, but not identical, transcriptional patterns. We employed a Gene-Ontology-driven transcriptional analysis coupled with protein abundance assays in order to identify novel T-cell activation genes and cell-type-specific genes associated with the immune response. We identified potential genes involved in the communication between the two subsets (including IL23A, NR4A2, CD83, PSMB2, -8, MIF, IFI16, TNFAIP1, POU2AF1, and OTUB1) and would-be effector-function-specific genes (XCL2, SLAMF7, TNFSF4, -5, -9, CSF3, CD48 and CD244). Chemokines induced during T-cell activation, but not previously identified in T cells, include CCL20, CXCL9, -10, -11 (in all three populations), and XCL2 (preferentially in CD8+ T cells). Increased expression of other unexpected cytokines (GPI, OSM and MIF) suggests their involvement in T-cell activation with their functions yet to be examined. Differential expression of many receptors, not previously reported in the context of T-cell activation, including CCR5, CCR7, IL1R2, IL1RAP, IL6R, TNFRSF25 and TNFRSF1A, suggests their role in this immune process. Several receptors involved in TCR activation (CD3D, CD3G, TRAT1, ITGAL, ITGB1, ITGB2, CD8A and B (CD8+ T-cell specific) along with LCK, ZAP70 and TYROBP were synchronously downregulated. Members of cell-surface receptors (HLA-Ds and KLRs), none previously identified in the context of T-cell activation, were also downregulated. CONCLUSION: This comparative genome-scale, transcriptional analysis of T-cell activation in the CD4+ and CD8+ subsets and the mixed CD3+ populations made possible the identification of many immune-response genes not previously identified in the context of T-cell activation. Significantly, it made possible to identify the temporal patterns of many previously known T-cell activation genes, and also identify genes implicated in effector functions of and communication between CD4+ and CD8+ T cells.
20190758 | Alternative cross-priming through CCL17-CCR4-mediated attraction of CTLs toward NKT cell-licensed DCs. Cross-priming allows dendritic cells (DCs) to induce cytotoxic T cell (CTL) responses to extracellular antigens. DCs require cognate 'licensing' for cross-priming, classically by helper T cells. Here we demonstrate an alternative mechanism for cognate licensing by natural killer T (NKT) cells recognizing microbial or synthetic glycolipid antigens. Such licensing caused cross-priming CD8alpha(+) DCs to produce the chemokine CCL17, which attracted naive CTLs expressing the chemokine receptor CCR4. In contrast, DCs licensed by helper T cells recruited CTLs using CCR5 ligands. Thus, depending on the type of antigen they encounter, DCs can be licensed for cross-priming by NKT cells or helper T cells and use at least two independent chemokine pathways to attract naive CTLs. Because these chemokines acted synergistically, this can potentially be exploited to improve vaccinations.
22638733 | Association between the chemokine receptor 5 delta32 polymorphism and rheumatoid arthritis: a meta-analysis. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine whether the functional chemokine receptor 5 delta32 (CCR5-Delta32) polymorphism confers susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA). METHODS: Meta-analysis was conducted on associations between the CCR5-Delta32 polymorphism and RA and JIA using (1) allele contrast and (2) the recessive, (3) the dominant, and (4) the additive models. RESULTS: Eleven population comparisons based on the data obtained from nine studies involving 13,412 subjects (RA 3,848, controls 4,095; JIA 1,599, controls 3,870) were considered. In all study subjects, meta-analysis showed a significant negative association between RA and the CCR5-Delta32 allele (OR = 0.771, 95 % CI = 0.694-0.866, p = 6.5 x 10(-7)). Stratification by ethnicity indicated a significant association between the CCR5-Delta32 allele and RA in Europeans (OR = 0.8001, 95 % CI = 0.709-0.904, p = 3.2 x 10(-5)). Meta-analysis showed associations between the CCR5-Delta32 allele and JIA in Europeans and oligoarticular type (OR = 0.797, 95 % CI = 0.690-0.921, p = 0.002; OR = 0.475, 95 % CI = 0.352-0.693, p = 9.5 x 10(-8)). CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis demonstrates that the CCR5-Delta32 polymorphism may confer susceptibility to RA and JIA in Europeans, and suggests that the CCR5-Delta32 allele protects against the development of RA and JIA.
23012431 | Reduced numbers of dendritic cells with a tolerogenic phenotype in the prediabetic pancreas of NOD mice. The NOD mouse is a widely used animal model of autoimmune diabetes. Prior to the onset of lymphocytic insulitis, DCs accumulate at the islet edges. Our recent work indicated that these DCs may derive from aberrantly proliferating local precursor cells. As CD8alpha(+) DCs play a role in tolerance induction in steady-state conditions, we hypothesized that the autoimmune phenotype might associate with deficiencies in CD8alpha(+) DCs in the prediabetic NOD mouse pancreas. We studied CD8alpha(+) DCs in the pancreas and pLNs of NOD and control mice, focusing on molecules associated with tolerance induction (CD103, Langerin, CLEC9A, CCR5). mRNA expression levels of tolerance-modulating cytokines were studied in pancreatic CD8alpha(+) DCs of NOD and control mice. In the NOD pancreas, the frequency of CD8alpha(+)CD103(+)Langerin(+) cells was reduced significantly compared with control mice. NOD pancreatic CD8alpha(+)CD103(+)Langerin(+) DCs expressed reduced levels of CCR5, CLEC9A, and IL-10 as compared with control DCs. These alterations in the CD8alpha(+)CD103(+)Langerin(+) DC population were not present in pLNs. We demonstrate local abnormalities in the CD8alpha(+) DC population in the prediabetic NOD pancreas. These data suggest that abnormal differentiation of pancreatic DCs contributes to loss of tolerance, hallmarking the development of autoimmune diabetes.
25166904 | The gene expression profile of CD11c+ CD8alpha- dendritic cells in the pre-diabetic pancreas of the NOD mouse. Two major dendritic cell (DC) subsets have been described in the pancreas of mice: The CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs (strong CD4+ T cell proliferation inducers) and the CD8alpha+ CD103+ DCs (T cell apoptosis inducers). Here we analyzed the larger subset of CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs isolated from the pancreas of pre-diabetic NOD mice for genome-wide gene expression (validated by Q-PCR) to elucidate abnormalities in underlying gene expression networks. CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs were isolated from 5 week old NOD and control C57BL/6 pancreas. The steady state pancreatic NOD CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs showed a reduced expression of several gene networks important for the prime functions of these cells, i.e. for cell renewal, immune tolerance induction, migration and for the provision of growth factors including those for beta cell regeneration. A functional in vivo BrdU incorporation test showed the reduced proliferation of steady state pancreatic DC. The reduced expression of tolerance induction genes (CD200R, CCR5 and CD24) was supported on the protein level by flow cytometry. Also previously published functional tests on maturation, immune stimulation and migration confirm the molecular deficits of NOD steady state DC. Despite these deficiencies NOD pancreas CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs showed a hyperreactivity to LPS, which resulted in an enhanced pro-inflammatory state characterized by a gene profile of an enhanced expression of a number of classical inflammatory cytokines. The enhanced up-regulation of inflammatory genes was supported by the in vitro cytokine production profile of the DCs. In conclusion, our data show that NOD pancreatic CD11c+ CD8alpha- DCs show various deficiencies in steady state, while hyperreactive when encountering a danger signal such as LPS.
25853812 | Mucosal-associated invariant T cell is a potential marker to distinguish fibromyalgia syndrome from arthritis. BACKGROUND: Fibromyalgia (FM) is defined as a widely distributed pain. While many rheumatologists and pain physicians have considered it to be a pain disorder, psychiatry, psychology, and general medicine have deemed it to be a syndrome (FMS) or psychosomatic disorder. The lack of concrete structural and/or pathological evidence has made patients suffer prejudice that FMS is a medically unexplained symptom, implying inauthenticity. Furthermore, FMS often exhibits comorbidity with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or spondyloarthritis (SpA), both of which show similar indications. In this study, disease specific biomarkers were sought in blood samples from patients to facilitate objective diagnoses of FMS, and distinguish it from RA and SpA. METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from patients and healthy donors (HD) were subjected to multicolor flow cytometric analysis. The percentage of mucosal-associated invariant T (MAIT) cells in PBMCs and the mean fluorescent intensity (MFI) of cell surface antigen expression in MAIT cells were analyzed. RESULTS: There was a decrease in the MAIT cell population in FMS, RA, and SpA compared with HD. Among the cell surface antigens in MAIT cells, three chemokine receptors, CCR4, CCR7, and CXCR1, a natural killer (NK) receptor, NKp80, a signaling lymphocyte associated molecule (SLAM) family, CD150, a degrunulation marker, CD107a, and a coreceptor, CD8beta emerged as potential biomarkers for FMS to distinguish from HD. Additionally, a memory marker, CD44 and an inflammatory chemokine receptor, CXCR1 appeared possible markers for RA, while a homeostatic chemokine receptor, CXCR4 deserved for SpA to differentiate from FMS. Furthermore, the drug treatment interruption resulted in alternation of the expression of CCR4, CCR5, CXCR4, CD27, CD28, inducible costimulatory molecule (ICOS), CD127 (IL-7 receptor alpha), CD94, NKp80, an activation marker, CD69, an integrin family member, CD49d, and a dipeptidase, CD26, in FMS. CONCLUSIONS: Combined with the currently available diagnostic procedures and criteria, analysis of MAIT cells offers a more objective standard for the diagnosis of FMS, RA, and SpA, which exhibit multifaceted and confusingly similar clinical manifestations.
25911114 | Apoptosis induction and release of inflammatory cytokines in the oviduct of egg-laying hens experimentally infected with H9N2 avian influenza virus. The H9N2 subtype avian influenza virus (AIV) can cause serious damage to the reproductive tract of egg-laying hens, leading to severe egg-drop and poor egg shell quality. However, previous studies in relation to the oviductal-dysfunction resulted from this agent have not clearly been elucidated. In this study, apoptosis and pathologic changes in the oviducts of egg-laying hens caused by H9N2 AIV were evaluated. To understand the immune response in the pathogenic processes, 30-week old specific pathogen free (SPF) egg-laying hens inoculated with H9N2 subtype of AIV through combined intra-ocular and intra-nasal routes. H9N2 AIV infection resulted in oviductal lesions, triggered apoptosis and expression of immune related genes accompanied with infiltration of CD3(+)CD4(+) and CD3(+)CD8alpha(+) cells. Significant tissue damage and apoptosis were observed in the five oviductal parts (infundibulum, magnum, isthmus, uterus and vagina) at 5 days post-inoculation (dpi). Furthermore, immune-related genes, including chicken TLR3 (7, 21), MDA5, IL-2, IFN-beta, CXCLi1, CXCLi2, XCL1, XCR1 and CCR5 showed variation in the egg-laying hens infected with H9N2 AIV. Notably, mRNA expression of IFN-alpha was suppressed during the infection. These results show distinct expression patterns of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines amongst segments of the oviduct. Differential gene expression of inflammatory cytokines and lymphocytes aggregation occurring in oviducts may initiate the infected tissue in response to virus replication which may eventually lead to excessive cellular apoptosis and tissue damage. 
26891909 | Direct evidence for activated CD8+ T cell transmigration across portal vein endothelial cells in liver graft rejection. BACKGROUND: Lymphocyte recruitment into the portal tract is crucial not only for homeostatic immune surveillance but also for many liver diseases. However, the exact route of entry for lymphocytes into portal tract is still obscure. We investigated this question using a rat hepatic allograft rejection model. METHODS: A migration route was analyzed by immunohistological methods including a recently developed scanning electron microscopy method. Transmigration-associated molecules such as selectins, integrins, and chemokines and their receptors expressed by hepatic vessels and recruited T-cells were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. RESULTS: The immunoelectron microscopic analysis clearly showed CD8beta(+) cells passing through the portal vein (PV) endothelia. Furthermore, the migrating pathway seemed to pass through the endothelial cell body. Local vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) expression was induced in PV endothelial cells from day 2 after liver transplantation. Although intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression was also upregulated, it was restricted to sinusoidal endothelia. Recipient T-cells in the graft perfusate were CD25(+)CD44(+)ICAM-1(+)CXCR3(+)CCR5(-) and upregulated alpha4beta1 or alphaLbeta2 integrins. Immunohistochemistry showed the expression of CXCL10 in donor MHCII(high) cells in the portal tract as well as endothelial walls of PV. CONCLUSIONS: We show for the first time direct evidence of T-cell transmigration across PV endothelial cells during hepatic allograft rejection. Interactions between VCAM-1 on endothelia and alpha4beta1 integrin on recipient effector T-cells putatively play critical roles in adhesion and transmigration through endothelia. A chemokine axis of CXCL10 and CXCR3 also may be involved.
27846843 | Strong inflammatory responses and apoptosis in the oviducts of egg-laying hens caused by genotype VIId Newcastle disease virus. BACKGROUND: Newcastle disease virus (NDV) can cause serious damage to the reproductive tracts of egg-laying hens and leads to egg production and quality reduction. However, the mechanism of severe pathological damage in the oviducts of egg-laying hens after NDV infection has not been fully elucidated. In this study, the correlation between the primary pathological lesions and viral load in the oviducts of egg-laying hens infected with the velogenic genotype VIId NDV strain was evaluated by pathological observation and virus detection. Subsequently, apoptosis, the expression of immune-related genes and lymphocyte infiltration into the infected oviducts were determined to explore the potential causes of the pathological changes. RESULTS: A higher viral load and severe tissue lesions and apoptotic bodies were observed in the oviduct of NDV-infected hens compared with the control. Immune-related genes, including TLR3/7/21, MDA5, IL-2/6/1beta, IFN-beta, CXCLi1/2, and CCR5, were significantly upregulated in the magnum and uterus. IL-2 presented the highest mRNA level change (137-fold) at 5 days post infection (dpi) in the magnum. Infection led to CD3+CD4+ and CD3+CD8alpha+ lymphocyte infiltration into the magnum of the oviduct. A higher viral load was found to be associated with pathological changes and the elevated expression of proinflammatory cytokines in the NDV-infected hens. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that the severe lesions and apoptosis in the oviducts of egg-laying hens caused by genotype VIId NDV strains are associated with the excessive release of inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and lymphocyte infiltration, which contribute to the dysfunction of the oviducts and the decrease of egg production in hens.
30004616 | Fms-Like Tyrosine Kinase 3-Ligand Contributes to the Development and Function of the Subpopulation of CD8alpha+ Plasmacytoid Precursor Dendritic Cells in CD8+ /TCR- Facilitating Cells. Facilitating cells (FC) are a CD8+ TCR- bone marrow subpopulation that enhance engraftment of purified hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) and induce antigen-specific CD4+ CD25+ FoxP3+ regulatory T cell (Treg) in vivo. The major subpopulation in FC resembles plasmacytoid precursor dendritic cells (p-preDC) both phenotypically and functionally. Here, we report that the number of FC was significantly reduced in Fms-like tyrosine kinase 3-ligand-knockout (Flt3-L-KO) mice. Specifically, there was a selective decrease in the B220+ CD11c+ CD11b- p-preDC FC subpopulation. The p-preDC FC subpopulation in FC total is restored after Flt3-L administration to Flt3-L-KO mice. FC from Flt3-L-KO donors exhibit impaired facilitation of allogeneic HSC engraftment in ablatively conditioned mice (B6   NOD) as well as in mice conditioned with reduced intensity conditioning (B6   BALB/c). In addition, the number of CD4+ CD25+ Foxp3+ Treg from Flt3-L-KO mice is significantly decreased. This was associated with the expression of chemokine receptor CXCR3+ or CCR5+ on Treg. Treg from the spleen of Flt3-L-KO mice showed impaired facilitation of engraftment of allogeneic HSC compared to wild-type Treg. Flt3-L treatment significantly expanded Treg, and restored their facilitating function. These results suggest that Flt3-L is an important growth factor in the development and homeostasis of p-preDC FC and in the role of FC inducing generation of Treg. Flt3-L provides potent immunoregulatory properties that may be clinically useful to improve tolerance induction and enhance the function of allogeneic cell therapies. Stem Cells 2018;36:1567-1577.
32081834 | Identification of biomarkers related to CD8+ T cell infiltration with gene co-expression network in clear cell renal cell carcinoma. Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is an extremely common kind of kidney cancer in adults. Immunotherapy and targeted therapy are particularly effective at treating ccRCC. In this study, weighted gene co-expression network analysis and a deconvolution algorithm that quantifies the cellular composition of immune cells were used to analyze ccRCC expression data from the Gene Expression Omnibus database, and identify modules related to CD8+ T cells. Ten hub genes (LCK, CD2, CD3D, CD3G, IRF1, IFNG, CCR5, CD8A, CCL5, and CXCL9) were identified by co-expression network and protein-protein interactions network analysis. Datasets obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas were analyzed and the data revealed that the hub genes were meaningfully up-regulated in tumor tissues and correlated with promotion of tumor progression. After Kaplan-Meier analysis and Oncomine meta-analysis, CCL5 was selected as a prognostic biomarker. Finally, the experimental results show that reduced expression of CCL5 decreased cell proliferation and invasion in the ccRCC cell line. Various analyses were performed and verified, CCL5 is a potential biomarker and therapeutic target which related to CD8+ T cell infiltration in ccRCC.
33204151 | Clinical Significance of Down-Regulated CD70 and CD27 Expression in Poor Prognosis of Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma. INTRODUCTION: CD27 is a co-stimulatory immune checkpoint molecule in the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily. CD27 regulates the generation and maintenance of T cell immunity by binding to CD70 and regulating B-cell activation and immunoglobulin synthesis. MATERIALS AND METHODS: CD27 and CD70 expression were assessed in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) compared to normal tissue samples in the GSE53625 dataset of 179 paired cases and in 153 Chinese cases using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and immunohistochemistry. The correlation was also investigated between CD27 and CD70 expression and immune-related pathways, including CD8+ T cell recruitment, function, and other inhibitory immune checkpoints. RESULTS: Levels of both CD27 and CD70 expression were down-regulated in ESCC compared to the paired normal tissues. CD27 and CD70 expression was mainly present in lymphocytes surrounding and infiltrating the tumor lesions but rarely expressed in tumor cells. Lost expression of CD27 and CD70 was associated with clinicopathological features, including depth of tumor invasion and better patient survival. Furthermore, CD27 expression was significantly associated with levels of CD8A, GZMB, IFNG, the CD8+ T cell recruitment-associated chemokines (CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11), and CD8 receptors (CCR5, CXCR6, and CXCR3), while CD70 expression was inversely associated with levels of immunosuppressive checkpoints (PD-L1, PD-L2, and HHLA2). CONCLUSION: Detection of CD70/CD27 expression could be further verified as a biomarker for ESCC early detection and prognosis prediction.
35936748 | Differential Expression and Prognostic Correlation of Immune Related Factors Between Right and Left Side Colorectal Cancer. Background: Growing evidence suggests that colorectal cancer (CRC) should be considered a heterogeneous disease. The right side (RCC) and left side (LCC) colorectal cancer have different clinical characteristics and immune landscapes. The aim of this study was to analyze differential expression and prognostic correlation of immune-related factors between RCC and LCC. Methods: The gene expression profile and clinical characteristics of CRC patients were retrieved from The Cancer Genome Atlas data portal (n=525). Using a deconvolution algorithm, immune cell infiltration in RCC and LCC based on the RNA-seq data was analyzed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were obtained by performing differential gene expression analysis. Immune-related DEGs were derived by the intersection with immune-related factors downloaded from the IMMPORT database. To further validate the findings, we applied immunohistochemical (IHC) staining of a CRC tissue microarray (TMA). The distribution of immune cells in RCC and LCC and changes in the expression of immune molecules on their membranes were verified. The expression levels of circulating cytokines were measured by flow cytometry to detect the cytokines secreted by immune cells in RCC and LCC. Furthermore, to reveal the prognostic value of differential immune factors on RCC and LCC patients, survival analysis based on mRNA levels using TCGA cohort and survival analysis using protein levels was performed using our CRC patients. Results: The infiltration of immune cells differed between RCC and LCC, the infiltration degree of macrophages M0 was significantly higher in LCC, while the infiltration degree of differentiated macrophages M1 and M2, CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells was significantly higher in RCC. The expression of related molecules by immune cells also differed between RCC and LCC. The expression of 7 genes in RCC was higher than that in LCC, which were CCR5, CD209, CD8A, HCK, HLA-DPB1, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DRA, respectively. Meanwhile, the expression of 2 genes in LCC was higher than in RCC, which were IL-34 and PROCR. Patients with RCC having high expression of HLA-DQA1 mRNA or proteins had better survival and LCC patients with high expression of IL 34 mRNA or protein had better survival. Conclusions: In this study, we comprehensively compared differences in immune cells and regulating factors between left and right colorectal cancer. Different expression patterns and their effects on survival were identified. The analysis of immune-related factors may provide a theoretical basis for precise immunotherapy of RCC and LCC.
35965624 | Identification of Hub Genes and Key Pathways Associated with Follicular Lymphoma. Follicular lymphoma (FL) is the second most prevalent form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and accounts for almost 20% of all NHL cases. Although FL patients' overall survival rates have steadily increased, there is still no accepted standard of care for individuals who experience recurrence or resistance to treatment. Hence, it is needed to evaluate the precise molecular cascades underlying FL to develop efficient diagnostic and treatment approaches. Herein, we aimed to evaluate variations in gene expression profiles, explore the underlying mechanisms, and find new FL targets. In the present study, Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database was employed to evaluate microarray datasets including GSE32018 and GSE55267. R software was employed to evaluate differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between FL and noncancer samples. The DEGs were evaluated using GO, KEGG pathway enrichment analysis, and PPI network to evaluate hub genes, which were then, examined using gene function enrichment analysis. According to the obtained results, a total of 190 upregulated and 162 downregulated DEGs were evaluated. Following the generation of PPI networks, 15 hub genes in highly connected upregulated DEGs were selected including FN1, MMP9, CCL2, CD8A, POSTN, CCR5, COL3A1, CXCL12, VCAM1, COL1A2, CCL5, SPARC, TIMP1, CXCL9, and IL18. The GO enrichment evaluation of the underlined hub genes indicated that the immunological response was the most considerably enriched term. Twelve significant cascades were found using the KEGG pathway analysis, most of which were linked to cellular structure and immunity. Our findings suggested that FN1, SPARC, POSTN, MMP9, and VCAM1 genes are potential biomarkers of FL, and cellular immunity contributes to the pathogenesis of FL. Moreover, the unique DEGs and cascades found in the present study may present new perspectives on the molecular basis of FL's underlying mechanisms as well as a new understanding of FL's future precise management.
36330810 | Uncover diagnostic immunity/hypoxia/ferroptosis/epithelial mesenchymal transformation-related CCR5, CD86, CD8A, ITGAM, and PTPRC in kidney transplantation patients with allograft rejection. The aim of this study was to identify predictive immunity/hypoxia/ferroptosis/epithelial mesenchymal transformation (EMT)-related biomarkers, pathways and new drugs in allograft rejection in kidney transplant patients. First, gene expression data were downloaded followed by identification of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis. Second, diagnostic model was construction based on key genes, followed by correlation analysis between immune/hypoxia/ferroptosis/EMT and key diagnostic genes. Finally, drug prediction of diagnostic key genes was carried out. Five diagnostic genes were further identified, including CCR5, CD86, CD8A, ITGAM, and PTPRC, which were positively correlated with allograft rejection after the kidney transplant. Highly infiltrated immune cells, highly expression of hypoxia-related genes and activated status of EMT were significantly positively correlated with five diagnostic genes. Interestingly, suppressors of ferroptosis (SOFs) and drivers of ferroptosis (DOFs) showed a complex regulatory relationship between ferroptosis and five diagnostic genes. CD86, CCR5, and ITGAM were respectively drug target of ABATACEPT, MARAVIROC, and CLARITHROMYCIN. PTPRC was drug target of both PREDNISONE and EPOETIN BETA. In conclusion, the study could be useful in understanding changes in the microenvironment within transplantation, which may promote or sustain the development of allograft rejection after kidney transplantation.
38165703 | Chemokine Receptor Profile of T Cells and Progression Rate of Geographic Atrophy Secondary to Age-related Macular Degeneration. Purpose: Geographic atrophy (GA) secondary to age-related macular degeneration is a progressive retinal degenerative disease. Systemic chemokine receptors and known risk-associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms have been associated with GA pathogenesis. Because halting progression is pivotal for patients, we investigated the association of candidate chemokine receptors and progression rate (PR) of atrophic lesions in patients with GA. Methods: This prospective observational study conducted at a single center included 85 patients with GA and 45 healthy controls. Patients were followed up after 13 months on average. Serial fundus autofluorescence images were used to determine the PR of atrophic lesions. The proportion of chemokine receptors on peripheral lymphocytes were determined by flow cytometric analysis. Results: Patients with GA had a lower proportion of CCR6 on CD8+T cells compared to healthy controls. Importantly, the proportion of CCR6 on CD4+T cells was lower in patients with fast GA progression compared to patients with slow progression of disease, suggesting that dysregulation of CCR6 could be involved in progression of GA. We also found that GA patients had a markedly higher percentage of CCR5 on CD4+ and CD8+T cells compared to healthy controls. After stratification according to ARMS2 polymorphism, we found a significantly lower level of CCR5 on CD8+T cells among patients with high-risk genotypes compared with patients with the low-risk genotype. Conclusions: Our study finds that chemokine receptors are dysregulated in patients with GA and that CCR6 might be involved in GA progression, making it a potential target for intervention.
38168677 | Characterization of CD8+ T cells in immune-privileged organs of ZIKV-infected Ifnar1-/- mice. Zika virus (ZIKV) infection caused neurological complications and male infertility, leading to the accumulation of antigen-specific immune cells in immune-privileged organs (IPOs). Thus, it is important to understand the immunological responses to ZIKV in IPOs. We extensively investigated the ZIKV-specific T cell immunity in IPOs in Ifnar1-/- mice, based on an immunodominant epitope E294-302 tetramer. The distinct kinetics and functions of virus-specific CD8+ T cells infiltrated into different IPOs were characterized, with late elevation in the brain and spinal cord. Single epitope E294-302-specific T cells can account for 20-60% of the total CD8+ T cells in the brain, spinal cord, and testicle and persist for at least 90 days in the brain and spinal cord. The E294-302-specific TCRalphabetas within the IPOs are featured with the majority of clonotypes utilizing TRAV9N-3 paired with diverse TRBV chains, but with distinct alphabeta paired clonotypes in 7 and 30 days post-infection. Specific chemokine receptors, Ccr2 and Ccr5, were selectively expressed in the E294-302-specific CD8+ T cells within the brain and testicle, indicating an IPO-oriented migration of virus-specific CD8+ T cells after infection. Overall, this study adds to the understanding of virus-specific CD8+ T cell responses for controlling and clearing ZIKV infection in IPOs.IMPORTANCEThe immune-privileged organs (IPOs), such as the central nervous system and testicles, presented pathogenicity and inflammation after Zika virus (ZIKV) infection with infiltrated CD8+ T cells. Our data show that CD8+ T cells keep up with virus increases and decreases in immune-privileged organs. Furthermore, our study provides the first ex vivo comparative analyses of the composition and diversity related to TCRalpha/beta clonotypes across anatomical sites and ZIKV infection phases. We show that the vast majority of TCRalpha/beta clonotypes in tissues utilize TRAV9N-3 with conservation. Specific chemokine expression, including Ccr2 and Ccr5, was found to be selectively expressed in the E294-302-specific CD8+ T cells within the brain and testicle, indicating an IPO-oriented migration of the virus-specific CD8+ T cells after the infection. Our study adds insights into the anti-viral immunological characterization and chemotaxis mechanism of virus-specific CD8+ T cells after ZIKV infection in different IPOs.
38237887 | A novel antagonist of the CCL5/CCR5 axis suppresses the tumor growth and metastasis of triple-negative breast cancer by CCR5-YAP1 regulation. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive subtype of breast cancer (BC) with a high mortality rate, and few effective therapeutic strategies are available. CCL5/CCR5 is an appealing immunotherapeutic target for TNBC. However, its signaling mechanism is poorly understood and its direct antagonists have not been reported. Here, we developed a high-throughput screening (HTS) assay for discovering its antagonists. Verteporfin was identified as a more selective and potent antagonist than the known CCR5 antagonist maraviroc. Without photodynamic therapy, verteporfin demonstrated significant inhibition on TNBC tumor growth through immune regulation, remarkable suppression of lung metastasis by cell-intrinsic mechanism, and a significant extension of overall survival in vivo. Mechanistically, CCR5 was found to be essential for expression of the key hippo effector YAP1. It promoted YAP1 transcription via HIF-1alpha and exerted further control over the migration of CD8+ T, NK, and MDSC immune cells through chemokines CXCL16 and CXCL8 which were identified from RNA-seq. Moreover, the CCR5-YAP1 axis played a vital role in promoting metastasis by modulating beta-catenin and core epithelial-mesenchymal transition transcription factors ZEB1 and ZEB2. It is noteworthy that the regulatory relationship between CCR5 and YAP1 was observed across various BC subtypes, TNBC patients, and showed potential relevance in fifteen additional cancer types. Overall, this study introduced an easy-to-use HTS assay that streamlines the discovery of CCL5/CCR5 axis antagonists. Verteporfin was identified as a specific molecular probe of this axis with great potentials as a therapeutic agent for treating sixteen malignant diseases characterized by heightened CCR5 and YAP1 levels.
38299866 | SHIV-C109p5 NHP induces rapid disease progression in elderly macaques with extensive GI viral replication. CCR5-tropic simian/human immunodeficiency viruses (SHIV) with clade C transmitted/founder envelopes represent a critical tool for the investigation of HIV experimental vaccines and microbicides in nonhuman primates, although many such isolates lead to spontaneous viral control post infection. Here, we generated a high-titer stock of pathogenic SHIV-C109p5 by serial passage in two rhesus macaques (RM) and tested its virulence in aged monkeys. The co-receptor usage was confirmed before infecting five geriatric rhesus macaques (four female and one male). Plasma viral loads were monitored by reverse transcriptase-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), cytokines by multiplex analysis, and biomarkers of gastrointestinal damage by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Antibodies and cell-mediated responses were also measured. Viral dissemination into tissues was determined by RNAscope. Intravenous SHIV-C109p5 infection of aged RMs leads to high plasma viremia and rapid disease progression; rapid decrease in CD4+ T cells, CD4+CD8+ T cells, and plasmacytoid dendritic cells; and wasting necessitating euthanasia between 3 and 12 weeks post infection. Virus-specific cellular immune responses were detected only in the two monkeys that survived 4 weeks post infection. These were Gag-specific TNFalpha+CD8+, MIP1beta+CD4+, Env-specific IFN-gamma+CD4+, and CD107a+ T cell responses. Four out of five monkeys had elevated intestinal fatty acid binding protein levels at the viral peak, while regenerating islet-derived protein 3alpha showed marked increases at later time points in the three animals surviving the longest, suggesting gut antimicrobial peptide production in response to microbial translocation post infection. Plasma levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, interleukin-15, and interleukin-12/23 were also elevated. Viral replication in gut and secondary lymphoid tissues was extensive.IMPORTANCESimian/human immunodeficiency viruses (SHIV) are important reagents to study prevention of virus acquisition in nonhuman primate models of HIV infection, especially those representing transmitted/founder (T/F) viruses. However, many R5-tropic SHIV have limited fitness in vivo leading to many monkeys spontaneously controlling the virus post acute infection. Here, we report the generation of a pathogenic SHIV clade C T/F stock by in vivo passage leading to sustained viral load set points, a necessity to study pathogenicity. Unexpectedly, administration of this SHIV to elderly rhesus macaques led to extensive viral replication and fast disease progression, despite maintenance of a strict R5 tropism. Such age-dependent rapid disease progression had previously been reported for simian immunodeficiency virus but not for R5-tropic SHIV infections.
38327056 | Chemokine receptor distribution on the surface of repolarizing T cells. T cells migrate constitutively with a polarized morphology, underpinned by signaling compartmentalization and discrete cytoskeletal organizations, giving rise to a dynamic and expansive leading edge, distinct from the stable and constricted uropod at the rear. In vivo, the motion and function of T cells at various stages of differentiation is highly directed by chemokine gradients. When cognate ligands bind chemokine receptors on their surface, T cells respond by reorientating their polarity axis and migrating toward the source of the chemokine signal. Despite the significance of such chemotactic repolarization to the accurate navigation and function of T cells, the precise signaling mechanisms that underlie it remain elusive. Notably, it remained unclear whether the distribution of chemokine receptors on the T cell surface is altered during repolarization. Here, we developed parallel cell-secreted and microfluidics-based chemokine gradient delivery methods and employed both fixed imaging and live lattice light-sheet microscopy to investigate the dynamics of chemokine receptor CCR5 on the surface of primary murine CD8+ T cells. Our findings show that, during constitutive migration, chemokine receptor distribution is largely isotropic on the T cell surface. However, upon exposure to a CCL3 gradient, surface chemokine receptor distributions exhibit a transient bias toward the uropod. The chemokine receptors then progressively redistribute from the uropod to cover the T cell surface uniformly. This study sheds new light on the dynamics of surface chemokine receptor distribution during T cell repolarization, advancing our understanding of the signaling of immune cells in the complex chemokine landscapes they navigate.
38329228 | Higher CCR5 density on CD4 + T cells in mothers and infants is associated with increased risk of in-utero HIV-1 transmission. OBJECTIVE: CCR5-tropic viruses are preferentially transmitted during perinatal HIV-1 infection. CCR5 density on CD4 + T cells likely impacts susceptibility to HIV-1 infection. DESIGN: Fifty-two mother-infant dyads were enrolled. All mothers were living with HIV-1, 27 of the infants acquired HIV-1 in utero and 25 infants remained uninfected. METHODS: CCR5 density, together with frequencies of CD4 + and CD8 + T cells expressing immune activation (CCR5, ICOS and HLA-DR) and immune checkpoint (TIGIT and PD-1) markers, were measured in whole blood from the dyads close to delivery. RESULTS: Compared with mothers who did not transmit, mothers who transmitted HIV-1 had less exposure to ART during pregnancy ( P = 0.015) and higher plasma viral load close to delivery ( P = 0.0005). These mothers, additionally, had higher CCR5 density on CD4 + and CD8 + T cells and higher frequencies of CCR5, ICOS and TIGIT-expressing CD8 + T cells. Similarly, compared with infants without HIV-1, infants with HIV-1 had higher CCR5 density on CD4 + and CD8 + T cells and higher frequencies of CCR5, TIGIT, and PD-1-expressing CD4 + and CD8 + T cells as well as higher frequencies of HLA-DR-expressing CD8 + T cells. CCR5 density on maternal CD4 + T cells remained significantly associated with transmission after adjusting for maternal viral load and CD4 + T cell counts. Mother-infant dyads with shared high CCR5 density phenotypes had the highest risk of transmission/acquisition of infection compared with dyads with shared low-CCR5 density phenotypes. CONCLUSION: This study provides strong evidence of a protective role for a combined mother-infant low CD4 + T-cell CCR5 density phenotype in in-utero transmission/acquisition of HIV-1.
38335302 | Exhausted Tumor-infiltrating CD39+CD103+ CD8+ T Cells Unveil Potential for Increased Survival in Human Pancreatic Cancer. In pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, the infiltration of CD8+ T cells within the tumor microenvironment correlates with a favorable prognosis. However, a significant proportion of tumor-infiltrating T cells become trapped within the desmoplastic stroma and lack tumor reactivity. Here, we explored different T-cell subsets in pancreatic tumors and adjacent tissues. We identified a subset of CD8+ T cells, double positive (DP) for CD39 and CD103 in pancreatic tumors, which has recently been described to display tumor reactivity in other types of solid tumors. Interestingly, DP CD8+ T cells preferentially accumulated in central tumor tissues compared with paired peripheral tumor and adjacent non-tumor tissues. Consistent with an antigen encounter, DP CD8+ T cells demonstrated higher proliferative rates and displayed an exhausted phenotype, characterized by elevated expression of PD-1 and TIM-3, compared with CD39-CD103- CD8+ T cells. In addition, DP CD8+ T cells exhibited higher expression levels of the tissue trafficking receptors CCR5 and CXCR6, while displaying lower levels of CXCR3 and CXCR4. Importantly, a high proportion of DP CD8+ T cells is associated with increased patient survival. These findings suggest that DP CD8+ T cells with a phenotype reminiscent of that of tumor-reactive T cells are present in pancreatic tumors. The abundance of DP CD8+ T cells could potentially aid in selecting patients for pancreatic cancer immunotherapy trials. SIGNIFICANCE: Patients with pancreatic cancer with a high proportion of CD39+CD103+ CD8+ T cells exhibiting a tumor-reactive phenotype have improved survival rates, suggesting their potential utility in selecting candidates for immunotherapy trials.
38337023 | Investigating the genetic makeup of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) in the United Arab Emirates population through next-generation sequencing. The Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules are central to immune response and have associations with the phenotypes of various diseases and induced drug toxicity. Further, the role of HLA molecules in presenting antigens significantly affects the transplantation outcome. The objective of this study was to examine the extent of the diversity of HLA alleles in the population of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) using Next-Generation Sequencing methodologies and encompassing a larger cohort of individuals. A cohort of 570 unrelated healthy citizens of the UAE volunteered to provide samples for Whole Genome Sequencing and Whole Exome Sequencing. The definition of the HLA alleles was achieved through the application of the bioinformatics tools, HLA-LA and xHLA. Subsequently, the findings from this study were compared with other local and international datasets. A broad range of HLA alleles in the UAE population, of which some were previously unreported, was identified. A comparison with other populations confirmed the current population's unique intertwined genetic heritage while highlighting similarities with populations from the Middle East region. Some disease-associated HLA alleles were detected at a frequency of > 5%, such as HLA-B*51:01, HLA-DRB1*03:01, HLA-DRB1*15:01, and HLA-DQB1*02:01. The increase in allele homozygosity, especially for HLA class I genes, was identified in samples with a higher level of genome-wide homozygosity. This highlights a possible effect of consanguinity on the HLA homozygosity. The HLA allele distribution in the UAE population showcases a unique profile, underscoring the need for tailored databases for traditional activities such as unrelated transplant matching and for newer initiatives in precision medicine based on specific populations. This research is part of a concerted effort to improve the knowledge base, particularly in the fields of transplant medicine and investigating disease associations as well as in understanding human migration patterns within the Arabian Peninsula and surrounding regions.
38342774 | Recognition of the HLA-B*15:01:17 allele in a Taiwanese individual. Nucleotide substitution in codon 129 of HLA-B*15:01:01:01 results in a novel allele, HLA-B*15:01:17.
38342777 | One nucleotide substitution in the 3'UTR generated the novel allele HLA-B*40:01:02:47 in a North Indian individual. HLA-B*40:01:02:47 differs from HLA-B*40:01:02:01 by one nucleotide change in the 3'UTR at position 2739 (A>T).
38358082 | Characterization of the novel HLA-B*14:121 allele by sequencing-based typing. HLA-B*14:121 differs from HLA-B*14:01:01:01 by one nucleotide substitution in codon 319 in exon 6.
38395454 | Patients with ankylosing spondylitis present a distinct CD8 T cell subset with osteogenic and cytotoxic potential. OBJECTIVES: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory rheumatic disease affecting mainly the axial skeleton. Peripheral involvement (arthritis, enthesitis and dactylitis) and extra-musculoskeletal manifestations, including uveitis, psoriasis and bowel inflammation, occur in a relevant proportion of patients. AS is responsible for chronic and severe back pain caused by local inflammation that can lead to osteoproliferation and ultimately spinal fusion. The association of AS with the human leucocyte antigen-B27 gene, together with elevated levels of chemokines, CCL17 and CCL22, in the sera of patients with AS, led us to study the role of CCR4+ T cells in the disease pathogenesis. METHODS: CD8+CCR4+ T cells isolated from the blood of patients with AS (n=76) or healthy donors were analysed by multiparameter flow cytometry, and gene expression was evaluated by RNA sequencing. Patients with AS were stratified according to the therapeutic regimen and current disease score. RESULTS: CD8+CCR4+ T cells display a distinct effector phenotype and upregulate the inflammatory chemokine receptors CCR1, CCR5, CX3CR1 and L-selectin CD62L, indicating an altered migration ability. CD8+CCR4+ T cells expressing CX3CR1 present an enhanced cytotoxic profile, expressing both perforin and granzyme B. RNA-sequencing pathway analysis revealed that CD8+CCR4+ T cells from patients with active disease significantly upregulate genes promoting osteogenesis, a core process in AS pathogenesis. CONCLUSIONS: Our results shed light on a new molecular mechanism by which T cells may selectively migrate to inflammatory loci, promote new bone formation and contribute to the pathological ossification process observed in AS.
38433661 | Full-length sequence of the novel allele, HLA-B*58:01:40, identified in a Chinese individual. HLA-B*58:01:40 differs from HLA-B*58:01:01 by a single nucleotide change in exon 3, 507 C- > T (codon 145.3 CGC- > CGT).
38433683 | Genomic sequence of the novel HLA-B*41:02:01:11, and -C*08:266 alleles identified in a solid organ recipient. HLA-B*41:02:01:11 and -C*08:266 were detected in a solid organ recipient during the HLA typing process.
38433704 | Detection of the HLA-B*40:01:35 allele in a Taiwanese individual. Nucleotide substitutions in codons -1 and 84 of HLA-B*40:01:01 result in a novel allele, HLA-B*40:01:35.
38486464 | DA-6034 ameliorates hepatic steatosis and inflammation in high fat diet-induced obese mice. Background: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is characterized by an increase in hepatic triglyceride content and increased inflammatory macrophage infiltration through the C-C motif chemokine receptor (CCR) 5 pathway in the liver. DA-6034 (7-carboxymethyloxy-3',4',5-trimethoxy flavone), is a synthetic derivative of eupatilin that exhibits anti-inflammatory activity in inflammatory bowel disease. However, the effect of DA-6034 on the inflammatory response in NAFLD is not well elucidated. Therefore, we aimed to determine the effect of DA-6034 on hepatic steatosis and inflammation. Methods: Forty male C57BL/6J mice were divided into the following four groups: (1) regular diet (RD), (2) RD with DA-6034, (3) high fat diet (HFD), and (4) HFD with DA-6034. All mice were sacrificed 12 weeks after the start of the experiment. The effects of DA-6034 on macrophages were assessed using RAW264.7 cells. Results: DA-6034 not only reduced hepatic triglyceride levels and lipid accumulation but also macrophage infiltration and proinflammatory cytokines in HFD-fed mice. According to fluorescence-activated cell sorter analysis, DA-6034 reduced the CD8+ T cell fraction in the liver of HFD-fed mice. DA-6034 also reduced CCR5 expression and the migration of liver macrophages in HFD-fed mice and inhibited CCR2 ligand and CCR4 ligand, which stimulated the migration of macrophages. Conclusion: Overall, DA-6034 attenuates hepatic steatosis and inflammation in obesity by regulating CCR5 expression in macrophages.
38494862 | The novel HLA-B*46:01:42 allele, identified by Sanger dideoxy nucleotide sequencing in a Chinese individual. HLA-B*46:01:42 differs from HLA-B*46:01:01:01 by one nucleotide in exon 5.
38563865 | Frequency and the effects of spondyloarthritis-spectrum disorders on the clinical course and management of Takayasu arteritis: an observational retrospective study. OBJECTIVES: Extravascular findings of Takayasu arteritis (TAK) often share features with the spondyloarthritis (SpA) spectrum of disorders. However, the characteristics of this overlap and its effect on the vascular manifestations of TAK are not fully known. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the frequency of SpA-related features in TAK patients. MATERIAL AND METHODS: In this observational retrospective study, 350 patients with TAK classified according to ACR 1990 criteria, from 12 tertiary rheumatology clinics, were included and evaluated for the presence of axSpA, IBD, or psoriasis. Demographic, clinical features, angiographic involvement patterns, disease activity, and treatments of TAK patients with or without SpA were analyzed. RESULTS: Mean age was 45.5 +- 13.6 years and mean follow-up period was 76.1 +- 65.9 months. Among 350 patients, 31 (8.8%) had at least one additional disease from the SpA spectrum, 8 had IBD, 8 had psoriasis, and 20 had features of axSpA. In the TAK-SpA group, TAK had significantly earlier disease onset, compared to TAK-without-SpA (p = 0.041). SpA-related symptoms generally preceded TAK symptoms. Biological treatments, mostly for active vasculitis, were higher in the TAK-SpA group (70.9%) compared to TAK-without-SpA (27.9%) (p < 0.001). Vascular involvements were similar in both. CONCLUSION: Our study confirmed that diseases in the SpA spectrum are not rare in TAK. Vascular symptoms appeared earlier in such patients, and more aggressive therapy with biological agents was required in the TAK-SpA group, suggesting an association between TAK and SpA spectrum. Key Points   The pathogenesis of Takayasu arteritis is mediated by an MHC class I alelle (HLA-B*52), similar to spondyloarthritis-disorders.   Extravascular findings of Takayasu arteritis are in the spectrum of spondyloarthritis disease.   This frequent coexistence between Takayasu arteritis and spondyloarthritic disorders suggests a relationship rather than a coincidence.
38566201 | Single-cell profiling of response to neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy in surgically resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. BACKGROUND: The efficacy of neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy (NAT) in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is challenged by the intricate interplay within the tumor microenvironment (TME). Unveiling the immune landscape of ESCC in the context of NAT could shed light on heterogeneity and optimize therapeutic strategies for patients. METHODS: We analyzed single cells from 22 baseline and 24 post-NAT treatment samples of stage II/III ESCC patients to explore the association between the immune landscape and pathological response to neoadjuvant anti-PD-1 combination therapy, including pathological complete response (pCR), major pathological response (MPR), and incomplete pathological response (IPR). RESULTS: Single-cell profiling identified 14 major cell subsets of cancer, immune, and stromal cells. Trajectory analysis unveiled an interesting link between cancer cell differentiation and pathological response to NAT. ESCC tumors enriched with less differentiated cancer cells exhibited a potentially favorable pathological response to NAT, while tumors enriched with clusters of more differentiated cancer cells may resist treatment. Deconvolution of transcriptomes in pre-treatment tumors identified gene signatures in response to NAT contributed by specific immune cell populations. Upregulated genes associated with better pathological responses in CD8 + effector T cells primarily involved interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) signaling, neutrophil degranulation, and negative regulation of the T cell apoptotic process, whereas downregulated genes were dominated by those in the immune response-activating cell surface receptor signaling pathway. Natural killer cells in pre-treatment tumors from pCR patients showed a similar upregulation of gene expression in response to IFNgamma but a downregulation of genes in the neutrophil-mediated immunity pathways. A decreased cellular contexture of regulatory T cells in ESCC TME indicated a potentially favorable pathological response to NAT. Cell-cell communication analysis revealed extensive interactions between CCL5 and its receptor CCR5 in various immune cells of baseline pCR tumors. Immune checkpoint interaction pairs, including CTLA4-CD86, TIGIT-PVR, LGALS9-HAVCR2, and TNFSF4-TNFRSF4, might serve as additional therapeutic targets for ICI therapy in ESCC. CONCLUSIONS: This pioneering study unveiled an intriguing association between cancer cell differentiation and pathological response in esophageal cancer patients, revealing distinct subgroups of tumors for which neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy might be effective. We also delineated the immune landscape of ESCC tumors in the context of clinical response to NAT, which provides clinical insights for better understanding how patients respond to the treatment and further identifying novel therapeutic targets for ESCC patients in the future.
38568169 | Detection of the novel HLA-B*55:01:31, HLA-C*07:1113 alleles and confirmation of HLA-C*12:392. Novel HLA-B*55:01:31, HLA-C*07:1113 alleles and confirmatory HLA-C*12:392 allele were detected during the HLA typing process.
38575367 | Identification of the novel HLA-B*13:191 allele by next-generation sequencing. The novel HLA-B*13:191 allele was detected during the HLA typing for kidney transplantation.
38590799 | CCR2 and CCR5 co-inhibition modulates immunosuppressive myeloid milieu in glioma and synergizes with anti-PD-1 therapy. Immunotherapy has revolutionized the treatment of cancers. Reinvigorating lymphocytes with checkpoint blockade has become a cornerstone of immunotherapy for multiple tumor types, but the treatment of glioblastoma has not yet shown clinical efficacy. A major hurdle to treat GBM with checkpoint blockade is the high degree of myeloid-mediated immunosuppression in brain tumors that limits CD8 T-cell activity. A potential strategy to improve anti-tumor efficacy against glioma is to use myeloid-modulating agents to target immunosuppressive cells, such as myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in the tumor microenvironment. We found that the co-inhibition of the chemokine receptors CCR2 and CCR5 in murine model of glioma improves the survival and synergizes robustly with anti-PD-1 therapy. Moreover, the treatment specifically reduced the infiltration of monocytic-MDSCs (M-MDSCs) into brain tumors and increased lymphocyte abundance and cytokine secretion by tumor-infiltrating CD8 T cells. The depletion of T-cell subsets and myeloid cells abrogated the effects of CCR2 and CCR5 blockade, indicating that while broad depletion of myeloid cells does not improve survival, specific reduction in the infiltration of immunosuppressive myeloid cells, such as M-MDSCs, can boost the anti-tumor immune response of lymphocytes. Our study highlights the potential of CCR2/CCR5 co-inhibition in reducing myeloid-mediated immunosuppression in GBM patients.
38605632 | Characterization of the novel HLA-B*40:538 allele by next-generation sequencing. The HLA-B*40:538 allele differs from HLA-B*40:01:02:01 at position 905 C T in exon 5.
38607373 | Exploratory mass cytometry analysis reveals immunophenotypes of cancer treatment-related pneumonitis. Anticancer treatments can result in various adverse effects, including infections due to immune suppression/dysregulation and drug-induced toxicity in the lung. One of the major opportunistic infections is Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia (PCP), which can cause severe respiratory complications and high mortality rates. Cytotoxic drugs and immune-checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) can induce interstitial lung diseases (ILDs). Nonetheless, the differentiation of these diseases can be difficult, and the pathogenic mechanisms of such diseases are not yet fully understood. To better comprehend the immunophenotypes, we conducted an exploratory mass cytometry analysis of immune cell subsets in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from patients with PCP, cytotoxic drug-induced ILD (DI-ILD), and ICI-associated ILD (ICI-ILD) using two panels containing 64 markers. In PCP, we observed an expansion of the CD16+ T cell population, with the highest CD16+ T proportion in a fatal case. In ICI-ILD, we found an increase in CD57+ CD8+ T cells expressing immune checkpoints (TIGIT+ LAG3+ TIM-3+ PD-1+), FCRL5+ B cells, and CCR2+ CCR5+ CD14+ monocytes. These findings uncover the diverse immunophenotypes and possible pathomechanisms of cancer treatment-related pneumonitis.
38617217 | Distinct Type 1 Immune Networks Underlie the Severity of Restrictive Lung Disease after COVID-19. The variable etiology of persistent breathlessness after COVID-19 have confounded efforts to decipher the immunopathology of lung sequelae. Here, we analyzed hundreds of cellular and molecular features in the context of discrete pulmonary phenotypes to define the systemic immune landscape of post-COVID lung disease. Cluster analysis of lung physiology measures highlighted two phenotypes of restrictive lung disease that differed by their impaired diffusion and severity of fibrosis. Machine learning revealed marked CCR5+CD95+ CD8+ T-cell perturbations in mild-to-moderate lung disease, but attenuated T-cell responses hallmarked by elevated CXCL13 in more severe disease. Distinct sets of cells, mediators, and autoantibodies distinguished each restrictive phenotype, and differed from those of patients without significant lung involvement. These differences were reflected in divergent T-cell-based type 1 networks according to severity of lung disease. Our findings, which provide an immunological basis for active lung injury versus advanced disease after COVID-19, might offer new targets for treatment.
38629729 | Characterisation of the novel HLA-B*58:02:04 allele by next-generation sequencing. HLA-B*58:02:04 differs from HLA-B*58:02:01 by one synonymous nucleotide in codon 215 in exon 4.
343833 | [Edema of the paws of white mice--test for assessing the activity of E. coli enterotoxins]. The authors studied the paw edema test in mice for detection of the E. coli (strain P-99) enterotoxins activity. This test proved to be simple, sensitive and reproducible; it permitted to determine the activity of thermostable and thermolabile enterotoxins and endotoxin; the mentioned test was particularly useful in testing various preparations of enterotoxins obtained during their extraction and purification.
1901403 | [RU 51807 (cefpodoxime proxetil). In vitro and in vivo antibacterial activity of a new orally administered active cephalosporin]. Cefpodoxime proxetil (RU 51807) is an enterally absorbed ester prodrug which is rapidly cleaved in vivo after oral administration, with release of the active free acid metabolite cefpodoxime. The in vitro antibacterial activity of the sodium salt of cefpodoxime (RU 51746) against approximately 800 clinical isolates was evaluated comparatively with other orally active beta-lactams. RU 51746 was found to be active against enterobacteria normally susceptible to third generation cephalosporins, with MIC50 values ranging from 0.02 mg/l (Providencia sp) to 5 mg/l (C. freundii). RU 51746 was also active against H. influenzae, including beta-lactamase producing strains (MIC50 0.04 mg/l), oxa-S S. aureus (2,5), beta-hemolytic streptococci (0.05) and S. pneumoniae (0.002). Oxa-R staphylococci and P. aeruginosa were resistant to RU 51746 (MIC50 greater than 40 mg/l for both organisms). The antibacterial activity of RU 51746 was bactericidal in nature and independent from test conditions. The molecule was stable to all the beta-lactamases studied, with the exception of cefuroximase (type Ic). RU 51746 exhibited no strong inhibitory effects on these enzymes, except with Enterobacter P99 (type Ia). A good correlation was found between in vivo activity of RU 51807 and in vitro activity of RU 51746. Cefpodoxime proxetil was found to be more effective than cefaclor in mice with experimental septicemia caused by various streptococci, with a DP50 ratio in the 10-100 range. This advantage was again evidenced for septicemias due to various enterobacteria. In contrast, cefaclor proved more effective in experimental staphylococcus infections. In mice with experimental pneumonia, cefpodoxime proxetil caused sharp falls in K. pneumoniae lung counts. Six days after induction of the infection, 60% of animals under cefpodoxime proxetil had sterile lungs, versus 25% of animals under amoxicillin.
1970799 | Chromosomal localization of ZFX--a human gene that escapes X inactivation--and its murine homologs. The ZFY gene, found in the sex-determining region of the human Y chromosome, encodes a zinc-finger protein that may be the pivotal sex-determining signal. A closely related gene, ZFX, is found on the human X chromosome, and it may also function in sex determination. ZFX is one of a few genes on the human X chromosome that are known to escape X inactivation. We report the localization of ZFX, by meiotic linkage analysis and physical mapping, distal to POLA but proximal to DXS41 (p99-6), near the boundary of bands Xp21.3 and Xp22.1. (Our results suggest the following order of loci in Xp21-p22: cen-DMD-[GK,AHC]-DXS67 (pB24)-POLA-ZFX-[DXS41 (p99-6), DXS274 (CRI-L1391)]-DXS43 (pD2)-pter.) These findings contradict the model that escape from X inactivation is limited to genes near the short-arm telomere (i.e., in Xp22.3). Instead, escape from X inactivation is likely a property of several noncontiguous segments of the X chromosome. Curiously, in mouse, the homologous Zfx gene maps to X chromosome band D, near the center from which an X-inactivating signal is thought to spread. As judged by comparative mapping, it appears that an X-chromosomal segment that spans the ZFX and DMD genes has remained grossly intact during the divergence of mouse and human from a common ancestor. Conservation of this chromosomal segment may extent to marsupials, where homologs of the ZFX and DMD genes have been observed in proximity, but on an autosome. While autosomal homologs of ZFX have not been observed in other placental mammals, a locus derived from a processed Zfx transcript is found on mouse chromosome 10 band B3 or B4.
3036833 | ERp99, an abundant, conserved glycoprotein of the endoplasmic reticulum, is homologous to the 90-kDa heat shock protein (hsp90) and the 94-kDa glucose regulated protein (GRP94). We have isolated an expressible full-length cDNA clone encoding murine ERp99, an abundant, conserved transmembrane glycoprotein of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. ERp99 is synthesized as a 92,475-kDa precursor containing 802 amino acids. It possesses a signal peptide of 21 amino acids which is cleaved cotranslationally. Analysis of the amino acid sequence deduced from the nucleotide sequence of the cDNA clone led us to propose a model for the orientation of ERp99 in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. In this model, ERp99 possesses one membrane-spanning, stop transfer segment in the N-terminal region. The protein chain passes through the membrane only once, and approximately 75% of the protein remains on the cytoplasmic side of the ER membrane. Comparison of the ERp99 sequence to the sequence of other proteins revealed that ERp99 has extensive homology with the 90-kDa heat shock protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (hsp90) and the 83-kDa heat shock protein of Drosophila melanogaster. In addition, the N terminus of mature ERp99 is identical to that of the 94-kDa glucose regulated protein (GRP94) of mammalian cells.
3928497 | The in vitro activity and beta-lactamase stability of cefpirome (HR 810), a pyridine cephalosporin agent active against staphylococci, Enterobacteriaceae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The in vitro activity of cefpirome, a new cyclopyridinium cephalosporin, was evaluated against 947 aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. Cefpirome inhibited 90% of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella spp., Citrobacter diversus, Morganella morganii, Proteus vulgaris, Proteus mirabilis, Aeromonas spp., Salmonella spp., Shigella spp. and Haemophilus and Neisseria species at less than or equal to 0.4 mg/l. It had activity comparable to that of cefotaxime, ceftizoxime, ceftazidime, aztreonam, and moxalactam against these species. Only a few Citrobacter freundii, Enterobacter spp. and Serratia marcescens had MICs above 3.1 mg/l. The activity of cefpirome against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, 90% MIC of 12.5 mg/l, was superior to piperacillin, moxalactam, cefotaxime and cefoperazone. The 90% MIC against Staphylococcus aureus was 0.8 mg/l, but methicillin-resistant staphylococci were not inhibited. Cefpirome was not significantly hydrolyzed by most plasmid beta-lactamases (TEM, SHV-1, PSE, OXA) nor by chromosomal enzymes (P99, Branhamella catarrhalis, K1). Cefpirome did not inhibit chromosomal or plasmid beta-lactamases. Mice systemically infected with E. coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, P. aeruginosa and S. aureus were protected by concentrations of cefpirome ranging from 0.85 mg/kg for K. pneumoniae to 4.467 mg/kg for P. aeruginosa.
6337042 | beta-Cell function relative to islet volume and hormone content in the isolated perfused mouse pancreas. The beta-cell function, total islet volume, and number were studied in 1- to 18-month-old mice, together with the extractable pancreatic insulin and glucagon. The beta-cell function, determined as the total amount of insulin released in response to glucose from the in vitro perfused pancreas showed an age-related increase, without any differences in the kinetics of insulin secretion between young and old mice. The total islet number and area in each individual pancreas was determined planimetrically after selective staining of the islets by perfusing the pancreas with dithizone. The islet area increased from 5.4 +/- 1.7 mm2 at 1 month to 16.3 +/- 2.1 mm2 at 18 months, whereas the number of islets remained virtually unchanged (1072 +/- 51). Pancreatic insulin increased with age by nearly 500%, in contrast to a 35% reduction in pancreatic glucagon. There was a strong relationship between body weight and total pancreatic DNA (P = 4.7 X 10(-8)), islet area (P = 3.2 X 10(-7)), insulin secretory capacity (P = 7 X 10(-4)), and total pancreatic insulin (P = 1.9 X 10(-5)), but no relationship between body weight and islet number. The insulin secretory capacity increased proportionally to the increase in islet area (P = 9.9 X 10(-3)). The islet area and total pancreatic insulin were closely related (P = 2.8 X 10(-12)), as were pancreatic insulin and the insulin secretory capacity (P = 3.3 X 10(-11)). There was a negative relationship between pancreatic glucagon and islet area (P = 0.005) and between pancreatic glucagon and insulin (P = 0.01). The close relationship between pancreatic insulin and islet area, shown to be an expression of islet volume, makes it possible to estimate the volume of the endocrine pancreas after standard RIA of pancreatic insulin. The combined morphometric and physiological analysis is unique in studying islet cell function relative to the volume of the endocrine pancreas.
7757987 | In vitro and in vivo activities of a doxorubicin prodrug in combination with monoclonal antibody beta-lactamase conjugates. A cephalosporin derivative of doxorubicin (C-Dox) was evaluated as a prodrug for activation by mAb conjugates of the beta-lactamase from Enterobacter cloacae P99 (beta L; EC 3.5.2.6). The conjugates consisted of beta L and the F(ab') fragments of either of the mAbs L6, P1.17, or 96.5. L6 binds to antigens on a variety of carcinomas, including the two lung adenocarcinoma cell lines H2981 and H2987 used in this study. 96.5 binds to the melanoma-associated antigen p97, and P1.17 was used for the control conjugate. C-Dox was found to be less cytotoxic to three different tumor cell lines in vitro compared to the parent drug doxorubicin (Dox). Immunospecific activation took place when the cells were pretreated with beta L conjugates that could bind to antigens on the tumor cells. In vivo toxicity and pharmacokinetics studies in athymic female nu/nu mice revealed that C-Dox was at least 7-fold less toxic than Dox (on a molar basis), despite the fact that a > or = 320-fold greater area-under-the-curve (blood concentration versus time) of C-Dox compared to Dox was obtained 0-2 h after administration of the two agents. Pharmacokinetic studies at maximum tolerated doses in mice bearing xenografts of either H2981 or H2987 revealed that the intratumoral levels of Dox after treatment with L6-beta L in combination with C-Dox were higher than were obtained by either systemic treatment with Dox or a combination of P1.17-beta L and C-Dox. This finding suggested that the conversion of C-Dox to Dox was tumor specific and dependent on the presence of the targeted antigen. Furthermore, the best antitumor activity against both H2981 and H2987 tumors was obtained by treatment with L6-beta L and C-Dox compared to P1.17-beta L and C-Dox or Dox alone. Thus, higher levels of Dox corresponded to greater therapeutic effects in both of the tumor models studied.
7868393 | Synthesis and biological activity of novel cephalosporins containing a (Z)-vinyl dimethylphosphonate group. A series of cephalosporins containing a novel 7-[2-(Z)-(2-amino-thiazol-4- yl)-3-(dimethoxy-phosphoryl)-acryloylamino] group were prepared and their antibacterial activity measured against a range of pathogens. In general the compounds displayed a broad spectrum of activity against both Gram positive and Gram negative organisms, except Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Activity against the latter could be achieved by introducing a catechol moiety at the 3 position of the cephalosporin. The methyl phosphonates in general were stable to a wide range of beta-lactamases, including the TEM enzymes and the Enterobacter cloacae P99 chromosomal enzyme. In addition, they showed the advantage of being highly water soluble.
7873667 | High yield, site-specific coupling of N-terminally modified beta-lactamase to a proteolytically derived single-sulfhydryl murine Fab'. The preparation of bispecific protein conjugates capable of performing diverse biological functions is an area of active investigation. Such conjugates are routinely prepared using techniques which employ random derivatization of lysine residues, but the overall utility of these methods is limited due to poor yields and heterogeneous conjugates. In this report we describe the development of site-specific linkage methodology for the chemical synthesis of a homogeneous enzyme-antibody Fab' conjugate with coupling efficiencies of at least 72%. The N-terminal threonine residue of beta-lactamase from the P99 strain of Enterobacter cloacae was oxidized to an aldehyde functional group under mild conditions with a 5-fold molar excess of sodium periodate. The murine Fab' with a single sulfhydryl at the hinge region was generated by further digestion of the peptic Fab' fragment with lysyl endopeptidase to remove a decapeptide containing two of the three cysteine residues. Coupling of the two modified proteins was accomplished through a bifunctional coupling reagent containing meleimide and aminooxy functional groups. Synthesis of the linker is described. Yields of 1:1 enzyme-Fab' were at least three times higher than for comparable random derivatization methods. Immunoreactivity and enzymatic activity were unaffected. Biodistribution studies showed a more favorable tumor to blood ratio with the site-specifically linked conjugate.
8843288 | In vitro and in vivo activities of LB10522, a new catecholic cephalosporin. In vitro activity of LB10522 was compared with those of cefpirome, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, and cefoperazone against clinical isolates. Against gram-positive bacteria, LB10522 was most active among the compounds tested. It was fourfold more active than cefpirome against methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus faecalis. LB10522 was highly effective against most members of the family Enterobacteriaceae tested. Ninety percent of isolates of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella oxytoca, Proteus vulgaris, Proteus mirabilis, and Salmonella spp. were inhibited at a concentration of < or = 0.5 micrograms/ml. These activities were comparable to those of cefpirome. Against Pseudomonas aeruginosa, LB10522 with a MIC at which 90% of the isolates are inhibited of 2 micrograms/ml was 16- and 32-fold more active than ceftazidime and ceftazidime against systemic infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus giorgio, Streptococcus pneumoniae III, Pseudomonas aeruginosa 1912E, Escherichia coli 851E, Proteus mirabilis 1315E, Serratia marcescens 1826E, and Acinetobacter calcoaceticus Ac-54. LB10522 was very resistant to hydrolysis by various beta-lactamases such as TEM-3, TEM-7, SHV-1, FEC-1, and P-99. LB10522 did not induce beta-lactamase in Enterobacter cloacae 1194E, although most of the reference cephalosporins acted as inducers of beta-lactamase in this strain. Time-kill study showed that LB10522, at concentrations of two or four times the MIC, had a rapid bactericidal activity against Staphylococcus aureus 6538p, Escherichia coli 851E, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa 1912E.
8858110 | Identification of glycyrrhizin-binding protein kinase as casein kinase II and characterization of its associated phosphate acceptors in mouse liver. Two forms (G-I and G-II kinases) of casein kinase II(CK-II) in a partially purified CK-II fraction (Mono Q fraction) of mouse liver were separated by means of glycyrrhizin (GL)-affinity column chromatography. Biochemical characterization revealed that these two GL-binding kinases were identical to CK-II. Two phosphate acceptors [p99 (pI 7.0) and p56] copurified with CK-II were identified as ERp99 (Hsp-90-family protein) and calreticulin, respectively. Another protein [p100 (pI 9.0)], which crossreacted with anti-serum against human glucocorticoid receptor (GR), was associated with ERp99. Phosphorylation of p99 [a hetero-complex of p99 (pI 7.0) and p100 (pI 9.0)] and p56 by CK-II in vitro was stimulated significantly by low levels (1-3 microM) of GL, but inhibited significantly at doses above 20 microM. However, no effect of GL on autophosphorylation of ERp99 was detected. The data provided here suggest that GL can regulate CK-II-mediated phosphorylation involved in the GL-induced biological effects in mammalian cells.
12022883 | Mitochondrial aconitase modification, functional inhibition, and evidence for a supramolecular complex of the TCA cycle by the renal toxicant S-(1,1,2,2-tetrafluoroethyl)-L-cysteine. Metabolism of the common industrial gas tetrafluoroethylene in mammals results in the formation of S-(1,1,2,2)-tetrafluoroethyl-L-cysteine (TFEC), which can be bioactivated by a mitochondrial C-S lyase commonly referred to as beta-lyase. The resultant \reactive intermediate\, difluorothioacetyl fluoride (DFTAF), is a potent thioalkylating and protein-modifying species. Previously, we have identified mitochondrial HSP70, HSP60, aspartate aminotransferase, and the E2 and E3 subunits of the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (alphaKGDH) complex as specific proteins structurally modified during this process. Moreover, functional alterations to the alphaKGDH complex were also detected and implicated in the progression of injury. We report here the identification, by tandem mass spectrometry, and functional characterization of the final remaining major protein species modified by DFTAF, previously designated as P99(unk), as mitochondrial aconitase. Aconitase activity was maximally inhibited by 56.5% in renal homogenates after a 6 h exposure to TFEC. In comparison to alphaKGDH, aconitase inhibition (up to 79%) in a cell culture model for TFEC-mediated cytotoxicity was greater and preceded alphaKGDH inhibition, indicating that aconitase modification may constitute an early event in TFEC-mediated mitochondrial damage and cell death. These findings largely define the initial lesion of TFEC-mediated cell death and also have implications for the modeling of mitochondrial enzymatic architecture and the localization and identity of renal mitochondrial cysteine S-conjugate beta-lyase.
12709336 | In vitro and in vivo activities of AM-112, a novel oxapenem. AM-112 [(1'R,5R,6R)-3-(4-amino-1,1-dimethyl-butyl)-6-(1'-hydroxyethyl)oxapenem-3-carboxylate] is a novel oxapenem compound which possesses potent beta-lactamase-inhibitory properties. Fifty-percent inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)s) of AM-112 for class A enzymes were between 0.16 and 2.24 micro M for three enzymes, compared to IC(50)s of 0.008 to 0.12 micro M for clavulanic acid. Against class C and class D enzymes, however, the activity of AM-112 was between 1,000- and 100,000-fold greater than that of clavulanic acid. AM-112 had affinity for the penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) of Escherichia coli DC0, with PBP2 being inhibited by the lowest concentration of AM-112 tested, 0.1 micro g/ml. Ceftazidime was combined with AM-112 at 1:1 and 2:1 ratios in MIC determination studies against a panel of beta-lactamase-producing organisms. These studies demonstrated that AM-112 was effective at protecting ceftazidime against extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing strains and derepressed class C enzyme producers, reducing ceftazidime MICs by 16- and 2,048-fold. Similar results were obtained when AM-112 was combined with ceftriaxone, cefoperazone, or cefepime in a 1:2 ratio. Protection of ceftazidime with AM-112 was maintained against Enterobacter cloacae P99 and Klebsiella pneumoniae SHV-5 in a murine intraperitoneal sepsis model. The 50% effective dose of ceftazidime against E. cloacae P99 and K. pneumoniae SHV-5 was reduced from >100 and 160 mg/kg of body weight to 2 and 33.6 mg/kg, respectively, when it was combined with AM-112 at a 1:1 ratio. AM-112 demonstrates potential as a new beta-lactamase inhibitor.
15501817 | Interactor-mediated nuclear translocation and retention of protein phosphatase-1. Protein Ser/Thr phosphatase-1 (PP1) is a ubiquitous eukaryotic enzyme that controls numerous cellular processes by the dephosphorylation of key regulatory proteins. PP1 is expressed in various cellular compartments but is most abundant in the nucleus. We have examined the determinants for the nuclear localization of enhanced green fluorescent protein-tagged PP1 in COS1 cells. Our studies show that PP1gamma(1) does not contain a functional nuclear localization signal and that its nuclear accumulation does not require Sds22, which has previously been implicated in the nuclear accumulation of PP1 in yeast (Peggie, M. W., MacKelvie, S. H., Bloecher, A., Knatko, E. V., Tatchell, K., and Stark, M. J. R. (2002) J. Cell Sci. 115, 195-206). However, the nuclear targeting of PP1 isoforms was alleviated by the mutation of their binding sites for proteins that interact via an RVXF motif. Moreover, one of the mutants with a cytoplasmic accumulation and decreased affinity for RVXF motifs (PP1gamma(1)-F257A) could be re-targeted to the nucleus by the overexpression of nuclear interactors (NIPP1 (nuclear inhibitor of PP1) and PNUTS (PP1 nuclear targeting subunit)) with a functional RVXF motif. Also, the addition of a synthetic RVXF-containing peptide to permeabilized cells resulted in the loss of nuclear enhanced green fluorescent protein-PP1gamma(1). Finally, NIPP1(-/-) mouse embryos showed a nuclear hyperphosphorylation on threonine, consistent with a role for NIPP1 in the nuclear targeting and/or retention of PP1. Our data suggest that both the nuclear translocation and the nuclear retention of PP1 depend on its binding to interactors with an RVXF motif.
15575505 | [Genetic and taxonomic diversity of the house mouse Mus musculus from the asian part of the former Soviet Union]. Genetic diversity of the house mouse Mus musculus from 12 local populations (n = 65) of the central and eastern parts of the former Soviet Union was examined using RAPD-PCR. About 400 loci were identified, encompassing approximately 500 kb of the mouse genome. Genetic diversity was assessed using NTSYS, POPGENE, TFPGA, and TREECON software programs. In general, the house mouse sample from the regions examined was characterized by moderate genetic variation: polymorphism P = 95.6%, P99 = 60.7%, P95 = 24.2%; heterozygosity H = 0.089; the mean observed number of alleles n(a) = 1.97; effective number of alleles n = 1.13; intrapopulation differentiation deltaS = 0.387; gene diversity h = 0.09. Individual local populations displayed different levels of genetic isolation: the genetic subdivision index G(st) varied from 0.086 to 0.324 at gene flow Nm varying from 5.3 to 1.05, while the interpopulation genetic distance D(N) ranged from 0.059 to 0.186. Most of the genetic diversity of the total sample resided within the local populations: H(S) = 0.6, total gene diversity H(T) = 0.09. The exact test for differentiation, however, did not confirm the affiliation of all the mice examined to one population: chi2 = 1446, d.f. = 724, P = 0.000. Molecular markers specific to four subspecies (musculus, castaneus, gansuensis, and wagneri) were identified. Moreover, in some cases the populations and individual animals exhibited traits of different subspecies, suggesting their introgressive hybridization. It was demonstrated that the house mouse fauna on the territories investigated was characterized by the prevalence of musculus-specific markers, while gansuensis-specific markers ranked second. The castaneus-specific markers were highly frequent in the Far East, but almost absent in Central Asia, where wagneri-specific markers were detected. It was suggested that house mice from Turkmenistan could belong to one of the southern subspecies, which had not deeply penetrated into the Asian fauna of the former Soviet Union. In phenogenetic (UPGMA) and phylogenetic (NJ) reconstructions this form with the high bootstrap support was placed at the tree base, while the isolation of other clusters was not statistically significant. It is thus likely that the house mice from Turkmenistan are closest to the ancestral form of the genus Mus on the territory of the former Soviet Union.
15894402 | CAT 53: a protein phosphatase 1 nuclear targeting subunit encoded in the MHC Class I region strongly expressed in regions of the brain involved in memory, learning, and Alzheimer's disease. We identified CAT 53 by cDNA hybridization selection as an expressed sequence tag (EST), located in the vicinity of HLA-C and designated as CAT (for HLA-C associated transcript) 53. CAT 53 encodes a protein described by others and commonly known as phosphatase 1 nuclear targeting subunit (PNUTS). PNUTS is a potent inhibitor of nuclear serine/threonine protein phosphatase 1 (PP1). We present the genomic organization of CAT 53, localize specific sites of mRNA transcription in thin sections of mouse brain by in-situ hybridization, and perform a structural analysis of the peptide domains. We also characterize the protein expression pattern for PNUTS by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry with PNUTS antibody in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains and age-matched control brains. In-situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry analysis of human and mouse brain show high CAT 53 expression in the olfactory cortex, piriform cortex, and hippocampus. Very high expression of CAT 53 was found mainly in the hippocampus, frontal, and entorhinal cortex of control brains and in the neurofibrillary tangles of AD brain. In the hippocampus, CAT 53 is expressed in CA1 and CA3 cell layers and in the dentate gyrus. The hippocampus is known to play a fundamental role in learning and episodic memories and has been implicated in a number of neurological and psychiatric disorders, including AD, epilepsy, and schizophrenia. Our findings suggest that PNUTS, encoded by CAT 53 on 6p21.3, may have a role in the progression of AD.
18325784 | PNUTS forms a trimeric protein complex with GABA(C) receptors and protein phosphatase 1. Phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of neurotransmitter receptors represent an important mechanism to regulate synaptic signal transduction. Here, we identified PNUTS, a targeting subunit of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) as a new binding partner of GABA(C) receptors. In the mammalian retina, PNUTS is co-expressed with GABA(C) receptors and PP1 in bipolar cells. PNUTS and PP1 were detected in membrane protein preparations of the retina and precipitate with GABA(C) receptor specific antibodies. Furthermore, PNUTS shuttles from the nucleus to the membrane in cells co-expressing GABA(C) receptors. We show simultaneous binding of PP1 and GABA(C) receptors to different domains of PNUTS, demonstrating that PNUTS cross-links PP1 and GABA(C) receptors. Finally, modeling studies showed that the PP1 docking motif of PNUTS fits into the binding pocket on the enzyme surface, despite a C-terminal adjacent proline. We suggest that PNUTS targets PP1 to synaptic sites, acting as a temporary bridge between the phosphatase and GABA(C) receptors.
18672801 | [Genetic diversity of the house mouse Mus musculus and geographic distribution of its subspecies-specific RAPD markers on the territory of Russia]. Genetic diversity and geographic distribution of taxon-specific RAPD markers was examined in ten local populations of the house mouse Mus musculus (n = 42). The house mice were generally characterized by moderate genetic variation: polymorphism P99 = 60%, P95 = 32.57%; heterozygosity H = 0.12; the observed allele number n(a) = 1.6; the effective allele number n(e) = 1.18; the within-population differentiation Theta = 0.388; and Shannon index I = 0.19. The degree of genetic isolation of individual local populations was greatly variable. The genetic subdivision index G(st) varied from 0.162 to 0.770 at the gene flow of Nm = 2.58-0.149, while the among-population distances D(N) varied from 0.026 to 0.178. of the largest part of the genetic diversity was found among the populations (H(T) = 0.125), while the within-population diversity was twice lower (H(S) = 0.06). The samples examined were well discriminated relative to the sets of RAPD markers. The character distribution pattern provided conditional subdivision of the mice into the \western\ and the \eastern\ groups with the putative boarder along the Baikal Lake. The first group was characterized by the prevalence of the markers typical of M. m. musculus and M. m. domesticus. The second group was characterized by the prevalence of the markers typical of M. m. musculus, M. m. gansuensis, M. m. castaneus, M. m. domesticus, and m. m. wagneri. The genotype of the nominative subspecies M. m. musculus was background for all populations. In the populations examined some of earlier described subspecies-specific molecular markers were found at different frequencies, pointing to the involvement of several subspecies of M. musculus in the process of hybridization.
19284475 | Regulation and function of neuronal GTP-Ras in facial motor nerve regeneration. Activation of Ras into the GTP-binding, 'ON' state is a key switch in the neurotrophin-mediated neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth, in vitro as well as in vivo. In the current study we explored changes in GTP-Ras levels following facial nerve injury and the ensuing regeneration and the effects of perturbing these changes in vivo using synapsin-promoter mediated neuronal expression of constitutively active Val12H-Ras (synRas). Quantification of GTP-Ras and total Ras revealed a precipitous drop in the relative GTP-Ras levels in the axotomized facial motor nucleus, to 40% of normal levels at 2 days after cut, followed by a partial recovery to 50-65% at 4-28 days. On western blots, control and axotomized nuclei from synRas mutants showed a 2.2- and 2.5-fold elevation in GTP-Ras, respectively, compared with their wild type littermate controls (p < 5%, anova, TUKEY post-hoc), with the levels in the axotomized synRas nucleus slightly but not significantly above that in the uninjured littermate control (p = 9.9%). Similar increase was also observed in the pERK but not pAKT targets of the Ras cascade. This moderate elevation of GTP-Ras strongly curtailed post-traumatic neuronal cell death (-65%), the influx of T-cells (-48%) as well as other parameters of neuroinflammatory response. Although synRas did not affect the speed of axonal regeneration or functional recovery it caused a very pronounced increase in central axonal sprouting. These current data emphasize the role of reduced active Ras, and by extension, the reduced overall level of retrograde neurotrophin signalling after axotomy, in mediating post-traumatic cell death and inflammation and in restricting the sprouting response. Moreover, the neuroprotective and central sprouting-enhancing effects of neuronal Val12H-Ras could help promote recovery in CNS injury.
20219829 | Cancer cell-specific internalizing ligands from phage displayed beta-lactamase-peptide fusion libraries. The present study was focused on identifying cancer cell-specific internalizing ligands using a new kind of phage display library in which the linear or cysteine-constrained random peptides were at amino-terminus fusion to catalytically active P99 beta-lactamase molecules. The size and quality of libraries were comparable to other reported phage display systems. Several cancer cell-specific binding and internalizing beta-lactamase-peptide fusion ligands were isolated by selecting these libraries on the live BT-474 human breast cancer cells. The identified ligands shared several significant motifs, which showed their selectivity and possible binding to some common cancer cell targets. The beta-lactamase fusion made the whole process of clone screening efficient and simple. The ligands selected from such libraries do not require peptide synthesis and modifications, and can be used directly for applications that require ligand tracking. In addition, the selected beta-lactamase-peptide ligands have a potential for their direct use in targeted enzyme prodrug therapy. The cancer-specific peptides can also be adopted for other kinds of targeted delivery protocols requiring cell-specific affinity reagents. This is first report on the selection of cell-internalized enzyme conjugates using phage display technology, which opens the possibility for new fusion libraries with other relevant enzymes.
20372802 | PNUTS knockdown potentiates the apoptotic effect of Roscovitine in breast and colon cancer cells. The phosphorylation state of Retinoblastoma protein (Rb) plays a role in cell proliferation and apoptosis. Within cells, cyclin dependent kinases (cdks) phosphorylate Rb in response to growth stimulatory signals, whereas protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) dephosphorylates Rb when cells stop proliferating or undergo apoptosis in response to anti-proliferative or stress signals. Stimulation of PP1 activity via siRNA mediated knockdown of its interacting protein PNUTS (Phosphatase Nuclear Targeting Subunit) leads to Rb dephosphorylation and apoptosis in cancer cells. We utilized two separate methods to modulate the phosphorylation state of Rb in cancer cells. Kinase activity toward Rb is inhibited by the clinically relevant cdk inhibitor, Roscovitine. In addition, siRNA mediated PNUTS knockdown stimulates phosphatase activity toward Rb. Either of these treatments in cancer cells causes a 2-fold stimulation of apoptosis. When activation of phosphatase activity is combined with inhibition of cdk activity toward Rb, however, cells exhibit a 4-fold increase in apoptosis. The mechanism by which PNUTS knockdown mediated PP1 activation leads to apoptosis was determined to be dependent on the activity of the transcription factor E2F1. The Rb phosphorylation profiles resulting from each treatment were analyzed and found to be similar but not identical. In addition, the two treatments differentially effect the expression of bcl-2 family proteins. Thus inhibition of cdk activity and activation of PP1 activity toward pRb are functionally distinct processes that together increase the apoptotic effect in cells.
23426265 | MicroRNA-34a regulates cardiac ageing and function. Ageing is the predominant risk factor for cardiovascular diseases and contributes to a significantly worse outcome in patients with acute myocardial infarction. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as crucial regulators of cardiovascular function and some miRNAs have key roles in ageing. We propose that altered expression of miRNAs in the heart during ageing contributes to the age-dependent decline in cardiac function. Here we show that miR-34a is induced in the ageing heart and that in vivo silencing or genetic deletion of miR-34a reduces age-associated cardiomyocyte cell death. Moreover, miR-34a inhibition reduces cell death and fibrosis following acute myocardial infarction and improves recovery of myocardial function. Mechanistically, we identified PNUTS (also known as PPP1R10) as a novel direct miR-34a target, which reduces telomere shortening, DNA damage responses and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, and improves functional recovery after acute myocardial infarction. Together, these results identify age-induced expression of miR-34a and inhibition of its target PNUTS as a key mechanism that regulates cardiac contractile function during ageing and after acute myocardial infarction, by inducing DNA damage responses and telomere attrition.
24078448 | miR-34 is associated with poor prognosis of patients with gallbladder cancer through regulating telomere length in tumor stem cells. miR-34a has been identified as a tumor suppressor in several tumors, but its involvement in gallbladder cancer (GBC) has not been reported. In this study, the miR-34a level and telomere length were measured in 77 gallbladder adenocarcinomas and 36 peritumoral tissues by real-time PCR. Forced miR-34a expression was established by an adenovirus carrying a miR-34a expression cassette. The colony-forming ability of isolated CD44+CD133+ GBC tumor stem-like cells was measured by matrigel colony assay. The xenograft tumor models were established by inoculating nude mice with CD44+CD133+cells. Results showed that significantly lower miR-34a expression and longer telomere length were observed in gallbladder adenocarcinoma tissues, which correlated with poor prognosis of GBC patients. Forced overexpression of miR-34a inhibited the colony-forming ability of CD44+CD133+ GBC tumor stem-like cells in vitro and xenograft tumor growth in vivo. Injection of Ad-miR-34a downregulated PNUTS expression and reduced telomere length in xenograft GBC tumor cells. In conclusion, miR-34a is a tumor suppressor in gallbladder cancer. Both low miR-34a expression and long telomere length are markers for poor prognosis of patients with gallbladder adenocarcinoma. Our study also suggests that the miR-34a gene could be a target for targeting therapy of GBC.
25311805 | Uncovering the peptide-binding specificities of HLA-C: a general strategy to determine the specificity of any MHC class I molecule. MHC class I molecules (HLA-I in humans) present peptides derived from endogenous proteins to CTLs. Whereas the peptide-binding specificities of HLA-A and -B molecules have been studied extensively, little is known about HLA-C specificities. Combining a positional scanning combinatorial peptide library approach with a peptide-HLA-I dissociation assay, in this study we present a general strategy to determine the peptide-binding specificity of any MHC class I molecule. We applied this novel strategy to 17 of the most common HLA-C molecules, and for 16 of these we successfully generated matrices representing their peptide-binding motifs. The motifs prominently shared a conserved C-terminal primary anchor with hydrophobic amino acid residues, as well as one or more diverse primary and auxiliary anchors at P1, P2, P3, and/or P7. Matrices were used to generate a large panel of HLA-C-specific peptide-binding data and update our pan-specific NetMHCpan predictor, whose predictive performance was considerably improved with respect to peptide binding to HLA-C. The updated predictor was used to assess the specificities of HLA-C molecules, which were found to cover a more limited sequence space than HLA-A and -B molecules. Assessing the functional significance of these new tools, HLA-C*07:01 transgenic mice were immunized with stable HLA-C*07:01 binders; six of six tested stable peptide binders were immunogenic. Finally, we generated HLA-C tetramers and labeled human CD8(+) T cells and NK cells. These new resources should support future research on the biology of HLA-C molecules. The data are deposited at the Immune Epitope Database, and the updated NetMHCpan predictor is available at the Center for Biological Sequence Analysis and the Immune Epitope Database. 
25416949 | lncRNA directs cooperative epigenetic regulation downstream of chemokine signals. lncRNAs are known to regulate a number of different developmental and tumorigenic processes. Here, we report a role for lncRNA BCAR4 in breast cancer metastasis that is mediated by chemokine-induced binding of BCAR4 to two transcription factors with extended regulatory consequences. BCAR4 binding of SNIP1 and PNUTS in response to CCL21 releases the SNIP1's inhibition of p300-dependent histone acetylation, which in turn enables the BCAR4-recruited PNUTS to bind H3K18ac and relieve inhibition of RNA Pol II via activation of the PP1 phosphatase. This mechanism activates a noncanonical Hedgehog/GLI2 transcriptional program that promotes cell migration. BCAR4 expression correlates with advanced breast cancers, and therapeutic delivery of locked nucleic acids (LNAs) targeting BCAR4 strongly suppresses breast cancer metastasis in mouse models. The findings reveal a disease-relevant lncRNA mechanism consisting of both direct coordinated protein recruitment and indirect regulation of transcription factors. 
26177202 | A Proline-Rich Domain in the Genotype 4 Hepatitis E Virus ORF3 C-Terminus Is Crucial for Downstream V105DLP108 Immunoactivity. The hepatitis E virus (HEV) is responsible for serious viral hepatitis worldwide. Animals are considered a reservoir of HEV, particularly pigs. While HEV infection in pigs and dogs is always asymptomatic, the virus causes high death rates in patients with pre-existing chronic liver disease and pregnant women in developing countries. HEV open reading frame 2 (ORF2) has been used as a diagnostic target to detect specific antibodies against HEV in serum samples. Recent research has additionally supported the potential utility of the ORF3 protein as a target in serum anti-HEV detection. However, the epitope distribution of ORF3 protein remains ambiguous. In the current study, we showed that continuous amino acid motif, VDLP, at the C-terminus of genotype 4 HEV ORF3 is a core sequence of the ORF3 protein epitope. Moreover, cooperative interaction with upstream elements is essential for its immunoactivity. Three proline residues (P99, P102 and P103) in the upstream proline-rich domain exerted significant effects on the immunocompetence of VDLP. ELISA results revealed that SAPPLPPVVDLP and SAPPLPPVVDLPQLGL peptides containing the identified VDLP epitope display weaker reactions with anti-HEV serum than the commercial ELISA kit. Our collective findings provide valuable information on the epitope distribution characteristics of HEV ORF3 and improve our understanding of the influence of the proline-rich domain on the immunoactivity of downstream amino acids in the C-terminal region. 
26902653 | Genetic editing of HLA expression in hematopoietic stem cells to broaden their human application. Mismatch of human leukocyte antigens (HLA) adversely impacts the outcome of patients after allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (alloHSCT). This translates into the clinical requirement to timely identify suitable HLA-matched donors which in turn curtails the chances of recipients, especially those from a racial minority, to successfully undergo alloHSCT. We thus sought to broaden the existing pool of registered unrelated donors based on analysis that eliminating the expression of the HLA-A increases the chance for finding a donor matched at HLA-B, -C, and -DRB1 regardless of a patient's race. Elimination of HLA-A expression in HSC was achieved using artificial zinc finger nucleases designed to target HLA-A alleles. Significantly, these engineered HSCs maintain their ability to engraft and reconstitute hematopoiesis in immunocompromised mice. This introduced loss of HLA-A expression decreases the need to recruit large number of donors to match with potential recipients and has particular importance for patients whose HLA repertoire is under-represented in the current donor pool. Furthermore, the genetic engineering of stem cells provides a translational approach to HLA-match a limited number of third-party donors with a wide number of recipients. 
27006394 | Structure of an alpha-Helical Peptide and Lipopeptide Bound to the Nonclassical Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) Class I Molecule CD1d. Mouse CD1d is a nonclassical MHC molecule able to present lipids and glycolipids to a specialized subset of T cells known as natural killer T cells. The antigens presented by CD1d have been shown to cover a broad range of chemical structures and to follow precise rules determining the potency of the antigen in the context of T cell activation. Together with lipids, initial reports suggested that CD1d can also bind and present hydrophobic peptides with (F/W)XX(I/L/M)XXW. However, the exact location of peptide binding and the molecular basis for the required motif are currently unknown. Here we present the crystal structure of the first peptide identified to bind CD1d, p99, and show that it binds in the antigen-binding groove of CD1d in a manner compatible with its presentation to T cell receptors. Interestingly, the peptide adopts an alpha-helical conformation, which orients the motif residues toward its deep binding groove, therefore explaining the molecular requirements for peptide binding. Moreover, we demonstrate that a lipopeptide version of the same peptide is able to bind CD1d in a similar conformation, identifying another class of molecules binding this antigen-presenting molecule. 
27030405 | KIR2DL2/2DL3-E(35) alleles are functionally stronger than -Q(35) alleles. KIR2DL2 and KIR2DL3 segregate as alleles of a single locus in the centromeric motif of the killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) gene family. Although KIR2DL2/L3 polymorphism is known to be associated with many human diseases and is an important factor for donor selection in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, the molecular determinant of functional diversity among various alleles is unclear. In this study we found that KIR2DL2/L3 with glutamic acid at position 35 (E(35)) are functionally stronger than those with glutamine at the same position (Q(35)). Cytotoxicity assay showed that NK cells from HLA-C1 positive donors with KIR2DL2/L3-E(35) could kill more target cells lacking their ligands than NK cells with the weaker -Q(35) alleles, indicating better licensing of KIR2DL2/L3(+) NK cells with the stronger alleles. Molecular modeling analysis reveals that the glutamic acid, which is negatively charged, interacts with positively charged histidine located at position 55, thereby stabilizing KIR2DL2/L3 dimer and reducing entropy loss when KIR2DL2/3 binds to HLA-C ligand. The results of this study will be important for future studies of KIR2DL2/L3-associated diseases as well as for donor selection in allogeneic stem cell transplantation. 
28825698 | A regulated PNUTS mRNA to lncRNA splice switch mediates EMT and tumour progression. The contribution of lncRNAs to tumour progression and the regulatory mechanisms driving their expression are areas of intense investigation. Here, we characterize the binding of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein E1 (hnRNP E1) to a nucleic acid structural element located in exon 12 of PNUTS (also known as PPP1R10) pre-RNA that regulates its alternative splicing. HnRNP E1 release from this structural element, following its silencing, nucleocytoplasmic translocation or in response to TGFbeta, allows alternative splicing and generates a non-coding isoform of PNUTS. Functionally the lncRNA-PNUTS serves as a competitive sponge for miR-205 during epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). In mesenchymal breast tumour cells and in breast tumour samples, the expression of lncRNA-PNUTS is elevated and correlates with levels of ZEB mRNAs. Thus, PNUTS is a bifunctional RNA encoding both PNUTS mRNA and lncRNA-PNUTS, each eliciting distinct biological functions. While PNUTS mRNA is ubiquitously expressed, lncRNA-PNUTS appears to be tightly regulated dependent on the status of hnRNP E1 and tumour context.
28837860 | Pomegranate peel extract attenuates D-galactose-induced oxidative stress and hearing loss by regulating PNUTS/PP1 activity in the mouse cochlea. Oxidative stress is considered to be a major contributor to age-related hearing loss (ARHL). Here, we investigated whether pomegranate peel extract (PPE) protected against hearing loss by decreased oxidative stress in the cochlea of D-galactose-induced accelerated aging mice. The aging mice exhibited an increase in hearing threshold shifts and hair cells loss, which were improved in the PPE-treated aging mice. The aging mice also exhibited an increase in 4-hydroxynonenal, the expression of protein phosphatase 1 nuclear targeting subunit (PNUTS), p53 and caspase-3, and a decrease in protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) and MDM2 in the cochlea. PPE treatment reversed the changes in aforementioned molecules. Our results suggested that PPE can protect against ARHL, the underlying mechanisms may involve in the inhibition of oxidative damage of cochlea, possibly by regulating PNUTS/PP1 pathway. The results from the present study provide a new therapeutic strategy to use PPE for prevention of ARHL.
28939855 | Infection with Burkholderia pseudomallei - immune correlates of survival in acute melioidosis. Melioidosis, caused by Burkholderia pseudomallei, is a potentially lethal infection with no licensed vaccine. There is little understanding of why some exposed individuals have no symptoms, while others rapidly progress to sepsis and death, or why diabetes confers increased susceptibility. We prospectively recruited a cohort of 183 acute melioidosis patients and 21 control subjects from Northeast Thailand and studied immune parameters in the context of survival status and the presence or absence of diabetes. HLA-B*46 (one of the commonest HLA class I alleles in SE Asia) and HLA-C*01 were associated with an increased risk of death (odds ratio 2.8 and 3.1 respectively). Transcriptomic analysis during acute infection in diabetics indicated the importance of interplay between immune pathways including those involved in antigen presentation, chemotaxis, innate and adaptive immunity and their regulation. Survival was associated with enhanced T cell immunity to nine of fifteen immunodominant antigens analysed including AhpC (BPSL2096), BopE (BPSS1525), PilO (BPSS1599), ATP binding protein (BPSS1385) and an uncharacterised protein (BPSL2520). T cell immunity to GroEL (BPSL2697) was specifically impaired in diabetic individuals. This characterization of immunity associated with survival during acute infection offers insights into correlates of protection and a foundation for design of an effective multivalent vaccine.
29289740 | Sequence-based HLA-A, B, C, DP, DQ, and DR typing of 714 adults from Colombo, Sri Lanka. DNA sequence-based typing at the HLA-A, -B, -C, -DPB1, -DQA1, -DQB1, and -DRB1 loci was performed on 714 healthy adult blood bank donors from Colombo, Sri Lanka, to characterize allele frequencies in support of studies on T cell immunity against pathogens, including Dengue virus. Deviations from Hardy Weinberg proportions were not detected at any locus. Several alleles were found in >30% of individuals, including the class II alleles DPB1 * 04:01, DPB1 * 02:01, DQB1 * 06:01 and DRB1 * 07:01, and the class I alleles A * 33:03 and A * 24:02. Genotype data will be available in the Allele Frequencies Net Database.
29773025 | HLA Class I Chromosomal Region, Genes, and Products: Facts and Questions. Among the various areas of recent investigation in the field of human MHC class I antigens, the following have been selected for discussion in this review: (1) classical HLA class I genes: are they ubiquitously expressed?, what are the special features of their polymorphism?, are HLA-C molecules functional?, (2) non-classical HLA class I gene products: how restricted is their tissue distribution?, do they exhibit a little polymorphism?, what is their function, if any? (3) non-HLA genes recently detected in the HLA class I chromosomal region: are some of them involved in immunological function and development?, (4) other novel coding sequences present, or possibly present, in the region: the hemochromatosis gene, grc region and associated tumor suppressor genes, housekeeping genes, human equivalent of the murine H-2M region and Ped gene; (5) transcriptional regulation: are there cis-regulatory elements, including locus control region(s). located elsewhere than in the promoters? are CpG methylation, gene imprinting, chromatin structure, DNA rearrangement also implicated? what are the transcription factors involved and how do they interact with each other? is there HLA class I locus-, allele-, or isoform-specific regulation? is class I gene expression dysregulated in human tumors? The answers to these questions are crucial for the development of the future directions for research.
30541148 | Regulation of ATR activity via the RNA polymerase II associated factors CDC73 and PNUTS-PP1. Ataxia telangiectasia mutated and Rad3-related (ATR) kinase is a key factor activated by DNA damage and replication stress. An alternative pathway for ATR activation has been proposed to occur via stalled RNA polymerase II (RNAPII). However, how RNAPII might signal to activate ATR remains unknown. Here, we show that ATR signaling is increased after depletion of the RNAPII phosphatase PNUTS-PP1, which dephosphorylates RNAPII in its carboxy-terminal domain (CTD). High ATR signaling was observed in the absence and presence of ionizing radiation, replication stress and even in G1, but did not correlate with DNA damage or RPA chromatin loading. R-loops were enhanced, but overexpression of EGFP-RNaseH1 only slightly reduced ATR signaling after PNUTS depletion. However, CDC73, which interacted with RNAPII in a phospho-CTD dependent manner, was required for the high ATR signaling, R-loop formation and for activation of the endogenous G2 checkpoint after depletion of PNUTS. In addition, ATR, RNAPII and CDC73 co-immunoprecipitated. Our results suggest a novel pathway involving RNAPII, CDC73 and PNUTS-PP1 in ATR signaling and give new insight into the diverse functions of ATR.
30853558 | Targeted Disruption of HLA Genes via CRISPR-Cas9 Generates iPSCs with Enhanced Immune Compatibility. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have strong potential in regenerative medicine applications; however, immune rejection caused by HLA mismatching is a concern. B2M gene knockout and HLA-homozygous iPSC stocks can address this issue, but the former approach may induce NK cell activity and fail to present antigens, and it is challenging to recruit rare donors for the latter method. Here, we show two genome-editing strategies for making immunocompatible donor iPSCs. First, we generated HLA pseudo-homozygous iPSCs with allele-specific editing of HLA heterozygous iPSCs. Second, we generated HLA-C-retained iPSCs by disrupting both HLA-A and -B alleles to suppress the NK cell response while maintaining antigen presentation. HLA-C-retained iPSCs could evade T cells and NK cells in vitro and in vivo. We estimated that 12 lines of HLA-C-retained iPSCs combined with HLA-class II knockout are immunologically compatible with >90% of the world's population, greatly facilitating iPSC-based regenerative medicine applications.
31217245 | Identification of Immunodominant HIV-1 Epitopes Presented by HLA-C*12:02, a Protective Allele, Using an Immunopeptidomics Approach. Despite the fact that the cell surface expression level of HLA-C on both uninfected and HIV-infected cells is lower than those of HLA-A and -B, increasing evidence suggests an important role for HLA-C and HLA-C-restricted CD8+ T cell responses in determining the efficiency of viral control in HIV-1-infected individuals. Nonetheless, HLA-C-restricted T cell responses are much less well studied than HLA-A/B-restricted ones, and relatively few optimal HIV-1 CD8+ T cell epitopes restricted by HLA-C alleles have been defined. Recent improvements in the sensitivity of mass spectrometry (MS)-based approaches for profiling the immunopeptidome present an opportunity for epitope discovery on a large scale. Here, we employed an MS-based immunopeptidomic strategy to characterize HIV-1 peptides presented by a protective allele, HLA-C*12:02. We identified a total of 10,799 unique 8- to 12-mer peptides, including 15 HIV-1 peptides. The latter included 2 previously reported immunodominant HIV-1 epitopes, and analysis of T cell responses to the other HIV-1 peptides detected revealed an additional immunodominant epitope. These findings illustrate the utility of MS-based approaches for epitope definition and emphasize the capacity of HLA-C to present immunodominant T cell epitopes in HIV-infected individuals, indicating the importance of further evaluation of HLA-C-restricted responses to identify novel targets for HIV-1 prophylactic and therapeutic strategies.IMPORTANCE Mass spectrometry (MS)-based approaches are increasingly being employed for large-scale identification of HLA-bound peptides derived from pathogens, but only very limited profiling of the HIV-1 immunopeptidome has been conducted to date. Notably, a growing body of evidence has recently begun to indicate a protective role for HLA-C in HIV-1 infection, which may suggest that despite the fact that levels of HLA-C expression on both uninfected and HIV-1-infected cells are lower than those of HLA-A/B, HLA-C still presents epitopes to CD8+ T cells effectively. To explore this, we analyzed HLA-C*12:02-restricted HIV-1 peptides presented on HIV-1-infected cells expressing only HLA-C*12:02 (a protective allele) using liquid chromatography-tandem MS (LC-MS/MS). We identified a number of novel HLA-C*12:02-bound HIV-1 peptides and showed that although the majority of them did not elicit T cell responses during natural infection in a Japanese cohort, they included three immunodominant epitopes, emphasizing the contribution of HLA-C to epitope presentation on HIV-infected cells.
31385396 | Long-term repopulation of aged bone marrow stem cells using young Sca-1 cells promotes aged heart rejuvenation. Reduced quantity and quality of stem cells in aged individuals hinders cardiac repair and regeneration after injury. We used young bone marrow (BM) stem cell antigen 1 (Sca-1) cells to reconstitute aged BM and rejuvenate the aged heart, and examined the underlying molecular mechanisms. BM Sca-1+ or Sca-1- cells from young (2-3 months) or aged (18-19 months) GFP transgenic mice were transplanted into lethally irradiated aged mice to generate 4 groups of chimeras: young Sca-1+ , young Sca-1- , old Sca-1+ , and old Sca-1- . Four months later, expression of rejuvenation-related genes (Bmi1, Cbx8, PNUTS, Sirt1, Sirt2, Sirt6) and proteins (CDK2, CDK4) was increased along with telomerase activity and telomerase-related protein (DNA-PKcs, TRF-2) expression, whereas expression of senescence-related genes (p16INK4a , P19ARF , p27Kip1 ) and proteins (p16INK4a , p27Kip1 ) was decreased in Sca-1+ chimeric hearts, especially in the young group. Host cardiac endothelial cells (GFP- CD31+ ) but not cardiomyocytes were the primary cell type rejuvenated by young Sca-1+ cells as shown by improved proliferation, migration, and tubular formation abilities. C-X-C chemokine CXCL12 was the factor most highly expressed in homed donor BM (GFP+ ) cells isolated from young Sca-1+ chimeric hearts. Protein expression of Cxcr4, phospho-Akt, and phospho-FoxO3a in endothelial cells derived from the aged chimeric heart was increased, especially in the young Sca-1+ group. Reconstitution of aged BM with young Sca-1+ cells resulted in effective homing of functional stem cells in the aged heart. These young, regenerative stem cells promoted aged heart rejuvenation through activation of the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 pathway of cardiac endothelial cells.
31961065 | Identification of Cartilage Microbial DNA Signatures and Associations With Knee and Hip Osteoarthritis. OBJECTIVE: Alterations of the gut microbiota have been implicated in many forms of arthritis, but an examination of cartilage microbial patterns has not been performed. This study was undertaken to characterize the microbial DNA profile of articular cartilage and determine changes associated with osteoarthritis (OA). METHODS: We performed 16S ribosomal RNA gene deep sequencing on eroded and intact cartilage samples from knee OA patients (n = 21 eroded and 21 intact samples) and hip OA patients (n = 34 eroded and 33 intact samples) and cadaver controls (n = 10 knee samples and 10 hip samples). Microbial DNA diversity was assessed, groups were compared, and metagenomic profiles were reconstructed. Confirmation was performed in an independent cohort by clade-specific quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Findings in human cartilage were compared to those in cartilage from OA-susceptible C57BL/6 (B6) mice and OA-resistant MRL/MpJ (MRL) mice. Germ-free B6 mouse cartilage was analyzed as a methodologic control. RESULTS: Alpha diversity was reduced in human OA versus control samples (P < 0.0001), and in hip versus knee samples (P < 0.0001). Numerous clades were different in human OA versus control samples, and similar findings were noted in comparisons of murine B6 versus MRL mice. Hip samples were microbiologically distinct from knee samples. OA microbial DNA demonstrated increased gram-negative constituents (P = 0.02). Functional analysis demonstrated increases in lipopolysaccharide production (P = 9.9 x 10-3 ), phosphatidylinositol signaling (P = 4.2 x 10-4 ), and nitrogen metabolism (P = 8 x 10-3 ) and decreases in sphingolipid metabolism (P = 7.7 x 10-4 ) associated with OA. CONCLUSION: Our study reveals a microbial DNA signature in human and mouse cartilage. Alterations in this signature, including increases in gram-negative constituents, occur during the development and progression of human OA. Furthermore, our findings indicate that strain-specific signatures exist within mouse cartilage that mirror human patterns. Further study of the establishment and potential pathogenic role of these DNA signatures is needed.
32006464 | Localized Inhibition of Protein Phosphatase 1 by NUAK1 Promotes Spliceosome Activity and Reveals a MYC-Sensitive Feedback Control of Transcription. Deregulated expression of MYC induces a dependence on the NUAK1 kinase, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this dependence have not been fully clarified. Here, we show that NUAK1 is a predominantly nuclear protein that associates with a network of nuclear protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) interactors and that PNUTS, a nuclear regulatory subunit of PP1, is phosphorylated by NUAK1. Both NUAK1 and PNUTS associate with the splicing machinery. Inhibition of NUAK1 abolishes chromatin association of PNUTS, reduces spliceosome activity, and suppresses nascent RNA synthesis. Activation of MYC does not bypass the requirement for NUAK1 for spliceosome activity but significantly attenuates transcription inhibition. Consequently, NUAK1 inhibition in MYC-transformed cells induces global accumulation of RNAPII both at the pause site and at the first exon-intron boundary but does not increase mRNA synthesis. We suggest that NUAK1 inhibition in the presence of deregulated MYC traps non-productive RNAPII because of the absence of correctly assembled spliceosomes.
32129705 | The humanized DRAGA mouse (HLA-A2. HLA-DR4. RAG1 KO. IL-2R g c KO. NOD) establishes inducible and transmissible models for influenza type A infections. We have engineered a Human Immune System (HIS)-reconstituted mouse strain (DRAGA mouse: HLA-A2. HLA-DR4. Rag1 KO. IL-2Rgammac KO. NOD) in which the murine immune system has been replaced by a long-term, functional HIS via infusion of CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) from cord blood. Herein, we report that the DRAGA mice can sustain inducible and transmissible H1N1 and H3N2 influenza A viral (IAV) infections. DRAGA female mice were significantly more resilient than the males to the H3N2/Aichi infection, but not to H3N2/Hong Kong, H3N2/Victoria, or H1N1/PR8 sub-lethal infections. Consistently associated with large pulmonary hemorrhagic areas, both human and murine Factor 8 mRNA transcripts were undetectable in the damaged lung tissues but not in livers of DRAGA mice advancing to severe H1N1/PR8 infection. Infected DRAGA mice mounted a neutralizing anti-viral antibody response and developed lung-resident CD103 T cells. These results indicate that the DRAGA mouse model for IAV infections can more closely approximate the human lung pathology and anti-viral immune responses compared to non-HIS mice. This mouse model may also allow further investigations into gender-based resilience to IAV infections, and may potentially be used to evaluate the efficacy of IAV vaccine regimens for humans.
32219494 | Tuning of human NK cells by endogenous HLA-C expression. NK cells are primarily responsible for detecting malignant or pathogen-infected cells, and their function is influenced both by stress-associated activating signals and opposing inhibitory signals from receptors that recognize self MHC. The receptors that produce this inhibitory signal shift from the NKG2A:HLA-E system to that of KIR:HLA as the NK cells mature. This maturation is associated with an increase in lytic activity, as well as an increase in HLA-C protein levels controlled by the NK-specific HLA-C promoter, NK-Pro. We propose that modulation of the translatability of HLA-C transcripts in NK cells constitutes an evolutionary mechanism to control cis inhibitory signaling by HLA-C, which fine tunes NK cell activity. Furthermore, the high degree of variability in KIR receptor affinity for HLA alleles, as well as the variable expression levels of both KIR and HLA, suggest an evolutionary requirement for the tuning of NK lytic activity. Various data have demonstrated that mature NK cells may gain or lose lytic activity when placed in different environments. This indicates that NK cell activity may be more a function of constant tuning by inhibitory signals, rather than a static, irreversible \license to kill\ granted to mature NK cells. Inhibitory signaling controls the filling of the cytolytic granule reservoir, which becomes depleted if there are insufficient inhibitory signals, leading to a hyporesponsive NK cell. We propose a novel model for the tuning of human NK cell activity via cis interactions in the context of recent findings on the mechanism of NK education.
33115945 | PD-1 inhibitor inducing exosomal miR-34a-5p expression mediates the cross talk between cardiomyocyte and macrophage in immune checkpoint inhibitor-related cardiac dysfunction. BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have been an important therapeutic advancement in the field of cancer medicine. Recent reports provided greater insights into the cardiovascular adverse events, which prohibited the use of ICIs. Cardiovascular adverse events occur in different forms, such as myocarditis and cardiomyopathy, myocardial fibrosis, heart failure and pericardial disease. Cardiac aging overlapped with the occurrence of some cardiac diseases. Exosomes mediate cell-cell cross talk in cardiac diseases by transferring a variety of biomolecules, including microRNAs (miRs). miR-34a-5p is a well-known miR associated with the cardiac senescence. This study aimed to investigate whether cardiovascular adverse effects of the programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) inhibitor, a widely used ICI, were related to exosomal-transferred miR-34a-5p in cardiac senescence in a mouse model. METHODS AND RESULTS: The upregulation of miR-34a-5p in cardiomyocytes induced by exosomes derived from PD-1 inhibitor-treated macrophages, accompanied by cardiac senescence, caused cardiac injury in mouse hearts. miR-34a-5p was identified as an exosomal transfer RNA to induce cardiac senescence-related injury. Inhibiting miR-34a-5p in macrophages attenuated the exosomePD-1 inhibitor-induced pro-senescent effect in cardiomyocytes. TargetScan and luciferase assay showed that miR-34a-5p targeted the serine/threonine-protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 10 (PNUTS) 3'-untranslated region. CONCLUSIONS: Exosomes derived from PD-1 inhibitor-treated macrophages exerted a pro-senescent effect by modulating the miR-34a-5p/PNUTS signaling pathway. The findings might supply new targets to ameliorate cardiac injury in patients with cancer receiving PD-1 inhibitor treatment.
34016721 | Peptide: MHC-based DNA vaccination strategy to activate natural killer cells by targeting killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors. BACKGROUND: Natural killer (NK) cells are increasingly being recognized as agents for cancer immunotherapy. The killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) are expressed by NK cells and are immunogenetic determinants of the outcome of cancer. In particular, KIR2DS2 is associated with protective responses to several cancers and also direct recognition of cancer targets in vitro. Due to the high homology between activating and inhibitory KIR genes to date, it has been challenging to target individual KIR for therapeutic benefit. METHODS: A novel KIR2DS2-targeting therapeutic peptide:MHC DNA vaccine was designed and used to immunize mice transgenic for KIR genes (KIR-Tg). NK cells were isolated from the livers and spleens of vaccinated mice and then analyzed for activation by flow cytometry, RNA profiling and cytotoxicity assays. In vivo assays of NK cell function using a syngeneic cancer model (B16 melanoma) and an adoptive transfer model for human hepatocellular carcinoma (Huh7) were performed. RESULTS: Injecting KIR-Tg mice with the vaccine construct activated NK cells in both liver and spleens of mice, with preferential activation of KIR2DS2-positive NK cells. KIR-specific activation was most marked on the CD11b+CD27+ mature subset of NK cells. RNA profiling indicated that the DNA vaccine upregulated genes associated with cellular metabolism and downregulated genes related to histone H3 methylation, which are associated with immune cell maturation and NK cell function. Vaccination led to canonical and cross-reactive peptide:MHC-specific NK cell responses. In vivo, DNA vaccination led to enhanced antitumor responses against B16F10 melanoma cells and also enhanced responses against a tumor model expressing the KIR2DS2 ligand HLA-C*0102. CONCLUSION: We show the feasibility of a peptide-based KIR-targeting vaccine strategy to activate NK cells and hence generate functional antitumor responses. This approach does not require detailed knowledge of the tumor peptidomes nor HLA matching with the patient. It therefore offers a novel opportunity for targeting NK cells for cancer immunotherapy.
34686187 | Ex vivo expanded allogeneic natural killer cells have potent cytolytic activity against cancer cells through different receptor-ligand interactions. BACKGROUND: Recently, allogeneic natural killer (NK) cells have gained considerable attention as promising immunotherapeutic tools due to their unique biological functions and characteristics. Although many NK expansion strategies have been reported previously, a deeper understanding of cryopreserved allogeneic NK cells is needed for specific therapeutic approaches. METHODS: We isolated CD3-CD56+ primary natural killer (pNK) cells from healthy donors and expanded them ex vivo using a GMP-compliant method without any feeder to generate large volumes of therapeutic pNK cells and cryopreserved stocks. After validation for high purity and activating phenotypes, we performed RNA sequencing of the expanded and cryopreserved pNK cells. The pNK cells were used against various cancer cell lines in 7-AAD/CFSE cytotoxicity assay. For in vivo efficacy study, NSG mice bearing subcutaneous cisplatin-resistant A2780cis xenografts were treated with our pNK cells or cisplatin. Antitumor efficacy was assessed by measuring tumor volume and weight. RESULTS: Compared to the pNK cells before expansion, pNK cells after expansion showed 2855 upregulated genes, including genes related to NK cell activation, cytotoxicity, chemokines, anti-apoptosis, and proliferation. Additionally, the pNK cells showed potent cytolytic activity against various cancer cell lines. Interestingly, our activated pNK cells showed a marked increase in NKp44 (1064-fold), CD40L (12,018-fold), and CCR5 (49-fold), and did not express the programmed cell death protein 1(PD-1). We also demonstrated the in vitro and in vivo efficacies of pNK cells against cisplatin-resistant A2780cis ovarian cancer cells having a high programmed death-ligand 1(PD-L1) and low HLA-C expression. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our study provides the first comprehensive genome wide analysis of ex vivo-expanded cryopreserved pNK cells. It also indicates the potential use of expanded and cryopreserved pNK cells as a highly promising immunotherapy for anti-cancer drug resistant patients.
34785597 | Decidual NK cells kill Zika virus-infected trophoblasts. Zika virus (ZIKV) during pregnancy infects fetal trophoblasts and causes placental damage and birth defects including microcephaly. Little is known about the anti-ZIKV cellular immune response at the maternal-fetal interface. Decidual natural killer cells (dNK), which directly contact fetal trophoblasts, are the dominant maternal immune cells in the first-trimester placenta, when ZIKV infection is most hazardous. Although dNK express all the cytolytic molecules needed to kill, they usually do not kill infected fetal cells but promote placentation. Here, we show that dNK degranulate and kill ZIKV-infected placental trophoblasts. ZIKV infection of trophoblasts causes endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, which makes them dNK targets by down-regulating HLA-C/G, natural killer (NK) inhibitory receptor ligands that help maintain tolerance of the semiallogeneic fetus. ER stress also activates the NK activating receptor NKp46. ZIKV infection of Ifnar1 -/- pregnant mice results in high viral titers and severe intrauterine growth restriction, which are exacerbated by depletion of NK or CD8 T cells, indicating that killer lymphocytes, on balance, protect the fetus from ZIKV by eliminating infected cells and reducing the spread of infection.
35323192 | Ramifications of the HLA-I Allelic Reactivity of Anti-HLA-E*01:01 and Anti-HLA-E*01:03 Heavy Chain Monoclonal Antibodies in Comparison with Anti-HLA-I IgG Reactivity in Non-Alloimmunized Males, Melanoma-Vaccine Recipients, and End-Stage Renal Disease Patients. Serum anti-HLA-I IgG are present in non-alloimmunized males, cancer patients, and transplant recipients. Anti-HLA-I antibodies are also present in intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), prepared from the plasma of thousands of healthy donors. However, the HLA-Ia reactivity of IVIg diminishes markedly after passing through HLA-E HC-affinity columns, suggesting that the HLA-I reactivity is due to antibodies formed against HLA-E. Hence, we examined whether anti-HLA-E antibodies can react to HLA-I alleles. Monoclonal IgG antibodies (mAbs) against HCs of two HLA-E alleles were generated in Balb/C mice. The antibodies were analyzed using multiplex bead assays on a Luminex platform for HLA-I reactivity. Beads coated with an array of HLA heterodimers admixed with HCs (LABScreen) were used to examine the binding of IgG to different HLA-Ia (31-HLA-A, 50-HLA-B, and 16-HLA-C) and Ib (2-HLA-E, one each of HLA-F and HLA-G) alleles. A striking diversity in the HLA-Ia and/or HLA-Ib reactivity of mAbs was observed. The number of the mAbs reactive to (1) only HLA-E (n = 25); (2) all HLA-Ib isomers (n = 8); (3) HLA-E and HLA-B (n = 5); (4) HLA-E, HLA-B, and HLA-C (n = 30); (5) HLA-E, HLA-A*1101, HLA-B, and HLA-C (n = 83); (6) HLA-E, HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C (n = 54); and (7) HLA-Ib and HLA-Ia (n = 8), in addition to four other minor groups. Monospecificity and polyreactivity were corroborated by HLA-E monospecific and HLA-I shared sequences. The diverse HLA-I reactivity of the mAbs are compared with the pattern of HLA-I reactivity of serum-IgG in non-alloimmunized males, cancer patients, and ESKD patients. The findings unravel the diagnostic potential of the HLA-E monospecific-mAbs and immunomodulatory potentials of IVIg highly mimicking HLA-I polyreactive-mAbs.
35906236 | Mouse fetal growth restriction through parental and fetal immune gene variation and intercellular communications cascade. Fetal growth restriction (FGR) affects 5-10% of pregnancies, and can have serious consequences for both mother and child. Prevention and treatment are limited because FGR pathogenesis is poorly understood. Genetic studies implicate KIR and HLA genes in FGR, however, linkage disequilibrium, genetic influence from both parents, and challenges with investigating human pregnancies make the risk alleles and their functional effects difficult to map. Here, we demonstrate that the interaction between the maternal KIR2DL1, expressed on uterine natural killer (NK) cells, and the paternally inherited HLA-C*0501, expressed on fetal trophoblast cells, leads to FGR in a humanized mouse model. We show that the KIR2DL1 and C*0501 interaction leads to pathogenic uterine arterial remodeling and modulation of uterine NK cell function. This initial effect cascades to altered transcriptional expression and intercellular communication at the maternal-fetal interface. These findings provide mechanistic insight into specific FGR risk alleles, and provide avenues of prevention and treatment.
37099813 | Humanized mouse models with endogenously developed human natural killer cells for in vivo immunogenicity testing of HLA class I-edited iPSC-derived cells. Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) genetically depleted of human leucocyte antigen (HLA) class I expression can bypass T cell alloimmunity and thus serve as a one-for-all source for cell therapies. However, these same therapies may elicit rejection by natural killer (NK) cells, since HLA class I molecules serve as inhibitory ligands of NK cells. Here, we focused on testing the capacity of endogenously developed human NK cells in humanized mice (hu-mice) using MTSRG and NSG-SGM3 strains to assay the tolerance of HLA-edited iPSC-derived cells. High NK cell reconstitution was achieved with the engraftment of cord blood-derived human hematopoietic stem cells (hHSCs) followed by the administration of human interleukin-15 (hIL-15) and IL-15 receptor alpha (hIL-15Ralpha). Such \hu-NK mice\ rejected HLA class I-null hiPSC-derived hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs), megakaryocytes and T cells, but not HLA-A/B-knockout, HLA-C expressing HPCs. To our knowledge, this study is the first to recapitulate the potent endogenous NK cell response to non-tumor HLA class I-downregulated cells in vivo. Our hu-NK mouse models are suitable for the non-clinical evaluation of HLA-edited cells and will contribute to the development of universal off-the-shelf regenerative medicine.
38133138 | Magnetic Resonance Imaging as a Tool for Monitoring Intratibial Growth of Experimental Prostate Cancer Metastases in Mice. Bone metastases cause morbidity and mortality in several human cancer forms. Experimental models are used to unravel the mechanisms and identify possible treatment targets. The location inside the skeleton complicates accurate assessment. This study evaluates the performance of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of prostate cancer tumors growing intratibially in mice. MRI detected intratibial tumor lesions with a sensitivity and specificity of 100% and 89%, respectively, compared to histological evaluation. Location and some phenotypical features could also be readily detected with MRI. Regarding volume estimation, the correlation between MRI and histological assessment was high (p < 0.001, r = 0.936). In conclusion, this study finds MRI to be a reliable tool for in vivo, non-invasive, non-ionizing, real-time monitoring of intratibial tumor growth.
8970716 | Summary of track A: basic science. AIM: To review Track A, which is organized into five broad areas of emphasis. TOOLS: A variety of new virologic tools are allowing researchers to more effectively evaluate many aspects of HIV, from various therapies and vaccine candidates to the recombination and international spread of genotypes. PATHOGENESIS: The recent understandings of HIV-1 pathogenesis have led to potential new treatment strategies of early aggressive treatment with combination drugs and the potential for biologic or immunologic therapy directed to blocking viral entry through second receptors. TREATMENT: HIV treatment focused on chemical/drug advances and treatment, and immunologic/genetic advances. Some areas of development include optimizing combination therapies using the oncology model; continued work on new preclinical compounds (e.g. integrase and tat/rev inhibitors); evaluation of viral reduction in all compartments; and resistance surveillance and prevention. Biologics, including fusin/CC-CKR5 inhibitors and CD8 HIV-1 suppressor factors, ex vivo expansion of T cells and in vivo expansion of effector CD8 cells continue to be developed as possible future treatments. VACCINES: In order to obtain worldwide control over HIV, we must have a universally effective vaccine. The question remains as to what specifically is required for a protective response. Mechanisms of CD8 suppression, and cellular and antibody correlates of protection were discussed as areas of research that may shed light on the critical protective immune response. GENOTYPES: Discussion of HIV genotypes focused on international subtypes, correlates of diversity, and HIV-1 recombination. Numerous groups have shown an international intermixing of HIV-1 strains. Recombination during transcription was found to lead to extensive genomic shift and increased diversity, which may also increase HIV-1 fitness and enhance transmission. CONCLUSIONS: The spread and adaptation of HIV-1 is occurring independently of borders. Therefore, HIV-1 research must be global; vaccine development must be international in concept and application; collaboration in all areas is essential for success in combating HIV; and finally, the challenge for the future will be to actively involve all basic scientists in the science of the international epidemics.
9784381 | Cloning of a new gene (FB19) within HLA class I region. A novel gene (named FB19) has been identified within the HLA class I region at human chromosome 6p21.3. A 4.5-kb cDNA containing a 2820-bp open reading frame for a predicted protein of 940 aa was identified. No homology with known gene was detected at the DNA level, while the predicted protein is characterized by a glycine-rich region followed by a domain of 35 residues that shows high homology with the CAT56 gene, another gene of MHC class I. A 4. 5-kb transcript was detected in several tissues and cell lines, clearly indicating a wide distribution of expression. Once its function is defined, it could be possible to investigate the relationship between the FB19 gene and the several diseases already mapped within the HLA class I region.
14673549 | Nucleotide sequencing analysis of the swine 433-kb genomic segment located between the non-classical and classical SLA class I gene clusters. Genome analysis of the swine leukocyte antigen ( SLA) region is needed to obtain information on the MHC genomic sequence similarities and differences between the swine and human, given the possible use of swine organs for xenotransplantation. Here, the genomic sequences of a 433-kb segment located between the non-classical and classical SLA class I gene clusters were determined and analyzed for gene organization and contents of repetitive sequences. The genomic organization and diversity of this swine non-class I gene region was compared with the orthologous region of the human leukocyte antigen ( HLA) complex. The length of the fully sequenced SLA genomic segment was 433 kb compared with 595 kb in the corresponding HLA class I region. This 162-kb difference in size between the swine and human genomic segments can be explained by indel activity, and the greater variety and density of repetitive sequences within the human MHC. Twenty-one swine genes with strong sequence similarity to the corresponding human genes were identified, with the gene order from the centromere to telomere of HCR - SPR1 - SEEK1 - CDSN - STG - DPCR1 - KIAA1885 - TFIIH - DDR - IER3 - FLOT1 - TUBB - KIAA0170 - NRM - KIAA1949 - DDX16 - FLJ13158 - MRPS18B - FB19 - ABCFI - CAT56. The human SEEK1 and DPCR1 genes are pseudogenes in swine. We conclude that the swine non-class I gene region that we have sequenced is highly conserved and therefore homologous to the corresponding region located between the HLA-C and HLA-E genes in the human.
18397267 | Differential regulation of SOCS-1 signalling in B and T lymphocytes by hepatitis C virus core protein. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is characterized by a strong propensity toward chronicity, autoimmune phenomena and lymphomagenesis, supporting a role for lymphocyte dysregulation during persistent viral infection. We have shown that HCV core protein inhibits T-cell functions through interaction with a complement receptor, gC1qR. Here, we further report that B cells also express gC1qR that can be bound by HCV core protein. Importantly, using flow cytometry, we demonstrated differential regulation of B and T lymphocytes by the HCV core-gC1qR interaction, with down-regulation of CD69 activation in T cells but up-regulation of CD69 activation and cell proliferation in B cells. HCV core treatment led to decreased interferon-gamma production in CD8+ T cells but to increased immunoglobulin M and immunoglobulin G production as well as cell surface expression of costimulatory and chemokine receptors, including CD86 (B7-2), CD154 (CD40L) and CD195 (CCR5), in CD20+ B cells. Finally, we showed down-regulation of suppressor of cytokine signalling-1 (SOCS-1) using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, accompanied by up-regulation of signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 (STAT1) phosphorylation in B cells in response to HCV core protein, with the opposite pattern observed in HCV core-treated T cells. This study demonstrates differential regulation of B and T lymphocytes by HCV core and supports a mechanism by which lymphocyte dysregulation occurs in the course of persistent HCV infection.
19099086 | Incomplete Killing And Enhanced Activation of Islet-Reactive CD8+ T Cells by FasL-Expressing Dendritic Cells Limits Protection from Diabetes. AIMS: Autologous dendritic cells (DC) are a promising tool for induction of cytotoxic CD8+ T cell immunity against tumors and chronic viral infections. When armed with the death-inducing Fas-ligand (FasL, CD195), DC attenuate delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions and allotransplant rejection by promoting activation-induced cell death in T cells. We investigated the possibility of using FasL-expressing DC to induce deletion of islet-reactive CD8+ T cells in vivo, and to prevent destruction of pancreatic islets in a model of autoimmune diabetes. METHODS: DC, propagated from mouse bone marrow cells, were purified and made to express FasL and islet-antigen via plasmid transfection. CD8+ T cells (OT-I cells) recognizing the antigen, ovalbumin, were adoptively transferred to transgenic mice expressing ovalbumin in islets (RIP-OVA(lo) mice), and these mice were primed with ovalbumin. To test the potential of DC to prevent diabetes in this model, the mice were later intravenously vaccinated with the transfected DC. RESULTS: Transfected DC induced partial deletion of antigen-reactive CD8+ T cells in vivo and reduced the level of lymphocyte infiltration into pancreatic islets. Diabetes developed less frequently in vaccinated mice, but this effect was limited. Further in vitro analysis showed that FasL-expressing DC not only deleted many of the responding CD8+ T cells but also promoted the expansion of surviving cells and their IFN-gamma production. CONCLUSIONS: FasL-expressing DC can also have stimulatory effects on CD8+ T cells warranting further investigation into the optimal design of tolerance-promoting DC-vaccination to prevent autoimmune diabetes.
19429178 | CAT53 and HFE alleles in Alzheimer's disease: a putative protective role of the C282Y HFE mutation. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex disorder, resulting from an interaction between environmental and genetic factors. Several studies addressed the association of AD with MHC class-I polymorphisms without definite conclusions. Considering the remarkable linkage disequilibrium at the MHC region, it is not possible to assume if the reported associations result from a direct effect of the respective genes or result from associations with other closely linked genes transmitted in an extended conserved haplotype. Recent evidence pointed to CAT53, a newly described gene located at the MHC class-I region in the vicinity of HLA-C, as a candidate modifier gene in AD. CAT53 encodes a phosphatase 1 nuclear inhibitor protein and is strongly expressed in brain regions involved in memory and AD. Here we tested the potential association of CAT53 with the risk of developing AD and searched for potential haplotypic associations of CAT53 with two common mutations (H63D, C282Y) in the HFE gene, also located at chromosome 6p21.3. The allele frequencies of these mutations in AD patients were compared to the expected frequencies previously established in the normal Portuguese population. We detected only one polymorphism (G>A) in CAT53, at position 8232, in intron 17. Screening of this polymorphism in 113 AD patients and 82 controls did not show any evidence of association, therefore excluding the hypothetical role of the CAT53 polymorphism as modifier in AD. In contrast, we found a significant negative association of the C282Y HFE mutation with AD, thus supporting a putative protective role of this protein variant in neurodegeneration.
21937852 | Effect of Peucedanum japonicum Thunb on the expression of obesity-related genes in mice on a high-fat diet. The present study describes the effect of Peucedanum japonicum Thunb (PJT) intake on the expression of obesity-related genes in mice fed a high-fat diet. To explore the mechanism underlying the effect of PJT, This study focused on the expression of genes, especially those related to obesity and metabolism syndrome, in the liver and adipose tissues. In agreement with our previous observations, intake of 10 % PJT for 4 weeks significantly reduced serum triglyceride (TG), leptin, abdominal fat, and adipocyte size. PJT also significantly increased fecal excretion of TG, decreased that of bile acid, and tended to increase the fecal excretion of total cholesterol. Microarray analysis was used to monitor changes in 324 metabolic syndrome-related genes in the liver. Statistically significant upregulation of PPP1R10, RORC, and PBEF1 genes and downregulation of DUSP1, INSIG2, and SERPINA12 genes were noted and confirmed by real-time RT-PCR. These changes were indicative of increased fatty acid oxidation in the maintenance of lipid homeostasis and insulin sensitivity in the livers of PJT-fed mice. PJT increased the expression of PPARgamma, FXRalpha, DGAT1, and ATGL genes, suggesting an enhancement of adipocyte differentiation and normalization of functionality of adipose tissue.
22006066 | HLA associations reveal genetic heterogeneity in psoriatic arthritis and in the psoriasis phenotype. OBJECTIVE: Rigorously ascertained cases of psoriatic arthritis in subjects presenting to a rheumatology unit were compared with cases of psoriasis in subjects presenting to a dermatology unit, where subjects with musculoskeletal features were excluded, to address 1) the extent to which the contribution of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) to psoriatic arthritis susceptibility resembles that in psoriasis, and 2) whether MHC genes determine quantitative traits within the psoriatic arthritis phenotype. METHODS: Separate discovery and validation subcohorts of patients recruited from a relatively homogeneous population were studied by sequence-based HLA typing, in which frequencies of the HLA-B and HLA-C alleles and haplotypes were compared. RESULTS: In patients with psoriatic arthritis, the frequency of C*06:02 was lower than that in patients with psoriasis (28.7% versus 57.5%; P = 9.9 x 10(-12) ). Three haplotypes containing B*27:05 or B*39:01 were significantly increased in frequency in patients with psoriatic arthritis, but not in those with psoriasis. The structurally related B*39:06 allele was not increased in frequency. B*27 was associated with an interval of 0.98 years between skin and musculoskeletal disease (P = 2.05 x 10(-6) ), compared with an interval of 10.14 years for C*06. Preliminary evidence suggested that B*38:01 and B*08 may be associated with psoriatic arthritis susceptibility, and that allotypes encoding P2 pockets that bind side chains opposite in charge from those encoded by the B*27 and B*39 molecules may exert a protective role. CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the psoriasis phenotype results from two patterns of MHC effect. The first involves the classic psoriasis susceptibility gene C*06, which confers more penetrant skin disease with less prevalent and more time-dependent musculoskeletal phenotype development. The second pattern appears to be mediated by HLA-B alleles, notably B*27, and includes temporally more coincident musculoskeletal involvement that is nearly equivalent in penetrance to that of the skin disease.
22404248 | Evaluation of cytotoxic T-cell activation, chemokine receptors, and adhesion molecules in blood and serum in patients with oral lichen planus. BACKGROUND: Our purpose is to study cytotoxic T-cell activation (through evaluation of CD8+CD40+ and CD8+CD154+ cells), chemokine receptors (through evaluation of CD8+CD184+ and CD8+CD195+ cells), and adhesion molecules (through evaluation of CD8+CD152+ cells) which play a part in cell activation in blood and serum samples of patients with OLP and then to compare them with healthy controls. METHODS: Thirty patients with OLP, and 30 matched healthy controls participated. The mean ages of OLP patients and controls were 51,10 +- 12,25 and 48,09 +- 11,92, respectively. Percentage of apoptotic cells, granzyme-B+, CD8+, CD8+CD40+, CD8+CD152+ (CTLA-4), CD8+CD154+(CD40L), CD8+CD184+(CXCR-4) and CD8+CD195+(CCR-5) were detected by immunophenotyping on flow cytometry. Apoptosis measurements were accomplished with Annexin V/Propidium Iodide kit. RESULTS: A higher percentage of CD8+CD154+ and granzyme-B+ and a lower percentage of CD8+, CD8+CD184+ and apoptotic cells were found in OLP patients than in controls. No statistical differences were observed in the percentages of the other markers between groups. CONCLUSIONS: It is observed that because of increase in granzyme B+ and CD154 which is the activation marker, CD8+ cells present efforts to sustain their activity even though decrease in their cell number. Lower levels of CD8+CD184+ cells in OLP than control is evaluated as a factor that makes OLP to be localised in our study. In addition, our findings lead us to think that there may be some changes in apoptosis pathways of the cells. But this needs to be clarified by further studies exploring the mechanisms of the apoptosis in OLP patients.
22898588 | Design and analysis of immune-evading enzymes for ADEPT therapy. The unparalleled specificity and activity of therapeutic proteins has reshaped many aspects of modern clinical practice, and aggressive development of new protein drugs promises a continued revolution in disease therapy. As a result of their biological origins, however, therapeutic proteins present unique design challenges for the biomolecular engineer. For example, protein drugs are subject to immune surveillance within the patient's body; this anti-drug immune response can compromise therapeutic efficacy and even threaten patient safety. Thus, there is a growing demand for broadly applicable protein deimmunization strategies. We have recently developed optimization algorithms that integrate computational prediction of T-cell epitopes and bioinformatics-based assessment of the structural and functional consequences of epitope-deleting mutations. Here, we describe the first experimental validation of our deimmunization algorithms using Enterobacter cloacae P99 beta-lactamase, a component of antibody-directed enzyme prodrug cancer therapies. Compared with wild-type or a previously deimmunized variant, our computationally optimized sequences exhibited significantly less in vitro binding to human type II major histocompatibility complex immune molecules. At the same time, our globally optimal design exhibited wild-type catalytic proficiency. We conclude that our deimmunization algorithms guide the protein engineer towards promising immunoevasive candidates and thereby have the potential to streamline biotherapeutic development.
23406874 | Resequencing and fine-mapping of the chromosome 12q13-14 locus associated with multiple sclerosis refines the number of implicated genes. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system. Susceptibility to the disease is affected by both environmental and genetic factors. Genetic factors include haplotypes in the histocompatibility complex (MHC) and over 50 non-MHC loci reported by genome-wide association studies. Amongst these, we previously reported polymorphisms in chromosome 12q13-14 with a protective effect in individuals of European descent. This locus spans 288 kb and contains 17 genes, including several candidate genes which have potentially significant pathogenic and therapeutic implications. In this study, we aimed to fine-map this locus. We have implemented a two-phase study: a variant discovery phase where we have used next-generation sequencing and two target-enrichment strategies [long-range polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Nimblegen's solution phase hybridization capture] in pools of 25 samples; and a genotyping phase where we genotyped 712 variants in 3577 healthy controls and 3269 MS patients. This study confirmed the association (rs2069502, P = 9.9 x 10(-11), OR = 0.787) and narrowed down the locus of association to an 86.5 kb region. Although the study was unable to pinpoint the key-associated variant, we have identified a 42 (genotyped and imputed) single-nucleotide polymorphism haplotype block likely to harbour the causal variant. No evidence of association at previously reported low-frequency variants in CYP27B1 was observed. As part of the study we compared variant discovery performance using two target-enrichment strategies. We concluded that our pools enriched with Nimblegen's solution phase hybridization capture had better sensitivity to detect true variants than the pools enriched with long-range PCR, whilst specificity was better in the long-range PCR-enriched pools compared with solution phase hybridization capture enriched pools; this result has important implications for the design of future fine-mapping studies.
25224099 | HLA-DRA variants predict penicillin allergy in genome-wide fine-mapping genotyping. BACKGROUND: Immediate reactions to beta-lactams are the most common causes of anaphylactic reactions and can be life-threatening. The few known genetic factors influencing these reactions suggest a link with atopy and inflammation. OBJECTIVE: We performed a fine-mapping genome-wide association study of the genetic predictors of beta-lactam allergy to better understand the underlying mechanisms. METHODS: We studied 387 patients with immediate allergic reactions to beta-lactams and 1124 paired control subjects from Spain. We replicated the results in 299 patients and 362 paired control subjects from Italy. RESULTS: We found significant associations with the single nucleotide polymorphisms rs4958427 of ZNF300 (c.64-471G>A, P = 9.9 x 10(-9)), rs17612 of C5 (c.4311A>C [p.Glu1437Asp], P = 7.5 x 10(-7)), rs7754768 and rs9268832 of the HLA-DRA   HLA-DRB5 interregion (P = 1.6 x 10(-6) and 4.9 x 10(-6)), and rs7192 of HLA-DRA (c.724T>G [p.Leu242Val], P = 7.4 x 10(-6)) in an allelic model, with similar results in an additive model. Single nucleotide polymorphisms of HLA-DRA and ZNF300 predicted skin test positivity to amoxicillin and other penicillins but not to cephalosporins. A haplotype block in HLA-DRA and the HLA-DRA   HLA-DRB5 interregion encompassed a motif involved in balanced expression of the alpha- and beta-chains of MHC class II, whereas rs7192 was predicted to influence alpha-chain conformation. HLA-DRA rs7192 and rs8084 were significantly associated with allergy to penicillins and amoxicillin (P = 6.0 x 10(-4) and P = 4.0 x 10(-4), respectively) but not to cephalosporins in the replication study. CONCLUSIONS: Gene variants of HLA-DRA and the HLA-DRA   HLA-DRB5 interregion were significant predictors of allergy to penicillins but not to cephalosporins. These data suggest complex gene-environment interactions in which genetic susceptibility of HLA type 2 antigen presentation plays a central role.
28607051 | Computationally optimized deimmunization libraries yield highly mutated enzymes with low immunogenicity and enhanced activity. Therapeutic proteins of wide-ranging function hold great promise for treating disease, but immune surveillance of these macromolecules can drive an antidrug immune response that compromises efficacy and even undermines safety. To eliminate widespread T-cell epitopes in any biotherapeutic and thereby mitigate this key source of detrimental immune recognition, we developed a Pareto optimal deimmunization library design algorithm that optimizes protein libraries to account for the simultaneous effects of combinations of mutations on both molecular function and epitope content. Active variants identified by high-throughput screening are thus inherently likely to be deimmunized. Functional screening of an optimized 10-site library (1,536 variants) of P99 beta-lactamase (P99betaL), a component of ADEPT cancer therapies, revealed that the population possessed high overall fitness, and comprehensive analysis of peptide-MHC II immunoreactivity showed the population possessed lower average immunogenic potential than the wild-type enzyme. Although similar functional screening of an optimized 30-site library (2.15 x 109 variants) revealed reduced population-wide fitness, numerous individual variants were found to have activity and stability better than the wild type despite bearing 13 or more deimmunizing mutations per enzyme. The immunogenic potential of one highly active and stable 14-mutation variant was assessed further using ex vivo cellular immunoassays, and the variant was found to silence T-cell activation in seven of the eight blood donors who responded strongly to wild-type P99betaL. In summary, our multiobjective library-design process readily identified large and mutually compatible sets of epitope-deleting mutations and produced highly active but aggressively deimmunized constructs in only one round of library screening.
36319065 | Adaptive single-KIR+NKG2C+ NK cells expanded from select superdonors show potent missing-self reactivity and efficiently control HLA-mismatched acute myeloid leukemia. BACKGROUND: Natural killer (NK) cells hold great promise as a source for allogeneic cell therapy against hematological malignancies, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Current treatments are hampered by variability in NK cell subset responses, a limitation which could be circumvented by specific expansion of highly potent single killer immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR)+NKG2C+ adaptive NK cells to maximize missing-self reactivity. METHODS: We developed a GMP-compliant protocol to expand adaptive NK cells from cryopreserved cells derived from select third-party superdonors, that is, donors harboring large adaptive NK cell subsets with desired KIR specificities at baseline. We studied the adaptive state of the cell product (ADAPT-NK) by flow cytometry and mass cytometry as well as cellular indexing of transcriptomes and epitopes by sequencing (CITE-Seq). We investigated the functional responses of ADAPT-NK cells against a wide range of tumor target cell lines and primary AML samples using flow cytometry and IncuCyte as well as in a mouse model of AML. RESULTS: ADAPT-NK cells were >90% pure with a homogeneous expression of a single self-HLA specific KIR and expanded a median of 470-fold. The ADAPT-NK cells largely retained their adaptive transcriptional signature with activation of effector programs without signs of exhaustion. ADAPT-NK cells showed high degranulation capacity and efficient killing of HLA-C/KIR mismatched tumor cell lines as well as primary leukemic blasts from AML patients. Finally, the expanded adaptive NK cells had preserved robust antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity potential and combination of ADAPT-NK cells with an anti-CD16/IL-15/anti-CD33 tri-specific engager led to near-complete killing of resistant CD45dim blast subtypes. CONCLUSIONS: These preclinical data demonstrate the feasibility of off-the-shelf therapy with a non-engineered, yet highly specific, NK cell population with full missing-self recognition capability.
38331062 | PeptiVAX: A new adaptable peptides-delivery platform for development of CTL-based, SARS-CoV-2 vaccines. The emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) posed a threat to public health and the global economy, necessitating the development of various vaccination strategies. Mutations in the SPIKE protein gene, a crucial component of mRNA and adenovirus-based vaccines, raised concerns about vaccine efficacy, prompting the need for rapid vaccine updates. To address this, we leveraged PeptiCRAd, an oncolytic vaccine based on tumor antigen decorated oncolytic adenoviruses, creating a vaccine platform called PeptiVAX. First, we identified multiple CD8 T-cell epitopes from highly conserved regions across coronaviruses, expanding the range of T-cell responses to non-SPIKE proteins. We designed short segments containing the predicted epitopes presented by common HLA-Is in the global population. Testing the immunogenicity, we characterized T-cell responses to candidate peptides in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from pre-pandemic healthy donors and ICU patients. As a proof of concept in mice, we selected a peptide with epitopes predicted to bind to murine MHC-I haplotypes. Our technology successfully elicited peptide-specific T-cell responses, unaffected by the use of unarmed adenoviral vectors or adeno-based vaccines encoding SPIKE. In conclusion, PeptiVAX represents a fast and adaptable SARS-CoV-2 vaccine delivery system that broadens T-cell responses beyond the SPIKE protein, offering potential benefits for vaccine effectiveness.
38332154 | Virological characteristics of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron XBB.1.5 variant. Circulation of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron XBB has resulted in the emergence of XBB.1.5, a new Variant of Interest. Our phylogenetic analysis suggests that XBB.1.5 evolved from XBB.1 by acquiring the S486P spike (S) mutation, subsequent to the acquisition of a nonsense mutation in ORF8. Neutralization assays showed similar abilities of immune escape between XBB.1.5 and XBB.1. We determine the structural basis for the interaction between human ACE2 and the S protein of XBB.1.5, showing similar overall structures between the S proteins of XBB.1 and XBB.1.5. We provide the intrinsic pathogenicity of XBB.1 and XBB.1.5 in hamsters. Importantly, we find that the ORF8 nonsense mutation of XBB.1.5 resulted in impairment of MHC suppression. In vivo experiments using recombinant viruses reveal that the XBB.1.5 mutations are involved with reduced virulence of XBB.1.5. Together, our study identifies the two viral functions defined the difference between XBB.1 and XBB.1.5.
38336631 | Emotions and worries during 1.5 years of the COVID-19 pandemic - how adults with and without mental health conditions coped with the crisis. BACKGROUND: During the COVID 19 pandemic, there were social restrictions with severe mental stress for a long time. Most studies on mental health consequences of the pandemic focused primarily on the beginning of the pandemic. The present study on families of patients or study participants of a child and adolescent psychiatry aimed to examine long-term profiles of emotions and worries in adults with and without mental health condition (mhc) during the first 1.5 years of the COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: We surveyed emotions and worries of 128 adults with (n = 32) and without (n = 96) pre-pandemic mhc over a 1.5-year study period from spring 2020 until summer/autumn 2021. Emotions and worries were captured at four time points: [i] pre-pandemic, [ii] spring 2020 (first lockdown was implemented), [iii] December 2020 (hard lockdown at Christmas time) and [iv] summer/autumn 2021 (considerable ease of regulations); [i] pre-pandemic and [iii] December 2020 were measured retrospectively). First, we run non-parametric tests to compare emotions and worries between adults with and without pre-pandemic mhc at the four time points. Next, we conducted latent profile analysis to identify subgroups from the total sample who share similar trajectories of emotions and worries. Finally, a logistic regression analysis was run to examine whether socio-demographic and psycho-social factors were related to identified trajectories of emotions and worries. RESULTS: Adults without pre-pandemic mhc reported a strong worsening of emotions and worries at the beginning of the pandemic and a lower worsening during the course, while adults with pre-pandemic mhc reported a constant worsening of emotions and worries. The latent profile analysis revealed three profiles of adults who show either i) an adaption, ii) no adaption or iii) a continuous high condition. With increasing age, higher perceived stress and pre-pandemic mhc, the likelihood of an adaption was increased. CONCLUSION: The results of the present study suggested that adults (both with and without pre-pandemic mhc) coped the crisis with different strategies and that most of them returned to their initial, pre-pandemic levels of emotions and worries when social restrictions were considerably eased or stopped.
38352315 | A general platform for targeting MHC-II antigens via a single loop. Class-II major histocompatibility complexes (MHC-IIs) are central to the communications between CD4+ T cells and antigen presenting cells (APCs), but intrinsic structural features associated with MHC-II make it difficult to develop a general targeting system with high affinity and antigen specificity. Here, we introduce a protein platform, Targeted Recognition of Antigen-MHC Complex Reporter for MHC-II (TRACeR-II), to enable the rapid development of peptide-specific MHC-II binders. TRACeR-II has a small helical bundle scaffold and uses an unconventional mechanism to recognize antigens via a single loop. This unique antigen-recognition mechanism renders this platform highly versatile and amenable to direct structural modeling of the interactions with the antigen. We demonstrate that TRACeR-II binders can be rapidly evolved across multiple alleles, while computational protein design can produce specific binding sequences for a SARS-CoV-2 peptide of unknown complex structure. TRACeR-II sheds light on a simple and straightforward approach to address the MHC peptide targeting challenge, without relying on combinatorial selection on complementarity determining region (CDR) loops. It presents a promising basis for further exploration in immune response modulation as well as a broad range of theragnostic applications.
38397027 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF7a Mutation Found in BF.5 and BF.7 Sublineages Impacts Its Functions. A feature of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron subvariants BF.5 and BF.7 that recently circulated mainly in China and Japan was the high prevalence of the ORF7a: H47Y mutation, in which the 47th residue of ORF7a has been mutated from a histidine (H) to a tyrosine (Y). Here, we evaluated the effect of this mutation on the three main functions ascribed to the SARS-CoV-2 ORF7a protein. Our findings show that H47Y mutation impairs the ability of SARS-CoV-2 ORF7a to antagonize the type I interferon (IFN-I) response and to downregulate major histocompatibility complex I (MHC-I) cell surface levels, but had no effect in its anti-SERINC5 function. Overall, our results suggest that the H47Y mutation of ORF7a affects important functions of this protein, resulting in changes in virus pathogenesis.
38403864 | The novel HLA-C*12:02:52 allele, identified by Sanger dideoxy nucleotide sequencing in a Chinese individual. HLA-C*12:02:52 differs from HLA-C*12:02:02:01 by one nucleotide in exon 1.
