2840678 | Molecular structure and interrelationships of multiresistance beta-lactamase transposons. Transposons coding for beta-lactamases OXA-3, OXA-4, OXA-5, LCR-1, and CARB-3 have been isolated and compared functionally and structurally with transposons for TEM-1, OXA-1, PSE-1, PSE-2, and PSE-4 enzymes. Each beta-lactamase gene type occurred in a unit together with resistance to other antibiotics, particularly streptomycin and sulfonamide but also chloramphenicol, mercuric ion, or gentamicin, kanamycin, and tobramycin. Restriction mapping, gene cloning, and DNA hybridization were used to compare the transposons and to localize their functional components. Although the multiresistance beta-lactamase transposons varied in size from 8 to 25 kb, the similarity of some of their restriction maps suggested a common derivation. Six of 12 transposons contained DNA segments homologous to the tnpR gene of transposon Tn21 and could complement a tnpR- Tn21 derivative. Consequently, these six transposons appear to have evolved from a common progenitor by acquisition of DNA coding for various beta-lactamases and other resistance genes.
3035334 | Molecular cloning and DNA homology of plasmid-mediated beta-lactamase genes. Molecular cloning of DNA fragments between 1.5 and 8 kb from BamHI, EcoRI, HindIII, SalI, or Sau3A digests permitted the isolation of structural genes coding for TEM-1, ROB-1, OXA-1, OXA-3, OXA-4, OXA-5, PSE-1, PSE-2, PSE-3, PSE-4, CARB-3, CARB-4, AER-1, and LCR-1 beta-lactamases. Ampicillin-resistant clones were selected and it was confirmed that they contained the respective beta-lactamase genes by isoelectric focusing. Detailed physical maps of 14 different recombinant plasmids were constructed using 8 restriction endonucleases. Plasmid deletions and lacZ fusions were used to localize the beta-lactamase structural genes. DNA probes were constructed for the TEM-1, ROB-1, OXA-1, and PSE-1 genes. Under conditions of high stringency, hybridization was observed between the genes for TEM-1 and TEM-2 or TLE-1, OXA-1 and OXA-4, and PSE-1 and PSE-4 or CARB-3, while the ROB-1 gene probe showed no cross-hybridization. Such bla gene probes should facilitate studies of beta-lactamase molecular epidemiology.
8089068 | In-vitro activity of biapenem, compared with imipenem and meropenem, against Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains and mutants with known resistance mechanisms. The activity of biapenem (L-627, LJC-10627), a new carbapenem, was investigated against Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains, mutants and isolates with known resistance mechanisms to other beta-lactams. The behaviour of biapenem closely resembled that of imipenem, although it showed minor differences compared with meropenem, Inducible (i.e. normal) or derepressed chromosomal beta-lactamase expression gave slight protection against biapenem and imipenem, but insufficient to raise the MICs above clinically significant limits. This behaviour correlated with the slight lability of these compounds to the purified enzyme and with their strong capacity to induce beta-lactamase synthesis. Inducible or derepressed enzyme gave no protection against meropenem, possibly reflecting this compound's particular ability to deactivate the enzyme. Biapenem also has some ability to reversibly deactivate the enzyme. None of several plasmid-mediated beta-lactamases (TEM-2, PSE-1, -3 or -4; OXA-3,-6,-10,-11; NPS-1 or LCR-1) introduced into a P. aeruginosa PU21 recipient strain reduced susceptibility to biapenem or other carbapenems. Amongst permeability mutants, those lacking the D2 'carbapenem-specific' porin had reduced susceptibility to biapenem as well as to imipenem and meropenem. Biapenem and imipenem insusceptibility in these D2 porin-deficient mutants required continued expression of the chromosomal beta-lactamase, although this did not apply to meropenem. P. aeruginosa isolates and mutants with broad-spectrum insusceptibility ('intrinsic resistance') to penicillins, cephalosporins and unrelated drugs remained fully susceptible to biapenem and imipenem, whilst showing slightly reduced susceptibility to meropenem. Overall, these findings suggest that biapenem, like the earlier carbapenems, should prove to be a useful antipseudomonal agent, overcoming the mechanisms that commonly confer resistance to other classes of antipseudomonal beta-lactams.
17991743 | Cyclophilin A is required for CXCR4-mediated nuclear export of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2, activation and nuclear translocation of ERK1/2, and chemotactic cell migration. The chemokine receptor CXCR4-mediated signaling cascades play an important role in cell proliferation and migration, but the underlying mechanisms by which the receptor signaling is regulated remain incompletely understood. Here, we demonstrate that CXCR4 was co-immunoprecipitated with cyclophilin A (CyPA) from the lysate of HEK293 cells stably expressing CXCR4. Although both the glutathione S-transferase-CXCR4 N- and C-terminal fusion proteins were associated with the purified CyPA, truncation of the C-terminal domain of CXCR4 robustly inhibited the receptor co-immunoprecipitation with CyPA in intact cells, thereby suggesting a critical role of the receptor C terminus in this interaction. Ligand stimulation of CXCR4 induced CyPA phosphorylation and nuclear translocation, both of which were inhibited by truncation of the C-terminal domain of CXCR4. CyPA was associated with transportin 1, and knockdown of transportin 1 by RNA interference (RNAi) blocked CXCL12-induced nuclear translocation of CyPA, thereby suggesting a transportin 1-mediated nuclear import of CyPA. CyPA formed a complex with heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A2, which underwent nuclear export in response to activation of CXCR4. Interestingly, the CXCR4-mediated nuclear export of hnRNP A2 was blocked by RNAi of CyPA. Moreover, CXCR4-evoked activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) was attenuated by CyPA RNAi, by overexpression of a PPIase-deficient mutant of CyPA (CyPA-R55A), and by pretreatment of the immunosuppressive drugs, cyclosporine A and sanglifehrin A. Finally, CXCL12-induced chemotaxis of HEK293 cells stably expressing CXCR4 or Jurkat T cells was inhibited by CyPA RNAi or CsA treatment.
18178234 | Inhibitory function of adapter-related protein complex 2 alpha 1 subunit in the process of nuclear translocation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 genome. The transfection of human cells with siRNA against adapter-related protein complex 2 alpha 1 subunit (AP2alpha) was revealed to significantly up-regulate the replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). This effect was confirmed by cell infection with vesicular stomatitis virus G protein-pseudotyped HIV-1 as well as CXCR4-tropic and CCR5-tropic HIV-1. Viral adsorption, viral entry and reverse transcription processes were not affected by cell transfection with siRNA against AP2alpha. In contrast, viral nuclear translocation as well as the integration process was significantly up-regulated in cells transfected with siRNA against AP2alpha. Confocal fluorescence microscopy revealed that a subpopulation of AP2alpha was not only localized in the cytoplasm but was also partly co-localized with lamin B, importin beta and Nup153, implying that AP2alpha negatively regulates HIV-1 replication in the process of nuclear translocation of viral DNA in the cytoplasm or the perinuclear region. We propose that AP2alpha may be a novel target for disrupting HIV-1 replication in the early stage of the viral life cycle.
21900684 | Importin alpha2-interacting proteins with nuclear roles during mammalian spermatogenesis. Spermatogenesis, the process of generating haploid sperm capable of fertilizing the female gamete, requires the timely transport into the nucleus of transcription and chromatin-remodeling factors, mediated by members of the importin (IMP) superfamily. Previous IMP expression profiling implies a role for IMPalpha2 in testicular germ cells late in spermatogenesis. To identify interacting proteins of IMPalpha2 that are potential drivers of germ cell development, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening of an adult mouse testis library. IMPalpha2 interactions were verified by coimmunoprecipitation approaches, whereas immunohistochemical staining of testis sections confirmed their coexpression with IMPalpha2 in specific testicular cell types. Key interactors identified were a novel isoform of a cysteine and histidine rich protein (Chrp), a protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) family member involved in transcriptional regulation and sumoylation, Androgen receptor interacting protein 3 (Arip3), and Homologous protein 2 (Hop2), known to be involved in homologous chromosome pairing and recombination, all of which are highly expressed in the testis and show mRNA expression profiles similar to that of IMPalpha2 throughout testicular development. This is the first study to identify binding partners of IMPalpha2 in the developmental context of germ line development, and we propose that the regulated expression and timely IMPalpha2-mediated nuclear transport of these proteins may coordinate events during spermatogenesis, with IMPalpha2-mediated nuclear localization representing a potentially critical developmental switch in the testis.
23468933 | Cysteine (C)-x-C receptor 4 undergoes transportin 1-dependent nuclear localization and remains functional at the nucleus of metastatic prostate cancer cells. The G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR), Cysteine (C)-X-C Receptor 4 (CXCR4), plays an important role in prostate cancer metastasis. CXCR4 is generally regarded as a plasma membrane receptor where it transmits signals that support transformation, progression and eventual metastasis. Due to the central role of CXCR4 in tumorigenesis, therapeutics approaches such as antagonist and monoclonal antibodies have focused on receptors that exist on the plasma membrane. An emerging concept for G-protein coupled receptors is that they may localize to and associate with the nucleus where they retain function and mediate nuclear signaling. Herein, we demonstrate that CXCR4 associated with the nucleus of malignant prostate cancer tissues. Likewise, expression of CXCR4 was detected in nuclear fractions among several prostate cancer cell lines, compared to normal prostate epithelial cells. Our studies identified a nuclear pool of CXCR4 and we defined a nuclear transport pathway for CXCR4. We reveal a putative nuclear localization sequence (NLS), 'RPRK', within CXCR4 that contributed to nuclear localization. Additionally, nuclear CXCR4 interacted with Transportinbeta1 and Transportinbeta1-binding to CXCR4 promoted its nuclear translocation. Importantly, Galphai immunoprecipitation and calcium mobilization studies indicated that nuclear CXCR4 was functional and participated in G-protein signaling, revealing that the nuclear pool of CXCR4 retained function. Given the suggestion that functional, nuclear CXCR4 may be a mechanism underlying prostate cancer recurrence, increased metastatic ability and poorer prognosis after tumors have been treated with therapy that targets plasma membrane CXCR4, these studies addresses a novel mechanism of nuclear signaling for CXCR4, a novel mechanism of clinical targeting, and demonstrate an active nuclear pool that provides important new information to illuminate what has been primarily clinical reports of nuclear CXCR4.
25989275 | KPNA2 is a nuclear export protein that contributes to aberrant localisation of key proteins and poor prognosis of breast cancer. BACKGROUND: It is recognised that modulations of the nuclear import of macromolecules have a role in changing cellular phenotypes and carcinogenesis. We and others have noticed that aberrant subcellular localisation of DNA damage response (DDR) proteins in breast cancer (BC) is associated with loss-of-function phenotype. This study aims to investigate the biological and clinical significance of the nucleocytoplasmic transport protein karyopherin alpha-2 (KPNA2), and its role in controlling DDR proteins subcellular localisation in BC. METHODS: A large (n=1494) and well-characterised series of early-stage invasive BC with a long-term follow-up was assessed for KPNA2 protein by using immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: KPNA2 expression was associated with the subcellular localisation of key DDR proteins that showed cytoplasmic expression including BRCA1, RAD51, SMC6L1, gammaH2AX, BARD1, UBC9, PIAS1 and CHK1. High level of KPNA2 was associated not only with cytoplasmic localisation of these proteins but also with their low/negative nuclear expression. Positive KPNA2 expression was associated with negative oestrogen receptor and triple-negative phenotype. Survival analysis showed that KPNA2 was associated with poor outcome (P<0.0001), but this effect was not independent of other prognostic variables. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides further evidence for the complexity of DDR mechanism in BC, and that KNPA2 has a role in the aberrant subcellular localisation of DDR proteins with subsequent impaired function.
27783955 | A Cas9 Ribonucleoprotein Platform for Functional Genetic Studies of HIV-Host Interactions in Primary Human T Cells. New genetic tools are needed to understand the functional interactions between HIV and human host factors in primary cells. We recently developed a method to edit the genome of primary CD4+ T cells by electroporation of CRISPR/Cas9 ribonucleoproteins (RNPs). Here, we adapted this methodology to a high-throughput platform for the efficient, arrayed editing of candidate host factors. CXCR4 or CCR5 knockout cells generated with this method are resistant to HIV infection in a tropism-dependent manner, whereas knockout of LEDGF or TNPO3 results in a tropism-independent reduction in infection. CRISPR/Cas9 RNPs can furthermore edit multiple genes simultaneously, enabling studies of interactions among multiple host and viral factors. Finally, in an arrayed screen of 45 genes associated with HIV integrase, we identified several candidate dependency/restriction factors, demonstrating the power of this approach as a discovery platform. This technology should accelerate target validation for pharmaceutical and cell-based therapies to cure HIV infection.
28100513 | Loss of Ranbp2 in motoneurons causes disruption of nucleocytoplasmic and chemokine signaling, proteostasis of hnRNPH3 and Mmp28, and development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-like syndromes. The pathogenic drivers of sporadic and familial motor neuron disease (MND), such amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), are unknown. MND impairs the Ran GTPase cycle, which controls nucleocytoplasmic transport, ribostasis and proteostasis; however, cause-effect mechanisms of Ran GTPase modulators in motoneuron pathobiology have remained elusive. The cytosolic and peripheral nucleoporin Ranbp2 is a crucial regulator of the Ran GTPase cycle and of the proteostasis of neurological disease-prone substrates, but the roles of Ranbp2 in motoneuron biology and disease remain unknown. This study shows that conditional ablation of Ranbp2 in mouse Thy1 motoneurons causes ALS syndromes with hypoactivity followed by hindlimb paralysis, respiratory distress and, ultimately, death. These phenotypes are accompanied by: a decline in the nerve conduction velocity, free fatty acids and phophatidylcholine of the sciatic nerve; a reduction in the g-ratios of sciatic and phrenic nerves; and hypertrophy of motoneurons. Furthermore, Ranbp2 loss disrupts the nucleocytoplasmic partitioning of the import and export nuclear receptors importin beta and exportin 1, respectively, Ran GTPase and histone deacetylase 4. Whole-transcriptome, proteomic and cellular analyses uncovered that the chemokine receptor Cxcr4, its antagonizing ligands Cxcl12 and Cxcl14, and effector, latent and activated Stat3 all undergo early autocrine and proteostatic deregulation, and intracellular sequestration and aggregation as a result of Ranbp2 loss in motoneurons. These effects were accompanied by paracrine and autocrine neuroglial deregulation of hnRNPH3 proteostasis in sciatic nerve and motoneurons, respectively, and post-transcriptional downregulation of metalloproteinase 28 in the sciatic nerve. Mechanistically, our results demonstrate that Ranbp2 controls nucleocytoplasmic, chemokine and metalloproteinase 28 signaling, and proteostasis of substrates that are crucial to motoneuronal homeostasis and whose impairments by loss of Ranbp2 drive ALS-like syndromes.
28326644 | HIV-1 susceptibility of transgenic rat-derived primary macrophage/T cells and a T cell line that express human receptors, CyclinT1 and CRM1 genes. We developed transgenic (Tg) rats that express human CD4, CCR5, CXCR4, CyclinT1, and CRM1 genes. Tg rat macrophages were efficiently infected with HIV-1 and supported production of infectious progeny virus. By contrast, both rat primary CD4+ T cells and established T cell lines expressing human CD4, CCR5, CyclinT1, and CRM1 genes were infected inefficiently, but this was ameliorated by inhibition of cyclophilin A. The infectivity of rat T cell-derived virus was lower than that of human T cell-derived virus.
30830222 | Androgens Ameliorate Impaired Ischemia-Induced Neovascularization Due to Aging in Male Mice. There is abundant evidence that low circulating testosterone levels in older men are associated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes; however, the direction of causality is unclear. Although there is burgeoning interest in the potential of androgen therapy in older men, the effect of androgens on cardiovascular regeneration in aging males remains poorly defined. We investigated the role of androgens in age-related impairment in ischemia-induced neovascularization. Castrated young (2 months) and old (24 months) male mice were subjected to unilateral hindlimb ischemia and treated with subdermal DHT or placebo Silastic implants. Blood flow recovery was enhanced by DHT treatment in young and old mice compared with age-matched placebo controls. DHT augmented angiogenesis in young mice and ameliorated age-related impairment in neovascularization in old mice. Administration of DHT was associated with increased hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) and stromal cell-derived factor-1 expression in young mice, but not in old mice. In vitro, DHT-induced HIF-1alpha transcriptional activation was attenuated in fibroblasts from old mice. Interaction between androgen receptor (AR) and importins, key proteins that facilitate nuclear translocation of AR, was impaired with age. In contrast, DHT treatment stimulated the production and mobilization of Sca1+/CXCR4+ circulating progenitor cells in both young and old mice. DHT stimulated the migration and proangiogenic paracrine effect of ex vivo cultured bone marrow-derived angiogenic cells from young and old mice. In conclusion, androgens ameliorated age-related impairment in ischemia-induced neovascularization. Although age-dependent dysfunction in androgen signaling attenuated some androgen effects on angiogenesis, provasculogenic effects of androgens were partially preserved with age.
32591762 | COVID-19 severity correlates with airway epithelium-immune cell interactions identified by single-cell analysis. To investigate the immune response and mechanisms associated with severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on nasopharyngeal and bronchial samples from 19 clinically well-characterized patients with moderate or critical disease and from five healthy controls. We identified airway epithelial cell types and states vulnerable to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. In patients with COVID-19, epithelial cells showed an average three-fold increase in expression of the SARS-CoV-2 entry receptor ACE2, which correlated with interferon signals by immune cells. Compared to moderate cases, critical cases exhibited stronger interactions between epithelial and immune cells, as indicated by ligand-receptor expression profiles, and activated immune cells, including inflammatory macrophages expressing CCL2, CCL3, CCL20, CXCL1, CXCL3, CXCL10, IL8, IL1B and TNF. The transcriptional differences in critical cases compared to moderate cases likely contribute to clinical observations of heightened inflammatory tissue damage, lung injury and respiratory failure. Our data suggest that pharmacologic inhibition of the CCR1 and/or CCR5 pathways might suppress immune hyperactivation in critical COVID-19.
32607510 | In vivo antiviral host response to SARS-CoV-2 by viral load, sex, and age. Despite limited genomic diversity, SARS-CoV-2 has shown a wide range of clinical manifestations in different patient populations. The mechanisms behind these host differences are still unclear. Here, we examined host response gene expression across infection status, viral load, age, and sex among shotgun RNA-sequencing profiles of nasopharyngeal swabs from 430 individuals with PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 and 54 negative controls. SARS-CoV-2 induced a strong antiviral response with upregulation of antiviral factors such as OAS1-3 and IFIT1-3 , and Th1 chemokines CXCL9/10/11 , as well as a reduction in transcription of ribosomal proteins. SARS-CoV-2 culture in human airway epithelial cultures replicated the in vivo antiviral host response. Patient-matched longitudinal specimens (mean elapsed time = 6.3 days) demonstrated reduction in interferon-induced transcription, recovery of transcription of ribosomal proteins, and initiation of wound healing and humoral immune responses. Expression of interferon-responsive genes, including ACE2 , increased as a function of viral load, while transcripts for B cell-specific proteins and neutrophil chemokines were elevated in patients with lower viral load. Older individuals had reduced expression of Th1 chemokines CXCL9/10/11 and their cognate receptor, CXCR3 , as well as CD8A and granzyme B, suggesting deficiencies in trafficking and/or function of cytotoxic T cells and natural killer (NK) cells. Relative to females, males had reduced B and NK cell-specific transcripts and an increase in inhibitors of NF-kappaB signaling, possibly inappropriately throttling antiviral responses. Collectively, our data demonstrate that host responses to SARS-CoV-2 are dependent on viral load and infection time course, with observed differences due to age and sex that may contribute to disease severity.
32898168 | In vivo antiviral host transcriptional response to SARS-CoV-2 by viral load, sex, and age. Despite limited genomic diversity, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has shown a wide range of clinical manifestations in different patient populations. The mechanisms behind these host differences are still unclear. Here, we examined host response gene expression across infection status, viral load, age, and sex among shotgun RNA sequencing profiles of nasopharyngeal (NP) swabs from 430 individuals with PCR-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 and 54 negative controls. SARS-CoV-2 induced a strong antiviral response with up-regulation of antiviral factors such as OAS1-3 and IFIT1-3 and T helper type 1 (Th1) chemokines CXCL9/10/11, as well as a reduction in transcription of ribosomal proteins. SARS-CoV-2 culture in human airway epithelial (HAE) cultures replicated the in vivo antiviral host response 7 days post infection, with no induction of interferon-stimulated genes after 3 days. Patient-matched longitudinal specimens (mean elapsed time = 6.3 days) demonstrated reduction in interferon-induced transcription, recovery of transcription of ribosomal proteins, and initiation of wound healing and humoral immune responses. Expression of interferon-responsive genes, including ACE2, increased as a function of viral load, while transcripts for B cell-specific proteins and neutrophil chemokines were elevated in patients with lower viral load. Older individuals had reduced expression of the Th1 chemokines CXCL9/10/11 and their cognate receptor CXCR3, as well as CD8A and granzyme B, suggesting deficiencies in trafficking and/or function of cytotoxic T cells and natural killer (NK) cells. Relative to females, males had reduced B cell-specific and NK cell-specific transcripts and an increase in inhibitors of nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kappaB) signaling, possibly inappropriately throttling antiviral responses. Collectively, our data demonstrate that host responses to SARS-CoV-2 are dependent on viral load and infection time course, with observed differences due to age and sex that may contribute to disease severity.
32991819 | Lung Expression of Human Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 Sensitizes the Mouse to SARS-CoV-2 Infection. Preclinical mouse models that recapitulate some characteristics of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) will facilitate focused study of pathogenesis and virus-host responses. Human agniotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) serves as an entry receptor for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) to infect people via binding to envelope spike proteins. Herein we report development and characterization of a rapidly deployable COVID-19 mouse model. C57BL/6J (B6) mice expressing hACE2 in the lung were transduced by oropharyngeal delivery of the recombinant human adenovirus type 5 that expresses hACE2 (Ad5-hACE2). Mice were infected with SARS-CoV-2 at Day 4 after transduction and developed interstitial pneumonia associated with perivascular inflammation, accompanied by significantly higher viral load in lungs at Days 3, 6, and 12 after infection compared with Ad5-empty control group. SARS-CoV-2 was detected in pneumocytes in alveolar septa. Transcriptomic analysis of lungs demonstrated that the infected Ad5-hACE mice had a significant increase in IFN-dependent chemokines Cxcl9 and Cxcl10, and genes associated with effector T-cell populations including Cd3 g, Cd8a, and Gzmb. Pathway analysis showed that several Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways were enriched in the data set, including cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, the chemokine signaling pathway, the NOD-like receptor signaling pathway, the measles pathway, and the IL-17 signaling pathway. This response is correlative to clinical response in lungs of patients with COVID-19. These results demonstrate that expression of hACE2 via adenovirus delivery system sensitized the mouse to SARS-CoV-2 infection and resulted in the development of a mild COVID-19 phenotype, highlighting the immune and inflammatory host responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. This rapidly deployable COVID-19 mouse model is useful for preclinical and pathogenesis studies of COVID-19.
33339432 | Functional Complexes of Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 and Renin-Angiotensin System Receptors: Expression in Adult but Not Fetal Lung Tissue. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is a membrane peptidase and a component of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) that has been found in cells of all organs, including the lungs. While ACE2 has been identified as the receptor for severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronaviruses, the mechanism underlying cell entry remains unknown. Human immunodeficiency virus infects target cells via CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4)-mediated endocytosis. Furthermore, CXCR4 interacts with dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (CD26/DPPIV), an enzyme that cleaves CXCL12/SDF-1, which is the chemokine that activates this receptor. By analogy, we hypothesized that ACE2 might also be capable of interactions with RAS-associated G-protein coupled receptors. Using resonance energy transfer and cAMP and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling assays, we found that human ACE2 interacts with RAS-related receptors, namely the angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R), the angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT2R), and the MAS1 oncogene receptor (MasR). Although these interactions lead to minor alterations of signal transduction, ligand binding to AT1R and AT2R, but not to MasR, resulted in the upregulation of ACE2 cell surface expression. Proximity ligation assays performed in situ revealed macromolecular complexes containing ACE2 and AT1R, AT2R or MasR in adult but not fetal mouse lung tissue. These findings highlight the relevance of RAS in SARS-CoV-2 infection and the role of ACE2-containing complexes as potential therapeutic targets.
33422520 | Expression of SARS-COV-2 cell receptor gene ACE2 is associated with immunosuppression and metabolic reprogramming in lung adenocarcinoma based on bioinformatics analyses of gene expression profiles. The aberrant expression level of SARS-CoV-2 cell receptor gene ACE2 was reported in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) comorbidity of COVID-19. However, the association of ACE2 expression levels with immunosuppression and metabolic reprogramming in LUAD remains lacking. We investigated the expression level of ACE2, an association of ACE2 expression level with various types of immune signatures, immune ratios, and pathways. We employed a weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) R package to identify the gene modules and investigated prognostic roles of hub genes in LUAD. Overexpression of ACE2 level was found in LUAD and ACE2 expression was negatively associated with various types of immune signatures including CD8+ T cells, CD4+ regulatory T cells, NK cells, and T cell activation. Besides, ACE2 upregulation was not only associated with CD8+ T cell/CD4+ regulatory T cell ratios but also linked with downregulation of immune-markers including CD8A, KLRC1, GZMA, GZMB, NKG7, CCL4, and IFNG. Moreover, the ACE2 expression level was found to be associated with the enrichment level of various metabolic pathways and it was also found that the metabolic pathways are directly positively correlated with the increased expression levels of ACE2, indicating that the overexpression of ACE2 is associated with metabolic reprogramming in LUAD. Furthermore, WGCNA based analysis revealed the gene modules in the high-ACE2-expression-level group of LUAD and identified GCLC and SLC7A11 hub genes which are not only highly expressed in lung adenocarcinoma but also correlated with the poor survival prognosis. Our analysis of ACE2 in LUAD tissues suggests that ACE2 is not only a receptor but is also associated with immunosuppression and metabolic reprogramming. This study underlines the clue for understanding the clinical significance of ACE2 in COVID-19 patients with LUAD comorbidity.
33521616 | Disruption of CCR5 signaling to treat COVID-19-associated cytokine storm: Case series of four critically ill patients treated with leronlimab. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is associated with considerable morbidity and mortality. The number of confirmed cases of infection with SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19 continues to escalate with over 70 million confirmed cases and over 1.6 million confirmed deaths. Severe-to-critical COVID-19 is associated with a dysregulated host immune response to the virus, which is thought to lead to pathogenic immune dysregulation and end-organ damage. Presently few effective treatment options are available to treat COVID-19. Leronlimab is a humanized IgG4, kappa monoclonal antibody that blocks C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5). It has been shown that in patients with severe COVID-19 treatment with leronlimab reduces elevated plasma IL-6 and chemokine ligand 5 (CCL5), and normalized CD4/CD8 ratios. We administered leronlimab to 4 critically ill COVID-19 patients in intensive care. All 4 of these patients improved clinically as measured by vasopressor support, and discontinuation of hemodialysis and mechanical ventilation. Following administration of leronlimab there was a statistically significant decrease in IL-6 observed in patient A (p=0.034) from day 0-7 and patient D (p=0.027) from day 0-14. This corresponds to restoration of the immune function as measured by CD4+/CD8+ T cell ratio. Although two of the patients went on to survive the other two subsequently died of surgical complications after an initial recovery from SARS-CoV-2 infection.
33612629 | Effect of Nutrition Education and Multi-Nutrient Biscuit Interventions on Nutritional and Iron Status: A Cluster Randomized Control Trial on Undernourished Children Aged 6-23 Months in Aceh, Indonesia. Undernutrition and iron deficiencies on under-five children in Indonesia remain high and very closely related to inadequate complementary feeding. This study investigated the effect of weekly nutrition education by home visite using the food monitoring card (FMC) models and daily provision multi-nutrient biscuits and combination on growth and reduction of iron deficiency and anemia among underweight children aged 6-23 mo in Aceh Indonesia. A 6-mo, cluster randomized, control trial was conducted on 121 children received nutrition education (NE), multi-nutrient biscuit (MNB), combination both nutrition education and biscuits (NE+MNB), and control group. The outcome weight gain and prevalence of underweight (weight for age z-score <-2SD) were collected by anthropometric and iron deficiency were serum ferritin measuring with ELISA method. After the 6-mo intervention, the rate of weight gain was higher in combination intervention group 1.51+-0.68 kg than multi-biscuit group 1.40+-0.72 kg, NE group 1.34+-0.66 kg and control group 1.21+-0.42 kg, and the rate increase of serum ferritin was higher in combination NE+MNB and biscuit group (2.54 mug/L and 2,17 mug/L). At the end of study there were a significant decrease in prevalence of underweight (p=0.003), the incidence of underweight in NE+MNB (45.2%) lower than NE group (63.3%), MNB group (64.5%) and control group (69,0%) and significant decrease of iron deficiency (p=0.02), the incidence lower in MNB group (6.5%) than NE+MNB (22.6%), NE group (23.3%) and control group (24.1%). The combination of nutritional education and multi-nutrient biscuits intervention improving nutritional and iron deficiency status on undernourished children. These risearch highlight the need integration of nutrition education and food base intervention to prevent underweight and iron deficiency on children 6-23 mo old.
33723514 | In vitro characterization of engineered red blood cells as viral traps against HIV-1 and SARS-CoV-2. Engineered red blood cells (RBCs) expressing viral receptors could be used therapeutically as viral traps, as RBCs lack nuclei and other organelles required for viral replication. However, expression of viral receptors on RBCs is difficult to achieve since mature erythrocytes lack the cellular machinery to synthesize proteins. Herein, we show that the combination of a powerful erythroid-specific expression system and transgene codon optimization yields high expression levels of the HIV-1 receptors CD4 and CCR5, as well as a CD4-glycophorin A (CD4-GpA) fusion protein in erythroid progenitor cells, which efficiently differentiated into enucleated RBCs. HIV-1 efficiently entered RBCs that co-expressed CD4 and CCR5, but viral entry was not required for neutralization, as CD4 or CD4-GpA expression in the absence of CCR5 was sufficient to potently neutralize HIV-1 and prevent infection of CD4+ T cells in vitro due to the formation of high-avidity interactions with trimeric HIV-1 Env spikes on virions. To facilitate continuous large-scale production of RBC viral traps, we generated erythroblast cell lines stably expressing CD4-GpA or ACE2-GpA fusion proteins, which produced potent RBC viral traps against HIV-1 and SARS-CoV-2. Our in vitro results suggest that this approach warrants further investigation as a potential treatment against acute and chronic viral infections.
33824716 | Anosmia and dysgeusia in SARS-CoV-2 infection: incidence and effects on COVID-19 severity and mortality, and the possible pathobiology mechanisms - a systematic review and meta-analysis. Background: The present study aimed to determine the global prevalence of anosmia and dysgeusia in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients and to assess their association with severity and mortality of COVID-19. Moreover, this study aimed to discuss the possible pathobiological mechanisms of anosmia and dysgeusia in COVID-19. Methods: Available articles from PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, and preprint databases (MedRxiv, BioRxiv, and Researchsquare) were searched on November 10th, 2020. Data on the characteristics of the study (anosmia, dysgeusia, and COVID-19) were extracted following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guideline. Newcastle-Ottawa scale was used to assess research quality. Moreover, the pooled prevalence of anosmia and dysgeusia were calculated, and the association between anosmia and dysgeusia in presence of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was assessed using the Z test. Results: Out of 32,142 COVID-19 patients from 107 studies, anosmia was reported in 12,038 patients with a prevalence of 38.2% (95% CI: 36.5%, 47.2%); whereas, dysgeusia was reported in 11,337 patients out of 30,901 COVID-19 patients from 101 studies, with prevalence of 36.6% (95% CI: 35.2%, 45.2%), worldwide. Furthermore, the prevalence of anosmia was 10.2-fold higher (OR: 10.21; 95% CI: 6.53, 15.96, p < 0.001) and that of dysgeusia was 8.6-fold higher (OR: 8.61; 95% CI: 5.26, 14.11, p < 0.001) in COVID-19 patients compared to those with other respiratory infections or COVID-19 like illness. To date, no study has assessed the association of anosmia and dysgeusia with severity and mortality of COVID-19. Conclusion: Anosmia and dysgeusia are prevalent in COVID-19 patients compared to those with the other non-COVID-19 respiratory infections. Several possible mechanisms have been hypothesized; however, future studies are warranted to elucidate the definitive mechanisms of anosmia and dysgeusia in COVID-19. Protocol registration: PROSPERO CRD42020223204.
34252931 | CROTON: an automated and variant-aware deep learning framework for predicting CRISPR/Cas9 editing outcomes. MOTIVATION: CRISPR/Cas9 is a revolutionary gene-editing technology that has been widely utilized in biology, biotechnology and medicine. CRISPR/Cas9 editing outcomes depend on local DNA sequences at the target site and are thus predictable. However, existing prediction methods are dependent on both feature and model engineering, which restricts their performance to existing knowledge about CRISPR/Cas9 editing. RESULTS: Herein, deep multi-task convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and neural architecture search (NAS) were used to automate both feature and model engineering and create an end-to-end deep-learning framework, CROTON (CRISPR Outcomes Through cONvolutional neural networks). The CROTON model architecture was tuned automatically with NAS on a synthetic large-scale construct-based dataset and then tested on an independent primary T cell genomic editing dataset. CROTON outperformed existing expert-designed models and non-NAS CNNs in predicting 1 base pair insertion and deletion probability as well as deletion and frameshift frequency. Interpretation of CROTON revealed local sequence determinants for diverse editing outcomes. Finally, CROTON was utilized to assess how single nucleotide variants (SNVs) affect the genome editing outcomes of four clinically relevant target genes: the viral receptors ACE2 and CCR5 and the immune checkpoint inhibitors CTLA4 and PDCD1. Large SNV-induced differences in CROTON predictions in these target genes suggest that SNVs should be taken into consideration when designing widely applicable gRNAs. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: https://github.com/vli31/CROTON. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.
34255748 | Nuclear PFKP promotes CXCR4-dependent infiltration by T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. PFKP (phosphofructokinase, platelet), the major isoform of PFK1 expressed in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), is predominantly expressed in the cytoplasm to carry out its glycolytic function. Our study showed that PFKP is a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein with functional nuclear export and nuclear localization sequences (NLSs). Cyclin D3/CDK6 facilitated PFKP nuclear translocation by dimerization and by exposing the NLS of PFKP to induce the interaction between PFKP and importin 9. Nuclear PFKP stimulated the expression of C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), a chemokine receptor regulating leukemia homing/infiltration, to promote T-ALL cell invasion, which depended on the activity of c-Myc. In vivo experiments showed that nuclear PFKP promoted leukemia homing/infiltration into the bone marrow, spleen, and liver, which could be blocked with CXCR4 antagonists. Immunohistochemical staining of tissues from a clinically well-annotated cohort of T cell lymphoma/leukemia patients showed nuclear PFKP localization in invasive cancers, but not in nonmalignant T lymph node or reactive hyperplasia. The presence of nuclear PFKP in these specimens correlated with poor survival in patients with T cell malignancy, suggesting the potential utility of nuclear PFKP as a diagnostic marker.
34396983 | All in for nuclear PFKP-induced CXCR4 metastasis: a T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia prognostic marker. Phosphofructokinase 1 (PFK1) is expressed in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), where its upregulation is linked with cancer progression. While PFK1 functions in the glycolysis pathway within the cytoplasm, it is also present in the nucleus where it regulates gene transcription. In this issue of the JCI, Xueliang Gao, Shenghui Qin, et al. focus their mechanism-based investigation on the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling aspect of the PFK1 platelet isoform, PFKP. Functional nuclear export and localization sequences stimulated CXC chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) expression to promote T-ALL invasion that involved cyclin D3/CDK6, c-Myc, and importin-9. Since the presence of nuclear PFKP is associated with poor survival in T-ALL, nuclear PFKP-induced CXCR4 expression might serve as a prognostic marker for T-ALL. More promising, though, are the mechanistic insights suggesting that approaches to dampening metastatic migration may have application to benefit patients with T-ALL.
34413267 | The potential role of abnormal angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 expression correlated with immune infiltration after SARS-CoV-2 infection in the prognosis of breast cancer. The potential role of abnormal ACE2 expression after SARS-CoV-2 infection in the prognosis of breast cancer is still ambiguous. In this study, we analyzed ACE2 changes in breast cancer and studied the correlation between ACE2 and the prognosis and further analyzed the relationship between immune infiltration and the prognosis of different breast cancer subtypes. Finally, we inferred the prognosis of breast cancer patients after SARS-CoV-2 infection. We found that ACE2 expression decreased significantly in breast cancer, except for basal-like subtype. Decreased ACE2 expression level was correlated with abnormal immune infiltration and poorer prognosis of luminal B breast cancer (RFS: HR 0.76, 95%CI=0.63-0.92, p=0.005; DMFS: HR 0.70, 95%CI=0.49-1.00, p=0.046). The expression of ACE2 was strongly positively correlated with the immune infiltration level of CD8+ T cell (r=0.184, p<0.001), CD4+ T cell (r=0.104, p=0.02) and neutrophils (r=0.101, p=0.02). ACE2 expression level in the luminal subtype was positively correlated with CD8A and CD8B markers in CD8+ T cells, and CEACAM3, S100A12 in neutrophils. In conclusion, breast tumor tissues might undergo a further decrease in the expression level of ACE2 after SARS-CoV-2 infection, which could contribute to further deterioration of immune infiltration and worsen the prognosis of luminal B breast cancer after SARS-CoV-2 infection.
34913347 | Effects of selected inherited factors on susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19 progression. Genetic predispositions may influence geographical and interethnic differences in COVID-19 prevalence and mortality in affected populations. Of the many genes implicated in COVID-19 progression, a substantial number have no direct functional link on virus transfer/viability or on the host immune system. To address this knowledge deficit, a large number of in silico studies have recently been published. However, the results of these studies often contradict the findings of studies involving real patients. For example, the ACE2 has been shown to play an important role in regulating coronavirus entry into cells, but none of its variations have been directly associated with COVID-19 susceptibility or severity. Consistently was reported that increased risk of COVID-19 is associated with blood group A and with the APOE4 allele. Among other genes with potential impacts are the genes for CCR5, IL-10, CD14, TMPRSS2 and angiotensin-converting enzyme. Variants within the protein-coding genes OAS1 and LZTFL1 (transferred to the human genome from Neanderthals) are understood to be among the strongest predictors of disease severity. The intensive research efforts have helped to identify the genes and polymorphisms that contribute to SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19 severity.
35680023 | Immunoregulation of Ghrelin in neurocognitive sequelae associated with COVID-19: an in silico investigation. Some patients suffering from the new Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) develop an exaggerated inflammatory response triggered by a \cytokine storm\ resulting in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) with the concomitant activation of non-specific inflammatory reactivity in the circulatory system and other organs, leading to multiorgan failure, leaky vasculature, coagulopathies and stroke. Impairment of brain functions may also occur as dysregulations in immune function resulting from neuroendocrine interactions. In this study, we explored, by bioinformatics approaches, the interaction between the multiple inflammatory agents involved in SARS-CoV-2 and Ghrelin (Ghre) together with its receptor GHSR-1A, which are described as anti-inflammatory mediators, in order to investigate what could trigger the hyper-inflammatory response in some SARS-CoV-2 patients. In our analysis, we found several interactions of Ghre and GHSR-1A with SARS-CoV-2 interacting human genes. We observed a correlation between Ghre, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 ACE2, toll-like receptors 9 (TLR9), and Acidic chitinase (CHIA), whereas its receptor GHSR-1A interacts with chemokine receptor 3 (CXCR3), CCR3, CCR5, CCR7, coagulation factor II (thrombin) receptor-like 1 (F2RL1), vitamin D receptor (VDR), Nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-containing protein 1 (NOD1) and DDP4 in receptor dipeptidyl peptidase-4. To our knowledge, our findings show, for the first time, that Ghre and GHSR-1A may exert an immunomodulatory function in the course of SARS-Cov-2 infection.
35987511 | Systematic review and meta-analysis of human genetic variants contributing to COVID-19 susceptibility and severity. The COVID-19 pandemic has spawned global health crisis of unprecedented magnitude, claiming millions of lives and pushing healthcare systems in many countries to the brink. Among several factors that contribute to an increased risk of COVID-19 and progression to exacerbated manifestations, host genetic landscape is increasingly being recognized as a critical determinant of susceptibility/resistance to infection and a prognosticator of clinical outcomes in infected individuals. Recently, several case-control association studies investigated the influence of human gene variants on COVID-19 susceptibility and severity to identify the culpable mutations. However, a comprehensive synthesis of the recent advances in COVID-19 host genetics research was lacking, and the inconsistent findings of the association studies required reliable evaluation of the strength of association with greater statistical power. In this study, we embarked on a systematic search of all possible reports of genetic association with COVID-19 till April 07, 2022, and performed meta-analyses of all the genetic polymorphisms that were examined in at least three studies. After identifying a total of 84 studies that investigated the association of 130 polymorphisms in 61 genes, we performed meta-analyses of all the eligible studies. Seven genetic polymorphisms involving 15,550 cases and 444,007 controls were explored for association with COVID-19 susceptibility, of which, ACE1 I/D rs4646994/rs1799752, APOE rs429358, CCR5 rs333, and IFITM3 rs12252 showed increased risk of infection. Meta-analyses of 11 gene variants involving 6702 patients with severe COVID-19 and 8640 infected individuals with non-severe manifestations revealed statistically significant association of ACE2 rs2285666, ACE2 rs2106809, ACE2 rs2074192, AGTR1 rs5186, and TNFA rs1800629 with COVID-19 severity. Overall, our study presents a synthesis of evidence on all the genetic determinants implicated in COVID-19 to date, and provides evidence of correlation between the above polymorphisms with COVID-19 susceptibility and severity.
37333294 | Post-acute immunological and behavioral sequelae in mice after Omicron infection. Progress in understanding long COVID and developing effective therapeutics is hampered in part by the lack of suitable animal models. Here we used ACE2-transgenic mice recovered from Omicron (BA.1) infection to test for pulmonary and behavioral post-acute sequelae. Through in-depth phenotyping by CyTOF, we demonstrate that naive mice experiencing a first Omicron infection exhibit profound immune perturbations in the lung after resolving acute infection. This is not observed if mice were first vaccinated with spike-encoding mRNA. The protective effects of vaccination against post-acute sequelae were associated with a highly polyfunctional SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell response that was recalled upon BA.1 breakthrough infection but not seen with BA.1 infection alone. Without vaccination, the chemokine receptor CXCR4 was uniquely upregulated on multiple pulmonary immune subsets in the BA.1 convalescent mice, a process previously connected to severe COVID-19. Taking advantage of recent developments in AI-based assessments of murine behaviors, we demonstrate that BA.1 convalescent mice respond abnormally to a stimulus after repeated presentations (habituation). Collectively, our data identify immunological and behavioral post-acute sequelae after Omicron infection and uncover a protective effect of vaccination.
37423172 | Potential therapeutic implications of calcitriol administration and weight reduction on CD4 T cell dysregulation and renin angiotensin system-associated acute lung injury in septic obese mice. This study investigated the effects of weight reduction and/or calcitriol administration on regulating CD4 T cell subsets and renin-angiotensin system (RAS)-associated acute lung injury (ALI) in obese mice with sepsis. Half of the mice were fed a high-fat diet for 16 weeks, half of them had high-fat diet for 12 weeks then were transferred to a low-energy diet for 4 weeks. After feeding the respective diets, cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) were performed to induce sepsis. There were four sepsis groups: OSS group, obese mice injected with saline; OSD group, obese mice given calcitriol; WSS group, mice with weight reduction and saline; WSD group, mice with weight reduction and calcitriol. Mice were sacrificed after CLP. The findings showed that CD4 T subsets distribution did not differ among the experimental groups. Calcitriol-treated groups had higher RAS-associated AT2R, MasR, ACE2, and angiopoietin 1-7 (Ang(1-7)) levels in the lungs. Also, higher tight junction proteins were noted 12 h after CLP. At 24 h post-CLP, weight reduction and/or calcitriol treatment reduced plasma inflammatory mediator production. Calcitriol-treated groups had higher CD4/CD8, T helper (Th)1/Th2 and lower Th17/regulatory T (Treg) ratios than the groups without calcitriol. In the lungs, calcitriol-treated groups had lower AT1R levels, whereas the RAS anti-inflammatory protein levels were higher than those groups without calcitriol. Lower injury scores were also noted at this time point. These findings suggested weight reduction decreased systemic inflammation. However, calcitriol administration produced a more-balanced Th/Treg distribution, upregulated the RAS anti-inflammatory pathway, and attenuated ALI in septic obese mice.
37560162 | Characterization of extracellular vesicles in COVID-19 infection during pregnancy. Introduction: SARS-CoV-2 infection may cause a severe inflammatory response, inflicting severe morbidity and mortality. This risk is modestly increased in pregnant patients. Despite the hypercoagulability and immunosuppression associated with pregnancy, most pregnant women experience a mild COVID-19 infection. Maternal extracellular vesicles (EVs) may interact with endothelial and immune components to facilitate a favorable disease course. This pilot study aimed to explore the characteristics of EVs released during COVID-19 infection occurring during the third trimester of pregnancy. Methods: In this prospective study, blood samples were obtained from 16 healthy non-pregnant (NP), 18 healthy-pregnant (HP), and 22 COVID-19 positive pregnant subjects (CoV-P). Disease course and pregnancy outcomes were assessed and EVs were characterized. Of note, limited volumes of sample acquired from the subjects made it necessary to use smaller and different subsets of samples for each analysis. Results: The majority (91%) of the COVID-19-pregnant subjects (18 mild and 2 moderate disease) experienced good pregnancy-related outcomes. EV concentrations were higher in healthy-pregnant subjects compared to non-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0041) and lower in COVID-19-pregnant subjects compared to healthy-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0150). CD63 exosome marker expression was higher in EVs of healthy-pregnant subjects and COVID-19-pregnant subjects compared to EVs of non-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0149, p = 0.0028, respectively). Similar levels of SARS-CoV-2 entry proteins (ACE-2 and TMPRSS2) were found in all three groups. Cytokine content increased in healthy-pregnant subject-EVs compared to non-pregnant EVs, while IL-2 and IL-6 levels were decreased in COVID-19-pregnant subject-EVs compared to healthy-pregnant subject-EVs (p = 0.043, p = 0.0390, respectively). CD8+, cytotoxic T-cell marker, was lower in non-pregnant EVs compared to healthy-pregnant subject-EVs and to COVID-19-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0108, p < 0.0001, respectively). COVID-19- pregnant subject-EVs demonstrated higher levels of platelet activation marker (CD62P) than non-pregnant (p = 0.0327) and healthy-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0365). Endothelial marker EV-CD144+ was lower in healthy-pregnant subjects versus non-pregnant subjects (p = 0.0093), but similar in COVID-19-pregnant and non-pregnant subjects. Other EVs' coagulation markers/activity, D-Dimer and fibrinogen levels were similar in healthy-pregnant subjects and COVID-19 positive pregnant subjects. Conclusion: COVID-19 positive pregnant subjects' EVs demonstrated an attenuated inflammatory response, with no additional activation of the coagulation system.
37566678 | Exposure to lung-migrating helminth protects against murine SARS-CoV-2 infection through macrophage-dependent T cell activation. Helminth endemic regions report lower COVID-19 morbidity and mortality. Here, we show that lung remodeling from a prior infection with a lung-migrating helminth, Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, enhances viral clearance and survival of human-ACE2 transgenic mice challenged with SARS-CoV-2 (SCV2). This protection is associated with a lymphocytic infiltrate, including increased accumulation of pulmonary SCV2-specific CD8+ T cells, and anti-CD8 antibody depletion abrogated the N. brasiliensis-mediated reduction in viral loads. Pulmonary macrophages with a type 2 transcriptional and epigenetic signature persist in the lungs of N. brasiliensis-exposed mice after clearance of the parasite and establish a primed environment for increased CD8+ T cell recruitment and activation. Accordingly, depletion of macrophages ablated the augmented viral clearance and accumulation of CD8+ T cells driven by prior N. brasiliensis infection. Together, these findings support the concept that lung-migrating helminths can limit disease severity during SCV2 infection through macrophage-dependent enhancement of antiviral CD8+ T cell responses.
37735363 | Immune and cytokine alterations and RNA-sequencing analysis in gestational tissues from pregnant women after recovery from COVID-19. BACKGROUND: COVID-19 is a global pandemic. Understanding the immune responses in pregnant women recovering from COVID-19 may suggest new therapeutic approaches. METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study between March 1, 2020, and September 1, 2020. Participants were assigned into the convalescent COVID-19 group if they had a previous COVID-19 infection during pregnancy or the healthy control group. RNA-Seq was performed on human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (hUMSCs) and human amniotic mesenchymal stem cells (hAMSCs). Immunohistochemical staining, cytokine testing, lymphocyte subset analysis, RNA-Seq, and functional analyses were performed on the placental and umbilical cord blood (UCB) and compared between the two groups. RESULTS: A total of 40 pregnant women were enrolled, with 13 in the convalescent group and 27 in the control group. There were 1024, 46, and 32 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) identified in the placental tissue, hUMSCs, and hAMSCs between the convalescent and control groups, respectively. Enrichment analysis showed those DEGs were associated with immune homeostasis, antiviral activity, cell proliferation, and tissue repair. Levels of IL-6, TNF-alpha, total lymphocyte counts, B lymphocytes, Tregs percentages, and IFN-gamma expressing CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were statistically different between two groups (p <= 0.05). ACE2 and TMPRSS2 expressed on the placenta were not different between the two groups (p > 0.05). CONCLUSION: Multiple changes in immune responses occurred in the placental tissue, hUMSCs, and hAMSCs after maternal recovery from COVID-19, which might imply their protective roles against COVID-19 infection.
37737615 | Tonsils are major sites of persistence of SARS-CoV-2 in children. In the present study, we show that SARS-CoV-2 can infect palatine tonsils, adenoids, and secretions in children without symptoms of COVID-19, with no history of recent upper airway infection. We studied 48 children undergoing tonsillectomy due to snoring/OSA or recurrent tonsillitis between October 2020 and September 2021. Nasal cytobrushes, nasal washes, and tonsillar tissue fragments obtained at surgery were tested by RT-qPCR, immunohistochemistry (IHC), flow cytometry, and neutralization assay. We detected the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in at least one specimen tested in 27% of patients. IHC revealed the presence of the viral nucleoprotein in epithelial surface and in lymphoid cells in both extrafollicular and follicular regions, in adenoids and palatine tonsils. Also, IHC for the SARS-CoV-2 non-structural protein NSP-16 indicated the presence of viral replication in 53.8% of the SARS-CoV-2-infected tissues. Flow cytometry showed that CD20+ B lymphocytes were the most infected phenotypes, followed by CD4+ lymphocytes and CD123 dendritic cells, CD8+ T lymphocytes, and CD14+ macrophages. Additionally, IF indicated that infected tonsillar tissues had increased expression of ACE2 and TMPRSS2. NGS sequencing demonstrated the presence of different SARS-CoV-2 variants in tonsils from different tissues. SARS-CoV-2 antigen detection was not restricted to tonsils but was also detected in nasal cells from the olfactory region. Palatine tonsils and adenoids are sites of prolonged RNA presence by SARS-CoV-2 in children, even without COVID-19 symptoms. IMPORTANCE This study shows that SRS-CoV-2 of different lineages can infect tonsils and adenoids in one quarter of children undergoing tonsillectomy. These findings bring advancement to the area of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis, by showing that tonsils may be sites of prolonged infection, even without evidence of recent COVID-19 symptoms. SARS-CoV-2 infection of B and T lymphocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells may interfere with the mounting of immune responses in these secondary lymphoid organs. Moreover, the shedding of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in respiratory secretions from silently infected children raises concern about possible diagnostic confusion in the presence of symptoms of acute respiratory infections caused by other etiologies.
37778577 | A SARS-CoV-2 nanoparticle vaccine based on chemical conjugation of loxoribine and SpyCatcher/SpyTag. SARS-CoV-2 is a particularly transmissible virus that renders the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic and global severe respiratory distress syndrome. Protein-based vaccines hold great advantages to build the herd immunity for their specificity, effectiveness, and safety. Receptor-binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2 is an appealing antigen for vaccine development. However, adjuvants and delivery system are necessitated to enhance the immunogenicity of RBD. In the present study, RBD was chemically conjugated with loxoribine and SpyCatcher/SpyTag, followed by assembly to form a nanoparticle vaccine. Loxoribine (a TLR7/8 agonist) acted as an adjuvant, and nanoparticles functioned as delivery system for the antigen and the adjuvant. The nanoparticle vaccine elicited high RBD-specific antibody titers, high neutralizing antibody titer, and strong ACE2-blocking activity. It stimulated high splenic levels of Th1-type cytokines (IFN-gamma and IL-2) and Th2-type cytokines (IL-4 and IL-5) in BALB/c mice. It promoted the splenocyte proliferation, enhanced the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell percentage and stimulated the maturation of dendritic cells. The vaccine did not render apparent toxicity to the organs of mice. Thus, the nanoparticle vaccine was of potential to act as a preliminarily safe and effective candidate against SARS-CoV-2.
37843354 | Possible mechanism of central nervous system targeting and neurological symptoms of the new-coronavirus (COVID-19): literature review. The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) that caused the 2019 Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) has been associated with several neurological symptoms. This review aimed to highlight the possible mechanism of central nervous system (CNS) targeting and the neurological symptoms that may occur with the COVID-19 infection. The case reports containing the keywords \neurological symptoms\ and \COVID-19\ were thoroughly reviewed to identify possible mechanisms of CNS targeting and neurological manifestations associated with COVID-19 infection. The angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE2) receptors have been identified as the functional receptor for SARS-CoV-2. SARS-CoV-2 can affect the CNS through the following mechanisms: 1) Direct infection. 2) Blood pathway. 3) Neuronal pathway. 4) Immune-mediated injury/pathway (Cytokine Storm Syndrome). COVID-19 virus, a neurotropic virus, was isolated from the cerebral fluid (CSF) and responsible for several neurological manifestations. The COVID-19 infection primarily affects CD4+ and CD8+ T-lymphocytes and it induces a surge of inflammatory cytokines, known as Cytokine Storm Syndrome (CSS). The Interlukine-6 (IL-6) is the primary CSS component. The IL-6, interferon-gamma and endothelial growth factor were significantly higher in COVID-19 infected compared to non-infected individuals. The improvement of the COVID-19 patients after interleukin receptor blockers supports the CSS theory. The spectrum of SARS-CoV-2 neurological manifestations includes encephalitis, viral meningitis, post-COVID-19 infectious acute disseminated encephalitis, Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS), Miller-Fisher syndrome (MFS) and acute cerebrovascular disease (CVD). Several COVID-19-associated neurological manifestations have been reported. Thus, it is important to identify and treat neurological symptoms as soon as possible to avoid long-term effects. The care providers should take the appropriate preventive precautions because patients can present with neurological manifestations of COVID-19 without any respiratory symptoms. Future research is warranted to confirm the relationship between SARS-CoV-2 and the development of neurological manifestations.
37896826 | A 5-Lipoxygenase Inhibitor, Zileuton, Modulates Host Immune Responses and Improves Lung Function in a Model of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) Induced by Betacoronavirus. Exacerbated inflammatory responses are a hallmark of severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Zileuton (Zi) is a selective inhibitor of 5-lipoxygenase, an enzyme involved in the production of several inflammatory/pro-resolving lipid mediators. Herein, we investigated the effect of Zi treatment in a severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) model. Mouse hepatitis virus (MHV)3-infected mice treated with Zi significantly improved the clinical score, weight loss, cardiopulmonary function, and survival rates compared with infected untreated animals. The protection observed in Zi-treated mice was associated with a lower inflammatory score, reduced dendritic cell-producing tumor necrosis factor (TNF), and increased neutrophil-producing interleukin (IL)-10 in the lungs three days after infection (dpi). At 5 dpi, the lungs of treated mice showed an increase in Th2-, Treg CD4+-, and Treg CD8+-producing IL-10 and reduced Th1 infiltrating cells. Furthermore, similar results were found upon Zi treatment after SARS-CoV-2 infection in transgenic mice expressing the human angiotensin I-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor driven by the cytokeratin-18 (K18) gene promoter (K18-hACE2), significantly improving the clinical score, weight loss, and lung inflammatory score compared with untreated animals. Our data suggest that Zi protects against developing severe lung disease during SARS induced by betacoronavirus without affecting the host's capacity to deal with infection.
37932969 | CALM3 affects the prognosis of leukemia and hemorrhoids. Leukemia is an abnormal proliferation of white blood cells in the bone marrow, resulting in a large accumulation of abnormal leukemia cells in the blood and bone marrow. Hemorrhoids are dilated and swollen veins in the rectum or anal area. However, the relationship between CALM3 and leukemia and hemorrhoids remains unclear. The hemorrhoids dataset GSE154650 and leukemia dataset GSE26294 were downloaded from GEO databases generated by GPL20301 and GPL571.The R package limma was used to screen differentially expressed genes (DEDs). Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was performed. The construction and analysis of protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, functional enrichment analysis, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) and comparative toxicogenomics database (CTD) analysis were performed. TargetScan was used to screen miRNAs regulating central DEGs. It was verified by western blot basic cell assay. A total of 125 DEGs were co-identified. According to the GO analysis, they are mainly enriched in small molecule catabolic processes, skin development, and chemokine receptor binding. The KEGG analysis results show that the target cells are mainly enriched in the interaction of cytokines and cytokine receptors, as well as butyric acid metabolism. The GSEA analysis results indicate enrichment in small molecule catabolic processes, skin development, and chemokine receptor binding. Six core genes (CALM3, ACE2, PPARGC1A, XCR1, CFTR, PRKCA) were identified. We found that the core gene CALM3 is highly expressed in hemorrhoid samples, low in leukemia samples, and has low expression in normal samples, which may play a regulatory role in hemorrhoids and leukemia. Immunoinfiltration results showed a higher proportion of T_cells_CD4_memory_resting and a correlation with T_cells_CD8. WB experiment verified the result. CALM3 expression is low in leukemia, and the lower the expression is, the worse the prognosis is. CALM3 is highly expressed in hemorrhoids, and the higher the expression, the worse the prognosis.
37995824 | Polymethoxyflavone from Citrus depressa as an inhibitor against various variants of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: In traditional Taiwanese medicine, Citrus depressa Hayata serves as the raw material of Chen-Pi which has been widely used to treat respiratory ailments. Scientific investigations have validated the attributes of C. depressa, elucidating its valuable properties, including antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, anticancer, neuroprotion, hepatoprotection, and hypolipidemic effects. AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aims to isolate a universal inhibitor of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein from C. depressa and confirm the mechanism by which these inhibitors disrupt the binding of the spike protein to hACE2. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The whole fruit of C. depressa was subjected to ethanol extraction, following by partitioning to obtain water, butanol, and ethyl acetate fractions. To identify the inhibitory components in citrus fruits, we performed both the SPR assay and the SARS-CoV-2 pseudo-virus assays. Subsequently, we employed a bioassay-guided approach to efficiently isolate and characterize the bioactive constituents that hindered the interaction between the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein and hACE2, using a combination of MPLC and Semi-preparative HPLC for compound isolation. ELISA based spike protein binding assay evaluate the inhibitory activities of the extract and potential constituents against multiple spike protein variants. To further shed light on the inhibitory mechanism, candidate inhibitors were validated through the SPR assay and molecular docking. RESULTS: The crude extract and ethyl acetate layer derived from C. depressa showed significant inhibitory activity on SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.4/5, with IC50 of 77.4 mug/mL and 100 mug/mL, respectively. Ten potential compounds from C. depressa have been identified with inhibitory activity against various SARS-CoV-2 spike proteins. 2'-hydroxy-4,4',5',6'-tetramethoxychalcone (Cd3) and 5-hydroxy-3',4',6,7,8-pentamethoxyflavone (Cd8) also showed good inhibitory activity to the spike protein, with KD of 0.79 muM and 37.3 nM, respectively. These findings are in line with prior study, indicating Cd3 and Cd8 can bind to key amino acid residue, disrupting the formation of the spike protein and h-ACE2 complex. CONCLUSION: This study presents the initial evidence showcasing the inhibitory effect of polymethoxyflavones (PMFs) on the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2. Moreover, the inhibitory activity of C. depressa extracts indicates their potential to prevent infections of different SARS-CoV-2 variants.
38005968 | Comparative Immune Response after Vaccination with SOBERANA  02 and SOBERANA  plus Heterologous Scheme and Natural Infection in Young Children. (1) Background: In children, SARS-CoV-2 infection is mostly accompanied by mild COVID-19 symptoms. However, multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS-C) and long-term sequelae are often severe complications. Therefore, the protection of the pediatric population against SARS-CoV-2 with effective vaccines is particularly important. Here, we compare the humoral and cellular immune responses elicited in children (n = 15, aged 5-11 years) vaccinated with the RBD-based vaccines SOBERANA  02 and SOBERANA  Plus combined in a heterologous scheme with those from children (n = 10, aged 4-11 years) who recovered from mild symptomatic COVID-19. (2) Methods: Blood samples were taken 14 days after the last dose for vaccinated children and 45-60 days after the infection diagnosis for COVID-19 recovered children. Anti-RBD IgG and ACE2-RBD inhibition were assessed by ELISA; IgA, cytokines, and cytotoxic-related proteins were determined by multiplex assays. Total B and T cell subpopulations and IFN-gamma release were measured by multiparametric flow cytometry using a large panel of antibodies after in vitro stimulation with S1 peptides. (3) Results: Significant higher levels of specific anti-RBD IgG and IgA and ACE2-RBD inhibition capacity were found in vaccinated children in comparison to COVID-19 recovered children. Th1-like and Th2-like CD4+ T cells were also significantly higher in vaccinated subjects. IFN-gamma secretion was higher in central memory CD4+ T cells of COVID-19 recovered children, but no differences between both groups were found in the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell effector, terminal effector, and naive T cell subpopulations. In contrast to low levels of IL-4, high levels of IL-2, IL-6, IFN-gamma, and IL-10 suggest a predominant Th1 cell polarization. Cytotoxic-related proteins granzyme A and B, perforin, and granulin were also found in the supernatant after S1 stimulation in both vaccinated and recovered children. (4) Conclusions: Vaccination with the heterologous scheme of SOBERANA  02/SOBERANA  Plus induces a stronger antibody and cellular immune response compared to natural infections in young children.
38162653 | IFN-gamma-mediated control of SARS-CoV-2 infection through nitric oxide. Introduction: The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the need to identify mechanisms of antiviral host defense against SARS-CoV-2. One such mediator is interferon-g (IFN-gamma), which, when administered to infected patients, is reported to result in viral clearance and resolution of pulmonary symptoms. IFN-gamma treatment of a human lung epithelial cell line triggered an antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2, yet the mechanism for this antiviral response was not identified. Methods: Given that IFN-gamma has been shown to trigger antiviral activity via the generation of nitric oxide (NO), we investigated whether IFN-gamma induction of antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 infection is dependent upon the generation of NO in human pulmonary epithelial cells. We treated the simian epithelial cell line Vero E6 and human pulmonary epithelial cell lines, including A549-ACE2, and Calu-3, with IFN-gamma and observed the resulting induction of NO and its effects on SARS-CoV-2 replication. Pharmacological inhibition of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) was employed to assess the dependency on NO production. Additionally, the study examined the effect of interleukin-1b (IL-1beta) on the IFN-g-induced NO production and its antiviral efficacy. Results: Treatment of Vero E6 cells with IFN-gamma resulted in a dose-responsive induction of NO and an inhibitory effect on SARS-CoV-2 replication. This antiviral activity was blocked by pharmacologic inhibition of iNOS. IFN-gamma also triggered a NO-mediated antiviral activity in SARS-CoV-2 infected human lung epithelial cell lines A549-ACE2 and Calu-3. IL-1beta enhanced IFN-gamma induction of NO, but it had little effect on antiviral activity. Discussion: Given that IFN-g has been shown to be produced by CD8+ T cells in the early response to SARS-CoV-2, our findings in human lung epithelial cell lines, of an IFN-gamma-triggered, NO-dependent, links the adaptive immune response to an innate antiviral pathway in host defense against SARS-CoV-2. These results underscore the importance of IFN-gamma and NO in the antiviral response and provide insights into potential therapeutic strategies for COVID-19.
38211733 | Mucosal-Associated Invariant T Cells are not susceptible in vitro to SARS-CoV-2 infection but accumulate into the lungs of COVID-19 patients. Prolonged T cell lymphopenia is common in COVID-19, caused by SARS-CoV-2. While the mechanisms of lymphopenia during COVID-19 remain elusive, it is especially pronounced in a specialized innate-like T cell population called Mucosal Associated Invariant T cells (MAITs). MAITs has been suggested to express Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2 (ACE2), which is the well-known cellular receptor for SARS-CoV-2. However, it is still unclear if SARS-CoV-2 can infect or affect MAIT cells directly. In this study, we performed multicolor flow cytometry on peripheral blood mononuclear cells obtained from COVID-19 patients to assess the frequencies of CD8+Valpha7.2+CD161+ MAIT subsets at acute and convalescent disease phases. The susceptibility of MAITs and T cells to direct exposure by SARS-CoV-2 was analysed using cells isolated from healthy donor buffy coats by viability assays, virus-specific RT-PCR, and flow cytometry. In situ lung immunofluorescence was used to evaluate retention of T cells, especially MAIT cells, in lung tissues during acute COVID-19. Our study confirms previous reports indicating that circulating MAITs are activated, and their frequency is declined in patients with acute SARS-CoV-2 infection, whereas an accumulation of MAITs and T cells was seen in the lung tissue of individuals with fatal COVID-19. However, despite a fraction of MAITs found to express ACE2, no evidence for the susceptibility of MAITs for direct infection or activation by SARS-CoV-2 particles was observed. Thus, their activation and decline in the circulation is most likely explained by indirect mechanisms involving other immune cells and cytokine-induced pro-inflammatory environment but not by direct exposure to viral particles at the infection site.
38424106 | Altered receptor binding, antibody evasion and retention of T cell recognition by the SARS-CoV-2 XBB.1.5 spike protein. The XBB.1.5 variant of SARS-CoV-2 has rapidly achieved global dominance and exhibits a high growth advantage over previous variants. Preliminary reports suggest that the success of XBB.1.5 stems from mutations within its spike glycoprotein, causing immune evasion and enhanced receptor binding. We present receptor binding studies that demonstrate retention of binding contacts with the human ACE2 receptor and a striking decrease in binding to mouse ACE2 due to the revertant R493Q mutation. Despite extensive evasion of antibody binding, we highlight a region on the XBB.1.5 spike protein receptor binding domain (RBD) that is recognized by serum antibodies from a donor with hybrid immunity, collected prior to the emergence of the XBB.1.5 variant. T cell assays reveal high frequencies of XBB.1.5 spike-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells amongst donors with hybrid immunity, with the CD4+ T cells skewed towards a Th1 cell phenotype and having attenuated effector cytokine secretion as compared to ancestral spike protein-specific cells. Thus, while the XBB.1.5 variant has retained efficient human receptor binding and gained antigenic alterations, it remains susceptible to recognition by T cells induced via vaccination and previous infection.
38464527 | Potential immune evasion of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 Omicron variants. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which is caused by the novel severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has caused a global pandemic. The Omicron variant (B.1.1.529) was first discovered in November 2021 in specimens collected from Botswana, South Africa. Omicron has become the dominant variant worldwide, and several sublineages or subvariants have been identified recently. Compared to those of other mutants, the Omicron variant has the most highly expressed amino acid mutations, with almost 60 mutations throughout the genome, most of which are in the spike (S) protein, especially in the receptor-binding domain (RBD). These mutations increase the binding affinity of Omicron variants for the ACE2 receptor, and Omicron variants may also lead to immune escape. Despite causing milder symptoms, epidemiological evidence suggests that Omicron variants have exceptionally higher transmissibility, higher rates of reinfection and greater spread than the prototype strain as well as other preceding variants. Additionally, overwhelming amounts of data suggest that the levels of specific neutralization antibodies against Omicron variants decrease in most vaccinated populations, although CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses are maintained. Therefore, the mechanisms underlying Omicron variant evasion are still unclear. In this review, we surveyed the current epidemic status and potential immune escape mechanisms of Omicron variants. Especially, we focused on the potential roles of viral epitope mutations, antigenic drift, hybrid immunity, and \original antigenic sin\ in mediating immune evasion. These insights might supply more valuable concise information for us to understand the spreading of Omicron variants.
38472523 | Preclinical Development of a Novel Epitope-based DNA Vaccine Candidate against SARS-CoV-2 and Evaluation of Immunogenicity in BALB/c Mice. The protective efficacies of current licensed vaccines against COVID-19 have significantly reduced as a result of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs) which carried multiple mutations in the Spike (S) protein. Considering that these vaccines were developed based on the S protein of the original SARS-CoV-2 Wuhan strain, we designed a recombinant plasmid DNA vaccine based on highly conserved and immunogenic B and T cell epitopes against SARS-CoV-2 Wuhan strain and the Omicron VOC. Literature mining and bioinformatics were used to identify 6 immunogenic peptides from conserved regions of the SARS-CoV-2 S and membrane (M) proteins. Nucleotide sequences encoding these peptides representing highly conserved B and T cell epitopes were cloned into a pVAX1 vector to form the pVAX1/S2-6EHGFP recombinant DNA plasmid vaccine. The DNA vaccine was intranasally or intramuscularly administered to BALB/c mice and evaluations of humoral and cellular immune responses were performed. The intramuscular administration of pVAX1/S2-6EHGFP was associated with a significantly higher percentage of CD8+ T cells expressing IFN-gamma when compared with the empty vector and PBS controls. Intramuscular or intranasal administrations of pVAX1/S2-6EHGFP resulted in robust IgG antibody responses. Sera from mice intramuscularly immunized with pVAX1/S2-6EHGFP were found to elicit neutralizing antibodies capable of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant with the ACE2 cell surface receptor. This study demonstrated that the DNA vaccine construct encoding highly conserved immunogenic B and T cell epitopes was capable of eliciting potent humoral and cellular immune responses in mice.
38486021 | Antibody-independent protection against heterologous SARS-CoV-2 challenge conferred by prior infection or vaccination. Vaccines have reduced severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) morbidity and mortality, yet emerging variants challenge their effectiveness. The prevailing approach to updating vaccines targets the antibody response, operating under the presumption that it is the primary defense mechanism following vaccination or infection. This perspective, however, can overlook the role of T cells, particularly when antibody levels are low or absent. Here we show, through studies in mouse models lacking antibodies but maintaining functional B cells and lymphoid organs, that immunity conferred by prior infection or mRNA vaccination can protect against SARS-CoV-2 challenge independently of antibodies. Our findings, using three distinct models inclusive of a novel human/mouse ACE2 hybrid, highlight that CD8+ T cells are essential for combating severe infections, whereas CD4+ T cells contribute to managing milder cases, with interferon-gamma having an important function in this antibody-independent defense. These findings highlight the importance of T cell responses in vaccine development, urging a broader perspective on protective immunity beyond just antibodies.
38608314 | Delay induced stability switch in a mathematical model of CD8 T-cell response to SARS-CoV-2 mediated by receptor ACE2. The pathogen SARS-CoV-2 binds to the receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) of the target cells and then replicates itself through the host, eventually releasing free virus particles. After infection, the CD8 T-cell response is triggered and appears to play a critical role in the defense against virus infections. Infected cells and their activated CD8 T-cells can cause tissue damage. Here, we established a mathematical model of within-host SARS-CoV-2 infection that incorporates the receptor ACE2, the CD8 T-cell response, and the damaged tissues. According to this model, we can get the basic reproduction number R0 and the immune reproduction number R1. We provide the theoretical proof for the stability of the disease-free equilibrium, immune-inactivated equilibrium, and immune-activated equilibrium. Finally, our numerical simulations show that the time delay in CD8 T-cell production can induce complex dynamics such as stability switching. These results provide insights into the mechanisms of SARS-CoV-2 infection and may help in the development of effective drugs against COVID-19.
38637558 | Adaptive immune responses to two-dose COVID-19 vaccine series in healthy Canadian adults >= 50 years: a prospective, observational cohort study. To evaluate immune responses to COVID-19 vaccines in adults aged 50 years and older, spike protein (S)-specific antibody concentration, avidity, and function (via angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) inhibition surrogate neutralization and antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP)), as well as S-specific T cells were quantified via activation induced marker (AIM) assay in response to two-dose series. Eighty-four adults were vaccinated with either: mRNA/mRNA (mRNA-1273 and/or BNT162b2); ChAdOx1-S/mRNA; or ChAdOx1-S/ChAdOx1-S. Anti-S IgG concentrations, ADCP scores and ACE2 inhibiting antibody concentrations were highest at one-month post-second dose and declined by four-months post-second dose for all groups. mRNA/mRNA and ChAdOx1-S/mRNA schedules had significantly higher antibody responses than ChAdOx1-S/ChAdOx1-S. CD8+ T-cell responses one-month post-second dose were associated with increased ACE2 surrogate neutralization. Antibody avidity (total relative avidity index) did not change between one-month and four-months post-second dose and did not significantly differ between groups by four-months post-second dose. In determining COVID-19 correlates of protection, a measure that considers both antibody concentration and avidity should be considered.
27774719 | Age of onset of obesity and risk of type 2 diabetes. OBJECTIVE: To compare a simple measure - age of onset of obesity - to an obese-years construct (a product of duration and magnitude of obesity) as risk factors for type 2 diabetes. METHOD: Participants from the Framingham Heart Study who were not obese and did not have diabetes at baseline were included (n=4,320). The Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) was computed to compare four Cox proportional hazards models with incident diabetes as the outcome and: (i) obese-years; (ii) age of onset of obesity; (iii) body mass index (BMI); and (iv) age of onset of obesity plus magnitude of BMI combined, as exposures. RESULTS: AIC indicated that the model with obese-years provided a more effective explanation of incidence of type 2 diabetes compared to the remaining three models. Models including age of onset of obesity plus BMI were not appreciably different from the model with BMI alone, except in those aged >=60. CONCLUSIONS: While obese-years was the optimal obesity construct to explain risk of type 2 diabetes, age of onset may be a useful, practical addition to current BMI in the elderly. IMPLICATIONS: Where computation of obese-years is not possible or impractical, age of onset of obesity combined with BMI may provide a useful alternative.
27906990 | Surveillance of Helicobacter pylori Antibiotic Susceptibility in Indonesia: Different Resistance Types among Regions and with Novel Genetic Mutations. Information regarding Helicobacter pylori antibiotic resistance in Indonesia was previously inadequate. We assessed antibiotic susceptibility for H. pylori in Indonesia, and determined the association between virulence genes or genetic mutations and antibiotic resistance. We recruited 849 dyspeptic patients who underwent endoscopy in 11 cities in Indonesia. E-test was used to determine the minimum inhibitory concentration of five antibiotics. PCR-based sequencing assessed mutations in 23S rRNA, rdxA, gyrA, gyrB, and virulence genes. Next generation sequencing was used to obtain full-length sequences of 23S rRNA, infB, and rpl22. We cultured 77 strains and identified 9.1% with clarithromycin resistance. Low prevalence was also found for amoxicillin and tetracycline resistance (5.2% and 2.6%, respectively). In contrast, high resistance rates to metronidazole (46.7%) and levofloxacin (31.2%) were demonstrated. Strains isolated from Sumatera Island had significantly higher metronidazole resistance than those from other locations. Metronidazole resistant strains had highly distributed rdxA amino acid substitutions and the 23S rRNA A2143G mutation was associated with clarithromycin resistance (42.9%). However, one strain with the highest MIC value had a novel mutation in rpl22 without an A2143G mutation. Mutation at Asn-87 and/or Asp-91 of gyrA was associated with levofloxacin-resistance and was related to gyrB mutations. In conclusions, although this is a pilot study for a larger survey, our current data show that Indonesian strains had the high prevalence of metronidazole and levofloxacin resistance with low prevalence of clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and tetracycline resistance. Nevertheless, clarithromycin- or metronidazole-based triple therapy should be administered with caution in some regions of Indonesia.
28606000 | A controlled trial of trauma-focused therapy versus problem-solving in Islamic children affected by civil conflict and disaster in Aceh, Indonesia. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relative efficacies of trauma-focused cognitive behavior therapy and problem-solving therapy in treating post-traumatic stress disorder in children affected by civil conflict in Aceh, Indonesia. METHOD: A controlled trial of children with post-traumatic stress disorder ( N = 64) randomized children to either five individual weekly sessions of trauma-focused cognitive behavior therapy or problem-solving therapy provided by lay-counselors who were provided with brief training. Children were assessed by blind independent assessors at pretreatment, posttreatment and 3-month follow-up on post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and anger, as well as caregiver ratings of the child's post-traumatic stress disorder levels. RESULTS: Intent-to-treat analyses indicated no significant linear time x treatment condition interaction effects for post-traumatic stress disorder at follow-up ( t(129.05) = -0.55, p = 0.58), indicating the two conditions did not differ. Across both conditions, there were significant reductions in post-traumatic stress disorder on self-reported ( t(131.26) = -9.26, p < 0.001) and caregiver-reported ( t(170.65) = 3.53, p = 0.001) measures and anger ( t(127.66) = -7.14, p < 0.001). Across both conditions, there was a large effect size for self-reported post-traumatic stress disorder (cognitive behavior therapy: 3.73, 95% confidence interval = [2.75, 3.97]; problem-solving: 2.68, 95% confidence interval = [2.07, 3.29]). CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that trauma-focused cognitive behavior therapy and problem-solving approaches are comparably successful in reducing post-traumatic stress disorder and anger in treating mental health in children in a post-conflict setting. This pattern may reflect the benefits of non-specific therapy effects or gains associated with trauma-focused or problem-solving approaches.
29741414 | HPLC-based Measurement of Glycated Hemoglobin using Dried Blood Spots Collected under Adverse Field Conditions. Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) measured using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) assays with venous blood and dried blood spots (DBS) are compared for 143 paired samples collected in Aceh, Indonesia. Relative to gold-standard venous-blood values, DBS-based values reported by the HPLC are systematically upward biased for HbA1c<8% and the fraction diabetic (HbA1c >= 6.5%) is overstated almost five-fold. Inspection of chromatograms from DBS assays indicates the % glycosylated calculated by the HPLC excludes part of the hemoglobin A which is misidentified as a hemoglobin variant. Taking this into account, unbiased DBS-based values are computed using data from the machine-generated chromatograms. When the DBS are collected in a clinic-like setting, under controlled humidity/temperature conditions, the recalculated values are almost identical to venous-based values. When DBS are collected under field conditions, the recalculated values are unbiased, but only about half the HbA1c values are measured reliably, calling into question the validity of the other half. The results suggest that collection conditions, particularly humidity, affect the quality of the DBS-based measures. Cross-validating DBS-based HbA1c values with venous samples collected under exactly the same environmental conditions is a prudent investment in population-based studies.
31071187 | Analysis of risks of gastric cancer by gastric mucosa among Indonesian ethnic groups. Indonesia is a big country with multiethnic populations whose gastric cancer risks have not been elucidated. We performed a nationwide survey and obtained histological specimens from 1053 individuals in 19 cities across the country. We examined the gastric mucosa, the topography, the atrophic gastritis risk factors, and the gastric cancer risk scores. Almost half (46.1%) of the patients with dyspeptic symptoms had histological abnormalities; chronic (36.3%) and atrophic gastritis (28.9%) being the most frequent. Individuals of the Timor ethnicity had the highest prevalence of acute (52.6%) and chronic gastritis (68.4%), even those negative for H. pylori. Our topographic analysis showed the majority of patients had predominantly antral acute and chronic gastritis. A multivariate logistic regression model showed age (Odds ratio [OR], 1.107), Timor ethnicity (OR, 8.531), and H. pylori infection (OR, 22.643) as independent risk factors for presence of atrophic gastritis. In addition, the gastric cancer risk score was highest in those from Timor, Papuan, and Bugis ethnic populations. Overall, Indonesia is a low-risk gastric cancer country. However, several ethnic groups displayed severe gastric mucosa symptoms suggesting policy makers should focus on those ethnic groups to perform gastric cancer screenings and to eradicate H. pylori.
32294999 | Filler-Modified Castor Oil-Based Polyurethane Foam for the Removal of Aqueous Heavy Metals Detected Using Laser-Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy (LIBS) Technique. The use of polymeric material in heavy metal removal from wastewater is trending. Heavy metal removal from wastewater of the industrial process is of utmost importance in green/sustainable manufacturing. Production of absorbent materials from a natural source for industrial wastewater has been on the increase. In this research, polyurethane foam (PUF), an adsorbent used by industries to adsorb heavy metal from wastewater, was prepared from a renewable source. Castor oil-based polyurethane foam (COPUF) was produced and modified for improved adsorption performance using fillers, analyzed with laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS). The fillers (zeolite, bentonite, and activated carbon) were added to the COPUF matrix allowing the modification on its surface morphology and charge. The materials were characterized using Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and thermal gravimetry analysis (TGA), while their adsorption performance was studied by comparing the LIBS spectra. The bentonite-modified COPUF (B/COPUF) gave the highest value of the normalized Pb I (405.7 nm) line intensity (2.3), followed by zeolite-modified COPUF (Z/COPUF) (1.9), and activated carbon-modified COPUF (AC/COPUF) (0.2), which indicates the adsorption performance of Pb2+ on the respective materials. The heavy metal ions' adsorption on the B/COPUF dominantly resulted from the electrostatic attraction. This study demonstrated the potential use of B/COPUF in adsorption and LIBS quantitative analysis of aqueous heavy metal ions.
32642531 | Psychological correlates of anti-sexual harassment: Dataset of Indonesia's Generation Z. This dataset provides empirical support for building a socio-psychological model explaining attitude towards anti-sexual harassment among Indonesia's Generation Z (15 to 21 years old). This model contains the correlates of the attitude. The variables are (1) Attitude towards anti-sexual harassment/ASH, (2) Peer influence/PR, (3) Power distance-at the individual level/PD, (4) Masculinity-at the individual level/MS, (5) Sexual harassment knowledge/SK, (6) Moral disengagement/MD, (7) Belief on myths of sexual harassment/MY, and (8) Identification with patriarchal culture/PT. The data (N = 1,014) were collected using survey method in March-April 2019 in two provinces in Western Indonesia, i.e. (1) East Java, in Java Island (from four senior high schools), and (2) Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam, in Sumatera Island (from four senior high schools). The data analysis technique was correlations and test of differences using IBM SPSS Statistics version 25 and LISREL 8.80. The data could be reused by the Indonesian Ministry of Education and Culture/KEMENDIKBUD, Indonesian Ministry of Women Empowerment and Child Protection/KEMENPP&PA, as well as all stakeholders associated with the two ministries in creating evidence-based public policies that could prevent and eradicate sexual harassment, especially among Indonesian youths.
33163160 | Predictors of COVID-19 severity: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Background: The unpredictability of the progression of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) may be attributed to the low precision of the tools used to predict the prognosis of this disease. Objective: To identify the predictors associated with poor clinical outcomes in patients with COVID-19. Methods: Relevant articles from PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, and Web of Science were searched and extracted as of April 5, 2020. Data of interest were collected and evaluated for their compatibility for the meta-analysis. Cumulative calculations to determine the correlation and effect estimates were performed using the Z test. Results: In total, 19 papers recording 1,934 mild and 1,644 severe cases of COVID-19 were included. Based on the initial evaluation, 62 potential risk factors were identified for the meta-analysis. Several comorbidities, including chronic respiratory disease, cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension were observed more frequent among patients with severe COVID-19 than with the mild ones. Compared to the mild form, severe COVID-19 was associated with symptoms such as dyspnea, anorexia, fatigue, increased respiratory rate, and high systolic blood pressure. Lower levels of lymphocytes and hemoglobin; elevated levels of leukocytes, aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, blood creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, high-sensitivity troponin, creatine kinase, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, interleukin 6, D-dimer, ferritin, lactate dehydrogenase, and procalcitonin; and a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate were also associated with severe COVID-19. Conclusion: More than 30 risk factors are associated with a higher risk of severe COVID-19. These may serve as useful baseline parameters in the development of prediction tools for COVID-19 prognosis.
33953911 | Global prevalence and pathogenesis of headache in COVID-19: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Background: This study was conducted to determine the prevalence of headache in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and to assess its association as a predictor for COVID-19. This study also aimed to discuss the possible pathogenesis of headache in COVID-19. Methods: Available articles from PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science were searched as of September 2 nd, 2020. Data on characteristics of the study, headache and COVID-19 were extracted following the PRISMA guidelines. Biases were assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa scale. The cumulative prevalence of headache was calculated for the general population (i.e. adults and children). The pooled odd ratio (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) was calculated using the Z test to assess the association between headache and the presence of COVID-19 cases. Results: We included 104,751 COVID-19 cases from 78 eligible studies to calculate the global prevalence of headache in COVID-19 and 17 studies were included to calculate the association of headache and COVID-19. The cumulative prevalence of headache in COVID-19 was 25.2% (26,464 out of 104,751 cases). Headache was found to be more prevalent, approximately by two-fold, in COVID-19 patients than in non-COVID-19 patients with symptoms of other respiratory viral infections, OR: 1.73; 95% CI: 1.94, 2.5 with p=0.04. Conclusion: Headache is common among COVID-19 patients and seems to be more common in COVID-19 patients compared to those with the non-COVID-19 viral infection. No definitive mechanisms on how headache  emerges in COVID-19 patients but several possible hypotheses have been proposed. However, extensive studies are warranted to elucidate the mechanisms. PROSPERO registration: CRD42020210332 (28/09/2020).
34136130 | Association between convalescent plasma and the risk of mortality among patients with COVID-19: a meta-analysis. Background: Convalescent plasma (CCP) has been used for treating some infectious diseases; however, the efficacy of CCP in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) remains controversial. The aim of this research was to assess the efficacy of CCP as an adjunctive treatment in COVID-19 patients. Methods: Embase, PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane and MedRix were searched for potentially relevant articles. All included papers were assessed for the quality using modified Jadad scale and Newcastle-Ottawa scale for randomized controlled trial (RCT) and non - RCT, respectively. We used a Q test and Egger test to assess the heterogeneity and publication bias among studies, respectively. Mortality rates between patients treated with standard treatment and standard treatment with CCP were compared using a Z test. Results: A total of 12 papers consisting of three cross-sectional studies, one prospective study, five retrospective studies, and three RCT studies were included in our analysis. Of them, a total of 1,937 patients treated with CCP and 3,405 patients without CCP were included. The risk of mortality was 1.92-fold higher in patients without CCP compared to patients treated with CCP (OR: 1.92; 95%CI: 1.33, 2.77; p=0.0005). In severe COVID-19 sub-group analysis, we found that patients without CCP had a 1.32 times higher risk of mortality than those treated with CCP (OR: 1.32; 95%CI: 1.09, 1.60; p=0.0040). Conclusions: CCP, as adjunctive therapy, could reduce the mortality rate among COVID-19 patients.
34217726 | Designing an epitope vaccine against Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus: An in silico study. The house dust mite, Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus, is a major source of the inhaled allergen Der p 1, which causes immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated hypersensitivity reactions manifesting in allergic diseases. To date, no drugs or vaccines effectively treat or prevent Der p 1 sensitization. We applied in silico immunoinformatics to design T-cell and B-cell epitopes that were specified and developed from the allergen Der p 1 of D. pteronyssinus. We identified the conserved epitope areas by predicting the accessibility and flexibility of B-cell epitopes, and the percentage of human leukocyte antigen representing T cells. Molecular docking using HADDOCK software indicated three optimal clusters: cluster 6 (z-score: -2.1), cluster 1 (z-score: -1.2), and cluster 3 (z-score: -0.6). The most negative Z-score was found in cluster 6, which represented three epitopes. The interaction between A chain proteins (IgE protein residues) and B chains (Der p 1 protein residues) exhibited a knowledge-based FADE and contact value >1, suggesting the best protein interactions occurred in the conserved area. Molecular dynamic simulation further predicted the stable nature of Der p 1 protein. The IQRDNGYQP region is the best candidate to be utilized as a D. pteronyssinus epitope vaccine, which could be used in the development of allergen-specific immunotherapy.
34504685 | The role of single nucleotide polymorphisms of IL-1A -889C>T (rs1800587), TNF-A -238G>A (rs361525), and VDR TaqI (rs731236) on susceptibility to herniated nucleus pulposus: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Background: The pathogenesis of herniated nucleus pulposus (HNP) is complex and may involve the wide variety of gene polymorphism. However, the reports from the existing studies are inconclusive. The objective of this study was to determine the role of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in interleukin 1 alpha ( IL-1A), tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-A), and vitamin D receptor ( VDR) genes on the susceptibility to herniated nucleus pulposus (HNP). Methods: Four databases (PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, and Web of Science) were searched as of April 1 st, 2021. Authors, publication year, targeted genes, genotype and allele frequency in each case and control groups were collected. Newcastle-Ottawa scale was used to evaluate the publication quality. The pooled estimates of association of IL-1A -889C>T (rs1800587), TNF-A -238G>A (rs361525), and VDR TaqI (rs731236) and susceptibility to HNP were assessed using Z test. Results: We screened 3,067 unique studies for eligibility and three, two and nine case-control studies on IL-1A -889C>T, TNF-A -238G>A, and VDR TaqI were included, respectively, in our meta-analysis. The studies consisting 369 HNP cases and 433 controls for IL-1A -889C>T, 252 cases and 259 controls for TNF-A -238G>A and 1130 cases and 2096 controls for VDR TaqI. Our pooled estimates indicated that there was no significant association of those SNPs with the susceptibility to HNP in any genotype, dominant model, recessive model, or allele comparations. Conclusion: Although individual studies suggested the important role of gene expression dysregulation associated with SNPs in IL-1A, TNF-A, and VDR, our data indicated that IL-1A -889C>T, TNF-A -238G>A, and VDR TaqI had weak association with HNP susceptibility in both genotypes and allele distributions. However, since heterogeneity was identified among studies included in this meta-analysis, further meta-analysis with a larger population and subgroup analysis on specific population are warranted to support this finding.
34643006 | The prevalence, predictors and outcomes of acute liver injury among patients with COVID-19: A systematic review and meta-analysis. The data on the predictors and prognosis of acute liver injury (ALI) among patients in coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients are limited. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence, predictors and outcomes of ALI among patients with COVID-19. A systematic review was conducted up to 10 June 2021. The relevant papers were searched from PubMed, Embase, Cochrane and Web of Science, and the data were analysed using a Z test. A total of 1331 papers were identified and 16 papers consisting of 1254 COVID-19 with ALI and 4999 COVID-19 without ALI were analysed. The cumulative prevalence of ALI among patients with COVID-19 was 22.8%. Male and having low lymphocyte levels were more likely to be associated with ALI compared with female and having higher lymphocyte level, odds ratio (OR): 2.70; 95% confidence interval (CI): 2.03, 3.60 and mean difference (MD) -125; 95% CI: -207, -43, respectively. COVID-19 patients with ALI had higher risk of developing severe COVID-19 compared with those without ALI (OR: 3.61; 95% CI: 2.60, 5.02). Our findings may serve as the additional evaluation for the management of ALI in COVID-19 patients.
35083038 | The association between therapeutic plasma exchange and the risk of mortality among patients critically ill with COVID-19: a meta-analysis. Background: Cytokine storm has been widely known to contribute to the development of the critical condition in patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), and studies had been conducted to assess the potential aspect of cytokine storm elimination by performing therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE). However, contradictory findings were observed. The objective of this study was to assess the association between TPE and the reduction of mortality of critically ill COVID-19 patients. Methods: A meta-analysis was conducted by collecting data from PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science. Data on the mortality rate of critically ill COVID-19 patients treated with TPE plus standard of care and that of patients treated with standard of care alone were analyzed using a Z test. Results: We included a total of four papers assessing the association between TPE and the risk of mortality among critically ill COVID-19 patients. Our findings suggested that critically ill COVID-19 patients treated with TPE had lower risk of mortality compared to those without TPE treatment. Conclusion: Our study has identified the potential benefits of TPE in reducing the risk of mortality among critically ill COVID-19 patients.
36016242 | Global Prevalence and Potential Influencing Factors of COVID-19 Vaccination Hesitancy: A Meta-Analysis. Countries worldwide have deployed mass COVID-19 vaccination drives, but there are people who are hesitant to receive the vaccine. Studies assessing the factors associated with COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy are inconclusive. This study aimed to assess the global prevalence of COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy and determine the potential factors associated with such hesitancy. We performed an organized search for relevant articles in PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science. Extraction of the required information was performed for each study. A single-arm meta-analysis was performed to determine the global prevalence of COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy; the potential factors related to vaccine hesitancy were analyzed using a Z-test. A total of 56 articles were included in our analysis. We found that the global prevalence of COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy was 25%. Being a woman, being a 50-year-old or younger, being single, being unemployed, living in a household with five or more individuals, having an educational attainment lower than an undergraduate degree, having a non-healthcare-related job and considering COVID-19 vaccines to be unsafe were associated with a higher risk of vaccination hesitancy. In contrast, living with children at home, maintaining physical distancing norms, having ever tested for COVID-19, and having a history of influenza vaccination in the past few years were associated with a lower risk of hesitancy to COVID-19 vaccination. Our study provides valuable information on COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy, and we recommend special interventions in the sub-populations with increased risk to reduce COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy.
36568059 | Cytotoxicity and phytochemical profiles of Phyllanthus emblica stem barks with in silico drug-likeliness: Focusing on antidiabetic potentials. Out of numerous reported medicinal plants, Phyllanthus emblica has been reported to possess a strong antidiabetic potential and other pharmacological effects. This research aimed to identify the phytoconstituents in the extracts of P. emblica stem barks and hypothesize their antidiabetic potentials based on in silico drug-likeliness. Simplicia of P. emblica powder was sequentially macerated at room temperature (24 h) using n-hexane, ethyl acetate, and methanol solvents. Phytochemical profiles of the extract were investigated qualitatively using reagents, followed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis. All phytocompounds were then analyzed for their pharmacological properties and predicted bioactivities on molinspiration. Cytotoxicity of each extract was evaluated using the brine shrimp lethality test. As many as 18 compounds (from GC-MS), were identified in all extract samples from P. emblica stem barks. Based on in silico drug-likeliness, methanol extract contained the most potentially bioactive compounds (16alpha-hydroxycleroda-3,13 (14) Z-dien-15,16-olide; 14-. beta.-H-pregna; and isochiapin B). Isochiapin B was revealed as the only compound that had no violation of the rule of five. All three compounds could hypothetically contribute to the antidiabetic activity of the methanol extract from P. emblica stem barks by inhibiting diabetes-related enzymes and interacting with nuclear receptors. Moderate cytotoxicity of ethyl acetate and methanol extract, respectively, further suggests their bioactivities.
36685023 | Serum pepsinogen level as a biomarker for atrophy, reflux esophagitis, and gastric cancer screening in Indonesia. Background: Chronic dyspepsia's symptoms are frequently seen in primary to tertiary healthcare in Indonesia. This study aimed to describe the potential usability of pepsinogen (PG) values in determining gastric mucosal conditions, including superficial gastritis and atrophic gastritis. Materials and Methods: We recruited 646 adult dyspeptic patients and then analyzed PG values (including PGI, PGII, and PGI/II ratio) with endoscopic findings, gastric mucosal damages, and Helicobacter pylori infection. The gastric mucosal damage and H. pylori infection were evaluated using histological examination based on the updated Sydney system. Results: Among 646 enrolled patients, 308 (47.2%), 212 (32.8%), 91 (14.1%), 34 (5.2%), and 1 (0.2%) patient were diagnosed with normal mucosa, gastritis, reflux esophagitis, peptic ulcer disease, and gastric cancer, respectively. Significant differences in PGI, PGII, and PGI/II ratio values were observed among ethnic groups (all P < 0.01). The PGI and PGII levels were significantly higher and PGI/II was significantly lower in H. pylori-infected patients than in uninfected ones (all P < 0.001). The optimal cutoff value for PGII and PGI/II was 12.45 ng/mL with an area under the curve (AUC) value of 0.755 (0.702-0.811), sensitivity 59.3%, and specificity 77.1%; and 4.75 with AUC value of 0.821 (0.763-0.855), sensitivity 81.5%, and specificity 78.7%, respectively, to determine moderate-severe atrophy. Conclusion: Serum PG levels, a useful biomarker, represent the endoscopic findings, especially for reflux esophagitis. In addition, the benefits of PG values detecting atrophic gastritis were limited to moderate-severe atrophic gastritis. This usefulness requires careful attention for several ethnic groups in Indonesia.
36788814 | Drought and water availability analysis for irrigation and household water needs in the Krueng Jrue sub-watershed. This study aimed to analyze drought conditions and evaluate irrigation water availability and household water needs in the Krueng Jrue sub-watershed, Aceh Province, Indonesia. The Z-score statistics method was developed to analyze the drought, and the Mock model was used to generate discharges. We performed model validation using linear regression, which produced a coefficient of determination (R 2 = 0.90**) and coefficient of regression (r = 0.95**). In general, this area had a normal Z-score for precipitation (ZSP) class with 90 events (75%) and a normal Z-score for a discharge (ZSD) class with 89 events (74.2%). There were 0-11 (0-9.2%) moderate wet, very wet, extreme wet, moderate drought, and severe drought events. The consistency between the ZSP and ZSD indices reached 85.8%, indicating consensus between the meteorological droughts that were analyzed based on rainfall (ZSP) and hydrological droughts analyzed based on water discharge (ZSD). ZSP and ZSD indices showed negative values during the dry season (April to September) and positive values during the rainy season (October to March). There was a surplus of water availability for irrigation and household water needs during the rainy season and a deficit during the dry season. However, water deficits also occurred in certain months during the rainy rendeng planting season, for example, in October 2009, 2013, 2016, and 2017 as well as in February between 2008 to 2011 and from 2014 to 2017. This observation was probably due to the influence of global climate variables that need to be substantiated. This study offers necessary information for farmers, the community, and the local government when anticipating drought phenomenon, organizing the rice planting season, and evaluating water availability in other watersheds.
37360864 | Immunogenicity and safety of heterologous immunisation with Ad5-nCOV in healthy adults aged 60 years and older primed with an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (CoronaVac): a phase 4, randomised, observer-blind, non-inferiority trial. Background: People over 60 have been found to develop less protection after two doses of inactivated COVID-19 vaccines than younger people. Heterologous immunisation could potentially induce more robust immune responses compared to homologous immunisation. We aimed to assess the immunogenicity and safety of a heterologous immunisation with an adenovirus type 5-vectored vaccine (Ad5-nCOV, Convidecia) among elderly who were primed with an inactivated vaccine (CoronaVac) previously. Methods: We did a randomised, observer-blinded, non-inferiority trial in healthy adults aged 60 years and older in Lianshui County (Jiangsu, China) between August 26, 2021 and May 15, 2022. 199 eligible participants who had received two doses of CoronaVac in the past 3-6 months were randomised (1:1) to receive a third dose of Convidecia (group A, n = 99) or CoronaVac (group B, n = 100), while 100 participants primed with one dose of CoronaVac in the past 1-2 months were randomised equally to receive a second dose of Convidecia (group C, n = 50) or CoronaVac (group D, n = 50). Participants and investigators were masked to the vaccine received. Primary outcomes were the geometric mean titers (GMTs) of neutralising antibodies against live SARS-CoV-2 virus 14 days after boosting and 28-day adverse reactions. This study was registered with ClinicalTrials.govNCT04952727. Findings: A heterologous third dose of Convidecia resulted in a 6.2-fold (GMTs: 286.4 vs 48.2), 6.3-fold (45.9 vs 7.3) and 7.5-fold (32.9 vs 4.4) increase in neutralising antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 wild-type, delta (B.1.617.2) and omicron (BA.1.1) 14 days post boosting, respectively, compared with the homologous boost. The heterologous booster with Convidecia induced significantly higher neutralsing activities, with up to 91% inhibition in binding of Spike to ACE2 for BA.4 and BA.5 variants, compared with 35% inhibition induced by three doses of CoronaVac. For participants primed with one dose of CoronaVac, a heterologous dose of Convidecia induced higher neutralising antibodies against wild-type than two doses of CoronaVac (GMTs: 70.9 vs 9.3, p < 0.0001), but not for that against variants of concern (GMTs against delta: 5.0 vs 4.0, p = 0.4876; GMTs against omicron: 4.8 vs 3.7, p = 0.4707). Adverse reactions were reported by 8 (8.1%) participants in group A and 4 (4.0%) in group B (p > 0.05), and 8 (16.0%) in group C and 1 (2.0%) in group D (p = 0.031). Interpretation: In elderly individuals primed with two doses of CoronaVac, the heterologous immunisation with Convidecia induced strong antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 wildtype and variants of concern, which could be an alternative regimen for enhancing protection in this vulnerable population. Funding: National Natural Science Foundation of China, Jiangsu Provincial Key Research and Development Program, and Jiangsu Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars Program.
37421949 | TMEM106B is a receptor mediating ACE2-independent SARS-CoV-2 cell entry. SARS-CoV-2 is associated with broad tissue tropism, a characteristic often determined by the availability of entry receptors on host cells. Here, we show that TMEM106B, a lysosomal transmembrane protein, can serve as an alternative receptor for SARS-CoV-2 entry into angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-negative cells. Spike substitution E484D increased TMEM106B binding, thereby enhancing TMEM106B-mediated entry. TMEM106B-specific monoclonal antibodies blocked SARS-CoV-2 infection, demonstrating a role of TMEM106B in viral entry. Using X-ray crystallography, cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM), and hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), we show that the luminal domain (LD) of TMEM106B engages the receptor-binding motif of SARS-CoV-2 spike. Finally, we show that TMEM106B promotes spike-mediated syncytium formation, suggesting a role of TMEM106B in viral fusion. Together, our findings identify an ACE2-independent SARS-CoV-2 infection mechanism that involves cooperative interactions with the receptors heparan sulfate and TMEM106B.
37443288 | A placental model of SARS-CoV-2 infection reveals ACE2-dependent susceptibility and differentiation impairment in syncytiotrophoblasts. SARS-CoV-2 infection causes COVID-19. Several clinical reports have linked COVID-19 during pregnancy to negative birth outcomes and placentitis. However, the pathophysiological mechanisms underpinning SARS-CoV-2 infection during placentation and early pregnancy are not clear. Here, to shed light on this, we used induced trophoblast stem cells to generate an in vitro early placenta infection model. We identified that syncytiotrophoblasts could be infected through angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). Using a co-culture model of vertical transmission, we confirmed the ability of the virus to infect syncytiotrophoblasts through a previous endometrial cell infection. We further demonstrated transcriptional changes in infected syncytiotrophoblasts that led to impairment of cellular processes, reduced secretion of HCG hormone and morphological changes vital for syncytiotrophoblast function. Furthermore, different antibody strategies and antiviral drugs restore these impairments. In summary, we have established a scalable and tractable platform to study early placental cell types and highlighted its use in studying strategies to protect the placenta.
37459541 | Proxalutamide reduces SARS-CoV-2 infection and associated inflammatory response. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, data suggested that males had a higher risk of developing severe disease and that androgen deprivation therapy might be associated with protection. Combined with the fact that TMPRSS2 (transmembrane serine protease 2), a host entry factor for the SARS-CoV-2 virus, was a well-known androgen-regulated gene, this led to an upsurge of research investigating androgen receptor (AR)-targeting drugs. Proxalutamide, an AR antagonist, was shown in initial clinical studies to benefit COVID-19 patients; however, further validation is needed as one study was retracted. Due to continued interest in proxalutamide, which is in phase 3 trials, we examined its ability to impact SARS-CoV-2 infection and downstream inflammatory responses. Proxalutamide exerted similar effects as enzalutamide, an AR antagonist prescribed for advanced prostate cancer, in decreasing AR signaling and expression of TMPRSS2 and angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), the SARS-CoV-2 receptor. However, proxalutamide led to degradation of AR protein, which was not observed with enzalutamide. Proxalutamide inhibited SARS-CoV-2 infection with an IC50 value of 97 nM, compared to 281 nM for enzalutamide. Importantly, proxalutamide inhibited infection by multiple SARS-CoV-2 variants and synergized with remdesivir. Proxalutamide protected against cell death in response to tumor necrosis factor alpha and interferon gamma, and overall survival of mice was increased with proxalutamide treatment prior to cytokine exposure. Mechanistically, we found that proxalutamide increased levels of NRF2, an essential transcription factor that mediates antioxidant responses, and decreased lung inflammation. These data provide compelling evidence that proxalutamide can prevent SARS-CoV-2 infection and cytokine-induced lung damage, suggesting that promising clinical data may emerge from ongoing phase 3 trials.
37477828 | Antibody Fc-binding profiles and ACE2 affinity to SARS-CoV-2 RBD variants. Emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants, notably Omicron, continue to remain a formidable challenge to worldwide public health. The SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain (RBD) is a hotspot for mutations, reflecting its critical role at the ACE2 interface during viral entry. Here, we comprehensively investigated the impact of RBD mutations, including 5 variants of concern (VOC) or interest-including Omicron (BA.2)-and 33 common point mutations, both on IgG recognition and ACE2-binding inhibition, as well as FcgammaRIIa- and FcgammaRIIIa-binding antibodies, in plasma from two-dose BNT162b2-vaccine recipients and mild-COVID-19 convalescent subjects obtained during the first wave using a custom-designed bead-based 39-plex array. IgG-recognition and FcgammaR-binding antibodies were decreased against the RBD of Beta and Omicron, as well as point mutation G446S, found in several Omicron sub-variants as compared to wild type. Notably, while there was a profound decrease in ACE2 inhibition against Omicron, FcgammaR-binding antibodies were less affected, suggesting that Fc functional antibody responses may be better retained against the RBD of Omicron in comparison to neutralization. Furthermore, while measurement of RBD-ACE2-binding affinity via biolayer interferometry showed that all VOC RBDs have enhanced affinity to human ACE2, we demonstrate that human ACE2 polymorphisms, E35K (rs1348114695) has reduced affinity to VOCs, while K26R (rs4646116) and S19P (rs73635825) have increased binding kinetics to the RBD of VOCs, potentially affecting virus-host interaction and, thereby, host susceptibility. Collectively, our findings provide in-depth coverage of the impact of RBD mutations on key facets of host-virus interactions.
37535672 | Deep mutagenesis scanning using whole trimeric SARS-CoV-2 spike highlights the importance of NTD-RBD interactions in determining spike phenotype. New variants of SARS-CoV-2 are continually emerging with mutations in spike associated with increased transmissibility and immune escape. Phenotypic maps can inform the prediction of concerning mutations from genomic surveillance, however most of these maps currently derive from studies using monomeric RBD, while spike is trimeric, and contains additional domains. These maps may fail to reflect interdomain interactions in the prediction of phenotypes. To try to improve on this, we developed a platform for deep mutational scanning using whole trimeric spike. We confirmed a previously reported epistatic effect within the RBD affecting ACE2 binding, that highlights the importance of updating the base spike sequence for future mutational scanning studies. Using post vaccine sera, we found that the immune response of vaccinated individuals was highly focused on one or two epitopes in the RBD and that single point mutations at these positions can account for most of the immune escape mediated by the Omicron BA.1 RBD. However, unexpectedly we found that the BA.1 RBD alone does not account for the high level of antigenic escape by BA.1 spike. We show that the BA.1 NTD amplifies the immune evasion of its associated RBD. BA.1 NTD reduces neutralistion by RBD directed monoclonal antibodies, and impacts ACE2 interaction. NTD variation is thus an important mechanism of immune evasion by SARS-CoV-2. Such effects are not seen when pre-stabilized spike proteins are used, suggesting the interdomain effects require protein mobility to express their phenotype.
37626079 | An IgM-like inhalable ACE2 fusion protein broadly neutralizes SARS-CoV-2 variants. Many of the currently available COVID-19 vaccines and therapeutics are not effective against newly emerged SARS-CoV-2 variants. Here, we developed the metallo-enzyme domain of angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-the cellular receptor of SARS-CoV-2-into an IgM-like inhalable molecule (HH-120). HH-120 binds to the SARS-CoV-2 Spike (S) protein with high avidity and confers potent and broad-spectrum neutralization activity against all known SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern. HH-120 was developed as an inhaled formulation that achieves appropriate aerodynamic properties for rodent and monkey respiratory system delivery, and we found that early administration of HH-120 by aerosol inhalation significantly reduced viral loads and lung pathology scores in male golden Syrian hamsters infected by the SARS-CoV-2 ancestral strain (GDPCC-nCoV27) and the Delta variant. Our study presents a meaningful advancement in the inhalation delivery of large biologics like HH-120 (molecular weight (MW) ~ 1000 kDa) and demonstrates that HH-120 can serve as an efficacious, safe, and convenient agent against SARS-CoV-2 variants. Finally, given the known role of ACE2 in viral reception, it is conceivable that HH-120 has the potential to be efficacious against additional emergent coronaviruses.
37640791 | SARS-CoV-2 spike protein induces endothelial inflammation via ACE2 independently of viral replication. COVID-19, caused by SARS-CoV-2, is a respiratory disease associated with inflammation and endotheliitis. Mechanisms underling inflammatory processes are unclear, but angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), the receptor which binds the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 may be important. Here we investigated whether spike protein binding to ACE2 induces inflammation in endothelial cells and determined the role of ACE2 in this process. Human endothelial cells were exposed to SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, S1 subunit (rS1p) and pro-inflammatory signaling and inflammatory mediators assessed. ACE2 was modulated pharmacologically and by siRNA. Endothelial cells were also exposed to SARS-CoV-2. rSP1 increased production of IL-6, MCP-1, ICAM-1 and PAI-1, and induced NFkB activation via ACE2 in endothelial cells. rS1p increased microparticle formation, a functional marker of endothelial injury. ACE2 interacting proteins involved in inflammation and RNA biology were identified in rS1p-treated cells. Neither ACE2 expression nor ACE2 enzymatic function were affected by rSP1. Endothelial cells exposed to SARS-CoV-2 virus did not exhibit viral replication. We demonstrate that rSP1 induces endothelial inflammation via ACE2 through processes that are independent of ACE2 enzymatic activity and viral replication. We define a novel role for ACE2 in COVID-19- associated endotheliitis.
37648855 | Neutralization, effector function and immune imprinting of Omicron variants. Currently circulating SARS-CoV-2 variants have acquired convergent mutations at hot spots in the receptor-binding domain1 (RBD) of the spike protein. The effects of these mutations on viral infection and transmission and the efficacy of vaccines and therapies remains poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that recently emerged BQ.1.1 and XBB.1.5 variants bind host ACE2 with high affinity and promote membrane fusion more efficiently than earlier Omicron variants. Structures of the BQ.1.1, XBB.1 and BN.1 RBDs bound to the fragment antigen-binding region of the S309 antibody (the parent antibody for sotrovimab) and human ACE2 explain the preservation of antibody binding through conformational selection, altered ACE2 recognition and immune evasion. We show that sotrovimab binds avidly to all Omicron variants, promotes Fc-dependent effector functions and protects mice challenged with BQ.1.1 and hamsters challenged with XBB.1.5. Vaccine-elicited human plasma antibodies cross-react with and trigger effector functions against current Omicron variants, despite a reduced neutralizing activity, suggesting a mechanism of protection against disease, exemplified by S309. Cross-reactive RBD-directed human memory B cells remained dominant even after two exposures to Omicron spikes, underscoring the role of persistent immune imprinting.
37650619 | SARS-CoV-2 omicron spike simulations: broad antibody escape, weakened ACE2 binding, and modest furin cleavage. The recent emergence of the omicron variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus with large numbers of mutations has raised concern about a potential new surge in infections. Here we use molecular dynamics to study the biophysics of the interface of the BA1 and BA2 omicron spike protein binding to (i) the ACE2 receptor protein, (ii) antibodies from all known binding regions, and (iii) the furin binding domain. Our simulations suggest that while there is a significant reduction of antibody (Ab) binding strength corresponding to escape, the omicron spikes pay a cost in terms of weaker receptor binding as measured by interfacial hydrogen bonds (H-bond). The furin cleavage domain (FCD) is the same or weaker binding than the delta variant, suggesting lower fusogenicity resulting in less viral load and disease intensity than the delta variant. IMPORTANCE The BA1 and BA2 and closely related BA2.12.2 and BA.5 omicron variants of SARS-CoV-2 dominate the current global infection landscape. Given the high number of mutations, particularly those which will lead to antibody escape, it is important to establish accurate methods that can guide developing health policy responses that identify at a fundamental level whether omicron and its variants are more threatening than its predecessors, especially delta. The importance of our work is to demonstrate that simple in silico simulations can predict biochemical binding details of the omicron spike protein that have epidemiological consequences, especially for binding to the cells and for fusing the viral membrane with the cells. In each case, we predicted weaker binding of the omicron spike, which agreed with subsequent experimental results. Future virology experiments will be needed to test these predictions further.
37727107 | Development of an automated, high-throughput SARS-CoV-2 neutralization assay based on a pseudotyped virus using a vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) vector. The global outbreak of COVID-19 has caused a severe threat to human health; therefore, simple, high-throughput neutralization assays are desirable for developing vaccines and drugs against COVID-19. In this study, a high-titer SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus was successfully packaged by truncating the C-terminus of the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein by 21 amino acids and infecting 293T cells that had been stably transfected with the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor and furin (named AF cells), to establish a simple, high-throughput, and automated 384-well plate neutralization assay. The method was optimized for cell amount, virus inoculation, incubation time, and detection time. The automated assay showed good sensitivity, accuracy, reproducibility, Z' factor, and a good correlation with the live virus neutralization assay. The high-throughput approach would make it available for the SARS-CoV-2 neutralization test in large-scale clinical trials and seroepidemiological surveys which would aid the accelerated vaccine development and evaluation.
37827578 | Targeting Cyclophilin A and CD147 to Inhibit Replication of SARS-CoV-2 and SARS-CoV-2-Induced Inflammation. Identification and development of effective therapeutics for COVID-19 are still urgently needed. The CD147/Spike interaction is involved in the SARS-CoV-2 invasion process, in addition to ACE2. Cyclophilin A (CyPA), the extracellular ligand of CD147, has been found to play a role in the infection and replication of coronaviruses. In this study, our results show that CyPA inhibitors such as Cyclosporine A (CsA) and STG-175 can suppress the intracellular replication of SARS-CoV-2 by inhibiting the binding of CyPA to the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid-CTD, and the IC50 is 0.23 microM and 0.17 microM respectively. Due to high homology, CsA also had inhibitory effects on SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, and the IC50 is 3.2 microM and 2.8 microM respectively. Finally, we generated a formulation-PS-Liposome-CsA for pulmonary drug delivery. These findings provide a scientific basis for identifying CyPA as a potential drug target for the treatment of COVID-19 as well as for the development of broad-spectrum inhibitors for coronavirus via targeting CyPA. Significance Statement New SARS-CoV-2 variants and other pathogenic CoVs are continually emerging and new broad-spectrum anti-CoV therapy is urgently needed. We found that binding sites of CyPA/CsA overlap with CyPA/N-CTD and CyPA/CD147 binding, and CsA shows the potential to inhibit the activity of invasion or replication driven by CyPA during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Here, we provide new evidence for targeting CyPA in the treatment of COVID-19, as well as the potential of development CyPA inhibitors for broad-spectrum inhibition of CoVs.
37901798 | A potent and broad-spectrum neutralizing nanobody for SARS-CoV-2 viruses, including all major Omicron strains. SARS-CoV-2 viruses are highly transmissible and immune evasive. It is critical to develop broad-spectrum prophylactic and therapeutic antibodies for potential future pandemics. Here, we used the phage display method to discover nanobodies (Nbs) for neutralizing SARS-CoV-2 viruses especially Omicron strains. The leading nanobody (Nb), namely, Nb4, with excellent physicochemical properties, can neutralize Delta and Omicron subtypes, including BA.1, BA.1.1 (BA.1 + R346K), BA.2, BA.5, BQ.1, and XBB.1. The crystal structure of Nb4 in complex with the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of BA.1 Spike protein reveals that Nb4 interacts with an epitope on the RBD overlapping with the receptor-binding motif, and thus competes with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) binding. Nb4 is expected to be effective for neutralizing most recent Omicron variants, since the epitopes are evolutionarily conserved among them. Indeed, trivalent Nb4 interacts with the XBB1.5 Spike protein with low nM affinity and competes for ACE2 binding. Prophylactic and therapeutic experiments in mice indicated that Nb4 could reduce the Omicron virus loads in the lung. In particular, in prophylactic experiments, intranasal administration of multivalent Nb4 completely protected mice from Omicron infection. Taken together, these results demonstrated that Nb4 could serve as a potent and broad-spectrum prophylactic and therapeutic Nb for COVID-19.
38320990 | Potent and broadly neutralizing antibodies against sarbecoviruses induced by sequential COVID-19 vaccination. The current SARS-CoV-2 variants strikingly evade all authorized monoclonal antibodies and threaten the efficacy of serum-neutralizing activity elicited by vaccination or prior infection, urging the need to develop antivirals against SARS-CoV-2 and related sarbecoviruses. Here, we identified both potent and broadly neutralizing antibodies from a five-dose vaccinated donor who exhibited cross-reactive serum-neutralizing activity against diverse coronaviruses. Through single B-cell sorting and sequencing followed by a tailor-made computational pipeline, we successfully selected 86 antibodies with potential cross-neutralizing ability from 684 antibody sequences. Among them, PW5-570 potently neutralized all SARS-CoV-2 variants that arose prior to Omicron BA.5, and the other three could broadly neutralize all current SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern, SARS-CoV and their related sarbecoviruses (Pangolin-GD, RaTG13, WIV-1, and SHC014). Cryo-EM analysis demonstrates that these antibodies have diverse neutralization mechanisms, such as disassembling spike trimers, or binding to RBM or SD1 to affect ACE2 binding. In addition, prophylactic administration of these antibodies significantly protects nasal turbinate and lung infections against BA.1, XBB.1, and SARS-CoV viral challenge in golden Syrian hamsters, respectively. Importantly, post-exposure treatment with PW5-5 and PW5-535 also markedly protects against XBB.1 challenge in these models. This study reveals the potential utility of computational process to assist screening cross-reactive antibodies, as well as the potency of vaccine-induced broadly neutralizing antibodies against current SARS-CoV-2 variants and related sarbecoviruses, offering promising avenues for the development of broad therapeutic antibody drugs.
38343437 | Low pre-existing endemic human coronavirus (HCoV-NL63)-specific T cell frequencies are associated with impaired SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell responses in people living with HIV. Background: Understanding how HIV affects SARS-CoV-2 immunity is crucial for managing COVID-19 in sub-Saharan populations due to frequent coinfections. Our previous research showed that unsuppressed HIV is associated with weaker immune responses to SARS-CoV-2, but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. We investigated how pre-existing T cell immunity against an endemic human coronavirus HCoV-NL63 impacts SARS-CoV-2 T cell responses in people living with HIV (PLWH) compared to uninfected individuals, and how HIV-related T cell dysfunction influences responses to SARS-CoV-2 variants. Methods: We used flow cytometry to measure T cell responses following PBMC stimulation with peptide pools representing beta, delta, wild-type, and HCoV-NL63 spike proteins. Luminex bead assay was used to measure circulating plasma chemokine and cytokine levels. ELISA and MSD V-PLEX COVID-19 Serology and ACE2 Neutralization assays were used to measure humoral responses. Results: Regardless of HIV status, we found a strong positive correlation between responses to HCoV-NL63 and SARS-CoV-2. However, PLWH exhibited weaker CD4+ T cell responses to both HCoV-NL63 and SARS-CoV-2 than HIV-uninfected individuals. PLWH also had higher proportions of functionally exhausted (PD-1high) CD4+ T cells producing fewer proinflammatory cytokines (IFNgamma and TNFalpha) and had elevated plasma IL-2 and IL-12(p70) levels compared to HIV-uninfected individuals. HIV status didn't significantly affect IgG antibody levels against SARS-CoV-2 antigens or ACE2 binding inhibition activity. Conclusion: Our results indicate that the decrease in SARS-CoV-2 specific T cell responses in PLWH may be attributable to reduced frequencies of pre-existing cross-reactive responses. However, HIV infection minimally affected the quality and magnitude of humoral responses, and this could explain why the risk of severe COVID-19 in PLWH is highly heterogeneous.
38459086 | Impact of SARS-CoV-2 spike stability and RBD exposure on antigenicity and immunogenicity. The spike protein (S) of SARS-CoV-2 induces neutralizing antibodies and is the key component of current COVID-19 vaccines. The most efficacious COVID-19 vaccines are genetically-encoded spikes with a double proline substitution in the hinge region to stabilize S in the prefusion conformation (S-2P). A subunit vaccine can be a valuable addition to mRNA and viral vector-based vaccines but requires high stability of spike. In addition, further stabilization of the prefusion conformation of spike might improve immunogenicity. To test this, five spike proteins were designed and characterized, ranging from low to high stability. The immunogenicity of these proteins was assessed in mice, demonstrating that a spike (S-closed-2) with a high melting temperature, which still allowed ACE2 binding, induced the highest neutralization titers against homologous and heterologous strains (up to 16-fold higher than the least stabilized spike). In contrast, the most stable spike variant (S-locked), in which the receptor binding domains (RBDs) were locked in a closed conformation and thus not able to breathe, induced relatively low neutralizing antibody titers against heterologous strains. These data demonstrate that S protein stabilization with RBDs exposing highly conserved epitopes may be needed to increase the immunogenicity of spike proteins for future COVID-19 vaccines.
38506045 | Virus-Induced Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Causes Cardiomyopathy Through Eliciting Inflammatory Responses in the Heart. BACKGROUND: Viral infections can cause acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), systemic inflammation, and secondary cardiovascular complications. Lung macrophage subsets change during ARDS, but the role of heart macrophages in cardiac injury during viral ARDS remains unknown. Here we investigate how immune signals typical for viral ARDS affect cardiac macrophage subsets, cardiovascular health, and systemic inflammation. METHODS: We assessed cardiac macrophage subsets using immunofluorescence histology of autopsy specimens from 21 patients with COVID-19 with SARS-CoV-2-associated ARDS and 33 patients who died from other causes. In mice, we compared cardiac immune cell dynamics after SARS-CoV-2 infection with ARDS induced by intratracheal instillation of Toll-like receptor ligands and an ACE2 (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) inhibitor. RESULTS: In humans, SARS-CoV-2 increased total cardiac macrophage counts and led to a higher proportion of CCR2+ (C-C chemokine receptor type 2 positive) macrophages. In mice, SARS-CoV-2 and virus-free lung injury triggered profound remodeling of cardiac resident macrophages, recapitulating the clinical expansion of CCR2+ macrophages. Treating mice exposed to virus-like ARDS with a tumor necrosis factor alpha-neutralizing antibody reduced cardiac monocytes and inflammatory MHCIIlo CCR2+ macrophages while also preserving cardiac function. Virus-like ARDS elevated mortality in mice with pre-existing heart failure. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that viral ARDS promotes cardiac inflammation by expanding the CCR2+ macrophage subset, and the associated cardiac phenotypes in mice can be elicited by activating the host immune system even without viral presence in the heart.
38529542 | The antiviral potential of the antiandrogen enzalutamide and the viral-androgen signaling interplay in seasonal coronaviruses. The sex disparity in COVID-19 outcomes with males generally faring worse than females has been associated with the androgen-regulated expression of the protease TMPRSS2 and the cell receptor ACE2 in the lung and fueled interest in antiandrogens as potential antivirals. In this study, we explored enzalutamide, an antiandrogen used commonly to treat prostate cancer, as a potential antiviral against the human coronaviruses which cause seasonal respiratory infections (HCoV-NL63, -229E, and -OC43). Using lentivirus-pseudotyped and authentic HCoV, we report that enzalutamide reduced 229E and NL63 entry and infection in both TMPRSS2- and nonexpressing immortalized cells, suggesting a TMPRSS2-independent mechanism. However, no effect was observed against OC43. To decipher this distinction, we performed RNA-sequencing analysis on 229E- and OC43-infected primary human airway cells. Our results show a significant induction of androgen-responsive genes by 229E compared to OC43 at 24 and 72 h postinfection. The virus-mediated effect on AR-signaling was further confirmed with a consensus androgen response element-driven luciferase assay in androgen-depleted MRC-5 cells. Specifically, 229E induced luciferase-reporter activity in the presence and absence of the synthetic androgen mibolerone, while OC43 inhibited induction. These findings highlight a complex interplay between viral infections and androgen-signaling, offering insights for disparities in viral outcomes and antiviral interventions.
38622380 | Age-specific nasal epithelial responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Children infected with SARS-CoV-2 rarely progress to respiratory failure. However, the risk of mortality in infected people over 85 years of age remains high. Here we investigate differences in the cellular landscape and function of paediatric (<12 years), adult (30-50 years) and older adult (>70 years) ex vivo cultured nasal epithelial cells in response to infection with SARS-CoV-2. We show that cell tropism of SARS-CoV-2, and expression of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 in nasal epithelial cell subtypes, differ between age groups. While ciliated cells are viral replication centres across all age groups, a distinct goblet inflammatory subtype emerges in infected paediatric cultures and shows high expression of interferon-stimulated genes and incomplete viral replication. In contrast, older adult cultures infected with SARS-CoV-2 show a proportional increase in basaloid-like cells, which facilitate viral spread and are associated with altered epithelial repair pathways. We confirm age-specific induction of these cell types by integrating data from in vivo COVID-19 studies and validate that our in vitro model recapitulates early epithelial responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection.
32668509 | [Genetic and epigenetic variability, and the Covid-19 pandemic]. 
32805314 | Unravelling host-pathogen interactions: ceRNA network in SARS-CoV-2 infection (COVID-19). COVID-19 is a lurking calamitous disease caused by an unusual virus, SARS-CoV-2, causing massive deaths worldwide. Nonetheless, explicit therapeutic drugs or clinically approved vaccines are not available for COVID-19. Thus, a comprehensive research is crucially needed to decode the pathogenic tools, plausible drug targets, committed to the development of efficient therapy. Host-pathogen interactions via host cellular components is an emerging field of research in this respect. miRNAs have been established as vital players in host-virus interactions. Moreover, viruses have the capability to manoeuvre the host miRNA networks according to their own obligations. Besides protein coding mRNAs, noncoding RNAs might also be targeted in infected cells and viruses can exploit the host miRNA network via ceRNA effect. We have predicted a ceRNA network involving one miRNA (miR-124-3p), one mRNA (Ddx58), one lncRNA (Gm26917) and two circRNAs (Ppp1r10, C330019G07RiK) in SARS-CoV infected cells. We have identified 4 DEGs-Isg15, Ddx58, Oasl1, Usp18 by analyzing a mRNA GEO dataset. There is no notable induction of IFNs and IFN-induced ACE2, significant receptor responsible for S-protein binding mediated viral entry. Pathway enrichment and GO analysis conceded the enrichment of pathways associated with interferon signalling and antiviral-mechanism by IFN-stimulated genes. Further, we have identified 3 noncoding RNAs, playing as potential ceRNAs to the genes associated with immune mechanisms. This integrative analysis has identified noncoding RNAs and their plausible targets, which could effectively enhance the understanding of molecular mechanisms associated with viral infection. However, validation of these targets is further corroborated to determine their therapeutic efficacy.
33441437 | Cutting Edge: Mouse SARS-CoV-2 Epitope Reveals Infection and Vaccine-Elicited CD8 T Cell Responses. The magnitude of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell responses correlates inversely with human disease severity, suggesting T cell involvement in primary control. Whereas many COVID-19 vaccines focus on establishing humoral immunity to viral spike protein, vaccine-elicited T cell immunity may bolster durable protection or cross-reactivity with viral variants. To better enable mechanistic and vaccination studies in mice, we identified a dominant CD8 T cell SARS-CoV-2 nucleoprotein epitope. Infection of human ACE2 transgenic mice with SARS-CoV-2 elicited robust responses to H2-Db/N219-227, and 40% of HLA-A*02+ COVID-19 PBMC samples isolated from hospitalized patients responded to this peptide in culture. In mice, i.m. prime-boost nucleoprotein vaccination with heterologous vectors favored systemic CD8 T cell responses, whereas intranasal boosting favored respiratory immunity. In contrast, a single i.v. immunization with recombinant adenovirus established robust CD8 T cell memory both systemically and in the respiratory mucosa.
33542445 | Pharmacogenomics and COVID-19: clinical implications of human genome interactions with repurposed drugs. The outbreak of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has evolved into an emergent global pandemic. Many drugs without established efficacy are being used to treat COVID-19 patients either as an offlabel/compassionate use or as a clinical trial. Although drug repurposing is an attractive approach with reduced time and cost, there is a need to make predictions on success before the start of therapy. For the optimum use of these repurposed drugs, many factors should be considered such as drug-gene or dug-drug interactions, drug toxicity, and patient co-morbidity. There is limited data on the pharmacogenomics of these agents and this may constitute an obstacle for successful COVID-19 therapy. This article reviewed the available human genome interactions with some promising repurposed drugs for COVID-19 management. These drugs include chloroquine (CQ), hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), azithromycin, lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r), atazanavir (ATV), favipiravir (FVP), nevirapine (NVP), efavirenz (EFV), oseltamivir, remdesivir, anakinra, tocilizumab (TCZ), eculizumab, heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) regulators, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) inhibitors, ivermectin, and nitazoxanide. Drug-gene variant pairs that may alter the therapeutic outcomes in COVID-19 patients are presented. The major drug variant pairs that associated with variations in clinical efficacy include CQ/HCQ (CYP2C8, CYP2D6, ACE2, and HO-1); azithromycin (ABCB1); LPV/r (SLCO1B1, ABCB1, ABCC2 and CYP3A); NVP (ABCC10); oseltamivir (CES1 and ABCB1); remdesivir (CYP2C8, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, and OATP1B1); anakinra (IL-1a); and TCZ (IL6R and FCGR3A). The major drug variant pairs that associated with variations in adverse effects include CQ/HCQ (G6PD; hemolysis and ABCA4; retinopathy), ATV (MDR1 and UGT1A1*28; hyperbilirubinemia; and APOA5; dyslipidemia), NVP (HLA-DRB1*01, HLA-B*3505 and CYP2B6; skin rash and MDR1; hepatotoxicity), and EFV (CYP2B6; depression and suicidal tendencies).
33802310 | Immunogenetic Predictors of Severe COVID-19. According to an analysis of published data, only 20% of patients with the new coronavirus infection develop severe life-threatening complications. Currently, there are no known biomarkers, the determination of which before the onset of the disease would allow assessing the likelihood of its severe course. The purpose of this literature review was to analyze possible genetic factors characterizing the immune response to the new coronavirus infection that could be associated with the expression of angiotension-converting enzyme 2 (ACE-2) and related proteins as predictors of severe Corona virus disease 2019 (COVID-19). We analyzed original articles published in Medline, PubMed and Scopus databases from December 2019 to November 2020. For searching articles, we used the following keywords: New coronavirus infection, Severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), COVID-19, severe course, complications, thrombosis, cytokine storm, ACE-2, biomarkers. In total, 3714 publications were selected using the keywords, of which 8 were in congruence with all the criteria. The literature analysis of the association of immunogenic characteristics and the expression of ACE-2 and related proteins with the development of severe COVID-19 revealed following genetic factors: HLA-B*46:01 genotype, CXCR6 gene hypoexpression, CCR9 gene expression, TLR7, rs150892504 mutations in the ERAP2 gene, overexpression of wild-type ACE-2, TMPRSS2 and its different polymorphisms. Genes, associated with the severe course, are more common among men. According to the analysis data, it can be assumed that there are population differences. However, the diagnostic significance of the markers described must be confirmed with additional clinical studies.
33868239 | Genetics Insight for COVID-19 Susceptibility and Severity: A Review. Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) presents a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from an asymptomatic to a severe clinical course. The host genetic background influence on the susceptibility and outcome of multiples infectious diseases has been previously reported. Herein, we aimed to describe relevant identified genetic variants and those potentially related to the inter-individual variability of COVID-19 susceptibility and/or severity considering the physiopathological pathway of the disease The HLA-A*25:01, -B*15:27, -B*46:01, -C*01:02, and -C*07:29 alleles have been associated with COVID-19 susceptibility; while HLA-A*02:02, -B*15:03, and -C*12:03 have been identified as low-risk alleles. Variants in cytokine genes such as IL1B, IL1R1, IL1RN, IL6, IL17A, FCGR2A, and TNF could be related to disease susceptibility and cytokine storm, and/or COVID-19 complications (e.g., venous thrombosis). Several variants in ACE2 and TMPRSS2 affecting the expression of the receptors related to COVID-19 have been associated with the disease susceptibility and risk factors. Finally, two GWAS have identified the loci 3p21.31 (LZTFL1, SLC6A20, CCR9, FYCO1, CXCR6, and XCR1) and 9q34.2 (ABO) with COVID-19 severity. Heterogeneous results in the association of genetic variants with COVID-19 susceptibility and severity were observed. The mechanism of identified risk-genes and studies in different populations are still warranted.
34016183 | Genetic susceptibility of COVID-19: a systematic review of current evidence. INTRODUCTION: While COVID-19 pandemic continues to spread worldwide, researchers have linked patterns of traits to poor disease outcomes. Risk factors for COVID-19 include asthma, elderly age, being pregnant, having any underlying diseases such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity, and experiencing lifelong systemic racism. Recently, connections to certain genes have also been found, although the susceptibility has not yet been established. We aimed to investigate the available evidence for the genetic susceptibility to COVID-19. METHODS: This study was a systematic review of current evidence to investigate the genetic susceptibility of COVID-19. By systematic search and utilizing the keywords in the online databases including Scopus, PubMed, Web of Science, and Science Direct, we retrieved all the related papers and reports published in English from December 2019 to September 2020. RESULTS: According to the findings, COVID-19 uses the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor for cell entry. Previous studies have shown that people with ACE2 polymorphism who have type 2 transmembrane serine proteases (TMPRSS2) are at high risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Also, two studies have shown that males are more likely to become infected with SARS-CoV-2 than females. Besides, research has also shown that patients possessing HLA-B*15:03 genotype may become immune to the infection. CONCLUSION: Combing through the genome, several genes related to immune system's response were related to the severity and susceptibility to the COVID-19. In conclusion, a correlation was found between the ACE2 levels and the susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection.
34483599 | Genetic Risk Factors for the Development of COVID-19 Coronavirus Infection. The COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic has spread to 215 countries around the world and caused tens of millions of infections and more than a million deaths worldwide. In the midst of COVID-19 infection, it is extremely important to identify new protein and gene targets that may be highly sensitive diagnostic and prognostic markers of the severity and outcome of the disease for combating this pandemic. Identification of individual genetic predisposition allows personalizing programs of medical rehabilitation and therapy. It has now been shown that the transmissibility and severity of COVID-19 infection can be affected by gene variants in both the human body (ACE2, HLA-B*4601, FcgammaRIIA, MBL, TMPRSS2, TNFA, IL6, blood group A antigen, etc.) and the virus itself (ORF8 in RNA polymerase, ORF6 in RNA primase, S, N, E proteins). The presence of mutations in the proteins of the virus can change the affinity and specificity for the binding of targeted drugs to them, being the molecular basis of individual differences in the response of the human body to antiviral drugs and/or vaccines. The review summarizes the data on the variants of the genomes of the coronavirus and humans associated with an individual predisposition to an increased or decreased risk of transmission, severity, and outcome of COVID-19 infection. Targeted drugs and vaccines being developed for the therapy of COVID-19 infection are briefly reviewed.
34530086 | An overview of human proteins and genes involved in SARS-CoV-2 infection. As of July 2021, the outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by SARS-CoV-2, has led to more than 200 million infections and more than 4.2 million deaths globally. Complications of severe COVID-19 include acute kidney injury, liver dysfunction, cardiomyopathy, and coagulation dysfunction. Thus, there is an urgent need to identify proteins and genetic factors associated with COVID-19 susceptibility and outcome. We comprehensively reviewed recent findings of host-SARS-CoV-2 interactome analyses. To identify genetic variants associated with COVID-19, we focused on the findings from genome and transcriptome wide association studies (GWAS and TWAS) and bioinformatics analysis. We described established human proteins including ACE2, TMPRSS2, 40S ribosomal subunit, ApoA1, TOM70, HLA-A, and PALS1 interacting with SARS-CoV-2 based on cryo-electron microscopy results. Furthermore, we described approximately 1000 human proteins showing evidence of interaction with SARS-CoV-2 and highlighted host cellular processes such as innate immune pathways affected by infection. We summarized the evidence on more than 20 identified candidate genes in COVID-19 severity. Predicted deleterious and disruptive genetic variants with possible effects on COVID-19 infectivity have been also summarized. These findings provide novel insights into SARS-CoV-2 biology and infection as well as potential strategies for development of novel COVID therapeutic targets and drug repurposing.
34928187 | Vaccine hesitancy among communities in ten countries in Asia, Africa, and South America during the COVID-19 pandemic. Vaccine hesitancy is considered one of the greatest threats to the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccination programs. Lack of trust in vaccine benefits, along with concerns about side effects of the newly developed COVID-19 vaccine, might significantly contribute to COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy. The objective of this study was to determine the level of vaccine hesitancy among communities in particular their belief in vaccination benefits and perceived risks of new vaccines. An online cross-sectional study was conducted in 10 countries in Asia, Africa, and South America from February to May 2021. Seven items from the WHO SAGE Vaccine Hesitancy Scale were used to measure a construct of belief in vaccination benefit, and one item measured perceived riskiness of new vaccines. A logistic regression was used to determine which sociodemographic factors were associated with both vaccine hesitancy constructs. A total of 1,832 respondents were included in the final analysis of which 36.2% (range 5.6-52.2%) and 77.6% (range 38.3-91.2%) of them were classified as vaccine hesitant in terms of beliefs in vaccination benefits and concerns about new vaccines, respectively. Respondents from Pakistan had the highest vaccine hesitancy while those from Chile had the lowest. Being females, Muslim, having a non-healthcare-related job and not receiving a flu vaccination during the past 12 months were associated with poor beliefs of vaccination benefits. Those who were living in rural areas, Muslim, and those who did not received a flu vaccination during the past 12 months had relatively higher beliefs that new vaccines are riskier. High prevalence of vaccine hesitancy in some countries during the COVID-19 pandemic might hamper COVID-19 vaccination programs worldwide. Programs should be developed to promote vaccination in those sociodemographic groups with relatively high vaccine hesitancy.
35011492 | Fruit Bromelain-Derived Peptide Potentially Restrains the Attachment of SARS-CoV-2 Variants to hACE2: A Pharmacoinformatics Approach. Before entering the cell, the SARS-CoV-2 spike glycoprotein receptor-binding domain (RBD) binds to the human angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (hACE2) receptor. Hence, this RBD is a critical target for the development of antiviral agents. Recent studies have discovered that SARS-CoV-2 variants with mutations in the RBD have spread globally. The purpose of this in silico study was to determine the potential of a fruit bromelain-derived peptide. DYGAVNEVK. to inhibit the entry of various SARS-CoV-2 variants into human cells by targeting the hACE binding site within the RBD. Molecular docking analysis revealed that DYGAVNEVK interacts with several critical RBD binding residues responsible for the adhesion of the RBD to hACE2. Moreover, 100 ns MD simulations revealed stable interactions between DYGAVNEVK and RBD variants derived from the trajectory of root-mean-square deviation (RMSD), radius of gyration (Rg), and root-mean-square fluctuation (RMSF) analysis, as well as free binding energy calculations. Overall, our computational results indicate that DYGAVNEVK warrants further investigation as a candidate for preventing SARS-CoV-2 due to its interaction with the RBD of SARS-CoV-2 variants.
35062743 | Effectiveness and Efficacy of Vaccine on Mutated SARS-CoV-2 Virus and Post Vaccination Surveillance: A Narrative Review. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, as a result of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, since December 2019, is a major health problem and concern worldwide. The pandemic has impacted various fields, from the social to the development of health science and technology. The virus has been mutating and thus producing several new variants, rushing research in the field of molecular biology to develop rapidly to overcome the problems that occur. Vaccine clinical studies are developing promptly with the aim of obtaining vaccines that are effective in suppressing the spread of the virus; however, the development of viral mutations raises concerns about the decreasing effectiveness of the resulting vaccine, which also results in the need for more in-depth studies. There have been 330 vaccines developed, including 136 clinical developments and 194 pre-clinical developments. The SARS-CoV-2 variant continues to evolve today, and it poses a challenge in testing the effectiveness of existing vaccines. This is a narrative review describing the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic, development of vaccine platforms, identification of concerning mutations and virus variants in various countries of the world, and real-world monitoring of post-vaccination effectiveness and surveillance.
35099819 | The global case fatality rate of coronavirus disease 2019 by continents and national income: A meta-analysis. The aim of this study is to provide a more accurate representation of COVID-19's case fatality rate (CFR) by performing meta-analyses by continents and income, and by comparing the result with pooled estimates. We used multiple worldwide data sources on COVID-19 for every country reporting COVID-19 cases. On the basis of data, we performed random and fixed meta-analyses for CFR of COVID-19 by continents and income according to each individual calendar date. CFR was estimated based on the different geographical regions and levels of income using three models: pooled estimates, fixed- and random-model. In Asia, all three types of CFR initially remained approximately between 2.0% and 3.0%. In the case of pooled estimates and the fixed model results, CFR increased to 4.0%, by then gradually decreasing, while in the case of random-model, CFR remained under 2.0%. Similarly, in Europe, initially, the two types of CFR peaked at 9.0% and 10.0%, respectively. The random-model results showed an increase near 5.0%. In high-income countries, pooled estimates and fixed-model showed gradually increasing trends with a final pooled estimates and random-model reached about 8.0% and 4.0%, respectively. In middle-income, the pooled estimates and fixed-model have gradually increased reaching up to 4.5%. in low-income countries, CFRs remained similar between 1.5% and 3.0%. Our study emphasizes that COVID-19 CFR is not a fixed or static value. Rather, it is a dynamic estimate that changes with time, population, socioeconomic factors, and the mitigatory efforts of individual countries.
35315098 | Molnupiravir: A lethal mutagenic drug against rapidly mutating severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2-A narrative review. Broad-spectrum antiviral agents targeting viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) are expected to be a key therapeutic strategy in the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic and its future variants of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), the virus that causes COVID-19. Molnupiravir is a nucleoside analog that in vivo experiments have been reported to inhibit the replication of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. Clinical trials of molnupiravir as a therapy for patients with mild-to-moderate COVID-19 also suggest its significant therapeutic efficacy in comparison to placebo. Molnupiravir is lethally mutagenic against viral RNA, but its effect on host cell DNA is being questioned. Herein, the safety concerns of molnupiravir are discussed with recent findings from published reports and clinical trials. The unchanged efficacy of molnupiravir against mutated SARS-CoV-2 variants is also highlighted. With its administration via the oral route, molnupiravir is expected to turn the tide of the COVID-19 pandemic.
35348437 | Human-Immune-System (HIS) humanized mouse model (DRAGA: HLA-A2.HLA-DR4.Rag1KO.IL-2RgammacKO.NOD) for COVID-19. We report a Human Immune System (HIS)-humanized mouse model (\DRAGA\: HLA-A2.HLA-DR4.Rag1KO.IL-2 RgammacKO.NOD) for COVID-19 research. DRAGA mice express transgenically HLA-class I and class-II molecules in the mouse thymus to promote human T cell development and human B cell Ig-class switching. When infused with human hematopoietic stem cells from cord blood reconstitute a functional human immune system, as well as human epi/endothelial cells in lung and upper respiratory airways expressing the human ACE2 receptor for SARS-CoV-2. The DRAGA mice were able to sustain SARS-CoV-2 infection for at least 25 days. Infected mice showed replicating virus in the lungs, deteriorating clinical condition, and human-like lung immunopathology including human lymphocyte infiltrates, microthrombi and pulmonary sequelae. Among the intra-alveolar and peri-bronchiolar lymphocyte infiltrates, human lung-resident (CD103+) CD8+ and CD4+ T cells were sequestered in epithelial (CD326+) lung niches and secreted granzyme B and perforin, suggesting anti-viral cytotoxic activity. Infected mice also mounted human IgG antibody responses to SARS-CoV-2 viral proteins. Hence, HIS-DRAGA mice showed unique advantages as a surrogate in vivo human model for studying SARS-CoV-2 immunopathological mechanisms and testing the safety and efficacy of candidate vaccines and therapeutics.
35408618 | Can the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Variant Confer Natural Immunity against COVID-19? The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is still ongoing, with no signs of abatement in sight. The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which is the causative agent of this pandemic and has claimed over 5 million lives, is still mutating, resulting in numerous variants. One of the newest variants is Omicron, which shows an increase in its transmissibility, but also reportedly reduces hospitalization rates and shows milder symptoms, such as in those who have been vaccinated. As a result, many believe that Omicron provides a natural vaccination, which is the first step toward ending the COVID-19 pandemic. Based on published research and scientific evidence, we review and discuss how the end of this pandemic is predicted to occur as a result of Omicron variants being surpassed in the community. In light of the findings of our research, we believe that it is most likely true that the Omicron variant is a natural way of vaccinating the masses and slowing the spread of this deadly pandemic. While the mutation that causes the Omicron variant is encouraging, subsequent mutations do not guarantee that the disease it causes will be less severe. As the virus continues to evolve, humans must constantly adapt by increasing their immunity through vaccination.
35601809 | Identification of a Potential mRNA-based Vaccine Candidate against the SARS-CoV-2 Spike Glycoprotein: A Reverse Vaccinology Approach. The emergence of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) in December 2019 has generated a devastating global consequence which makes the development of a rapidly deployable, effective and safe vaccine candidate an imminent global health priority. The design of most vaccine candidates has been directed at the induction of antibody responses against the trimeric spike glycoprotein of SARS-CoV-2, a class I fusion protein that aids ACE2 (angiotensin-converting enzyme 2) receptor binding. A variety of formulations and vaccinology approaches are being pursued for targeting the spike glycoprotein, including simian and human replication-defective adenoviral vaccines, subunit protein vaccines, nucleic acid vaccines and whole-inactivated SARS-CoV-2. Here, we directed a reverse vaccinology approach towards the design of a nucleic acid (mRNA-based) vaccine candidate. The \YLQPRTFLL\ peptide sequence (position 269-277) which was predicted to be a B cell epitope and likewise a strong binder of the HLA*A-0201 was selected for the design of the vaccine candidate, having satisfied series of antigenicity assessments. Through the codon optimization protocol, the nucleotide sequence for the vaccine candidate design was generated and targeted at the human toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7). Bioinformatics analyses showed that the sequence \UACCUGCAGCCGCGUACCUUCCUGCUG\ exhibited a strong affinity and likewise was bound to a stable cavity in the TLR7 pocket. This study is therefore expected to contribute to the research efforts directed at securing definitive preventive measures against the SARS-CoV-2 infection.
35797394 | Prevalence of and risk factors for depression, anxiety, and stress in non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients in East Java province, Indonesia. BACKGROUND: Despite abundant data on mental health during the COVID-19 pandemic, 3 important knowledge gaps continue to exist, i.e., 1) studies from low-/middle income countries (LMICs); 2) studies in the later period of the COVID-19 pandemic; and 3) studies on non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients. To address the knowledge gaps, we assessed the prevalence of and the risk factors for mental health symptoms among non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients in one LMIC (Indonesia) during the later period of the pandemic. METHODS: This cross-sectional study was conducted in September 2020 in East Java province, Indonesia. Study population consisted of non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients who were diagnosed based on reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction results from nasopharyngeal swab. Mental health symptoms were evaluated using the Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-21. RESULTS: From 778 non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients, 608 patients were included in the analysis. Patients' median age was 35 years old and 61.2% were male. Of these, 22 (3.6%) reported symptoms of depression, 87 (14.3%) reported symptoms of anxiety, and 48 (7.9%) reported symptoms of stress. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that females were more likely to report symptoms of stress (adjusted odds ratio (aOR) = 1.98, p-value = 0.028); healthcare workers were more likely to report symptoms of depression and anxiety (aOR = 5.57, p-value = 0.002 and aOR = 2.92, p-value = 0.014, respectively); and those with a recent history of self-quarantine were more likely to report symptoms of depression and stress (aOR 5.18, p = 0.004 and aOR = 1.86, p = 0.047, respectively). CONCLUSION: The reported prevalence of mental health symptoms, especially depression, was relatively low among non-hospitalized asymptomatic and mild COVID-19 patients during the later period of the COVID-19 pandemic in East Java province, Indonesia. In addition, several risk factors have been identified.
35935729 | Factors affecting pregnant women in undergoing pregnancy during COVID-19 pandemic: A survey in ACEH. COVID-19 pandemic is a threat to public health caused by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2). Significant increases in cases occurred worldwide, including in Indonesia and Aceh Province. Pregnant women as a vulnerable group need to equip themselves with knowledge, attitudes, and practices to prevent themselves from being infected with the virus. This study aimed to determine the knowledge, attitude, and practice factors among pregnant women undergoing pregnancy in the COVID-19 pandemic. A cross-sectional online survey in Aceh was carried out among 148 pregnant women between May 3rd and May 14th, 2020. This study was conducted using a knowledge, attitude, and practice questionnaire adapted to pregnancy conditions during the COVID-19 pandemic. Responses were analyzed and categorized by using univariate analysis. The study identified that most pregnant women aged 31-35 years old (41.2%) and had higher education as their latest education (59.5%). This study found 94.6% of participants were knowledgeable on pregnancies carried out during the COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, 60.1% had a positive attitude, and 60.8% of pregnant women had good practice in carrying pregnancy during the COVID-19 pandemic. In conclusion, the knowledge, attitude, and practice factors of pregnant women were quite adequate. However, antenatal education is still needed to reduce anxiety in pregnant women and their family.
36015553 | Trend of Polymer Research Related to COVID-19 Pandemic: Bibliometric Analysis. Polymeric materials are used for personal protective equipment (PPE), which is mandatory for clinicians to use when handling coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients. The development of diagnostic tools and vaccines for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is also dependent on polymer technology. This current report aims to provide readers with the trend of polymer research regarding the COVID-19 pandemic, by employing bibliometric analysis. A literature search on the Scopus database (31 January 2022) was carried out using predetermined terms. Using Scopus database features, the publications were filtered based on the year of publication (2020-2022), types of articles (original research and review), and language (English). The metadata were extracted in a CSV (.csv) file, to be later used in VOSviewer software. The data were presented in a table, graph, and network visualization. As many as 512 publications were included, consisting of 66.4% original research articles and 33.6% review articles. Most of the publications were written by authors whose affiliation was in the United States (n = 118, 23%) and covering the Materials Science subject area (n = 142, 27.7%). The Ministry of Education of China was the most productive organization, publishing 11 articles. The National Science Foundation of China was the top funding source, supporting 45 publications. Heinz C. Schroder was the most prolific author, publishing nine articles. Science of the Total Environment was the leading journal publishing the included studies. The trend of polymer technology related to COVID-19 mostly covers PPE and waste-management themes. The use of polymer technology as a delivery system for the anti-SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19 vaccine is also among the frequently researched areas. We encourage more research in the field of polymer technology be carried out, to overcome the global pandemic.
36045529 | Promising Marine Natural Products for Tackling Viral Outbreaks: A Focus on Possible Targets and Structure-Activity Relationship. Recently, people worldwide have experienced several outbreaks caused by viruses that have attracted much interest globally, such as HIV, Zika, Ebola, and the one being faced, SARSCoV-2 viruses. Unfortunately, the availability of drugs giving satisfying outcomes in curing those diseases is limited. Therefore, it is necessary to dig deeper to provide compounds that can tackle the causative viruses. Meanwhile, the efforts to explore marine natural products have been gaining great interest as the products have consistently shown several promising biological activities, including antiviral activity. This review summarizes some products extracted from marine organisms, such as seaweeds, seagrasses, sponges, and marine bacteria, reported in recent years to have potential antiviral activities tested through several methods. The mechanisms by which those compounds exert their antiviral effects are also described here, with several main mechanisms closely associated with the ability of the products to block the entry of the viruses into the host cells, inhibiting replication or transcription of the viral genetic material, and disturbing the assembly of viral components. In addition, the structure-activity relationship of the compounds is also highlighted by focusing on six groups of marine compounds, namely sulfated polysaccharides, phlorotannins, terpenoids, lectins, alkaloids, and flavonoids. In conclusion, due to their uniqueness compared to substances extracted from terrestrial sources, marine organisms provide abundant products having promising activities as antiviral agents that can be explored to tackle virus-caused outbreaks.
36446204 | Global emerging Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2: Impacts, challenges and strategies. Newly emerging variants of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) are continuously posing high global public health concerns and panic resulting in waves of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Depending on the extent of genomic variations, mutations and adaptation, few of the variants gain the ability to spread quickly across many countries, acquire higher virulency and ability to cause severe disease, morbidity and mortality. These variants have been implicated in lessening the efficacy of the current COVID-19 vaccines and immunotherapies resulting in break-through viral infections in vaccinated individuals and recovered patients. Altogether, these could hinder the protective herd immunity to be achieved through the ongoing progressive COVID-19 vaccination. Currently, the only variant of interest of SARS-CoV-2 is Omicron that was first identified in South Africa. In this review, we present the overview on the emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants with a special focus on the Omicron variant, its lineages and hybrid variants. We discuss the hypotheses of the origin, genetic change and underlying molecular mechanism behind higher transmissibility and immune escape of Omicron variant. Major concerns related to Omicron including the efficacy of the current available immunotherapeutics and vaccines, transmissibility, disease severity, and mortality are discussed. In the last part, challenges and strategies to counter Omicron variant, its lineages and hybrid variants amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic are presented.
36447130 | Nonpharmaceutical interventions reduce the incidence and mortality of COVID-19: A study based on the survey from the International COVID-19 Research Network (ICRN). The recently emerged novel coronavirus, \severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2),\ caused a highly contagious disease called coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). It has severely damaged the world's most developed countries and has turned into a major threat for low- and middle-income countries. Since its emergence in late 2019, medical interventions have been substantial, and most countries relied on public health measures collectively known as nonpharmaceutical interventions (NPIs). We aimed to centralize the accumulative knowledge of NPIs against COVID-19 for each country under one worldwide consortium. International COVID-19 Research Network collaborators developed a cross-sectional online survey to assess the implications of NPIs and sanitary supply on the incidence and mortality of COVID-19. The survey was conducted between January 1 and February 1, 2021, and participants from 92 countries/territories completed it. The association between NPIs, sanitation supplies, and incidence and mortality were examined by multivariate regression, with the log-transformed value of population as an offset value. The majority of countries/territories applied several preventive strategies, including social distancing (100.0%), quarantine (100.0%), isolation (98.9%), and school closure (97.8%). Individual-level preventive measures such as personal hygiene (100.0%) and wearing facial masks (94.6% at hospitals; 93.5% at mass transportation; 91.3% in mass gathering facilities) were also frequently applied. Quarantine at a designated place was negatively associated with incidence and mortality compared to home quarantine. Isolation at a designated place was also associated with reduced mortality compared to home isolation. Recommendations to use sanitizer for personal hygiene reduced incidence compared to the recommendation to use soap. Deprivation of masks was associated with increased incidence. Higher incidence and mortality were found in countries/territories with higher economic levels. Mask deprivation was pervasive regardless of economic level. NPIs against COVID-19 such as using sanitizer, quarantine, and isolation can decrease the incidence and mortality of COVID-19.
36531241 | Host genetics impact on SARS-CoV-2 vaccine-induced immunoglobulin levels and dynamics: The role of TP53, ABO, APOE, ACE2, HLA-A, and CRP genes. Background: Development and worldwide availability of safe and effective vaccines against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) to fight severe symptoms of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and block the pandemic have been a great achievement and stimulated researchers on understanding the efficacy and duration of different vaccine types. Methods: We investigated the levels of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies (IgG) and neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) in 195 healthy adult subjects belonging to the staff of the University-Hospital of Ferrara (Italy) starting from 15 days up to 190 days (about 6 months) after the second dose of the BNT162b2 (Pfizer-BioNTech) mRNA-based vaccine (n = 128) or ChAdOx1 (AstraZeneca) adenovirus-based vaccine (n = 67) using a combined approach of serological and genomics investigations. Results: A strong correlation between IgG and NAb levels was detected during the 190 days of follow-up (r 2 = 0.807; p < 0.0001) and was confirmed during the first 90 days (T1) after vaccination (r 2 = 0.789; p = 0.0001) and 91-190 days (T2) after vaccination (r 2 = 0.764; p = 0.0001) for both vaccine types (r 2 = 0.842; p = 0.0001 and r 2 = 0.780; p = 0.0001 for mRNA- and adenovirus-based vaccine, respectively). In addition to age (p < 0.01), sex (p = 0.03), and type of vaccine (p < 0.0001), which partially accounted for the remarkable individual differences observed in the antibody levels and dynamics, interesting genetic determinants appeared as significant modifiers of both IgG and NAb responses among the selected genes investigated (TP53, rs1042522; APOE, rs7412/rs429358; ABO, rs657152; ACE2, rs2285666; HLA-A rs2571381/rs2499; CRP, rs2808635/rs876538; LZTFL1, rs35044562; OAS3, rs10735079; SLC6A20, rs11385942; CFH, rs1061170; and ACE1, ins/del, rs4646994). In detail, regression analysis and mean antibody level comparison yielded appreciable differences after genotype stratification (P1 and P2, respectively, for IgG and NAb distribution) in the whole cohort and/or in the mRNA-based vaccine in the following genes: TP53, rs1042522 (P1 = 0.03; P2 = 0.04); ABO, rs657152 (P1 = 0.01; P2 = 0.03); APOE, rs7412/rs429358 (P1 = 0.0018; P2 = 0.0002); ACE2, rs2285666 (P1 = 0.014; P2 = 0.009); HLA-A, rs2571381/rs2499 (P1 = 0.02; P2 = 0.03); and CRP, rs2808635/rs876538 (P1 = 0.01 and P2 = 0.09). Conclusion: High- or low-responsive subjects can be identified among healthy adult vaccinated subjects after targeted genetic screening. This suggests that favorable genetic backgrounds may support the progression of an effective vaccine-induced immune response, though no definite conclusions can be drawn on the real effectiveness ascribed to a specific vaccine or to the different extent of a genotype-driven humoral response. The interplay between data from the polygenic predictive markers and serological screening stratified by demogeographic information can help to recognize the individual humoral response, accounting for ethnic and geographical differences, in both COVID-19 and anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccinations.
36819954 | ChatGPT Output Regarding Compulsory Vaccination and COVID-19 Vaccine Conspiracy: A Descriptive Study at the Outset of a Paradigm Shift in Online Search for Information. BACKGROUND: Being on the verge of a revolutionary approach to gathering information, ChatGPT (an artificial intelligence (AI)-based language model developed by OpenAI, and capable of producing human-like text) could be the prime motive of a paradigm shift on how humans will acquire information. Despite the concerns related to the use of such a promising tool in relation to the future of the quality of education, this technology will soon be incorporated into web search engines mandating the need to evaluate the output of such a tool. Previous studies showed that dependence on some sources of online information (e.g., social media platforms) was associated with higher rates of vaccination hesitancy. Therefore, the aim of the current study was to describe the output of ChatGPT regarding coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) vaccine conspiracy beliefs. and compulsory vaccination. METHODS: The current descriptive study was conducted on January 14, 2023 using the ChatGPT from OpenAI (OpenAI, L.L.C., San Francisco, CA, USA). The output was evaluated by two authors and the degree of agreement regarding the correctness, clarity, conciseness, and bias was evaluated using Cohen's kappa. RESULTS: The ChatGPT responses were dismissive of conspiratorial ideas about severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) origins labeling it as non-credible and lacking scientific evidence. Additionally, ChatGPT responses were totally against COVID-19 vaccine conspiracy statements. Regarding compulsory vaccination, ChatGPT responses were neutral citing the following as advantages of this strategy: protecting public health, maintaining herd immunity, reducing the spread of disease, cost-effectiveness, and legal obligation, and on the other hand, it cited the following as disadvantages of compulsory vaccination: ethical and legal concerns, mistrust and resistance, logistical challenges, and limited resources and knowledge. CONCLUSIONS: The current study showed that ChatGPT could be a source of information to challenge COVID-19 vaccine conspiracies. For compulsory vaccination, ChatGPT resonated with the divided opinion in the scientific community toward such a strategy; nevertheless, it detailed the pros and cons of this approach. As it currently stands, the judicious use of ChatGPT could be utilized as a user-friendly source of COVID-19 vaccine information that could challenge conspiracy ideas with clear, concise, and non-biased content. However, ChatGPT content cannot be used as an alternative to the original reliable sources of vaccine information (e.g., the World Health Organization [WHO] and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC]).
37048725 | Molecular Understanding of ACE-2 and HLA-Conferred Differential Susceptibility to COVID-19: Host-Directed Insights Opening New Windows in COVID-19 Therapeutics. The genetic variants of HLAs (human leukocyte antigens) play a crucial role in the virus-host interaction and pathology of COVID-19. The genetic variants of HLAs not only influence T cell immune responses but also B cell immune responses by presenting a variety of peptide fragments of invading pathogens. Peptide cocktail vaccines produced by using various conserved HLA-A2 epitopes provoke substantial specific CD8+ T cell responses in experimental animals. The HLA profiles vary among individuals and trigger different T cell-mediated immune responses in COVID-19 infections. Those with HLA-C*01 and HLA-B*44 are highly susceptible to the disease. However, HLA-A*02:01, HLA-DR*03:01, and HLA-Cw*15:02 alleles show resistance to SARS infection. Understanding the genetic association of HLA with COVID-19 susceptibility and severity is important because it can help in studying the transmission of COVID-19 and its physiopathogenesis. The HLA-C*01 and B*44 allele pathways can be studied to gain insight into disease transmission and physiopathogenesis. Therefore, integrating HLA testing is suggested in the ongoing pandemic, which will help in the rapid identification of highly susceptible populations worldwide and possibly acclimate vaccine development. Therefore, understanding the correlation between HLA and SARS-CoV-2 is critical in opening new insights into COVID-19 therapeutics, based on previous studies conducted.
37119037 | The Relationship Between Influenza and COVID-19 Vaccine Uptake in a Cross-Sectional Study in China, Indonesia, Malaysia, and the United States. 
37224556 | Polyvinylpyrrolidone-passivated fluorescent iron oxide quantum dots for turn-off detection of tetracycline in biological fluids. Tetracycline is an antibiotic that has been prescribed for COVID-19 treatment, raising concerns about antibiotic resistance after long-term use. This study reported fluorescent polyvinylpyrrolidone-passivated iron oxide quantum dots (IO QDs) for detecting tetracycline in biological fluids for the first time. The as-prepared IO QDs have an average size of 2.84 nm and exist a good stability under different conditions. The IO QDs' tetracycline detection performance could be attributed to a combination of static quenching and inner filter effect. The IO QDs displayed high sensitivity and selectivity toward tetracycline and achieved a good linear relationship with the corresponding detection limit being 91.6 nM.
37228990 | Immunopharmacological considerations of general anaesthetics for surgical procedures in the times of COVID-19: Correspondence. 
37260419 | Waning anti-SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain total antibody in CoronaVac-vaccinated individuals in Indonesia. Background: The decrease of immunity acquired from COVID-19 vaccines is a potential cause of breakthrough infection. Understanding the dynamics of immune responses of vaccine-induced antibodies post-vaccination is important. This study aimed to measure the level of anti-SARS-CoV-2 receptor-binding domain (RBD) total antibody in individuals at different time points upon the receipt of the second dose of CoronaVac vaccine, as well as evaluate the plausible associated factors. Methods: A cross-sectional study was conducted among CoronaVac-vaccinated residents in Banda Aceh, Indonesia. The level of anti-SARS-CoV-2 RBD total antibody was measured using Elecsys immunoassay. A set of standardized and validated questionnaires were used to assess the demographics and other associated factors. Results: Our results showed waning anti-SARS-CoV-2 RBD total antibody titres over time post-vaccination. Compared to samples of the first month post-vaccination, the antibody titres were significantly lower than those of five-months (mean 184.6 vs. 101.8 U/mL, p = 0.009) and six-months post-vaccination (mean 184.6 vs. 95.59 U/mL, p = 0.001). This suggests that the length of time post-vaccination was negatively correlated with titre of antibody. A protective level of antibody titres (threshold of 15 U/mL) was observed from all the samples vaccinated within one to three months; however, only 73.7% and 78.9% of the sera from five- and six-months possessed the protective titres, respectively. The titre of antibody was found significantly higher in sera of individuals having a regular healthy meal intake compared to those who did not (mean 136.7 vs. 110.4 U/mL, p = 0.044), including in subgroup analysis that included those five to six months post-vaccination only (mean 79.0 vs. 134.5 U/mL, p = 0.009). Conclusions: This study provides insights on the efficacy of CoronaVac vaccine in protecting individuals against SARS-CoV-2 infection over time, which may contribute to future vaccination policy management to improve and prolong protective strategy.
37456016 | COVID-19 pandemic sheds a new research spotlight on antiviral potential of essential oils - A bibliometric study. Background: Essential oils are thought as potential therapies in managing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Many researchers have put their efforts to tackle the pandemic by exploring antiviral candidates which consequently changes the research landscape. Herein, we aimed to assess the effect of COVID-19 pandemic toward the landscape of essential oil research. Methods: This study employed bibliometric analysis based on the metadata of published literature indexed in the Scopus database. The search was performed on December 15th, 2022 by using keyword 'essential oil' and its synonyms. We grouped the data based on publication year; pre-COVID-19 (2014-2019) and during COVID-19 (2020-2024, some studies have been published earlier). Further, we separated the COVID-19-focused research from COVID-19 (2020-2024) by introducing a new keyword 'COVID-19' during the search. All metadata were processed using VoSviewer and Biblioshiny for network visualization analysis. Selections of frequently occurring keywords, clusters of keyword co-occurrence, and the list of most impactful papers were performed by two independent reviewers. Results: Metadata from a total of 35,262 publications were included for bibliometric analysis, comprised of three groups of datasets namely pre-COVID-19 (n = 18,670), COVID-19 (n = 16,592), and COVID-19-focused (n = 281). Five research topics clusters were found from pre-COVID-19 dataset, eight - from COVID-19 dataset, and nine - from COVID-19-focused dataset. COVID-19 cluster containing the keyword 'antiviral' emerged in the COVID-19 dataset, whereas none of the previous research topic clusters contained the keyword 'antiviral'. Antiviral, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) inhibitory, and anti-inflammation activities were among the top occurring keywords in studies covering both essential oil and COVID-19. Studies on essential oil used for managing COVID-19 were most reported by authors from the United States (documents = 37, citations = 405), Australia (documents = 16, citations = 115) and Italy (documents = 23, citations = 366). Conclusion: A significant increase was found during COVID-19 pandemic for publications covering essential oil themes, but only a small portion was occupied by COVID-19 research. The COVID-19 pandemic does not alter the ongoing progress of essential oil research but rather offers a new spotlight on the antiviral potential of essential oils. Hence, the COVID-19 pandemic has provided an opportunity to investigate deeper the antiviral potential of essential oils.
37550645 | The prevalence of and perception toward mental illness: a cross-sectional study among Indonesian mental health nurses. BACKGROUND: The emergence of the Coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) pandemic has affected nurses' mental and psychological health. This study investigates the prevalence of depression, anxiety, and stress among Indonesian mental health nurses and their perception of mental illness. METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted shortly before the height of the Covid-19 outbreak in Indonesia. The data were collected using the 21 items of the Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scale (DASS-21), the questionnaire on perception toward mental illness, and demographic information. RESULTS: Approximately 2.5%, 6.5%, and 1.9% of the nurses had the symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress, respectively. The vast majority of them perceive that society should treat well people with mental illness (94.8%) and that the government should protect them (94.8%). More than half also believe that they can eat anything but seldom get physically ill (62.1%) and that in Islam, people with mental illness are innocent and are destined for paradise (61.1%). CONCLUSIONS: A considerably low prevalence of mental distress was discovered, which might be attributed to the nurses' implementation of mental health skills and effective coping mechanisms. Further training and awareness-raising campaigns are needed to address their misconceptions about mental illness.
37742211 | Looking beyond the COVID-19 pandemic: the recalibration of student-teacher relationships in teaching and learning process. BACKGROUND: Given the various novel educational approaches and online interactions following the pandemic, it is timely to identify lessons learned for post-pandemic student and teacher relationships within the 'new normal' teaching learning processes. This study aims to explore the dynamics and to what extent the disruption influences student-teacher relationships in teaching and learning process following the COVID-19 pandemic. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A qualitative descriptive approach was employed to explore individual reflections and perspectives from 28 medical teachers and 35 medical students from different institutions who participated in 10 focus groups. Data were analyzed thematically using steps for coding and theorization (SCAT) approach. The emerging themes were then further analyzed and regrouped into the relationship-centered leadership framework based on emotional intelligence. RESULTS: The identified themes described three elements representing student-teacher relationships in the teaching learning processes. The self as the center of the diagram consists of the co-existing role of the self as teachers and as students, which to some extent, is related to their personal and professional development, motivation, and struggles to maintain work-life balance. The middle layer represents the dynamic of student-teacher relationship, which showed that despite the increased number of teaching opportunities, the trust among teachers and students was compromised. These changes in the self and the dynamic relationship occurred in a broader and more complex medical education system, pictured as the outer layer. Thorough curriculum improvements, contents, and new skills were emphasized. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings emphasized the need to recalibrate student-teacher relationships, taking into account the intrapersonal, interpersonal, and the system factors. The pandemic has reemphasized the aim of teachers' roles, not only to nurture students' competencies, but also to nurture meaningful interpersonal reciprocal relationships through responding towards both teachers' and students' needs as well as supporting both personal and professional development.
37745627 | Effect of elevated temperature on SARS-CoV-2 viability. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused a worldwide disruption of global health putting healthcare workers at high risk. To reduce the transmission of SARS-CoV-2, in particular during treating the patients, our team aims to develop an optimized isolation chamber. The present study was conducted to evaluate the role of temperature elevation against SARS-CoV-2 viability, where the information would be used to build the isolation chamber. 0.6 mL of the Indonesian isolate of SARS-CoV-2 strain 20201012747 (approximately 10 13 PFU/mL) was incubated for one hour with a variation of temperatures: 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, and 65 C in digital block heater as well as at room temperature (21-23 C) before used to infect Vero E6 cells. The viability was determined using a plaque assay. Our data found a significant reduction of the viral viability from 10 13 PFU/mL to 10 9 PFU/mL after the room temperature was increase to 40 C. Further elevation revealed that 55 C and above resulted in the total elimination of the viral viability. Increasing the temperature 40 C to reduce the SARS-CoV-2 survival could create mild hyperthermia conditions in a patient which could act as a thermotherapy. In addition, according to our findings, thermal sterilization of the vacant isolation chamber could be conducted by increasing the temperature to 55 C. In conclusion, elevating the temperature of the isolation chamber could be one of the main variables for developing an optimized isolation chamber for COVID-19 patients.
38144172 | Case Report: Case report: Administration of anticoagulant therapy after neuro-anesthesia procedure for hemorrhagic stroke patients with COVID-19 complications and its ethical and medicolegal consideration. Background: Ethical dilemmas can occur in any situation in clinical medicine. In patients undergoing neuro-anesthesia for surgical procedure evacuation of intracerebral hemorrhage with a history of hemorrhagic stroke, anticoagulants should not be given because they can cause recurrent bleeding. Meanwhile, at the same time, the patient could also be infected with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), one of treatment is the administration of anticoagulants. Methods: A case report. A 46-year-old male patient was admitted to hospital with a loss of consciousness and was diagnosed with intracerebral hemorrhage due to a hemorrhagic stroke and was confirmed positive for COVID-19. Giving anticoagulants to patients is considered counterproductive so, an ethical dilemma arises. For this reason, a joint conference was held to obtain the best ethical and medicolegal solutions for the patient. Results: By using several methods of resolving ethical dilemmas such as basic ethical principles, supporting ethical principles, and medicolegal considerations, it was decided that the patient was not to be given anticoagulants. Conclusions: Giving anticoagulants to hemorrhagic stroke patients is dangerous even though it is beneficial for COVID-19 patients, so here the principle of risk-benefit balance is applied to patients who prioritize risk prevention rather than providing benefits. This is also supported by the prima facie principle by prioritizing the principle of non-maleficence rather than beneficence, the minus malum principle by seeking the lowest risk, and the double effect principle by making the best decision even in a slightly less favorable way as well as the medicolegal aspect by assessing patient safety and risk management.
38229186 | An exploration of the Indonesian lay mental health workers' (cadres) experiences in performing their roles in community mental health services: a qualitative study. BACKGROUND: Volunteers trained to support community mental health programs in Indonesia are known as 'mental health cadres.' These are lay people trained to provide basic support for people with mental illness in their local communities. The role of cadres in community mental health services is to provide health promotion activities and support for people with mental illness, such as home visits and family assistance. Their contribution can potentially address the challenges health services currently face in remote and resource-limited settings. However, little is currently known about implementing this form of the lay workforce and the experiences of mental health cadres in Indonesia in particular. This study aimed to explore the experience of cadres when performing their roles in community mental health services in Indonesia from the cadres' perspective. METHODS: The study employed a descriptive qualitative design. Purposive sampling was employed to recruit cadres with at least one year of experience handling those diagnosed with schizophrenia across four geographical areas in Java and Sumatra, Indonesia. Data were collected utilising focus groups undertaken between July and November 2020. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, eight focus group sessions for mental health cadres were carried out virtually via Zoom and non-virtual, facilitated by local moderators. Data were analysed using thematic analysis. RESULTS: The study involved 71 cadres in four regions: Aceh, Jakarta, West Java and East Java. The majority of participants were looking after their families with a minimum of high school-level qualifications. Four themes were interpreted from the data: (1) Motivation for volunteering, (2) The role of cadres in supporting mental health services, (3) Training and support needs in carrying out cadre roles, and (4) Barriers and facilitators to the implementation of cadre roles in local communities. CONCLUSIONS: Cadres reported a motivation to help people improve their mental health and reduce the stigma associated with mental illness. Cadres also contributed to secondary and primary prevention of mental illness with some limitations. This study's results are relevant to those wishing to understand and optimise the implementation of lay workforces in resource-limited settings.
38293390 | Energy conservation of HVAC systems in isolation rooms using heat pipe heat exchangers. Isolation rooms are crucial in healthcare facilities to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. Infectious diseases can be transmitted to humans from humans or through animals known as zoonoses. With the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, isolation rooms have become one of the most critical facilities in hospitals. Maintaining the correct temperature and humidity in these isolation rooms is a challenge, considering the heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems that continuously consume large amounts of energy. With the application of energy conservation methods, the total energy consumption of HVAC systems can be reduced. Many studies have shown that the heat pipe heat exchanger (HPHE) technology can contribute significantly to energy savings using HVAC systems. In this study, the effectiveness of an HPHE on an HVAC system in an isolation room was examined, and the total energy reduction was quantified. The HPHE consisted of two rows with ten heat pipes in each row, arranged in a staggered configuration with fresh air temperature and mass flow variations. The inlet fresh air temperatures varied at 32, 35, 37, and 40  C and fresh air velocities at 1.2, 1.6, 2.2, and 2.6 m/s. Using a chiller, the inlet fresh air was cooled to a comfortable temperature zone, approximately 24.4-25.2  C, in the isolation room. Notably, higher velocities decreased the effectiveness of the HPHE. An increase in the flow rate enhanced the system, thereby improving the heat recovery value. The increase in the inlet fresh air temperature from 32  C, that yielded an energy saving of 1.23 W, to 40  C, resulted in a further energy saving of 1.85 W. The application of the HPHE in the HVAC system in isolation rooms represents a significant innovation that contributes to a reduction in total energy consumption.
38416781 | Parental vaccine hesitancy and acceptance of a COVID-19 vaccine: An internet-based survey in the US and five Asian countries. COVID-19 vaccination rates for children globally are relatively low. This study aimed to investigate parental vaccine hesitancy and parents' acceptance of a COVID-19 for their children for their children in the United States, China, Taiwan, India, Indonesia, and Malaysia.We analyzed data from an opt-in, internet-based cross-sectional study (n = 23,940). Parents were asked about their acceptance of a COVID-19 vaccine for their children, and if they would accept the vaccine with different risk and effectiveness profiles for themselves. Poisson regression was used to generate prevalence ratios (PR) of the relationship between vaccine acceptance for a child and vaccine profile, by country and waves and overall. Between August 2020 and June 2021, COVID-19 vaccine acceptance for children decreased in the United States (89% to 72%) and Taiwan (79% to 71%), increased in India (91% to 96%) and Malaysia (81% to 91%), and was stable in Indonesia (86%) and China (at 87%-90%). Vaccine risk and effectiveness profiles did not consistently affect parent's acceptance of a COVID-19 vaccine for their children. Instead, being not hesitant was a large driver of vaccine acceptance (PR: 1.24, 95% CI: 1.14, 1.36). Adolescent COVID-19 vaccination have already been established in many high and middle-income countries, but our study suggests that there is a movement of vaccine hesitancy which could impede the success of future pediatric and adolescent COVID-19 vaccination programs.
38444621 | Discrepancy of the law on disaster emergency in Indonesia: In search of an integrated law. The emergency status is a critical factor in handling disasters in Indonesia, particularly for coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). It provides adequate access for the Government to reduce legal bureaucracy and facilitate expenditure. However, it has faced difficulties in its application as it does not have an explicit reference to existing emergency-related disaster laws. This article investigates this discrepancy in terms of the meaning of emergency status within the legal framework in Indonesia. This study uses the doctrinal method to explore six various laws related to disaster emergencies and analyse their discrepancies that have adversely impacted the management of COVID-19. The article finds that the term 'disaster emergencies' in the Indonesian legal system has different legal interpretations and a lack of standardisation, making their execution difficult. Contribution: This article significantly highlights the normative issues of determining disaster emergencies and their status in six different disaster-related laws. It provides an alternative approach to mainstream thinking by proposing amendments to the Infectious Disease Outbreak Law as an integrated law to ensure legal certainty, benefit, and fairness for the people in handling potential pandemics in Indonesia in the years to come.
38450039 | Sailing on the ark of Scopus: Narra J new journey. Global health crises such as the recent coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic have highlighted the unique value of scientific research in the realm of public health and related disciplines. Although we have witnessed rapid growth in scientific output in the past years, concerns regarding scientific rigor and research integrity also emerged.
38450272 | Correlation between high sensitivity C reactive protein (Hs-CRP) and neutrophil-to- lymphocyte ratio (NLR) with functional capacity in post COVID-19 syndrome patients. Post coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) syndrome is one of the causes of reduced functional capacity and work productivity, in particular for healthcare workers. The pathophysiology of the post COVID-19 syndrome is related to complex and multisystem inflammatory mechanisms, and cardiopulmonary exercise rehabilitation program is one of the efforts to improve the recovery process for patients with post COVID-19 syndrome. The aim of this study was to determine the correlation between the level of high sensitivity C-reactive protein (Hs-CRP) and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) with functional capacity (VO2max) in individuals with post-COVID-19 syndrome who received moderate- and high-intensity supervised cardiopulmonary exercise. A prospective cohort study was conducted at the Integrated Cardiac Rehabilitation Center of Dr. Zainoel Abidin Hospital, Banda Aceh, Indonesia. The supervised cardiopulmonary exercise was conducted for six weeks according to the participant's baseline VO2max. Spearman's and Pearson's correlation tests were used to assess the correlations. A total of 30 individuals (19 and 11 had moderate and high intensity exercise, respectively) were involved in this study. At moderate intensity exercise, the average Hs-CRP and NLR were 3.3 mg/L and 1.99, respectively; while at high intensity, the values were 3.8 mg/L and 1.79, respectively. No significant correlation between Hs-CRP level and functional capacity in both moderate-intensity and high intensity groups. In contrast, NLR was negatively correlated with functional capacity (r=-0.545, p=0.016) in moderate intensity exercise group. In conclusion, NLR value was negatively correlated with functional capacity in individuals with post-COVID-19 syndrome after receiving moderate intensity supervised cardiopulmonary exercise program. Therefore, moderate intensity of cardiopulmonary exercise maybe be used as a program to accelerate the recovery for those with post COVID-19 syndrome.
38450393 | Willingness-to-pay for COVID-19 vaccine in ten low-middle-income countries in Asia, Africa and South America: A cross-sectional study. Vaccine hesitancy is considered as one of the greatest challenges to control the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. A related challenge is the unwillingness of the general public to pay for vaccination. The objective of this study was to determine willingness-to-pay (WTP) for COVID-19 vaccine among individuals from ten low- middle-income countries (LMICs) in Asia, Africa, and South America. Data were collected using an online questionnaire distributed during February - May 2021 in ten LMICs (Bangladesh, Brazil, Chile, Egypt, India, Iran, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sudan, and Tunisia). The major response variable of in this study was WTP for a COVID-19 vaccine. The assessment of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy was based on items adopted from the World Health Organization (WHO) Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) vaccine hesitancy scale constructs. In this study, 1337 respondents included in the final analysis where the highest number of respondents was from India, while the lowest number was from Egypt. A total of 88.9% (1188/1337) respondents were willing to pay for the COVID-19 vaccination, and 11.1% (149/1337) were not. The average WTP for COVID-19 vaccination was 87.9 US dollars ($), (range: $5-$200). The multivariate model analysis showed that the country, monthly household income, having a history of respiratory disease, the agreement that routine vaccines recommended by health workers are beneficial and having received the flu vaccination within the previous 12 months were strongly associated with the WTP. Based on the country of origin, the highest mean WTP for COVID-19 vaccine was reported in Chile, while the lowest mean WTP for the vaccine was seen among the respondents from Sudan. The availability of free COVID-19 vaccination services appears as a top priority in the LMICs for successful control of the ongoing pandemic. This is particularly important for individuals of a lower socio- economic status. The effects of complacency regarding COVID-19 extends beyond vaccine hesitancy to involve less willingness to pay for COVID-19 vaccine and a lower value of WTP for the vaccine.
38455627 | Co-incidence of COVID-19 and hepatocellular carcinoma during pregnancy: Double punches to disease severity and mortality? Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), a considerable leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, is the most common primary liver cancer with poor prognosis and outcome. Many advances in prevention, screening, and new technologies in diagnostics and therapy have been achieved, but its incidence and mortality remain increasing. Co-infection of another viral disease in HCC patients with pregnancy might exacerbate the condition and double the mortality rate. The aim of this case report was to describe the co-infection of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in an HCC patient during pregnancy. A 26-year-old woman with 16-17 weeks of gestation was admitted to Dr. Zainoel Abidin Hospital, Banda Aceh, Indonesia with shortness of breath. The patient also reported that the abdomen expanded rapidly in the last three weeks, followed by severe pain and collateral vein appearance. Laboratory findings revealed anemia, leukocytosis, HBsAg reactive, hypoalbuminemia, hyperbilirubinemia, elevated liver enzymes, increased alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), and cancer antigen 125 (CA-125). Ultrasonography indicated gestation with a single fetus, an enlarged liver with a 9.9 x 9.4 cm nodule, and massive ascites. The patient was also RT-PCR-confirmed COVID-19. On day 8 of hospitalization, the patient suddenly reported severe abdominal pain. Ultrasonography revealed fetal distress immediately followed by fetal death. Adequate management of cancer pain, continuous evacuation of ascites, and other supportive care could not save the patient who died on the day 17 of hospitalization. In this case, we found no proof that the patient experienced cirrhosis prior to HCC. Pregnancy through hormonal alteration is thought to be the aggravating factor that accelerates the progression of pre-existing liver disease into carcinoma and infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) worsened the outcome in this patient.
18076379 | Mutations in a small region of the exportin Crm1p disrupt the daughter cell-specific nuclear localization of the transcription factor Ace2p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. BACKGROUND INFORMATION: The CBK1 gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes a protein kinase that is a member of the NDR (nuclear Dbf2-related) family of protein kinases, which are involved in morphogenesis and cell proliferation. Previous studies have shown that deletion of CBK1 leads to a loss of polarity and the formation of large aggregates of cells. This aggregation phenotype is due to the loss of the daughter cell-specific accumulation of the transcription factor Ace2p, which is responsible for the transcription of genes whose products are necessary for the final separation of the mother and the daughter at the end of cell division. RESULTS: We show that the daughter cell-specific localization of Ace2p does not occur via a specific localization of the ACE2 mRNA and that, in vivo, the transcription of CTS1, one of the principal targets of Ace2p, is daughter cell-specific. We have shown that extragenic suppressors of the Deltacbk1 aggregation phenotype are located in the nuclear exportin CRM1 and ACE2. These mutations disrupt the interaction of Ace2p and Crm1p, thus impairing Ace2p export and resulting in the accumulation of the protein in both mother and daughter cell nuclei. CONCLUSIONS: We propose that in the daughter cell nucleus Cbk1p phosphorylates the Ace2p nuclear export signal, and that this phosphorylation blocks the export of Ace2p via Crm1p, thus promoting the daughter cell-specific nuclear accumulation of Ace2p.
19114004 | Biomphalaria glabrata transcriptome: cDNA microarray profiling identifies resistant- and susceptible-specific gene expression in haemocytes from snail strains exposed to Schistosoma mansoni. BACKGROUND: Biomphalaria glabrata is an intermediate snail host for Schistosoma mansoni, one of the important schistosomes infecting man. B. glabrata/S. mansoni provides a useful model system for investigating the intimate interactions between host and parasite. Examining differential gene expression between S. mansoni-exposed schistosome-resistant and susceptible snail lines will identify genes and pathways that may be involved in snail defences. RESULTS: We have developed a 2053 element cDNA microarray for B. glabrata containing clones from ORESTES (Open Reading frame ESTs) libraries, suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) libraries and clones identified in previous expression studies. Snail haemocyte RNA, extracted from parasite-challenged resistant and susceptible snails, 2 to 24 h post-exposure to S. mansoni, was hybridized to the custom made cDNA microarray and 98 differentially expressed genes or gene clusters were identified, 94 resistant-associated and 4 susceptible-associated. Quantitative PCR analysis verified the cDNA microarray results for representative transcripts. Differentially expressed genes were annotated and clustered using gene ontology (GO) terminology and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis. 61% of the identified differentially expressed genes have no known function including the 4 susceptible strain-specific transcripts. Resistant strain-specific expression of genes implicated in innate immunity of invertebrates was identified, including hydrolytic enzymes such as cathepsin L, a cysteine proteinase involved in lysis of phagocytosed particles; metabolic enzymes such as ornithine decarboxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in the production of polyamines, important in inflammation and infection processes, as well as scavenging damaging free radicals produced during production of reactive oxygen species; stress response genes such as HSP70; proteins involved in signalling, such as importin 7 and copine 1, cytoplasmic intermediate filament (IF) protein and transcription enzymes such as elongation factor 1alpha and EF-2. CONCLUSION: Production of the first cDNA microarray for profiling gene expression in B. glabrata provides a foundation for expanding our understanding of pathways and genes involved in the snail internal defence system (IDS). We demonstrate resistant strain-specific expression of genes potentially associated with the snail IDS, ranging from signalling and inflammation responses through to lysis of proteinacous products (encapsulated sporocysts or phagocytosed parasite components) and processing/degradation of these targeted products by ubiquitination.
23067392 | Importin-7 mediates nuclear trafficking of DNA in mammalian cells. Eukaryotic cells have the ability to uptake and transport endogenous and exogenous DNA in their nuclei, however little is known about the specific pathways involved. Here we show that the nuclear transport receptor importin 7 (imp7) supports nuclear import of supercoiled plasmid DNA and human mitochondrial DNA in a Ran and energy-dependent way. The imp7-dependent pathway was specifically competed by excess DNA but not by excess of maltose-binding protein fused with the classical nuclear localizing signal (NLS) or the M9 peptides. Transport of DNA molecules complexed with poly-l-lysine was impaired in intact cells depleted of imp7, and DNA complexes remained localized in the cytoplasm. Poor DNA nuclear import in cells depleted of imp7 directly correlated with lower gene expression levels in these cells compared to controls. Inefficient nuclear import of transfected DNA induced greater upregulation of the interferon pathway, suggesting that rapid DNA nuclear import may prevent uncontrolled activation of the innate immune response. Our results provide evidence that imp7 is a non-redundant component of an intrinsic pathway in mammalian cells for efficient accumulation of exogenous and endogenous DNA in the nucleus, which may be critical for the exchange of genetic information between mitochondria and nuclear genomes and to control activation of the innate immune response.
25345917 | Activation of caspases and inhibition of ribosome biogenesis mediate antitumor activity of Chijongdan in A549 non-small lung cancer cells. BACKGROUND: Though herbal medicines have been used for cancer prevention and treatment, their scientific evidences still remain unclear so far. Thus, complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) project has been actively executed to reveal the scientific evidences in the USA and other countries. In the present study, we elucidated antitumor mechanism of Chijongdan, an oriental prescription of Rhus verniciflua, processed Panax ginseng, Persicaria tinctoria and Realgar, that has been traditionally applied for cancer treatment in Korea. METHODS: Chijongdan was prepared with extracts of Rhus verniciflua, processed Panax ginseng, Persicaria tinctoria and processed Realgar. The cytotoxicity of Chijongdan was measured by MTT colorimetric assay. Cell cycle analysis was performed by FACS. Western blot was performed to see the apoptosis related proteins. RESULTS: Chijongdan significantly exerted cytotoxicity in A549, H460 and H1299 non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) cells by MTT assay and also increased the number of ethidium homodimer positively stained cells in A549 NSCLC cells. Also, cell cycle analysis showed that Chijongdan increased sub-G1 population in a concentration dependent manner in A549 cells. In addition, Western blotting revealed that Chijongdan activated cleaved PARP, and caspase 9/3, while attenuated the expression of survival genes such as Bcl-2, Bcl-XL and survivin in A549 cells. Furthermore, Chijongdan suppressed the expression of ribosomal biogenesis related proteins such as upstream binding factor (UBF), Fibrillarin, NPM (B23) and Importin-7 (IPO7) and conversely pan-caspase inhibitor Z--VAD-FMK reversed the apoptotic ability of Chijongdan to cleave PARP and caspase 3 and attenuate the expression of UBF and Fibrillarin in A549 cells. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that Chijongdan induces apoptosis and inhibits ribosomal biogenesis proteins via caspase activation.
29970603 | Inhibition of the acetyltransferase NAT10 normalizes progeric and aging cells by rebalancing the Transportin-1 nuclear import pathway. Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) is an incurable premature aging disease. Identifying deregulated biological processes in HGPS might thus help define novel therapeutic strategies. Fibroblasts from HGPS patients display defects in nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of the GTP-bound form of the small GTPase Ran (RanGTP), which leads to abnormal transport of proteins into the nucleus. We report that microtubule stabilization in HGPS cells sequestered the nonclassical nuclear import protein Transportin-1 (TNPO1) in the cytoplasm, thus affecting the nuclear localization of its cargo, including the nuclear pore protein NUP153. Consequently, nuclear Ran, nuclear anchorage of the nucleoporin TPR, and chromatin organization were disrupted, deregulating gene expression and inducing senescence. Inhibiting N-acetyltransferase 10 (NAT10) ameliorated HGPS phenotypes by rebalancing the nuclear to cytoplasmic ratio of TNPO1. This restored nuclear pore complex integrity and nuclear Ran localization, thereby correcting HGPS cellular phenotypes. We observed a similar mechanism in cells from healthy aged individuals. This study identifies a nuclear import pathway affected in aging and underscores the potential for NAT10 inhibition as a possible therapeutic strategy for HGPS and perhaps also for pathologies associated with normal aging.
30157418 | Affinity for DNA Contributes to NLS Independent Nuclear Localization of MeCP2. MeCP2 is a nuclear protein that is mutated in the severe neurological disorder Rett syndrome (RTT). The ability to target beta-galactosidase to the nucleus was previously used to identify a conserved nuclear localization signal (NLS) in MeCP2 that interacts with the nuclear import factors KPNA3 and KPNA4. Here, we report that nuclear localization of MeCP2 does not depend on its NLS. Instead, our data reveal that an intact methyl-CpG binding domain (MBD) is sufficient for nuclear localization, suggesting that MeCP2 can be retained in the nucleus by its affinity for DNA. Consistent with these findings, we demonstrate that disease progression in a mouse model of RTT is unaffected by an inactivating mutation in the NLS of MeCP2. Taken together, our work reveals an unexpected redundancy between functional domains of MeCP2 in targeting this protein to the nucleus, potentially explaining why NLS-inactivating mutations are rarely associated with disease.
30177573 | Evidence for the nuclear import of histones H3.1 and H4 as monomers. Newly synthesised histones are thought to dimerise in the cytosol and undergo nuclear import in complex with histone chaperones. Here, we provide evidence that human H3.1 and H4 are imported into the nucleus as monomers. Using a tether-and-release system to study the import dynamics of newly synthesised histones, we find that cytosolic H3.1 and H4 can be maintained as stable monomeric units. Cytosolically tethered histones are bound to importin-alpha proteins (predominantly IPO4), but not to histone-specific chaperones NASP, ASF1a, RbAp46 (RBBP7) or HAT1, which reside in the nucleus in interphase cells. Release of monomeric histones from their cytosolic tether results in rapid nuclear translocation, IPO4 dissociation and incorporation into chromatin at sites of replication. Quantitative analysis of histones bound to individual chaperones reveals an excess of H3 specifically associated with sNASP, suggesting that NASP maintains a soluble, monomeric pool of H3 within the nucleus and may act as a nuclear receptor for newly imported histone. In summary, we propose that histones H3 and H4 are rapidly imported as monomeric units, forming heterodimers in the nucleus rather than the cytosol.
30496303 | Multiple components of the nuclear pore complex interact with the amino-terminus of MX2 to facilitate HIV-1 restriction. Human myxovirus resistance 2 (MX2/MXB) is an interferon-induced post-entry inhibitor of human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) infection. While the precise mechanism of viral inhibition remains unclear, MX2 is localized to the nuclear envelope, and blocks the nuclear import of viral cDNAs. The amino-terminus of MX2 (N-MX2) is essential for anti-viral function, and mutation of a triple arginine motif at residues 11 to 13 abrogates anti-HIV-1 activity. In this study, we sought to investigate the role of N-MX2 in anti-viral activity by identifying functionally relevant host-encoded interaction partners through yeast-two-hybrid screening. Remarkably, five out of seven primary candidate interactors were nucleoporins or nucleoporin-like proteins, though none of these candidates were identified when screening with a mutant RRR11-13A N-MX2 fragment. Interactions were confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation, and RNA silencing experiments in cell lines and primary CD4+ T cells demonstrated that multiple components of the nuclear pore complex and nuclear import machinery can impact MX2 anti-viral activity. In particular, the phenylalanine-glycine (FG) repeat containing cytoplasmic filament nucleoporin NUP214, and transport receptor transportin-1 (TNPO1) were consistently required for full MX2, and interferon-mediated, anti-viral function. Both proteins were shown to interact with the triple arginine motif, and confocal fluorescence microscopy revealed that their simultaneous depletion resulted in diminished MX2 accumulation at the nuclear envelope. We therefore propose a model whereby multiple components of the nuclear import machinery and nuclear pore complex help position MX2 at the nuclear envelope to promote MX2-mediated restriction of HIV-1.
31533951 | Protection from Endotoxin Shock by Selective Targeting of Proinflammatory Signaling to the Nucleus Mediated by Importin Alpha 5. Endotoxin shock is induced by LPS, one of the most potent virulence factors of the Gram-negative bacteria that cause sepsis. It remains unknown if either proinflammatory stress-responsive transcription factors (SRTFs), ferried to nucleus by importin alpha5, or lipid-regulating sterol regulatory element binding proteins (SREBPs), transported to the nucleus by importin beta1, mediate endotoxin shock. A novel cell-penetrating peptide targeting importin alpha5 while sparing importin beta1 protected 80% of animals from death in response to a high dose of LPS. This peptide suppresses inflammatory mediators, liver glycogen depletion, endothelial injury, neutrophil trafficking, and apoptosis caused by LPS. In d-galactosamine-pretreated mice challenged by 700-times lower dose of LPS, rapid death through massive apoptosis and hemorrhagic necrosis of the liver was also averted by the importin alpha5-selective peptide. Thus, using a new tool for selective suppression of nuclear transport, we demonstrate that SRTFs, rather than SREBPs, mediate endotoxin shock.
32752944 | Current status and strategic possibilities on potential use of combinational drug therapy against COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2. The spread of new coronavirus infection starting December 2019 as novel SARS-CoV-2, identified as the causing agent of COVID-19, has affected all over the world and been declared as pandemic. Approximately, more than 8,807,398 confirmed cases of COVID-19 infection and 464,483 deaths have been reported globally till the end of 21 June 2020. Until now, there is no specific drug therapy or vaccine available for the treatment of COVID-19. However, some potential antimalarial drugs like hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, antifilarial drug ivermectin and antiviral drugs have been tested by many research groups worldwide for their possible effect against the COVID-19. Hydroxychloroquine and ivermectin have been identified to act by creating the acidic condition in cells and inhibiting the importin (IMPalpha/beta1) mediated viral import. There is a possibility that some other antimalarial drugs/antibiotics in combination with immunomodulators may help in combatting this pandemic disease. Therefore, this review focuses on the current use of various drugs as single agents (hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, azithromycin, favipiravir, remdesivir, umifenovir, teicoplanin, nitazoxanide, doxycycline, and dexamethasone) or in combinations with immunomodulators additionally. Furthermore, possible mode of action, efficacy and current stage of clinical trials of various drug combinations against COVID-19 disease has also been discussed in detail.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
32891630 | Development of a Minimal Physiologically-Based Pharmacokinetic Model to Simulate Lung Exposure in Humans Following Oral Administration of Ivermectin for COVID-19 Drug Repurposing. SARS-CoV-2 utilizes the IMPalpha/beta1 heterodimer to enter host cell nuclei after gaining cellular access through the ACE2 receptor. Ivermectin has shown antiviral activity by inhibiting the formation of the importin-alpha (IMPalpha) and IMPbeta1 subunits as well as dissociating the IMPalpha/beta1 heterodimer and has in vitro efficacy against SARS-CoV-2. Plasma and lung ivermectin concentrations vs. time profiles in cattle were used to determine the apparent plasma to lung tissue partition coefficient of ivermectin. This coefficient, together with a simulated geometric mean plasma profile of ivermectin from a published population pharmacokinetic model, was utilized to develop a minimal physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (mPBPK) model. The mPBPK model accurately described the simulated ivermectin plasma concentration profile in humans. The mPBPK model was also used to simulate human lung exposure to ivermectin after 12, 30, and 120 mg oral doses. The simulated ivermectin lung exposures reached a maximum concentration of 772 ng/mL, far less than the estimated 1750 ng/mL IC50 reported for ivermectin against SARS-CoV-2 in vitro. Further studies of ivermectin either reformulated for inhaled delivery or in combination with other antivirals with differing mechanisms of action is needed to assess its therapeutic potential.
33100902 | Mica Can Alleviate TNBS-Induced Colitis in Mice by Reducing Angiotensin II and IL-17A and Increasing Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2, Angiotensin 1-7, and IL-10. AIM: To explore the treatment effect of mica on 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid solution- (TNBS-) induced colitis in mice. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty male BALB/C mice were randomly divided into the control group, the TNBS group, and the mica group. Control mice were treated with saline solution. Experimental colitis was induced by TNBS (250 mg/kg/d) in the TNBS group and the mica group. After modeling, the mica group was treated with mica (180 mg/kg/d) for 3 days, while the TNBS group continued the treatment with TNBS. All solutions were injected intrarectally. During treatment, body weight and mice activity were monitored daily. After treatment, the colon tissues of mice were collected; angiotensin II (Ang II), angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), angiotensin 1-7 (Ang (1-7)), IL-17A, and IL-10 expression was analyzed by ELISA and immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: Food intake, activity, and body weight gradually decreased in the TNBS group compared to the control group and the mica group (all P < 0.05). Also, black stool adhesion in the anus and thin and bloody stool were observed in the TNBS group, but not in the other two groups. Moreover, the expression of Ang II, ACE2, Ang (1-7), IL-17A, and IL-10 in the TNBS group increased compared to that in the control group. Compared to the TNBS group, ACE2, Ang (1-7), and IL-10 in the mica group increased, while Ang II and IL-17A decreased (all P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Mica can alleviate TNBS-induced colitis in mice by regulating the inflammation process; it reduces Ang II and IL-17A and increases ACE2, IL-10, and Ang (1-7).
33330844 | Clinically Approved Antiviral Drug in an Orally Administrable Nanoparticle for COVID-19. There is urgent therapeutic need for COVID-19, a disease for which there are currently no widely effective approved treatments and the emergency use authorized drugs do not result in significant and widespread patient improvement. The food and drug administration-approved drug ivermectin has long been shown to be both antihelmintic agent and a potent inhibitor of viruses such as Yellow Fever Virus. In this study, we highlight the potential of ivermectin packaged in an orally administrable nanoparticle that could serve as a vehicle to deliver a more potent therapeutic antiviral dose and demonstrate its efficacy to decrease expression of viral spike protein and its receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), both of which are keys to lowering disease transmission rates. We also report that the targeted nanoparticle delivered ivermectin is able to inhibit the nuclear transport activities mediated through proteins such as importin alpha/beta1 heterodimer as a possible mechanism of action. This study sheds light on ivermectin-loaded, orally administrable, biodegradable nanoparticles to be a potential treatment option for the novel coronavirus through a multilevel inhibition. As both ACE2 targeting and the presence of spike protein are features shared among this class of virus, this platform technology has the potential to serve as a therapeutic tool not only for COVID-19 but for other coronavirus strains as well.
33396178 | Effects of cadmium on osteoblast cell line: Exportin 1 accumulation, p-JNK activation, DNA damage and cell apoptosis. Cadmium is an environmental metal pollutant that has been a focus of research in recent years, which is reported to cause bone disease; however, its skeletal toxicity and the mechanism involved are not yet fully known. Therefore, this study used MC3T3-E1 subclone 14 cells to determine the mechanism of cadmium toxicity on bone. Cadmium chloride (Cd) significantly reduced cell viability in a concentration-dependent manner. Exposure to Cd inhibited osteoblast-related proteins (Runx2, Col-1, STC2) and decreased alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity. Cd caused Exportin-1 accumulation and induced DNA damage. Cd significantly down-regulated caspase 9 and induced cleaved-PARP, cleaved-caspase 3 protein level. Treatment with JNK inhibitor, SP600125, suppressed cadmium-induced elevation in the ratio of phosphorylation of JNK to JNK. Inhibition of caspase with pan-caspase inhibitor, Z-VAD-FMK, prevented MC3T3-E1 subclone 14 cells from cadmium-induced reduction of Runx2, STC2, caspase 9, and accumulation of cleaved PARP and cleaved caspase 3. Cd-induced cell survival enhanced by SP600125 but rescued by Z-VAD-FMK or KPT-335. These results suggest that cadmium cytotoxicity on bone involved exportin 1 accumulation, phosphorylation of JNK, induction of DNA damage and pro-apoptosis, which was induced by activation of caspase-dependent pathways.
33526003 | Flavonol morin targets host ACE2, IMP-alpha, PARP-1 and viral proteins of SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV critical for infection and survival: a computational analysis. A sudden outbreak of a novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 in 2019 has now emerged as a pandemic threatening to efface the existence of mankind. In absence of any valid and appropriate vaccines to combat this newly evolved agent, there is need of novel resource molecules for treatment and prophylaxis. To this effect, flavonol morin which is found in fruits, vegetables and various medicinal herbs has been evaluated for its antiviral potential in the present study. PASS analysis of morin versus reference antiviral drugs baricitinib, remdesivir and hydroxychloroquine revealed that morin displayed no violations of Lipinski's rule of five and other druglikeness filters. Morin also displayed no tumorigenic, reproductive or irritant effects and exhibited good absorption and permeation through GI (clogP <5). In principal component analysis, morin appeared closest to baricitinib in 3D space. Morin displayed potent binding to spike glycoprotein, main protease 3CLPro and papain-like protease PLPro of SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV using molecular docking and significant binding to three viral-specific host proteins viz. human ACE2, importin-alpha and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)-1, further lending support to its antiviral efficacy. Additionally, morin displayed potent binding to pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6, 8 and 10 also supporting its anti-inflammatory activity. MD simulation of morin with SARS-CoV-2 3CLPro and PLPro displayed strong stability at 300 K. Both complexes exhibited constant RMSDs of protein side chains and Calpha atoms throughout the simulation run time. In conclusion, morin might hold considerable therapeutic potential for the treatment and management of not only COVID-19, but also SARS and MERS if studied further. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
34031383 | Targeting novel LSD1-dependent ACE2 demethylation domains inhibits SARS-CoV-2 replication. Treatment options for COVID-19 remain limited, especially during the early or asymptomatic phase. Here, we report a novel SARS-CoV-2 viral replication mechanism mediated by interactions between ACE2 and the epigenetic eraser enzyme LSD1, and its interplay with the nuclear shuttling importin pathway. Recent studies have shown a critical role for the importin pathway in SARS-CoV-2 infection, and many RNA viruses hijack this axis to re-direct host cell transcription. LSD1 colocalized with ACE2 at the cell surface to maintain demethylated SARS-CoV-2 spike receptor-binding domain lysine 31 to promote virus-ACE2 interactions. Two newly developed peptide inhibitors competitively inhibited virus-ACE2 interactions, and demethylase access to significantly inhibit viral replication. Similar to some other predominantly plasma membrane proteins, ACE2 had a novel nuclear function: its cytoplasmic domain harbors a nuclear shuttling domain, which when demethylated by LSD1 promoted importin-alpha-dependent nuclear ACE2 entry following infection to regulate active transcription. A novel, cell permeable ACE2 peptide inhibitor prevented ACE2 nuclear entry, significantly inhibiting viral replication in SARS-CoV-2-infected cell lines, outperforming other LSD1 inhibitors. These data raise the prospect of post-exposure prophylaxis for SARS-CoV-2, either through repurposed LSD1 inhibitors or new, nuclear-specific ACE2 inhibitors.
34051791 | Dysregulation of COVID-19 related gene expression in the COPD lung. BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients are at increased risk of poor outcome from Coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Early data suggest elevated Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) receptor angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) expression, but relationships to disease phenotype and downstream regulators of inflammation in the Renin-Angiotensin system (RAS) are unknown. We aimed to determine the relationship between RAS gene expression relevant to SARS-CoV-2 infection in the lung with disease characteristics in COPD, and the regulation of newly identified SARS-CoV-2 receptors and spike-cleaving proteases, important for SARS-CoV-2 infection. METHODS: We quantified gene expression using RNA sequencing of epithelial brushings and bronchial biopsies from 31 COPD and 37 control subjects. RESULTS: ACE2 gene expression (log2-fold change (FC)) was increased in COPD compared to ex-smoking (HV-ES) controls in epithelial brushings (0.25, p = 0.042) and bronchial biopsies (0.23, p = 0.050), and correlated with worse lung function (r = - 0.28, p = 0.0090). ACE2 was further increased in frequent exacerbators compared to infrequent exacerbators (0.51, p = 0.00045) and associated with use of ACE inhibitors (ACEi) (0.50, p = 0.0034), having cardiovascular disease (0.23, p = 0.048) or hypertension (0.34, p = 0.0089), and inhaled corticosteroid use in COPD subjects in bronchial biopsies (0.33, p = 0.049). Angiotensin II receptor type (AGTR)1 and 2 expression was decreased in COPD bronchial biopsies compared to HV-ES controls with log2FC of -0.26 (p = 0.033) and - 0.40, (p = 0.0010), respectively. However, the AGTR1:2 ratio was increased in COPD subjects compared with HV-ES controls, log2FC of 0.57 (p = 0.0051). Basigin, a newly identified potential SARS-CoV-2 receptor was also upregulated in both brushes, log2FC of 0.17 (p = 0.0040), and bronchial biopsies, (log2FC of 0.18 (p = 0.017), in COPD vs HV-ES. Transmembrane protease, serine (TMPRSS)2 was not differentially regulated between control and COPD. However, various other spike-cleaving proteases were, including TMPRSS4 and Cathepsin B, in both epithelial brushes (log2FC of 0.25 (p = 0.0012) and log2FC of 0.56 (p = 5.49E-06), respectively) and bronchial biopsies (log2FC of 0.49 (p = 0.00021) and log2FC of 0.246 (p = 0.028), respectively). CONCLUSION: This study identifies key differences in expression of genes related to susceptibility and aetiology of COVID-19 within the COPD lung. Further studies to understand the impact on clinical course of disease are now required.
34099795 | Hyperlipidemic hypersensitivity to lethal microbial inflammation and its reversal by selective targeting of nuclear transport shuttles. Hyperlipidemia, the hallmark of Metabolic Syndrome that afflicts millions of people worldwide, exacerbates life-threatening infections. We present a new evidence for the mechanism of hyperlipidemic hypersensitivity to microbial inflammation caused by pathogen-derived inducer, LPS. We demonstrate that hyperlipidemic animals succumbed to a non-lethal dose of LPS whereas normolipidemic controls survived. Strikingly, survival of hyperlipidemic animals was restored when the nuclear import of stress-responsive transcription factors (SRTFs), Sterol Regulatory Element-Binding Proteins (SREBPs), and Carbohydrate-Responsive Element-Binding Proteins (ChREBPs) was impeded by targeting the nuclear transport checkpoint with cell-penetrating, biselective nuclear transport modifier (NTM) peptide. Furthermore, the burst of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, microvascular endothelial injury in the liver, lungs, heart, and kidneys, and trafficking of inflammatory cells were also suppressed. To dissect the role of nuclear transport signaling pathways we designed and developed importin-selective NTM peptides. Selective targeting of the importin alpha5, ferrying SRTFs and ChREBPs, protected 70-100% hyperlipidemic animals. Targeting importin beta1, that transports SREBPs, was only effective after 3-week treatment that lowered blood triglycerides, cholesterol, glucose, and averted fatty liver. Thus, the mechanism of hyperlipidemic hypersensitivity to lethal microbial inflammation depends on metabolic and proinflammatory transcription factors mobilization, which can be counteracted by targeting the nuclear transport checkpoint.
34157321 | Selinexor, a novel selective inhibitor of nuclear export, reduces SARS-CoV-2 infection and protects the respiratory system in vivo. The novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is responsible for the recent global pandemic. The nuclear export protein (XPO1) has a direct role in the export of SARS-CoV proteins including ORF3b, ORF9b, and nucleocapsid. Inhibition of XPO1 induces anti-inflammatory, anti-viral, and antioxidant pathways. Selinexor is an FDA-approved XPO1 inhibitor. Through bioinformatics analysis, we predicted nuclear export sequences in the ACE-2 protein and confirmed by in vitro testing that inhibition of XPO1 with selinexor induces nuclear localization of ACE-2. Administration of selinexor inhibited viral infection prophylactically as well as therapeutically in vitro. In a ferret model of COVID-19, selinexor treatment reduced viral load in the lungs and protected against tissue damage in the nasal turbinates and lungs in vivo. Our studies demonstrated that selinexor downregulated the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-10, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, and GMCSF, commonly associated with the cytokine storm observed in COVID-19 patients. Our findings indicate that nuclear export is critical for SARS-CoV-2 infection and for COVID-19 pathology and suggest that inhibition of XPO1 by selinexor could be a viable anti-viral treatment option.
34200500 | How SARS-CoV-2 and Other Viruses Build an Invasion Route to Hijack the Host Nucleocytoplasmic Trafficking System. The host nucleocytoplasmic trafficking system is often hijacked by viruses to accomplish their replication and to suppress the host immune response. Viruses encode many factors that interact with the host nuclear transport receptors (NTRs) and the nucleoporins of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) to access the host nucleus. In this review, we discuss the viral factors and the host factors involved in the nuclear import and export of viral components. As nucleocytoplasmic shuttling is vital for the replication of many viruses, we also review several drugs that target the host nuclear transport machinery and discuss their feasibility for use in antiviral treatment.
34348091 | Revealing protein-protein interactions at the transcriptome scale by sequencing. We describe PROPER-seq (protein-protein interaction sequencing) to map protein-protein interactions (PPIs) en masse. PROPER-seq first converts transcriptomes of input cells into RNA-barcoded protein libraries, in which all interacting protein pairs are captured through nucleotide barcode ligation, recorded as chimeric DNA sequences, and decoded at once by sequencing and mapping. We applied PROPER-seq to human embryonic kidney cells, T lymphocytes, and endothelial cells and identified 210,518 human PPIs (collected in the PROPER v.1.0 database). Among these, 1,365 and 2,480 PPIs are supported by published co-immunoprecipitation (coIP) and affinity purification-mass spectrometry (AP-MS) data, 17,638 PPIs are predicted by the prePPI algorithm without previous experimental validation, and 100 PPIs overlap human synthetic lethal gene pairs. In addition, four previously uncharacterized interaction partners with poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) (a critical protein in DNA repair) known as XPO1, MATR3, IPO5, and LEO1 are validated in vivo. PROPER-seq presents a time-effective technology to map PPIs at the transcriptome scale, and PROPER v.1.0 provides a rich resource for studying PPIs.
34356509 | MCPIP1 Enhances TNF-alpha-Mediated Apoptosis through Downregulation of the NF-kappaB/cFLIP Axis. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1-induced protein 1 (MCPIP1) is rapidly produced under proinflammatory stimuli, thereby feeding back to downregulate excessive inflammation. In this study, we used the stable, inducible expressions of wild-type (WT) MCPIP1 and an MCPIP1-D141N mutant in T-REx-293 cells by means of a tetracycline on (Tet-on) system. We found that WT MCPIP1 but not MCPIP1-D141N mutant expression dramatically increased apoptosis, caspase-3, -7, -8, and -9 activation, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation in TNF-alpha-treated cells. The pan-caspase inhibitor, z-VAD-fmk, and the caspase-1 inhibitor, z-YVAD-fmk, but not the JNK inhibitor, SP600125, significantly reversed apoptosis and caspase activation in TNF-alpha/MCPIP1-treated cells. Surprisingly, MCPIP1 itself was also cleaved, and the cleavage was suppressed by treatment with the pan-caspase inhibitor and caspase-1 inhibitor. Moreover, MCPIP1 was found to contain a caspase-1/-4 consensus recognition sequence located in residues 234~238. As expected, the WT MCPIP1 but not the MCPIP1-D141N mutant suppressed NF-kappaB activation, as evidenced by inhibition of IkappaB kinase (IKK) phosphorylation and IkappaB degradation using Western blotting, IKK activity using in vitro kinase activity, and NF-kappaB translocation to nuclei using an immunofluorescence assay. Interestingly, MCPIP1 also significantly inhibited importin alpha3 and importin alpha4 expressions, which are major nuclear transporter receptors for NF-kappaB. Inhibition of NF-kappaB activation further downregulated expression of the caspase-8 inhibitor, cFLIP. In summary, the results suggest that MCPIP1 could enhance the TNF-alpha-induced apoptotic pathway through decreasing NF-kappaB activation and cFLIP expression.
34428682 | Comparative study of the interaction of ivermectin with proteins of interest associated with SARS-CoV-2: A computational and biophysical approach. The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has accelerated the study of existing drugs. The mixture of homologs called ivermectin (avermectin-B1a [HB1a] + avermectin-B1b [HB1b]) has shown antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 in vitro. However, there are few reports on the behavior of each homolog. We investigated the interaction of each homolog with promising targets of interest associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection from a biophysical and computational-chemistry perspective using docking and molecular dynamics. We observed a differential behavior for each homolog, with an affinity of HB1b for viral structures, and of HB1a for host structures considered. The induced disturbances were differential and influenced by the hydrophobicity of each homolog and of the binding pockets. We present the first comparative analysis of the potential theoretical inhibitory effect of both avermectins on biomolecules associated with COVID-19, and suggest that ivermectin through its homologs, has a multiobjective behavior.
34513611 | The dual role of phytochemicals on SARS-CoV-2 inhibition by targeting host and viral proteins. BACKGROUND: The severe acute respiratory syndrome-2019 has affected more than 190 million people around the world and caused severe crises throughout the globe. Due to rapid mutation in the viral genome, its became important to simultaneously improvise the host immunity while targeting viral proteins to reduce the severity of infection. AIM: The current computational work focuses on multi-level rigorous screening of 47 medicinal plant-based phytochemicals for discovering effective phytochemical inhibitors against the host and viral targets. EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURE: A total of 586 phytochemicals were analyzed in detail based on their drug-likeness, pharmacological properties, and structure-based activity against the viral proteins (Spike glycoprotein, Papain-like protease, and Main protease) and host proteins (ACE2, Importin-subunit alpha-5, and beta-1). Phytochemicals showing higher binding affinity with the dual capacity to target both the categories of proteins were further analyzed by profiling of their chemical reactivity using Density-Functional Theory (DFT) based quantum chemical methods. Finally, detailed molecular dynamics simulations were performed to analyze the interactions of the complexes. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: The results revealed that the selected phytochemicals from Andrographis paniculata, Aconitum heterophyllum, Costus speciosus and Inula racemosa may have the capacity to act with prominent affinity towards the host and viral proteins. Therefore, the combination of active phytochemicals of these plants may prove to be more beneficial and can be used for developing the potential phytotherapeutic intervention.
34670407 | CCM3 Loss-Induced Lymphatic Defect Is Mediated by the Augmented VEGFR3-ERK1/2 Signaling. OBJECTIVE: Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) can happen anywhere in the body, although they most commonly produce symptoms in the brain. The role of CCM genes in other vascular beds outside the brain and retina is not well-examined, although the 3 CCM-associated genes (CCM1, CCM2, and CCM3) are ubiquitously expressed in all tissues. We aimed to determine the role of CCM gene in lymphatics. Approach and Results: Mice with an inducible pan-endothelial cell (EC) or lymphatic EC deletion of Ccm3 (Pdcd10ECKO or Pdcd10LECKO) exhibit dilated lymphatic capillaries and collecting vessels with abnormal valve structure. Morphological alterations were correlated with lymphatic dysfunction in Pdcd10LECKO mice as determined by Evans blue dye and fluorescein isothiocyanate(FITC)-dextran transport assays. Pdcd10LECKO lymphatics had increased VEGFR3 (vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3)-ERK1/2 (extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2) signaling with lymphatic hyperplasia. Mechanistic studies suggested that VEGFR3 is primarily regulated at a transcriptional level in Ccm3-deficient lymphatic ECs, in an NF-kappaB (nuclear factor kappaB)-dependent manner. CCM3 binds to importin alpha 2/KPNA2 (karyopherin subunit alpha 2), and a CCM3 deletion releases KPNA2 to activate NF-kappaB P65 by facilitating its nuclear translocation and P65-dependent VEGFR3 transcription. Moreover, increased VEGFR3 in lymphatic EC preferentially activates ERK1/2 signaling, which is critical for lymphatic EC proliferation. Importantly, inhibition of VEGFR3 or ERK1/2 rescued the lymphatic defects in structure and function. CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that CCM3 deletion augments the VEGFR3-ERK1/2 signaling in lymphatic EC that drives lymphatic hyperplasia and malformation and warrant further investigation on the potential clinical relevance of lymphatic dysfunction in patients with CCM.
34687900 | Repositioning Ivermectin for Covid-19 treatment: Molecular mechanisms of action against SARS-CoV-2 replication. Ivermectin (IVM) is an FDA approved macrocyclic lactone compound traditionally used to treat parasitic infestations and has shown to have antiviral potential from previous in-vitro studies. Currently, IVM is commercially available as a veterinary drug but have also been applied in humans to treat onchocerciasis (river blindness - a parasitic worm infection) and strongyloidiasis (a roundworm/nematode infection). In light of the recent pandemic, the repurposing of IVM to combat SARS-CoV-2 has acquired significant attention. Recently, IVM has been proven effective in numerous in-silico and molecular biology experiments against the infection in mammalian cells and human cohort studies. One promising study had reported a marked reduction of 93% of released virion and 99.98% unreleased virion levels upon administration of IVM to Vero-hSLAM cells. IVM's mode of action centres around the inhibition of the cytoplasmic-nuclear shuttling of viral proteins by disrupting the Importin heterodimer complex (IMPalpha/beta1) and downregulating STAT3, thereby effectively reducing the cytokine storm. Furthermore, the ability of IVM to block the active sites of viral 3CLpro and S protein, disrupts important machinery such as viral replication and attachment. This review compiles all the molecular evidence to date, in review of the antiviral characteristics exhibited by IVM. Thereafter, we discuss IVM's mechanism and highlight the clinical advantages that could potentially contribute towards disabling the viral replication of SARS-CoV-2. In summary, the collective review of recent efforts suggests that IVM has a prophylactic effect and would be a strong candidate for clinical trials to treat SARS-CoV-2.
34696514 | Effect of Ivermectin and Atorvastatin on Nuclear Localization of Importin Alpha and Drug Target Expression Profiling in Host Cells from Nasopharyngeal Swabs of SARS-CoV-2- Positive Patients. Nuclear transport and vesicle trafficking are key cellular functions involved in the pathogenesis of RNA viruses. Among other pleiotropic effects on virus-infected host cells, ivermectin (IVM) inhibits nuclear transport mechanisms mediated by importins and atorvastatin (ATV) affects actin cytoskeleton-dependent trafficking controlled by Rho GTPases signaling. In this work, we first analyzed the response to infection in nasopharyngeal swabs from SARS-CoV-2-positive and -negative patients by assessing the gene expression of the respective host cell drug targets importins and Rho GTPases. COVID-19 patients showed alterations in KPNA3, KPNA5, KPNA7, KPNB1, RHOA, and CDC42 expression compared with non-COVID-19 patients. An in vitro model of infection with Poly(I:C), a synthetic analog of viral double-stranded RNA, triggered NF-kappaB activation, an effect that was halted by IVM and ATV treatment. Importin and Rho GTPases gene expression was also impaired by these drugs. Furthermore, through confocal microscopy, we analyzed the effects of IVM and ATV on nuclear to cytoplasmic importin alpha distribution, alone or in combination. Results showed a significant inhibition of importin alpha nuclear accumulation under IVM and ATV treatments. These findings confirm transcriptional alterations in importins and Rho GTPases upon SARS-CoV-2 infection and point to IVM and ATV as valid drugs to impair nuclear localization of importin alpha when used at clinically-relevant concentrations.
34950606 | Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) Membrane (M) and Spike (S) Proteins Antagonize Host Type I Interferon Response. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), has spread worldwide and has infected more than 250 million people. A typical feature of COVID-19 is the lack of type I interferon (IFN-I)-mediated antiviral immunity in patients. However, the detailed molecular mechanisms by which SARS-CoV-2 evades the IFN-I-mediated antiviral response remain elusive. Here, we performed a comprehensive screening and identified a set of SARS-CoV-2 proteins that antagonize the IFN-I response. Subsequently, we characterized the mechanisms of two viral proteins antagonize IFN-I production and downstream signaling. SARS-CoV-2 membrane protein binds to importin karyopherin subunit alpha-6 (KPNA6) to inhibit interferon regulatory factor 3(IRF3) nuclear translocation. Further, the spike protein interacts with signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) to block its association with Janus kinase 1 (JAK1). This study increases our understanding of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis and suggests novel therapeutic targets for the treatment of COVID-19.
35043770 | Ivermectin in COVID-19 Management: What is the Current Evidence? Ivermectin (IVM), an approved anthelminthic drug, has been reported to have antiviral, antibacterial, and anticancer activities. Antiviral activity is due to the inhibition of nuclear cargo importin (IMP) protein. The anti-SARS CoV-2 activity through in vitro study was first reported by an Australian team. Later, many studies were conducted, and most of the study results were available as non-peer-reviewed preprints. In this narrative review, literature on the clinical studies conducted with ivermectin from published articles, preprints, and unpublished evidence was collected until 13th June 2021. They are discussed based on the severity of COVID-19 disease. Out of the 23 peer-reviewed published articles, 13 studies were randomized controlled trials. The remaining were either prospective interventional, prospective observational, retrospective cohort, cross-sectional, or case series type of studies; additionally, there were 10 randomized controlled trials available as preprints. In most studies, ivermectin was used in combination with doxycycline, azithromycin, or other drugs. Some studies suggested that a higher dose or increased duration of ivermectin usage was required to achieve favorable effects. In this review, articles on the prophylactic role of ivermectin in COVID-19 are also discussed - wherein the results are more promising. Despite accumulating evidence suggesting the possible use of ivermectin, the final call to incorporate ivermectin in the management of COVID-19 is still inconclusive.
35163923 | Approaches to the Potential Therapy of COVID-19: A General Overview from the Medicinal Chemistry Perspective. In spite of advances in vaccination, control of the COVID-19 pandemic will require the use of pharmacological treatments against SARS-CoV2. Their development needs to consider the existence of two phases in the disease, namely the viral infection and the inflammatory stages. The main targets for antiviral therapeutic intervention are: (a) viral proteins, including the spike (S) protein characteristic of the viral cover and the viral proteases in charge of processing the polyprotein arising from viral genome translation; (b) host proteins, such as those involved in the processes related to viral entry into the host cell and the release of the viral genome inside the cell, the elongation factor eEF1A and importins. The use of antivirals targeted at host proteins is less developed but it has the potential advantage of not being affected by mutations in the genome of the virus and therefore being active against all its variants. Regarding drugs that address the hyperinflammatory phase of the disease triggered by the so-called cytokine storm, the following strategies are particularly relevant: (a) drugs targeting JAK kinases; (b) sphingosine kinase 2 inhibitors; (c) antibodies against interleukin 6 or its receptor; (d) use of the traditional anti-inflammatory corticosteroids.
35187564 | Decoupling SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 localization and interferon antagonism. Like many pathogenic viruses, SARS-CoV-2 must overcome interferon (IFN)-mediated host defenses for infection establishment. To achieve this, SARS-CoV-2 deploys overlapping mechanisms to antagonize IFN production and signaling. The strongest IFN antagonist is the accessory protein ORF6, which localizes to multiple membranous compartments, including the nuclear envelope, where it directly binds nuclear pore component Nup98-Rae1 to inhibit nuclear translocation of activated STAT1 and IRF3 transcription factors. However, this direct cause-and-effect relationship between ORF6 localization and IFN antagonism has yet to be explored experimentally. Here, we use extensive mutagenesis studies to define the structural determinants required for steady-state localization and demonstrate that mis-localized ORF6 variants still potently inhibit nuclear trafficking and IFN signaling. Additionally, expression of a peptide that mimics the ORF6-Nup98 interaction domain robustly blocked nuclear trafficking. Furthermore, pharmacologic and mutational approaches combined to suggest that ORF6 is likely a peripheral membrane protein, as opposed to being a transmembrane protein as previously speculated. Thus, ORF6 localization and IFN antagonism are independent activities, which raises the possibility that ORF6 may have additional functions within membrane networks to enhance virus replication. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
35484353 | A systems genomics approach to uncover patient-specific pathogenic pathways and proteins in ulcerative colitis. We describe a precision medicine workflow, the integrated single nucleotide polymorphism network platform (iSNP), designed to determine the mechanisms by which SNPs affect cellular regulatory networks, and how SNP co-occurrences contribute to disease pathogenesis in ulcerative colitis (UC). Using SNP profiles of 378 UC patients we map the regulatory effects of the SNPs to a human signalling network containing protein-protein, miRNA-mRNA and transcription factor binding interactions. With unsupervised clustering algorithms we group these patient-specific networks into four distinct clusters driven by PRKCB, HLA, SNAI1/CEBPB/PTPN1 and VEGFA/XPO5/POLH hubs. The pathway analysis identifies calcium homeostasis, wound healing and cell motility as key processes in UC pathogenesis. Using transcriptomic data from an independent patient cohort, with three complementary validation approaches focusing on the SNP-affected genes, the patient specific modules and affected functions, we confirm the regulatory impact of non-coding SNPs. iSNP identified regulatory effects for disease-associated non-coding SNPs, and by predicting the patient-specific pathogenic processes, we propose a systems-level way to stratify patients.
35590097 | SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 disrupts nucleocytoplasmic trafficking to advance viral replication. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) ORF6 is an antagonist of interferon (IFN)-mediated antiviral signaling, achieved through the prevention of STAT1 nuclear localization. However, the exact mechanism through which ORF6 prevents STAT1 nuclear trafficking remains unclear. Herein, we demonstrate that ORF6 directly binds to STAT1 with or without IFN stimulation, resulting in the nuclear exclusion of STAT1. ORF6 also recognizes importin alpha subtypes with different modes, in particular, high affinity to importin alpha1 but a low affinity to importin alpha5. Although ORF6 potentially disrupts the importin alpha/importin beta1-mediated nuclear transport, thereby suppressing the nuclear translocation of the other classical nuclear localization signal-containing cargo proteins, the inhibitory effect of ORF6 is modest when compared with that of STAT1. The results indicate that the drastic nuclear exclusion of STAT1 is attributed to the specific binding with ORF6, which is a distinct strategy for the importin alpha1-mediated pathway. Combined with the results from a newly-produced replicon system and a hamster model, we conclude that SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 acts as a virulence factor via regulation of nucleocytoplasmic trafficking to accelerate viral replication, resulting in disease progression.
35666772 | The phospho-docking protein 14-3-3 regulates microtubule-associated proteins in oocytes including the chromosomal passenger Borealin. Global regulation of spindle-associated proteins is crucial in oocytes due to the absence of centrosomes and their very large cytoplasmic volume, but little is known about how this is achieved beyond involvement of the Ran-importin pathway. We previously uncovered a novel regulatory mechanism in Drosophila oocytes, in which the phospho-docking protein 14-3-3 suppresses microtubule binding of Kinesin-14/Ncd away from chromosomes. Here we report systematic identification of microtubule-associated proteins regulated by 14-3-3 from Drosophila oocytes. Proteins from ovary extract were co-sedimented with microtubules in the presence or absence of a 14-3-3 inhibitor. Through quantitative mass-spectrometry, we identified proteins or complexes whose ability to bind microtubules is suppressed by 14-3-3, including the chromosomal passenger complex (CPC), the centralspindlin complex and Kinesin-14/Ncd. We showed that 14-3-3 binds to the disordered region of Borealin, and this binding is regulated differentially by two phosphorylations on Borealin. Mutations at these two phospho-sites compromised normal Borealin localisation and centromere bi-orientation in oocytes, showing that phospho-regulation of 14-3-3 binding is important for Borealin localisation and function.
35686662 | Potential therapeutic effects of Ivermectin in COVID-19. COVID-19 is a critical pandemic that affected communities around the world, and there is currently no specific drug treatment for it. The virus enters the human cells via spikes and induces cytokine production and finally arrests the cell cycle. Ivermectin shows therapeutic potential for treating COVID-19 infection based on in vitro studies. Docking studies have shown a strong affinity between Ivermectin and some virulence factors of COVID-19. Notably, clinical evidence has demonstrated that Ivermectin with usual doses is effective by both the prophylactic and therapeutic approaches in all phases of the disease. Ivermectin inhibits both the adhesion and replication of the virus. Local therapy of the lung with Ivermectin or combination therapy may get better results and decrease the dose of the drug.
35723340 | Transcription of the Envelope Protein by 1-L Protein-RNA Recognition Code Leads to Genes/Proteins That Are Relevant to the SARS-CoV-2 Life Cycle and Pathogenesis. The theoretical protein-RNA recognition code was used in this study to research the compatibility of the SARS-CoV-2 envelope protein (E) with mRNAs in the human transcriptome. According to a review of the literature, the spectrum of identified genes showed that the virus post-transcriptionally promotes or represses the genes involved in the SARS-CoV-2 life cycle. The identified genes/proteins are also involved in adaptive immunity, in the function of the cilia and wound healing (EMT and MET) in the pulmonary epithelial tissue, in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease and in type 2 diabetes. For example, the E-protein promotes BHLHE40, which switches off the IL-10 inflammatory \brake\ and inhibits antiviral THalphabeta cells. In the viral cycle, E supports the COPII-SCAP-SREBP-HSP90alpha transport complex by the lowering of cholesterol in the ER and by the repression of insulin signaling, which explains the positive effect of HSP90 inhibitors in COVID-19 (geldanamycin), and E also supports importin alpha/beta-mediated transport to the nucleus, which explains the positive effect of ivermectin, a blocker of importins alpha/beta. In summary, transcription of the envelope protein by the 1-L protein-RNA recognition code leads to genes/proteins that are relevant to the SARS-CoV-2 life cycle and pathogenesis.
36066346 | A specific role for importin-5 and NASP in the import and nuclear hand-off of monomeric H3. Core histones package chromosomal DNA and regulate genomic transactions, with their nuclear import and deposition involving importin-beta proteins and a dedicated repertoire of histone chaperones. Previously, a histone H3-H4 dimer has been isolated bound to importin-4 (Imp4) and the chaperone ASF1, suggesting that H3 and H4 fold together in the cytoplasm before nuclear import. However, other studies have shown the existence of monomeric H3 in the nucleus, indicating a post-import folding pathway. Here, we report that the predominant importin associated with cytoplasmic H3 is importin-5 (Imp5), which hands off its monomeric cargo to nuclear sNASP. Imp5, in contrast to Imp4, binds to both H3 and H4 containing constitutively monomeric mutations and binds to newly synthesised, monomeric H3 tethered in the cytoplasm. Constitutively monomeric H3 retains its interaction with NASP, whereas monomeric H4 retains interactions specifically with HAT1 and RBBP7. High-resolution separation of NASP interactors shows the 's' isoform but not the 't' isoform associates with monomeric H3, whilst both isoforms associate with H3-H4 dimers in at least three discrete multi-chaperoning complexes. In vitro binding experiments show mutual exclusivity between sNASP and Imp5 in binding H3, suggesting direct competition for interaction sites, with the GTP-bound form of Ran required for histone transfer. Finally, using pulse-chase analysis, we show that cytoplasm-tethered histones do not interact with endogenous NASP until they reach the nucleus, whereupon they bind rapidly. We propose an Imp5-specific import pathway for monomeric H3 that hands off to sNASP in the nucleus, with a parallel H4 pathway involving Imp5 and the HAT1-RBBP7 complex, followed by nuclear folding and hand-off to deposition factors.
36299428 | Impact of SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 and its variant polymorphisms on host responses and viral pathogenesis. We and others have previously shown that the SARS-CoV-2 accessory protein ORF6 is a powerful antagonist of the interferon (IFN) signaling pathway by directly interacting with Nup98-Rae1 at the nuclear pore complex (NPC) and disrupting bidirectional nucleo-cytoplasmic trafficking. In this study, we further assessed the role of ORF6 during infection using recombinant SARS-CoV-2 viruses carrying either a deletion or a well characterized M58R loss-of-function mutation in ORF6. We show that ORF6 plays a key role in the antagonism of IFN signaling and in viral pathogenesis by interfering with karyopherin(importin)-mediated nuclear import during SARS-CoV-2 infection both in vitro , and in the Syrian golden hamster model in vivo . In addition, we found that ORF6-Nup98 interaction also contributes to inhibition of cellular mRNA export during SARS-CoV-2 infection. As a result, ORF6 expression significantly remodels the host cell proteome upon infection. Importantly, we also unravel a previously unrecognized function of ORF6 in the modulation of viral protein expression, which is independent of its function at the nuclear pore. Lastly, we characterized the ORF6 D61L mutation that recently emerged in Omicron BA.2 and BA.4 and demonstrated that it is able to disrupt ORF6 protein functions at the NPC and to impair SARS-CoV-2 innate immune evasion strategies. Importantly, the now more abundant Omicron BA.5 lacks this loss-of-function polymorphism in ORF6. Altogether, our findings not only further highlight the key role of ORF6 in the antagonism of the antiviral innate immune response, but also emphasize the importance of studying the role of non-spike mutations to better understand the mechanisms governing differential pathogenicity and immune evasion strategies of SARS-CoV-2 and its evolving variants. ONE SENTENCE SUMMARY: SARS-CoV-2 ORF6 subverts bidirectional nucleo-cytoplasmic trafficking to inhibit host gene expression and contribute to viral pathogenesis.
36344555 | Genomic control of inflammation in experimental atopic dermatitis. Atopic Dermatitis (AD) or eczema, a recurrent allergic inflammation of the skin, afflicts 10-20% of children and 5% adults of all racial and ethnic groups globally. We report a new topical treatment of AD by a Nuclear Transport Checkpoint Inhibitor (NTCI), which targets two nuclear transport shuttles, importin alpha5 and importin beta1. In the preclinical model of AD, induced by the active vitamin D3 analog MC903 (calcipotriol), NTCI suppressed the expression of keratinocyte-derived cytokine, Thymic Stromal Lymphopoietin (TSLP), the key gene in AD development. Moreover, the genes encoding mediators of TH2 response, IL-4 and its receptor IL-4Ralpha were also silenced together with the genes encoding cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-13, IL-23alpha, IL-33, IFN-gamma, GM-CSF, VEGF A, the chemokines RANTES and IL-8, and intracellular signal transducers COX-2 and iNOS. Consequently, NTCI suppressed skin infiltration by inflammatory cells (eosinophils, macrophages, and CD4 + T lymphocytes), and reduced MC903-evoked proliferation of Ki-67-positive cells. Thus, we highlight the mechanism of action and the potential utility of topical NTCI for treatment of AD undergoing Phase 1/2 clinical trial (AMTX-100 CF, NCT04313400).
36656967 | Interdependent Nuclear Co-Trafficking of ASPP1 and p53 Aggravates Cardiac Ischemia/Reperfusion Injury. OBJECTIVE: ASPP1 (apoptosis stimulating of p53 protein 1) is critical in regulating cell apoptosis as a cofactor of p53 to promote its transcriptional activity in the nucleus. However, whether cytoplasmic ASPP1 affects p53 nuclear trafficking and its role in cardiac diseases remains unknown. This study aims to explore the mechanism by which ASPP1 modulates p53 nuclear trafficking and the subsequent contribution to cardiac ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. METHODS AND RESULTS: The immunofluorescent staining showed that under normal condition ASPP1 and p53 colocalized in the cytoplasm of neonatal mouse ventricular cardiomyocytes, while they were both upregulated and translocated to the nuclei upon hypoxia/reoxygenation treatment. The nuclear translocation of ASPP1 and p53 was interdependent, as knockdown of either ASPP1 or p53 attenuated nuclear translocation of the other one. Inhibition of importin-beta1 resulted in the cytoplasmic sequestration of both p53 and ASPP1 in neonatal mouse ventricular cardiomyocytes with hypoxia/reoxygenation stimulation. Overexpression of ASPP1 potentiated, whereas knockdown of ASPP1 inhibited the expression of Bax (Bcl2-associated X), PUMA (p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis), and Noxa, direct apoptosis-associated targets of p53. ASPP1 was also increased in the I/R myocardium. Cardiomyocyte-specific transgenic overexpression of ASPP1 aggravated I/R injury as indicated by increased infarct size and impaired cardiac function. Conversely, knockout of ASPP1 mitigated cardiac I/R injury. The same qualitative data were observed in neonatal mouse ventricular cardiomyocytes exposed to hypoxia/reoxygenation injury. Furthermore, inhibition of p53 significantly blunted the proapoptotic activity and detrimental effects of ASPP1 both in vitro and in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: Binding of ASPP1 to p53 triggers their nuclear cotranslocation via importin-beta1 that eventually exacerbates cardiac I/R injury. The findings imply that interfering the expression of ASPP1 or the interaction between ASPP1 and p53 to block their nuclear trafficking represents an important therapeutic strategy for cardiac I/R injury.
36678502 | Jietacin Derivative Inhibits TNF-alpha-Mediated Inflammatory Cytokines Production via Suppression of the NF-kappaB Pathway in Synovial Cells. Synovial inflammation plays a central role in joint destruction and pain in osteoarthritis (OA). The NF-kappaB pathway plays an important role in the inflammatory process and is activated in OA. A previous study reported that a jietacin derivative (JD), (Z)-2-(8-oxodec-9-yn-1-yl)-1-vinyldiazene 1-oxide, suppressed the nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB in a range of cancer cell lines. However, the effect of JD in synovial cells and the exact mechanism of JD as an NF-kappaB inhibitor remain to be determined. We investigated the effect of JD on TNF-alpha-induced inflammatory reaction in a synovial cell line, SW982 and human primary synovial fibroblasts (hPSFs). Additionally, we examined phosphorylated levels of p65 and p38 and expression of importin alpha3 and beta1 using Western blotting. RNA-Seq analysis revealed that JD suppressed TNF-alpha-induced differential expression: among 204 genes significantly differentially expressed between vehicle and TNF-alpha-stimulated SW982 (183 upregulated and 21 downregulated) (FC >= 2, Q < 0.05), expression of 130 upregulated genes, including inflammatory cytokines (IL1A, IL1B, IL6, IL8) and chemokines (CCL2, CCL3, CCL5, CCL20, CXCL9, 10, 11), was decreased by JD treatment and that of 14 downregulated genes was increased. KEGG pathway analysis showed that DEGs were increased in the cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, TNF signaling pathway, NF-kappaB signaling pathway, and rheumatoid arthritis. JD inhibited IL1B, IL6 and IL8 mRNA expression and IL-6 and IL-8 protein production in both SW982 and hPSFs. JD also suppressed p65 phosphorylation in both SW982 and hPSFs. In contrast, JD did not alter p38 phosphorylation. JD may inhibit TNF-alpha-mediated inflammatory cytokine production via suppression of p65 phosphorylation in both SW982 and hPSFs. Our results suggest that JD may have therapeutic potential for OA due to its anti-inflammatory action through selective suppression of the NF-kappaB pathway on synovial cells.
37517693 | Structure of the Hepatitis B Virus capsid quasi-sixfold with a trapped C-terminal domain reveals capsid movements associated with domain exit. Many viruses undergo transient conformational change to surveil their environments for receptors and host factors. In Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) infection, after the virus enters the cell it is transported to the nucleus by interaction of the HBV capsid with an importin alpha/beta complex. The interaction between the virus and the importins is mediated by nuclear localization signals on the capsid protein C-terminal domain (CTD). However, CTDs are located inside the capsid. In this study we asked: where does a CTD exit the capsid, are all quasi-equivalent CTDs created equal, and does the capsid structure deform to facilitate CTD egress from the capsid? Here, we used Impbeta as a tool to trap transiently exposed CTDs and examined this complex by cryo-electron microscopy. We examined structures in an asymmetric reconstruction of a T=4 icosahedral capsid and a focused reconstruction of a quasi-sixfold vertex (3.8 and 4.0 A resolution, respectively). With both approaches, we observed that a subset of CTDs extended through a pore in the center of the quasi-sixfold complex. CTD egress was accompanied by enlargement of the pore and subtle changes in quaternary and tertiary structure of the quasi-sixfold. When compared to molecular dynamics simulations, structural changes were within the normal range of capsid flexibility. Although pore diameter was enlarged in the Impbeta-bound reconstruction, simulations indicate that CTD egress does not exclusively depend on enlarged pores. In summary, we find that HBV surveillance of its environment by transient exposure of its CTD, requires only modest conformational change of the capsid.
37676567 | SWO1 modulates cell wall integrity under salt stress by interacting with importin alpha in Arabidopsis. Maintenance of cell wall integrity is of great importance not only for plant growth and development, but also for the adaptation of plants to adverse environments. However, how the cell wall integrity is modulated under salt stress is still poorly understood. Here, we report that a nuclear-localized Agenet domain-containing protein SWO1 (SWOLLEN 1) is required for the maintenance of cell wall integrity in Arabidopsis under salt stress. Mutation in SWO1 gene results in swollen root tips, disordered root cell morphology, and root elongation inhibition under salt stress. The swo1 mutant accumulates less cellulose and pectin but more lignin under high salinity. RNA-seq and ChIP-seq assays reveal that SWO1 binds to the promoter of several cell wall-related genes and regulates their expression under saline conditions. Further study indicates that SWO1 interacts with importin alpha IMPA1 and IMPA2, which are required for the import of nuclear-localized proteins. The impa1 impa2 double mutant also exhibits root growth inhibition under salt stress and mutations of these two genes aggravate the salt-hypersensitive phenotype of the swo1 mutant. Taken together, our data suggest that SWO1 functions together with importin alpha to regulate the expression of cell wall-related genes, which enables plants to maintain cell wall integrity under high salinity.
37792911 | Nuclear ERK1/2 signaling potentiation enhances neuroprotection and cognition via Importinalpha1/KPNA2. Cell signaling is central to neuronal activity and its dysregulation may lead to neurodegeneration and cognitive decline. Here, we show that selective genetic potentiation of neuronal ERK signaling prevents cell death in vitro and in vivo in the mouse brain, while attenuation of ERK signaling does the opposite. This neuroprotective effect mediated by an enhanced nuclear ERK activity can also be induced by the novel cell penetrating peptide RB5. In vitro administration of RB5 disrupts the preferential interaction of ERK1 MAP kinase with importinalpha1/KPNA2 over ERK2, facilitates ERK1/2 nuclear translocation, and enhances global ERK activity. Importantly, RB5 treatment in vivo promotes neuroprotection in mouse models of Huntington's (HD), Alzheimer's (AD), and Parkinson's (PD) disease, and enhances ERK signaling in a human cellular model of HD. Additionally, RB5-mediated potentiation of ERK nuclear signaling facilitates synaptic plasticity, enhances cognition in healthy rodents, and rescues cognitive impairments in AD and HD models. The reported molecular mechanism shared across multiple neurodegenerative disorders reveals a potential new therapeutic target approach based on the modulation of KPNA2-ERK1/2 interactions.
37823646 | 4-Octyl itaconate reduces influenza A replication by targeting the nuclear export protein CRM1. In recent years, especially since the outbreak of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 pandemic, the cell-permeable itaconate derivative 4-octyl itaconate (4-OI) has gained traction as a potential antiviral agent. Here, we demonstrate that 4-OI inhibits replication of multiple influenza A viruses (IAV) by restricting nuclear export of viral ribonucleoproteins, a key step in the IAV replication cycle. This nuclear retention is achieved by deactivation and subsequent degradation of chromosomal maintenance 1 protein (CRM1), also known as exportin 1 (XPO1), a host cell protein exploited by IAV during replication. 4-OI-mediated deactivation of CRM1 resulted in the accumulation of the IAV nucleoprotein, the Rev protein of feline immunodeficiency virus, as well as the natural CRM1 cargos p53 and p65, in the nucleus of treated cells. Further mechanism of action studies revealed that, similar to known CRM1 inhibitors, 4-OI modifies a key cysteine in the cargo binding pocket of CRM1 at position 528 through an alkylation reaction called 2,3-dicarboxypropylation. Subsequent studies in a cell line in which the cysteine at position 528 in CRM1 protein was substituted by a serine confirmed that modification of this residue was indeed the cause for the observed inhibitory effect induced by 4-OI on CRM1 function. Overall, this study demonstrated a mechanism through which 4-OI directly interferes with the replication cycle of CRM1-dependent viruses, which contributes to the understanding of the antiviral and anti-inflammatory properties of this multifaceted immuno-metabolite.IMPORTANCEItaconate derivates, as well as the naturally produced metabolite, have been proposed as antivirals against influenza virus. Here, the mechanism behind the antiviral effects of exogenous 4-octyl itaconate (4-OI), a derivative of itaconate, against the influenza A virus replication is demonstrated. The data indicate that 4-OI targets the cysteine at position 528 of the CRM1 protein, resulting in inhibition of the nuclear export of viral ribonucleoprotein complexes in a similar manner as previously described for other selective inhibitors of nuclear export. These results postulate a mechanism not observed before for this immuno-metabolite derivative. This knowledge is helpful for the development of derivatives of 4-OI as potential antiviral and anti-inflammatory therapeutics.
38450276 | Risk factors of MDR-TB and impacts of COVID-19 pandemic on escalating of MDR-TB incidence in lower-middle-income countries: A scoping review. The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic is affecting tuberculosis (TB) treatment in many ways that might lead to increasing the prevalence of multi-drugs-resistance tuberculosis (MDR-TB), especially in lower-middle-income-countries (LMICs). This scoping review aimed to identify the risk factors of MDR-TB and to determine the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on MDR-TB prevalence in LMICs. This study was reported according to the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses extension for scoping reviews (PRISMA-ScR) guideline. The relevant keywords were used to search studies in three databases (PubMed, ScienceDirect and SpringerLink) to identify the related articles. The English-written articles published from January 2012 to December 2022 that explored risk factors or causes of MDR-TB in LMICs were included. Out of 1,542 identified articles, 17 retrospective, prospective, case-control and cross-sectional studies from ten LMICs met were included in this scoping review. Twenty-one risk factors were discovered, with prior TB treatment (relapsed cases), diabetes, living area, living condition, smoking and low socioeconomic status were the main factors in developing MDR-TB during COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic increased the MDR-TB prevalence through drug resistance transmission inside households, the distance between home and healthcare facilities and low socioeconomic status. This scoping review demonstrates how the COVID-19 pandemic has affected the rising incidence of MDR-TB in LMICs.
38450336 | Quantity of antibiotic use and its association with clinical outcomes in COVID-19 patients: A snapshot from a provincial referral hospital in Indonesia. Irrational antibiotic use in Indonesia is considered high, yet there are still lacks reliable information regarding the issue. The quantity of antibiotic use studies, in particular during coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, was not well reported. The aim of this study was to evaluate antibiotic use in COVID-19 patients at a province referral hospital in Aceh, Indonesia, Dr Zainoel Abidin Hospital, and to assess the association between antibiotic use and COVID-19 clinical outcomes. The defined daily dose (DDD) method was used and expressed in DDDs per 100 patient-days as in hospital setting. The data were obtained from inpatient confirmed COVID-19 patients between March 2020 and December 2021. A logistic regression was used to determine the association between patients' characteristics and antibiotic usage with clinical outcomes. A total of 361 treated COVID-19 patients were included using a random sampling technique and analyzed. Out of 361 patients, 89.2% of them were treated with antibiotic(s). All the antibiotics were given empirically except for cefazoline (5.5%) that was used as prophylaxis to obstetric patients who underwent the c-section. Azithromycin was the most prescribed antibiotic and levofloxacin had the highest DDD. Our data suggested that there was no association between antibiotic use and clinical outcomes of COVID-19 patients (p=0.128). Having sepsis and another pulmonary disease however were associated with mortality of COVID-19 patients with adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 14.14; 95%CI 2.94-67.90, p=0.001 and aOR 8.64; 95%CI 3.30-22.63, p<0.001, respectively. In addition, patients older than 60-year-old had a higher chance to an unfavorable outcome compared to those younger than 30-year-old, aOR: 7.61; 95%CI: 1.07-53.94. In conclusion, the use of antibiotics is prevalent among COVID-19 and it is not directly associated with clinical outcomes.
38455620 | Risk factors of early mortality in COVID-19 patients in Indonesia: A retrospective cohort study in a provincial referral hospital of Aceh. Some of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patients died after being hospitalized and early mortality is a matter of concern during the pandemic; therefore, it is critical to determine which patients are the most vulnerable of having early mortality. The aim of this study was to determine the risk factors for early mortality among hospitalized COVID-19 patients in Indonesia. A retrospective cohort study was conducted on hospitalized COVID-19 patients from July 2020 to September 2021 at Dr. Zainoel Abidin Hospital, Banda Aceh, Indonesia. Demographic data, clinical characteristics, laboratory findings, and mortality were collected. Early mortality was defined as a death before seven days of the hospitalization. Multivariate regression analysis was employed to determine the risk factors associated with early mortality. We included the data of 624 COVID-19 patients who died during the study period. More than half of the patients were male and aged over 50 years old. The average hospitalization period was 10 days and most patients had more than two comorbidities. Chronic lung disease was the most common comorbidity (46.0%) followed by respiratory disease (26.8%) and heart disease (14.3%). Multiple comorbidities and elevated D-dimers exceeding 3376.92 ng/mL were associated with early mortality with OR: 7.029; 95%CI: 2.02-24.43 and OR: 1.000085, 95%CI: 1.000028-1.000142, respectively. In conclusion, early mortality in COVID-19 patients was associated with having multiple comorbidities and elevated D-dimer level. Therefore, it is crucial to assess the presence of comorbidities and routine laboratory test while managing COVID-19 patients in order to prevent the early mortality.
38621233 | Global Rate of Willingness to Volunteer Among Medical and Health Students During Pandemic: Systemic Review and Meta-Analysis. BACKGROUND: During health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, shortages of health care workers often occur. Recruiting students as volunteers could be an option, but it is uncertain whether the idea is well-accepted. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to estimate the global rate of willingness to volunteer among medical and health students in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. METHODS: A systematic search was conducted on PubMed, Embase, Scopus, and Google Scholar for studies reporting the number of health students willing to volunteer during COVID-19 from 2019 to November 17, 2023. The meta-analysis was performed using a restricted maximum-likelihood model with logit transformation. RESULTS: A total of 21 studies involving 26,056 health students were included in the meta-analysis. The pooled estimate of the willingness-to-volunteer rate among health students across multiple countries was 66.13%, with an I2 of 98.99% and P value of heterogeneity (P-Het)<.001. Removing a study with the highest influence led to the rate being 64.34%. Our stratified analyses indicated that those with older age, being first-year students, and being female were more willing to volunteer (P<.001). From highest to lowest, the rates were 77.38%, 77.03%, 65.48%, 64.11%, 62.71%, and 55.23% in Africa, Western Europe, East and Southeast Asia, Middle East, and Eastern Europe, respectively. Because of the high heterogeneity, the evidence from this study has moderate strength. CONCLUSIONS: The majority of students are willing to volunteer during COVID-19, suggesting that volunteer recruitment is well-accepted.
23146225 | Development and validation of RP-UPLC method for the determination of darifenacin hydrobromide, its related compounds and its degradation products using design of experiments. A selective stability-indicating ultra-performance liquid chromatographic (UPLC) method was developed for the quantitative determination of darifenacin hydrobromide (DFN) and its related compounds in API and pharmaceutical dosages. The chromatographic separation was achieved on an Acquity UPLC BEH C18 column (100, 2.1 mm and 1.7 mum) at a flow rate of 0.3 mL/min, and detection was performed at 210 nm. The typical retention behaviors of impurities at various pH values were depicted graphically. The LC conditions were optimized by design of experiments (DOE) to obtain optimal separation in the shortest possible run time. A central composite design (CCD) was employed to study the main effects and interactions of the independent variables. The drug and its thirteen impurities were eluted within 13 min. The method exhibited consistent, high-quality recoveries (93.8 +- 2.1 to 99.8 +- 1.5 (mean +- RSD)) with a high precision for the drug and impurities. Linear regression analysis revealed an excellent correlation between peak responses and concentrations (R(2) values of 0.9991-0.9999) for the drug and impurities. The stability-indicating capability of the method was verified by forced degradation experiments and mass balance study. LC-MS revealed protonated molecular ion peaks [M+H](+) at m/z 428.20, m/z 425.20 and m/z 281.30 for the acid (Imp-4), oxidized (Imp-6) and N-dealkylated (Imp-1) forms of DFN, respectively. Possible degradation pathways were established based on the known reactivity of the drug through hydrolysis, oxidation, N-dealkylation, phenyl hydroxylation, dihydrobenzofuran ring hydroxylation and ring opening. The m/z values of unknown degradation products were matched with the proposed structures and reported DFN metabolites.
26816005 | Homologous Transcription Factors DUX4 and DUX4c Associate with Cytoplasmic Proteins during Muscle Differentiation. Hundreds of double homeobox (DUX) genes map within 3.3-kb repeated elements dispersed in the human genome and encode DNA-binding proteins. Among these, we identified DUX4, a potent transcription factor that causes facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD). In the present study, we performed yeast two-hybrid screens and protein co-purifications with HaloTag-DUX fusions or GST-DUX4 pull-down to identify protein partners of DUX4, DUX4c (which is identical to DUX4 except for the end of the carboxyl terminal domain) and DUX1 (which is limited to the double homeodomain). Unexpectedly, we identified and validated (by co-immunoprecipitation, GST pull-down, co-immunofluorescence and in situ Proximal Ligation Assay) the interaction of DUX4, DUX4c and DUX1 with type III intermediate filament protein desmin in the cytoplasm and at the nuclear periphery. Desmin filaments link adjacent sarcomere at the Z-discs, connect them to sarcolemma proteins and interact with mitochondria. These intermediate filament also contact the nuclear lamina and contribute to positioning of the nuclei. Another Z-disc protein, LMCD1 that contains a LIM domain was also validated as a DUX4 partner. The functionality of DUX4 or DUX4c interactions with cytoplasmic proteins is underscored by the cytoplasmic detection of DUX4/DUX4c upon myoblast fusion. In addition, we identified and validated (by co-immunoprecipitation, co-immunofluorescence and in situ Proximal Ligation Assay) as DUX4/4c partners several RNA-binding proteins such as C1QBP, SRSF9, RBM3, FUS/TLS and SFPQ that are involved in mRNA splicing and translation. FUS and SFPQ are nuclear proteins, however their cytoplasmic translocation was reported in neuronal cells where they associated with ribonucleoparticles (RNPs). Several other validated or identified DUX4/DUX4c partners are also contained in mRNP granules, and the co-localizations with cytoplasmic DAPI-positive spots is in keeping with such an association. Large muscle RNPs were recently shown to exit the nucleus via a novel mechanism of nuclear envelope budding. Following DUX4 or DUX4c overexpression in muscle cell cultures, we observed their association with similar nuclear buds. In conclusion, our study demonstrated unexpected interactions of DUX4/4c with cytoplasmic proteins playing major roles during muscle differentiation. Further investigations are on-going to evaluate whether these interactions play roles during muscle regeneration as previously suggested for DUX4c. 
29248968 | Contradictory intrahepatic immune responses activated in high-load hepatitis C virus livers compared with low-load livers. We found a HLA class II histocompatibility antigen gene, DQ alpha 1 chain (HLA-DQA1), that was expressed more than 9-fold higher in high-load hepatitis C virus (HCV) livers than low-load HCV livers using transcriptomics of chronic HCV-infected livers. To further investigate this finding, we examined which cells were positive for HLA-DQA1 and what liver immune responses were different between HCV-high and -low livers. HLA-DQA1-positive cells were significantly increased in the HCV-high group, and most positive cells were identified as non-parenchymal sinusoid cells and lymphocytic infiltrates in the portal area. Parenchymal hepatocytes were negative for HLA-DQA1. HLA-DQA1-positive cells in the liver sinusoid were positive for CD68 (macrophages or Kupffer cells); those in the lymphocytic infiltrates were positive for CD20 (B cells) or CD3 (T cells). mRNA levels of antigen-presenting cell (APC) markers such as CD68 and CD11c were significantly upregulated in the HCV-high group and were correlated with HLA-DQA mRNA levels. CD8B mRNA (CD8+ T cells) was upregulated in both HCV-positive livers compared with HCV-negative livers, whereas CD154 mRNA (CD4+ T helper cell) was upregulated in the HCV-high group compared with the HCV-low group. The immune regulatory molecules FOXP3 mRNA (regulatory T cell, T reg) and programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) mRNA were significantly increased in the HCV-high group. HCV-high livers had two molecular immune responses: increased APC numbers and adaptive immunity and the induction of immune tolerance. The local hepatic imbalance of contradictory immune responses might be responsible for high HCV loads.
30683885 | FGL2 promotes tumor progression in the CNS by suppressing CD103+ dendritic cell differentiation. Few studies implicate immunoregulatory gene expression in tumor cells in arbitrating brain tumor progression. Here we show that fibrinogen-like protein 2 (FGL2) is highly expressed in glioma stem cells and primary glioblastoma (GBM) cells. FGL2 knockout in tumor cells did not affect tumor-cell proliferation in vitro or tumor progression in immunodeficient mice but completely impaired GBM progression in immune-competent mice. This impairment was reversed in mice with a defect in dendritic cells (DCs) or CD103+ DC differentiation in the brain and in tumor-draining lymph nodes. The presence of FGL2 in tumor cells inhibited granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)-induced CD103+ DC differentiation by suppressing NF-kappaB, STAT1/5, and p38 activation. These findings are relevant to GBM patients because a low level of FGL2 expression with concurrent high GM-CSF expression is associated with higher CD8B expression and longer survival. These data provide a rationale for therapeutic inhibition of FGL2 in brain tumors.
31419537 | Gene expression associated with immune response in Atlantic salmon head-kidney vaccinated with inactivated whole-cell bacterin of Piscirickettsia salmonis and pathogenic isolates. Piscirickettsiosis is the most challenging disease present in the Chilean salmon industry. The aim of this study was to describe the expression of genes associated with immune response of Atlantic salmon intraperitoneally infected with LF-89 and EM-90 Piscirickettsia salmonis and vaccinated with inactivated whole-cell bacterin of P. salmonis. The fish infected with PS-LF-89 showed an anti-inflammatory response, whereas this finding was not observed in the PS-EM-90-infected fish and vaccinated fish. Fish infected with both P. salmonis isolates showed mhc1-mhc2, cd4-cd8b and igm overexpression, suggesting that P. salmonis promotes a T CD4+ and T CD8+ cell response and a humoral immune response. The vaccinated-fish exhibited mhc1, mhc2 and cd4 overexpression but a significant downregulation of cd8b and igm, suggesting that the vaccine supported the CD4+ T-cell response but did not induce an immune response mediated by CD8+ T cells or a humoral response. In conclusion, the expression pattern of genes related to the humoral and cell-mediated adaptive immune response showed upregulation in fish infected with P. salmonis and down-regulation in vaccinated fish. The results of this study contribute to our understanding of the immune response against P. salmonis and can be used in the optimization of SRS prevention and control measures.
31428517 | Immune microenvironment profiling of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) shows gene expression patterns associated to immune checkpoint inhibitors response. Few studies were conducted investigating the immunological profiles in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). Adaptive and innate immune cells are present in the tumor microenvironment, indicating GIST as inflamed tumors. In addition, murine models suggested a potential interaction between immune components and imatinib. In this retrospective study, the GIST immunological profile was investigated through in silico analysis and immunohistochemistry (IHC), exploring the basis for immunotherapy approaches. Gene expression profiles (GEP) from 31 KIT/PDGFRA-mutant GIST were analyzed to evaluate the tumor microenvironment and immunotherapy predictive signatures such as the expanded IFN-gamma-induced immune signature (EIIS) and the T-cell-inflamed signature (TIS). GEP and IHC supported the presence of immune infiltrate in GIST, with dominance of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and M2 macrophages showing a remarkable similarity with melanoma microenvironment. The EIIS genes were expressed in most of GIST samples and positively correlated with PD-L1 abundance (p < .0001). Co-expression was also found between PD-L1 and CD8A (p < .0001) or CD8B (p = .0003). Moreover, the median TIS score for GIST was between the 65th and 70th percentile of the Cancer Genome Atlas dataset, in the same range of tumors responding to anti-PD-1/PD-L1. Analysis of the Gene Expression Omnibus database GIST samples pre- and post-treatment confirmed that imatinib downregulates PD-L1 and IRF1 expression through the inhibition of KIT and PDGFRA, thus contributing to counteract the suppressed adaptive immune response against GIST. The presence of a rich immune infiltrate in GIST along with the presence of TIS and EIIS suggests that GIST may benefit from immunotherapy along with tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
32083148 | Induction of Transient Virus Replication Facilitates Antigen-Independent Isolation of SIV-Specific Monoclonal Antibodies. Structural characterization of the HIV-1 Envelope (Env) glycoprotein has facilitated the development of Env probes to isolate HIV-specific monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). However, preclinical studies have largely evaluated these virus-specific mAbs against chimeric viruses, which do not naturally infect non-human primates, in contrast to the unconstrained simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)mac239 clone. Given the paucity of native-like reagents for the isolation of SIV-specific B cells, we examined a method to isolate SIVmac239-specific mAbs without using Env probes. We first activated virus-specific B cells by inducing viral replication after the infusion of a CD8beta-depleting mAb or withdrawal of antiretroviral therapy in SIVmac239-infected rhesus macaques. Following the rise in viremia, we observed 2- to 4-fold increases in the number of SIVmac239 Env-reactive plasmablasts in circulation. We then sorted these activated B cells and obtained 206 paired Ab sequences. After expressing 122 mAbs, we identified 14 Env-specific mAbs. While these Env-specific mAbs bound to both the SIVmac239 SOSIP.664 trimer and to infected primary rhesus CD4+ T cells, five also neutralized SIVmac316. Unfortunately, none of these mAbs neutralized SIVmac239. Our data show that this method can be used to isolate virus-specific mAbs without antigenic probes by inducing bursts of contemporary replicating viruses in vivo.
32265897 | NGS Evaluation of Colorectal Cancer Reveals Interferon Gamma Dependent Expression of Immune Checkpoint Genes and Identification of Novel IFNgamma Induced Genes. To evaluate the expression of immune checkpoint genes, their concordance with expression of IFNgamma, and to identify potential novel ICP related genes (ICPRG) in colorectal cancer (CRC), the biological connectivity of six well documented (\classical\) ICPs (CTLA4, PD1, PDL1, Tim3, IDO1, and LAG3) with IFNgamma and its co-expressed genes was examined by NGS in 79 CRC/healthy colon tissue pairs. Identification of novel IFNgamma- induced molecules with potential ICP activity was also sought. In our study, the six classical ICPs were statistically upregulated and correlated with IFNgamma, CD8A, CD8B, CD4, and 180 additional immunologically related genes in IFNgamma positive (FPKM > 1) tumors. By ICP co-expression analysis, we also identified three IFNgamma-induced genes [(IFNgamma-inducible lysosomal thiol reductase (IFI30), guanylate binding protein1 (GBP1), and guanylate binding protein 4 (GBP4)] as potential novel ICPRGs. These three genes were upregulated in tumor compared to normal tissues in IFNgamma positive tumors, co-expressed with CD8A and had relatively high abundance (average FPKM = 362, 51, and 25, respectively), compared to the abundance of the 5 well-defined ICPs (Tim3, LAG3, PDL1, CTLA4, PD1; average FPKM = 10, 9, 6, 6, and 2, respectively), although IDO1 is expressed at comparably high levels (FPKM = 39). We extended our evaluation by querying the TCGA database which revealed the commonality of IFNgamma dependent expression of the three potential ICPRGs in 638 CRCs, 103 skin cutaneous melanomas (SKCM), 1105 breast cancers (BC), 184 esophageal cancers (ESC), 416 stomach cancers (STC), and 501 lung squamous carcinomas (LUSC). In terms of prognosis, based on Pathology Atlas data, correlation of GBP1 and GBP4, but not IFI30, with 5-year survival rate was favorable in CRC, BC, SKCM, and STC. Thus, further studies defining the role of IFI30, GBP1, and GBP4 in CRC are warranted.
33148660 | ZMYND8 Expression in Breast Cancer Cells Blocks T-Lymphocyte Surveillance to Promote Tumor Growth. Emerging studies indicate that DNA damage in cancer cells triggers antitumor immunity, but its intrinsic regulatory mechanism in breast cancer cells remains poorly understood. Here, we show that ZMYND8 is upregulated and inhibits micronucleus formation and DNA damage in breast cancer cells. Loss of ZMYND8 triggered activation of the DNA sensor cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate synthase in micronuclei, leading to further activation of the downstream signaling effectors stimulator of IFN genes and NF-kappaB, but not TANK-binding kinase 1 and IFN regulatory factor 3, thereby inducing the expression of IFNbeta and IFN-stimulated genes (ISG) in breast cancer cells in vitro and tumors in vivo. ZMYND8 knockout (KO) in breast cancer cells promoted infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, leading to tumor inhibition in syngeneic mouse models, which was significantly attenuated by treatment of anti-CD4/CD8-depleting antibodies or anti-IFNAR1 antibody and in immunodeficient Rag1 KO mice. In human breast tumors, ZMYND8 was negatively correlated with ISGs, CD4, CD8A, CD8B, and the tumor-lymphocyte infiltration phenotype. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that maintenance of genome stability by ZMYND8 causes breast cancer cells to evade cytotoxic T-lymphocyte surveillance, which leads to tumor growth. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings show that ZMYND8 is a new negative and intrinsic regulator of the innate immune response in breast tumor cells, and ZMYND8 may be a possible target for antitumor immunotherapy.
33316950 | CD4, CD8b, and Cytokines Expression Profiles in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells Infected with Different Subtypes of KoRV from Koalas (Phascolarctos cinereus) in a Japanese Zoo. Koala retrovirus (KoRV) poses a major threat to koala health and conservation, and currently has 10 identified subtypes: an endogenous subtype (KoRV-A) and nine exogenous subtypes (KoRV-B to KoRV-J). However, subtype-related variations in koala immune response to KoRV are uncharacterized. In this study, we investigated KoRV-related immunophenotypic changes in a captive koala population (Hirakawa zoo, Japan) with a range of subtype infection profiles (KoRV-A only vs. KoRV-A with KoRV-B and/or -C), based on qPCR measurements of CD4, CD8b, IL-6, IL-10 and IL-17A mRNA expression in unstimulated and concanavalin (Con)-A-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Although CD4, CD8b, and IL-17A expression did not differ between KoRV subtype infection profiles, IL-6 expression was higher in koalas with exogenous infections (both KoRV-B and KoRV-C) than those with the endogenous subtype only. IL-10 expression did not significantly differ between subtype infection profiles but did show a marked increase-accompanying decreased CD4:CD8b ratio-in a koala with lymphoma and co-infected with KoRV-A and -B, thus suggesting immunosuppression. Taken together, the findings of this study provide insights into koala immune response to multiple KoRV subtypes, which can be exploited for the development of prophylactic and therapeutic interventions for this iconic marsupial species.
33904225 | NeutrobodyPlex-monitoring SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing immune responses using nanobodies. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, there is an ongoing need for diagnostic tools to monitor the immune status of large patient cohorts and the effectiveness of vaccination campaigns. Here, we present 11 unique nanobodies (Nbs) specific for the SARS-CoV-2 spike receptor-binding domain (RBD), of which 8 Nbs potently inhibit the interaction of RBD with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) as the major viral docking site. Following detailed epitope mapping and structural analysis, we select two inhibitory Nbs, one of which binds an epitope inside and one of which binds an epitope outside the RBD:ACE2 interface. Based on these, we generate a biparatopic nanobody (bipNb) with viral neutralization efficacy in the picomolar range. Using bipNb as a surrogate, we establish a competitive multiplex binding assay (\NeutrobodyPlex\) for detailed analysis of the presence and performance of neutralizing RBD-binding antibodies in serum of convalescent or vaccinated patients. We demonstrate that NeutrobodyPlex enables high-throughput screening and detailed analysis of neutralizing immune responses in infected or vaccinated individuals, to monitor immune status or to guide vaccine design.
34127970 | Identification of ACE2 modifiers by CRISPR screening. SARS-CoV-2 infection is initiated by binding of the viral spike protein to its receptor, ACE2, on the surface of host cells. ACE2 expression is heterogeneous both in vivo and in immortalized cell lines, but the molecular pathways that govern ACE2 expression remain unclear. We now report high-throughput CRISPR screens for functional modifiers of ACE2 surface abundance. We identified 35 genes whose disruption was associated with a change in the surface abundance of ACE2 in HuH7 cells. Enriched among these ACE2 regulators were established transcription factors, epigenetic regulators, and functional networks. We further characterized individual cell lines with disruption of SMAD4, EP300, PIAS1 , or BAMBI and found these genes to regulate ACE2 at the mRNA level and to influence cellular susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Collectively, our findings clarify the host factors involved in SARS-CoV-2 entry and suggest potential targets for therapeutic development.
34391096 | Cellular and humoral immunogenicity of a SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine in patients on haemodialysis. BACKGROUND: Patients with chronic renal insufficiency on maintenance haemodialysis face an increased risk of COVID-19 induced mortality and impaired vaccine responses. To date, only a few studies have addressed SARS-CoV-2 vaccine elicited immunity in this immunocompromised population. METHODS: We assessed immunogenicity of the mRNA vaccine BNT162b2 in at-risk dialysis patients and characterised systemic cellular and humoral immune responses in serum and saliva using interferon gamma release assay and multiplex-based cytokine and immunoglobulin measurements. We further compared binding capacity and neutralization efficacy of vaccination-induced immunoglobulins against emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants Alpha, Beta, Epsilon and Cluster 5 by ACE2-RBD competition assay. FINDINGS: Patients on maintenance haemodialysis exhibit detectable but variable cellular and humoral immune responses against SARS-CoV-2 and variants of concern after a two-dose regimen of BNT162b2. Although vaccination-induced immunoglobulins were detectable in saliva and plasma, both anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG and neutralization efficacy was reduced compared to a vaccinated non-dialysed control population. Similarly, T-cell mediated interferon gamma release after stimulation with SARS-CoV-2 spike peptides was significantly diminished. INTERPRETATION: Quantifiable humoral and cellular immune responses after BNT162b2 vaccination in individuals on maintenance haemodialysis are encouraging, but urge for longitudinal follow-up to assess longevity of immunity. Diminished virus neutralization and interferon gamma responses in the face of emerging variants of concern may favour this at-risk population for re-vaccination using modified vaccines at the earliest opportunity. FUNDING: Initiative and Networking Fund of the Helmholtz Association of German Research Centres, EU Horizon 2020 research and innovation program, State Ministry of Baden-Wurttemberg for Economic Affairs, Labour and Tourism.
34927793 | Biparatopic nanobodies protect mice from lethal challenge with SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the emergence of new SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOCs) requires continued development of effective therapeutics. Recently, we identified high-affinity neutralizing nanobodies (Nbs) specific for the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of SARS-CoV-2. Taking advantage of detailed epitope mapping, we generate two biparatopic Nbs (bipNbs) targeting a conserved epitope outside and two different epitopes inside the RBD:ACE2 interface. Both bipNbs bind all currently circulating VOCs with high affinities and are capable to neutralize cellular infection with VOC B.1.351 (Beta) and B.1.617.2 (Delta) in vitro. To assess if the bipNbs NM1267 and NM1268 confer protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection in vivo, human ACE2 transgenic mice are treated intranasally before infection with a lethal dose of SARS-CoV-2 B.1, B.1.351 (Beta) or B.1.617.2 (Delta). Nb-treated mice show significantly reduced disease progression and increased survival rates. Histopathological analyses further reveal a drastically reduced viral load and inflammatory response in lungs. These data suggest that both bipNbs are broadly active against a variety of emerging SARS-CoV-2 VOCs and represent easily applicable drug candidates.
34943787 | SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein and Its Receptor Binding Domain Promote a Proinflammatory Activation Profile on Human Dendritic Cells. Dendritic cells (DCs) are the most potent antigen-presenting cells, and their function is essential to configure adaptative immunity and avoid excessive inflammation. DCs are predicted to play a crucial role in the clinical evolution of the infection by the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) coronavirus (CoV)-2. DCs interaction with the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein, which mediates cell receptor binding and subsequent fusion of the viral particle with host cell, is a key step to induce effective immunity against this virus and in the S protein-based vaccination protocols. Here we evaluated human DCs in response to SARS-CoV-2 S protein, or to a fragment encompassing the receptor binding domain (RBD) challenge. Both proteins increased the expression of maturation markers, including MHC molecules and costimulatory receptors. DCs interaction with the SARS-CoV-2 S protein promotes activation of key signaling molecules involved in inflammation, including MAPK, AKT, STAT1, and NFkappaB, which correlates with the expression and secretion of distinctive proinflammatory cytokines. Differences in the expression of ACE2 along the differentiation of human monocytes to mature DCs and inter-donor were found. Our results show that SARS-CoV-2 S protein promotes inflammatory response and provides molecular links between individual variations and the degree of response against this virus.
35066912 | Lipopolysaccharide induces acute lung injury and alveolar haemorrhage in association with the cytokine storm, coagulopathy and AT1R/JAK/STAT augmentation in a rat model that mimics moderate and severe Covid-19 pathology. Progress in the study of Covid-19 disease in rodents has been hampered by the lack of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2; virus entry route to the target cell) affinities for the virus spike proteins across species. Therefore, we sought to determine whether a modified protocol of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute respiratory distress syndrome in rats can mimic both cell signalling pathways as well as severe disease phenotypes of Covid-19 disease. Rats were injected via intratracheal (IT) instillation with either 15 mg/kg of LPS (model group) or saline (control group) before being killed after 3 days. A severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS)-like effect was observed in the model group as demonstrated by the development of a \cytokine storm\ (>2.7 fold increase in blood levels of IL-6, IL-17A, GM-CSF, and TNF-alpha), high blood ferritin, demonstrable coagulopathy, including elevated D-dimer (approximately 10-fold increase), PAI-1, PT, and APTT (p < 0.0001). In addition, LPS increased the expression of lung angiotensin II type I receptor (AT1R)-JAK-STAT axis (>4 fold increase). Chest imaging revealed bilateral small patchy opacities of the lungs. Severe lung injury was noted by the presence of both, alveolar collapse and haemorrhage, desquamation of epithelial cells in the airway lumen, infiltration of inflammatory cells (CD45+ leukocytes), widespread thickening of the interalveolar septa, and ultrastructural alterations similar to Covid-19. Thus, these findings demonstrate that IT injection of 15 mg/kg LPS into rats, induced an AT1R/JAK/STAT-mediated cytokine storm with resultant pneumonia and coagulopathy that was commensurate with moderate and severe Covid-19 disease noted in humans.
35126123 | Bulbus Fritillariae Cirrhosae as a Respiratory Medicine: Is There a Potential Drug in the Treatment of COVID-19? Bulbus fritillariae cirrhosae (BFC) is one of the most used Chinese medicines for lung disease, and exerts antitussive, expectorant, anti-inflammatory, anti-asthmatic, and antioxidant effects, which is an ideal therapeutic drug for respiratory diseases such as ARDS, COPD, asthma, lung cancer, and pulmonary tuberculosis. Through this review, it is found that the therapeutic mechanism of BFC on respiratory diseases exhibits the characteristics of multi-components, multi-targets, and multi-signaling pathways. In particular, the therapeutic potential of BFC in terms of intervention of \cytokine storm\, STAT, NF-kappaB, and MAPK signaling pathways, as well as the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) that ACE is involved in. In the \cytokine storm\ of SARS-CoV-2 infection there is an intense inflammatory response. ACE2 regulates the RAS by degradation of Ang II produced by ACE, which is associated with SARS-CoV-2. For COVID-19, may it be a potential drug? This review summarized the research progress of BFC in the respiratory diseases, discussed the development potentiality of BFC for the treatment of COVID-19, explained the chemical diversity and biological significance of the alkaloids in BFC, and clarified the material basis, molecular targets, and signaling pathways of BFC for the respiratory diseases. We hope this review can provide insights on the drug discovery of anti-COVID-19.
35126885 | Advances in the development of therapeutic strategies against COVID-19 and perspectives in the drug design for emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants. Since Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) was identified in late 2019, the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has challenged public health around the world. Currently, there is an urgent need to explore antiviral therapeutic targets and effective clinical drugs. In this study, we systematically summarized two main therapeutic strategies against COVID-19, namely drugs targeting the SARS-CoV-2 life cycle and SARS-CoV-2-induced inflammation in host cells. The development of above two strategies is implemented by repurposing drugs and exploring potential targets. A comprehensive summary of promising drugs, especially cytokine inhibitors, and traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), provides recommendations for clinicians as evidence-based medicine in the actual clinical COVID-19 treatment. Considering the emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants greatly impact the effectiveness of drugs and vaccines, we reviewed the appearance and details of SARS-CoV-2 variants for further perspectives in drug design, which brings updating clues to develop therapeutical agents against the variants. Based on this, the development of broadly antiviral drugs, combined with immunomodulatory, or holistic therapy in the host, is prior to being considered for therapeutic interventions on mutant strains of SARS-CoV-2. Therefore, it is highly acclaimed the requirements of the concerted efforts from multi-disciplinary basic studies and clinical trials, which improves the accurate treatment of COVID-19 and optimizes the contingency measures to emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants.
35218001 | Could the COVID-19-Driven Increased Use of Ivermectin Lead to Incidents of Imbalanced Gut Microbiota and Dysbiosis? The microfilaricidal anthelmintic drug ivermectin (IVM) has been used since 1988 for treatment of parasitic infections in animals and humans. The discovery of IVM's ability to inactivate the eukaryotic importin alpha/beta1 heterodimer (IMPalpha/beta1), used by some viruses to enter the nucleus of susceptible hosts, led to the suggestion of using the drug to combat SARS-CoV-2 infection. Since IVM has antibacterial properties, prolonged use may affect commensal gut microbiota. In this review, we investigate the antimicrobial properties of IVM, possible mode of activity, and the concern that treatment of individuals diagnosed with COVID-19 may lead to dysbiosis.
35231079 | Identification of cell type specific ACE2 modifiers by CRISPR screening. SARS-CoV-2 infection is initiated by binding of the viral spike protein to its receptor, ACE2, on the surface of host cells. ACE2 expression is heterogeneous both in vivo and in immortalized cell lines, but the molecular pathways that govern ACE2 expression remain unclear. We now report high-throughput CRISPR screens for functional modifiers of ACE2 surface abundance. In liver-derived HuH7 cells, we identified 35 genes whose disruption was associated with a change in the surface abundance of ACE2. Enriched among these ACE2 regulators were established transcription factors, epigenetic regulators, and functional networks. We further characterized individual HuH7 cell lines with disruption of SMAD4, EP300, PIAS1, or BAMBI and found these genes to regulate ACE2 at the mRNA level and to influence cellular susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Orthogonal screening of lung-derived Calu-3 cells revealed a distinct set of ACE2 modifiers comprised of ACE2, KDM6A, MOGS, GPAA1, and UGP2. Collectively, our findings clarify the host factors involved in SARS-CoV-2 entry, highlight the cell type specificity of ACE2 regulatory networks, and suggest potential targets for therapeutic development.
35251012 | Comparative Magnitude and Persistence of Humoral SARS-CoV-2 Vaccination Responses in the Adult Population in Germany. Recent increases in SARS-CoV-2 infections have led to questions about duration and quality of vaccine-induced immune protection. While numerous studies have been published on immune responses triggered by vaccination, these often focus on studying the impact of one or two immunisation schemes within subpopulations such as immunocompromised individuals or healthcare workers. To provide information on the duration and quality of vaccine-induced immune responses against SARS-CoV-2, we analyzed antibody titres against various SARS-CoV-2 antigens and ACE2 binding inhibition against SARS-CoV-2 wild-type and variants of concern in samples from a large German population-based seroprevalence study (MuSPAD) who had received all currently available immunisation schemes. We found that homologous mRNA-based or heterologous prime-boost vaccination produced significantly higher antibody responses than vector-based homologous vaccination. Ad26.CoV2S.2 performance was particularly concerning with reduced titres and 91.7% of samples classified as non-responsive for ACE2 binding inhibition, suggesting that recipients require a booster mRNA vaccination. While mRNA vaccination induced a higher ratio of RBD- and S1-targeting antibodies, vector-based vaccines resulted in an increased proportion of S2-targeting antibodies. Given the role of RBD- and S1-specific antibodies in neutralizing SARS-CoV-2, their relative over-representation after mRNA vaccination may explain why these vaccines have increased efficacy compared to vector-based formulations. Previously infected individuals had a robust immune response once vaccinated, regardless of which vaccine they received, which could aid future dose allocation should shortages arise for certain manufacturers. Overall, both titres and ACE2 binding inhibition peaked approximately 28 days post-second vaccination and then decreased.
35399819 | Insights into forsythia honeysuckle (Lianhuaqingwen) capsules: A Chinese herbal medicine repurposed for COVID-19 pandemic. Background: In December 2019, a novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2 caused a series of acute atypical respiratory diseases worldwide. However, there is still a lack of drugs with clear curative effects, and the clinical trial research of vaccines has not been completely finished. Purpose: LH capsules are approved TCM patent medicine that are widely used for the treatment of respiratory tract infectious diseases caused by colds and flu. On April 12, 2020, LH capsules and granules were officially repurposed by the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) for patients with mild COVID-19 based on their safety and efficacy demonstrated through multicentre, randomized, controlled clinical trials. We hope to conduct a comprehensive review of it through modern pharmacy methods, and try to explain its possible mechanism. Methods: Using the full names of LH capsules Lianhuaqingwen, Lianhua Qingwen andSARS-COV-2, COVID-19 as the keywords of the search terms, systemically search for existing related papers in various databases such as Web of Science and PubMed. And completed the collection of clinical data in ClinicalTrials.gov and Chinese Clinical Trial Registry. Last but not least, we have sorted out the anti-inflammatory and antiviral mechanisms of LH capsules through literature and Selleck. Results: This review systematically sorted out the active ingredients in LH capsules. Furthermore, the related pharmacological and clinical trials of LH capsule on SARS-CoV-2, IAV and IBV were discussed in detail. Moreover, the present review provides the first summary of the potential molecular mechanism of specific substances in LH capsules involved in resistance to SARS-COV-2 infection and the inhibition of cytokine storm syndrome (CSS) caused by IL-6. Conclusion: This review summarizes the available reports and evidence that support the use of LH capsules as potential drug candidates for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19. However, TCM exerts its effects through multiple targets and multiple pathways, and LH capsules are not an exception. Therefore, the relevant mechanisms need to be further improved and experimentally verified.
