24631022 | The fungal metabolite galiellalactone interferes with the nuclear import of NF-kappaB and inhibits HIV-1 replication. Galiellalactone (GL) is a metabolite produced by the fungus Galiella rufa that presents antitumor and immunomodulatory activities. GL interferes with the binding to DNA of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-3 and also inhibits other signal pathways such as NF-kappaB, but the mechanism of action in this pathway remains unknown. In this study we report that GL inhibits vesicular stomatitis virus-recombinant HIV-1 infection and the NF-kappaB-dependent transcriptional activity of the HIV-LTR promoter. We found that GL prevents the binding of NF-kappaB to DNA but neither affects the phosphorylation and degradation of NF-kappaB inhibitory protein, IkappaBalpha, nor the phosphorylation and acetylation of the NF-kappaB p65 subunit. However, GL prevents the association of p65 with the importin alpha3 impairing the nuclear translocation of this transcription factor. Using a biotinylated probe we found that GL binds to p65 but not to importin alpha3. Therefore, GL is a dual NF-kappaB/STAT3 inhibitor that could serve as a lead compound for the development of novel drugs against HIV-1, cancer and inflammatory diseases. 
24695099 | Immune subversion by Mycobacterium tuberculosis through CCR5 mediated signaling: involvement of IL-10. Tuberculosis is characterized by severe immunosuppression of the host macrophages, resulting in the loss of the host protective immune responses. During Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, the pathogen modulates C-C Chemokine Receptor 5 (CCR5) to enhance IL-10 production, indicating the possible involvement of CCR5 in regulation of the host immune response. Here, we found that Mycobacterium infection significantly increased CCR5 expression in macrophages there by facilitating the activation of its downstream signaling. These events culminated in up-regulation of the immunosuppressive cytokine IL-10 production, which was further associated with the down-regulation of macrophage MHC-II expression along with the up-regulation of CCR5 expression via engagement of STAT-3 in a positive feedback loop. Treatment of macrophages with CCR5 specific siRNA abrogated the IL-10 production and restored MHCII expression. While, in vivo CCR5 silencing was also effective for the restoration of host immune responses against tuberculosis. This study demonstrated that CCR5 played a very critical role for the immune subversion mechanism employed by the pathogen. 
24814927 | Rotavirus inhibits IFN-induced STAT nuclear translocation by a mechanism that acts after STAT binding to importin-alpha. The importance of innate immunity to rotaviruses is exemplified by the range of strategies evolved by rotaviruses to interfere with the IFN response. We showed previously that rotaviruses block gene expression induced by type I and II IFNs, through a mechanism allowing activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1 and STAT2 but preventing their nuclear accumulation. This normally occurs through activated STAT1/2 dimerization, enabling an interaction with importin alpha5 that mediates transport into the nucleus. In rotavirus-infected cells, STAT1/2 inhibition may limit the antiviral actions of IFN produced early in infection. Here we further analysed the block to STAT1/2 nuclear accumulation, showing that activated STAT1 accumulates in the cytoplasm in rotavirus-infected cells. STAT1/2 nuclear accumulation was inhibited by rotavirus even in the presence of the nuclear export inhibitor Leptomycin B, demonstrating that enhanced nuclear export is not involved in STAT1/2 cytoplasmic retention. The ability to inhibit STAT nuclear translocation was completely conserved amongst the group A rotaviruses tested, including a divergent avian strain. Analysis of mutant rotaviruses indicated that residues after amino acid 47 of NSP1 are dispensable for STAT inhibition. Furthermore, expression of any of the 12 Rhesus monkey rotavirus proteins did not inhibit IFN-stimulated STAT1 nuclear translocation. Finally, co-immunoprecipitation experiments from transfected epithelial cells showed that STAT1/2 binds importin alpha5 normally following rotavirus infection. These findings demonstrate that rotavirus probably employs a novel strategy to inhibit IFN-induced STAT signalling, which acts after STAT activation and binding to the nuclear import machinery. 
25121743 | How a virus blocks a cellular emergency access lane to the nucleus, STAT! Early in viral infection, the STAT1 transcription factor is rapidly transported into the nucleus using a nonconventional import mechanism to establish an antiviral state. In this issue, Xu et al. (2014) show how the Ebola virus VP24 protein precisely blocks specialized STAT1 import while leaving other cellular import processes intact. 
26000204 | Immunosuppressive mechanisms of human bone marrow derived mesenchymal stromal cells in BALB/c host graft versus host disease murine models. BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) are proven to have immunosuppressive functions via various mechanisms. These mechanisms were demonstrated by administering bone marrow derived human MSCs (hMSCs) to graft versus host disease (GVHD) murine models. METHODS: BALB/c host mice were irradiated prior to receiving C57BL/6 donor T cell depleted bone marrow (TCDBM) cells (negative control) and donor CD4+ T lymphocyte with (treatment group) or without hMSCs (positive control). The presence of hMSCs in target tissues and lymphoid organs was documented by using in vivo imaging and measuring the expression of EphB2 and ephrin-B2 by RTqPCR. Survival rate and GVHD score were also monitored. Tissue sections were obtained for histopathologic analysis. Flow cytometry was used to document donor T cell alloreactivity and expression of CCR5, CXCR3 and CCR7. ELISA was utilized to determine levels of proinflammatory cytokines, RANTES (CCL5) and phosphorylated STAT 5A/B. RTqPCR was performed to quantify expression of CCL3 and CXCL9. Western blotting was performed to qualitatively measure iNOS expression. RESULTS: Survival rate and GVHD score improved with hMSC treatment. Pathologic changes of GVHD were abrogated. Documentation of suppression of RANTES, CCL3, CXCL9, CCR5 and CXCR3 with simultaneous decrease of donor T cell alloreactivity was demonstrated 6 days after transplantation, along with reduction of levels of inflammatory cytokines, suppression of STAT 5A/B phosphorylation, increased expression of CCR7 and increased production of nitrous oxide by hMSCs. Documentation of homing of hMSCs to lymphoid organs and target tissues was also performed. CONCLUSIONS: These mechanisms contribute to the current understanding of MSC mechanisms of immunosuppression and forms a comprehensive picture of how they exert immunosuppression in an in vivo model of immune dysregulation.
26331426 | Hirsutinolide Series Inhibit Stat3 Activity, Alter GCN1, MAP1B, Hsp105, G6PD, Vimentin, TrxR1, and Importin alpha-2 Expression, and Induce Antitumor Effects against Human Glioma. We report that hirsutinolide series, 6, 7, 10, 11, 20, and 22, and the semisynthetic analogues, 30, 31, 33, and 36, inhibit constitutively active signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat)3 and malignant glioma phenotype. A position 13 lipophilic ester group is required for activity. Molecular modeling and nuclear magnetic resonance structural analyses reveal direct hirsutinolide:Stat3 binding. One-hour treatment of cells with 6 and 22 also upregulated importin subunit alpha-2 levels and repressed translational activator GCN1, microtubule-associated protein (MAP)1B, thioredoxin reductase (TrxR)1 cytoplasmic isoform 3, glucose-6-phosphate 1-dehydrogenase isoform a, Hsp105, vimentin, and tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein (TNAP)2 expression. Active hirsutinolides inhibited anchorage-dependent and three-dimensional spheroid growth, survival, and migration of human glioma lines and glioma patients' tumor-derived xenograft cells harboring constitutively active Stat3. Oral gavage delivery of 6 or 22 inhibited human glioma tumor growth in subcutaneous mouse xenografts. The inhibition of Stat3 signaling represents part of the hirsutinolide-mediated mechanisms to induce antitumor effects. 
26745853 | RUNX1 haploinsufficiency results in granulocyte colony-stimulating factor hypersensitivity. RUNX1/AML1 is among the most commonly mutated genes in human leukemia. Haploinsufficiency of RUNX1 causes familial platelet disorder with predisposition to myeloid malignancies (FPD/MM). However, the molecular mechanism of FPD/MM remains unknown. Here we show that murine Runx1(+/-) hematopoietic cells are hypersensitive to granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), leading to enhanced expansion and mobilization of stem/progenitor cells and myeloid differentiation block. Upon G-CSF stimulation, Runx1(+/-) cells exhibited a more pronounced phosphorylation of STAT3 as compared with Runx1(+/+) cells, which may be due to reduced expression of Pias3, a key negative regulator of STAT3 signaling, and reduced physical sequestration of STAT3 by RUNX1. Most importantly, blood cells from a FPD patient with RUNX1 mutation exhibited similar G-CSF hypersensitivity. Taken together, Runx1 haploinsufficiency appears to predispose FPD patients to MM by expanding the pool of stem/progenitor cells and blocking myeloid differentiation in response to G-CSF. 
26819451 | Next-Generation Sequencing in Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Highlights Molecular Divergence and Therapeutic Opportunities: a LYSA Study. PURPOSE: Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has detailed the genomic characterization of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) by identifying recurrent somatic mutations. We set out to design a clinically feasible NGS panel focusing on genes whose mutations hold potential therapeutic impact. Furthermore, for the first time, we evaluated the prognostic value of these mutations in prospective clinical trials. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A Lymphopanel was designed to identify mutations in 34 genes, selected according to literature and a whole exome sequencing study of relapsed/refractory DLBCL patients. The tumor DNA of 215 patients with CD20(+)de novo DLBCL in the prospective, multicenter, and randomized LNH-03B LYSA clinical trials was sequenced to deep, uniform coverage with the Lymphopanel. Cell-of-origin molecular classification was obtained through gene expression profiling with HGU133+2.0 Affymetrix GeneChip arrays. RESULTS: The Lymphopanel was informative for 96% of patients. A clear depiction of DLBCL subtype molecular heterogeneity was uncovered with the Lymphopanel, confirming that activated B-cell-like (ABC), germinal center B-cell like (GCB), and primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma (PMBL) are frequently affected by mutations in NF-kappaB, epigenetic, and JAK-STAT pathways, respectively. Novel truncating immunity pathway, ITPKB, MFHAS1, and XPO1 mutations were identified as highly enriched in PMBL. Notably, TNFAIP3 and GNA13 mutations in ABC patients treated with R-CHOP were associated with significantly less favorable prognoses. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the contribution of NGS with a consensus gene panel to personalized therapy in DLBCL, highlighting the molecular heterogeneity of subtypes and identifying somatic mutations with therapeutic and prognostic impact. Clin Cancer Res; 22(12); 2919-28.  2016 AACRSee related commentary by Lim and Elenitoba-Johnson, p. 2829.
28455446 | Enterovirus 71 suppresses interferon responses by blocking Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling through inducing karyopherin-alpha1 degradation. Enterovirus 71 (EV71) has emerged as one of the most important enteroviruses since the eradication of poliovirus, and it causes severe neurological symptoms for which no effective antiviral drugs are available. Type I interferons (IFN) alpha/beta have been used clinically as antiviral therapy as the first line of defense against virus infections successfully for decades. However, treatment with type I interferons has not been effective in patients with EV71 infection. In this study, we found that in cells pretreated with IFN-beta, EV71 infection could still lead to a cytopathic effect, and the viral replication was not affected. The mechanism by which EV71 antagonizes interferon signaling, however, has been controversial. Our study indicated that EV71 infection did not inhibit phosphorylation of STAT1/2 induced by IFN-beta stimulation, but p-STAT1/2 transport into the nucleus was significantly blocked. We showed that EV71 infection reduced the formation of STAT/karyopherin-alpha1 (KPNA1) complex upon interferon stimulation and that the virus down-regulated the expression of KPNA1, a nuclear localization signal receptor for p-STAT1. Using specific caspase inhibitors and siRNA for caspase-3, we demonstrated that EV71 infection induced degradation of cellular KPNA1 in a caspase-3-dependent manner, which led to decreased induction of interferon-inducible genes and IFN response. Viral 2A and 3C proteases did not degrade KPNA1, inhibit the activity of ISRE or suppress the transcription of interferon-inducible genes induced by IFN-beta. Our study demonstrates a novel mechanism by which antiviral signaling is suppressed through degradation of KPNA1 by activated caspase-3 induced in an enteroviral infection.
28863947 | The prenylflavonoid Icaritin enhances osteoblast proliferation and function by signal transducer and activator of transcription factor 3 (STAT-3) regulation of C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) expression. In this study, we examined the effects of a natural prenylflavonoid Icaritin (ICT), on human osteoblast proliferation and osteogenic function. We observed that ICT dose-dependently enhanced osteoblast proliferation by ~15% over a 7day period. This increase in cell proliferation was associated with corresponding increases in osteoblast functions as measured by ALP secretion, intracellular calcium ions influx and calcium deposition. These anabolic effects were associated with a 4-fold increase in CXCR4 mRNA and protein expression. Silencing of CXCR4 protein expression using small interfering RNA reversed ICT-induced increase in cell proliferation, ALP activity and calcium deposition. Interestingly, we observed that ICT dose-dependently increased STAT-3 phosphorylation; and this resulted in increased binding of phosphorylated STAT-3 to the promoter region of the CXCR4 gene, to increase CXCR4 protein expression. Furthermore, we found that inhibition of STAT-3 phosphorylation resulted in a decrease in CXCR4 protein expression; whilst increasing phosphorylation of STAT-3 using a constitutive active STAT-3 vector significantly increased CXCR4 levels. Moreover, the chemical inhibition of STAT-3 phosphorylation annulled our previously observed ICT-induced increases of osteoblast proliferation and function. Finally, in a rat model of estrogen-deficient osteoporosis, ICT restored both osteoblasts numbers and CXCR4 expression. Taken together, both cellular and animal models support the novel findings that ICT; through the phosphorylation of STAT-3, up-regulated CXCR4, to increase osteoblast proliferation and function.
29162878 | Comparative analysis of cytokine/chemokine regulatory networks in patients with hippocampal sclerosis (HS) and focal cortical dysplasia (FCD). Experimental and clinical evidence have demonstrated aberrant expression of cytokines/chemokines and their receptors in patients with hippocampal sclerosis (HS) and focal cortical dysplasia (FCD). However, there is limited information regarding the modulation of cytokine/chemokine-regulatory networks, suggesting contribution of miRNAs and downstream transcription factors/receptors in these pathologies. Hence, we studied the levels of multiple inflammatory mediators (IL1beta, IL1Ra, IL6, IL10, CCL3, CCL4, TNFalpha and VEGF) along with transcriptional changes of nine related miRNAs and mRNA levels of downstream effectors of significantly altered cytokines/chemokines in brain tissues obtained from patients with HS (n = 26) and FCD (n = 26). Up regulation of IL1beta, IL6, CCL3, CCL4, STAT-3, C-JUN and CCR5, and down regulation of IL 10 were observed in both HS and FCD cases (p < 0.05). CCR5 was significantly up regulated in FCD as compared to HS (p < 0.001). Both, HS and FCD presented decreased miR-223-3p, miR-21-5p, miR-204-5p and let-7a-5p and increased miR-155-5p expression (p < 0.05). As compared to HS, miR-204-5p (upstream to CCR5 and IL1beta) and miR-195-5p (upstream to CCL4) were significantly decreased in FCD patients (p < 0.01). Our results suggest differential alteration of cytokine/chemokine regulatory networks in HS and FCD and provide a rationale for developing pathology specific therapy.
29171984 | MicroRNA-1246 inhibits cell invasion and epithelial mesenchymal transition process by targeting CXCR4 in lung cancer cells. BACKGROUND: Recent studies have indicated that microRNAs (miRNAs) are closely related to lung cancer. However, the effects of miR-1246 on lung cancer are still elusive. In this study, we aimed to explore the molecular mechanisms of miR-1246 in lung cancer. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using RT-qPCR assay, we analyzed the expression of miR-1246 in lung cancer cell lines and lung epithelial cell line. Using Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8), flow cytometry, Transwell, RT-qPCR and western blot assays, we investigated cell viability, apoptosis, invasion and epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) process. Using luciferase reporter assay, we confirmed a target of miR-1246. Using western blot assay, we detected the protein mechanisms of Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) and phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT) signal pathways. RESULTS: Our results showed that miR-1246 was down-regulated in lung cancer cell lines (A549, H1650 and H1299) compared to in lung epithelial cell line (16HBE14o). MiR-1246 overexpression remarkably inhibited cell invasion as well as up-regulated E-cadherin expression and down-regulated N-cadherin, Vimentin, ZEB1 and Snail expressions in A549 cells. Further studies have confirmed CXCR4 as a target gene of miR-1246, and CXCR4 silence significantly abolished the promotion effect of miR-1246 suppression on cell invasion and EMT process in A549 cells. Besides, miR-1246 blocked JAK/STAT and PI3K/AKT signal pathways by regulation of CXCR4. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrated that miR-1246 inhibited cell invasion and EMT process by targeting CXCR4 and blocking JAK/STAT and PI3K/AKT signal pathways in lung cancer cells.
29501729 | STAT6 is a cargo of exportin 1: Biological relevance in primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma. Primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma (PMBL) is a distinct B-cell lymphoma subtype with unique clinicopathological and molecular features. PMBL cells are characterised by several genetic abnormalities that conduct to the constitutive activation of the Janus kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 (JAK2/STAT6) signalling pathway. Among recurrent genetic changes in PMBL, we previously reported that the XPO1 gene encoding exportin 1 that controls the nuclear export of cargo proteins and RNAs, is mutated (p.E571K) in about 25% of PMBL cases. We therefore hypothesized that STAT6 could be a cargo of XPO1 and that STAT6 cytoplasm/nucleus shuttle could be altered in a subset of PMBL cells. Using immunocytochemistry techniques as well as the proximity ligation assay, we showed that STAT6 bound XPO1 in PBML cell lines and in HEK-293 cells genetically engineered to produce STAT6. Moreover, XPO1-mediated export of STAT6 occurs in cells expressing either a wild-type or the E571K mutated XPO1 protein.
29679717 | STAT-3 regulation of CXCR4 is necessary for the prenylflavonoid Icaritin to enhance mesenchymal stem cell proliferation, migration and osteogenic differentiation. Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) dysfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of osteoporosis. MSCs derived from osteoporotic subjects demonstrate significant impairment in proliferation, adhesion and chemotaxis, and osteogenic differentiation, leading to reduced functional bone-forming osteoblasts and ultimately nett bone loss and osteoporosis. Epimedium herbs and its active compound Icaritin (ICT) have been used in Chinese ethnopharmacology for the treatment of metabolic bone diseases. Using an in-vitro cell culture model, we investigated the benefits of ICT treatment in enhancing MSC proliferation, migration and osteogenic differentiation, and provide novel data to describe its mechanism of action. ICT enhances MSC proliferation, chemotaxis to stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) and osteogenic differentiation through the activation of signal transduction activator transcription factor 3 (STAT-3), with a consequential up-regulation in the expression and activity of cysteine (C)-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4). These findings provide a strong basis for future clinical studies to confirm the therapeutic potential of ICT for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and fragility fractures.
29925658 | The Methyltransferase-Like Domain of Chikungunya Virus nsP2 Inhibits the Interferon Response by Promoting the Nuclear Export of STAT1. Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a mosquito-borne alphavirus that has evolved effective mechanisms to counteract the type I interferon (IFN) response. Upon recognition of the virus, cells secrete IFNs, which signal through transmembrane receptors (IFNAR) to phosphorylate STAT proteins (pSTAT). pSTAT dimers are transported into the nucleus by importin-alpha5 and activate the transcription of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs), increasing cellular resistance to infection. Subsequently, STAT proteins are shuttled back into the cytoplasm by the exportin CRM1. CHIKV nonstructural protein 2 (nsP2) reduces ISG expression by inhibiting general host cell transcription and by specifically reducing the levels of nuclear pSTAT1 via an unknown mechanism. To systematically examine where nsP2 acts within the JAK/STAT signaling cascade, we used two well-characterized mutants of nsP2, P718S and KR649AA. Both mutations abrogate nsP2's ability to shut off host transcription, but only the KR649AA mutant localizes exclusively to the cytoplasm and no longer specifically inhibits JAK/STAT signaling. These mutant nsP2 proteins did not differentially affect IFNAR expression levels or STAT1 phosphorylation in response to IFNs. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments showed that in the presence of nsP2, STAT1 still effectively bound importin-alpha5. Chemically blocking CRM1-mediated nuclear export in the presence of nsP2 additionally showed that nuclear translocation of STAT1 is not affected by nsP2. nsP2 putatively has five domains. Redirecting the nsP2 KR649AA mutant or just nsP2's C-terminal methyltransferase-like domain into the nucleus strongly reduced nuclear pSTAT in response to IFN stimulation. This demonstrates that the C-terminal domain of nuclear nsP2 specifically inhibits the IFN response by promoting the nuclear export of STAT1.IMPORTANCE Chikungunya virus is an emerging pathogen associated with large outbreaks on the African, Asian, European, and both American continents. In most patients, infection results in high fever, rash, and incapacitating (chronic) arthralgia. CHIKV effectively inhibits the first line of defense, the innate immune response. As a result, stimulation of the innate immune response with interferons (IFNs) is ineffective as a treatment for CHIKV disease. The IFN response requires an intact downstream signaling cascade called the JAK/STAT signaling pathway, which is effectively inhibited by CHIKV nonstructural protein 2 (nsP2) via an unknown mechanism. The research described here specifies where in the JAK/STAT signaling cascade the IFN response is inhibited and which protein domain of nsP2 is responsible for IFN inhibition. The results illuminate new aspects of antiviral defense and CHIKV counterdefense strategies and will direct the search for novel antiviral compounds.
30283452 | Redox-Mediated Mechanisms Fuel Monocyte Responses to CXCL12/HMGB1 in Active Rheumatoid Arthritis. Chemokine synergy-inducing molecules are emerging as regulating factors in cell migration. The alarmin HMGB1, in its reduced form, can complex with CXCL12 enhancing its activity on monocytes via the chemokine receptor CXCR4, while the form containing a disulfide bond, by binding to TLR2 or TLR4, initiates a cascade of events leading to production of cytokines and chemokines. So far, the possibility that the CXCL12/HMGB1 heterocomplex could be maintained in chronic inflammation was debated, due to the release of reactive oxygen species. Therefore, we have assessed if the heterocomplex could remain active in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) and its relevance in the disease assessment. Monocytes from RA patients with active disease require a low concentration of HMGB1 to enhance CXCL12-induced migration, in comparison to monocytes from patients in clinical remission or healthy donors. The activity of the heterocomplex depends on disease activity, on the COX2 and JAK/STAT pathways, and is determined by the redox potential of the microenvironment. In RA, the presence of an active thioredoxin system correlates with the enhanced cell migration, and with the presence of the heterocomplex in the synovial fluid. The present study highlights how, in an unbalanced microenvironment, the activity of the thioredoxin system plays a crucial role in sustaining inflammation. Prostaglandin E2 stimulation of monocytes from healthy donors is sufficient to recapitulate the response observed in patients with active RA. The activation of mechanisms counteracting the oxidative stress in the extracellular compartment preserves HMGB1 in its reduced form, and contributes to fuel the influx of inflammatory cells. Targeting the heterocomplex formation and its activity could thus be an additional tool for dampening the inflammation sustained by cell recruitment, for those patients with chronic inflammatory conditions who poorly respond to current therapies.
31301483 | Overcoming multiple drug resistance in lung cancer using siRNA targeted therapy. Among cancers, lung cancer is the most morbidity and mortality disease that is remaining the fatalist. Generally, there are multiple treatment procedures for lung cancer, such as surgery, immunotherapy, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. There is, therefore, an urgent need for more specified and efficient methods for treatment of lung cancer such as RNAi, which in combination with traditional therapies could silence genes that are involved in the drug resistance. These genes may either be motivators of apoptosis inhibition, EMT and DNA repair system promoters or a member of intracellular signaling pathways, such as JAK/STAT, RAS/RAF/MEK, PI3K/AKT, NICD, B-catenin/TCF/LEF and their stimulator receptors including IGFR, EGFR, FGFR, VEGFR, CXCR4, MET, INTEGRINS, NOTCH1 and FRIZZLED, so could be considered as appropriate targets. In current review, the results of multiple studies which have employed drug application after one specific gene silencing or more than one gene from distinct pathways also simultaneous drug and RNAi usage in vitro and in vivo in lung cancer were summarized.
31372333 | The role of CXCR4 in multiple myeloma: Cells' journey from bone marrow to beyond. CXCR4 is a pleiotropic chemokine receptor which acts through its ligand CXCL12 to regulate diverse physiological processes. CXCR4/CXCL12 axis plays a pivotal role in proliferation, invasion, dissemination and drug resistance in multiple myeloma (MM). Apart from its role in homing, CXCR4 also affects MM cell mobilization and egression out of the bone marrow (BM) which is correlated with distant organ metastasis. Aberrant CXCR4 expression pattern is associated with osteoclastogenesis and tumor growth in MM through its cross talk with various important cell signalling pathways. A deeper insight into understanding of CXCR4 mediated signalling pathways and its role in MM is essential to identify potential therapeutic interventions. The current therapeutic focus is on disrupting the interaction of MM cells with its protective tumor microenvironment where CXCR4 axis plays an essential role. There are still multiple challenges that need to be overcome to target CXCR4 axis more efficiently and to identify novel combination therapies with existing strategies. This review highlights the role of CXCR4 along with its significant interacting partners as a mediator of MM pathogenesis and summarizes the targeted therapies carried out so far.
31575039 | STAT3 Regulates the Type I IFN-Mediated Antiviral Response by Interfering with the Nuclear Entry of STAT1. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is a multifunctional factor that regulates inflammation and immunity. Knowledge of its regulatory mechanisms is very limited. Here, we showed that enterovirus 71 (EV71) infection induced the phosphorylation of STAT3 and the expression of its downstream inflammatory regulators. Knockdown of STAT3 with siRNAs significantly restricted viral RNA and protein levels, and also reduced viral titers. With further investigation, we found that importin alpha family member Karyopherin-alpha1 (KPNA1) was employed by both STAT1 and STAT3 for their nuclear import. The phosphorylated and un-phosphorylated STAT3 competed with STAT1 for binding to the decreased KPNA1 post infection and repressed downstream ISG expression. STAT3 knockdown alleviated the repressed type I IFN-mediated antiviral response upon infection and led to decreased viral replication. Taken together, our data suggested the role of STAT3 in maintaining the balance of inflammation and antiviral responses in the central nervous system (CNS) upon infection.
31629729 | Caveolin-1 as a critical component in the pathogenesis of lung fibrosis of different etiology: Evidences and mechanisms. Caveolin is a structural protein of flask-shaped invaginations of the plasma membrane termed as caveolae and is widely expressed on the endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells and fibroblasts in the different parts of the body including the lung tissues. The expression of caveolin-1 in the lung tissues is important to prevent the fibrogenic actions of TGF-beta1 in lung fibrosis of different etiology including idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease and allergen-induced airway remodeling. Caveolin-1-mediated internalization and degradation of TGF-beta1 receptors may possibly account for the decreased actions of TGF-beta1. Studies have shown that the deficiency of caveolin-1 is very important in inducing lung fibrosis and its upregulation is reported to prevent lung fibrosis. The biological actions of caveolin-1 involve signaling pathways including JNK signaling, IL-4, STAT-3, miR199a-5p, CXCR4+ and CXCL12. The present review discusses the key role of caveolin and associated signaling pathways in the pathogenesis of lung fibrosis of different etiology.
32119183 | C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 aggravates renal fibrosis through activating JAK/STAT/GSK3beta/beta-catenin pathway. Chronic kidney disease (CKD) has a high prevalence worldwide. Renal fibrosis is the common pathological feature in various types of CKD. However, the underlying mechanisms are not determined. Here, we adopted different CKD mouse models and cultured human proximal tubular cell line (HKC-8) to examine the expression of C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) and beta-catenin signalling, as well as their relationship in renal fibrosis. In CKD mice and humans with a variety of nephropathies, CXCR4 was dramatically up-regulated in tubules, with a concomitant activation of beta-catenin. CXCR4 expression level was positively correlated with the expression of beta-catenin target MMP-7. AMD3100, a CXCR4 receptor blocker, and gene knockdown of CXCR4 significantly inhibited the activation of JAK/STAT and beta-catenin signalling, protected against tubular injury and renal fibrosis. CXCR4-induced renal fibrosis was inhibited by treatment with ICG-001, an inhibitor of beta-catenin signalling. In HKC-8 cells, overexpression of CXCR4 induced activation of beta-catenin and deteriorated cell injury. These effects were inhibited by ICG-001. Stromal cell-derived factor (SDF)-1alpha, the ligand of CXCR4, stimulated the activation of JAK2/STAT3 and JAK3/STAT6 signalling in HKC-8 cells. Overexpression of STAT3 or STAT6 decreased the abundance of GSK3beta mRNA. Silencing of STAT3 or STAT6 significantly blocked SDF-1alpha-induced activation of beta-catenin and fibrotic lesions. These results uncover a novel mechanistic linkage between CXCR4 and beta-catenin activation in renal fibrosis in association with JAK/STAT/GSK3beta pathway. Our studies also suggest that targeted inhibition of CXCR4 may provide better therapeutic effects on renal fibrosis by inhibiting multiple downstream signalling cascades.
32733468 | Monocyte-Derived Dendritic Cell Differentiation in Inflammatory Arthritis Is Regulated by the JAK/STAT Axis via NADPH Oxidase Regulation. Monocyte-derived Dendritic cells (Mo-DC) are a distinct DC subset, involved in inflammation and infection, they originate from monocytes upon stimulation in the circulation and their activation and function may vary in autoimmune diseases. In this study we investigate the differences in Mo-DC differentiation and function in patients with Rheumatoid (RA) compared to Psoriatic arthritis (PsA). A significant increase in the Mo-DC differentiation marker CD209, paralleled by a corresponding decrease in the monocytic marker CD14, was demonstrated in RA compared to PsA, as early as 1 day post Mo-DC differentiation. RA monocytes ex-vivo were phenotypically different to PsA, displaying a more mature phenotype associated with altered cellular-morphology, early dendrite formation, and a significant increase in the CD40 marker. In addition, SPICE algorithm flow cytometric analysis showed distinct differences in chemokine receptors distribution in HC compared to PsA and RA CD14+ cells in the blood, with increased expression of the chemokine receptors CCR7 and CXCR4 observed in PsA and RA. In addition CD14+ cells at the site of inflammation showed a different chemokine receptor pattern between PsA and RA patients, with higher expression of CXCR3 and CXCR5 in RA when compared to PsA. The early priming observed in RA resulted in monocyte-endocytosis and antigen-uptake mechanisms to be impaired, effects that were not observed in PsA where phagocytosis capacity remained highly functional. Tofacitinib inhibited early Mo-DC differentiation, decreasing both CD209 and CD40 activation markers in RA. Inhibition of Mo-DC differentiation in response to Tofacitinib was mediated via an imbalance in the activation of NADPH-oxidases NOX5 and NOX2. This effect was reversed by NOX5 inhibition, but not NOX2, resulting in suppression of NOX5-dependent ROS production. In conclusion, RA monocytes are already primed ex vivo to become DC, evident by increased expression of activation markers, morphological appearance and impaired endocytosis capacity. Furthermore, we demonstrated for the first time that NOX5 mediates Mo-DC differentiation and function in response to Tofacitinib, which may alter DC functions.
32824665 | The Intrinsically Disordered W Protein Is Multifunctional during Henipavirus Infection, Disrupting Host Signalling Pathways and Nuclear Import. Nipah and Hendra viruses are highly pathogenic, zoonotic henipaviruses that encode proteins that inhibit the host's innate immune response. The W protein is one of four products encoded from the P gene and binds a number of host proteins to regulate signalling pathways. The W protein is intrinsically disordered, a structural attribute that contributes to its diverse host protein interactions. Here, we review the role of W in innate immune suppression through inhibition of both pattern recognition receptor (PRR) pathways and interferon (IFN)-responsive signalling. PRR stimulation leading to activation of IRF-3 and IFN release is blocked by henipavirus W, and unphosphorylated STAT proteins are sequestered within the nucleus of host cells by W, thereby inhibiting the induction of IFN stimulated genes. We examine the critical role of nuclear transport in multiple functions of W and how specific binding of importin-alpha (Impalpha) isoforms, and the 14-3-3 group of regulatory proteins suggests further modulation of these processes. Overall, the disordered nature and multiple functions of W warrant further investigation to understand henipavirus pathogenesis and may reveal insights aiding the development of novel therapeutics.
32979938 | Evasion of Type I Interferon by SARS-CoV-2. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) replication and host immune response determine coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), but studies evaluating viral evasion of immune response are lacking. Here, we use unbiased screening to identify SARS-CoV-2 proteins that antagonize type I interferon (IFN-I) response. We found three proteins that antagonize IFN-I production via distinct mechanisms: nonstructural protein 6 (nsp6) binds TANK binding kinase 1 (TBK1) to suppress interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) phosphorylation, nsp13 binds and blocks TBK1 phosphorylation, and open reading frame 6 (ORF6) binds importin Karyopherin alpha 2 (KPNA2) to inhibit IRF3 nuclear translocation. We identify two sets of viral proteins that antagonize IFN-I signaling through blocking signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1)/STAT2 phosphorylation or nuclear translocation. Remarkably, SARS-CoV-2 nsp1 and nsp6 suppress IFN-I signaling more efficiently than SARS-CoV and Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV). Thus, when treated with IFN-I, a SARS-CoV-2 replicon replicates to a higher level than chimeric replicons containing nsp1 or nsp6 from SARS-CoV or MERS-CoV. Altogether, the study provides insights on SARS-CoV-2 evasion of IFN-I response and its potential impact on viral transmission and pathogenesis.
33013914 | Dynamic and Differential Expression of Duplicated Cxcr4/Cxcl12 Genes Facilitates Antiviral Response in Hexaploid Gibel Carp. Chemokine receptor cxcr4 and its ligand cxcl12 have evolved two paralogs in the teleost lineage. In this study, we have identified four duplicated cxcr4 and cxcl12 genes from hexaploid gibel carp, Carassius gibelio, respectively. Cgcxcr4bs and Cgcxcl12as were dynamically and differentially expressed in immune-related tissues, and significantly up-regulated in head kidney and spleen after crucian carp herpesvirus (CaHV) infection. Blocking Cxcr4/Cxcl12 axis by injecting AMD3100 brought more severe bleeding symptom and lower survival rate in CaHV-infected fish. AMD3100 treatment also suppressed the up-regulation of key antiviral genes in head kidney and spleen, and resulted in more acute replication of CaHV in vivo. Consistently, the similar suppression of up-regulated expression of key antiviral genes were also observed in CAB cells treated by AMD3100 after poly(I:C) stimulation. Finally, MAPK3 and JAK/STAT were identified as the possible pathways that CgCxcr4s and CgCxcl12s participate in to promote the antiviral response in vitro.
33097660 | SARS-CoV-2 Orf6 hijacks Nup98 to block STAT nuclear import and antagonize interferon signaling. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the causative agent of the ongoing coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic that is a serious global health problem. Evasion of IFN-mediated antiviral signaling is a common defense strategy that pathogenic viruses use to replicate and propagate in their host. In this study, we show that SARS-CoV-2 is able to efficiently block STAT1 and STAT2 nuclear translocation in order to impair transcriptional induction of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs). Our results demonstrate that the viral accessory protein Orf6 exerts this anti-IFN activity. We found that SARS-CoV-2 Orf6 localizes at the nuclear pore complex (NPC) and directly interacts with Nup98-Rae1 via its C-terminal domain to impair docking of cargo-receptor (karyopherin/importin) complex and disrupt nuclear import. In addition, we show that a methionine-to-arginine substitution at residue 58 impairs Orf6 binding to the Nup98-Rae1 complex and abolishes its IFN antagonistic function. All together our data unravel a mechanism of viral antagonism in which a virus hijacks the Nup98-Rae1 complex to overcome the antiviral action of IFN.
33810944 | Cyanidin attenuates IL-17A cytokine signaling mediated monocyte migration and differentiation into mature osteoclasts in rheumatoid arthritis. Interleukin (IL)-17A signaling pathway plays a critical role in the initiation and progression of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and represents a viable target for RA therapy. Cyanidin, a flavonoid compound, is a novel inhibitor of IL-17A/IL-17RA (receptor subunit A) interaction in several inflammatory diseases. However, the therapeutic efficacy of cyanidin on IL-17A cytokine signaling induced monocyte migration and fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) released RANKL mediated osteoclastogenesis in RA has not yet been deciphered. In the present study, cyanidin impeded IL-17A induced migration of monocytes isolated from adjuvant-induced arthritic (AA) rats. At the molecular level, cyanidin blocked the activation of p38MAPK signaling in response to IL-17A. Importantly, cyanidin downregulated IL-17A induced expression of HSP27, CXCR4, and CCR7 in AA monocytes via modulating IL-17/p38 MAPK signaling axis. Alternatively, cyanidin significantly suppressed the formation of matured osteoclasts and bone resorption in a coculture system consisting of IL-17 treated AA-FLS and rat bone marrow-derived monocytes/macrophages. Further, cyanidin significantly inhibited the expression of RANKL and increased the expression of OPG in AA-FLS via blunted activation of IL-17A/STAT-3 signaling cascade. Interestingly, cyanidin impaired IL-17A induced overexpression of IL-17RA. Taken together, our study proposes a novel therapeutic function of cyanidin towards targeted inhibition of IL-17A/IL-17RA signaling mediated disease severity and bone erosion in RA.
33843403 | CXCR4 allows T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia to escape from JAK1/2 and BCL2 inhibition through CNS infiltration. Targeting the JAK/STAT and BCL2 pathways in patients with relapsed/refractory T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) may provide an alternative approach to achieve clinical remissions. Ruxolitinib and venetoclax show a dose-dependent effect on T-ALL individually, but combination treatment reduces survival and proliferation of T-ALL in vitro. Using a xenograft model, the combination treatment fails to improve survival, with death from hind limb paralysis. Despite on-target inhibition by the drugs, histopathology demonstrates increased leukemic infiltration into the central nervous system (CNS) as compared to liver or bone marrow. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectroscopy shows that ruxolitinib and venetoclax insufficiently cross into the CNS. The addition of the CXCR4 inhibitor plerixafor with ruxolitinib and venetoclax reduces clinical scores and enhances survival. While combination therapy with ruxolitinib and venetoclax shows promise for treating T-ALL, additional inhibition of the CXCR4-CXCL12 axis may be needed to maximize the possibility of complete remission.
34082024 | ATR inhibition amplifies antitumor effects of olaparib in biliary tract cancer. Olaparib, a potent PARP inhibitor, has been shown to have great anti-tumor effects in some tumor types. Although biliary tract cancer (BTC) is a good candidate for DNA damage response (DDR)-targeted agents, targeted DDR inhibitors, including olaparib, are currently rarely evaluated in BTC. In our project, a total of ten BTC cell lines were used to assess the efficacy of olaparib. Olaparib alone showed moderate anti-proliferative effects in BTC cells and increased p-ATR and PD-L1 expression levels. In combination with an ATR inhibitor (AZD6738, ceralasertib) showed synergistic anti-proliferative effects and increased DNA strand breaks in vitro. PD-L1 induced by olaparib was also downregulated by ceralasertib through p-STAT-3 and YAP reduction with or without human primary peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In SNU478-xenograft models, the combination treatment significantly suppressed tumor growth. PD-L1 and YAP were strongly downregulated, similar to in vitro conditions, and expression of CXCR2 and CXCR4 was further reduced. In the current ongoing clinical trial (NCT04298021), BTC patients treated with olaparib and ceralasertib combination have shown tumor response. In conclusion, co-targeting of PARP and ATR might be a potential therapeutic approach for patients with BTC.
34419959 | Anticancer properties of novel zinc oxide quantum dot nanoparticles against breast cancer stem-like cells. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) play an essential role in cancer development, metastasis, relapse, and resistance to treatment. In this article, the effects of three synthesized ZnO nanofluids on proliferation, apoptosis, and stemness markers of breast cancer stem-like cells are reported. The antiproliferative and apoptotic properties of ZnO nanoparticles were evaluated on breast cancer stem-like cell-enriched mammospheres by MTS assay and flowcytometry, respectively. The expression of stemness markers, including WNT1, NOTCH1, beta-catenin, CXCR4, SOX2, and ALDH3A1 was assessed by real-time PCR. Western blotting was used to analyze the phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3). Markers of stemness were significantly decreased by ZnO nanofluids, especially sample (c) with code ZnO-148 with a different order of addition of polyethylene glycol solution at the end of formulation, which considerably decreased all the markers compared to the controls. All the studied ZnO nanofluids considerably reduced viability and induced apoptosis of spheroidal and parental cells, with ZnO-148 presenting the most effective activity. Using CD95L as a death ligand and ZB4 as an extrinsic apoptotic pathway blocker, it was revealed that none of the nanoparticles induced apoptosis through the extrinsic pathway. Results also showed a marked inhibition of the JAK/STAT pathway by ZnO nanoparticles; confirmed by downregulation of Mcl-1 and Bcl-XL expression. The present data demonstrated that ZnO nanofluids could combat breast CSCs via decreasing stemness markers, stimulating apoptosis, and suppressing JAK/STAT activity.
34467524 | Patients with systemic sclerosis show phenotypic and functional defects in neutrophils. BACKGROUND: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a multiorgan autoimmune disease characterized by inflammation, vascular modification, and progressive fibrosis of the skin and several visceral organs. Innate and adaptive immune cells, including myeloid, B and T cells, are believed to be central to the pathogenesis of SSc. However, the role and functional state of neutrophil granulocytes (neutrophils) are ill-defined in SSc. METHODS: We performed a prospective study of neutrophils freshly isolated from SSc patients and healthy donors (HD) by measuring in these neutrophils (i) functional cell surface markers, including CD16, CD62L, CD66b, CD66c, CXCR1, CXCR2, and CXCR4; (ii) cytokine-activated intracellular signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathways, such as phosphorylated STAT3 (pSTAT3), pSTAT5, and pSTAT6; (iii) production of neutrophil extracellular traps (NET) and intracellular myeloperoxidase (MPO); and (iv) phagocytosis of bacteria by the neutrophils. RESULTS: Neutrophils of SSc patients expressed lower CD16 and CD62L and higher pSTAT3 and pSTAT6 compared to HD. Moreover, neutrophils of SSc patients lacked CXCR1 and CXCR2, the receptors responding to the potent neutrophil chemoattractant CXCL8. Neutrophils of SSc patients were also deficient in MPO levels, NET formation, and phagocytosis of bacteria. CONCLUSIONS: Neutrophils of patients with SSc display several functional defects affecting cell migration, NET formation, and phagocytosis of bacteria.
34493195 | Computational Analysis Illustrates the Mechanism of Qingfei Paidu Decoction in Blocking the Transition of COVID-19 Patients from Mild to Severe Stage. BACKGROUND: The epidemic of SARS-CoV-2 has made COVID-19 a serious threat to human health around the world. The severe infections of SARS-CoV-2 are usually accompanied by higher mortality. Although the Qingfei Paidu Decoction (QFPDD) has been proved to be effective in blocking the transition of COVID-19 patients from mild to severe stage, its mechanism remains unclear. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to explore the mechanism of QFPDD in blocking the transition of COVID- 19 patients from mild to severe stage. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the process of screening active ingredients, oral bioavailability (OB) and drug likeness (DL) are key indicators, which can help to screen out pivotal compounds. Therefore, with the criteria of OB>=30% and DL>=0.18, we searched active ingredients of QFPDD in the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP, https://tcmspw.com/) by using its 21 herbs as keywords. RESULTS: We filtered out 6 pivotal ingredients from QFPDD by using the bioinformatics method, namely quercetin, luteolin, berberine, hederagenin, shionone and kaempferol, which can inhibit the highly expressed genes (i.e. CXCR4, ICAM1, CXCL8, CXCL10, IL6, IL2, CCL2, IL1B, IL4, IFNG) in severe COVID-19 patients. By performing KEGG enrichment analysis, we found seven pathways, namely TNF signaling pathway, IL-17 signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, NFkappa B signaling pathway, HIF-1 signaling pathway, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, and Th17 cell differentiation, by which QFPDD could block the transition of COVID-19 patients from mild to severe stage. CONCLUSION: QFPDD can prevent the deterioration of COVID-19 in the following mechanisms, i.e. inhibiting SARS-CoV-2 invasion and replication, anti-inflammatory and immune regulation, and repairing body damage. These results will be helpful for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19.
35069519 | Filovirus VP24 Proteins Differentially Regulate RIG-I and MDA5-Dependent Type I and III Interferon Promoter Activation. Filovirus family consists of highly pathogenic viruses that have caused fatal outbreaks especially in many African countries. Previously, research focus has been on Ebola, Sudan and Marburg viruses leaving other filoviruses less well studied. Filoviruses, in general, pose a significant global threat since they are highly virulent and potentially transmissible between humans causing sporadic infections and local or widespread epidemics. Filoviruses have the ability to downregulate innate immunity, and especially viral protein 24 (VP24), VP35 and VP40 have variably been shown to interfere with interferon (IFN) gene expression and signaling. Here we systematically analyzed the ability of VP24 proteins of nine filovirus family members to interfere with retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and melanoma differentiation-associated antigen 5 (MDA5) induced IFN-beta and IFN-lambda1 promoter activation. All VP24 proteins were localized both in the cell cytoplasm and nucleus in variable amounts. VP24 proteins of Zaire and Sudan ebolaviruses, Lloviu, Tai Forest, Reston, Marburg and Bundibugyo viruses (EBOV, SUDV, LLOV, TAFV, RESTV, MARV and BDBV, respectively) were found to inhibit both RIG-I and MDA5 stimulated IFN-beta and IFN-lambda1 promoter activation. The inhibition takes place downstream of interferon regulatory factor 3 phosphorylation suggesting the inhibition to occur in the nucleus. VP24 proteins of Mengla (MLAV) or Bombali viruses (BOMV) did not inhibit IFN-beta or IFN-lambda1 promoter activation. Six ebolavirus VP24s and Lloviu VP24 bound tightly, whereas MARV and MLAV VP24s bound weakly, to importin alpha5, the subtype that regulates the nuclear import of STAT complexes. MARV and MLAV VP24 binding to importin alpha5 was very weak. Our data provides new information on the innate immune inhibitory mechanisms of filovirus VP24 proteins, which may contribute to the pathogenesis of filovirus infections.
35095831 | CD209/CD14+ Dendritic Cells Characterization in Rheumatoid and Psoriatic Arthritis Patients: Activation, Synovial Infiltration, and Therapeutic Targeting. Dendritic cells (DC) have a key role in the initiation and progression of inflammatory arthritis (IA). In this study, we identified a DC population that derive from monocytes, characterized as CD209/CD14+ DC, expressing classical DC markers (HLADR, CD11c) and the Mo-DC marker (CD209), while also retaining the monocytic marker CD14. This CD209/CD14+ DC population is present in the circulation of Healthy Control (HC), with increased frequency in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) and Psoriatic arthritic (PsA) patients. We demonstrate, for the first time, that circulatory IA CD209/CD14+ DC express more cytokines (IL1beta/IL6/IL12/TNFalpha) and display a unique chemokine receptor expression and co-expression profiles compared to HC. We demonstrated that CD209/CD14+ DC are enriched in the inflamed joint where they display a unique inflammatory and maturation phenotype, with increased CD40 and CD80 and co-expression of specific chemokine receptors, displaying unique patterns between PsA and RA. We developed a new protocol of magnetic isolation and expansion for CD209+ DC from blood and identified transcriptional differences involved in endocytosis/antigen presentation between RA and PsA CD209+ DC. In addition, we observed that culture of healthy CD209+ DC with IA synovial fluid (SF), but not Osteoarthritis (OA) SF, was sufficient to induce the development of CD209/CD14+ DC, leading to a poly-mature DC phenotype. In addition, differential effects were observed in terms of chemokine receptor and chemokine expression, with healthy CD209+ DC displaying increased expression/co-expression of CCR6, CCR7, CXCR3, CXCR4 and CXCR5 when cultured with RA SF, while an increase in the chemokines CCR3, CXCL10 and CXCL11 was observed when cultured with PsA SF. This effect may be mediated in part by the observed differential increase in chemokines expressed in RA vs PsA SF. Finally, we observed that the JAK/STAT pathway, but not the NF-kappaB pathway (driven by TNFalpha), regulated CD209/CD14+ DC function in terms of activation, inflammatory state, and migratory capacity. In conclusion, we identified a novel CD209/CD14+ DC population, which is active in the circulation of RA and PsA, an effect potentiated once they enter the joint. Furthermore, we demonstrated that JAK/STAT inhibition can be used as a therapeutic strategy to decrease the inflammatory state of the pathogenic CD209/CD14+ DC.
35116714 | Pan-cancer analysis of CXCR4 carcinogenesis in human tumors. BACKGROUND: C-X-C chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) is a specific receptor of stromal cell-derived factor-1, also known as CXCL12. The interaction between CXCL12 and its receptor CXCR4 can activate various signaling pathways, including gene expression, cell proliferation, migration, tumorigenesis, angiogenesis, etc. Although there is evidence to support the association between CXCR4 and some cancers, there is no pan-cancer analysis. To fill this gap, we analyzed the role of CXCR4 in cancer-based on The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). METHODS: We used TCGA, Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) and Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) databases to analyze the expression, variation and phosphorylation of CXCR4 in different cancers. At the same time, we also carried out Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis. RESULTS: We found that CXCR4 expression was significantly increased in bladder urothelial carcinoma (BLCA) and other cancers, and CXCR4 expression in BLCA, cervical squamous cell carcinoma (CESC) and other cancers was related to tumor stage. CXCR4 expression was positively correlated with tumor-associated fibroblasts in BLCA, breast adenocarcinoma (BRCA), CESC and other cancers. GO analysis showed that CXCR4-related genes were mainly enriched in biological processes (BPs) and cellular components (CCs). KEGG analysis showed that CXCR4 was mainly involved in \chemokine signaling pathway\, \natural killer cell-mediated cytotoxicity\, and \JAK-STAT signaling pathway\. CONCLUSIONS: The expression of CXCR4 in different cancers has different effects on the prognosis of patients and the infiltration of immune cells.
35462338 | CXCL12 inhibits hair growth through CXCR4. CXCL12 and its receptors, which are highly expressed in the skin, are associated with various cutaneous diseases, including androgenic alopecia. However, their expression and role during the hair cycle are unknown. This study aims to investigate the expression of CXCL12 and its receptor, CXCR4, in the vicinity of hair follicles and their effect on hair growth. CXCL12 was highly expressed in dermal fibroblasts (DFs) and its level was elevated throughout the catagen and telogen phases of the hair cycle. CXCR4 is expressed in the dermal papilla (DP) and outer root sheath (ORS). In hair organ culture, hair loss was induced by recombinant CXCL12 therapy, which delayed the telogen-to-anagen transition and decreased hair length. In contrast, the suppression of CXCL12 using a neutralizing antibody and siRNA triggered the telogen-to-anagen transition and increased hair length in hair organ culture. Neutralization of CXCR7, one of the two receptors for CXCL12, only slightly affected hair growth. However, inhibition of CXCR4, the other receptor for CXCL12, increased hair growth to a considerable extent. In addition, in hair organ culture, the conditioned medium from DFs with CXCL12 siRNA considerably increased the hair length and induced proliferation of DP and ORS cells. CXCL12, through CXCR4 activation, increased STAT3 and STAT5 phosphorylation in DP and ORS cells. In contrast, blocking CXCL12 and CXCR4 decreased the phosphorylation of STAT3 and STAT5. In summary, these findings suggest that CXCL12 inhibits hair growth via the CXCR4/STAT signaling pathway and that CXCL12/CXCR4 pathway inhibitors are a promising treatment option for hair growth.
36077241 | Potential Application of Leelamine as a Novel Regulator of Chemokine-Induced Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition in Breast Cancer Cells. CXCR7 and CXCR4 are G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that can be stimulated by CXCL12 in various human cancers. CXCR7/4-CXCL12 binding can initiate activation of multiple pathways including JAK/STAT and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) signaling, and initiate epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process. It is established that cancer cell invasion and migration are caused because of these events. In particular, the EMT process is an important process that can determine the prognosis for cancer. Since the antitumor effect of leelamine (LEE) has been reported in various previous studies, here, we have evaluated the influence of LEE on the CXCR7/4 signaling axis and EMT processes. We first found that LEE suppressed expression of CXCR7 and CXCR4 both at the protein and mRNA levels, and showed inhibitory effects on these chemokines even after stimulation by CXCL12 ligand. In addition, LEE also reduced the level of MnSOD and inhibited the EMT process to attenuate the invasion and migration of breast cancer cells. In addition, phosphorylation of the JAK/STAT pathway, which acts down-stream of these chemokines, was also abrogated by LEE. It was also confirmed that LEE can induce an imbalance of GSH/GSSG and increases ROS, thereby resulting in antitumor activity. Thus, we establish that targeting CXCR7/4 in breast cancer cells can not only inhibit the invasion and migration of cancer cells but also can affect JAK/STAT, EMT process, and production of ROS. Overall, the findings suggest that LEE can function as a novel agent affecting the breast cancer.
36609711 | Breast tumor metastasis following filgrastim administration due to the SDF-1/CXCR4 pathway. Filgrastim, a recombinant type of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), has a high potential to manage chemotherapy-induced leukopenia. It can increase stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1) which may stimulate C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) to migrate bone marrow-derived stem/progenitor cells to the bloodstream. Here, we aimed to investigate in vitro and in vivo effects of filgrastim on cell migration, invasion, and metastasis. A lentivirus vector of the anti-CXCR4 receptor was first used for the CXCR4 knockout. Effects of filgrastim on cell proliferation and migration were then investigated on 4T1 cells by Transwell migration and wound healing assay. At last, the effects of filgrastim on cell metastasis and the possible involved mechanisms have been investigated in a metastatic murine breast tumor. The knockout of the CXCR4 receptor could lead to a decrease in cell proliferation, migration, and invasion of the 4T1 cells. Filgrastim could directly target SDF-1 and upregulate the expression of the CXCR4 receptor. The knockout of the CXCR4 receptor reduced cell metastasis in an animal model of breast cancer. CXCR4 receptor stimulation by the filgrastim-affected pathways is a conserved evolutionary response that could increase cancer cell proliferation and consequent cell metastasis. Our results suggest that the activation of the CXCR4 receptor is a conserved evolutionary response that can increase cell proliferation, migration, and consequent metastasis. It seems that filgrastim may increase the chance of cancer cell metastasis in people continuously receiving it to increase the number of neutrophils. Filgrastim induces the SDF-1/CXCR4 axis on tumor cell growth. SDF-1 and its receptor CXCR4 are vital targets for filgrastim. The CXCR4 can stimulate the PI3K/AKT, NF-kappaB, and JAK/STAT signaling pathways. The SDF-1/CXCR4 pathway promotes cell chemotaxis and proliferation via MAPKs signaling. It also enhances cell survival, proliferation, and angiogenesis, increasing tumor cell metastasis. The STAT3-mediated inflammation is essential for tumorigenesis processes, and Akt, Wnt, STAT3, and CXCR4 signaling pathways are all correlated. CXCR4 = C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4, SDF-1 = stromal-derived-factor-1, MAPK = mitogen activated protein kinase; NF-kappaB = nuclear factor-kappaB, PI3K = phosphoinositide 3-kinase, JAK = Janus kinase, STAT = signal transducer and activator of transcription, PLC = phospholipase C, PKC = Protein kinase C, GRK = G protein-coupled receptor kinase.
36656397 | CXCR4 as possible druggable target linking inflammatory bowel disease and Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic, progressive, and second most prevalent neurological disorder affecting the motor system. It has been found that people suffering with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are at 22% more risk for PD. In the current study, we have established a molecular link between gut and brain. The microarray gene expression datasets of Homo sapiens were obtained from Gene Expression Omnibus Database. Major genes involved in gut-brain connection were found to be CXCR4, LRRK2, APOE, SNCA, IL6, HIF-1alpha, ABCA1 etc. The common biological pathways linking both the pathologies were found to be HIF-signaling, cytokines interactions, JAK-STAT pathway, cholesterol metabolism, apoptosis and CXCR4 signaling which modulates the synaptic function and neuronal survival in the mature brain. It is known that flavonoid-rich foods throughout life hold the potential to limit the inflammation, neurodegeneration and, to prevent the age-dependent cognitive impairment. Therefore, the potential receptor, CXCR4 was used further for docking with twenty-seven phytochemicals from 5 different classes of Flavonoids found in several dietary items. Docking studies of the top scoring compounds were compared with a known inhibitor (BPRCX807) of receptor CXCR4 (IC50 = 40.4 +- 8.0 nM). The study indicates that Flavan-3-ol families of flavonoids are the best fit and finest dietary supplements for improving brain health. Hence the food items like Pistachio nuts, hazelnuts, Green Tea, walnuts, etc. should be incorporated more in the diet of healthy people as well as in IBD and PD patients to prevent inflammation in gut and brain damage from oxidative stress.
36707041 | Potential function of loliolide as a novel blocker of epithelial-mesenchymal transition in colorectal and breast cancer cells. Loliolide (LL), a naturally occurring monoterpenoid lactone isolated from Vicia tenuifolia Roth, can exhibit numerous pharmacological effects such as those related to anti-Parkinson, anti-oxidant, anti-cholinesterase, and anti-depressant. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays a pivotal role in regulating tumor metastasis. CXCR4 and CXCR7 are G-protein-coupled receptors (GPRs), which can be stimulated by CXCL12. CXCL12/CXCR4/CXCXR7 axis can cause activation of multiple pathways including MAPKs, JAK/STAT pathway, and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) signaling. These events can initiate EMT process and induce cell invasion and migration. Here, we investigated whether LL can modulate the CXCR4 and CXCR7 and EMT process in colon cancer and breast cancer cells. We found that LL suppressed levels of CXCR4 and CXCR7, and exerted an inhibitory effect on these chemokines even after stimulation by CXCL12. LL suppressed expression of MnSOD and mesenchymal markers, whereas induced epithelial markers. In addition, LL significantly attenuated cellular invasion, migration, and metastasis. We noted that LL inhibited CXCR4/7 and EMT process even after stimulation of CXCL12 and MnSOD overexpression. Therefore, in this study, we provide evidences that targeting CXCR4/7 and MnSOD could inhibit the invasion, migration, and metastasis of cancer cells as well as negatively regulate the EMT process. Overall, our study suggested that LL might act as a potent suppressor of EMT process against colon and breast cancer cells.
36780103 | The Bone Marrow Immune Microenvironment in CML: Treatment Responses, Treatment-Free Remission, and Therapeutic Vulnerabilities. PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are very successful for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) but are not curative in most patients due to persistence of TKI-resistant leukaemia stem cells (LSCs). The bone marrow immune microenvironment (BME) provides protection to the LSC through multidimensional interactions, driving therapy resistance, and highlighting the need to circumvent these protective niches therapeutically. This review updates the evidence for interactions between CML cells and the immune microenvironment with a view to identifying targetable therapeutic vulnerabilities and describes what is known about the role of immune regulation in treatment-free remission (TFR). RECENT FINDINGS: Intracellular signalling downstream of the chemotactic CXCL12-CXCR4 axis, responsible for disrupted homing in CML, has been elucidated in LSCs, highlighting novel therapeutic opportunities. In addition, LSCs expressing CXCL12-cleaving surface protein CD26 were highly correlated with CML burden, building on existing evidence. Newer findings implicate the adhesion molecule CD44 in TKI resistance, while JAK/STAT-mediated resistance to TKIs may occur downstream of extrinsic signalling in the BME. Exosomal BME-LSC cross-communication has also been explored. Finally, further detail on the phenotypes of natural killer (NK) cells putatively involved in maintaining successful TFR has been published, and NK-based immunotherapies are discussed. Recent studies highlight and build on our understanding of the BME in CML persistence and TKI resistance, pinpointing therapeutically vulnerable interactions. Repurposing existing drugs and/or the development of novel inhibitors targeting these relationships may help to overcome these issues in TKI-resistant CML and be used as adjuvant therapy for sustained TFR.
36822100 | Retraction notice to \Down-regulated microRNA-195-5p and up-regulated CXCR4 attenuates the heart function injury of heart failure mice via inactivating JAK/STAT pathway\ [Int. Immunopharmacol. 82 (2020) 106225]. 
36949176 | Bioinformatics-based investigation on the genetic influence between SARS-CoV-2 infections and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) diseases, and drug repurposing. Some recent studies showed that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infections and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) disease might stimulate each other through the shared genes. Therefore, in this study, an attempt was made to explore common genomic biomarkers for SARS-CoV-2 infections and IPF disease highlighting their functions, pathways, regulators and associated drug molecules. At first, we identified 32 statistically significant common differentially expressed genes (cDEGs) between disease (SARS-CoV-2 and IPF) and control samples of RNA-Seq profiles by using a statistical r-package (edgeR). Then we detected 10 cDEGs (CXCR4, TNFAIP3, VCAM1, NLRP3, TNFAIP6, SELE, MX2, IRF4, UBD and CH25H) out of 32 as the common hub genes (cHubGs) by the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis. The cHubGs regulatory network analysis detected few key TFs-proteins and miRNAs as the transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulators of cHubGs. The cDEGs-set enrichment analysis identified some crucial SARS-CoV-2 and IPF causing common molecular mechanisms including biological processes, molecular functions, cellular components and signaling pathways. Then, we suggested the cHubGs-guided top-ranked 10 candidate drug molecules (Tegobuvir, Nilotinib, Digoxin, Proscillaridin, Simeprevir, Sorafenib, Torin 2, Rapamycin, Vancomycin and Hesperidin) for the treatment against SARS-CoV-2 infections with IFP diseases as comorbidity. Finally, we investigated the resistance performance of our proposed drug molecules compare to the already published molecules, against the state-of-the-art alternatives publicly available top-ranked independent receptors by molecular docking analysis. Molecular docking results suggested that our proposed drug molecules would be more effective compare to the already published drug molecules. Thus, the findings of this study might be played a vital role for diagnosis and therapies of SARS-CoV-2 infections with IPF disease as comorbidity risk.
37227160 | CD49d Expression Identifies a Biologically Distinct Subtype of Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia with Inferior Progression-Free Survival on BTK Inhibitor Therapy. PURPOSE: To determine the role of CD49d for response to Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitors (BTKi) in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: In patients treated with acalabrutinib (n = 48), CD49d expression, VLA-4 integrin activation, and tumor transcriptomes of CLL cells were assessed. Clinical responses to BTKis were investigated in acalabrutinib- (n = 48; NCT02337829) and ibrutinib-treated (n = 73; NCT01500733) patients. RESULTS: In patients treated with acalabrutinib, treatment-induced lymphocytosis was comparable for both subgroups but resolved more rapidly for CD49d+ cases. Acalabrutinib inhibited constitutive VLA-4 activation but was insufficient to block BCR and CXCR4-mediated inside-out activation. Transcriptomes of CD49d+ and CD49d- cases were compared using RNA sequencing at baseline and at 1 and 6 months on treatment. Gene set enrichment analysis revealed increased constitutive NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT signaling, enhanced survival, adhesion, and migratory capacity in CD49d+ over CD49d- CLL that was maintained during therapy. In the combined cohorts of 121 BTKi-treated patients, 48 (39.7%) progressed on treatment with BTK and/or PLCG2 mutations detected in 87% of CLL progressions. Consistent with a recent report, homogeneous and bimodal CD49d-positive cases (the latter having concurrent CD49d+ and CD49d- CLL subpopulations, irrespective of the traditional 30% cutoff value) had a shorter time to progression of 6.6 years, whereas 90% of cases homogenously CD49d- were estimated progression-free at 8 years (P = 0.0004). CONCLUSIONS: CD49d/VLA-4 emerges as a microenvironmental factor that contributes to BTKi resistance in CLL. The prognostic value of CD49d is improved by considering bimodal CD49d expression.
37285884 | Wedelolactone induces natural killer cell activity and the improvement to bioavailability using polysaccharides from Ligustri Lucidi Fructus. Wedelolactone (WDL) is the major bioactive component in Ecliptae Herba. This present study investigated the effects of WDL on natural killer cell functions and possible underlying mechanisms. It was proved that wedelolactone enhanced the killing ability of NK92-MI by upregulating the expression of perforin and granzyme B through the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. Additionally, wedelolactone could induce the migration of NK-92MI cells by promoting CCR7 and CXCR4 expressions. However, the application of WDL is limited due to poor solubility and bioavailability. Accordingly, this study investigated the impact of polysaccharides from Ligustri Lucidi Fructus (LLFPs) on WDL. The biopharmaceutical properties and pharmacokinetic characteristics were determined to compare WDL individually and in combination with LLFPs. The results showed that LLFPs could benefit the biopharmaceutical properties of WDL. Specifically, stability, solubility, and permeability were increased by 1.19-1.82-fold, 3.22-fold, and 1.08-fold higher than those of WDL alone, respectively. Furthermore, the pharmacokinetic study revealed that LLFPs could remarkably improve AUC(0-t) (150.34 vs. 50.47 ng/mL * h), t1/2 (40.78 vs. 2.81 h), and MRT(0- ) (46.64 vs. 5.05 h) for WDL. In conclusion, WDL would be considered a potential immunopotentiator, and LLFPs could overcome the instability and insolubility, ultimately improving the bioavailability of this plant-derived phenolic coumestan.
37713206 | Therapeutic Effects of Upadacitinib on Experimental Autoimmune Uveitis: Insights From Single-Cell Analysis. Purpose: This study aimed to elucidate the impact of upadacitinib, a Janus kinase 1 (JAK1)-specific inhibitor, on experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU) and explore its underlying mechanisms. Methods: We utilized single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and single-cell assay for transposase-accessible chromatin sequencing (scATAC-seq) to investigate the JAK/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of 12 patients with Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) disease and cervical draining lymph node (CDLN) cells of EAU. After treating EAU with upadacitinib, we analyzed immune cell gene expression and cell-cell communication by integrating scRNA data. Additionally, we applied flow cytometry and western blot to analyze the CDLN cells. Results: The JAK/STAT pathway was found to be upregulated in patients with VKH disease and EAU. Upadacitinib effectively alleviated EAU symptoms, reduced JAK1 protein expression, and suppressed pathogenic CD4 T cell (CD4TC) proliferation and pathogenicity while promoting Treg proliferation. The inhibition of pathogenic CD4TCs by upadacitinib was observed in both flow cytometry and scRNA data. Additionally, upadacitinib was found to rescue the interferon-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15)+ CD4TCs and CD8 T and B cell ratios and reduce expression of inflammatory-related genes. Upadacitinib demonstrated the ability to inhibit abnormally activated cell-cell communication, particularly the CXCR4-mediated migration pathway, which has been implicated in EAU pathogenesis. CXCR4 inhibitors showed promising therapeutic effects in EAU. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that the JAK1-mediated signaling pathway is significantly upregulated in uveitis, and upadacitinib exhibits therapeutic efficacy against EAU. Furthermore, targeting the CXCR4-mediated migration pathway could be a promising therapeutic strategy.
38200815 | Transcriptome Analysis Revealed the Early Heat Stress Response in the Brain of Chinese Tongue Sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis). As a common influencing factor in the environment, temperature greatly influences the fish that live in the water all their life. The essential economic fish Chinese tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis), a benthic fish, will experience both physiological and behavioral changes due to increases in temperature. The brain, as the central hub of fish and a crucial regulatory organ, is particularly sensitive to temperature changes and will be affected. However, previous research has mainly concentrated on the impact of temperature on the gonads of C. semilaevis. Instead, our study examines the brain using transcriptomics to investigate specific genes and pathways that can quickly respond to temperature changes. The fish were subjected to various periods of heat stress (1 h, 2 h, 3 h, and 5 h) before extracting the brain for transcriptome analysis. After conducting transcriptomic analyses, we identified distinct genes and pathways in males and females. The pathways were mainly related to cortisol synthesis and secretion, neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions, TGF beta signaling pathway, and JAK/STAT signaling pathway, while the genes included the HSP family, tshr, c-fos, c-jun, cxcr4, camk2b, and igf2. Our study offers valuable insights into the regulation mechanisms of the brain's response to temperature stress.
38243290 | Expression profile analysis of LncRNAs and mRNAs in pre-receptive endometrium of women with polycystic ovary syndrome undergoing in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer. BACKGROUND: To compare the expression levels of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) and messenger RNA (mRNA) in pre-receptive endometrium between patients with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)and normal ovulation undergoing in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET). METHODS: Endometrial tissues were collected with endometrial vacuum curette in pre-receptive phase (3 days after oocytes retrieval) from PCOS and control groups. LncRNAs and mRNAs of endometrium were identified via RNA sequencing and alignments. A subset of 9 differentially expressed lncRNAs and 11 mRNAs were validated by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction(qRT-PCR)in 22 PCOS patients and 18 ovulation patients. The function of mRNAs with differential expression patterns were explored using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). RESULTS: We found out 687 up-regulated and 680 down-regulated mRNAs, as well as 345 up-regulated and 63 down-regulated lncRNAs in the PCOS patients in contrast to normal ovulation patients. qRT-PCR was used to detect the expression of 11 mRNAs, and validated that the expression of these 6 mRNAs CXCR4, RABL6, OPN3, SYBU, IDH1, NOP10 were significantly elevated among PCOS patients, and the expression of ZEB1 was significantly decreased. qRT-PCR was performed to detect the expression of 9 lncRNAs, and validated that the expression of these 7 lncRNAs IDH1-AS1, PCAT14, FTX, DANCR, PRKCQ-AS1, SNHG8, TPT1-AS1 were significantly enhanced among PCOS patients. Bioinformatics analysis showed that differentially expressed genes (DEGs) involved KEGG pathway were tyrosine metabolism, PI3K-Akt pathway, metabolic pathway, Jak-STAT pathway, pyruvate metabolism, protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum, oxidative phosphorylation and proteasome. The up-regulation of GO classification was involved in ATP metabolic process, oxidative phosphorylation, RNA catabolic process, and down-regulation of GO classification was response to corticosteroid, steroid hormone, and T cell activation. CONCLUSION: Our results determined the characteristics and expression profile of endometrial lncRNAs and mRNAs in PCOS patients in pre-receptive phase, which is the day 3 after oocytes retrival. The possible pathways and related genes of endometrial receptivity disorders were found, and those lncRNAs may be developed as a predictive biomarker of endometrium in pre-receptive phase.
38259290 | Network pharmacology and experiment validation investigate the potential mechanism of triptolide in oral squamous cell carcinoma. Objective: This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanism of triptolide in the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) via network pharmacology and experimental validation. Methods: The network pharmacological method was used to predict the key targets, detect the signal pathways for the treatment of OSCC, and screen the critical components and targets for molecular docking. Predicted targets were validated in cellular and xenograft mouse model. Results: In this study, we predicted action on 17 relevant targets of OSCC by network pharmacology. PPI network demonstrated that Jun, MAPK8, TP53, STAT3, VEGFA, IL2, CXCR4, PTGS2, IL4 might be the critical targets of triptolide in the treatment of OSCC. These potential targets are mainly closely related to JAK-STAT and MAPK signaling pathways. The analysis of molecular docking showed that triptolide has high affinity with Jun, MAPK8 and TP53. Triptolide can suppress the growth of OSCC cells and xenograft mice tumor, and downregulate the expression of Jun, MAPK8, TP53, STAT3, VEGFA, IL2, CXCR4, PTGS2 to achieve the therapeutic effect of OSCC. Conclusion: Through network pharmacological methods and experimental studies, we predicted and validated the potential targets and related pathways of triptolide for OSCC treatment. The results suggest that triptolide can inhibit the growth of OSCC via several key targets.
305045 | Enrichment of the murine natural killer (NK) and mitogen induced cellular cytotoxicity (MICC) cells using preparative free-flow high voltage electrophoresis. A procedure using preparative free-flow high voltage electrophoresis is described for the fractionation of murine spleen and bone marrow cells so as to obtain cell subpopulations that are either enriched in or depleted of \natural killer\ (NK) cells and \mitogen-induced cellular cytotoxicity\ (MICC) effector cells. A nearly three fold enrichment in the NK and MICC activities of spleen cells was achieved. The enrichment in these cells could be further increased if the phagocytic cells were removed prior to electrophoresis. When bone marrow cells were fractionated a two and a half fold increase of NK activity, and a one and a half fold enrichment of MICC activity was achieved. In both cases, other fractions were nearly devoid of NK and MICC activity. The cell recovery after electrophoresis averages 70% of the cells applied, and at least 90% of these cells were viable. MICC and NK effector cells could not be separated to a useful extent electrophoretically but were found to be separable using Sephadex C-10 gel filtration columns. The MICC but not the NK cells were retained on these columns.
453656 | Suppression of mitogen-induced, cell-mediated cytotoxicity by prostaglandin F2 alpha in bronchial asthma. Prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF 2 alpha) has a bronchoconstrictive effect on the smooth muscles of the bronchial tree, while a prostaglandin of the E series (PGE) provokes bronchodilatation in bronchial asthma (BA). The PGE series can suppress cytotoxic T lymphocytes and it was expected that PGF2 alpha would have the opposite effect, since similarities exist between microvilli of circulating blood lymphocytes and bronchial smooth muscles. Pharmacological modulation of lymphocytes, using a mitogen-induced, cell-mediated cytotoxicity assay (MICC), showed that PGF2 alpha suppresses cytotoxic activity of lymphocytes in BA patients and normal controls. This observation provides evidence that the spasmogenic effect of inhaled PGF2 alpha on the smooth muscles of the airways does not correspond to expected increased cytotoxicity of the circulating blood lymphocytes in vitro.
698930 | Human lymphoblastoid cell lines as effector cells in mitogen-dependent and antibody-dependent cell-mediated lysis. Based on reports that both human and murine lymphoblastoid cell lines can effect lysis in antibody-dependent (ADCC) and mitogen-induced (MICC) cell-mediated cytotoxicity, 10 human lymphoblastoid cell lines were investigated for their ability to act as effector cells in these lytic reactions. Four cell lines promoted MICC and ADCC of chicken erythrocytes. MICC was inhibited by subjecting the effector cells to gamma-irradiation, and ADCC was partially inhibited by treating antibody-coated target cells with Protein A from Staphylococcus aureus. The latter finding suggests that antibody plays a role in the cytotoxic reaction. The lytic activity of cultured human lymphoid cells in both MICC and ADCC reactions was, however, quite variable for unknown reasons. Because of this instability human lymphoblastoid cell lines are not a suitable source of effector cells for studying the biological and molecular properties of structures responsible for the lytic reaction.
1268947 | The nature of the effector cells mediating mitogen-induced cellular cytotoxicity (MICC) and antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). 
3257101 | CD8B, the human equivalent of the mouse Ly-3 gene is localized on chromosome 2. 
7461704 | The detection and identification of subpopulations of circulating human lymphocytes, monocytes and neutrophils capable of effecting a mitogen-induced cell-mediated cytotoxic reaction towards erythrocytes of various species. The mitogen-induced cell-mediated cytotoxic (MICC) reaction was evaluated in terms of its capacity to identify cytotoxic cells among normal human blood leucocytes. Three conventional mitogens were used (phytohaemagglutinin, pokeweed and concanavalin A) and nine different erythrocyte target cells (chicken, horse, human, ox, rabbit, sheep, mouse, rat and guinea-pig). The effector cells investigated were mononuclear cells, monocyte-depleted mononuclear cells and polymorphonuclear leucocytes. Phytohaemagglutinin consistently mediated the lysis of only chicken erythrocytes whereas pokeweed consistently mediated the lysis of rabbit erythrocytes and, to a much lesser degree, chicken and rat erythrocytes. Con A consistently mediated the lysis of chicken, horse, rabbit, guinea-pig and sheep erythrocytes. Irrespective of the target cell used, PHA and Con A facilitated target cell lysis by monocytes and polymorphs and not by lymphocytes which displayed no cytotoxic activity in the presence of these two mitogens. On the other hand, pokeweed-mediated cytolysis of rabbit erythrocyte target cells was induced by lymphocytes in addition to monocytes and polymorphs. Only monocytes were able to lyse chicken erythrocytes in the presence of pokeweed; polymorphs and lymphocytes were inactive. Agglutination or aggregation of the target cells by the mitogen is not a mandatory concomitant of the MICC reaction. Some RBC may be agglutinated by the mitogen without being lysed by effector cells in the presence of the mitogen. The mechanism of mitogen-mediated cytolysis of target cells remains to be elucidated. These results suggest that the MICC assay can be utilized as a probe to permit the selective detection of functionally distinct subpopulations of cytotoxic monocytes, lymphocytes and polymorphs. Whether these cytotoxic cells are identical to, overlap or are distinct from those cells which mediate the NOCC and ADCC cytotoxic reactions remains to be determined.
8436166 | Transcriptional diversity at the duplicated human CD8 beta loci. In order to understand the structural organization of the human CD8 beta locus, genomic clones containing CD8 beta sequences were isolated and analyzed. Physical linkage of these clones with the CD8 alpha locus using pulsed-field electrophoresis revealed a duplication of the CD8 beta locus. CD8B-1 lies 35 kb upstream from the CD8 alpha locus and contains eight exons, including four alternatively spliced cytoplasmic exons. The CD8B-2 gene contains six exons and is at present unlinked to CD8B-1. Analysis of sequences upstream to the leader exon of the CD8B-1 and CD8B-2 genes revealed a GC-rich promoter which lacks canonical \CCAAT\ and \TATA\ motifs, but which has sites for multiple transcriptional activators and three additional elements which are conserved in the murine CD8 beta promoter. Seven unique CD8 beta cDNA isoforms were isolated and characterized, which derive from alternative splicing of the transmembrane and/or cytoplasmic exons. Three cDNA are membrane spanning, while the remaining four isoforms lack a transmembrane region and are potentially secreted. These transcripts are differentially expressed in the thymus and in the periphery. Transfection experiments in murine fibroblasts confirmed that the membrane CD8 beta isoforms could be expressed as heterodimers with the CD8 alpha chain. The regulated expression of multiple CD8 beta cytoplasmic isoforms and their potential role in T lymphocyte signal transduction is discussed.
9271629 | Polymorphism of chicken CD8-alpha, but not CD8-beta. We report here the structural basis of CD8 polymorphism in the chicken. Three chicken strains (RPRL Line 7, H.B15.H7, and H.B15. H12) have 14 nucleotide differences in the CD8A cDNA sequence causing eight amino acid replacements in the extracellular part of the molecule. Only two amino acid replacements and four silent mutations were observed in the CD8B cDNA sequence in one (H7) of the strains. Substitutions in CD8alpha were solely responsible for the binding of CD8-specific monoclonal antibodies, as detected by cDNA expression in COS cells. The majority of the amino acid substitutions are located in the immunoglobulin V-like domain and three of the changes (residues 30, 34, and 58) are situated in the putative major histocompatibility complex class I binding CDR1 and CDR2 regions of the chicken CD8alpha. CD8A polymorphism has not been reported in other species and this suggests that CD8A and CD8B have evolved under different selective pressures in the chicken.
10331162 | MIC genes in non-human primates. MIC molecules belong to the immunoglobulin superfamily, are encoded within the MHC region and are recognized by gamma/delta T-cell receptors. In humans, at least two functional genes (MIC-A* and MIC-B*) and two pseudogenes (MIC-C* and MIC-D*) exist. Functional MIC gene copies are characterized by a high degree of polymorphism, while pseudogenes bear several debilitating mutations either in the putative extracellular region or in the transmembrane region of the molecule. In this study we sequenced these segments of MIC genes in seven non-human primates in order to determine whether debilitating mutations were present. All the MIC primate genes studied were highly homologous to their human counterparts, and cystein residues involved in the maintenance of the immunoglobulin-like structure were highly conserved. Furthermore, none of the MIC genes studied contained stop codons in the extracellular or transmembrane segments of the molecule, which suggests that at least one functional gene copy exists in non-human primates. A distinct family of MHC immunoglobulin-like genes was recently identified within the MHC class I region in humans (Bahram et al., 1994; Leelayuwat et al., 1994). Members of this MIC (MHC class I chain related) gene family belong to the immunoglobulin superfamily. Similar to classical class I MHC genes, they are characterized by three distinct extracellular domains (alpha 1-3), a transmembrane (TM) segment and a cytoplasmic segment, each encoded by a separate exon (Bahram et al., 1994; Bahram et al., 1996). Other similarities between MIC genes and classical MHC genes include a high degree of polymorphism (Fodil et al., 1996; Pellet et al., 1997) and recognition by T-cell receptors (Groh et al., 1998). These findings suggest that the putative MIC-A* chain has evolved for a function that is related to, but quite distinct from, that of typical MHC class I chains.
10835481 | Using alu J elements as molecular clocks to trace the evolutionary relationships between duplicated HLA class I genomic segments. The class I region of the major histocompatibility complex contains two subgenomic blocks (250-350 kb each), known as the alpha and beta blocks. These blocks contain members of multicopy gene families including HLA class I, HERV-16 (previously called P5 sequences), and PERB11 (MIC). We have previously shown that each block consists of imperfect duplicated segments (duplicons) containing linked members of different gene families, retroelements and transposons that have coevolved as part of two separate evolutionary events. Another region provisionally designated here as the kappa block is located between the alpha and the beta blocks and contains HLA-E, -30, and -92, HERV-16 (P5.3), and PERB11.3 (MICC) within about 250 kb of sequence. Using Alu elements to trace the evolutionary relationships between different class I duplicons, we have found that (a) the kappa block contains paralogous (duplicated) Alu J sequences and other retroelement patterns more in common with the beta than the alpha block; (b) the retroelement pattern associated with the HLA-E duplicon is different from all other HLA class I duplicons, indicating a more complex evolution; (c) the HLA-92 duplicon, although substantially shorter, is closely related in sequence to the HLA-B and -C duplicons; (d) two of the six paralogous Alu J elements within the HLA-B and -C duplicons are associated with the HLA-X duplicon, confirming their evolutionary relationships within the beta block; and (e) the paralogous Alu J elements within the alpha block are distinctly different from those identified within the beta and kappa blocks. The sequence conservation and location of duplicated (paralogous) Alu J elements in the MHC class I region show that the beta and kappa blocks have evolved separately from the alpha block beginning at a time before or during the evolution of Alu J elements in primates.
11937547 | Identification of a candidate regulatory region in the human CD8 gene complex by colocalization of DNase I hypersensitive sites and matrix attachment regions which bind SATB1 and GATA-3. To locate elements regulating the human CD8 gene complex, we mapped nuclear matrix attachment regions (MARs) and DNase I hypersensitive (HS) sites over a 100-kb region that included the CD8B gene, the intergenic region, and the CD8A gene. MARs facilitate long-range chromatin remodeling required for enhancer activity and have been found closely linked to several lymphoid enhancers. Within the human CD8 gene complex, we identified six DNase HS clusters, four strong MARs, and several weaker MARs. Three of the strong MARs were closely linked to two tissue-specific DNase HS clusters (III and IV) at the 3' end of the CD8B gene. To further establish the importance of this region, we obtained 19 kb of sequence and screened for potential binding sites for the MAR-binding protein, SATB1, and for GATA-3, both of which are critical for T cell development. By gel shift analysis we identified two strong SATB1 binding sites, located 4.5 kb apart, in strong MARs. We also detected strong GATA-3 binding to an oligonucleotide containing two GATA-3 motifs located at an HS site in cluster IV. This clustering of DNase HS sites and MARs capable of binding SATB1 and GATA-3 at the 3' end of the CD8B gene suggests that this region is an epigenetic regulator of CD8 expression.
15183000 | Identification of key immune mediators regulating T helper 1 responses in swine. This publication describes the cloning of full or partial length sequences for pig TBX21 (T-bet), MYD88, ICSBP1, CD8A (CD8alpha), CD8B (CD8beta), and CD28 cDNAs. Real-time PCR assays have been developed for the relative quantitation of these products as well as previously characterized transcripts that encode exon A-containing CD45, HLX1, IRF1, STAT1 and RPL32. When used for examining temporal immune gene expression in the liver of Toxoplasma gondii infected pigs, the positive regulators of Th1 responses, IRF1, MYD88, and STAT1, were found to be expressed prior to the simultaneous upregulation of interferon gamma (IFNG), HLX1 and TBX21 gene expression. In contrast, in the mesenteric lymph node (MLN), only expression of IRF1 and IFNG was significantly upregulated. Based on their demonstrated utility in establishing an immune response pathway, these PCR assays should be valuable additions to our swine immune toolkit.
15661911 | Functional and molecular analysis of the double-positive stage-specific CD8 enhancer E8III during thymocyte development. Several developmental stage-, subset-, and lineage-specific Cd8 cis-regulatory regions have been identified. These include the E8(III) enhancer, which directs expression in double-positive (DP) thymocytes, and E8(II), which is active in DP cells and CD8(+) T cells. Using a transgenic reporter expression assay, we identified a 285-bp core fragment of the E8(III) enhancer that retains activity in DP thymocytes. In vitro characterization of the core enhancer revealed five regulatory elements that are required for full enhancer activity, suggesting that multiple factors contribute to the developmental stage-specific activity. Furthermore, deletion of E8(III) in the mouse germline showed that this enhancer is required for nonvariegated expression of CD8 in DP thymocytes when E8(II) is also deleted. These results indicate that E8(III) is one of the cis-elements that contribute to the activation of the Cd8a and Cd8b gene complex during T cell development.
17257226 | Commonly used reference genes are actively regulated in in vitro stimulated lymphocytes. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR) studies of urine sediments have demonstrated an increased expression of cytotoxin genes during episodes of acute rejection of renal allografts. To compensate for differences in initial sample size and cDNA preparation, standard Q-PCR experiments involve normalization to a reference gene. Although stable expression of reference genes is a prerequisite for any Q-PCR analysis, commonly used reference genes have demonstrated a varying expression across tissues and various stimuli. In this study, cellular expression of several reference genes was investigated in a mixed lymphocyte reaction as a model of gene expression during alloreactive T-lymphocyte activation and acute rejection. Gene expression was quantified using Q-PCR, normalized to cell counts obtained by DNA quantification and corrected for cell polyploidy using flow cytometry. Examined reference genes were 18S rRNA, beta-actin (ACTB), hydroxymethylbilane synthase (HMBS), hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT1) and peptidylprolyle isomerase B (PPIB). This study also examined two novel T-lymphocyte-specific reference genes: CD3E and CD8B. HMBS and HPRT were 18.8- and 7.4-fold upregulated, respectively, ACTB was 5.3-fold upregulated, PPIB was 3.2-fold upregulated while 18S rRNA remained stably expressed. The T-lymphocyte-specific reference gene CD3E remained stable while CD8B was upregulated 2.3-fold. In conclusion, several commonly used reference genes were actively regulated during alloreactive T-lymphocyte activation. Additionally, we introduce two stable T-lymphocyte-specific reference genes that might be useful in a Q-PCR analysis of T-lymphocyte-specific cytotoxin genes in urine sediments, as they overcome the contribution of reference gene mRNA from cells irrelevant for diagnosis.
18074794 | [Dynamics of food intake and blood level of hormones regulating appetite in pregnant and lactating mice]. Leptin, insulin, corticosterone regulate food intake. Hyperphagia and hormonal rearrangement are typical for pregnancy and lactation. The aim of the study is to correlate food intake with blood levels of these hormones in pregnant and lactating mice. Food intake, body weight, blood glucose, insulin, leptin and corticosterone levels were measured in virgin C57B1/6J micc and on the day 7, 13,17 of pregnancy, and day 1, 7, 14, 30 postpartum. Insulin sensitivity was measured at the day 7, 17 of pregnancy. Food intake and body weight increased towards the second postpartum week and then decreased. Insulin sensitivity decreased towards the end of the pregnancy. Mothers differed from virgin females in hormones and glucose levels only during pregnancy. Leptin level was decreased at the day 7 of gestation, insulin level - during whole gestation. Glucose fell, and leptin and corticosterone increased from the day 7 to 17. Probably, these hormones affect food intake only in pregnant females and do not influence appetite during lactation.
18490743 | Differential expression of the human CD8beta splice variants and regulation of the M-2 isoform by ubiquitination. The CD8alphabeta heterodimer functions as a coreceptor with the TCR, influencing the outcome of CD8(+) T cell responses to pathogen-infected and tumor cells. In contrast to the murine CD8B gene, the human gene encodes alternatively spliced variants with different cytoplasmic tails (M-1, M-2, M-3, and M-4). At present, little is known about the expression patterns and functional significance of such variants. We used quantitative RT-PCR to demonstrate differential mRNA expression patterns of these splice variants in thymocytes and in resting, memory, and activated primary human CD8(+) T cells. In total CD8(+) T cells, mRNA levels of the M-1 variant were the most predominant and levels of M-3 were the least detected. The M-4 isoform was predominant in effector memory CD8(+) T cells. Upon stimulation of CD8(+) T cells, the M-2 variant mRNA levels were elevated 10-20-fold relative to resting cells in contrast to the other isoforms. Curiously, the M-2 isoform was not expressed on the cell surface in transfected cell lines. Using fluorescent chimeras of the extracellular domain of mouse CD8beta fused to the cytoplasmic tails of each isoform, the M-2 isoform was localized in a lysosomal compartment regulated by ubiquitination of a lysine residue (K215) in its cytoplasmic tail. In contrast, upon short-term stimulation, the M-2 protein localized to the cell surface with the TCR complex. The relatively recent evolution of CD8B gene splice variants in the chimpanzee/human lineage is most likely important for fine-tuning the CD8(+) T cell responses.
19565478 | Spondylarthritis in HLA-B27/human beta2-microglobulin-transgenic rats is not prevented by lack of CD8. OBJECTIVE: HLA-B27 predisposes to spondylarthritis by an unknown mechanism. A logical candidate mechanism is through recognition of B27 by CD8+ T cells. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of a lack of CD8 on the spondylarthritis that develops in B27/human beta(2)-microglobulin (Hubeta(2)m)-transgenic rats. METHODS: A missense mutation in the CD8a gene that causes a loss of CD8alpha expression was identified in offspring of a male Sprague-Dawley rat that had been treated with the mutagen N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea. The mutation was crossed into B27/Hubeta(2)m-transgenic lines on the Lewis background. CD8a(-/-) and CD8a(+/-) progeny were compared on a mixed SD-LEW background as well as after at least 10 backcrosses to LEW rats. CD8 function was assessed by generating cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTLs) against allogeneic DA strain antigens. RESULTS: Homozygous mutant rats showed normal CD8a and CD8b messenger RNA levels but no detectable expression of either protein and an almost complete abrogation of the allogeneic CTL response. Two disease phenotypes previously observed in different B27/Hubeta(2)m-transgenic lines also occurred in the respective CD8a(-/-)-transgenic rat lines. There was no significant difference in disease prevalence or severity between CD8a(-/-) rats and CD8a(+/-) rats. CONCLUSION: All of the previously described disease manifestations in HLA-B27/Hubeta(2)m-transgenic rats arise in the absence of any functional CD8+ T cells. It thus seems unlikely that classic T cell recognition of HLA-B27 is of primary importance in this animal model. The possibility of a secondary role of a CD8-dependent mechanism cannot be entirely excluded.
21677135 | Anti-CD8 antibodies can trigger CD8+ T cell effector function in the absence of TCR engagement and improve peptide-MHCI tetramer staining. CD8(+) T cells recognize immunogenic peptides presented at the cell surface bound to MHCI molecules. Ag recognition involves the binding of both TCR and CD8 coreceptor to the same peptide-MHCI (pMHCI) ligand. Specificity is determined by the TCR, whereas CD8 mediates effects on Ag sensitivity. Anti-CD8 Abs have been used extensively to examine the role of CD8 in CD8(+) T cell activation. However, as previous studies have yielded conflicting results, it is unclear from the literature whether anti-CD8 Abs per se are capable of inducing effector function. In this article, we report on the ability of seven monoclonal anti-human CD8 Abs to activate six human CD8(+) T cell clones with a total of five different specificities. Six of seven anti-human CD8 Abs tested did not activate CD8(+) T cells. In contrast, one anti-human CD8 Ab, OKT8, induced effector function in all CD8(+) T cells examined. Moreover, OKT8 was found to enhance TCR/pMHCI on-rates and, as a consequence, could be used to improve pMHCI tetramer staining and the visualization of Ag-specific CD8(+) T cells. The anti-mouse CD8 Abs, CT-CD8a and CT-CD8b, also activated CD8(+) T cells despite opposing effects on pMHCI tetramer staining. The observed heterogeneity in the ability of anti-CD8 Abs to trigger T cell effector function provides an explanation for the apparent incongruity observed in previous studies and should be taken into consideration when interpreting results generated with these reagents. Furthermore, the ability of Ab-mediated CD8 engagement to deliver an activation signal underscores the importance of CD8 in CD8(+) T cell signaling.
23533620 | The human CD8beta M-4 isoform dominant in effector memory T cells has distinct cytoplasmic motifs that confer unique properties. The CD8 co-receptor influences T cell recognition and responses in both anti-tumor and anti-viral immunity. During evolution in the ancestor of humans and chimpanzees, the CD8B gene acquired two additional exons. As a result, in humans, there are four CD8beta splice variants (M1 to M4) that differ in their cytoplasmic tails. The M-1 isoform which is the equivalent of murine CD8beta, is predominantly expressed in naive T cells, whereas, the M-4 isoform is predominantly expressed in effector memory T cells. The characteristics of the M-4 isoform conferred by its unique 36 amino acid cytoplasmic tail are not known. In this study, we identified a dihydrophobic leucine-based receptor internalization motif in the cytoplasmic tail of M-4 that regulated its cell surface expression and downregulation after activation. Further the M-4 cytoplasmic tail was able to associate with ubiquitinated targets in 293T cells and mutations in the amino acids NPW, a potential EH domain binding site, either enhanced or inhibited the interaction. In addition, the M-4 tail was itself mono-ubiquitinated on a lysine residue in both 293T cells and a human T cell line. When peripheral blood human T cells expressed CD8alphabeta M-4, the frequency of MIP-1beta secreting cells responding to antigen presenting cells was two-fold higher as compared to CD8alphabeta M-1 expressing T cells. Thus, the cytoplasmic tail of the CD8beta M-4 isoform has unique characteristics, which likely contributed to its selective expression and function in human effector memory T cells.
24047902 | cAMP-responsive element modulator alpha (CREMalpha) trans-represses the transmembrane glycoprotein CD8 and contributes to the generation of CD3+CD4-CD8- T cells in health and disease. T cell receptor-alphabeta(+) CD3(+)CD4(-)CD8(-) \double-negative\ T cells are expanded in the peripheral blood of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome. In both disorders, double-negative T cells infiltrate tissues, induce immunoglobulin production, and secrete proinflammatory cytokines. Double-negative T cells derive from CD8(+) T cells through down-regulation of CD8 surface co-receptors. However, the molecular mechanisms orchestrating this process remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that the transcription factor cAMP-responsive element modulator alpha (CREMalpha), which is expressed at increased levels in T cells from systemic lupus erythematosus patients, contributes to transcriptional silencing of CD8A and CD8B. We provide the first evidence that CREMalpha trans-represses a regulatory element 5' of the CD8B gene. Therefore, CREMalpha represents a promising candidate in the search for biomarkers and treatment options in diseases in which double-negative T cells contribute to the pathogenesis. 
24297179 | cAMP responsive element modulator (CREM) alpha mediates chromatin remodeling of CD8 during the generation of CD3+ CD4- CD8- T cells. TCR-alphabeta(+)CD3(+)CD4(-)CD8(-) \double negative\ T cells are expanded in the peripheral blood of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and lupus-prone mice. Double negative T cells have been claimed to derive from CD8(+) cells that down-regulate CD8 co-receptors and acquire a distinct effector phenotype that includes the expression of proinflammatory cytokines. This, along with the fact that double negative T cells have been documented in inflamed organs, suggests that they may contribute to disease expression and tissue damage. We recently linked the transcription factor cAMP responsive element modulator (CREM) alpha, which is expressed at increased levels in T cells from SLE patients and lupus prone MRL/lpr mice, with trans-repression of a region syntenic to the murine CD8b promoter. However, the exact molecular mechanisms that result in a stable silencing of both CD8A and CD8B genes remain elusive. Here, we demonstrate that CREMalpha orchestrates epigenetic remodeling of the CD8 cluster through the recruitment of DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) 3a and histone methyltransferase G9a. Thus, we propose that CREMalpha is essential for the expansion of double negative T cells in SLE. CREMalpha blockade may have therapeutic value in autoimmune disorders with DN T cell expansion. 
27121061 | Differential expression of major histocompatibility complex class I in subtypes of breast cancer is associated with estrogen receptor and interferon signaling. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) have a strong prognostic and predictive significance. However, the mechanism of TIL influx in TNBC is unclear. Expression of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) on the tumor cell is essential for the effective killing of tumor by cytotoxic TILs. In our current study, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) expression was inversely correlated with estrogen receptor (ER) expression in normal and cancerous breast tissue and positively correlated with TILs in breast cancer. The ER score was inversely correlated with TILs in breast cancer. HLA-A and CD8B gene expression was negatively correlated with ESR1 and positively correlated with interferon-associated gene expression in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data. Negative correlation between ESR1 and HLA and positive correlation between interferon-associated and HLA gene expression were also confirmed in Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE) data. Taken together, our data suggest that a lower expression of HLA in luminal-type tumors might be associated with low level of TILs in those tumors. Further investigation of the mechanism of higher HLA expression and TIL influx in TNBC may help to boost the host immune response. 
30387832 | Classification of tumor microenvironment immune types based on immune response-associated gene expression. In 2014, the Shizuoka Cancer Center launched project High-tech Omics-based Patient Evaluation (HOPE), which features whole exome sequencing (WES) and gene expression profiling (GEP) of fresh surgical specimens from cancer patients. With the development of clinical trials of programmed death-1 (PD-1)/PD-ligand 1 (PD-L1) blockade, PD-L1 expression and a high tumor mutation burden become possible biomarkers that could be used to predict immune responses. In this study, based on WES and GEP data from 1,734 tumors from the HOPE project, we established a tumor microenvironment (TME) immune-type classification consisting of 4 types to evaluate the immunological status of cancer patients and analyze immunological pathways specific for immune types. Project HOPE was conducted in accordance with the Ethical Guidelines for Human Genome and Genetic Analysis Research with the approval of the Institutional Review Board. Based on the expression level of the PD-L1 and CD8B genes, the immunological status was divided into 4 types as follows: A, PD-L1+CD8B+; B, PD-L1+CD8B-; C, PD-L1-CD8B-; and D, PD-L1-CD8B+. Type A, with PD-L1+ and CD8B+, exhibited an upregulation of cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) killing-associated genes, T-cell activation genes, antigen-presentation and dendritic cell (DC) maturation genes, and T-cell-attracting chemokine genes, which promoted Th1 antitumor responses. By contrast, type C, with PD-L1- and CD8B-, exhibited a low expression of T-cell-activating genes and an upregulation of cancer driver gene signaling, which suggested an immune-suppressive status. With regard to hypermutator tumors, PD-L1+ hypermutator cases exhibited a specific upregulation of the IL6 gene compared with the PD-L1- cases. On the whole, our data indicate that the classification of the TME immune types may prove to be a useful tool for evaluating the immunological status and predicting antitumor responses and prognosis.
30540814 | Fingerprints of CD8+ T cells on human pre-plasma and memory B cells. Differentiation of B cells is a stringently controlled multi-step process, which is still incompletely understood. Here we identify and characterize a rare population of human B cells, which surprisingly carry CD8AB on their surface. Existence of such cells was demonstrated both in tonsils and in human apheresis material. Gene expression profiling and real time PCR detected however no CD8A or CD8B message in these cells. Instead, we found that surface CD8 was hijacked from activated CD8+ T cells by a transfer process that required direct cell-to-cell contact. A focused transcriptome analysis at single cell level allowed the dissection of the CD8 positive B cell population. We found that the affected cells are characteristically of the CD27+CD200- phenotype, and consist of two discrete late-stage subpopulations that carry signatures of activated memory B like cells, and early plasmablasts. Thus, there is only a restricted time window in the differentiation process during which B cells can intimately interact with CD8+ T cells. The findings point to a novel link between the T and B arms of the adaptive immune system, and suggest that CD8+ T cells have the capability to directly shape the global antibody repertoire.
33468709 | A pro-diabetogenic mtDNA polymorphism in the mitochondrial-derived peptide, MOTS-c. Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) is an emerging public health problem in Asia. Although ethnic specific mtDNA polymorphisms have been shown to contribute to T2D risk, the functional effects of the mtDNA polymorphisms and the therapeutic potential of mitochondrial-derived peptides at the mtDNA polymorphisms are underexplored. Here, we showed an Asian-specific mitochondrial DNA variation m.1382A>C (rs111033358) leads to a K14Q amino acid replacement in MOTS-c, an insulin sensitizing mitochondrial-derived peptide. Meta-analysis of three cohorts (n = 27,527, J-MICC, MEC, and TMM) show that males but not females with the C-allele exhibit a higher prevalence of T2D. In J-MICC, only males with the C-allele in the lowest tertile of physical activity increased their prevalence of T2D, demonstrating a kinesio-genomic interaction. High-fat fed, male mice injected with MOTS-c showed reduced weight and improved glucose tolerance, but not K14Q-MOTS-c treated mice. Like the human data, female mice were unaffected. Mechanistically, K14Q-MOTS-c leads to diminished insulin-sensitization in vitro. Thus, the m.1382A>C polymorphism is associated with susceptibility to T2D in men, possibly interacting with exercise, and contributing to the risk of T2D in sedentary males by reducing the activity of MOTS-c.
33499345 | Clonal Expansion of Tumor-Infiltrating T Cells and Analysis of the Tumor Microenvironment within Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Relapsed after Definitive Chemoradiation Therapy. (1) Background: Comparable prognoses after definitive chemoradiation therapy (CRT) to surgery alone for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) have been previously reported; however, no robust prognostic markers have been established. The clonality of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and tumor microenvironments (TMEs) in ESCC relapsed after CRT were examined to explore prognostic markers. (2) Methods: Clonality of TIL and TME were examined in ESCC with and without preceding CRT, as well as oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and healthy volunteers as controls. The clonality of TIL was assessed by T-cell receptor (TCR) alpha and beta repertoire analyses and evaluated by diversity indices. The TME was assessed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction evaluating PD-L1 and CD8B. (3) Results: The clonal expansion of TIL was significantly induced within ESCCs and OSCCs, when compared to healthy volunteers, and was mostly induced within ESCCs after definitive CRT. Diversity indices of TIL were not associated with the prognosis, but the ratio of PD-L1 mRNA to CD8B mRNA in TME was significantly associated with a poor prognosis after salvage surgery (p = 0.007). (4) Conclusions: The clonal expansion of TIL is induced after definitive CRT for ESCC, and the ratio of PD-L1 mRNA to CD8B mRNA within tumor tissues is a prognostic marker candidate for salvage esophagectomy after CRT.
33586704 | A non-coding small RNA MicC contributes to virulence in outer membrane proteins in Salmonella Enteritidis. A non-coding small RNA (sRNA) is a new factor to regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. A kind of sRNA MicC, known in Escherichia coli and Salmonella Typhimurium, could repress the expression of outer membrane proteins. To further investigate the regulation function of micC in Salmonella Enteritidis, we cloned the micC gene in the Salmonella Enteritidis strain 50336, and then constructed the mutant 50336DeltamicC by the lambda Red-based recombination system and the complemented mutant 50336DeltamicC/pmicC carrying recombinant plasmid pBR322 expressing micC. qRT-PCR results demonstrated that transcription of ompD in 50336DeltamicC was 1.3-fold higher than that in the wild type strain, while the transcription of ompA and ompC in 50336DeltamicC were 2.2-fold and 3-fold higher than those in the wild type strain. These indicated that micC represses the expression of ompA and ompC. In the following study, the pathogenicity of 50336DeltamicC was detected by both infecting 6-week-old Balb/c mice and 1-day-old chickens. The result showed that the LD50 of the wild type strain 50336, the mutants 50336DeltamicC and 50336DeltamicC/pmicC for 6-week-old Balb/c mice were 12.59 CFU, 5.01 CFU, and 19.95 CFU, respectively. The LD50 of the strains for 1-day-old chickens were 1.13 x 109 CFU, 1.55 x 108 CFU, and 2.54 x 108 CFU, respectively. It indicated that deletion of micC enhanced virulence of S. Enteritidis in mice and chickens by regulating expression of outer membrane proteins.
33637560 | A Basomedial Amygdala to Intercalated Cells Microcircuit Expressing PACAP and Its Receptor PAC1 Regulates Contextual Fear. Trauma can cause dysfunctional fear regulation leading some people to develop disorders, such as post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). The amygdala regulates fear, whereas PACAP (pituitary adenylate activating peptide) and PAC1 receptors are linked to PTSD symptom severity at genetic/epigenetic levels, with a strong link in females with PTSD. We discovered a PACAPergic projection from the basomedial amygdala (BMA) to the medial intercalated cells (mICCs) in adult mice. In vivo optogenetic stimulation of this pathway increased CFOS expression in mICCs, decreased fear recall, and increased fear extinction. Selective deletion of PAC1 receptors from the mICCs in females reduced fear acquisition, but enhanced fear generalization and reduced fear extinction in males. Optogenetic stimulation of the BMA-mICC PACAPergic pathway produced EPSCs in mICC neurons, which were enhanced by the PAC1 receptor antagonist, PACAP 6-38. Our findings show that mICCs modulate contextual fear in a dynamic and sex-dependent manner via a microcircuit containing the BMA and mICCs, and in a manner that was dependent on behavioral state.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Traumatic stress can affect different aspects of fear behaviors, including fear learning, generalization of learned fear to novel contexts, how the fear of the original context is recalled, and how fear is reduced over time. While the amygdala has been studied for its role in regulation of different aspects of fear, the molecular circuitry of this structure is quite complex. In addition, aspects of fear can be modulated differently in males and females. Our findings show that a specific circuitry containing the neuropeptide PACAP and its receptor, PAC1, regulates various aspects of fear, including acquisition, generalization, recall, and extinction in a sexually dimorphic manner, characterizing a novel pathway that modulates traumatic fear.
33959497 | GEO Data Mining Identifies OLR1 as a Potential Biomarker in NSCLC Immunotherapy. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer. The tumor immune microenvironment (TME) in NSCLC is closely correlated to tumor initiation, progression, and prognosis. TME failure impedes the generation of an effective antitumor immune response. In this study, we attempted to explore TME and identify a potential biomarker for NSCLC immunotherapy. 48 potential immune-related genes were identified from 11 eligible Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) data sets. We applied the CIBERSORT computational approach to quantify bulk gene expression profiles and thereby infer the proportions of 22 subsets of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TICs); 16 kinds of TICs showed differential distributions between the tumor and control tissue samples. Multiple linear regression analysis was used to determine the correlation between TICs and 48 potential immune-related genes. Nine differential immune-related genes showed statistical significance. We analyzed the influence of nine differential immune-related genes on NSCLC immunotherapy, and OLR1 exhibited the strongest correlation with four well-recognized biomarkers (PD-L1, CD8A, GZMB, and NOS2) of immunotherapy. Differential expression of OLR1 showed its considerable potential to divide TICs distribution, as determined by non-linear dimensionality reduction analysis. In immunotherapy prediction analysis with the comparatively reliable tool TIDE, patients with higher OLR1 expression were predicted to have better immunotherapy outcomes, and OLR1 expression was potentially highly correlated with PD-L1 expression, the average of CD8A and CD8B, IFNG, and Merck18 expression, T cell dysfunction and exclusion potential, and other significant immunotherapy predictors. These findings contribute to the current understanding of TME with immunotherapy. OLR1 also shows potential as a predictor or a regulator in NSCLC immunotherapy.
34153324 | Effects of high-intensity interval exercise and moderate-intensity continuous exercise on executive function of healthy young males. PURPOSE: This study compared the executive function (EF) performance induced by moderate-intensity continuous exercise (MICE) versus high-intensity interval exercise (HIIE), under two exercise modalities (i.e., running vs. cycling), and explored whether the changes in EF performance were related to the hemodynamics response of the cerebral prefrontal area of the brain. METHODS: In a randomized cross-over design, 16 male participants completed 4 main trials, i.e., 40 min of moderate-intensity continuous running (MICR) or cycling (MICC) with 60% maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max), 33 min of high-intensity interval running (HIIR) or cycling (HIIC). For HIIR or HIIC trials, the exercise intensity was 60% VO2max for the first 5 min, followed by four 4-minute bouts of exercise at 90% VO2max, separated by 3-minute active recovery at 60% VO2max. EF was assessed via the Eriksen Flanker task (EFT) before (Pre), immediately after (Post 0), and 10 min after exercise (Post 10). Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) measured oxygenated hemoglobin (O2Hb) and deoxygenated hemoglobin (HHb) concentrations in the prefrontal area. Each main trial measured the concentrations of blood glucose and lactate, heart rate, and rate of perceived exertion. RESULTS: (1) Compared to the reaction time in EFT during the pretest, the corresponding reaction time was shorter at Post 10 (P < 0.01) but not at Post 0 (P = 0.06). Specifically, reaction time was shorter at Post 10 than in the pretest in HIIC (P = 0.04), MICC (P = 0.01), and HIIR (P < 0.01) but not MICR. (2) The fNIRS results revealed that O2Hb concentrations in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex area were much lower during Post 10 than during the pretest. (3) The blood lactate concentrations were not associated with EF performance regarding both accuracy and reaction time. CONCLUSION: Compared to the pretest, EF was greater after the 10-minute rest during recovery but not immediately after exercise. The different HIIE or MICE protocols adopted in the present study may elicit minor differences regarding their effects on EF.
34359727 | Biomarkers and Gene Signatures to Predict Durable Response to Pembrolizumab in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Pembrolizumab has been approved as first-line treatment for advanced Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with tumors expressing PD-L1 and in the absence of other targetable alterations. However, not all patients that meet these criteria have a durable benefit. In this monocentric study, we aimed at refining the selection of patients based on the expression of immune genes. Forty-six consecutive advanced NSCLC patients treated with pembrolizumab in first-line setting were enrolled. The expression levels of 770 genes involved in the regulation of the immune system was analysed by the nanoString system. PD-L1 expression was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Patients with durable clinical benefit had a greater infiltration of cytotoxic cells, exhausted CD8, B-cells, CD45, T-cells, CD8 T-cells and NK cells. Immune cell scores such as CD8 T-cell and NK cell were good predictors of durable response with an AUC of 0.82. Among the immune cell markers, XCL1/2 showed the better performance in predicting durable benefit to pembrolizumab, with an AUC of 0.85. Additionally, CD8A, CD8B and EOMES showed a high specificity (>0.86) in identifying patients with a good response to treatment. In the same series, PD-L1 expression levels had an AUC of 0.61. The characterization of tumor microenvironment, even with the use of single markers, can improve patients' selection for pembrolizumab treatment.
34412704 | Experimental colitis promotes sustained, sex-dependent, T-cell-associated neuroinflammation and parkinsonian neuropathology. BACKGROUND: The etiology of sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD) remains uncertain, but genetic, epidemiological, and physiological overlap between PD and inflammatory bowel disease suggests that gut inflammation could promote dysfunction of dopamine-producing neurons in the brain. Mechanisms behind this pathological gut-brain effect and their interactions with sex and with environmental factors are not well understood but may represent targets for therapeutic intervention. METHODS: We sought to identify active inflammatory mechanisms which could potentially contribute to neuroinflammation and neurological disease in colon biopsies and peripheral blood immune cells from PD patients. Then, in mouse models, we assessed whether dextran sodium sulfate-mediated colitis could exert lingering effects on dopaminergic pathways in the brain and whether colitis increased vulnerability to a subsequent exposure to the dopaminergic neurotoxicant 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). We assessed the involvement of inflammatory mechanisms identified in the PD patients in colitis-related neurological dysfunction in male and female mice, utilizing mice lacking the Regulator of G-Protein Signaling 10 (RGS10)-an inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB)-to model enhanced NFkappaB activity, and mice in which CD8+ T-cells were depleted. RESULTS: High levels of inflammatory markers including CD8B and NFkappaB p65 were found in colon biopsies from PD patients, and reduced levels of RGS10 were found in immune cells in the blood. Male mice that experienced colitis exhibited sustained reductions in tyrosine hydroxylase but not in dopamine as well as sustained CD8+ T-cell infiltration and elevated Ifng expression in the brain. CD8+ T-cell depletion prevented colitis-associated reductions in dopaminergic markers in males. In both sexes, colitis potentiated the effects of MPTP. RGS10 deficiency increased baseline intestinal inflammation, colitis severity, and neuropathology. CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies peripheral inflammatory mechanisms in PD patients and explores their potential to impact central dopaminergic pathways in mice. Our findings implicate a sex-specific interaction between gastrointestinal inflammation and neurologic vulnerability that could contribute to PD pathogenesis, and they establish the importance of CD8+ T-cells in this process in male mice.
34422829 | The Prognosis and Immune Checkpoint Blockade Efficacy Prediction of Tumor-Infiltrating Immune Cells in Lung Cancer. BACKGROUNDS: The high morbidity and mortality of lung cancer are serious public health problems. The prognosis of lung cancer and whether to apply immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) are currently urgent problems to be solved. METHODS: Using R software, we performed Kaplan-Meier (K-M) analysis, Cox regression analysis, functional enrichment analysis, Spearman correlation analysis, and the single-sample gene set enrichment analysis. RESULTS: On the Tumor IMmune Estimation Resource (TIMER2.0) website, we calculated the abundance of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs) of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) patients. B cell and myeloid dendritic cell (DC1) were independent prognostic factors for LUAD and LUSC patients, respectively. Enrichment analysis confirmed that genes highly related to B cell or DC1 were closely related to the immune activation of lung cancer patients. In terms of adaptive immune resistance markers, CD8A, CD8B, immunomodulators (immunostimulants, major histocompatibility complex, receptors, and chemokines), immune-related pathways, tumor microenvironment score, and TIICs, high B cell/DC1 infiltration tissue was inflamed and immune-activated and might benefit more from the ICB. Genes most related to B cell [CD19, toll-like receptor 10 (TLR10), and Fc receptor-like A (FCRLA)] and DC1 (ITGB2, LAPTM5, and SLC7A7) partially clarified the roles of B cell/DC1 in predicting ICB efficacy. Among the 186 Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways, there were three and four KEGG pathways, which partially explained the molecular mechanisms by which B cell and DC1 simultaneously predicted the prognosis and efficacy of immunotherapy, respectively. Among five immune subtypes, the abundance of B cell/DC1 and expression of six hub genes were higher in immune C2, C3, and C6. CONCLUSION: B cell and DC1 could predict the prognosis and ICB efficacy of LUAD and LUSC patients, respectively. The six hub genes and seven KEGG pathways might be novel immunotherapy targets. Immune C2, C3, and C6 subtypes of lung cancer patients might benefit more from ICB therapy.
34631056 | Identification of tumor microenvironment-associated immunological genes as potent prognostic markers in the cancer genome analysis project HOPE. Project High-tech Omics-based Patient Evaluation (HOPE), which used whole-exome sequencing and gene expression profiling, was launched in 2014. A total of ~2,000 patients were enrolled until March 2016, and the survival time was observed up to July 2019. In our previous study, a tumor microenvironment immune type classification based on the expression levels of the programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) and CD8B genes was performed based on four types: A, adaptive immune resistance; B, intrinsic induction; C, immunological ignorance; and D, tolerance. Type A (PD-L1+ and CD8B+) exhibited upregulated features of T helper 1 antitumor responses. In the present study, survival time analysis at 5 years revealed that patients in type A had a better prognosis than those in other categories [5 year survival rate (%); A (80.5) vs. B (73.9), C (73.4) and D (72.6), P=0.0005]. Based on the expression data of 293 immune response-associated genes, 62 specific genes were upregulated in the type A group. Among these genes, 18 specific genes, such as activated effector T-cell markers (CD8/CD40LG/GZMB), effector memory T-cell markers (PD-1/CD27/ICOS), chemokine markers (CXCL9/CXCL10) and activated dendritic cell markers (CD80/CD274/SLAMF1), were significantly associated with a good prognosis using overall survival time analysis. Finally, multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression analyses of overall survival demonstrated that four genes (GZMB, HAVCR2, CXCL9 and CD40LG) were independent prognostic markers, and GZMB, CXCL9 and CD40LG may contribute to the survival benefit of patients in the immune type A group.
34837284 | Decreased expression of T-cell-associated immune markers predicts poor prognosis in patients with follicular lymphoma. We previously examined the utility of rituximab-bendamustine (RB) in patients with follicular lymphoma (FL) exhibiting less than optimal responses to 2 cycles of the R-CHOP chemotherapy regimen. The aim of this study was to identify molecular biomarkers that can predict prognosis in RB-treated patients in the context of the prospective cohort. We first analyzed the mutational status of 410 genes in diagnostic tumor specimens by target capture and Sanger sequencing. CREBBP, KMT2D, MEF2B, BCL2, EZH2, and CARD11 were recurrently mutated as reported before, however none was predictive for progression-free survival (PFS) in the RB-treated patients (n = 34). A gene expression analysis by nCounter including 800 genes associated with carcinogenesis and/or the immune response showed that expression levels of CD8+ T-cell markers and half of the genes regulating Th1 and Th2 responses were significantly lower in progression of disease within the 24-mo (POD24) group (n = 8) than in the no POD24 group (n = 31). Collectively, we selected 10 genes (TBX21, CXCR3, CCR4, CD8A, CD8B, GZMM, FLT3LG, CD3E, EOMES, GZMK), and generated an immune infiltration score (IIS) for predicting PFS using principal component analysis, which dichotomized the RB-treated patients into immune IIShigh (n = 19) and IISlow (n = 20) groups. The 3-y PFS rate was significantly lower in the IISlow group than in the IIShigh group (50.0% [95% CI: 27.1-69.2%] vs. 84.2% [95% CI: 58.7-94.6%], P = .0237). Furthermore, the IIS was correlates with absolute lymphocyte counts at diagnosis (r = 0.460, P = .00355). These results suggest that the T-cell-associated immune markers could be useful to predict prognosis in RB-treated FL patients. (UMIN:000 013 795, jRCT:051 180 181).
34923792 | [Characteristics of CD8+ T cell infiltration in colorectal cancer and their correlation with prognosis]. Objective: As cytotoxic T cells, CD8+ T lymphocytes can kill tumor cells by releasing perforin and other effector molecules, but the correlation between their infiltration level and the prognosis of colorectal cancer varies in previous studies. This study aims to explore the distribution of CD8+T cells in tumor center and invasive margin of colorectal cancer, and to analyze their correlation with the prognosis of patients. Methods: A retrospective cohort study was used to analyze the clinicopathological features of 221 patients with colorectal cancer from the colorectal cancer pathological database of the Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University between 2009 and 2012. Case inclusion criteria: (1) colorectal cancers confirmed by postoperative pathology; (2) patients with follow-up data. Exclusion criteria: (1) multiple primary cancers; (2) inflammatory bowel disease, Lynch syndrome or familial adenomatous polyposis; (3) no available paraffin slides; (4) patients receiving preoperative radiotherapy or chemotherapy. A total of 221 patients met the criteria. Immunohistochemical staining was used to count the CD8+ T cells in tumor center and invasive margin in the paraffin slides. Meanwhile the relative expression of CD8B gene in 22 fresh freeze samples of colorectal cancer was detected. Then the correlation of the expression with CD8+T cell density was examined. The patients were divided into high and low infiltration groups according to the level of CD8+T cells. Log-rank test was applied to compare the overall survival of the two groups of patients, and Cox regression analysis was used to adjust the prognostic significance of CD8+T cell infiltration. Results: There were 118 males and 103 females. In 221 slides, CD8+T cells infiltrating in invasive margin were more than those in tumor center [median (range): 37(0-141) / field vs. 14(0-106) / field, Z=-11.985, P<0.001], and the number of CD8+T cell in the tumor center was positively correlated with those in invasive margin (r=0.610, P<0.001). The number of CD8+ T cell in tumor center was positively correlated with the relative expression of CD8B gene (r=0.524, P=0.012). Survival analysis showed that the overall survival of the high infiltration group was better than that of the low infiltration group both in tumor center and invasive margin (median survival: 84.1 months vs. 73.5 months, P<0.001; 84.2 months vs. 75.9 months, P=0.002). Cox regression analysis revealed that high CD8+T cell infiltration in tumor center was an independent protective factor of overall survival (HR=0.369, 95% CI: 0.168-0.812, P=0.013). Conclusions: The infiltration level of CD8+T cells in tumor center is lower than that in invasive margin, and they are positively correlated. The level of CD8+ T cell infiltration in tumor center is related to overall survival and can be used as a potential pronostic marker.
34928779 | Expression and polymorphisms of CD8B gene and its associations with body weight and size traits in sheep. The growth traits are economically important traits in sheep. Improving growth rates will increase the profitability of producers. The aim of this study was to identify alleles of CD8B (encoding T-cell surface glycoprotein CD8 beta chain) that are aberrantly expressed in different tissues and to assess the effects and associations of its different genotypes on weight and size traits in sheep. Using quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR arrays, expression profiling of CD8B was performed in various organs and tissues. CD8B was ubiquitously expressed, with very high expression in the lung, spleen, lymph, duodenum, and liver. One intronic mutation (chr3:62,718,030 (Oar_rambouillet_v1.0, same below) G > A) was identified using pooled DNA sequencing. Subsequently, the variants (AA, AG, and GG) were genotyped using the KASPar  PCR single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotyping system. The results of association analysis with body weight and body size traits in 1304 sheep showed that increases in multiple phenotypic traits correlated with the AA genotype (body weight, p < 0.05; body length, p < 0.05). Thus, SNP chr3:62,718,030 G > A is a promising molecular marker for marker-assisted selection in sheep breeding.
35588138 | A novel four-gene signature predicts immunotherapy response of patients with different cancers. BACKGROUND: Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has demonstrated favorable clinical efficacy, particularly for advanced or difficult-to-treat cancer types. However, this therapy is ineffective for many patients displaying lack of immune response or resistance to ICB. This study aimed to establish a novel four-gene signature (CD8A, CD8B, TCF7, and LEF1) to provide a prognostic immunotherapy biomarker for different cancers. METHODS: Transcriptome profiles and clinical data were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas database. Multivariate Cox regression analysis was used to establish a four-gene signature. The R package estimate was used to obtain the immune score for every patient. RESULTS: Risk scores of the novel four-gene signature could effectively divided all patients into high- and low-risk groups, with distinct outcomes. The immune score calculated via the estimate package demonstrated that the four-gene signature was significantly associated with the immune infiltration level. Furthermore, the four-gene signature could predict the response to atezolizumab immunotherapy in patients with metastatic urothelial cancer. CONCLUSIONS: The novel four-gene signature developed in this study is a good prognostic biomarker, as it could identify many kinds of patients with cancer who are likely to respond to and benefit from immunotherapy.
35680032 | Combinational silencing of components involved in JAK/STAT signaling pathway. Combinatorial silencing of more than one protein via small interfering RNA (siRNA) is a new strategy that can enhance the effect of RNA interference on cell function. To explore this strategy, we selected JAK/STAT axis as a major signaling pathway that contributes to several mechanisms involved in cancer cell proliferation and survival. We focused on four proteins involved in this pathway to explore the possibility of identifying a combinatorial targeting strategy (as the proof of concept) with enhanced efficiency: gp 130 (a co-receptor for IL6 cytokines), JAK2, STAT3, and importin alpha3 (the nuclear transporter reportedly involved in translocation of activated STAT3 to nucleus). Selected proteins were targeted by siRNA in two selected Triple Negative Breast Cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-468). The effect of individual and selected combinations of siRNAs on selected downstream antiapoptotic proteins, pro-apoptosis proteins, and cell-cycle regulating proteins was explored. Combinatorial silencing of JAK2/gp 130 enhanced the effect of RNA interference on downstream proteins significantly, and demonstrated enhanced effect in reducing cell viability, cell migration, and the level of activation of STAT3. In conclusion, the promising results of simultaneous targeting of JAK2 and gp 130 might be an example for potential combinatorial silencing strategies in cancer treatment.
35867785 | Spatiotemporal gating of Stat nuclear influx by Drosophila Npas4 in collective cell migration. Collective migration is important to embryonic development and cancer metastasis, but migratory and nonmigratory cell fate discrimination by differential activity of signal pathways remains elusive. In Drosophila oogenesis, Jak/Stat signaling patterns the epithelial cell fates in early egg chambers but later renders motility to clustered border cells. How Jak/Stat signal spatiotemporally switches static epithelia to motile cells is largely unknown. We report that a nuclear protein, Dysfusion, resides on the inner nuclear membrane and interacts with importin alpha/beta and Nup153 to modulate Jak/Stat signal by attenuating Stat nuclear import. Dysfusion is ubiquitously expressed in oogenesis but specifically down-regulated in border cells when migrating. Increase of nuclear Stat by Dysfusion down-regulation triggers invasive cell behavior and maintains persistent motility. Mammalian homolog of Dysfusion (NPAS4) also negatively regulates the nuclear accumulation of STAT3 and cancer cell migration. Thus, our finding demonstrates that Dysfusion-dependent gating mechanism is conserved and may serve as a therapeutic target for Stat-mediated cancer metastasis.
36035168 | The epiphany derived from T-cell-inflamed profiles: Pan-cancer characterization of CD8A as a biomarker spanning clinical relevance, cancer prognosis, immunosuppressive environment, and treatment responses. CD8A encodes the CD8 alpha chain of alphabetaT cells, which has been proposed as a quantifiable indicator for the assessment of CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) recruitment or activity and a robust biomarker for anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy responses. Nonetheless, the lack of research into the role of CD8A in tumor microenvironment predisposes to limitations in its clinical utilization. In the presented study, multiple computational tools were used to investigate the roles of CD8A in the pan-cancer study, revealing its essential associations with tumor immune infiltration, immunosuppressive environment formation, cancer progression, and therapy responses. Based on the pan-cancer cohorts of the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, our results demonstrated the distinctive CD8A expression patterns in cancer tissues and its close associations with the prognosis and disease stage of cancer. We then found that CD8A was correlated with six major immune cell types, and immunosuppressive cells in multiple cancer types. Besides, epigenetic modifications of CD8A were related to CTL levels and T cell dysfunctional states, thereby affecting survival outcomes of specific cancer types. After that, we explored the co-occurrence patterns of CD8A mutation, thus identifying RMND5A, RNF103-CHMP3, CHMP3, CD8B, MRPL35, MAT2A, RGPD1, RGPD2, REEP1, and ANAPC1P1 genes, which co-occurred mutations with CD8A, and are concomitantly implicated in the regulation of cancer-related pathways. Finally, we tested CD8A as a therapeutic biomarker for multiple antitumor agents' or compounds' responsiveness on various cancer cell lines and cancer cohorts. Our findings denoted the underlying mechanics of CD8A in reflecting the T-cell-inflamed profiles, which has potential as a biomarker in cancer diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutic responses.
36281585 | Tumor immune microenvironment in therapy-naive esophageal adenocarcinoma could predict the nodal status. BACKGROUND: Currently, preoperative staging of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) has modest reliability and accuracy for pT and pN stages prediction, which heavily affects overall survival. The interplay among immune checkpoints, oncogenes, and intratumoral and peritumoral immune infiltrating cells could be used to predict loco-regional metastatic disease in early EAC. METHODS: We prospectively evaluated immune markers expression and oncogenes status as well as intratumoral and peritumoral immune infiltrating cells populations in esophageal mucosa samples obtained from neoadjuvant therapy-naive patients who had esophagectomy for EAC. RESULTS: Vascular invasion and high infiltration of lamina propria mononuclear cells resulted associated with nodal metastasis. Low infiltration of activated CD8+ CD28+ T cells was observed in both intratumoral and peritumoral mucosa of patients with nodal metastasis. Low levels of CD69, MYD88, and TLR4 transcripts were detected in the intratumoral specimen of patients with lymph node involvement. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed good accuracy for detecting nodal metastasis for all the markers tested. Significant lower infiltration of CD8 T cells and M1 macrophages and a lower expression of CD8A, CD8B, and TBX21 were found also in Esophageal Adenocarcinoma TCGA panCancer Atlas in the normal tissue of patients with nodal metastasis. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that immune surveillance failure is the main driver of nodal metastasis onset. Moreover, nodal metastasis containment also involves the immune microenvironment of the peritumoral healthy tissue.
36294807 | Quantifying Intracellular Viral Pathogen: Specimen Preparation, Visualization and Quantification of Multiple Immunofluorescent Signals in Fixed Human Airway Epithelium Cultured at Air-Liquid Interface. Infection control and aggressive antibiotic therapy play an important role in the management of airway infections in individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF). The responses of airway epithelial cells to pathogens are likely to contribute to the pathobiology of CF lung disease. Primary airway epithelial cells obtained from individuals with CF, cultured and differentiated at air-liquid interface (ALI), effectively mimic the structure and function of the in vivo airway epithelium. With the recent respiratory viral pandemics, ALI cultures were extensively used to model respiratory infections in vitro to facilitate physiologically relevant respiratory research. Immunofluorescence staining and imaging were used as an effective tool to provide a fundamental understanding of host-pathogen interactions and for exploring the therapeutic potential of novel or repurposed drugs. Therefore, we described an optimized quantitative fluorescence microscopy assay for the wholemount staining and imaging of epithelial cell markers to identify distinct cell populations and pathogen-specific targets in ALI cultures of human airway epithelial cells grown on permeable support insert membranes. We present a detailed methodology using a graphical user interface (GUI) package to quantify the detected signals on a tiled whole membrane. Our method provided an imaging strategy of the entire membrane, overcoming the common issue of undersampling and enabling unbiased quantitative analysis.
36316447 | A new protocol for whole-brain biodistribution analysis of AAVs by tissue clearing, light-sheet microscopy and semi-automated spatial quantification. Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) has become one of the most promising gene delivery systems for both in vitro and in vivo applications. However, a key challenge is the lack of suitable imaging technologies to evaluate delivery, biodistribution and tropism of rAAVs and efficiently monitor disease amelioration promoted by AAV-based therapies at a whole-organ level with single-cell resolution. Therefore, we aimed to establish a new pipeline for the biodistribution analysis of natural and new variants of AAVs at a whole-brain level by tissue clearing and light-sheet fluorescence microscopy (LSFM). To test this platform, neonatal C57BL/6 mice were intravenously injected with rAAV9 encoding EGFP and, after sacrifice, brains were processed by standard immunohistochemistry and a recently released aqueous-based clearing procedure. This clearing technique required no dedicated equipment and rendered highly cleared brains, while simultaneously preserving endogenous fluorescence. Moreover, three-dimensional imaging by LSFM allowed the quantitative analysis of EGFP at a whole-brain level, as well as the reconstruction of Purkinje cells for the retrieval of valuable morphological information inaccessible by standard immunohistochemistry. In conclusion, the pipeline herein described takes the AAVs to a new level when coupled to LSFM, proving its worth as a bioimaging tool in tropism and gene therapy studies.
36595044 | Genome-wide DNA methylation profile analysis identifies an individualized predictive signature for melanoma immune response. PURPOSE: The current evaluation methods for tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), particularly CD8 + TILs, mainly rely on semiquantitative immunohistochemistry with high variability. We aimed to construct an individualized DNA methylation-based signature for CD8 + TILs (CD8 + MeTIL) that may characterize melanoma immune microenvironment and guide therapeutic selection. METHODS: The transcriptome profiles and DNA methylation data of 457 melanoma patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database were analyzed. Differential methylation analysis between groups with high and low CD8 + TILs was performed to select differentially methylated positions (DMPs) and define CD8 + MeTIL. The prognostic value of CD8 + MeTIL and its predictive value for immunotherapy response were investigated using multiple melanoma cohorts. RESULTS: We successfully constructed the CD8 + MeTIL signature based on four DMPs. The survival analyses showed that higher CD8 + MeTIL score was associated with worse survival outcomes in TCGA-SKCM and GSE144487 cohorts. The ROC curve for the predictive analysis revealed that the survival prediction of CD8 + MeTIL score was superior compared with CD8 + TILs (CIBERSORT) and CD8B mRNA expression. Furthermore, we founded that tumors with higher CD8 + MeTIL score were marked with immunosuppressive characteristics, including low immune score and downregulated immune-related pathways. More importantly, the CD8 + MeTIL score showed a potential predictive value for the benefit from immunotherapy in two published cohorts. When combined CD8 + MeTIL with PD-L1 expression, the patient classification showed significantly different immunotherapy response rates and long-term survival outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: The CD8 + MeTIL signature might be as a novel method to evaluate CD8 + TILs and guide immunotherapy approaches.
36816742 | The Prognostic Model Established by the Differential Expression Genes Based on CD8+ T Cells to Evaluate the Prognosis and the Response to Immunotherapy in Osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma (OS) is a malignant tumor with an extremely poor prognosis, especially in progressive patients. Immunotherapy based on immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) is considered to be a promising treatment option for OS. Due to tumor heterogeneity, only a minority of patients benefit from immunotherapy. Therefore, it is urgent to explore a model that can accurately assess the response of OS to immunotherapy. In this study, we obtained the single-cell RNA sequencing datasets of OS patients from public databases and defined 34 cell clusters by dimensional reduction and clustering analysis. PTPRC was applied to identify immune cell clusters and nonimmune cell clusters. Next, we performed clustering analysis on the immune cell clusters and obtained 25 immune cell subclusters. Immune cells were labeled with CD8A and CD8B to obtain CD8+ T cell clusters. Meanwhile, we extracted the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of CD8+ T cell clusters and other immune cell clusters. Furthermore, we constructed a prognostic model (CD8-DEG model) based on the obtained DEGs of CD8+ T cells, and verified the excellent predictive ability of this model for the prognosis of OS. Moreover, we further investigated the value of the CD8-DEG model. The results indicated that the risk score of the CD8-DEG model was an independent risk factor for OS patients. Finally, we revealed that the risk score of the CD8-DEG model correlates with the immune profile of OS and can be used to evaluate the response of OS to immunotherapy. In conclusion, our study revealed the critical role of CD8 cells in OS. The risk score model based on CD8-DEGs can provide guidance for prognosis and immunotherapy of OS.
36979667 | Prognostic Value of Liver Kinase B1 (LKB1) in Gastric Cancer-Associated Tumor Microenvironment Immunity. Liver kinase B1 (LKB1) is a tumor suppressor gene, the inactivation of which occurs frequently in different tumor types. However, whether LKB1 is associated with the clinical features of gastric cancer (GC) and regulating tumor immunity is unknown. In this study, we showed that LKB1 is highly expressed in the serum of healthy individuals (n = 176) compared to GC patients (n = 416) and is also associated with clinical outcomes and good survival rates in GC patients. Furthermore, genes associated with immune checkpoints and T cell activation, such as PD-1, PD-L1, CD8A, CD8B, CD28, and GZMM, were shown to be highly expressed in GC subgroups with high LKB1 expression. Compared with fresh gastric cancerous tissues, LKB1 was highly expressed in CD3+CD8+ and CD3+CD8+CD28+ T cells in fresh adjacent non-cancerous tissues. CD3+CD8+ T cells produced an IFN-gamma anti-cancer immune response. Furthermore, the proportion of CD3+CD8+ T cells that expressed LKB had a positive correlation with IFN-gamma expression. Moreover, GC patients with low LKB1 expression had a poor objective response rate, and worse progression-free survival and overall survival when treated with pembrolizumab. In conclusion, LKB1 may be a potential immune checkpoint in GC patients.
37674082 | Thymic mimetic cells function beyond self-tolerance. Development of immunocompetent T cells in the thymus is required for effective defence against all types of pathogens, including viruses, bacteria and fungi. To this end, T cells undergo a very strict educational program in the thymus, during which both non-functional and self-reactive T cell clones are eliminated by means of positive and negative selection1.Thymic epithelial cells (TECs) have an indispensable role in these processes, and previous studies have shown the notable heterogeneity of these cells2-7. Here, using multiomic analysis, we provide further insights into the functional and developmental diversity of TECs in mice, and reveal a detailed atlas of the TEC compartment according to cell transcriptional states and chromatin landscapes. Our analysis highlights unconventional TEC subsets that are similar to functionally well-defined parenchymal populations, including endocrine cells, microfold cells and myocytes. By focusing on the endocrine and microfold TEC populations, we show that endocrine TECs require Insm1 for their development and are crucial to maintaining thymus cellularity in a ghrelin-dependent manner; by contrast, microfold TECs require Spib for their development and are essential for the generation of thymic IgA+ plasma cells. Collectively, our study reveals that medullary TECs have the potential to differentiate into various types of molecularly distinct and functionally defined cells, which not only contribute to the induction of central tolerance, but also regulate the homeostasis of other thymus-resident populations.
37781365 | High CD8+tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes indicate severe exhaustion and poor prognosis in angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma. Background: Exhaustion of CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), characterized by the overexpression of immune checkpoints (IC), is a major impediment to anti-tumor immunity. However, the exhaustion status of CD8+TILs in angioimmunoblastic T cell lymphoma (AITL) remains unclear. Therefore, we aimed to elucidate the exhaustion status of CD8+TILs in AITL and its influence on prognosis. Methods: The correlation between CD8+TILs and IC expression in AITL was analyzed using single-cell RNA sequencing (n = 2), flow cytometry (n = 20), and RNA sequencing (n = 20). Biological changes related to CD8+TILs exhaustion at different cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) levels (mean expression levels of CD8A, CD8B, GZMA, GZMB, and PRF1) in AITL were evaluated using RNA sequencing (n = 20) and further validated using the GEO dataset (n = 51). The impact of CD8 protein expression and CTL levels on patient prognosis was analyzed using flow cytometry and RNA sequencing, respectively. Results: Our findings demonstrated that the higher the infiltration of CD8+TILs, the higher was the proportion of exhausted CD8+TILs characterized by the overexpression of multiple IC. This was accompanied by extensive exhaustion-related biological changes, which suggested severe exhaustion in CD8+TILs and may be one of the main reasons for the poor prognosis of patients with high CD8+TILs and CTL. Conclusion: Our study comprehensively reveals the exhaustion status of CD8+TILs and their potential negative impact on AITL prognosis, which facilitates further mechanistic studies and is valuable for guiding immunotherapy strategies.
37819133 | Seneca Valley virus 3Cpro antagonizes type I interferon response by targeting STAT1-STAT2-IRF9 and KPNA1 signals. The Seneca Valley virus (SVV) is an emerging pathogen that causes vesicular disease in pigs, posing a threat to the pork industry. The type I interferon (IFN) signaling pathway is the major defense mechanism of host innate immune responses, and SVV has developed numerous strategies to antagonize the IFN signaling and promote viral replication. However, the molecular mechanisms by which SVV affects IFN signaling components have not been fully elucidated. Here, we revealed that SVV proteinase (3Cpro) inhibited IFN-alpha signaling by degrading signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1, STAT2, and interferon regulatory factor 9 (IRF9) through its protease activity, which is dependent on the caspase pathway. 3Cpro was further found to cleave STAT2 at glutamine 758 (Q758) within the transactivation domain, and the cleaved STAT2 products attenuated its ability to activate IFN-stimulated responsive element activity and induce the production of IFN-stimulated genes. Additionally, 3Cpro impaired the nuclear import and formation of the IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 complex. 3Cpro also induced karyopherin 1 degradation to block STAT1/STAT2 nuclear localization. Collectively, SVV 3Cpro is capable of subverting the type I IFN response by targeting STAT1-STAT2-IRF9 and karyopherin alpha1 signals, which uncovers a novel mechanism exploited by SVV to evade host type I IFN response for efficient replication. IMPORTANCE Type I interferon (IFN) signaling plays a principal role in host innate immune responses against invading viruses. Viruses have evolved diverse mechanisms that target the Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway to modulate IFN response negatively. Seneca Valley virus (SVV), an emerging porcine picornavirus, has received great interest recently because it poses a great threat to the global pork industry. However, the molecular mechanism by which SVV evades host innate immunity remains incompletely clear. Our results revealed that SVV proteinase (3Cpro) antagonizes IFN signaling by degrading STAT1, STAT2, and IRF9, and cleaving STAT2 to escape host immunity. SVV 3Cpro also degrades karyopherin 1 to block IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 nuclear translocation. Our results reveal a novel molecular mechanism by which SVV 3Cpro antagonizes the type I IFN response pathway by targeting STAT1-STAT2-IRF9 and karyopherin alpha1 signals, which has important implications for our understanding of SVV-evaded host innate immune responses.
15466019 | MicC, a second small-RNA regulator of Omp protein expression in Escherichia coli. In a previous bioinformatics-based search for novel small-RNA genes encoded by the Escherichia coli genome, we identified a region, IS063, located between the ompN and ydbK genes, that encodes an approximately 100-nucleotide small-RNA transcript. Here we show that the expression of this small RNA is increased at a low temperature and in minimal medium. Twenty-two nucleotides at the 5' end of this transcript have the potential to form base pairs with the leader sequence of the mRNA encoding the outer membrane protein OmpC. The deletion of IS063 increased the expression of an ompC-luc translational fusion 1.5- to 2-fold, and a 10-fold overexpression of the small RNA led to a 2- to 3-fold repression of the fusion. Deletion and overexpression of the IS063 RNA also resulted in increases and decreases, respectively, in OmpC protein levels. Taken together, these results suggest that IS063 is a regulator of OmpC expression; thus, the small RNA has been renamed MicC. The antisense regulation was further demonstrated by the finding that micC mutations were suppressed by compensatory mutations in the ompC mRNA. MicC was also shown to inhibit ribosome binding to the ompC mRNA leader in vitro and to require the Hfq RNA chaperone for its function. We suggest that the MicF and MicC RNAs act in conjunction with the EnvZ-OmpR two-component system to control the OmpF/OmpC protein ratio in response to a variety of environmental stimuli.
15948181 | Myelin deterioration in Twitcher mice: motor evoked potentials and magnetic resonance imaging as in vivo monitoring tools. We have used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and motor evoked potentials (MEPs) for monitoring disease progression within the CNS of the Twitcher mouse, the murine model for globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD). GLD is a lysosomal storage disorder, resulting from galactocerebrosidase deficiency, causing central and peripheral myelin impairment, leading to death, usually during early infancy. Neuroradiological, electrophysiological, and pathological parameters of myelin maturation were evaluated in Twitcher mice between postnatal days 20 and 45. Healthy controls showed a gradual-appearance MRI T2-weighted hypointensity of the corpus callosum (CC) starting at about P30 and ending at about P37, whereas MRI of age-matched Twitcher mice showed a complete loss of the CC-related MRI signal. MEPs allowed the functional assessment of myelin maturation within corticospinal motor pathways and showed a progressive deterioration of MEPs in Twitcher mice with increased central conduction time (CCT; 5.12 +/- 0.49 msec at P27 to 6.45 +/- 1.96 msec at P32), whereas physiological CCT shortening was found in healthy controls (3.01 +/- 0.81 msec at P27 to 2.5 +/- 0.27 msec at P32). These findings were not paralleled by traditional histological stainings. Optical observation of Bielchowsky and Luxol fast blue-PAS stainings showed mild axonal/myelin deterioration of the Twitcher brain within this time frame. Our results demonstrate that serial MRI and MEP readings are sensitive evaluation tools for in vivo monitoring of dysmyelination in Twitcher mice and underscore their potential use for longitudinal evaluation of the therapeutic impact of gene and cell therapies on these animals.
16716220 | Outer membrane protein genes and their small non-coding RNA regulator genes in Photorhabdus luminescens. INTRODUCTION: Three major outer membrane protein genes of Escherichia coli, ompF, ompC, and ompA respond to stress factors. Transcripts from these genes are regulated by the small non-coding RNAs micF, micC, and micA, respectively. Here we examine Photorhabdus luminescens, an organism that has a different habitat from E. coli for outer membrane protein genes and their regulatory RNA genes. RESULTS: By bioinformatics analysis of conserved genetic loci, mRNA 5'UTR sequences, RNA secondary structure motifs, upstream promoter regions and protein sequence homologies, an ompF -like porin gene in P. luminescens as well as a duplication of this gene have been predicted. Gene loci for micF RNA, as well as OmpC protein and its associated regulatory micC RNA, were not found. Significantly, a sequence bearing the appropriate signatures of the E. coli micA RNA was located. The ompA homolog was previously annotated in P. luminescens. CONCLUSION: Presence of an ompF-like porin in P. luminescens is in keeping with the necessity to allow for passage of small molecules into the cell. The apparent lack of ompC, micC and micF suggests that these genes are not essential to P. luminescens and ompC and micF in particular may have been lost when the organism entered its defined life cycle and partially protected habitat. Control of porin gene expression by RNA may be more prevalent in free- living cells where survival is dependent on the ability to make rapid adjustments in response to environmental stress. Regulation of ompA by micA may have been retained due to a necessity for ompA control during one or both stages of the P. luminescens life cycle.
16894629 | Morphological and molecular course of mitochondrial pathology in cultured human cells exposed long-term to Zidovudine. Long-term use of antiretroviral nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) as therapy for human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection is limited by mitochondrial toxicity. Here we document mitochondrial pathology during the long-term culture of human HeLa cells in the presence or absence of the NRTI Zidovudine(R) (AZT, 800 muM) for up to 77-passages (p), with samples taken at early (p5-p11), middle (p36 and p37), and late (p70-p77) passages. Samples were analyzed for changes in mitochondrial morphology, mitochondrial (mt)DNA quantity, nuclear and mitochondrial gene expression, and mitochondrial membrane potential. Mitochondria showed abnormal proliferation at p5 and abnormal morphology >/=p36. mtDNA quantity was increased at p5 and p11, and 65% depleted at p71. Hierarchical clustering of nuclear gene expression, examined at p37 by the NCI cDNA microarray in AZT-exposed cells, showed down-regulation of 13 out of 16 lipid-metabolizing genes, and up-regulation of most oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) genes. OXPHOS genes encoded by mtDNA, examined at p5, p36, and p75 using the Mitochondrial Gene Mini Array, revealed up-regulation of genes coding for polypeptides of NADH dehydrogenase, ATP synthase, and cytochrome c oxidase. Mitochondrial membrane potential, monitored by JC1 staining, was elevated at p10 and p32, and essentially completely absent at p71. The data show that during chronic exposure of HeLa cells to AZT, a compensatory response was induced at the earlier passages (p5-p37), and by p71 there was widespread mitochondrial morphological damage, severe mtDNA depletion, and a substantial loss of mitochondrial membrane potential.
17005822 | High-level carbapenem resistance in a Klebsiella pneumoniae clinical isolate is due to the combination of bla(ACT-1) beta-lactamase production, porin OmpK35/36 insertional inactivation, and down-regulation of the phosphate transport porin phoe. Clinical isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae resistant to carbapenems and essentially all other antibiotics (multidrug resistant) are being isolated from some hospitals in New York City with increasing frequency. A highly related pair of K. pneumoniae strains isolated on the same day from one patient in a hospital in New York City were studied for antibiotic resistance. One (KP-2) was resistant to imipenem, meropenem, and sulopenem (MICs of 16 to 32 microg/ml) while the other (KP-1) was susceptible (MIC of 0.5 microg/ml); both contained the bla(ACT-1), bla(SHV-1), and bla(TEM-1) beta-lactamases. bla(ACT-1) in both strains was encoded on a large approximately 150-kb plasmid. Both isolates contained an identical class 1 integron encoding resistance to aminoglycosides and chloramphenicol. They each had identical insertions in ompK35 and ompK36, resulting in disruption of these key porin genes. The carbapenem-resistant and -susceptible isolates were extensively studied for differences in the structural and regulatory genes for the operons acrRAB, marORAB, romA-ramA, soxRS, micF, micC, phoE, phoBR, rpoS, and hfq. No changes were detected between the isolates except for a significant down-regulation of ompK37, phoB, and phoE in KP-2 as deduced from reverse transcription-PCR analysis of mRNA and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis separation of outer membrane proteins. Backcross analysis was conducted using the wild-type phoE gene cloned into the vector pGEM under regulation of its native promoter as well as the lacZ promoter following transformation into the resistant KP-2 isolate. The wild-type gene reversed carbapenem resistance only when under control of the heterologous lacZ promoter. In the background of ompK35-ompK36 gene disruption, the up-regulation of phoE in KP-1 apparently compensated for porin loss and conferred carbapenem susceptibility. Down-regulation of phoE in KP-2 may represent the normal state of this gene, or it may have been selected from KP-1 in vivo under antibiotic pressure, generating the carbapenem-resistant clone. This is the first study in the Enterobacteriaceae where expression of the phosphate-regulated PhoE porin has been associated with resistance to antimicrobials. Our results with this pair of Klebsiella clinical isolates highlight the complex and evolving nature of multiple drug resistance in this species.
17055775 | Small non-coding RNAs and the bacterial outer membrane. Recent systematic genome searches revealed that bacteria encode a tremendous number of small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs). Whereas most of these molecules remain of unknown function, it has become increasingly clear that many of them will act to modulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. Where studied in more detail, sRNAs have often been found to control the expression of outer membrane proteins (OMPs). Enterobacteria such as Escherichia coli and Salmonella are now known to encode at least eight OMP-regulating sRNAs (InvR, MicA, MicC, MicF, OmrAB, RseX and RybB). These sRNAs exert their functions under a variety of growth and stress conditions, including the sigmaE-mediated envelope stress response. An sRNA-OMP network is emerging in which some sRNAs act specifically on a single omp mRNA, whereas others control multiple omp mRNA targets.
17264113 | Translational control and target recognition by Escherichia coli small RNAs in vivo. Small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) are an emerging class of regulators of bacterial gene expression. Most of the regulatory Escherichia coli sRNAs known to date modulate translation of trans-encoded target mRNAs. We studied the specificity of sRNA target interactions using gene fusions to green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a novel reporter of translational control by bacterial sRNAs in vivo. Target sequences were selected from both monocistronic and polycistronic mRNAs. Upon expression of the cognate sRNA (DsrA, GcvB, MicA, MicC, MicF, RprA, RyhB, SgrS and Spot42), we observed highly specific translation repression/activation of target fusions under various growth conditions. Target regulation was also tested in mutants that lacked Hfq or RNase III, or which expressed a truncated RNase E (rne701). We found that translational regulation by these sRNAs was largely independent of full-length RNase E, e.g. despite the fact that ompA fusion mRNA decay could no longer be promoted by MicA. This is the first study in which multiple well-defined E.coli sRNA target pairs have been studied in a uniform manner in vivo. We expect our GFP fusion approach to be applicable to sRNA targets of other bacteria, and also demonstrate that Vibrio RyhB sRNA represses a Vibrio sodB fusion when co-expressed in E.coli.
17573935 | Expression patterns and role of the CadF protein in Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter coli. Binding of Campylobacter jejuni and Campylobacter coli to host fibronectin is mediated by the 37 kDa outer membrane protein CadF. Immunoblot analysis of 58 C. jejuni and C. coli isolates of human and animal origin showed that CadF is expressed in every strain. In most C. jejuni isolates, a 37 kDa band (p37) and a less-prominent 32 kDa band (p32) reacted with the antibodies. In C. coli isolates, CadF was consistently larger with sizes of 39 kDa (p39) and 34 kDa (p34), respectively. PCR analysis and sequencing revealed the presence of a 39-bp insertion sequence in the cadF gene of C. coli strains, explaining the increased molecular size. Infection assays revealed that C. jejuni bound and invaded INT-407 epithelial cells much more efficiently than C. coli and that this difference was considerably reduced in isogenic cadF mutants. These results demonstrate that CadF is an important pathogenicity factor. The difference between CadF of C. jejuni and C. coli may potentially be exploited to discriminate these species in food and clinical specimens.
17590231 | RNase E-dependent processing stabilizes MicX, a Vibrio cholerae sRNA. In Vibrio cholerae, bioinformatic approaches have been used to predict the locations of numerous small RNA (sRNA)-encoding genes, but biological roles have been determined for very few. Here, we describe the expression, processing and biological role of an sRNA (previously known as A10) that was identified through such analyses. We have renamed this sRNA MicX as, like the Escherichia coli sRNAs MicA, MicC and MicF, it regulates expression of an outer membrane protein (OMP). MicX appears to be a direct negative regulator of vc0972, which encodes an uncharacterized OMP, and vc0620, which encodes the periplasmic component of a peptide ABC transporter. Hfq is apparently not required for MicX's interactions with and regulation of these targets. The sequence encoding MicX overlaps with vca0943; however, primary transcripts of MicX are processed in an RNase E- and Hfq-dependent fashion to a shorter, still active and much more stable form consisting largely of the vca0943 3' untranslated region. Our data suggest that processing of MicX enhances its effectiveness, and that sRNA cleavage is not simply a means to sRNA inactivation and clearance.
17903297 | Genetic correlates of brain aging on MRI and cognitive test measures: a genome-wide association and linkage analysis in the Framingham Study. BACKGROUND: Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cognitive tests can identify heritable endophenotypes associated with an increased risk of developing stroke, dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD). We conducted a genome-wide association (GWA) and linkage analysis exploring the genetic basis of these endophenotypes in a community-based sample. METHODS: A total of 705 stroke- and dementia-free Framingham participants (age 62 +9 yrs, 50% male) who underwent volumetric brain MRI and cognitive testing (1999-2002) were genotyped. We used linear models adjusting for first degree relationships via generalized estimating equations (GEE) and family based association tests (FBAT) in additive models to relate qualifying single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs, 70,987 autosomal on Affymetrix 100K Human Gene Chip with minor allele frequency > or = 0.10, genotypic call rate > or = 0.80, and Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium p-value > or = 0.001) to multivariable-adjusted residuals of 9 MRI measures including total cerebral brain (TCBV), lobar, ventricular and white matter hyperintensity (WMH) volumes, and 6 cognitive factors/tests assessing verbal and visuospatial memory, visual scanning and motor speed, reading, abstract reasoning and naming. We determined multipoint identity-by-descent utilizing 10,592 informative SNPs and 613 short tandem repeats and used variance component analyses to compute LOD scores. RESULTS: The strongest gene-phenotype association in FBAT analyses was between SORL1 (rs1131497; p = 3.2 x 10(-6)) and abstract reasoning, and in GEE analyses between CDH4 (rs1970546; p = 3.7 x 10(-8)) and TCBV. SORL1 plays a role in amyloid precursor protein processing and has been associated with the risk of AD. Among the 50 strongest associations (25 each by GEE and FBAT) were other biologically interesting genes. Polymorphisms within 28 of 163 candidate genes for stroke, AD and memory impairment were associated with the endophenotypes studied at p < 0.001. We confirmed our previously reported linkage of WMH on chromosome 4 and describe linkage of reading performance to a marker on chromosome 18 (GATA11A06), previously linked to dyslexia (LOD scores = 2.2 and 5.1). CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that genes associated with clinical neurological disease also have detectable effects on subclinical phenotypes. These hypothesis generating data illustrate the use of an unbiased approach to discover novel pathways that may be involved in brain aging, and could be used to replicate observations made in other studies.
17940119 | Genetic variants within the LPIN1 gene, encoding lipin, are influencing phenotypes of the metabolic syndrome in humans. OBJECTIVE: Lipin, a novel molecular protein expressed by adipocytes, has marked effects on adipose tissue mass, insulin sensitivity, and glucose homeostasis. Thus, we hypothesized that genetic variants within LPIN1 are associated with traits of the metabolic syndrome. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A total of 15 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) covering the LPIN1 gene region were genotyped in an age- and sex-stratified sample of the general population (Monitoring Trends and Determinants on Cardiovascular Diseases Study Augsburg; DNA and phenotypes of 1,416 Caucasians). Ten SNPs were also genotyped for replication in an independent sample of 1,030 subjects recruited throughout Germany. The metabolic syndrome was defined via the sum of its core components and, additionally, by a factor score derived from factor analysis. Permutation-based methods were used to test the association between genetic LPIN1 variants and metabolic traits for empirical significance. RESULTS: Linkage disequilibrium (LD) analysis revealed three LD blocks encompassing LPIN1. We identified three associated three-marker haplotypes: one common haplotype (26.8% frequency) increases the risk for the metabolic syndrome (odds ratio 1.6 [95% CI 1.2-2.2]), while the other two, being less common (5.7 and 4.0%), are strongly associated with lower blood pressure levels (systolic blood pressure 127 +/- 18 vs. 135 +/- 20 mmHg; P = 0.0001), a lower BMI (24.6 +/- 3.6 vs. 26.9 +/- 4.1 kg/m(2); P = 3.7 x 10(-7)) and waist circumference (82 +/- 12 vs. 90 +/- 12 cm; P = 3.2 x 10(-8)), lower A1C levels (5.1 +/- 0.7 vs. 5.3 +/- 0.9%; P = 0.0002), as well as a lower metabolic syndrome factor score (-0.67 +/- 1.00 vs. 0.04 +/- 1.24; P = 1.4 x 10(-7)). Furthermore, the frequencies of arterial hypertension (23.7 vs. 46.4%; P = 0.00001), obesity (12.9 vs. 30.8%; P = 0.0003), diabetes (2.2 vs. 8.2%; P = 0.041), and the presence of three or more metabolic syndrome components (3.3 vs. 13.7%; P = 0.002) were significantly lower than in subjects not carrying one of these protective haplotypes. Strong associations were also observed in the replication sample using the same haplotypes but with effects in the opposite direction. CONCLUSIONS These data suggest that allelic variants of the LPIN1 gene have significant effects in human metabolic traits and thus implicate lipin in the pathophysiology of the metabolic syndrome.
18978792 | Meta-analysis of genome-wide association study data identifies additional type 1 diabetes risk loci. We carried out a meta-analysis of data from three genome-wide association (GWA) studies of type 1 diabetes (T1D), testing 305,090 SNPs in 3,561 T1D cases and 4,646 controls of European ancestry. We obtained further support for 4q27 (IL2-IL21, P = 1.9 x 10(-8)) and, after genotyping an additional 6,225 cases, 6,946 controls and 2,828 families, convincing evidence for four previously unknown and distinct risk loci in chromosome regions 6q15 (BACH2, P = 4.7 x 10(-12)), 10p15 (PRKCQ, P = 3.7 x 10(-9)), 15q24 (CTSH, P = 3.2 x 10(-15)) and 22q13 (C1QTNF6, P = 2.0 x 10(-8)).
19088062 | CD8beta knockout mice mount normal anti-viral CD8+ T cell responses--but why? It has been shown previously that CD8beta in vitro increases the range and the sensitivity of antigen recognition and in vivo plays an important role in the thymic selection of CD8+ T cells. Consistent with this, we report here that CD8+ T cells from CD8beta knockout (KO) P14 TCR transgenic mice proliferate inefficiently in vitro. In contrast to these findings, we also show that CD8beta KO mice mount normal CD8 primary, secondary and memory responses to acute infection with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus. Tetramer staining and cytotoxic experiments revealed a predominance of CD8-independent CTL in CD8beta KO mice. The TCR repertoire, especially the one of the TCRalpha chain, was different in CD8beta KO mice as compared with B6 mice. Our results indicate that in the absence of CD8beta, CD8-independent TCRs are preferentially selected, which in vivo effectively compensates for the reduced co-receptor function of CD8alphaalpha.
20068355 | The complexities of porin genetic regulation. Our understanding of porin regulation has revealed not only increasing complexity in the regulatory mechanisms, but also that the porin repertoire is more extensive than previously conceived. Initially, the OmpR response regulator was described as the master regulator of porin genes, but many more regulators are involved such as CpxR, PhoB, Lrp, Rob, MarA, SoxS, CadC, CRP, Fnr, ToxR, H-NS, StpA, IHF, HU and LeuO. In addition to MicF, the first small RNA (sRNA) that was proposed to regulate porin expression, porins are post-transcriptionally regulated by a variety of other sRNAs, namely, MicC, MicA, IpeX, RseX, InvR, CyaR and RybB. Future challenges include the full integration of all the regulatory circuitries. Whether quiescent porins are merely replacements of the major porins or are part of novel metabolic programs has yet to be elucidated. The comprehensive exploration of the environmental determinants that affect porin gene expression should yield valuable new information about the functions of these important proteins.
22399799 | A short Gfi-1B isoform controls erythroid differentiation by recruiting the LSD1-CoREST complex through the dimethylation of its SNAG domain. Gfi-1B is a transcriptional repressor essential for the regulation of erythropoiesis and megakaryopoiesis. Here we identify Gfi-1B p32, a Gfi-1B isoform, as essential for erythroid differentiation. Gfi-1B p32 is generated by alternative splicing and lacks the two first zinc finger domains of the protein. Selective knock down of Gfi-1B p32 compromises erythroid differentiation, whereas its ectopic expression induces erythropoiesis in the absence of erythropoietin. Gfi-1B p32 isoform binds to Gfi-1B target gene promoters and associates with the LSD1-CoREST repressor complex more efficiently than the major Gfi-1B p37 isoform. Furthermore, we show that Gfi-1B includes a KSKK motif in its SNAG domain, which recruits the repressor complex only when dimethylated on lysine 8. Mutation of lysine 8 prevents Gfi-1B p32-induced erythroid development. Our results thus highlight a key role for the alternatively spliced Gfi-1B p32 isoform in erythroid development.
22457935 | Construction and properties of new Lyt-congenic strains and anti-Lyt-2.2 and anti-Lyt-3.1 monoclonal antibodies. Hybridomas producing mouse monoclonal IgM antibodies specific for Lyt-2.2 and Lyt-3.1 T-cell surface alloantigens have been constructed. Cytotoxic titers of ascites fluids were found to be 10(-6) or greater and no lysis of thymocytes of congenic strains bearing the alternative allele was observed at the lowest dilutions tested (1:2). The anti-Lyt-2.2 monoclonal antibody (HO-2.2) specifically precipiated from extracts of Lyt-2.2-positive thymocytes molecular species indistinguishable from those precipitated by conventional anti-Lyt-2.2 sera. However, by immunoprecipitation criteria (though not by cytotoxicity), the anti-Lyt-3.1 antibody (HO-3.1) demonstrated some cross-reactivity with similar molecular species from Lyt-3.1-negative thymocytes. In addition, three new strains of mice differing from existing strains in the region of the Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 loci have been constructed. They are: C.C58-Lyt-2a, Lyt-3a and C.AKR-Lyt-2a, Lyt-3a, congenic with Balb/cAn and bearing Lyt-2a and Lyt-3a alleles of C58/J and AKR/J, respectively; and AKR.C-Lyt-2b, Lyt-3b congenic with AKR/J and bearing the Lyt-2b and Lyt-3b alleles of Balb/cJ.
23141574 | [The variation characters of EPSC-IPSC in rat visual cortex II/III pyramidal neurons during critical period of visual development]. OBJECTIVE: To observe the characters of EPSC-IPSC induced by paired-pulse stimulation of rat visual cortex layer II/III pyramidal neurons during critical period of visual development, and discuss their relationships, to discuss the role of short-term synaptic plasticity in the critical period of visual development of rats. METHODS: Thirty Wistar rats were used, they were divided into P10-P12, P14-P16, P21-P23, P28-P30, P35-P37 five groups, n = 6. Whole-cell voltage clamp recording was performed, the membrane potential was clamped on -50 mV, 0 mV respectively to separate EPSC and IPSC. We set the PPR as the observation indicator, analyzed the developmental features of EPSC and IPSC induced by paired-pulse stimulation of different groups. RESULTS: The PPR of layer II/III pyramidal neurons in group P10-P12, P14-P16, P21-P23, P28-P30, P35-P37 was 0.43 +- 0.08, 0.07 +- 0.08, 0.10 +- 0.10, 0.20 +- 0.07, 0.22 +- 0.12 respectively. The PPR of group P14-P16 decreased, the difference was statistically significant compared with the group before eyes open (t = -3.13, P = 0.04). The PPR of corresponding groups was 0.6036 +- 0.3021, 0.2830 +- 0.0504, 0.0287 +- 0.0907, -0.0449 +- 0.1443, -0.3089 +- 0.05553 respectively (F = 5.0799, P = 0.0037), the PPR of IPSC gradually reduced with age, and turned negative from the P28-P30 group, changed from PPF to PPD. CONCLUSIONS: The PPR of EPSC response to visual stimuli rapidly, but did not change significantly in the critical period of visual development (P19-P32). The short-term depression of IPSC increased gradually from the eyes open to the end of the critical period of visual development, which may play a more important role in the process of layer II/III pyramidal neurons maturation and the critical period of visual development ending.
23575529 | CD8-beta ADP-ribosylation affects CD8(+) T-cell function. The CD8alphabeta coreceptor is crucial for effective peptide: MHC-I recognition by the TCR of CD8(+) T cells. Adenosine diphosphate ribosyl transferase 2.2 (ART2.2) utilizes extracellular NAD(+) to transfer ADP-ribose to arginine residues of extracellular domains of surface proteins. Here, we show that in the presence of extracellular NAD(+) , ART2.2 caused ADP-ribosylation of CD8-beta on murine CD8(+) T cells in vitro and in vivo. Treatment with NAD(+) prevented binding of anti-CD8-beta mAb YTS156.7.7 but not of mAb H35-17.2, indicating that NAD(+) caused modification of certain epitopes and not a general loss of CD8-beta. Loss of antibody binding was strictly dependent on ART2.2, because it was not observed on ART2-deficient T cells or in the presence of inhibitory anti-ART2.2 single-domain antibodies. ADP-ribosylation of CD8-beta occurred during cell isolation, particularly when cells were isolated from CD38-deficient mice. Incubation of ART2-expressing, but not of ART2-deficient, OVA-specific CD8(+) T cells with NAD(+) interfered with binding of OVA257-264 :MHC-I tetramers. In line with this result, treatment of WT mice with NAD(+) resulted in reduced CD8(+) T-cell mediated cytotoxicity in vivo. We propose that ADP-ribosylation of CD8-beta can regulate the coreceptor function of CD8 in the presence of elevated levels of extracellular NAD(+) . 
25557799 | Sex differences in sensitivity to the social consequences of acute ethanol and social drinking during adolescence. In human adolescents, sociable males frequently drink to enhance positive emotional states, whereas anxious females often drink to avoid negative affective states. This study used a rat model of adolescence to provide information regarding possible sex differences in contributors to social drinking. The effects of ethanol (0, 0.5, and 0.75g/kg) on play fighting and social preference were assessed on P30, P32, and P34 using a within-subject design. Then animals were tested in a social drinking paradigm (P37-P40), with this testing revealing high drinkers and low drinkers. Sex differences in sensitivity to ethanol emerged among high and low drinkers. High socially drinking males, but not females, when tested prior to drinking sessions, showed significant increases in play fighting at both doses. In low drinking males, play fighting was increased by 0.5g/kg ethanol, whereas the higher dose of 0.75g/kg produced significant decreases in play fighting. High drinking females initially showed low levels of social preference than high drinking males and low drinking females and were extremely sensitive to ethanol-induced enhancement of this social measure. Low social drinkers, both males and females, were more sensitive to the suppressing effects of ethanol on social preference following 0.75g/kg ethanol. These findings indicate that during adolescence enhanced sensitivity to the facilitating effects of ethanol on play fighting is associated with heavy drinking among males, whereas low social preference together with high sensitivity to ethanol-induced enhancement of social preference is related to high social drinking in females. 
26846139 | Reperfusion in non-occlusive mesenteric ischaemia (NOMI): effectiveness of CT in an emergency setting. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the CT features of reperfusion (presence/absence) in non-occlusive mesenteric ischaemia (NOMI) and their prognostic value in an emergency setting. METHODS: A revision was undertaken of imaging from 20 patients (16 males/4 females) with a dismissal summary of NOMI. All patients had previously undergone a minimum of one multidetector CT examination, and consequently underwent surgery (n = 8), autopsy (n = 2), angiography (n = 1) or endoscopy (n = 9). An evaluation of the CT scans was conducted to determine vessels, mesentery, bowel and peritoneal cavity features. The superior mesenteric artery (SMA) average diameter of NOMI cases were compared with 30 controlled cases. Kappa, Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) and Fisher's exact tests were used for statistical analysis. RESULTS: A mean SMA diameter significantly smaller than that of the controlled cases was found for patients with NOMI (K-S test: D = 0.75, p = 3.7 x 10-08). Fisher's exact tests showed a strong connection between the presence of reperfusion and mesenteric fat stranding (p = 0.026), bowel wall thickening (p = 3.2 x 10-05) and a high attenuation of the bowel wall on unenhanced CT images (p = 2.8 x 10-04). A reduction in mortality was significantly linked to the combination of normal mesenteric vessels and wall thickening (p = 0.034). CONCLUSION: Analysis of not only vessels findings but also mesentery and bowel CT features will support the identification of NOMI with or without a reperfusion event in an emergency setting. A strong correlation between some CT features and lower mortality exists. ADVANCES IN KNOWLEDGE: CT features of NOMI with or without reperfusion are demonstrated. Correctly assessing the presence of reperfusion in NOMI, may allow better management of these conditions in the emergency setting.
27294413 | Human genome meeting 2016 : Houston, TX, USA. 28 February - 2 March 2016. 
27409075 | Proceedings of the 3rd IPLeiria's International Health Congress : Leiria, Portugal. 6-7 May 2016. 
27454254 | Abstracts from the 3rd International Genomic Medicine Conference (3rd IGMC 2015) : Jeddah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 30 November - 3 December 2015. 
29137641 | Improving E. coli growth performance by manipulating small RNA expression. Efficient growth of E. coli, especially for production of recombinant proteins, has been a challenge for the biotechnological industry since the early 1970s. By employing multiple approaches, such as different media composition, various growth strategies and specific genetic manipulations, it is now possible to grow bacteria to concentrations exceeding 100 g/L and to achieve high concentrations of recombinant proteins. Although the growth conditions are carefully monitored and maintained, it is likely that during the growth process cells are exposed to periodic stress conditions, created by fluctuations in pH, dissolved oxygen, temperature, glucose, and salt concentration. These stress circumstances which can occur especially in large volume bioreactors, may affect the growth and production process. In the last several years, it has been recognized that small non-coding RNAs can act as regulators of bacterial gene expression. These molecules are found to be specifically involved in E. coli response to different environmental stress conditions; but so far, have not been used for improving production strains. The review provides summary of small RNAs identified on petri dish or in shake flask culture that can potentially affect growth characteristics of E. coli grown in bioreactor. Among them MicC and MicF that are involved in response to temperature changes, RyhB that responds to iron concentration, Gady which is associated with lower pH, Sgrs that is coupled with glucose transport and OxyS that responds to oxygen concentration. The manipulation of some of these small RNAs for improving growth of E. coli in Bioreactor is described in the last part of the review. Overexpression of SgrS was associated with improved growth and reduced acetate expression, over expression of GadY improved cell growth at acidic conditions and over expression of OxyS reduced the effect of oxidative stress. One of the possible advantages of manipulating sRNAs for improving cell growth is that the modifications occur at a post-translational level. Therefore, the use of sRNAs may exert minimal effect on the overall bacterial metabolism. The elucidation of the physiological role of newly discovered sRNAs will open new possibilities for creating strains with improved growth and production capabilities.
29211019 | Dual Regulation of the Small RNA MicC and the Quiescent Porin OmpN in Response to Antibiotic Stress in Escherichia coli. Antibiotic resistant Gram-negative bacteria are a serious threat for public health. The permeation of antibiotics through their outer membrane is largely dependent on porin, changes in which cause reduced drug uptake and efficacy. Escherichia coli produces two major porins, OmpF and OmpC. MicF and MicC are small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) that modulate the expression of OmpF and OmpC, respectively. In this work, we investigated factors that lead to increased production of MicC. micC promoter region was fused to lacZ, and the reporter plasmid was transformed into E. coli MC4100 and derivative mutants. The response of micC-lacZ to antimicrobials was measured during growth over a 6 h time period. The data showed that the expression of micC was increased in the presence of beta-lactam antibiotics and in an rpoE depleted mutant. Interestingly, the same conditions enhanced the activity of an ompN-lacZ fusion, suggesting a dual transcriptional regulation of micC and the quiescent adjacent ompN. Increased levels of OmpN in the presence of sub-inhibitory concentrations of chemicals could not be confirmed by Western blot analysis, except when analyzed in the absence of the sigma factor sigmaE. We suggest that the MicC sRNA acts together with the sigmaE envelope stress response pathway to control the OmpC/N levels in response to beta-lactam antibiotics.
29312248 | Autoinducer-2 Quorum Sensing Contributes to Regulation of Microcin PDI in Escherichia coli. The Escherichia coli quorum sensing (QS) signal molecule, autoinducer-2 (AI-2), reaches its maximum concentration during mid-to-late growth phase after which it quickly degrades during stationary phase. This pattern of AI-2 concentration coincides with the up- then down-regulation of a recently described microcin PDI (mccPDI) effector protein (McpM). To determine if there is a functional relationship between these systems, a prototypical mccPDI-expressing strain of E. coli 25 was used to generate DeltaluxS, DeltalsrACDBFG (Deltalsr), and DeltalsrR mutant strains that are deficient in AI-2 production, transportation, and AI-2 transport regulation, respectively. Trans-complementation, RT-qPCR, and western blot assays were used to detect changes of microcin expression and synthesis under co-culture and monoculture conditions. Compared to the wild-type strain, the AI-2-deficient strain (DeltaluxS) and -uptake negative strain (Deltalsr) were >1,000-fold less inhibitory to susceptible bacteria (P < 0.05). With in trans complementation of luxS, the AI-2 deficient mutant reduced the susceptible E. coli population by 4-log, which was within 1-log of the wild-type phenotype. RT-qPCR and western blot results for the AI-2 deficient E. coli 25 showed a 5-fold reduction in mcpM transcription with an average 2-h delay in McpM synthesis. Furthermore, overexpression of sRNA micC and micF (both involved in porin protein regulation) was correlated with mcpM regulation, consistent with a possible link between QS and mcpM regulation. This is the direct first evidence that microcin regulation can be linked to quorum sensing in a Gram-negative bacterium.
29467745 | Small Non-coding RNA RyhB Mediates Persistence to Multiple Antibiotics and Stresses in Uropathogenic Escherichia coli by Reducing Cellular Metabolism. As dormant phenotypic variants of bacteria, persisters account for many chronic infections affecting human health. Despite numerous studies, the role of small non-coding RNA (sRNA) in bacterial persistence has not been reported. To investigate the role of Hfq-interacting sRNA in persistence, we constructed the deletion mutants of 20 Hfq-interacting sRNAs (RyhB, GcvB, MgrR, RybB, MicF, SgrS, RprA, DicF, SsrS, FnrS, GadY, DsrA, OmrB, ArcZ, RyeB, RydC, OmrA, MicA, MicC, and ChiX) to assess their persistence capacity in uropathogenic Escherichia coli strain UTI89 and identified a new sRNA RyhB being involved in persister formation. The ryhB-knockout mutant had significant defect in persistence to a diverse range of antibiotics (levofloxacin, cefotaxime, gentamicin) and stresses (hyperosmosis, acid, and heat) in both exponential phase and stationary phase. In addition, the effect of RyhB on persistence was synergistic with ppGpp and Fur protein. RNA-Seq analysis indicated that the ryhB-knockout mutant had a hyperactive metabolic state compared with the parent strain. Interestingly, increased adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels and altered NAD+/NADH ratios were observed in the ryhB-knockout mutant. Our findings represent a new level of persistence regulation via sRNA and may provide novel therapeutic targets for interventions.
29653477 | Porin Deficiency in Carbapenem-Resistant Enterobacter aerogenes Strains. PURPOSE: The more frequent reports of carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae have raised the alarm for public health. Apart from the production of carbapenemases, deficiency (decreased or loss of expression) of outer membrane proteins (OMPs) has been proposed as a potentially important mechanism of carbapenem resistance. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the contribution of the major OMPs to carbapenem resistance in Enterobacter aerogenes (CREA) isolates and also investigate the role of small RNAs (sRNAs) in inducing porin-associated permeability defects. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The differential expression of OMPs was analyzed in four clinical CREA isolates. omp35 and omp36 genes were further investigated by whole-genome sequencing, induction of meropenem resistance, sRNA overexpression, OMP complementation assays, and reverse transcription-quantitative PCR. RESULTS: All four isolates examined were deficient in omp35 and omp36. Functional restoration of these two genes confirmed their contribution to carbapenem resistance. The meropenem induction assay further revealed that porin deficiency plays a role in carbapenem resistance under antibiotic selection pressure. Single-point mutations in omp36 leading to premature stop codons were detected in two of the isolates. Elevated expression levels of the sRNAs micF and micC were detected in the other two porin-deficient isolates, which were predicted to be potential porin regulators from whole-genome sequencing. Overexpression of micF and micC downregulated the expression of Omp35 and Omp36, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Porin deficiency plays an important role in carbapenem resistance among clinical E. aerogenes isolates under regulation of the sRNAs micC and micF. Furthermore, overexpression of micC and micF had a minor to no impact on carbapenem minimum inhibitory concentrations, and thus, the regulatory mechanism is likely to be complex.
30703969 | First Report of Maize chlorotic mottle virus Infecting Maize in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Maize (Zea mays L.) is a major food and fodder crop cultivated on 1.54 million ha in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). In December 2013, unusually severe chlorotic mottle symptoms and pale green streaks were observed in local varieties (Mudishi 1 and 2, Bambou, Kasayi, H614, H613, and Mugamba) and exotic varieties (H520, H624, H403, HDK8031, and ZM607) in Beni, Lubero, and Rutshuru territories at 1,015 to 1,748 m elevation in North Kivu Province. Symptoms were prominent on newly emerging leaves that later developed marginal necrosis resembling the symptoms of maize lethal necrosis (MLN), caused by a dual infection of Maize chlorotic mottle virus (MCMV, genus Machlomovirus) and Sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV, genus Potyvirus). Each of these viruses, but particularly MCMV, is also known to cause severe mosaic and mottling symptoms in maize (4). In January 2014, symptomatic and asymptomatic samples (n = 20) from disease-affected fields in Beni and Lubero provinces were collected for virus testing using Whatman FTA Classic Cards (1) and analyzed for MCMV (2681F: 5'-ATGAGAGCAGTTGGGGAATGCG and 3226R: 5'-CGAATCTACACACACACACTCCAGC) and SCMV (8679F: 5'-GCAATGTCGAAGAAAATGCG and 9595R: 5'-GTCTCTCACCAAGAGACTCGCAGC) by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR (4). Samples were also analyzed for Maize streak virus (MSV, genus Mastrevirus), an endemic virus in DRC, by PCR using MSV specific primers (MSV215-234: CCAAAKDTCAGCTCCTCCG and MSV1770-1792: TTGGVCCGMVGATGTASAG) (3). A DNA product of expected size (~520 bp) resulted only for MCMV in all the symptomatic plant samples. None of the samples tested positive for SCMV or MSV. RT-PCR analyses were performed to ascertain the absence of potyviruses using the degenerate potyvirus primers (CIFor: 5'GGIVVIGTIGGIWSIGGIAARTCIAC and CIRev: 5'ACICCRTTYTCDATDATRTTIGTIGC3') (2) were also negative. Occurrence of MCMV in symptomatic samples was further confirmed by antigen-coated plate (ACP)-ELISA using anti-MCMV rabbit polyclonal antibodies produced at the Virology Unit, IITA, Ibadan, Nigeria. The RT-PCR product of MCMV was purified and sequenced in both directions (GenBank Accession No. KJ699379). Pairwise comparison of 518 bp nucleotide sequence corresponding to p32 and p37 open reading frames of MCMV by BLASTn search revealed 99.8% nucleotide sequence identity with an MCMV isolate from Kenya (JX286709), 98 to 99% identity with the isolates from China (JQ982468 and KF010583), and 96% identity with the isolates from the United States (X14736 and EU358605). MCMV is a newly emerging virus in Africa, first detected during a severe MLND outbreak in 2011 in Kenya (4). This disease has since become a serious threat to maize production in East Africa. MCMV has been reported in maize from Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda. To our knowledge, this is the first report of MCMV occurrence in DRC. This finding confirms the further geographic expansion of MCMV and illustrates the need for further studies to identify vectors and also create awareness about the disease and to strengthen surveillance to prevent its further spread in the continent. References: (1) O. J. Alabi et al. J. Virol. Met. 154:111, 2008. (2) C. Ha et al. Arch. Virol. 153:25, 2008. (3) K. E. Palmer and E. P. Rybicki. Arch. Virol. 146:1089, 2001. (4) A. Wangai et al. Plant Dis. 96:1582, 2012.
30735510 | Anti-CD8 monoclonal antibody-mediated depletion alters the phenotype and behavior of surviving CD8+ T cells. It is common practice for researchers to use antibodies to remove a specific cell type to infer its function. However, it is difficult to completely eliminate a cell type and there is often limited or no information as to how the cells which survive depletion are affected. This is particularly important for CD8+ T cells for two reasons. First, they are more resistant to mAb-mediated depletion than other lymphocytes. Second, targeting either the CD8alpha or CD8beta chain could induce differential effects. We show here that two commonly used mAbs, against either the CD8alpha or CD8beta subunit, can differentially affect cellular metabolism. Further, in vivo treatment leaves behind a population of CD8+ T cells with different phenotypic and functional attributes relative to each other or control CD8+ T cells. The impact of anti-CD8 antibodies on CD8+ T cell phenotype and function indicates the need to carefully consider the use of these, and possibly other \depleting\ antibodies, as they could significantly complicate the interpretation of results or change the outcome of an experiment. These observations could impact how immunotherapy and modulation of CD8+ T cell activation is pursued.
37758652 | Identification of neoepitope reactive T-cell receptors guided by HLA-A*03:01 and HLA-A*11:01 immunopeptidomics. BACKGROUND: Tumor-specific mutated proteins can create immunogenic non-self, mutation-containing 'neoepitopes' that are attractive targets for adoptive T-cell therapies. To avoid the complexity of defining patient-specific, private neoepitopes, there has been major interest in targeting common shared mutations in driver genes using off-the-shelf T-cell receptors (TCRs) engineered into autologous lymphocytes. However, identifying the precise naturally processed neoepitopes to pursue is a complex and challenging process. One method to definitively demonstrate whether an epitope is presented at the cell surface is to elute peptides bound to a specific major histocompatibility complex (MHC) allele and analyze them by mass spectrometry (MS). These MS data can then be prospectively applied to isolate TCRs specific to the neoepitope. METHODS: We created mono-allelic cell lines expressing one class I HLA allele and one common mutated oncogene in order to eliminate HLA deconvolution requirements and increase the signal of recovered peptides. MHC-bound peptides on the surface of these cell lines were immunoprecipitated, purified, and analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, producing a list of mutation-containing minimal epitopes. To validate the immunogenicity of these neoepitopes, HLA-transgenic mice were vaccinated using the minimal peptides identified by MS in order to generate neoepitope-reactive TCRs. Specificity of these candidate TCRs was confirmed by peptide titration and recognition of transduced targets. RESULTS: We identified precise neoepitopes derived from mutated isoforms of KRAS, EGFR, BRAF, and PIK3CA presented by HLA-A*03:01 and/or HLA-A*11:01 across multiple biological replicates. From our MS data, we were able to successfully isolate murine TCRs that specifically recognize four HLA-A*11:01 restricted neoepitopes (KRAS G13D, PIK3CA E545K, EGFR L858R and BRAF V600E) and three HLA-A*03:01 restricted neoepitopes (KRAS G12V, EGFR L858R and BRAF V600E). CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that an MS approach can be used to demonstrate which shared oncogene-derived neoepitopes are processed and presented by common HLA alleles, and those MS data can rapidly be used to develop TCRs against these common tumor-specific antigens. Although further characterization of these neoepitope-specific murine TCRs is required, ultimately, they have the potential to be used clinically for adoptive cell therapy.
37828002 | KRAS G12V neoantigen specific T cell receptor for adoptive T cell therapy against tumors. KRAS mutations are broadly recognized as promising targets for tumor therapy. T cell receptors (TCRs) can specifically recognize KRAS mutant neoantigens presented by human lymphocyte antigen (HLA) and mediate T cell responses to eliminate tumor cells. In the present study, we identify two TCRs specific for the 9-mer KRAS-G12V mutant neoantigen in the context of HLA-A*11:01. The TCR-T cells are constructed and display cytokine secretion and cytotoxicity upon co-culturing with varied tumor cells expressing the KRAS-G12V mutation. Moreover, 1-2C TCR-T cells show anti-tumor activity in preclinical models in female mice. The 9-mer KRAS-G12V mutant peptide exhibits a distinct conformation from the 9-mer wildtype peptide and its 10-mer counterparts. Specific recognition of the G12V mutant by TCR depends both on distinct conformation from wildtype peptide and on direct interaction with residues from TCRs. Our study reveals the mechanisms of presentation and TCR recognition of KRAS-G12V mutant peptide and describes TCRs with therapeutic potency for tumor immunotherapy.
37844994 | C-reactive protein impairs immune response of CD8+ T cells via FcgammaRIIb-p38MAPK-ROS axis in multiple myeloma. BACKGROUND: C-reactive protein (CRP) is a prototypical acute phase protein in humans with the function of regulating immune cells. Serum CRP levels are elevated in multiple myeloma (MM), associated with MM cell proliferation and bone destruction. However, its direct effects on T lymphocytes in MM have not been elucidated. METHODS: Public data sets were used to explore the correlation of CRP levels with immune cell infiltration and cytotoxicity score of CD8+ T cells in MM. In vitro, repeated freeze-thaw myeloma cell lines were taken as tumor antigens to load dendritic cells (DCs) derived from HLA-A*0201-positive healthy donors. MM-specific cytotoxic T cells (MM-CTL) were obtained from T lymphocytes of the corresponding donors pulsed with these DCs. B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA)-targeted chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cells were manipulated by transfecting with lentivirus encoding an anti-BCMA single-chain variable fragment. Then T cells from healthy controls, MM-CTLs and BCMA CAR-T cells were exposed to CRP and analyzed for cell proliferation, cytotoxicity, immunophenotypes. CRP binding capacity to T cells before and after Fc gamma receptors IIb (FcgammaRIIb) blockage, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and the downstream molecules were also detected. In vivo, both normal C57BL/6J mice and the Vk*MYC myeloma mouse models were applied to confirm the impact of CRP on T cells. RESULTS: CRP levels were negatively correlated with cell-infiltration and cytotoxicity score of CD8+ T cells in MM. In vitro experiments showed that CRP inhibited T-cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner, impaired the cytotoxic activity and upregulated expression of senescent markers in CD8+ T cells. In vivo results validated the suppressive role of CRP in CD8+ T cells. CRP could bind to CD8+ T cells, mainly to the naive T subset, while the binding was dramatically decreased by FcgammaRIIb blockage. Furthermore, CRP resulted in increased phosphorylation of p38 MAPK, elevated levels of reactive oxygen species and oxidized glutathione in CD8+ T cells. CONCLUSIONS: We found that CRP impaired immune response of CD8+ T cells via FcgammaRIIb-p38MAPK-ROS signaling pathway. The study casted new insights into the role of CRP in anti-myeloma immunity, providing implications for future immunotherapy in MM.
37877672 | HLA-DQ8 Supports Development of Insulitis Mediated by Insulin-Reactive Human TCR-Transgenic T Cells in Nonobese Diabetic Mice. In an effort to improve HLA-\humanized\ mouse models for type 1 diabetes (T1D) therapy development, we previously generated directly in the NOD strain CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletions of various combinations of murine MHC genes. These new models improved upon previously available platforms by retaining beta2-microglobulin functionality in FcRn and nonclassical MHC class I formation. As proof of concept, we generated H2-Db/H2-Kd double knockout NOD mice expressing human HLA-A*0201 or HLA-B*3906 class I variants that both supported autoreactive diabetogenic CD8+ T cell responses. In this follow-up work, we now describe the creation of 10 new NOD-based mouse models expressing various combinations of HLA genes with and without chimeric transgenic human TCRs reactive to proinsulin/insulin. The new TCR-transgenic models develop differing levels of insulitis mediated by HLA-DQ8-restricted insulin-reactive T cells. Additionally, these transgenic T cells can transfer insulitis to newly developed NSG mice lacking classical murine MHC molecules, but expressing HLA-DQ8. These new models can be used to test potential therapeutics for a possible capacity to reduce islet infiltration or change the phenotype of T cells expressing type 1 diabetes patient-derived beta cell autoantigen-specific TCRs.
37879364 | Development of T cell receptor-engineered T cells targeting the sarcoma-associated antigen papillomavirus binding factor. We previously identified papillomavirus binding factor (PBF) as an osteosarcoma antigen recognized by an autologous cytotoxic T lymphocyte clone. Vaccination with PBF-derived peptide presented by HLA-A24 (PBF peptide) elicited strong immune responses. In the present study, we generated T cell receptor-engineered T cells (TCR-T cells) directed against the PBF peptide (PBF TCR-T cells). PBF TCR was successfully transduced into T cells and detected using HLA-A*24:02/PBF peptide tetramer. PBF TCR-T cells generated from a healthy donor were highly expanded and recognized T2-A24 cells pulsed with PBF peptide, HLA-A24+ 293T cells transfected with PBF cDNA, and sarcoma cell lines. To establish an adoptive cell therapy model, we modified the PBF TCR by replacing both alpha and beta constant regions with those of mice (hybrid PBF TCR). Hybrid PBF TCR-T cells also showed reactivity against T2-A24 cells pulsed with PBF peptide and to HLA-A24+ 293T cells transfected with various lengths of PBF cDNA including the PBF peptide sequence. Subsequently, we generated target cell lines highly expressing PBF (MFH03-PBF [short] epitope [+]) containing PBF peptide with in vivo tumorigenicity. Hybrid PBF TCR-T cells exhibited antitumor effects compared with mock T cells in NSG mice xenografted with MFH03-PBF (short) epitope (+) cells. CD45+ T cells significantly infiltrated xenografted tumors only in the hybrid PBF TCR T cell group and most of these cells were CD8-positive. CD8+ T cells also showed Ki-67 expression and surrounded the CD8-negative tumor cells expressing Ki-67. These findings suggest that PBF TCR-T cell therapy might be a candidate immunotherapy for sarcoma highly expressing PBF.
37924979 | Exopolysaccharide-treated Dendritic Cells Effectively Ameliorate Acute Graft vs Host Disease. Graft versus host disease (GvHD) is one of the primary and often lethal complications of allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Prophylactic regimens for GvHD are given as standard pre-transplantation therapy; however, up to 50% of these patients develop acute GvHD (aGvHD) and require additional immunosuppressive intervention. Using a mouse GvHD model, we previously showed that injecting mice with exopolysaccharide (EPS) from Bacillus subtilis prior to GvHD induction significantly increased 80-day survival after transplantation of complete allo-MHC mismatched cells. To ask whether EPS might also ameliorate GvHD in humans, we used humanized NSG-HLA-A2 mice and induced GvHD by i.v. injecting A2neg human PBMC. Because we could not inject human donors with EPS, we transferred EPS-pretreated dendritic cells (DC) to inhibit aGvHD. We derived DC from CD34+ human cord blood cells, treated them with EPS, and then injected them together with PBMC into the NSG-HLA-A2 mice. We found that all mice that received untreated DC were dead by day 35, whereas 25% of mice receiving EPS-treated DC survived. This DC cell therapy could be readily translatable to humans because we can generate large numbers of human EPS-DC and use them as an \off the shelf\ treatment for patients undergoing HSCT.
37938771 | Targeting of intracellular oncoproteins with peptide-centric CARs. The majority of oncogenic drivers are intracellular proteins, constraining their immunotherapeutic targeting to mutated peptides (neoantigens) presented by individual human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allotypes1. However, most cancers have a modest mutational burden that is insufficient for generating responses using neoantigen-based therapies2,3. Neuroblastoma is a paediatric cancer that harbours few mutations and is instead driven by epigenetically deregulated transcriptional networks4. Here we show that the neuroblastoma immunopeptidome is enriched with peptides derived from proteins essential for tumorigenesis. We focused on targeting the unmutated peptide QYNPIRTTF discovered on HLA-A*24:02, which is derived from the neuroblastoma-dependency gene and master transcriptional regulator PHOX2B. To target QYNPIRTTF, we developed peptide-centric chimeric antigen receptors (PC-CARs) through a counter panning strategy using predicted potentially cross-reactive peptides. We further proposed that PC-CARs can recognize peptides on additional HLA allotypes when presenting a similar overall molecular surface. Informed by our computational modelling results, we show that PHOX2B PC-CARs also recognize QYNPIRTTF presented by HLA-A*23:01, the most common non-A2 allele in people with African ancestry. Finally, we demonstrate potent and specific killing of neuroblastoma cells expressing these HLAs in vitro and complete tumour regression in mice. These data suggest that PC-CARs have the potential to expand the pool of immunotherapeutic targets to include non-immunogenic intracellular oncoproteins and allow targeting through additional HLA allotypes in a clinical setting.
38010064 | Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals immune microenvironment of small cell lung cancer-associated malignant pleural effusion. We used 10 x genomics single-cell transcriptome sequencing technology to reveal the tumor immune microenvironment characteristics of small cell lung cancer (SCLC) in a patient with malignant pleural effusion (MPE). A total of 8008 high-quality cells were finally obtained for subsequent bioinformatic analysis, which were divided into 10 cell clusters further identified as B cells, T cells, myeloid cells, NK cells, and cancer cells. Such SCLC related genes as NOTCH1, MYC, TSC22D1, SOX4, BLNK, YBX3, VIM, CD8A, CD8B, and KLF6 were expressed in different degrees during differentiation of T and B cells. Different ligands and receptors between T, B and tumor cells almost interact through MHC II, IL-16, galectin, and APP signaling pathway.
38035330 | Human HLA prolongs the host inflammatory response in Streptococcus suis serotype 2 infection compared to mouse H2 molecules. Streptococcus suis (S. suis) is widely acknowledged as a significant zoonotic pathogen in Southeast Asia and China, which has led to a substantial number of fatalities in both swine and humans. Despite the prevalent use of mice as the primary animal model to study S. suis pathogenesis, the substantial differences in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) between humans and mice underscore the ongoing exploration for a more suitable and effective animal model. In this study, humanized transgenic HLA-A11/DR1 genotypes mice were used to evaluate the differences between humanized HLA and murine H2 in S. suis infection. Following intravenous administration of S. suis suspensions, we investigated bacterial load, cytokine profiles, pathological alterations, and immune cell recruitment in both Wild-type (WT) and humanized mice across different post-infection time points. Relative to WT mice, humanized mice exhibited heightened pro-inflammatory cytokines, exacerbated tissue damage, increased granulocyte recruitment with impaired resolution, notably more pronounced during the late infection stage. Additionally, our examination of bacterial clearance rates suggests that HLA-A11/DR1 primarily influences cell recruitment and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, which affects the bacterial killing capacity of macrophages in the late stage of infection. The reduced IL-10 production and lower levels of regulatory T cells in humanized mice could underlie their compromised resolution ability. Intervention with IL-10 promotes bacterial clearance and inflammatory regression in the late stages of infection in transgenic mice. Our findings underscore the heightened sensitivity of HLA-A11/DR1 mice with impaired resolution to S. suis infection, effectively mirroring the immune response seen in humans during infection. The humanized HLA-A11/DR1 mice could serve as an optimal animal model for investigating the pathogenic and therapeutic mechanisms associated with sepsis and other infectious diseases.
38243600 | Preclinical evaluation of a novel CAR-T therapy utilizing a scFv antibody highly specific to MAGE-A4p230-239/HLA-A*02:01 complex. Despite the revolutionary success of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T therapy for hematological malignancies, successful CAR-T therapies for solid tumors remain limited. One major obstacle is the scarcity of tumor-specific cell-surface molecules. One potential solution to overcome this barrier is to utilize antibodies that recognize peptide/major histocompatibility complex (MHCs) in a T cell receptor (TCR)-like fashion, allowing CAR-T cells to recognize intracellular tumor antigens. This study reports a highly specific single-chain variable fragment (scFv) antibody against the MAGE-A4p230-239/human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*02:01 complex (MAGE-A4 pMHC), screened from a human scFv phage display library. Indeed, retroviral vectors encoding CAR, utilizing this scFv antibody as a recognition component, efficiently recognized and lysed MAGA-A4+ tumor cells in an HLA-A*02:01-restricted manner. Additionally, the adoptive transfer of T cells modified by the CAR-containing glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR)-related receptor (GITR) intracellular domain (ICD), but not CD28 or 4-1BB ICD, significantly suppressed the growth of MAGE-A4+ HLA-A*02:01+ tumors in an immunocompromised mouse model. Of note, a comprehensive analysis revealed that a broad range of amino acid sequences of the MAGE-A4p230-239 peptide were critical for the recognition of MAGE-A4 pMHC by these CAR-T cells, and no cross-reactivity to analogous peptides was observed. Thus, MAGE-A4-targeted CAR-T therapy using this scFv antibody may be a promising and safe treatment for solid tumors.
38263419 | Immunogenic cell death-related classification reveals prognosis and effectiveness of immunotherapy in breast cancer. Lack of specific biomarkers and effective drug targets constrains therapeutic research in breast cancer (BC). In this regard, therapeutic modulation of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs)-induced immunogenic cell death (ICD) may help improve the effect of immunotherapy in individuals with BC. The aim of this investigation was to develop biomarkers for ICD and to construct ICD-related risk estimation models to predict prognosis and immunotherapy outcomes of BC. RNA-seq transcriptome information and medical data from individuals with BC (n = 943) were obtained from TCGA. Expression data from a separate BC cohort (GEO: GSE20685) were used for validation. We identified subtypes of high and low ICD gene expression by consensus clustering and assessed the connection between ICD subtypes and tumor microenvironment (TME). In addition, different algorithms were used to construct ICD-based prognostic models of BC. BC samples were categorized into subtypes of high and low ICD expression depending on the expression of genes correlated with ICD. The subtype of ICD high-expression subtypes are correlated with poor prognosis in breast cancer, while ICD low-expression subtypes may predict better clinical outcomes. We also created and verified a predictive signature model depending on four ICD-related genes (ATG5, CD8A, CD8B, and HSP90AA1), which correlates with TME status and predicts clinical outcomes of BC patients. We highlight the connection of ICD subtypes with the dynamic evolution of TME in BC and present a novel ICD-based prognostic model of BC. In clinical practice, distinction of ICD subtype and assessment of ICD-related biomarkers should help guide treatment planning and improve the effectiveness of tumor immunotherapy.
38267222 | Development of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies against DKK1 peptide-HLA-A2 complex to treat human cancers. BACKGROUND: Targeted immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) is an effective and safe method for the treatment of malignancies. Development of mAbs with improved cytotoxicity, targeting new and known tumor-associated antigens, therefore continues to be an active research area. We reported that Dickkopf-1 (DKK1) is a good target for immunotherapy of human cancers based on its wide expression in different cancers but not in normal tissues. As DKK1 is a secreted protein, mAbs binding directly to DKK1 have limited effects on cancer cells in vivo. METHODS: The specificity and antibody-binding capacity of DKK1-A2 mAbs were determined using indirect ELISA, confocal imaging, QIFIKIT antibody-binding capacity and cell surface binding assays. The affinity of mAbs was determined using a surface plasmon resonance biosensor. A flow cytometry-based cell death was performed to detect tumor cell apoptosis. Antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) assays were used to evaluate the ability of DKK1-A2 mAbs to mediate ADCC and CDC activities against tumor cells in vitro. Flow cytometry data were collected with an FACSymphony A3 cell analyzer and analyzed with FlowJo V.10.1 software. Human cancer xenograft mouse models were used to determine the in vivo therapeutic efficacy and the potential safety and toxicity of DKK1-A2 mAbs. In situ TUNEL assay was performed to detect apoptosis in tumors and mouse organs. RESULTS: We generated novel DKK1-A2 mAbs that recognize the DKK1 P20 peptide presented by human HLA-A*0201 (HLA-A2) molecules (DKK1-A2 complexes) that are naturally expressed by HLA-A2+DKK1+ cancer cells. These mAbs directly induced apoptosis in HLA-A2+DKK1+ hematologic and solid cancer cells by activating the caspase-9 cascade, effectively lysed the cancer cells in vitro by mediating CDC and ADCC and were therapeutic against established cancers in their xenograft mouse models. As DKK1 is not detected in most human tissues, DKK1-A2 mAbs neither bound to or killed HLA-A2+ blood cells in vitro nor caused tissue damage in tumor-free or tumor-bearing HLA-A2-transgenic mice. CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that DKK1-A2 mAbs may be a promising therapeutic agent to treat human cancers.
38338657 | Combined Use of Tocilizumab and Mesenchymal Stem Cells Attenuate the Development of an Anti-HLA-A2.1 Antibody in a Highly Sensitized Mouse Model. Sensitization to HLA can result in allograft loss for kidney transplantation (KT) patients. Therefore, it is required to develop an appropriate desensitization (DSZ) technique to remove HLA-donor-specific anti-HLA antibody (DSA) before KT. The aim of this research was to investigate whether combined use of the IL-6 receptor-blocking antibody, tocilizumab (TCZ), and bone-marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) could attenuate humoral immune responses in an allo-sensitized mouse model developed using HLA.A2 transgenic mice. Wild-type C57BL/6 mice were sensitized with skin allografts from C57BL/6-Tg (HLA-A2.1)1Enge/J mice and treated with TCZ, BM-MSC, or both TCZ and BM-MSC. We compared HLA.A2-specific IgG levels and subsets of T cells and B cells using flow cytometry among groups. HLA.A2-specific IgG level was decreased in all treated groups in comparison with that in the allo-sensitized control (Allo-CONT) group. Its decrease was the most significant in the TCZ + BM-MSC group. Regarding the B cell subset, combined use of TCZ and BM-MSC increased proportions of pre-pro B cells but decreased proportions of mature B cells in BM (p < 0.05 vs. control). In the spleen, an increase in transitional memory was observed with a significant decrease in marginal, follicular, and long-lived plasma B cells (p < 0.05 vs. control) in the TCZ + BM-MSC group. In T cell subsets, Th2 and Th17 cells were significantly decreased, but Treg cells were significantly increased in the TCZ+BM-MSC group compared to those in the Allo-CONT group in the spleen. Regarding RNA levels, IL-10 and Foxp3 showed increased expression, whereas IL-23 and IFN-gamma showed decreased expression in the TCZ + BM-MSC group. In conclusion, combined use of TCZ and BM-MSC can inhibit B cell maturation and up-regulate Treg cells, finally resulting in the reduction of HLA.A2-specific IgG in a highly sensitized mouse model. This study suggests that the combined use of TCZ and BM-MSC can be proposed as a novel strategy in a desensitization protocol for highly sensitized patients.
38363779 | Evaluation of the anti-cancer efficacy of lipid nanoparticles containing siRNA against HPV16 E6/E7 combined with cisplatin in a xenograft model of cervical cancer. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the anti-cancer efficacy of ENB101-LNP, an ionizable lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) encapsulating siRNA against E6/E7 of HPV 16, in combination therapy with cisplatin in cervical cancer in vitro and in vivo. METHODS: CaSki cells were treated with ENB101-LNP, cisplatin, or combination. Cell viability assessed the cytotoxicity of the treatment. HPV16 E6/E7 gene knockdown was verified with RT-PCR both in vitro and in vivo. HLA class I and PD-L1 were checked by flow cytometry. A xenograft model was made using CaSki cells in BALB/c nude mice. To evaluate anticancer efficacy, mice were grouped. ENB101-LNP was given three times weekly for 3 weeks intravenously, and cisplatin was given once weekly intraperitoneally. Tumor growth was monitored. On day 25, mice were euthanized; tumors were collected, weighed, and imaged. Tumor samples were analyzed through histopathology, immunostaining, and western blot. RESULTS: ENB101-LNP and cisplatin synergistically inhibit CaSki cell growth. The combination reduces HPV 16 E6/E7 mRNA and boosts p21 mRNA, p53, p21, and HLA class I proteins. In mice, the treatment significantly blocked tumor growth and promoted apoptosis. Tumor inhibition rates were 29.7% (1 mpk ENB101-LNP), 29.6% (3 mpk), 34.0% (cisplatin), 47.0% (1 mpk ENB101-LNP-cisplatin), and 68.8% (3 mpk ENB101-LNP-cisplatin). RT-PCR confirmed up to 80% knockdown of HPV16 E6/E7 in the ENB101-LNP groups. Immunohistochemistry revealed increased p53, p21, and HLA-A expression with ENB101-LNP treatments, alone or combined. CONCLUSION: The combination of ENB101-LNP, which inhibits E6/E7 of HPV 16, with cisplatin, demonstrated significant anticancer activity in the xenograft mouse model of cervical cancer.
38390869 | Diversity in the HLA-I Recognition of HLA-F Monoclonal Antibodies: HLA-F or HLA-Ib Monospecific, HLA-E or HLA-G Bispecific Antibodies with or without HLA-Ia Reactivity. Previous investigators have used various anti-HLA-F monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to demonstrate that the tissue distribution of HLA-F is highly restricted. Notably, these mAbs differed in their immunodiagnostic capabilities. Specifically, mAbs Fpep1.1 and FG1 detected HLA-F intracellularly in B cells but not on the cell surface, whereas mAb 3D11 detected HLA-F on the cell surface. The presence of HLA-F on T cells was recognized by mAb FG1 but not by mAb Fpep1.1. mAb 3D11 detected HLA-F on the cell surface of activated B cells and on peripheral blood lymphocytes, but not on the normal cells. Importantly, mAb 3D11 revealed that HLA-F exists as a heavy chain (HC) monomer, rather than as an HC associated with B2m. Although these mAbs are believed to be specific to HLA-F, their monospecificity has not been formally established, which is critical for immunodiagnostic and therapeutic purposes. Previously, we investigated the diversity of HLA class I reactivities of anti-HLA-E mAbs using HLA-I coated multiplex bead assays on a Luminex platform. We reported that more than 80% of the HLA-E mAbs were cross-reactive with other HLA-I molecules, with exceptionally few truly HLA-E-monospecific mAbs. In the present investigation, we generated IgG mAbs against HCs of HLA-F in Balb/C mice and examined the cross-reactivity of anti-HLA-F mAbs with other HLA-I alleles using a multiplex bead assay on the Luminex platform. Beads coated with an array of HLA homo- and heterodimers of different HLA-Ia (HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C) and Ib (HLA-E, HLA-F, and HLA-G) alleles were used to examine the binding of the anti-HLA-F mAbs. Only two mAbs were HLA-F monospecific, and five were HLA-Ib restricted. Several anti-HLA-F mAbs cross-reacted with HLA-E (n = 4), HLA-G (n = 3), HLA-Ia alleles (n = 9), HLA-G and HLA-Ia (n = 2), and HLA-Ib and HLA-Ia (n = 6). This monospecificity and polyreactivity were corroborated by the presence of HLA-F monospecific and HLA-I-shared sequences. This study emphasizes the need to monitor the mono-specificity of HLA-F for reliable immunodiagnostics and passive immunotherapy.
38450191 | Cancer cell immunity-related protein co-expression networks are associated with early-stage solid-predominant lung adenocarcinoma. Background: Solid-predominant lung adenocarcinoma (SPA), which is one of the high-risk subtypes with poor prognosis and unsatisfactory response to chemotherapy and targeted therapy in lung adenocarcinoma, remains molecular profile unclarified. Weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) was used for data mining, especially for studying biological networks based on pairwise correlations between variables. This study aimed to identify disease-related protein co-expression networks associated with early-stage SPA. Methods: We assessed cancerous cells laser-microdissected from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues of a SPA group (n = 5), referencing a low-risk subtype, a lepidic predominant subtype group (LPA) (n = 4), and another high-risk subtype, micropapillary predominant subtype (MPA) group (n = 3) and performed mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis. Disease-related co-expression networks associated with the SPA subtype were identified by WGCNA and their upstream regulators and causal networks were predicted by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. Results: Among the forty WGCNA network modules identified, two network modules were found to be associated significantly with the SPA subtype. Canonical enriched pathways were highly associated with cellular growth, proliferation, and immune response. Upregulated HLA class I molecules HLA-G and HLA-B implicated high mutation burden and T cell activation in the SPA subtype. Upstream analysis implicated the involvement of highly activated oncogenic regulators, MYC, MLXIPL, MYCN, the redox master regulator NFE2L2, and the highly inhibited LARP1, leading to oncogenic IRES-dependent translation, and also regulators of the adaptive immune response, including highly activated IFNG, TCRD, CD3-TCR, CD8A, CD8B, CD3, CD80/CD86, and highly inhibited LILRB2. Interestingly, the immune checkpoint molecule HLA-G, which is the counterpart of LILRB2, was highly expressed characteristically in the SPA subtype and might be associated with antitumor immunity. Conclusion: Our findings provide a disease molecular profile based on protein co-expression networks identified for the high-risk solid predominant adenocarcinoma, which will help develop future therapeutic strategies.
38609844 | Biomarker discovery with quantum neural networks: a case-study in CTLA4-activation pathways. BACKGROUND: Biomarker discovery is a challenging task due to the massive search space. Quantum computing and quantum Artificial Intelligence (quantum AI) can be used to address the computational problem of biomarker discovery from genetic data. METHOD: We propose a Quantum Neural Networks architecture to discover genetic biomarkers for input activation pathways. The Maximum Relevance-Minimum Redundancy criteria score biomarker candidate sets. Our proposed model is economical since the neural solution can be delivered on constrained hardware. RESULTS: We demonstrate the proof of concept on four activation pathways associated with CTLA4, including (1) CTLA4-activation stand-alone, (2) CTLA4-CD8A-CD8B co-activation, (3) CTLA4-CD2 co-activation, and (4) CTLA4-CD2-CD48-CD53-CD58-CD84 co-activation. CONCLUSION: The model indicates new genetic biomarkers associated with the mutational activation of CLTA4-associated pathways, including 20 genes: CLIC4, CPE, ETS2, FAM107A, GPR116, HYOU1, LCN2, MACF1, MT1G, NAPA, NDUFS5, PAK1, PFN1, PGAP3, PPM1G, PSMD8, RNF213, SLC25A3, UBA1, and WLS. We open source the implementation at: https://github.com/namnguyen0510/Biomarker-Discovery-with-Quantum-Neural-Networks .
1384049 | CD5 acts as a tyrosine kinase substrate within a receptor complex comprising T-cell receptor zeta chain/CD3 and protein-tyrosine kinases p56lck and p59fyn. T-cell antigens including CD2, CD4, CD6, CD8, and CD28 serve as coreceptors with the T-cell receptor (TCR)/CD3 complex in control of T-cell growth. The molecular basis by which these antigens fulfill this role has remained a major issue. An initial clue to this question came with our finding that the sensitivity of in vitro kinase labeling (specifically using protein-tyrosine kinase p56lck) allowed detection of a physical association between CD4-p56lck and the TCR/CD3 complexes. Another T-cell antigen, CD5, is structurally related to the macrophage scavenger receptor family and, as such, can directly stimulate and/or potentiate T-cell proliferation. In this study, we reveal that in Brij 96-based cell lysates, anti-CD5 antibodies coprecipitated TCR zeta chain (TCR zeta)/CD3 subunits as well as the protein-tyrosine kinases p56lck and p59fyn. Conversely, anti-CD3 antibody coprecipitated CD5, p56lck, and p59fyn. Indeed, anti-CD5 and anti-CD3 gel patterns were virtually identical, except for a difference in relative intensity of polypeptides. Anti-CD4 coprecipitated p56lck, p32, and CD3/TCR zeta subunits but precipitated less CD5, suggesting the existence of CD4-TCR zeta/CD3 complexes distinct from the CD5-TCR zeta/CD3 complexes. Consistent with the formation of a multimeric CD5-TCR zeta/CD3 complex, anti-CD5 crosslinking induced tyrosine phosphorylation of numerous T-cell substrates, similar to those phosphorylated by TCR zeta/CD3 ligation. Significantly, as for TCR zeta, CD5 was found to act as a tyrosine kinase substrate induced by TCR/CD3 ligation. The kinetics of phosphorylation of CD5 (t1/2 = 20 sec) was among the earliest of activation events, more rapid than seen for TCR zeta (t1/2 = 1 min). CD5 represents a likely TCR/CD3-associated substrate for protein-tyrosine kinases (p56lck or p59fyn) and an alternative signaling pathway within a multimeric TCR complex.
1406695 | A Raf-1-related p110 polypeptide associates with the CD4-p56lck complex in T cells. The CD4 and CD8 antigens on T cells have been shown to associate with the Src family member p56lck and a GTP-binding protein, p32. The identification of receptor interactions with intracellular mediators is essential in the elucidation of downstream signals mediated by engagement of these receptor complexes. In this study, we report the detection of an additional 110-kDa polypeptide (p110) associated with the CD4-p56lck complex in human peripheral blood T lymphocytes and leukemic T-cell lines. p110 bound preferentially to CD4-p56lck as an assembled complex and poorly, if at all, to the individual components. p110 was recognized directly by an antiserum to the C-terminal region of the serine/threonine kinase Raf-1 and is related to a p110 polypeptide detected in anti-Raf-1 immunoprecipitates. Despite its association with the CD4-p56lck complex, p110 was found to be phosphorylated predominantly on serine residues. Furthermore, phorbol ester treatment of cells resulted in a transient increase in the detection of p110 associated with CD4-p56lck, concomitant with the modulation of CD4-p56lck from the cell surface. This Raf-1-related p110 is therefore likely to play a role in signals generated from the CD4-p56lck complex. p110 may serve as a bridge between the CD4-p56lck complex and the serine/threonine kinase pathways of T-cell activation.
1825123 | Activation and in vitro expansion of tumor-reactive T lymphocytes from lymph nodes draining human primary breast cancers. The feasibility of in vitro activation of lymphocytes from the draining lymph nodes (DLN) of breast cancer patients was examined. Lymphocytes isolated from 48 DLN from 12 patients were examined for their proliferative responses to rIL-2, autologous tumor cells, or rIL-2 plus tumor cells. Three general patterns of cellular responses were observed. Cells from some DLN (17%) were unresponsive to any stimuli. Lymphocytes from 52% of the DLN responded moderately to rIL-2 alone. The combination of rIL-2 and tumor antigen had a synergistic effect on the proliferation of cells from 31% of the DLN assayed. Phorbol dibutyrate and ionomycin plus rIL-2 stimulated expansion of DLN lymphocytes by up to 850-fold after 35 days. These expanded cell populations, as well as those stimulated with antigen plus rIL-2, were predominantly CD3+ and CD16- cells, varying in proportions of CD4+ and CD8+ subsets. Both populations were cytotoxic against autologous tumor, MCF-7, and K562 target cells.
1898906 | Limited clonal heterogeneity of antigen-specific T cells localizing in the pleural space during mycobacterial infection. To detect possible differences in phenotype and fine specificity for mycobacterial antigens between CD4-positive T cells from peripheral blood (PB) and from inflammatory sites, we identified four patients presenting with a mycobacterial pleural exudate (PE) rich in PPD-specific lymphocytes and with a negative skin test to tuberculin purified protein derivative (PPD) and a negative proliferative response of PB lymphocytes to PPD at the same time. Several weeks after chemotherapy, these patients converted to PPD responsiveness in the periphery, and PPD-specific clones could be generated from PB at this stage. The phenotypic comparison of PE lymphocytes and concomitant PB lymphocytes obtained before treatment showed an increase of CD8 cells and a high frequency of HLA-DR-positive activated T cells in PE. The frequency of tetanus toxoid-specific and Candida albicans-specific proliferating T cells was lower than that of PPD-specific cells in PE but not in PB. PPD-specific clones were derived initially from PE and from PB once the patients had converted to PPD responsiveness. The two sets of clones from each patient were compared for proliferative response to mycobacterial antigen clusters of defined molecular weight ranges. A large number of PE-derived clones (36%) responded to a fraction of 27 to 35 kDa, whereas only one clone from PB responded to the same fraction. The purified antigen P32 (32 kDa), a soluble mycobacterial protein, stimulated PE-derived clones that were responsive to the 37- to 27-kDa fraction but did not stimulate PB-derived clones. The data demonstrate that PE- and PB-derived lymphocytes differ both in phenotype and in fine specificity, suggesting a limited clonal heterogeneity of T cells localizing at the inflammatory site in tuberculous patients without a PPD response in the periphery. Therefore T cells compartmentalized at inflammatory sites provide information that is different from that provided by T cells in the periphery.
1925604 | A 32-kD GTP-binding protein associated with the CD4-p56lck and CD8-p56lck T cell receptor complexes. The guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-binding proteins include signal-transducing heterotrimeric G proteins (for example, Gs, Gi), smaller GTP-binding proteins that function in protein sorting, and the oncogenic protein p21ras. The T cell receptor complexes CD4-p56lck and CD8-p56lck were found to include a 32- to 33-kilodalton phosphoprotein (p32) that was recognized by an antiserum to a consensus GTP-binding region in G proteins. Immunoprecipitated CD4 and CD8 complexes bound GTP and hydrolyzed it to guanosine diphosphate (GDP). The p32 protein was covalently linked to [alpha-32P]GTP by ultraviolet photoaffinity labeling. These results demonstrate an interaction between T cell receptor complexes and an intracellular GTP-binding protein.
12133983 | Bystander CD8 T cell-mediated demyelination after viral infection of the central nervous system. Multiple sclerosis, a chronic inflammatory disease of the CNS, is characterized by immune-mediated demyelination. Many patients have a remitting-relapsing course of disease with exacerbations often following unrelated microbial illnesses. The relationship between the two events remains obscure. One possibility is that T cells specific for the inciting microbial pathogen are able to effect demyelination at a site of ongoing inflammation within the CNS. This possibility was examined in mice infected with mouse hepatitis virus, a well-described model of virus-induced demyelination. Using transgenic TCR/recombination activation gene 2(-/-) mice with only non-mouse hepatitis virus-specific T cells, we show that CD8 T cells are able to cause demyelination in the absence of cognate Ag in the CNS, but only if specifically activated. These findings demonstrate a novel mechanism for immune-mediated neuropathology and show that activated CD8 T cells may serve as important mediators of bystander demyelination during times of infection, including in patients with multiple sclerosis.
22025728 | Cd8 enhancer E8I and Runx factors regulate CD8alpha expression in activated CD8+ T cells. Cd8a and Cd8b1 coreceptor gene (Cd8) expression is tightly controlled during T-cell development by the activity of five Cd8 enhancers (E8(I)-E8(V)). Here we demonstrate a unique transcriptional program regulating CD8 expression during CD8(+) effector T-cell differentiation. The Cd8 enhancer E8(I) and Runx/core-binding factor-beta (CBFbeta) complexes were required for the establishment of this regulatory circuit, because E8(I)-, Runx3-, or CBFbeta-deficient CD8(+) T cells down-regulated CD8alpha expression during activation. This finding correlated with enhanced repressive histone marks at the Cd8a promoter in the absence of E8(I), and the down-regulation of CD8alpha expression could be blocked by treating E8(I)-, Runx3-, or CBFbeta-deficient CD8(+) T cells with the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A. Moreover, Runx/CBFbeta complexes bound the Cd8ab gene cluster in activated CD8(+) T cells, suggesting direct control of the Cd8a locus. However, CD8(+) effector T cells maintained high levels of CD8alpha when CBFbeta was conditionally deleted after activation. Thus, our data suggest an E8(I)- and Runx3/CBFbeta-dependent epigenetic programming of the Cd8a locus during T-cell activation, leading to Runx/CBFbeta complex-independent maintenance of CD8alpha expression in effector T cells.
23055271 | Risk for myasthenia gravis maps to a (151) Pro Ala change in TNIP1 and to human leukocyte antigen-B*08. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to comprehensively define the genetic basis of early onset myasthenia gravis (EOMG). METHODS: We have carried out a 2-stage genome-wide association study on a total of 649 North European EOMG patients. Cases were matched 1:4 with controls of European ancestry. We performed imputation and conditional analyses across the major histocompatibility complex, as well as in the top regions of association outside the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region. RESULTS: We observed the strongest association in the HLA class I region at rs7750641 (p = 1.2 x 10(-92) ; odds ratio [OR], 6.25). By imputation and conditional analyses, HLA-B*08 proves to be the major associated allele (p = 2.87 x 10(-113) ; OR, 6.41). In addition to the expected association with PTPN22 (rs2476601; OR, 1.71; p = 8.2 x 10(-10) ), an imputed coding variant (rs2233290) at position 151 (Pro Ala) in the TNFAIP3-interacting protein 1, TNIP1, confers even stronger risk than PTPN22 (OR, 1.91; p = 3.2 x 10(-10) ). INTERPRETATION: The association at TNIP1 in EOMG implies disease mechanisms involving ubiquitin-dependent dysregulation of NF-kappaB signaling. The localization of the major HLA signal to the HLA-B*08 allele suggests that CD8(+) T cells may play a key role in disease initiation or pathogenesis.
23364441 | Isotype-switched immunoglobulin G antibodies to HIV Gag proteins may provide alternative or additional immune responses to 'protective' human leukocyte antigen-B alleles in HIV controllers. BACKGROUND: Natural control of HIV infection is associated with CD8 T-cell responses to Gag-encoded antigens of the HIV core and carriage of 'protective' human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B alleles, but some HIV controllers do not possess these attributes. As slower HIV disease progression is associated with high levels of antibodies to HIV Gag proteins, we have examined antibodies to HIV proteins in controllers with and without 'protective' HLA-B alleles. METHODS: Plasma from 32 HIV controllers and 21 noncontrollers was examined for immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) and IgG2 antibodies to HIV proteins in virus lysates by western blot assay and to recombinant (r) p55 and gp140 by ELISA. Natural killer (NK) cell-activating antibodies and FcgammaRIIa-binding immune complexes were also assessed. RESULTS: Plasma levels of IgG1 antibodies to HIV Gag (p18, p24, rp55) and Pol-encoded (p32, p51, p66) proteins were higher in HIV controllers. In contrast, IgG1 antibodies to Env proteins were less discriminatory, with only antigp120 levels being higher in controllers. High-level IgG2 antibodies to any Gag protein were most common in HIV controllers not carrying a 'protective' HLA-B allele, particularly HLA-B*57 (P = 0.016). HIV controllers without 'protective' HLA-B alleles also had higher plasma levels of IgG1 antip32 (P = 0.04). NK cell-activating antibodies to gp140 Env protein were higher in elite controllers but did not differentiate HIV controllers with or without 'protective' HLA-B alleles. IgG1 was increased in FcgammaRIIa-binding immune complexes from noncontrollers. CONCLUSION: We hypothesize that isotype-switched (IgG2+) antibodies to HIV Gag proteins and possibly IgG1 antip32 may provide alternative or additional immune control mechanisms to HLA-restricted CD8 T-cell responses in HIV controllers.
25688078 | Chitinase 3-like 1: prognostic biomarker in clinically isolated syndromes. Chitinase 3-like 1 (CHI3L1) has been proposed as a biomarker associated with the conversion to clinically definite multiple sclerosis in patients with clinically isolated syndromes, based on the finding of increased cerebrospinal fluid CHI3L1 levels in clinically isolated syndrome patients who later converted to multiple sclerosis compared to those who remained as clinically isolated syndrome. Here, we aimed to validate CHI3L1 as a prognostic biomarker in a large cohort of patients with clinically isolated syndrome. This is a longitudinal cohort study of clinically isolated syndrome patients with clinical, magnetic resonance imaging, and cerebrospinal fluid data prospectively acquired. A total of 813 cerebrospinal fluid samples from patients with clinically isolated syndrome were recruited from 15 European multiple sclerosis centres. Cerebrospinal fluid CHI3L1 levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Multivariable Cox regression models were used to investigate the association between cerebrospinal fluid CHI3L1 levels and time to conversion to multiple sclerosis and time to reach Expanded Disability Status Scale 3.0. CHI3L1 levels were higher in patients who converted to clinically definite multiple sclerosis compared to patients who continued as clinically isolated syndrome (P = 8.1 x 10(-11)). In the Cox regression analysis, CHI3L1 levels were a risk factor for conversion to multiple sclerosis (hazard ratio = 1.7; P = 1.1 x 10(-5) using Poser criteria; hazard ratio = 1.6; P = 3.7 x 10(-6) for McDonald criteria) independent of other covariates such as brain magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities and presence of cerebrospinal fluid oligoclonal bands, and were the only significant independent risk factor associated with the development of disability (hazard ratio = 3.8; P = 2.5 x 10(-8)). High CHI3L1 levels were associated with shorter time to multiple sclerosis (P = 3.2 x 10(-9) using Poser criteria; P = 5.6 x 10(-11) for McDonald criteria) and more rapid development of disability (P = 1.8 x 10(-10)). These findings validate cerebrospinal fluid CHI3L1 as a biomarker associated with the conversion to multiple sclerosis and development of disability and reinforce the prognostic role of CHI3L1 in patients with clinically isolated syndrome. We propose that determining cerebrospinal fluid chitinase 3-like 1 levels at the time of a clinically isolated syndrome event will help identify those patients with worse disease prognosis. 
27534393 | 25th Annual Computational Neuroscience Meeting: CNS-2016. 
31532792 | Hypertensive APOL1 risk allele carriers demonstrate greater blood pressure reduction with angiotensin receptor blockade compared to low risk carriers. BACKGROUND: Hypertension (HTN) disproportionately affects African Americans (AAs), who respond better to thiazide diuretics than other antihypertensives. Variants of the APOL1 gene found in AAs are associated with a higher rate of kidney disease and play a complex role in cardiovascular disease. METHODS: AA subjects from four HTN trials (n = 961) (GERA1, GERA2, PEAR1, and PEAR2) were evaluated for blood pressure (BP) response based on APOL1 genotype after 4-9 weeks of monotherapy with thiazides, beta blockers, or candesartan. APOL1 G1 and G2 variants were determined by direct sequencing or imputation. RESULTS: Baseline systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP) levels did not differ based on APOL1 genotype. Subjects with 1-2 APOL1 risk alleles had a greater SBP response to candesartan (-12.2 +/- 1.2 vs -7.5 +/- 1.8 mmHg, p = 0.03; GERA2), and a greater decline in albuminuria with candesartan (-8.3 +/- 3.1 vs +3.7 +/- 4.3 mg/day, p = 0.02). APOL1 genotype did not associate with BP response to thiazides or beta blockers. GWAS was performed to determine associations with BP response to candesartan depending on APOL1 genotype. While no SNPs reached genome wide significance, SNP rs10113352, intronic in CSMD1, predicted greater office SBP response to candesartan (p = 3.7 x 10-7) in those with 1-2 risk alleles, while SNP rs286856, intronic in DPP6, predicted greater office SBP response (p = 3.2 x 10-7) in those with 0 risk alleles. CONCLUSIONS: Hypertensive AAs without overt kidney disease who carry 1 or more APOL1 risk variants have a greater BP and albuminuria reduction in response to candesartan therapy. BP response to thiazides or beta blockers did not differ by APOL1 genotype. Future studies confirming this initial finding in an independent cohort are required.
31934908 | Exogenous GM1 Ganglioside Attenuates Ketamine-Induced Neurocognitive Impairment in the Developing Rat Brain. BACKGROUND: A prolonged exposure to ketamine triggers significant neurodegeneration and long-term neurocognitive deficits in the developing brain. Monosialotetrahexosylganglioside (GM1) can limit the neuronal damage from necrosis and apoptosis in neurodegenerative conditions. We aimed to assess whether GM1 can prevent ketamine-induced developmental neurotoxicity. METHODS: Postnatal day 7 (P7) rat pups received 5 doses of intraperitoneal ketamine (20 mg/kg per dose) at 90-minute intervals for 6 hours. Cognitive functions, determined by using Morris water maze (MWM) including escape latency (at P32-36) and platform crossing (at P37), were compared among the ketamine-exposed pups treated with or without exogenous GM1 (30 mg/kg; n = 12/group). The effect of GM1 on apoptosis in hippocampus was determined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated 2'-deoxyuridine 5'-triphosphate nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining and activated caspase 3 measurement. The hippocampal expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), along with the phosphorylation of protein kinase B (AKT) and extracellular signal-related kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), was detected by western blotting (n = 6/group). Anti-BDNF antibody (2 mug per rat) administered before GM1 treatment was applied to determine the neuroprotective mechanisms of GM1. RESULTS: The rats receiving ketamine exposure experinced cognitive impairment in MWM test compared to the control rats, indicated by prolonged escape latency at P34 (P = .006), P35 (P = .002), and P36 (P = .005). However, in GM1-pretreated rats, ketamine exposure did not induce prolonged escape latency. The exogenous GM1 increased the platform-crossing times at P37 (3.00 +- 2.22 times vs 5.40 +- 1.53 times, mean +- standard deviation; P = .041) and reduced the hippocampal TUNEL-positive cells and cleaved-caspase 3 expression in ketamine-exposed young rats. Ketamine decreased BDNF expression and phosphorylation of AKT and ERK in the hippocampus, whereas exogenous GM1 blocked these ketamine-caused effects. However, for the ketamine-exposed rat pups receiving exogenous GM1, compared to immunoglobulin Y (IgY) isotype control, the BDNF-neutralizing antibody treatment counteracted the exogenous GM1-induced improvement of the escape latency at P36 (41.32 +- 12.37 seconds vs 25.14 +- 8.97 seconds, mean +- standard deviation; P = .036), platform-crossing times at P37 (2.16 +- 1.12 times vs 3.92 +- 1.97 times, mean +- standard deviation; P < .036), apoptotic activity, as well as AKT and ERK1/2 phosphorylation in the hippocampus of ketamine-challenged young rats. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that the exogenous GM1 acts on BDNF signaling pathway to ameliorate the cognitive impairment and hippocampal apoptosis induced by ketamine in young rats. Our study may indicate a potential use of GM1 in preventing the cognitive deficits induced by ketamine in the young per se.
31980555 | Constitutive CD8 expression drives innate CD8+ T-cell differentiation via induction of iNKT2 cells. Temporal down-regulation of the CD8 co-receptor after receiving positive-selection signals has been proposed to serve as an important determinant to segregate helper versus cytotoxic lineages by generating differences in the duration of TCR signaling between MHC-I and MHC-II selected thymocytes. By contrast, little is known about whether CD8 also modulates TCR signaling engaged by the non-classical MHC-I-like molecule, CD1d, during development of invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells. Here, we show that constitutive transgenic CD8 expression resulted in enhanced differentiation of innate memory-like CD8+ thymocytes in both a cell-intrinsic and cell-extrinsic manner, the latter being accomplished by an increase in the IL-4-producing iNKT2 subset. Skewed iNKT2 differentiation requires cysteine residues in the intracellular domain of CD8alpha that are essential for transmitting cellular signaling. Collectively, these findings shed a new light on the relevance of CD8 down-regulation in shaping the balance of iNKT-cell subsets by modulating TCR signaling.
32296428 | CD3epsilon+ Cells in Pigs With Severe Combined Immunodeficiency Due to Defects in ARTEMIS. Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) is described as the lack of functional T and B cells. In some cases, mutant genes encoding proteins involved in the process of VDJ recombination retain partial activity and are classified as hypomorphs. Hypomorphic activity in the products from these genes can function in the development of T and B cells and is referred to as a leaky phenotype in patients and animals diagnosed with SCID. We previously described two natural, single nucleotide variants in ARTEMIS (DCLR1EC) in a line of Yorkshire pigs that resulted in SCID. One allele contains a splice site mutation within intron 8 of the ARTEMIS gene (ART16), while the other mutation is within exon 10 that results in a premature stop codon (ART12). While initially characterized as SCID and lacking normal levels of circulating lymphoid cells, low levels of CD3epsilon+ cells can be detected in most SCID animals. Upon further assessment, we found that ART16/16, and ART12/12 SCID pigs had abnormally small populations of CD3epsilon+ cells, but not CD79alpha+ cells, in circulation and lymph nodes. Newborn pigs (0 days of age) had CD3epsilon+ cells within lymph nodes prior to any environmental exposure. CD3epsilon+ cells in SCID pigs appeared to have a skewed CD4alpha+CD8alpha+CD8beta- T helper memory phenotype. Additionally, in some pigs, rearranged VDJ joints were detected in lymph node cells as probed by PCR amplification of TCRdelta V5 and J1 genomic loci, as well as TCRbeta V20 and J1.1, providing molecular evidence of residual Artemis activity. We additionally confirmed that TCRalpha and TCRdelta constant region transcripts were expressed in the thymic and lymph node tissues of SCID pigs; although the expression pattern was abnormal compared to carrier animals. The leaky phenotype is important to characterize, as SCID pigs are an important tool for biomedical research and this additional phenotype may need to be considered. The pig model also provides a relevant model for hypomorphic human SCID patients.
32669328 | Combination of CD8beta Depletion and Interleukin-15 Superagonist N-803 Induces Virus Reactivation in Simian-Human Immunodeficiency Virus-Infected, Long-Term ART-Treated Rhesus Macaques. The \shock and kill\ strategy predicates that virus reactivation in latently infected cells is required to eliminate the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reservoir. In a recent study, we showed robust and persistent induction of plasma viremia in antiretroviral therapy (ART)-treated simian immunodeficiency virus-infected rhesus macaques (RMs) undergoing CD8alpha depletion and treated with the interleukin-15 (IL-15) superagonist N-803 (J. B. McBrien et al., Nature 578:154-159, 2020, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-020-1946-0). Of note, in that study we used an antibody targeting CD8alpha, thereby depleting NK cells, NKT cells, and gammadelta T cells, in addition to CD8+ T cells. In the current proof-of-concept study, we tested whether virus reactivation can be induced by administration of N-803 to simian-human chimeric immunodeficiency virus-infected, ART-treated RMs that are selectively depleted of CD8+ T cells via the CD8beta-targeting antibody CD8b255R1. CD8beta depletion was performed in five SHIVSF162P3-infected RMs treated with ART for 12 months and with plasma viremia consistently below 3 copies/ml. All animals received four weekly doses of N-803 starting at the time of CD8b255R1 administration. The induction of detectable plasma viremia was observed in three out of five RMs, with the level of virus reactivation seemingly correlated with the frequency of CD8+ T cells following CD8beta depletion as well as the level of virus reactivation observed when the same animals underwent CD8alpha depletion and N-803 administration after 24 weeks of ART. These data indicate that CD8beta depletion and N-803 administration can induce virus reactivation in SHIVSF162P3-infected RMs despite suboptimal depletion of CD8+ T cells and profound ART-induced suppression of virus replication, confirming a critical role for these cells in suppressing virus production and/or reactivation in vivo under ART.IMPORTANCE The \shock and kill\ HIV cure strategy attempts to reverse and eliminate the latent viral infection that prevents eradication of the virus. Latency-reversing agents tested in clinical trials to date have failed to affect the HIV viral reservoir. IL-15 superagonist N-803, currently involved in a clinical trial for HIV cure, was recently shown by our laboratory to induce robust and persistent induction of plasma viremia during ART in three in vivo animal models of HIV infection. These results suggest a substantial role for CD8+ lymphocytes in suppressing the latency reversal effect of N-803 by promoting the maintenance of viral latency. In this study, we tested whether the use of a CD8beta-targeting antibody, which would specifically deplete CD8+ T cells, would yield similar levels of virus reactivation. We observed the induction of plasma viremia, which correlated with the efficacy of the CD8 depletion strategy.
33007914 | Transcriptome Response of Atlantic Salmon (Salmo salar) to a New Piscine Orthomyxovirus. Pilchard orthomyxovirus (POMV) is an emerging pathogen of concern to the salmon industry in Australia. To explore the molecular events that underpin POMV infection, we challenged Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) post-smolts in seawater via cohabitation. Tissue samples of the head kidney and liver were collected from moribund and surviving individuals and analyzed using transcriptome sequencing. Viral loads were higher in the head kidney compared to the liver, yet the liver presented more upregulated genes. Fish infected with POMV showed a strong innate immune response that included the upregulation of pathogen recognition receptors such as RIG-I and Toll-like receptors as well as the induction of interferon-stimulated genes (MX, ISG15). Moribund fish also presented a dramatic induction of pro-inflammatory cytokines, contributing to severe tissue damage and morbidity. An induction of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I genes (B2M) and markers of T cell-mediated immunity (CD8-alpha, CD8-beta, Perforin-1, Granzyme-A) was observed in both moribund fish and survivors. In addition, differential connectivity analysis showed that three key regulators (RELA/p65, PRDM1, and HLF) related to cell-mediated immunity had significant differences in connectivity in \clinically healthy\ versus \clinically affected\ or moribund fish. Collectively, our results show that T cell-mediated immunity plays a central role in the response of Atlantic salmon to the infection with POMV.
33521937 | MHC Class I on murine hematopoietic APC selects Type A IEL precursors in the thymus. TCRalphabeta+ CD8alpha+ CD8beta- intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes (CD8alphaalpha IEL) are gut T cells that maintain barrier surface homeostasis. Most CD8alphaalpha IEL are derived from thymic precursors (IELp) through a mechanism referred to as clonal diversion. In this model, self-reactive thymocytes undergo deletion in the presence of CD28 costimulation, but in its absence undergo diversion to the IEL fate. While previous reports showed that IELp were largely beta2m dependent, the APC that drive the development of these cells are poorly defined. We found that both CD80 and CD86 restrain IELp development, and conventional DCs play a prominent role. We sought to define a CD80/86 negative, MHCI positive APC that supports the development to the IEL lineage. Chimera studies showed that MHCI needs to be expressed on hematopoietic APC for selection. As thymic hematopoietic APC are heterogeneous in their expression of MHCI and costimulatory molecules, we identified four thymic APC types that were CD80/86neg/low and MHCI+ . However, selective depletion of beta2m in individual APC suggested functional redundancy. Thus, while hematopoietic APC play a critical role in clonal diversion, no single APC subset is specialized to promote the CD8alphaalpha IEL fate.
34478713 | Ribosylation of the CD8alphabeta heterodimer permits binding of the nonclassical major histocompatibility molecule, H2-Q10. The CD8alphabeta heterodimer plays a crucial role in the stabilization between major histocompatibility complex class I molecules (MHC-I) and the T cell receptor (TCR). The interaction between CD8 and MHC-I can be regulated by posttranslational modifications, which are proposed to play an important role in the development of CD8 T cells. One modification that has been proposed to control CD8 coreceptor function is ribosylation. Utilizing NAD+, the ecto-enzyme adenosine diphosphate (ADP) ribosyl transferase 2.2 (ART2.2) catalyzes the addition of ADP-ribosyl groups onto arginine residues of CD8alpha or beta chains and alters the interaction between the MHC and TCR complexes. To date, only interactions between modified CD8 and classical MHC-I (MHC-Ia), have been investigated and the interaction with non-classical MHC (MHC-Ib) has not been explored. Here, we show that ADP-ribosylation of CD8 facilitates the binding of the liver-restricted nonclassical MHC, H2-Q10, independent of the associated TCR or presented peptide, and propose that this highly regulated binding imposes an additional inhibitory leash on the activation of CD8-expressing cells in the presence of NAD+. These findings highlight additional important roles for nonclassical MHC-I in the regulation of immune responses.
34688302 | Comparative genome analysis of colistin-resistant OXA-48-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae clinical strains isolated from two Iranian hospitals. BACKGROUND: Carbapenemase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae (CP-KP) is becoming extensively disseminated in Iranian medical centers. Colistin is among the few agents that retains its activity against CP-KP. However, the administration of colistin for treatment of carbapenem-resistant infections has increased resistance against this antibiotic. Therefore, the identification of genetic background of co-carbapenem, colistin-resistance K. pneumoniae (Co-CCRKp) is urgent for implementation of serious infection control strategies. METHODS: Fourteen Co-CCRKp strains obtained from routine microbiological examinations were subjected to molecular analysis of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) using whole genome sequencing (WGS). RESULTS: Nine of 14 K. pneumoniae strains belonged to sequence type (ST)-11 and 50% of the isolates had K-locus type 15. All strains carried blaOXA-48 except for P26. blaNDM-1 was detected in only two plasmids associated with P6 and P26 strains belonging to incompatibility (Inc) groups; IncFIB, IncHI1B and IncFII. No blaKPC, blaVIM and blaIMP were identified. Multi-drug resistant (MDR) conjugative plasmids were identified in strains P6, P31, P35, P38 and P40. MICcolistin of K. pneumoniae strains ranged from 4 to 32 microg/ml. Modification of PmrA, PmrB, PhoQ, RamA and CrrB regulators as well as MgrB was identified as the mechanism of colistin resistance in our isolates. Single amino acid polymorphysims (SAPs) in PhoQ (D150G) and PmrB (R256G) were identified in all strains except for P35 and P38. CrrB was absent in P37 and modified in P7 (A200E). Insertion of ISKpn72 (P32), establishment of stop codon (Q30*) (P35 and P38), nucleotides deletion (P37), and amino acid substitution at position 28 were identified in MgrB (P33 and P42). None of the isolates were positive for plasmid-mediated colistin resistance (mcr) genes. P35 and P38 strains carried iutA, iucD, iucC, iucB and iucA genes and are considered as MDR-hypervirulent strains. P6, P7 and P43 had ICEKp4 variant and ICEKp3 was identified in 78% of the strains with specific carriage in ST11. CONCLUSION: In our study, different genetic modifications in chromosomal coding regions of some regulator genes resulted in phenotypic resistance to colistin. However, the extra-chromosomal colistin resistance through mcr genes was not detected. Continuous genomic investigations need to be conducted to accurately depict the status of colistin resistance in clinical settings.
34772449 | Route of infectious bronchitis virus vaccination determines the type and magnitude of immune responses in table egg laying hens. Chicken immune responses to infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) vaccination can depend on route of administration, vaccine strain and bird age. Typically for layer chickens, IBV vaccinations are administered by spray in the hatchery at day-old and boosted at intervals with live vaccines via drinking water (DW). Knowledge of live attenuated IBV vaccine virus kinetics and the immune response in egg-laying hens is exceptionally limited. Here, we demonstrated dissemination of vaccine viruses and differences in hen innate, mucosal, cellular and humoral immune responses following vaccination with Massachusetts or 793B strains, administered by DW or oculonasal (ON) routes. Detection of IBV in the Mass-vaccinated groups was greater during early time-points, however, 793B was detected more frequently at later timepoints. Viral RNA loads in the Harderian gland and turbinate tissues were significantly higher for ON-Mass compared to all other vaccinated groups. Lachrymal fluid IgY levels were significantly greater than the control at 14 days post-vaccination (dpv) for both vaccine serotypes, and IgA mRNA levels were significantly greater in ON-vaccinated groups compared to DW-vaccinated groups, demonstrating robust mucosal immune responses. Cell mediated immune gene transcripts (CD8-alpha and CD8-beta) were up-regulated in turbinate and trachea tissues. For both vaccines, dissemination and vaccine virus clearance was slower when given by DW compared to the ON route. For ON administration, both vaccines induced comparable levels of mucosal immunity. The Mass vaccine induced cellular immunity to similar levels regardless of vaccination method. When given either by ON or DW, 793B vaccination induced significantly higher levels of humoral immunity.
35099352 | Avian metapneumovirus subtype B vaccination in commercial broiler chicks: heterologous protection and selected host transcription responses to subtype A or B challenge. Avian metapneumovirus (aMPV) causes respiratory disease and drops in egg production in chickens, and is routinely controlled by vaccination. However, the host's immune response to virulent challenge in vaccinated or unvaccinated broiler chickens is poorly characterized. We show that subtype B vaccination offers heterologous (subtype A challenge) and homologous (subtype B challenge) protection. Subtype B challenge caused significantly greater humoral antibody titres in vaccinated and unvaccinated chickens. In turbinate and lung tissues of unvaccinated-challenged chickens, IgA and IgY mRNA transcription was significantly up-regulated after subtype B challenge compared to subtype A. Cellular immunity (CD8-alpha and CD8-beta) gene transcripts were significantly up-regulated during early and later stages of infection from subtype B or subtype A, respectively. Immune gene transcriptional responses (IL-1beta, IL-6 and IL-18) were significantly up-regulated after challenge. Gene transcription results showed that mRNA expression levels of CD8-alpha, CD8-beta, TLR3 and IL-6, particularly in turbinate and trachea tissues, are useful parameters to include in future aMPV vaccination-challenge studies.
35354951 | The transcription factor LRF promotes integrin beta7 expression by and gut homing of CD8alphaalpha+ intraepithelial lymphocyte precursors. While T cell receptor (TCR) alphabeta+CD8alpha+CD8beta- intraepithelial lymphocytes (CD8alphaalpha+ IELs) differentiate from thymic IEL precursors (IELps) and contribute to gut homeostasis, the transcriptional control of their development remains poorly understood. In the present study we showed that mouse thymocytes deficient for the transcription factor leukemia/lymphoma-related factor (LRF) failed to generate TCRalphabeta+CD8alphaalpha+ IELs and their CD8beta-expressing counterparts, despite giving rise to thymus and spleen CD8alphabeta+ T cells. LRF-deficient IELps failed to migrate to the intestine and to protect against T cell-induced colitis, and had impaired expression of the gut-homing integrin alpha4beta7. Single-cell RNA-sequencing found that LRF was necessary for the expression of genes characteristic of the most mature IELps, including Itgb7, encoding the beta7 subunit of alpha4beta7. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and gene-regulatory network analyses both defined Itgb7 as an LRF target. Our study identifies LRF as an essential transcriptional regulator of IELp maturation in the thymus and subsequent migration to the intestinal epithelium.
35943359 | CD8 T cells contribute to vaccine protection against SARS-CoV-2 in macaques. Spike-specific neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) are generally considered key correlates of vaccine protection against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. Recently, robust vaccine prevention of severe disease with SARS-CoV-2 variants that largely escape NAb responses has been reported, suggesting a role for other immune parameters for virologic control. However, direct data demonstrating a role of CD8+ T cells in vaccine protection have not yet been reported. In this study, we show that vaccine-elicited CD8+ T cells contribute substantially to virologic control after SARS-CoV-2 challenge in rhesus macaques. We vaccinated 30 macaques with a single immunization of the adenovirus vector-based vaccine Ad26.COV2.S or sham and then challenged them with 5 x 105 median tissue culture infectious dose SARS-CoV-2 B.1.617.2 (Delta) by the intranasal and intratracheal routes. All vaccinated animals were infected by this high-dose challenge but showed rapid virologic control in nasal swabs and bronchoalveolar lavage by day 4 after challenge. However, administration of an anti-CD8alpha- or anti-CD8beta-depleting monoclonal antibody in vaccinated animals before SARS-CoV-2 challenge resulted in higher levels of peak and day 4 virus in both the upper and lower respiratory tracts. These data demonstrate that CD8+ T cells contribute substantially to vaccine protection against SARS-CoV-2 replication in macaques.
36369345 | Ensemble machine learning identifies genetic loci associated with future worsening of disability in people with multiple sclerosis. Limited studies have been conducted to identify and validate multiple sclerosis (MS) genetic loci associated with disability progression. We aimed to identify MS genetic loci associated with worsening of disability over time, and to develop and validate ensemble genetic learning model(s) to identify people with MS (PwMS) at risk of future worsening. We examined associations of 208 previously established MS genetic loci with the risk of worsening of disability; we learned ensemble genetic decision rules and validated the predictions in an external dataset. We found 7 genetic loci (rs7731626: HR 0.92, P = 2.4 x 10-5; rs12211604: HR 1.16, P = 3.2 x 10-7; rs55858457: HR 0.93, P = 3.7 x 10-7; rs10271373: HR 0.90, P = 1.1 x 10-7; rs11256593: HR 1.13, P = 5.1 x 10-57; rs12588969: HR = 1.10, P = 2.1 x 10-10; rs1465697: HR 1.09, P = 1.7 x 10-128) associated with risk worsening of disability; most of which were located near or tagged to 13 genomic regions enriched in peptide hormones and steroids biosynthesis pathways by positional and eQTL mapping. The derived ensembles produced a set of genetic decision rules that can be translated to provide additional prognostic values to existing clinical predictions, with the additional benefit of incorporating relevant genetic information into clinical decision making for PwMS. The present study extends our knowledge of MS progression genetics and provides the basis of future studies regarding the functional significance of the identified loci.
36410569 | Intestinal location- and age-specific variation of intraepithelial T lymphocytes and mucosal microbiota in pigs. Intraepithelial T lymphocytes (T-IELs) are T cells located within the epithelium that provide a critical line of immune defense in the intestinal tract. In pigs, T-IEL abundances and phenotypes are used to infer putative T-IEL functions and vary by intestinal location and age, though investigations regarding porcine T-IELs are relatively limited. In this study, we expand on analyses of porcine intestinal T-IELs to include additional phenotypic designations not previously recognized in pigs. We describe non-conventional CD8alpha+CD8beta- alphabeta T-IELs that were most prevalent in the distal intestinal tract and primarily CD16+CD27-, a phenotype suggestive of innate-like activation and an activated cell state. Additional T-IEL populations included CD8alpha+CD8beta+ alphabeta, CD2+CD8alpha+ gammadelta, and CD2+CD8alpha- gammadelta T-IELs, with increasing proportions of CD16+CD27- phenotype in the distal intestine. Thus, putative non-conventional, activated T-IELs were most abundant in the distal intestine within multiple gammadelta and alphabeta T-IEL populations. A comparison of T-IEL and respective mucosal microbial community structures across jejunum, ileum, and cecum of 5- and 7-week-old pigs revealed largest community differences were tissue-dependent for both T-IELs and the microbiota. Between 5 and 7 weeks of age, the largest shifts in microbial community compositions occurred in the large intestine, while the largest shifts in T-IEL communities were in the small intestine. Therefore, results indicate different rates of community maturation and stabilization for porcine T-IELs and the mucosal microbiota for proximal versus distal intestinal locations between 5 and 7 weeks of age. Collectively, data emphasize the intestinal tract as a site of location- and age-specific T-IEL and microbial communities that have important implications for understanding intestinal health in pigs.
36901957 | Overexpression of Potential Markers of Regulatory and Exhausted CD8+ T Cells in the Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells of Patients with B-Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is one of the most common pediatric cancers, wherein regulatory T cells (Treg) and exhausted CD8+ T cells may be important in its development and maintenance. In this bioinformatics study, we evaluated the expression of 20 Treg/CD8 exhaustion markers and their possible roles in patients with B-ALL. The mRNA expression values of peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from 25 patients with B-ALL and 93 healthy subjects (HSs) were downloaded from publicly available datasets. Treg/CD8 exhaustion marker expression was normalized with that of the T cell signature and correlated with the expression of Ki-67, regulatory transcription factors (FoxP3, Helios), cytokines (IL-10, TGF-beta), CD8+ markers (CD8alpha chain, CD8beta chain), and CD8+ activation markers (Granzyme B, Granulysin). The mean expression level of 19 Treg/CD8 exhaustion markers was higher in the patients than in the HSs. In patients, the expression of five markers (CD39, CTLA-4, TNFR2, TIGIT, and TIM-3) correlated positively with Ki-67, FoxP3, and IL-10 expression. Moreover, the expression of some of them correlated positively with Helios or TGF-beta. Our results suggested that Treg/CD8+ T cells expressing CD39, CTLA-4, TNFR2, TIGIT, and TIM-3 favor B-ALL progression, and targeted immunotherapy against these markers could be a promising approach for treating B-ALL.
37058845 | Directed targeting of B-cell maturation antigen-specific CAR T cells by bioinformatic approaches: From in-silico to in-vitro. AIMS: Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T-cell is a breakthrough in cancer immunotherapy. The primary step of successful CAR T cell therapy is designing a specific single-chain fragment variable (scFv). This study aims to verify the designed anti-BCMA (B cell maturation antigen) CAR using bioinformatic techniques with the following experimental evaluations. MAIN METHODS: Following the second generation of anti-BCMA CAR designing, the protein structure, function prediction, physicochemical complementarity at the ligand-receptor interface, and biding sites analysis of anti-BCMA CAR construct were confirmed using different modeling and docking server, including Expasy, I-TASSER, HDock, and PyMOL software. To generate CAR T-cells, isolated T cells were transduced. Then, anti-BCMA CAR mRNA and its surface expression were confirmed by real-time -PCR and flow cytometry methods, respectively. To evaluate the surface expression of anti-BCMA CAR, anti-(Fab')2 and anti-CD8 antibodies were employed. Finally, anti-BCMA CAR T cells were co-cultured with BCMA+/- cell lines to assess the expression of CD69 and CD107a as activation and cytotoxicity markers. KEY FINDINGS: In-silico results approved the suitable protein folding, perfect orientation, and correct locating of functional domains at the receptor-ligand binding site. The in-vitro results confirmed high expression of scFv (89 +- 1.15% (and CD8alpha (54 +- 2.88%). The expression of CD69 (91.97 +- 1.7%) and CD107a (92.05 +- 1.29%) were significantly increased, indicating appropriate activation and cytotoxicity. SIGNIFICANCE: In-silico studies before experimental assessments are crucial for state-of-art CAR designing. Highly activation and cytotoxicity of anti-BCMA CAR T-cell revealed that our CAR construct methodology would be applicable to define the road map of CAR T cell therapy.
37122697 | The first crystal structure of CD8alphaalpha from a cartilaginous fish. Introduction: Cartilaginous fishes are the most evolutionary-distant vertebrates from mammals and possess an immunoglobulin (Ig)- and T cell-mediated adaptive immunity. CD8 is the hallmark receptor of cytotoxic T cells and is required for the formation of T cell receptor-major histocompatibility complex (TCR-MHC) class I complexes. Methods: RACE PCR was used to obtain gene sequences. Direct dilution was applied for the refolding of denatured recombinant CD8 protein. Hanging-drop vapor diffusion method was performed for protein crystallization. Results: In this study, CD8alpha and CD8beta orthologues (termed ScCD8alpha and ScCD8beta) were identified in small-spotted catshark (Scyliorhinus canicula). Both ScCD8alpha and ScCD8beta possess an extracellular immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF) V domain as in previously identified CD8 proteins. The genes encoding CD8alpha and CD8beta are tandemly linked in the genomes of all jawed vertebrates studied, suggesting that they were duplicated from a common ancestral gene before the divergence of cartilaginous fishes and other vertebrates. We determined the crystal structure of the ScCD8alpha ectodomain homodimer at a resolution of 1.35 A and show that it exhibits the typical topological structure of CD8alpha from endotherms. As in mammals, the homodimer formation of ScCD8alphaalpha relies upon interactions within a hydrophobic core although this differs in position and amino acid composition. Importantly, ScCD8alphaalpha shares the canonical cavity required for interaction with peptide-loaded MHC I in mammals. Furthermore, it was found that ScCD8alpha can co-immunoprecipitate with ScCD8beta, indicating that it can form both homodimeric and heterodimeric complexes. Conclusion: Our results expand the current knowledge of vertebrate CD8 dimerization and the interaction between CD8alpha with p/MHC I from an evolutionary perspective.
37205446 | Boosting Live Malaria Vaccine with Cytomegalovirus Vector Can Prolong Immunity through Innate and Adaptive Mechanisms. Vaccines to persistent parasite infections have been challenging, and current iterations lack long-term protection. Cytomegalovirus ( CMV) chronic vaccine vectors drive protection against SIV, tuberculosis and liver-stage malaria correlated with antigen-specific CD8 T cells with a Tem phenotype. This phenotype is likely driven by a combination of antigen-specific and innate adjuvanting effects of the vector, though these mechanisms are less well understood. Sterilizing immunity from live Plasmodium chabaudi vaccination lasts less than 200 days. While P. chabaudi -specific antibody levels remain stable after vaccination, the decay of parasite-specific T cells correlates with loss of challenge protection. Therefore, we enlisted murine CMV as a booster strategy to prolong T cell responses against malaria. To study induced T cell responses, we included P. chabaudi MSP-1 epitope B5 (MCMV-B5). We found that MCMV vector alone significantly protected against a challenge P. chabaudi infection 40-60 days later, and that MCMV-B5 was able to make B5-specific Teff, in addition to previously-reported Tem, that survive to the challenge timepoint. Used as a booster, MCMV-B5 prolonged protection from heterologous infection beyond day 200, and increased B5 TCR Tg T cell numbers, including both a highly-differentiated Tem phenotype and Teff, both previously reported to protect. B5 epitope expression was responsible for maintenance of Th1 and Tfh B5 T cells. In addition, the MCMV vector had adjuvant properties, contributing non-specifically through prolonged stimulation of IFN-gamma. In vivo neutralization of IFN-gamma, but not IL-12 and IL-18, late in the course of MCMV, led to loss of the adjuvant effect. Mechanistically, sustained IFN-gamma from MCMV increased CD8alpha + dendritic cell numbers, and led to increased IL-12 production upon Plasmodium challenge. In addition, neutralization of IFN-gamma before challenge reduced the polyclonal Teff response to challenge. Our findings suggest that, as protective epitopes are defined, an MCMV vectored booster can prolong protection through the innate effects of IFN-gamma. Authors' summary: Malaria represents a challenging target for vaccination. This is in part because of the requirement for CD4 T cell immunity in addition to the standard B cell responses current vaccines induce. However, human malaria vaccine approaches thus far have limited longevity of protection due to decay of T cell responses. This includes the most advanced malaria vaccine, a virus-like particle expressing one recombinant liver-stage antigen (RTS,S), and liver-stage parasites attenuated by radiation (PfSPZ), as well as live vaccination with drug-treatment. Our work seeks to prolong this protection using MCMV, a promising vaccine vector known to promote CD8 T cell responses. We observed that boosting the live malaria vaccine with MCMV including a Plasmodium antigen led to longer protection from P. chabaudi parasitemia, and can be used to promote maintenance of antigen-specific CD4 T cells. In investigating the mechanisms of the MCMV booster, we found that the cytokine IFN-gamma is required for prolonged protection and enhances priming of the innate immune system for prolonged protection from malaria. Our research informs both the quest for a longer-lived malaria vaccine and that to understand mechanisms of protection from persistent infection.
37310382 | CD8+ T cell depletion prevents neuropathology in a mouse model of globoid cell leukodystrophy. Globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD) or Krabbe's disease is a fatal genetic demyelinating disease of the central nervous system caused by loss-of-function mutations in the galactosylceramidase (galc) gene. While the metabolic basis for disease is known, the understanding of how this results in neuropathology is not well understood. Herein, we report that the rapid and protracted elevation of CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes occurs coincident with clinical disease in a mouse model of GLD. Administration of a function-blocking antibody against CD8alpha effectively prevented disease onset, reduced morbidity and mortality, and prevented CNS demyelination in mice. These data indicate that subsequent to the genetic cause of disease, neuropathology is driven by pathogenic CD8+ T cells, thus offering novel therapeutic potential for treatment of GLD.
37385350 | Coenzyme Q10 exhibits anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory thereby decelerating the occurrence of experimental cerebral malaria. Cerebral Malaria (CM) is associated with the complex neurological syndrome, whose pathology is mediated by severe inflammatory processes following infection with Plasmodium falciparum. Coenzyme-Q10 (Co-Q10) is a potent anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, and anti-apoptotic agent with numerous clinical applications. The aim of this study was to elucidate the role of oral administration of Co-Q10 on the initiation or regulation of inflammatory immune response during experimental cerebral malaria (ECM). For this purpose, the pre-clinical effect of Co-Q10 was evaluated in C57BL/6J mice infected with Plasmodium berghei ANKA (PbA). Treatment with Co-Q10 resulted in the reduction of infiltrating parasite load, greatly improved the survival rate of PbA-infected mice that occurred independent of parasitaemia and prevented PbA-induced disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity. Exposure to Co-Q10 resulted in the reduction of infiltration of effector CD8+ T cells in the brain and secretion of cytolytic Granzyme B molecules. Notably, Co-Q10-treated mice had reduced levels of CD8+T cell chemokines CXCR3, CCR2, and CCR5 in the brain following PbA-infection. Brain tissue analysis showed a reduction in the levels of inflammatory mediators TNF- alpha, CCL3, and RANTES in Co-Q10 administered mice. In addition, Co-Q10 modulated the differentiation and maturation of both splenic and brain dendritic cells and cross-presentation (CD8alpha+DCs) during ECM. Remarkably, Co-Q10 was very effective in decreasing levels of CD86, MHC-II, and CD40 in macrophages associated with ECM pathology. Exposure to Co-Q10 resulted in increased expression levels of Arginase-1 and Ym1/chitinase 3-like 3, which is linked to ECM protection. Furthermore, Co-Q10 supplementation prevented PbA-induced depletion of Arginase and CD206 mannose receptor levels. Co-Q10 abrogated PbA-driven elevation in pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-18, and IL-6 levels. In conclusion, the oral supplementation with Co-Q10 decelerates the occurrence of ECM by preventing lethal inflammatory immune responses and dampening genes associated with inflammation and immune-pathology during ECM, and offers an inimitable opening for developing an anti-inflammatory agent against cerebral malaria.
37586771 | Personalized neoantigen viro-immunotherapy platform for triple-negative breast cancer. BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) corresponds to approximately 20% of all breast tumors, with a high propensity for metastasis and a poor prognosis. Because TNBC displays a high mutational load compared with other breast cancer types, a neoantigen-based immunotherapy strategy could be effective. One major bottleneck in the development of a neoantigen-based vaccine for TNBC is the selection of the best targets, that is, tumor-specific neoantigens which are presented at the surface of tumor cells and capable of eliciting robust immune responses. In this study, we aimed to set up a platform for identification and delivery of immunogenic neoantigens in a vaccine regimen for TNBC using oncolytic vaccinia virus (VV). METHODS: We used bioinformatic tools and cell-based assays to identify immunogenic neoantigens in TNBC patients' samples, human and murine cell lines. Immunogenicity of the neoantigens was tested in vitro (human) and ex vivo (murine) in T-cell assays. To assess the efficacy of our regimen, we used a preclinical model of TNBC where we treated tumor-bearing mice with neoantigens together with oncolytic VV and evaluated the effect on induction of neoantigen-specific CD8+T cells, tumor growth and survival. RESULTS: We successfully identified immunogenic neoantigens and generated neoantigen-specific CD8+T cells capable of recognizing a human TNBC cell line expressing the mutated gene. Using a preclinical model of TNBC, we showed that our tumor-specific oncolytic VV was able to change the tumor microenvironment, attracting and maintaining mature cross-presenting CD8alpha+dendritic cells and effector T-cells. Moreover, when delivered in a prime/boost regimen together with oncolytic VV, long peptides encompassing neoantigens were able to induce neoantigen-specific CD8+T cells, slow tumor growth and increase survival. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a promising approach for the development of neoantigen-based immunotherapies for TNBC. By identifying immunogenic neoantigens and developing a delivery system through tumor-specific oncolytic VV, we have demonstrated that neoantigen-based vaccines could be effective in inducing neoantigen-specific CD8+T cells response with significant impact on tumor growth. Further studies are needed to determine the safety and efficacy of this approach in clinical trials.
38292493 | Evaluating NetMHCpan performance on non-European HLA alleles not present in training data. Bias in neural network model training datasets has been observed to decrease prediction accuracy for groups underrepresented in training data. Thus, investigating the composition of training datasets used in machine learning models with healthcare applications is vital to ensure equity. Two such machine learning models are NetMHCpan-4.1 and NetMHCIIpan-4.0, used to predict antigen binding scores to major histocompatibility complex class I and II molecules, respectively. As antigen presentation is a critical step in mounting the adaptive immune response, previous work has used these or similar predictions models in a broad array of applications, from explaining asymptomatic viral infection to cancer neoantigen prediction. However, these models have also been shown to be biased toward hydrophobic peptides, suggesting the network could also contain other sources of bias. Here, we report the composition of the networks' training datasets are heavily biased toward European Caucasian individuals and against Asian and Pacific Islander individuals. We test the ability of NetMHCpan-4.1 and NetMHCpan-4.0 to distinguish true binders from randomly generated peptides on alleles not included in the training datasets. Unexpectedly, we fail to find evidence that the disparities in training data lead to a meaningful difference in prediction quality for alleles not present in the training data. We attempt to explain this result by mapping the HLA sequence space to determine the sequence diversity of the training dataset. Furthermore, we link the residues which have the greatest impact on NetMHCpan predictions to structural features for three alleles (HLA-A*34:01, HLA-C*04:03, HLA-DRB1*12:02).
38295891 | Enhancing antigenic peptide discovery: Improved MHC-I binding prediction and methodology. The Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) is a critical element of the vertebrate cellular immune system, responsible for presenting peptides derived from intracellular proteins. MHC-I presentation is pivotal in the immune response and holds considerable potential in the realms of vaccine development and cancer immunotherapy. This study delves into the limitations of current methods and benchmarks for MHC-I presentation. We introduce a novel benchmark designed to assess generalization properties and the reliability of models on unseen MHC molecules and peptides, with a focus on the Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-a specific subset of MHC genes present in humans. Finally, we introduce HLABERT, a pretrained language model that outperforms previous methods significantly on our benchmark and establishes a new state-of-the-art on existing benchmarks.
38345137 | Structural, functional, molecular docking analysis of a hypothetical protein from Talaromyces marneffei and its molecular dynamic simulation: an in-silico approach. Telaromyces marneffei (formerly Penicillium marneffei) is an endemic pathogenic fungus in Southern China and Southeast Asia. It can cause disease in patients with travel-related exposure to this organism and high morbidity and mortality in acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). In this study, we analyzed the structure and function of a hypothetical protein from T. marneffei using several bioinformatics tools and servers to unveil novel pharmacological targets and design a peptide vaccine against specific epitopes. A total of seven functional epitopes were screened on the protein, and 'STGVDMWSV' was the most antigenic, non-allergenic and non-toxic. Molecular docking showed stronger affinity between the CTL epitope 'STGVDMWSV' and the MHC I allele HLA-A*02:01, a higher docking score -234.98 kcal/mol, revealed stable interactions during a 100 ns molecular dynamic simulation. Overall, the results of this study revealed that this hypothetical protein is crucial for comprehending biochemical, physiological pathways and identifying novel therapeutic targets for human health. Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.
38372631 | Association of HLA gene polymorphisms with Helicobacter pylori related gastric cancer-a systematic review. The appropriate host cell immune responses for the progression of several diseases, including gastric or stomach cancer (GC), are significantly influenced by HLA polymorphisms. Our objective was to systematically review the evidence linking HLA polymorphisms with the risk of Helicobacter. pylori related GC. We conducted a comprehensive literature search to identify studies published between 2000 and April 2023 on the association of HLA polymorphisms with H. pylori related GC using databases such as Medline through PubMed, Embase, Web of Science (core collection), The Cochrane Library, and Scopus. Two authors independently screened articles, extracted data, and assessed the risk of bias using the Risk of Bias Assessment tool for Non-randomized Studies. From 7872 retrieved studies, 19 met inclusion criteria, encompassing 1656 cases and 16,787 controls across four World Health Organization regions, with Japan contributing the most studies. We explored HLA-A/B/C, HLA-DRB1/DQA1/DQB1, HLA-G, and MICA alleles. Of 29 significant HLA polymorphisms identified, 18 showed a positive association with GC, whereas 11 were negatively associated. HLA-DQB1*06 allele was most frequently associated to susceptibility, as reported in four studies, followed by HLA-DRB1*04 and HLA-DQA1*01, each reported in two studies. Conversely, HLA-G*01, HLA-DQA1*01, HLA-DQA1*05, and HLA-DQB1*03 were identified as protective in two studies each. Additionally, five genotypes and six haplotypes were reported as positive, whereas three genotypes and two haplotypes were negative factors for the disease incidence or mortality. Despite heterogeneity in the study population and types of HLA polymorphisms examined, our analysis indicates certain polymorphisms are associated with H. pylori related GC progression and mortality in specific populations.
38377192 | Diverse cytomegalovirus US11 antagonism and MHC-A evasion strategies reveal a tit-for-tat coevolutionary arms race in hominids. Recurrent, ancient arms races between viruses and hosts have shaped both host immunological defense strategies as well as viral countermeasures. One such battle is waged by the glycoprotein US11 encoded by the persisting human cytomegalovirus. US11 mediates degradation of major histocompatibility class I (MHC-I) molecules to prevent CD8+ T-cell activation. Here, we studied the consequences of the arms race between US11 and primate MHC-A proteins, leading us to uncover a tit-for-tat coevolution and its impact on MHC-A diversification. We found that US11 spurred MHC-A adaptation to evade viral antagonism: In an ancestor of great apes, the MHC-A A2 lineage acquired a Pro184Ala mutation, which confers resistance against the ancestral US11 targeting strategy. In response, US11 deployed a unique low-complexity region (LCR), which exploits the MHC-I peptide loading complex to target the MHC-A2 peptide-binding groove. In addition, the global spread of the human HLA-A*02 allelic family prompted US11 to employ a superior LCR strategy with an optimally fitting peptide mimetic that specifically antagonizes HLA-A*02. Thus, despite cytomegaloviruses low pathogenic potential, the increasing commitment of US11 to MHC-A has significantly promoted diversification of MHC-A in hominids.
38378602 | Ageing on the impact of distribution about preformed anti-HLA and anti-MICA antibody specificities in recipients prior to initial HSCT from East China. BACKGROUND: With the development of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) technology, increasing numbers of elderly patients were undergoing allogeneic HSCT and elderly patients with hematologic malignancies could benefit most from it. Preformed donor-specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) antibodies (DSA) were associated with graft failure in HLA-mismatched allogeneic HSCT and the absence of DSA was the main criterion of selecting the donor. Except for sensitization events such as transfusion, pregnancy or previous transplantation, ageing affects the humoral immune response both quantitatively and qualitatively. To evaluate the prevalence and distribution of anti-HLA and antibodies of MHC class I chain related antigens A (MICA) specificities in different age groups before initial HSCT would provide HLA and MICA specific antibody profiles under the impact of ageing, which could provide meaningful information in the process of selecting suitable HLA-mismatched donors by avoiding preformed DSA. RESULTS: There were no significant differences in the distribution of anti-HLA class I, class II and anti-MICA antibodies among the three age groups in this study except that a significant lower negative ratio of anti-HLA class I, class II antibodies and higher positive rate of MICA antibodies with maximum mean fluorescent intensity (MFI) > 5000 in the elderly than in young age group. The distribution of antibody specificities against HLA -A, -B, -C, -DR, -DQ, -DP and MICA antigens in the three age groups were generally consistent. The anti-HLA class I antibody specificities with higher frequencies were A80,A68;B76,B45;Cw17, which were unlikely to become DSA in Chinese. Anti-HLA class II antibody specificities were more likely to become potential DSA than class I.DR7, DR9, DQ7, DQ8 and DQ9 were most likely to become potential DSA. CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of anti-HLA and anti-MICA antibodies increased slightly as age increased. While ageing had a small impact on the distribution of antibody specificity frequencies against HLA-A, -B, -C, -DR,-DQ, -DP and MICA antigens in recipients awaiting initial HSCT from East China. The risk of developing preformed DSA was basically consistent in the three age groups and the elderly group might be more favorable in HLA-mismatched HSCT due to higher positive rate of anti-MICA antibody.
38398632 | An Efficient Approach to the Accurate Prediction of Mutational Effects in Antigen Binding to the MHC1. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) can recognize and bind to external peptides to generate effective immune responses by presenting the peptides to T cells. Therefore, understanding the binding modes of peptide-MHC complexes (pMHC) and predicting the binding affinity of pMHCs play a crucial role in the rational design of peptide vaccines. In this study, we employed molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and free energy calculations with an Alanine Scanning with Generalized Born and Interaction Entropy (ASGBIE) method to investigate the protein-peptide interaction between HLA-A*02:01 and the G9209 peptide derived from the melanoma antigen gp100. The energy contribution of individual residue was calculated using alanine scanning, and hotspots on both the MHC and the peptides were identified. Our study shows that the pMHC binding is dominated by the van der Waals interactions. Furthermore, we optimized the ASGBIE method, achieving a Pearson correlation coefficient of 0.91 between predicted and experimental binding affinity for mutated antigens. This represents a significant improvement over the conventional MM/GBSA method, which yields a Pearson correlation coefficient of 0.22. The computational protocol developed in this study can be applied to the computational screening of antigens for the MHC1 as well as other protein-peptide binding systems.
38405923 | Canine major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) diversity landscape. The genes of the Major Histocompatibility Complex class I (MHC-I) are among the most diverse in the mammalian genome, playing a crucial role in immunology. Understanding the diversity landscape of MHC-I is therefore of paramount importance. The dog is a key translational model in various biomedical fields. However, our understanding of the canine MHC-I diversity landscape lags significantly behind that of humans. To address this deficiency, we used our newly developed software, KPR de novo assembler and genotyper, to genotype 1,325 samples from 1,025 dogs with paired-end RNA-seq data from 43 BioProjects, after extensive quality control. Among 926 dogs that pass the QC, 591 dogs (64%) have at least one allele genotyped, and a total of 97 known alleles and 52 putative new alleles were identified. Further analysis reveals that DLA-I gene expression levels vary among the tissues, with lowest for testis and brain tissues and highest for blood, corpus luteum, and spleen. We identified dominant alleles in each of the 17 canine breeds, as well as among the entire canine population. Furthermore, our analysis also identifies breed-specific alleles and mutually co-occurred/exclusive alleles. Our study indicates that canine DLA-88 is as diversified as human HLA-A/B/C genes within the entire population, but less diversified within a breed than with HLA-A/B/C within an ethnic group. Lastly, we examined the hypervariable regions (HVR) within or across human/canine MHC-I alleles and found that 80% of the HVRs overlap between the two species. We further noted that 80% of the HVRs are within 4A contact with the peptides, and that the dog-human difference overlaps with only 20% HVRs. Our research offers valuable insights for immunological studies involving dogs.
38455061 | Tumor beta2-microglobulin and HLA-A expression is increased by immunotherapy and can predict response to CIT in association with other biomarkers. Background: Downregulation of MHC class I expression and/or defects in the antigen presentation pathways are commonly reported in human cancers. Numerous studies previously have explored extensively the molecular mechanisms that underlie HLA-class I and Beta2-Microglobulin (B2M) downregulation. However, the techniques presently available to detect expression of MHC class I proteins lack the robustness, specificity and sensitivity needed for systematic integration and analysis in clinical trials. Furthermore, the dynamics of HLA-class I and B2M expression have not been comprehensively studied as a potential biomarker for immunotherapy. Methods: Using novel, validated, immunohistochemistry (IHC)-based methods for quantifying B2M and HLA-A in tumor samples from diverse cancer types, we have determined loss of B2M and HLA-A proteins in 336 archived, primary specimens and 329 biopsies from metastatic patients collected during Roche-sponsored Phase 1 clinical trials investigating novel immunotherapy candidates as monotherapy or in combination with CPI. Results: Up to 56% of cases with B2M or HLA-A loss were noted in the investigated tumor types. The frequency of loss was dependent on indication and stage of disease and revealed heterogeneous expression patterns across patients. B2M and HLA-A loss was increased in metastatic lesions compared to primary tumors, indicating selection of MHC class I low clones in metastatic and refractory tumor cells. High on-treatment B2M expression correlated with successful clinical outcome (RECIST), while high baseline B2M did not. A treatment-induced increase of B2M expression was noted in most of the patients with low B2M levels at baseline. The triple biomarker combination of B2M, CD8 and PDL1 strongly improved response prediction to cancer immunotherapy. Conclusion: Our results indicate that B2M and HLA-A loss occurs frequently in tumors and is reversed in most instances following immunotherapy which supports the conclusion that MHC class I loss is not the dominant resistance mechanism to CPI treatment. This investigation reveals a highly dynamic expression of HLA-A and B2M in tumors affected by indication, metastatic status, immunophenotype and immunotherapy treatment. Baseline expression levels of B2M on tumors may be of utility as a constituent of a biomarker panel used for selecting patients for immunotherapy clinical trials.
38509571 | Cross-reactive CD8+ T cell responses to tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) and homologous microbiota-derived antigens (MoAs). BACKGROUND: We have recently shown extensive sequence and conformational homology between tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) and antigens derived from microorganisms (MoAs). The present study aimed to assess the breadth of T-cell recognition specific to MoAs and the corresponding TAAs in healthy subjects (HS) and patients with cancer (CP). METHOD: A library of > 100 peptide-MHC (pMHC) combinations was used to generate DNA-barcode labelled multimers. Homologous peptides were selected from the Cancer Antigenic Peptide Database, as well as Bacteroidetes/Firmicutes-derived peptides. They were incubated with CD8 + T cells from the peripheral blood of HLA-A*02:01 healthy individuals (n = 10) and cancer patients (n = 16). T cell recognition was identified using tetramer-staining analysis. Cytotoxicity assay was performed using as target cells TAP-deficient T2 cells loaded with MoA or the paired TuA. RESULTS: A total of 66 unique pMHC recognized by CD8+ T cells across all groups were identified. Of these, 21 epitopes from microbiota were identified as novel immunological targets. Reactivity against selected TAAs was observed for both HS and CP. pMHC tetramer staining confirmed CD8+ T cell populations cross-reacting with CTA SSX2 and paired microbiota epitopes. Moreover, PBMCs activated with the MoA where shown to release IFNgamma as well as to exert cytotoxic activity against cells presenting the paired TuA. CONCLUSIONS: Several predicted microbiota-derived MoAs are recognized by T cells in HS and CP. Reactivity against TAAs was observed also in HS, primed by the homologous bacterial antigens. CD8+ T cells cross-reacting with MAGE-A1 and paired microbiota epitopes were identified in three subjects. Therefore, the microbiota can elicit an extensive repertoire of natural memory T cells to TAAs, possibly able to control tumor growth (\natural anti-cancer vaccination\). In addition, non-self MoAs can be included in preventive/therapeutic off-the-shelf cancer vaccines with more potent anti-tumor efficacy than those based on TAAs.
38524775 | Cold Tumour Phenotype Explained Through Whole Genome Sequencing in Clinical Nasopharyngeal Cancer: A Preliminary Study. Introduction: Nasopharyngeal cancer (NPC) is a complex cancer due to its unique genomic features and association with the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Despite therapeutic advancements, NPC prognosis remains poor, necessitating a deeper understanding of its genomics. Here, we present a comprehensive whole genome sequencing (WGS) view of NPC genomics and its correlation with the phenotype. Methods: This study involved WGS of a clinical NPC biopsy specimen. Sequencing was carried out using a long read sequencer from Oxford Nanopore. Analysis of the variants involved correlation with the phenotype of NPC. Results: A loss of genes within chromosome 6 from copy number variation (CNV) was found. The lost genes included HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C, which work in the antigen presentation process. This loss of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) apparatus resulted in the tumour's ability to evade immune recognition. The tumour exhibited an immunologically \cold\ phenotype, with mild tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes, supporting the possible etiology of loss of antigen presentation capability. Furthermore, the driver mutation PIK3CA gene was identified along with various other gene variants affecting numerous signaling pathways. Discussion: Comprehensive WGS was able to detect various mutations and genomic losses, which could explain tumour progression and immune evasion ability. Furthermore, the study identified the loss of other genes related to cancer and immune pathways, emphasizing the complexity of NPC genomics. In conclusion, this study underscores the significance of MHC class I gene loss and its probable correlation with the cold tumour phenotype observed in NPC.
38547417 | Pathologic Features of Anti-Ku Myositis. OBJECTIVE: Characteristics of myositis with anti-Ku antibodies are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the pathologic features of myositis associated with anti-Ku antibodies, compared with immune-mediated necrotizing myopathy (IMNM) with anti-signal recognition particle (SRP) and anti-3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMGCR) antibodies, in muscle biopsy-oriented registration cohorts in Japan and Germany. METHODS: We performed a retrospective pathology review of patients with anti-Ku myositis samples diagnosed in the Japanese and German cohorts. We evaluated histologic features and performed HLA phenotyping. RESULTS: Fifty biopsied muscle samples in the Japanese cohort and 10 in the German cohort were obtained. After exclusion of myositis-specific autoantibodies or other autoimmune connective tissue diseases, 26 samples (43%) of anti-Ku antibody-positive myositis were analyzed. All the samples shared some common features with IMNM, whereas they showed expression of MHC class II and clusters of perivascular inflammatory cells more frequently than the anti-SRP/HMGCR IMNM samples (71% vs 7%/16%; p < 0.005/<0.005; 64% vs 0%/0%; p < 0.005/<0.005). Anti-Ku myositis biopsies could be divided into 2 subgroups based on the extent of necrosis and regeneration. The group with more abundant necrosis and regeneration showed a higher frequency of MHC class II expression and perivascular inflammatory cell clusters. HLA phenotyping in the 44 available patients showed possible associations of HLA-DRB1*03:01, HLA-DRB1*11:01, and HLA-DQB1*03:01 (p = 0.0045, 0.019, and 0.027; odds ratio [OR] 50.2, 4.6, and 2.8; 95% CI 2.6-2942.1, 1.1-14.5, and 1.0-7.0) in the group with less conspicuous necrosis and regeneration. On the contrary, in the group of more abundant necrosis and regeneration, the allele frequencies of HLA-A*24:02, HLA-B*52:01, HLA-C*12:02, and HLA-DRB1*15:02 were lower than those of healthy controls (p = 0.0036, 0.027, 0.016, and 0.026; OR = 0.27, 0, 0, and 0; 95% CI 0.1-0.7, 0-0.8, 0-0.8, and 0-0.8). However, these HLA associations did not remain significant after statistical correction for multiple testing. DISCUSSION: While anti-Ku myositis shows necrotizing myopathy features, they can be distinguished from anti-SRP/HMGCR IMNM by their MHC class II expression and clusters of perivascular inflammatory cells. The HLA analyses suggest that anti-Ku myositis may have different subsets associated with myopathologic subgroups.
38575482 | Validation of tag SNPs for multiple sclerosis HLA risk alleles across the 1000 genomes panel. Currently, the genetic variants strongly associated with risk for Multiple Sclerosis (MS) are located in the Major Histocompatibility Complex. This includes DRB1*15:01 and DRB1*15:03 alleles at the HLA-DRB1 locus, the latter restricted to African populations; the DQB1*06:02 allele at the HLA-DQB1 locus which is in high linkage disequilibrium (LD) with DRB1*15:01; and protective allele A*02:01 at the HLA-A locus. HLA allele identification is facilitated by co-inherited ('tag') single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs); however, SNP validation is not typically done outside of the discovery population. We examined 19 SNPs reported to be in high LD with these alleles in 2,502 healthy subjects included in the 1000 Genomes panel having typed HLA data. Examination of 3 indices (LD R2 values, sensitivity and specificity, minor allele frequency) revealed few SNPs with high tagging performance. All SNPs examined that tag DRB1*15:01 were in perfect LD in the British population; three showed high tagging performance in 4 of the 5 European, and 2 of the 4 American populations. For DQB1*06:02, with no previously validated tag SNPs, we show that rs3135388 has high tagging performance in one South Asian, one American, and one European population. We identify for the first time that rs2844821 has high tagging performance for A*02:01 in 5 of 7 African populations including African Americans, and 4 of the 5 European populations. These results provide a basis for selecting SNPs with high tagging performance to assess HLA alleles across diverse populations, for MS risk as well as for other diseases and conditions.
38579189 | Genome-Wide Association Study Identifies IFIH1 and HLA-DQB1*05:02 Loci Associated With Anti-NMDAR Encephalitis. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis is a rare autoimmune neurologic disorder, the genetic etiology of which remains poorly understood. Our study aims to investigate the genetic basis of this disease in the Chinese Han population. METHODS: We performed a genome-wide association study and fine-mapping study within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region of 413 Chinese patients with anti-NMDAR encephalitis recruited from 6 large tertiary hospitals and 7,127 healthy controls. RESULTS: Our genome-wide association analysis identified a strong association at the IFIH1 locus on chromosome 2q24.2 (rs3747517, p = 1.06 x 10-8, OR = 1.55, 95% CI, 1.34-1.80), outside of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) region. Furthermore, through a fine-mapping study of the MHC region, we discovered associations for 3 specific HLA class I and II alleles. Notably, HLA-DQB1*05:02 (p = 1.43 x 10-12; OR, 2.10; 95% CI 1.70-2.59) demonstrates the strongest association among classical HLA alleles, closely followed by HLA-A*11:01 (p = 4.36 x 10-7; OR, 1.52; 95% CI 1.29-1.79) and HLA-A*02:07 (p = 1.28 x 10-8; OR, 1.87; 95% CI 1.50-2.31). In addition, we uncovered 2 main HLA amino acid variation associated with anti-NMDAR encephalitis including HLA-DQbeta1-126H (p = 1.43 x 10-12; OR, 2.10; 95% CI 1.70-2.59), exhibiting a predisposing effect, and HLA-B-97R (p = 3.40 x 10-8; OR, 0.63; 95% CI 0.53-0.74), conferring a protective effect. Computational docking analysis suggested a close relationship between the NR1 subunit of NMDAR and DQB1*05:02. DISCUSSION: Our findings indicate that genetic variation in IFIH1, involved in the type I interferon signaling pathway and innate immunity, along with variations in the HLA class I and class II genes, has substantial implications for the susceptibility to anti-NMDAR encephalitis in the Chinese Han population.
38583422 | Intradermal naked DNA vaccination by DNA tattooing for mounting tumor-specific immunity in stage IV melanoma patients: a phase I clinical trial. INTRODUCTION: Naked DNA vaccination could be a powerful and safe strategy to mount antigen-specific cellular immunity. We designed a phase I clinical trial to investigate the toxicity of naked DNA vaccines encoding CD8+ T-cell epitope from tumor-associated antigen MART-1 in patients with advanced melanoma. METHODS: This dose escalating phase Ia clinical trial investigates the toxicity and immunological response upon naked DNA vaccines encoding a CD8+ T-cell epitope from the tumor-associated antigen MART-1, genetically linked to the gene encoding domain 1 of subunit-tetanus toxin fragment C in patients with advanced melanoma (inoperable stage IIIC-IV, AJCC 7th edition). The vaccine was administrated via intradermal application using a permanent make-up or tattoo device. Safety was monitored according to CTCAE v.3.0 and skin biopsies and blood samples were obtained for immunologic monitoring. RESULTS: Nine pretreated, HLA-A*0201-positive patients with advanced melanoma expressing MART-1 and MHC class I, with a good performance status, and adequate organ function, were included. With a median follow-up of 5.9 months, DNA vaccination was safe, without treatment-related deaths. Common treatment-emergent adverse events of any grade were dermatologic reactions at the vaccination site (100%) and pain (56%). One patient experienced grade 4 toxicity, most likely related to tumor progression. One patient (11%) achieved stable disease, lasting 353 days. Immune analysis showed no increase in vaccine-induced T cell response in peripheral blood of five patients, but did show a MART-1 specific CD8+ T cell response at the tattoo administration site. The maximum dose administered was 2 mg due to lack of clinical activity. CONCLUSION: We showed that the developed DNA vaccine, applied using a novel intradermal application strategy, can be administered safely. Further research with improved vaccine formats is required to show possible clinical benefit of DNA vaccination.
1587551 | Activation of Lyt-2 associated with distant upstream insertion of an SL3-3 provirus. Two Lyt-2+ mutants of the T-cell lymphoma SL12.4.10 were selected by fluorescence activated cell sorting. Both mutants expressed Lyt-2 (CD8 alpha-chain) but not Lyt-3 (CD8 beta-chain). Derivatives of one Lyt-2+ mutant that expressed Lyt-3 could be isolated by sorting for Lyt-3+ cells. Southern blotting analysis indicated that both mutants had structural rearrangements within or immediately 3' of the Lyt-3 gene, accompanied by demethylation of at least one Hpa II site within the Lyt-2 gene. Gene cloning analysis of one mutant demonstrated that the structural rearrangement was due to insertion of an SL3-3 provirus 35 kb 5' to the Lyt-2 gene. It is likely that Lyt-2 gene activation is a direct or indirect consequence of proviral insertion at this site.
1824857 | Two gut intraepithelial CD8+ lymphocyte populations with different T cell receptors: a role for the gut epithelium in T cell differentiation. Mouse gut intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) consist mainly (90%) of two populations of CD8+ T cells. One bears heterodimeric alpha/beta CD8 chains (Lyt-2+, Lyt-3+), a T cell receptor (TCR) made of alpha/beta chains, and is Thy-1+; it represents the progeny of T blasts elicited in Peyer's patches by antigenic stimulation. The other bears homodimeric alpha/alpha CD8+ chains, contains no beta chain mRNA, and is mostly Thy-1- and TCR-gamma/delta + or -alpha/beta +; it is thymo-independent and does not require antigenic stimulation, as shown by its presence: (a) in nude and scid mice; (b) in irradiated and thymectomized mice repopulated by T-depleted bone marrow cells bearing an identifiable marker; (c) in thymectomized mice treated by injections of monoclonal anti-CD8 antibody, which lead to total depletion of peripheral CD8+ T lymphocytes; and (d) in germ-free mice and in suckling mice. In young nude mice, alpha/alpha CD8 chains, CD3-TCR complexes, and TCR mRNAs (first gamma/delta) are found on IEL, while they are not detectable on or in peripheral or circulating lymphocytes or bone marrow cells. IEL, in contrast to mature T cells, contain mRNA for the RAG protein, which is required for the rearrangement of TCR and Ig genes. We propose that the gut epithelium (an endoderm derivative, as the thymic epithelium) has an inductive property, attracting progenitors of bone marrow origin, and triggering their TCR rearrangement and alpha/alpha CD8 chains expression, thus giving rise to a T cell population that appears to belong to the same lineage as gamma/delta thymocytes and to recognize an antigenic repertoire different from that of alpha/beta CD8+ IEL.
2107551 | A signaling role for the cytoplasmic segment of the CD8 alpha chain detected under limiting stimulatory conditions. To test for the functional importance of the cytoplasmic segment of the CD8 molecule, a mouse T-cell hybridoma expressing a T-cell receptor specific for the class I major histocompatibility complex product H-2Kb was transfected with a set of CD8 alpha-chain (Ly-2) and/or beta-chain (Ly-3) genes encoding polypeptides with carboxyl-terminal truncations or substitutions. When challenged with Kb-positive splenocytes, transfectants expressing Ly-2 homodimers that lacked cytoplasmic tails responded nearly as effectively as wild-type Ly-2 transfectants. However in marked contrast to the wild-type Ly-2 transfectants, tailless Ly-2 transfectants were greatly impaired in their ability to respond to Kb-transfected L cells. Coexpression of the Ly-3 gene did not restore this impaired response. The unique functional property of the Ly-2 alpha cytoplasmic segment was further supported by the analysis of a chimeric Ly-3 subunit in which the cytoplasmic segment was replaced by the one from the Ly-2 alpha subunit. When associated with a soluble Ly-2 subunit lacking a transmembrane segment, the chimeric Ly-3 was indeed sufficient to restore the response to Kb-transfected L cells. Since the lateral mobility of the tailless Ly-2 molecules on the cell surface was nearly identical to that of the wild-type Ly-2 molecules, their partially impaired function may indicate that they have lost their cis-acting signaling properties but retained their ability to bind class I products of the major histocompatibility complex.
2128468 | Transfection of the CD8 alpha gene restores specific target cell lysis: factors that determine the function and the expression of CD8 in a cytotoxic T cell clone. We investigated the functional role of CD8 and the control of CD8 expression in a constitutively activated murine cytotoxic T cell clone (C196), in CD8 deficient variants of this clone, and in cell lines derived by transfecting such variants with the CD8 alpha (Lyt-2) gene. CD8 deficient variants of C196 are deficient in specific target cell lysis but retain the ability to perform anti-CD3 induced cytolytic function. Following transfection with the Lyt-2 gene, specific target cell lysis was restored in some but not all CD8 positive transfectants whereas no alteration of anti-CD3 induced lysis was observed. All CD8 deficient variants studied lost the surface expression of both Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 polypeptide chains. However, while Lyt-2 mRNA was abolished as well, typical CD8 deficient variants retained wild type levels at Lyt-3 mRNA. Moreover, a low level of cytoplasmic Lyt-3 protein was demonstrable. Following transfection with the Lyt-2 gene, both Lyt-2 and Lyt-3 polypeptide chains reappeared on the membrane. In one atypical CD8 deficient variant that carries a mutated Lyt-3 gene and fails to express Lyt-3 mRNA, Lyt-2 transfection causes membrane-reappearance of Lyt-2 only. These results may reflect the occurrence on normal T cells of Lyt-2/Lyt-3 heterodimers and of Lyt-2/Lyt-2 homodimers, whereas surface expression of Lyt-3 alone has not been observed. In CD8 deficient variant, a particular restriction site 5' at the Lyt-2 gene is methylated which is undermethylated in the wild type C196. Culture of such variants in 5-azacytidine partially restored CD8 expression. This suggests a negative correlation of Lyt-2 transcription with site-specific DNA methylation in the C196 system. However, results on T cells unrelated to C196 suggests that the site whose methylation appears to be critical in C196 is not responsible for Lyt-2 transcription in all T cells.
2452747 | Gene transfer of the Ly-3 chain gene of the mouse CD8 molecular complex: co-transfer with the Ly-2 polypeptide gene results in detectable cell surface expression of the Ly-3 antigenic determinants. The CD8 molecule is a glycoprotein expressed on a subset of mature T lymphocytes. It has been postulated to be a receptor for class I major histocompatibility complex molecules. In the mouse, CD8 is a heterodimer composed of Ly-2 and Ly-3 chains. We have isolated and analyzed cDNA and cosmid clones corresponding to the Ly-3 subunit. One of the isolated, cosmid clones was subsequently transfected, alone or in combination with the Ly-2 gene, into mouse Ltk- cells. Analysis of the Ly-2,3 molecules expressed at the surface of the double transfectants indicated that they are serologically and biochemically indistinguishable from their normal counterparts expressed on lymphoid cells. Ltk- cells transfected with the Ly-2 gene alone were shown to react with a subset of anti-CD8 monoclonal antibodies whereas Ly-3 transfectants did not stain with any of the anti-Ly-3 antibodies employed in this study. Since at least one of these antibodies (53-5.8) has been previously shown to recognize an epitope which is retained on the Ly-3 subunit after dissociation of the heterodimeric Ly-2,3 complex, these observations suggest that the expression of the Ly-2 polypeptide is required to permit the detectable cell surface expression of the antigenic determinants carried by the Ly-3 subunit.
2498201 | Phylogeny and structure of the Ly-2 and Ly-3 (CD8) complex. 
