28559015 | HLA traits linked to development of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma affect the progression-free survival of patients. BACKGROUND: Personalized medicine and treatment stratification of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) today mostly ignore genetic heterogeneity in HNSCC but especially the patient's genetic background. We hypothesized that particular human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I (HLA-A, B, Cw) and II proteins (DR, DQ) confer susceptibility for and influence development of HNSCC and may be prognostic factors for progression-free survival (PFS). METHODS: 90 consecutive HNSCC patients of the prospective observational cohort study LIFE treated between 08/2010 and 05/2011 at the University Leipzig underwent low resolution typing of HLA-A, B, Cw, DR, and DQ. Antigen and haplotype frequencies were compared to those in German blood donors. Effects on PFS were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier curves and Cox models. RESULTS: HNSCC patients had overall altered HLA-B frequencies (P<0.05); frequencies of B*44 were lower, those of B*13, B*52, and B*57 increased (P<0.05). Almost all other antigen frequencies showed no deviation. Homozygous HLA-Cw and DRB4 were frequent and associated with reduced PFS (P<0.05). Altered haplotype frequencies were common and particular haplotypes accompanied by differing PFS. B*13/Cw*06 carriers had poorest outcome (P=0.011). However, multivariate Cox proportional hazard models revealed 3 clinical covariates (localization oropharynx, loco-regional metastasis, and T4 category), HPV16-DNA positivity, and 10 HLA traits as independent predictors for PFS. CONCLUSIONS: The relevance of the genetic background of HNSCC patients calls for future research to clarify the role of HLA traits in HNSCC and if PFS depends on HLA.
34083274 | HLA-DR and CD74 Expression and the Immune Microenvironment in Renal Cell Carcinoma. BACKGROUND/AIM: Expression of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I and II and CD74, which functions as a chaperone of MHC class II, play essential roles in T-cell recognition. The aim of this study was to elucidate the association between the HLAs and CD74, and their correlation with the infiltrated immune cells in renal cell carcinoma (RCC). MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively investigated the expression of HLA-A/B/C, HLA-DR, and CD74 in 38 patients with advanced RCC (T3/T4), and evaluated their correlations with CD4 and CD8-positive T-cell infiltration using immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: The expression of HLA-A/B/C, HLA-DR, and CD74 on cancer cells was observed in 37, 20, and 31 patients, respectively. The density of CD8- and CD4-positive T cells showed a positive correlation with HLA-DR expression. The density of CD4-positive lymphocytes was significantly associated with CD74 expression. CONCLUSION: The expression of HLA-DR, rather than CD74, on cancer cells was potentially associated with the anti-cancer immune microenvironment.
36599262 | The impact of killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) genes and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I ligands on predisposition or protection against prostate cancer. Natural killer (NK) cell development largely depends on killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I ligands. In the current study, we investigated the role of KIR genes, HLA ligands, and KIR-HLA combinations in vulnerability or protection against prostate cancer (PC). To analyze the frequency of 16 KIR genes and 5 HLA ligands, polymerase chain reaction with sequence-specific primers (PCR-SSP) was conducted in 150 PC patients and 200 healthy controls (CNs). KIR2DL5 (p = 0.0346, OR = 0.606, CI = 0.3916-0.9336), KIR2DS5 (p = 0.0227, OR = 0.587, CI = 0.3793-0.9139), HLA-B Bw4Thr80 (p = 0.0401, OR = 0.3552, CI = 0.1466-0.9059), HLA Bw4 (p = 0.0190, OR = 0.4744, CI = 0.2656-0.8521), and T4 gene cluster (including KIR2DS5-2DL5-3DS1-2DS1 genes) (p = 0.0194, OR = 0.5575, CI = 0.3449-0.8938) had a lower frequency in the PC patients compared to the control group. Moreover, a lower frequency of the genotypes contacting activating KIR (aKIR) > inhibitory KIR (iKIR) (p = 0.0298, OR = 0.5291, CI = 0.3056-0.9174) and iKIR + HLA < aKIR + HLA (p = 0.0183, OR = 0.2197, CI = 0.0672-0.7001) in PC patients compared to the CNs implies a protective role for aKIR genes. In the case of KIR-HLA interactions, we detected a significant association between KIR3DS1+ + HLA-A Bw4+ (p = 0.0113, OR = 0.5093, CI = 0.3124-0.8416) and KIR3DL1- + HLA-A Bw4+ (p = 0.0306, OR = 0.1153, CI = 0.0106-0.6537) combinations and resistance to prostate cancer. In contrast, the presence of KIR3DL1 in the absence of HLA-A Bw4 (p = 0.0040, OR = 2.00, CI = 1.264-3.111), HLA Bw4 (p = 0.0296, OR = 2.066, CI = 1.094-3.906), and HLA-Bw4Thr80 (p = 0.0071, OR = 2.505, CI = 1.319-4.703) genes probably predisposes to prostate cancer. Carrying the CxT4 genotype in PC patients was positively associated with lower tumor grades (Gleason score <= 6) (p = 0.0331, OR = 3.290, and CI = 1.181-8.395). Altogether, our data suggest a protective role for aKIRs, HLA-B Bw4Thr80, and HLA Bw4 ligands as well as a predisposing role for certain KIR-HLA combinations in prostate cancer. The findings of this study offer new insight into the population's risk assessment for prostate cancer in men. Additionally, predicting immunotherapy response based on KIR-HLA combinations aids in implementing the most effective therapeutic approach in the early stages of the disease.
36969239 | A pan-variant mRNA-LNP T cell vaccine protects HLA transgenic mice from mortality after infection with SARS-CoV-2 Beta. Licensed COVID-19 vaccines ameliorate viral infection by inducing production of neutralizing antibodies that bind the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein and inhibit viral cellular entry. However, the clinical effectiveness of these vaccines is transitory as viral variants escape antibody neutralization. Effective vaccines that solely rely upon a T cell response to combat SARS-CoV-2 infection could be transformational because they can utilize highly conserved short pan-variant peptide epitopes, but a mRNA-LNP T cell vaccine has not been shown to provide effective anti-SARS-CoV-2 prophylaxis. Here we show a mRNA-LNP vaccine (MIT-T-COVID) based on highly conserved short peptide epitopes activates CD8+ and CD4+ T cell responses that attenuate morbidity and prevent mortality in HLA-A*02:01 transgenic mice infected with SARS-CoV-2 Beta (B.1.351). We found CD8+ T cells in mice immunized with MIT-T-COVID vaccine significantly increased from 1.1% to 24.0% of total pulmonary nucleated cells prior to and at 7 days post infection (dpi), respectively, indicating dynamic recruitment of circulating specific T cells into the infected lungs. Mice immunized with MIT-T-COVID had 2.8 (2 dpi) and 3.3 (7 dpi) times more lung infiltrating CD8+ T cells than unimmunized mice. Mice immunized with MIT-T-COVID had 17.4 times more lung infiltrating CD4+ T cells than unimmunized mice (7 dpi). The undetectable specific antibody response in MIT-T-COVID-immunized mice demonstrates specific T cell responses alone can effectively attenuate the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Our results suggest further study is merited for pan-variant T cell vaccines, including for individuals that cannot produce neutralizing antibodies or to help mitigate Long COVID.
36996809 | Spheromers reveal robust T cell responses to the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and attenuated peripheral CD8+ T cell responses post SARS-CoV-2 infection. T cells are a critical component of the response to SARS-CoV-2, but their kinetics after infection and vaccination are insufficiently understood. Using \spheromer\ peptide-MHC multimer reagents, we analyzed healthy subjects receiving two doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech BNT162b2 vaccine. Vaccination resulted in robust spike-specific T cell responses for the dominant CD4+ (HLA-DRB1*15:01/S191) and CD8+ (HLA-A*02/S691) T cell epitopes. Antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses were asynchronous, with the peak CD4+ T cell responses occurring 1 week post the second vaccination (boost), whereas CD8+ T cells peaked 2 weeks later. These peripheral T cell responses were elevated compared with COVID-19 patients. We also found that previous SARS-CoV-2 infection resulted in decreased CD8+ T cell activation and expansion, suggesting that previous infection can influence the T cell response to vaccination.
37047435 | Uncovering the Underworld of Axial Spondyloarthritis. Axial spondyloarthritis (axial-SpA) is a multifactorial disease characterized by inflammation in sacroiliac joints and spine, bone reabsorption, and aberrant bone deposition, which may lead to ankylosis. Disease pathogenesis depends on genetic, immunological, mechanical, and bioenvironmental factors. HLA-B27 represents the most important genetic factor, although the disease may also develop in its absence. This MHC class I molecule has been deeply studied from a molecular point of view. Different theories, including the arthritogenic peptide, the unfolded protein response, and HLA-B27 homodimers formation, have been proposed to explain its role. From an immunological point of view, a complex interplay between the innate and adaptive immune system is involved in disease onset. Unlike other systemic autoimmune diseases, the innate immune system in axial-SpA has a crucial role marked by abnormal activity of innate immune cells, including gammadelta T cells, type 3 innate lymphoid cells, neutrophils, and mucosal-associated invariant T cells, at tissue-specific sites prone to the disease. On the other hand, a T cell adaptive response would seem involved in axial-SpA pathogenesis as emphasized by several studies focusing on TCR low clonal heterogeneity and clonal expansions as well as an interindividual sharing of CD4/8 T cell receptors. As a result of this immune dysregulation, several proinflammatory molecules are produced following the activation of tangled intracellular pathways involved in pathomechanisms of axial-SpA. This review aims to expand the current understanding of axial-SpA pathogenesis, pointing out novel molecular mechanisms leading to disease development and to further investigate potential therapeutic targets.
37074725 | Characterization of Drug-Specific CD4+ T-Cells Reveals Possible Roles of HLA Class II in the Pathogenesis of Carbamazepine Hypersensitivity Reactions. Carbamazepine (CBZ) is an aromatic anticonvulsant known to cause drug hypersensitivity reactions, which range in severity from relatively mild maculopapular exanthema to potentially fatal Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS-TEN). These reactions are known to be associated with human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I alleles, and CBZ interacts preferentially with the related HLA proteins to activate CD8+ T-cells. This study aimed to evaluate the contribution of HLA class II in the effector mechanism(s) of CBZ hypersensitivity. CBZ-specific T-cells clones were generated from two healthy donors and two hypersensitive patients with high-risk HLA class I markers. Phenotype, function, HLA allele restriction, response pathways, and cross-reactivity of CBZ-specific T-cells were assessed using flow cytometry, proliferation analysis, enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The association between HLA class II allele restriction and CBZ hypersensitivity was reviewed using Allele Frequency Net Database. Forty-four polyclonal CD4+ CBZ-specific T-cell clones were generated and found to be restricted to HLA-DR, particularly HLA-DRB1*07:01. This CD4+-mediated response proceeded through a direct pharmacological interaction between CBZ and HLA-DR molecules. Similar to the CD8+ response, CBZ-stimulated CD4+ clones secreted granulysin, a key mediator of SJS-TEN. Our database review revealed an association between HLA-DRB1*07:01 and CBZ-induced SJS-TEN. These findings implicate HLA class II antigen presentation as an additional pathogenic factor for CBZ hypersensitivity reactions. Both HLA class II molecules and drug-responsive CD4+ T-cells should be evaluated further to gain better insights into the pathogenesis of drug hypersensitivity reactions.
37168557 | HLA-DP diversity is associated with improved response to SARS-Cov-2 vaccine in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) recipients show lower humoral vaccine responsiveness than immunocompetent individuals. HLA diversity, measured by the HLA evolutionary divergence (HED) metrics, reflects the diversity of the antigenic repertoire presented to T cells, and has been shown to predict response to cancer immunotherapy. We retrospectively investigated the association of HED with humoral response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccine in allo-HSCT recipients. HED was calculated as pairwise genetic distance between alleles at HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1, -DQB1, and -DPB1 loci in recipients and their donors. Low anti-spike IgG levels (<30 BAU/mL) were associated with short time from allo-SCT and low donor DPB1-HED, mostly related to donor DPB1 homozygosity. The diversity of donor HLA-DP molecules, assessed by heterozygosity or sequence divergence, may thus impact the efficacy of donor-derived CD4 T cells to sustain vaccine-mediated antibody response in allo-HSCT recipients.
37177979 | RNA-seq analysis identifies transcriptomic profiles associated with anal cancer recurrence among people living with HIV. BACKGROUND: Chemoradiation therapy (CRT) is the standard of care for squamous cell carcinoma of the anus (SCCA), the most common type of anal cancer. However, approximately one fourth of patients still relapse after CRT. METHODS: We used RNA-sequencing technology to characterize coding and non-coding transcripts in tumor tissues from CRT-treated SCCA patients and compare them between 9 non-recurrent and 3 recurrent cases. RNA was extracted from FFPE tissues. Library preparations for RNA-sequencing were created using SMARTer Stranded Total RNA-Seq Kit. All libraries were pooled and sequenced on a NovaSeq 6000. Function and pathway enrichment analysis was performed with Metascape and enrichment of gene ontology (GO) was performed with Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). RESULTS: There were 449 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) observed (390 mRNA, 12 miRNA, 17 lincRNA and 18 snRNA) between the two groups. We identified a core of upregulated genes (IL4, CD40LG, ICAM2, HLA-I (HLA-A, HLA-C) and HLA-II (HLA-DQA1, HLA-DRB5) in the non-recurrent SCCA tissue enriching to the gene ontology term 'allograft rejection', which suggests a CD4+ T cell driven immune response. Conversely, in the recurrent tissues, keratin (KRT1, 10, 12, 20) and hedgehog signaling pathway (PTCH2) genes involved in 'Epidermis Development,', were significantly upregulated. We identified miR-4316, that inhibit tumor proliferation and migration by repressing vascular endothelial growth factors, as being upregulated in non-recurrent SCCA. On the contrary, lncRNA-SOX21-AS1, implicated in the progression of many other cancers, was also found to be more common in our recurrent compared to non-recurrent SCCA. Our study identified key host factors which may drive the recurrence of SCCA and warrants further studies to understand the mechanism and evaluate their potential use in personalized treatment.Key MessageOur study used RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to identify pivotal factors in coding and non-coding transcripts which differentiate between patients at risk for recurrent anal cancer after treatment. There were 449 differentially expressed genes (390 mRNA, 12 miRNA, 17 lincRNA and 18 snRNA) between 9 non-recurrent and 3 recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of anus (SCCA) tissues. The enrichment of genes related to allograft rejection was observed in the non-recurrent SCCA tissues, while the enrichment of genes related to epidermis development was positively linked with recurrent SCCA tissues.
37179751 | Comprehensive Analysis of Epstein-Barr Virus LMP2A-Specific CD8+ and CD4+ T Cell Responses Restricted to Each HLA Class I and II Allotype Within an Individual. Latent membrane protein 2A (LMP2A), a latent Ag commonly expressed in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-infected host cells, is a target for adoptive T cell therapy in EBV-associated malignancies. To define whether individual human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allotypes are used preferentially in EBV-specific T lymphocyte responses, LMP2A-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cell responses in 50 healthy donors were analyzed by ELISPOT assay using artificial Ag-presenting cells expressing a single allotype. CD8+ T cell responses were significantly higher than CD4+ T cell responses. CD8+ T cell responses were ranked from highest to lowest in the order HLA-A, HLA-B, and HLA-C loci, and CD4+ T cell responses were ranked in the order HLA-DR, HLA-DP, and HLA-DQ loci. Among the 32 HLA class I and 56 HLA class II allotypes, 6 HLA-A, 7 HLA-B, 5 HLA-C, 10 HLA-DR, 2 HLA-DQ, and 2 HLA-DP allotypes showed T cell responses higher than 50 spot-forming cells (SFCs)/5x105 CD8+ or CD4+ T cells. Twenty-nine donors (58%) showed a high T cell response to at least one allotype of HLA class I or class II, and 4 donors (8%) had a high response to both HLA class I and class II allotypes. Interestingly, we observed an inverse correlation between the proportion of LMP2A-specific T cell responses and the frequency of HLA class I and II allotypes. These data demonstrate the allele dominance of LMP2A-specific T cell responses among HLA allotypes and their intra-individual dominance in response to only a few allotypes in an individual, which may provide useful information for genetic, pathogenic, and immunotherapeutic approaches to EBV-associated diseases.
37333490 | Nanoliposomal VEGF-R2 peptide vaccine acts as an effective therapeutic vaccine in a murine B16F10 model of melanoma. Background: The vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) plays an important role in melanoma development and progression. Peptide vaccines have shown great potential in cancer immunotherapy by targeting VEGFR-2 as a tumor-associated antigen and boosting the immune response against both tumor cells and tumor endothelial cells. Despite this, the low efficiency of peptide vaccines has resulted in moderate therapeutic results in the majority of studies. Enhancing the delivery of peptide vaccines using nanoliposomes is an important strategy for improving the efficacy of peptide vaccines. In this regard, we designed VEGFR-2-derived peptides restricted to both mouse MHC I and human HLA-A*02:01 using immunoinformatic tools and selected three peptides representing the highest binding affinities. The peptides were encapsulated in nanoliposomal formulations using the film method plus bath sonication and characterized for their colloidal properties. Results: The mean diameter of peptide-encapsulated liposomes was around 135 nm, zeta potential of - 17 mV, and encapsulation efficiency of approximately 70%. Then, vaccine formulations were injected subcutaneously in mice bearing B16F10-established melanoma tumors and their efficiency in triggering immunological, and anti-tumor responses was evaluated. Our results represented that one of our designed VEGFR-2 peptide nanoliposomal formulations (Lip-V1) substantially activated CD4+ (p < 0.0001) and CD8+ (P < 0.001) T cell responses and significantly boosted the production of IFN-gamma (P < 0.0001) and IL-4 (P < 0.0001). Furthermore, this formulation led to a significant decrease in tumor volume (P < 0.0001) and enhanced survival (P < 0.05) in mice. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that the nanoliposomal formulation containing VEGFR-2 peptides could be a promising therapeutic vaccination approach capable of eliciting strong antigen-specific immunologic and anti-tumor responses. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s12645-023-00213-7.
37380166 | Orthopoxvirus-Specific T Cell Responses in Convalescent MPOX Patients. Orthopoxvirus-specific T cell responses were analyzed in 10 patients who had recovered from MPOX including 7 people with HIV (PWH). Eight participants had detectable virus-specific T cell responses, including a PWH who was not on antiretroviral therapy and a PWH on immunosuppressive therapy. These two participants had robust polyfunctional CD4+ T cell responses to peptides from the 121L vaccinia virus (VACV) protein. T cells from 4 out of 5 HLA-A2 positive participants targeted at least one previously described HLA-A2 restricted VACV epitope, including an epitope targeted by two participants. These results advance our understanding of immunity in convalescent MPOX patients.
37454198 | Association of killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors and their cognate HLA class I ligands with susceptibility to acute myeloid leukemia in Iranian patients. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is one of the most prevalent leukemia in adults. Among the various NK receptors, killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) carry out indispensable roles in NK cell development and function through engaging with class I human leukocyte antigens (HLA-I) as their ligands. Besides divergent KIR and HLA loci, KIR/HLA-I combinations have a significant effect on NK cell response. In this case-control study, we aimed to verify the association of KIR/HLA-I combinations with susceptibility to AML in the Southwestern Iranian population. KIR and HLA genotyping was performed with PCR-SSP by some novel primers for 181 patients with AML and 181 healthy controls. According to our results, the frequencies of KIR3DS1 (p = 0.0001, OR = 2.32, 95% CI 1.51-3.58), KIR2DS4fl (p = 0.02, OR = 1.53, 95% CI 1.05-2.21), CxT4 genotypes (p = 0.03, OR = 2.0, 95% CI 1.05-3.82), and T4 gene cluster (p = 0.01, OR = 1.99, 95% CI 1.17-3.41) were significantly higher in patients than controls, while C1/C2 genotype (p = 0.00002, OR = 0.39, 95% CI 0.25-0.61), HLA-A Bw4 (p = 0.02, OR = 0.6, 95% CI 0.38-0.94), and HLA-A*11 (p = 0.03, OR = 0.57, 95% CI 0.34-0.95) alleles were more frequent in controls. In addition, inhibitory (i)KIR/HLA-I combinations analysis revealed higher frequencies of KIR2DL1( +)/HLA-C2( +), KIR2DL2/3( +)/HLA-C1( +), KIR3DL1( +)/HLA-A Bw4( +), and KIR3DL2( +)/HLA-A*03/11( +) in the control group (p = 0.002, OR = 0.49, 95% CI 0.3-0.78; p = 0.04, OR = 0.62, 95% CI 0.39-0.99; p = 0.04, OR = 0.63, 95% CI 0.4-0.99; and p = 0.03, OR = 0.62, 95% CI 0.4-0.95, respectively). Overall, the number of iKIR/HLA-I combinations was more in the control group. Moreover, KIR3DS1( +)/HLA-B Bw4Ile80( +) and the sum of HLA-B Bw4/A Bw4 combined with KIR3DS1 as activating KIR/HLA-I combinations were more frequent among patients than controls (p = 0.01, OR = 1.99, 95% CI 1.14-3.49 and p = 0.005, OR = 1.97, 95% CI 1.22-3.19, respectively). In conclusion, our results postulate that inhibitory combinations play a protective role against AML by developing potent NK cells during education. It is noteworthy that KIR/HLA-I combination studies can be applicable in donor selection for allogeneic NK cell therapy in hematological malignancies.
37528526 | Human A2-CAR T Cells Reject HLA-A2+ Human Islets Transplanted Into Mice Without Inducing Graft-Versus-Host Disease. BACKGROUND: Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease characterized by T-cell-mediated destruction of pancreatic beta-cells. Islet transplantation is an effective therapy, but its success is limited by islet quality and availability along with the need for immunosuppression. New approaches include the use of stem cell-derived insulin-producing cells and immunomodulatory therapies, but a limitation is the paucity of reproducible animal models in which interactions between human immune cells and insulin-producing cells can be studied without the complication of xenogeneic graft-versus-host disease (xGVHD). METHODS: We expressed an HLA-A2-specific chimeric antigen receptor (A2-CAR) in human CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and tested their ability to reject HLA-A2+ islets transplanted under the kidney capsule or anterior chamber of the eye of immunodeficient mice. T-cell engraftment, islet function, and xGVHD were assessed longitudinally. RESULTS: The speed and consistency of A2-CAR T-cell-mediated islet rejection varied depending on the number of A2-CAR T cells and the absence/presence of coinjected peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). When <3 million A2-CAR T cells were injected, coinjection of PBMCs accelerated islet rejection but also induced xGVHD. In the absence of PBMCs, injection of 3 million A2-CAR T cells caused synchronous rejection of A2+ human islets within 1 wk and without xGVHD for 12 wk. CONCLUSIONS: Injection of A2-CAR T cells can be used to study rejection of human insulin-producing cells without the complication of xGVHD. The rapidity and synchrony of rejection will facilitate in vivo screening of new therapies designed to improve the success of islet-replacement therapies.
37626903 | Skin-Grafting and Dendritic Cell \Boosted\ Humanized Mouse Models Allow the Pre-Clinical Evaluation of Therapeutic Cancer Vaccines. Vaccines have been hailed as one of the most remarkable medical advancements in human history, and their potential for treating cancer by generating or expanding anti-tumor T cells has garnered significant interest in recent years. However, the limited efficacy of therapeutic cancer vaccines in clinical trials can be partially attributed to the inadequacy of current preclinical mouse models in recapitulating the complexities of the human immune system. In this study, we developed two innovative humanized mouse models to assess the immunogenicity and therapeutic effectiveness of vaccines targeting human papillomavirus (HPV16) antigens and delivering tumor antigens to human CD141+ dendritic cells (DCs). Both models were based on the transference of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) into immunocompromised HLA-A*02-NSG mice (NSG-A2), where the use of fresh PBMCs boosted the engraftment of human cells up to 80%. The dynamics of immune cells in the PBMC-hu-NSG-A2 mice demonstrated that T cells constituted the vast majority of engrafted cells, which progressively expanded over time and retained their responsiveness to ex vivo stimulation. Using the PBMC-hu-NSG-A2 system, we generated a hyperplastic skin graft model expressing the HPV16-E7 oncogene. Remarkably, human cells populated the skin grafts, and upon vaccination with a DNA vaccine encoding an HPV16-E6/E7 protein, rapid rejection targeted to the E7-expressing skin was detected, underscoring the capacity of the model to mount a vaccine-specific response. To overcome the decline in DC numbers observed over time in PBMC-hu-NSG-A2 animals, we augmented the abundance of CD141+ DCs, the specific targets of our tailored nanoemulsions (TNEs), by transferring additional autologous PBMCs pre-treated in vitro with the growth factor Flt3-L. The Flt3-L treatment bolstered CD141+ DC numbers, leading to potent antigen-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses in vivo, which caused the regression of pre-established triple-negative breast cancer and melanoma tumors following CD141+ DC-targeting TNE vaccination. Notably, using HLA-A*02-matching PBMCs for humanizing NSG-A2 mice resulted in a delayed onset of graft-versus-host disease and enhanced the efficacy of the TNE vaccination compared with the parental NSG strain. In conclusion, we successfully established two humanized mouse models that exhibited strong antigen-specific responses and demonstrated tumor regression following vaccination. These models serve as valuable platforms for assessing the efficacy of therapeutic cancer vaccines targeting HPV16-dysplastic skin and diverse tumor antigens specifically delivered to CD141+ DCs.
37766162 | CD4+ T Cell Responses to Toxoplasma gondii Are a Double-Edged Sword. CD4+ T cells have been found to play critical roles in the control of both acute and chronic Toxoplasma infection. Previous studies identified a protective role for the Toxoplasma CD4+ T cell-eliciting peptide AS15 (AVEIHRPVPGTAPPS) in C57BL/6J mice. Herein, we found that immunizing mice with AS15 combined with GLA-SE, a TLR-4 agonist in emulsion adjuvant, can be either helpful in protecting male and female mice at early stages against Type I and Type II Toxoplasma parasites or harmful (lethal with intestinal, hepatic, and spleen pathology associated with a storm of IL6). Introducing the universal CD4+ T cell epitope PADRE abrogates the harmful phenotype of AS15. Our findings demonstrate quantitative and qualitative features of an effective Toxoplasma-specific CD4+ T cell response that should be considered in testing next-generation vaccines against toxoplasmosis. Our results also are cautionary that individual vaccine constituents can cause severe harm depending on the company they keep.
37857526 | Vaccination with post-translational modified, homocitrullinated peptides induces CD8 T-cell responses that mediate antitumor immunity. BACKGROUND: Post-translational modification of proteins has the potential to alter the ability of T cells to recognize major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class -I and class-II restricted antigens, thereby resulting in altered immune responses. One such modification is carbamylation (homocitrullination) that results in the formation of homocitrulline (Hcit) residues in a non-enzymatic reaction of cyanate with the lysine residues in the polypeptide chain. Homocitrullination occurs in the tumor microenvironment and CD4-mediated immune responses to Hcit epitopes can target stressed tumor cells and provide a potent antitumor response in mouse models. METHODS: Homocitrullinated peptides were identified and assessed in vitro for HLA-A2 binding and in vivo in human leukocyte antigen (HLA) transgenic mouse models for immunogenicity. CD8 responses were assessed in vitro for cytotoxicity and in vivo tumor therapy. Human tumor samples were analyzed by targeted mass spectrometry for presence of homocitrullinated peptides. RESULTS: Homocitrullinated peptides from aldolase and cytokeratin were identified, that stimulated CD8-mediated responses in vivo. Modified peptides showed enhanced binding to HLA-A2 compared with the native sequences and immunization of HLA-A2 transgenic mice generated high avidity modification specific CD8 responses that killed peptide expressing target cells. Importantly, in vivo the homocitrullinated aldolase specific response was associated with efficient CD8 dependent antitumor therapy of the aggressive murine B16 tumor model indicating that this epitope is naturally presented in the tumor. In addition, the homocitrullinated aldolase epitope was also detected in human tumor samples. CONCLUSION: This is the first evidence that homocitrullinated peptides can be processed and presented via MHC-I and targeted for tumor therapy. Thus, Hcit-specific CD8 T-cell responses have potential in the development of future anticancer therapy.
37895076 | Association of HLA-A*11:01, -A*24:02, and -B*18:01 with Prostate Cancer Risk: A Case-Control Study. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) loci, the most polymorphic regions within the human genome, encode protein complexes responsible for antigen presentation and CD4+ and CD8+ cell activation. In prostate cancer (PCa), the second most diagnosed cancer in the male population, MHC loci undergo significant changes in their expression patterns, which affect the ability of the immune system to attack and eliminate malignant cells. The purpose of this study was to explore the genetic diversity of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A and HLA-B in patients with PCa and healthy controls (HCs) by performing HLA genotyping using NGS technology. The analysis highlighted statistically significant differences (p < 0.05) in the prevalence of three alleles (A*11:01, A*24:02, and B*18:01). Among the HCs analyzed, 14.89% had A*11:01, 20.21% had A*24:02, and 30.61% had B*18:01; while 5.21% of patients with PCa presented A*11:01, 9.38% presented A*24:02, 18.08% presented B*18:01. Odds ratio (OR) calculations underlined a negative association between the three alleles and the risk of PCa (OR < 1). The results presented in this study suggest a protective role of A*11:01, A*24:02, and B*18:01 in PCa.
38035132 | Dynamics of T-cell Responses Following COVID-19 mRNA Vaccination and Breakthrough Infection in Older Adults. Introduction: While older adults generally mount weaker antibody responses to a primary COVID-19 vaccine series, T-cell responses remain less well characterized in this population. We compared SARS-CoV-2 spike-specific T-cell responses after 2- and 3-dose COVID-19 mRNA vaccination and subsequent breakthrough infection in older and younger adults. Methods: We quantified CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells reactive to overlapping peptides spanning the ancestral SARS-CoV-2 spike protein in 40 older adults (median age 79) and 50 younger health care workers (median age 39), all COVID-19 naive, using an activation-induced marker assay. T-cell responses were further assessed in 24 participants, including 8 older adults, who subsequently experienced their first SARS-CoV-2 breakthrough infection. Results: A third COVID-19 mRNA vaccine dose significantly boosted spike-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell frequencies to above 2-dose levels in older and younger adults. T-cell frequencies did not significantly differ between older and younger adults after either dose. Multivariable analyses adjusting for sociodemographic, health, and vaccine-related variables confirmed that older age was not associated with impaired cellular responses. Instead, the strongest predictors of CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell frequencies post-third-dose were their corresponding post-second-dose frequencies. Breakthrough infection significantly increased both CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell frequencies, to comparable levels in older and younger adults. Exploratory analyses revealed an association between HLA-A*02:03 and higher post-vaccination CD8+ T-cell frequencies, which may be attributable to numerous strong-binding HLA-A*02:03-specific CD8+ T-cell epitopes in the spike protein. Conclusion: Older adults mount robust T-cell responses to 2- and 3-dose COVID-19 mRNA vaccination, which are further boosted following breakthrough infection.
38038432 | A multi-epitope/CXCL11 prime/pull coronavirus mucosal vaccine boosts the frequency and the function of lung-resident memory CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and enhanced protection against COVID-19-like symptoms and death caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection. IMPORTANCE: Although the current rate of SARS-CoV-2 infections has decreased significantly, COVID-19 still ranks very high as a cause of death worldwide. As of October 2023, the weekly mortality rate is still at 600 deaths in the United States alone, which surpasses even the worst mortality rates recorded for influenza. Thus, the long-term outlook of COVID-19 is still a serious concern outlining the need for the next-generation vaccine. This study found that a prime/pull coronavirus vaccine strategy increased the frequency of functional SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4+ and CD8+ memory T cells in the lungs of SARS-CoV-2-infected triple transgenic HLA-DR*0101/HLA-A*0201/hACE2 mouse model, thereby resulting in low viral titer and reduced COVID-19-like symptoms.
38177093 | Glycolysis: An early marker for vancomycin-specific T-cell activation. BACKGROUND: Vancomycin, a glycopeptide antibiotic used for Gram-positive bacterial infections, has been linked with drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) in HLA-A*32:01-expressing individuals. This is associated with activation of T lymphocytes, for which glycolysis has been isolated as a fuel pathway following antigenic stimulation. However, the metabolic processes that underpin drug-reactive T-cell activation are currently undefined and may shed light on the energetic conditions needed for the elicitation of drug hypersensitivity or tolerogenic pathways. Here, we sought to characterise the immunological and metabolic pathways involved in drug-specific T-cell activation within the context of DRESS pathogenesis using vancomycin as model compound and drug-reactive T-cell clones (TCCs) generated from healthy donors and vancomycin-hypersensitive patients. METHODS: CD4+ and CD8+ vancomycin-responsive TCCs were generated by serial dilution. The Seahorse XFe96 Analyzer was used to measure the extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) as an indicator of glycolytic function. Additionally, T-cell proliferation and cytokine release (IFN-gamma) assay were utilised to correlate the bioenergetic characteristics of T-cell activation with in vitro assays. RESULTS: Model T-cell stimulants induced non-specific T-cell activation, characterised by immediate augmentation of ECAR and rate of ATP production (JATPglyc). There was a dose-dependent and drug-specific glycolytic shift when vancomycin-reactive TCCs were exposed to the drug. Vancomycin-reactive TCCs did not exhibit T-cell cross-reactivity with structurally similar compounds within proliferative and cytokine readouts. However, cross-reactivity was observed when analysing energetic responses; TCCs with prior specificity for vancomycin were also found to exhibit glycolytic switching after exposure to teicoplanin. Glycolytic activation of TCC was HLA restricted, as exposure to HLA blockade attenuated the glycolytic induction. CONCLUSION: These studies describe the glycolytic shift of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells following vancomycin exposure. Since similar glycolytic switching is observed with teicoplanin, which did not activate T cells, it is possible the master switch for T-cell activation is located upstream of metabolic signalling.
38321374 | Construction and evaluation of immune-related diagnostic model in patients with heart failure caused by idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to construct the potential diagnostic model of immune-related genes during the development of heart failure caused by idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. METHOD: GSE5406 and GSE57338 were downloaded from the GEO website ( https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/ ). CIBERSORT was used for the evaluation of immune infiltration in idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) of GSE5406. Differently expressed genes were calculated by the limma R package and visualized by the volcano plot. The immune-related genes were downloaded from Immport, TISIDB, and InnateDB. Then the immune-related differential genes (IRDGs) were acquired from the intersection. Protein-protein interaction network (PPI) and Cytoscape were used to visualize the hub genes. Three machine learning methods such as random forest, logical regression, and elastic network regression model were adopted to construct the prediction model. The diagnostic value was also validated in GSE57338. RESULTS: Our study demonstrated the obvious different ratio of T cell CD4 memory activated, T cell regulatory Tregs, and neutrophils between DCM and control donors. As many as 2139 differential genes and 274 immune-related different genes were identified. These genes were mainly enriched in lipid and atherosclerosis, human cytomegalovirus infection, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. At the same time, as many as fifteen hub genes were identified as the IRDGs (IFITM3, IFITM2, IFITM1, IFIT3, IFIT1, HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, ADAR, STAT1, SAMHD1, RSAD2, MX1, ISG20, IRF2). Moreover, we also discovered that the elastic network and logistic regression models had a higher diagnostic value than that of random forest models based on these hub genes. CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated the pivotal role of immune function during the development of heart failure caused by DCM. This study may offer new opportunities for the detection and intervention of immune-related DCM.
38368501 | The effect of human leukocyte antigen genotype on survival in advanced prostate cancer treated with primary androgen deprivation therapy: the KYUCOG-1401-A study. BACKGROUND: Immune editing, in which human leukocyte antigens (HLA) have critical roles, has been suggested to shape the landscape of human cancer. This study prospectively investigated whether HLA gene zygosity is associated with the prognosis of primary androgen deprivation therapy in advanced prostate cancer. METHODS: KYUCOG-1401-A was conducted in conjunction with a prospective clinical trial (KYUCOG-1401). Among the patients enrolled in KYUCOG-1401 and treated with primary androgen deprivation therapy, only Japanese patients were included. HLA genotypes of HLA-A, B, C, DRB1, DQB1, and DPB1 were determined. The effect of divergence of HLA genotypes on time to progression, prostate cancer-specific survival, and overall survival was evaluated. RESULTS: Among 127 patients, homozygosity for HLA-DRB1 (HR, 95% CI; 4.05, 1.54-10.7, P = 0.0047) and HLA-DQB1 (HR, 95% CI; 3.75, 1.47-9.58, P = 0.0058) was associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer-specific mortality. Patients with higher HLA evolutionary divergence scores at HLA-DQB1 (HR, 95% CI; 0.90, 0.82-0.97, P = 0.0093) had lower risks of prostate cancer-specific mortality. Androgen-responsive gene sets were upregulated in CD4low and CD8low tumors in the prostate cancer cohort, but not in the bladder and kidney cancer cohorts. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggested that the diversity of HLA-II loci including HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQB1 plays an important role in advanced prostate cancer survival, contributing to improved risk stratification in advanced prostate cancer. Moreover, it was shown that CD4+ T cells play an important role in androgen deprivation therapy, suggesting that immunotherapy targeting CD4+ T cells is promising for prostate cancer.
38492406 | In silico prediction of CD8+ and CD4+ T cell epitopes in Leishmania major proteome: Using immunoinformatics. The leishmaniases are NDTs (neglected tropical diseases) that affect people all over the world. They are brought on by protozoans from the genus Leishmania and disseminated by phlebotomine flies that are afflicted with the disease. The best option to manage and lower the incidence of these diseases has been thought by the creation of a safe and effective vaccination. This research used an in silico based mining approach to look for high potential epitopes that might bind to MHC Class I and MHC Class II molecules (mainly; HLA-A*02:01 & HLA-DRB1*03:01) from human population in order to promote vaccine development. Based on the presence of signal peptides, GPI anchors, antigenicity predictions, and a subtractive proteomic technique, we have screened 17 putative antigenic proteins from the 8083 total proteins of L. major. After that thorough immunogenic epitope prediction were done using IEDB-AR tools. We isolated five immunogenic epitopes (three 9-mer & two 15-mer) from five antigenic proteins through docking and MD simulation analysis. Finally, these five anticipated epitopes, viz., TLPEIPVNV, ELMAPVFGL, TLAAAVALL, NSINIRLDGVTSAGF and NVPLVVDASSLFRVA have considerably stronger binding potential with their respective alleles and may trigger immunological responses. The goal of this work was to identify MHC restricted epitopes for CD8+ and CD4+ T cells activation using immunoinformatics in order to identify potential vaccine candidates against L. major parasites.
38630135 | Intratumor injection of BCG Ag85A high-affinity peptides enhanced anti-tumor efficacy in PPD-positive melanoma. As one of the scheduled immunization vaccines worldwide, virtually all individuals have been vaccinated with BCG vaccine. In order to verify the hypothesis that delivering BCG high-affinity peptides to tumor areas could activate the existing BCG memory T cells to attack tumor, we firstly predicted the HLA-A*0201 high-affinity peptides of BCG Ag85A protein (KLIANNTRV, GLPVEYLQV), and then, A375 melanoma cells and HLA-A*0201 PBMCs (from PPD-positive adults) were added to co-incubated with the predicted peptides in vitro. We found that the predicted BCG high-affinity peptides could be directly loaded onto the surface of tumor cells, enhancing the tumor-killing efficacy of PBMCs from PPD-positive volunteer. Then, we constructed PPD-positive mice model bearing B16F10 subcutaneous tumors and found that intratumor injection of BCG Ag85A high-affinity peptides (SGGANSPAL, YHPQQFVYAGAMSGLLD) enhanced the anti-tumor efficacy in PPD-positive melanoma mice. Along with the better anti-tumor efficacy, the expression of PDL1 on tumor cell surface was also increased, and stronger antitumor effects occurred when further combined with anti-PD1 antibody. For microenvironment analysis, the proportion of effector memory T cells was increased and the better treatment efficacy may be attributed to the elevated effector memory CD4 + T cells within the tumor. In conclusion, using the existing immune response of BCG vaccine by delivering high-affinity peptides of BCG to tumor area is a safe and promising therapy for cancer.
1433943 | [Cyclic thrombocytopenia with chronic thyroiditis and ankylosing spondylitis]. A 58-year-old man with cyclic thrombocytopenia who was initially diagnosed as idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), concomitant with chronic thyroiditis and ankylosing spondylitis, was reported. Serum level of T 3 (0.48 ng/ml) and T 4 (2.1 micrograms/ml) were both subnormal and that of TSH (257.1 microU/ml) was markedly elevated. Thyroid test (6400X) and microsome test (6400X) was both positive, but anti-nuclear antibodies were negative. Radiographic findings of lumbar spine showed the typical \bamboo spine\ and HLA B 27 was positive. Therapies for ITP, such as adrenocorticosteroids including steroid pulse therapy, high-dose intravenous gamma-globulin, danazol, slow infusion of vinca alkaloids and splenectomy, were only effective transiently. After these therapies platelet counts began to fluctuate from 0.4 X 10(10)/L to 34.4 X 10(10/L, therefore the diagnosis of cyclic thrombocytopenia was done. Interestingly low-dose methotrexate (MTX) was effective, and the cyclic fluctuation of platelet counts disappeared. These observations in this case were very suggestive of the pathogenesis of cyclic thrombocytopenia and mechanisms of cyclic change of platelet counts.
2413111 | One allogeneic cytolytic T lymphocyte clone distinguishes three different HLA-B27 subtypes: identification of amino acid residues influencing the specificity and avidity of recognition. The HLA-B27 antigen may be divided into at least three subgroups, designated HLA-B27.1, -B27.2, and -B27.3, by specific cytolytic T lymphocytes. In an attempt to explore the functional relevance of HLA polymorphism, an alloimmune cytolytic T cell clone T3+, T8+, T4- has been characterized, which displays a distinct reactivity pattern with each one of the three HLA-B27 subtypes. This cell kills both B27.1- and B27.2- but not B27.3-positive targets. Its lytic efficiency is greater with B27.1 than with B27.2 cells. The clone does not recognize either B7-positive targets or most B27-negative cells. But HLA-B40-bearing cells are lysed, albeit with significantly less efficiency than any B27-positive targets. The differences in killing ability for B27.1, B27.2, and B40 are also evident in cold-target inhibition studies, indicating that a) B27.1 cells can efficiently inhibit lysis of B27.2 and B40 targets, b) B27.2 cells inhibit the lysis of B40 but not of B27.1 targets, and c) B40 cells do not inhibit B27.1 or B27.2 target lysis. In addition, anti-T3 and anti-T8 antibodies are much more effective in inhibiting the lysis of B27.2 targets than that of B27.1-positive cells, suggesting that the observed differences in killing efficiency of the various targets are due to the fact that the tightness of the effector-target interaction is affected by the structural changes between the different HLA antigens. A correlation of the reactivity pattern of this T cell clone with the known amino acid sequences of the HLA-B27, HLA-B40, and HLA-B7 antigens suggests that the clone recognizes a conformational determinant contributed to by residues within the segments 149-156 and 67-83. Those in the former segment appear to be an essential portion of this determinant, whereas polymorphism in the region 67-83 has a modulating effect on the reactivity of the effector but does not abrogate recognition.
2415591 | Cell surface molecular changes on the activation of human thymocytes. The changes in the expression of antigen molecules on the cell surface membranes of uncultured (nonactivated) and activated human thymocytes have been studied by flow cytometry and immunoprecipitation techniques. Nonactivated thymocytes do not have the phenotypic profile of a resting population because they express cell proliferation molecules such as the transferrin receptor and the 4F2 antigens (mainly the 100,000 dalton subunit). After activation with IL 2-containing supernatants, mature T3+, T6- thymocytes proliferate and are able to nonspecifically kill different target cells. The activated thymocytes are T3+, T11+, T6-, OKM1- and bear T4 or T8 antigens in mutually exclusive cell subpopulations. They also \de novo\ express the IL 2 receptor, and the 210.000/130.000 molecular complex defined by the TS2/7 MAb. Activated human thymocytes express higher amounts of class I and class II MHC antigens, equal T3 and LFA-1, and lower quantities of T11 and T4 molecules than nonactivated thymocytes. Furthermore, activated thymocytes only express the T8 34,000 dalton polypeptide subunit, whereas the nonactivated thymocyte population expressed the T8 34,000 dalton associated with a 46,000 glycoprotein. We have demonstrated that this structural change in the T8 molecule from a complex of two polypeptide subunits of 46,000 and 32,000 does not indeed occur in the activation process but rather in the maturation from T6+ to T6- thymocytes.
2482475 | [Natural cytotoxic function and ankylosing spondylitis]. Natural Killer (NK) cell function was evaluated in 28 ankylosing spondylitis (AS) patients (21 B27 positive), at one hand by the use of a Leu7 (HNK-1) monoclonal antibody, at the other hand by spontaneous cytotoxicity against a K562 cell line (preincubated with a fluorogenic substrate) evaluated by a flow cytometric assay. There is no difference in NK cell activity neither between AS patients and controls nor between B27 positive and negative AS. The study brings no evidence for a NK function control by the B27 gene. There is no correlation between NK activity and each of the other parameters investigated (ESR, B2m, IgA, Leu7, T4/T8). At the opposite, NK activity is significantly decreased (p = 0,006) in AS patients under NSAIDs treatment compared with non treated patients. NSAIDs rather enhance NK activity, the decrease observed in the present study could be due to evolution of the disease itself, and may be a pathogenetic factor contributing to remaining of bacterial antigens according to the current hypothesis of the disease's aetiology.
2957346 | Development of class I-specific helper-inducer T-cell clone. A unique alloreactive human helper-inducer T-cell clone which reacts with the class I HLA antigen was characterized. The clone was derived from a mixed lymphocyte culture between cells from a HLA-A2-; B35,w51; Bw4,Bw6; Cw4,-; DR1,4; DQw1,-; DRw53 responder and a HLA-A2,3; B7,14; Bw6; Cw8,-; DR7,-; DQw2,w3; DRw52 stimulator. When screened against a panel of stimulator cells, this clone was found to have a specificity towards a stimulator HLA-B14 and consisted entirely of Leu-4, Leu-3, and 4B4 positive T cells, which is a T helper-inducer phenotype. Using monoclonal antibodies directed towards various monomorphic class I and II HLA epitopes in an inhibition experiment, it was found that both monoclonal antibodies w6/32 and 4E (recognizing class I monomorphic and HLA-B epitopes, respectively) inhibited proliferation. However, monoclonal antibodies BBm.1 and L227 (directed against beta 2-microglobulin and Ia-like molecule, respectively) had no inhibitory effect. Functional evaluation of this clone demonstrated helper activity on the proliferation of MLC response. The helper-induction effect on MLC cultures remained intact following irradiation of the clone for either 500 or 2000 rad suggesting that helper function of the clone was radiation resistant. The helper activity of this clone was MHC nonrestricted since it enhanced proliferation of the original responder and stimulator MLC as well as third and fourth party individuals. By CTLL cell line proliferation assay, this clone was found to release IL-2. When assayed (day 1 to 7) for class II HLA products expression following stimulation, HLA-DRw53 was consistently expressed by the clone. However, HLA-DR1, DQw1 were found to be expressed simultaneously on day 2 through day 7 and HLA-DR4, DQw3 on day 2 and 3. These data demonstrate, for the first time, the generation of a class I specific helper-inducer T-cell clone in MLC response.
3291524 | The sonographical and functional sequelae of de Quervain's subacute thyroiditis: long-term follow-up. Fifty-three patients with subacute thyroiditis (SAT) were seen during the acute stage of the disease. HLA-Bw 35 was positive in 33 out of 39 tested patients. At first presentation, all examined patients (N = 23) had ultrasound abnormalities (generalized hypodensity, single or multiple hypodense areas). Serum T4 and/or T3 were increased in 24/52, free T4 in 11/23, and the TSH response to TRH was flat in 8/11 patients. Six of 12 in whom volumetry was performed had goitres. Thirty-seven patients were re-examined after a mean follow-up interval of 46.5 months. At this follow-up, serum T4, free T4 and T3 levels as well as the sonographically determined thyroid volume had decreased, but there was still abnormalities by ultrasound detected in 14/36 patients; 19.4% had focal sonolucent lesions, whereas the prevalence of such lesions was only 3.1% in asymptomatic controls. Three patients were subclinically hypothyroid at the follow-up, whereas all others were euthyroid. Patients with abnormal ultrasound findings were of the same age and had a similar thyroid size, but a slightly higher TSH and a significantly (P less than 0.02) lower free T4 than those with normal ultrasound findings. They also had a higher prevalence of thyroid autoantibodies in low titres. Serum thyroglobulin was elevated in more than half of the patients during the acute phase, but only in 1 out of 11 patients during follow-up. Thyroglobulin at the follow-up was not related to TSH, but there was a correlation with thyroid volume (r = 0.57).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
3485020 | Immune abnormalities associated with HLA-B8: lymphocyte subsets and functional correlates. Mononuclear cell populations were enumerated in healthy young adults with or without the histocompatibility antigen HLA-B8. Mononuclear cell counts were lower in subjects with HLA-B8, as was reflected in lower absolute numbers of the cell subsets. When cell populations were compared as percentages of total mononuclear cells, subjects with HLA-B8 had significantly more B lymphocytes bearing IgM than did subjects without HLA-B8. The T4/T8 ratio was significantly increased in subjects with HLA-B8. due both to increases in OKT4+ cells and to decrease in OKT8+ cells. B-Lymphocyte function was compared in subjects with and without HLA-B8 by measuring pokeweed mitogen driven differentiation of B cells to IgM bearing blasts, and was significantly greater in subjects with HLA-B8. Subjects with HLA-B8. Subjects with HLA-B8 were also found to have decreased Con A-induced suppression. Alterations in lymphocyte subsets and lymphocyte functions may underlie the predisposition to autoimmunity associated with HLA-B8.
3487021 | Characterization of effector cells in lymphocytotoxicity to autologous hepatocytes in HBsAg-positive and autoimmune chronic active hepatitis (CAH). Peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets involved in cytotoxicity to autologous hepatocytes have been characterized by isolation on antibody-coated Petri dishes in autoimmune and HBsAg-positive chronic active hepatitis (CAH). In autoimmune CAH and in HBsAg-positive CAH without HBcAg in liver tissue, cytotoxicity is sustained by non-T lymphocytes and is confined to M1-positive cells bearing Fc receptors: M1 cytotoxicity inhibition by adding aggregated IgG suggests that these cells are responsible for an antibody-dependent cell-mediated mechanism (ADCC). Moreover, when T-enriched fractions were separated in T4, T8 and 5/9 positive subsets, only the first one showed a significant cytotoxicity: T4 positive cells might act as cytotoxic T cells or might be involved in delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) reactions. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes in HBsAg-positive CAH with HBcAg in liver tissue are confined in T8 positive subset, while helper/inducer T cells (T4 positive or 5/9 positive) seem to play an important role only in the induction of cell-mediated injury against hepatocytes. The inhibition of T cell-cytotoxicity by preincubating liver cells with monoclonal antibody (Mab) anti-HLA AB and not with Mab anti-HLA DR or aggregated IgG supports the involvement of the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) expressed on the hepatocyte surface.
3519831 | A lymphokine that activates the cytolytic program of both cytotoxic T lymphocyte and natural killer clones. A 10-12 kD lymphokine, herein termed TCAF, was recently shown to be secreted from Th after crosslinking of their antigen/MHC (T3-Ti) receptors. TCAF stimulates resting T lymphocyte proliferation via binding to surface components of the T11 pathway. To determine whether TCAF could induce antigen-independent activation of the lytic machinery of cytotoxic cells, the present studies were conducted. In the presence of TCAF, both T8+ class I MHC-specific and T4+ class II MHC-specific cytotoxic T cell clones were induced to kill targets, including those lacking the appropriate MHC molecules. This effect was unique to TCAF, since IL-1, IL-2, IFN-gamma could not stimulate lytic activity. Furthermore, both T3+T11+ and T3-T11+ NK clones were triggered to lyse NK-resistant target cells. These findings suggest that TCAF can function in an antigen-independent fashion to amplify cytotoxic effector responses.
3871932 | [HLA and myasthenia. Subdivision in 3 categories]. Genetic susceptibility (HLA types), clinical and pathological findings, amount of acetylcholine receptor antibodies and T lymphocyte subpopulations were studied in 63 patients with Myasthenia Gravis (MG). The frequency of HLA-DR5 was increased among patients (0.50 versus 0.23 in controls, pc less than 0.01, relative risk 3.3) and that of HLA-DR3 previously described as associated with MG was slightly increased (0.31 versus 0.20 in controls). The relative frequencies of two T cell subpopulations (T4 helper and T8 suppressor/cytotoxic lymphocytes) were normal in HLA-DR5 positive patients while the ratio T4/T8 was increased in other MG patients, who were HLA-DR3 (p less than 0.005). The high rate was due to an increase in the absolute number of T4 lymphocytes (p less than 0.001). HLA-DR3 patients were mostly women with early onset of a severe form of the disease, marked by the presence of thymic follicular lymphoid hyperplasia. A third genetic susceptibility to this disease was recently described in patients treated with D-penicillamine, the antigenic frequency of HLA-Bw35, DR1 is significantly increased. These 3 types of association between HLA and myasthenia gravis can be related to three different physiopathological mechanisms: the first two are probably linked to individual immunity (inductor/suppressor disequilibrium), in the third association, the mechanism is immunopharmacological.
6410385 | Immunogenetics and immunopathology of human membranous glomerulonephritis. In most of our membranous glomerulonephritis (MGN) patients, we have studied the HLA-A, B, DR phenotype, the clearance of anti-D rhesus coated 51Cr-labelled autologous erythrocytes, and T-lymphocyte subpopulations with monoclonal antibodies (OKT3, T4, T8). The frequency of B8 antigen in 28 patients with MGN (five cases associated with lupus excluded) is 57.14 per cent versus 14.42 per cent in controls (Pc = 0.0002). In 26 patients the frequency of DR3 antigen is 65.38 per cent versus 20.27 per cent in controls (Pc = 0.00008). The half-life of sensitised erythrocytes is respectively 35.36 +/- 8.50 minutes in nine controls and 67.05 +/- 69.64 min in 18 patients with MGN. The half-life is significantly prolonged in one-third of the patients at time of exacerbation. The peripheral blood T-lymphocyte subsets study showed a significant decrease of OKT3 and OKT4 positive cell subsets. T4/T8 ratio is high during exacerbation of disease and diminishes in remission. Our data are consistent with a latent subtle genetic immunodeficiency, only expressed during acute phases of the disease.
6572032 | Properdin factor B (Bf) and glyoxalase in Graves' disease. Patients with Graves' disease were phenotyped for properdin factor B (Bf) and glyoxalase, which are coded for by genes mapping close to the HLA region on the sixth chromosome. Frequency data were analysed in relation to HLA-A, -B and -DR typing data. Diagnosis of Graves' disease was based on the usual criteria including elevated T3 and T4 levels and free T4 index and a homogeneous thyroid scan. Ninety-four patients with Graves' disease were phenotyped for properdin factor B (Bf) and 37 for red cells glyoxalase (GLO). HLA-A, -B and -DR antigens were typed in 94 patients using a lymphocyte microcytotoxicity assay. The frequency distribution of Bf and GLO alleles showed no significant differences from control subjects. This finding contrasts with the reports of an increased frequency of BfF1 in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. The difference in the two diseases which are both associated with an increased frequency of the antigen combination D8-DR3, is accounted for by linkage disequilibrium between B18 and BfF1.
7605779 | Study of HLA class I/IL and T lymphocyte subsets in Kuwaiti vitiligo patients. HLA polymorphisms of class I and class II MHC were investigated in 40 Kuwaiti vitiligo patients and in 40 controls using microcytotoxicity assay. HLA-B21, Cw6 and DR53 were increased significantly in patients compared to controls (P = 0.00001, 0.00001 and P = 0.0053 respectively) while HLA-A19, DR52, were significantly decreased (P = 0.00236, 0.05, respectively). Total T-cells, T4 and T8 were measured as CD2, CD4 and CD8 respectively by flow cytometry. Vitiligo patients showed significant increase in CD4 compared to controls (P = 0.03). Our findings suggest that HLA-B21 and Cw6 and DR53, are susceptible genes of vitiligo, while A19 and DR52 are protective genes in the Kuwaiti population.
10795530 | The nucleotide sequence and genome organization of Japanese iris necrotic ring virus, a new species in the genus Carmovirus. The genome of Japanese iris necrotic ring virus (JINRV) consists of a positive-sense ssRNA of 4014 nucleotides with six major open reading frames (ORFs). A 5'-non-coding region of 31 nucleotides precedes the first initiation codon. Like Carnation mottle virus (CarMV), the 5'-proximal three ORFs encode a 26 kDa protein (p26) and two readthrough proteins, i.e. an 85 kDa putative RNA replicase (p85) and a 99 kDa protein (p99). The central ORF encodes a small 8 kDa protein (p8). The 3'-proximal ORF encodes a 38 kDa capsid protein (p38). Another ORF encoding a 12 kDa protein (p12) overlaps the p99 ORF.JINRV RNA treated with bacterial alkaline phosphatase and tobacco acid pyrophosphatase could not be ligated to an oligoribonucleotide using T4 RNA ligase, indicating that the 5' end of the viral RNA is uncapped. The 3' end is not polyadenylated. Comparison of the genomic organization and the predicted amino acid sequences with those of other viruses confirmed that JINRV should be classified as a member of the genus Carmovirus, family Tombusviridae.
31411976 | Immunological Risk Stratification of Bladder Cancer Based on Peripheral Blood Natural Killer Cell Biomarkers. BACKGROUND: Bladder cancer (BC) is highly immunogenic. Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) immunotherapy offers the best results in non-muscle-invasive BC (NMIBC). Natural killer cells (NKcs) play decisive roles in BCG-mediated immune response and in general cancer immune-surveillance. OBJECTIVE: To analyze killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs), their human leukocyte antigen class-I (HLA-I) ligands, and the expression of DNAX Accessory Molecule-1 (DNAM-1/CD226) on peripheral blood (PB) NKcs, to identify useful predictive biomarkers in BC. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: KIR/HLA-ligand genotypes were compared between 132 BC, 201 other solid cancers, 164 plasma cell disorders, and 615 healthy Caucasoid controls. CD226 expression was evaluated by flow cytometry. OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: KIR/HLA-I interactions and CD226 expression on NKcs (CD226high or CD226low) were compared across study groups, cancer stages, treatments, and progression-free and overall survival of patients, using chi-square, analysis of variance/post hoc, Kaplan-Meier/log-rank, and regression analyses. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Three immunological risk groups were identified: low risk (KIR2DL1-L2+L3-/C1C1- and KIR2DL1+L2+L3+/C1C1+), intermediate risk (rest), and high risk (KIR2DL5+/HLA-C*16+ and KIR2DL1+L2+L3-), which displayed different 10-yr progression-free rates (83.3%, 48.6%, and 0%, respectively; p<0.001) and survival rates (83.3%, 54.3%, and 6.2%, respectively; p<0.001) for muscle-invasive T2/T4, and 10-yr progression-free rates (100%, 81.6%, and 50%, respectively; p<0.05) for NMIBC-T1 treated with BCG. Immunological risk stratification had an independent prognostic value to just histological staging for survival (hazard ratio=2.93, p<0.00001, Harrell C-statistic=0.779). CD226 expression on PB NKcs improved immunological stratification in intermediate-risk T1-T4 BC patients, with survival rates of 94.1% and 66.7% for CD226high and CD226low (p<0.05), respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Immunological risk stratification will complement BC histopathology to improve risk stratification and guide the selection of personalized treatments. Understanding of the molecular mechanisms of NKc tumor immune surveillance will enable the development of future NKc-based therapies. PATIENT SUMMARY: This work describes a peripheral blood test that aids in our understanding of the immune defense mechanisms against bladder cancer, is useful for classifying patient risk, and will guide personalized treatments.
32665270 | Convergent Evolution of HLA-C Downmodulation in HIV-1 and HIV-2. HLA-C-mediated antigen presentation induces the killing of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected CD4+ T cells by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). To evade killing, many HIV-1 group M strains decrease HLA-C surface levels using their accessory protein Vpu. However, some HIV-1 group M isolates lack this activity, possibly to prevent the activation of natural killer (NK) cells. Analyzing diverse primate lentiviruses, we found that Vpu-mediated HLA-C downregulation is not limited to pandemic group M but is also found in HIV-1 groups O and P as well as several simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIVs). We show that Vpu targets HLA-C primarily at the protein level, independently of its ability to suppress NF-kappaB-driven gene expression, and that in some viral lineages, HLA-C downregulation may come at the cost of efficient counteraction of the restriction factor tetherin. Remarkably, HIV-2, which does not carry a vpu gene, uses its accessory protein Vif to decrease HLA-C surface expression. This Vif activity requires intact binding sites for the Cullin5/Elongin ubiquitin ligase complex but is separable from its ability to counteract APOBEC3G. Similar to HIV-1 Vpu, the degree of HIV-2 Vif-mediated HLA-C downregulation varies considerably among different virus isolates. In agreement with opposing selection pressures in vivo, we show that the reduction of HLA-C surface levels by HIV-2 Vif is accompanied by increased NK cell-mediated killing. In summary, our results highlight the complex role of HLA-C in lentiviral infections and demonstrate that HIV-1 and HIV-2 have evolved at least two independent mechanisms to decrease HLA-C levels on infected cells.IMPORTANCE Genome-wide association studies suggest that HLA-C expression is a major determinant of viral load set points and CD4+ T cell counts in HIV-infected individuals. On the one hand, efficient HLA-C expression enables the killing of infected cells by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs). On the other hand, HLA-C sends inhibitory signals to natural killer (NK) cells and enhances the infectivity of newly produced HIV particles. HIV-1 group M viruses modulate HLA-C expression using the accessory protein Vpu, possibly to balance CTL- and NK cell-mediated immune responses. Here, we show that the second human immunodeficiency virus, HIV-2, can use its accessory protein Vif to evade HLA-C-mediated restriction. Furthermore, our mutational analyses provide insights into the underlying molecular mechanisms. In summary, our results reveal how the two human AIDS viruses modulate HLA-C, a key component of the antiviral immune response.
32724101 | Neonatal genetics of gene expression reveal potential origins of autoimmune and allergic disease risk. Chronic immune-mediated diseases of adulthood often originate in early childhood. To investigate genetic associations between neonatal immunity and disease, we map expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) in resting myeloid cells and CD4+ T cells from cord blood samples, as well as in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or phytohemagglutinin (PHA) stimulation, respectively. Cis-eQTLs are largely specific to cell type or stimulation, and 31% and 52% of genes with cis-eQTLs have response eQTLs (reQTLs) in myeloid cells and T cells, respectively. We identified cis regulatory factors acting as mediators of trans effects. There is extensive colocalisation between condition-specific neonatal cis-eQTLs and variants associated with immune-mediated diseases, in particular CTSH had widespread colocalisation across diseases. Mendelian randomisation shows causal neonatal gene expression effects on disease risk for BTN3A2, HLA-C and others. Our study elucidates the genetics of gene expression in neonatal immune cells, and aetiological origins of autoimmune and allergic diseases.
33031103 | Critical effect of Pol escape mutations associated with detrimental allele HLA-C*15: 05 on clinical outcome in HIV-1 subtype A/E infection. OBJECTIVE: The mechanism explaining the role of detrimental HLA alleles in HIV-1 infections has been investigated in very few studies. HLA-A*29:01-B*07:05-C*15:05 is a detrimental haplotype in HIV-1 subtype A/E-infected Vietnamese individuals. The accumulation of mutations at Pol 653/657 is associated with a poor clinical outcome in these individuals. However, the detrimental HLA allele and the mechanism responsible for its detrimental effect remains unknown. Therefore, in this current study we identified the detrimental HLA allele and investigated the mechanism responsible for the detrimental effect. DESIGN AND METHODS: A T-cell epitope including Pol 653/657 and its HLA restriction were identified by using overlapping HIV-1 peptides and cell lines expressing a single HLA. The effect of the mutations on the T-cell recognition of HIV-1-infected cells was investigated by using target cells infected with the mutant viruses. The effect of these mutations on the clinical outcome was analyzed in 74 HLA-C*15:05 Vietnamese infected with the subtype A/E virus. RESULTS: We identified HLA-C*15:05-restricted SL9 epitope including Pol 653/657. PolS653A/T/L mutations within this epitope critically impaired the T-cell recognition of HIV-1-infected cells, indicating that these mutations had escaped from the T cells. T-cell responders infected with these mutants showed significantly lower CD4 T-cell counts than those with the wild-type virus or Pol S653K/Q mutants, which are not associated with HLA-C*15:05. CONCLUSION: The accumulation of Pol S653A/T/L escape mutants critically affected the control of HIV-1 by SL9-specific T cells and led to a poor clinical outcome in the subtype A/E-infected individuals having the detrimental HLA-C*15:05 allele.
33175614 | COVID-19 coronavirus vaccine T cell epitope prediction analysis based on distributions of HLA class I loci (HLA-A, -B, -C) across global populations. T cell immunity, such as CD4 and/or CD8 T cell responses, plays a vital role in controlling the virus infection and pathological damage. Several studies have reported SARS-CoV-2 proteins could serve as ideal vaccine candidates against SARS-CoV-2 infection by activating the T cell responses. In the current study, based on the SARS-CoV-2 sequence and distribution of host human leukocyte antigen (HLA), we predicted the possible epitopes for the vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 infections. Firstly, the current study retrieved the SARS-CoV-2 S and N protein sequences from the NCBI Database. Then, using the Immune Epitope Database Analysis Resource, we predicted the CTL epitopes of the SARS-CoV-2 S and N proteins according to worldwide frequency distributions of HLA-A, -B, and -C alleles (>1%). Our results predicted 90 and 106 epitopes of N and S proteins, respectively. Epitope cluster analysis showed 16 and 34 respective clusters of SARS-CoV-2 N and S proteins, which covered 95.91% and 96.14% of the global population, respectively. After epitope conservancy analysis, 8 N protein epitopes and 6 S protein epitopes showed conservancy within two SARS-CoV-2 types. Of these 14 epitopes, 13 could cover SARS coronavirus and Bat SARS-like coronavirus. The remaining epitope (KWPWYIWLGF1211-1220) could cover MERS coronavirus. Finally, the 14-epitope combination could vaccinate 89.60% of all individuals worldwide. Our results propose single or combined CTL epitopes predicted in the current study as candidates for vaccines to effectively control SARS-CoV-2 infection and development.
33815410 | HLA Alleles B*53:01 and C*06:02 Are Associated With Higher Risk of P. falciparum Parasitemia in a Cohort in Uganda. Variation within the HLA locus been shown to play an important role in the susceptibility to and outcomes of numerous infections, but its influence on immunity to P. falciparum malaria is unclear. Increasing evidence indicates that acquired immunity to P. falciparum is mediated in part by the cellular immune response, including NK cells, CD4 and CD8 T cells, and semi-invariant gammadelta T cells. HLA molecules expressed by these lymphocytes influence the epitopes recognized by P. falciparum-specific T cells, and class I HLA molecules also serve as ligands for inhibitory receptors including KIR. Here we assessed the relationship of HLA class I and II alleles to the risk of P. falciparum infection and symptomatic malaria in a cohort of 892 Ugandan children and adults followed prospectively via both active and passive surveillance. We identified two HLA class I alleles, HLA-B*53:01 and HLA-C*06:02, that were associated with a higher prevalence of P. falciparum infection. Notably, no class I or II HLA alleles were found to be associated with protection from P. falciparum parasitemia or symptomatic malaria. These findings suggest that class I HLA plays a role in the ability to restrict parasitemia, supporting an essential role for the cellular immune response in P. falciparum immunity. Our findings underscore the need for better tools to enable mechanistic studies of the T cell response to P. falciparum at the epitope level and suggest that further study of the role of HLA in regulating pre-erythrocytic stages of the P. falciparum life cycle is warranted.
33906789 | Lack of association of KIR2DL1-R245 and KIR2DL1-C245 with HIV-1 control in black South Africans with HLA-C2. Activating/inhibitory Killer-cell Immunoglobulin-like Receptors (KIRs) partly regulate Natural Killer (NK) cells. KIR2DL1 allotypes with cysteine at position-245 (KIR2DL1-C245) express at lower levels and demonstrate weaker inhibitory signaling compared to allotypes with arginine at position-245 (KIR2DL1-R245). The functional consequence of either allotype in infectious diseases is unknown. Since NK cells mediate antiviral immunity, we investigated KIR2DL1-R245 and KIR2DL1-C245 in association with HIV-1 virological control in untreated immunocompetent black South Africans. Allotype carriage, determined by KIR2DL1 sequencing, was similar between uninfected South Africans (n = 104) and other black African populations, but differed significantly from Europeans, while no significant differences were noted between uninfected and HIV-1-infected individuals (n = 52). KIR2DL1 expression, measured by flow cytometry, in uninfected individuals showed higher KIR2DL1-R245 expression compared to KIR2DL1-C245 in white donors (n = 27), while black donors (n = 21) generally expressed lower levels of both allotypes. KIR2DL1 expression was reduced in HLA-C2 carriers, most evident in black HLA-C2/C2 donors. KIR2DL1-R245 and KIR2DL1-C245 did not associate with viral load when HLA-C2 ligands were present, however in HLA-C1 homozygotes, individuals with only KIR2DL1-R245, showed lower viral loads compared to carriers of both allotypes. The lack of association of KIR2DL1-R245 or KIR2DL1-C245 with HIV-1 control in HLA-C2 carriers may relate to lower KIR2DL1 expression levels in a population with high HLA-C2 prevalence.
34791493 | Neurodegenerative disease in association with sexual transmission of human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 2 subtype b in Argentina. BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to show that human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 2 (HTLV-2) infection produces symptoms resembling those described for HTLV-1-associated myeloneuropathy and to highlight the role of sexual transmission in the silent dissemination of HTLV-2. METHODS: Patient samples were tested by particle agglutination and indirect immunofluorescence assay. The HTLV type was defined by molecular techniques. Nucleotide sequence analysis of HTLV-2 long terminal repeat region, T cell CD3/CD4 and T cell CD3/CD8 counts and typing of human leucocyte antigen (HLA) alleles A, B, C and DRB1 were also performed. RESULTS: HTLV-2 subtype b infection was confirmed in two blood donors and their sexual partners. Two patients exhibited distinctive signs and symptoms of progressive neurological disease. Three infected patients carried HLA-C*04. Both patients with neurological disease also carried HLA-A*31 and HLA-DRB1*07 alleles. CONCLUSIONS: Herein we describe for the first time sexual transmission of HTLV-2 in a non-endemic region of Argentina, highlighting the relevance of this transmission route in HTLV-2 silent dissemination out of the clusters of endemicity. We also provide evidence that HTLV-2 infection causes symptoms resembling those described for HTLV-1-associated myeloneuropathy. The evidence presented herein points to the critical need for public health strategies to reduce the spread of this neglected infection.
34843601 | A combined EM and proteomic analysis places HIV-1 Vpu at the crossroads of retromer and ESCRT complexes: PTPN23 is a Vpu-cofactor. The HIV-1 accessory protein Vpu modulates membrane protein trafficking and degradation to provide evasion of immune surveillance. Targets of Vpu include CD4, HLAs, and BST-2. Several cellular pathways co-opted by Vpu have been identified, but the picture of Vpu's itinerary and activities within membrane systems remains incomplete. Here, we used fusion proteins of Vpu and the enzyme ascorbate peroxidase (APEX2) to compare the ultrastructural locations and the proximal proteomes of wild type Vpu and Vpu-mutants. The proximity-omes of the proteins correlated with their ultrastructural locations and placed wild type Vpu near both retromer and ESCRT-0 complexes. Hierarchical clustering of protein abundances across the mutants was essential to interpreting the data and identified Vpu degradation-targets including CD4, HLA-C, and SEC12 as well as Vpu-cofactors including HGS, STAM, clathrin, and PTPN23, an ALIX-like protein. The Vpu-directed degradation of BST-2 was supported by STAM and PTPN23 and to a much lesser extent by the retromer subunits Vps35 and SNX3. PTPN23 also supported the Vpu-directed decrease in CD4 at the cell surface. These data suggest that Vpu directs targets from sorting endosomes to degradation at multi-vesicular bodies via ESCRT-0 and PTPN23.
35173763 | Downregulation of MARC2 Promotes Immune Escape and Is Associated With Immunosuppression of Hepatocellular Carcinoma. The N-reductive enzyme system (NRES), composed of MARC1, MARC2, CYB5, and CYB5R, is responsible for the reduction of N-oxygenated compounds and participates in several physiological processes. For example, MARC2 serves as an important prognostic indicator and is downregulated in hepatocellular carcinoma, and the downregulation of MARC2 is critical to the regulation of lipid metabolism and cell cycle progression. However, the role of MARC2 in tumor immune microenvironment modification had not previously been investigated. In this study, we found that downregulation of MARC2 was associated with the differentiation of CD4+T cells into regulatory T cells (Tregs). Furthermore, restoring the expression of MARC2 could increase the expression of HLA-C and B2M via PPARA-related lipid metabolism signaling pathways, which could facilitate tumor antigen presentation to the tumor-infiltrating T cells. Additionally, MARC2 expression negatively correlated with several immune checkpoints. The immune checkpoint burden was generated based on 28 MARC2-related immune checkpoints. Patients with a higher immune checkpoint burden were predicted to have a poorer prognosis and a lower level of activated CD8+ T cells. The results showed that expression of the NRES is a prognostic indicator of hepatocellular carcinoma and MARC2 contributes significantly to predict the prognosis. Finally, loss of MARC2 in HCC patients was found to facilitate immune escape and was associated with immunosuppression.
35474089 | Blockade of inhibitory killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors and IL-2 triggering reverses the functional hypoactivity of tumor-derived NK-cells in glioblastomas. Killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) comprise a group of highly polymorphic inhibitory receptors which are specific for classical HLA class-I molecules. Peripheral blood and freshly prepared tumor cell suspensions (n = 60) as well as control samples (n = 32) were investigated for the distribution, phenotype, and functional relevance of CD158ab/KIR2DL1,-2/3 expressing NK-cells in glioblastoma (GBM) patients. We found that GBM were scarcely infiltrated by NK-cells that preferentially expressed CD158ab/KIR2DL1,-2/3 as inhibitory receptors, displayed reduced levels of the activating receptors CD335/NKp46, CD226/DNAM-1, CD159c/NKG2C, and showed diminished capacity to produce IFN-gamma and perforin. Functional hypoactivity of GBM-derived NK-cells persisted despite IL-2 preactivation. Blockade with a specific KIR2DL-1,2/3 monoclonal antibody reversed NK-cell inhibition and significantly enhanced degranulation and IFN-gamma production of IL-2 preactivated NK-cells in the presence of primary GBM cells and HLA-C expressing but not HLA class-I deficient K562 cells. Additional analysis revealed that significant amounts of IL-2 could be produced by tumor-derived CD4+ and CD8+CD45RA- memory T-cells after combined anti-CD3/anti-CD28 stimulation. Our data indicate that both blockade of inhibitory KIR and IL-2 triggering of tumor-derived NK-cells are necessary to enhance NK-cell responsiveness in GBM.
35653364 | Super high-resolution single-molecule sequence-based typing of HLA class I alleles in HIV-1 infected individuals in Ghana. Polymorphisms in human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I loci are known to have a great impact on disease progression in HIV-1 infection. Prevailing HIV-1 subtypes and HLA genotype distribution are different all over the world, and the HIV-1 and host HLA interaction could be specific to individual areas. Data on the HIV-1 and HLA interaction have been accumulated in HIV-1 subtype B- and C-predominant populations but not fully obtained in West Africa where HIV-1 subtype CRF02_AG is predominant. In the present study, to obtain accurate HLA typing data for analysis of HLA association with disease progression in HIV-1 infection in West African populations, HLA class I (HLA-A, -B, and -C) four-digit allele typing was performed in treatment-naive HIV-1 infected individuals in Ghana (n = 324) by a super high-resolution single-molecule sequence-based typing (SS-SBT) using next-generation sequencing. Comparison of the SS-SBT-based data with those obtained by a conventional sequencing-based typing (SBT) revealed incorrect assignment of several alleles by SBT. Indeed, HLA-A*23:17, HLA-B*07:06, HLA-C*07:18, and HLA-C*18:02 whose allele frequencies were 2.5%, 0.9%, 4.3%, and 3.7%, respectively, were not determined by SBT. Several HLA alleles were associated with clinical markers, viral load and CD4+ T-cell count. Of note, the impact of HLA-B*57:03 and HLA-B*58:01, known as protective alleles against HIV-1 subtype B and C infection, on clinical markers was not observed in our cohort. This study for the first time presents SS-SBT-based four-digit typing data on HLA-A, -B, and -C alleles in Ghana, describing impact of HLA on viral load and CD4 count in HIV-1 infection. Accumulation of these data would facilitate high-resolution HLA genotyping, contributing to our understanding of the HIV-1 and host HLA interaction in Ghana, West Africa.
35730281 | Triclustering method for finding biomarkers in human immunodeficiency virus-1 gene expression data. HIV-1 is a virus that destroys CD4 + cells in the body's immune system, causing a drastic decline in immune system performance. Analysis of HIV-1 gene expression data is urgently needed. Microarray technology is used to analyze gene expression data by measuring the expression of thousands of genes in various conditions. The gene expression series data, which are formed in three dimensions, are analyzed using triclustering. Triclustering is an analysis technique for 3D data that aims to group data simultaneously into rows and columns across different times/conditions. The result of this technique is called a tricluster. A tricluster is a subspace in the form of a subset of rows, columns, and time/conditions. In this study, we used the delta-Trimax, THD Tricluster, and MOEA methods by applying different measures, namely, transposed virtual error, the New Residue Score, and the Multi Slope Measure. The gene expression data consisted of 22,283 probe gene IDs, 40 observations, and four conditions: normal, acute, chronic, and non-progressor. Tricluster evaluation was carried out based on intertemporal homogeneity. An analysis of the probe ID gene that affects AIDS was carried out through this triclustering process. Based on this analysis, a gene symbol which is biomarkers associated with AIDS due to HIV-1, HLA-C, was found in every condition for normal, acute, chronic, and non-progressive HIV-1 patients.
35841889 | HLA-B*46 associates with rapid HIV disease progression in Asian cohorts and prominent differences in NK cell phenotype. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles have been linked to HIV disease progression and attributed to differences in cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) epitope representation. These findings are largely based on treatment-naive individuals of European and African ancestry. We assessed HLA associations with HIV-1 outcomes in 1,318 individuals from Thailand and found HLA-B*46:01 (B*46) associated with accelerated disease in three independent cohorts. B*46 had no detectable effect on HIV-specific T cell responses, but this allele is unusual in containing an HLA-C epitope that binds inhibitory receptors on natural killer (NK) cells. Unbiased transcriptomic screens showed increased NK cell activation in people with HIV, without B*46, and simultaneous single-cell profiling of surface proteins and transcriptomes revealed a NK cell subset primed for increased responses in the absence of B*46. These findings support a role for NK cells in HIV pathogenesis, revealed by the unique properties of the B*46 allele common only in Asia.
36326273 | Immunological Control of HIV-1 Disease Progression by Rare Protective HLA Allele. Rare HLA alleles such as HLA-B57 are associated with slow progression to AIDS. However, the evidence for the advantage of rare protective alleles is limited, and the mechanism is still unclear. Although the prevalence of HLA-B*67:01 is only 1.2% in Japan, HLA-B*67:01-positive (HLA-B*67:01+) individuals had the lowest plasma viral load (pVL) and highest CD4 count in HIV-1 clade B-infected Japanese individuals. We investigated the mechanism of immunological control of HIV-1 by a rare protective allele, HLA-B*67:01. We identified six novel HLA-B*67:01-restricted epitopes and found that T cells specific for four epitopes were significantly associated with good clinical outcomes, pVL and/or CD4 count. The wild type or cross-reactive sequences of three protective and immunodominant Pol and Gag epitopes were found in around 95% of the circulating HIV-1, indicating that T cells specific for three conserved or cross-reactive epitopes contributed to good clinical outcomes. One escape mutation (Nef71K) in the Nef protective epitope, which was selected by T cells restricted by either HLA allele in the HLA-B*67:01-C*07:02 haplotype, affected the HLA-B*67:01-restricted RY11-specific T-cell recognition. These results imply that the further accumulation of the Nef71K mutation in the population will negatively affect the control of HIV-1 replication by RY11-specific CD8+ T cells in HIV-1-infected HLA-B*67:01+ individuals. The present study demonstrated that conserved or cross-reactive epitope-specific T cells mainly contribute to control of HIV-1 by a rare protective allele, HLA-B*67:01. IMPORTANCE HLA-B57 is a relatively rare allele around world and the strongest protective HLA allele in Caucasians and African black individuals infected with HIV-1. Previous studies suggested that the advantage of this allele in HIV-1 disease progression is due to a strong functional ability of HLA-B57-restricted Gag-specific T cells and lower fitness of mutant viruses selected by the T cells. HLA-B*57 is a very rare allele and has not been reported as a protective allele in Asian countries, whereas a rare allele, HLA-B*67:01, was shown to be a protective allele in Japan. Therefore, the analysis of HLA-B*67:01-restricted T cells is important to clarify the mechanism of immunological control of HIV-1 by a rare protective HLA allele in Asia. We found that HLA-B*67:01-restricted T cells specific for three conserved or cross-reactive Gag and Pol epitopes are associated with good clinical outcomes in HLA-B*67:01+ individuals. It is expected that T cells specific for conserved or cross-reactive epitopes contribute to a curing treatment.
36331825 | Human leukocyte antigens class I and class II alleles associated with vertical human immunodeficiency virus transmission - an exploratory study from Mumbai, India. Background Human leukocyte antigens (HLA) an important host genetic factor is responsible for influencing human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) transmission and disease progression. Contributions of HLA I and II alleles have not been reported in the Indian population with respect to vertical HIV transmission. Aim In the current study we determined the frequencies of HLA class I and class II alleles in a cohort of children exposed to HIV through their mothers. Method In this exploratory study children perinatally exposed to HIV-1 who fit the study criteria and had completed 18 month follow-up were typed for HLA class I and class II alleles using polymerase chain reaction combined with sequence-specific oligonucleotides probes (PCR-SSOP) and sequence-specific primer (SSP) method. HLA typing was done in 30 positive and 60 HIV negative children along with confounding factors such as treatment regimens, viral load and CD4 count of the mother, feeding option, etc. SPSS software was used for statistical analysis and online docking tools for in-silico analysis. Results HLA-B*40 (p = 0.018) was significantly higher in negative children and was associated with protection, whereas HLA-A*01 (p = 0.05), HLA-B*37 (p = 0.032) and HLA-DRB1*09 (p = 0.017) were associated with transmission. Known protective allele HLA-B*27 was only present in negative children. Many specific haplotypes were exclusively present in the negative children or the positive ones. In-silico analysis was performed to predict the ability of HLA-B*40 to bind to antigenic peptides obtained from HIV-1 sequences in our study group. Limitations Small sample size is a concerning limitation of the study. Nonetheless this is a comprehensive study on HLA alleles in HIV exposed Indian children Conclusion Our study highlights the contribution of HLA class I and II alleles in the Indian children and further adds to understanding the immunogenetic mechanisms. These can be developed as markers for prediction of infection transmission. The observations also contribute to the database of genetic makeup of our population and can help in designing vaccine strategies.
36408799 | SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell responses can originate from cross-reactive CMV-specific T cells. Detection of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in SARS-CoV-2-unexposed donors has been explained by the presence of T cells primed by other coronaviruses. However, based on the relatively high frequency and prevalence of cross-reactive T cells, we hypothesized cytomegalovirus (CMV) may induce these cross-reactive T cells. Stimulation of pre-pandemic cryo-preserved peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) with SARS-CoV-2 peptides revealed that frequencies of SARS-CoV-2-specific T cells were higher in CMV-seropositive donors. Characterization of these T cells demonstrated that membrane-specific CD4+ and spike-specific CD8+ T cells originate from cross-reactive CMV-specific T cells. Spike-specific CD8+ T cells recognize SARS-CoV-2 spike peptide FVSNGTHWF (FVS) and dissimilar CMV pp65 peptide IPSINVHHY (IPS) presented by HLA-B*35:01. These dual IPS/FVS-reactive CD8+ T cells were found in multiple donors as well as severe COVID-19 patients and shared a common T cell receptor (TCR), illustrating that IPS/FVS-cross-reactivity is caused by a public TCR. In conclusion, CMV-specific T cells cross-react with SARS-CoV-2, despite low sequence homology between the two viruses, and may contribute to the pre-existing immunity against SARS-CoV-2.
36465028 | HLA-B*57 and B*58 Associate with Predictors of Reservoir Size in an Acutely Treated HIV Cohort. Much has been learnt about the role of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles during natural infection of HIV-1, but far less is known about their role in people living with HIV (PLWH) on suppressive antiretroviral therapy (ART). In this study we used variable selection to identify predictors of HIV reservoir size, as measured by total HIV DNA in 192 participants in an acute HIV infection (AHI) cohort. Baseline clinical data including pre-ART CD4 T cell counts and plasma viral load (VL) were available from all participants along with longitudinal measurements after ART initiation during AHI. Time to VL suppression, time to CD4 reconstitution, and pre-ART viremia were the strongest predictors of undetectable total HIV DNA at 24 weeks after ART initiation. We next performed HLA typing in 526 participants from the same cohort and investigated associations with the three predictors of reservoir size. HLA-B*57 and B*58 both associated significantly with time to VL suppression, which was one of the predictors of the size of the HIV reservoir. These findings are significant in PLWH and have to be considered in the context of therapeutic intervention when conducting analytic treatment interruption studies as participants with these alleles could impact clinical findings given the small sizes of these studies.
36549550 | Impaired protective role of HLA-B*57:01/58:01 in HIV-1 CRF01_AE infection: a cohort study in Vietnam. OBJECTIVES: Human Leukocyte Antigen HLA-B*57:01 and B*58:01 are considered anti-HIV-1 protective alleles. HLA-B*57:01/58:01-restricted HIV-1 Gag TW10 (TSTLQEQIGW, Gag residues 240-249) epitope-specific CD8+ T cell responses that frequently select for a Gag escape mutation, T242N, with viral fitness cost are crucial for HIV-1 control. Although this finding has been observed in cohorts where HIV-1 subtype B or C predominates, the protective impact of HLA-B*57:01/58:01 has not been reported in Southeast Asian countries where HIV-1 CRF01_AE is the major circulating strain. Here, the effect of HLA-B*57:01/58:01 on CRF01_AE infection was investigated. METHODS: The correlation of HLA-B*57:01/58:01 with viral load and CD4 counts were analyzed in the CRF01_AE-infected Vietnamese cohort (N = 280). The impact of the T242N mutation on CRF01_AE replication capacity was assessed. RESULTS: HLA-B*57:01/58:01-positive individuals mostly had HIV-1 with T242N (62/63) but showed neither a significant reduction in viral load nor increased CD4 counts relative to B*57:01/58:01-negative participants. In vitro and in vivo analyses revealed a significant reduction in viral fitness of CRF01_AE with T242N. In silico analysis indicated reduced presentation of epitopes in the context of CRF01_AE compared to subtype B or C in 10/16 HLA-B*57:01/58:01-restricted HIV-1 epitopes. CONCLUSION: The protective impact of HLA-B*57:01/58:01 on CRF01_AE infection is impaired despite strong suppressive pressure by TW10-specific CD8+ T cells.
36851781 | Definition of a New HLA B*52-Restricted Rev CTL Epitope Targeted by an HIV-1-Infected Controller. The analysis of T-cell responses in HIV-1-infected controllers may contribute to a better understanding of the protective components of the immune system. Here, we analyzed the HIV-1-specific T-cell response in a 59-year-old HIV-1-infected controller, infected for at least seven years, who presented with low viral loads ranging from <20 copies/mL to 200 copies/mL and normal CD4 counts of >800 cells/microL. In gamma-IFN-ELISpot assays using freshly isolated PBMCs, he displayed a very strong polyclonal T-cell response to eight epitopes in Gag, Nef and Rev; with the dominant responses directed against the HLA-B*57-epitope AISPRTLNAW and against a so-far-unknown epitope within Rev. Further analyses using peptide-stimulated T-cell lines in gamma-IFN-ELISpot assays delineated the peptide RQRQIRSI (Rev-RI8) as a newly defined HLA-B*52-restricted epitope located within a functionally important region of Rev. Peptide-stimulation assays in 15 HLA-B*52-positive HIV-1-infected subjects, including the controller, demonstrated recognition of the Rev-RI8 epitope in 6/15 subjects. CD4 counts before the start of antiviral therapy were significantly higher in subjects with recognition of the Rev-RI8 epitope. Targeting of the Rev-RI8 epitope in Rev by CTL could contribute to the positive association of HLA-B*52 with a more favorable course of HIV-1-infection.
37063893 | Uncovering the significance of expanded CD8+ large granular lymphocytes in inclusion body myositis: Insights into T cell phenotype and functional alterations, and disease severity. Introduction: Inclusion body myositis (IBM) is a progressive inflammatory myopathy characterised by skeletal muscle infiltration and myofibre invasion by CD8+ T lymphocytes. In some cases, IBM has been reported to be associated with a systemic lymphoproliferative disorder of CD8+ T cells exhibiting a highly differentiated effector phenotype known as T cell Large Granular Lymphocytic Leukemia (T-LGLL). Methods: We investigated the incidence of a CD8+ T-LGL lymphoproliferative disorder in 85 IBM patients and an aged-matched group of 56 Healthy Controls (HC). Further, we analysed the phenotypical characteristics of the expanded T-LGLs and investigated whether their occurrence was associated with any particular HLA alleles or clinical characteristics. Results: Blood cell analysis by flow cytometry revealed expansion of T-LGLs in 34 of the 85 (40%) IBM patients. The T cell immunophenotype of T-LGLHIGH patients was characterised by increased expression of surface molecules including CD57 and KLRG1, and to a lesser extent of CD94 and CD56 predominantly in CD8+ T cells, although we also observed modest changes in CD4+ T cells and gammadelta T cells. Analysis of Ki67 in CD57+ KLRG1+ T cells revealed that only a small proportion of these cells was proliferating. Comparative analysis of CD8+ and CD4+ T cells isolated from matched blood and muscle samples donated by three patients indicated a consistent pattern of more pronounced alterations in muscles, although not significant due to small sample size. In the T-LGLHIGH patient group, we found increased frequencies of perforin-producing CD8+ and CD4+ T cells that were moderately correlated to combined CD57 and KLRG1 expression. Investigation of the HLA haplotypes of 75 IBM patients identified that carriage of the HLA-C*14:02:01 allele was significantly higher in T-LGLHIGH compared to T-LGLLOW individuals. Expansion of T-LGL was not significantly associated with seropositivity patient status for anti-cytosolic 5'-nucleotidase 1A autoantibodies. Clinically, the age at disease onset and disease duration were similar in the T-LGLHIGH and T-LGLLOW patient groups. However, metadata analysis of functional alterations indicated that patients with expanded T-LGL more frequently relied on mobility aids than T-LGLLOW patients indicating greater disease severity. Conclusion: Altogether, these results suggest that T-LGL expansion occurring in IBM patients is correlated with exacerbated immune dysregulation and increased disease burden.
37351013 | Human adenovirus DNA polymerase is evolutionarily and functionally associated with human telomerase reverse transcriptase based on in silico molecular characterization that implicate abacavir and zidovudine. Human adenoviruses (HAdVs) are non-enveloped, small double stranded DNA (dsDNA) viruses that cause asymptomatic infections, clinical syndromes and significant susceptibility to infections in immunocompromised people. The aim of the present study was to identify critical host proteins and HAdV hypothetical proteins that could be developed as potential host-viral targets for antiHAdV therapy. Here, the function of selected hypothetical proteins of HAdV based on phylogenetic relationship with the therapeutic targets of antiretroviral drugs of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) was predicted computationally, and characterized the molecular dynamics and binding affinity of DNA polymerase of HAdV. Thirty-eight hypothetical proteins (HPs) of human adenovirus (HAdV) were used in this study. The results showed that HAdV DNA polymerase (P03261) is related to Human TERT (O14746) and HLA-B (P01889) genes. The protein-protein interaction of human five molecular targets (PNP, TERT, CCR5, HLA-B, and NR1I2) of ARVDs are well-coordinated/networked with CD4, AHR, FKBP4, NR3C1, HSP90AA1, and STUB1 proteins in the anti-HIV infection mechanism. The results showed that the free energy score of abacavir and zidovudine binding to HAdV DNA polymerase are -5.8 and -5.4 kcal mol-1 respectively. Also, the control drug, cidofovir and ganciclovir have less binding affinity for DNA polymerase of HAdV when compare to that of abacavir and zidovudine. Similarity was observed in the binding of abacavir and zidovudine to HAdV DNA polymerase (ASP742, ALA743, LEU772, ARG773 and VAL776). In conclusion, combination of abacavir and zidovudine was predicted to be potential therapy for controlling HAdV infection targeting HAdV DNA polymerase.
37398940 | Epithelioid inflammatory myofibroblastic sarcoma: a pitfall in the differential diagnosis of ALK-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma. An 18-year-old female presented with a 4.5 cm abdominal mass. Biopsy showed sheet-like growth of large tumor cells with round to oval nuclei, 1-2 nucleoli, and abundant cytoplasm. Immunohistochemistry showed strong, uniform CD30 staining and cytoplasmic ALK staining. B-cell markers (CD20, CD79a, PAX5, kappa/lambda) and T-cell markers (CD2, CD3, CD4, CD5, CD43, granzyme B, T-cell receptor-beta) were negative. Other hematopoietic markers (CD45, CD34, CD117, CD56, CD163, EBV) were negative, but CD138 was positive. Non-hematopoietic markers showed desmin positivity and negativity for S100, melan A, HBM45, PAX8, PAX2, WT1, MYO-D1, myogenin, pancytokeratin, and CAM5.2. Sequencing identified PRRC2B::ALK fusion. A diagnosis of epithelioid inflammatory myofibroblastic sarcoma (EIMS) was made. EIMS is a rare, aggressive form of inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor typically presenting in children and young adults. The tumor comprises large epithelioid cells that express ALK and often CD30. ALK-positive ALCL has a similar age range and also is a large-cell tumor expressing CD30 and ALK. Other ALK-positive neoplasms (e.g., carcinomas, ALK-positive large B-cell lymphoma, ALK-positive histiocytosis) typically lack CD30 and have distinct clinicopathologic features that aid diagnosis. Hematopathologists need to distinguish EIMS from ALK-positive ALCL, which frequently shows loss of pan-T-cell antigens. Careful morphologic evaluation for the hallmark cells of ALCL and comprehensive phenotyping are critical to avoid this diagnostic pitfall. If known, the ALK rearrangement partner gene may also provide diagnostic clues; for example PRRC2B::ALK and RANBP2::ALK occur in EIMS but not ALCL.
37451415 | SARS-COV-2 specific t-cells in patients with thyroid disorders related to COVID-19 are enriched in the thyroid and acquire a tissue-resident memory phenotype. BACKGROUND: SARS-CoV-2 infections have been associated with the onset of thyroid disorders like classic subacute thyroiditis (SAT) or atypical SAT upon severe COVID disease (COV-A-SAT). Little is known about thyroid anti-viral immune responses. OBJECTIVES: To define the role of T-cells in COV-A-SAT. METHODS: T-cells from COV-A-SAT patients were analyzed by multi-dimensional flow cytometry, UMAP and DiffusionMap dimensionality reduction and FlowSOM clustering. T-cells from COVID-naive healthy donors, patients with autoimmune thyroiditis (ATD) and with SAT following COVID vaccination were analyzed as controls. T-cells were analyzed four and eight months post-infection in peripheral blood and in thyroid specimen obtained by ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration. SARS-COV2-specific T-cells were identified by cytokine production induced by SARS-COV2-derived peptides and with COVID peptide-loaded HLA multimers after HLA haplotyping. RESULTS: COV-A-SAT was associated with HLA-DRB1*13 and HLA-B*57. COV-A-SAT patients contained activated Th1- and cytotoxic CD4+ and CD8+ effector cells four months post-infection, which acquired a quiescent memory phenotype after eight months. Anti-SARS-CoV-2-specific T-cell responses were readily detectable in peripheral blood four months post-infection, but were reduced after eight months. CD4+ and CD8+ tissue-resident memory cells (TRM) were present in the thyroid, and circulating CXCR3+T-cells identified as their putative precursors. SARS-CoV-2-specific T-cells were enriched in the thyroid, and acquired a TRM phenotype eight months post-infection. CONCLUSIONS: The association of COV-A-SAT with specific HLA haplotypes suggests a genetic predisposition and a key role for T-cells. COV-A-SAT is characterized by a prolonged systemic anti-viral effector T-cell response and the late generation of COVID-specific TRM in the thyroid target tissue.
37456859 | A metagenome-wide association study of HIV disease progression in HIV controllers. Some HIV controllers experience immunologic progression with CD4+ T cell decline. We aimed to identify genetic factors associated with CD4+ T cell lost in HIV controllers. A total of 561 HIV controllers were included, 442 and 119 from the International HIV controllers Study Cohort and the Swiss HIV Cohort Study, respectively. No SNP or gene was associated with the long-term non-progressor HIV spontaneous control phenotype in the individual GWAS or in the meta-analysis. However, SNPs previously associated with natural HIV control linked to HLA-B (rs2395029 [p = 0.005; OR = 1.70], rs59440261 [p = 0.003; OR = 1.78]), MICA (rs112243036 [p = 0.011; OR = 1.45]), and PSORS1C1 loci (rs3815087 [p = 0.017; OR = 1.39]) showed nominal association with this phenotype. Genetic factors associated with the long-term HIV controllers without risk of immunologic progression are those previously related to the overall HIV controller phenotype.
37710038 | HLA-C*15:02 and epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor-induced erosive pustular dermatosis of the scalp. Epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFRIs) are widely used to treat various types of malignancies. One of the common adverse reactions is cutaneous toxicity, mostly presenting as acneiform eruptions, paronychia and xerosis. Erosive pustular dermatosis of the scalp (EPDS) is a rare cutaneous adverse reaction that develops during treatment with EGFRIs. The pathogenesis of EGFRI-induced EPDS is poorly understood. Here we present three cases of EPDS induced by EGFRIs. The proteins LTA4H (leukotriene A-4 hydrolase), METAP1 (methionine aminopeptidase 1), BID (BH3-interacting domain death agonist), SMAD1 (mothers against decapentaplegic homologue), PRKRA (interferon-inducible double-stranded RNA-dependent protein kinase activator A), YES1 (tyrosine-protein kinase Yes) and EGFL7 (epidermal growth factor-like protein 7) were significantly upregulated in EGFRI-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cell cultures, and validated in the lesions. All of the proteins colocalized with CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell expression. Next-generation-based human leucocyte antigen (HLA) typing showed all patients carried HLA-C*15:02, and modelling studies showed that afatinib and erlotinib bound well within the E/F binding pockets of HLA-C*15:02. Moreover, T cells were preferentially activated by EGFRIs in individuals carrying HLA-C*15:02. The case series revealed that EGFRI-induced EPDS may be mediated by drug-specific T cells.
38055372 | Investigating the Immune Basis of Green Tea Extract Induced Liver Injury in Healthy Donors Expressing HLA-B*35:01. Epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate (EGCG) is the major component of green tea extract, commonly found in dietary supplements, and has been associated with immune-mediated liver injury. The purpose of this study was to investigate the immunogenicity of EGCG in healthy donors expressing HLA-B*35:01, and characterize EGCG responsive T-cell clones. We have shown that EGCG can prime peripheral blood mononuclear cells and T-cells from donors with and without the HLA-B*35:01 allele. T-cell clones were CD4+ve and capable of secreting Th1, Th2, and cytolytic molecules. These data demonstrate that EGCG can activate T-cells in vitro, suggesting a significant role in the pathogenesis of green tea extract induced liver injury.
38263938 | [Distribution of the Prevalence of Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-B*57:01 Positivity in HIV-1 Infected Individuals and Its Effects on Treatment: Turkiye Map-Buhasder Working Group]. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immundeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a critical global public health problem that significantly affects both life expectancy and the overall quality of life of individuals in all age groups. The landscape of HIV infection has changed significantly in recent years due to the introduction of effective combination antiretroviral therapies (ART). A key component of first-line ART regimens for HIV treatment is abacavir, a nucleoside HIV reverse transcriptase inhibitor. Although abacavir is effective in suppressing viral replication and managing disease, its clinical utility is overshadowed by the potential for life-threatening hypersensitivity reactions in HLA-B*57:01-positive patients. In our country, local data obtained from various centers regarding the prevalence of HLA-B*57:01 in HIV-1-infected patients are available. In this study, it was aimed to determine the prevalence of the HLA-B*57:01 genotype in HIV-infected patients who were followed up and treated in many regions of our country. This retrospective study consists of the data of the patients aged 18 years and over diagnosed with HIV-1 infection between 01.01.2019 and 31.07.2022. Age, gender, place of birth, mode of transmission of the disease, death status, CD4+ T cell count and HIV RNA levels at the first clinical presentation, HLA-B*57:01 positivity, and the method used, clinical stage of the disease, virological response time with the treatment they received were recorded from the patient files. Data were collected from 16 centers and each center used different methods to detect HLA-B*57:01. These methods were sequence-specific oligonucleotide probe hybridization (SSOP), DNA sequence-based typing (SBT), single-specific primer-polymerase chain reaction (SSP-PCR), allele-specific PCR (AS-PCR) and quantitative PCR (Q-PCR). A total of 608 HIV-infected individuals, 523 males (86%) and 85 females (14%), were included in the study. The mean age of the patients was 36.9 +- 11.9 (18-73) years. The prevalence of HLA-B*57:01 allele was found to be 3.6% (22 patients). The number of CD4+ T lymphocytes in HLA-B*57:01 allele-positive patients was > 500/ mm3 in 10 patients (45.5%), while the number of CD4+ T lymphocytes in HLA-B*57:01 negative patients was > 500/mm3 in 216 patients (36.9%) (p> 0.05). Viral load at the time of diagnosis was found to be lower in patients with positive HLA-B*57:01 allele but it was not statistically significant (p> 0.05). Although different treatment algorithms were used in the centers following the patients, it was observed that the duration of virological response was shorter in HLA-B*57:01 positive patients (p= 0.006). Although the presence of the HLA-B*57:01 allele has a negative impact due to its association with hypersensitivity, it is likely to continue to attract interest due to its association with slower progression of HIV infection and reduced risk of developing AIDS. In addition, although the answer to the question of whether it is cost-effective to screen patients for HLA-B*57:01 before starting an abacavir-containing ART regimen for the treatment of HIV infection is being sought, it seems that HIV treatment guidelines will continue to recommend screening to identify patients at risk in this regard.
38278784 | Human coronavirus OC43-elicited CD4+ T cells protect against SARS-CoV-2 in HLA transgenic mice. SARS-CoV-2-reactive T cells are detected in some healthy unexposed individuals. Human studies indicate these T cells could be elicited by the common cold coronavirus OC43. To directly test this assumption and define the role of OC43-elicited T cells that are cross-reactive with SARS-CoV-2, we develop a model of sequential infections with OC43 followed by SARS-CoV-2 in HLA-B*0702 and HLA-DRB1*0101 Ifnar1-/- transgenic mice. We find that OC43 infection can elicit polyfunctional CD8+ and CD4+ effector T cells that cross-react with SARS-CoV-2 peptides. Furthermore, pre-exposure to OC43 reduces subsequent SARS-CoV-2 infection and disease in the lung for a short-term in HLA-DRB1*0101 Ifnar1-/- transgenic mice, and a longer-term in HLA-B*0702 Ifnar1-/- transgenic mice. Depletion of CD4+ T cells in HLA-DRB1*0101 Ifnar1-/- transgenic mice with prior OC43 exposure results in increased viral burden in the lung but no change in virus-induced lung damage following infection with SARS-CoV-2 (versus CD4+ T cell-sufficient mice), demonstrating that the OC43-elicited SARS-CoV-2 cross-reactive T cell-mediated cross-protection against SARS-CoV-2 is partially dependent on CD4+ T cells. These findings contribute to our understanding of the origin of pre-existing SARS-CoV-2-reactive T cells and their effects on SARS-CoV-2 clinical outcomes, and also carry implications for development of broadly protective betacoronavirus vaccines.
38345618 | The COVID-19 lockdown experience suggests that restricting the supply of gambling can reduce gambling problems: An Australian prospective study. Background and aims: COVID-19 lockdowns limited access to gambling but simultaneously elevated psychosocial stressors. This study assessed the relative effects of these changes on gambling risk status during and after the Australian COVID-19 lockdown from late-March to late-May 2020. Methods: The study administered three surveys to people who had gambled within the past year at T1. Wave 1 asked about before (T1, N = 2,125) and during lockdown (T2, N = 2,125). Subsequent surveys focused on one year (T3; N = 649) and two years after lockdown (T4, N = 458). The dependent variable was changes in reporting any problem gambling symptoms (PGSI 0 vs 1+). Bivariate analyses and multinomial logistic regression tested for significant associations with: demographics, psychosocial stressors (perceived stress, psychological distress, loneliness, health anxiety about COVID, financial hardship, stressful life events), gambling participation and gambling frequency. Results: Gambling participation and at-risk gambling decreased between T1 and T2, increased at T3, with little further change at T4. When gambling availability was curtailed, decreased gambling frequency on EGMs, casino games, sports betting or race betting, and lower psychosocial stress, were associated with transitions from at-risk to non-problem gambling. When gambling availability resumed, increased EGM gambling frequency, decreased online gambling frequency, and higher psychosocial stress were associated with transitions from non-problem to at-risk gambling. Discussion and conclusions: Gambling availability appears a stronger influence on gambling problems, at the population level, than psychosocial risk factors. Reducing the supply of high-risk gambling products, particularly EGMs, is likely to reduce gambling harm.
38427376 | Response to the Commentary on: \Pectoralis muscle area measured at T4 level is closely associated with adverse COVID-19 outcomes in hospitalized patients\. 
38450623 | Human Umbilical Cord-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in the Treatment of Multiple Sclerosis Patients: Phase I/II Dose-Finding Clinical Study. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic neuro-inflammatory disease resulting in disabilities that negatively impact patients' life quality. While current treatment options do not reverse the course of the disease, treatment using mesenchymal stromal/stem cells (MSC) is promising. There has yet to be a consensus on the type and dose of MSC to be used in MS. This work aims to study the safety and efficacy of two treatment protocols of MSCs derived from the umbilical cord (UC-MSCs) and their secretome. The study included two groups of MS patients; Group A received two intrathecal doses of UC-MSCs, and Group B received a single dose. Both groups received UC-MSCs conditioned media 3 months post-treatment. Adverse events in the form of a clinical checklist and extensive laboratory tests were performed. Whole transcriptome analysis was performed on patients' cells at baseline and post-treatment. Results showed that all patients tolerated the cellular therapy without serious adverse events. The general disability scale improved significantly in both groups at 6 months post-treatment. Examining specific aspects of the disease revealed more parameters that improved in Group A compared to Group B patients, including a significant increase in the (CD3+CD4+) expressing lymphocytes at 12 months post-treatment. In addition, better outcomes were noted regarding lesion load, cortical thickness, manual dexterity, and information processing speed. Both protocols impacted the transcriptome of treated participants with genes, transcription factors, and microRNAs (miRNAs) differentially expressed compared to baseline. Inflammation-related and antigen-presenting (HLA-B) genes were downregulated in both groups. In contrast, TNF-alpha, TAP-1, and miR142 were downregulated only in Group A. The data presented indicate that both protocols are safe. Furthermore, it suggests that administering two doses of stem cells can be more beneficial to MS patients. Larger multisite studies should be initiated to further examine similar or higher doses of MSCs.
38465618 | Implementing Longitudinal Wellbeing Interventions and Evaluation Among Midwestern Healthcare Workers During COVID-19. BACKGROUND: The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the mental health of healthcare workers throughout the world has been reported, but most studies have been cross-sectional and excluded the Midwestern U.S. healthcare workforce. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to longitudinally assess the psychological wellbeing and wellness strategies used by a Midwestern academic health system's workforce at multiple points throughout waves of the COVID-19 pandemic to inform ongoing implementation of appropriate wellness activities. METHODS: An anonymous REDCap survey linked within our team-developed wellness education was posted in the employee online newsletter in April (T1), July (T2), October 2020 (T3), and May 2021 (T4). Surveys were open to all employees (approx. 9000) for approximately 12 days at each time point. Anxiety, depressive symptoms, stress, self-efficacy, and self-care activities were assessed. Following each data collection, team members discussed findings and planned wellness education implementation. RESULTS: Response ranged from n = 731 (T1) to n = 172 (T4). Moderate to severe stress was reported by 29.5% (n = 203) of respondents at T1 and 34.0% (n = 108) at T2. At T3, all psychological symptoms significantly increased (p < .001) as COVID-19 surged, with 48.5% (n = 141) of respondents reporting moderate to severe stress. At T4, stress significantly declined (p < .001). Exercise was the most frequently reported coping strategy. CONCLUSIONS: Mental health symptoms reported by a Midwestern healthcare workforce increased during surges of COVID-19 hospitalizations. Individuals in non-patient contact roles experienced symptom levels similar to and at times with greater severity than healthcare personnel with patient contact roles.
38470627 | Associations between Parental Educational Attainment, Children's 24-h Behaviors and Children's Hyperactivity Behavior in the COVID-19 Pandemic. BACKGROUND: Parental Educational Attainment and children's 24-h behaviors significantly influenced children's hyperactivity symptoms. This study aimed to examine the mediating role of children's 24-h behavior changes due to the COVID-19 pandemic between Parental Educational Attainment and children's hyperactivity index. It also aimed to investigate the associations between Children's Physical Activity, digital media use, sleep, and hyperactivity index between two clusters of Parental Educational Attainments. The goal was to provide targeted behavioral optimization recommendations for caregivers to reduce the risk of children's hyperactivity. METHODS: The study was a collaborative extension of the International iPreschooler Surveillance Study Among Asians and otheRs project and the Chinese Children and Adolescent Sports Health Promotion Action Project. The Parent-Surveillance of Digital Media in Childhood Questionnaire  and the Abbreviated Rating Scales from the Conners Parent Symptom Questionnaire were used to measure Parental Educational Attainment, children's behavior changes during the COVID-19 pandemic, and hyperactivity indexes. A total of 11,190 parents of 6-to-12-year-old children completed the online surveys in mainland China. A structural equation model was established by using Smart-PLS, and the linear regression model, and isotemporal substitution models were established by using a Compositional Data Analysis package with R program to achieve the research objectives. RESULTS: Changes in children's 24-h behaviors due to the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant mediation effect on the negative associations between Parental Educational Attainment and children's hyperactivity index (beta = 0.018, T = 4.521, p < 0.001) with a total effect (beta = -0.046, T = 4.521, p < 0.001) and a direct effect (beta = -0.064, T = 6.330, p < 0.001). Children's Digital Media use was significantly and negatively associated with hyperactivity index among all children. Reallocated time from digital media use to both sleep and physical activity decreased the hyperactivity index, and vice-versa. For parents without tertiary education (R2 = 0.09, p < 0.001), sleep was significantly and negatively associated with the hyperactivity index (betailr-CSL = -0.06, p < 0.001); for parents with tertiary education (R2 = 0.07, p < 0.001), physical activity was significantly and negatively associated with the hyperactivity index (betailr-CPA = -0.05, p < 0.001), and sleep was significantly and positively associated with the hyperactivity index (betailr-CSL = 0.03, p < 0.001). A significant increase in the hyperactivity index was detected when physical activity time was reallocated to sleep, with a significant decrease in the opposite direction. CONCLUSIONS: Parental Educational Attainment and children's 24-h behaviors directly influenced children's hyperactivity index. However, a purposeful and targeted optimization of children's 24-h behaviors-namely, physical activity, digital media use, and sleep-could assist parents with different educational attainments to reduce their children's hyperactivity index and mitigate the risk of hyperactivity.
38488328 | Dandruff lesional scalp skin exhibits epidermal T cell infiltration and a weakened hair follicle immune privilege. OBJECTIVE: Dandruff is characterised by the presence of perivascular leukocytes and mild inflammation; however, the immune microenvironment of dandruff-affected scalp skin and the potential changes to the hair follicle's (HF) physiological immune privilege (HF IP) remain unknown. Here, we characterised the HF immune microenvironment and immune privilege status in dandruff-affected scalp skin. METHODS: We assessed relevant key parameters in healthy versus dandruff-affected human scalp biopsies using quantitative immunohistomorphometry, laser capture microdissection, and RNA sequencing. RESULTS: The number of epidermal CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was increased in lesional dandruff scalp skin, while the number of MHC class II+ /CD1a+ Langerhans cells was decreased in the infundibulum. The number of intrafollicular and perifollicular CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells, perifollicular CD68+ macrophages, and tryptase+ mast cells remained unchanged. Interestingly, MHC class Ia and ss2-microglobulin protein expression were significantly increased specifically in the suprabulbar outer root sheath (ORS) compartment of dandruff-associated HFs. RNAseq analysis of laser capture micro-dissected suprabulbar ORS compartment revealed antigen presentation pathway as the top regulated canonical pathway, along with the upregulation of HF-IP genes such as HLA-C, HLA-DP, and TAP1, which are normally down-regulated in healthy HFs. Intrafollicular protein expression of known HF IP guardians (CD200 and alpha-MSH) and 'danger signals' (MICA and CXCL10) remained unaltered at the IP sites of dandruff lesional HFs compared to non-lesional and healthy HFs. Instead, the expression of macrophage migration inhibiting factor (MIF), another HF IP guardian, was reduced. CONCLUSION: Together, this work shows that dandruff is associated with epidermal T-cell infiltration and a weakened HF IP in the suprabulbar ORS of HFs in dandruff lesional scalp.
1382298 | Escherichia coli MutY protein has both N-glycosylase and apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease activities on A.C and A.G mispairs. In Escherichia coli the mutY (or micA)-dependent DNA mismatch repair pathway can convert A degrees G and A degrees C mismatches to C.G and G.C base pairs, respectively, through a short repair-tract mechanism. The MutY protein has been purified to near homogeneity from an E. coli overproducer strain. Purified MutY has been shown to contain both N-glycosylase and 3' apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) endonuclease activities. The N-glycosylase removes the mispaired adenines of A degrees G and A degrees C mismatches, and the AP endonuclease acts on the first phosphodiester bond 3' to the AP sites. The N-glycosylase and the nicking (combined N-glycosylase and AP endonuclease) activities copurified through multiple chromatographic steps without a change in relative specific activities. Furthermore, both N-glycosylase and AP endonuclease activities can be recovered by renaturation of a single polypeptide band from an SDS/polyacrylamide gel. Renaturation required the presence of iron and sulfide. These findings suggest that the MutY protein, like endonuclease III, is an iron-sulfur protein. DNA fragments with A degrees C mismatches were 20-fold less active than DNA with A degrees G mispairs as a substrate for purified MutY.
9394455 | Electron microscopy of biological specimens by the plasma-polymerization rapid-freeze replica method. The plasma-polymerization replica method is a unique replica technique for transmission electron microscopy. In the present study, we used this method in combination with a rapid-freeze technique to observe T4 bacteriophages and hepatitis B virus core particles. The heads of T4 bacteriophages appeared hexagonal and measured approximately 110 nm in length. Striations in their tails were also visible, indicating that the resolution of the present method is better than 4 nm. The images corresponded well with those obtained by ice-embedding and negative staining methods, with respect to both morphology and size of the phage particle. Hepatitis B virus core particles observed by the present method appeared round, approximately 30 nm in diameter, with hollow centres. Again, the morphology and size of the particles corresponded well with those obtained by ice-embedding, negative staining, and ultrathin sectioning. From these results, we conclude that the plasma-polymerization rapid-freeze replica method provides a useful technique for observation of biological specimens in a natural state and at high resolution.
9842722 | Vertical Pt-C replication for TEM, a revolution in imaging non-periodic macromolecules, biological gels and low-density polymer networks. Vertical replication for TEM is ideal for studying non-periodic specimens from 0.7 to 3 nm, a resolution mid-range difficult to attain by any other technique. This paper discusses the importance of vertical replication, its methods and hardware for high-resolution TEM. Evidence from diverse published research will demonstrate vertical replication's versatility in imaging the molecular level normally unattainable in freeze-dried polymers, polyethylene tribological wear on surfaces, low-density polymer networks or biological gels. Vertical platinum-carbon (Pt-C) replication minimizes the horizontal movement of Pt-C on a surface. Surface objects are symmetrically enlarged by a vertically deposited Pt-C film. To estimate real size in replicas, 16-25 particles or filaments need to be measured in calibrated transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images and reduced by a value less than the Pt-C film thickness measured with a quartz monitor. Continuous, vertically deposited Pt-C films are formed on mica at a deposition thickness of around 1.0 nm and on silver at a thickness of 0.4-0.5 nm. The distance between helical turns in poly(1-tetradecene sulfone) of 0.7 nm is the highest resolution achieved with vertical replication. Two polysulfones freeze-dried and vertically replicated on mica contained structures are predicted by indirect physical chemical methods to be present in solution. Polymer chains are fully Pt-C coated, with no uncoated gaps along chains. Some side-chains on the extended non-helical poly(1-tetradecene sulfone) are also detected. To estimate the real chain width, polymer chains measured in images are reduced by the Pt-C film thickness minus 0.5 nm. The polymer chain widths estimated from molecular models are in the same range of widths as those measured using the image size correction method. Also, it is possible to distinguish random coil proteins (chain width of around 0.5 nm) from an alpha-helix (chain diameter of about 1 nm) in vertically replicated samples on silver substrates. In the future, subnanometer resolutions below 0.7 nm should be possible. The resolution of vertical replication depends on the thickness of a continuous, amorphous Pt-C film. That thin, continuous 0.4-0.5 nm Pt-C films on silver substrates can be made suggests that a point-to-point resolution limit of around 0.28 nm in TEM may ultimately be approachable with replication.
11794617 | Atomic force microscopy analysis of bacteriophages phiKZ and T4. Bacteriophage phiKZ was investigated by atomic force microscopy (AFM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The well-known phage T4 was used as a reference sample. Reproducible contact mode AFM images of native and partially disintegrated particles of bacteriophage phiKZ in air were obtained. It was demonstrated that the heads of phiKZ and T4 phages were compressed differently and depended on adsorption onto highly ordered pyrolytic graphite and mica. We have established a procedure to partially disintegrate the viral particles after which the internal protein body, which is a helical structure with a cylinder-like form, was easily observable inside the bacteriophage phiKZ head.
12173433 | [Detection of DNA packing density in bacteriophages Phi KZ and T4 by atomic force microscopy]. Comparative analysis of DNA packing density in Phi KZ and T4 bacteriophages was carried out by atomic force microscopy. Irrespective of the support (mica or highly ordered pyrrolytic graphite), Phi KZ bacteriophage was compressed stronger than T4. The most probable causes of this difference are analyzed.
12732362 | Effect of in vivo administered hexachlorobenzene on epidermal growth factor receptor levels, protein tyrosine kinase activity, and phosphotyrosine content in rat liver. In the present study, the effects of hexachlorobenzene (HCB) on epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) content of liver microsomes and plasma membrane, and on EGFR-tyrosine kinase activity in the microsomal fraction were investigated. In addition, we studied the parameters of the tyrosine kinase signalling pathway such as protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) activity and phosphotyrosine content in microsomal and cytosolic protein. To determine whether the observed alterations were correlated with a manifestation of overt toxicity, a single very low dose of HCB (1mg/kg body wt) and two much higher doses (100 and 1000 mg/kg body wt), the highest being toxicologically significant in that it reduced serum thyroxine (T(4)) and inhibited uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (URO-D) (EC 4.1.1.37) activity, were tested. Our results demonstrated that liver microsomes of rats treated with HCB had higher levels of EGFR than untreated rats; treated rats also had less EGFR present in hepatocyte plasma membrane fractions than did untreated rats. HCB altered the phosphotyrosine content and protein phosphorylation of some microsomal and cytosolic proteins in a biphasic dose-response relationship. At the low dose, phosphorylation and phosphotyrosine content of several microsomal proteins were increased; however, these effects were diminished or reversed at the higher doses. Our results suggest that chronic HCB treatment produces a down-regulation of the EGFR and a dose-dependent increase in EGFR-tyrosine kinase activity in the microsomal fraction. This effect may contribute to the alteration of membrane and cytosolic protein tyrosine phosphorylation. The level of sensitivity encountered in our studies is extraordinary, occurring at 1/10 to 1/1000 the doses of HCB known to cause other toxicological lesions.
16803194 | Size effects under a strong magnetic field: Hall effect induced by electron-surface scattering on thin gold films deposited onto mica substrates under high vacuum. We report measurements of the Hall effect performed on 4 gold films evaporated onto mica substrates where the signal arises primarily from electron-surface scattering. The measurements were performed at low temperatures T (4 K < or = T < or = 50 K) under high magnetic field strengths B (1.5 T < or = B < or = 9 T), with B oriented perpendicular to the films.
16834415 | Sturdier DNA nanotubes via ligation. DNA nanotubes are crystalline self-assemblies of DNA tiles approximately 10 nm in diameter that readily grow tens of micrometers in length. Easy assembly, programmability, and stiffness make them interesting for many applications, but DNA nanotubes begin to melt at temperatures below 40 degrees C, break open when deposited on mica or scanned by AFM, and disintegrate in deionized water. These weaknesses can be traced to the presence of discontinuities in the phosphate backbone, called nicks. The nanotubes studied here have five nicks, one in the core of a tile and one at each corner. We report the successful ligation of all four corner nicks by T4 DNA ligase. Although ligation does not change the nanotubes' stiffness, ligated nanotubes withstand temperatures over 70 degrees C, resist breaking during AFM, and are stable in pure water for over a month. Ligated DNA nanotubes are thus physically and chemically sturdy enough to withstand the manipulations necessary for many technological applications.
23687071 | A versatile approach towards the compaction, decompaction, and immobilization of DNA at interfaces by using cyclodextrins. We investigate the temperature dependence of interactions of beta-cyclodextrin (CD)/hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) self-assemblies with DNA during the decompaction of DNA/CTAB complexes. By combining direct imaging techniques with density and sound-velocity measurements, we can explain the decompaction process and suggest a suitable model. The DNA-decompaction process by using CDs is accompanied by interactions with surfaces, such as glass or mica. The mechanism of beta-CD/CTAB self-assembly is elucidated and the immobilization of DNA onto negatively charged surfaces is explained. Differences between the fractal dimensions of DNA that is adsorbed onto the surfaces are related to strong and weak binding, which permit the partial relaxation of DNA on the surfaces. The beta-CD/CTAB self-assembled monolayers are demonstrated to be a facile and efficient route for surface functionalization, which allows for the immobilization of biomacromolecules in close proximity without any intermediate binding or deprotection steps. Moreover, this route is expected to show several advantages that might contribute to improving the performance of future biosensors as gentle immobilization-limiting alteration of the protein structure, oriented immobilization, thereby allowing homogeneous accessibility, reversible immobilization, thereby allowing reutilizations, and high compatibility with various types of biomacromolecules. 
24244437 | An improved method for surface immobilisation of RNA: application to small non-coding RNA-mRNA pairing. Characterisation of RNA and its intermolecular interactions is increasing in importance as the inventory of known RNA functions continues to expand. RNA-RNA interactions are central to post-transcriptional gene regulation mechanisms in bacteria, and the interactions of bacterial small non-coding RNAs (sRNAs) with their mRNA targets are the subject of much current research. The technology of surface plasmon resonance (SPR) is an attractive approach to studying these interactions since it is highly sensitive, and allows interaction measurements to be recorded in real-time. Whilst a number of approaches exist to label RNAs for surface-immobilisation, the method documented here is simple, quick, efficient, and utilises the high-affinity streptavidin-biotin interaction. Specifically, we ligate a biotinylated nucleotide to the 3' end of RNA using T4 RNA ligase. Although this is a previously recognised approach, we have optimised the method by our discovery that the incorporation of four or more adenine nucleotides at the 3' end of the RNA (a poly-A-tail) is required in order to achieve high ligation efficiencies. We use this method within the context of investigating small non-coding RNA (sRNA)-mRNA interactions through the application of surface technologies, including quantitative SPR assays. We first focus on validating the method using the recently characterised Escherichia coli sRNA-mRNA pair, MicA-ompA, specifically demonstrating that the addition of the poly-A-tail to either RNA does not affect its subsequent binding interactions with partner molecules. We then apply this method to investigate the novel interactions of a Vibrio cholerae Qrr sRNA with partner mRNAs, hapR and vca0939; RNA-RNA pairings that are important in mediating pathogenic virulence. The calculated binding parameters allow insights to be drawn regarding sRNA-mRNA interaction mechanisms.
25353832 | Interplay between the mechanics of bacteriophage fibers and the strength of virus-host links. Viral fibers play a central role in many virus infection mechanisms since they recognize the corresponding host and establish a mechanical link to its surface. Specifically, bacteriophages have to anchor to bacteria through the fibers surrounding the tail before starting the viral DNA translocation into the host. The protein gene product (gp) 37 from bacteriophage T4 long tail fibers forms a fibrous parallel homotrimer located at the distal end of the long tail fibers. Biochemical data indicate that, at least, three of these fibers are required for initial host cell interaction but do not reveal why three and no other numbers are required. By using atomic force microscopy, we obtained high-resolution images of gp37 fibers adsorbed on a mica substrate in buffer conditions and probed their local mechanical properties. Our experiments of radial indentation at the nanometer scale provided a radial stiffness of ~ 0.08 N/m and a breaking force of ~ 120 pN. In addition, we performed finite element analysis and determined a Young's modulus of ~ 20 MPa. From these mechanical parameters, we hypothesize that three viral fibers provide enough mechanical strength to prevent a T4 virus from being detached from the bacteria by the viral particle Brownian motion, delivering a biophysical justification for the previous biochemical data.
26041808 | NKG2D Receptor and Its Ligands in Host Defense. NKG2D is an activating receptor expressed on the surface of natural killer (NK) cells, CD8(+) T cells, and subsets of CD4(+) T cells, invariant NKT cells (iNKT), and gammadelta T cells. In humans, NKG2D transmits signals by its association with the DAP10 adapter subunit, and in mice alternatively spliced isoforms transmit signals either using DAP10 or DAP12 adapter subunits. Although NKG2D is encoded by a highly conserved gene (KLRK1) with limited polymorphism, the receptor recognizes an extensive repertoire of ligands, encoded by at least eight genes in humans (MICA, MICB, RAET1E, RAET1G, RAET1H, RAET1I, RAET1L, and RAET1N), some with extensive allelic polymorphism. Expression of the NKG2D ligands is tightly regulated at the level of transcription, translation, and posttranslation. In general, healthy adult tissues do not express NKG2D glycoproteins on the cell surface, but these ligands can be induced by hyperproliferation and transformation, as well as when cells are infected by pathogens. Thus, the NKG2D pathway serves as a mechanism for the immune system to detect and eliminate cells that have undergone \stress.\ Viruses and tumor cells have devised numerous strategies to evade detection by the NKG2D surveillance system, and diversification of the NKG2D ligand genes likely has been driven by selective pressures imposed by pathogens. NKG2D provides an attractive target for therapeutics in the treatment of infectious diseases, cancer, and autoimmune diseases.
26106076 | Nonblocking Monoclonal Antibody Targeting Soluble MIC Revamps Endogenous Innate and Adaptive Antitumor Responses and Eliminates Primary and Metastatic Tumors. PURPOSE: The human tumor-derived soluble MHC I-chain-related molecule (sMIC) is highly immune suppressive in cancer patients and correlates with poor prognosis. However, the therapeutic effect of targeting sMIC has not been determined, due to the limitation that mice do not express homologs of human MIC. This study is to evaluate the therapeutic effect of a monoclonal antibody (mAb) targeting sMIC in a clinically relevant transgenic animal model. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We treated the engineered MIC-expressing \humanized\ TRAMP/MIC bitransgenic mice at advanced disease stages with a sMIC-neutralizing nonblocking anti-MIC mAb and assessed the therapeutic efficacy and associated mechanisms. RESULTS: A sMIC-neutralizing nonblocking anti-MIC mAb effectively induced regression of primary tumors and eliminated metastasis without inducing systemic toxicity. The therapeutic effect is conferred by revamping endogenous antitumor immune responses, exemplified by restoring natural killer (NK) cell homeostasis and function, enhancing susceptibility of MIC(+)-tumor cells to NK cell killing, reviving and sustaining antigen-specific CD8 T-cell responses, augmenting CD4 T cells to Th1 responses, priming dendritic cells for antigen presentation, and remodeling tumor microenvironment to be more immune reactive. CONCLUSIONS: Therapy with a sMIC-neutralizing nonblocking anti-MIC mAb can effectuate antitumor immune responses against advanced MIC(+) tumors. Our study provided strong rationale for translating sMIC-neutralizing therapeutic mAb into clinics, either alone or in combination with current ongoing standard immunotherapies.
27057436 | Immunological markers and clinical outcome of advanced melanoma patients receiving ipilimumab plus fotemustine in the NIBIT-M1 study. Clinical activity was observed in metastatic melanoma (MM) patients treated with ipilimumab (IPI) combined with fotemustine (FTM) in the phase II NIBIT-M1 study. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and serum were collected from MM patients at pre- and at weeks 12 and 24 post-treatment. A comprehensive phenotypic and functional immunomonitoring of circulating T cells, and the detection of soluble immunoregulatory molecules was carried out and correlated with clinical outcome. The frequency at baseline and along the treatment of circulating T central memory cells expressing activation/differentiation markers, such as CD3+CD4+CD45RO+BTLA+, CD3+CD4+4-1BB or Th17 lymphocytes correlated with the clinical outcome of MM patients. Moreover, either the absence or the presence of soluble NKG2D ligands (ULBP-1 or -2) at baseline in the serum of MM patients enabled to discriminate subjects with long-term survival (median overall survival, (OS) = 33.6 mo for ULBP-1 and -2) from poor survivors (OS = 9.8 or 6.6 mo, respectively). Conversely, no significant association between the levels of soluble MICA, MICB and ULBP-3 and the clinical outcome of patients was observed. An inverse correlation between circulating levels of these molecules at baseline and frequency of either CD3+CD4+CD45RO+BTLA+ or Th17 or CD3+CD4+4-1BB+ T cells occurred in patients with a favorable clinical outcome. The simultaneous monitoring of different immune parameters, though validation in a large cohort of patients is needed, allowed to identify an association between phenotypic and soluble markers representing a possible predictive immunological signature for the clinical activity of IPI plus FTM.
28169232 | Membrane-bound versus soluble major histocompatibility complex Class I-related chain A and major histocompatibility complex Class I-related chain B differential expression: Mechanisms of tumor eradication versus evasion and current drug development strategies. Major histocompatibility complex Class I-related chain A/chain B (MICA/MICB) is stress-inducible, highly polymorphic ligands whose expression at the transcript level has been detected in all tissues except the central nervous system. However, their restricted protein expression is due to their regulation at the posttranslational level. Its levels are elevated in virally infected and neoplastically transformed cells. Membrane expression of this NKG2DL marks the aberrant cells for elimination by those immune effector cells that express the cognate NKG2D receptor. Among the evasion strategies developed by tumors, the metalloprotease-dependent shedding of MICA/MICB from tumors (either the free or the exosome form) can contribute to the inhibition of cytolysis by the immune effector cells (all NK cells, most NKT cells; gammadelta CD8+ T cells and alphabeta CD8+ T cells, as well as some alphabeta CD4+ T cells). There are micro-RNA clusters that regulate surface expression and shedding. Polymorphic variants can be used as susceptibility/associative markers and can also possibly be used to correlate with tumor survival as well as staging/grading of tumors. Variations in the expression level require quantification of this marker for diagnostic/prognostic and therapeutic purposes. Mechanism-based studies would provide a better tumor-specific understanding of their relative roles in the processes of tumor cell elimination versus growth and progression. Last but not least, conventional, interlaboratory validated assays (for, e.g., antibody-based methods) should be replaced by robust, reproducible, feasible biophysics-based methods using tumor biopsies. Further, correlative DNA polymorphism-based studies can be done using biological fluids (for, e.g., human saliva) that can be sampled by minimally invasive means.
28608409 | Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy of pancreatic cancer induces a favorable immunogenic tumor microenvironment associated with increased major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain A/B expression. BACKGROUND: Damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) are related to immune responses in malignant tumors including tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). The aim of the present study was to determine the relationship between expression of components of DAMPs and TILs in pancreatic cancer patients who underwent neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (NACRT) versus those who did not. METHODS: NACRT was administered to 51 patients with borderline-resectable pancreatic cancer and not to 33 patients with resectable pancreatic cancer. Resected specimens were analyzed for the presence of DAMPs, major histocompatibility complex class I-related chain A/B (MICA/B), and CD8+ TILs, CD4+ TILs, and forkhead box P3 positive (Foxp3+ ) TILs. The Treg/TIL ratio was obtained by dividing the number of Foxp3+ TILs, a surrogate for regulatory T cells, by the sum of CD8+ and CD4+ TILs. RESULTS: Overexpression of calreticulin, Hsp70, and MICA/B were all significantly correlated with NACRT administration. In the NACRT group, high MICA/B expression was associated with a low Treg/TIL ratio, indicating a favorable immunogenic tumor microenvironment. Patients with a lower Treg/TIL ratio had longer survival. CONCLUSIONS: Overexpression of MICA/B, a component of DAMPs induced by NACRT, may play an important role in acquiring a favorable immune response for pancreatic cancer which contributes to longer survival, suggesting the potential of immunotherapy of this recalcitrant disease, especially for patients with overexpression of DAMPs.
29690759 | Self-Assembling Supramolecular Nanostructures Constructed from de Novo Extender Protein Nanobuilding Blocks. The design of novel proteins that self-assemble into supramolecular complexes is important for development in nanobiotechnology and synthetic biology. Recently, we designed and created a protein nanobuilding block (PN-Block), WA20-foldon, by fusing an intermolecularly folded dimeric de novo WA20 protein and a trimeric foldon domain of T4 phage fibritin (Kobayashi et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 11285). WA20-foldon formed several types of self-assembling nanoarchitectures in multiples of 6-mers, including a barrel-like hexamer and a tetrahedron-like dodecamer. In this study, to construct chain-like polymeric nanostructures, we designed de novo extender protein nanobuilding blocks (ePN-Blocks) by tandemly fusing two de novo binary-patterned WA20 proteins with various linkers. The ePN-Blocks with long helical linkers or flexible linkers were expressed in soluble fractions of Escherichia coli, and the purified ePN-Blocks were analyzed by native PAGE, size exclusion chromatography-multiangle light scattering (SEC-MALS), small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS), and transmission electron microscopy. These results suggest formation of various structural homo-oligomers. Subsequently, we reconstructed hetero-oligomeric complexes from extender and stopper PN-Blocks by denaturation and refolding. The present SEC-MALS and SAXS analyses show that extender and stopper PN-Block (esPN-Block) heterocomplexes formed different types of extended chain-like conformations depending on their linker types. Moreover, atomic force microscopy imaging in liquid suggests that the esPN-Block heterocomplexes with metal ions further self-assembled into supramolecular nanostructures on mica surfaces. Taken together, the present data demonstrate that the design and construction of self-assembling PN-Blocks using de novo proteins is a useful strategy for building polymeric nanoarchitectures of supramolecular protein complexes.
30026546 | Interactions of bacteriophage T4 adhesin with selected lipopolysaccharides studied using atomic force microscopy. The interaction between the T4 bacteriophage gp37 adhesin and the bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is a well-studied system, however, the affinity and strength of the interaction haven't been analyzed so far. Here, we use atomic force microscopy to determine the strength of the interaction between the adhesin and its receptor, namely LPS taken from a wild strain of E. coli B. As negative controls we used LPSs of E. coli O111:B and Hafnia alvei. To study the interaction an AFM tip modified with the gp37 adhesin was used to scan surfaces of mica covered with one of the three different LPSs. Using the correlation between the surface topography images and the tip-surface interaction we could verify the binding between the specific LPS and the tip in contrast to the very weak interaction between the tip and the non-binding LPSs. Using force spectroscopy we could then measure the binding strength by pulling on the AFM tip until it lifted off from the surface. The force necessary to break the interaction between gp37 and LPS from E. coli B, LPS from E. coli O111:B and LPS from H. alvei were measured to be 70 +- 29 pN, 46 +- 13 pN and 45 +- 14 pN, respectively. The latter values are likely partially due to non-specific interaction between the gp37 and the solid surface, as LPS from E. coli O111:B and LPS from H. alvei have been shown to not bind to gp37, which is confirmed by the low correlation between binding and topography for these samples.
31317218 | Immunity to X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) in malignant melanoma and check-point blockade. Expression of inhibitors of apoptosis protein (IAP) family members is associated with poor prognosis in cancer patients. Immunity to ML-IAP (livin) and survivin has been well studied in patients with a variety of tumors. XIAP, the most potent inhibitor of apoptosis, is widely expressed in melanoma. To better define its potential role as an immunogenic target, cellular and humoral responses to XIAP were investigated in patients with advanced melanoma. An overlapping peptide library covering the full length of the XIAP protein was used to screen T cell responses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from stage-IV melanoma patients treated with or without anti-CTLA4 (ipilimumab). The screen identified an array of peptides that predominantly induced CD4+ T cell responses. XIAP epitope-specific CD4+ T cells revealed proliferative responses to melanoma cells that express XIAP. Humoral responses to XIAP were also explored. Cellular and humoral responses to XIAP were associated with beneficial clinical outcomes after ipilimumab-based treatment, supporting XIAP as a potential therapeutic target.
31477625 | CD8+CD28- T cells: key cytotoxic players impacting disease pathogenesis in chronic HBV infection. During chronic hepatitis B (CHB), CD8+ T cells down-regulate CD28, the primary co-stimulation molecule for T-cell activation. Diverse functional attributes of CD8+CD28- T cells are suggested in various disease contexts. The present study aimed to characterize CD8+CD28- T cells in different phases of chronic Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection (CHI)- Immune-tolerance (IT), Hepatitis B e-antigen-positive CHB (EP-CHB), Inactive carriers (IC) and Hepatitis B e-antigen-negative CHB (EN-CHB), to appraise their contribution in HBV-related disease pathophysiology. Flow cytometry analysis of T cells in peripheral blood of study subjects revealed enhanced CD8+CD28- T-cell accumulation in EP-/EN-CHB, compared with IT/IC and they expanded equivalently in HBV-specific and non-specific CD8+ T-cell compartments. Profound increase in CD8+CD28- T cells expressing perforin/granzyme-B/CD57/IFN-gamma/TNF-alpha and markers of terminal differentiation were observed exclusively in EP-/EN-CHB. Further, activation with anti-NKG2D resulted in heightened IFN-gamma/TNF-alpha production selectively from CD8+CD28- T cells, suggesting NKG2D-mediated alternative co-stimulation. CD8+CD28- T cells sorted from CHB patients induced enhanced apoptosis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), including CD4+ T cells. However, NKG2D-ligand (major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related molecule A/B (MICA/B)) was preferentially expressed by HBV-specific CD4+ T cells of CHB patients, making these cells a potential target to NKG2D-dependent CD8+CD28- T-cell killing. Both CD28+ and CD28- T cells in CHB expressed CXCR3 at similar levels and thus capable of homing to the liver. A positive correlation was seen between CD8+CD28- T-cell frequency and serum-alanine transaminase (ALT) levels and CHB-derived CD8+CD28- T cells caused pronounced cell death in HBV-transfected Huh7 cells. Immunofluorescence staining identified greater intrahepatic incidence of CD8+CD28- T cells but decline in CD4+ T cells in CHB than IC. Collectively, CD8+CD28- T cells demonstrated differential distribution and phenotypic/functional skewing in different CHI phases and contribute to disease progression by Perforin-Granzyme- or IFN-gamma-TNF-alpha-mediated cytotoxicity while restraining antiviral immunity through NKG2D-dependent HBV-specific CD4+ T-cell depletion.
32508820 | Dendritic Epidermal T Cells in Allergic Contact Dermatitis. Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) is a common inflammatory skin disease with a prevalence of approximately 20% in the European population. ACD is caused by contact allergens that are reactive chemicals able to modify non-immunogenic self-proteins to become immunogenic proteins. The most frequent contact allergens are metals, fragrances, and preservatives. ACD clinically manifests as pruritic eczematous lesions, erythema, local papules, and oedema. ACD is a T cell-mediated disease, involving both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. In addition, gammadelta T cells appear to play an important role in the immune response to contact allergens. However, it is debated whether gammadelta T cells act in a pro- or anti-inflammatory manner. A special subset of gammadelta T cells, named dendritic epidermal T cells (DETC), is found in the epidermis of mice and it plays an important role in immunosurveillance of the skin. DETC are essential in sensing the contact allergen-induced stressed environment. Thus, allergen-induced activation of DETC is partly mediated by numerous allergen-induced stress proteins expressed on the keratinocytes (KC). Several stress proteins, like mouse UL-16-binding protein-like transcript 1 (Mult-1), histocompatibility 60 (H60) and retinoic acid early inducible-1 (Rae-1) alpha-epsilon family in mice and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-chain-related A (MICA) in humans, are upregulated on allergen-exposed KC. Allergen-induced stress proteins expressed on the KC are consequently recognized by NKG2D receptor on DETC. This review focuses on the role of gammadelta T cells in ACD, with DETC in the spotlight, and on the role of stress proteins in contact allergen-induced activation of DETC.
33284055 | Clinical relevance of NKT cells and soluble MIC-A in Hodgkin lymphoma. Previous studies demonstrated that the majority of Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) patients achieve response after treatment, while 5% become refractory. Studies analyzing the role of lymphocyte subsets in peripheral blood are limited. This investigation sought to evaluate peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets and soluble MHC class I chain-related proteins A and B (sMIC-A/B) and their correlation with survival in patients with newly diagnosed HL. The study recruited 36 patients and 72 healthy donors. HL patients showed a decrease in CD4, B, monocytes, NK, and NKT cells; and an increase in gamma-delta T cells and soluble MIC-A serum levels. Higher values of s-MIC-A  >100 ng/mL and NKT cells >40 microL correlated with poor overall survival (OS). In conclusion, in HL peripheral blood CD4 T and B cells, monocytes, NK, and NKT cells were decreased, while s-MIC-A and gamma-delta T cells increased. Higher values of s-MIC-A and NKT cells correlated with poor survival.
33457075 | Anti-NKG2D single domain-based antibodies for the modulation of anti-tumor immune response. The natural killer group 2 member D (NKG2D) receptor is a C-type lectin-like activating receptor mainly expressed by cytotoxic immune cells including NK, CD8+ T, gammadelta T and NKT cells and in some pathological conditions by a subset of CD4+ T cells. It binds a variety of ligands (NKG2DL) whose expressions is finely regulated by stress-related conditions. The NKG2DL/NKG2D axis plays a central and complex role in the regulation of immune responses against diverse cellular threats such as oncogene-mediated transformations or infections. We generated a panel of seven highly specific anti-human NKG2D single-domain antibodies targeting various epitopes. These single-domain antibodies were integrated into bivalent and bispecific antibodies using a versatile plug-and-play Fab-like format. Depending on the context, these Fab-like antibodies exhibited activating or inhibitory effects on the immune response mediated by the NKG2DL/NKG2D axis. In solution, the bivalent anti-NKG2D antibodies that compete with NKG2DL potently blocked the activation of NK cells seeded on immobilized MICA, thus constituting antagonizing candidates. Bispecific anti-NKG2DxHER2 antibodies that concomitantly engage HER2 on tumor cells and NKG2D on NK cells elicited cytotoxicity of unstimulated NK in a tumor-specific manner, regardless of their apparent affinities and epitopes. Importantly, the bispecific antibodies that do not compete with ligands binding retained their full cytotoxic activity in the presence of ligands, a valuable property to circumvent immunosuppressive effects induced by soluble ligands in the microenvironment.
33987094 | Preinvasive Colorectal Lesions of African Americans Display an Immunosuppressive Signature Compared to Caucasian Americans. BACKGROUND: African Americans (AAs) have higher colorectal cancer (CRC) incidence and mortality rate than Caucasian Americans (CAs). Recent studies suggest that immune responses within CRCs contribute to the disparities. If racially distinct immune signatures are present in the early phases of carcinogenesis, they could be used to develop interventions to prevent or slow disease. METHODS: We selected a convenience sample of 95 patients (48 CAs, 47 AAs) with preinvasive colorectal adenomas from the surgical pathology laboratory at the Medical University of South Carolina. Using immunofluorescent-conjugated antibodies on tissue slides from the lesions, we quantified specific immune cell populations: mast cells (CD117+), Th17 cells (CD4+RORC+), and NK cell ligand (MICA/B) and inflammatory cytokines, including IL-6, IL-17A, and IFN-gamma. We compared the mean density counts (MDCs) and density rate ratios (RR) and 95% CI of immune markers between AAs to CAs using negative binomial regression analysis. We adjusted our models for age, sex, clinicopathologic characteristics (histology, location, dysplasia), and batch. RESULTS: We observed no racial differences in age or sex at the baseline endoscopic exam. AAs compared to CAs had a higher prevalence of proximal adenomas (66% vs. 40%) and a lower prevalence of rectal adenomas (11% vs. 23%) (p =0.04) but no other differences in pathologic characteristics. In age, sex, and batch adjusted models, AAs vs. CAs had lower RRs for cells labeled with IFNgamma (RR 0.50 (95% CI 0.32-0.81); p=0.004) and NK cell ligand (RR 0.67 (0.43-1.04); p=0.07). In models adjusted for age, sex, and clinicopathologic variables, AAs had reduced RRs relative to CAs for CD4 (p=0.02), NK cell ligands (p=0.01), Th17 (p=0.005), mast cells (p=0.04) and IFN-gamma (p< 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the lower RRs in AAs vs. CAs suggests reduced effector response capacity and an immunosuppressive ('cold') tumor environment. Our results also highlight the importance of colonic location of adenoma in influencing these differences; the reduced immune responses in AAs relative to CAs may indicate impaired immune surveillance in early carcinogenesis. Future studies are needed to understand the role of risk factors (such as obesity) in influencing differences in immune responses by race.
34012432 | Increased Concentrations of Circulating Soluble MHC Class I-Related Chain A (sMICA) and sMICB and Modulation of Plasma Membrane MICA Expression: Potential Mechanisms and Correlation With Natural Killer Cell Activity in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a severe autoimmune disease of unknown etiology. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-related chain A (MICA) and B (MICB) are stress-inducible cell surface molecules. MICA and MICB label malfunctioning cells for their recognition by cytotoxic lymphocytes such as natural killer (NK) cells. Alterations in this recognition have been found in SLE. MICA/MICB can be shed from the cell surface, subsequently acting either as a soluble decoy receptor (sMICA/sMICB) or in CD4+ T-cell expansion. Conversely, NK cells are frequently defective in SLE and lower NK cell numbers have been reported in patients with active SLE. However, these cells are also thought to exert regulatory functions and to prevent autoimmunity. We therefore investigated whether, and how, plasma membrane and soluble MICA/B are modulated in SLE and whether they influence NK cell activity, in order to better understand how MICA/B may participate in disease development. We report significantly elevated concentrations of circulating sMICA/B in SLE patients compared with healthy individuals or a control patient group. In SLE patients, sMICA concentrations were significantly higher in patients positive for anti-SSB and anti-RNP autoantibodies. In order to study the mechanism and the potential source of sMICA, we analyzed circulating sMICA concentration in Behcet patients before and after interferon (IFN)-alpha therapy: no modulation was observed, suggesting that IFN-alpha is not intrinsically crucial for sMICA release in vivo. We also show that monocytes and neutrophils stimulated in vitro with cytokines or extracellular chromatin up-regulate plasma membrane MICA expression, without releasing sMICA. Importantly, in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy individuals stimulated in vitro by cell-free chromatin, NK cells up-regulate CD69 and CD107 in a monocyte-dependent manner and at least partly via MICA-NKG2D interaction, whereas NK cells were exhausted in SLE patients. In conclusion, sMICA concentrations are elevated in SLE patients, whereas plasma membrane MICA is up-regulated in response to some lupus stimuli and triggers NK cell activation. Those results suggest the requirement for a tight control in vivo and highlight the complex role of the MICA/sMICA system in SLE.
34188163 | Bevacizumab improves tumor infiltration of mature dendritic cells and effector T-cells in triple-negative breast cancer patients. A single dose of bevacizumab reduced the density of angiopoietin-2-positive vessels while improving the infiltration of CD4+ T and CD8+ T cells, and mature dendritic cells in patients with primary triple-negative breast cancer. Our findings provide a rationale for including bevacizumab during neoadjuvant treatment to enhance the efficacy of immune checkpoint blockers in this disease.
34341013 | Immune Responses Vary in Preinvasive Colorectal Lesions by Tumor Location and Histology. Immune responses vary in colorectal cancers, which strongly influence prognosis. However, little is known about the variance in immune response within preinvasive lesions. The study aims to investigate how the immune contexture differs by clinicopathologic features (location, histology, dysplasia) associated with progression and recurrence in early carcinogenesis. We performed a cross-sectional study using preinvasive lesions from the surgical pathology laboratory at the Medical University of South Carolina. We stained the tissues with immunofluorescence antibodies, then scanned and analyzed expression using automated image analysis software. We stained CD117 as a marker of mast cells, CD4/RORC to indicate Th17 cells, MICA/B as a marker of NK-cell ligands, and also used antibodies directed against cytokines IL6, IL17A, and IFNgamma. We used negative binomial regression analysis to compare analyte density counts by location, histology, degree of dysplasia adjusted for age, sex, race, and batch. All immune markers studied (except IL17a) had significantly higher density counts in the proximal colon than distal colon and rectum. Increases in villous histology were associated with significant decreases in immune responses for IL6, IL17a, NK ligand, and mast cells. No differences were observed in lesions with low- and high-grade dysplasia, except in mast cells. The lesions of the proximal colon were rich in immune infiltrate, paralleling the responses observed in normal mucosa and invasive disease. The diminishing immune response with increasing villous histology suggests an immunologically suppressive tumor environment. Our findings highlight the heterogeneity of the immune responses in preinvasive lesions, which may have implications for prevention strategies. PREVENTION RELEVANCE: Our study is focused on immune infiltrate expression in preinvasive colorectal lesions; our results suggest important differences by clinicopathologic features that have implications for immune prevention research.
34772758 | Combining CTLA-4 and angiopoietin-2 blockade in patients with advanced melanoma: a phase I trial. BACKGROUND: Angiogenic factors promote the growth of tumor vasculature, modulate lymphocyte trafficking into tumors, and inhibit maturation of dendritic cells. We hypothesized that MEDI3617, a human IgG1 kappa monoclonal antibody directed against human angiopoietin-2, in combination with tremelimumab (treme), an IgG2 monoclonal antibody blocking cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein- (CTLA-4), is safe in patients with advanced melanoma. METHODS: In a phase I, 3+3 dose escalation trial, patients with metastatic or unresectable melanoma received treme in combination with MEDI3617. The primary objectives of the study were safety and determination of recommended phase II dose (RP2D). The secondary objectives included determination of 6-month and 1-year overall survival and best overall response rate. Immune cell populations and soluble factors were assessed in peripheral blood and metastatic tumors using Fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS), Luminex, and multiplexed immunofluorescence. RESULTS: Fifteen patients (median age: 62) were enrolled in the study (3 patients in cohort 1: treme at 10 mg/kg and MEDI3617 at 200 mg; and 12 patients in cohort 2: treme at 10 mg/kg and MEDI3617 at 600 mg). The most common all-grade treatment-related adverse events were rash, pruritus, fatigue, and extremity edema. No dose-limiting toxicities were observed. Cohort 2 was determined to be the RP2D. There were no patients with confirmed immune-related complete response or immune-related partial response. Six of 15 patients had immune-related stable disease, resulting in a disease control rate of 0.40 (95% CI 0.16 to 0.68). An increase in frequencies of circulating inducible T-cell costimulator (ICOS)+ and human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DR+ CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and production of Interleukin-2 and Interleukin-10 was observed post therapy. CONCLUSIONS: Tremelimumab in combination with MEDI3617 is safe in patients with advanced melanoma. Angiopoietin-2 inhibition in combination with immune checkpoint inhibition warrants further exploration. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02141542.
35074904 | Improved prognosis and evidence of enhanced immunogenicity in tumor and circulation of high-risk melanoma patients with unknown primary. BACKGROUND: Melanoma of unknown primary (MUP) represents a poorly understood group of patients both clinically and immunologically. We investigated differences in prognosis and candidate immune biomarkers in patients with unknown compared with those with known primary melanoma enrolled in the E1609 adjuvant trial that tested ipilimumab at 3 and 10 mg/kg vs high-dose interferon-alfa (HDI). PATIENTS AND METHODS: MUP status was defined as initial presentation with cutaneous, nodal or distant metastasis without a known primary. Relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) rates were estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Stratified (by stage) log-rank test was used to compare RFS and OS by primary tumor status. Gene expression profiling (GEP) was performed on the tumor biopsies of a subset of patients. Similarly, peripheral blood samples were tested for candidate soluble and cellular immune biomarkers. RESULTS: MUP cases represented 12.8% of the total population (N=1699) including 11.7% on the ipilimumab arms and 14.7% on the HDI arm. Stratifying by stage, RFS (p=0.001) and overall survival (OS) (p=0.009) showed outcomes significantly better for patients with unknown primary. The primary tumor status remained prognostically significant after adjusting for treatment and stage in multivariate Cox proportional hazards models. Including only ipilimumab-treated patients, RFS (p=0.005) and OS (p=0.023) were significantly better in favor of those with unknown primary. Among patients with GEP data (n=718; 102 MUP, 616 known), GEP identified pathways and genes related to autoimmunity, inflammation, immune cell infiltration and immune activation that were significantly enriched in the MUP tumors compared with known primaries. Further investigation into infiltrating immune cell types estimated significant enrichment with CD8 +and CD4+T cells, B cells and NK cells as well as significantly higher major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-I and MHC-II scores in MUP compared with known primary. Among patients tested for circulating biomarkers (n=321; 66 unknown and 255 known), patients with MUP had significantly higher circulating levels of IL-2R (p=0.04). CONCLUSION: Patients with MUP and high-risk melanoma had significantly better prognosis and evidence of significantly enhanced immune activation within the TME and the circulation, supporting the designation of MUP as a distinct prognostic marker in patients with high-risk melanoma.
35614223 | A vaccine targeting resistant tumours by dual T cell plus NK cell attack. Most cancer vaccines target peptide antigens, necessitating personalization owing to the vast inter-individual diversity in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules that present peptides to T cells. Furthermore, tumours frequently escape T cell-mediated immunity through mechanisms that interfere with peptide presentation1. Here we report a cancer vaccine that induces a coordinated attack by diverse T cell and natural killer (NK) cell populations. The vaccine targets the MICA and MICB (MICA/B) stress proteins expressed by many human cancers as a result of DNA damage2. MICA/B serve as ligands for the activating NKG2D receptor on T cells and NK cells, but tumours evade immune recognition by proteolytic MICA/B cleavage3,4. Vaccine-induced antibodies increase the density of MICA/B proteins on the surface of tumour cells by inhibiting proteolytic shedding, enhance presentation of tumour antigens by dendritic cells to T cells and augment the cytotoxic function of NK cells. Notably, this vaccine maintains efficacy against MHC class I-deficient tumours resistant to cytotoxic T cells through the coordinated action of NK cells and CD4+ T cells. The vaccine is also efficacious in a clinically important setting: immunization following surgical removal of primary, highly metastatic tumours inhibits the later outgrowth of metastases. This vaccine design enables protective immunity even against tumours with common escape mutations.
35659704 | Enhanced immune activation within the tumor microenvironment and circulation of female high-risk melanoma patients and improved survival with adjuvant CTLA4 blockade compared to males. BACKGROUND: We hypothesized that a gender difference in clinical response may exist to adjuvant CTLA4 blockade with ipilimumab versus high-dose IFNalpha (HDI). We investigated differences in candidate immune biomarkers in the circulation and tumor microenvironment (TME). PATIENTS AND METHODS: This gender-based analysis was nested within the E1609 trial that tested adjuvant therapy with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg (ipi3) and 10 mg/kg (ipi10) versus HDI in high risk resected melanoma. We investigated gender differences in treatment efficacy with ipi3 and ipi10 versus HDI while adjusting for age, stage, ECOG performance (PS), ulceration, primary tumor status and lymph node number. Forest plots were created to compare overall survival (OS) and relapse free survival (RFS) between ipi and HDI. Gene expression profiling (GEP) was performed on tumors of 718 (454 male, 264 female) patients. Similarly, serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) samples were tested for soluble and cellular biomarkers (N = 321 patients; 109 female and 212 male). RESULTS: The subgroups of female, stage IIIC, PS = 1, ulcerated primary, in-transit metastasis demonstrated significant improvement in RFS and/or OS with ipi3 versus HDI. Female gender was significant for both OS and RFS and was further explored. In the RFS comparison, a multivariate Cox regression model including significant variables indicated a significant interaction between gender and treatment (P = 0.024). In peripheral blood, percentages of CD3+ T cells (P = 0.024) and CD3+ CD4+ helper T cells (P = 0.0001) were higher in females compared to males. Trends toward higher circulating levels of IL1beta (P = 0.07) and IL6 (P = 0.06) were also found in females. Males had higher percentages of monocytes (P = 0.03) with trends toward higher percentages of regulatory T cells (T-reg). Tumor GEP analysis supported enhanced infiltration with immune cells including gammadelta T cells (P = 0.005), NK cells (P = 0.01), dendritic cells (P = 0.01), CD4+ T cells (P = 0.03), CD8+ T cells (P = 0.03) and T-reg (P = 0.008) in the tumors of females compared to males and a higher T-effector and IFNgamma gene signature score (P = 0.0244). CONCLUSION: Female gender was associated with adjuvant CTLA4 blockade clinical benefits and female patients were more likely to have evidence of type1 immune activation within the TME and the circulation. Trial registration ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01274338. Registered 11 January 2011, https://www. CLINICALTRIALS: gov/ct2/show/NCT01274338.
35797509 | Multidimensional Molecular Profiling of Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Cancer and Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Benefit. PURPOSE: In metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC), consistent biomarkers of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy benefit remain elusive. We evaluated the immune, genomic, and transcriptomic landscape of mTNBC in patients treated with ICIs. METHODS: We identified 29 patients with mTNBC treated with pembrolizumab or atezolizumab, either alone (n = 9) or in combination with chemotherapy (n = 14) or targeted therapy (n = 6), who had tumor tissue and/or blood available before ICI therapy for whole-exome sequencing. RNA sequencing and CIBERSORTx-inferred immune population analyses were performed (n = 20). Immune cell populations and programmed death-ligand 1 expression were assessed using multiplexed immunofluorescence (n = 18). Clonal trajectories were evaluated via serial tumor/circulating tumor DNA whole-exome sequencing (n = 4). Association of biomarkers with progression-free survival and overall survival (OS) was assessed. RESULTS: Progression-free survival and OS were longer in patients with high programmed death-ligand 1 expression and tumor mutational burden. Patients with longer survival also had a higher relative inferred fraction of CD8+ T cells, activated CD4+ memory T cells, M1 macrophages, and follicular helper T cells and enrichment of inflammatory gene expression pathways. A mutational signature of defective repair of DNA damage by homologous recombination was enriched in patients with both shorter OS and primary resistance. Exploratory analysis of clonal evolution among four patients treated with programmed cell death protein 1 blockade and a tyrosine kinase inhibitor suggested that clonal stability post-treatment was associated with short time to progression. CONCLUSION: This study identified potential biomarkers of response to ICIs among patients with mTNBC: high tumor mutational burden; presence of CD8+, CD4 memory T cells, follicular helper T cells, and M1 macrophages; and inflammatory gene expression pathways. Pretreatment deficiencies in the homologous recombination DNA damage repair pathway and the absence of or minimal clonal evolution post-treatment may be associated with worse outcomes.
36706355 | Mechanisms of response and resistance to combined decitabine and ipilimumab for advanced myeloid disease. The challenge of eradicating leukemia for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) following initial cytoreduction has motivated modern efforts to combine synergistic active modalities including immunotherapy. Recently, the ETCTN/CTEP 10026 (NCT02890329) study tested the combination of the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor decitabine together with the immune checkpoint inhibitor ipilimumab for AML/myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) either following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) or in the HSCT-naive setting. Integrative transcriptome-based analysis of 304,961 individual marrow-infiltrating cells for 18 of 48 subjects treated on study revealed the strong association of response with a high baseline ratio of T to AML cells. Clinical responses were predominantly driven by decitabine-induced cytoreduction. Evidence of immune activation was only apparent following ipilimumab exposure, which altered CD4+ T cell gene expression, in line with ongoing T cell differentiation and increased frequency of marrow-infiltrating regulatory T cells. For post-HSCT samples, relapse could be attributed to insufficient clearing of malignant clones in progenitor cell populations. In contrast to AML/MDS bone marrow, the transcriptomes of leukemia cutis samples from patients with durable remission after ipilimumab monotherapy showed evidence of increased infiltration with antigen-experienced resident memory T cells and higher expression of CTLA-4 and FOXP3. Altogether, activity of combined decitabine and ipilimumab is impacted by cellular expression states within the microenvironmental niche of leukemia cells. The inadequate elimination of leukemic progenitors mandates urgent development of novel approaches for targeting these cell populations to generate long-lasting responses.
36734675 | Design of a Hierarchical Assembly at a Solid-Liquid Interface Using an Asymmetric Protein Needle. Design and control of processes for a hierarchical assembly of proteins remain challenging because it requires consideration of design principles with atomic-level accuracy. Previous studies have adopted symmetry-based strategies to minimize the complexity of protein-protein interactions and this has placed constraints on the structures of the resulting protein assemblies. In the present work, we used an anisotropic-shaped protein needle, gene product 5 (gp5) from bacteriophage T4 with a C-terminal hexahistidine-tag (His-tag) (gp5_CHis), to construct a hierarchical assembly with two distinct protein-protein interaction sites. High-speed atomic force microscopy (HS-AFM) measurements reveal that it forms unique tetrameric clusters through its N-terminal head on a mica surface. The clusters further self-assemble into a monolayer through the C-terminal His-tag. The HS-AFM images and displacement analyses show that the monolayer is a network-like structure rather than a crystalline lattice. Our results expand the toolbox for constructing hierarchical protein assemblies based on structural anisotropy.
36968223 | A Phase I Trial of VEGF-A Inhibition Combined with PD-L1 Blockade for Recurrent Glioblastoma. Purpose: The treatment of glioblastoma (GBM) poses challenges. The use of immune checkpoint inhibition (ICI) has been disappointing as GBM is characterized by low mutational burden and low T-cell infiltration. The combination of ICI with other treatment modalities may improve efficacy. Patient and Methods: Patients with recurrent GBM were treated with avelumab, a human IgG1 antibody directed against PD-L1 (part A), or avelumab within a week after laser interstitial thermal therapy (LITT) and continuation of avelumab (part B). Bevacizumab was allowed to be combined with ICI to spare steroid use. The primary objective was to characterize the tolerability and safety of the regimens. The secondary objectives included overall survival, progression-free survival (PFS), signatures of plasma analytes, and immune cells. Results: A total of 12 patients (median age 64; range, 37-73) enrolled, five in part A and seven in part B. Two serious adverse events occurred in the same patient, LITT treated, not leading to death. The median survival from enrollment was 13 months [95% confidence interval (CI), 4-16 months] with no differences for part A or B. The median PFS was 3 months (95% CI, 1.5-4.5 months). The decrease in MICA/MICB, gammadeltaT cells, and CD4+ T cell EMRA correlated with prolonged survival. Conclusions: Avelumab was generally well tolerated. Adding bevacizumab to ICI may be beneficial by lowering cytokine and immune cell expression. The development of this combinatorial treatment warrants further investigation. Exploring the modulation of adaptive and innate immune cells and plasma analytes as biomarker signatures may instruct future studies in this dismal refractory disease. Significance: Our phase I of PD-L1 inhibition combined with LITT and using bevacizumab to spare steroids had a good safety profile for recurrent GBM. Developing combinatory treatment may help outcomes. In addition, we found significant immune modulation of cytokines and immune cells by bevacizumab, which may enhance the effect of ICI.
37741520 | NKG2D receptor regulates CD4+T cell differentiation via interaction with dendritic cells in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis. NKG2D provides a costimulatory signal for activation of CD4+ T cells. We explored its role in interactions of CD4+ T cells and dendritic cells (DCs) in juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) patients by using NKG2D genetically modified CD4+ T cells. We found active JIA patients had significantly higher content of CD4 + NKG2D+ T cells than healthy controls. Expression of NKG2D on CD4+ T cells, and MICA and MICB on DCs were significantly greater in articular JIA than systemic JIA. NKG2D induced IL- 12 and suppressed IL-10 and TGF-beta from CD4+ T cells, increased IFN-gamma + CD4+ T and IL-17+ CD4+ T cells, RORc and T-bet, but reduced CD25+ Foxp3+ CD4+ T cells, IL-4+ CD4+ T cells, Foxp3, and GATA3 in JIA patients. NKG2D decreased IL-10 and increased CD83, MICA, and MICB of DCs in JIA and controls. So NKG2D regulates differentiation of CD4+ T cells directly and the maturation of DCs indirectly.
37859369 | [Antifungal susceptibility of clinically isolated invasive Candida tropicalis in East China from 2017 to 2021]. Objective: To explore the epidemiological characteristics of sample distribution and antifungal susceptibilities of clinically invasive C. tropicalis isolates from 2017 to 2021 in East China. Methods: Using a retrospective analysis, the East China Invasive Fungal Infection Group (ECIFIG) collected C. tropicalis clinically isolated from 32 hospitals in East China between January 2017 and December 2021. The identification results of the strains were reviewed using mass spectrometry by the central laboratory of the Shanghai East Hospital. The minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of the strains against fluconazole (FLU), voriconazole (VOR), itraconazole (ITR), Posaconazole (POS), isavuconazole (ISA), anidulafungin (ANI), caspofungin (CAS), micafungin (MICA) and 5-fluorocytosine (FCT) were tested by the ThermoFisher CMC1JHY colorimetric microdilution method. The MIC of amphotericin B (AMB) was tested by the broth microdilution method. The MIC results were analyzed based on the clinical breakpoints and epidemiological cutoff values (ECV) published by the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) M27 Ed3 and M57 Ed4 documents. Data analysis was conducted using the Kruskal-Wallis test and paired t-test. Results: In total, 305 C. tropicalis isolates were collected. There were 38.0% (116/305) strains isolated from blood, 11.5% (35/305) ascites, 8.9% (27/305) catheter and 8.9% (27/305) drainage fluid. The resistance rate of C. tropicalis to FLU was 32.5%, to VOR was 28.5%, and the cross-resistance rate to FLU and VOR was 28.5%. The wild-type proportions for ITR and POS were 79.3% and 29.2% respectively. There was no significant difference in resistance rates, MIC50, and MIC90 of FLU and VOR, or in the wild-type rates of ITR and POS over five years. More than 95.0% of the isolates were susceptible to echinocandins. However, one strain was identified as being multi-drug resistant. In azole antifungals, voriconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, and isavuconazole have similar GM MIC values. The GM MIC of fluconazole is significantly higher than that of itraconazole (t=9.95, P<0.05), posaconazole (t=9.99, P<0.05), and voriconazole (t=10.01, P<0.05), Meanwhile, among echinocandins, the GM MIC of ANI was comparable to that of CAS (t=1.17, P>0.05), both of which were significantly higher than MICA (t=11.56, P<0.05; t=4.15, P<0.05). Conclusion: The clinical isolates of C. tropicalis in East China from 2017 to 2021 were relatively susceptible to echinocandins. However, there was consistently high resistance to fluconazole and voriconazole. More intensive efforts should be made on the monitoring of drug resistance in C. tropicalis.
38091053 | Lymphocyte subsets and soluble forms of MIC-A and MIC-B are prognostic factors in non-Hodgkin lymphoma patients. MIC-A and MIC-B are the natural ligands for NKG2D, an activator receptor expressed in NK cells. Soluble isoforms of MIC-A and MIC-B (sMICA, sMICB) have been identified in different malignancies, affecting NK cells' cytotoxicity. The study was performed to determine the levels of sMICA, sMICB, the expression of MIC-A, and MIC-B on tumor tissues, and lymphocyte subpopulations (CD4 + , CD8 + , NK, NKT, Tgammadelta cells, B cells, monocytes) in 94 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and 72 healthy donors.The most frequent lymphoma was diffuse large B cell lymphoma (48%). Patients with NHL had decreased numbers of CD4 T cells, CD8 T cells, B cells, monocytes, NK cells, type 1 dendritic cells, gammadelta T cells, and increased iNKT cells. Patients showed higher levels of sMIC-A and similar serum levels of sMIC-B.Survival was poorer in patients having higher LDH values and lower numbers of CD4 T cells, type 1 dendritic cells, gamma-delta T cells, and high levels of sMIC-A.In conclusion, high levels of sMIC and decreased numbers in circulating lymphocyte subsets are related to poor outcomes in NHL.
38343619 | The association between Long-COVID symptomology, perceived symptom burden and mental health in COVID-19 patients in Shijiazhuang, China: a population-based health survey. Background: Long-COVID (LC) refers to post-acute COVID-19 symptoms that can last for months or longer after the initial infection, affecting the physical health of infected patients. This study aims to investigate the association between the symptomology of LC and the mental health of patients in China. It also aims to examine the relationship between the perceived symptom burden and mental health of these patients. Methods: A population-based stratified cluster sample was recruited, using a standard sampling procedure, from a prefecture-level city in Northern China. Participants included patients who had tested positive for COVID-19 after December 2022. LC symptomology was assessed using a LC symptoms checklist where the perceived symptom burden was measured by the included 5-point Likert scales. Mental health of patients was measured using the Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scale (DASS), the original Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC), and the Duke-UNC Functional Social Support Questionnaire (DUFSS). Data were analysed using multiple linear regression models. Results: About 25% of respondents, experienced COVID symptoms lasting longer than two months that could only be explained by the infection. Post-exertional malaise (22.2%) and fatigue (21.2%) were the most common symptoms. After controlling for potential confounding variables, LC symptomology was significantly and positively associated with depression (t=2.09, p=0.037) and anxiety (t=4.51, p<0.001), but not stress. Perceived symptoms burden was also positively and significantly related to depression (beta=0.35, p<0.001), anxiety (beta=0.54, p<0.001), and stress (beta=0.35, p<0.001), suggesting a dose-response relationship between perceived symptom burden and mental ill health. Conclusion: This study highlights the importance of recognising the risk of LC, patients' perception of the symptom burden and its potential impact on mental health. Healthcare professionals should be aware of the complexity of psychological comorbidities among infected patients reporting prolonged symptoms, and be able to give advice regarding long-term management of the symptoms.
38514021 | Pandemic Effects on Stability of End-of-Life Preferences and Patient-Surrogate Dyad Congruence. CONTEXT: Whether a largescale disaster alters people's previous decisions about their end-of-life care is unknown. OBJECTIVES: We examined the effects of a disaster, the COVID-19 pandemic, on stability of end-of-life care preferences among dialysis patients and on patient-surrogate goals-of-care congruence. METHODS: We used a natural experimental design to examine goals-of-care preferences pre- and post-exposure to the pandemic during a pragmatic trial testing SPIRIT (Sharing Patient's Illness Representations to Increase Trust), an evidence-based advance care planning (ACP) intervention. There were 151 patient-surrogate dyads who prior to the pandemic lockdown had completed baseline (T1) and post-intervention assessments (T2) regarding their goals-of-care preferences in two end-of-life scenarios. Of those 151 dyads, 59 intervention and 51 usual care dyads consented to be in the present study and completed the goals-of-care tool two additional times, at enrollment (T3) and 6 months later (T4), along with the COVID Stress Scale (CSS). Dyad congruence was ascertained by comparing patient and surrogate responses to the goals-of-care tool. RESULTS: There were no changes over time in the proportions of patients who chose comfort-care-only in the goals-of-care tool. The proportion of patients who chose comfort-care-only and dyad congruence were higher in SPIRIT compared to usual care, but there was no interaction between that treatment effect and exposure to the pandemic. CSS was associated with neither patients' preferences nor dyad congruence. CONCLUSIONS: The pandemic alone did not appear to influence patients' goals-of-care preferences or dyad congruence. This finding supports the stability of value-based end-of-life preferences in general, even during a disaster.
38514776 | Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on stage and incidence of head and neck cancer: A rapid review and meta-analysis. OBJECTIVES: This rapid review aims to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on incidence of head and neck cancer (HNC) and stage distribution at diagnosis. DESIGN: Rapid review and meta-analysis. PARTICIPANTS: Comparative data for new HNC patients between a pre-pandemic cohort (before March 2020) and a pandemic cohort (after March 2020 during the lockdown period). MAIN OUTCOMES MEASURED: Data on tumour stage, incidence, referral pathway (number of new patient referrals), or workload levels (number of HNC treatments). Data on stage were summarised as odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI), and data related to changes in numbers of diagnoses, referrals, and workload levels were summarised as a narrative synthesis. RESULTS: A total of 31 reports were included in this review. Individually 16 out of 23 studies did not show a significant impact on stage relative to the pre-pandemic period. However, the meta-analysis revealed that patients diagnosed with HNC during the pandemic were 16% more likely to have nodal involvement (OR = 1.16; 95% CI 1.00-1.35), 17% more likely to have a late overall stage (OR = 1.17; 95% CI 1.01-1.36), and 32% more likely to present with advanced tumour extent (T3 and T4 stage) (OR = 1.32; 95% CI 1.08-1.62). Data on incidence was extremely limited and not currently sufficient to assess trends in burden of disease. CONCLUSIONS: This review indicates that during the COVID-19 pandemic, there was upstaging of HNC at diagnosis, suggesting the provision of care to HNC patients was significantly affected.
38518705 | It's all in the hair: Association between changes in hair cortisol concentrations in reaction to the COVID-19 pandemic and post-traumatic stress symptoms in children over time. After exposure to a stressful/traumatic event, some individuals will develop post-traumatic stress symptoms (PTSS). In adults, low cortisol levels appear to be a risk factor for the development of PTSS. Indeed, both lower pre-trauma cortisol levels and low cortisol levels in the aftermath of a traumatic event have been associated with greater PTSS. In contrast, studies conducted in children showed that elevated cortisol levels shortly after trauma exposure are associated with more severe post-traumatic stress symptomatology. The few studies that have examined how pre-trauma cortisol levels predict PTSS in children have found no effect. Given that a pandemic can induce PTSS in certain individuals, we investigated whether cortisol secretion prior to and in the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic in Quebec (Canada) predicted PTSS in children. In June 2020, we collected a hair sample from 71 children (8-15 y/o, M = 11.65; 54.93% girls) without a history of psychopathology or exposure to previous traumatic events. Hair samples allowed us to derive cumulative measures of cortisol levels for the months prior to (from mid-December 2019 to mid-March 2020) and at the beginning of the pandemic (from mid-March 2020 to mid-June 2020). PTSS were assessed every 3 months between June 2020 (T1) and March 2021 (T4). The results showed that a greater increase in hair cortisol at the beginning of the pandemic predicted less PTSS at T1, with an increase in these symptoms over time. This study highlights the utility of using hair cortisol during future chronic stressful events to better understand its association with the evolution of distress.
38519850 | Depression and anxiety among nurses during the COVID-19 pandemic: Longitudinal results over 2 years from the multicentre VOICE-EgePan study. AIMS: To examine symptoms of depression and generalised anxiety among nurses over 2 years during the pandemic and compare them to the general population. BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a significant increase in mental stress among the population worldwide. Nursing staff have been identified as being under remarkable strain. DESIGN: A multicentre prospective longitudinal study. METHODS: Symptoms of depression and generalised anxiety in 507 nurses were examined at four different time points (T1: April-July 2020, T2: November 2020-January 2021, T3: May-July 2021, T4: February-May 2022). Results were compared with values of the German general population, presence of gender-specific differences was analysed and frequencies of clinically relevant levels of depression and anxiety were determined. RESULTS: Throughout the study (T1-T4), a significant increase in depressive and anxiety symptoms was observed. At all four measurement time points, nurses showed significantly higher prevalence for depression and anxiety compared to the German general population. No significant gender differences were found. Frequencies for probable depression and generalised anxiety disorder among nurses were: 21.6% and 18.5% (T1), 31.4% and 29.2% (T2), 29.5% and 26.2% (T3), 33.7% and 26.4% (T4). CONCLUSION: During the pandemic, symptoms of depression and generalised anxiety among nurses increased significantly and remained elevated. Their symptom levels were permanently higher than in the general population. These findings strongly suggest that the circumstances of the pandemic severely affected nurses  mental health. RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: The COVID-19 pandemic caused a great mental strain on caregivers. This study was able to demonstrate the significant increase in depression and anxiety among nurses during the pandemic. It highlights the urgent need for prevention, screening and support systems in hospitals. IMPLICATIONS FOR THE PROFESSION: Supportive programmes and preventive services should be developed, not least to prevent the growing shortage of nurses in the health care systems. REPORTING METHOD: The study adhered to relevant EQUATOR guidelines. The STROBE checklist for cohort study was used as the reporting method. PATIENT CONTRIBUTION: Five hundred and seven nurses completed the questionnaire and provided data for analysis. TRIAL AND PROTOCOL REGISTRATION: The study was registered with the German Clinical Trials Register (https://drks.de/search/en) under the following ID: DRKS00021268.
38552918 | Trajectories of depressive and anxiety symptoms and associated risk factors during the COVID-19 pandemic in Germany: A longitudinal cohort study. BACKGROUND: Most COVID-19-related mental health research focused on average levels of mental health parameters in the general population. However, considering heterogeneous groups and their long-term responses could deepen our understanding of mental health during community crises. This four-wave study aimed to (1) identify subgroups with different trajectories of depressive and anxiety symptoms in the German general population, and (2) investigate associated risk factors. METHODS: We analyzed self-report data from N = 1257 German adults participating in a European cohort study, assessed in summer 2020 (T1), and at 6 (T2), 12 (T3), and 30 months (T4). Depressive and anxiety symptoms were measured using the PHQ-4. Sociodemographic, health-related, and pandemic-related variables were assessed at baseline. We applied growth mixture modeling to identify subgroups of symptom trajectories and conducted multinomial logistic regression to examine factors associated with class membership. RESULTS: We identified six symptom trajectories: Low-stable (n = 971, 77.2 %), Continuous deterioration (n = 30, 2.4 %), Transient deterioration (n = 75, 6.0 %), Continuous improvement (n = 97, 7.7 %), Transient improvement (n = 38, 3.0 %) and Chronicity (n = 46, 3.7 %). Age, education, work status, mental health diagnoses, self-reported health, and pandemic-related news consumption were significantly associated with subgroup membership. LIMITATIONS: The generalizability of the study is constrained by an unrepresentative sampling method, a notable dropout rate, and limited consideration of risk factors. CONCLUSION: Most people experienced low symptoms or improvement during the pandemic, while others experienced chronic or transient symptoms. Specific risk factors were associated with these trajectories, revealing nuanced mental health dynamics.
38573736 | Quality of Life and Loneliness Among American Military Veterans. ABSTRACT: Quality of life and loneliness are closely associated with mental and physical health outcomes. This relationship is particularly important in Veterans who experience elevated rates of disabilities, comorbidities, and chronic health conditions as compared with non-Veterans. In the present project, we use data from the Military Health and Well-Being Project (n = 1469, 67.2% men, 32.3% women, 0.5% transgender, nonbinary, prefer not to say) to investigate the link between five domains of quality of life (i.e., general quality of life, physical health, psychological health, social relationships, and environment) with loneliness in American Military Veterans. Findings indicated that every domain of quality of life was negatively and significantly associated with loneliness (r's < -0.45, p's < 0.001), such that quality of life decreased as loneliness increased. We further found, using linear regression, that quality social relationships (beta = -0.385, t = -13.23), psychological functioning (beta = -0.196, t = -5.28), and physical health (beta = -0.133, t = -4.174) were related to low levels of loneliness. Taken together, these findings indicate that in this sample of Veterans 1) general quality of life, physical health, psychological health, social relationships, and environment are all strongly connected with loneliness, and 2) of these, social relationships, psychological health, and physical health seem to protect most against loneliness, with large robust effect sizes. We recommend that intervention and policy researchers continue to investigate and develop feasible, acceptable, and cost-effective ways to promote social relationships, psychological health, and physical health among Veterans. Data were collected during the COVID-19 pandemic, which may limit generalizability of these findings.
9058754 | Identification of an epitope derived from human proteolipid protein that can induce autoreactive CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes restricted by HLA-A3: evidence for cross-reactivity with an environmental microorganism. The demyelination process that occurs in the central nervous system (CNS) of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) is in part due to an inflammatory response in which CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and macrophages infiltrate white matter. In this study, we have identified a peptide sequence derived from the CNS-specific myelin protein proteolipid protein (PLP) which could bind to HLA-A3 and induce a HLA-A3-restricted CD8+ CTL response from HLA-A3+ donors. These PLP peptide-specific CTL could lyse HLA-A3+ target cells pulsed with a homologous peptide derived from the CRM1 protein of Saccharomyces cerevisae. These findings demonstrate the immunogenic potential of a PLP-derived peptide for generation of autoreactive HLA-A3-restricted CD8+ CTL, and further show that these CTL can be activated by a peptide derived from a common environmental microorganism.
11810515 | HIV infection and oligosaccharides: a novel approach to preventing HIV infection and the onset of AIDS. Infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV) is triggered by binding of a glycoprotein called gp120 on the viral surface to CD4 molecules on the surface of target cells. Half of the gp120 glycoprotein is composed of oligosaccharides. It has been found that the gp120 oligosaccharides are essential in HIV infection and that high-mannose type oligosaccharides present in the gp120 molecule are especially critical. Investigation of gp120 oligosaccharides not only clarified the roles of oligosaccharides in HIV infection but also indicated a way to create novel anti-HIV agents by focusing on oligosaccharides. This review introduces the significance of oligosaccharides of the viral glycoprotein in HIV infection and our novel approach to preventing HIV infection and the onset of AIDS by targeting HIV oligosaccharides.
12853482 | Nuclear import of HIV-1 intracellular reverse transcription complexes is mediated by importin 7. Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), like other lentiviruses, can infect non-dividing cells. This property depends on the active nuclear import of its intracellular reverse transcription complex (RTC). We have studied nuclear import of purified HIV-1 RTCs in primary macrophages and found that importin 7, an import receptor for ribosomal proteins and histone H1, is involved in the process. Nuclear import of RTCs requires, in addition, energy and the components of the Ran system. Depletion of importin 7 from cultured cells by small interfering RNA inhibits HIV-1 infection. These results provide a new insight into the molecular mechanism for HIV-1 nuclear import and reveal potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
14630083 | Down-regulation of SHP1 and up-regulation of negative regulators of JAK/STAT signaling in HTLV-1 transformed cell lines and freshly transformed human peripheral blood CD4+ T-cells. Adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) is an aggressive malignancy that is associated with human T-cell lymphotropic virus I (HTLV-I) infection. HTLV-I transformed T-cell lines and fresh ATL cells are characterized by constitutive activation of the interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R) signaling pathway however, the mechanism(s) responsible for constitutive IL-2R activation are unknown. To further examine the cause of this signaling pathway deregulation, we measured mRNA and protein expression levels by real-time PCR and Western blots, respectively, of four negative regulators of the IL-2R signaling pathway including src homology 2 (SH2)-containing phosphatase (SHP1), cytokine-inducible (CIS) SH2-containing protein, suppressor of cytokine signaling-1 (SOCS1) and protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) (PIAS3) in six HTLV-1 negative and seven HTLV-1 positive T-cell leukemia lines. The activation status of the JAK/STAT pathway was also examined. SHP1 mRNA and protein expression levels were selectively down regulated in all HTLV-1-infected transformed cell lines, while CIS, SOCS1, and PIAS3 protein expression were markedly but variably upregulated and the cells showed evidence of constitutive STAT3 activation. In acutely HTLV-1 infected primary CD4+ T-cells there was a gradual loss of SHP1 expression over 10 weeks in culture which correlated with progression from immortalization to transformation and loss of IL-2 dependence for growth. Two transformed cell lines that were established following HTLV-1 infection showed loss of SHP1 expression and overexpression of CIS, SOCS1, PIAS3. However, this overexpression was not adequate to block constitutive activation of the JAK/STAT pathway. Thus, multiple levels of IL-2 receptor signal deregulation are found in HTLV-1 transformed cells, which may be a result of early loss of SHP1 expression.
16037775 | Tuberculosis affecting the oral cavity in Brazilian HIV-infected patients. OBJECTIVE: Tuberculosis (TB) affecting the oral cavity is a very rare disease. We reviewed the medical data of 18 HIV(1)-infected patients referred to the Stomatology Group, Ear, Nose, and Throat Department, Sao Paulo University Medical School, who had a diagnosis of oral tuberculosis, between 1991 and 2002. This retrospective study aimed to analyze the relationship between oral tuberculosis and HIV infection. STUDY DESIGN: The clinical records of the patients were reviewed to note age and gender, symptoms, and site and type of the lesions in the oral mucosa. Results of CD4+ T-lymphocyte count, sputum analysis, tuberculin skin test, histopathologic characteristics, cultures of the specimens (that were taken during the biopsy), chest x-ray findings, and the type of treatment they received were also reviewed. RESULTS: The most affected sites were palate and tongue. All patients had culture confirming tuberculosis. CONCLUSION: Patients with HIV and nonhealing oral lesions or papillomatous masses in the oral mucosa should be screened for the presence of pulmonary tuberculosis.
16406081 | Oral lesions in Brazilian HIV-infected children undergoing HAART. INTRODUCTION: The advent of new antiretroviral drugs such as protease inhibitors (PI) has generated sensible changes in oral manifestation patterns in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected adult patients. OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the present study was to assess whether the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has brought changes to pattern and prevalence of oral lesions related to HIV in the HIV-infected pediatric population. CASUISTIC AND METHOD: We analyzed medical charts of 471 children aged zero to 12 years and 11 months with HIV infection and followed up by the Ambulatory of AIDS, Clinical Otorhinolaryngology, Hospital das Clinicas, Medical School, Sao Paulo University, from January 1990 to December 2004. Four hundred and fifty-nine children were divided into two groups, according to age range: X (0-5 years and 11 months) and Y (6-12 years and 11 months). These groups were subdivided into four subgroups, according to use of ART (antiretroviral therapy without PI) or HAART. We recorded data related to type of oral lesion presented, as well as serum CD4+ lymphocyte count. The groups were compared concerning prevalence and presentation pattern of oral manifestations. RESULTS: Out of 459 children, 144 (31.4%) had oral lesions. We observed that in children aged 6-12 years and 11 months who were taking HAART, there was lower prevalence of oral lesions (p=0.005), specially hairy leukoplakia (p<0.02), without any affection to the common presentation pattern of these lesions. The same subgroup also had higher serum CD4+ lymphocyte counts (p<0.001). CONCLUSION: We concluded that use of HAART could lead to reduction in prevalence of oral lesions in HIV-infected children.
16792726 | Oral candidosis and oral hairy leukoplakia as predictors of HAART failure in Brazilian HIV-infected patients. INTRODUCTION: Oral candidosis (OC) and hairy leukoplakia (OHL) are important markers of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection immune status. OBJECTIVES: to evaluate if OC and/or OHL should be considered clinical predictors of immune and virologic failure on HIV-infected Brazilian adults undergoing Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART). METHODS: 124 HIV-infected patients who used HAART for a minimum of six months were prospectively evaluated. All of them under-took oral examination and serum CD4+ count and viral load (VL), being divided in two groups, P and A, respectively according to the presence or absence of OC and/or OHL. During a six month period, patients belonging to group A were followed. They were re-examined for new oral lesions. New blood samples were collected and they were subdivided into groups P6 and A6. CD4+ count and VL were compared between groups at baseline and after the six months period. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV) and relative risk (RR) were obtained in order to assess the accuracy of using OC and OHL as predictors of immune and virologic failure, at baseline and after a six month period. RESULTS: At baseline and after six months, patients with OC and OHL have mean CD4+ count lower and mean VL higher than patients of group A and A6 (p < 0.001). OC had high PPV for immune failure and a moderated PPV for virologic failure. OHL had low PPVs for both measures. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: OC and OHL still indicate low serum CD4+ count and high VL, but OC seems to be a better predictor of immune and virologic failure in patients undergoing HAART than OHL.
17142760 | Differential IFN-gamma stimulation of HLA-A gene expression through CRM-1-dependent nuclear RNA export. IFNs regulate most MHC class I genes by stimulating transcription initiation. As shown previously, IFN-gamma controls HLA-A expression primarily at the posttranscriptional level. We have defined two 8-base sequences in a 39-nucleotide region in the 3'-transcribed region of the HLA-A gene that are required for the posttranscriptional response to IFN-gamma. Stimulation of HLA-A expression by IFN-gamma requires nuclear export of HLA-A mRNA by chromosome maintenance region 1 (CRM-1). Treatment of cells with leptomycin B, a specific inhibitor of CRM-1, completely inhibited IFN-gamma induction of HLA-A. Expression of a truncated, dominant-negative form of the nucleoporin NUP214/CAN, DeltaCAN, that specifically interacts with CRM-1, also prevented IFN-gamma stimulation of HLA-A, providing confirmation of the role of CRM-1. Increased expression of HLA-A induced by IFN-gamma also requires protein methylation, as shown by the fact that treatment of SK-N-MC cells or HeLa cells with the PRMT1 inhibitor 5'-methyl-5'-thioadenosine abolished the cellular response to IFN-gamma. In contrast with HLA-A, IFN-gamma-induced expression of the HLA class Ib gene, HLA-E, was not affected by either 5'-methyl-5'-thioadenosine or leptomycin B. These results provide proof of principle that it is possible to differentially modulate the IFN-gamma-induced expression of the HLA-E and HLA-A genes, whose products often mediate opposing effects on cellular immunity to tumor cells, pathogens, and autoantigens.
17319998 | Otitis media in Brazilian human immunodeficiency virus infected children undergoing antiretroviral therapy. OBJECTIVE: To assess changes in the prevalence of otitis media, associated with the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy, in Brazilian human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected children. SETTING: Division of otorhinolaryngology, Hospital das Clinicas, Sao Paulo University Medical School, Brazil. PATIENTS: A cohort of 459 HIV-infected children aged below 13 years. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The prevalence of otitis media and the serum cluster of differentiation four glycoprotein T lymphocyte count were compared for children receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (with protease inhibitors) and those receiving standard antiretroviral therapy (without protease inhibitors). RESULTS: Otitis media was present in 33.1 per cent of the children. Children aged from zero years to five years 11 months receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy had a higher prevalence of acute otitis media (p=0.02) and a lower prevalence of chronic otitis media (p=0.02). Children who were receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy had a mean serum cluster of differentiation four glycoprotein T lymphocyte count greater than that of those who were receiving standard antiretroviral therapy (p<0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The use of highly active antiretroviral therapy in Brazilian HIV-infected children was associated with a lower prevalence of chronic otitis media.
17399805 | Identification of gene expression indicators for thyroid axis disruption in a Xenopus laevis metamorphosis screening assay. Part 2. Effects on the tail and hindlimb. Thyroid hormones (TH), thyroxine (T(4)) and 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine (T(3)), play crucial roles in regulation of growth, development and metabolism in vertebrates and are targets for endocrine disruptive agents. Perturbations in TH action can contribute to the development of disease states and the US Environmental Protection Agency is developing a high throughput screen using TH-dependent metamorphosis of the Xenopus laevis tadpole as an assay platform. Currently this methodology relies on external morphological endpoints and changes in central thyroid axis parameters. However, exposure-related changes in gene expression in TH-sensitive tissue types that occur over shorter time frames have the potential to augment this screen. Using a combination of cDNA array and real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) analyses, this study identifies molecular markers in tissues peripheral to the central thyroid axis. We examine the hindlimb and tail of tadpoles up to 96 h of continuous exposure to T(3), T(4), methimazole, propylthiouracil, or perchlorate. Several novel biomarker candidates are indicated that include transcripts encoding importin, RNA helicase II/Gu, and defender against death protein, DAD1. In combination with previously-identified biomarker candidates, these transcripts will greatly augment the predictive and diagnostic power of the Xenopus metamorphosis assay for perturbation of TH action.
18197855 | Oral lesions as predictors of highly active antiretroviral therapy failure in Brazilian HIV-infected children. OBJECTIVES: Evaluate the accuracy of HIV-related oral lesions to predict immune and virologic failure on HIV-infected children in use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). STUDY DESIGN: Data for this cross-sectional analysis come from a longitudinal study being conducted through the HIV-AIDS Outpatient Unit, ENT Division, Hospital das Clinicas, Sao Paulo University Medical School. The study began in January 1990 and is still ongoing. The cut-off point for analyses purposes was December 2004. Subjects were 471 HIV-infected consecutive children attending the outpatient unit during this period, who enrolled regardless of medical or immunological status. The children have undertaken oral cavity examination, serum CD4(+) T-lymphocyte count, and, 271 of them, viral load measurement. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value and relative risk were calculated. RESULTS: Oral lesions had moderate sensitivity, high specificity and positive predictive value to predict immune failure. It had low sensitivity and positive predictive value, and high specificity to predict virologic failure. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Oral manifestations of HIV can be important markers for immune suppression and for virologic failure, in Brazilian children undergoing HAART.
21258009 | IL-7R-dependent survival and differentiation of early T-lineage progenitors is regulated by the BTB/POZ domain transcription factor Miz-1. T cells originate from early T lineage precursors that have entered the thymus and differentiate through well-defined steps. Mice deficient for the BTB/POZ domain of zinc finger protein-1 (Miz-1) almost entirely lack early T lineage precursors and have a CD4(-)CD8(-) to CD4(+)CD8(+) block causing a strong reduction in thymic cellularity. Miz-1(DeltaPOZ) pro-T cells cannot differentiate in vitro and are unable to relay signals from the interleukin-7R (IL-7R). Both STAT5 phosphorylation and Bcl-2 up-regulation are perturbed. The high expression levels of SOCS1 found in Miz-1(DeltaPOZ) cells probably cause these alterations. Moreover, Miz-1 can bind to the SOCS1 promoter, suggesting that Miz-1 deficiency causes a deregulation of SOCS1. Transgenic overexpression of Bcl-2 or inhibition of SOCS1 restored pro-T cell numbers and their ability to differentiate, supporting the hypothesis that Miz-1 is required for the regulation of the IL-7/IL-7R/STAT5/Bcl-2 signaling pathway by monitoring the expression levels of SOCS1.
21841135 | Miz-1 is required to coordinate the expression of TCRbeta and p53 effector genes at the pre-TCR \beta-selection\ checkpoint. Miz-1 is a Broad-complex, Tramtrack and Bric-a-brac/pox virus zinc finger domain (BTB/POZ)-containing protein expressed in lymphoid precursors that can activate or repress transcription. We report in this article that mice expressing a nonfunctional Miz-1 protein lacking the BTB/POZ domain (Miz-1(DeltaPOZ)) have a severe differentiation block at the pre-T cell \beta-selection\ checkpoint, evident by a drastic reduction of CD4(-)CD8(-) double-negative-3 (DN3) and DN4 cell numbers. T cell-specific genes including Rag-1, Rag-2, CD3epsilon, pTalpha, and TCRbeta are expressed in Miz-1-deficient cells and V(D)J recombination is intact, but few DN3/DN4 cells express a surface pre-TCR. Miz-1-deficient DN3 cells are highly apoptotic and do not divide, which is consistent with enhanced expression of p53 target genes such as Cdkn1a, PUMA, and Noxa. However, neither coexpression of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl2 nor the deletion of p21(CIP1) nor the combination of both relieved Miz-1-deficient DN3/DN4 cells from their differentiation block. Only the coexpression of rearranged TCRalphabeta and Bcl2 fully rescued Miz-1-deficient DN3/DN4 cell numbers and enabled them to differentiate into DN4TCRbeta(+) and double-positive cells. We propose that Miz-1 is a critical factor for the beta-selection checkpoint and is required for both the regulation of p53 target genes and proper expression of the pre-TCR to support the proliferative burst of DN3 cells during T cell development.
22517757 | MicroRNA-301a regulation of a T-helper 17 immune response controls autoimmune demyelination. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an emerging group of short, noncoding RNAs that play an important role in regulating expression of classical genes. Thus far little is known about their role in autoimmune demyelination. In this study, we analyzed changes in the miRNA profile in CD4(+) T cells that occurred during the recognition of the myelin autoantigen, MOG(35-55). We found that, both in vivo and in vitro, myelin antigen stimulation resulted in significant up-regulation of miR-301a, miR-21, and miR-155. Furthermore, these three miRNAs were overexpressed in T cells infiltrating the CNS in animals with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Use of specific miRNA antagonists, antagomirs, revealed that miR-301a contributed to the development of the T-helper type 17 subset via targeting the IL-6/23-STAT3 pathway. This contribution appeared to be mediated by the miR-301a effect on the expression of the PIAS3, a potent inhibitor of the STAT3 pathway. Manipulation of miR-301a levels or PIAS3 expression in myelin-specific CD4(+) T cells led to significant changes in the severity of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Thus, we have identified a role of miR-301a in regulating the function of myelin-reactive T-helper type 17 cells, supporting a role for miR-301a and PIAS3 as candidates for therapeutic targets for controlling of autoimmune demyelination.
23417963 | NKG2D stimulated T-cell autoreactivity in giant cell arteritis and polymyalgia rheumatica. OBJECTIVE: To investigate functional expression of NKG2D on CD4 and CD8 T-cells in patients with giant cell arteritis (GCA) and polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR). METHODS: Peripheral blood was drawn from patients with GCA (n=16), PMR (n=78) and healthy controls (HC, n=64). Tissue samples were obtained from GCA patients and controls. Proliferation and cytokine production assays were performed using CFSE and intracellular IFN-gamma or TNF-alpha staining, respectively, and flow cytometry analysis. Immunofluorescence and immunohistology were applied to analyse the presence of NKG2D-expressing T-cells and NKG2D-ligands in temporal arteries, respectively. mRNA levels of NKG2D-ligands were determined by RT-PCR. RESULTS: In both GCA and PMR patients, NKG2D was preferentially expressed on senescent CD4CD28(-) and CD8CD28(-), as well as on CD8CD28 T-cells. Frequencies of senescent T-cells were increased in GCA and PMR patients compared to HC. In GCA tissue samples, infiltrating T-cells were predominately CD28(-). NKG2D expressing T-cells concentrated around the vasa vasorum of the adventitia. Antigenic stimulation induced rapid up-regulation of NKG2D on CD4CD28(-) and CD4CD28 T-cells, whereas TNF-alpha and interleukin-15 enhanced NKG2D expression on senescent CD4 and CD8 T-cells only. NKG2D cross-linkage augmented anti-CD3 triggered proliferation, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha production of CD8 T-cells. In CD4CD28(-) T-cells, NKG2D ligation resulted in increased IFN-gamma production only. NKG2D ligands were expressed in temporal arteries from GCA patients, particularly in the adventitial and medial layers of affected vessels. CONCLUSIONS: NKG2D is functionally expressed on CD4CD28(-) and CD8 T-cells in GCA and PMR. NKG2D-ligands are present in temporal arteries and may co-stimulate NKG2D expressing T-cells.
23596301 | Suppressed Th17 levels correlate with elevated PIAS3, SHP2, and SOCS3 expression in CD4 T cells during acute simian immunodeficiency virus infection. T helper 17 (Th17) cells play an important role in mucosal immune homeostasis and maintaining the integrity of the mucosal epithelial barrier. Loss of Th17 cells has been extensively documented during human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infections. The lack of effective repopulation of Th17 cells has been associated with chronic immune activation mediated by the translocation of microbial products. Using ex vivo analysis of purified peripheral blood CD4 T cells from SIV-infected rhesus macaques, we show that the suppression of interleukin-17 (IL-17) expression correlated with upregulated expression of negative regulatory genes PIAS3, SHP2, and SOCS3 in CD4 T cells. Suppressed Th17 expression was accompanied by elevated levels of soluble CD14 (sCD14) and lipopolysaccharide binding protein (LBP) in the plasma during early stages of infection. Plasma viral loads rather than sCD14 or LBP levels correlated with acute immune activation. Additionally, we observed a significant increase in the expression of CD14 on peripheral blood monocytes that correlated with IL-23 expression and markers of microbial translocation. Taken together, our results provide new insights into the early events associated with acute SIV pathogenesis and suggest additional mechanisms playing a role in suppression of Th17 cells.
23874389 | Identification of critical regions in human SAMHD1 required for nuclear localization and Vpx-mediated degradation. The sterile alpha motif (SAM) and HD domain-containing protein-1 (SAMHD1) inhibits the infection of resting CD4+ T cells and myeloid cells by human and related simian immunodeficiency viruses (HIV and SIV). Vpx inactivates SAMHD1 by promoting its proteasome-dependent degradation through an interaction with CRL4 (DCAF1) E3 ubiquitin ligase and the C-terminal region of SAMHD1. However, the determinants in SAMHD1 that are required for Vpx-mediated degradation have not been well characterized. SAMHD1 contains a classical nuclear localization signal (NLS), and NLS point mutants are cytoplasmic and resistant to Vpx-mediated degradation. Here, we demonstrate that NLS-mutant SAMHD1 K11A can be rescued by wild-type SAMHD1, restoring its nuclear localization; consequently, SAMHD1 K11A became sensitive to Vpx-mediated degradation in the presence of wild-type SAMHD1. Surprisingly, deletion of N-terminal regions of SAMHD1, including the classical NLS, generated mutant SAMHD1 proteins that were again sensitive to Vpx-mediated degradation. Unlike SAMHD1 K11A, these deletion mutants could be detected in the nucleus. Interestingly, NLS-defective SAMHD1 could still bind to karyopherin-beta1 and other nuclear proteins. We also determined that the linker region between the SAM and HD domain and the HD domain itself is important for Vpx-mediated degradation but not Vpx interaction. Thus, SAMHD1 contains an additional nuclear targeting mechanism in addition to the classical NLS. Our data indicate that multiple regions in SAMHD1 are critical for Vpx-mediated nuclear degradation and that association with Vpx is not sufficient for Vpx-mediated degradation of SAMHD1. Since the linker region and HD domain may be involved in SAMHD1 multimerization, our results suggest that SAMHD1 multimerization may be required for Vpx-mediation degradation. 
23947399 | Substantial increase in the frequency of circulating CD4+NKG2D+ T cells in patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 1. BACKGROUND: The NKG2D receptor confers important activating signals to NK cells via ligands expressed during cellular stress and viral infection. This receptor has generated great interest because not only is it expressed on NK cells, but it is also seen in virtually all CD8+ cytotoxic T cells and is classically considered absent in CD4+ T cells. However, recent studies have identified a distinctive population of CD4+ T cells that do express NKG2D, which could represent a particular cytotoxic effector population involved in viral infections and chronic diseases. On the other hand, increased incidence of human papillomavirus-associated lesions in CD4+ T cell-immunocompromised individuals suggests that CD4+ T cells play a key role in controlling the viral infection. Therefore, this study was focused on identifying the frequency of NKG2D-expressing CD4+ T cells in patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 1. Additionally, factors influencing CD4+NKG2D+ T cell expansion were also measured. RESULTS: Close to 50% of patients with CIN 1 contained at least one of the 37 HPV types detected by our genotyping system. A tendency for increased CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells and decreased NK cells was found in CIN 1 patients. The percentage of circulating CD4+ T cells co-expressing the NKG2D receptor significantly increased in women with CIN 1 versus control group. Interestingly, the increase of CD4+NKG2D+ T cells was seen in patients with CIN 1, despite the overall levels of CD4+ T cells did not significantly increase. We also found a significant increase of soluble MICB in CIN 1 patients; however, no correlation with the presence of CD4+NKG2D+ T cells was seen. While TGF-beta was significantly decreased in the group of CIN 1 patients, both TNF-alpha and IL-15 showed a tendency to increase in this group. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our results suggest that the significant increase within the CD4+NKG2D+ T cell population in CIN 1 patients might be the result of a chronic exposure to viral and/or pro-inflammatory factors, and concomitantly might also influence the clearance of CIN 1-type lesion.
24084690 | Systemic delivery of microRNA-181b inhibits nuclear factor-kappaB activation, vascular inflammation, and atherosclerosis in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. RATIONALE: Activated nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB signaling in the vascular endothelium promotes the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis. Targeting endothelial NF-kappaB may provide a novel strategy to limit chronic inflammation. OBJECTIVE: To examine the role of microRNA-181b (miR-181b) in endothelial NF-kappaB signaling and effects on atherosclerosis. METHODS AND RESULTS: MiR-181b expression was reduced in the aortic intima and plasma in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice fed a high-fat diet. Correspondingly, circulating miR-181b in the plasma was markedly reduced in human subjects with coronary artery disease. Systemic delivery of miR-181b resulted in a 2.3-fold overexpression of miR-181b in the aortic intima of apolipoprotein E-deficient mice and suppressed NF-kappaB signaling revealed by bioluminescence imaging and reduced target gene expression in the aortic arch in apolipoprotein E-deficient/NF-kappaB-luciferase transgenic mice. MiR-181b significantly inhibited atherosclerotic lesion formation, proinflammatory gene expression and the influx of lesional macrophages and CD4+ T cells in the vessel wall. Mechanistically, miR-181b inhibited the expression of the target gene importin-alpha3, an effect that reduced NF-kappaB nuclear translocation specifically in the vascular endothelium of lesions, whereas surprisingly leukocyte NF-kappaB signaling was unaffected despite a 7-fold overexpression of miR-181b. Our findings uncover that NF-kappaB nuclear translocation in leukocytes does not involve importin-alpha3, but rather importin-alpha5, which miR-181b does not target, highlighting that inhibition of NF-kappaB signaling in the endothelium is sufficient to mediate miR-181b's protective effects. CONCLUSIONS: Systemic delivery of miR-181b inhibits the activation of NF-kappaB and atherosclerosis through cell-specific mechanisms in the vascular endothelium. These findings support the rationale that delivery of miR-181b may provide a novel therapeutic approach to treat chronic inflammatory diseases such as atherosclerosis.
24266436 | Inhibition of R5-tropic HIV type-1 replication in CD4+ natural killer T cells by gammadelta T lymphocytes. After the development of highly active anti-retroviral therapy, it became clear that the majority of emergent HIV-1 is macrophage-tropic and infects CD4+, CCR5-expressing cells (R5-tropic). There are three distinct cell populations, R5-tropic, HIV-1-susceptible CD4+ cells: (i) natural killer T (NKT) cells, (ii) dendritic cells and macrophages, and (iii) tissue-associated T cells residing primarily at mucosal surfaces. We have confirmed that CD4+ NKT cells derived from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) predominantly express CCR5 rather than CXCR4, whereas the reverse is true for CD4+ T cells derived from circulating PBMCs, and that R5-tropic HIV-1 expands efficiently in the CD4+ NKT cells. Moreover, when PBMCs depleted of CD8alpha+ cells were stimulated in the presence of alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GalCer) and R5-tropic HIV-1 [NL(AD8)], the production of HIV-1 virions was not suppressed, whereas, similar to the untreated PBMCs, depletion of CD8beta+ cells from PBMCs significantly inhibited virion production. These findings suggest that CD8alphaalpha+ but not CD8alphabeta+ cells may have the ability to inhibit R5-tropic HIV-1 replication in CD4+ NKT cells. Here, we show that co-culturing R5-tropic HIV-1-infected CD4+ NKT cells with CD8alphaalpha+ gammadelta T cells, in particular Vgamma1Vdelta1 cells, but not with CD8alphaalpha+ NKT cells or CD8alphaalpha+ dendritic cells, inhibits HIV-1 replication mainly by secreting chemokines, such as macrophage inflammatory proteins 1alpha and 1beta and RANTES. Collectively, these results indicate the importance of CD8alphaalpha+ gammadelta T cells in the control of R5-tropic HIV-1 replication and persistence in CD4+ NKT cells.
24712655 | Nuclear import of SAMHD1 is mediated by a classical karyopherin alpha/beta1 dependent pathway and confers sensitivity to VpxMAC induced ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. BACKGROUND: The deoxynucleotide-triphosphate (dNTP) hydrolase sterile alpha motif domain and HD domain 1 (SAMHD1) is a nuclear protein that inhibits HIV-1 infection in myeloid cells as well as quiescent CD4 T-cells, by decreasing the intracellular dNTP concentration below a level that is required for efficient reverse transcription. The Vpx proteins of the SIVSMM/HIV-2 lineage of lentiviruses bind SAMHD1 and recruit an ubiquitin ligase, leading to polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. RESULTS: Here, we have investigated the importance of nuclear localization for SAMHD1's antiviral function as well as its sensitivity to the Vpx protein of SIVMAC. Using GST pull down assays, as well as RNA silencing approaches, we show that SAMHD1 preferentially uses karyopherin alpha2 (KPNA2) and a classical N-terminal nuclear localization signal (14KRPR17) to enter the nucleus. Reduction of karyopherin beta1 (KPNB1) or KPNA2 by RNAi also led to cytoplasmic re-distribution of SAMHD1. Using primary human monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM), a cell type in which SAMHD1 is naturally expressed to high levels, we demonstrate that nuclear localization is not required for its antiviral activity. Cytoplasmic SAMHD1 still binds to VpxMAC, is efficiently polyubiquitinated, but is not degraded. We also find that VpxMAC-induced SAMHD1 degradation was partially reversed by ubiquitin carrying the K48R or K11R substitution mutations, suggesting involvement of K48 and K11 linkages in SAMHD1 polyubiquitination. Using ubiquitin K-R mutants also revealed differences in the ubiquitin linkages between wild type and cytoplasmic forms of SAMHD1, suggesting a potential association with the resistance of cytoplasmic SAMHD1 to VpxMAC induced degradation. CONCLUSIONS: Our work extends published observations on SAMHD1 nuclear localization to a natural cell type for HIV-1 infection, identifies KPNA2/KPNB1 as cellular proteins important for SAMHD1 nuclear import, and indicates that components of the nuclear proteasomal degradation machinery are required for SAMHD1 degradation.
24718277 | PIAS3 suppresses acute graft-versus-host disease by modulating effector T and B cell subsets through inhibition of STAT3 activation. Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) caused by transplanted donor T cells remains the major obstacle of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Previous reports have suggested that IL-17-producing helper T (Th17) cells mediate the development of acute GVHD (aGVHD). Protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS) inhibits the activity of the transcription factor STAT3, which is a pivotal transcription factor for Th17 differentiation. To elucidate whether PIAS3 could inhibit the development of aGVHD, pcDNA-PIAS3 or mock vector was administered in a murine model of aGVHD by intramuscular injection and subsequent electroporation. The results demonstrated that PIAS3 overexpression by pcDNA-vector administration significantly attenuated the clinical severity and histopathological severities of aGHVD involving the skin, liver, intestine, and lung. Additionally, the STAT3 activities in aGVHD target organs were suppressed by PIAS3 overexpression. Furthermore, phosphorylated (p) STAT3 activity in the spleen was profoundly attenuated in PIAS3-overexpressing GVHD mice. Interestingly, flow cytometric analysis demonstrated that the populations of CD21(high)CD23(low) marginal zone B cells were dramatically expanded in PIAS3-overexpressing mice. PIAS3-induced inhibition of aGVHD was largely related to the downregulation of Th1 and Th17 and the upregulation of Th2 and Treg populations. Both populations of pSTAT3(Tyr705)-expressing Th17 cells and B cells were significantly reduced in the spleens of PIAS3-overexpressing mice, whereas pSTAT5 activity was increased. In addition to CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) Treg cells, the populations of CD8(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) Treg cells were also expanded by treatment with PIAS3. These data suggest the therapeutic potential of PIAS3 in the development of aGVHD through reciprocal regulation of Th17/Treg lineages. 
25024379 | The NKG2D ligand ULBP2 is specifically regulated through an invariant chain-dependent endosomal pathway. Soluble ULBP2 is a marker for poor prognosis in several types of cancer. In this study we demonstrate that both soluble and cell surface-bound ULBP2 is transported via a so far unrecognized endosomal pathway. ULBP2 surface expression, but not MICA/B, could specifically be targeted and retained by affecting endosomal/lysosomal integrity and protein kinase C activity. The invariant chain was further essential for endosomal transport of ULBP2. This novel pathway was identified through screening experiments by which methylselenic acid was found to possess notable NKG2D ligand regulatory properties. The protein kinase C inhibitor methylselenic acid induced MICA/B surface expression but dominantly blocked ULBP2 surface transport. Remarkably, by targeting this novel pathway we could specifically block the production of soluble ULBP2 from different, primary melanomas. Our findings strongly suggest that the endosomal transport pathway constitutes a novel therapeutic target for ULBP2-producing tumors. 
25078269 | Human CD56+ cytotoxic lung lymphocytes kill autologous lung cells in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. UNLABELLED: CD56+ natural killer (NK) and CD56+ T cells, from sputum or bronchoalveolar lavage of subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are more cytotoxic to highly susceptible NK targets than those from control subjects. Whether the same is true in lung parenchyma, and if NK activity actually contributes to emphysema progression are unknown. To address these questions, we performed two types of experiments on lung tissue from clinically-indicated resections (n = 60). First, we used flow cytometry on fresh single-cell suspension to measure expression of cell-surface molecules (CD56, CD16, CD8, NKG2D and NKp44) on lung lymphocytes and of the 6D4 epitope common to MICA and MICB on lung epithelial (CD326+) cells. Second, we sequentially isolated CD56+, CD8+ and CD4+ lung lymphocytes, co-cultured each with autologous lung target cells, then determined apoptosis of individual target cells using Annexin-V and 7-AAD staining. Lung NK cells (CD56+ CD3-) and CD56+ T cells (CD56+ CD3+) were present in a range of frequencies that did not differ significantly between smokers without COPD and subjects with COPD. Lung NK cells had a predominantly \cytotoxic\ CD56+ CD16+ phenotype; their co-expression of CD8 was common, but the percentage expressing CD8 fell as FEV1 % predicted decreased. Greater expression by autologous lung epithelial cells of the NKG2D ligands, MICA/MICB, but not expression by lung CD56+ cells of the activating receptor NKG2D, correlated inversely with FEV1 % predicted. Lung CD56+ lymphocytes, but not CD4+ or CD8+ conventional lung T cells, rapidly killed autologous lung cells without additional stimulation. Such natural cytotoxicity was increased in subjects with severe COPD and was unexplained in multiple regression analysis by age or cancer as indication for surgery. These data show that as spirometry worsens in COPD, CD56+ lung lymphocytes exhibit spontaneous cytotoxicity of autologous structural lung cells, supporting their potential role in emphysema progression. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00281229.
25754473 | Cell-specific RNA aptamer against human CCR5 specifically targets HIV-1 susceptible cells and inhibits HIV-1 infectivity. The C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) is a receptor expressed by T cells and macrophages that serves as a coreceptor for macrophage-tropic HIV-1. Loss of CCR5 is associated with resistance to HIV-1. Here, we combine the live-cell-based SELEX with high-throughput sequencing technology to generate CCR5 RNA aptamers capable of specifically targeting HIV-1 susceptible cells (as small interfering RNA [siRNA] delivery agent) and inhibiting HIV-1 infectivity (as antiviral agent) via block of the CCR5 required for HIV-1 to enter cells. One of the best candidates, G-3, efficiently bound and was internalized into human CCR5-expressing cells. The G-3 specifically neutralized R5 virus infection in primary peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and in vivo generated human CD4(+) T cells with a nanomolar inhibitory concentration 50%. G-3 was also capable of transferring functional siRNAs to CCR5-expressing cells. Collectively, the cell-specific, internalizing, CCR5-targeted aptamers and aptamer-siRNA conjugates offer promise for overcoming some of the current challenges of drug resistance in HIV-1 by providing cell-type- or tissue-specific delivery of various therapeutic moieties.
25916677 | In vitro evaluation of the biological effect of SOFAT on osteoblasts. Osteoclastogenesis is regulated by osteoblasts especially through the production of receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL). Immune cells present in inflamed tissues markedly increase this process by upregulating RANKL directly or by secreting proinflammatory cytokines, which stimulate RANKL expression by osteoblasts. A novel T-cell-secreted cytokine, termed secreted osteoclastogenic factor of activated T cells (SOFAT) was recently described. To better understand how SOFAT affects bone metabolism, we investigated its effect on osteoblastic cells. We demonstrate here that SOFAT did not influence MC3T3 cells viability and proliferation, evaluated by trypan blue exclusion and MTT tests, respectively. SOFAT stimulated the secretion of IL-6, IL-10 and GM-CSF in MC3T3 cells, as shown by the analysis of an inflammatory cytokines ELISA array. The upregulation of the corresponding genes was checked by qPCR. Both RANKL mRNA and protein levels did not significantly change in the presence of SOFAT, evaluated by qPCR and western blotting, respectively. In addition, analysis of a PCR array for IL6/STAT3 pathway demonstrated that SOFAT induced the expression of BCL2, IL1B, IL10, IL22, IL2RA, IL4, IL6, TNFSF10 and PIAS3, while IL2, IL21, CD4, CSF3R and TNF were repressed. Our results confirm that the SOFAT mechanism of action is RANKL-independent and indicate that, by co-opting osteoblasts to increase the production of osteoclastogenic cytokines, SOFAT may exacerbate inflammation and support osteoclast formation and bone destruction. 
26109731 | HIV-1 Resistance to the Capsid-Targeting Inhibitor PF74 Results in Altered Dependence on Host Factors Required for Virus Nuclear Entry. UNLABELLED: During HIV-1 infection of cells, the viral capsid plays critical roles in reverse transcription and nuclear entry of the virus. The capsid-targeting small molecule PF74 inhibits HIV-1 at early stages of infection. HIV-1 resistance to PF74 is complex, requiring multiple amino acid substitutions in the viral CA protein. Here we report the identification and analysis of a novel PF74-resistant mutant encoding amino acid changes in both domains of CA, three of which are near the pocket where PF74 binds. Interestingly, the mutant virus retained partial PF74 binding, and its replication was stimulated by the compound. The mutant capsid structure was not significantly perturbed by binding of PF74; rather, the mutations inhibited capsid interactions with CPSF6 and Nup153 and altered HIV-1 dependence on these host factors and on TNPO3. Moreover, the replication of the mutant virus was markedly impaired in activated primary CD4(+) T cells and macrophages. Our results suggest that HIV-1 escapes a capsid-targeting small molecule inhibitor by altering the virus's dependence on host factors normally required for entry into the nucleus. They further imply that clinical resistance to inhibitors targeting the PF74 binding pocket is likely to be strongly limited by functional constraints on HIV-1 evolution. IMPORTANCE: The HIV-1 capsid plays critical roles in early steps of infection and is an attractive target for therapy. Here we show that selection for resistance to a capsid-targeting small molecule inhibitor can result in viral dependence on the compound. The mutant virus was debilitated in primary T cells and macrophages--cellular targets of infection in vivo. The mutations also altered the virus's dependence on cellular factors that are normally required for HIV-1 entry into the nucleus. This work provides new information regarding mechanisms of HIV-1 resistance that should be useful in efforts to develop clinically useful drugs targeting the HIV-1 capsid.
26194464 | Phosphorylation status determines the opposing functions of Smad2/Smad3 as STAT3 cofactors in TH17 differentiation. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and interleukin-6 (IL-6) are the pivotal cytokines to induce IL-17-producing CD4(+) T helper cells (TH17); yet their signalling network remains largely unknown. Here we show that the highly homologous TGF-beta receptor-regulated Smads (R-Smads): Smad2 and Smad3 oppositely modify STAT3-induced transcription of IL-17A and retinoic acid receptor-related orphan nuclear receptor, RORgammat encoded by Rorc, by acting as a co-activator and co-repressor of STAT3, respectively. Smad2 linker phosphorylated by extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) at the serine 255 residue interacts with STAT3 and p300 to transactivate, whereas carboxy-terminal unphosphorylated Smad3 interacts with STAT3 and protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) to repress the Rorc and Il17a genes. Our work uncovers carboxy-terminal phosphorylation-independent noncanonical R-Smad-STAT3 signalling network in TH17 differentiation. 
26782362 | Correlation Between the Expression of MicroRNA-301a-3p and the Proportion of Th17 Cells in Patients with Rheumatoid Arthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by chronic synovial inflammation and subsequent joint destruction. Previous studies have confirmed that Th17 cells play a critical role in the pathogenesis of RA. MicroRNA (miR)-301a-3p is a regulatory factor for Th17 cells differentiation that contributes to the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. The purposes of this study were to identify the alteration of Th17 cells and analyze the correlation between the expression of the miR-301a-3p and the proportion of Th17 cells in RA patients. The results showed that the frequency of Th17 cells and the expression of transcription factors (RORgammat and STAT3) significantly increased in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from RA patients, and the associated proinflammatory cytokines were also upregulated. We also observed that the expression of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3), the main cellular inhibitor of STAT3, was attenuated in RA patients and negatively correlated with the percentage of Th17 cells in RA. Interestingly, miR-301a-3p, an inhibitor of PIAS3 expression, was overexpressed in the PBMCs from RA patients and positively correlated with the frequency of Th17 cells in patients with RA. Taken together, these data indicated that miR-301a-3p and Th17 cells were augmented in peripheral blood, which may play an important role in the process of RA. 
27107455 | Induction of immunogenic cell death by radiation-upregulated karyopherin alpha 2 in vitro. Accumulating evidence suggests the potential for radiation therapy to generate antitumor immune responses against tumor cells by inducing immunogenic cell death and phenotypic changes. We recently found that ionizing radiation upregulated karyopherin alpha2 (KPNA2) in HT-29 colorectal tumor cells using quantitative proteomic analysis. To determine whether this increased KPNA2 could function as a damage-associated molecular pattern to induce antitumor immune responses, mouse bone-marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) were treated with KPNA2. KPNA2 enhanced the surface expression of CD40, CD54, CD80, CD86, and MHC class I/II on BMDCs. DCs treated with KPNA2 exhibited increased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1beta, IL-6, IL-12, IL-23, and TNF-alpha. Co-culture of CD4(+) T cells and KPNA2-treated DCs resulted in induction of Th1/17 cytokines (IFN-gamma and IL-17) and reduction of TGF-beta production. Moreover, KPNA2-treated DCs were capable of increasing granzyme B and perforin expression in cytotoxic T lymphocytes. These results demonstrated that radiation-induced dying colorectal cancer cells released considerable amounts of KPNA2 that induce the maturation and activation of DCs for synergistic antitumor effect of radiation. 
28148715 | The Exportin-1 Inhibitor Selinexor Exerts Superior Antitumor Activity when Combined with T-Cell Checkpoint Inhibitors. Selinexor, a selective inhibitor of nuclear export (SINE) compound targeting exportin-1, has previously been shown to inhibit melanoma cell growth in vivo We hypothesized that combining selinexor with antibodies that block or disrupt T-cell checkpoint molecule signaling would exert superior antimelanoma activity. In vitro, selinexor increased PDCD1 and CTLA4 gene expression in leukocytes and induced CD274 gene expression in human melanoma cell lines. Mice bearing syngeneic B16F10 melanoma tumors demonstrated a significant reduction in tumor growth rate in response to the combination of selinexor and anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 antibodies (P < 0.05). Similar results were obtained in B16F10-bearing mice treated with selinexor combined with anti-CTLA4 antibody. Immunophenotypic analysis of splenocytes by flow cytometry revealed that selinexor alone or in combination with anti-PD-L1 antibody significantly increased the frequency of both natural killer cells (P <= 0.050) and CD4+ T cells with a Th1 phenotype (P <= 0.050). Further experiments indicated that the antitumor effect of selinexor in combination with anti-PD-1 therapy persisted under an alternative dosing schedule but was lost when selinexor was administered daily. These data indicate that the efficacy of selinexor against melanoma may be enhanced by disrupting immune checkpoint activity. Mol Cancer Ther; 16(3); 417-27.  2017 AACRSee related article by Tyler et al., p. 428.
28621822 | cDNA microarray analysis identifies NR4A2 as a novel molecule involved in the pathogenesis of Sjogren's syndrome. To examine genes expressed specifically in labial salivary glands (LSGs) of patients with Sjogren's syndrome (SS) in comparison with those of patients with immunoglobulin (Ig)G4-related disease (IgG4-RD), and to identify the genes involved in the pathogenesis of SS. Gene expression in LSGs of SS patients, IgG4-RD patients and healthy controls (HC) was analysed by cDNA microarray. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was used to validate the up-regulation of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in SS. Protein production of the validated gene in LSGs was examined by immunofluorescence (IF) assay. The association of molecular functions of the gene with the pathological conditions in SS was examined using peripheral blood lymphocytes. Among 1320 DEGs up-regulated in SS, qPCR confirmed the up-regulation of NR4A2 in LSGs of SS compared with IgG4-RD. IF staining showed higher production of NR4A2 in nuclei of CD4+ T cells and interleukin (IL)-17-producing cells in LSGs of SS, compared with IgG4-RD. Over-expression of NR4A2 mRNA was observed in peripheral CD4+ T cells of SS patients, compared with HC. Nuclear NR4A2 expression in T helper type 17 (Th17)-polarized CD4+ T cells determined by cellular IF was significantly higher in SS than in HC. Importazole, an inhibitor of importin-beta, inhibited nuclear transport of NR4A2 and Th17 polarization along with IL-21 expression in naive CD4+ T cells under Th17-polarizing conditions, but did not alter retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor C (RORC) expression. NR4A2 seems to promote Th17 polarization via increased expression and intranuclear localization in CD4+ T cells of SS patients, which could play a critical role in the pathogenesis of SS.
28944101 | Soluble MICB in Plasma and Urine Explains Population Expansions of NKG2D+CD4 T Cells Inpatients with Juvenile-Onset Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. Abnormal NKG2D ligand expression has been implicated in the initiation and maintenance of various auto-inflammatory disorders including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). This study's goal was to identify the cellular contexts providing NKG2D ligands for stimulation of the immunosuppressive NKG2D+CD4 T cell subset that has been implicated in modulating juvenile-onset SLE disease activity. Although previous observations with NKG2D+CD4 T cells in healthy individuals pointed towards peripheral B cell and myeloid cell compartments as possible sites of enhanced NKG2DL presence, we found no evidence for a disease-associated increase of NKG2DL-positivity among juvenile-onset SLE B cells and monocytes. However, juvenile-onset SLE patient plasma and matched urine samples were positive by ELISA for the soluble form of the NKG2D ligands MICA and MICB, suggesting that kidney and/or peripheral blood may constitute the NKG2DL positive microenvironments driving NKG2D+CD4 T cell population expansions in this disease.
29023371 | Expression Profiles of Ligands for Activating Natural Killer Cell Receptors on HIV Infected and Uninfected CD4+ T Cells. Natural Killer (NK) cell responses to HIV-infected CD4 T cells (iCD4) depend on the integration of signals received through inhibitory (iNKR) and activating NK receptors (aNKR). iCD4 activate NK cells to inhibit HIV replication. HIV infection-dependent changes in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) ligands for iNKR on iCD4 are well documented. By contrast, less is known regarding the HIV infection related changes in ligands for aNKR on iCD4. We examined the aNKR ligand profiles HIV p24+ HIV iCD4s that maintained cell surface CD4 (iCD4+), did not maintain CD4 (iCD4-) and uninfected CD4 (unCD4) T cells for expression of unique long (UL)-16 binding proteins-1 (ULBP-1), ULBP-2/5/6, ULBP-3, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 1-related (MIC)-A, MIC-B, CD48, CD80, CD86, CD112, CD155, Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, ICAM-2, HLA-E, HLA-F, HLA-A2, HLA-C, and the ligands to NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, and killer immunoglobulin-like receptor 3DS1 (KIR3DS1) by flow cytometry on CD4 T cells from 17 HIV-1 seronegative donors activated and infected with HIV. iCD4+ cells had higher expression of aNKR ligands than did unCD4. However, the expression of aNKR ligands on iCD4 where CD4 was downregulated (iCD4-) was similar to (ULBP-1, ULBP-2/5/6, ULBP-3, MIC-A, CD48, CD80, CD86 and CD155) or significantly lower than (MIC-B, CD112 and ICAM-2) what was observed on unCD4. Thus, HIV infection can be associated with increased expression of aNKR ligands or either baseline or lower than baseline levels of aNKR ligands, concomitantly with the HIV-mediated downregulation of cell surface CD4 on infected cells.
29217617 | Two-Step Coimmunoprecipitation (TIP) Enables Efficient and Highly Selective Isolation of Native Protein Complexes. Coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP) is one of the most frequently used techniques to study protein-protein (PPIs) or protein-nucleic acid interactions (PNIs). However, the presence of coprecipitated contaminants is a well-recognized issue associated with single-step co-IPs. To overcome this limitation, we developed the two-step co-IP (TIP) strategy that enables sequential coimmunoprecipitations of endogenous protein complexes. TIP can be performed with a broad range of mono- and polyclonal antibodies targeting a single protein or different components of a given complex. TIP results in a highly selective enrichment of protein complexes and thus outperforms single-step co-IPs for downstream applications such as mass spectrometry for the identification of PPIs and quantitative PCR for the analysis of PNIs. We benchmarked TIP for the identification of CD95/FAS-interacting proteins in primary human CD4+ T cells, which recapitulated all major known interactors, but also enabled the proteomics discovery of PPM1G and IPO7 as new interaction partners. For its feasibility and high performance, we propose TIP as an advanced tool for the isolation of highly purified protein-protein and protein-nucleic acid complexes under native expression conditions.
29381435 | Selective Inhibition of Nuclear Export With Oral Selinexor for Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma. Purpose Selinexor, a first-in-class, oral, selective exportin 1 (XPO1) inhibitor, induces apoptosis in cancer cells through nuclear retention of tumor suppressor proteins and the glucocorticoid receptor, along with inhibition of translation of oncoprotein mRNAs. We studied selinexor in combination with low-dose dexamethasone in patients with multiple myeloma refractory to the most active available agents. Patients and Methods This phase II trial evaluated selinexor 80 mg and dexamethasone 20 mg, both orally and twice weekly, in patients with myeloma refractory to bortezomib, carfilzomib, lenalidomide, and pomalidomide (quad-refractory disease), with a subset also refractory to an anti-CD38 antibody (penta-refractory disease). The primary end point was overall response rate (ORR). Results Of 79 patients, 48 had quad-refractory and 31 had penta-refractory myeloma. Patients had received a median of seven prior regimens. The ORR was 21% and was similar for patients with quad-refractory (21%) and penta-refractory (20%) disease. Among patients with high-risk cytogenetics, including t(4;14), t(14;16), and del(17p), the ORR was 35% (six of 17 patients). The median duration of response was 5 months, and 65% of responding patients were alive at 12 months. The most common grade >= 3 adverse events were thrombocytopenia (59%), anemia (28%), neutropenia (23%), hyponatremia (22%), leukopenia (15%), and fatigue (15%). Dose interruptions for adverse events occurred in 41 patients (52%), dose reductions occurred in 29 patients (37%), and treatment discontinuation occurred in 14 patients (18%). Conclusion The combination of selinexor and dexamethasone has an ORR of 21% in patients with heavily pretreated, refractory myeloma with limited therapeutic options.
30867508 | Hexamethylene bisacetamide impairs NK cell-mediated clearance of acute T lymphoblastic leukemia cells and HIV-1-infected T cells that exit viral latency. The hexamethylene bisacetamide (HMBA) anticancer drug was dismissed due to limited efficacy in leukemic patients but it may re-enter into the clinics in HIV-1 eradication strategies because of its recently disclosed capacity to reactivate latent virus. Here, we investigated the impact of HMBA on the cytotoxicity of natural killer (NK) cells against acute T lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cells or HIV-1-infected T cells that exit from latency. We show that in T-ALL cells HMBA upmodulated MICB and ULBP2 ligands for the NKG2D activating receptor. In a primary CD4+ T cell-based latency model, HMBA did not reactivate HIV-1, yet enhanced ULBP2 expression on cells harboring virus reactivated by prostratin (PRO). However, HMBA reduced the expression of NKG2D and its DAP10 adaptor in NK cells, hence impairing NKG2D-mediated cytotoxicity and DAP10-dependent response to IL-15 stimulation. Alongside, HMBA dampened killing of T-ALL targets by IL-15-activated NK cells and impaired NK cell-mediated clearance of PRO-reactivated HIV-1+ cells. Overall, our results demonstrate a dominant detrimental effect of HMBA on the NKG2D pathway that crucially controls NK cell-mediated killing of tumors and virus-infected cells, providing one possible explanation for poor clinical outcome in HMBA-treated cancer patients and raising concerns for future therapeutic application of this drug.
31341054 | Interferon-Inducible MicroRNA miR-128 Modulates HIV-1 Replication by Targeting TNPO3 mRNA. The HIV/AIDS pandemic remains an important threat to human health. We have recently demonstrated that a novel microRNA (miR), miR-128, represses retrotransposon long interspaced element 1 (L1) by a dual mechanism, namely, by directly targeting the coding region of the L1 RNA and by repressing a required nuclear import factor (TNPO1). We have further determined that miR-128 represses the expression of all three TNPO proteins (transportins TNPO1, TNPO2, and TNPO3). Here, we establish that miR-128 also influences HIV-1 replication by repressing TNPO3, a factor that regulates HIV-1 nuclear import and viral; replication of TNPO3 is well established to regulate HIV-1 nuclear import and viral replication. Here, we report that type I interferon (IFN)-inducible miR-128 directly targets two sites in the TNPO3 mRNA, significantly downregulating TNPO3 mRNA and protein expression levels. Challenging miR-modulated Jurkat cells or primary CD4+ T-cells with wild-type (WT), replication-competent HIV-1 demonstrated that miR-128 reduces viral replication and delays spreading of infection. Manipulation of miR-128 levels in HIV-1 target cell lines and in primary CD4+ T-cells by overexpression or knockdown showed that reduction of TNPO3 levels by miR-128 significantly affects HIV-1 replication but not murine leukemia virus (MLV) infection and that miR-128 modulation of HIV-1 replication is reduced with TNPO3-independent HIV-1 virus, suggesting that miR-128-indued TNPO3 repression contributes to the inhibition of HIV-1 replication. Finally, we determine that anti-miR-128 partly neutralizes the IFN-mediated block of HIV-1. Thus, we have established a novel role of miR-128 in antiviral defense in human cells, namely inhibiting HIV-1 replication by altering the cellular milieu through targeting factors that include TNPO3.IMPORTANCE HIV-1 is the causative agent of AIDS. During HIV-1 infection, type I interferons (IFNs) are induced, and their effectors limit HIV-1 replication at multiple steps in its life cycle. However, the cellular targets of INFs are still largely unknown. In this study, we identified the interferon-inducible microRNA (miR) miR-128, a novel antiviral mediator that suppresses the expression of the host gene TNPO3, which is known to modulate HIV-1 replication. Notably, we observe that anti-miR-128 partly neutralizes the IFN-mediated block of HIV-1. Elucidation of the mechanisms through which miR-128 impairs HIV-1 replication may provide novel candidates for the development of therapeutic interventions.
31597697 | NLRP3 negatively regulates Treg differentiation through Kpna2-mediated nuclear translocation. Naive CD4+ T cells in the periphery differentiate into regulatory T cells (Tregs) in which Foxp3 is expressed for their suppressive function. NLRP3, a pro-inflammatory molecule, is known to be involved in inflammasome activation associated with several diseases. Recently, the expression of NLRP3 in CD4+ T cells, as well as in myeloid cells, has been described; however, a role of T cell-intrinsic NLRP3 in Treg differentiation remains unknown. Here, we report that NLRP3 impeded the expression of Foxp3 independent of inflammasome activation in Tregs. NLRP3-deficient mice elevate Treg generation in various organs in the de novo pathway. NLRP3 deficiency increased the amount and suppressive activity of Treg populations, whereas NLRP3 overexpression reduced Foxp3 expression and Treg abundance. Importantly, NLRP3 interacted with Kpna2 and translocated to the nucleus from the cytoplasm under Treg-polarizing conditions. Taken together, our results identify a novel role for NLRP3 as a new negative regulator of Treg differentiation, mediated via its interaction with Kpna2 for nuclear translocation.
31611641 | Transportin-1 binds to the HIV-1 capsid via a nuclear localization signal and triggers uncoating. The initial steps of HIV replication in host cells prime the virus for passage through the nuclear pore and drive the establishment of a productive and irreparable infection1,2. The timely release of the viral genome from the capsid-referred to as uncoating-is emerging as a critical parameter for nuclear import, but the triggers and mechanisms that orchestrate these steps are unknown. Here, we identify beta-karyopherin Transportin-1 (TRN-1) as a cellular co-factor of HIV-1 infection, which binds to incoming capsids, triggers their uncoating and promotes viral nuclear import. Depletion of TRN-1, which we characterized by mass spectrometry, significantly reduced the early steps of HIV-1 infection in target cells, including primary CD4+ T cells. TRN-1 bound directly to capsid nanotubes and induced dramatic structural damage, indicating that TRN-1 is necessary and sufficient for uncoating in vitro. Glycine 89 on the capsid protein, which is positioned within a nuclear localization signal in the cyclophilin A-binding loop, is critical for engaging the hydrophobic pocket of TRN-1 at position W730. In addition, TRN-1 promotes the efficient nuclear import of both viral DNA and capsid protein. Our study suggests that TRN-1 mediates the timely release of the HIV-1 genome from the capsid protein shell and efficient viral nuclear import.
31759187 | PACS1 is an HIV-1 cofactor that functions in Rev-mediated nuclear export of viral RNA. HIV-1 is dependent upon cellular proteins to mediate the many processes required for viral replication. One such protein, PACS1, functions to localize Furin to the trans-Golgi network where Furin cleaves HIV-1 gp160 Envelope into gp41 and gp120. We show here that PACS1 also shuttles between the nucleus and cytoplasm, associates with the viral Rev protein and its cofactor CRM1, and contributes to nuclear export of viral transcripts. PACS1 appears specific to the Rev-CRM1 pathway and not other retroviral RNA export pathways. Over-expression of PACS1 increases nuclear export of unspliced viral RNA and significantly increases p24 expression in HIV-1-infected Jurkat CD4+ T cells. SiRNA depletion and over-expression experiments suggest that PACS1 may promote trafficking of HIV-1 GagPol RNA to a pathway distinct from that of translation on polyribosomes.
33101298 | High Abundance of Intratumoral gammadelta T Cells Favors a Better Prognosis in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma: A Bioinformatic Analysis. gammadelta T cells are a small subset of unconventional T cells that are enriched in the mucosal areas, and are responsible for pathogen clearance and maintaining integrity. However, the role of gammadelta T cells in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is largely unknown. Here, by using RNA-seq data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), we discovered that HNSCC patients with higher levels of gammadelta T cells were positively associated with lower clinical stages and better overall survival, and high abundance of gammadelta T cells was positively correlated with CD8+/CD4+ T cell infiltration. Gene ontology and pathway analyses showed that genes associated with T cell activation, proliferation, effector functions, cytotoxicity, and chemokine production were enriched in the group with a higher gammadelta T cell abundance. Furthermore, we found that the abundance of gammadelta T cells was positively associated with the expression of the butyrophilin (BTN) family proteins BTN3A1/BTN3A2/BTN3A3 and BTN2A1, but only MICB, one of the ligands of NKG2D, was involved in the activation of gammadelta T cells, indicating that the BTN family proteins might be involved in the activation and proliferation of gammadelta T cells in the tumor microenvironment of HNSCC. Our results indicated that gammadelta T cells, along with their ligands, are promising targets in HNSCC with great prognostic values and treatment potentials.
33535183 | Value of KPNA4 as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for hepatocellular carcinoma. It is important to identify novel biomarkers to improve hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) diagnosis and treatment. Herein, we reported the role of karyopherin alpha4 (KPNA4) in HCC patients through public data mining and examined the results using clinical samples in our center. Our results revealed that KPNA4 expression level was positively correlated with the infiltration of CD8+ T cells, B cells, dendritic cells, CD4+ T cells, neutrophils and macrophages. In addition, KPNA4 expression was significantly associated with T cell exhaustion. KPNA4 mRNA and protein expression levels were significantly higher in cancerous tissue than in normal tissue. Besides, the increased expression of KPNA4 indicated poor overall survival. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses showed KPNA4 could be viewed as an independent risk factor for HCC patients. Moreover, our experimental results were consistent with those obtained from bioinformatic results. These findings revealed KPNA4 may serve as a novel prognostic biomarker and a potential therapeutic target for HCC.
35186822 | Circulating Immune Cell Profile and Changes in Intravenous Immunoglobulin Responsiveness Over the Disease Course in Children With Kawasaki Disease. Kawasaki disease (KD) is an acute, self-limited febrile illness of young children. The etiology of KD remains to be poorly understood. There has been limited research on longitudinal examination of peripheral blood leukocytes for immune profiling particularly in relation to treatment response with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG). This study profiles immune cells at the time of diagnosis and over the disease course. In addition, we identified the characteristics of the immune cells in IVIG-responsive patients with KD. We enrolled patients diagnosed with KD between May 1, 2017, and January 1, 2020. Blood was taken at least three times from all enrolled patients: at diagnosis (before IVIG infusion) and immediately and 2 weeks after IVIG infusion. We evaluated the laboratory findings and results of flow cytometry analysis of immune cells at all stages, focusing on CD4+ T lymphocytes, CD8+ T lymphocytes, CD19+ B lymphocytes, granulocytes, classical monocytes, and natural killer (NK) cells. Non-febrile healthy controls (NFCs) and other febrile controls (OFCs) were also enrolled. A total of 68 patients were enrolled and divided into two groups according to IVIG resistance status: IVIG-responsive (n = 55) and IVIG-resistant (n = 13). The total fever duration was significantly longer in the IVIG-resistant group (9.7 +- 5.3 days) than in the IVIG-responsive group (6.7 +- 3.0 days; P = 0.02). There was a significant difference in intermediate CD14+CD16+ monocytes between KD patients and both NFC and OFCs; they were significantly higher and lower in KD patients than NFC and OFCs, respectively (P < 0.001). The levels of all three subtypes of NK cells were significantly lower in KD patients than in both NFC and OFCs (P < 0.001). Regarding IVIG responsiveness, CD14+CD16+ intermediate monocyte levels were significantly lower in the IVIG-resistant group (P < 0.001). In addition, CD56-CD16+ NK cell expression was significantly lower in the IVIG-resistant group than in the IVIG-responsive group (P = 0.002). In conclusion, our results suggest CD56-CD16+N NK cells and CD14+CD16+ intermediate monocytes might play an essential role in immunopathogenesis of KD. Further studies are warranted to explore the role of these subpopulations particularly for the observed association with coronary artery lesions (CAL) and treatment response.
35388299 | Mechanism of Sishen-Pill-Regulated Special Memory T and mTfh Cell via Involving JAK/STAT5 Pathway in Colitis Mice. It is known that memory T cells (mT cell) and memory T follicular cells (mTfh) play vital roles in the IBD pathogenesis. Sishen Pill (SSP) is a classic prescription used to treat chronic ulcerative colitis (UC). However, it is still unclear whether SSP can regulate immune homeostasis induced by mT cell and mTfh to treat IBD. In this study, we measured mT cell and mTfh level to explore the conceivable mechanism of SSP-treated IBD. The mice colitis were induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) and were treated by SSP for 7 days. The therapeutic effect of SSP was evaluated by macroscopic and microscopic observation; the mT cell, mTfh, and their subsets were analyzed by flow cytometry. Activation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway was analyzed by using a Western blot. In the present study, SSP significantly reversed weight loss and colonic injury (colon weight increase and colonic length shortening) caused by 3% DSS in physiological saline solution. Flow cytometry showed that the percentages of CD4+ and CD8+ expressions on central memory T cells were enhanced after SSP treatment, while the CD4+ T cm, CD4+ mTfh (memory T follicular helper) cells and their subpopulations were also significantly increased. Moreover, SSP inhibited the expression of JAK/STAT signaling pathway proteins JAK1, PIAS3, STAT5, p-STAT5, BIM, BAX, caspase-3, and beta-casein and promoted the expression of JAK3, PISA1, Bcl-2, and caveolin-1. In summary, SSP can regulate immune homeostasis induced by mT cell and mTfh in DSS-induced colitis, which is potentially correlated with JAK/STAT signaling pathway activation.
36059511 | PSEN1 is associated with colon cancer development via potential influences on PD-L1 nuclear translocation and tumor-immune interactions. Presenilin 1 (PSEN1), as a catalytical core of the gamma-secretase complex, plays multiple actions through mediating transmembrane domain shedding of the substrates. Unlike extensive studies performed on investigating the functions of gamma-secretase substrates or the effects of gamma-secretase inhibitors, our findings uncover a potential action of PSEN1 on PD-L1 alternative truncation and nuclear translocation, broadening our understanding on how the gamma-secretase contributes to colon cancer development as well as suggesting a potential strategy to improve the efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 blockade. Immunohistochemical data showed loss of PD-L1 protein expression in all the primary colon adenocarcioma (COAD) cases in the HPA collection, while PSEN1 was scored to be highly expressed, indicating their converse expression patterns (p<0.001). Meanwhile a strongly positive gene correlation was explored by TIMER2 and GEPIA (p<0.001). Up-regulated PSEN1 expression in COAD might facilitate liberating a C-terminal PD-L1 truncation via proteolytic processing. Then following an established regulatory pathway of PD-L1 nuclear translocation, we found that PSEN1 showed significant correlations with multiple components in HDAC2-mediated deacetylation, clathrin-dependent endocytosis, vimentin-associated nucleocytoplasmic shuttling and importin family-mediated nuclear import. Moreover, connections of PSEN1 to the immune response genes transactivated by nuclear PD-L1 were tested. Additionally, contributions of PSEN1 to the tumor invasiveness (p<0.05) and the tumor infiltrating cell enrichments (p<0.001) were investigated by cBioportal and the ESTIMATE algorithm. Levels of PSEN1 were negatively correlated with infiltrating CD8+ T (p<0.05) and CD4+ T helper (Th) 1 cells (p<0.001), while positively correlated with regulatory T cells (Tregs) (p<0.001) and cancer associated fibroblasts (CAFs) (p<0.001). It also displayed significant associations with diverse immune metagenes characteristic of T cell exhaustion, Tregs and CAFs, indicating possible actions in immune escape. Despite still a preliminary stage of this study, we anticipate to deciphering a novel function of PSEN1, and supporting more researchers toward the elucidations of the mechanisms linking the gamma-secretase to cancers, which has yet to be fully addressed.
36520384 | Correlation analysis of lipid metabolism genes with the immune microenvironment in gastric cancer and the construction of a novel gene signature. BACKGROUND: Lipid metabolism reprogramming plays an important role in cell growth, proliferation, angiogenesis and invasion of cancer. However, the prognostic value of lipid metabolism during gastric cancer (GC) progression and the relationship with the immune microenvironment are still unclear. The aim of this study was to clarify the correlation between lipid metabolism genes and GC immunity. METHOD: We obtained 350 patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and 355 patients from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Lipid metabolism-related gene datasets were obtained from the Reactome and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases. Molecular subtypes were obtained by Consensus clustering, and subtype immune status was analyzed using ESTIMATE, TIMER and microenvironmental cell population counter (MCP Counter) algorithm for immune analysis. Functional analyses included the application of Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), KEGG, gene ontology (GO), and Protein-Protein Interaction Networks (PPI) to evaluate the molecular mechanisms of different subtypes. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to identify genes associated with immunity. The LASSO algorithm and multivariate Cox regression analysis were used to construct prognostic risk models. RESULT: Based on the lipid metabolism genes found in GC, patients with GC can be divided into two subgroups with significantly different survival. The subgroup with a better prognosis presented higher immune scores and immune infiltrating cell abundance. 1170 immune-related genes were screened by WGCNA, and further screening by PPI network analysis revealed that PTPRC, CD4, ITGB2 and LCP2 were closely associated with immune cells. Combined with the TIDE score results, it was found that the population with high expression of the above genes might be more sensitive to immunotherapy. In addition, a survival prediction model for GC was developed based on five survival-related lipid metabolism genes, PIAS4, PLA2R1, PRKACA, SLCO1A2 and STARD4. The ROC analysis over time showed that the risk prediction score model had good stability. CONCLUSION: Lipid metabolism gene expression is correlated with the immune microenvironment in GC patients and can accurately predict their prognosis. Studies on lipid metabolism and GC immunity can help to screen the population for immunotherapy benefits.
37008329 | Genetic deficiency of protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 suppresses experimental abdominal aortic aneurysms. Aim: Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling is critical for the pathogenesis of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). Though protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) negatively modulates STAT3 activity, but its role in AAA disease remains undefined. Method: AAAs were induced in PIAS3 deficient (PIAS3-/-) and wild type (PIAS3+/+) male mice via transient intra-aortic elastase infusion. AAAs were assessed by in situ measurements of infrarenal aortic external diameters prior to (day 0) and 14 days after elastase infusion. Characteristic aneurysmal pathologies were evaluated by histopathology. Results: Fourteen days following elastase infusion, aneurysmal aortic diameter was reduced by an approximately 50% in PIAS3-/- as compared to PIAS3+/+ mice. On histological analyses, PIAS3-/- mice showed less medial elastin degradation (media score: 2.5) and smooth muscle cell loss (media score: 3.0) than those in PIAS3+/+ mice (media score: 4 for both elastin and SMC destruction). Aortic wall leukocyte accumulation including macrophages, CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells and B cells as well as mural neovessel formation were significantly reduced in PIAS3-/- as compared to PIAS3+/+ mice. Additionally, PIAS3 deficiency also downregulated the expression levels of matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9 by 61% and 70%, respectively, in aneurysmal lesion. Conclusion: PIAS3 deficiency ameliorated experimental AAAs in conjunction with reduced medial elastin degradation and smooth muscle cell depletion, mural leukocyte accumulation and angiogenesis.
37254791 | IRF5-TNOP3 polymorphisms are associated with elite control of HIV infection: A retrospective study. IRF5-TNPO3 polymorphisms have previously been related to immune response, and TNPO3 plays a role in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 infection after nuclear import. Therefore, we analyzed the genetic association between IRF5-TNPO3 polymorphisms and the HIV elite control in long-term nonprogressors (LTNPs). We performed a retrospective cohort study on 183 LTNPs, who were antiretroviral therapy-naive with CD4+  >= 500 cells/mm3 , viral load <=10 000 copies/mL, and asymptomatic over 10 years after HIV seroconversion. The primary outcome variable was HIV elite control (undetectable viral load in at least 90% of the measurements for at least 1 year). Seven IRF5-TNPO3 polymorphisms were genotyped using Agena Bioscience's MassARRAY platform. We found a significant association between specific IRF5-TNPO3 genotypes and HIV elite control: rs2004640 TT (aOR = 2.05; p = 0.041), rs10954213 AA (aOR = 1.95; p = 0.035), rs2280714 TT (aOR = 2.02; p = 0.031), and rs10279821 CC (aOR = 2.12; p = 0.017). We also found a significant association between IRF5-TNPO3 haplotype TATC composed of the favorable significant polymorphisms (rs2004640, rs10954213, rs2280714, and rs10279821) and the HIV elite control (aOR = 1.59; p = 0.048). IRF5-TNPO3 rs2004640, rs10954213, rs2280714, and rs10279821 polymorphisms were related to HIV elite control in LTNPs. Our data provide new knowledge about the impact of IRF5-TNPO3 polymorphisms on HIV pathogenesis to understand the phenomenon of natural HIV control.
37711200 | Pan-cancer analysis of kinesin family members with potential implications in prognosis and immunological role in human cancer. Background: Kinesin is a molecular motor for transporting \goods\ within cells and plays a key role in many types of tumors. The multi-angle study of kinesin at the pan-cancer level is conducive to understanding its role in tumorigenesis and development and clinical treatment potential. Methods: We evaluated the expression of KIF genes, performed differential analysis by using the R package limma, and explored the pan-cancer prognosis of KIF genes by univariate Cox regression analysis. To evaluate the pan-cancer role of KIF genes as a whole, we defined the KIFscore with the help of gene set variation analysis (GSVA) and explored the KIFscores across normal tissues, tumor cell lines, and 33 tumor types in TCGA. Next, we used spearman correlation analysis to extensively study the correlation between the KIFscore and tumor prognosis and be-tween the KIFscore and clinical indicators. We also identified the relationship between the KIFscore and genomic variation and immune molecular signatures by multiplatform analysis. Finally, we identified the key genes in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) through machine learning algorithms and verified the candidate genes by CCK8, wound healing assay, Transwell assay, and flow cytometry. Results: In most cancers, KIFscores are high and they act as a risk factor for cancer. The KIFscore was significantly associated with copy number variation (CNV), tumor mutation burden (TMB), immune subtypes, DNA repair deficiency, and tumor stemness indexes. Moreover, in almost all cancer species, the KIFscore was positively correlated with T cell CD4+ TH2, the common lymphoid pro-genitor, and the T cell follicular helper. In addition, it was negatively correlated with CXCL16, CCL14, TNFSF13, and TNFRSF14 and positively correlated with ULBP1, MICB, and CD276. Machine learning helped us to identify four hub-genes in ccRCC. The suitable gene, KIF14, is highly expressed in ccRCC and promotes tumor cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Conclusion: Our study shows that the KIF genes play an important pan-cancer role and may become a potential new target for a variety of tumor treatments in the future. Furthermore, KIF14, a key molecule in the KIF genes, can provide a new idea for the ccRCC treatment.
8247028 | Enhancement of HIV-1 gp41 binding to Raji cells by PWM, LPS, interferon-gamma and interleukin-6. Based on our finding that HIV-1 gp41 independently of CD4 can bind to several proteins (gp41 binding protein: GBP) on the human T-cell line H9, B-cell line Raji and monocyte-cell line U937, we examined the effect of mitogens and cytokines on binding of gp41 to H9, Raji and U937 cells. Flow cytometry (FACS) analysis demonstrated that PWM and LPS, IFN-gamma and IL-6, but not Con A, IFN-alpha, -beta, -omega and IL-2, could increase gp41 binding to Raji cells. In controls, none of the regulators (IFN-alpha, -beta, -gamma, -omega, IL-2, IL-6, Con A, PWM, LPS) could modify the binding potential of H9 and U937 cells. Our data suggest that the expression of HIV-1 binding proteins is subject to regulation by PWM, LPS, IFN-gamma and IL-6 in the case of B-cells, while on T-cells and macrophages, the binding proteins may be constitutively expressed.
10557076 | Co-occupancy of the interferon regulatory element of the class II transactivator (CIITA) type IV promoter by interferon regulatory factors 1 and 2. Class II transactivator (CIITA) activates the expression of major histocompatibility class II genes, which encode antigen-presenting molecules recognized by the T-cell receptor of CD4+ T cells. IFN-gamma induced CIITA transcription in many cell types is directed by the CIITA Type IV promoter. Here we report that the human CIITA Type IV promoter IRF-E binds IRF-1 and can be activated by exogenous expression of IRF-1. Surprisingly, the CIITA Type IV promoter IRF-E is also activated by IRF-2, another member of the IRF family that generally acts as a transcriptional repressor. In addition, we found that IRF-1 and IRF-2 synergistically activate the CIITA Type IV promoter. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that IRF-1 and IRF-2 can simultaneously occupy the IRF-E of the CIITA Type IV promoter, suggesting a novel mechanism for the role of these two proteins in promoter activation. Our results also indicate that IRF-1 and IRF-2 can cooperatively activate and co-occupy the IRF-E of the guanylate binding protein (GBP) promoter. Finally, CIITA induction by IFN-gamma does not occur in a pancreatic tumor cell line that expresses a mutated IRF-2, representing the first IRF-2 mutation identified in a human tumor cell line.
13678465 | Neurocognitive performance and quality of life in patients with HIV infection. We examined the relationship of HIV-related cognitive impairment and health-related quality of life (QoL). Subjects were administered measures of cognitive function (a battery of 17 neuropsychological tests) and of QoL (the MOS-HIV questionnaire). Study measures also included comprehensive clinical and neurological evaluation, laboratory testing, and brain imaging studies in patients with impaired neuropsychological evaluation. One-hundred and eleven subjects were examined. Cognitively impaired patients (33.3%) reported poorer QoL scores in all domains (p < 0.05): physical health summary score (PHS) (44.6 vs. 49.9), mental health summary score (MHS) (37.7 vs. 44.4), pain (67.6 vs. 79.4), physical functioning (75.9 vs. 87.7), role functioning (32.4 vs. 41.5), social functioning (70.3 vs. 83.5), mental health (48.2 vs. 61.0), energy (53.1 vs. 63.0), health distress (60.8 vs. 75.5), cognitive functioning (CF) (60.5 vs. 71.8), general health perceptions (29.2 vs. 43.4), and QoL (36.5 vs. 47.0). The number of altered neuropsychological tests correlated significantly with MHS (p < 0.001), PHS (p < 0.03), CF (p < 0.02), and QoL (p < 0.02) scores. A correlation between seven of seven neuropsychological measures exploring speed of mental processing, three of four exploring mental flexibility, four of six exploring memory, and two of two exploring fine motor functioning and MHS, PHS, CF, or QoL scores was also found. Poor performance on the Digit Symbol test was most strongly associated with poor MHS (OR 1.04, 95% CI 1.01-1.08, p < 0.009) and PHS (OR 1.04, 95% CI 1.01-1.08, p < 0.01) scores, controlling for CD4 count, previous AIDS diagnosis, receiving HAART, and drug abuse. Cognitive impairment is associated with poor QoL. People with more severe cognitive impairment have the highest probability of having a poor QoL. Cognitive impairment in any cognitive domain explored in our battery is also associated with poor QoL. Poor performance on the Digit Symbol Test is the strongest predictor of poor QoL.
14611728 | Different cytokine production and effector/memory dynamics of alpha beta+ or gamma delta+ T-cell subsets in the peripheral blood of patients with active pulmonary tuberculosis. Immunity to M.tuberculosis (MTB) infection consists of interactions between various T-cell subsets that control the infection and prevent further reactivation. We analysed the effector/memory T-cell dynamics and cytokines production in the peripheral blood of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). We observed that the frequency of CD4+ T-cell effectors was significantly increased during active TB, confirming a major role of this T-cell subset in TB immunity. Pre-terminally differentiated CD8+ T-lymphocytes were increased in the peripheral blood as well. In contrast, we observed a reduced number of effector mycobacteria-reactive gammadelta+ T-lymphocytes with a specific defects in reacting to mycobacterial nonpeptidic antigens, suggesting that this innate response is rapidly lost during TB infection. Nevertheless, the frequency of gammadelta+ T-cells effectors in TB patients was higher than the alphabeta+ T-cell response to peptide from MTB-ESAT-6 protein and quantitatively similar to PPD reactivity. Thus, alphabeta+ and gammadelta+ T-cell differentiation and function are differently triggered by active TB infection.
15871129 | Alterations in the profile of blood cell types during malaria in previously unexposed primigravid monkeys. Malaria in nonimmune, primigravid women threatens both mother and fetus. We used the Plasmodium coatneyi/rhesus monkey model to examine factors associated with this. Clinical and immunologic responses during the blood stage of chronic malaria (4 months) were evaluated in 8 malaria-naive primigravid (PMI) and 8 age-matched nulligravid (NMI) infected monkeys, compared with those in 8 primigravid, noninfected control monkeys. Although parasitemia levels were similar, recrudescence was more frequent and prolonged, and anemia was more severe in PMI than in NMI monkeys. During infection, CD2+, CD4+, and CD8+ lymphocyte levels were higher in NMI than in PMI monkeys. Monocyte and neutrophil levels were lower in PMI than in NMI monkeys. During chronic, untreated malaria, NMI monkeys had a B lymphocyte count 23 times greater than that of PMI monkeys. Pregnancy-induced immunomodulation, defined as a lack of appropriate cellular responses to malaria, was indiscernible until the immune system was challenged by a pathogen.
15888249 | HLA-E up-regulation induced by HIV infection may directly contribute to CD94-mediated impairment of NK cells. Alterations in NK cell numbers and function have been repeatedly shown during HIV infection. In this study, NK cell number and MHC class I expression on CD4+ T cells were studied in HIV patients at different stages of disease progression. An increased expression of HLA-E was seen on CD4+ T cells. In parallel, a reduced number of CD94+ NK cells was observed in advanced disease stages. Moreover, a decline in CD94 expression on NK cells was observed at the HIV replication peak in patients undergoing antiretroviral treatment interruption, suggesting a role of viral replication on NK cells alterations. In vitro HIV infection induced a rapid down-regulation of HLA-A,B,C expression, paralleled by an increased expression of HLA-E surface molecules, the formal ligands of CD94 NK receptors. HIV-infected HLA-E expressing cells were able to inhibit NK cell cytotoxicity through HLA-E expression, since cytotoxicity was restored by antibody masking experiments. These data indicate that the CD94/HLA-E interaction may contribute to NK cell dysfunction in HIV infection, suggesting a role of HIV replication in this process.
16164833 | T-Cell response profiling to biological threat agents including the SARS coronavirus. The emergence of pathogens such as SARS and the increased threat of bioterrorism has stimulated the development of novel diagnostic assays for differential diagnosis. Rather than focusing on the detection of an individual pathogen component, we have developed a T cell profiling system to monitor responses to the pathogens in an array format. Using a matrix of antigens specific for different pathogens, a specific T cell profile was generated for each individual by monitoring the intracellular production of interferon-gamma by flow cytometry. This assay allows for the testing of multiple proteins or peptides at a single time and provides a quantitative and phenotypic assessment of CD4(+) and CD8(+) responding cells. We present profiling examples for several positive individuals, including those vaccinated with the smallpox and anthrax vaccines. We also show antigen optimization for the SARS-hCoV, as studies revealed that these proteins contain peptides which cross-react with more common coronaviruses, a cause of the common cold. The T cell array is an early and sensitive multiplex measure of active infection, exposure to a pathogen, or effective, recent vaccination.
18056374 | Interaction between GATA-3 and the transcriptional coregulator Pias1 is important for the regulation of Th2 immune responses. Th2 cytokine expression is dependent on the transcription factor GATA-3. However, the molecular interactions of GATA-3 leading to Th2 cytokine gene activation have not been well characterized. Here, we reported a number of GATA-3 associated proteins in Th2 cells, and one of such proteins Pias1 functioned as a positive transcriptional coregulator for GATA-3. When overexpressed in Th2 cells, Pias1 enhanced the expression of IL-13, and to lesser degrees, IL-4 and -5. Conversely, Pias1 siRNA down-regulated the Th2 cytokine expression. In Leishmania major infection, manipulating Pias1 expression in parasite-reactive CD4 T cells altered severity of disease caused by Th2 responses. Mechanistically, Pias1 markedly potentiated GATA-3-mediated activation of the IL-13 promoter by facilitating the recruitment of GATA-3 to the promoter. In contrast, IL-5 promoter was modestly enhanced by Pias1 and no effect was observed on IL-4 promoter. Thus, both promoter activation and additional mechanisms are responsible for regulation by Pias1.
20351144 | Role of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in clearance of primary pulmonary infection with Coxiella burnetii. The mechanisms of the primary adaptive immune response to Coxiella burnetii are not well known. Following inoculation of the lungs with C. burnetii Nine Mile phase I (NMI), SCID mice developed pneumonia and splenomegaly and succumbed to infection, whereas wild-type mice cleared the infection by 24 days. SCID mice reconstituted with either CD4+ T cells or CD8+ T cells alone were able to control the infection, indicating that the presence of either type of T cells was sufficient to control infection, and B cells were not necessary for primary immunity. Similarly, wild-type mice depleted of either CD4+ T cells or CD8+ T cells controlled infections in their lungs, but these mice were highly susceptible if they were depleted of both types of T cells. However, compared to CD4+ T-cell-dependent protection, CD8+ T-cell-dependent protection resulted in less inflammation in the lungs and less growth of bacteria in the spleens.
20855355 | Characterization of immune cell subsets during the active phase of multiple sclerosis reveals disease and c-Jun N-terminal kinase pathway biomarkers. BACKGROUND: Autoimmune activation and deregulated apoptosis of T lymphocytes are involved in multiple sclerosis (MS). c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) plays a role in T-cell survival and apoptosis. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this work was to investigate the role of the JNK-dependent apoptosis pathway in relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS). METHODS: The immunomodulatory effect of AS602801, a JNK inhibitor, was firstly evaluated on activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from healthy volunteers (HVs) and secondly in unstimulated purified CD4+, CD8+ and CD11b+ cells from RRMS patients and HVs. Moreover JNK/inflammation/apoptosis related genes were investigated in RRMS and HV samples. RESULTS: In activated PBMCs from HVs, we showed that AS602801 blocked T-lymphocyte proliferation and induced apoptosis. In RRMS CD4+ and CD8+ cells, AS602801 induced apoptosis genes and expression of surface markers, while in RRMS CD11b+ cells it induced expression of innate immunity receptors and co-stimulatory molecules. Untreated cells from RRMS active-phase patients significantly released interleukin-23 (IL-23) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and expressed less apoptosis markers compared to the cells of HVs. Moreover, gene expression was significantly different in cells from RRMS active-phase patients vs. HVs. By comparing RRMS PBMCs in the active and stable phases, a specific genomic signature for RRMS was indentified. Additionally, CASP8AP2, CD36, ITGAL, NUMB, OLR1, PIAS-1, RNASEL, RTN4RL2 and THBS1 were identified for the first time as being associated to the active phase of RRMS. CONCLUSIONS: The analysis of the JNK-dependent apoptosis pathway can provide biomarkers for activated lymphocytes in the active phase of RRMS and a gene expression signature for disease status. The reported results might be useful to stratify patients, thereby supporting the development of novel therapies.
20966256 | The ligase PIAS1 restricts natural regulatory T cell differentiation by epigenetic repression. CD4(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T (T(reg)) cells are important for maintaining immune tolerance. Understanding the molecular mechanism that regulates T(reg) differentiation will facilitate the development of effective therapeutic strategies against autoimmune diseases. We report here that the SUMO E3 ligase PIAS1 restricts the differentiation of natural T(reg) cells by maintaining a repressive chromatin state of the Foxp3 promoter. PIAS1 acts by binding to the Foxp3 promoter to recruit DNA methyltransferases and heterochromatin protein 1 for epigenetic modifications. Pias1 deletion caused promoter demethylation, reduced histone H3 methylation at Lys(9), and enhanced promoter accessibility. Consistently, Pias1(-/-) mice displayed an increased natural T(reg) cell population and were resistant to the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Our studies have identified an epigenetic mechanism that negatively regulates the differentiation of natural T(reg) cells.
22591364 | Modulation of intracellular restriction factors contributes to methamphetamine-mediated enhancement of acquired immune deficiency syndrome virus infection of macrophages. Epidemiological studies have demonstrated that the use of methamphetamine (METH), a sympathomimetic stimulant, is particularly common among patients infected with HIV. In vitro studies have determined that METH enhances HIV infection of CD4+ T cells, monocyte-derived dendritic cells, and macrophages. In addition, animal studies have also showed that METH treatment increases brain viral load of SIV-infected monkeys and promotes HIV replication and viremia in HIV/hu-CycT1 transgenic mice. However, the mechanisms (s) of METH actions on HIV remain to be determined. In this study, we investigated the impact of METH on intracellular restriction factors against HIV and SIV. We demonstrated that METH treatment of human blood mononuclear phagocytes significantly affected the expression of anti-HIV microRNAs and several key elements (RIG-I, IRF-3/5, SOCS-2, 3 and PIAS-1, 3, X, Y) in the type I IFN pathway. The suppression of these innate restriction factors was associated with a reduced production of type I IFNs and the enhancement of HIV or SIV infection of macrophages. These findings indicate that METH use impairs intracellular innate antiviral mechanism(s) in macrophages, contributing to cell susceptibility to the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) virus infection.
24968746 | Sleeve gastrectomy is a safe and efficient procedure in HIV patients with morbid obesity: a case series with results in weight loss, comorbidity evolution, CD4 count, and viral load. BACKGROUND: The efficacy and safety of bariatric surgery have been poorly studied in patients affected with HIV. Although sleeve gastrectomy (SG) is the most widely used procedure in many countries, most of the published literature reported results with the gastric bypass (GBP) procedure on morbidly obese HIV patients. METHODS: We have evaluated retrospectively, in eight consecutive patients who underwent a SG, its effect in weight loss and its impact on the treatment and on the markers of HIV infection. RESULTS: Seven out of eight patients were females. The mean age was 46 years, with a median preoperative BMI of 42 kg/m(2). The mean duration of HIV infection and CD4 cell count were 13.4 years and 457 cells/mm(3), respectively. The mean weight loss was 37 kg in 20 months, the excess BMI loss was 80.8 +- 30.9 %, and the excess weight loss is 81.5 +- 28.9 % with one minor complication. CD4 counts were unchanged. Three patients had therapy modifications that were unrelated to bariatric surgery. Two patients had a therapeutic drug monitoring before and after the intervention. Plasma concentrations remained in therapeutic levels after the SG. Most comorbidities disappeared postoperatively, decreasing the cardiovascular risk. CONCLUSIONS: The sleeve gastrectomy was safe and effective with no consequences on CD4 counts and viral load in HIV-affected obese patients. It should be considered as a part of the treatment in morbidly obese HIV patients.
25402416 | Selective, efficient modulation of activated CD4+ alphabetaT cells by the novel humanized antibody GZ-alphabetaTCR targeting human alphabetaTCR. Allograft rejection and immunosuppression are two major issues in transplantation medicine. The specific targeting of alloreactive T cells, the initiators and promoters of allograft rejection, would be a promising strategy to reduce unwanted T-cell responses and side effects of lifelong immunosuppression. The novel humanized monoclonal antibody GZ-alphabetaTCR, specific for the human alphabetaT-cell receptor, was tested in vitro and in vivo for its specificity and efficacy to modulate the alphabetaT-cell compartment. GZ-alphabetaTCR moderately induced apoptosis in resting alphabetaT cells in vitro, an effect considerably amplified in activated T cells. A single dose of GZ-alphabetaTCR significantly reduced human CD45(+)CD3(+) T cells in vivo, with a preferential modulation of CD4(+) alphabetaT cells. Importantly, naive T cells, the T-cell subset from which alloreactivity emanates, were significantly reduced. Simultaneously, a significant, compensatory increase of gammadelta T cells was observed in vitro and in vivo in both humanized mouse models examined. GZ-alphabetaTCR did not induce cytokines and was well tolerated. Thus, specificity and high efficacy make GZ-alphabetaTCR a powerful tool to selectively eliminate putatively detrimental T-cell subsets, a major goal in transplantation medicine. At the same time, GZ-alphabetaTCR spares gammadelta and natural killer cells, thus leaving the recipient's immune system competent for cell-mediated immunoregulation and cell-mediated immunity. 
25448495 | Gabapentin-induced changes of plasma cortisol level and immune status in hysterectomized women. AIM: We have examined the effects of gabapentin (GBP) on stress-related changes of cortisol and catecholamines in patients who underwent hysterectomy because of uterine fibrinoids. Additionally, we have observed the effect of GBP on the immune status in the acute stress response to surgery. METHODS: Sixty patients scheduled for an abdominal hysterectomy were randomly assigned to the GBP administration 1h before surgery (n=30 pts), or to the placebo group (n=30 pts). Blood samples were collected before and 24h after the surgery. The intensity of pain was assessed by a visual analogue scale (VAS) every 8h at rest. Immunomodulatory effects of GBP were determined by flow cytometry. We followed the total proportion of CD3(+) lymphocytes, CD3(+)CD4(+), CD3(+)CD8(+), CD19(+) B lymphocytes, CD16(+)CD56(+)CD3(-)NK cells and CD16(+)CD56(+)CD3(+) NKT cells before and 24h after hysterectomy. The plasma cortisol and catecholamines concentration was used to estimate the level of the stress response. RESULTS: VAS pain score at rest was significantly lower in the GBP group than in the placebo group (P=0.003). Application of GBP significantly decreased the plasma cortisol level 24h after the operation in comparison to the placebo group (P<0,001). We found significant positive correlation between the VAS pain score and concentration of cortisol in all patients (P=0.025). GBP reduced the concentration of catecholamines (p<0.05). The proportion of CD3(+) (P=0.027) and CD3(+)CD4(+)cells (P=0.006) was significantly lower in the GBP group 24h after operation, while the contribution of CD19(+) (P=0.033) was significantly higher. CONCLUSION: Preoperative administration of GBP reduced the pain scores at rest in patients at 0, 16 and 24h after abdominal hysterectomy. Additionally, GBP reduced the stress response and changed immune parameters in the reaction to surgery.
27004748 | Thiodigalactoside shows antitumour activity by beta-galactoside-binding protein and regulatory T cells inhibition in oral squamous cell carcinoma. OBJECTIVE: Thiodigalactoside (TDG), a synthetic inhibitor of beta-galactoside-binding protein (beta-GBP) suppresses tumour growth by inhibiting multiple cancer enhancing activities of beta-GBP. Hence, we attempted to understand whether disruption of beta-GBP functions and indirect inhibition of Treg cells by TDG affect the growth and establishment of oral cancer cells. METHOD: The growth, morphology, cell cycle regulation, apoptosis induction and angiogenesis of oral cancer cell lines (SCC-4, SCC-9, SCC-25) via MACS-purified Treg cells were performed by MTT, propidium iodide (PI) staining, annexin-V-binding assay and ELISA respectively. RESULTS: Treatment with beta-GBP showed growth-promoting effects on Tregs and oral cancer cells. However, the treatment with its inhibitor TDG resulted in inhibition of Treg subsets and also decreased the frequency of IL10(+) and IL35(+) Tregs indicating its immunomodulatory effects. Additionally, TDG treatment significantly (P < 0.001) inhibited the growth of OSCC cells with a concomitant induction of apoptosis, cell cycle arrest and anti-angiogenesis. CONCLUSION: It appears that TDG concurrently prevents many tumour-promoting effects of beta-GBP in oral cancer cells possibly by Treg inhibition. This offers a preclinical proof of the concept that therapeutic targeting of beta-GBP can overcome Treg -mediated tumour promotion and immunosuppression in oral cancer patients.
27275775 | Guanylate binding protein 5: Impairing virion infectivity by targeting retroviral envelope glycoproteins. Guanylate binding proteins (GBPs) are interferon-inducible cellular factors that belong to the superfamily of guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases) and play important roles in the cell-intrinsic defense against bacteria, protozoa and viruses. In a recent report in Cell Host & Microbe, we identify GBP5 as novel restriction factor of HIV-1 that reduces the infectivity of progeny virions by interfering with processing and incorporation of the viral envelope (Env) glycoprotein. The inhibitory activity of GBP5 requires C-terminal isoprenylation, mediating Golgi-association, but not its GTPase function. Notably, GBP5 expression levels vary considerably in human macrophages and inversely correlate with infectious virus yield. We demonstrate that GBP5 can be evaded by an unusual tradeoff mechanism: Naturally occurring mutations in the start codon of the viral accessory gene vpu attenuate GBP5 inhibition by increasing Env expression at the cost of Vpu function. Whether direct counteraction mechanisms or more subtle changes balancing Vpu and Env expression also affect HIV-1 inhibition by GBP5 remains to be clarified. Other open questions are whether GBP5 restricts HIV-1 in CD4+ T cells and if other GBP family members also decrease infectivity of HIV and/or additional enveloped viruses.
28056393 | Increased expression of negative regulators of cytokine signaling during chronic HIV disease cause functionally exhausted state of dendritic cells. Mechanisms of functional impairment of dendritic cells (DCs) during chronic HIV-1 infection are not well understood. In order to understand this phenomenon, we aimed to study the expression of negative regulators of cytokine signaling and correlate with DC exhaustion during chronic HIV-1 disease. Monocyte-derived DCs (mo-DCs) from 27 HIV-1 infected patients (CD4+ T-cell counts: 429+-44 cells/muL, plasma viral load: Log103.9+-1.0copies/ml) and 19 healthy controls (HCs) were stimulated ex vivo with TLR4 agonist, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for 2days to evaluate their functional fitness. The expression of a set of genes associated with cytokine signaling was evaluated in a custom designed PCR array by Real-Time PCR. The mo-DCs from HIV-1 infected patients depicted functional exhaustion as evident by decreased allo-stimulation index (mean+-SD: 10+-6 vs. 24+-16) (p<0.05), decreased cytokine production (pg/ml) (IL-12: 4.6+-16 vs. 25+-85; TNF-alpha: 128+-279 vs. 286+-544; IL-10: 6+-12 vs. 13+-20; IL-8: 10,688+-11,748 vs. 17,470+-125,049) and retained endocytosis (1.1+-0.3 vs. 1.0+-0.29) (p<0.05) even after LPS-stimulation, as compared to HCs. Significantly upregulated expression of SOCS-1 (mean+-SD fold change: 2.2+-2vs.0.8+-0.6), SOCS-3 (6.3+-7.4vs.1.4+-0.4), PIAS-1 (1.6+-0.1vs.1.0+-0.3) and SHP-1 (0.8+-0.4vs.0.4+-0.2) correlated positively with PD-L1 expression in these DCs (Spearman's coefficient, SOCS-1: 0.63, SOCS-3: 1.0 and PIAS-1: 0.7) (p<0.05). The expression of these molecules trended positively with plasma viral load and negatively with CD4+ T-cell counts. These findings suggest that the upregulation of negative regulatory factors during chronic HIV disease have profound down-modulatory effects on DC functions and establishment of an overall exhausted state. Understanding mechanisms causing upregulation of these factors may lead to the design of new generation therapeutics based on silencing of their gene expression.
29311245 | Both Major Histocompatibility Complex Class I (MHC-I) and MHC-II Molecules Are Required, while MHC-I Appears To Play a Critical Role in Host Defense against Primary Coxiella burnetii Infection. To understand the role of class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I) and class II MHC (MHC-II) antigen presentation pathways in host defense against Coxiella burnetii infection, we examined whether MHC-I or MHC-II deficiency in mice would significantly influence their susceptibility to virulent C. burnetii Nine Mile phase I (NMI) infection. The results indicate that NMI infection induced more severe disease in both MHC-I-deficient and MHC-II-deficient mice than in wild-type (WT) mice, while only MHC-I-deficient mice developed a severe persistent infection and were unable to control bacterial replication. These results suggest that both MHC-I-restricted CD8+ T cells and MHC-II-restricted CD4+ T cells contribute to host defense against primary C. burnetii infection, while MHC-I-restricted CD8+ T cells appear to play a more critical role in controlling bacterial replication. Additionally, although NMI infection induced more severe disease in TAP1-deficient mice than in their WT counterparts, TAP1 deficiency in mice did not significantly influence their ability to eliminate C. burnetii This suggests that C. burnetii antigen presentation to CD8+ T cells by the MHC-I classical pathway may depend only partially on TAP1. Furthermore, granzyme B deficiency in mice did not significantly alter their susceptibility to C. burnetii infection, but perforin-deficient mice were unable to control host inflammatory responses during primary C. burnetii infection. These results suggest that perforin, but not granzyme B, is required for C. burnetii antigen-specific cytotoxic CD8+ T cells to control primary C. burnetii infection.
29406430 | Brief Report: Abacavir/Lamivudine and Tenofovir/Emtricitabine in Pregnant Women With HIV: Laboratory and Clinical Outcomes in an Observational National Study. BACKGROUND: Abacavir-lamivudine (ABC/3TC) and tenofovir-emtricitabine (TDF/FTC) represent in the guidelines of several countries, including Italy and United States, the preferred nucleoside/nucleotide backbones of antiretroviral regimens. We assessed their profile in pregnancy using data from a national observational study. METHODS: Laboratory measures (CD4, HIV-RNA, lipid profile, glucose, hemoglobin, and alanine transferase) and pregnancy outcomes (preterm delivery, low birthweight, nonelective cesarean section, birthweight Z-score, congenital defects, HIV transmission, maternal weight gain, and pregnancy complications) were compared after prenatal exposure to ABC/3TC or TDF/FTC. RESULTS: The study evaluated 913 pregnancies (ABC/3TC: 252; TDF/FTC: 661). At entry in pregnancy, women on TDF/FTC were older (33.6 vs. 32.4 years, P = 0.005), less frequently on treatment (66.9% vs. 80.2%, P < 0.001), and had lower CD4 counts (475/mm vs. 533/mm, P = 0.003) and higher plasma HIV-RNA levels (2.48 vs. 2.22 log10 copies/mL, P = 0.003). Women on ABC/3TC had more commonly hypertension/nephropathy (5.2% vs. 2.0%, P = 0.013). No major differences were observed in the main pregnancy outcomes and in rates of undetectable HIV-RNA at third trimester. In a subgroup analysis that evaluated at third trimester only cases with regular 3-drug treatment during pregnancy, women on TDF/FTC had lower hemoglobin levels (median: 11.1 vs. 11.8 g/dL, P = 0.002) and women on ABC/3TC had higher levels of total cholesterol (median: 230 vs. 216 mg/dL, P = 0.023) and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (133 vs. 111 mg/dL, P = 0.030). CONCLUSIONS: In this study, use of TDF/FTC and ABC/3TC in pregnancy was associated with similar pregnancy outcomes and with some differences in laboratory measures that might guide physicians' prescriptions in mothers with hematologic or metabolic risk factors.
31226136 | Phosphodiesterase 4D, miR-203 and selected cytokines in the peripheral blood are associated with canine atopic dermatitis. Canine Atopic Dermatitis (AD) is a common complex and multifactorial disease involving immune dysregulation, genetic predisposition, skin barrier defects, environmental factors and allergic sensitization. To date, diagnosis of canine AD relies on a combination of patient history, clinical examination, allergy testing and response to diet trials/therapies with no reliable biomarkers available to distinguish AD from other diseases with similar clinical presentations. A handful of studies to identify potential biomarkers in the peripheral blood of AD dogs and healthy controls have been performed with some showing inconsistent and contradictory results. In this study, we, for the first time, report statistically significant increases in expression of phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D) gene in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and miR-203 in plasma from AD dogs compared to healthy controls. In addition, we report a statistically non-significant change of the CD4+/CD8+ ratio, a dramatic decrease of three gene markers (PIAS1, RORA and SH2B1) as well as a panel of differential expression of cytokines in AD dogs in comparison to the healthy controls. Our study provides important insight into the complexities of canine AD, and further studies to verify the specificity of these findings for canine AD at a larger-scale are warranted.
31528316 | Pregnancy Loss in Women with HIV is not Associated with HIV Markers: Data from a National Study in Italy, 2001-2018. BACKGROUND: There is limited information on pregnancy loss in women with HIV, and it is still debated whether HIV-related markers may play a role.Objectives: To explore potential risk factors for pregnancy loss in women with HIV, with particular reference to modifiable risk factors and markers of HIV disease. METHODS: Multicenter observational study of HIV-positive pregnant women. The main outcome measure was pregnancy loss, including both miscarriage (<22 weeks) and stillbirth (>=22 weeks). Possible associations of pregnancy loss were evaluated in univariate and multivariate analyses. RESULTS: Among 2696 eligible pregnancies reported between 2001 and 2018, 226 (8.4%) ended in pregnancy loss (miscarriage 198, 7.3%; stillbirth 28, 1.0%). In multivariate analyses, only older age (adjusted odds ratio [AOR] per additional year of age: 1.079, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.046-1.113), HIV diagnosis before pregnancy (AOR: 2.533, 95%CI 1.407-4.561) and history of pregnancy loss (AOR: 1.625, 95%CI 1.178-2.243) were significantly associated with pregnancy loss. No significant association with pregnancy loss was found for parity, coinfections, sexually transmitted diseases, hypertension, smoking, alcohol and substance use, CD4 cell count, HIV-RNA viral load, and CDC HIV stage. CONCLUSIONS: Older women and those with a previous history of pregnancy loss should be considered at higher risk of pregnancy loss. The severity of HIV disease and potentially modifiable risk factors did not increase the risk of pregnancy loss.
31730025 | A new synthetic toll-like receptor 1/2 ligand is an efficient adjuvant for peptide vaccination in a human volunteer. BACKGROUND: We previously showed that the bacterial lipopeptide Pam3Cys-Ser-Ser, meanwhile established as a toll-like receptor (TLR) 1/2 ligand, acts as a strong adjuvant for the induction of virus specific CD8+ T cells in mice, when covalently coupled to a synthetic peptide. CASE PRESENTATION: We now designed a new water-soluble synthetic Pam3Cys-derivative, named XS15 and characterized it in vitro by a TLR2 NF-kappaB luciferase reporter assay. Further, the capacity of XS15 to activate immune cells and stimulate peptide-specific CD8+ T and NK cells by 6-sulfo LacNAc+ monocytes was assessed by flow cytometry as well as cytokine induction using immunoassays. The induction of a functional immune response after vaccination of a volunteer with viral peptides was assessed by ELISpot assay and flow cytometry in peripheral blood cells and infiltrating cells at the vaccination site, as well as by immunohistochemistry and imaging. XS15 induced strong ex vivo CD8+ and TH1 CD4+ responses in a human volunteer upon a single injection of XS15 mixed to uncoupled peptides in a water-in-oil emulsion (Montanide  ISA51 VG). A granuloma formed locally at the injection site containing highly activated functional CD4+ and CD8+ effector memory T cells. The total number of vaccine peptide-specific functional T cells was experimentally assessed and estimated to be 3.0 x 105 in the granuloma and 20.5 x 106 in peripheral blood. CONCLUSION: Thus, in one volunteer we show a granuloma forming by peptides combined with an efficient adjuvant in a water-in-oil-emulsion, inducing antigen specific T cells detectable in circulation and at the vaccination site, after one single vaccination only. The ex vivo T cell responses in peripheral blood were detectable for more than one year and could be strongly boosted by a second vaccination. Hence, XS15 is a promising adjuvant candidate for peptide vaccination, in particular for tumor peptide vaccines in a personalized setting.
31758014 | A mass spectrometry guided approach for the identification of novel vaccine candidates in gram-negative pathogens. Vaccination is the most effective method to prevent infectious diseases. However, approaches to identify novel vaccine candidates are commonly laborious and protracted. While surface proteins are suitable vaccine candidates and can elicit antibacterial antibody responses, systematic approaches to define surfomes from gram-negatives have rarely been successful. Here we developed a combined discovery-driven mass spectrometry and computational strategy to identify bacterial vaccine candidates and validate their immunogenicity using a highly prevalent gram-negative pathogen, Helicobacter pylori, as a model organism. We efficiently isolated surface antigens by enzymatic cleavage, with a design of experiment based strategy to experimentally dissect cell surface-exposed from cytosolic proteins. From a total of 1,153 quantified bacterial proteins, we thereby identified 72 surface exposed antigens and further prioritized candidates by computational homology inference within and across species. We next tested candidate-specific immune responses. All candidates were recognized in sera from infected patients, and readily induced antibody responses after vaccination of mice. The candidate jhp_0775 induced specific B and T cell responses and significantly reduced colonization levels in mouse therapeutic vaccination studies. In infected humans, we further show that jhp_0775 is immunogenic and activates IFNgamma secretion from peripheral CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Our strategy provides a generic preclinical screening, selection and validation process for novel vaccine candidates against gram-negative bacteria, which could be employed to other gram-negative pathogens.
33459635 | Weight gain during pregnancy in women with HIV receiving different antiretroviral regimens. BACKGROUND: No published studies have evaluated in pregnant women with HIV weight gain with different antiretroviral drug classes. METHODS: Data from a national cohort study were used. We compared absolute weight gain and occurrence of excessive weight gain in women with HIV who received during pregnancy integrase inhibitors (INSTI), protease inhibitors (PI), or non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTI). Excessive weight gain was defined according to the Institute of Medicine recommendations. Possible predictors of weight gain were assessed using univariate and multivariate analyses. RESULTS: Among 273 cases (PI: 191, NNRTI: 43, INSTI: 39), the mean weight increase was 11.3 kg, and 25.4% of the mothers had an excessive weight increase. No significant differences were found among the three treatment groups for absolute weight increase, occurrence of excessive weight gain, infant birthweight, and other pregnancy and laboratory outcomes. The comparisons of individual drugs, although based on a limited number of cases, suggested no major differences. A significant positive correlation was found between weight gain and CD4+ T-cell increase during pregnancy. In multivariate analyses, drug class and nucleoside backbone were not associated with absolute or excessive weight increase. Excessive weight increase was significantly associated with week of delivery (adjusted odds ratio: 1.74, 95% CI 1.15, 2.63), obesity (5.21, 95% CI 1.85, 14.64), overweight (7.95, 95% CI 3.26, 19.39), recent substance use (5.96, 95% CI 1.13, 31.40) and fasting 2nd trimester hyperglycaemia (3.94, 95% CI 1.14, 13.65). CONCLUSIONS: No significant differences in absolute weight change or occurrence of excessive weight gain were found among women with HIV who received during pregnancy different classes of antiretroviral drugs.
33597887 | Curcumin Regulated the Homeostasis of Memory T Cell and Ameliorated Dextran Sulfate Sodium-Induced Experimental Colitis. Immune memory is protective against reinvasion by pathogens in the homeostatic state, while immune memory disorders can cause autoimmune disease, including inflammatory bowel disease. Curcumin is a natural compound shown to be effective against human inflammatory bowel disease and experimental colitis, but the underlying mechanism is unclear. Here, experimental colitis was induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) in this study. Significant changes in the percentages of naive, central memory T (TCM), and effector memory (TEM) cells and their CD4+ and CD8+ subsets were found in the peripheral blood of mice with colitis using flow cytometry. After 7 days of continuous curcumin (100 mg/kg/day) administration, the DSS-induced experimental colitis was effectively relieved, with significant decreases in the ratio of day weight to initial body weight, colonic weight, pathological injury score, levels of proinflammatory cytokines IL-7, IL-15, and IL-21, colonic mucosal ulceration, and amount of inflammatory infiltrate. Importantly, curcumin significantly restored the percentages of naive, TCM, and TEM cells and their CD4+ and CD8+ subpopulations. In addition, curcumin significantly inhibited the activation of the JAK1/STAT5 signaling pathway, downregulation of JAK1, STAT5, and p-STAT5 proteins in colon tissue, and upregulation of PIAS1 proteins. These results suggested that curcumin effectively regulated the differentiation of naive, TCM, and TEM cells in the peripheral blood to alleviate DSS-induced experimental colitis, which might be related to the inhibition of JAK1/STAT5 signaling activity.
33963983 | CD4/CD8 ratio in pregnant women with HIV and its association with pregnancy outcome: data from a national study in Italy. PURPOSE: To evaluate associations between CD4/CD8 ratio and pregnancy outcomes in women with HIV. METHODS: We evaluated, in a national study of pregnant women with HIV receiving antiretroviral treatment (ART), values of CD4/CD8 ratio at entry in pregnancy, changes between first and third trimester, and possible associations with preterm delivery, low birthweight, and HIV-RNA < 50 copies/ml at third trimester in univariate and multivariate analyses. RESULTS: Among 934 women, 536 (57.4%) were already on ART at conception. CD4/CD8 ratio (baseline value 0.570) increased significantly between the first and third trimesters, particularly in women who started ART in pregnancy (+ 0.163, vs. + 0.036 in women already on treatment). The rate of CD4/CD8 ratio normalization, defined by achieving a ratio >= 1 at the third trimester, was 13.2%. In multivariable analyses, women who entered pregnancy with a CD4/CD8 ratio < 0.3, compared to women with ratio >= 1, were almost four-times less likely to have third-trimester HIV-RNA < 50 copies/ml (AOR 0.258, 95%CI 0.111-0.601), and more than twice as likely to have preterm delivery (AOR 2.379, 95%CI 1.082-5.232). For preterm delivery, also a baseline CD4/CD8 ratio between 0.3 and 0.45 was significantly associated with an increased risk (AOR: 3.415, 95%CI 1.690-6.900). CONCLUSION: We described for the first time independent associations of low CD4/CD8 ratio with preterm delivery and HIV-RNA suppression.
34015361 | Rapamycin delays allograft rejection in obese graft recipients through induction of myeloid-derived suppressor cells. Obesity has become a relevant problem in transplantation medicine with steadily increasing numbers of obese graft recipients. However, the effect of immunomodulatory drugs on transplant-related outcomes among obese patients are unknown. Therefore, we evaluated the impact of rapamycin on allograft rejection and alloimmune response in a murine model of diet-induced obesity and fully-mismatched skin transplantation. Rapamycin significantly delayed allograft rejection in obese recipient mice compared to treated lean mice (14.5 days vs. 10.7 days, p = 0.005). Treatment with rapamycin increased frequencies of monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells (M-MDSCs), augmented the immunosuppressive activity of M-MDSCs on T cells through indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase pathway and shifted CD4+T cells towards regulatory T cells in obese graft recipients. In summary, our results demonstrate that rapamycin delays allograft rejection in obese graft recipients by enhancing suppressive immune cell function and shifting immune cell subsets towards anti-inflammatory conditions.
34795669 | The Feasibility of Using Coxiella burnetii Avirulent Nine Mile Phase II Viable Bacteria as a Live Attenuated Vaccine Against Q fever. This study aimed to explore if viable C. burnetii avirulent Nine Mile phase II (NMII) can elicit protective immunity against virulent NM phase I (NMI) infection. Interestingly, mice immunized with viable NMII elicited significant protection against NMI infection at different time points post-immunization. Viable NMII induced a dose-dependent NMI-specific IgG response in mice, but all doses of NMII-immunized mice conferred a similar level of protection. Comparing different routes of immunization indicated that intranasally immunized mice showed significantly higher levels of protection than other immunization routes. The observation that viable NMII induced a similar level of long-term protection against NMI challenge as the formalin-inactivated NMI vaccine (PIV) suggests that viable NMII bacteria can induce a similar level of long-term protection against virulent NMI challenge as the PIV. Viable NMII also induced significant protection against challenge with virulent Priscilla and Scurry strains, suggesting that viable NMII can elicit broad protection. Immune sera and splenocytes from viable NMII-immunized mice are protective against NMI infection, but immune serum-receiving mice did not control NMI replication. Additionally, viable NMII conferred a comparable level of protection in wild-type, CD4+ T cell-deficient, and CD8+ T cell-deficient mice, and partial protection in B cell-deficient mice. However, NMII-immunized T cell-deficient mice were unable to prevent C. burnetii replication. Thus, both B cells and T cells are required for viable NMII-induced protective immunity but T cells may play a critical role. Collectively, this study demonstrates the feasibility of using avirulent NMII as a live attenuated vaccine against human Q fever.
34928979 | Improved targeting of human CD4+ T cells by nanobody-modified AAV2 gene therapy vectors. Adeno-associated viruses (AAV) are considered non-pathogenic in humans, and thus have been developed into powerful vector platforms for in vivo gene therapy. Although the various AAV serotypes display broad tropism, frequently infecting multiple tissues and cell types, vectors for specific and efficient targeting of human CD4+ T lymphocytes are largely missing. In fact, a substantial translational bottleneck exists in the field of therapeutic gene transfer that would require in vivo delivery into peripheral disease-related lymphocytes for subsequent genome editing. To solve this issue, capsid modification for retargeting AAV tropism, and in turn improving vector potency, is considered a promising strategy. Here, we genetically modified the minor AAV2 capsid proteins, VP1 and VP2, with a set of novel nanobodies with high-affinity for the human CD4 receptor. These novel vector variants demonstrated improved targeting of human CD4+ cells, including primary human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and purified human CD4+ T lymphocytes. Thus, the technical approach presented here provides a promising strategy for developing specific gene therapy vectors, particularly targeting disease-related peripheral blood CD4+ leukocytes.
34956237 | Single-Domain Antibodies for Targeting, Detection, and In Vivo Imaging of Human CD4+ Cells. The advancement of new immunotherapies necessitates appropriate probes to monitor the presence and distribution of distinct immune cell populations. Considering the key role of CD4+ cells in regulating immunological processes, we generated novel single-domain antibodies [nanobodies (Nbs)] that specifically recognize human CD4. After in-depth analysis of their binding properties, recognized epitopes, and effects on T-cell proliferation, activation, and cytokine release, we selected CD4-specific Nbs that did not interfere with crucial T-cell processes in vitro and converted them into immune tracers for noninvasive molecular imaging. By optical imaging, we demonstrated the ability of a high-affinity CD4-Nb to specifically visualize CD4+ cells in vivo using a xenograft model. Furthermore, quantitative high-resolution immune positron emission tomography (immunoPET)/MR of a human CD4 knock-in mouse model showed rapid accumulation of 64Cu-radiolabeled CD4-Nb1 in CD4+ T cell-rich tissues. We propose that the CD4-Nbs presented here could serve as versatile probes for stratifying patients and monitoring individual immune responses during personalized immunotherapy in both cancer and inflammatory diseases.
