38470345 | The novel HLA-C*06:372 allele, identified in a stem cell donor of an old order mennonite ethnicity. HLA-C*06:372 differs from HLA-C*06:02:01:01 by a single substitution in exon 4.
38507215 | The novel HLA-C*08:273 allele, identified by Sanger dideoxy nucleotide sequencing in a Chinese individual. HLA-C*08:273 differs from HLA-C*08:01:01:01 by one nucleotide in exon 2.
38516860 | Helicobacter pylori enhances HLA-C expression in the human gastric adenocarcinoma cells AGS and can protect them from the cytotoxicity of natural killer cells. Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) seems to play causative roles in gastric cancers. H. pylori has also been detected in established gastric cancers. How the presence of H. pylori modulates immune response to the cancer is unclear. The cytotoxicity of natural killer (NK) cells, toward infected or malignant cells, is controlled by the repertoire of activating and inhibitory receptors expressed on their surface. Here, we studied H. pylori-induced changes in the expression of ligands, of activating and inhibitory receptors of NK cells, in the gastric adenocarcinoma AGS cells, and their impacts on NK cell responses. AGS cells lacked or had low surface expression of the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I) molecules HLA-E and HLA-C-ligands of the major NK cell inhibitory receptors NKG2A and killer-cell Ig-like receptor (KIR), respectively. However, AGS cells had high surface expression of ligands of activating receptors DNAM-1 and CD2, and of the adhesion molecules LFA-1. Consistently, AGS cells were sensitive to killing by NK cells despite the expression of inhibitory KIR on NK cells. Furthermore, H. pylori enhanced HLA-C surface expression on AGS cells. H. pylori infection enhanced HLA-C protein synthesis, which could explain H. pylori-induced HLA-C surface expression. H. pylori infection enhanced HLA-C surface expression also in the hepatoma Huh7 and HepG2 cells. Furthermore, H. pylori-induced HLA-C surface expression on AGS cells promoted inhibition of NK cells by KIR, and thereby protected AGS cells from NK cell cytotoxicity. These results suggest that H. pylori enhances HLA-C expression in host cells and protects them from the cytotoxic attack of NK cells expressing HLA-C-specific inhibitory receptors.
38526343 | A novel HLA-C*17 variant, HLA-C*17:01:01:29, identified in a healthy individual from Greece. HLA-C*17:01:01:29 differs from the HLA-C*17:01:01:05 allele by one nucleotide substitution in the 3'UTR.
38526346 | A novel HLA-C*04 variant, HLA-C*04:01:01:174, identified in a healthy individual from Greece. HLA-C*04:01:01:174 differs from the HLA-C*04:01:01:06 allele by one nucleotide substitution in the intron 5.
38526347 | Identification of the novel HLA-C*14:159 allele by next-generation sequencing. The novel HLA-C*14:159 allele was detected during the routine HLA typing for kidney transplantation.
38526370 | A novel HLA-C*01 variant, HLA-C*01:02:01:70, identified in a healthy individual from Greece. HLA-C*01:02:01:70 differs from the HLA-C*01:02:01:01 allele by one nucleotide substitution in the intron 4.
38566358 | Detection of the HLA-C*07:04:29 allele in a Chinese individual. HLA-C*07:04:29 differs from HLA-C*07:04:01:01 by a single substitution in exon 4.
38566402 | Identification of the novel HLA-C allele, HLA-C*07:02:150. A novel HLA-C*07 allele, now officially designated HLA-C*07:02:150, was identified by next-generation sequencing.
38568113 | The novel HLA-C*07:02:147 allele characterised by two different sequencing-based typing techniques. The novel allele HLA-C*07:02:147 differs from HLA-C*07:02:01:01 by one synonymous nucleotide substitution in exon 2.
38568176 | The novel HLA-C*03:94:02 allele identified by next-generation sequencing in a Chinese individual. HLA-C*03:94:02 differs from HLA-C*03:94:01 by a single nucleotide substitution in exon 2 (codon 17 GGA->GGG).
38575366 | Characterization of the novel HLA-C*06:376N allele by Pacific Biosciences HiFi sequencing in a Chinese individual. HLA-C*06:376N differs from HLA-C*06:02:01:01 by seven nucleotide changes in exon 2, intron 2, and exon 3.
38590523 | Regulatory SVA retrotransposons and classical HLA genotyped-transcripts associated with Parkinson's disease. Introduction: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative and polygenic disorder characterised by the progressive loss of neural dopamine and onset of movement disorders. We previously described eight SINE-VNTR-Alu (SVA) retrotransposon-insertion-polymorphisms (RIPs) located and expressed within the Human Leucocyte Antigen (HLA) genomic region of chromosome 6 that modulate the differential co-expression of 71 different genes including the HLA classical class I and class II genes in a Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) cohort. Aims and methods: In the present study, we (1) reanalysed the PPMI genomic and transcriptomic sequencing data obtained from whole blood of 1521 individuals (867 cases and 654 controls) to infer the genotypes of the transcripts expressed by eight classical HLA class I and class II genes as well as DRA and the DRB3/4/5 haplotypes, and (2) examined the statistical differences between three different PD subgroups (cases) and healthy controls (HC) for the HLA and SVA transcribed genotypes and inferred haplotypes. Results: Significant differences for 57 expressed HLA alleles (21 HLA class I and 36 HLA class II alleles) up to the three-field resolution and four of eight expressed SVA were detected at p<0.05 by the Fisher's exact test within one or other of three different PD subgroups (750 individuals with PD, 57 prodromes, 60 individuals who had scans without evidence of dopamine deficits [SWEDD]), when compared against a group of 654 HCs within the PPMI cohort and when not corrected by the Bonferroni test for multiple comparisons. Fourteen of 20 significant alleles were unique to the PD-HC comparison, whereas 31 of the 57 alleles overlapped between two or more different subgroup comparisons. Only the expressed HLA-DRA*01:01:01 and -DQA1*03:01:01 protective alleles (PD v HC), the -DQA1*03:03:01 risk (HC v Prodrome) or protective allele (PD v Prodrome), the -DRA*01:01:02 and -DRB4*01:03:02 risk alleles (SWEDD v HC), and the NR_SVA_381 present genotype (PD v HC) at a 5% homozygous insertion frequency near HLA-DPA1, were significant (Pc<0.1) after Bonferroni corrections. The homologous NR_SVA_381 insertion significantly decreased the transcription levels of HLA-DPA1 and HLA-DPB1 in the PPMI cohort and its presence as a homozygous genotype is a risk factor (Pc=0.012) for PD. The most frequent NR_SVA_381 insertion haplotype in the PPMI cohort was NR_SVA_381/DPA1*02/DPB1*01 (3.7%). Although HLA C*07/B*07/DRB5*01/DRB1*15/DQB1*06 was the most frequent HLA 5-loci phased-haplotype (n, 76) in the PPMI cohort, the NR_SVA_381 insertion was present in only six of them (8%). Conclusions: These data suggest that expressed SVA and HLA gene alleles in circulating white blood cells are coordinated differentially in the regulation of immune responses and the long-term onset and progression of PD, the mechanisms of which have yet to be elucidated.
8973629 | Antibody reactivity profiles following immunization with diverse peptides of the PERB11 (MIC) family. PERB11 (MIC) is a gene family possessing multiple copies located within the MHC. Structurally, PERB11 is related to the MHC class I, neonatal IgG Fc receptor (FcRn) and Zn-alpha 2-glycoprotein molecules. The MHC class I family is complex in terms of its genomic arrangement, expression and function, and available evidence suggests that the PERB11 family may be similarly complex. We have adopted an approach to study the expression of such complex gene families by immunizing with multiple peptides and by screening the resulting antibodies against a large range of tissues. The amino acid sequences of PERB11.1 and PERB11.2 as well as those of other related molecules were analysed and compared. Peptides were chosen for immunization based upon (i) loop formation within the equivalent known structure of the MHC class I molecules; (ii) immunogenicity by computer analysis; and (iii) evolutionary relationships. Antibodies in serum from immunized rabbits bound to three out of six peptides used for immunization. ELISA and immunoprecipitation demonstrated binding both to the peptides and to the PERB11.2 recombinant protein. By immunofluorescent staining of various tissues of several species, the three antisera generated overlapping profiles of activity. These included reactions with kidney, small and large intestine, oesophagus, testis, ovary and human neutrophils. This is the first description of antibodies induced by the PERB11 peptides. The extreme complexity of these profiles requires further investigation, but may be explained in terms of antibodies against diverse products of the PERB11 gene family and/or related molecules.
8995188 | Allelic and interlocus comparison of the PERB11 multigene family in the MHC. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) contains at least a hundred genes over 4 megabases of DNA. Within the MHC there are several new multigene families which have been recently described. PERB11 is a multigene family which occurs over the class I and central region of the MHC. Two members of the family have been shown to be functional and share domains with members of the supergene family including HLA class I, FcRn, and Zn-alpha2-glycoprotein molecules. The two functional members are contained within an area of the MHC which has been associated with increased susceptibility to autoimmune diseases such as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and also rapid progression to AIDS following HIV-1 infection. Intralocus and interlocus differences between PERB11.1 and PERB11.2 include: (1) several nucleotide substitutions leading to amino acid changes; (2) presence and absence of potential glycosylation sites; (3) insertions and deletions leading to a frame shift resulting in diversity at the amino acid level and an early termination signal. There are ten different alleles of PERB11.1 including one allele which contains a frame shift in the transmembrane region causing a putative truncated molecule lacking the cytoplasmic tail. The significance of this polymorphism in disease associations is under investigation. The most divergent domain is the transmembrane region when PERB11.1 and PERB11.2 are compared. The results suggest that these two molecules may have different functions.
9420468 | Duplication and polymorphism in the MHC: Alu generated diversity and polymorphism within the PERB11 gene family. The PERB11 gene family has at least five members within the telomeric region of the MHC. The PERB11.1 and PERB11.2 genes are approximately 40 kb and 160 kb centromeric of HLA-B, respectively. Using continuous genomic sequence encompassing PERB11.1 and PERB11.2, we have found a large (approximately 25 kb) segmental duplication extending beyond the genes themselves and other potential coding sequences. The major difference between the segments are large indels which are predominantly Alu sequences. The Alu sequences within the duplicated segments have created diversity via the internal and 3' poly A-rich region. A sequence comparison of an Alu sequence between two different human ancestral haplotypes shows a high level of polymorphism, particularly in the poly A-rich regions. This study characterises the Alu sequences within the peri-PERB11.1 and peri-PERB11.2 duplicated segments in relation to diversity and polymorphism and as evolutionary markers.
9502318 | Homology models for the PERB11 multigene family. BACKGROUND: PERB11 is a multicopy polymorphic gene family found in association with HLA Class I genes within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). Although its function is unknown, PERB11 has sequence similarities to HLA Class I and other related proteins. To explore the possible functional roles for PERB11, homology models have been constructed using both HLA Class I and Class I-like protein structures as templates. RESULTS: The models show that PERB11.1 appears to have an unusual distribution of charged residues that potentially give the molecule a distinct polarity. Furthermore, a cluster of negatively charged residues in the traditional P2 site may form a novel binding site for a positively charged ligand such as a metal ion or complex. Other charged residues line the floor and walls of the cleft and are able to form salt bridges, reminiscent of the closed cleft of the Class I-like mouse neonatal Fc receptor structure. The closely related PERB11.2 family has a different arrangement of charged residues in the cleft, but these residues are still able to form salt bridges. Unlike HLA Class I, the majority of polymorphic positions in the PERB11 family occur outside the cleft and on the surface of the molecule. CONCLUSIONS: Homology models for PERB11 suggest that the structure is capable of associating with beta2 microglobulin or a similar molecule. Furthermore, not all of the potential glycosylation sites suggested by the PERB11 sequences appear viable. Importantly, the models suggest that the molecule has a less accessible cleft than HLA Class I and is not, therefore, able to bind peptides. Other small ligands, including metal ions, might be bound, however.
10229571 | Comparison between two human endogenous retrovirus (HERV)-rich regions within the major histocompatibility complex. Sixteen human endogenous retrovirus (HERV) sequences were detected within 656 kb of genomic sequence obtained from the alpha- and beta-block of the class I region of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). The HERVs were identified and characterized as family members of HERV-16 (11 copies), HERV-L (1 copy), HERV-I (2 copies), HERV-K91 (1 copy), and HARLEQUIN (1 copy) by sequence comparison using CENSOR or Repeat Masker, BLAST searches, and dot plots. The 11 copies of HERV-16 arose as products of duplication of genomic segments containing HLA class I (HLAcI) and PERB11 (MIC) genes inter alia, whereas the other five HERVs arose after duplication probably as a consequence of single insertion events or translocations. HERV-L and HERV-I are located between the duplicated genes PERB11.2 (MICB) and PERB11.1 (MICA), and HLA-B and HLA-C, respectively, whereas HERV-K91 and HARLEQUIN are located telomeric of HLA-C. A highly fragmented copy of HERV-I was also found telomeric of PERB11. 4. Structural analysis of open reading frames (ORFs) revealed the absence of intact coding sequence within the putative gag, pol, and env gene regions of all the HERVs with the exception of HERV-K91, which had two large ORFs within the region of the putative protease and pol genes. In addition, the 5'-LTR of HERV-L contained a 2.5-kb element that was AT-rich and large ORFs with putative amino acid sequences rich in tyrosines and isoleucines. HERV-I, HARLEQUIN, and at least four copies of HERV-16 appear to have been receptors for the insertion of other retrotransposons including Alu elements and fragments of L1 and THE1. Examination of flanking sequences suggests that HERV-I and HERV-L had occurred by insertion into ancient L1 fragments. This study has revealed that the alpha- and beta-block region within the MHC is rich in HERV sequences occurring at a much higher ratio (10 to 1) than normally observed in the human genome. These HERV sequences will therefore enhance further studies on disease associations and differences between human haplotypes and primates and their role in the evolution of class I genes in the MHC.
10331161 | Phylogenetic analysis of primate MIC (PERB11) sequences suggests that the representation of the gene family differs in different primates: comparison of MIC (PERB11) and C4. Duplication of segments within the MHC has led to numerous multicopy families such as class I, class II, C4 and MIC (PERB11). Different copy numbers between haplotypes and species may be explained by the extent of duplication and subsequent deletion. There are at least five copies of MIC (PERB11) in humans, but MICA (PERB11.1) appears to have been deleted from the chimpanzee. By comparing the sequences of primates (chimpanzee, gorilla, gibbon, orang-utan, pygmy chimpanzee, Patas monkey, Aethiops and baboon) we conclude that the gorilla has a copy of PERB11.1, whereas the baboon and Patas possess MICD (PERB11.4) and/or MICE (PERB11.5) rather than MICA (PERB11.1). These findings indicate that the primate MHC is more plastic than has been appreciated.
10691930 | PERB11 (MIC): a polymorphic MHC gene is expressed in skin and single nucleotide polymorphisms are associated with psoriasis. The susceptibility genes for psoriasis remain to be identified. At least one of these must be in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) to explain associations with alleles at human leucocyte antigen (HLA)-A, -B, -C, -DR, -DQ and C4. In fact, most of these alleles are components of just two ancestral haplotypes (AHs) designated 13.1 and 57.1. Although relevant MHC gene(s) could be within a region of at least 4 Mb, most studies have favoured the area near HLA-B and -C. This region contains a large number of non-HLA genes, many of which are duplicated and polymorphic. Members of one such gene family, PERB11.1 and PERB11.2, are expressed in the skin and are encoded in the region between tumour necrosis factor and HLA-B. To investigate the relationship of PERB11.1 alleles to psoriasis, sequence based typing was performed on 97 patients classified according to age of onset and family history. The frequency of the PERB11.1*06 allele is 44% in type I psoriasis but only 7% in controls (Pc = 0.003 by Fisher's exact test, two-tailed). The major determinant of this association is a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) within intron 4. In normal and affected skin, expression of PERB11 is mainly in the basal layer of the epidermis including ducts and follicles. PERB11 is also present in the upper keratin layers but there is relative deficiency in the intermediate layers. These findings suggest a possible role for PERB11 and other MHC genes in the pathogenesis of psoriasis.
10795827 | Coevolution of HLA-B and PERB11.1 (MICA): significance of independent triplet expansion within the transmembrane region of PERB11.1 (MICA). Several highly polymorphic sequences are present in the beta block of the MHC, especially HLA-B, HLA-C, PERB11.1 (MICA), and PERB11.2 (MICB). It is now apparent that the polymorphism of PERB11.1 is of the same order as that of HLA-A, -B, and -C and it has been suggested that PERB11 could explain some of the disease associations previously attributed to HLA-B. Phylogenetic analysis of PERB11 alpha-domain sequences demonstrates relationships with HLA-B cross-reactive serogroups. In contrast, the transmembrane polymorphisms do not appear to be associated with either PERB11 or HLA-B. These data indicate that PERB11 and HLA-B have evolved in concert from their common ancestors and that the transmembrane polymorphisms have arisen independently and more recently. MHC disease associations will need to be reviewed in the light of mechanisms such as receptor binding and signaling.
11029610 | Further characterization of MHC haplotypes demonstrates conservation telomeric of HLA-A: update of the 4AOH and 10IHW cell panels. Cell panels have been used extensively in studies of polymorphism and disease associations within the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), but the results from these panels require continuous updates with the increasing availability of novel data. We present here an updated table of the typings of the 10IHW and 4AOH panels. Local data included are HFE, HERV-K(C4) and six microsatellites telomeric of HLA-A. Typings for class I, MICA (PERB11.1), MICB (PERB11.2), XA, XB, LMP2 and 10 microsatellites reported by others have also been consolidated in this table. The tabulation shows that the length of conservation in the human MHC is even more extensive than previously thought. Human MHC ancestral haplotypes are inherited as a conserved region of genomic sequence spanning some 6-8 megabases from the HLA class II region and beyond the HLA class I region up to and including the HFE gene. Numerous examples of historical recombinations were also observed.
11696220 | Diversity of MICA (PERB11.1) and HLA haplotypes in Northeastern Thais. MICA or PERB11.1 is a polymorphic major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-related gene located 46 kb centromeric of the HLA-B gene in the HLA class I region. It is expressed mainly in gut epithelial cells, keratinocytes, endothelial cells, fibroblasts and monocytes, and is upregulated by heat stress. MICA has been found to interact with gamma delta T cells, alpha beta CD8(+) and natural killer (NK) cells bearing the NKG2D/DAP10 receptor. The MICA gene displays a high degree of polymorphism with at least 54 alleles. In the present study, polymorphic exons 2, 3 and 4 of the MICA gene were analyzed using sequencing based typing (SBT) in 255 unrelated healthy northeastern Thais. Thirteen previously reported MICA alleles were detected. MICA*008, *010, *002 and *019 were highly predominant with the allele frequencies of 21.4%, 18.2%, 17.6% and 15.3%, respectively. Five of these 13 MICA alleles show significantly different frequencies from those of the Japanese and Caucasian populations. Interestingly, MICA052, which is a very rare allele in other populations, was prevalent with the allele frequency of 8.2%, mainly on the HLA haplotype carrying HLA-B*13 in this population. Strong linkage disequilibria were observed between MICA and HLA-B, as similarly observed in other populations, namely MICA*010-B*4601, MICA052-B*13, MICA*002-B*5801, and MICA*019-B*15 (1502, 1508, 1511, 1515, 1528, 1530). A large variety of three-locus (MICA - HLA-B - HLA-Cw) and six-locus (HLA-DQB1 - HLA-DRB1 - MICA - HLA-B - HLA-Cw - HLA-A) haplotypes were recognized in the northeastern Thai population. This is the first report on MICA allelic distribution in Southeast Asian populations. These data will provide the important basis for future analyses on the potential role of the MICA gene in disease susceptibility and transplantation matching in Southeast Asian populations.
11703823 | Genomic analysis of MIC genes in rhesus macaques. MIC genes map to the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and are distantly related to MHC class I genes. Recently, MICA/MICB-like genes have been described in nonhuman primates. In Macaca mulatta, three MICA/B-like genes could be identified: Mamu-MIC1, Mamu-MIC2, and Mamu-MIC3. We show here the isolation and characterization of rhesus macaque cosmid clones which carry the Mamu-MIC2 and Mamu-MIC3 genes. Neither the MIC2- and MIC3-coding sequences nor respective flanking sequences can be aligned unambiguously to either the human HLA-MICA or -MICB subregions, although MIC2 was found at a similar distance to the BAT1 gene as known for MICB in human. Thus, the characteristics allowing for a classification of primate MIC genes as being of the MICA or MICB types appear to have evolved after the separation of humans and rhesus monkeys from a common ancestor. Furthermore, also Mamu-MICD-containing cosmids could be isolated. In contrast to Mamu-MIC2 and Mamu-MIC3, the Mamu-MICD gene and its flanking sequences are highly conserved and orthologous to the human MICD subregion.
17493144 | MIC gene polymorphism and haplotype diversity in rhesus macaques. Rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) mainly originating from India were analysed for their major histocompatibility complex class I-related (MIC) gene repertoire. Thus far, three distinct genes, designated MIC1, MIC2 and MIC3, have been identified in the rhesus macaque. In addition, an MICD pseudogene has been described mapping apart from the other loci in a telomeric direction. Genomic comparisons and the presence of a characteristic microsatellite in exon 5 suggest that the MIC1 gene is the equivalent of the human MICA gene. Hence, the MIC2 gene, lacking the microsatellite - as do humans -, is considered to be the equivalent of human MICB. The MIC3 gene, a hybrid of MICA and MICB, seems to be generated by a crossing-over event with one breakpoint in intron 3 and accordingly is named MICA/B. Apart from their human counterparts, MICA, MICB and MICA/B cluster in separate branches in the phylogenetic tree, confirming the hybrid character of the MICA/B gene. Population analyses have shown that the various genes display polymorphism, and six MICA, five MICB and three MICA/B alleles have been identified. In the panel of homozygous typing cells, two distinct haplotype configurations have been defined by segregation analyses. Each haplotype comprises an MICB gene in conjunction with either an MICA or an MICA/B gene. Furthermore, the presence of a polymorphic microsatellite in the MICA and MICA/B alleles facilitates speedy and accurate haplotyping.
32533616 | An Amphipathic Alpha-Helix Guides Maturation of the Ribosomally-Synthesized Lipolanthines. The recently discovered strongly anti-Gram-positive lipolanthines represent a new group of lipidated, ribosomally synthesized and post-translationally modified peptides (RiPPs). They are bicyclic octapeptides with a central quaternary carbon atom (avionin), which is installed through the cooperative action of the class-III lanthipeptide synthetase MicKC and the cysteine decarboxylase MicD. Genome mining efforts indicate a widespread distribution and unprecedented biosynthetic diversity of lipolanthine gene clusters, combining elements of RiPPs, polyketide and non-ribosomal peptide biosynthesis. Utilizing NMR spectroscopy, we show that a (thetaxx)thetaxxthetaxxtheta (theta=L, I, V, M or T) motif, which is conserved in the leader peptides of all class-III and -IV lanthipeptides, forms an amphipathic alpha-helix in MicA that destines the peptide substrate for enzymatic processing. Our results provide general rules of substrate recruitment and enzymatic regulation during lipolanthine maturation. These insights will facilitate future efforts to rationally design new lanthipeptide scaffolds with antibacterial potency.
36384391 | Multiple COVID reinfections in a vaccinated psoriatic patient receiving adalimumab. Currently, psoriasis patients are advised to follow their standard therapeutic regimen, and are advised to be vaccinated against Covid-19. However, the data about the antibody responses, induced by the various kinds of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines in psoriasis patients who require systemic immunosuppressive treatment is scant. In this case report, we describe antibody responses induced by COVID-19 vaccine, in a 26-year-old male patient with psoriasis being treated with anti-TNF biotherapy, adalimumab biosimilar every two weeks. The patient was vaccinated against COVID-19, according to the national protocol. He experienced three episodes of symptomatic COVID-19. His first and second exposures did not result in antibody production. After the third episode of COVID-19, The SARS-CoV-2 anti-spike antibody (IgG) was more than 100 Ru/mL (ELISA; >=8 Ru/mL is considered positive), and SARS-CoV-2 neutralizing antibody (total) was more than 40 micg/mL (ELISA; >=2.5 micg/mL is considered positive). This is the first case with weak antibody response to vaccination and multiple episodes of COVID infection in a psoriatic patient with adalimumab biosimilar. However, we cannot assume causality due to the treatment.
36436710 | Identification of pre-synaptic density networks using [11C]UCB-J PET imaging and ICA in mice. BACKGROUND: Synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2A (SV2A) is a vesicle glycoprotein involved in neurotransmitter release. SV2A is located on the pre-synaptic terminals of neurons and visualized using the radioligand [11C]UCB-J and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. Thus, SV2A PET imaging can provide a proxy for pre-synaptic density in health and disease. This study aims to apply independent component analysis (ICA) to SV2A PET data acquired in mice to identify pre-synaptic density networks (pSDNs), explore how ageing affects these pSDNs, and determine the impact of a neurological disorder on these networks. METHODS: We used [11C]UCB-J PET imaging data (n = 135) available at different ages (3, 7, 10, and 16 months) in wild-type (WT) C57BL/6J mice and in diseased mice (mouse model of Huntington's disease, HD) with reported synaptic deficits. First, ICA was performed on a healthy dataset after it was split into two equal-sized samples (n = 36 each) and the analysis was repeated 50 times in different partitions. We tested different model orders (8, 12, and 16) and identified the pSDNs. Next, we investigated the effect of age on the loading weights of the identified pSDNs. Additionally, the identified pSDNs were compared to those of diseased mice to assess the impact of disease on each pSDNs. RESULTS: Model order 12 resulted in the preferred choice to provide six reliable and reproducible independent components (ICs) as supported by the cluster-quality index (IQ) and regression coefficients (beta) values. Temporal analysis showed age-related statistically significant changes on the loading weights in four ICs. ICA in an HD model revealed a statistically significant disease-related effect on the loading weights in several pSDNs in line with the progression of the disease. CONCLUSION: This study validated the use of ICA on SV2A PET data acquired with [11C]UCB-J for the identification of cerebral pre-synaptic density networks in mice in a rigorous and reproducible manner. Furthermore, we showed that different pSDNs change with age and are affected in a disease condition. These findings highlight the potential value of ICA in understanding pre-synaptic density networks in the mouse brain.
36930702 | Evaluation of acellular pertussis vaccine: comparisons among different strains of mice. The current study was designed to comparatively analyse the reactions of different mouse strains in response to acellular pertussis (aP) vaccine, with attempt to further provide a reference for aP vaccine evaluation. NIH mice, ICR mice, and BALB/c mice adopted from different pharmacopoeias and studies were utilized to measure the immune protection and immunogenicity of the same batch of aP vaccine according to the Modified intracerebral challenge assay (MICA) from some Asian pharmacopoeias and the pertussis serological potency test (PTST) method from European Pharmacopoeia. Based on our results, the aP vaccine detected by NIH mice had the best potency. So the NIH mice were more suitable for detecting the immune protection of aP vaccine by the MICA method. Given that the levels of PT-IgG and FHA-IgG antibodies in ICR mice were the highest, and the levels of Th1 and Th2 cells were significantly increased (P < .01), it was more suitable for the detection of immunogenicity of aP vaccine by PSPT method. Spleen lymphocytes were stimulated by PT and FHA. And the levels of IL-4 in ICR mice and NIH mice were significantly increased, so were the levels of IL-17, IL-23, IL-27, and TNF-alpha in BALB/c mice. NIH mice have stronger adaptive immunity and the weakest inflammatory response, and ICR mice have enhanced adaptive immunity and inflammatory responses, both of which can be thereby used for evaluation by different pharmacopoeia methods. NIH was more suitable for the MICA method of Chinese Pharmacopoeia, and ICR for the PSPT method of European Pharmacopoeia.
37244285 | Changes in macrophage immunometabolism as a marker of skeletal muscle dysfunction across the lifespan. One of the most pronounced changes in the elderly is loss of strength and mobility due to the decline of skeletal muscle function, resulting in a multifactorial condition termed sarcopenia. Although significant clinical changes begin to manifest at advanced ages, recent studies have shown that changes at the cellular and molecular level precede the symptomatology of sarcopenia. By utilizing a single-cell transcriptomic atlas of mouse skeletal muscle across the lifespan, we identified a clear sign of immune senescence that presents during middle age. More importantly, the change in macrophage phenotype in middle age may explain the changes in extracellular matrix composition, especially collagen synthesis, that contributes to fibrosis and overall muscle weakness with advanced age. Our results show a novel paradigm whereby skeletal muscle dysfunction is driven by alterations in tissue-resident macrophages before the appearance of clinical symptoms in middle-aged mice, providing a new therapeutic approach via regulation of immunometabolism.
37403715 | [Construction of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells and its killing effect on multiple myeloma cells]. Objective This study aims to construct and identify the chimeric antigen receptor NK92 (CAR-NK92) cells targeting NKG2D ligand (NKG2DL) (secreting IL-15Ra-IL-15) and verify the killing activity of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells against multiple myeloma cells. Methods The extracellular segment of NKG2D was employed to connect 4-1BB and CD3Z, as well as IL-15Ra-IL-15 sequence to obtain a CAR expression framework. The lentivirus was packaged and transduced into NK92 cells to obtain NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells. The proliferation of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells was detected by CCK-8 assay, IL-15Ra secretion was detected by ELISA and killing efficiency was detected by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay. The molecular markers of NKp30, NKp44, NKp46, the ratio of apoptotic cell population, CD107a, and the secretion level of granzyme B and perforin were detected using flow cytometry. In addition, the cytotoxic mechanism of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells on the tumor was verified by measuring the degranulation ability. Moreover, after NKG2D antibody inhibited effector cells and histamine inhibited tumor cells, LDH assay was utilized to detect the effect on cell-killing efficiency. Finally, the multiple myeloma tumor xenograft model was constructed to verify its anti-tumor activity in vivo. Results Lentiviral transduction significantly increased NKG2D expression in NK92 cells. Compared with NK92 cells, the proliferation ability of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells was weaker. The early apoptotic cell population of NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells was less, and NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells had stronger cytotoxicity to multiple myeloma cells. Additionally, IL-15Ra secretion could be detected in its culture supernatant. NKp44 protein expression in NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells was clearly increased, demonstrating an enhanced activation level. Inhibition test revealed that the cytotoxicity of CAR-NK92 cells to MHC-I chain-related protein A (MICA) and MICB-positive tumor cells was more dependent on the interaction between NKG2D CAR and NKG2DL. After stimulating NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells with tumor cells, granzyme B and perforin expression increased, and NK cells obviously upregulated CD107alpha. Furthermore, multiple myeloma tumor xenograft model revealed that the tumors of mice treated with NKG2D CAR-NK92 cells were significantly reduced, and the cell therapy did not sensibly affect the weight of the mice. Conclusion A type of CAR-NK92 cell targeting NKG2DL (secreting IL-15Ra-IL-15) is successfully constructed, indicating the effective killing of multiple myeloid cells.
37425790 | Engineering Human Pluripotent Stem Cell Lines to Evade Xenogeneic Transplantation Barriers. Allogeneic human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC)-derived cells and tissues for therapeutic transplantation must necessarily overcome immunological rejection by the recipient. To define these barriers and to create cells capable of evading rejection for preclinical testing in immunocompetent mouse models, we genetically ablated beta2m , Tap1 , Ciita , Cd74 , Mica , and Micb to limit expression of HLA-I, HLA-II, and natural killer cell activating ligands in hPSCs. Though these and even unedited hPSCs readily formed teratomas in cord blood-humanized immunodeficient mice, grafts were rapidly rejected by immunocompetent wild-type mice. Transplantation of these cells that also expressed covalent single chain trimers of Qa1 and H2-K b to inhibit natural killer cells and CD55, Crry, and CD59 to inhibit complement deposition led to persistent teratomas in wild-type mice. Expression of additional inhibitory factors such as CD24, CD47, and/or PD-L1 had no discernible impact on teratoma growth or persistence. Transplantation of HLA-deficient hPSCs into mice genetically deficient in complement and depleted of natural killer cells also led to persistent teratomas. Thus, T cell, NK cell, and complement evasion are necessary to prevent immunological rejection of hPSCs and their progeny. These cells and versions expressing human orthologs of immune evasion factors can be used to refine tissue- and cell type-specific immune barriers, and to conduct preclinical testing in immunocompetent mouse models.
37480753 | Oridonin enhances cytotoxic activity of natural killer cells against lung cancer. BACKGROUND: Oridonin is a Chinese herbal medicine exhibiting anti-tumor properties; however, its immune modulation capacity has yet to be elucidated. Our objective in this study was to determine whether oridonin enhances the anti-tumor activity of natural killer (NK) cells against lung cancer cells. METHODS: LDH-releasing assays were used to investigate the effects of oridonin on NK-92MI cell activity against lung cancer cells. Flow cytometry and real-time PCR were used to examine the effects of oridonin on degranulation markers, cytotoxic factors, activating receptors on NK-92MI cells, and ligands in lung cancer cells. Western blot analysis provided insight into the mechanisms underlying the observed effects. RESULTS: Oridonin enhanced the cytotoxic effects of NK-92MI cells against A549 lung cancer cells. This effect involved upregulating the expression of the degranulation marker CD107a and IFN-gamma as well as activating receptors on NK cells and their ligand MICA/B. Oridonin also inhibited STAT3 phosphorylation in A549 cells and NK-92MI cells. A lung cancer mouse model confirmed the anti-tumor effects of oridonin and NK-92MI cells, wherein both treatments alone suppressed tumor growth. Oridonin was also shown to have a synergistic effect on the anti-tumor activity of NK-92MI cells. CONCLUSIONS: The ability of oridonin to enhance the cytotoxic effects of NK cells indicates its potential as a novel therapeutic agent for the treatment of lung cancer.
37591356 | Pleckstrin-2 promotes tumour immune escape from NK cells by activating the MT1-MMP-MICA signalling axis in gastric cancer. Immune escape is a major challenge in tumour immunotherapy. Pleckstrin-2(PLEK2) plays a critical role in tumour progression, but its role in immune escape in gastric cancer (GC) remains uncharacterized. RNA sequencing was used to explore the differentially expressed genes in a GC cell line that was resistant to the antitumor effect of Natural killer (NK) cells. Apoptosis and the expression of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha were detected by flow cytometry (FCM). PLEK2 expression was examined by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry (IHC). PLEK2 was upregulated in MGC803R cells that were resistant to the antitumor effect of NK cells. PLEK2 knockout increased the sensitivity of GC cells to NK cell killing. PLEK2 expression was negatively correlated with MICA and positively correlated with MT1-MMP expression both in vitro and in vivo. PLEK2 promoted Sp1 phosphorylation through the PI3K-AKT pathway, thereby upregulating MT1-MMP expression, which ultimately led to MICA shedding. In mouse xenograft models, PLEK2 knockout inhibited intraperitoneal metastasis of GC cells and promoted NK cell infiltration. In summary, PLEK2 suppressed NK cell immune surveillance by promoting MICA shedding, which serves as a potential therapeutic target for GC.
37608777 | SUMOylation inhibitor TAK-981 (subasumstat) synergizes with 5-azacitidine in preclinical models of acute myeloid leukemia. Acute Myeloid Leukemias (AML) are severe hematomalignancies with dismal prognosis. The post-translational modification SUMOylation plays key roles in leukemogenesis and AML response to therapies. Here, we show that TAK-981 (subasumstat), a first-in-class SUMOylation inhibitor, is endowed with potent anti-leukemic activity in various preclinical models of AML. TAK-981 targets AML cell lines and patient blast cells in vitro and in vivo in xenografted mice with minimal toxicity on normal hematopoietic cells. Moreover, it synergizes with 5-azacitidine (AZA), a DNA-hypomethylating agent now used in combination with the BCL-2 inhibitor venetoclax to treat AML patients unfit for standard chemotherapies. Interestingly, TAK-981+AZA combination shows higher anti-leukemic activity than AZA+venetoclax combination both in vitro and in vivo, at least in the models tested. Mechanistically, TAK-981 potentiates the transcriptional reprogramming induced by AZA, promoting apoptosis, alteration of the cell cycle and differentiation of the leukemic cells. In addition, TAK-981+AZA treatment induces many genes linked to inflammation and immune response pathways. In particular, this leads to the secretion of type I interferon (IFN-I) by AML cells. Finally, TAK-981+AZA induces the expression of Natural Killer (NK)-activating ligands (MICA/B) and adhesion proteins (ICAM-1) at the surface of AML cells. Consistently, TAK-981+AZA-treated AML cells activate NKs and increase their cytotoxic activity. Targeting SUMOylation with TAK-981 may thus be a promising strategy to both sensitize AML cells to AZA and reduce their immune-escape capacities.
37626965 | The Role and Regulation of the NKG2D/NKG2D Ligand System in Cancer. The family of human NKG2D ligands (NKG2DL) consists of eight stress-induced molecules. Over 80% of human cancers express these ligands on the surface of tumour cells and/or associated stromal elements. In mice, NKG2D deficiency increases susceptibility to some types of cancer, implicating this system in immune surveillance for malignancy. However, NKG2DL can also be shed, released via exosomes and trapped intracellularly, leading to immunosuppressive effects. Moreover, NKG2D can enhance chronic inflammatory processes which themselves can increase cancer risk and progression. Indeed, tumours commonly deploy a range of countermeasures that can neutralise or even corrupt this surveillance system, tipping the balance away from immune control towards tumour progression. Consequently, the prognostic impact of NKG2DL expression in human cancer is variable. In this review, we consider the underlying biology and regulation of the NKG2D/NKG2DL system and its expression and role in a range of cancer types. We also consider the opportunities for pharmacological modulation of NKG2DL expression while cautioning that such interventions need to be carefully calibrated according to the biology of the specific cancer type.
37744375 | IL-17a-producing gammadeltaT cells and NKG2D signaling mediate bacterial endotoxin-induced neonatal lung injury: implications for bronchopulmonary dysplasia. Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a chronic lung disease in preterm birth survivors characterized by inflammation, impaired alveolarization and dysmorphic vasculature. Activated IL-17A+ lymphocytes are key drivers of inflammation in preterm infants. We have shown that in immature mice chronic airway exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces pulmonary inflammation, increased IL-17a expression, and hypoalveolarization, a BPD-like phenotype. The source of IL-17a and contribution to lung pathology is unknown. The natural-killer group 2, member D (NKG2D) receptor mediates activation and IL-17a production in gammadelta T cells by binding to stress molecules. LPS induces NKG2D ligand expression, including Rae-1 and MULT1. We hypothesized that IL-17a+ gammadelta T cells and NKG2D signaling mediate neonatal LPS-induced lung injury. Immature C57BL/6J (wild type), Nkg2d-/- or Tcrd-/- (lacking gammadelta T cells) mice were inoculated with 3ug/10ul of LPS from E. coli O26:B6 or 10ul of PBS intranasally on day of life 3, 5, 7, and 10. Selected mice were treated with neutralizing antibodies against IL-17a, or NKG2D intraperitoneally. Lung immune cells were assessed by flow cytometry and gene expression was analyzed by qPCR. Alveolar growth was assessed by lung morphometry. We established that anti-IL-17a antibody treatment attenuated LPS-induced hypoalveolarization. We found that LPS induced the fraction of IL-17a+NKG2D+ gammadelta T cells, a major source of IL-17a in the neonatal lung. LPS also induced lung mRNA expression of NKG2D, Rae-1, MULT1, and the DNA damage regulator p53. Anti-NKG2D treatment attenuated the effect of LPS on gammadelta T cell IL-17a expression, immune cell infiltration and hypoalveolarization. LPS-induced hypoalveolarization was also attenuated in Nkg2d-/- and Tcrd-/- mice. In tracheal aspirates of preterm infants IL-17A and its upstream regulator IL-23 were higher in infants who later developed BPD. Also, human ligands of NKG2D, MICA and MICB were present in the aspirates and MICA correlated with median FiO2. Our novel findings demonstrate a central role for activated IL-17a+ gammadelta T cells and NKG2D signaling in neonatal LPS-induced lung injury. Future studies will determine the role of NKG2D ligands and effectors, other NKG2D+ cells in early-life endotoxin-induced lung injury and inflammation with a long-term goal to understand how inflammation contributes to BPD pathogenesis.
37801126 | Intensified NK cell therapy in combination with low-dose chemoradiotherapy against human colorectal cancer. The therapeutic potential of adoptive natural Killer (NK) cells immunotherapy in combination with chemoradiotherapy, the main treatment modality for colorectal cancer (CRC), has not yet been explored. Here, we aimed to investigate the efficacy of NK cells to potentiate primary tumor control and improve survival outcomes, especially in combination with low-dose chemoradiotherapy. Ex vivo activated NK cells (> 90% purity) from healthy donors were obtained. NK cells were administered intravenously to the CRC-bearing mice and intensified in vivo in combination with low-dose 5-fluorouracil (0.5 mg/kg or 1 mg/Kg) and irradiated tumors with low doses (2 Gy or 4 Gy). Real-time NK cell cytotoxicity demonstrated a synergistic killing effect of a combination of low-dose chemoradiotherapy, mainly through NKp30 and NKG2D, showing a decrease in NK cell degranulation after blocking NKG2D and NKp30. In vivo tumor characteristics after combination treatment showed decreased CD112, CD155, MICA, and MICB expression. Under the combination strategy, 70% of the mice had free lung metastasis and 90% without secondary gross tumors, indicating suppressed distant metastasis to lung and axillary regions. This combination therapy resulted in significantly synergistic antitumor activity against primary solid tumors compared to chemoradiotherapy only. Furthermore, the intensified NK cell administration showed significantly better primary tumor control and survival outcomes than the non-intensified NK cell administration in a human colorectal HT-29 model treated with low-dose chemoradiotherapy. Optimized NK cell therapy combined with low-dose chemoradiotherapy can provide effective therapeutic potential for intractable cold human colorectal cancer.
37867688 | Characterization of Structurally Diverse 18F-Labeled d-TCO Derivatives as a PET Probe for Bioorthogonal Pretargeted Imaging. Background: The pretargeted imaging strategy using inverse electron demand Diels-Alder (IEDDA) cycloaddition between a trans-cyclooctene (TCO) and tetrazine (Tz) has emerged and rapidly grown as a promising concept to improve radionuclide imaging and therapy in oncology. This strategy has mostly relied on the use of radiolabeled Tz together with TCO-modified targeting vectors leading to a rapid growth of the number of available radiolabeled tetrazines, while only a few radiolabeled TCOs are currently reported. Here, we aim to develop novel and structurally diverse 18F-labeled cis-dioxolane-fused TCO (d-TCO) derivatives to further expand the bioorthogonal toolbox for in vivo ligation and evaluate their potential for positron emission tomography (PET) pretargeted imaging. Results: A small series of d-TCO derivatives were synthesized and tested for their reactivity against tetrazines, with all compounds showing fast reaction kinetics with tetrazines. A fluorescence-based pretargeted blocking study was developed to investigate the in vivo ligation of these compounds without labor-intensive prior radiochemical development. Two compounds showed excellent in vivo ligation results with blocking efficiencies of 95 and 97%. Two novel 18F-labeled d-TCO radiotracers were developed, from which [18F]MICA-214 showed good in vitro stability, favorable pharmacokinetics, and moderate in vivo stability. Micro-PET pretargeted imaging with [18F]MICA-214 in mice bearing LS174T tumors treated with tetrazine-modified CC49 monoclonal antibody (mAb) (CC49-Tz) showed significantly higher uptake in tumor tissue in the pretargeted group (CC49-Tz 2.16 +- 0.08% ID/mL) when compared to the control group with nonmodified mAb (CC49 1.34 +- 0.07% ID/mL). Conclusions: A diverse series of fast-reacting fluorinated d-TCOs were synthesized. A pretargeted blocking approach in tumor-bearing mice allowed the choice of a lead compound with fast reaction kinetics with Tz. A novel 18F-labeled d-TCO tracer was developed and used in a pretargeted PET imaging approach, allowing specific tumor visualization in a mouse model of colorectal cancer. Although further optimization of the radiotracer is needed to enhance the tumor-to-background ratios for pretargeted imaging, we anticipate that the 18F-labeled d-TCO will find use in studies where increased hydrophilicity and fast bioconjugation are required.
38035108 | High population frequencies of MICA copy number variations originate from independent recombination events. MICA is a stress-induced ligand of the NKG2D receptor that stimulates NK and T cell responses and was identified as a key determinant of anti-tumor immunity. The MICA gene is located inside the MHC complex and is in strong linkage disequilibrium with HLA-B. While an HLA-B*48-linked MICA deletion-haplotype was previously described in Asian populations, little is known about other MICA copy number variations. Here, we report the genotyping of more than two million individuals revealing high frequencies of MICA duplications (1%) and MICA deletions (0.4%). Their prevalence differs between ethnic groups and can rise to 2.8% (Croatia) and 9.2% (Mexico), respectively. Targeted sequencing of more than 70 samples indicates that these copy number variations originate from independent nonallelic homologous recombination events between segmental duplications upstream of MICA and MICB. Overall, our data warrant further investigation of disease associations and consideration of MICA copy number data in oncological study protocols.
38043385 | Ginsenoside Rh2 enhances immune surveillance of natural killer (NK) cells via inhibition of ERp5 in breast cancer. BACKGROUND: One critical component of the immune system that prevents breast cancer cells from forming distant metastasis is natural killer (NK) cells participating in immune responses to tumors. Ginsenoside Rh2 (GRh2) as one of the major active ingredients of ginseng has been employed in treatment of cancers, but the function of GRh2 in modulating the development of breast cancer remains elusive. PURPOSE: This study was to dissect the effect of GRh2 against breast cancer and its potential mechanisms associated with NK cells, both in vitro and in vivo. METHODS: MDA-MB-231 and 4T1 cells were used to establish in situ and hematogenous mouse models. MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 were respectively co-cultured with NK92MI cells or primary NK cells in vitro. Anti-tumor efficacy of GRh2 was verified by immunohistochemistry (IHC), Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK8), high resolution micro-computed tomography (micro-CT) scanning of lungs and hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) cytotoxicity assay, flow cytometry, in vivo depletion of NK cells, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), western blot, quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), immunofluorescence and cell transfection were performed for investigating the anti-tumor mechanisms of GRh2. Molecular docking, microscale thermophoresis (MST) and cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) were employed to determine the binding between endoplasmic reticulum protein 5 (ERp5) and GRh2. RESULTS: We demonstrated that GRh2 exerted prominent impacts on retarding the growth and metastasis of breast cancer through boosting the cytotoxic function of NK cells, as validated by the elevated release of perforin, granzyme B and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Mechanistical studies revealed that GRh2 was capable of diminishing the expression of ERp5 and GRh2 directly bound to ERp5 in MDA-MB-231 cells as well as on a recombinant protein level. GRh2 prevented the formation of soluble MICA (sMICA) and upregulated the expression level of MICA in vivo and in vitro. Importantly, the reduced lung metastasis of breast cancer by GRh2 was almost abolished upon the depletion of NK cells. Moreover, GRh2 was able to insert into the binding pocket of ERp5 directly. CONCLUSION: We firstly demonstrated that GRh2 played a pivotal role in augmenting NK cell activity by virtue of modulating the NKG2D-MICA signaling axis via directly binding to ERp5, and may be further optimized to a therapeutic agent for the treatment of breast cancer.
38052966 | Accurate image derived input function in [18F]SynVesT-1 mouse studies using isoflurane and ketamine/xylazine anesthesia. BACKGROUND: Kinetic modeling in positron emission tomography (PET) requires measurement of the tracer plasma activity in the absence of a suitable reference region. To avoid invasive blood sampling, the use of an image derived input function has been proposed. However, an accurate delineation of the blood pool region in the PET image is necessary to obtain unbiased blood activity. Here, to perform brain kinetic modeling in [18F]SynVesT-1 dynamic scans, we make use of non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) to unmix the activity signal from the different tissues that can contribute to the heart region activity, and extract only the left ventricle activity in an unbiased way. This method was implemented in dynamic [18F]SynVesT-1 scans of mice anesthetized with either isoflurane or ketamine-xylazine, two anesthestics that we showed to affect differently radiotracer kinetics. The left ventricle activity (NMF-IDIF) and a manually delineated cardiac activity (IDIF) were compared with arterial blood samples (ABS), and for isoflurane anesthetized mice, arteriovenous (AV) shunt blood data were compared as well. Finally, brain regional 2 tissue compartment modeling was performed using IDIF and NMF-IDIF, and the model fit accuracy (weighted symmetrical mean absolute percentage error, wsMAPE) as well as the total volume of distribution (VT) were compared. RESULTS: In isoflurane anesthetized mice, the difference between ABS and NMF-IDIF activity (+ 12.8 [Formula: see text] 11%, p = 0.0023) was smaller than with IDIF (+ 16.4 [Formula: see text] 9.8%, p = 0.0008). For ketamine-xylazine anesthetized mice the reduction in difference was larger (NMF-IDIF: 16.9 [Formula: see text] 10%, p = 0.0057, IDIF: 56.3 [Formula: see text] 14%, p < 0.0001). Correlation coefficient between isoflurane AV-shunt time activity curves and NMF-IDIF (0.97 [Formula: see text] 0.01) was higher than with IDIF (0.94 [Formula: see text] 0.03). The brain regional 2TCM wsMAPE was improved using NMF-IDIF compared with IDIF, in isoflurane (NMF-IDIF: 1.24 [Formula: see text] 0.24%, IDIF: 1.56 [Formula: see text] 0.30%) and ketamine-xylazine (NMF-IDIF: 1.40 [Formula: see text] 0.24, IDIF: 2.62 [Formula: see text] 0.27) anesthetized mice. Finally, brain VT was significantly (p < 0.0001) higher using NMF-IDIF compared with IDIF, in isoflurane (3.97 [Formula: see text] 0.13% higher) and ketamine-xylazine (32.7 [Formula: see text] 2.4% higher) anesthetized mice. CONCLUSIONS: Image derived left ventricle blood activity calculated with NMF improves absolute activity quantification, and reduces the error in the kinetic modeling fit. These improvements are more pronounced in ketamine-xylazine than in isoflurane anesthetized mice.
38180524 | Oncolytic adenovirus coding for shedding-resistant MICA enhances immune responses against tumors. Cancer immunotherapies strive to overcome tumor-induced immune suppression and activate antitumor immune responses. Although cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) play a pivotal role in this process, natural killer (NK) cells have also demonstrated remarkable tumor-killing abilities, given their ability to discriminate tumor cells from normal cells and mediate specific antitumoral cytotoxicity. NK cells activation depends on a balance between activation and inhibition signals from several ligands/receptors. Among them, MICA/NKG2D axis is a master regulator of NK activation. MHC class I chain-related polypeptide A (MICA) expression is upregulated by many tumor cell lines and primary tumors and serves as a ligand for the activating NK group 2D (NKG2D) receptor on NK cells and subpopulations of T cells. However, cancer cells can cleave MICA, making it soluble and de-targeting tumor cells from NK cells, leading to tumor immune escape.In this study, we present ICOVIR15KK-MICAMut, an oncolytic adenovirus (OAdv) armed with a transgene encoding a non-cleavable MICA to promote NK-mediated cell-killing capacity and activate the immune response against cancer cells. We first demonstrated the correct MICA overexpression from infected cells. Moreover, our MICA-expressing OAdv promotes higher NK activation and killing capacity than the non-armed virus in vitro. In addition, the armed virus also demonstrated significant antitumor activity in immunodeficient mice in the presence of human PBMCs, indicating the activation of human NK cells. Finally, OAdv-MICA overexpression in immunocompetent tumor-bearing mice elicits tumor-specific immune response resulting in a greater tumor growth control.In summary, this study highlights the significance of NK cells in cancer immunotherapy and presents an innovative approach using a modified oncolytic virus to enhance NK cell activation and antitumor immune response. These findings suggest promising potential for future research and clinical applications.
38191242 | Clearing soluble MIC reverses the impaired function of natural killer cells from patients with multiple myeloma. BACKGROUND: Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related protein (MIC) is a stress-induced ligand released from multiple myeloma (MM) cells during progression, and soluble MIC impairs natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) activating receptor-mediated recognition and function of natural killer (NK) cells. However, whether clearing soluble MIC with a monoclonal antibody (mAb) can restore NK cell activity of MM patients remains undetermined. METHODS: We analyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation (MMRF) CoMMpass data set to examine the prognostic significance of MIC expression in MM. We examined the level of soluble MIC in paired peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow (BM) plasma of patients with MM at diagnosis by ELISA. We evaluated the correlation between the level of soluble MIC and immunophenotype of NK cells from MM patients by multicolor flow cytometry. We also generated MIC-overexpressing MM cell line and characterized the cytotoxic function of patient NK cells in the presence of soluble MIC, and examined the impact of clearing soluble MIC with a humanized mAb (huB10G5). RESULTS: We characterize the importance of MICA in MM by revealing the significantly better overall survival of patients with high MICA expression from TCGA MMRF CoMMpass data set. The level of soluble MICA is more highly elevated in MM than in precursor stages, and the concentration of soluble MICA is higher in BM plasma than in PB. The concentration of soluble MICA in BM was correlated with myeloma burden, while it was negatively correlated with the frequency of NKG2D+ NK cells in diagnostic BM aspirates of MM patients. Soluble MICA downregulated NKG2D expression and decreased cytotoxicity of MM patient NK cells ex vivo, which were reversed by a humanized soluble MIC-clearing mAb (huB10G5) with enhanced degranulation of NK cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate targeting soluble MIC with huB10G5 might be a viable therapeutic approach to promote NKG2D-dependent cellular immunotherapy outcome in MM.
38215755 | Engineering human pluripotent stem cell lines to evade xenogeneic transplantation barriers. Successful allogeneic human pluripotent stem cell (hPSC)-derived therapies must overcome immunological rejection by the recipient. To build reagents to define these barriers, we genetically ablated beta2M, TAP1, CIITA, CD74, MICA, and MICB to limit expression of HLA-I, HLA-II, and natural killer (NK) cell activating ligands in hPSCs. Transplantation of these cells that also expressed covalent single chain trimers of Qa1 and H2-Kb to inhibit NK cells and CD55, Crry, and CD59 to inhibit complement deposition led to persistent teratomas in wild-type mice. Transplantation of HLA-deficient hPSCs into mice genetically deficient in complement and depleted of NK cells also led to persistent teratomas. Thus, T cell, NK cell, and complement evasion are necessary to prevent immunological rejection of hPSCs and their progeny. These cells and versions expressing human orthologs of immune evasion factors can be used to define cell type-specific immune barriers and conduct preclinical testing in immunocompetent mouse models.
38236249 | Ziv-aflibercept plus pembrolizumab in patients with advanced melanoma resistant to anti-PD-1 treatment. BACKGROUND: Vascular endothelial growth factor is associated with reduced immune response and impaired anti-tumor activity. Combining antiangiogenic agents with immune checkpoint inhibition can overcome this immune suppression and enhance treatment efficacy. METHODS: This study investigated the combination of ziv-aflibercept anti-angiogenic therapy with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced melanoma resistant to anti-PD-1 treatment. Baseline and on-treatment plasma and PBMC samples were analyzed by multiplex protein assay and mass cytometry, respectively. RESULTS: In this Phase 1B study (NCT02298959), ten patients with advanced PD-1-resistant melanoma were treated with a combination of ziv-aflibercept (at 2-4 mg/kg) plus pembrolizumab (at 2 mg/kg), administered intravenously every 2 weeks. Two patients (20%) achieved a partial response, and two patients (20%) experienced stable disease (SD) as the best response. The two responders had mucosal melanoma, while both patients with SD had ocular melanoma. The combination therapy demonstrated clinical activity and acceptable safety, despite the occurrence of adverse events. Changes in plasma analytes such as platelet-derived growth factor and PD-L1 were explored, indicating potential alterations in myeloid cell function. Higher levels of circulating CXCL10 in non-responding patients may reflect pro-tumor activity. Specific subsets of gammadelta T cells were associated with poor clinical outcomes, suggesting impaired gammadelta T-cell function in non-responding patients. CONCLUSIONS: Although limited by sample size and follow-up, these findings highlight the potential of the combination of ziv-aflibercept antiangiogenic therapy with pembrolizumab in patients with advanced melanoma resistant to anti-PD-1 treatment and the need for further research to improve outcomes in anti-PD-1-resistant melanoma. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02298959.
38245792 | High and selective cytotoxicity of ex vivo expanded allogeneic human natural killer cells from peripheral blood against bladder cancer: implications for natural killer cell instillation after transurethral resection of bladder tumor. BACKGROUND: Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) is treated with transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) followed by intravesical instillation of chemotherapy or Bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy. However, these treatments have a high recurrence rate and side effects, emphasizing the need for alternative instillations. Previously, we revealed that expanded allogeneic human natural killer (NK) cells from peripheral blood are a promising cellular therapy for prostate cancer. However, whether NK cells exhibit a similar killing effect in bladder cancer (BCa) remains unknown. METHODS: Expansion, activation, and cryopreservation of allogeneic human NK cells obtained from peripheral blood were performed as we previously described. In vitro cytotoxicity was evaluated using the cell counting kit-8. The levels of perforin, granzyme B, interferon-gamma, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and chemokines (C-C-motif ligand [CCL]1, CCL2, CCL20, CCL3L1, and CCL4; C-X-C-motif ligand [CXCL]1, CXCL16, CXCL2, CXCL3, and CXCL8; and X-motif ligand 1 and 2) were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The expression of CD107a, major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I), MHC-I polypeptide-related sequences A and B (MICA/B), cytomegalovirus UL16-binding protein-2/5/6 (ULBP-2/5/6), B7-H6, CD56, CD69, CD25, killer cell Ig-like receptors (KIR)2DL1, KIRD3DL1, NKG2D, NKp30, NKp46, and CD16 of NK cells or BCa and normal urothelial cells were detected using flow cytometry. Cytotoxicity was evaluated using lactate dehydrogenase assay in patient-derived organoid models. BCa growth was monitored in vivo using calipers in male NOD-scid IL2rg-/- mice subcutaneously injected with 5637 and NK cells. Differential gene expressions were investigated using RNA sequence analysis. The chemotaxis of T cells was evaluated using transwell migration assays. RESULTS: We revealed that the NK cells possess higher cytotoxicity against BCa lines with more production of cytokines than normal urothelial cells counterparts in vitro, demonstrated by upregulation of degranulation marker CD107a and increased interferon-gamma secretion, by MICA/B/NKG2D and B7H6/NKp30-mediated activation. Furthermore, NK cells demonstrated antitumor effects against BCa in patient-derived organoids and BCa xenograft mouse models. NK cells secreted chemokines, including CCL1/2/20, to induce T-cell chemotaxis when encountering BCa cells. CONCLUSIONS: The expanded NK cells exhibit potent cytotoxicity against BCa cells, with few toxic side effects on normal urothelial cells. In addition, NK cells recruit T cells by secreting a panel of chemokines, which supports the translational application of NK cell intravesical instillation after TURBT from bench to bedside for NMIBC treatment.
38257982 | The Impact and Effects of Host Immunogenetics on Infectious Disease Studies Using Non-Human Primates in Biomedical Research. Understanding infectious disease pathogenesis and evaluating novel candidate treatment interventions for human use frequently requires prior or parallel analysis in animal model systems. While rodent species are frequently applied in such studies, there are situations where non-human primate (NHP) species are advantageous or required. These include studies of animals that are anatomically more akin to humans, where there is a need to interrogate the complexity of more advanced biological systems or simply reflect susceptibility to a specific infectious agent. The contribution of different arms of the immune response may be addressed in a variety of NHP species or subspecies in specific physiological compartments. Such studies provide insights into immune repertoires not always possible from human studies. However, genetic variation in outbred NHP models may confound, or significantly impact the outcome of a particular study. Thus, host factors need to be considered when undertaking such studies. Considerable knowledge of the impact of host immunogenetics on infection dynamics was elucidated from HIV/SIV research. NHP models are now important for studies of emerging infections. They have contributed to delineating the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19, which identified differences in outcomes attributable to the selected NHP host. Moreover, their use was crucial in evaluating the immunogenicity and efficacy of vaccines against COVID-19 and establishing putative correlates of vaccine protection. More broadly, neglected or highly pathogenic emerging or re-emergent viruses may be studied in selected NHPs. These studies characterise protective immune responses following infection or the administration of candidate immunogens which may be central to the accelerated licensing of new vaccines. Here, we review selected aspects of host immunogenetics, specifically MHC background and TRIM5 polymorphism as exemplars of adaptive and innate immunity, in commonly used Old and New World host species. Understanding this variation within and between NHP species will ensure that this valuable laboratory source is used most effectively to combat established and emerging virus infections and improve human health worldwide.
38279325 | The Influence of HLA Polymorphisms on the Severity of COVID-19 in the Romanian Population. In this study, we aimed to investigate whether specific HLA alleles found in patients from Romania and the Republic of Moldova were associated with the severity of COVID-19 infection and its associated mortality. We analyzed the HLA alleles at the -A, -B, -C, -DRB1, and -DQB1 loci in a cohort of 130 individuals with severe and extremely severe forms of COVID-19, including 44 individuals who died. We compared these findings to a control group consisting of individuals who had either not been diagnosed with COVID-19 or had experienced mild forms of the disease. Using multivariate logistic regression models, we discovered that the B*27 and B*50 alleles were associated with an increased susceptibility to developing a severe form of COVID-19. The A*33 and C*15 alleles showed potential for offering protection against the disease. Furthermore, we identified two protective alleles (A*03 and DQB1*02) against the development of extremely severe forms of COVID-19. By utilizing score statistics, we established a statistically significant association between haplotypes and disease severity (p = 0.021). In summary, this study provides evidence that HLA genotype plays a role in influencing the clinical outcome of COVID-19 infection.
38292490 | High-dimensional comparison of monocytes and T cells in post-COVID and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Introduction: Up to 30% of hospitalized COVID-19 patients experience persistent sequelae, including pulmonary fibrosis (PF). Methods: We examined COVID-19 survivors with impaired lung function and imaging worrisome for developing PF and found within six months, symptoms, restriction and PF improved in some (Early-Resolving COVID-PF), but persisted in others (Late-Resolving COVID-PF). To evaluate immune mechanisms associated with recovery versus persistent PF, we performed single-cell RNA-sequencing and multiplex immunostaining on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with Early- and Late-Resolving COVID-PF and compared them to age-matched controls without respiratory disease. Results and discussion: Our analysis showed circulating monocytes were significantly reduced in Late-Resolving COVID-PF patients compared to Early-Resolving COVID-PF and non-diseased controls. Monocyte abundance correlated with pulmonary function forced vital capacity and diffusion capacity. Differential expression analysis revealed MHC-II class molecules were upregulated on the CD8 T cells of Late-Resolving COVID-PF patients but downregulated in monocytes. To determine whether these immune signatures resembled other interstitial lung diseases, we analyzed samples from Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF) patients. IPF patients had a similar marked decrease in monocyte HLA-DR protein expression compared to Late-Resolving COVID-PF patients. Our findings indicate decreased circulating monocytes are associated with decreased lung function and uniquely distinguish Late-Resolving COVID-PF from Early-Resolving COVID-PF, IPF, and non-diseased controls.
38312438 | Impact of COVID-19 quarantines on clozapine-induced constipation: Experience of utilizing a clozapine-induced constipation protocol at a state forensic psychiatric facility. Objective: Since 2017, Fulton State Hospital (FSH) has implemented a clozapine-induced constipation protocol. In March 2020, FSH initiated unit quarantines to minimize the spread of coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of these quarantines on medical referrals for constipation, the Bristol Stool Chart ratings, utilization of as-needed (PRN) laxatives, and adherence rates with scheduled constipation medication regimens. Methods: Patients on the clozapine-induced constipation protocol from May 1, 2019 to December 31, 2020, were included, with 10-month pre- and mid-quarantine implementation. Data collected included patient demographics, primary psychiatric diagnosis, and outcome variables. Descriptive statistics and paired t-tests were performed. Results: A total of 31 patients were included. Most were male (93.5%), with a median age of 40 years. The most common primary diagnosis was schizophrenia. Compared with the pre-quarantine implementation period, there were fewer medical referral contacts per person, less use of PRN laxatives, and slightly lower adherence rates to scheduled constipation medication regimens during the mid-quarantine implementation period. Conclusion: Compared with the pre-quarantine implementation period, there were fewer medical referrals per person during the mid-quarantine implementation period.
38331849 | IL-15-secreting CAR natural killer cells directed toward the pan-cancer target CD70 eliminate both cancer cells and cancer-associated fibroblasts. BACKGROUND: It remains challenging to obtain positive outcomes with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-engineered cell therapies in solid malignancies, like colorectal cancer (CRC) and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). A major obstacle is the lack of targetable surface antigens that are not shared by healthy tissues. CD70 emerges as interesting target, due to its stringent expression pattern in healthy tissue and its apparent role in tumor progression in a considerable amount of malignancies. Moreover, CD70 is also expressed on cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), another roadblock for treatment efficacy in CRC and PDAC. We explored the therapeutic potential of CD70 as target for CAR natural killer (NK) cell therapy in CRC, PDAC, focusing on tumor cells and CAFs, and lymphoma. METHODS: RNA-seq data and immunohistochemical analysis of patient samples were used to explore CD70 expression in CRC and PDAC patients. In addition, CD70-targeting CAR NK cells were developed to assess cytotoxic activity against CD70+ tumor cells and CAFs, and the effect of cytokine stimulation on their efficacy was evaluated. The in vitro functionality of CD70-CAR NK cells was investigated against a panel of tumor and CAF cell lines with varying CD70 expression. Lymphoma-bearing mice were used to validate in vivo potency of CD70-CAR NK cells. Lastly, to consider patient variability, CD70-CAR NK cells were tested on patient-derived organoids containing CAFs. RESULTS: In this study, we identified CD70 as a target for tumor cells and CAFs in CRC and PDAC patients. Functional evaluation of CD70-directed CAR NK cells indicated that IL-15 stimulation is essential to obtain effective elimination of CD70+ tumor cells and CAFs, and to improve tumor burden and survival of mice bearing CD70+ tumors. Mechanistically, IL-15 stimulation resulted in improved potency of CD70-CAR NK cells by upregulating CAR expression and increasing secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, in a mainly autocrine or intracellular manner. CONCLUSIONS: We disclose CD70 as an attractive target both in hematological and solid tumors. IL-15 armored CAR NK cells act as potent effectors to eliminate these CD70+ cells. They can target both tumor cells and CAFs in patients with CRC and PDAC, and potentially other desmoplastic solid tumors.
38427545 | Evasive Spike Variants Elucidate the Preservation of T Cell Immune Response to the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Variant. The Omicron variants boast the highest infectivity rates among all SARS-CoV-2 variants. Despite their lower disease severity, they can reinfect COVID-19 patients and infect vaccinated individuals as well. The high number of mutations in these variants render them resistant to antibodies that otherwise neutralize the spike protein of the original SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. Recent research has shown that despite its strong immune evasion, Omicron still induces strong T Cell responses similar to the original variant. This work investigates the molecular basis for this observation using the neural network tools NetMHCpan-4.1 and NetMHCiipan-4.0. The antigens presented through the MHC Class I and Class II pathways from all the notable SARS-CoV-2 variants were compared across numerous high frequency HLAs. All variants were observed to have equivalent T cell antigenicity. A novel positive control system was engineered in the form of spike variants that did evade T Cell responses, unlike Omicron. These evasive spike proteins were used to statistically confirm that the Omicron variants did not exhibit lower antigenicity in the MHC pathways. These results suggest that T Cell immunity mounts a strong defense against COVID-19 which is difficult for SARS-CoV-2 to overcome through mere evolution.
38461519 | NLRC5/MHC class I transactivator: A key target for immune escape by SARS-CoV-2. Antigen presentation to CD8+ T cells by MHC class I molecules is essential for host defense against viral infections. Various mechanisms have evolved in multiple viruses to escape immune surveillance and defense to support viral proliferation in host cells. Through in vitro SARS-CoV-2 infection studies and analysis of COVID-19 patient samples, we found that SARS-CoV-2 suppresses the induction of the MHC class I pathway by inhibiting the expression and function of NLRC5, a major transcriptional regulator of MHC class I genes. In this review, we discuss the molecular mechanisms for suppression of the MHC class I pathway and clinical implications for COVID-19.
38541659 | An Exploratory Bioinformatic Investigation of Cats' Susceptibility to Coronavirus-Deriving Epitopes. Coronaviruses are highly transmissible and pathogenic viruses for humans and animals. The vast quantity of information collected about SARS-CoV-2 during the pandemic helped to unveil details of the mechanisms behind the infection, which are still largely elusive. Recent research demonstrated that different class I/II human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles might define an individual susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 spreading, contributing to the differences in the distribution of the infection through different populations; additional studies suggested that the homolog of the HLA in cats, the feline leukocyte antigen (FLA), plays a pivotal role in the transmission of viruses. With these premises, this study aimed to exploit a bioinformatic approach for the prediction of the transmissibility potential of two distinct feline coronaviruses (FCoVs) in domestic cats (feline enteric coronavirus (FeCV) and feline infectious peritonitis virus (FIPV)) using SARS-CoV-2 as the reference model. We performed an epitope mapping of nonapeptides deriving from SARS-CoV-2, FeCV, and FIPV glycoproteins and predicted their affinities for different alleles included in the three main loci in class I FLAs (E, H, and K). The predicted complexes with the most promising affinities were then subjected to molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations to provide insights into the stability and binding energies in the cleft. Results showed the FLA proteins encoded by alleles in the FLA-I H (H*00501 and H*00401) and E (E*01001 and E*00701) loci are largely responsive to several epitopes deriving from replicase and spike proteins of the analyzed coronaviruses. The analysis of the most affine epitope sequences resulting from the prediction can stimulate the development of anti-FCoV immunomodulatory strategies based on peptide drugs.
38543955 | Bioinformatic, Biochemical, and Immunological Mining of MHC Class I Restricted T Cell Epitopes for a Marburg Nucleoprotein Microparticle Vaccine. The Marburg virus (MARV), the virus responsible for Marburg hemorrhagic fever (MHF), is considered a top-priority pathogen for vaccine development. Recent outbreaks in Equatorial Africa have highlighted the urgency of MARV because of its high fatality rate and historical concerns about potential weaponization. Currently, there are no licensed vaccines for MARV. Existing vaccine candidates rely on attenuated recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus carrying MARV glycoprotein (VSVDeltaG) or the chimpanzee replication-defective adenovirus 3 vector ChAd3-MARV. Although these platforms provide significant protection in animal models, they face challenges because of their limited thermal stability and the need for cold storage during deployment in resource-poor areas. An alternative approach involves using adjuvanted poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microparticles loaded with synthetic peptides representing MHC class I-restricted T cell epitopes. This vaccine platform has demonstrated effectiveness in protecting against SARS-CoV-2 and EBoV disease in animal models and has the advantage of not requiring cold storage and remaining stable at room temperature for over six months. This report outlines the design, manufacturing, and in vivo immunogenicity testing of PLGA microparticle human vaccines designed to prevent Marburg hemorrhagic fever.
38575727 | Reassessing human MHC-I genetic diversity in T cell studies. The Major Histocompatibility Complex class I (MHC-I) system plays a vital role in immune responses by presenting antigens to T cells. Allele specific technologies, including recombinant MHC-I technologies, have been extensively used in T cell analyses for COVID-19 patients and are currently used in the development of immunotherapies for cancer. However, the immense diversity of MHC-I alleles presents challenges. The genetic diversity serves as the foundation of personalized medicine, yet it also poses a potential risk of exacerbating healthcare disparities based on MHC-I alleles. To assess potential biases, we analysed (pre)clinical publications focusing on COVID-19 studies and T cell receptor (TCR)-based clinical trials. Our findings reveal an underrepresentation of MHC-I alleles associated with Asian, Australian, and African descent. Ensuring diverse representation is vital for advancing personalized medicine and global healthcare equity, transcending genetic diversity. Addressing this disparity is essential to unlock the full potential of T cells for enhancing diagnosis and treatment across all individuals.
38581915 | Interleukin-15 is a hair follicle immune privilege guardian. The autoimmunity-promoting cytokine, Interleukin-15 (IL-15), is often claimed to be a key pathogenic cytokine in alopecia areata (AA). Yet, rhIL-15 promotes human hair follicle (HF) growth ex vivo. We have asked whether the expression of IL-15 and its receptor (IL-15R) isoforms is altered in human AA and how IL-15 impacts on human HF immune privilege (HF-IP) in the presence/absence of interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), the well-documented key AA-pathogenic cytokine, and on hair regrowth after experimental AA induction in vivo. Quantitative immunohistomorphometry showed the number of perifollicular IL-15+ T cells in AA skin biopsies to be significantly increased compared to healthy control skin, while IL-15, IL-15R-alpha, and IL-15R-gamma protein expression within the hair bulb were significantly down-regulated in AA HFs. In organ-cultured human scalp HFs, rhIL-15 significantly reduced hair bulb expression of MICA, the key \danger\ signal in AA pathogenesis, and increased production of the HF-IP guardian, alpha-MSH. Crucially, ex vivo, rhIL-15 prevented IFNgamma-induced HF-IP collapse, restored a collapsed HF-IP by IL-15Ralpha-dependent signaling (as documented by IL-15Ralpha-silencing), and protected AA-preventive immunoinhibitory iNKT10 cells from IFNgamma-induced apoptosis. rhIL-15 even promoted hair regrowth after experimental AA induction in human scalp skin xenotransplants on SCID/beige mice in vivo. Our data introduce IL-15 as a novel, functionally important HF-IP guardian whose signaling is constitutively defective in AA patients. Our data suggest that selective stimulation of intrafollicular IL-15Ralpha signaling could become a novel therapeutic approach in AA management, while blocking it pharmacologically may hinder both HF-IP restoration and hair re-growth and may thus make HFs more vulnerable to AA relapse.
38589549 | MORITS: An improved method to predict peptides from heterologous proteins that are recognized by the same T-cell receptor. Antigen-specific priming of T cells results in the activation of T cells that exert effector functions by interaction of their T-cell receptor (TCR) with the corresponding self-MHC molecule presenting a peptide on the surface of a target cell. Such antigen-specific T cells potentially can also interact with peptide-MHC complexes that contain peptides from unrelated antigens, a phenomenon that often is referred to as heterologous immunity. For example, some individuals that were pre-immunized against an allergen, could subsequently mount better anti-viral T-cell responses than non-allergic individuals. So far only few peptide pairs that experimentally have been shown to provoke heterologous immunity were  identified, and available prediction tools that can identify potential candidates are imprecise. We developed the MORITS algorithm to rapidly screen large lists of peptides for sequence similarities, while giving enhanced consideration to peptide residues presented by MHC that are particularly relevant for TCR interactions. In combination with established peptide-MHC binding prediction tools, the MORITS algorithm revealed peptide similarities between the SARS-CoV-2 proteome and certain allergens. The method outperformed previously published workflows and may help to identify novel pairs of peptides that mediate heterologous immune responses.
38615042 | Deep learning predictions of TCR-epitope interactions reveal epitope-specific chains in dual alpha T cells. T cells have the ability to eliminate infected and cancer cells and play an essential role in cancer immunotherapy. T cell activation is elicited by the binding of the T cell receptor (TCR) to epitopes displayed on MHC molecules, and the TCR specificity is determined by the sequence of its alpha and beta chains. Here, we collect and curate a dataset of 17,715 alphabetaTCRs interacting with dozens of class I and class II epitopes. We use this curated data to develop MixTCRpred, an epitope-specific TCR-epitope interaction predictor. MixTCRpred accurately predicts TCRs recognizing several viral and cancer epitopes. MixTCRpred further provides a useful quality control tool for multiplexed single-cell TCR sequencing assays of epitope-specific T cells and pinpoints a substantial fraction of putative contaminants in public databases. Analysis of epitope-specific dual alpha T cells demonstrates that MixTCRpred can identify alpha chains mediating epitope recognition. Applying MixTCRpred to TCR repertoires from COVID-19 patients reveals enrichment of clonotypes predicted to bind an immunodominant SARS-CoV-2 epitope. Overall, MixTCRpred provides a robust tool to predict TCRs interacting with specific epitopes and interpret TCR-sequencing data from both bulk and epitope-specific T cells.
38619800 | Prediction of Prospective Mutational Landscape of SARS-CoV-2 Spike ssRNA and Evolutionary Basis of Its Host Interaction. Booster doses are crucial against severe COVID-19, as rapid virus mutations and variant emergence prolong the pandemic crisis. The virus's quick evolution, short generation-time, and adaptive changes impact virulence and evolvability, helping predictions about variant of concerns' (VOCs') landscapes. Here, in this study, we used a new computational algorithm, to predict the mutational pattern in SARS-CoV-2 ssRNA, proteomics, structural identification, mutation stability, and functional correlation, as well as immune escape mechanisms. Interestingly, the sequence diversity of SARS Coronavirus-2 has demonstrated a predominance of G- > A and C- > U substitutions. The best validation statistics are explored here in seven homologous models of the expected mutant SARS-CoV-2 spike ssRNA and employed for hACE2 and IgG interactions. The interactome profile of SARS-CoV-2 spike with hACE2 and IgG revealed a strong correlation between phylogeny and divergence time. The systematic adaptation of SARS-CoV-2 spike ssRNA influences infectivity and immune escape. Data suggest higher propensity of Adenine rich sequence promotes MHC system avoidance, preferred by A-rich codons. Phylogenetic data revealed the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 lineages' epidemiology. Our findings may unveil processes governing the genesis of immune-resistant variants, prompting a critical reassessment of the coronavirus mutation rate and exploration of hypotheses beyond mechanical aspects.
9071023 | Genomic characterization of the region between HLA-B and TNF: implications for the evolution of multicopy gene families. The major histocompatibility complex (MHC) contains genes which confer susceptibility to numerous diseases and must be important in primate evolution. In some instances, genes have been mapped to the region between human histocompatibility leukocyte antigen (HLA)-B and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) but precise localization has proven difficult especially since this region is subject to insertions, deletions, and duplications. Utilizing computer similarity searches and coding prediction programs, we have identified several potential coding sequences between HLA-B and TNF. Three of these sequences, PERB11.2, PERB15, and PERB 18, are similar to members of multicopy gene families that are located in other regions of the MHC. The identification of numerous fragmented and intact retroelements (L1, Alu, LTR, and THE sequences) flanking the PERB11 and PERB15 genes suggests that these retroelements are involved in the duplication process. The evaluation of candidate genes for disease susceptibility within the MHC is complicated by their similarity to other members of multicopy gene families. The determination of sequence differences within and between species provides a strategy with which to investigate the candidate genes between HLA-B and TNF.
10400921 | Different evolutionary histories in two subgenomic regions of the major histocompatibility complex. Two subgenomic regions within the major histocompatibility complex, the alpha and beta blocks, contain members of the multicopy gene families HLA class I, human endogenous retroviral sequence (HERV-16; previously known as P5 and PERB3), hemochromatosis candidate genes (HCG) (II, IV, VIII, IX), 3.8-1, and MIC (PERB11). In this study we show that the two blocks consist of imperfect duplicated segments, which contain linked members of the different gene families. The duplication and truncation sites of the segments are associated with retroelements. The retroelement sites appear to generate the imperfect duplications, insertions/deletions, and rearrangements, most likely via homologous recombination. Although the two blocks share several characteristics, they differ in the number and orientation of the duplicated segments. On the 62.1 haplotype, the alpha block consists of at least 10 duplicated segments that predominantly contain pseudogenes and gene fragments of the HLA class I and MIC (PERB11) gene families. In contrast, the beta block has two major duplications containing the genes HLA-B and HLA-C, and MICA (PERB11.1) and MICB (PERB11.2). Given the common origin between the blocks, we reconstructed the duplication history of the segments to understand the processes involved in producing the different organization in the two blocks. We then found that the beta block contains four distinct duplications from two separate events, whereas the alpha block is characterized by multisegment duplications. We will discuss these results in relation to the genetic content of the two blocks.
32035130 | Anterior gradient 2-derived peptide upregulates major histocompatibility complex class I-related chains A/B in hepatocellular carcinoma cells. AIMS: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide. Decrease in NKG2D ligand levels and exhaustion of NK cells in HCC patients are major causes of immune escape, high recurrence, poor prognosis, and low overall survival. Enhancing the susceptibility of HCC to NK cells by upregulating NKG2DLs on tumor cells is an effective treatment strategy. This study aimed to identify the effect of the Anterior gradient 2 (AGR2)-derived peptide P1, which was reported to bind to HLA-A*0201 as an epitope, on both the expression of major histocompatibility complex class I-related chains A/B (MICA/B) on HCC cells and the cytotoxicity of NK cells. MAIN METHODS: The effect of P1 on MICA/B expression on HCC cells was determined by qRT-PCR, western blotting, and flow cytometry analysis. HCC cells were pre-treated with various pathway inhibitors to identify the molecular pathways associated with P1 treatment. The cytotoxicity of NK cells toward HCC was investigated by LDH cytotoxicity assay. The tumor-suppression effect of P1 was determined in vivo using a NOD/SCID mice HCC model. KEY FINDINGS: P1 significantly increased MICA/B expression on HCC cells, thereby enhancing their susceptibility to the cytotoxicity of NK cells in vitro and in vivo. Further, p38 MAPK cell signaling pathway inhibitor SB203580 significantly attenuated the effects of P1 in vivo and in vitro. SIGNIFICANCE: P1 upregulates MICA and MICB expression on HCC cells, thereby promoting their recognition and elimination by NK cells, which makes P1 an attractive novel immunotherapy agent.
32209637 | Inhibition of MICA and MICB Shedding Elicits NK-Cell-Mediated Immunity against Tumors Resistant to Cytotoxic T Cells. Resistance to cytotoxic T cells is frequently mediated by loss of MHC class I expression or IFNgamma signaling in tumor cells, such as mutations of B2M or JAK1 genes. Natural killer (NK) cells could potentially target such resistant tumors, but suitable NK-cell-based strategies remain to be developed. We hypothesized that such tumors could be targeted by NK cells if sufficient activating signals were provided. Human tumors frequently express the MICA and MICB ligands of the activating NKG2D receptor, but proteolytic shedding of MICA/B represents an important immune evasion mechanism in many human cancers. We showed that B2M- and JAK1-deficient metastases were targeted by NK cells following treatment with a mAb that blocks MICA/B shedding. We also demonstrated that the FDA-approved HDAC inhibitor panobinostat and a MICA/B antibody acted synergistically to enhance MICA/B surface expression on tumor cells. The HDAC inhibitor enhanced MICA/B gene expression, whereas the MICA/B antibody stabilized the synthesized protein on the cell surface. The combination of panobinostat and the MICA/B antibody reduced the number of pulmonary metastases formed by a human melanoma cell line in NOD/SCID gamma mice reconstituted with human NK cells. NK-cell-mediated immunity induced by a mAb specific for MICA/B, therefore, provides an opportunity to target tumors with mutations that render them resistant to cytotoxic T cells.
32517713 | Antibody targeting tumor-derived soluble NKG2D ligand sMIC reprograms NK cell homeostatic survival and function and enhances melanoma response to PDL1 blockade therapy. BACKGROUND: Melanoma patients who have detectable serum soluble NKG2D ligands either at the baseline or post-treatment of PD1/PDL1 blockade exhibit poor overall survival. Among families of soluble human NKG2D ligands, the soluble human MHC I chain-related molecule (sMIC) was found to be elevated in melanoma patients and mostly associated with poor response to PD1/PDL1 blockade therapy. METHODS: In this study, we aim to investigate whether co-targeting tumor-released sMIC enhances the therapeutic outcome of PD1/PDL1 blockade therapy for melanoma. We implanted sMIC-expressing B16F10 melanoma tumors into syngeneic host and evaluated therapeutic efficacy of anti-sMIC antibody and anti-PDL1 antibody combination therapy in comparison with monotherapy. We analyzed associated effector mechanism. We also assessed sMIC/MIC prevalence in metastatic human melanoma tumors. RESULTS: We found that the combination therapy of the anti-PDL1 antibody with an antibody targeting sMIC significantly improved animal survival as compared to monotherapies and that the effect of combination therapy depends significantly on NK cells. We show that combination therapy significantly increased IL-2Ralpha (CD25) on NK cells which sensitizes NK cells to low dose IL-2 for survival. We demonstrate that sMIC negatively reprograms gene expression related to NK cell homeostatic survival and proliferation and that antibody clearing sMIC reverses the effect of sMIC and reprograms NK cell for survival. We further show that sMIC/MIC is abundantly present in metastatic human melanoma tumors. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide a pre-clinical proof-of-concept and a new mechanistic understanding to underscore the significance of antibody targeting sMIC to improve therapeutic efficacy of anti-PD1/PDL1 antibody for MIC/sMIC+ metastatic melanoma patients.
32518090 | Restoration of antitumor immunity through anti-MICA antibodies elicited with a chimeric protein. BACKGROUND: Natural killer and cytotoxic CD8+ T cells are major players during antitumor immunity. They express NKG2D, an activating receptor that promotes tumor elimination through recognition of the MHC class I chain-related proteins A and B (MICA and MICB). Both molecules are overexpressed on a great variety of tumors from different tissues, making them attractive targets for immunotherapy. However, tumors shed MICA and MICB, and the soluble forms of both (sMICA and sMICB) mediate tumor-immune escape. Some reports indicate that anti-MICA antibodies (Ab) can promote the restoration of antitumor immunity through the induction of direct antitumor effects (antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity, ADCC) and scavenging of sMICA. Therefore, we reasoned that an active induction of anti-MICA Ab with an immunogenic protein might represent a novel therapeutic and prophylactic alternative to restore antitumor immunity. METHODS: We generated a highly immunogenic chimeric protein (BLS-MICA) consisting of human MICA fused to the lumazine synthase from Brucella spp (BLS) and used it to generate anti-MICA polyclonal Ab (pAb) and to investigate if these anti-MICA Ab can reinstate antitumor immunity in mice using two different mouse tumors engineered to express MICA. We also explored the underlying mechanisms of this expected therapeutic effect. RESULTS: Immunization with BLS-MICA and administration of anti-MICA pAb elicited by BLS-MICA significantly delayed the growth of MICA-expressing mouse tumors but not of control tumors. The therapeutic effect of immunization with BLS-MICA included scavenging of sMICA and the anti-MICA Ab-mediated ADCC, promoting heightened intratumoral M1/proinflammatory macrophage and antigen-experienced CD8+ T cell recruitment. CONCLUSIONS: Immunization with the chimeric protein BLS-MICA constitutes a useful way to actively induce therapeutic anti-MICA pAb that resulted in a reprogramming of the antitumor immune response towards an antitumoral/proinflammatory phenotype. Hence, the BLS-MICA chimeric protein constitutes a novel antitumor vaccine of potential application in patients with MICA-expressing tumors.
32582150 | MICAgen Mice Recapitulate the Highly Restricted but Activation-Inducible Expression of the Paradigmatic Human NKG2D Ligand MICA. NKG2D is a potent activating immunoreceptor expressed on nearly all cytotoxic lymphocytes promoting their cytotoxicity against self-cells expressing NKG2D ligands (NKG2DLs). NKG2DLs are MHC class I-like glycoproteins that usually are not expressed on \healthy\ cells. Rather, their surface expression is induced by various forms of cellular stress, viral infection, or malignant transformation. Hence, cell surface NKG2DLs mark \dangerous\ cells for elimination by cytotoxic lymphocytes and therefore can be considered as \kill-me\ signals. In addition, NKG2DLs are up-regulated on activated leukocytes, which facilitates containment of immune responses. While the NKG2D receptor is conserved among mammals, NKG2DL genes have rapidly diversified during mammalian speciation, likely due to strong selective pressures exerted by species-specific pathogens. Consequently, NKG2DL genes are not conserved in man and mice, although their NKG2D-binding domains maintained structural homology. Human NKG2DLs comprise two members of the MIC (MICA/MICB) and six members of the ULBP family of glycoproteins (ULBP1-6) with MICA representing the best-studied human NKG2DLs by far. Many of these studies implicate a role of MICA in various malignant, infectious, or autoimmune diseases. However, conclusions from these studies often were limited in default of supporting in vivo experiments. Here, we report a MICA transgenic (MICAgen) mouse model that replicates central features of human MICA expression and function and, therefore, constitutes a novel tool to critically assess and extend conclusions from previous in vitro studies on MICA. Similarly to humans, MICA transcripts are broadly present in organs of MICAgen mice, while MICA glycoproteins are barely detectable. Upon activation, hematopoietic cells up-regulate and proteolytically shed surface MICA. Shed soluble MICA (sMICA) is also present in plasma of MICAgen mice but affects neither surface NKG2D expression of circulating NK cells nor their functional recognition of MICA-expressing tumor cells. Accordingly, MICAgen mice also show a delayed growth of MICA-expressing B16F10 tumors, not accompanied by an emergence of MICA-specific antibodies. Such immunotolerance for the xenoantigen MICA ideally suits MICAgen mice for anti-MICA-based immunotherapies. Altogether, MICAgen mice represent a valuable model to study regulation, function, disease relevance, and therapeutic targeting of MICA in vivo.
33037097 | A Chimeric Antigen Receptor That Binds to a Conserved Site on MICA. The NKG2D ligand MHC class I chain-related protein A (MICA) is expressed on many varieties of malignant cells but is absent from most normal tissues, and thus represents a potential target for chimeric Ag receptor (CAR) T cell-based therapeutics. However, there are more than 100 alleles of MICA, so the ability to target a conserved site is needed for a therapy to be used in most patients. In this study, we describe a fully human anti-MICA CAR created by fusing the single-chain fragment variable B2 to the full length DAP10 protein and the traditional CD3zeta signaling domain. Human T cells expressing the B2 CAR killed MICA-positive tumor cells, produced IFN-gamma when in contact with MICA-positive tumor cells or plate-bound MICA protein, and inhibited PANC-1 growth in a mouse xenograft model. To localize B2's epitope on MICA, we used novel computational methods to model potential binding modes and to design mutational variants of MICA testing these hypotheses. Flow cytometry using a commercial anti-MICA/MICB Ab indicated that the variant proteins were expressed at high levels on transduced P815 cell lines. One variant protein (R38S/K40T/K57E) showed reduced staining with a B2-IgG1 fusion protein compared with controls and did not induce IFN-gamma production by human T cells expressing the B2 CAR. These results show antitumor activity of MICA-specific CAR T cells and indicate an essential role for a conserved site in the exposed loop involving aa 38-57 of MICA. This study describes a novel MICA-specific CAR and discusses its potential use as a cancer therapeutic.
33484773 | Expression of NKG2D ligands is downregulated by beta-catenin signalling and associates with HCC aggressiveness. BACKGROUND & AIMS: The NKG2D system is a potent immunosurveillance mechanism in cancer, wherein the activating NK cell receptor (NKG2D) on immune cells recognises its cognate ligands on tumour cells. Herein, we evaluated the expression of NKG2D ligands in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), in both humans and mice, taking the genomic features of HCC tumours into account. METHODS: The expression of NKG2D ligands (MICA, MICB, ULBP1 and ULBP2) was analysed in large human HCC datasets by Fluidigm TaqMan and RNA-seq methods, and in 2 mouse models (mRNA and protein levels) reproducing the features of both major groups of human tumours. RESULTS: We provide compelling evidence that expression of the MICA and MICB ligands in human HCC is associated with tumour aggressiveness and poor patient outcome. We also found that the expression of ULBP1 and ULBP2 was associated with poor patient outcome, and was downregulated in CTNNB1-mutated HCCs displaying low levels of inflammation and associated with a better prognosis. We also found an inverse correlation between ULBP1/2 expression levels and the expression of beta-catenin target genes in patients with HCC, suggesting a role for beta-catenin signalling in inhibiting expression. We showed in HCC mouse models that beta-catenin signalling downregulated the expression of Rae-1 NKG2D ligands, orthologs of ULBPs, through TCF4 binding. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that the expression of NKG2D ligands is associated with aggressive liver tumorigenesis and that the downregulation of these ligands by beta-catenin signalling may account for the less aggressive phenotype of CTNNB1-mutated HCC tumours. LAY SUMMARY: The NKG2D system is a potent immunosurveillance mechanism in cancer. However, its role in hepatocellular carcinoma development has not been widely investigated. Herein, we should that the expression of NKG2D ligands by tumour cells is associated with a more aggressive tumour subtype.
33972238 | Amikacin Combined with Fosfomycin for Treatment of Neonatal Sepsis in the Setting of Highly Prevalent Antimicrobial Resistance. Antimicrobial resistance (particularly through extended-spectrum beta-lactamase and aminoglycoside-modifying enzyme production) in neonatal sepsis is a global problem, particularly in low- and middle-income countries, with significant mortality rates. High rates of resistance are reported for the current WHO-recommended first-line antibiotic regimen for neonatal sepsis, i.e., ampicillin and gentamicin. We assessed the utility of fosfomycin and amikacin as a potential alternative regimen to be used in settings of increasingly prevalent antimicrobial resistance. The combination was studied in a 16-arm dose-ranged hollow-fiber infection model (HFIM) experiment. The combination of amikacin and fosfomycin enhanced bactericidal activity and prevented the emergence of resistance, compared to monotherapy with either antibiotic. Modeling of the experimental quantitative outputs and data from checkerboard assays indicated synergy. We further assessed the combination regimen at clinically relevant doses in the HFIM with nine Enterobacterales strains with high fosfomycin and amikacin MICs and demonstrated successful kill to sterilization for 6/9 strains. From these data, we propose a novel combination breakpoint threshold for microbiological success for this antimicrobial combination against Enterobacterales strains, i.e., MICF x MICA < 256 (where MICF and MICA are the fosfomycin and amikacin MICs, respectively). Monte Carlo simulations predict that a standard fosfomycin-amikacin neonatal regimen would achieve >99% probability of pharmacodynamic success for strains with MICs below this threshold. We conclude that the combination of fosfomycin with amikacin is a viable regimen for the empirical treatment of neonatal sepsis and is suitable for further clinical assessment in a randomized controlled trial.
34359073 | MICA/B antibody induces macrophage-mediated immunity against acute myeloid leukemia. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a clonal hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell malignancy characterized by poor clinical outcomes. Major histocompatibility complex class I polypeptide-related sequence A and B (MICA/B) are stress proteins expressed by cancer cells, and antibody-mediated inhibition of MICA/B shedding represents a novel approach to stimulate immunity against cancers. We found that the MICA/B antibody 7C6 potently inhibits the outgrowth of AML in 2 models in immunocompetent mice. Macrophages were essential for therapeutic efficacy, and 7C6 triggered antibody-dependent phagocytosis of AML cells. Furthermore, we found that romidepsin, a selective histone deacetylase inhibitor, increased MICB messenger RNA in AML cells and enabled subsequent stabilization of the translated protein by 7C6. This drug combination substantially increased surface MICA/B expression in a human AML line, pluripotent stem cell-derived AML blasts and leukemia stem cells, as well as primary cells from 3 untreated patients with AML. Human macrophages phagocytosed AML cells following treatment with 7C6 and romidepsin, and the combination therapy lowered leukemia burden in a humanized model of AML. Therefore, inhibition of MICA/B shedding promotes macrophage-driven immunity against AML via Fc receptor signaling and synergizes with an epigenetic regulator. These results provide the rationale for the clinical testing of this innovative immunotherapeutic approach for the treatment of AML.
34502191 | NLRP3 Deficiency in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Enhances Surveillance of NK-92 through a Modulation of MICA/B. Human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common and even worse at prognosis. The patients with HCC which accompanied by other diseases, such as cirrhosis, can be limited in various treatments, such as chemotherapy, not HCC patients without other diseases. NLRP3 inflammasome plays an important role in the innate immune response, but emerging evidence has indicated that the NLRP3 inflammasome is implicated in all stages of cancer development. Various cells express NLRP3 protein through the autocrine or paracrine signaling in their environment, but NK cells do not. The expanding evidence shows that patients who suffer from liver cancers have a low frequency of natural killer (NK) cells, and the function of these cells is also impaired. Thus, we examined how the expression of NLRP3 in HCC cells affects cancer surveillance by NK cells in a state of a co-culture of both cells. When the expression of NLRP3 in HCC cells was ablated, MICA/B on the surface of HCC cells was upregulated through the lowered expression of matrix metalloproteinase. The expression of MICA on the surface of HCC cells interacted with the NKG2D receptor on NK-92 cells, which led to NK cytotoxicity. Furthermore, in a xenograft mice model, NLRP3 KO HCC cells delayed tumor development and metastasis as well as increased the sensitivity to NK cell cytotoxicity. Taken together, NLRP3 KO in HCC could enhance NK immunosurveillance through an interaction of NKG2D-MICA.
34599028 | Bispecific antibody-mediated redirection of NKG2D-CAR natural killer cells facilitates dual targeting and enhances antitumor activity. BACKGROUND: Natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) is an activating receptor of natural killer (NK) cells and other lymphocytes that mediates lysis of malignant cells through recognition of stress-induced ligands such as MICA and MICB. Such ligands are broadly expressed by cancer cells of various origins and serve as targets for adoptive immunotherapy with effector cells endogenously expressing NKG2D or carrying an NKG2D-based chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). However, shedding or downregulation of NKG2D ligands (NKG2DL) can prevent NKG2D activation, resulting in escape of cancer cells from NKG2D-dependent immune surveillance. METHODS: To enable tumor-specific targeting of NKG2D-expressing effector cells independent of membrane-anchored NKG2DLs, we generated a homodimeric recombinant antibody which harbors an N-terminal single-chain fragment variable (scFv) antibody domain for binding to NKG2D, linked via a human IgG4 Fc region to a second C-terminal scFv antibody domain for recognition of the tumor-associated antigen ErbB2 (HER2). The ability of this molecule, termed NKAB-ErbB2, to redirect NKG2D-expressing effector cells to ErbB2-positive tumor cells of different origins was investigated using peripheral blood mononuclear cells, ex vivo expanded NK cells, and NK and T cells engineered with an NKG2D-based chimeric receptor. RESULTS: On its own, bispecific NKAB-ErbB2 increased lysis of ErbB2-positive breast carcinoma cells by peripheral blood-derived NK cells endogenously expressing NKG2D more effectively than an ErbB2-specific IgG1 mini-antibody able to induce antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity via activation of CD16. Furthermore, NKAB-ErbB2 synergized with NK-92 cells or primary T cells engineered to express an NKG2D-CD3zeta chimeric antigen receptor (NKAR), leading to targeted cell killing and greatly enhanced antitumor activity, which remained unaffected by soluble MICA known as an inhibitor of NKG2D-mediated natural cytotoxicity. In an immunocompetent mouse glioblastoma model mimicking low or absent NKG2DL expression, the combination of NKAR-NK-92 cells and NKAB-ErbB2 effectively suppressed outgrowth of ErbB2-positive tumors, resulting in treatment-induced endogenous antitumor immunity and cures in the majority of animals. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that combining an NKAB antibody with effector cells expressing an activating NKAR receptor represents a powerful and versatile approach to simultaneously enhance tumor antigen-specific as well as NKG2D-CAR and natural NKG2D-mediated cytotoxicity, which may be particularly useful to target tumors with heterogeneous target antigen expression.
34691037 | NKG2D Engagement Alone Is Sufficient to Activate Cytokine-Induced Killer Cells While 2B4 Only Provides Limited Coactivation. Cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells are an ex vivo expanded heterogeneous cell population with an enriched NK-T phenotype (CD3+CD56+). Due to the convenient and relatively inexpensive expansion capability, together with low incidence of graft versus host disease (GVHD) in allogeneic cancer patients, CIK cells are a promising candidate for immunotherapy. It is well known that natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) plays an important role in CIK cell-mediated antitumor activity; however, it remains unclear whether its engagement alone is sufficient or if it requires additional co-stimulatory signals to activate the CIK cells. Likewise, the role of 2B4 has not yet been identified in CIK cells. Herein, we investigated the individual and cumulative contribution of NKG2D and 2B4 in the activation of CIK cells. Our analysis suggests that (a) NKG2D (not 2B4) is implicated in CIK cell (especially CD3+CD56+ subset)-mediated cytotoxicity, IFN-gamma secretion, E/T conjugate formation, and degranulation; (b) NKG2D alone is adequate enough to induce degranulation, IFN-gamma secretion, and LFA-1 activation in CIK cells, while 2B4 only provides limited synergy with NKG2D (e.g., in LFA-1 activation); and (c) NKG2D was unable to costimulate CD3. Collectively, we conclude that NKG2D engagement alone suffices to activate CIK cells, thereby strengthening the idea that targeting the NKG2D axis is a promising approach to improve CIK cell therapy for cancer patients. Furthermore, CIK cells exhibit similarities to classical invariant natural killer (iNKT) cells with deficiencies in 2B4 stimulation and in the costimulation of CD3 with NKG2D. In addition, based on the current data, the divergence in receptor function between CIK cells and NK (or T) cells can be assumed, pointing to the possibility that molecular modifications (e.g., using chimeric antigen receptor technology) on CIK cells may need to be customized and optimized to maximize their functional potential.
35078573 | [Valproate up-regulates the expression of NKG2DL through the MEK/ERK signaling pathway to enhance the killing effect of NK cells on A375 human melanoma cells]. Objective To investigate the effect of sodium valproate (VPA) on the expression of NKG2D ligand and the killing effect of NK cells on melanoma cells through MEK/ERK signaling pathway. Methods In the group with A375 cells in logarithmic phase treated with 1 mmol/L of VPA for 24 hours, the protein expression levels of MICA, MICB, phosphorylated MEK (p-MEK), MEK, phosphorylated ERK1/2 (p-ERK1/2), and ERK1/2 were detected by Western blotting, the expressions of MICA and MICB were detected by flow cytometry, and the killing effect of NK92 cells on A375 cells was detected by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release assay. In the group with A375 cells treated with the MEK/ERK signaling pathway inhibitor PD98059 combined with VPA, the protein expressions of MICA and MICB were detected by Western blotting, the expressions of MICA and MICB were detected by flow cytometry, and the killing effect of NK92 cells on A375 cells was detected by LDH release assay. The changes of melanoma volume in non-obese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency (NOD/SCID) mice were detected by tumor formation assay, and the expression of MICA and MICB was detected by immunohistochemical staining. Results Compared with those in the control group, the expressions of MICA and MICB of A375 cells, the killing effect of NK92 cells on A375 cells, and the ratios of p-MEK/MEK and p-ERK1/2/ERK1/2 were increased in the VPA group. Compared with those in the VPA group, the expressions of MICA and MICB of A375 cells and the killing effect of NK92 cells on A375 cells were decreased in the group of VPA combined with PD98059. Compared with those in the group of NK92 cells, the tumor volume of NOD/SCID mice was reduced, and the expressions of MICA and MICB were increased in the group of NK92 cells with VPA. Compared with those in the group of NK92 cells with VPA, the tumor volume of NOD/SCID mice was increased, and the expressions of MICA and MICB were decreased in the group of NK92 cells with VPA and PD98059. Conclusion VPA up-regulates the expression of MICA and MICB in melanoma cells and enhances the killing effect of NK92 cells on melanoma, which may be related to the activation of MEK/ERK signaling pathway.
35437997 | Molecules involved in the development of Barrett's esophagus phenotype in chronic eosinophilic esophagitis. This paper aims to investigate the molecules involved in development of Barrett's esophagus (BE) in human eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE). Histopathological, immunohistochemical, real-time PCR Immuno blot, and ELISA analyses are performed to identify the signature genes and proteins involved in the progression of BE in EoE. We detected characteristic features of BE like intermediate columnar-type epithelial cells, induced BE signature genes like ErbB3, CDX1, ErbB2IP in the esophageal mucosa of patients with EoE. In addition, we had observed several BE-associated proteins such as TFF3, p53 and the progression markers like EGFR, p16, MICA, MICB, and MHC molecules in esophageal biopsies of patients with chronic EoE. Interestingly, we also detected mucin-producing columnar cells and MUC-2, MUC-4, and MUC5AC genes and proteins along with induced IL-9 in patients with chronic EoE. A strong correlation of IL-9 with mucin genes is observed that implicated a possible role for IL-9 in the transformation of esophageal squamous epithelial cells to columnar epithelial cells in patients with EoE. These findings indicate that IL-9 may have an important role in BE development in patients with chronic EoE. We also discovered that IL-9 stimulates mucin-producing and barrier cell transcripts and proteins such CK8/18, GATA4, SOX9, TFF1, MUC5AC, and tight junction proteins in primary esophageal epithelial cells when exposed to IL-9. Taken together, these findings provide evidence that indeed IL-9 has a role in the initiation and progression of BE characteristics like development of mucin-producing columnar epithelial cells in patients with chronic EoE.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Intermediate columnar-type epithelial cells are observed in biopsies of patients with EoE. Induced BE signature genes (CK8/18, CDX1 GATA4, SOX9, and Occludin) were observed in patients with chronic EoE. Induction of IL-9 and its correlation with eosinophils mucin-producing genes and proteins was observed in patients with EoE. Induced IL-9 may be responsible for the development of BE in patients with chronic EoE.
35525711 | HLA class I chain-related MICA and MICB genes polymorphism in healthy individuals from the Bulgarian population. Although human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene polymorphism has been investigated in many populations around the world, the data on MHC class I chain-related (MIC) genes are still limited. The present study is aimed to analyze the allelic polymorphism of MICA and MICB genes and haplotype associations with HLA-B locus in 132 healthy, unrelated individuals from the Bulgarian population by next generation sequencing (NGS). A total of 36 MICA and 16 MICB alleles were observed with the highest frequency detected for MICA*008:01 (17.1%) and MICB*005:02 (32.4%). Further, two and three-loci haplotype frequencies and pairwise linkage disequilibrium were estimated. Highly significant global linkage disequilibrium was found between either HLA-B and MICA and MICB genes. This is the first study on MICA and MICB allelic polymorphism, linkage disequilibrium, and haplotype polymorphism in the Bulgarian population. These results will allow for better characterization of the genetic heterogeneity of the Bulgarian population and could contribute to further analyses on MICA and MICB clinical significance.
35594287 | Mendelian randomization analysis of plasma levels of CD209 and MICB proteins and the risk of varicose veins of lower extremities. Varicose veins of lower extremities (VVs) are a highly prevalent condition, the pathogenesis of which is still not fully elucidated. Mendelian randomization (MR) can provide useful preliminary information on the traits that are potentially causally related to the disease. The aim of the present study is to replicate the effects of the plasma levels of MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence B (MICB) and cluster of differentiation 209 (CD209) proteins reported in a previous hypothesis-free MR study. We conducted MR analysis using a fixed effects inverse-variance weighted meta-analysis of Wald ratios method. For MICB and CD209, we used data from a large-scale genome-wide association study (GWAS) for plasma protein levels (N = 3,301). For VVs, we used GWAS data obtained in the FinnGen project (N = 128,698), the eMERGE network (phase 3, N = 48,429), and the UK Biobank data available in the Gene ATLAS (N = 452,264). The data used in the study were obtained in individuals of European descent. The results for MICB did not pass criteria for statistical significance and replication. The results for CD209 passed all statistical significance thresholds, indicating that the genetically predicted increase in CD209 level is associated with increased risk of VVs (betaMR (SE) = 0.07 (0.01), OR (95% CI) = 1.08 (1.05-1.10), P-value = 5.9 x10-11 in the meta-analysis of three cohorts). Our findings provide further support that CD209 can potentially be involved in VVs. In future studies, independent validation of our results using data from more powerful GWASs for CD209 measured by different methods would be beneficial.
35780757 | Expressional regulation of NKG2DLs is associated with the tumor development and shortened overall survival in lung adenocarcinoma. Natural killer group 2D ligands (NKG2DLs) are expressed on tumor cells as a ligand for Natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) receptors. NKG2DLs interact with NKG2D to induce immune cell-mediated cytotoxicity for eliminating tumors. Studies demonstrated that tumor cells can reduce NKG2DLs' expression to escape from anti-tumor immunity, leading to an aggressive cancer phenotype and poor prognosis in some cancers. However, these studies are limited and there is no comprehensive work on the regulation of NKG2DLs in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) which is one of the deadliest cancers worldwide. Here, we conducted an in silico analysis to evaluate the changes in NKG2DLs in LUAD by analyzing The Cancer Genome Atlas and the Gene Expression Omnibus datasets including tumor vs. normal comparisons, TNM stages, survival and infiltrating immune estimation profile. Results indicated that some members of NKG2DL were downregulated in LUAD as compared to normal samples. We determined that MICA (MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence A) was the most and significantly downregulated ligand among others and the results were nearly consistent with the different datasets which we used. Furthermore, survival analysis revealed that down-regulated MICA transcript expression might be one of the prognostic indicators of LUAD. Interestingly, according to the immune cell infiltrating analysis, there wasn't a direct correlation between the MICA transcript expression and immune cell infiltration, while for MICB there was. In addition, in genetic alteration, DNA methylation and miRNA analyses, we did not observe critical outcomes that would clarify the down-regulated MICA expression in detail. Regardless, this study is highly comprehensive and contributes valuable suggestions to further functional studies about the regulation of NKG2DLs and promising immunotherapeutic approaches in LUAD.
35876924 | Immune Evasion of Hepatoma Cancer Stem-Like Cells from Natural Killer Cells. BACKGROUND: Poor prognosis in liver cancer is due to its high frequency of intrahepatic metastasis. Cancer stem-like cells (CSLCs), which possess the properties of stemness, tumor initiation capability, and resistance to therapy, also exhibit metastatic potential. Immune surveillance plays an important role in the accomplishment of metastasis. Herein, the property of immune evasion in CSLCs was investigated. METHODS: Sphere cells were induced as CSLCs using a sphere induction medium containing neural survival factor-1. The expression of genes involved in immune evasion was determined using RNA-sequencing for sphere and parental cells followed by validation using flow cytometric analysis and ELISA. Susceptibility to natural killer (NK) cell-mediated cytotoxicity was examined by a chromium release assay. A xenograft model using BALB/c nu/nu mice was used to assess tumor growth. Gene set enrichment analysis was performed for interpreting RNA sequencing. RESULTS: The cell surface expressions of PD-L1, PD-L2, and CEACAM1 were upregulated and those of ULBP1 and MICA/MICB were downregulated in SK-sphere, CSLCs derived from SK-HEP-1, compared with that in parental cells. Levels of soluble MICA were elevated in conditioned medium from SK-sphere. Expression of HLA class I was not downregulated in SK-sphere. The susceptibilities to NK cell-mediated killing and secreted perforin were significantly lower in both CSLCs derived from SK-HEP-1 and HLE than in parental cells. Tumors formed upon inoculation of SK-sphere in immunodeficient mice harboring NK cells were larger than those formed upon inoculation of parental cells. CONCLUSION: Human hepatoma cell line-derived CSLCs may possess immune evasion properties, especially from NK cell-mediated immunity.
35954489 | Chemokine Receptor Expression on T Cells Is Modulated by CAFs and Chemokines Affect the Spatial Distribution of T Cells in Pancreatic Tumors. The accumulation of T cells is associated with a better prognosis in pancreatic cancer. However, the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment, largely composed by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), can prevent T cells from reaching the tumor nests. We examined how human CAFs modulated chemokine receptors known to be associated with T cell trafficking, CXCR3 and CCR5, and T cell exclusion, CXCR4. CAFs decreased the expression of CXCR3 and CCR5 but increased CXCR4 expression in both 2D and 3D cultures, affecting the migratory capacity of T cells towards CXCL10. An immunohistochemistry analysis showed that very few T cells were found in the tumor nests. Within the stroma, CD8+ T cells were localized more distantly from the malignant cells whereas CD4+ T cells were more equally distributed. Tumor tissues with a high production of chemokines were associated with less T cell infiltration when the whole tissue was analyzed. However, when the spatial localization of CD8+ T cells within the tissue was taken into account, levels of CXCR3 ligands and the CCR5 ligand CCL8 showed a positive association with a high relative T cell infiltration in tumor-rich areas. Thus, CXCR3 ligands could mediate T cell trafficking but CAFs could prevent T cells from reaching the malignant cells.
35967081 | Targeting MICA/B with cytotoxic therapeutic antibodies leads to tumor control [version 2; peer review: 2 approved]. Background: MICA and MICB are tightly regulated stress-induced proteins that trigger the immune system by binding to the activating receptor NKG2D on cytotoxic lymphocytes. MICA and MICB are highly polymorphic molecules with prevalent expression on several types of solid tumors and limited expression in normal/healthy tissues, making them attractive targets for therapeutic intervention. Methods: We have generated a series of anti-MICA and MICB cross-reactive antibodies with the unique feature of binding to the most prevalent isoforms of both these molecules. Results: The anti-MICA and MICB antibody MICAB1, a human IgG1 Fc-engineered monoclonal antibody (mAb), displayed potent antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) of MICA/B-expressing tumor cells in vitro. However, it showed insufficient efficiency against solid tumors in vivo, which prompted the development of antibody-drug conjugates (ADC). Indeed, optimal tumor control was achieved with MICAB1-ADC format in several solid tumor models, including patient-derived xenografts (PDX) and carcinogen-induced tumors in immunocompetent MICAgen transgenic mice. Conclusions: These data indicate that MICA and MICB are promising targets for cytotoxic immunotherapy.
36112544 | Multi-omic Characterization of Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Relates CXCR4 mRNA Expression Levels to Potential Clinical Targets. PURPOSE: Chemokines are essential for immune cell trafficking and are considered to have a major impact on the composition of the tumor microenvironment. CX-chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) is associated with poor differentiation, metastasis, and prognosis in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). This study provides a comprehensive molecular portrait of PDAC according to CXCR4 mRNA expression levels. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The Cancer Genome Atlas database was used to explore molecular and immunologic features associated with CXCR4 mRNA expression in PDAC. A large real-word dataset (n = 3,647) served for validation and further exploratory analyses. Single-cell RNA analyses on a publicly available dataset and in-house multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) experiments were performed to elaborate cellular localization of CXCR4. RESULTS: High CXCR4 mRNA expression (CXCR4high) was associated with increased infiltration of regulatory T cells, CD8+ T cells, and macrophages, and upregulation of several immune-related genes, including immune checkpoint transcripts (e.g., TIGIT, CD274, PDCD1). Analysis of the validation cohort confirmed the CXCR4-dependent immunologic TME composition in PDAC irrespective of microsatellite instability-high/mismatch repair-deficient or tumor mutational burden. Single-cell RNA analysis and mIF revealed that CXCR4 was mainly expressed by macrophages and T-cell subsets. Clinical relevance of our finding is supported by an improved survival of CXCR4high PDAC. CONCLUSIONS: High intratumoral CXCR4 mRNA expression is linked to a T cell- and macrophage-rich PDAC phenotype with high expression of inhibitory immune checkpoints. Thus, our findings might serve as a rationale to investigate CXCR4 as a predictive biomarker in patients with PDAC undergoing immune checkpoint inhibition.
36126821 | Knee osteoarthritis phenotypes based on synovial fluid immune cells correlate with clinical outcome trajectories. BACKGROUND: Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is a highly heterogeneous disease encompassing a wide range of clinical phenotypes. Phenotypes based on immune cells and protein pattern in synovial fluid (SF) and their relationship to clinical trajectories have not been described. OBJECTIVE: To assess phenotypes based on immune cells and protein pattern of SF in KOA. DESIGN: SF-derived immune cells were investigated in 119 patients with KOA using flow cytometry. Immune-phenotypes (iPhen) were determined by multivariate patient similarity network analysis and related to clinical trajectory (3-6 months post-sampling) along with protein pattern and macrophage chemokine receptors. RESULTS: Four iPhen were detected based on the distribution of T-lymphocytes, monocyte-macrophage lineage cells and activated CD8+ T-lymphocytes. The 'activated' phenotype (n = 17) had high T-lymphocytes but low monocyte-macrophage lineage cells and neutrophils, all highly activated, and showed improved symptoms in 70% patients. The 'lymphoid progressive' phenotype (n = 31) had high neutrophils, low lymphocytes and monocyte-macrophage lineage cells, low activation and was associated with lower pain levels. The 'myeloid progressive' phenotype (n = 35) had high NK and monocyte-macrophage lineage cells but low T-lymphocytes and activation. The 'aggressive' phenotype (n = 36) had high lymphocytes, macrophages, NK cells and neutrophils and high activation, and only 39% of patients improved during follow-up. Low CXCR4 and CCR7 expression on macrophages and high CXCL10 in SF were linked to improved clinical trajectory. CONCLUSION: We identified four immune-phenotypes that were associated with different clinical trajectories in KOA patients. How these phenotypes can be targeted therapeutically deserves further investigation.
36224607 | Baicalin acts as an adjuvant to potentiate the activity of azithromycin against Staphylococcus saprophyticus biofilm: an in vitro, in vivo, and molecular study. Staphylococcus saprophyticus is frequently involved in various difficult-to-treat infections due to the formation of biofilms. To identify useful antibiofilm strategies, this study explored the efficacy and mechanism of baicalin in enhancing the ability of azithromycin against multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus saprophyticus-Liu-2016-Liyang, China-francolin (MDRSS) biofilms in vitro and in vivo. When azithromycin was used in combination with baicalin, the minimum inhibitory concentration in biofilm (MICB) for azithromycin decreased 4- to 512-fold. Compared with the azithromycin and baicalin groups, the combination of azithromycin and baicalin could not reduce the biofilm biomass, but the dispersion rates of biofilm were decreased and the bactericidal ability was increased. Furthermore, the relative transcript levels of WalK/R system-related genes were upregulated by the addition of baicalin or azithromycin plus baicalin compared with that of the azithromycin and blank control groups. The strong correlation relationship between the WalK/R system and the bactericidal index demonstrated that baicalin enhanced the bactericidal effect of azithromycin on MDRSS biofilms by modulating the WalK/R system. In the mouse cutaneous infection model, the combination of azithromycin and baicalin succeeded in eradicating MDRSS and decreasing pathological injuries. This study indicated that baicalin has the potential to be an adjuvant to enhance the antimicrobial activity of azithromycin against MDRSS in the biofilm form by modulating the WalK/R system.
36419107 | The prognostic significance of CXCR4 and SDF-1 in differentiated thyroid cancer depends on CD8+ density. BACKGROUND: Tumor infiltration with cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells is associated with a favorable outcome in several neoplasms, including thyroid cancer. The chemokine axis CXCR4/SDF-1 correlates with more aggressive tumors, but little is known concerning the prognostic relevance in relation to the tumor immune microenvironment of differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC). METHODS: A tissue microarray (TMA) of 37 tumor specimens of primary DTC was analyzed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) for the expression of CD8+, CXCR4, phosphorylated CXCR4 and SDF-1. A survival analysis was performed on a larger collective (n = 456) at RNA level using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) papillary thyroid cancer cohort. RESULTS: Among the 37 patients in the TMA-cohort, the density of CD8+ was higher in patients with less advanced primary tumors (median cells/TMA-punch: 12.5 (IQR: 6.5, 12.5) in T1-2 tumors vs. 5 (IQR: 3, 8) in T3-4 tumors, p = 0.05). In the TCGA-cohort, CXCR4 expression was higher in patients with cervical lymph node metastasis compared to N0 or Nx stage (CXCR4high/low 116/78 vs. 97/116 vs. 14/35, respectively, p = 0.001). Spearman's correlation analysis of the TMA-cohort demonstrated that SDF-1 was significantly correlated with CXCR4 (r = 0.4, p = 0.01) and pCXCR4 (r = 0.5, p = 0.002). In the TCGA-cohort, density of CD8+ correlated with CXCR4 and SDF-1 expression (r = 0.58, p < 0.001; r = 0.4, p < 0.001). The combined marker analysis of the TCGA cohort demonstrated that high expression of both, CXCR4 and SDF-1 was associated with reduced overall survival in the CD8 negative TCGA cohort (p = 0.004). CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the prognostic significance of CXCR4 and SDF-1 in differentiated thyroid cancer depends on the density of CD8 positive T-lymphocytes. Further studies with larger sample sizes are needed to support our findings and inform future investigations of new treatment and diagnostic options for a more personalized approach for patients with differentiated thyroid cancer.
36439161 | Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 signaling orchestrates immune tolerance in Echinococcus multilocularis-infected mice. The cestode Echinococcus multilocularis larva infection causes lethal zoonotic alveolar echinococcosis (AE), a disease posing a great threat to the public health worldwide. This persistent hepatic tumor-like disease in AE patients has been largely attributed to aberrant T cell responses, of which Th1 responses are impeded, whilst Th2 and regulatory T cell responses are elevated, creating an immune tolerogenic microenvironment in the liver. However, the immune tolerance mechanisms are not fully understood. Dendritic cells (DCs) are key cellular components in facilitating immune tolerance in chronic diseases, including AE. Here, we demonstrate that indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1-deficient (IDO1-/-) mice display less severe AE as compared to wild-type (WT) mice during the infection. Mechanistically, IDO1 prevents optimal T cells responses by programming DCs into a tolerogenic state. Specifically, IDO1 prevents the maturation and migration potential of DCs, as shown by the significantly enhanced expression of the antigen-presenting molecule (MHC II), costimulatory molecules (CD80 and CD86), and chemokine receptors (CXCR4 and CCR7) in infected IDO1-/- mice as compared to infected wild-type mice. More importantly, the tolerogenic phenotype of DCs is partly reverted in IDO1-/- mice, as indicated by enhanced activation, proliferation, and differentiation of both CD4+ and CD8+ - T cells upon infection with Echinococcus multilocularis, in comparison with WT mice. Interestingly, in absence of IDO1, CD4+ T cells are prone to differentiate to effector memory cells (CD44+CD62L-); in contrast, CD8+ T cells are highly biased to the central memory phenotype (CD44+CD62L+). Overall, these data are the first to demonstrate the essential role of IDO1 signaling in inducing immunosuppression in mice infected with Echinococcus multilocularis.
36443691 | Frequency and functional profile of circulating TCRalphabeta+ double negative T cells in HIV/TB co-infection. BACKGROUND: Increased frequency of circulating double negative T (DNT, CD4-CD8-CD3+) cells with protective immune function has been observed in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and tuberculosis (TB). Here the role of circulating TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells was further investigated in HIV/TB co-infection. METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted to investigate the frequency and functional profiles of peripheral TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells including apoptosis, chemokine and cytokine expression among healthy individuals and patients with TB, HIV infection and HIV/TB co-infection by cell surface staining and intracellular cytokine staining combined with flow cytometry. RESULTS: Significantly increased frequency of TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells was observed in HIV/TB co-infection than that in TB (p < 0.001), HIV infection (p = 0.039) and healthy controls (p < 0.001). Compared with TB, HIV/TB co-infection had higher frequency of Fas expression (p = 0.007) and lower frequency of Annexin V expression on TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells (p = 0.049), and the frequency of Annexin V expression on Fas+TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells had no significant difference. TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells expressed less CCR5 in HIV/TB co-infection than that in TB (p = 0.014), and more CXCR4 in HIV/TB co-infection than that in HIV infection (p = 0.043). Compared with healthy controls, TB and HIV/TB co-infection had higher frequency of TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells secreting Granzyme A (p = 0.046; p = 0.005). In TB and HIV/TB co-infection, TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells secreted more granzyme A (p = 0.002; p = 0.002) and perforin (p < 0.001; p = 0.017) than CD4+ T cells but similar to CD8+ T cells. CONCLUSIONS: Reduced apoptosis may take part in the mechanism of increased frequency of peripheral TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells in HIV/TB co-infection. TCRalphabeta+ DNT cells may play a cytotoxic T cells-like function in HIV/TB co-infection.
36481267 | Neutrophilic granulocyte-derived B-cell activating factor supports B cells in skin lesions in hidradenitis suppurativa. BACKGROUND: Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by painful inflamed nodules, abscesses, and pus-draining tunnels appearing in axillary, inguinal, and perianal skin areas. HS lesions contain various types of immigrated immune cells. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to characterize mediators that support lesional B/plasma cell persistence in HS. METHODS: Skin samples from several cohorts of HS patients and control cohorts were assessed by mRNA sequencing, quantitative PCR on reverse-transcribed RNA, flow cytometry, and immunohistofluorescence. Blood plasma and cultured skin biopsy samples, keratinocytes, dermal fibroblasts, neutrophilic granulocytes (neutrophils), monocytes, and B cells were analyzed. Complex systems biology approaches were used to evaluate bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing data. RESULTS: Proportions of B/plasma cells, neutrophils, CD8+ T cells, and M0 and M1 macrophages were elevated in HS lesions compared to skin of healthy and perilesional intertriginous areas. There was an association between B/plasma cells, neutrophils, and B-cell activating factor (BAFF, aka TNFSF13B). BAFF was abundant in HS lesions, particularly in nodules and abscesses. Among the cell types present in HS lesions, myeloid cells were the main BAFF producers. Mechanistically, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in the presence of bacterial products was the major stimulus for neutrophils' BAFF secretion. Lesional upregulation of BAFF receptors was attributed to B cells (TNFRSF13C/BAFFR and TNFRSF13B/TACI) and plasma cells (TNFRSF17/BCMA). Characterization of the lesional BAFF pathway revealed molecules involved in migration/adhesion (eg, CXCR4, CD37, CD53, SELL), proliferation/survival (eg, BST2), activation (eg, KLF2, PRKCB), and reactive oxygen species production (eg, NCF1, CYBC1) of B/plasma cells. CONCLUSION: Neutrophil-derived BAFF supports B/plasma cell persistence and function in HS lesions.
36521927 | Epigenetic modulation of neuroblastoma enhances T cell and NK cell immunogenicity by inducing a tumor-cell lineage switch. BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy in high-risk neuroblastoma (HR-NBL) does not live up to its full potential due to inadequate (adaptive) immune engagement caused by the extensive immunomodulatory capacity of HR-NBL. We aimed to tackle one of the most notable immunomodulatory processes in neuroblastoma (NBL), absence of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) surface expression, a process greatly limiting cytotoxic T cell engagement. We and others have previously shown that MHC-I expression can be induced by cytokine-driven immune modulation. Here, we aimed to identify tolerable pharmacological repurposing strategies to upregulate MHC-I expression and therewith enhance T cell immunogenicity in NBL. METHODS: Drug repurposing libraries were screened to identify compounds enhancing MHC-I surface expression in NBL cells using high-throughput flow cytometry analyses optimized for adherent cells. The effect of positive hits was confirmed in a panel of NBL cell lines and patient-derived organoids. Compound-treated NBL cell lines and organoids were cocultured with preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME)-reactive tumor-specific T cells and healthy-donor natural killer (NK) cells to determine the in vitro effect on T cell and NK cell cytotoxicity. Additional immunomodulatory effects of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) were identified by transcriptome and translatome analysis of treated organoids. RESULTS: Drug library screening revealed MHC-I upregulation by inhibitor of apoptosis inhibitor (IAPi)- and HDACi drug classes. The effect of IAPi was limited due to repression of nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) pathway activity in NBL, while the MHC-I-modulating effect of HDACi was widely translatable to a panel of NBL cell lines and patient-derived organoids. Pretreatment of NBL cells with the HDACi entinostat enhanced the cytotoxic capacity of tumor-specific T cells against NBL in vitro, which coincided with increased expression of additional players regulating T cell cytotoxicity (eg, TAP1/2 and immunoproteasome subunits). Moreover, MICA and MICB, important in NK cell cytotoxicity, were also increased by entinostat exposure. Intriguingly, this increase in immunogenicity was accompanied by a shift toward a more mesenchymal NBL cell lineage. CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates the potential of combining (immuno)therapy with HDACi to enhance both T cell-driven and NKcell-driven immune responses in patients with HR-NBL.
36548255 | Ancestral risk modification for multiple sclerosis susceptibility detected across the Major Histocompatibility Complex in a multi-ethnic population. The Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) makes the largest genetic contribution to multiple sclerosis (MS) susceptibility, with 32 independent effects across the region explaining 20% of the heritability in European populations. Variation is high across populations with allele frequency differences and population-specific risk alleles identified. We sought to identify MHC-specific MS susceptibility variants and assess the effect of ancestral risk modification within 2652 Latinx and Hispanic individuals as well as 2435 Black and African American individuals. We have identified several novel susceptibility alleles which are rare in European populations including HLA-B*53:01, and we have utilized the differing linkage disequilibrium patterns inherent to these populations to identify an independent role for HLA-DRB1*15:01 and HLA-DQB1*06:02 on MS risk. We found a decrease in Native American ancestry in MS cases vs controls across the MHC, peaking near the previously identified MICB locus with a decrease of ~5.5% in Hispanics and ~0.4% in African Americans. We have identified several susceptibility variants, including within the MICB gene region, which show global ancestry risk modification and indicate ancestral differences which may be due in part to correlated environmental factors. We have also identified several susceptibility variants for which MS risk is modified by local ancestry and indicate true ancestral genetic differences; including HLA-DQB1*06:02 for which MS risk for European allele carriers is almost two times the risk for African allele carriers. These results validate the importance of investigating MS susceptibility at an ancestral level and offer insight into the epidemiology of MS phenotypic diversity.
36754452 | MUC1-C is a master regulator of MICA/B NKG2D ligand and exosome secretion in human cancer cells. BACKGROUND: The MUC1-C protein evolved in mammals to protect barrier tissues from loss of homeostasis; however, MUC1-C promotes oncogenesis in association with chronic inflammation. Aberrant expression of MUC1-C in cancers has been linked to depletion and dysfunction of T cells in the tumor microenvironment. In contrast, there is no known involvement of MUC1-C in the regulation of natural killer (NK) cell function. METHODS: Targeting MUC1-C genetically and pharmacologically in cancer cells was performed to assess effects on intracellular and cell surface expression of the MHC class I chain-related polypeptide A (MICA) and MICB ligands. The MICA/B promoters were analyzed for H3K27 and DNA methylation. Shedding of MICA/B was determined by ELISA. MUC1-C interactions with ERp5 and RAB27A were assessed by coimmunoprecipitation and direct binding studies. Exosomes were isolated for analysis of secretion. Purified NK cells were assayed for killing of cancer cell targets. RESULTS: Our studies demonstrate that MUC1-C represses expression of the MICA and MICB ligands that activate the NK group 2D receptor. We show that the inflammatory MUC1-C NF-kappaB pathway drives enhancer of zeste homolog 2-mediated and DNMT-mediated methylation of the MICA and MICB promoter regions. Targeting MUC1-C genetically and pharmacologically with the GO-203 inhibitor induced intracellular and cell surface MICA/B expression but not MICA/B cleavage. Mechanistically, MUC1-C regulates the ERp5 thiol oxidoreductase that is necessary for MICA/B protease digestion and shedding. In addition, MUC1-C interacts with the RAB27A protein, which is required for exosome formation and secretion. As a result, targeting MUC1-C markedly inhibited secretion of exosomes expressing MICA/B. In concert with these results, we show that targeting MUC1-C promotes NK cell-mediated killing. CONCLUSIONS: These findings uncover pleotropic mechanisms by which MUC1-C confers evasion of cancer cells to NK cell recognition and destruction.
36789975 | HIF-1alpha mediates CXCR4 transcription to activate the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway and augment the viability and migration of activated B cell-like diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cells. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common lymphoid malignancy with a high relapse rate. We previously found that C-X-C motif chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) was highly expressed in DLBCL and associated with poor prognosis. This study focused on the effect of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) on CXCR4 expression and the DLBCL progression. Two activated B cell-like DLBCL cell lines Ly-3 and SUDHL2 were transfected with overexpression and knockdown plasmids or HIF-1alpha. The viability and migration of DLBCL cells were significantly increased under hypoxic conditions, or upon HIF-1alpha overexpression under normoxic conditions, but the HIF-1alpha downregulation led to inverse trends. However, the promoting effects of HIF-1alpha overexpression on DLBCL cells were suppressed by Plerixafor (a CXCR4 inhibitor). The luciferase and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that HIF-1alpha bound to the functional site HRE1 on CXCR4 promoter to activate its transcription. HIF-1alpha-mediated CXCR4 activation further led to increased phosphorylation of AKT/mTOR under hypoxic conditions. Taken together, this work reports that HIF-1alpha promotes viability and migration of activated B cell-like cells under hypoxia, which might involve the transcription of CXCR4 and the activation of the AKT/mTOR pathway. The finding may provide novel lights in the management of DCBCL.
36898046 | Clinical Significance of Plasma Soluble MICB in Children With EBV-associated Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis. BACKGROUND: Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a potentially fatal systemic inflammation disease in children. The most common cause is Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection. MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence B (MICB) is a membrane protein inducibly expressed upon cellular stress, viral infection, or malignant transformation, thus marking these cells for clearance through natural killer group 2 member D-positive lymphocytes. MICB can be released into plasma through several mechanisms, reducing NK cell cytotoxicity. METHODS: We conducted clinical research on HLH patients and cell research in vitro. In the retrospective clinical part, 112 HLH patients (including EBV-HLH group and non-EBV-HLH group), 7 infectious mononucleosis patients, and 7 chronic active EBV infection patients were treated in Beijing Children's Hospital, affiliated with Capital Medical University, from January 2014 to December 2020, were enrolled in this study. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction, standard enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay methods, and lactate dehydrogenase release tests were used to examine the expression of MICB mRNA, the soluble MICB (sMICB) levels, and the activity of NK cells in those patients. In vitro research, MICB overexpression-vector virus, MICB knockdown-vector virus, and empty-vector virus were transfected into two kinds of target cells, such as K562 and MCF7. The level of sMICB and NK cell killing activity between other groups was compared. Finally, we compared NK92 cell killing activity in different concentrations of sMICB. RESULTS: In clinical studies, compared with the non-EBV-HLH group, the EBV-HLH group had lower NK cell killing activity (P < 0.05). The level of sMICB in the EBV-HLH group was significantly higher than in non-EBV-HLH, infectious mononucleosis, and chronic active EBV infection patients (P<0.05). A high level of sMICB was associated with poor treatment response and poor prognosis (P<0. 05). Cellular studies showed that an increased level of membrane MICB could positively correlate with the killing activity of NK92 cells (P<0. 05), and a high level of sMICB (1250 to 5000pg/ml) could reduce the killing activity of NK92 cells (P < 0.05). A high level of sMICB (2500pg/ml) could increase the release of cytokines from NK92 cells. CONCLUSION: The expression level of sMICB in EBV-HLH patients increased, and a high level of sMICB at the initial onset indicated a poor treatment response. The killing activity of NK cells in EBV-HLH patients decreased more significantly. The high level of sMICB may inhibit the killing activity but increase the release of cytokines of NK92 cells.
36958849 | Associations between MICA and MICB genetic variants, protein levels, and colorectal cancer: Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC). BACKGROUND: The major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related protein A (MICA) and protein B (MICB) participate in tumor immunosurveillance and may be important in colorectal cancer (CRC), but have not been examined in CRC development. METHODS: sMICA and sMICB blood levels were measured by SomaScan in Visit 2 (1990-92, baseline) and Visit 3 (1993-95) samples in cancer-free participants in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. We selected rs1051792, rs1063635, rs2516448, rs3763288, rs1131896, rs2596542, and rs2395029 that were located in or in the vicinity of MICA or MICB and were associated with cancer or autoimmune diseases in published studies. SNPs were genotyped by the Affymetrix Genome-Wide Human SNP Array. We applied linear and Cox proportional hazards regressions to examine the associations of pre-selected SNPs with sMICA and sMICB levels and CRC risk (236 CRCs, 8,609 participants) and of sMICA and sMICB levels with CRC risk (312 CRCs, 10,834 participants). In genetic analyses, estimates adjusted for ancestry markers were meta-analyzed. RESULTS: Rs1051792-A, rs1063635-A, rs2516448-C, rs3763288-A, rs2596542-T, and rs2395029-G were significantly associated with decreased sMICA levels. Rs2395029-G, in the vicinity of MICA and MICB, was also associated with increased sMICB levels. Rs2596542-T was significantly associated with decreased CRC risk. Lower sMICA levels were associated with lower CRC risk in males (HR=0.68, 95%CI 0.49-0.96) but not in females (p-interaction=0.08). CONCLUSIONS: Rs2596542-T associated with lower sMICA levels was associated with decreased CRC risk. Lower sMICA levels were associated with lower CRC risk in males. IMPACT: These findings support an importance of immunosurveillance in CRC.
37359242 | A phase Ib trial of combined PKC and MEK inhibition with sotrastaurin and binimetinib in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma. Background: Uveal melanoma is a disease characterized by constitutive activation of the G alpha pathway and downstream signaling of protein kinase C (PKC) and the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. While limited clinical activity has been observed in patients with metastatic disease with inhibition of PKC or MEK alone, preclinical data has demonstrated synergistic antitumor effects with concurrent inhibition of PKC and MEK. Method: We conducted a phase Ib study of the PKC inhibitor sotrastaurin in combination with the MEK inhibitor binimetinib in patients with metastatic uveal melanoma using a Bayesian logistic regression model guided by the escalation with overdose control principle (NCT01801358). Serial blood samples and paired tumor samples were collected for pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic analysis. Results: Thirty-eight patients were treated across six dose levels. Eleven patients experienced DLTs across the five highest dose levels tested, most commonly including vomiting (n=3), diarrhea (n=3), nausea (n=2), fatigue (n=2) and rash (n=2). Common treatment related adverse events included diarrhea (94.7%), nausea (78.9%), vomiting (71.1%), fatigue (52.6%), rash (39.5%), and elevated blood creating phosphokinase (36.8%). Two dose combinations satisfying criteria for the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) were identified: (1) sotrastaurin 300 mg and binimetinib 30 mg; and, (2) sotrastaurin 200 mg and binimetinib 45 mg. Exposure to both drugs in combination was consistent with single-agent data for either drug, indicating no PK interaction between sotrastaurin and binimetinib. Stable disease was observed in 60.5% of patients treated. No patient achieved a radiographic response per RECIST v1.1. Conclusions: Concurrent administration of sotrastaurin and binimetinib is feasible but associated with substantial gastrointestinal toxicity. Given the limited clinical activity achieved with this regimen, accrual to the phase II portion of the trial was not initiated.
37389656 | CLPTM1L is a GPI-anchoring pathway component targeted by HCMV. The GPI-anchoring pathway plays important roles in normal development and immune modulation. MHC Class I Polypeptide-related Sequence A (MICA) is a stress-induced ligand, downregulated by human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) to escape immune recognition. Its most prevalent allele, MICA*008, is GPI-anchored via an uncharacterized pathway. Here, we identify cleft lip and palate transmembrane protein 1-like protein (CLPTM1L) as a GPI-anchoring pathway component and show that during infection, the HCMV protein US9 downregulates MICA*008 via CLPTM1L. We show that the expression of some GPI-anchored proteins (CD109, CD59, and MELTF)-but not others (ULBP2, ULBP3)-is CLPTM1L-dependent, and further show that like MICA*008, MELTF is downregulated by US9 via CLPTM1L during infection. Mechanistically, we suggest that CLPTM1L's function depends on its interaction with a free form of PIG-T, normally a part of the GPI transamidase complex. We suggest that US9 inhibits this interaction and thereby downregulates the expression of CLPTM1L-dependent proteins. Altogether, we report on a new GPI-anchoring pathway component that is targeted by HCMV.
37492198 | Integrated multiple-microarray analysis and mendelian randomization to identify novel targets involved in diabetic nephropathy. Background: Diabetic nephropathy (DN), which is the main cause of renal failure in end-stage renal disease, is becoming a common chronic renal disease worldwide. Mendelian randomization (MR) is a genetic tool that is widely used to minimize confounding and reverse causation when identifying the causal effects of complex traits. In this study, we conducted an integrated multiple microarray analysis and large-scale plasma proteome MR analysis to identify candidate biomarkers and evaluate the causal effects of prospective therapeutic targets in DN. Methods: Five DN gene expression datasets were selected from the Gene Expression Omnibus. The robust rank aggregation (RRA) method was used to integrate differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of glomerular samples between patients with DN and controls, followed by functional enrichment analysis. Protein quantitative trait loci were incorporated from seven different proteomic genome-wide association studies, and genetic association data on DN were obtained from FinnGen (3676 cases and 283,456 controls) for two-sample MR analysis. External validation and clinical correlation were also conducted. Results: A total of 82 DEGs (53 upregulated and 29 downregulated) were identified through RRA integrated analysis. The enriched Gene Ontology annotations and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways of the DEGs were significantly enriched in neutrophil degranulation, neutrophil activation, proteoglycan binding, collagen binding, secretory granule lumen, gluconeogenesis, tricarboxylic acid cycle, and pentose phosphate pathways. MR analysis revealed that the genetically predicted levels of MHC class I polypeptide-related sequence B (MICB), granzyme A (GZMA), cathepsin S (CTSS), chloride intracellular channel protein 5, and ficolin-1 (FCN1) were causally associated with DN risk. Expression validation and clinical correlation analysis showed that MICB, GZMA, FCN1, and insulin-like growth factor 1 may participate in the development of DN, and carbonic anhydrase 2 and lipoprotein lipase may play protective roles in patients with DN. Conclusion: Our integrated analysis identified novel biomarkers, including MICB and GZMA, which may help further understand the complicated mechanisms of DN and identify new target pathways for intervention.
37674990 | Levels of Soluble NKG2D Ligands and Cancer History in Patients Starting Hemodialysis. Background: Immune dysfunction in hemodialysis patients is partially due to NK cell impairment. Ligands for NK activating receptors such as NKG2D expressed on cancer cells are involved in NK cell dysfunction and can lead to cancer development. Methods: A cohort with 370 patients who started hemodialysis (HD) was investigated. Serum levels of soluble NKG2D ligands were measured. Cancer history was defined as any cancer diagnosis at induction and hospitalization and death due to cancer during 2-year follow-up. Results: Sixty-two patients with and 308 patients without a cancer history showed mostly comparable biochemical parameters and uremic status at HD induction. Soluble MICB, ULBP-1, and ULBP-2 were detected in sera from most patients starting HD rather than MICA, the most representative NKG2D ligand. Measured NKG2D ligands, except for ULBP-1, were strongly correlated with each other. Correlations between NKG2D ligands and renal function were significant but modest in patients starting HD. Cancer history did not have any impact on levels of soluble NKG2D ligands. Discussion: Even though this investigation lacked a control cohort and serial measurement of parameters, expression patterns of NKG2D ligands were comprehensively described, and the significance of cancer in patients starting HD was elucidated for the first time. Elevated levels of soluble NKG2D ligands occurred potentially due to complex mechanisms of oxidative stress, with insufficient metabolism and excretion in a uremic milieu, but they might mask the significance of elevations in serum levels of soluble NKG2DLs in patients with a cancer history.
37778428 | Development of small molecule inhibitors of natural killer group 2D receptor (NKG2D). Natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) is a homodimeric activating immunoreceptor whose function is to detect and eliminate compromised cells upon binding to the NKG2D ligands (NKG2DL) major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules class I-related chain A (MICA) and B (MICB) and UL16 binding proteins (ULBP1-6). While typically present at low levels in healthy cells and tissue, NKG2DL expression can be induced by viral infection, cellular stress or transformation. Aberrant activity along the NKG2D/NKG2DL axis has been associated with autoimmune diseases due to the increased expression of NKG2D ligands in human disease tissue, making NKG2D inhibitors an attractive target for immunomodulation. Herein we describe the discovery and optimization of small molecule PPI (protein-protein interaction) inhibitors of NKG2D/NKG2DL. Rapid SAR was guided by structure-based drug design and accomplished by iterative singleton and parallel medicinal chemistry synthesis. These efforts resulted in the identification of several potent analogs (14, 21, 30, 45) with functional activity and improved LLE.
37795845 | The effect of neighborhood socioeconomic disadvantage on smoking status, quit attempts, and receipt of cessation support among adults with cancer: Results from nine ECOG-ACRIN Cancer Research Group (EA) trials. BACKGROUND: Tobacco use is associated with adverse outcomes among patients diagnosed with cancer. Socioeconomic determinants influence access and utilization of tobacco treatment; little is known about the relationship between neighborhood socioeconomic disadvantage (NSD) and tobacco assessment, assistance, and cessation among patients diagnosed with cancer. METHODS: A modified Cancer Patient Tobacco Use Questionnaire (C-TUQ) was administered to patients enrolled in nine ECOG-ACRIN clinical trials. We examined associations of NSD with (1) smoking status, (2) receiving tobacco cessation assessment and support, and (3) cessation behaviors. NSD was classified by tertiles of the Area Deprivation Index. Associations between NSD and tobacco variables were evaluated using logistic regression. RESULTS: A total of 740 patients completing the C-TUQ were 70% male, 94% White, 3% Hispanic, mean age 58.8 years. Cancer diagnoses included leukemia 263 (36%), lymphoma 141 (19%), prostate 131 (18%), breast 79 (11%), melanoma 69 (9%), myeloma 53 (7%), and head and neck 4 (0.5%). A total of 402 (54%) never smoked, 257 (35%) had formerly smoked, and 81 (11%) were currently smoking. Patients in high disadvantaged neighborhoods were approximately four times more likely to report current smoking (odds ratio [OR], 3.57; 95% CI, 1.69-7.54; p = .0009), and more likely to report being asked about smoking (OR, 4.24; 95% CI, 1.64-10.98; p = .0029), but less likely to report receiving counseling (OR, 0.11; 95% CI, 0.02-0.58; p = .0086) versus those in the least disadvantaged neighborhoods. CONCLUSIONS: Greater neighborhood socioeconomic disadvantage was associated with smoking but less cessation support. Increased cessation support in cancer care is needed, particularly for patients from disadvantaged neighborhoods.
37958261 | Genetic Association Studies of MICB and PLCE1 with Severity of Dengue in Indonesian and Taiwanese Populations. Dengue is an arboviral disease that has spread globally and become a major public health concern. A small proportion of patients may progress from symptomatic dengue fever (DF) to dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) or dengue shock syndrome (DSS). Findings from a previous genome-wide association study (GWAS) demonstrated that variations in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I chain-related B (MICB) and the phospholipase C epsilon 1 (PLCE1) genes were related to DSS in a Vietnamese population. This study investigated associations of variations in MICB (rs3132468) and PLCE1 (rs3740360, rs3765524) with dengue severity and thrombocytopenia in both the Indonesian and Taiwanese populations. We sampled 160 patients from the Indonesian population and 273 patients from the Taiwanese population. None of the patients had DSS in the Taiwanese population. Based on age demographics, we found that dengue is more prevalent among younger individuals in the Indonesian population, whereas it has a greater impact on adults in the Taiwanese population. Our results showed the association between MICB rs3132468 and DSS. In addition, an association was identified between PLCE1 rs3740360 and DHF in secondary dengue in Indonesian patients. However, there is no association of MICB or PLCE1 variants with thrombocytopenia. This study highlights the value of genetic testing, which might be included in the clinical pathway for specific patients who can be protected from severe dengue.
38146367 | The HLA-B*57:01 allele corresponds to a very large MHC haploblock likely explaining its massive effect for HIV-1 elite control. Introduction: We have reanalyzed the genomic data of the International Collaboration for the Genomics of HIV (ICGH), centering on HIV-1 Elite Controllers. Methods: We performed a genome-wide Association Study comparing 543 HIV Elite Controllers with 3,272 uninfected controls of European descent. Using the latest database for imputation, we analyzed 35,552 Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) within the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) region. Results: Our analysis identified 2,626 SNPs significantly associated (p<5. 10-8) with elite control of HIV-1 infection, including well-established MHC signals such as the rs2395029-G allele which tags HLA-B*57:01. A thorough investigation of SNPs in linkage disequilibrium with rs2395029 revealed an extensive haploblock spanning 1.9 megabases in the MHC region tagging HLA-B*57:01, comprising 379 SNP alleles impacting 72 genes. This haploblock contains damaging variations in proteins like NOTCH4 and DXO and is also associated with a strong differential pattern of expression of multiple MHC genes such as HLA-B, MICB, and ZBTB12. The study was expanded to include two cohorts of seropositive African-American individuals, where a haploblock tagging the HLA-B*57:03 allele was similarly associated with control of viral load. The mRNA expression profile of this haploblock in African Americans closely mirrored that in the European cohort. Discussion: These findings suggest that additional molecular mechanisms beyond the conventional antigen-presenting role of class I HLA molecules may contribute to the observed influence of HLA-B*57:01/B*57:03 alleles on HIV-1 elite control. Overall, this study has uncovered a large haploblock associated with HLA-B*57 alleles, providing novel insights into their massive effect on HIV-1 elite control.
38296018 | Pterostilbene upregulates MICA/B via the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway to enhance the capability of natural killer cells to kill cervical cancer cells. Natural killer (NK) cells are triggered by the innate immune response in the tumor microenvironment. The extensive set of stimulating and inhibiting receptors mediates the target recognition of NK cells, and controls the strength of the effector reaction countering specific targeted cells. Yet, lacking major MHC (histocompatibility complex) MICA/B class I chain-related proteins on the membrane of tumor cells results in the failure of NK cell recognition and ability to resist NK cell destruction. Searching databases and molecular docking suggested that in cervical cancer, pterostilbene (3,5-dimethoxy-40-hydroxystilbene; PTS) in Vaccinium corymbosum extract could constrain PI3K/AKT signaling and improving the MICA/B expression. In flow cytometry, MTT assay, viability/cytotoxicity assay, and colony development assays, PTS reduced the development of cervical cancer cells and increased apoptosis. The quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and a Western blot indicate that PTS controlled the cytolytic action of NK cells in tumor cells via increasing the MICA/B expression, thus modifying the anti-tumor immune response in cervical cancer.
38378397 | Targeting NKG2D/NKG2DL axis in multiple myeloma therapy. Immune effector cells in patients with multiple myeloma (MM) are at the forefront of many immunotherapy treatments, and several methods have been developed to fully utilise the antitumour potential of immune cells. T and NK cell-derived immune lymphocytes both expressed activating NK receptor group 2 member D(NKG2D). This receptor can identify eight distinct NKG2D ligands (NKG2DL), including major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC) chain-related protein A and B (MICA and MICB). Their binding to NKG2D triggers effector roles in T and NK cells. NKG2DL is polymorphic in MM cells. The decreased expression of NKG2DL on the cell surface is explained by multiple mechanisms of tumour immune escape. In this review, we discuss the mechanisms by which the NKG2D/NKG2DL axis regulates immune effector cells and strategies for promoting NKG2DL expression and inhibiting its release in multiple myeloma and propose therapeutic strategies that increase the expression of NKG2DL in MM cells while enhancing the activation and killing function of NK cells.
38454570 | Soluble MICA in endometriosis pathophysiology: Impairs NK cell degranulation and effector functions. PROBLEM: Endometriosis exhibits several immune dysfunctions, including deficient natural killer (NK) cell cytotoxicity. MICA (MHC class I chain-related molecule A) is induced by biological stress and soluble MICA (sMICA) negatively modulates the expression of the activating receptor, NKG2D, reducing NK cells activities. We investigated the involvement of soluble MICA in NK cell-deficient activity in endometriosis. METHODS OF STUDY: sMICA levels (serum and peritoneal fluid-PF) were evaluated by ELISA. Circulating NK cell subsets quantification and its NKG2D receptor expression, NK cell cytotoxicity and CD107a, IFN-gamma and IL-10 expressions by NK cells stimulated with K562 cells were determined by flow cytometry. RESULTS: We found higher sMICA levels (serum and PF) in endometriosis, especially in advanced and deep endometriosis. Endometriosis presented lower percentages of CD56dim CD16+ cytotoxic cells and impaired NK cell responses upon stimulation, resulting in lower CD107a and IFN-gamma expressions, and deficient NK cell cytotoxicity. NK cell stimulation in the MICA-blocked condition (mimicking the effect of sMICA) showed decreased cytotoxicity in initial endometriosis stages and the emergence of a negative correlation between CD107a expression and sMICA levels. CONCLUSIONS: We suggest that soluble MICA is a potential player in endometriosis pathophysiology with involvement in disease progression and severity, contributing to NK cell impaired IFN-gamma response and degranulation. NK cell compartment exhibits multiple perturbations, including quantitative deficiency and impaired cytotoxicity, contributing to inadequate elimination of ectopic endometrial tissue.
38474281 | Functional MICA Variants Are Differentially Associated with Immune-Mediated Inflammatory Diseases. As the principal ligand for NKG2D, MICA elicits the recruitment of subsets of T cells and NK cells in innate immunity. MICA gene variants greatly impact the functionality and expression of MICA in humans. The current study evaluated whether MICA polymorphisms distinctively influence the pathogenesis of psoriasis (PSO), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in Taiwanese subjects. The distributions of MICA alleles and levels of serum soluble NKG2D were compared between healthy controls and patients with PSO, RA, and SLE, respectively. The binding capacities and cell surface densities of MICA alleles were assessed by utilizing stable cell lines expressing four prominent Taiwanese MICA alleles. Our data revealed that MICA*010 was significantly associated with risks for PSO and RA (PFDR = 1.93 x 10-15 and 0.00112, respectively), while MICA*045 was significantly associated with predisposition to SLE (PFDR = 0.0002). On the other hand, MICA*002 was associated with protection against RA development (PFDR = 4.16 x 10-6), while MICA*009 was associated with a low risk for PSO (PFDR = 0.0058). MICA*002 exhibited the highest binding affinity for NKG2D compared to the other MICA alleles. Serum concentrations of soluble MICA were significantly elevated in SLE patients compared to healthy controls (p = 0.01). The lack of cell surface expression of the MICA*010 was caused by its entrapment in the endoplasmic reticulum. As a prevalent risk factor for PSO and RA, MICA*010 is deficient in cell surface expression and is unable to interact with NKG2D. Our study suggests that MICA alleles distinctively contribute to the pathogenesis of PSO, RA, and SLE in Taiwanese people.
38550583 | MICA-specific nanobodies for diagnosis and immunotherapy of MICA+ tumors. MICA and MICB are Class I MHC-related glycoproteins that are upregulated on the surface of cells in response to stress, for instance due to infection or malignant transformation. MICA/B are ligands for NKG2D, an activating receptor on NK cells, CD8+ T cells, and gammadelta T cells. Upon engagement of MICA/B with NKG2D, these cytotoxic cells eradicate MICA/B-positive targets. MICA is frequently overexpressed on the surface of cancer cells of epithelial and hematopoietic origin. Here, we created nanobodies that recognize MICA. Nanobodies, or VHHs, are the recombinantly expressed variable regions of camelid heavy chain-only immunoglobulins. They retain the capacity of antigen recognition but are characterized by their stability and ease of production. The nanobodies described here detect surface-disposed MICA on cancer cells in vitro by flow cytometry and can be used therapeutically as nanobody-drug conjugates when fused to the Maytansine derivative DM1. The nanobody-DM1 conjugate selectively kills MICA positive tumor cells in vitro.
38598902 | A novel MICA/B-targeted chimeric antigen receptor augments the cytotoxicity of NK cells against tumor cells. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-modified immune cells have emerged as a promising approach for cancer treatment, but single-target CAR therapy in solid tumors is limited by immune escape caused by tumor antigen heterogeneity and shedding. Natural killer group 2D (NKG2D) is an activating receptor expressed in human NK cells, and its ligands, such as MICA and MICB (MICA/B), are widely expressed in malignant cells and typically absent from healthy tissue. NKG2D plays an important role in anti-tumor immunity, recognizing tumor cells and initiating an anti-tumor response. Therefore, NKG2D-based CAR is a promising CAR candidate. Nevertheless, the shedding of MICA/B hinders the therapeutic efficacy of NKG2D-CARs. Here, we designed a novel CAR by engineering an anti-MICA/B shedding antibody 1D5 into the CAR construct. The engineered NK cells exhibited significantly enhanced cytotoxicity against various MICA/B-expressing tumor cells and were not inhibited by NKG2D antibody or NKG2D-Fc fusion protein, indicating no interference with NKG2D-MICA/B binding. Therefore, the developed 1D5-CAR could be combined with NKG2D-CAR to further improve the obstacles caused by MICA/B shedding.
16908015 | Stage-specific Importin13 activity influences meiosis of germ cells in the mouse. Importin-mediated transport of cargoes is known to be a key mechanism for nucleo-cytoplasmic trafficking of molecules. Ipo13, which is a member of Importin-beta gene family, encodes two transcripts by utilizing different transcription start sites. In the mouse, the full-length transcript (L-Ipo13) is expressed in the primordial germ cells in the embryo and is later expressed predominantly at the pachytene phase of meiosis in both male and female germ cells. The shorter transcript (TS-Ipo13) is only expressed in the germ cells in the adult testis. Activity of L-Ipo13, but not TS-Ipo13, mediates the nuclear accumulation of ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme 9 (UBC9), a cargo of human IPO13. This finding is consistent with the progressive accumulation of UBC9 in the nucleus of the meiotic germ cells after the onset of L-Ipo13 expression. Following siRNA knockdown of IPO13 activity in the fetal ovary, fewer germ cells are found to progress to the late-pachytene stage of meiosis and nuclear accumulation of UBC9 is reduced. Our findings strongly implicate a stage-specific role of IPO13 in nuclear-cytoplasmic translocation of cargoes that accompanies meiotic differentiation of the mouse germ cells.
19272828 | Time course of housekeeping gene expression changes in diffuse alveolar damage induced by hyperoxia exposure in mice. We have found diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) has taken place in some patients under mechanical ventilation with high-inspired oxygen concentrations. To clarify the molecular pathophysiology of this, the time course of gene expression changes induced by hyperoxia exposure in mouse lungs was examined using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (real-time qPCR). Our raw data and those normalized with glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) showed that: (1) there is a decrease in levels of mRNAs for surfactant-associated protein C (SFTPC), cytochrome P450, 2F2 (CYP2F2), Claudin 1 (CLDN1), membrane-associated zonula occludens protein-1 (ZO-1), lysozyme (LYZS), and this suggests alveolar dysfunction and a disruption of the immune system, (2) we confirmed apoptotic conditions, such as significant up-regulations of mRNA levels in Myc and Galectin-3, and (3) hyperoxic conditions probably yielded reactive oxygen species (ROS), which resulted in a malignant cycle of ROS production by Myc overexpression [Shimada I, Matsui K, Brinkmann B, Hohoff C, Hiraga K, Tabuchi Y, et al. Novel transcript profiling of diffuse alveolar damage induced by hyperoxia exposure in mice: normalization by glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase. Int J Legal Med 2008;122:373-83]. In this experiment, GAPDH was up-regulated when hyperoxia exposure was continued. Therefore, we reexamined our data and found that: (1) mRNA levels of other housekeeping genes, including beta(2)-microglobulin (beta2M), ribosomal protein: large P2 (RPLP2), and importin 8 (IPO8) altered to a lesser extent, (2) mRNA levels of beta2M and IPO8 were down-regulated when hyperoxia exposure was continued, and (3) our previous work was validated by normalization with these three housekeeping genes.
19349578 | Exportin 4 mediates a novel nuclear import pathway for Sox family transcription factors. SRY and other Sox-type transcription factors are important developmental regulators with various implications in human disease. In this study, we identified Exp4 (exportin 4) as an interaction partner of Sox2 in mouse embryonic stem cells and neural progenitors. We show that, besides its established function in nuclear export, Exp4 acts as a bona fide nuclear import receptor for Sox2 and SRY. Thus, Exp4 is an example of a nuclear transport receptor carrying distinct cargoes into different directions. In contrast to a published study, we observed that the import activity of Imp-alpha (importin-a) isoforms toward Sox2 is negligible. Instead, we found that Imp9 and the Imp-beta/7 heterodimer mediate nuclear import of Sox2 in parallel to Exp4. Import signals for the three pathways overlap and include conserved residues in the Sox2 high-mobility group (HMG) box domain that are also critical for DNA binding. This suggests that nuclear import of Sox proteins is facilitated by several parallel import pathways.
19494118 | The roles of multiple importins for nuclear import of murine aristaless-related homeobox protein. Nuclear import of proteins with nuclear localization signals (NLSs) is mediated by shuttling carriers, the importins. Some cargoes display more than a single NLS, and among these are homeodomain proteins such as Arx, which is critical for development of multiple tissues. Arx has two functional NLSs. The present studies show that several pathways can import Arx via its NLS2, which is within its DNA binding homeodomain. Using an in vitro nuclear import assay, we show that import of Arx via NLS2 can be mediated by importin beta1, importin 9, or importin 13, with binding being strongest to importin beta1. All binding is sensitive to RanGTP. Experiments based on precise domain deletions indicate that NLS2 binds impbeta1, imp9, and imp13 and includes both an importin binding subdomain and a regulatory subdomain with arginine residues being important for function. Moreover, Arx can be co-precipitated with these importins when NLS2 is present. Although nuclear import of Arx can be mediated by these three importin betas, importin beta1 seems to play the major role judging from in vivo small interfering RNA ablations and the in vitro import assay. This is the first evidence to show the role of importin beta1 in nuclear import of paired-type homeodomain proteins. We propose a novel and possibly quite general mechanism for nuclear import of paired-type homeodomain proteins which is critical for development.
19593795 | Importin 13 serves as a potential marker for corneal epithelial progenitor cells. Importin13 (IPO13), the newest member of importin-beta family discovered recently, is a unique nucleus-cytoplasm bidirectional transport receptor protein. In this study, IPO13 expression in human corneal tissue, limbal epithelial primary explant and clonal culture was evaluated by immunostaining and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reasgon. IPO13 function was evaluated in the corneal epithelial culture treated with IPO13 inhibitor, or fetal bovine serum (FBS)-containing Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium (DMEM) medium by colony-forming efficiency, clone growth capacity, MTT, immunostaining, and Western blotting assay. IPO13 protein was expressed mainly in nuclei of limbal epithelial basal cells, but not in the other cell layers of limbus and full thickness of corneal epithelia. IPO13 was expressed in the majority of epithelial cells in early-stage clones and in the margin of late-stage clones. IPO13 was positively expressed in mouse TKE2 progenitor cells cultured in keratinocyte serum-free defined medium, while it became negative in FBS-containing DMEM, which promoted TKE2 cell differentiation. In the presence of IPO13 inhibitor, IPO13 expression and the proliferative capacity decreased in human limbal epithelial clones and mouse TKE2 cells, which were accompanied with the cell differentiation. In conclusion, our findings demonstrate for the first time that IPO13 is uniquely expressed by human limbal basal epithelial cells, and plays an important role in maintaining the phenotype, high proliferative potential, and less differentiation of corneal epithelial progenitor cells, suggesting that IPO13 could serve as a novel potential marker for corneal epithelial progenitor cells.
20042713 | Reduced viability of mice with lung epithelial-specific knockout of glucocorticoid receptor. Glucocorticoid (GC)-responsive epithelial-mesenchymal interactions regulate lung development. The GC receptor (GR) mediates GC signaling. Mice lacking GR in all tissues die at birth of respiratory failure. To determine the specific need for epithelial GR in lung development, we bred triple transgenic mice that carry SPC/rtTA, tet-O-Cre, and floxed, but not wild-type, GR genes. When exposed to doxycycline in utero, triple transgenic (GRepi-) mice exhibit a Cre-mediated recombination event that inactivates the floxed GR gene in airway epithelial cells. Immunofluorescence confirmed the elimination of GR in Cre-positive airway epithelial cells of late gestation GRepi- mice. Embryonic Day 18.5 pups had a relatively immature appearance with increased lung cellularity and increased pools of glycogen in the epithelium. Postnatal Day 0.5 pups had decreased viability. We used quantitative RT-PCR to demonstrate that specific elimination of epithelial immunoreactive GR in GRepi- mice is associated with reduced mRNA expression for surfactant proteins (SPs) A, B, C, and D; beta- and gamma-ENaC; T1alpha; the 10-kD Clara cell protein (CCSP); and aquaporin 5 (AQP5). Western blots confirmed reduced levels of AQP5 protein. No reduction in the levels of the GR transport protein importin (IPO)-13 was observed. Our findings demonstrate a requirement for lung epithelial cell GR in normal lung development. We speculate that impaired epithelial differentiation, leading to decreased SPs, transepithelial Na, and liquid absorption at birth, may contribute to the reduced survival of newborn mice with suppressed lung epithelial GR.
22458412 | Screening and functional analysis of differentially expressed genes in EBV-transformed lymphoblasts. BACKGROUND: Epstain-Barr virus (EBV) can transform human B lymphocytes making them immortalized and inducing tumorigenic ability in vitro, but the molecular mechanisms remain unclear. The aim of the present study is to detect and analyze differentially expressed genes in two types of host cells, normal human lymphocytes and coupled EBV-transformed lymphoblasts in vitro using gene chips, and to screen the key regulatory genes of lymphocyte transformation induced by EB virus. METHODS: Fresh peripheral blood samples from seven healthy donors were collected. EBV was used to transform lymphocytes in vitro. Total RNA was extracted from 7 cases of the normal lymphocytes and transformed lymphoblasts respectively, marked with dihydroxyfluorane after reverse transcription, then hybridized with 4 x 44 K Agilent human whole genome microarray. LIMMA, String, Cytoscape and other softwares were used to screen and analyze differentially expressed genes. Real-time PCR was applied to verify the result of gene expression microarrays. RESULTS: There were 1745 differentially expressed genes that had been screened, including 917 up-regulated genes and 828 down-regulated genes. According to the results of Generank, String and Cytoscape analyses, 38 genes may be key controlled genes related to EBV-transformed lymphocytes, including 22 up-regulated genes(PLK1, E2F1, AURKB, CDK2, PLCG2, CD80, PIK3R3, CDC20, CDC6, AURKA, CENPA, BUB1B, NUP37, MAD2L1, BIRC5, CDC25A, CCNB1, RPA3, HJURP, KIF2C, CDK1, CDCA8) and 16 down-regulated genes(FYN, CD3D, CD4, CD3G, ZAP70, FOS, HCK, CD247, PRKCQ, ITK, LCP2, CXCL1, CD8A, ITGB5, VAV3, CXCR4), which primarily control biological processes such as cell cycle, mitosis, cytokine-cytokine pathway, immunity response and so on. CONCLUSIONS: Human lymphocyte transformation induced by EB virus is a complicated process, involving multiple-genes and -pathways in virus-host interactions. Global gene expression profile analysis showed that EBV may transform human B lymphocytes by promoting cell cycle and mitosis, inhibiting cell apoptosis, hindering host immune function and secretion of cytokines.
23605716 | Expression and subcellular distribution of imp13 are regulated in brain development. Imp13, a member of importin-beta superfamily, is found to be one of two bidirectional transport receptors in many nuclear transport activities in mammals. Several cargoes of imp13 have been identified; most of these are essential factors involved in cell cycle and development. The expression and localization of imp13 may influence its cargoes in playing their roles in appropriate time and space. To gain insight into the role of imp13 in brain development, we generated an anti-imp13 polyclonal antibody and investigated the expressions of imp13 in mouse embryonic brains during development, including E13.5, E15.5, E17.5, P0, and adult, at both transcriptional and translational levels. In addition, we performed immunohistochemical analysis and revealed that imp13 tends to be localized in the cytoplasm at the early stages and relocates into the nucleus at the late stages in neuronal cells of mouse brains. These findings suggested that the expression and localization of imp13 in brain tissues are regulated developmentally, which extends our knowledge of the dynamic presence of imp13. These observations also imply that imp13 contributes to the neural cell-specific cargo trafficking and potentially to other functions during brain development.
24596094 | Importin 8 regulates the transport of mature microRNAs into the cell nucleus. Mature microRNAs (miRNAs), ~ 22-nucleotide noncoding RNAs regulating target gene expression at the post-transcriptional level, have been recently shown to be transported into the nucleus where they modulate the biogenesis of other miRNAs or their own expression. However, the mechanism that governs the transport of mature miRNAs from cytoplasm to nucleus remains unknown. Here, we report that importin 8 (IPO8), a member of the karyopherin beta (also named the protein import receptor importin beta) family, plays a critical role in mediating the cytoplasm-to-nucleus transport of mature miRNAs. Specifically knocking down IPO8 but not other karyopherin beta family proteins via siRNA significantly decreases the nuclear transport of various known nucleus-enriched miRNAs without affecting their total cellular levels. IPO8-mediated nuclear transport of mature miRNAs is also dependent on the association of IPO8 with the Argonaute 2 (Ago2) complex. Cross-immunoprecipitation and Western blot analysis show that IPO8 is physically associated with Ago2. Knocking down IPO8 via siRNA markedly decreases the nuclear transport of Ago2 but does not affect the total cellular Ago2 level. Furthermore, dissociating the binding of miRNAs with Ago2 by trypaflavine strongly reduces the IPO8-mediated nuclear transport of miRNAs.
26077467 | Programmed cell death 5 mediates HDAC3 decay to promote genotoxic stress response. The inhibition of p53 activity by histone deacetylase 3 (HDAC3) has been reported, but the precise molecular mechanism is unknown. Here we show that programmed cell death 5 (PDCD5) selectively mediates HDAC3 dissociation from p53, which induces HDAC3 cleavage and ubiquitin-dependent proteasomal degradation. Casein kinase 2 alpha phosphorylates PDCD5 at Ser-119 to enhance its stability and importin 13-mediated nuclear translocation of PDCD5. Genetic deletion of PDCD5 abrogates etoposide (ET)-induced p53 stabilization and HDAC3 cleavage, indicating an essential role of PDCD5 in p53 activation. Restoration of PDCD5(WT) in PDCD5(-/-) MEFs restores ET-induced HDAC3 cleavage. Reduction of both PDCD5 and p53, but not reduction of either protein alone, significantly enhances in vivo tumorigenicity of AGS gastric cancer cells and correlates with poor prognosis in gastric cancer patients. Our results define a mechanism for p53 activation via PDCD5-dependent HDAC3 decay under genotoxic stress conditions. 
26115720 | Reference gene selection for real-time quantitative PCR analysis on ovarian cryopreservation by vitrification in mice. PURPOSE: To ensure the correct interpretation of the results of quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) from ovarian tissue cryopreserved by vitrification, it is critical to normalize expression levels to a reference gene with stable messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in the vitrified/warmed ovarian tissue. The aim of this work was to identify suitable reference genes for qRT-PCR analysis during ovarian cryopreservation by vitrification. METHODS: GeNorm, NormFinder, comparative Delta-CT, and BestKeeper were used to analyze the expression and stability of the 14 reference genes GAPDH, ABL1, ACTB, CDKN1A, GPER, GUSB, HPRT1, HSP90AB1, IPO8, PPIA, RPL4, RPL30, TBP, and UPAR. RESULTS: Our results indicated that ACTB and RPL4 were relatively stable reference genes in vitrified/warmed ovaries.
26337383 | Sorting nexin 9 differentiates ligand-activated Smad3 from Smad2 for nuclear import and transforming growth factor beta signaling. Transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) is a pleiotropic protein secreted from essentially all cell types and primary tissues. While TGFbeta's actions reflect the activity of a number of signaling networks, the primary mediator of TGFbeta responses are the Smad proteins. Following receptor activation, these cytoplasmic proteins form hetero-oligomeric complexes that translocate to the nucleus and affect gene transcription. Here, through biological, biochemical, and immunofluorescence approaches, sorting nexin 9 (SNX9) is identified as being required for Smad3-dependent responses. SNX9 interacts with phosphorylated (p) Smad3 independent of Smad2 or Smad4 and promotes more rapid nuclear delivery than that observed independent of ligand. Although SNX9 does not bind nucleoporins Nup153 or Nup214 or some beta importins (Imp7 or Impbeta), it mediates the association of pSmad3 with Imp8 and the nuclear membrane. This facilitates nuclear translocation of pSmad3 but not SNX9. 
26776511 | let-7 Modulates Chromatin Configuration and Target Gene Repression through Regulation of the ARID3B Complex. Let-7 is crucial for both stem cell differentiation and tumor suppression. Here, we demonstrate a chromatin-dependent mechanism of let-7 in regulating target gene expression in cancer cells. Let-7 directly represses the expression of AT-rich interacting domain 3B (ARID3B), ARID3A, and importin-9. In the absence of let-7, importin-9 facilitates the nuclear import of ARID3A, which then forms a complex with ARID3B. The nuclear ARID3B complex recruits histone demethylase 4C to reduce histone 3 lysine 9 trimethylation and promotes the transcription of stemness factors. Functionally, expression of ARID3B is critical for the tumor initiation in let-7-depleted cancer cells. An inverse association between let-7 and ARID3A/ARID3B and prognostic significance is demonstrated in head and neck cancer patients. These results highlight a chromatin-dependent mechanism where let-7 regulates cancer stemness through ARID3B. 
27356504 | Proceedings of The 8th Romanian National HIV/AIDS Congress and The 3rd Central European HIV Forum : Sibiu, Romania. 5-7 May 2016. 
27956177 | Nuclear import of Nkx2-2 is mediated by multiple pathways. Nkx2-2 homeoprotein is essential for the development of the central nervous system and pancreas. Although the nuclear localization signals of Nkx2-2 have been identified, the responsible transport receptor is still unknown. Here, we demonstrate that imp alpha1 not only interacts with Nkx2-2 but also transports it into the nucleus in vitro by acting together with imp beta1. However, the nuclear import of Nkx2-2 in cells was not inhibited in response to knockdown expression of endogenous imp beta1 or over-expression of Bimax2. Furthermore, imp beta1 and imp 13, but not imp 4, directly interact with Nkx2-2 and are capable of transporting Nkx2-2 in an in vitro import assay. By GST pull-down assay, we demonstrate that mutation of NLS1 or NLS2 has no effect on interaction with imp alpha1 or imp 13, but significantly reduced binding to imp beta1. Thus, the nuclear import of Nkx2-2 is mediated not only by the classical import pathway but also directly by imp beta1 or imp 13.
27993670 | Interactome of the inhibitory isoform of the nuclear transporter Importin 13. Importin 13 (Imp13) is a bidirectional nuclear transporter of proteins involved in a range of important cellular processes, with an N-terminally truncated inhibitory isoform (tImp13) specifically expressed in testis. To gain insight into tImp13 function, we performed a yeast-2-hybrid screen from a human testis cDNA library, identifying for the first time a suite of interactors with roles in diverse cellular process. We validated the interaction of tImp13 with Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4gamma2 (EIF4G2) and High mobility group containing protein 20A (HMG20A), benchmarking that with glucocorticoid receptor (GR), a known Imp13 interactor expressed in testis. Coimmunoprecipitation assays indicated association of both tImp13 and Imp13 with EIF4G2, HMG20A and GR. Quantitative confocal microscopic analysis revealed the ability of tImp13 to inhibit the nuclear localisation of EIF4G2, HMG20A and GR, as well as that of Imp13 to act as a nuclear exporter for both EIF4G2 and HMG20A, and as a nuclear importer for GR. The physiological relevance of these results was highlighted by the cytoplasmic localisation of EIF4G2, HMG20A and GR in pachytene spermatocytes/round spermatids in the murine testis where tImp13 is present at high levels, in contrast to the nuclear localisation of HMG20A and GR in spermatogonia, where tImp13 is largely absent. Interestingly, Imp13, EIF4G2, HMG20A and GR were found together in the acrosome vesicle of murine epididymal spermatozoa. Collectively, our findings show, for the first time, that tImp13 may have a functional role in the mature spermatozoa, in addition to that in the meiotic germ cells of the testis.
28446596 | Dicer loss and recovery induce an oncogenic switch driven by transcriptional activation of the oncofetal Imp1-3 family. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression critical for organismal viability. Changes in miRNA activity are common in cancer, but how these changes relate to subsequent alterations in transcription and the process of tumorigenesis is not well understood. Here, we report a deep transcriptional, oncogenic network regulated by miRNAs. We present analysis of the gene expression and phenotypic changes associated with global miRNA restoration in miRNA-deficient fibroblasts. This analysis uncovers a miRNA-repressed network containing oncofetal genes Imp1, Imp2, and Imp3 (Imp1-3) that is up-regulated primarily transcriptionally >100-fold upon Dicer loss and is resistant to resilencing by complete restoration of miRNA activity. This Dicer-resistant epigenetic switch confers tumorigenicity to these cells. Let-7 targets Imp1-3 are required for this tumorigenicity and feed back to reinforce and sustain expression of the oncogenic network. Together, these Dicer-resistant genes constitute an mRNA expression signature that is present in numerous human cancers and is associated with poor survival.
28968829 | Respiratory Syncytial Virus Nonstructural Protein 1 Blocks Glucocorticoid Receptor Nuclear Translocation by Targeting IPO13 and May Account for Glucocorticoid Insensitivity. Despite their powerful antiinflammatory effect, glucocorticoids have shown no significant clinical benefit in respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)-induced bronchiolitis, the reason for which remains unclear. Upon glucocorticoid binding, the cytoplasmic glucocorticoid receptor (GR) translocates to the nucleus with the help of importin 13 (IPO13). Here, we report that RSV infection reduced GR nuclear translocation in nasopharyngeal aspirates from RSV-infected infants, lungs of infected mice, and A549 cells, which coincided with decreased IPO13 expression. This led to repression of GR-induced antiinflammatory genes, such that dexamethasone failed to suppress airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness in the infected mice. The anti-GR effect of RSV was mediated by viral nonstructural protein 1 , which likely functioned by competing with IPO13 for GR binding. Our findings provide a mechanism for the ineffectiveness of glucocorticoids in RSV-related disease and highlight the potential to target the IPO13-GR axis as a treatment for multiple glucocorticoid-related diseases.
29476013 | Karyopherin alpha-3 is a key protein in the pathogenesis of spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 controlling the nuclear localization of ataxin-3. Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by a CAG expansion in the ATXN3 gene leading to a polyglutamine expansion in the ataxin-3 protein. The nuclear presence and aggregation of expanded ataxin-3 are critical steps in disease pathogenesis. To identify novel therapeutic targets, we investigated the nucleocytoplasmic transport system by screening a collection of importins and exportins that potentially modulate this nuclear localization. Using cell, Drosophila, and mouse models, we focused on three transport proteins, namely, CRM1, IPO13, KPNA3, and their respective Drosophila orthologs Emb, Cdm, and Kap-alpha3. While overexpression of CRM1/Emb demonstrated positive effects in Drosophila, KPNA3/Kap-alpha3 emerged as the most promising target, as knockdown via multiple RNAi lines demonstrated its ability to shuttle both truncated and full-length expanded ataxin-3, rescue neurodegeneration, restore photoreceptor formation, and reduce aggregation. Furthermore, KPNA3 knockout in SCA3 mice resulted in an amelioration of molecular and behavioral disturbances such as total activity, anxiety, and gait. Since KPNA3 is known to function as an import protein and recognize nuclear localization signals (NLSs), this work unites ataxin-3 structure to the nuclear pore machinery and provides a link between karyopherins, NLS signals, and polyglutamine disease, as well as demonstrates that KPNA3 is a key player in the pathogenesis of SCA3.
29700284 | Mutation of IPO13 causes recessive ocular coloboma, microphthalmia, and cataract. Ocular coloboma is a developmental structural defect of the eye that often occurs as complex ocular anomalies. However, its genetic etiology remains largely unexplored. Here we report the identification of mutation (c.331C>T, p.R111C) in the IPO13 gene in a consanguineous family with ocular coloboma, microphthalmia, and cataract by a combination of whole-exome sequencing and homozygosity mapping. IPO13 encodes an importin-B family protein and has been proven to be associated with the pathogenesis of coloboma and microphthalmia. We found that Ipo13 was expressed in the cornea, sclera, lens, and retina in mice. Additionally, the mRNA expression level of Ipo13 decreased significantly in the patient compared with its expression in a healthy individual. Morpholino-oligonucleotide-induced knockdown of ipo13 in zebrafish caused dose-dependent microphthalmia and coloboma, which is highly similar to the ocular phenotypes in the patient. Moreover, both visual motor response and optokinetic response were impaired severely. Notably, these ocular phenotypes in ipo13-deficient zebrafish could be rescued remarkably by full-length ipo13 mRNA, suggesting that the phenotypes observed in zebrafish were due to insufficient ipo13 function. Altogether, our findings demonstrate, for the first time, a new role of IPO13 in eye morphogenesis and that loss of function of IPO13 could lead to ocular coloboma, microphthalmia, and cataract in humans and zebrafish.
29955178 | Genome-scale analysis identifies paralog lethality as a vulnerability of chromosome 1p loss in cancer. Functional redundancy shared by paralog genes may afford protection against genetic perturbations, but it can also result in genetic vulnerabilities due to mutual interdependency1-5. Here, we surveyed genome-scale short hairpin RNA and CRISPR screening data on hundreds of cancer cell lines and identified MAGOH and MAGOHB, core members of the splicing-dependent exon junction complex, as top-ranked paralog dependencies6-8. MAGOHB is the top gene dependency in cells with hemizygous MAGOH deletion, a pervasive genetic event that frequently occurs due to chromosome 1p loss. Inhibition of MAGOHB in a MAGOH-deleted context compromises viability by globally perturbing alternative splicing and RNA surveillance. Dependency on IPO13, an importin-beta receptor that mediates nuclear import of the MAGOH/B-Y14 heterodimer9, is highly correlated with dependency on both MAGOH and MAGOHB. Both MAGOHB and IPO13 represent dependencies in murine xenografts with hemizygous MAGOH deletion. Our results identify MAGOH and MAGOHB as reciprocal paralog dependencies across cancer types and suggest a rationale for targeting the MAGOHB-IPO13 axis in cancers with chromosome 1p deletion.
31090959 | Identification of a nuclear localization signal and importin beta members mediating NUAK1 nuclear import inhibited by oxidative stress. NUAK1 is a serine/threonine kinase member of the AMPK-alpha family. NUAK1 regulates several processes in tumorigenesis; however, its regulation and molecular targets are still poorly understood. Bioinformatics analysis predicted that the majority of NUAK1 localizes in the nucleus. However, there are no studies about the regulation of NUAK1 subcellular distribution. Here, we analyzed NUAK1 localization in several human cell lines, mouse embryo fibroblasts, and normal mouse tissues. We found that NUAK1 is located in the nucleus and also in the cytoplasm. Through bioinformatics analysis and studies comparing subcellular localization of wild type and NUAK1 mutants, we identified a conserved bipartite nuclear localization signal at the N-terminal domain of NUAK1. Based on mass spectrometry analysis, we found that NUAK1 interacts with importin-beta members including importin-beta1 (KPNB1), importin-7 (IPO7), and importin-9 (IPO9). We confirmed that importin-beta members are responsible for NUAK1 nuclear import through the inhibition of importin-beta by Importazole and the knockdown of either IPO7 or IPO9. In addition, we found that oxidative stress induces NUAK1 cytoplasmic accumulation, indicating that oxidative stress affects NUAK1 nuclear transport. Thus, our study is the first evidence of an active nuclear transport mechanism regulating NUAK1 subcellular localization. These data will lead to investigations of the molecular targets of NUAK1 according to its subcellular distribution, which could be new biomarkers or targets for cancer therapies.
31209109 | Liver-specific deletion of IGF2 mRNA binding protein-2/IMP2 reduces hepatic fatty acid oxidation and increases hepatic triglyceride accumulation. Insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding proteins 1-3 (IGF2BP1-3, also known as IMP1-3) contribute to the regulation of RNAs in a transcriptome-specific context. Global deletion of the mRNA-binding protein insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 2 (IGF2BP2 or IMP2) in mice causes resistance to obesity and fatty liver induced by a high-fat diet (HFD), whereas liver-specific IMP2 overexpression results in steatosis. To better understand the role of IMP2 in hepatic triglyceride metabolism, here we crossed mice expressing albumin-Cre with mice bearing a floxed Imp2 gene to generate hepatocyte-specific IMP2 knockout (LIMP2 KO) mice. Unexpectedly, the livers of LIMP2 KO mice fed an HFD accumulated more triglyceride. Although hepatocyte-specific IMP2 deletion did not alter lipogenic gene expression, it substantially decreased the levels of the IMP2 client mRNAs encoding carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A (CPT1A) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha). This decrease was associated with their more rapid turnover and accompanied by significantly diminished rates of palmitate oxidation by isolated hepatocytes and liver mitochondria. HFD-fed control and LIMP2 KO mice maintained a similar glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity up to 6 months; however, by 6 months, blood glucose and serum triglycerides in LIMP2 KO mice were modestly elevated but without evidence of liver damage. In conclusion, hepatocyte-specific IMP2 deficiency promotes modest diet-induced fatty liver by impairing fatty acid oxidation through increased degradation of the IMP2 client mRNAs PPARalpha and CPT1A This finding indicates that the previously observed marked protection against fatty liver conferred by global IMP2 deficiency in mice is entirely due to their reduced adiposity.
31875548 | miRNA551b-3p Activates an Oncostatin Signaling Module for the Progression of Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. Genomic amplification of 3q26.2 locus leads to the increased expression of microRNA 551b-3p (miR551b-3p) in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Our results demonstrate that miR551b-3p translocates to the nucleus with the aid of importin-8 (IPO8) and activates STAT3 transcription. As a consequence, miR551b upregulates the expression of oncostatin M receptor (OSMR) and interleukin-31 receptor-alpha (IL-31RA) as well as their ligands OSM and IL-31 through STAT3 transcription. We defined this set of genes induced by miR551b-3p as the \oncostatin signaling module,\ which provides oncogenic addictions in cancer cells. Notably, OSM is highly expressed in TNBC, and the elevated expression of OSM associates with poor outcome in estrogen-receptor-negative breast cancer patients. Conversely, targeting miR551b with anti-miR551b-3p reduced the expression of the OSM signaling module and reduced tumor growth, as well as migration and invasion of breast cancer cells.
33082305 | Importin 13 promotes NSCLC progression by mediating RFPL3 nuclear translocation and hTERT expression upregulation. Our previous studies have reported that RFPL3 protein exerts its unique function as a transcriptional factor of hTERT promoter after being transported into the lung cancer cell nucleus. However, the detailed mechanism by which RFPL3 undergoes nuclear transport has not been reported yet. Here, we identified RFPL3 as a potential import cargo for IPO13, which was found to be overexpressed in NSCLC cells and tissues. IPO13 interacted with RFPL3 in lung cancer cells, and the knockdown of IPO13 led to the cytoplasmic accumulation of RFPL3, the decreased anchoring of RFPL3 at hTERT promoter, and the downregulation of hTERT expression. Moreover, IPO13 silencing suppressed tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. IHC analysis confirmed the positive correlation between the expression levels of IPO13 and hTERT in the tumor tissues from patients with lung cancer. Furthermore, the mechanistic study revealed that IPO13 recognized RFPL3 via a functional nuclear localization signal (NLS), which is located in the B30.2 domain at the C-terminal region of RFPL3. Of note, the presence of EGFR mutations was significantly related to the increased IPO13 expression. The EGFR-TKI Osimertinib downregulated IPO13 expression level in NSCLC cell lines with EGFR mutations, but not in EGFR wild-type ones. In summary, our data suggest that inhibition of IPO13 transport activity itself might be an alternative and potential therapeutic strategy for NSCLC.
33333437 | The nuclear transporter importin 13 is critical for cell survival during embryonic stem cell differentiation. Nuclear transporter Importin (Imp, Ipo) 13 is known to transport various mammalian cargoes into/out of the nucleus, but its role in directing cell-fate is unclear. Here we examine the role of Imp13 in the maintenance of pluripotency and differentiation of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) for the first time, using an embryonic body (EB)-based model. When induced to differentiate, Ipo13-/- ESCs displayed slow proliferation, reduced EB size, and lower expression of the proliferation marker KI67, concomitant with an increase in the number of TUNEL+ nuclei compared to wildtype ESCs. At days 5 and 10 of differentiation, Ipo13-/- EBs also showed enhanced loss of the pluripotency transcript OCT3/4, and barely detectable clusters of OCT3/4 positive cells. Day 5 Ipo13-/- EBs further exhibited reduced levels of the mesodermal markers Brachyury and Mixl1, correlating with reduced numbers of haemoglobinised cells generated. Our findings suggest that Imp13 is critical to ESC survival as well as early post-gastrulation differentiation.
34010605 | A human importin-beta-related disorder: Syndromic thoracic aortic aneurysm caused by bi-allelic loss-of-function variants in IPO8. Importin 8, encoded by IPO8, is a ubiquitously expressed member of the importin-beta protein family that translocates cargo molecules such as proteins, RNAs, and ribonucleoprotein complexes into the nucleus in a RanGTP-dependent manner. Current knowledge of the cargoes of importin 8 is limited, but TGF-beta signaling components such as SMAD1-4 have been suggested to be among them. Here, we report that bi-allelic loss-of-function variants in IPO8 cause a syndromic form of thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) with clinical overlap with Loeys-Dietz and Shprintzen-Goldberg syndromes. Seven individuals from six unrelated families showed a consistent phenotype with early-onset TAA, motor developmental delay, connective tissue findings, and craniofacial dysmorphic features. A C57BL/6N Ipo8 knockout mouse model recapitulates TAA development from 8-12 weeks onward in both sexes but most prominently shows ascending aorta dilatation with a propensity for dissection in males. Compliance assays suggest augmented passive stiffness of the ascending aorta in male Ipo8-/- mice throughout life. Immunohistological investigation of mutant aortic walls reveals elastic fiber disorganization and fragmentation along with a signature of increased TGF-beta signaling, as evidenced by nuclear pSmad2 accumulation. RT-qPCR assays of the aortic wall in male Ipo8-/- mice demonstrate decreased Smad6/7 and increased Mmp2 and Ccn2 (Ctgf) expression, reinforcing a role for dysregulation of the TGF-beta signaling pathway in TAA development. Because importin 8 is the most downstream TGF-beta-related effector implicated in TAA pathogenesis so far, it offers opportunities for future mechanistic studies and represents a candidate drug target for TAA.
34484236 | Identifying Immune Cell Infiltration and Effective Diagnostic Biomarkers in Rheumatoid Arthritis by Bioinformatics Analysis. Background: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disorder characterized by inflammatory cell infiltration, leading to persistent synovitis and joint destruction. The pathogenesis of RA remains unclear. This study aims to explore the immune molecular mechanism of RA through bioinformatics analysis. Methods: Five microarray datasets and a high throughput sequencing dataset were downloaded. CIBERSORT algorithm was performed to evaluate immune cell infiltration in synovial tissues between RA and healthy control (HC). Wilcoxon test and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) regression were conducted to identify the significantly different infiltrates of immune cells. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were screened by \Batch correction\ and \RobustRankAggreg\ methods. Functional correlation of DEGs were analyzed by Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). Candidate biomarkers were identified by cytoHubba of Cytoscape, and their diagnostic effectiveness was predicted by Receiver Operator Characteristic Curve (ROC) analysis. The association of the identified biomarkers with infiltrating immune cells was explored using Spearman's rank correlation analysis in R software. Results: Ten significantly different types of immune cells between RA and HC were identified. A total of 202 DEGs were obtained by intersection of DEGs screened by two methods. The function of DEGs were significantly associated with immune cells. Five hub genes (CXCR4, CCL5, CD8A, CD247, and GZMA) were screened by R package \UpSet\. CCL5+CXCR4 and GZMA+CD8A were verified to have the capability to diagnose RA and early RA with the most excellent specificity and sensitivity, respectively. The correlation between immune cells and biomarkers showed that CCL5 was positively correlated with M1 macrophages, CXCR4 was positively correlated with memory activated CD4+ T cells and follicular helper T (Tfh) cells, and GZMA was positively correlated with Tfh cells. Conclusions: CCL5, CXCR4, GZMA, and CD8A can be used as diagnostic biomarker for RA. GZMA-Tfh cells, CCL5-M1 macrophages, and CXCR4- memory activated CD4+ T cells/Tfh cells may participate in the occurrence and development of RA, especially GZMA-Tfh cells for the early pathogenesis of RA.
34685634 | Neuron-Specific IMP2 Overexpression by Synapsin Promoter-Driven AAV9: A Tool to Study Its Role in Axon Regeneration. Insulin-like growth factor II mRNA-binding protein (IMP) 2 is one of the three homologues (IMP1-3) that belong to a conserved family of mRNA-binding proteins. Its alternative splice product is aberrantly expressed in human hepatocellular carcinoma, and it is therefore identified as HCC. Previous works have indicated that IMP1/ZBP1 (zipcode binding protein) is critical in axon guidance and regeneration by regulating localization and translation of specific mRNAs. However, the role of IMP2 in the nervous system is largely unknown. We used the synapsin promoter-driven adeno-associated viral (AAV) 9 constructs for transgene expression both in vitro and in vivo. These viral vectors have proven to be effective to transduce the neuron-specific overexpression of IMP2 and HCC. Applying this viral vector in the injury-conditioned dorsal root ganglion (DRG) culture demonstrates that overexpression of IMP2 significantly inhibits axons regenerating from the neurons, whereas overexpression of HCC barely interrupts the process. Quantitative analysis of binding affinities of IMPs to beta-actin mRNA reveals that it is closely associated with their roles in axon regeneration. Although IMPs share significant structural homology, the distinctive functions imply their different ability to localize specific mRNAs and to regulate the axonal translation.
35296537 | Common and Divergent Features of T Cells from Blood, Gut, and Genital Tract of Antiretroviral Therapy-Treated HIV+ Women. T cells residing in mucosal tissues play important roles in homeostasis and defense against microbial pathogens. The gut and female reproductive tract (FRT) are both tolerogenic environments, but they differ in the kinds of foreign Ags they need to tolerate. How these different environments influence the properties of their T cells is poorly understood, but important for understanding women's health. We recruited antiretroviral therapy-suppressed women living with HIV who donated, within one visit, blood and tissue samples from the ileum, colon, rectosigmoid, endometrium, endocervix, and ectocervix. With these samples, we conducted 36-parameter cytometry by time of flight phenotyping of T cells. Although gut and FRT T cells shared features discriminating them from their blood counterparts, they also harbored features distinguishing them from one another. These included increased proportions of CD69+ T resident memory cells of the T effector memory phenotype, as well as preferential coexpression of CD69 and CD103, on the gut-derived cells. In contrast, CD69+CD103+ T resident memory CD8+ T cells from FRT, but not those from gut, preferentially expressed PD1. We further determined that a recently described population of CXCR4+ T inflammatory mucosal cells differentially expressed multiple other chemokine receptors relative to their blood counterparts. Our findings suggest that T cells resident in different tolerogenic mucosal sites take on distinct properties.
35358193 | FOXP3 and CXCR4-positive regulatory T cells in the tumor stroma as indicators of tumor immunity in the conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma microenvironment. Conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the most common ocular surface neoplasia. The purpose of this retrospective study was to examine the role of regulatory T cell (Treg) activity in tumor immunity and investigate the tumor microenvironment as a new treatment focus in conjunctival SCC. Cancer progression gene array and immunohistochemical analyses of FOXP3 as a Treg marker, CD8 as a tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte marker, and CXCR4 expression on activated Tregs were conducted in a series of 31 conjunctival SCC cases. The objective was to investigate the immunoreactive response in tumor cells and stromal cells in the cancer microenvironment. The stroma ratio in tumor cells was investigated by monitoring alpha-smooth muscle actine (SMA) expression between carcinoma in situ (Tis) and advanced carcinoma (Tadv) (P<0.01). No significant change in PD-L1 expression was observed in this study (P = 0.15). Staining patterns of FOXP3, CD8, and CXCR4 were examined separately between tumor cells and stromal cells in SCC tumors. Differences in staining of FOXP3 in Tregs and CD8 in tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in tumor stroma in the Tis group were observed compared with the Tadv group (each P<0.01). In addition, double immunostaining of CXCR4/FOXP3 was correlated with progression-free survival (P = 0.049). Double immunostaining of CXCR4/FOXP3 correlated with American Joint Committee on Cancer T-stage, independent of age or Ki67 index (P<0.01). Our results show that FOXP3 and the CXCR4/FOXP3 axis are important pathologic and prognostic factors of ocular surface neoplasia, including SCC. The tumor microenvironment of conjunctival SCC should be considered in the future development of treatment options.
35741036 | Nuclear Transporter IPO13 Is Central to Efficient Neuronal Differentiation. Molecular transport between the nucleus and cytoplasm of the cell is mediated by the importin superfamily of transport receptors, of which the bidirectional transporter Importin 13 (IPO13) is a unique member, with a critical role in early embryonic development through nuclear transport of key regulators, such as transcription factors Pax6, Pax3, and ARX. Here, we examined the role of IPO13 in neuronal differentiation for the first time, using a mouse embryonic stem cell (ESC) model and a monolayer-based differentiation protocol to compare IPO13-/- to wild type ESCs. Although IPO13-/- ESCs differentiated into neural progenitor cells, as indicated by the expression of dorsal forebrain progenitor markers, reduced expression of progenitor markers Pax6 and Nestin compared to IPO13-/- was evident, concomitant with reduced nuclear localisation/transcriptional function of IPO13 import cargo Pax6. Differentiation of IPO13-/- cells into neurons appeared to be strongly impaired, as evidenced by altered morphology, reduced expression of key neuronal markers, and altered response to the neurotransmitter glutamate. Our findings establish that IPO13 has a key role in ESC neuronal differentiation, in part through the nuclear transport of Pax6.
35774848 | Identification of CXCR4 Upregulation in Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Associated with Prognostic Significance and Clinicopathological Characteristics. Background: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a heterogeneous malignant lymphoma with distinct characteristics. Patients with treatment failure after the standard immunochemotherapy have worse prognosis, which implies the necessity to uncover novel targets. The C-X-C chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) overexpression has been identified in several hematopoietic malignancies. However, the expression signatures and prognostic significance of CXCR4 in DLBCL associated with clinicopathological features remain unclear. Methods: Gene expression profiles of DLBCL were obtained from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) databases. Then, a meta-analysis with an integrated bioinformatic analysis was performed to assess the relationship between CXCR4 expression and clinicopathological features of DLBCL. Finally, experimental verification including immunohistochemical (IHC) staining and real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) was carried out using patient samples. In vitro cell line viability tests were conducted using CXCR4 inhibitor WZ811. Results: DLBCL patients with activated B-cell-like (ABC) subtype have higher expression level of CXCR4 with worse survival. Differential expressed genes in the CXCR4-upregulation group were enriched in canonical pathways associated with oncogenesis. DLBCL with CXCR4 upregulation had lower degree of CD8+ T cell infiltration. TIMER analysis demonstrated that the CXCR4 expression was positively correlated with the expression of CD5, MYC, NOTCH1, PDCD1, CD274, mTOR, FOXO1, and hnRNPA2B1 in DLBCL. IHC study in patient samples showed the positive correlation between CXCR4 and nongerminal center B-cell (non-GCB) subtype and mTOR expression. Meanwhile, quantitative polymerase chain reaction results revealed that high CXCR4 mRNA level was correlated to double-hit DLBCL. Finally, cell viability test showed that WZ811 exerted antiproliferation effect in DLBCL cell lines in a dose-dependent manner. Conclusion: CXCR4 was upregulated in ABC-DLBCL associated with worse prognosis. Our analysis predicted CXCR4 as a potential target for DLBCL treatment, which may serve as an inhibitor both on BCR signaling and nuclear export warranting further investigation in clinical trials.
36512100 | Role of senescent tumor cells in building a cytokine shield in the tumor microenvironment: mathematical modeling. Cellular senescence can induce dual effects (promotion or inhibition) on cancer progression. While immune cells naturally respond and migrate toward various chemotactic sources from the tumor mass, various factors including senescent tumor cells (STCs) in the tumor microenvironment may affect this chemotactic movement. In this work, we investigate the mutual interactions between the tumor cells and the immune cells that either inhibit or facilitate tumor growth by developing a mathematical model that consists of taxis-reaction-diffusion equations and receptor kinetics for the key players in the interaction network. We apply a mathematical model to a transwell Boyden chamber invasion assay used in the experiments to illustrate that STCs can play a pivotal role in negating immune attack through tight regulation of intra- and extra-cellular signaling molecules. In particular, we show that senescent tumor cells in cell cycle arrest can block intratumoral infiltration of CD8+ T cells by secreting a high level of CXCL12, which leads to significant reduction its receptors, CXCR4, on T cells, and thus impaired chemotaxis. The predictions of nonlinear responses to CXCL12 were in good agreement with experimental data. We tested several hypotheses on immune-tumor interactions under various biochemical conditions in the tumor microenvironment and developed new concepts for anti-tumor strategies targeting senescence induced immune impairment.
36757203 | Tissue-resident CXCR4+ macrophage as a poor prognosis signature promotes pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma progression. Macrophage is an essential part of the tumor immune microenvironment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. In our study, we explored the CXCR4+ macrophages subset on its prognosis value, immune profile and distinct function in pancreatic cancer progression. Specimens from 102 postoperative pancreatic patients were analyzed by flow cytometry or immune-fluorescence, and the prognostic value of CXCR4+ macrophages infiltration was further determined by Cox regression. In silico analysis on TCGA, ICGC database and single-cell sequencing of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma further validated our findings. We found that high CXCR4+ macrophages infiltration was associated with poor overall survival (P < .01) and disease-free survival (P < .05) as an independent factor. CXCR4+ macrophages exhibited an M2 protumor phenotype with high expression of CD206. The function of CXCR4+ macrophages was further analyzed in the murine orthotopic PDAC model with its tumor promotion effect and inhibition of CD8+ T cells. Mechanistic and RNA-seq analysis showed that CXCR4+ macrophages participated in extracellular matrix remodeling procedures and especially secreted SPARC through CXCR4/PI3K/Akt pathway promoting tumor proliferation and migration. Our study reveals that CXCR4+ macrophages infiltration is an indicator of poor prognosis of PDAC and targeting these cells was potentially crucial in immunotherapy of PDAC.
36849745 | T cell egress via lymphatic vessels is tuned by antigen encounter and limits tumor control. Antigen-specific CD8+ T cell accumulation in tumors is a prerequisite for effective immunotherapy, and yet the mechanisms of lymphocyte transit are not well defined. Here we show that tumor-associated lymphatic vessels control T cell exit from tumors via the chemokine CXCL12, and intratumoral antigen encounter tunes CXCR4 expression by effector CD8+ T cells. Only high-affinity antigen downregulates CXCR4 and upregulates the CXCL12 decoy receptor, ACKR3, thereby reducing CXCL12 sensitivity and promoting T cell retention. A diverse repertoire of functional tumor-specific CD8+ T cells, therefore, exit the tumor, which limits the pool of CD8+ T cells available to exert tumor control. CXCR4 inhibition or loss of lymphatic-specific CXCL12 boosts T cell retention and enhances tumor control. These data indicate that strategies to limit T cell egress might be an approach to boost the quantity and quality of intratumoral T cells and thereby response to immunotherapy.
36923305 | Mavorixafor, an Orally Bioavailable CXCR4 Antagonist, Increases Immune Cell Infiltration and Inflammatory Status of Tumor Microenvironment in Patients with Melanoma. Purpose: Mavorixafor is an oral, selective inhibitor of the CXCR4 chemokine receptor that modulates immune cell trafficking. A biomarker-driven phase Ib study (NCT02823405) was conducted in 16 patients with melanoma to investigate the hypothesis that mavorixafor favorably modulates immune cell profiles in the tumor microenvironment (TME) and to evaluate the safety of mavorixafor alone and in combination with pembrolizumab. Experimental Design: Serial biopsies of melanoma lesions were assessed after 3 weeks of mavorixafor monotherapy and after 6 weeks of combination treatment for immune cell markers by NanoString analysis for gene expression and by multiplexed immunofluorescent staining for in situ protein expression. Serum samples taken at biopsy timepoints were evaluated for key chemokine and cytokine alterations using the Myriad Rules Based Medicine multiplex immunoassays. Results: Within the TME, mavorixafor alone increased CD8+ T-cell infiltration, granzyme B signal, antigen presentation machinery, and both tumor inflammatory signature (TIS) and IFNgamma gene expression signature scores. Increases in the key serum cytokines CXCL9 and CXCL10 were further enhanced when mavorixafor was combined with pembrolizumab. Adverse events (AE), as assessed by the investigator according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (v4.03), related to either mavorixafor or pembrolizumab (>=15%) were diarrhea, fatigue, maculopapular rash, and dry eye. Reported AEs were all <= grade 3. Conclusion/Discussion: Treatment with single-agent mavorixafor resulted in enhanced immune cell infiltration and activation in the TME, leading to increases in TIS and IFNgamma gene signatures. Mavorixafor as a single agent, and in combination with pembrolizumab, has an acceptable safety profile. These data support further investigation of the use of mavorixafor for patients unresponsive to checkpoint inhibitors. Significance: Despite survival improvements in patients with melanoma treated with checkpoint inhibitor therapy, a significant unmet medical need exists for therapies that enhance effectiveness. We propose that mavorixafor sensitizes the melanoma tumor microenvironment and enhances the activity of checkpoint inhibitors, and thereby may translate to a promising treatment for broader patient populations.
37017641 | CXC Chemokine Receptor Type 4 Antagonistic Gold Nanorods Induce Specific Immune Responses and Long-Term Immune Memory to Combat Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is highly challenging in its treatment because of the lack of the targeted markers. TNBC patients are not able to acquire benefits from endocrine therapy and targeted therapy except for chemotherapy. CXCR4 is highly expressed on TNBC cells that mediated the tumor cell metastasis as well as proliferation by the response of its ligand CXCL12, therefore holding promising potential of a candidate target for the treatment. In this work, a novel conjugate of CXCR4 antagonist peptide E5 and gold nanorods was fabricated (AuNRs-E5), which was applied to murine breast cancer tumor cells and an animal model, aiming to induce endoplasmic reticulum stress by endoplasmic reticulum-targeted photothermal immunological effects. Results showed that AuNRs-E5 could induce much more generation of damage-related molecular patterns in 4T1 cells under laser irradiation than AuNRs, which significantly promoted the maturation of dendritic cells and stimulated systematic anti-tumor immune responses by enhancing the infiltration of CD8+T cells into the tumor and tumor-draining lymph node, downregulating the regulatory T lymphocytes, and upregulating M1 macrophages in tumors, reversing the microenvironment from \cold\ tumors to \hot\ tumors. The administration of AuNRs-E5 with laser irradiation not only inhibited the tumor growth significantly but also exerted specific long immune responses to the triple-negative breast cancer tumor cells, which led to the prolonged survival of the mice and the specific immunological memory.
37876509 | Biomarkers of ocular allergy and dry eye disease. The most common disorders of the ocular surface are dry eye disease (DED) and ocular allergy (OA). These conditions are frequently coexisting with or without a clinical overlap and can cause a severe impact on the patient's quality of life. Therefore, it can sometimes be hard to distinguish between DED and OA because similar changes and manifestations may be present. Atopic patients can also develop DED, which can aggravate their manifestations. Moreover, patients with DED can develop ocular allergies, so these two pathological entities of the ocular surface can be considered as mutual conditions that share the same background. Nowadays, by using different techniques to collect tissue from ocular surfaces, the changes in molecular homeostasis can be detected and this can lead to a precise diagnosis. The article provides an up-to-date review of the various ocular surface biomarkers that have been identified in DED, OA, or both conditions. Abbreviations: DED = dry eye disease, OA = ocular allergy, SS = Sjogren syndrome, TBUT = tear break up time, TFO = tear film osmolarity, AKC = Atopic keratoconjunctivitis, ANXA1 = Annexin 1, ANXA11 = Annexin 11, CALT = Conjunctival associated lymphoid tissue, CCL2/MIP-1 = Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand2/Monocyte chemoattractant protein 1, CCL3/MIP-1alpha = Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 3/Macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha, CCL4/MIP-1beta = Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 4/Macrophage inflammatory protein 1 beta, CCL5/RANTES = Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 5 /Regulated on Activation, Normal T cell Expressed and Secreted, CCR2 = Chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 2, CCR5 = Chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5, CD3+ = Cluster of differentiation 3 positive, CD4+ = Cluster of differentiation 4 positive, CD8+ = Cluster of differentiation 8 positive, CGRP = Calcitonin-gene-related peptide, CX3CL1 C-X3 = C motif -chemokine ligand 1 /Fractalkine, CXCL8 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 8, CXCL9 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 9, CXCL10 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 10, CXCL11 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 11, CXCL12 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 12, CXCR4 = Chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 4, EGF = Epidermal growth factor, HLA-DR = Human leukocyte antigen-D-related, ICAM-1 = Intercellular adhesion molecule 1, IFN-gamma = Interferon-gamma, IgG = Immunoglobulin G, IgE = Immunoglobulin E, IL-1 = Interleukin-1, IL-1alpha = Interleukin-1 alpha, IL-1beta = Interleukin-1 beta, CGRP = Calcitonin-Gene-Related Peptide, IL-3 = Interleukin-3, IL-4 = Interleukin-4, IL-6 = Interleukin-6, IL-8 = Interleukin-8, IL-10 = Interleukin-10, IL-17 = Interleukin-17, IL-17A = Interleukin-17A, LPRR3 = Lacrimal proline-rich protein 3, LPRR4 = Lacrimal proline-rich protein 4, MUC5AC = Mucin 5 subtype AC, oligomeric mucus/gel-forming, MUC16 = Mucin 16, OCT = Optical coherence tomography, OGVHD = Ocular graft versus host disease, PAX6 = Paired-box protein 6, VKC = Vernal keratoconjunctivitis, TGF-beta = Transforming growth factor beta, S100 = proteins Calcium activated signaling proteins, Th1 = T helper 1 cell, Th17 = T helper 17 cell, MGD = Meibomian gland dysfunction, TFOS = Tear film and ocular surface society, SS-KCS = Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca, MMP-9 = Matrix metalloproteinase 9, MMP-1 = Matrix metalloproteinase 1, ZAG = Zinc alpha glycoprotein, CBA = Cytometric bead array, MALDI TOF-MS = matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight, SELDI TOF-MS = surface-enhanced laser desorption ionization-time of flight, IVCM = in vivo confocal microscopy, AS-OCT = anterior segment optical coherence tomography, iTRAQ = Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation, LC-MS = Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, LCN-1 = lipocalin 1, PIP = prolactin induced protein, NGF = Nerve growth factor, PRR4 = proline rich protein 4, VIP = Vasoactive intestinal peptide, ELISA = enzyme linked immunoassay, TNF-alpha = tumor necrosis factor alpha, PAC = perennial allergic conjunctivitis, SAC = seasonal allergic conjunctivitis, IC = impression cytology, RT-PCR = reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, PCR = polymerase chain reaction, APCs = antigen-presenting cells, NK cells = natural killer cells, HEL = hexanoyl-lysine, 4-HNE = 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, MDA = malondialdehyde.
37890815 | Hollow Cu2MoS4 nanoparticles loaded with immune checkpoint inhibitors reshape the tumor microenvironment to enhance immunotherapy for pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a fatal disease that responds poorly to single-drug immunotherapy with PD-L1 (CD274) inhibitors. Here, we prepared mesoporous nanomaterials Cu2MoS4 (CMS)/PEG loaded with PD-L1 inhibitor BMS-1 and CXCR4 inhibitor Plerixafor to form the nanodrug CMS/PEG-B-P. In vitro experiments, CMS/PEG-B-P have a more substantial inhibitory effect on the expression of PD-L1 and CXCR4 as well as to promote the apoptosis of pancreatic cancer cells KPC and suppressed KPC cell proliferation were detected by flow cytometry, qPCR and Western blotting (WB). Promotes the release of the cytotoxic substance reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the production of the immunogenic cell death (ICD) marker calreticulin (CRT) in KPC cells. CMS/PEG-B-P was also detected to have a certain activating effect on mouse immune cells, dendritic cells (mDC) and macrophage RAW264.7. Subcutaneous tumorigenicity experiments in C57BL/6 mice verified that CMS/PEG-B-P had an inhibitory effect on the growth of tumors and remodeling of the tumor immune microenvironment, including infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells and polarization of macrophages, as well as reduction of immunosuppressive cells. Meanwhile, CMS/PEG-B-P was found to have different effects on the release of cytokines in the tumor immune microenvironment, including The levels of immunostimulatory cytokines INF-gamma and IL-12 are increased and the levels of immunosuppressive cytokines IL-6, IL-10 and IFN-alpha are decreased. In conclusion, nanomaterial-loaded immune checkpoint inhibitor therapies can enhance the immune response and reduce side effects, a combination that shows great potential as a new immunotherapeutic approach. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a fatal disease that has a low response to single-drug immunotherapy with PD-L1 (CD274) inhibitors. We preared PEG-modified mesoporous nanomaterials Cu2MoS4 (CMS) loaded with PD-L1 inhibitor BMS-1 and CXCR4 inhibitor Plerixafor to form the nanodrug CMS/PEG-B-P. Our study demonstrated that Nanomaterial-loaded immune checkpoint inhibitor therapies can enhance the immune response and reduce side effects, a combination that shows great potential as a new immunotherapeutic approach.
38053160 | Senescence-associated secretory phenotypes in mesenchymal cells contribute to cytotoxic immune response in oral lichen planus. Oral lichen planus is a chronic inflammatory condition that adversely affects the oral mucosa; however, its etiology remains elusive. Consequently, therapeutic interventions for oral lichen planus are limited to symptomatic management. This study provides evidence of the accumulation of senescent mesenchymal cells, CD8 + T cells, and natural killer cells in patients with oral lichen planus. We profiled the patients' tissues using the National Center for Biotechnology Information Gene Expression Omnibus database and found that senescence-related genes were upregulated in these tissues by gene set enrichment analysis. Immunohistochemical analysis showed increased senescent mesenchymal cells in the subepithelial layer of patients with oral lichen planus. Single-cell RNA-seq data retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus database of patients with oral lichen planus revealed that mesenchymal cells were marked by the upregulation of senescence-related genes. Cell-cell communication analysis using CellChat showed that senescent mesenchymal cells significantly influenced CD8 + T cells and natural killer cells via CXCL12-CXCR4 signaling, which is known to activate and recruit CD8 + T cells and NK cells. Finally, in vitro assays demonstrated that the secretion of senescence-associated factors from mesenchymal cells stimulated the activation of T cells and natural killer cells and promoted epithelial cell senescence and cytotoxicity. These findings suggest that the accumulation of mesenchymal cells with senescence-associated secretory phenotype may be a key driver of oral lichen planus pathogenesis.
38152696 | CXCL14 as a potential marker for immunotherapy response prediction in renal cell carcinoma. Background: Epigenetic mechanisms play vital roles in the activation, differentiation, and effector function of immune cells. The breast and kidney-expressed chemokine (CXCL14) mainly contributes to the regulation of immune cells. However, its role in shaping the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) is yet to be elucidated in renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Objectives: This study aimed to elucidate the role of CXCL14 in predicting the efficacy of immunotherapy in patients with RCC. Methods: CXCL14 expression and RNA-sequencing, single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq), and survival datasets of RCC from public databases were analyzed, and survival was compared between different CXCL14 levels. The correlation between CXCL14 and immune infiltration and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene expression was analyzed with TIMER2.0 and gene expression profiling interactive analysis. Institutional scRNA-seq and immunohistochemical staining analyses were used to verify the relationship between CXCL14 expression level and the efficacy of immunotherapy. Results: CXCL14 was expressed in fibroblast and malignant cells in RCC, and higher expression was associated with better survival. Enrichment analysis revealed that CXCL14 is involved in immune activation, primarily in antigen procession, antigen presentation, and major histocompatibility complex assemble. CXCL14 expression was positively correlated with T-cell infiltration as well as HLA-related gene expression. Among the RCC cohort receiving nivolumab in Checkmate 025, the patients with CXCL14 high expression had better overall survival than those with CXCL14 low expression after immunotherapy. scRNA-seq revealed a cluster of CXCL14+ fibroblast in immunotherapy responders. Immunohistochemistry analysis verified that the patients with high CXCL14 expression had an increased proportion of high CD8 expression simultaneously. The expression level of CXCL14 was associated with CXCR4 expression in RCC. Conclusion: CXCL14 expression is associated with immunotherapy response in RCC. It is a promising biomarker for immunotherapy response prediction and may be an effective epigenetic modulator in combination with immunotherapy approaches.
38180733 | An immune gene expression risk score for distant metastases after radiotherapy for cervical cancer. PURPOSE: To develop an immune-based gene expression risk score identifying cervical cancer patients at increased risk of distant metastases (DM). EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Tumor biopsies were obtained from 81 patients prior to chemoradiotherapy. Whole transcriptome RNA sequencing was performed (Illumina NextSeq500). Beginning with 4,723 immune-related genes, a 55 gene risk score for DM was derived using Cox modelling and principal component analysis. It was validated in independent cohorts of 274 patients treated at the Norwegian Radium Hospital (NRH) and 206 patients from TCGA. RESULTS: The risk score was predictive of DM (HR 2.7, p<0.0001) and lower cause specific survival (CSS) by univariate analysis (HR 2.0, p=0.0003) and multivariate analysis adjusted for clinical factors (DM HR 3.0, p<0.0001; CSS HR 2.2, p=0.0004). The risk score predicted DM (HR 1.4, p=0.05) and CSS (HR 1.48, p=0.013) in the NRH cohort and CSS (HR 1.4, p=0.03) in the TCGA cohort. Higher risk scores were associated with lower CIBERSORT estimates of tumor infiltrating immune cells, including CD8 T-cells and M1 and M2 macrophages (p<0.001). Higher risk scores were associated with lower expression (all p<0.001) of important chemokines (CXCL12, CXCR4), interferon regulated genes (IRF1, STAT1, IDO1) and immune checkpoint regulators (PD-1, PD-L1, CTLA-4). CONCLUSION: The immune metastatic risk score addresses important challenges in the treatment of cervical cancer - identifying patients at high risk of DM after radiotherapy. The findings of this study indicate that high tumor mutational burden and a 'cold', immune-excluded tumor microenvironment influence distant metastatic recurrence. Further validation of the risk score is needed.
38182756 | Single-cell analysis reveals the stromal dynamics and tumor-specific characteristics in the microenvironment of ovarian cancer. High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) is a heterogeneous disease, and a highstromal/desmoplastic tumor microenvironment (TME) is associated with a poor outcome. Stromal cell subtypes, including fibroblasts, myofibroblasts, and cancer-associated mesenchymal stem cells, establish a complex network of paracrine signaling pathways with tumor-infiltrating immune cells that drive effector cell tumor immune exclusion and inhibit the antitumor immune response. In this work, we integrate single-cell transcriptomics of the HGSOC TME from public and in-house datasets (n = 20) and stratify tumors based upon high vs. low stromal cell content. Although our cohort size is small, our analyses suggest a distinct transcriptomic landscape for immune and non-immune cells in high-stromal vs. low-stromal tumors. High-stromal tumors have a lower fraction of certain T cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and macrophages, and increased expression of CXCL12 in epithelial cancer cells and cancer-associated mesenchymal stem cells (CA-MSCs). Analysis of cell-cell communication indicate that epithelial cancer cells and CA-MSCs secrete CXCL12 that interacte with the CXCR4 receptor, which is overexpressed on NK and CD8+ T cells. Dual IHC staining show that tumor infiltrating CD8 T cells localize in proximity of CXCL12+ tumor area. Moreover, CXCL12 and/or CXCR4 antibodies confirm the immunosuppressive role of CXCL12-CXCR4 in high-stromal tumors.
38234792 | Cytotoxic chemotherapy potentiates the immune response and efficacy of combination CXCR4/PD-1 inhibition in models of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Purpose: The CXCL12-CXCR4 chemokine axis plays a significant role in modulating T-cell infiltration into the pancreatic tumor microenvironment. Despite promising preclinical findings, clinical trials combining inhibitors of CXCR4 (AMD3100/BL-8040) and anti-programmed death 1/ligand1 (anti-PD1/PD-L1) have failed to improve outcomes. Experimental Design: We utilized a novel ex vivo autologous patient-derived immune/organoid (PDIO) co-culture system using human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and patient derived tumor organoids, and in vivo the autochthonous LSL-KrasG12D/+; LSL-Trp53R172H/+; Pdx-1-Cre (KPC) pancreatic cancer mouse model to interrogate the effects of either monotherapy or all combinations of gemcitabine, AMD3100, and anit-PD1 on CD8+ T cell activation and survival. Results: We demonstrate that disruption of the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis using AMD3100 leads to increased migration and activation of CD8+ T-cells. In addition, when combined with the cytotoxic chemotherapy gemcitabine, CXCR4 inhibition further potentiated CD8+ T-cell activation. We next tested the combination of gemcitabine, CXCR4 inhibition, and anti-PD1 in the KPC pancreatic cancer mouse model and demonstrate that this combination markedly impacted the tumor immune microenvironment by increasing infiltration of natural killer cells, the ratio of CD8+ to regulatory T-cells, and tumor cell death while decreasing tumor cell proliferation. Moreover, this combination extended survival in KPC mice. Conclusions: These findings suggest that combining gemcitabine with CXCR4 inhibiting agents and anti-PD1 therapy controls tumor growth by reducing immunosuppression and potentiating immune cell activation and therefore may represent a novel approach to treating pancreatic cancer.
38306953 | CXCL12-CXCR4 mediates CD57+ CD8+ T cell responses in the progression of type 1 diabetes. CD57+ CD8+ T cells, also referred as effector memory cells, are implicated in various conditions including tumor immunity, virus immunity, and most recently with autoimmunity. However, their roles in the progression and remission of T1D are still unclear. Here, we noted an increase in peripheral CD57+ CD8+ T cells in a T1D patient harboring an activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) mutation. Our in-depth study on the role of CD57+ CD8+ T cells within a T1D patient cohort revealed that these cells undergo significant compositional shifts during the disease's progression. Longitudinal cohort data suggested that CD57+ CD8+ T cell prevalence may be a harbinger of beta-cell function decline in T1D patients. Characterized by robust cytotoxic activity, heightened production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and increased intracellular glucose uptake, these cells may be key players in the pathophysiology of T1D. Moreover, in vitro assays showed that the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis promotes the expansion and function of CD57+ CD8+ T cells via Erk1/2 signaling. Notably, the changes of serum CXCL12 concentrations were also found in individuals during the peri-remission phase of T1D. Furthermore, treatment with the CXCR4 antagonist LY2510924 reduced the immunological infiltration of CD57+ CD8+ T cells and mitigated hyperglycemia in a STZ-induced T1D mouse model. Taken together, our work has uncovered a novel role of the CXCL12-CXCR4 axis in driving CD57+ CD8+ T cells responses in T1D, and presented a promising therapeutic strategy for delaying the onset and progression of diabetes.
38338982 | CXCL12 Neutralizing Antibody Promotes Hair Growth in Androgenic Alopecia and Alopecia Areata. We had previously investigated the expression and functional role of C-X-C Motif Chemokine Ligand 12 (CXCL12) during the hair cycle progression. CXCL12 was highly expressed in stromal cells such as dermal fibroblasts (DFs) and inhibition of CXCL12 increased hair growth. Therefore, we further investigated whether a CXCL12 neutralizing antibody (alphaCXCL12) is effective for androgenic alopecia (AGA) and alopecia areata (AA) and studied the underlying molecular mechanism for treating these diseases. In the AGA model, CXCL12 is highly expressed in DFs. Subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of alphaCXCL12 significantly induced hair growth in AGA mice, and treatment with alphaCXCL12 attenuated the androgen-induced hair damage in hair organ culture. Androgens increased the secretion of CXCL12 from DFs through the androgen receptor (AR). Secreted CXCL12 from DFs increased the expression of the AR and C-X-C Motif Chemokine Receptor 4 (CXCR4) in dermal papilla cells (DPCs), which induced hair loss in AGA. Likewise, CXCL12 expression is increased in AA mice, while s.c. injection of alphaCXCL12 significantly inhibited hair loss in AA mice and reduced the number of CD8+, MHC-I+, and MHC-II+ cells in the skin. In addition, injection of alphaCXCL12 also prevented the onset of AA and reduced the number of CD8+ cells. Interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) treatment increased the secretion of CXCL12 from DFs through the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway, and alphaCXCL12 treatment protected the hair follicle from IFNgamma in hair organ culture. Collectively, these results indicate that CXCL12 is involved in the progression of AGA and AA and antibody therapy for CXCL12 is promising for hair loss treatment.
38360292 | Nanoparticle-mediated blockade of CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling enhances glioblastoma immunotherapy: Monitoring early responses with MRI radiomics. The limited therapeutic efficacy of checkpoint blockade immunotherapy against glioblastoma is closely related to the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment, where the latter is driven primarily by tumor-associated myeloid cells (TAMCs). Targeting the C-X-C motif chemokine ligand-12/C-X-C motif chemokine receptor-4 (CXCL12/CXCR4) signaling orchestrates the recruitment of TAMCs and has emerged as a promising approach for alleviating immunosuppression. Herein, we developed an iRGD ligand-modified polymeric nanoplatform for the co-delivery of CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100 and the small-molecule immune checkpoint inhibitor BMS-1. The iRGD peptide facilitated superior BBB crossing and tumor-targeting abilities both in vitro and in vivo. In mice bearing orthotopic GL261-Luc tumor, co-administration of AMD3100 and BMS-1 significantly inhibited tumor proliferation without adverse effects. A reprogramming of immunosuppression upon CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling blockade was observed, characterized by the reduction of TAMCs and regulatory T cells, and an increased proportion of CD8+T lymphocytes. The elevation of interferon-gamma secreted from activated immune cells upregulated PD-L1 expression in tumor cells, highlighting the synergistic effect of BMS-1 in counteracting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway. Finally, our research unveiled the ability of MRI radiomics to reveal early changes in the tumor immune microenvironment following immunotherapy, offering a powerful tool for monitoring treatment responses. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: The insufficient BBB penetration and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment greatly diminish the efficacy of immunotherapy for glioblastoma (GBM). In this study, we prepared iRGD-modified polymeric nanoparticles, loaded with a CXCR4 antagonist (AMD3100) and a small-molecule checkpoint inhibitor of PD-L1 (BMS-1) to overcome physical barriers and reprogram the immunosuppressive microenvironment in orthotopic GBM models. In this nanoplatform, AMD3100 converted the \cold\ immune microenvironment into a \hot\ one, while BMS-1 synergistically counteracted PD-L1 inhibition, enhancing GBM immunotherapy. Our findings underscore the potential of dual-blockade of CXCL12/CXCR4 and PD-1/PD-L1 pathways as a complementary approach to maximize therapeutic efficacy for GBM. Moreover, our study revealed that MRI radiomics provided a clinically translatable means to assess immunotherapeutic efficacy.
38493239 | Beyond the marrow: insights from comprehensive next-generation sequencing of extramedullary multiple myeloma tumors. Extramedullary multiple myeloma (EMM) is an aggressive form of multiple myeloma (MM). This study represents the most comprehensive next-generation sequencing analysis of EMM tumors (N = 14) to date, uncovering key molecular features and describing the tumor microenvironment. We observed the co-occurrence of 1q21 gain/amplification and MAPK pathway mutations in 79% of EMM samples, suggesting that these are crucial mutational events in EMM development. We also demonstrated that patients with mutated KRAS and 1q21 gain/amplification at the time of diagnosis have a significantly higher risk of EMM development (HR = 2.4, p = 0.011) using data from a large CoMMpass dataset. We identified downregulation of CXCR4 and enhanced cell proliferation, along with reduced expression of therapeutic targets (CD38, SLAMF7, GPRC5D, FCRH5), potentially explaining diminished efficacy of immunotherapy. Conversely, we identified significantly upregulated EZH2 and CD70 as potential future therapeutic options. For the first time, we report on the tumor microenvironment of EMM, revealing CD8+ T cells and NK cells as predominant immune effector cells using single-cell sequencing. Finally, this is the first longitudinal study in EMM revealing the molecular changes from the time of diagnosis to EMM relapse.
10660567 | Random mutagenesis and functional analysis of the Ran-binding protein, RanBP1. Ran GTPase is required for nucleocytoplasmic transport of many types of cargo. Several proteins that recognize Ran in its GTP-bound state (Ran x GTP) possess a conserved Ran-binding domain (RanBD). Ran-binding protein-1 (RanBP1) has a single RanBD and is required for RanGAP-mediated GTP hydrolysis and release of Ran from nuclear transport receptors (karyopherins). In budding yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), RanBP1 is encoded by the essential YRB1 gene; expression of mouse RanBP1 cDNA rescues the lethality of Yrb1-deficient cells. We generated libraries of mouse RanBP1 mutants and examined 11 mutants in vitro and for their ability to complement a temperature-sensitive yrb1 mutant (yrb1-51(ts)) in vivo. In 9 of the mutants, the alteration was a change in a residue (or 2 residues) that is conserved in all known RanBDs. However, 4 of these 9 mutants displayed biochemical properties indistinguishable from that of wild-type RanBP1. These mutants bound to Ran x GTP, stimulated RanGAP, inhibited the exchange activity of RCC1, and rescued growth of the yrb1-51(ts) yeast cells. Two of the 9 mutants altered in residues thought to be essential for interaction with Ran were unable to rescue growth of the yrb1(ts) mutant and did not bind detectably to Ran in vitro. However, one of these 2 mutants (and 2 others that were crippled in other RanBP1 functions) retained some ability to co-activate RanGAP. A truncated form of RanBP1 (lacking its nuclear export signal) was able to complement the yrb1(ts) mutation. When driven from the YRB1 promoter, 4 of the 5 mutants most impaired for Ran binding were unable to rescue growth of the yrb1(ts) cells; remarkably, these mutants could nevertheless form ternary complexes with importin-5 or importin-beta and Ran-GTP. The same mutants stimulated only inefficiently RanGAP-mediated GTP hydrolysis of the Ran x GTP x importin-5 complex. Thus, the essential biological activity of RanBP1 in budding yeast correlates not with Ran x GTP binding per se or with the ability to form ternary complexes with karyopherins, but with the capacity to potentiate RanGAP activity toward GTP-bound Ran in these complexes.
11032817 | Importin-11, a nuclear import receptor for the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, UbcM2. Importins are members of a family of transport receptors (karyopherins) that mediate the nucleocytoplasmic transport of protein and RNA cargoes. We identified importin-11 as a potential new human member of this family, on the basis of limited similarity to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae protein, Lph2p, and cloned the complete open reading frame. Importin-11 interacts with the Ran GTPase, and constitutively shuttles between the nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments. A yeast dihybrid screen identified UbcM2, an E2-type ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, as a binding partner and potential transport cargo for importin-11. Importin-11 and UbcM2 interact directly, and the complex is disassembled by Ran:GTP but not by Ran:GDP. UbcM2 is constitutively nuclear and shuttles between the nuclear and cytoplasmic compartments. Nuclear import of UbcM2 requires Ran and importin-11, and is inhibited by wheatgerm agglutinin, energy depletion or dominant interfering mutants of Ran and importin-beta. These data establish importin-11 as a new member of the karyopherin family of transport receptors, and identify UbcM2 as a nuclear member of the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme family.
11528126 | Comparative architectural aspects of regions of conserved synteny on human chromosome 11p15.3 and mouse chromosome 7 (including genes WEE1 and LMO1). Human chromosome 11p15.3 is associated with chromosome aberrations in the Beckwith Wiedemann Syndrome and implicated in the pathogenesis of different tumor types including lung cancer and leukemias. To date, only single tumor-relevant genes with linkage to this region (e.g. LMO1) have been found suggesting that this region may harbor additional potential disease associated genes. Although this genomic area has been studied for years, the exact order of genes/chromosome markers between D11S572 and the WEE1 gene locus remained unclear. Using the FISH technique and PAC clones of the flanking markers we determined the order of the genomic markers. Based on these clones we established a PAC contig of the respective region. To analyse the chromosome area in detail the synteny of the orthologous region on distal mouse chromosome 7 was determined and a corresponding mouse clone contig established, proving the conserved order of the genes and markers in both species: \cen-WEE1-D11S2043-ZNF143-RANBP7-CEGF1- ST5-D11S932-LMO1-D11S572-TUB-tel\, with inverted order of the murine genes with respect to the telomere/centromere orientation. The region covered by these contigs comprises roughly 1.6 MB in human as well as in mouse. The genomic sequence of the two subregions (around WEE1 and LMO1) in both species was determined using a shotgun sequencing strategy. Comparative sequence analysis techniques demonstrate that the content of repetitive elements seems to decline from centromere to telomere (52.6% to 34.5%) in human and in the corresponding murine region from telomere to centromere (41.87% to 27.82%). Genomic organisation of the regions around WEE1 and LMO1 was conserved, although the length of gene regions varied between the species in an unpredictable ratio. CpG islands were found conserved in putative promoter regions of the known genes but also in regions which so far have not been described as harboring expressed sequences.
11809816 | Ribosomal protein L12 uses a distinct nuclear import pathway mediated by importin 11. Ribosome biogenesis requires the nuclear translocation of ribosomal proteins from their site of synthesis in the cytoplasm to the nucleus. Analyses of the import mechanisms have revealed that most ribosomal proteins can be delivered to the nucleus by multiple transport receptors (karyopherins or importins). We now provide evidence that ribosomal protein L12 (rpL12) is distinguished from the bulk of ribosomal proteins because it accesses the importin 11 pathway as a major route into the nucleus. rpL12 specifically and directly interacted with importin 11 in vitro and in vivo. Both rpL12 binding to and import by importin 11 were inhibited by another importin 11 substrate, UbcM2, indicating that these two cargoes may bind overlapping sites on the transport receptor. In contrast, the import of rpL23a, a ribosomal protein that uses the general ribosomal protein import system, was not competed by UbcM2, and in an in vitro binding assay, importin 11 did not bind to the nuclear localization signal of rpL23a. Furthermore, in a transient transfection assay, the nuclear accumulation of rpL12 was increased by coexpressed importin 11, but not by other importins. These data are consistent with importin 11 being a mediator of rpL12 nuclear import. Taken together, these results indicate that rpL12 uses a distinct nuclear import pathway that may contribute to a mechanism for regulating ribosome synthesis and/or maturation.
12426392 | Exp5 exports eEF1A via tRNA from nuclei and synergizes with other transport pathways to confine translation to the cytoplasm. Importin beta-type transport receptors mediate the vast majority of transport pathways between cell nucleus and cytoplasm. We identify here the translation elongation factor 1A (eEF1A) as the predominant nuclear export substrate of RanBP21/exportin 5 (Exp5). This cargo-exportin interaction is rather un usual in that eEF1A binds the exportin not directly, but instead via aminoacylated tRNAs. Exp5 thus represents the second directly RNA-binding exportin and mediates tRNA export in parallel with exportin-t. It was suggested recently that 10-15% of the cellular translation would occur in the nucleus. Our data rule out such a scenario and instead suggest that nuclear translation is actively suppressed by the nuclear export machinery. We found that the vast majority of translation initiation factors (eIF2, eIF2B, eIF3, eIF4A1, eIF5 and eIF5B), all three elongation factors (eEF1A, eEF1B and eEF2) and the termination factor eRF1 are strictly excluded from nuclei. Besides Exp5 and importin 13, CRM1 and as yet unidentified exportins also contribute to the depletion of translation factors from nuclei.
12670497 | Interaction between protein phosphatase 2A and members of the importin beta superfamily. While performing a yeast two-hybrid library screen to uncover novel PP2A-interacting proteins, we discovered a specific interaction between a member of the importin beta/karyopherin beta superfamily, importin 9, and the A subunit of PP2A (PR65). This interaction between importin 9 and the A subunit was confirmed by in vitro pulldown, immunoprecipitation, and microcystin-Sepharose chromatography. We also found that another family member, importin beta, interacted specifically with the A subunit of PP2A. Finally, we showed that treatment of cells with a concentration of okadaic acid known to inhibit PP2A impeded the nuclear localization of an NLS-containing protein. These results provide evidence that these importins can exist in a native complex with endogenous PP2A and that this serine/threonine phosphatase plays a role in regulating the nuclear import of NLS-containing proteins in vivo.
12861017 | Overlapping signals for protein degradation and nuclear localization define a role for intrinsic RAG-2 nuclear uptake in dividing cells. Expression of the recombinase proteins RAG-1 and RAG-2 is discordant: while RAG-1 is relatively long lived, RAG-2 is degraded periodically at the G(1)-S transition. Destruction of RAG-2 is mediated by a conserved interval in the recombination-dispensable region. The need for RAG-2 to reaccumulate in the nucleus at each cell division suggested the existence of an intrinsic RAG-2 nuclear localization signal (NLS). RAG-1 or RAG-2, expressed individually, is a nuclear protein. A screen for proteins that bind the recombination-dispensable region of RAG-2 identified the nuclear transport protein Importin 5. Mutation of residues 499 to 508 in RAG-2 abolished Importin 5 binding, nuclear accumulation, and periodic degradation of RAG-2. The Importin 5 binding site overlaps an NLS, defined by mutagenesis. RAG-1 rescued the localization of degradation-defective, RAG-2 NLS mutants; this required an intact RAG-1 NLS. Mutations in RAG-2 that abolish intrinsic nuclear accumulation but spare periodic degradation impaired recombination in cycling cells; induction of quiescence restored recombination to wild-type levels. Recombination defects were correlated with a cell cycle-dependent defect in the ability of RAG-1 to rescue localization of the RAG-2 mutants. These results suggest that the intrinsic RAG-2 NLS functions in the nuclear uptake of RAG-2 following its reexpression in cycling cells.
15545318 | Ubiquitin charging of human class III ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes triggers their nuclear import. Ubiquitin is a small polypeptide that is conjugated to proteins and commonly serves as a degradation signal. The attachment of ubiquitin (Ub) to a substrate proceeds through a multi-enzyme cascade involving an activating enzyme (E1), a conjugating enzyme (E2), and a protein ligase (E3). We previously demonstrated that a murine E2, UbcM2, is imported into nuclei by the transport receptor importin-11. We now show that the import mechanism for UbcM2 and two other human class III E2s (UbcH6 and UBE2E2) uniquely requires the covalent attachment of Ub to the active site cysteine of these enzymes. This coupling of E2 activation and transport arises from the selective interaction of importin-11 with the Ub-loaded forms of these enzymes. Together, these findings reveal that Ub charging can function as a nuclear import trigger, and identify a novel link between E2 regulation and karyopherin-mediated transport.
16134771 | Comparison of asthma phenotypes using different sensitizing protocols in mice. BACKGROUND: Several methods have been reported to induce asthmatic reactions in mice but few studies have compared their efficiency. We evaluated the efficiency of the protocols frequently used in the literature. METHODS: BALB/c mice were sensitized to ovalbumin (OVA) by intraperitoneal injection; 1] Once a week for two weeks using OVA with alum (IPOA-2) or without (IPO-2), and provocation on days 28-30 by 1% OVA inhalation; 2] seven times for two weeks by OVA with alum (IPOA-7) or without (IPO-7) and provocation by 1% OVA inhalation on days 42-44. 3] Sensitization by 1% OVA inhalation for ten days (IHO-10) and provocation by 1% OVA inhalation on days 28-30. After the last challenge, airway hyperresponsiveness was measured with single chamber plethysmography 24 hours later and mice were sacrificed 48 hours later. RESULTS: Airway hyperresponsiveness, BALF eosinophilia, airway inflammation, and OVA-specific IgE and IgG1 production were effectively induced in IPOA-2, IPOA-7, and IPO-7. However, these phenotypes were not induced in IPO-2 (except for increased BALF eosinophils) or IHO-10 (except for an increased OVA-specific IgG1 level). CONCLUSION: The intraperitoneal injections of OVA with alum once a week for two weeks proved to be the most efficient sensitization method of inducing an asthmatic reaction in mice.
17848547 | Nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of the zinc finger protein EZI Is mediated by importin-7-dependent nuclear import and CRM1-independent export mechanisms. Nucleocytoplasmic translocation constitutes a foundation for nuclear proteins to exert their proper functions and hence for various biological reactions to occur normally in eukaryotic cells. We reported previously that EZI/Zfp467, a 12 zinc finger motif-containing protein, localizes predominantly in the nucleus, yet the underlying mechanism still remains elusive. Here we constructed a series of mutant forms of EZI and examined their subcellular localization. The results delineated a non-canonical nuclear localization signal in the region covering the 9th to the 12th zinc fingers, which was necessary for nuclear accumulation of EZI as well as sufficient to confer nuclear localizing ability to a heterologous protein. We also found that the N-terminal domain of EZI is necessary for its nuclear export, the process of which was not sensitive to the CRM1 inhibitor leptomycin B. An interaction proteomics approach and the following co-immunoprecipitation experiments identified the nuclear import receptor importin-7 as a molecule that associated with EZI and, importantly, short interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of importin-7 expression completely abrogated nuclear accumulation of EZI. Taken together, these results identify EZI as a novel cargo protein for importin-7 and demonstrate a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling mechanism that is mediated by importin-7-dependent nuclear localization and CRM1-independent nuclear export.
19204005 | Regulation of nuclear import and export of negative cofactor 2. The negative cofactor 2 (NC2) is a protein complex composed of two subunits, NC2alpha and NC2beta, and plays a key role in transcription regulation. Here we investigate whether each subunit contains a nuclear localization signal (NLS) that permits individual crossing of the nuclear membrane or whether nuclear import of NC2alpha and NC2beta depends on heterodimerization. Our results from in vitro binding studies and transfection experiments in cultured cells show that each subunit contains a classical NLS (cNLS) that is recognized by the importin alpha/beta heterodimer. Regardless of the individual cNLSs the two NC2 subunits are translocated as a preassembled complex as co-transfection experiments with wild-type and cNLS-deficient NC2 subunits demonstrate. Ran-dependent binding of the nuclear export receptor Crm1/exportin 1 confirmed the presence of a leucine-rich nuclear export signal (NES) in NC2beta. In contrast, NC2alpha does not exhibit a NES. Our results from interspecies heterokaryon assays suggest that heterodimerization with NC2alpha masks the NES in NC2beta, which prevents nuclear export of the NC2 complex. A mutation in either one of the two cNLSs decreases the extent of importin alpha/beta-mediated nuclear import of the NC2 complex. In addition, the NC2 complex can enter the nucleus via a second pathway, facilitated by importin 13. Because importin 13 binds exclusively to the NC2 complex but not to the individual subunits this alternative import pathway depends on sequence elements distributed among the two subunits.
19256485 | The ubiquitin conjugating enzyme, UbcM2, engages in novel interactions with components of cullin-3 based E3 ligases. The class III ubiquitin conjugating enzymes (E2s) are distinguished from other E2s by the presence of unique N-terminal domains, and the utilization of importin-11 for transport into the nucleus in an activation dependent fashion. To begin determining the physiological roles of these enzymes, we carried out a yeast two-hybrid screen with the class III E2, UbcM2. This screen retrieved RCBTB1, a putative substrate adaptor for a cullin3 (CUL3) E3 ligase. We initially established through biochemical studies that RCBTB1 has the properties of a CUL3 substrate adaptor. Further analysis of the UbcM2-RCBTB1 complex led to the discovery and characterization of the following novel interactions: (i) UbcM2 binds an N-terminal domain of CUL3 requiring the first 57 amino acids, the same domain that binds to RCBTB1 and other substrate adaptors; (ii) UbcM2 does not bind mutants of CUL3 that are deficient in substrate adaptor recruitment; (iii) UbcM2 interacts with CUL3 independent of a bridging RING-finger protein; and (iv) can engage the neddylated (i.e., activated) form of CUL3. We also present evidence that UbcM2 can bind to the N-terminal halves of multiple cullins, implying that this E2 is a general cofactor for this class of ligases. Together, these studies represent the first evidence that UbcM2, in concert with substrate adaptors, engages activated CUL3 ligases, thus suggesting that class III E2s are novel regulators of cullin ligases.
19805818 | Identification of novel genes that mediate innate immunity using inbred mice. Innate immunity is the first line of defense against microbial infections. Although polymorphisms in toll-like receptors (TLRs) and downstream signaling molecules (CD14, TLR2, TLR4, TLR5, and IRAK4) affect the innate immune response, these variants account for only a portion of the ability of the host to respond to bacteria, fungi, and viruses. To identify other genes involved in the innate immune response, we challenged 16 inbred murine strains with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) systemically and measured serum concentrations of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNFalpha, and the chemokine KC 6 hr post-treatment. Loci that segregate with strain phenotypes were identified by whole genome association (WGA) mapping of cytokine concentrations. Published gene expression profiles and quantitative trait loci (QTL) were then utilized to prioritize loci and genes that potentially regulate the host response to LPS. Sixteen loci were selected for further investigation by combining WGA analysis with previously published QTL for murine response to LPS or gram negative bacteria. Thirty-eight genes within these loci were then selected for further investigation on the basis of the significance of the identified locus, transcriptional response to LPS, and biological plausibility. RNA interference-mediated inhibition of 4 of 38 candidate genes was shown to block the production of IL-6 in J774A.1 macrophages. In summary, our analysis identified 4 genes that have not previously been implicated in innate immunity, namely, 1110058L19Rik, 4933415F23Rik, Fbxo9, and Ipo7. These genes could represent potential sepsis biomarkers or therapeutic targets that should be further investigated in human populations.
19819847 | [Influence of Tripterygium wilfordii on the expression of spermiogenesis related genes Herc4, Ipo11 and Mrto4 in mice]. The mechanism of Tripterygium wilfordii (GTW) inhibiting productive function was studied in the male mice. The male mice were randomly divided into control group and GTW group. GTW group had been given Tripterygium wilfordii for 8 weeks. The pregnancy rate was investigated after the male mice mated with the normal female mice (1ratio2) in one week. Also the pathological changes of the male mice testis were evaluated by the optical microscope and the expression of genes related to reproduction was investigated by Gene Chip Technology 8 weeks later. The results showed pregnancy rate of GTW group was obviously decreased compared with the control mice, and no pregnancy occurred in GTW group at 8 weeks. In the testis tissues of GTW group, the spermatogenic cells in the convoluted seminiferous tubules were obviously decreased and the lumen was obstructed by large deciduous spermatogenic cells. The number of abnormal expression genes in this group was 1 932. Among them, 354 genes were related to reproduction, including 112 up-regulated and 242 down-regulated genes. Genes Herc4, Ipo11, and Mrto4, which are closely associated with spermiogenesis, were expressed irregularly. The outcome indicates that the inhibitive reproduction of Tripterygium wilfordii in the male mice is associated with the abnormal expression of spermiogenesis genes.
19906922 | Extrachromosomal histone H2B mediates innate antiviral immune responses induced by intracellular double-stranded DNA. Fragments of double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) forming a right-handed helical structure (B-DNA) stimulate cells to produce type I interferons (IFNs). While an adaptor molecule, IFN-beta promoter stimulator 1 (IPS-1), mediates dsDNA-induced cellular signaling in human cells, the underlying molecular mechanism is not fully understood. Here, we demonstrate that the extrachromosomal histone H2B mediates innate antiviral immune responses in human cells. H2B physically interacts with IPS-1 through the association with a newly identified adaptor, CIAO (COOH-terminal importin 9-related adaptor organizing histone H2B and IPS-1), to transmit the cellular signaling for dsDNA but not immunostimulatory RNA. Extrachromosomal histone H2B was biologically crucial for cell-autonomous responses to protect against multiplication of DNA viruses but not an RNA virus. Thus, the present findings provide evidence indicating that the extrachromosomal histone H2B is engaged in the signaling pathway initiated by dsDNA to trigger antiviral innate immune responses.
22295092 | Specific nuclear localizing sequence directs two myosin isoforms to the cell nucleus in calmodulin-sensitive manner. BACKGROUND: Nuclear myosin I (NM1) was the first molecular motor identified in the cell nucleus. Together with nuclear actin, they participate in crucial nuclear events such as transcription, chromatin movements, and chromatin remodeling. NM1 is an isoform of myosin 1c (Myo1c) that was identified earlier and is known to act in the cytoplasm. NM1 differs from the \cytoplasmic\ myosin 1c only by additional 16 amino acids at the N-terminus of the molecule. This amino acid stretch was therefore suggested to direct NM1 into the nucleus. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We investigated the mechanism of nuclear import of NM1 in detail. Using over-expressed GFP chimeras encoding for truncated NM1 mutants, we identified a specific sequence that is necessary for its import to the nucleus. This novel nuclear localization sequence is placed within calmodulin-binding motif of NM1, thus it is present also in the Myo1c. We confirmed the presence of both isoforms in the nucleus by transfection of tagged NM1 and Myo1c constructs into cultured cells, and also by showing the presence of the endogenous Myo1c in purified nuclei of cells derived from knock-out mice lacking NM1. Using pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays we identified importin beta, importin 5 and importin 7 as nuclear transport receptors that bind NM1. Since the NLS sequence of NM1 lies within the region that also binds calmodulin we tested the influence of calmodulin on the localization of NM1. The presence of elevated levels of calmodulin interfered with nuclear localization of tagged NM1. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We have shown that the novel specific NLS brings to the cell nucleus not only the \nuclear\ isoform of myosin I (NM1 protein) but also its \cytoplasmic\ isoform (Myo1c protein). This opens a new field for exploring functions of this molecular motor in nuclear processes, and for exploring the signals between cytoplasm and the nucleus.
22323606 | Active maintenance of nuclear actin by importin 9 supports transcription. Besides its essential and well established role as a component of the cytoskeleton, actin is also present in the cell nucleus, where it has been linked to many processes that control gene expression. For example, nuclear actin regulates the activity of specific transcription factors, associates with all three RNA polymerases, and is a component of many chromatin remodelling complexes. Despite the fact that two export receptors, Crm1 and exportin 6, have been linked to nuclear export of actin, the mechanism by which actin enters the nucleus to elicit these essential functions has not been determined. It is also unclear whether actin is actively exchanged between the nucleus and the cytoplasm, and whether this connection has any functional significance for the cell. By applying a variety of live-cell imaging techniques we revealed that actin constantly shuttles in and out of the nucleus. The fast transport rates, which depend on the availability of actin monomers, suggest an active transport mechanism in both directions. Importantly, we identified importin 9 as the nuclear import factor for actin. Furthermore, our RNAi experiments showed that the active maintenance of nuclear actin levels by importin 9 is required for maximal transcriptional activity. Measurements of nuclear export rates and depletion studies also clarified that nuclear export of actin is mediated by exportin 6, and not by Crm1. These results demonstrate that cytoplasmic and nuclear actin pools are dynamically connected and identify the nuclear import and export mechanisms of actin.
22737227 | Genome-wide profiling of pluripotent cells reveals a unique molecular signature of human embryonic germ cells. Human embryonic germ cells (EGCs) provide a powerful model for identifying molecules involved in the pluripotent state when compared to their progenitors, primordial germ cells (PGCs), and other pluripotent stem cells. Microarray and Principal Component Analysis (PCA) reveals for the first time that human EGCs possess a transcription profile distinct from PGCs and other pluripotent stem cells. Validation with qRT-PCR confirms that human EGCs and PGCs express many pluripotency-associated genes but with quantifiable differences compared to pluripotent embryonic stem cells (ESCs), induced pluripotent stem cells (IPSCs), and embryonal carcinoma cells (ECCs). Analyses also identified a number of target genes that may be potentially associated with their unique pluripotent states. These include IPO7, MED7, RBM26, HSPD1, and KRAS which were upregulated in EGCs along with other pluripotent stem cells when compared to PGCs. Other potential target genes were also found which may contribute toward a primed ESC-like state. These genes were exclusively up-regulated in ESCs, IPSCs and ECCs including PARP1, CCNE1, CDK6, AURKA, MAD2L1, CCNG1, and CCNB1 which are involved in cell cycle regulation, cellular metabolism and DNA repair and replication. Gene classification analysis also confirmed that the distinguishing feature of EGCs compared to ESCs, ECCs, and IPSCs lies primarily in their genetic contribution to cellular metabolism, cell cycle, and cell adhesion. In contrast, several genes were found upregulated in PGCs which may help distinguish their unipotent state including HBA1, DMRT1, SPANXA1, and EHD2. Together, these findings provide the first glimpse into a unique genomic signature of human germ cells and pluripotent stem cells and provide genes potentially involved in defining different states of germ-line pluripotency.
23749625 | Steady-state nuclear actin levels are determined by export competent actin pool. A number of studies in the last decade have irrevocably promoted actin into a fully fledged member of the nuclear compartment, where it, among other crucial tasks, facilitates transcription and chromatin remodeling. Changes in nuclear actin levels have been linked to different cellular processes: decreased nuclear actin to quiescence and increased nuclear actin to differentiation. Importin 9 and exportin 6 transport factors are responsible for the continuous nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of actin, but the mechanisms, which result in modulated actin levels, have not been characterized. We find that in cells growing under normal growth conditions, the levels of nuclear actin vary considerably from cell to cell. To understand the basis for this, we have extensively quantified several cellular parameters while at the same time recording the import and export rates of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged actin. Surprisingly, our dataset shows that the ratio of nuclear to cytoplasmic fluorescence intensity, but not nuclear shape, size, cytoplasm size, or their ratio, correlates negatively with both import and export rate of actin. This suggests that high-nuclear actin content is maintained by both diminished import and export. The high nuclear actin containing cells still show high mobility of actin, but it is not export competent, suggesting increased binding of actin to nuclear complexes. Creation of such export incompetent actin pool would ensure enough actin is retained in the nucleus and make it available for the various nuclear functions described for actin.
23833298 | Regulation of cell proliferation and migration by keratin19-induced nuclear import of early growth response-1 in breast cancer cells. PURPOSE: Keratin19 (KRT19) is the smallest known type I intermediate filament and is used as a marker for reverse transcriptase PCR-mediated detection of disseminated tumors. In this study, we investigated the functional analysis of KRT19 in human breast cancer. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Using a short hairpin RNA system, we silenced KRT19 in breast cancer cells. KRT19 silencing was verified by Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry. We further examined the effect of KRT19 silencing on breast cancer cells by cell proliferation, migration, invasion, colony formation assay, cell-cycle analysis, immunocytochemistry, immunohistochemistry, and mouse xenograft assay. RESULTS: Silencing of KRT19 resulted in increased cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and survival. These effects were mediated by upregulation of Akt signaling as a result of reduced PTEN mRNA expression. Silencing of KRT19 decreased the nuclear import of early growth response-1 (Egr1), a transcriptional factor for PTEN transcription, through reduced association between Egr1 and importin-7. We also confirmed that silencing of KRT19 increased tumor formation in a xenograft model. CONCLUSIONS: KRT19 is a potential tumor suppressor that negatively regulates Akt signaling through modulation of Egr1 nuclear localization.
24798243 | New proteomic insights on the role of NPR-A in regulating self-renewal of embryonic stem cells. Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) have the ability to self-renew indefinitely and they can give unlimited source of cells and tissues for cellular therapies. Recently, the natriuretic peptide receptor A (NPR-A) has been recognized as an important regulator for the self-renewal of ESCs. To gain insights into possible novel mechanisms involved in NPR-A pathway that presumably regulates self-renewal and survival of ESCs, we utilized a comprehensive label-free proteomics technology in our study. Targeting of NPR-A gene with small interfering RNA (siRNA) resulted in the inhibition of ESCs self-renewal. Coherently, quantitative label-free shotgun proteomic analysis identified differentially expressed proteins involved in several biological processes, including cell cycle regulation, cell proliferation, cell fate specification, and apoptosis. Interestingly, in addition to Oct4 Nanog, and Sox2, other proteins involved in ESCs self-renewal were down-regulated after NPR-A knockdown, such as heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2/B1 (ROA2), non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding protein (Nono), nucleoplasmin (Npm1), histone H2A type 1-B/E (histone H2A.2), SW1/SNF complex (Brg1), polycomb protein Suz12 (Suz12), and cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (Cdk4). Furthermore, several protein candidates involved in early differentiation and cell death were up-regulated or down-regulated as a result of NPR-A knockdown, including importin subunit alpha-4 (Impalpha4), importin-5 (Ipo5), H3 histones, core histone macro-H2A.1 (H2A.y), apurine/apyrimidine endonuclease 1 (Apex1), 78-kDa glucose-regulated protein (Grp78), and programmed cell death 5 (Pdcd5). Overall, these findings depict a comprehensive view to our understanding of the pathways involved in the role of NPR-A in maintaining ESC functions. 
26140478 | Intranuclear Actin Regulates Osteogenesis. Depolymerization of the actin cytoskeleton induces nuclear trafficking of regulatory proteins and global effects on gene transcription. We here show that in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), cytochalasin D treatment causes rapid cofilin-/importin-9-dependent transfer of G-actin into the nucleus. The continued presence of intranuclear actin, which forms rod-like structures that stain with phalloidin, is associated with induction of robust expression of the osteogenic genes osterix and osteocalcin in a Runx2-dependent manner, and leads to acquisition of osteogenic phenotype. Adipogenic differentiation also occurs, but to a lesser degree. Intranuclear actin leads to nuclear export of Yes-associated protein (YAP); maintenance of nuclear YAP inhibits Runx2 initiation of osteogenesis. Injection of cytochalasin into the tibial marrow space of live mice results in abundant bone formation within the space of 1 week. In sum, increased intranuclear actin forces MSC into osteogenic lineage through controlling Runx2 activity; this process may be useful for clinical objectives of forming bone.
26173551 | A New Genomewide Association Meta-Analysis of Alcohol Dependence. BACKGROUND: Conventional meta-analysis based on genetic markers may be less powerful for heterogeneous samples. In this study, we introduced a new meta-analysis for 4 genomewide association studies on alcohol dependence that integrated the information of putative causal variants. METHODS: A total of 12,481 subjects in 4 independent cohorts were analyzed, including 1 European American cohort (1,409 cases with alcohol dependence and 1,518 controls), 1 European Australian cohort (a total of 6,438 family subjects with 1,645 probands), 1 African American cohort from SAGE + COGA (681 cases and 508 controls), and 1 African American cohort from Yale (1,429 cases and 498 controls). The genomewide association analysis was conducted for each cohort, and then, a new meta-analysis was performed to derive the combined p-values. cis-Acting expression of quantitative locus (cis-eQTL) analysis of each risk variant in human tissues and RNA expression analysis of each risk gene in rat brain served as functional validation. RESULTS: In meta-analysis of European American and European Australian cohorts, we found 10 top-ranked single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (p < 10(-6) ) that were associated with alcohol dependence. They included 6 at SERINC2 (3.1 x 10(-8) <= p <= 9.6 x 10(-8) ), 1 at STK40 (p = 1.3 x 10(-7) ), 2 at KIAA0040 (3.3 x 10(-7) <= p <= 5.2 x 10(-7) ), and 1 at IPO11 (p = 6.9 x 10(-7) ). In meta-analysis of 2 African American cohorts, we found 2 top-ranked SNPs including 1 at SLC6A11 (p = 2.7 x 10(-7) ) and 1 at CBLN2 (p = 7.4 x 10(-7) ). In meta-analysis of all 4 cohorts, we found 2 top-ranked SNPs in PTP4A1-PHF3 locus (6.0 x 10(-7) <= p <= 7.2 x 10(-7) ). In an African American cohort only, we found 1 top-ranked SNP at PLD1 (p = 8.3 x 10(-7) ; OR = 1.56). Many risk SNPs had positive cis-eQTL signals, and all these risk genes except KIAA0040 were found to express in both rat and mouse brains. CONCLUSIONS: We found multiple genes that were significantly or suggestively associated with alcohol dependence. They are among the most appropriate for follow-up as contributors to risk for alcohol dependence.
26274783 | Ras Transformation Overrides a Proliferation Defect Induced by Tpm3.1 Knockout. Extensive re-organisation of the actin cytoskeleton and changes in the expression of its binding proteins is a characteristic feature of cancer cells. Previously we have shown that the tropomyosin isoform Tpm3.1, an integral component of the actin cytoskeleton in tumor cells, is required for tumor cell survival. Our objective was to determine whether cancer cells devoid of Tpm3.1 would evade the tumorgenic effects induced by H-Ras transformation. The tropomyosin isoform (Tpm) expression profile of a range of cancer cell lines (21) demonstrates that Tpm3.1 is one of the most broadly expressed Tpm isoform. Consequently, the contribution of Tpm3.1 to the transformation process was functionally evaluated. Primary embryonic fibroblasts isolated from wild type (WT) and Tpm3.1 knockout (KO) mice were transduced with retroviral vectors expressing SV40 large T antigen and an oncogenic allele of the H-Ras gene, H-RasV12, to generate immortalized and transformed WT and KO MEFs respectively. We show that Tpm3.1 is required for growth factor-independent proliferation in the SV40 large T antigen immortalized MEFs, but this requirement is overcome by H-Ras transformation. Consistent with those findings, we found that Tpm3.1 was not required for anchorage independent growth or growth of H-Ras-driven tumors in a mouse model. Finally, we show that pERK and Importin 7 protein interactions are significantly decreased in the SV40 large T antigen immortalized KO MEFs but not in the H-Ras transformed KO cells, relative to control MEFs. The data demonstrate that H-Ras transformation overrides a requirement for Tpm3.1 in growth factor-independent proliferation of immortalized MEFs. We propose that in the SV40 large T antigen immortalized MEFs, Tpm3.1 is partly responsible for the efficient interaction between pERK and Imp7 resulting in cell proliferation, but this is overidden by Ras transformation. 
27875560 | Denervation-Induced Activation of the Standard Proteasome and Immunoproteasome. The standard 26S proteasome is responsible for the majority of myofibrillar protein degradation leading to muscle atrophy. The immunoproteasome is an inducible form of the proteasome. While its function has been linked to conditions of atrophy, its contribution to muscle proteolysis remains unclear. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine if the immunoproteasome plays a role in skeletal muscle atrophy induced by denervation. Adult male C57BL/6 wild type (WT) and immunoproteasome knockout lmp7-/-/mecl-1-/- (L7M1) mice underwent tibial nerve transection on the left hindlimb for either 7 or 14 days, while control mice did not undergo surgery. Proteasome activity (caspase-, chymotrypsin-, and trypsin- like), protein content of standard proteasome (beta1, beta5 and beta2) and immunoproteasome (LMP2, LMP7 and MECL-1) catalytic subunits were determined in the gastrocnemius muscle. Denervation induced significant atrophy and was accompanied by increased activities and protein content of the catalytic subunits in both WT and L7M1 mice. Although denervation resulted in a similar degree of muscle atrophy between strains, the mice lacking two immunoproteasome subunits showed a differential response in the extent and duration of proteasome features, including activities and content of the beta1, beta5 and LMP2 catalytic subunits. The results indicate that immunoproteasome deficiency alters the proteasome's composition and activities. However, the immunoproteasome does not appear to be essential for muscle atrophy induced by denervation.
28193699 | Importin-11 keeps PTEN safe from harm. In this issue, Chen et al. (2017. J. Cell Biol. https://doi.org/10.1083/jcb.201604025) show that Importin-11 traffics the tumor suppressor PTEN into the nucleus and in so doing protects it from cytoplasmic proteins that cause PTEN degradation. This work helps explain the nuclear accumulation of PTEN observed in many healthy tissues and, because Ipo11 mutant mice develop lung tumors, also implicates Importin-11 as a novel tumor suppressor.
28193700 | The nuclear transport receptor Importin-11 is a tumor suppressor that maintains PTEN protein. Phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN) protein levels are critical for tumor suppression. However, the search for a recurrent cancer-associated gene alteration that causes PTEN degradation has remained futile. In this study, we show that Importin-11 (Ipo11) is a transport receptor for PTEN that is required to physically separate PTEN from elements of the PTEN degradation machinery. Mechanistically, we find that the E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme and IPO11 cargo, UBE2E1, is a limiting factor for PTEN degradation. Using in vitro and in vivo gene-targeting methods, we show that Ipo11 loss results in degradation of Pten, lung adenocarcinoma, and neoplasia in mouse prostate with aberrantly high levels of Ube2e1 in the cytoplasm. These findings explain the correlation between loss of IPO11 and PTEN protein in human lung tumors. Furthermore, we find that IPO11 status predicts disease recurrence and progression to metastasis in patients choosing radical prostatectomy. Thus, our data introduce the IPO11 gene as a tumor-suppressor locus, which is of special importance in cancers that still retain at least one intact PTEN allele.
28258103 | Protecting PTEN in the Nucleus. A recent study shows that the transport receptor Importin-11 relocates PTEN, a tumor suppressor, to the nucleus, preventing its degradation in the cytoplasm. Mice lacking Importin-11 are prone to lung cancers, and its absence in human prostate and lung tumors signals a poorer prognosis.
28390868 | Small Nucleolar Noncoding RNA SNORA23, Up-Regulated in Human Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma, Regulates Expression of Spectrin Repeat-Containing Nuclear Envelope 2 to Promote Growth and Metastasis of Xenograft Tumors in Mice. BACKGROUND & AIMS: Small nucleolar noncoding RNAs (snoRNAs) regulate function of ribosomes, and specific snoRNAs are dysregulated in some cancer cells. We investigated dysregulation of snoRNAs in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells. METHODS: We investigated snoRNA expression in PDAC cell lines by complementary DNA microarray and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. In PDAC (n = 133), intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (n = 16), mucinous cystic neoplasm-associated PDAC (n = 1), and non-tumor pancreas (n = 8) and liver (n = 3) tissues from subjects who underwent surgical resection, levels of snoRNA were measured by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and compared with clinicopathologic parameters and survival times determined by Kaplan-Meier analysis. To examine snoRNA function, PDAC cells were transfected with snoRNA-antisense oligonucleotides flanked with amido-bridged nucleic acids, or snoRNA-expression plasmids, and analyzed in proliferation, colony formation, spheroid formation, and invasion assays. To identify snoRNA-related factors, cells were analyzed by gene expression and proteomic profiling and immunoblot assays. Mice were given intrasplenic injections of MIA PaCa2- or Suit2-HLMC cells; tumor-bearing nude mice were then given 3 weekly injections of an antisense oligonucleotides against SNORA23, a H/ACA-box type snoRNA, and tumor growth and metastasis to liver, blood, and pancreas were analyzed. RESULTS: Levels of SNORA23 increased and accumulated at the nucleolus in highly metastatic MIA PaCa2- or Suit2-HLMC cells compared with their parental cells. We detected SNORA23 in human PDAC specimens but not in non-tumor pancreatic tissue. PDAC level of SNORA23 correlated with invasion grade and correlated inversely with disease-free survival time of patients. Expression of SNORA23 in PDAC cells increased their invasive activity and colony formation, and spheroid formation was inhibited by SNORA23 knockdown. In gene expression and proteomic profile analyses, we found SNORA23 to increase expression of spectrin repeat-containing nuclear envelope 2 (SYNE2) messenger RNA and protein. Knockdown of SYNE2 in PDAC cells reduced their invasive activities and anchor-independent survival. Administration of SNORA23 antisense oligonucleotides to mice slowed growth of xenograft tumors, tumor expression of SYNE2, tumor cell dissemination, and metastasis to liver. CONCLUSIONS: We found expression of the snoRNA SNORA23, which mediates sequence-specific pseudouridylation of ribosomal RNAs, to be increased in human PDAC tissues compared with non-tumor tissues, and levels to correlate with tumor invasion grade and patient survival time. SNORA23 increases expression of SYNE2, possibly through modulation of ribosome biogenesis, to promote PDAC cell survival and invasion, and growth and metastasis of xenograft tumors in mice.
28476804 | Knockdown of Importin 7 Inhibits Lung Tumorigenesis in K-rasLA1 Lung Cancer Mice. Background/Aim: Lung cancer shows the highest estimated deaths in both males and females in the Unites States. Importin 7 is overexpressed in lung adenocarcinoma tissues. In this study, we aimed to demonstrate the anticancer effect of importin 7 down-regulation, especially in lung cancer. Materials and Methods: Glycerol propoxylate triacrylate spermine (GPT-SPE) is a biocompatible carrier used for aerosol gene delivery. Repeated aerosol delivery of GPT-SPE/shImportin 7 complexes was performed to 10-week-old male K-rasLA1mice (a murine lung cancer model) twice a week for 4 weeks (8 times) in a nose-only exposure chamber. Results: Aerosol delivery of GPT-SPE/shImportin 7 inhibits lung cancer in K-rasLA1mice compared to control and scramble control groups. Moreover, importin 7-down-regulated stable cell-line demonstrates suppression of proliferation through Akt inhibition and apoptosis. Conclusion: Down-regulation of importin 7 significantly suppresses lung cancer in vitro and in vivo.
28736931 | Genetic Variants in HSD17B3, SMAD3, and IPO11 Impact Circulating Lipids in Response to Fenofibrate in Individuals With Type 2 Diabetes. Individuals with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and dyslipidemia are at an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Fibrates are a class of drugs prescribed to treat dyslipidemia, but variation in response has been observed. To evaluate common and rare genetic variants that impact lipid responses to fenofibrate in statin-treated patients with T2D, we examined lipid changes in response to fenofibrate therapy using a genomewide association study (GWAS). Associations were followed-up using gene expression studies in mice. Common variants in SMAD3 and IPO11 were marginally associated with lipid changes in black subjects (P < 5 x 10-6 ). Rare variant and gene expression changes were assessed using a false discovery rate approach. AKR7A3 and HSD17B13 were associated with lipid changes in white subjects (q < 0.2). Mice fed fenofibrate displayed reductions in Hsd17b13 gene expression (q < 0.1). Associations of variants in SMAD3, IPO11, and HSD17B13, with gene expression changes in mice indicate that transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and NRF2 signaling pathways may influence fenofibrate effects on dyslipidemia in patients with T2D.
29476834 | Novel proteins that regulate cell extension formation in fibroblasts. Cell extensions are critical structures that enable matrix remodeling in wound healing and cancer invasion but the regulation of their formation is not well-defined. We searched for new proteins that mediated cell extension formation over collagen by tandem mass tagged mass spectrometry analysis of purified extensions in 3T3 fibroblasts. Unexpectedly, importin-5, ENH isoform 1b (PDLIM5) and 26 S protease regulatory subunit 6B (PSMC4) were more abundant (> 10-fold) in membrane-penetrating cell extensions than cell bodies, which was confirmed by immunostaining and immunoblotting and also observed in human gingival fibroblasts. After siRNA knockdown of these proteins and plating cells on grid-supported floating collagen gels for 6 h, formation of cell extensions and collagen remodeling were examined. Knockdown of importin-5 reduced collagen compaction (1.9-fold), pericellular collagen degradation (~ 1.8-fold) and number of cell extensions (~ 69%). Knockdown of PSMC4 reduced collagen compaction (~ 1.5-fold), pericellular collagen degradation (~ 1.7-fold) and number of cell extensions (~ 42%). Knockdown of PDLIM5 reduced collagen compaction (~ 1.6-fold) and number of cell extensions (~ 21%). Inhibition of the TGF-beta RI kinase, Smad3 or ROCK-II signaling pathways reduced the abundance of PDLIM5 in cell extensions but PSMC4 and importin-5 were reduced only by Smad3 or ROCK-II inhibitors. We conclude that these novel proteins are required for cell extension formation and their recruitment into extensions involves the Smad3 and ROCK signaling pathways.
29602637 | Importin-11 overexpression promotes the migration, invasion, and progression of bladder cancer associated with the deregulation of CDKN1A and THBS1. OBJECTIVES: We recently determined that a novel oncogene, IPO11 from 5q12, participates in bladder cancer (BCa) progression. However, the biological function of IPO11 and the molecular mechanisms through which it contributes to BCa progression remain unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of IPO11 in BCa aggressiveness and elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying its effects in BCa. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The mRNA expression levels of IPO11 in BIU-87, RT4, UMUC3, EJ, 5637, T24, J82, and HT-1376 cell lines were determined using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Expression of importin-11 was detected in 134 formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) BCa tissues and 10 paired nonneoplastic bladder tissue specimens by immunohistochemistry. The copy number of IPO11 was examined in 25 FFPE BCa specimens using fluorescent in situ hybridization. The effects of IPO11 on migration, invasion, and cell proliferation were investigated in EJ and 5637 cell lines using RNA interference. Potential molecular mechanisms were investigated using whole transcriptome sequencing and bioinformatic approaches in EJ cells and IPO11-silenced EJ cells and verified using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: Endogenous IPO11 mRNA was highly expressed in 6 invasive BCa cell lines (EJ, HT-1376, UMUC3, 5637, J82, and T24) but had a low expression in the noninvasive BCa cell line BIU-87 and the papillary BCa cell line RT4. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that 87 (64.9%) of 134 FFPE BCa tissues displayed importin-11 overexpression. Moreover, importin-11 overexpression was positively associated with increased tumor stages and tumor grades, lymphatic invasion, and lymph node metastasis. Furthermore, importin-11 overexpression was detected in 100% (14/14) of BCa tissues with IPO11 amplification, and IPO11 amplification was not observed in 2 additional BCa tissues with importin-11 overexpression. Small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of IPO11 is sufficient to inhibit the motility and invasiveness of EJ and 5637 cells. IPO11 knockdown also inhibited cell proliferation in EJ cells, whereas this was not observed in 5637 cells or the in vivo experiments. Using whole transcriptome sequencing, we found that 22 genes (including IPO11) were differentially expressed in IPO11-silenced EJ cells compared with wild-type EJ cells, 4 of which were upregulated, and 18 of which were downregulated. KEGG pathway enrichment analysis of the significantly differentially expressed genes showed that the proteoglycans in cancer pathway (pathway Id: hsa05205) was most significantly enriched among 10 genetically altered pathways and referred to 6 significantly altered genes (CDKN1A, HBEGF, PTK2, THBS1, CCNG2, and EGR1). The next 3 most significantly enriched pathways in order were the p53, ErbB, and BCa pathways. CDKN1A and THBS1 were the most 2 frequently covered genes and were involved in 9 and 6 pathways, respectively. They were also 2 key proteins in the BCa pathway (pathway Id: hsa05219) that were downregulated in IPO11-knockdown EJ cells compared with wild-type EJ cells. CONCLUSIONS: Importin-11 overexpression can promote BCa cell invasiveness, probably associated with the deregulation of CDKN1A and THBS1 primarily through the activation of the proteoglycans in cancer pathway and the classical BCa pathway. Importin-11 may be a useful target through which the progression of noninvasive BCa to invasive BCa can be blocked.
29636389 | The nuclear translocation of the kinases p38 and JNK promotes inflammation-induced cancer. The stimulated nuclear translocation of signaling proteins, such as MAPKs, is a necessity for the initiation and regulation of their physiological functions. Previously, we determined that nuclear translocation of the MAPKs p38 and JNK involves binding to heterodimers comprising importin 3 and either importin 7 or importin 9. Here, we identified the importin-binding region in p38 and JNK and developed a myristoylated peptide targeting this site that we called PERY. The PERY peptide specifically blocked the interaction of p38 and JNK with the importins, restricted their nuclear translocation, and inhibited phosphorylation of their nuclear (but not cytoplasmic) substrates. Through these effects, the PERY peptide reduced the proliferation of several (but not all) cancer cell lines in culture and inhibited the growth of a human breast cancer xenograft in mice. In addition, the PERY peptide substantially inhibited inflammation in mice, as manifested in models of colitis and colitis-associated colon cancer. The PERY peptide more effectively prevented colon cancer development than did a commercial p38 inhibitor. In vivo analysis further suggested that this effect was mediated by PERY peptide-induced prevention of the nuclear translocation of p38 in macrophages. Together, these results support the use of the nuclear translocation of p38 and JNK as a novel drug target to treat various cancers and inflammation-induced diseases.
29643034 | [Verification of a sporadic Alzheimer disease model in SORL1 gene knockout mice]. OBJECTIVE: To compare the behavioral and pathological features of SORL1 gene knockout mice with those of normal mice and APP/PSE1 mice to verify the feasibility of using SORL1 knockout mice as a model of sporadic Alzheimer disease. METHODS: SORL1 gene of fertilized mouse eggs were edited using Crispr/Case9 technique. SORL1-/- mice were screened and identified by detecting the DNA sequence, and Western blotting was used to detect the expression of SORL1. SORL1-/- mice, control mice and APP/PSE1 mice all underwent Morris water maze test to assess their learning and memory abilities with positioning navigation and space exploration experiments. The expression of APP and Abeta in the brain of the mice was detected using immunohistochemistry and Western blotting, respectively. RESULTS: DNA sequencing showed CAAT deletion in SORL1 gene in two chromosomes of SORL1-/- mice, and the control mice had intact SORL1 gene without the deletion; Western blotting did not detect the expression of the SORL1 in the brain of SORL1-/- mice. Morris water maze test showed that in positioning navigation experiment, the average avoidance latency was similar between SORL1-/- mice and APP/PSE1 mice (P>0.05) but increased significantly in both mice as compared with the control group (P<0.05); similar results were obtained in the space exploration experiment. Immunohistochemistry and Western blotting revealed significantly increased APP and Abeta expression in the brain tissue of both SORL1-/- mice and APP/PSE1 mice compared with the control mice without significant differences between the two transgenic mice. CONCLUSION: SORL1-/- mice exhibit similar behavioral and pathological changes with APP/PSE1 mice and can be used as a model of sporadic Alzheimer's disease.
30856600 | Identification of the IL-33 protein segment that controls subcellular localization, extracellular secretion, and functional maturation. Proteolytic activation of the IL-33 precursor, full-length interleukin-33 (FLIL33), at multiple sites within the sensor domain (aa 95-109) yields several functionally mature (MIL33) forms. Unlike nuclear FLIL33, intracellular MIL33 occurs in the cytoplasm, is secreted from source cells, and exerts biological effects by activating the ST2 receptor on target cells. Previous studies and our findings in this report indicated that IL-33 forms that are substantially longer than those produced by cleavage within the sensor domain are biologically indistinguishable from classical MIL33. We utilized a series of human and mouse N-terminal FLIL33 mutants to narrow down the boundaries of the nuclear localization sequence to aa 46-67, a segment known to include a portion of the chromatin-binding motif as well as another site controlling intracellular stability of FLIL33 in an importin-5-dependent fashion. The N-terminal FLIL33 deletion mutants starting prior to this region were intranuclear, non-secreted in cell culture, and manifested modest functional activity in vivo, similar to FLIL33. By contrast, the mutants starting after this region were cytoplasmic, secreted from cells in culture, and overtly biologically active in vivo, similar to MIL33. The deletion mutants starting within this region manifested an intermediate phenotype between FLIL33 and MIL33. Thus, this segment of IL-33 molecule controls multiple aspects of its biology, including subcellular localization, extracellular secretion, and functional maturation into the longest possible form of mature IL-33 cytokine. Future anti-IL-33 therapies may be based on interfering with this segment, thus restraining extracellular release and maturation of IL-33 into the active cytokine.
31044563 | Alternative interaction sites in the influenza A virus nucleoprotein mediate viral escape from the importin-alpha7 mediated nuclear import pathway. Influenza A viruses are able to adapt to restrictive conditions due to their high mutation rates. Importin-alpha7 is a component of the nuclear import machinery required for avian-mammalian adaptation and replicative fitness in human cells. Here, we elucidate the mechanisms by which influenza A viruses may escape replicative restriction in the absence of importin-alpha7. To address this question, we assessed viral evolution in mice lacking the importin-alpha7 gene. We show that three mutations in particular occur with high frequency in the viral nucleoprotein (NP) protein (G102R, M105K and D375N) in a specific structural area upon in vivo adaptation. Moreover, our findings suggest that the adaptive NP mutations mediate viral escape from importin-alpha7 requirement likely due to the utilization of alternative interaction sites in NP beyond the classical nuclear localization signal. However, viral escape from importin-alpha7 by mutations in NP is, at least in part, associated with reduced viral replication highlighting the crucial contribution of importin-alpha7 to replicative fitness in human cells.
32218703 | Importin-11 is Essential for Normal Embryonic Development in Mice. Importin-11 (Ipo11) is a novel member of the human importin family of transport receptors (karyopherins), which are known to mediate the nucleocytoplasmic transport of protein and RNA cargos. Despite its role in the transport of protein, we found that knockout of Ipo11 nuclear import factor affects normal embryonic development and govern embryo-lethal phenotypes in mice. In this study, we for the first time produced a mouse line containing null mutation in Ipo11 gene utilized by gene trapping. The Ipo11-/- embryos showed an embryonic lethal phenotype. The Ipo11-/- embryos showed a reduced size at embryonic day 10.5 (E10.5) when compared with Ipo11+/+ or Ipo11+/- embryos and died by E11.5. Whereas Ipo11+/- mice were healthy and fertile, and there was no detectable changes in embryonic lethality and phenotype when reviewed. In the X-gal staining with the Ipo11-/- or Ipo11+/- embryos, strong X-gal staining positivity was detected systematically in the whole mount embryos at E10.5, although almost no X-gal positivity was detected at E9.5, indicating that the embryos die soon after the process of Ipo11 expression started. These results indicate that Ipo11 is essential for the normal embryonic development in mice.
33548622 | Effects of transforming growth factor-beta1 on odontoblastic differentiation in dental papilla cells is determined by IPO7 expression level. Transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1) is one of the broad-spectrum growth-promoting factors that participate in tooth development. The influence of TGF-beta1 on the odontoblastic differentiation is still controvercy. Mouse primary dental papilla cells (mDPCs) as well as an immortalized mouse dental papilla cell line (mDPC6Ts) were treated with exogenous TGF-beta1 during odontoblastic differentiation. RT-qPCR, Western blot, alizarin red staining and ALP staining were carried out to investigate the influence of TGF-beta1 on odontoblastic differentiation. IPO7, important for SMAD complex translocation was also detected in mDPCs and mDPC6Ts in response to TGF-beta1. After silencing IPO7 by transfection, the translocation process of P-SMAD2 was investigated by nuclear and cytoplasmic extraction as well as co-immunoprecipitation assay. The odontogenic markers, mineralization and IPO7 expression were significantly up-regulated in TGF-beta1-treated mDPCs while down-regulated in mDPC6Ts. The total level of P-SMAD2 was not influenced by IPO7 in mDPCs, however, IPO7 could bind to P-SMAD2 and affect the nuclear-cytoplasm-shuttling of P-SMAD2. Our data demonstrated that TGF-beta1 plays opposite roles in odontoblast differentiation in mDPCs and immortalized mouse dental papilla cell line (mDPC6Ts), which is determined by IPO7.
33571591 | The nuclear transporter importin-11 regulates the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway and acts as a tumor promoter in glioma. Karyopherins mediate the macromolecular transport between the cytoplasm and the nucleus and participate in cancer progression. However, the role and mechanism of importin-11 (IPO11), a member of the karyopherin family, in glioma progression remain undefined. Effects of IPO11 on glioma progression were detected using CCK-8, colony formation assay, flow cytometry analysis, caspase-3 activity assay, and Transwell invasion assay. Western blot analysis was used to detect the expression of active caspase-3, active caspase-7, active caspase-9, N-cadherin, Vimentin, E-cadherin, beta-catenin, and c-Myc. The activity of Wnt/beta-catenin pathway was evaluated by the T-cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor (TCF/LEF) transcription factor reporter assay. Results showed that IPO11 knockdown inhibited proliferation and reduced colony number in glioma cells. IPO11 silencing promoted the apoptotic rate, increased expression levels of active caspase-3, caspase-7, and caspase-9, and enhanced caspase-3 activity. Moreover, IPO11 silencing inhibited glioma cell invasion by suppressing epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Mechanistically, IPO11 knockdown inactivated the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. beta-Catenin overexpression abolished the effects of IPO11 silencing on the proliferation, apoptosis, and invasion in glioma cells. Furthermore, IPO11 silencing blocked the malignant phenotypes and repressed the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway in vivo. In conclusion, IPO11 knockdown suppressed the malignant phenotypes of glioma cells by inactivating the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway.
33726783 | Reproductive injury in male BALB/c mice infected with Neospora caninum. BACKGROUND: Neospora caninum is one of the main causes of abortion in pregnant animals. However, N. caninum-induced reproductive injury in male mice is still unclear. METHODS: Male BALB/c mice were infected with a bovine isolate of N. caninum, and the organ coefficients of the testis and epididymis were measured. Lesions in the testis and epididymis were observed by light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Expression of the spermatogenic cell apoptosis-related proteins p53 and caspase-3 was detected by western blot. The expression of spermatogenesis-related genes in the testis was detected by reverse transcription-PCR. Sperm morphology and motility were observed. The levels of nitric oxide (NO) and antisperm antibody (AsAb) in the testicular homogenates and hormones in the serum were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The reproductive capacity of the male mice was detected using a reproduction test. RESULTS: The organ coefficients of the testis and epididymis of the experimental group were significantly downregulated. Light microscopy examination revealed that the spermatogenic cells of the testis were arranged in a disordered manner, and the number was reduced. The number of sperm in the epididymal lumen was significantly reduced, and the cytoplasm exhibited vacuolation and degeneration. Ultrastructural studies revealed that the cells of the testis and epididymis tissues showed varying degrees of disease. The level of p53 and caspase-3 expression in the testis was significantly upregulated. The expression of the testicular spermatogenesis-related genes Herc4, Ipo11 and Mrto4 were strongly downregulated. Observation of sperm by microscopic examination revealed significantly reduced sperm density and sperm motility, and the number of sperm deformities was significantly increased. The level of NO and AsAb was significantly increased. The levels of luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone and gonadotropin-releasing hormone were significantly upregulated, whereas the levels of testosterone, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, thyroxine and thyroid-stimulating hormone were significantly downregulated. After challenge, the infected male mice and healthy female mice were caged together: the subsequent fetal death rate was increased, and the conception rate, litter size, number of live births and the birth weight were significantly reduced. CONCLUSIONS: Infection of male BALB/c mice with the bovine isolate of N. caninum induced varying degrees of injury to the testis, epididymis and sperm of the mice, destroyed spermatogenesis and affected the reproductive capacity.
