35028605 | Soluble antigens derived from Coxiella burnetii elicit protective immunity in three animal models without inducing hypersensitivity. Q fever is caused by the intracellular bacterium Coxiella burnetii, for which there is no approved vaccine in the United States. A formalin-inactivated whole-cell vaccine (WCV) from virulent C. burnetii NMI provides single-dose long-lived protection, but concerns remain over vaccine reactogenicity. We therefore sought an alternate approach by purifying native C. burnetii antigens from the clonally derived avirulent NMII strain. A soluble bacterial extract, termed Sol II, elicits high-titer, high-avidity antibodies and induces a CD4 T cell response that confers protection in naive mice. In addition, Sol II protects against pulmonary C. burnetii challenge in three animal models without inducing hypersensitivity. An NMI-derived extract, Sol I, enhances protection further and outperforms the WCV gold standard. Collectively, these data represent a promising approach to design highly effective, non-reactogenic Q fever vaccines.
38016500 | Long-term efficacy of the peptide-based COVID-19 T cell activator CoVac-1 in healthy adults. BACKGROUND: T cell immunity is key for the control of viral infections including SARS-CoV-2, in particular with regard to immune memory and protection against arising genetic variants. METHOD: We recently evaluated a peptide-based SARS-CoV-2 T cell activator termed CoVac-1 in a first-in-human trial in healthy adults. Here, we report on long-term safety and efficacy data of CoVac-1 until month 12. RESULTS: CoVac-1 is well tolerated without long-term immune-related side effects and induces long-lasting anti-viral T cell responses in 100% of study participants, with potent expandability of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells targeting multiple different CoVac-1 T cell epitopes. T cell responses were associated with stronger injection site reaction. Beyond induction of T cell immunity, 89% of subjects developed CoVac-1-specific IgG antibodies which associated with the intensity of the T cell response, indicating that CoVac-1-specific CD4+ T cells support the induction of B cell responses. Vaccination with approved COVID-19 vaccines boosted CoVac-1-specific T cell responses. Overall, a low SARS-CoV-2 infection rate (8.3%) was observed. CONCLUSION: Together, a single application of CoVac-1 elicits long-lived and broad SARS-CoV-2-specific T cell immunity, which further supports the current evaluation of our T cell activator in patients with congenital or acquired B cell defects.
38346596 | Peri-operative individually tailored psychological intervention in breast cancer patients improves psychological indices and molecular biomarkers of metastasis in excised tumors. Perioperative stress and inflammatory signaling can invigorate pro-metastatic molecular processes in patients' tumors, potentially worsening long-term survival. Yet, it is unknown whether pre-operative psychotherapeutic interventions can attenuate such effects. Herein, three weeks before surgery, forty women diagnosed with stage I-III invasive ductal/lobular breast carcinoma were randomized to a 6-week one-on-one psychological intervention (6 meetings with a medical psychologist and bi-weekly phone calls) versus standard nursing-staff-attention. The intervention protocol was individually tailored based on evaluation of patients' emotional, cognitive, physiological, and behavioral stress response-patterns, and also included psychoeducation regarding medical treatments and recruitment of social support. Resected primary tumors were subjected to whole-genome RNA sequencing and bioinformatic analyses, assessing a priori hypothesized cancer-relevant molecular signatures. Self-report questionnaires (BSI-18, Hope-18, MSPSS, and a stress-scale) were collected three (T1) and one (T2) week before surgery, a day before (T3) and after (T4) surgery, and three weeks (T5) and 3-months (T6) following surgery. The intervention reduced distress (GSI), depression, and somatization scores (BSI-18: p < 0.01, p < 0.05, p < 0.05; T5 vs. T1). Additionally, tumors from treated patients (vs. controls) showed: (i) decreased activity of transcription control pathways involved in adrenergic and glucocorticoid signaling (CREB, GR) (p < 0.001), pro-inflammatory signaling (NFkB) (p < 0.01), and pro-malignant signaling (ETS1, STAT and GATA families) (p < 0.001, p < 0.01, p < 0.005); (ii) increased M1 macrophage polarization (p < 0.05), and CD4+ T cell activity (p < 0.01); and an unexpected increase in epithelial-to-mesenchymal-transition (EMT) signature (p < 0.005). This is the first randomized controlled trial to show beneficial effects of a psychological perioperative intervention on tumor pro-metastatic molecular biomarkers.
38351516 | Utilizing local likelihood in regression discontinuity design: Investigating the impact of antiretroviral therapy eligibility on retention in clinical HIV care in South Africa. The regression discontinuity (RD) design is a widely utilized approach for assessing treatment effects. It involves assigning treatment based on the value of an observed covariate in relation to a fixed threshold. Although the RD design has been widely employed across various problems, its application to specific data types has received limited attention. For instance, there has been little research on utilizing the RD design when the outcome variable exhibits zero-inflation. This study introduces a novel RD estimator using local likelihood, which overcomes the limitations of the local linear regression model, a popular approach for estimating treatment effects in RD design, by considering the data type of the outcome variable. To determine the optimal bandwidth, we propose a modified Ludwig-Miller cross validation method. A set of simulations is carried out, involving binary, count, and zero-inflated outcome variables, to showcase the superior performance of the suggested method over local linear regression models. Subsequently, the proposed local likelihood model is employed on HIV care data, where antiretroviral therapy eligibility is determined by a CD4 count threshold. A comparison is made between the results obtained using the local likelihood model and those obtained using local linear regression.
38401793 | Ruxolitinib Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics in Children with Acute and Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease. We evaluated the pharmacokinetics (PK) of oral ruxolitinib in children with steroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) (age <12 years) and chronic GVHD (cGVHD) (age <=18 years) using our published pediatric dosing. PK sampling was performed before and 2 hours after ruxolitinib administration in patients with established cGVHD. More extensive PK analyses were performed in patients with newly diagnosed aGVHD or cGVHD before and .5, 1, 2, 4, and 6 hours after ruxolitinib administration in patients weighing >10 kg and before, 3+, and 6+ hours in children weighing <10 kg. pSTAT1, pSTAT3, and pSTAT5 expression levels were measured on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells before and 2 hours after ruxolitinib administration as a pharmacodynamic marker of JAK/STAT inhibition. Thirteen patients were prospectively enrolled, including 8 with existing cGVHD (age 0 to <=18 years), 4 with new-onset steroid-refractory aGVHD (age 0 to <12 years) and 1 with newly diagnosed steroid-refractory cGVHD. Great variability in PK was seen. Mean oral clearance (CL/F) was 7.76 +- 4.09 L/h (range, 3.1 to 15.3 L/h). The average elimination half-life was 2.32 +- 1.0 hours. Mean ruxolitinib clearance was higher in children age <2 years versus those age >2 years (12.1 +- 3.0 L/h versus 5.7 +- 2.8 L/h; P = .005) and was reduced with concurrent treatment with azoles and azithromycin. We saw a variable reduction in pSTAT1/3/5 expression on T cells at time of peak ruxolitinib absorption (2 hours after dosing). Children <10 kg had lower ruxolitinib exposure, possibly due to inherent increased drug clearance or variability in dosing methods, leading to decreased drug absorption.
38431635 | Th17/1 and ex-Th17 cells are detected in patients with polyarticular juvenile arthritis and increase following treatment. BACKGROUND: A better understanding of the pathogenesis of polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyJIA) is needed to aide in the development of data-driven approaches to guide selection between therapeutic options. One inflammatory pathway of interest is JAK-STAT signaling. STAT3 is a transcription factor critical to the differentiation of inflammatory T helper 17 cells (Th17s). Previous studies have demonstrated increased STAT3 activation in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis, but less is known about STAT3 activation in polyJIA. We hypothesized that Th17 cells and STAT3 activation would be increased in treatment-naive polyJIA patients compared to pediatric controls. METHODS: Blood from 17 patients with polyJIA was collected at initial diagnosis and again if remission was achieved (post-treatment). Pediatric healthy controls were also collected. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were isolated and CD4 + T cell subsets and STAT activation (phosphorylation) were evaluated using flow cytometry. Data were analyzed using Mann-Whitney U and Wilcoxon matched-pairs signed rank tests. RESULTS: Treatment-naive polyJIA patients had increased Th17 cells (CD3 + CD4 + interleukin(IL)-17 +) compared to controls (0.15% v 0.44%, p < 0.05), but Tregs (CD3 + CD4 + CD25 + FOXP3 +) from patients did not differ from controls. Changes in STAT3 phosphorylation in CD4 + T cells following ex vivo stimulation were not significantly different in patients compared to controls. We identified dual IL-17 + and interferon (IFN)gamma + expressing CD4 + T cells in patients, but not controls. Further, both Th17/1 s (CCR6 + CD161 + IFNgamma + IL-17 +) and ex-Th17s (CCR6 + CD161 + IFNgamma + IL-17neg) were increased in patients' post-treatment (Th17/1: 0.3% v 0.07%, p < 0.05 and ex-Th17s: 2.3% v 1.4%, p < 0.05). The patients with the highest IL-17 expressing cells post-treatment remained therapy-bound. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with polyJIA have increased baseline Th17 cells, potentially reflecting higher tonic STAT3 activation in vivo. These quantifiable immune markers may identify patients that would benefit upfront from pathway-focused biologic therapies. Our data also suggest that inflammatory CD4 + T cell subsets not detected in controls but increased in post-treatment samples should be further evaluated as a tool to stratify patients in remission on medication. Future work will explore these proposed diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers.
38462549 | A specific inflammatory suppression fibroblast subpopulation characterized by MHCII expression in human dilated cardiomyopathy. Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a significant cause of heart failure that requires heart transplantation. Fibroblasts play a central role in the fibro-inflammatory microenvironment of DCM. However, their cellular heterogeneity and interaction with immune cells have not been well identified. An integrative analysis was conducted on single-cell RNA sequencing (ScRNA-Seq) data from human left ventricle tissues, which comprised 4 hearts from healthy donors and 6 hearts with DCM. The specific antigen-presenting fibroblast (apFB) was explored as a subtype of fibroblasts characterized by expressing MHCII genes, the existence of which was confirmed by immunofluorescence staining of 3 cardiac tissues from DCM patients with severe heart failure. apFB highly expressed the genes that response to IFN-gamma, and it also have a high activity of the JAK-STAT pathway and the transcription factor RFX5. In addition, the analysis of intercellular communication between apFBs and CD4+T cells revealed that the anti-inflammatory ligand-receptor pairs TGFB-TGFR, CLEC2B-KLRB1, and CD46-JAG1 were upregulated in DCM. The apFB signature exhibited a positive correlation with immunosuppression and demonstrated diagnostic and prognostic value when evaluated using a bulk RNA dataset comprising 166 donors and 166 DCM samples. In conclusion, the present study identified a novel subpopulation of fibroblasts that specifically expresses MHCII-encoding genes. This specific apFBs can suppress the inflammation occurring in DCM. Our findings further elucidate the composition of the fibro-inflammatory microenvironment in DCM, and provide a novel therapeutic target.
38479724 | Rho-kinase inhibitor alleviates CD4+T cell mediated corneal graft rejection by modulating its STAT3 and STAT5 activation. Penetrating keratoplasty remains the most common treatment to restore vision for corneal diseases. Immune rejection after corneal transplantation is one of the major causes of graft failure. In recent years, Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitors have been found to be associated with the activation of the STATs pathway and are widely studied in autoimmune diseases. Therefore, it may be possible that the ROCK inhibitors also participate in the local and systemic immune regulation in corneal transplantation through activation of the STATs pathway and affect the CD4+ T cell differentiation. This study aimed to explore the role of ROCK-STATs pathway in the occurrence of immune rejection in corneal transplantation by applying Y27632, a ROCK inhibitor, to the recipient mice and peripheral CD4+ T cells. We found that Y27632 significantly up-regulated the phosphorylation level of STAT5 in both spleen and lymph nodes, down-regulated the phosphorylation level of STAT3 in the CD4+ T cells in the spleen. It also increased the proportion of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+Helios+ Tregs while decreased CD4+IL17A+ -Th17 cells. Moreover, Y27632 also reduced the proportion of dendritic cells in both spleen and lymph nodes, as well as the expression level of CD86 on their surfaces in the spleen, while the proportion of macrophages was not affected. The expression levels of ROCK1, ROCK2, CD11c and IL-17A mRNA were also found to be low in the graft tissue while the expression of Helios was upregulated. Rho-kinase inhibitor can modulate the balance of Tregs/Th17 by regulating the phosphorylation levels of both STAT3 and STAT5, thereby inhibiting the occurrence of immune rejection in allogeneic corneal transplantation.
38485795 | Germline HAVCR2/TIM-3 Checkpoint Inhibitor Receptor Deficiency in Recurrent Autoinflammatory Myocarditis. Myocarditis can be caused by viral infection, drug reaction or general inflammatory condition. To provide understanding on inflammatory myocarditis, we describe clinical, genetic, and immunological properties of a young male patient who suffered from recurrent myocarditis episodes since the age of four years. Electrocardiography, troponin I/T, echocardiography, myocardial magnetic resonance imaging and histological findings were consistent with recurrent myocarditis episodes. Homozygous c.245 A > G p.Tyr82Cys pathogenic variant in Hepatitis A Virus Cellular Receptor 2 (HAVCR2) gene encoding T cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-containing protein 3 (TIM-3) receptor was found. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were collected when the patient was asymptomatic; CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphoblasts, CD56+ natural killer cells and CD14+ monocytes were negative for surface TIM-3 expression. In vitro, TLR4 mediated interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) response was high after LPS/ATP stimulation. Clinical symptoms responded to IL-1 receptor antagonist anakinra. TIM-3 p.Tyr82Cys CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation in vitro was unrestrained. Findings on IL-2, interferon gamma, regulatory T cells, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1, 3 and 4 phosphorylation, and PD-1 and LAG-3 checkpoint inhibitor receptor analyses were comparable to controls. We conclude that TIM-3 deficiency due to homozygous HAVCR2 c.245 A > G p.Tyr82Cys pathogenic variant in the patient described here is associated with autoinflammatory symptoms limited to early onset recurrent febrile myocarditis. Excessive IL-1beta production and defective regulation of T cell proliferation may contribute to this clinical condition responsive to anakinra treatment.
38487164 | Off-label use of Baricitinib improves moderate and severe atopic dermatitis in China through inhibiting MAPK and PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway via targeting JAK-STAT signaling of CD4+ cells. As an inflammatory disease with a disrupted immune system, cytokine disorders in atopic dermatitis (AD) are closely related to the abnormal activation of JAK-STAT signal pathway. The critical relevance of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway to the pathogenesis of AD provides a strong rationale for JAK inhibitor research. Baricitinib, a small-molecule oral JAK inhibitor, has been proven to inhibit JAK-STAT signaling in a variety of diseases, including AD. It is currently available in China for off-label use. However, its efficacy in China and its mechanism are rarely reported. In our study, we found that the immune status of patients with moderate and severe AD was hyperactive. Among the 49 known immunotherapy targets, JAK1 and JAK2 genes on lymphocytes of AD patients were significantly upregulated, which was closely related to the symptom severity in moderate and severe AD patients. Baricitinib can improve immune hyperresponsiveness and clinical symptoms in moderate and severe AD by inhibiting the activation of Th2 cell subsets and the secretion of Th2-type cytokines through MAPK, mTOR and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways, providing an important theoretical basis for clinical off-label use of Baricitinib to treat moderate and severe AD.
38506564 | Integrative analysis of bulk RNA-seq and scRNA-seq data indicates the prognostic and immunologic values of SERPINH1 in glioma. BACKGROUND: SERPINH1 is abnormally expressed in multiple cancers and is associated with malignant progression. However, few reports detail its role in the etiopathogenesis of glioma. Hence, the aim of this article was to investigate the potential value of SERPINH1 in glioma using an integrative analysis. METHODS: Data of RNA-seq and scRNA-seq was obtained and evaluated using online databases. The expression of SERPINH1 was confirmed by qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. The prognostic value of SERPINH1 was evaluated using univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses. SERPINH1-related signaling pathways and the interaction of SERPINH1 with immunity were also investigated. RESULTS: SERPINH1 exhibited a markedly elevated expression in glioma compared to normal brain tissues in the online databases. Similar results were confirmed by qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. SERPINH1 was found to be an independent prognosis factor, and high expression of SERPINH1 indicated poor survival. Moreover, a nomogram was constructed to predict prognosis more accurately and intuitively. GSEA analysis showed that SERPINH1 was involved in seven signaling pathways, including JAK-STAT pathway. Further analysis indicated SERPINH1 was significantly associated with immunity, especially in low-grade glioma. Additionally, an examination of scRNA-seq data revealed that SERPINH1 was primarily expressed in T cells of the CD4+ and CD8+ subsets. CONCLUSIONS: SERPINH1 is a key biomarker of glioma prognosis and is immunologically relevant, which provides additional options for targeted therapy of glioma.
38565387 | Extracellular CIRP co-stimulated T cells through IL6R/STAT3 in pediatric IgA vasculitis. Immunoglobulin A vasculitis (IgAV) is the most common vasculitis of childhood. Disordered immune responses play important roles in its pathogenesis, but the comprehensive immune profile of the disease and the underlying mechanisms are still largely unknown. Here we found a potential disease biomarker cold inducible RNA binding protein (CIRP) in our pediatric IgAV cohort. Serum CIRP level in these patients were elevated and positively correlated with the increased early memory (CD45RA+CD62L+CD95+) T cells revealed using multicolor flow cytometry. Immune phenotyping of the patients showed they had more activated T cells with higher IL6Ra expression. T cell culture experiment showed CIRP further activated both human CD4+ and CD8+ T cells as indicated by increased perforin secretion and phosphorylation of STAT3. Blockade of IL6Ralpha attenuated CIRP-induced T cell toxicity in vitro. RNA-sequencing data further supported CIRP stimulation promoted human T cell activation and migration, fueled inflammation through the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Therefore, IL6Ra-mediated T cell activation by extracellular CIRP may contribute to pathogenesis of IgAV in children, both CIRP and IL6Ra could be new therapeutic targets for IgAV.
38579905 | Exploring the mechanism of Corbrin capsules in the intervention of AKI-COVID-19 based on network pharmacology combined with GEO dataset. AIM: of the study: This study used network pharmacology and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database to investigate the therapeutic effects of Corbrin capsules on acute kidney injury (AKI)-COVID-19 (coronavirus disease 2019). MATERIALS AND METHODS: The active constituents and specific molecular targets of Corbrin capsules were obtained from the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology (TCMSP) and Swiss Target Prediction databases. The targets related to AKI and COVID-19 disease were obtained from the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM), GeneCards, and GEO databases. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed by utilizing Cytoscape. To enhance the analysis of pathways associated with the pathogenesis of AKI-COVID-19, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses were performed. Furthermore, immune infiltration analysis was performed by using single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) and CIBERSORT. Molecular docking was used to assess interactions between differentially expressed genes and active ingredients. Verification was performed by utilizing GEO databases and in vivo assays. RESULTS: This study revealed an overlap of 18 significantly differentially expressed genes between the Corbrin capsules group and the AKI-COVID-19 target group. Analysis of the PPI network identified TP53, JAK2, PIK3CA, PTGS2, KEAP1, and MCL1 as the top six core protein targets with the highest degrees. The results obtained from GO and KEGG analyses demonstrated that the target genes were primarily enriched in the apoptosis and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. Moreover, the analysis of immune infiltration revealed a notable disparity in the percentage of quiescent memory CD4+ T cells. Western blot analyses provided compelling evidence suggesting that the dysregulation of 6 core protein targets could be effectively reversed by Corbrin capsules. CONCLUSION: This study revealed the key components, targets, and pathways involved in treating AKI-related COVID-19 using Corbrin capsules. This study also provided a new understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying this treatment.
38607233 | STAT activation in regulatory CD4+ T cells of patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis. INTRODUCTION: Regulatory CD4+ T cells (Tregs) are pivotal for inhibition of autoimmunity. Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is an autoimmune cholestatic liver disease of unknown etiology where contribution of Tregs is still unclear. Activation of the JAK-STAT pathway critically modifies functions of Tregs. In PSC, we studied activation of STAT proteins and Treg functions in response to cytokines. METHODS: In 51 patients with PSC, 10 disease controls (chronic replicative hepatitis C), and 36 healthy controls we analyzed frequencies of Foxp3+CD25+CD127lowCD4+ Tregs, their expression of ectonucleotidase CD39, and cytokine-induced phosphorylation of STAT1, 3, 5, and 6 using phospho-flow cytometry. In parallel, we measured cytokines IFN-gamma, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-2, and IL-4 in serum via bead-based immunoassays. RESULTS: In patients with PSC, ex vivo frequencies of peripheral Tregs and their expression of CD39 were significantly reduced (p < .05 each). Furthermore, serum levels of IFN-gamma, IL-6, IL-2, and IL-4 were markedly higher in PSC (p < .05 each). Unlike activation of STAT1, STAT5, and STAT6, IL-6 induced increased phosphorylation of STAT3 in Tregs of PSC-patients (p = .0434). Finally, STAT3 activation in Tregs correlated with leukocyte counts. CONCLUSIONS: In PSC, we observed enhanced STAT3 responsiveness of CD4+ Tregs together with reduced CD39 expression probably reflecting inflammatory activity of the disease.
38613800 | PROS1 is a crucial gene in the macrophage efferocytosis of diabetic foot ulcers: a concerted analytical approach through the prisms of computer analysis. BACKGROUND: Diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) pose a serious long-term threat because of elevated mortality and disability risks. Research on its biomarkers is still, however, very limited. In this paper, we have effectively identified biomarkers linked with macrophage excretion in diabetic foot ulcers through the application of bioinformatics and machine learning methodologies. These findings were subsequently validated using external datasets and animal experiments. Such discoveries are anticipated to offer novel insights and approaches for the early diagnosis and treatment of DFU. METHODS: In this work, we used the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database's datasets GSE68183 and GSE80178 as the training dataset to build a gene model using machine learning methods. After that, we used the training and validation sets to validate the model (GSE134431). On the model genes, we performed enrichment analysis using both gene set variant analysis (GSVA) and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). Additionally, the model genes were subjected to immunological association and immune function analyses. RESULTS: In this study, PROS1 was identified as a potential key target associated with macrophage efflux in DFU by machine learning and bioinformatics approaches. Subsequently, the key biomarker status of PROS1 in DFU was also confirmed by external datasets. In addition, PROS1 also plays a key role in macrophage exudation in DFU. This gene may be associated with macrophage M1, CD4 memory T cells, naive B cells, and macrophage M2, and affects IL-17, Rap1, hedgehog, and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. CONCLUSIONS: PROS1 was identified and validated as a biomarker for DFU. This finding has the potential to provide a target for macrophage clearance of DFU.
38639111 | A Comprehensive Network Map of Interleukin-26 Signaling Pathway. Interleukin-26 (IL-26) is a cytokine that belongs to the IL-20 subfamily and is primarily expressed in T helper 1 cells and Th17 memory CD4+ cells. Its receptor complex, consisting of IL-20R1 and IL-10R2, activates a signaling pathway involving several proteins such as Janus kinase 1 and tyrosine-protein kinase, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 1, and STAT3. This leads to the initiation of downstream signaling cascades that play a crucial role in various biological processes, including inflammation, immune response regulation, atopic dermatitis, macrophage differentiation, osteoclastogenesis, antibacterial host defense, anti-apoptosis, and tumor growth. In this study, we curated literature data pertaining to IL-26 signaling. The curated map includes a total of seven activation/inhibition events, 16 catalysis events, 33 gene regulation events, 25 protein expression types, two transport events, and three molecular associations.
12093286 | Bistranded oxidized purine damage clusters: induced in DNA by long-wavelength ultraviolet (290-400 nm) radiation? Bistranded clustered DNA damages involving oxidized bases, abasic sites, and strand breaks are produced by ionizing radiation and radiomimetic drugs, but it was not known whether they can be formed by other agents, e.g., nonionizing radiation. UV radiation produces clusters of cyclobutyl pyrimidine dimers, photoproducts that occur individually in high yield. Since long-wavelength UV (290-400 nm) radiation induces oxidized bases, abasic sites, and strand breaks at low yields, we tested whether it also produces clusters containing these lesions. We exposed supercoiled pUC18 DNA to UV radiation with wavelengths of >290 nm (UVB plus UVA radiation), and assessed the induction of bistranded clustered oxidized purine and abasic clusters, as recognized by Escherichia coli Fpg protein and E. coli Nfo protein (endonuclease IV), respectively, as well as double-strand breaks. These three classes of bistranded clusters were detected, albeit at very low yields (37 Fpg-OxyPurine clusters Gbp(-1) kJ(-1) m(2), 8.1 double-strand breaks Gbp(-1) kJ(-1) m(2), and 3.4 Nfo-abasic clusters Gbp(-1) kJ(-1) m(2)). Thus, these bistranded OxyPurine clusters, abasic clusters, and double-strand breaks are not uniquely induced by ionizing radiation and radiomimetic drugs, but their level of production by UVB and UVA radiation is negligible compared to the levels of frequent photoproducts such as pyrimidine dimers.
22934077 | Effects of gabapentin on muscle spasticity and both induced as well as spontaneous autonomic dysreflexia after complete spinal cord injury. We recently reported that the neuropathic pain medication, gabapentin (GBP; Neurontin), significantly attenuated both noxious colorectal distension (CRD)-induced autonomic dysreflexia (AD) and tail pinch-induced spasticity compared to saline-treated cohorts 2-3 weeks after complete high thoracic (T4) spinal cord injury (SCI). Here we employed long-term blood pressure telemetry to test, firstly, the efficacy of daily versus acute GBP treatment in modulating AD and tail spasticity in response to noxious stimuli at 2 and 3 weeks post-injury. Secondly, we determined whether daily GBP alters baseline cardiovascular parameters, as well as spontaneous AD events detected using a novel algorithm based on blood pressure telemetry data. At both 14 and 21 days after SCI, irrespective of daily treatment, acute GBP given 1 h prior to stimulus significantly attenuated CRD-induced AD and pinch-evoked tail spasticity; conversely, acute saline had no such effects. Moreover, daily GBP did not alter 24 h mean arterial pressure (MAP) or heart rate (HR) values compared to saline treatment, nor did it reduce the incidence of spontaneous AD events compared to saline over the three week assessment period. Power spectral density (PSD) analysis of the MAP signals demonstrated relative power losses in mid frequency ranges (0.2-0.8 Hz) for all injured animals relative to low frequency MAP power (0.02-0.08 Hz). However, there was no significant difference between groups over time post-injury; hence, GBP had no effect on the persistent loss of MAP fluctuations in the mid frequency range after injury. In summary, the mechanism(s) by which acute GBP treatment mitigate aberrant somatosensory and cardiophysiological responses to noxious stimuli after SCI remain unclear. Nevertheless, with further refinements in defining the dynamics associated with AD events, such as eliminating requisite concomitant bradycardia, the objective repeatability of automatic detection of hypertensive crises provides a potentially useful tool for assessing autonomic function pre- and post-SCI, in conjunction with experimental pharmacotherapeutics for neuropathic pain, such as GBP.
24189438 | Expression of the mammary gland-specific tammar wallaby early lactation protein gene is maintained in vitro in the absence of prolactin. Marsupial ELP (early lactation protein) and its eutherian orthologue, CTI (colostrum trypsin inhibitor) are expressed in the mammary gland only for the first 100 days postpartum (Phase 2A) in the tammar wallaby and during the bovine and canine colostrogenesis period 24-36h postpartum respectively. The factors which regulate temporal ELP and CTI expression are unknown. A tammar mammary gland explant culture model was used to investigate ELP gene regulation during pregnancy and early- and mid-lactation (Phase 1, 2A and 2B respectively). Tammar ELP expression could only be manipulated in explants in vitro if the gene was already expressed in vivo. ELP expression was maximal in Phase 1 explants treated with lactogenic hormones (insulin, hydrocortisone and prolactin), but unlike LGB (beta-lactoglobulin), ELP expression was maintained in insulin or insulin and hydrocortisone over a 12-day culture period. In contrast, ELP was down-regulated when cultured without hormones. ELP could not be induced in explants cultured from mid-lactation which suggested that transcriptional repressors may prevent ELP expression during this period.
24483507 | Laser-filament-induced snow formation in a subsaturated zone in a cloud chamber: experimental and theoretical study. 1 kHz, 2 mJ, 45 fs, 800 nm laser pulses were fired into a laboratory diffusion cloud chamber through a subsaturated zone (relative humidity ~73%, T ~ 4.3  C). After 60 min of laser irradiation, an oval-shaped snow pile was observed right below the filament center and weighed ~12.0 mg. The air current velocity at the edge of the vortices was estimated to be ~16.5 cm/s. Scattering scenes recorded from the side show that filament-induced turbulence were formed inside the cloud chamber with two vortices below the filament. Two-dimensional simulations of the air flow motion in two cross sections of the cloud chamber confirm that the turbulent vortices exist below the filament. Based upon this simulation, we deduce that the vortices indeed have a three-dimensional elliptical shape. Hence, we propose that inside vortices where the humidity was supersaturated or saturated the condensation nuclei, namely, HNO(3), N(2)(+), O(2)(+) and other aerosols and impurities, were activated and grew in size. Large-sized particles would eventually be spun out along the fast moving direction towards the cold plate and formed an oval-shaped snow pile at the end.
25662403 | Tripchlorolide ameliorates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis by down-regulating ERK1/2-NF-kappaB and JAK/STAT signaling pathways. Tripchlorolide (T4), an extract of the natural herb Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F, has been found to possess anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive actions. In the current study, these actions were evaluated in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis by scoring the clinical signs, observing the infiltration of inflammatory cells and myelin sheath in the lumbar spinal cord of EAE mice. The results demonstrated that T4 (at a dose of 40 mug/kg) significantly reduced the severity of EAE and slowed down the ongoing EAE. Further analysis showed that T4 suppressed the mRNA and protein levels of the transcription factors T-bet and RoRrt and mRNA levels of IFN-gamma and IL-17 in the spinal cords. Furthermore, T4 down-regulated the ERK1/2-NF-kappaB and JAK/STAT signaling pathways. At 40 mug/kg, T4 did not induce side effects on hematological parameters. These findings suggest that T4 ameliorates EAE by immunosuppression, providing a new insight into T4 application in multiple sclerosis treatment.
25808225 | Downregulation of the vascular renin-angiotensin system by aerobic training - focus on the balance between vasoconstrictor and vasodilator axes - . BACKGROUND: Hyperactivity of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and functional deficits in hypertension are reduced after exercise training. We evaluate in arteries, kidney and plasma of hypertensive rats the sequential effects of training on vascular angiotensinogen, Ang II and Ang (1-7) content. METHODS AND RESULTS: Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were trained or kept sedentary (S) for 3 months. After hemodynamic measurements (weeks 0, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 12), blood, arteries and kidneys were obtained to quantify the angiotensin content (HPLC) and angiotensinogen expression (Western Blotting). SHR-S vs. WKY-S exhibited elevated pressure, increased angiotensinogen and angiotensins' content in the renal artery with a high Ang II/Ang (1-7) ratio (~5-fold higher than in the femoral artery, kidney and plasma, and 14-fold higher than in the aorta). Training promptly reduced angiotensinogen expression and downregulated the RAS in the renal SHR artery (1st-12th week), with a specific reduction of the vasoconstrictor axis; significant reduction of the AngII/Ang (1-7) ratio (36%, T4-T8) occurred simultaneously with significant pressure fall (5%). In other SHR arteries, plasma and kidneys and in all WKY tissues, T-induced AngII and Ang (1-7) reductions were proportional, maintaining the AngII/Ang (1-7) ratio. CONCLUSIONS: Vascular RAS is not equally expressed in vessels, having crucial importance in the renal artery. In the renal SHR artery, training downregulates the vasoconstrictor and preserves the vasodilator axis while in other tissues and plasma training reduces both RAS axes, thus maintaining the vasoconstriction/vasodilatation balance in a lower level.
25974522 | Role of protein fluctuation correlations in electron transfer in photosynthetic complexes. We consider the dependence of the electron transfer in photosynthetic complexes on correlation properties of random fluctuations of the protein environment. The electron subsystem is modeled by a finite network of connected electron (exciton) sites. The fluctuations of the protein environment are modeled by random telegraph processes, which act either collectively (correlated) or independently (uncorrelated) on the electron sites. We derived an exact closed system of first-order linear differential equations with constant coefficients, for the average density matrix elements and for their first moments. Under some conditions, we obtained analytic expressions for the electron transfer rates and found the range of parameters for their applicability by comparing with the exact numerical simulations. We also compared the correlated and uncorrelated regimes and demonstrated numerically that the uncorrelated fluctuations of the protein environment can, under some conditions, either increase or decrease the electron transfer rates. 
26066194 | Decoherence and spin echo in biological systems. The spin-echo approach is extended to include biocomplexes for which the interaction with dynamical noise, produced by the protein environment, is strong. Significant restoration of the free induction decay signal due to homogeneous (decoherence) and inhomogeneous (dephasing) broadening is demonstrated analytically and numerically for both an individual dimer of interacting chlorophylls and for an ensemble of dimers. Our approach does not require the use of small interaction constants between the electron states and the protein fluctuations. It is based on an exact and closed system of ordinary differential equations that can be easily solved for a wide range of parameters that are relevant for bioapplications. 
26172746 | Molecular behavior of DNA in a cell-sized compartment coated by lipids. The behavior of long DNA molecules in a cell-sized confined space was investigated. We prepared water-in-oil droplets covered by phospholipids, which mimic the inner space of a cell, following the encapsulation of DNA molecules with unfolded coil and folded globule conformations. Microscopic observation revealed that the adsorption of coiled DNA onto the membrane surface depended on the size of the vesicular space. Globular DNA showed a cell-size-dependent unfolding transition after adsorption on the membrane. Furthermore, when DNA interacted with a two-phase membrane surface, DNA selectively adsorbed on the membrane phase, such as an ordered or disordered phase, depending on its conformation. We discuss the mechanism of these trends by considering the free energy of DNA together with a polyamine in the solution. The free energy of our model was consistent with the present experimental data. The cooperative interaction of DNA and polyamines with a membrane surface leads to the size-dependent behavior of molecular systems in a small space. These findings may contribute to a better understanding of the physical mechanism of molecular events and reactions inside a cell. 
26382454 | Network geometry inference using common neighbors. We introduce and explore a method for inferring hidden geometric coordinates of nodes in complex networks based on the number of common neighbors between the nodes. We compare this approach to the HyperMap method, which is based only on the connections (and disconnections) between the nodes, i.e., on the links that the nodes have (or do not have). We find that for high degree nodes, the common-neighbors approach yields a more accurate inference than the link-based method, unless heuristic periodic adjustments (or \correction steps\) are used in the latter. The common-neighbors approach is computationally intensive, requiring O(t4) running time to map a network of t nodes, versus O(t3) in the link-based method. But we also develop a hybrid method with O(t3) running time, which combines the common-neighbors and link-based approaches, and we explore a heuristic that reduces its running time further to O(t2), without significant reduction in the mapping accuracy. We apply this method to the autonomous systems (ASs) Internet, and we reveal how soft communities of ASs evolve over time in the similarity space. We further demonstrate the method's predictive power by forecasting future links between ASs. Taken altogether, our results advance our understanding of how to efficiently and accurately map real networks to their latent geometric spaces, which is an important necessary step toward understanding the laws that govern the dynamics of nodes in these spaces, and the fine-grained dynamics of network connections.
26558079 | Down-regulated claudin-7 immunoexpression in urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder. OBJECTIVES: To analyse the gene-expression level of claudin-7 in urothelial carcinoma (UC) of the urinary bladder, and its relationship with clinicopathological variables. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study included 68 specimens of UC of the bladder, comprising 35 with non-muscle-invasive (NMI), stage Ta-T1, and 33 with muscle-invasive (MI) tumours, T2-T4, and 26 of normal urothelium (NU). Total RNA was extracted and 1 mug was reverse transcribed using a cDNA kit. RT-PCR was conducted using SYBR Green I dye to examine the expression levels of the target gene (claudin-7) and the housekeeping gene glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. Using confocal-laser scanning light microscopy, immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to validate the RT-PCR data. The correlation between claudin-7 and the clinicopathological variables was assessed. RESULTS: Claudin-7 was down-regulated in UC samples compared to NU samples (P < 0.001). NMI (Ta-T1) tumours had significantly higher claudin-7 expression than MI (>=pT2) tumours (P = 0.012). There was no significant difference between patients with G1-2 tumours and those with G3 tumours (P = 0.19). There was no significant difference between patients with recurrent NMI UC and those with no recurrence (P = 0.61). IHC showed a lower expression of claudin-7 in the UC samples than NU samples, and in MI UC than in NMI UC. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that a reduced expression of claudin-7 correlates with the invasiveness and progression of UC of the urinary bladder. Further studies are needed to validate claudin-7 as a marker for UC.
26715125 | Cardiac ACE2/angiotensin 1-7/Mas receptor axis is activated in thyroid hormone-induced cardiac hypertrophy. OBJECTIVES: Thyroid hormone (TH) promotes marked effects on the cardiovascular system, including the development of cardiac hypertrophy. Some studies have demonstrated that the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is a key mediator of the cardiac growth in response to elevated TH levels. Although some of the main RAS components are changed in cardiac tissue on hyperthyroid state, the potential modulation of the counter regulatory components of the RAS, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme type 2 (ACE2), angiotensin 1-7 (Ang 1-7) levels and Mas receptor induced by hyperthyroidism is unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of hyperthyroidism on cardiac Ang 1-7, ACE2 and Mas receptor levels. METHODS: Hyperthyroidism was induced in Wistar rats by daily intraperitoneal injections of T4 for 14 days. RESULTS: Although plasma Ang 1-7 levels were unchanged by hyperthyroidism, cardiac Ang 1-7 levels were increased in TH-induced cardiac hypertrophy. ACE2 enzymatic activity was significantly increased in hearts from hyperthyroid animals, which may be contributing to the higher Ang 1-7 levels observed in the T4 group. Furthermore, elevated cardiac levels of Ang 1-7 levels were accompanied by increased Mas receptor protein levels. CONCLUSION: The counter-regulatory components of the RAS are activated in hyperthyroidism and may be contributing to modulate the cardiac hypertrophy in response to TH.
27452878 | Comparison of cortisol and thyroid hormones between tuberculosis-suspect and healthy elephants of Nepal. We compared cortisol and thyroid hormone (T3 and T4) concentrations between tuberculosis (TB)-suspected (n=10) and healthy (n=10) elephants of Nepal. Whole blood was collected from captive elephants throughout Nepal, and TB testing was performed using the ElephantTB STAT-PAK  and DPP VetTB  serological assays that detect antibodies against Mycobacterium tuberculosis and M. bovis in elephant serum. Cortisol, T3 and T4 were quantified by competitive enzyme immunoassays, and the results showed no significant differences in hormone concentrations between TB-suspect and healthy elephants. These preliminary data suggest neither adrenal nor thyroid function is altered by TB disease status. However, more elephants, including those positively diagnosed for TB by trunk wash cultures, need to be evaluated over time to confirm results.
28363650 | Role of phosphorylation of phosvitin in the phase transformation of mineralization. Phosvitin is a unique highly phosphorylated protein that plays a role in the regulation of mineralization. This study investigated the role of phosphorylation of phosvitin in the phase transformation of calcium phosphate in the mineralization solution. Partially dephosphorylated phosvitins (T1, T2, T3 and T4) were prepared with 2.98, 19.46, 43.39 and 71.07% of phosphate released from native phosvitin, respectively. And their effect on regulating the phase transformation was investigated, the characterization and composition analysis was performed by circular dichroism, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy. Results showed that phosvitin in the acceleration effect of phase transformation was dose-concentration effect by pH-stat titration. With lower dephosphorylation degree of phosvitin (<20%), the acceleration effect was weaker than native phosvitin, since phosphorylation and random structure of phosvitin were reduced. However, with higher dephosphorylation degree of phosvitin (>40%), the acceleration effect was enhanced compared to native phosvitin, in which the beta-sheet structure was increased and phosvitin was partially hydrolyzed to phosphopeptides. The acceleration effect of phase transformation was as follows: T4>T3>phosvitin>T1>T2> Control. This study clearly demonstrated that phosphorylation of phosvitin played an important role in the regulation of mineralization.
28432512 | Squamous cell carcinoma of the breast in the United States: incidence, demographics, tumor characteristics, and survival. PURPOSE: Squamous cell carcinoma of breast accounts for less than 0.1% of all breast cancers. The purpose of this study is to describe the epidemiology and survival of this rare malignancy. METHODS: Data were extracted from the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results Registry to identify women diagnosed with squamous cell carcinoma of breast between 1998 and 2013. SEER*Stat 8.3.1 was used to calculate age-adjusted incidence, age-wise distribution, and annual percentage change in incidence. Kaplan-Meier curves were plotted for survival analysis. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression model was used to determine predictors of survival. RESULTS: A total of 445 cases of squamous cell carcinoma of breast were diagnosed during the study period. The median age of diagnosis was 67 years. The overall age-adjusted incidence between 1998 and 2013 was 0.62 per 1,000,000 per year, and the incidence has been on a decline. Approximately half of the tumors were poorly differentiated. Stage II was the most common stage at presentation. Majority of the cases were negative for expression of estrogen and progesterone receptor. One-third of the cases underwent breast conservation surgery while more than half of the cases underwent mastectomy (unilateral or bilateral). Approximately one-third of cases received radiation treatment. The 1-year and 5-year cause-specific survival was 81.6 and 63.5%, respectively. Excluding patient with metastasis or unknown stage at presentation, in multivariate Cox proportional hazard model, older age at diagnosis and higher tumor stage (T3 or T4) or nodal stage at presentation were significant predictors of poor survival. CONCLUSIONS: Our study describes the unique characteristics of squamous cell carcinoma of breast and demonstrates that it is an aggressive tumor with a poor survival. Older age and higher tumor or nodal stages at presentation were independent predictors of poor survival for loco-regional stages.
28466814 | Association of leukemia inhibitory factor gene polymorphism and in vitro fertilization outcome in a population in northern Iran. Several studies have been demonstrated that endometrial leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is important in embryo implantation. LIF is a secreted glycoprotein with a variety of biological functions including stimulation of cell proliferation, differentiation and survival that are all essential for blastocyete development and implantation. The LIF receptor activates several signaling pathways in diverse cell types, including Jak/STAT, MAPK and PI3-kinase pathways in the endometrium of fertile woman. It has been suggested that the initial lower expression of LIF in proliferative phase may be one of the causes for multiple failure of implantation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between maternal genotype of SNP 3951C/T LIF and in vitro fertilization and embryo transfer (IVF-ET) outcome in infertile women. This case-control study was comprised of infertile patients (n=70) and women having one healthy child as controls (n=73). Genotyping for SNP-3951C/T was performed by PCR/RFLP. Allele and genotype distribution did not differ significantly between patients and controls (P>0.05). The LIF genotype frequencies amongst the 70 cases were C/C=40%, C/T=52.8% and T/T=7.2%; the C and T allele frequencies were 66% and 34%, respectively. The LIF genotype frequencies amongst the 73 controls were C/C=45.20%, C/T=50.70% and T/T=4.1%; the C and T allele frequencies were 70% and 30%, respectively. In conclusion, the results of this study indicate that SNP 3951C/T of LIF may not be associated with IVF-ET outcome in this population. Although more studies should be considered with larger number of patients and control subjects to confirm our results.
29534942 | Revisiting the Prognostic Heterogeneity of AJCC Stage IV Carcinomas of the Upper Urinary Tract. BACKGROUND: Current staging paradigms from the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system for upper urinary tract carcinomas treat locoregionally advanced (T4 and N+) and metastatic (M1) patients as a single entity (stage IV). The current study proposes a modification of the AJCC staging system where these 2 entities are separated. METHODS: The Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database (2004-2014) was accessed through SEER*Stat program. Overall survival (OS) analyses according to AJCC and modified staging systems were conducted through Kaplan-Meier analysis. Moreover, cancer-specific survival analysis was conducted through a Cox proportional hazard model. RESULTS: OS was compared according to AJCC and modified AJCC staging systems. The P value for OS trend for both staging systems was < .0001. This was also found when OS was stratified by the site of the primary (renal pelvis vs. ureter) as well as when stratified by the staging approach (pathologic vs. clinical) (P < .0001). Cancer-specific Cox proportional hazard analysis (adjusted for age, grade, histology, and surgical treatment) was conducted for both staging systems. Pairwise hazard ratio comparisons between different stage categories for both staging systems were significant (P < .0001). The c index for cancer-specific survival for the AJCC staging system was 0.706 with standard error 0.006 (95% confidence interval, 0.695-0.717), while the c index for cancer-specific survival for the modified AJCC staging system was 0.714 with standard error 0.006 (95% confidence interval, 0.702-0.725). CONCLUSION: Dividing stage IV upper urinary tract carcinomas into locoregionally advanced and metastatic disease subcategories improves the prognostic utility of the staging system compared to the current AJCC staging system. Given the limitations of a SEER-based study, this concept needs to be externally validated in various settings.
30206163 | The Novel Bromodomain and Extraterminal Domain Inhibitor INCB054329 Induces Vulnerabilities in Myeloma Cells That Inform Rational Combination Strategies. PURPOSE: Bromodomain and extraterminal domain (BET) proteins regulate the expression of many cancer-associated genes and pathways; BET inhibitors have demonstrated activity in diverse models of hematologic and solid tumors. We report the preclinical characterization of INCB054329, a structurally distinct BET inhibitor that has been investigated in phase I clinical trials. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We used multiple myeloma models to investigate vulnerabilities created by INCB054329 treatment that could inform rational combinations. RESULTS: In addition to c-MYC, INCB054329 decreased expression of oncogenes FGFR3 and NSD2/MMSET/WHSC1, which are deregulated in t(4;14)-rearranged cell lines. The profound suppression of FGFR3 sensitized the t(4;14)-positive cell line OPM-2 to combined treatment with a fibroblast growth factor receptor inhibitor in vivo. In addition, we show that BET inhibition across multiple myeloma cell lines resulted in suppressed interleukin (IL)-6 Janus kinase-signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK-STAT) signaling. INCB054329 displaced binding of BRD4 to the promoter of IL6 receptor (IL6R) leading to reduced levels of IL6R and diminished signaling through STAT3. Combination with JAK inhibitors (ruxolitinib or itacitinib) further reduced JAK-STAT signaling and synergized to inhibit myeloma cell growth in vitro and in vivo. This combination potentiated tumor growth inhibition in vivo, even in the MM1.S model of myeloma that is not intrinsically sensitive to JAK inhibition alone. CONCLUSIONS: Preclinical data reveal insights into vulnerabilities created in myeloma cells by BET protein inhibition and potential strategies that can be leveraged in clinical studies to enhance the activity of INCB054329.
30440128 | [Role of signaling pathway of long non-coding RNA growth arrest-specific transcript 5/microRNA-200c-3p/angiotensin converting enzyme 2 in the apoptosis of human lung epithelial cell A549 in acute respiratory distress syndrome]. Objective: To investigate whether long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) growth arrest-specific transcript 5 (GAS5)/microRNA-200c-3p/angiotensin converting enzyme 2(ACE2) involved in the regulation of the apoptosis of human lung epithelial cell A549 in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Methods: ARDS rat models were established and were divided into control, ARDS, ARDS+ pcDNA and ARDS+ pcDNA-GAS5 groups. Six hours after the establishment of ARDS rat model, arterial blood and lung tissues of the rats from the four groups were collected. The changes of partial pressure of oxygen (PO(2)) and partial pressure of CO(2) (PCO(2)) were analyzed and the expression of GAS5 in lung tissue was observed in these groups. Then, A549 cells were divided into control, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), LPS+ pcDNA, LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5, LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ pre-NC, LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ miR-200c-3p mimic groups. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) was conducted to measure lncRNA GAS5, ACE2 and miR-200c-3p levels. RNA immunoprecipitation and RNA pull-down assay were used to detect the combination between GAS5 and miR-200c-3p. Western blotting was used to detect the protein level of ACE2. Flow cytometry was used to observe the apoptosis of A549 cells in those groups. The data between groups were compared by t test. Results: In ARDS rat model, PO(2) value was significantly increased in ARDS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group than that in ARDS+ pcDNA group[(81.5+-3.3) vs (57.5+-5.1) mmHg, t=4.850, P<0.05], and PCO(2) value was significantly decreased in ARDS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group than that in ARDS+ pcDNA group[(50.6+-1.9) vs (64.0+-1.9) mmHg, t=5.940, P<0.05]. LncRNA GAS5 level in A549 cells of LPS group decreased significantly than that in control group (0.43+-0.01 vs 1.01+-0.01, t=0.242, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA group, ACE2 expression increased significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group (0.85+-0.04 vs 0.34+-0.02, t=1.800, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ pre-NC group, ACE2 expression decreased significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ miR-200c-3p mimic group (0.62+-0.01 vs 0.84+-0.02, t=9.440, P<0.05). Compared with control group, the percentage of A549 cell apoptosis promoted significantly in LPS group (25.90+-0.61 vs 7.90+-0.22, t=0.257, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA group, the percentage of A549 cell apoptosis suppressed significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5 group (10.50+-0.37 vs 26.37+-0.45, t=1.760, P<0.05). Compared with LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ pre-NC group, the percentage of A549 apoptosis promoted significantly in LPS+ pcDNA-GAS5+ miR-200c-3p mimic group (19.07+-0.56 vs 10.87+-0.26, t=0.643, P<0.05). Conclusion: In ARDS, down-regulation of lncRNA GAS5 decreases ACE2 expression through increasing miR-200c-3p to promote the apoptosis of A549 cells, thus to promote the progression of ARDS.
30744575 | Immune signatures for HIV-1 and HIV-2 induced CD4+T cell dysregulation in an Indian cohort. BACKGROUND: HIV-2 infection is characterised by a longer asymptomatic phase and slower AIDS progression than HIV-1 infection. Identifying unique immune signatures associated with HIV-2 pathogenesis may thus provide therapeutically useful insight into the management of HIV infection. This study examined the dynamics of the CD4+T cell compartment, critical in disease progression, focussing on chronic HIV-2 and HIV-1 infected individuals at various stages of disease progression. METHODS: A total of 111 participants including untreated and treated HIV infected individuals and seronegative individuals were enrolled in this study. The relative proportion of CD4+T cell subsets, expressing CD25 (IL-2Ralpha) and CD127 (IL-7R), in HIV infected individuals and seronegative controls were assessed by multiparametric flow cytometry. Additionally, levels of immune activation and cytotoxic T lymphocytes in both the CD4+T and CD8+T cell compartments was evaluated. RESULTS: Both treated and untreated, HIV-1 and HIV-2 infected individuals showed apparent dysregulation in CD4+ T cell subset frequency that was associated with disease progression. Furthermore, longitudinal sampling from a group of HIV-1 infected individuals on virologically effective ART showed no significant change in dysregulated CD4+T cell subset frequency. For both ART naive and receiving groups associations with disease progression were strongest and significant with CD4+ T cell subset frequency compared to per cell expression of IL-2Ralpha and IL-7Ralpha. In untreated HIV-2 infected individuals, T cell activation was lower compared to ART naive HIV-1 infected individuals and higher than seronegative individuals. Also, the level of Granzyme-B expressing circulating T cells was higher in both ART-naive HIV-1 and HIV-2 infected individuals compared to seronegative controls. CONCLUSION: Dysregulation of IL-2 and IL-7 homeostasis persists in CD4+T cell subsets irrespective of presence or absence of viremia or antiretroviral therapy in HIV infection. Furthermore, we report for the first time on levels of circulating Granzyme-B expressing CD4+T and CD8+T cells in chronic HIV-2 infection. Lower immune activation in these individuals indicates that persistent immune activation driven CD4+T cell depletion, as observed in untreated HIV-1 infected individuals, may not be as severe and provides evidence for a disparate pathogenesis mechanism. Our work also supports novel immunomodulatory therapeutic strategies for both HIV-1 and HIV-2 infection.
31160193 | Prognostic Variables in Patients With Non-metastatic Small-cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma of the Bladder: A Population-Based Study. BACKGROUND: Small-cell carcinoma of the bladder (SCCB) is a rare, highly aggressive, neoplasm. We retrospectively analyzed the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database to investigate the impact of chemotherapy, surgery, and radiotherapy on overall survival (OS) of patients with non-metastatic SCCB. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The SEER Research Data (2000-2014) were reviewed using the SEER*Stat software. Patients with pure or mixed SCCB, T2-T4, any N, M0, and who received either surgery or radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy (neo-adjuvant, adjuvant, or perioperative treatment) were included. We used the Kaplan-Meier method and log-rank test for estimating survival. Cox proportional hazard regression was used to evaluate the prognostic variables. RESULTS: A total of 384 cases of SCCB were included in the study (T2, n = 204; T3/4, n = 180), of whom 233 (60.7%) were treated with surgery, whereas 151 (39.3%) received radiotherapy. The median OS was 21.0 months (95% confidence interval [CI], 16.7-25.3 months). Age, race, chemotherapy, type of local treatment, and T and N staging were identified as independent prognostic variables (P < .05). In multivariate analysis, chemotherapy (n = 264) was associated with significant better OS (adjusted hazard ratio [HR], 0.56; 95% CI, 0.42-0.74; P < .000). Patients who underwent surgery showed longer outcome compared with those treated with radiotherapy (adjusted HR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.47-0.82; P = .001). However, only in the T2 subgroup did surgery (n = 92) retain a significant survival difference compared with radiotherapy (n = 112) (adjusted HR, 0.37; 95% CI, 0.24-0.57; P < .000). CONCLUSIONS: Surgery was associated with better outcome compared with radiotherapy in patients with T2 disease. Chemotherapy was associated with a longer survival in patients with non-metastatic SCCB.
31678138 | Paradoxical effects of continuous high dose gabapentin treatment on autonomic dysreflexia after complete spinal cord injury. Spinal cord injury (SCI) can have profound effects on the autonomic and cardiovascular systems, notably with injuries above high-thoracic levels that result in the development of autonomic dysreflexia (AD) characterized by volatile hypertension in response to exaggerated sympathetic reflexes triggered by afferent stimulation below the injury level. Pathophysiological changes associated with the development of AD include sprouting of both nociceptive afferents and ascending propriospinal 'relay' neurons below the injury, as well as dynamic changes in synaptic inputs onto sympathetic preganglionic neurons. However, it remains uncertain whether synapse formation between sprouted c-fibers and propriospinal neurons contributes to the development of exaggerated sympathetic reflexes produced during AD. We previously reported that once daily treatment with the anti-epileptic and neuropathic pain medication, gabapentin (GBP), at low dosage (50 mg/kg) mitigates experimentally induced AD soon after injections, likely by impeding glutamatergic signaling. Since much higher doses of GBP are reported to block the formation of excitatory synapses, we hypothesized that continuous, high dosage GBP treatment after SCI might prevent the formation of aforementioned aberrant synapses and, accordingly, reduce the incidence and severity of AD. Adult female rats implanted with aortic telemetry probes for hemodynamic monitoring underwent T4-transection SCI and immediately received 100 mg/kg (i.p.) of GBP and then every six hours (400 mg/kg/day) for 4-weeks after injury. We assessed daily body weight, mean arterial pressure, heart rate, frequency of spontaneous AD, and hemodynamic changes during colorectal distension (CRD) to establish whether high dose GBP treatment prophylactically mitigates both AD and associated aberrant synaptic plasticity. This regimen significantly reduced both the absolute blood pressure reached during experimentally induced AD and the time required to return to baseline afterwards. Conversely, GBP prevented return to pre-injury body weights and paradoxically increased the frequency of spontaneously occurring AD. While there were significant decreases in the densities of excitatory and inhibitory pre-synaptic markers in the lumbosacral dorsal horn following injury alone, they were unaltered by continuous GBP treatment. This indicates distinct mechanisms of action for acute GBP to mitigate induced AD whereas chronic GBP increases non-induced AD frequencies. While high dose prophylactic GBP is not recommended to treat AD, acute low dose GBP may hold therapeutic value to mitigate evoked AD, notably during iatrogenic procedures under controlled clinical conditions.
31742150 | Correlation of CD4 counts with oral and systemic manifestations in HIV patients. AIM: Aim of the study was to correlate CD4 counts with oral and systemic manifestations in HIV patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Study population comprised of newly diagnosed 100 confirmed seropositive patients, before starting any antiretroviral therapy, were included. The oral lesions were diagnosed based on clinical manifestation using international criteria and CD4 count was determined within maximum 1 week of oral examination. Oral and systemic manifestations of HIV-positive patients were recorded and correlated with CD4 counts. RESULTS: It was found that decrease in CD4 count is associated with a wide range of oral and systemic manifestations which can be used as prognostic marker for immune suppression in AIDS patient. CONCLUSION: Correlation of CD4 count with oral and systemic manifestation in HIV patient demonstrate the role of oral physician in identification, diagnosis, and treatment of HIV-associated lesions, providing proper guidance to the patient and allowing for an early diagnosis and treatment of the disease, which is fundamental for a successful management of the life conditions of HIV infected patients.
32061245 | Incidence and predictors of nevirapine and efavirenz-associated rash among Indonesian HIV patients. BACKGROUND: Many drugs used for the treatment of HIV disease can cause drug hypersensitivity reactions. Since 2002, World Health Organization (WHO) has recommended the use of nevirapine and efavirenz as part of first line antiretroviral therapies for several years. Both of the drugs had equivalent clinical efficacy but differences in toxicity profile. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine the incidence and predictors of nevirapine and efavirenz-associated rash among Indonesian HIV-infected patients. METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was conducted among Indonesian patients who were using nevirapine or efavirenz between January 2004 to December 2013. All eligible predictors were analyzed using bivariate and multivariate analysis. RESULTS: 2,071 patients received nevirapine and 1,212 received efavirenz as first line therapies. The cumulative incidence of nevirapine-associated rash was 14% (95%CI: 12.5-15.5%) and evafirenz-associated rash was 4.5% (95%CI: 3.4-5.8%). Severe reactions occurred 1% patients receiving NVP and 0.1% patients receiving EFV, but no patients died due to these conditions. Predictors independently related with nevirapine-associated rash were female gender (adjusted RR = 1.622; 95%CI: 1.196-2.199; p = 0.002), baseline absolute CD4 count above 200 cells/mm3 (adjusted RR = 1.387; 95%CI: 1.041-1.847; p = 0.025), and hepatitis C co-infection (adjusted RR = 1.507; 95%CI: 1.138-1.995; p = 0.004). Baseline ALT level > 1.25 times upper normal limit (adjusted RR = 1.508; 95%CI: 0.998-2.278; p = 0.051) had a tendency to be a good predictor. None of the risk factors investigated was associated with developing efavirenz-associated rash. CONCLUSION: Female, baseline absolute CD4 count above 200 cells/mm3, hepatitis C co-infection and baseline ALT levels more than 1.25 times upper normal limit were predictors for nevirapine-associated rash in HIV patients.
32316719 | [A special on epidemic prevention and control: analysis on expression of 2019-nCoV related ACE2 and TMPRSS2 in eye tissues]. This article was published ahead of print on the official website of Chinese Journal of Ophthalmolog on Apirl 22,2020. Objective: Angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and Transmembrane serine protease 2 (TMPRSS2) are the key proteins for 2019-nCoV entry into host cells. To evaluate the potential infection risk of 2019-nCoV on ocular surface, we compared ACE2 and TMPRSS2 expression among different eye tissues. Methods: Experimental study. Thirty mice were assigned to male, female, aged, diabetic and non-diabetic groups, with 6 mice in each group. Real-time PCR was performed to quantify ACE2 and TMPRSS2 gene expression in conjunctiva, cornea, lacrimal gland, iris, lens, retina, lung, heart, kidney, and liver from male mice. Immunohistochemistry staining was applied to visualize the distribution of the two proteins in different mice tissues, and in human corneal and conjunctival sections. Published transcriptome datasets were extracted to generate the expression comparasion of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 between human conjunctival and corneal tissues, and results were analyzed using Mann-Whitney U test. Female mice, aged mice, STZ-induced diabetic mice, diabetic group control mice were also subjected to ACE2 expression analysis. Results were analyzed using Student's t-test. Results: The expression of ACE2 and TMPRSS2 genes were the highest in conjunctiva among all the six mice eye tissues explored. The expression of these two genes in conjunctiva were lower than that in kidney and lung. ACE2 and TMPRSS2 shared similar expression pattern with the staining concentrated in corneal epithelium, conjunctival epithelium and lacrimal gland serous cells. The expression levels of ACE2 showed gender difference. Female mice had lower ACE2 in conjunctiva and cornea than male mice, with the expression levels being only 43% (t=3.269, P=0.031) and 63% (t=4.080, P=0.015) of that in the male conjunctiva and cornea, respectively. Diabetic mice expressed more ACE2 in conjunctiva (1.21-fold, P>0.05) and lacrimal gland (1.10-fold, P>0.05) compared with the control group. No significant difference on ACE2 expression was found between the aged and young adult mice. The expression level of human conjunctiva ACE2 and TMPRSS2 were significantly higher than that in the cornea (P=0.007), with 5.74-fold and 12.84-fold higher in the conjunctiva than in the corneal epithelium cells, which resembled the situation in mice. Conclusion: The observation of high-level ACE2 and TMPRSS2 expression in conjunctiva among the 6 eye tissues examined suggests that conjunctiva serves as an infection target tissue of 2019-nCoV. (Chin J Ophthalmol, 2020, 56:438-446).
32392186 | Glutathione Peroxidase 8 as a Prognostic Biomarker of Gastric Cancer: An Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Data. BACKGROUND Glutathione peroxidase 8 (GPX8) has previously been shown to play a role in Keshan disease. In the present study, we explored the prognostic relevance of GPX8 expression in patients with gastric cancer (GC) based upon The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data. MATERIAL AND METHODS We assessed the relationship between the expression of GPX8 and clinicopathological findings in GC patients via logistic regression analyses, Kruskal-Wallis tests, and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests. We further assessed the prognostic relevance of specific variables using Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses. We lastly conducted gene set enrichment analyses (GSEA). RESULTS We detected a significant association between elevated GPX8 levels and more advanced GC tumor stage (OR=5.92 for I vs. IV), as well as more advanced T (OR=22.91 for T1 vs. T4) and N classification (OR=1.82 for N0 vs. N3). We found worse prognosis in patients expressing high levels of GPX8 relative to those with lower expression of this gene (P=0.021). In a univariate analysis, we found high GPX8 expression was strongly correlated with worse OS (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.05; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.01-1.08; P=0.018), and multivariate analysis confirmed that GPX8 expression independently predicts GC patient OS (HR: 1.04; CI: 1.00-1.08, P=0.041). GSEA revealed that elevated GPX8 expression was associated with enrichment of pathways consistent with MAPK signaling, JAK/STAT signaling, TGF-ss signaling, melanoma, and basal cell carcinoma. CONCLUSIONS The expression of GPX8 may have prognostic relevance, being positively associated with worse OS in GC patients.
32628899 | Coronaviruses and Integrin alphavbeta3: Does Thyroid Hormone Modify the Relationship? BACKGROUND: Uptake of coronaviruses by target cells involves binding of the virus by cell ectoenzymes. For the etiologic agent of COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2), a receptor has been identified as angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 (ACE2). Recently it has been suggested that plasma membrane integrins may be involved in the internalization and replication of clinically important coronaviruses. For example, integrin alphavbeta3 is involved in the cell uptake of a model porcine enteric alpha-coronavirus that causes human epidemics. ACE2 modulates the intracellular signaling generated by integrins. OBJECTIVE: We propose that the cellular internalization of alphavbeta3 applies to uptake of coronaviruses bound to the integrin, and we evaluate the possibility that clinical host T4 may contribute to target cell uptake of coronavirus and to the consequence of cell uptake of the virus. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: The viral binding domain of the integrin is near the Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) peptide-binding site and RGD molecules can affect virus binding. In this same locale on integrin alphavbeta3 is the receptor for thyroid hormone analogues, particularly, L-thyroxine (T4). By binding to the integrin, T4 has been shown to modulate the affinity of the integrin for other proteins, to control internalization of alphavbeta3 and to regulate the expression of a panel of cytokine genes, some of which are components of the 'cytokine storm' of viral infections. If T4 does influence coronavirus uptake by target cells, other thyroid hormone analogues, such as deaminated T4 and deaminated 3,5,3'-triiodo-L-thyronine (T3), are candidate agents to block the virus-relevant actions of T4 at integrin alphavbeta3 and possibly restrict virus uptake.
32669382 | A Comprehensive Genomics Solution for HIV Surveillance and Clinical Monitoring in Low-Income Settings. Viral genetic sequencing can be used to monitor the spread of HIV drug resistance, identify appropriate antiretroviral regimes, and characterize transmission dynamics. Despite decreasing costs, next-generation sequencing (NGS) is still prohibitively costly for routine use in generalized HIV epidemics in low- and middle-income countries. Here, we present veSEQ-HIV, a high-throughput, cost-effective NGS sequencing method and computational pipeline tailored specifically to HIV, which can be performed using leftover blood drawn for routine CD4 cell count testing. This method overcomes several major technical challenges that have prevented HIV sequencing from being used routinely in public health efforts; it is fast, robust, and cost-efficient, and generates full genomic sequences of diverse strains of HIV without bias. The complete veSEQ-HIV pipeline provides viral load estimates and quantitative summaries of drug resistance mutations; it also exploits information on within-host viral diversity to construct directed transmission networks. We evaluated the method's performance using 1,620 plasma samples collected from individuals attending 10 large urban clinics in Zambia as part of the HPTN 071-2 study (PopART Phylogenetics). Whole HIV genomes were recovered from 91% of samples with a viral load of >1,000 copies/ml. The cost of the assay (30 GBP per sample) compares favorably with existing VL and HIV genotyping tests, proving an affordable option for combining HIV clinical monitoring with molecular epidemiology and drug resistance surveillance in low-income settings.
32885714 | A comparative analysis of four activated clotting time measurement devices in cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. BACKGROUND: In cardiac surgery on cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), heparin anticoagulation is monitored by point-of-care measurement of activated clotting time (ACT). The objective of this study was to compare four ACT systems in cardiac surgery in terms of their reproducibility, agreement and potential clinical impact at relevant medical decision points. METHODS: The study included 40 cardiac surgery patients. Samples were taken at five time points before (T1), after heparinization for CPB (T2, T3, T4), and after heparin reversal (T5). The reproducibility, correlation, and differences in ACT values were assessed with two devices from each of the four ACT systems: Instrumentation Laboratory Hemochron Elite (Hmch), Medtronic HMS Plus (HMS), Abbott i-STAT, and Helena Abrazo. Subrange analyses were performed for low ACT values (results from T1, T5) and high ACT values (results from T2, T3, T4). RESULTS: Within-system analysis showed strong linear correlation between paired measurements (R = 0.968-0.993). However, Hmch showed poorer reproducibility with highest proportion of values that exceed a difference of 10% and highest overall standard error of 74 seconds across the measurement range compared to that of the others (range 39-47 seconds, respectively). For inter-system comparison, using Hmch as reference, ACTs were strongly correlated as follows: HMS (R = 0.938), i-STAT (R = 0.911), and Abrazo (R = 0.911). Agreement analysis in the high ACT range showed HMS tended to have higher ACT values with +11% bias over Hmch, whereas i-STAT (-8% bias) and Abrazo (-13% bias) tended to underestimate. Post-protamine ACT results were dependent on device type where Hmch yielded highest post-protamine ACT (+13% higher than baseline) compared to -16% for HMS, -10% for iSTAT and 0% for Abrazo. CONCLUSIONS: Each device had individual reproducibility and biases, which may impact peri-operative heparin management. Careful validation must be undertaken when adopting a different method as decision limits would be affected. Clinicians should also be cautious using ACT as the only indicator for full heparin reversal.
32950466 | Thyroid disorders and SARS-CoV-2 infection: From pathophysiological mechanism to patient management. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the COVID-19 epidemic to be a global pandemic in March 2020. COVID-19 is an infection caused by SARS-CoV-2, a coronavirus that utilizes the angiotensin-2 converting enzyme to penetrate thyroid and pituitary cells, and may result in a \cytokine storm\. Based on the pathophysiological involvement of the pituitary-thyroid axis, the current review discusses the diagnosis of abnormal thyroid function test, and the management of patients presenting with thyrotoxicosis, thyroid-associated orbitopathy and hypothyroidism in the context of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
32957816 | Proteomic profile of preeclampsia in the first trimester of pregnancy. OBJECTIVE: Preeclampsia (PE) is a leading cause of pregnancy-associated maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Detection of patients at risk before the clinical onset of PE is a priority. Proteomics have become a valuable tool for the discovery of new biomarkers; however, the understanding of the underlying mechanism is necessary. The aim of the study was to determine differences between proteomic serum profiles of PE and normotensive pregnancies using quantitative and qualitative approaches. STUDY DESIGN: Serum samples from pregnant women were taken at 10-12 weeks of gestation with follow-up to determine PE development. Samples were analyzed using nano 2-D liquid chromatography UPLC and qTOF-MS/MS. RESULTS: A total of 136 women were recruited, of which eight (5.9%) developed PE, and eight normotensive were randomly selected as a control group for comparison. A different profile was obtained between groups. Nine proteins showed quantitative differences with fold-change over 1.5: PRRC2C (217.02), HEATR5A (179.46), ATP6 (162.38), PRRC2B (83.09), RBM25 (5.36), NUP205 (3.38), HLA-I (2.27), ZC3H13 (2.15), and SREK1 (1.66); and two under 0.66: Importin-4 (0.55) and Cytochrome b (0.26). Using bilateral Fisher's exact test for the qualitative approach, LRRK1 had statistical significance (p = .044), while PRRC2B (p = .121), PRRC2C (p = .134), and NUP205 (p = .134) showed a tendency to be present in PE. CONCLUSION: The found proteins have plausibility with the early pathophysiological events that have been associated with this pathology. Further studies should be performed to confirm these findings and elucidate their specific roles.
33490641 | A decrease in PPD specific CD4 T cell CD38 and HLA-DR expression in pulmonary tuberculosis patients after 8 weeks of therapy correlates with successful anti-tuberculosis treatment. Tuberculosis (TB) is a major health problem in Indonesia with a million new cases each year. The CD4 T cell adaptive immune response against Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) is central to the control of this disease. We investigated whether standard therapy of TB causes changes to these cells in the early stages of treatment. To do this we took blood samples from 2 groups of TB patients in Banda Aceh, Indonesia; one from a group of patients before treatment, and the other from a group who become smear negative after 8 weeks treatment. MTB specific CD4 T cells were identified by ex vivo stimulation with PPD and flow cytometric measurement of intracellular cytokines and surface markers. We found no difference in total PPD specific CD4 T cells between the groups, but that the proportion of these cells CD38 + HLA-DR+ was significantly lower in the treatment group. This decrease was not specific to Interferon gamma (IFNg), Interleukin-2 (IL-2) or Granulocyte Macrophage Colony Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF) producing cells. Our findings show that anti-MTB treatment affects the adaptive immune response, and that measuring the decrease of the PPD specific CD4 T cell CD38+HLA-DR+ phenotype could be a useful parameter for determination of treatment success.
33898447 | Inhibition by Thyroid Hormones of Cell Migration Activated by IGF-1 and MCP-1 in THP-1 Monocytes: Focus on Signal Transduction Events Proximal to Integrin alphavbeta3. Interaction between thyroid hormones and the immune system is reported in the literature. Thyroid hormones, thyroxine, T4, but also T3, act non-genomically through mechanisms that involve a plasma membrane receptor alphavbeta3 integrin, a co-receptor for insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). Previous data from our laboratory show a crosstalk between thyroid hormones and IGF-1 because thyroid hormones inhibit the IGF-1-stimulated glucose uptake and cell proliferation in L-6 myoblasts, and the effects are mediated by integrin alphavbeta3. IGF-1 also behaves as a chemokine, being an important factor for tissue regeneration after damage. In the present study, using THP-1 human leukemic monocytes, expressing alphavbeta3 integrin in their cell membrane, we focused on the crosstalk between thyroid hormones and either IGF-1 or monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), studying cell migration and proliferation stimulated by the two chemokines, and the role of alphavbeta3 integrin, using inhibitors of alphavbeta3 integrin and downstream pathways. Our results show that IGF-1 is a potent chemoattractant in THP-1 monocytes, stimulating cell migration, and thyroid hormone inhibits the effect through alphavbeta3 integrin. Thyroid hormone also inhibits IGF-1-stimulated cell proliferation through alphavbeta3 integrin, an example of a crosstalk between genomic and non-genomic effects. We also studied the effects of thyroid hormone on cell migration and proliferation induced by MCP-1, together with the pathways involved, by a pharmacological approach and docking simulation. Our findings show a different downstream signaling for IGF-1 and MCP-1 in THP-1 monocytes mediated by the plasma membrane receptor of thyroid hormones, integrin alphavbeta3.
35105583 | Impact of surgical management of primary tumors in stage IV breast cancer patients: a retrospective observational study based on SEER database. OBJECTIVES: Although primary tumour surgery could prolong survival for patients with stage IV breast cancer, how to select candidates for primary tumour surgery is still a challenging problem for medical oncologists. DESIGN: This study is a retrospective database study. SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: In this study, we aimed at evaluating the primary site surgery effect and select the beneficial subgroups. 13 618 patients with stage IV breast cancer, diagnosed between 2010 and 2015, were collected from SEER*Stat database. INTERVENTIONS: Based on the local surgery at primary tumour site, patients were categorised into three groups: primary tumour surgery performed group, recommended for primary tumour surgery but refused (RBR) group and surgery not recommended (NR) group. PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: All-cause survival and breast cancer-specific survival (BCSS). RESULTS: Univariate Cox regression analyses showed that, compared with surgery group, patients in non-surgery (RBR and NR) groups tend to be older, T4, N0/NX, triple-negative and visceral metastatic. For both all-cause survival and BCSS, non-surgery, advanced T stage, triple-negative BC (TNBC) and visceral metastases were significant risk factors. Primary tumour surgery showed benefits for both all-cause survival (HR=0.44, 95% CI=0.39-0.49, p<0.0001) and BCSS (HR=0.43, 95% CI=0.38-0.49, p<0.0001). However, after propensity score matching, primary tumour surgery failed to demonstrate significant benefits for TNBC (HR=0.96, 95% CI=0.60-1.53, p=0.851) and patients with visceral metastases (HR=0.90, 95% CI=0.60-1.36, p=0.62). CONCLUSION: Surgery was associated with prolonged survival in stage IV breast cancers, but not in patients with TNBC and visceral metastases.
35677079 | Potent and pan-neutralization of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern by DARPins. We report the engineering and selection of two synthetic proteins - FSR16m and FSR22 - for possible treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infection. FSR16m and FSR22 are trimeric proteins composed of DARPin SR16m or SR22 fused with a T4 foldon and exhibit broad spectrum neutralization of SARS-Cov-2 strains. The IC 50 values of FSR16m against authentic B.1.351, B.1.617.2 and BA.1.1 variants are 3.4 ng/mL, 2.2 ng/mL and 7.4 ng/mL, respectively, comparable to currently used therapeutic antibodies. Despite the use of the spike protein from a now historical wild-type virus for design, FSR16m and FSR22 both exhibit increased neutralization against newly-emerged variants of concern (39- to 296-fold) in pseudovirus assays. Cryo-EM structures revealed that these DARPins recognize a region of the receptor binding domain (RBD, residues 455-456, 486-489) overlapping a critical portion of the ACE2-binding surface. K18-hACE2 transgenic mice inoculated with a B.1.617.2 variant and receiving intranasally-administered FSR16m were protected as judged by less weight loss and 10-100-fold reductions in viral burden in the upper and lower respiratory tracts. The strong and broad neutralization potency make FSR16m and FSR22 promising candidates for prevention and treatment of infection by current and potential future strains of SARS-CoV-2.
36406870 | Thyroiditis after mRNA Vaccination for COVID-19. Background: SARS-CoV-2 has been known to cause multisystemic involvement, gaining entry through ACE-2 and TMPRSS2 receptors. COVID-19 vaccine-associated thyroiditis cases are now being reported. Case Report. Case 1. A 36-year-old woman with a history of right hemithyroidectomy for a benign thyroid nodule, on a stable dose of levothyroxine with euthyroid labs, presented with progressively worsening left neck pain, episodic palpitations, and heat intolerance after the second dose of mRNA1273 (Moderna) vaccine. Examination revealed an enlarged and tender left lobe of the thyroid with suppressed TSH but normal free T4 and ESR, signifying subacute thyroiditis. She was managed conservatively without corticosteroids or beta-blockers, and her symptoms resolved. A follow-up revealed increasing TSH, and levothyroxine was restarted. Case 2. A 33-year-old man with a history of anxiety disorder on Sertraline, presented with a two-week history of palpitations, heat intolerance, and 10-pound weight loss after the second dose of BNT162b2 (Pfizer-BioNTech) vaccine. Examination revealed a normal thyroid gland with no tenderness with elevated thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies. Ultrasound showed a diffusely heterogeneous thyroid with increased vascularity, suggesting silent thyroiditis. Follow-up revealed a hypothyroid phase with high TSH for which levothyroxine supplementation was started. Discussion. COVID-19 vaccine-associated subacute and silent thyroiditis have occurred following all three kinds of available vaccines, characterized by an initial thyrotoxic phase, followed by a hypothyroid phase and a recovery phase. Hypotheses include an immune response triggering thyroid inflammation or cross-reactivity with viral proteins. Conclusions: COVID-19 vaccine-associated thyroiditis is rare, but long-term monitoring of these patients is essential to ensure appropriate diagnosis and management of the potential hypothyroid phase.
36411391 | A potent and broad neutralization of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern by DARPins. We report the engineering and selection of two synthetic proteins-FSR16m and FSR22-for the possible treatment of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. FSR16m and FSR22 are trimeric proteins composed of DARPin SR16m or SR22 fused with a T4 foldon. Despite selection by a spike protein from a now historical SARS-CoV-2 strain, FSR16m and FSR22 exhibit broad-spectrum neutralization of SARS-CoV-2 strains, inhibiting authentic B.1.351, B.1.617.2 and BA.1.1 viruses, with respective IC50 values of 3.4, 2.2 and 7.4 ng ml-1 for FSR16m. Cryo-EM structures revealed that these DARPins recognize a region of the receptor-binding domain (residues 456, 475, 486, 487 and 489) overlapping a critical portion of the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)-binding surface. K18-hACE2 transgenic mice inoculated with B.1.617.2 and receiving intranasally administered FSR16m showed less weight loss and 10-100-fold lower viral burden in upper and lower respiratory tracts. The strong and broad neutralization potency makes FSR16m and FSR22 promising candidates for the prevention and treatment of infection by SARS-CoV-2.
37546823 | Interleukin-27-induced HIV-resistant dendritic cells suppress reveres transcription following virus entry in an SPTBN1, Autophagy, and YB-1 independent manner. Interleukin (IL)-27, a member of the IL-12 family of cytokines, induces human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-resistant monocyte-derived macrophages and T cells. This resistance is mediated via the downregulation of spectrin beta, non-erythrocytic 1 (SPTBN1), induction of autophagy, or suppression of the acetylation of Y-box binding protein-1 (YB-1); however, the role of IL-27 administration during the induction of immature monocyte-derived dendritic cells (iDC) is poorly investigated. In the current study, we investigated the function of IL-27-induced iDC (27DC) on HIV infection. 27DC inhibited HIV infection by 95 +- 3 % without significant changes in the expression of CD4, CCR5, and SPTBN1 expression, autophagy induction and acetylation of YB-1 compared to iDC. An HIV proviral DNA copy number assay displayed that 27DC suppressed reverse transcriptase (RT) reaction without influencing the virus entry. A DNA microarray analysis was performed to identify the differentially expressed genes between 27DC and iDC. Compared to iDC, 51 genes were differentially expressed in 27DC, with more than 3-fold changes in four independent donors. Cross-reference analysis with the reported 2,214 HIV regulatory host genes identified nine genes as potential interests: Ankyrin repeat domain 22, Guanylate binding protein (GBP)-1, -2, -4, -5, Stabilin 1, Serpin family G member 1 (SERPING1), Interferon alpha inducible protein 6, and Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3. A knock-down study using si-RNA failed to determine a key factor associated with the anti-HIV activity due to the induction of robust amounts of off-target effects. Overexpression of each protein in cells had no impact on HIV infection. Thus, we could not define the mechanism of the anti-HIV effect in 27DC. However, our findings indicated that IL-27 differentiates monocytes into HIV-resistant DC, and the inhibitory mechanism differs from IL-27-induced HIV-resistant macrophages and T cells.
37815505 | Human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles restore Th17/Treg homeostasis in periodontitis via miR-1246. T-cell-mediated immunity is crucial in the immunopathology of periodontitis. The restoration of the homeostasis between the T helper cell 17 (Th17) and regulatory T cell (Treg) subsets by extracellular vesicles (EVs) obtained from human bone marrow stem cells (hBMSCs) promotes new bone formation and suppresses inflammation. Uncovering the functions of hBMSC-derived EVs in the immune microenvironment of periodontal tissue and their underlying regulatory mechanisms may shed new light on developing potential cell-free immunotherapies for periodontal regeneration. Here, we reported that the Th17/Treg ratio elevated in peripheral blood from periodontitis patients. Furthermore, we found that hBMSC-derived EVs could reduce the Th17/Treg ratio in CD4+ T cells from periodontitis patients in vitro and ameliorate conditions of experimental periodontitis in mice. Additionally, by investigating the differentially expressed miRNAs and target genes in EVs from hBMSCs stimulated with Porphyromonas gingivalis LPS using miRNA sequencing, we found that EV-miR-1246 is highly effective at downregulating the ratio of Th17/Treg in vitro. Mechanistically, EV-miR-1246 suppressed expression of its potential target angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and increased the p-Yes-associated protein (YAP)1/YAP1 ratio in CD4+ T cells. Our results indicated that hBMSC-derived EVs improve periodontitis via miR-1246, consequently downregulating Th17/Treg ratio, and represented a promising therapeutic target for precision treatment in periodontitis.
37854696 | Development of a multiassay algorithm (MAA) to identify recent HIV infection in newly diagnosed individuals in Indonesia. Ongoing HIV transmission is a public health priority in Indonesia. We developed a new multiassay algorithm (MAA) to identify recent HIV infection. The MAA is a sequential decision tree based on multiple biomarkers, starting with CD4+ T cells >200/muL, followed by plasma viral load (pVL) > 1,000 copies/ml, avidity index (AI) < 0   7, and pol ambiguity <0   47%. Plasma from 140 HIV-infected adults from 19 hospitals across Indonesia (January 2018 - June 2020) was studied, consisting of a training set (N = 60) of longstanding infection (>12-month) and a test set (N = 80) of newly diagnosed (<=1-month) antiretroviral (ARV) drug naive individuals. Ten of eighty (12   5%) newly diagnosed individuals were classified as recent infections. Drug resistance mutations (DRMs) against reverse transcriptase inhibitors were identified in two individuals: one infected with HIV subtype C (K219Q, V179T) and the other with CRF01_AE (V179D). Ongoing HIV transmission, including infections with DRMs, is substantial in Indonesia.
37856551 | Regulatory T cell-like response to SARS-CoV-2 in Jamaican fruit bats (Artibeus jamaicensis) transduced with human ACE2. Insectivorous Old World horseshoe bats (Rhinolophus spp.) are the likely source of the ancestral SARS-CoV-2 prior to its spillover into humans and causing the COVID-19 pandemic. Natural coronavirus infections of bats appear to be principally confined to the intestines, suggesting fecal-oral transmission; however, little is known about the biology of SARS-related coronaviruses in bats. Previous experimental challenges of Egyptian fruit bats (Rousettus aegyptiacus) resulted in limited infection restricted to the respiratory tract, whereas insectivorous North American big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) showed no evidence of infection. In the present study, we challenged Jamaican fruit bats (Artibeus jamaicensis) with SARS-CoV-2 to determine their susceptibility. Infection was confined to the intestine for only a few days with prominent viral nucleocapsid antigen in epithelial cells, and mononuclear cells of the lamina propria and Peyer's patches, but with no evidence of infection of other tissues; none of the bats showed visible signs of disease or seroconverted. Expression levels of ACE2 were low in the lungs, which may account for the lack of pulmonary infection. Bats were then intranasally inoculated with a replication-defective adenovirus encoding human ACE2 and 5 days later challenged with SARS-CoV-2. Viral antigen was prominent in lungs for up to 14 days, with loss of pulmonary cellularity during this time; however, the bats did not exhibit weight loss or visible signs of disease. From day 7, bats had low to moderate IgG antibody titers to spike protein by ELISA, and one bat on day 10 had low-titer neutralizing antibodies. CD4+ helper T cells became activated upon ex vivo recall stimulation with SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid peptide library and exhibited elevated mRNA expression of the regulatory T cell cytokines interleukin-10 and transforming growth factor-beta, which may have limited inflammatory pathology. Collectively, these data show that Jamaican fruit bats are poorly susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 but that expression of human ACE2 in their lungs leads to robust infection and an adaptive immune response with low-titer antibodies and a regulatory T cell-like response that may explain the lack of prominent inflammation in the lungs. This model will allow for insight of how SARS-CoV-2 infects bats and how bat innate and adaptive immune responses engage the virus without overt clinical disease.
37896850 | Comparative Analysis of Conformational Dynamics and Systematic Characterization of Cryptic Pockets in the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.2, BA.2.75 and XBB.1 Spike Complexes with the ACE2 Host Receptor: Confluence of Binding and Structural Plasticity in Mediating Networks of Conserved Allosteric Sites. In the current study, we explore coarse-grained simulations and atomistic molecular dynamics together with binding energetics scanning and cryptic pocket detection in a comparative examination of conformational landscapes and systematic characterization of allosteric binding sites in the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.2, BA.2.75 and XBB.1 spike full-length trimer complexes with the host receptor ACE2. Microsecond simulations, Markov state models and mutational scanning of binding energies of the SARS-CoV-2 BA.2 and BA.2.75 receptor binding domain complexes revealed the increased thermodynamic stabilization of the BA.2.75 variant and significant dynamic differences between these Omicron variants. Molecular simulations of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron spike full-length trimer complexes with the ACE2 receptor complemented atomistic studies and enabled an in-depth analysis of mutational and binding effects on conformational dynamic and functional adaptability of the Omicron variants. Despite considerable structural similarities, Omicron variants BA.2, BA.2.75 and XBB.1 can induce unique conformational dynamic signatures and specific distributions of the conformational states. Using conformational ensembles of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron spike trimer complexes with ACE2, we conducted a comprehensive cryptic pocket screening to examine the role of Omicron mutations and ACE2 binding on the distribution and functional mechanisms of the emerging allosteric binding sites. This analysis captured all experimentally known allosteric sites and discovered networks of inter-connected and functionally relevant allosteric sites that are governed by variant-sensitive conformational adaptability of the SARS-CoV-2 spike structures. The results detailed how ACE2 binding and Omicron mutations in the BA.2, BA.2.75 and XBB.1 spike complexes modulate the distribution of conserved and druggable allosteric pockets harboring functionally important regions. The results are significant for understanding the functional roles of druggable cryptic pockets that can be used for allostery-mediated therapeutic intervention targeting conformational states of the Omicron variants.
37904941 | Th2 and Th17-Associated Immunopathology Following SARS-CoV-2 Breakthrough Infection in Spike-Vaccinated ACE2-humanized Mice. Vaccines have demonstrated remarkable effectiveness in protecting against COVID-19; however, concerns regarding vaccine-associated enhanced respiratory diseases (VAERD) following breakthrough infections have emerged. Spike protein subunit vaccines for SARS-CoV-2 induce VAERD in hamsters, where aluminum adjuvants promote a Th2-biased immune response, leading to increased type 2 pulmonary inflammation in animals with breakthrough infections. To gain a deeper understanding of the potential risks and the underlying mechanisms of VAERD, we immunized ACE2-humanized mice with SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein adjuvanted with aluminum and CpG-ODN. Subsequently, we exposed them to increasing doses of SARS-CoV-2 to establish a breakthrough infection. The vaccine elicited robust neutralizing antibody responses, reduced viral titers, and enhanced host survival. However, following a breakthrough infection, vaccinated animals exhibited severe pulmonary immunopathology, characterized by a significant perivascular infiltration of eosinophils and CD4 + T cells, along with increased expression of Th2/Th17 cytokines. Intracellular flow cytometric analysis revealed a systemic Th17 inflammatory response, particularly pronounced in the lungs. Our data demonstrate that aluminum/CpG adjuvants induce strong antibody and Th1-associated immunity against COVID-19 but also prime a robust Th2/Th17 inflammatory response, which may contribute to the rapid onset of T cell-mediated pulmonary immunopathology following a breakthrough infection. These findings underscore the necessity for further research to unravel the complexities of VAERD in COVID-19 and to enhance vaccine formulations for broad protection and maximum safety. Significance statement: This research investigates the safety and efficacy of a Spike protein subunit vaccine adjuvanted with Alum and CpG in an ACE2-humanized mouse model, simulating SARS-CoV-2 breakthrough infections. The study reveals that despite robust protection against severe COVID-19, vaccinated mice exhibit substantial pulmonary immunopathology, including eosinophilia and enhanced Th2 effector immunity, following breakthrough infections. Surprisingly, the study also uncovers a significant systemic Th17 inflammatory response in vaccinated mice. This research sheds light on the potential risks associated with COVID-19 vaccine breakthrough infections and the need for a comprehensive understanding of vaccine-induced immune responses, emphasizing the importance of ongoing research, surveillance, and careful vaccine development for both protection and safety in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.
37910521 | Interleukin-27-induced HIV-resistant dendritic cells suppress reveres transcription following virus entry in an SPTBN1, autophagy, and YB-1 independent manner. Interleukin (IL)-27, a member of the IL-12 family of cytokines, induces human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-resistant monocyte-derived macrophages and T cells. This resistance is mediated via the downregulation of spectrin beta, non-erythrocytic 1 (SPTBN1), induction of autophagy, or suppression of the acetylation of Y-box binding protein-1 (YB-1); however, the role of IL-27 administration during the induction of immature monocyte-derived dendritic cells (iDC) is poorly investigated. In the current study, we investigated the function of IL-27-induced iDC (27DC) on HIV infection. 27DC inhibited HIV infection by 95 +- 3% without significant changes in the expression of CD4, CCR5, and SPTBN1 expression, autophagy induction and acetylation of YB-1 compared to iDC. An HIV proviral DNA copy number assay displayed that 27DC suppressed reverse transcriptase (RT) reaction without influencing the virus entry. A DNA microarray analysis was performed to identify the differentially expressed genes between 27DC and iDC. Compared to iDC, 51 genes were differentially expressed in 27DC, with more than 3-fold changes in four independent donors. Cross-reference analysis with the reported 2,214 HIV regulatory host genes identified nine genes as potential interests: Ankyrin repeat domain 22, Guanylate binding protein (GBP)-1, -2, -4, -5, Stabilin 1, Serpin family G member 1 (SERPING1), Interferon alpha inducible protein 6, and Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 3. A knock-down study using si-RNA failed to determine a key factor associated with the anti-HIV activity due to the induction of robust amounts of off-target effects. Overexpression of each protein in cells had no impact on HIV infection. Thus, we could not define the mechanism of the anti-HIV effect in 27DC. However, our findings indicated that IL-27 differentiates monocytes into HIV-resistant DC, and the inhibitory mechanism differs from IL-27-induced HIV-resistant macrophages and T cells.
38155835 | Contrasting mechanistic susceptibilities of hematopoietic and endothelial stem-progenitor cells in respective pathogeneses of HIV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 infections. The multitude of cellular types can be expected to behave differently when receiving invading pathogens such as mammalian viruses. The nature-dictated causes for such intrinsic cellular diversity become the criteria for the emergence of specific virus-receptor interactions on that particular host cellular surface, in order to accommodate contact with various other living entities whether desirable to the host or not. At present, we are presented with an example of two contrasting behaviours wherein the well-known HIV-1 and the more recently emergent SARS-CoV-2 cause adverse consequences to the differentiation and functions of progenitor stem cells. These include the two different downstream multipotent CD34+ hematopoietic (HSPC) and CD133+ endothelial (ESPC) stem-progenitor cells of their common pluripotent hemangioblast precursors. The two viruses target the respective endothelial and hematopoietic stem-progenitor cells to thrive upon the relevant host cellular surrounded stromal microenvironments by adopting reciprocally-driven mechanistic routes, which incidentally cause pathogenesis either directly of ESPC (SARS-CoV-2), or indirectly of HSPC (HIV-1). HIV-1 utilizes the CD4+ T-lymphocyte receptor thereby advancing pathogenesis indirectly to the CD34+ HSPC. SARS-CoV-2 directly targets the CD133+ ESPC via ACE2 receptor causing cytokine storms of the CD4+ T-lymphocytes. In this manner, these two viruses cause and extend their damage to the other cellular sub/types coexisting in the host cellular microenvironments. The infected individuals require clinical interventions that are efficacious to prevent cellular dysfunction and ultimate cell depletion or death. We infer from these viruses mediated pathogeneses mechanisms a potential common origin of microRNA molecular therapies to address cellular dysfunctions and prevent cell loss.
38258331 | Th2 and Th17-associated immunopathology following SARS-CoV-2 breakthrough infection in Spike-vaccinated ACE2-humanized mice. Vaccines have demonstrated remarkable effectiveness in protecting against COVID-19; however, concerns regarding vaccine-associated enhanced respiratory diseases (VAERD) following breakthrough infections have emerged. Spike protein subunit vaccines for SARS-CoV-2 induce VAERD in hamsters, where aluminum adjuvants promote a Th2-biased immune response, leading to increased type 2 pulmonary inflammation in animals with breakthrough infections. To gain a deeper understanding of the potential risks and the underlying mechanisms of VAERD, we immunized ACE2-humanized mice with SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein adjuvanted with aluminum and CpG-ODN. Subsequently, we exposed them to increasing doses of SARS-CoV-2 to establish a breakthrough infection. The vaccine elicited robust neutralizing antibody responses, reduced viral titers, and enhanced host survival. However, following a breakthrough infection, vaccinated animals exhibited severe pulmonary immunopathology, characterized by a significant perivascular infiltration of eosinophils and CD4+ T cells, along with increased expression of Th2/Th17 cytokines. Intracellular flow cytometric analysis revealed a systemic Th17 inflammatory response, particularly pronounced in the lungs. Our data demonstrate that aluminum/CpG adjuvants induce strong antibody and Th1-associated immunity against COVID-19 but also prime a robust Th2/Th17 inflammatory response, which may contribute to the rapid onset of T cell-mediated pulmonary immunopathology following a breakthrough infection. These findings underscore the necessity for further research to unravel the complexities of VAERD in COVID-19 and to enhance vaccine formulations for broad protection and maximum safety.
38317404 | Relative deficiency in interferon-gamma-secreting CD4+ T cells is strongly associated with poorer COVID-19 vaccination responses in older adults. Although the two-dose mRNA vaccination regime provides protection against SARS-CoV-2, older adults have been shown to exhibit poorer vaccination responses. In addition, the role of vaccine-induced T-cell responses is not well characterised. We aim to assess the impact of age on immune responses after two doses of the BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine, focussing on antigen-specific T-cells. A prospective 3-month study was conducted on 15 young (median age 31 years, interquartile range (IQR) 25-35 years) and 14 older adults (median age 72 years, IQR 70-73 years). We assessed functional, neutralising antibody responses against SARS-CoV-2 variants using ACE-2 inhibition assays, and changes in B and T-cell subsets by high-dimensional flow cytometry. Antigen-specific T-cell responses were also quantified by intracellular cytokine staining and flow cytometry. Older adults had attenuated T-helper (Th) response to vaccination, which was associated with weaker antibody responses and decreased SARS-CoV-2 neutralisation. Antigen-specific interferon-gamma (IFNgamma)-secreting CD4+ T-cells to wild-type and Omicron antigens increased in young adults, which was strongly positively correlated with their neutralising antibody responses. Conversely, this relationship was negative in older adults. Hence, older adults' relative IFNgamma-secreting CD4+ T cell deficiency might explain their poorer COVID-19 vaccination responses. Further exploration into the aetiology is needed and would be integral in developing novel vaccination strategies and improving infection outcomes in older adults.
38373700 | AlphaFold2-Enabled Atomistic Modeling of Structure, Conformational Ensembles, and Binding Energetics of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.2.86 Spike Protein with ACE2 Host Receptor and Antibodies: Compensatory Functional Effects of Binding Hotspots in Modulating Mechanisms of Receptor Binding and Immune Escape. The latest wave of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variants displayed a growth advantage and increased viral fitness through convergent evolution of functional hotspots that work synchronously to balance fitness requirements for productive receptor binding and efficient immune evasion. In this study, we combined AlphaFold2-based structural modeling approaches with atomistic simulations and mutational profiling of binding energetics and stability for prediction and comprehensive analysis of the structure, dynamics, and binding of the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA.2.86 spike variant with ACE2 host receptor and distinct classes of antibodies. We adapted several AlphaFold2 approaches to predict both the structure and conformational ensembles of the Omicron BA.2.86 spike protein in the complex with the host receptor. The results showed that the AlphaFold2-predicted structural ensemble of the BA.2.86 spike protein complex with ACE2 can accurately capture the main conformational states of the Omicron variant. Complementary to AlphaFold2 structural predictions, microsecond molecular dynamics simulations reveal the details of the conformational landscape and produced equilibrium ensembles of the BA.2.86 structures that are used to perform mutational scanning of spike residues and characterize structural stability and binding energy hotspots. The ensemble-based mutational profiling of the receptor binding domain residues in the BA.2 and BA.2.86 spike complexes with ACE2 revealed a group of conserved hydrophobic hotspots and critical variant-specific contributions of the BA.2.86 convergent mutational hotspots R403K, F486P, and R493Q. To examine the immune evasion properties of BA.2.86 in atomistic detail, we performed structure-based mutational profiling of the spike protein binding interfaces with distinct classes of antibodies that displayed significantly reduced neutralization against the BA.2.86 variant. The results revealed the molecular basis of compensatory functional effects of the binding hotspots, showing that BA.2.86 lineage may have evolved to outcompete other Omicron subvariants by improving immune evasion while preserving binding affinity with ACE2 via through a compensatory effect of R493Q and F486P convergent mutational hotspots. This study demonstrated that an integrative approach combining AlphaFold2 predictions with complementary atomistic molecular dynamics simulations and robust ensemble-based mutational profiling of spike residues can enable accurate and comprehensive characterization of structure, dynamics, and binding mechanisms of newly emerging Omicron variants.
38570605 | Immunogenicity and efficacy of VLA2001 vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 infection in male cynomolgus macaques. BACKGROUND: The fight against COVID-19 requires mass vaccination strategies, and vaccines inducing durable cross-protective responses are still needed. Inactivated vaccines have proven lasting efficacy against many pathogens and good safety records. They contain multiple protein antigens that may improve response breadth and can be easily adapted every year to maintain preparedness for future seasonally emerging variants. METHODS: The vaccine dose was determined using ELISA and pseudoviral particle-based neutralization assay in the mice. The immunogenicity was assessed in the non-human primates with multiplex ELISA, neutralization assays, ELISpot and intracellular staining. The efficacy was demonstrated by viral quantification in fluids using RT-qPCR and respiratory tissue lesions evaluation. RESULTS: Here we report the immunogenicity and efficacy of VLA2001 in animal models. VLA2001 formulated with alum and the TLR9 agonist CpG 1018  adjuvant generate a Th1-biased immune response and serum neutralizing antibodies in female BALB/c mice. In male cynomolgus macaques, two injections of VLA2001 are sufficient to induce specific and polyfunctional CD4+ T cell responses, predominantly Th1-biased, and high levels of antibodies neutralizing SARS-CoV-2 infection in cell culture. These antibodies also inhibit the binding of the Spike protein to human ACE2 receptor of several variants of concern most resistant to neutralization. After exposure to a high dose of homologous SARS-CoV-2, vaccinated groups exhibit significant levels of protection from viral replication in the upper and lower respiratory tracts and from lung tissue inflammation. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that the VLA2001 adjuvanted vaccine is immunogenic both in mouse and NHP models and prevent cynomolgus macaques from the viruses responsible of COVID-19.
38617634 | Theoretical Investigation of the Green-Synthesized Carbon-Based Nanomaterial Potential as Inhibitors of ACE2 for Blocking SARS-CoV-2 Binding. Since the emergence of SARS-CoV-2 in 2020, the world has faced a global pandemic, emphasizing the urgent need for effective treatments to combat COVID-19. This study explores the use of green-synthesized carbon-based nanomaterials as potential inhibitors of ACE2, a critical receptor for SARS-CoV-2 entry into host cells. Specifically, the study examines four carbon-based nanomaterials, namely, CD1, CD2, CD3, and CD4 in amino, graphitic, pyridinic, and pyrrolic forms, respectively, synthesized from curcumin, to investigate their binding affinity with ACE2. Molecular docking studies revealed that CD3 (pyridinic form) exhibited the highest binding affinity with ACE2, surpassing that of the control compound, curcumin. Notably, CD3 formed hydrophobic interactions and hydrogen bonds with key ACE2 residues, suggesting its potential to block the binding of SARS-CoV-2 to human cells. Moreover, molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated the stability of these ligand-ACE2 complexes, further supporting the promise of CD3 as an inhibitor. Quantum chemical analyses, including frontier molecular orbitals, natural bond orbital analysis, and the quantum theory of atoms in molecules, unveiled valuable insights into the reactivity and interaction strengths of these ligands. CD3 exhibited desirable chemical properties, signifying its suitability for therapeutic development. The study's findings suggest that green-synthesized carbon-based nanomaterials, particularly CD3, have the potential to serve as effective inhibitors of ACE2, offering a promising avenue for the development of treatments against COVID-19. Further experimental validation is warranted to advance these findings and establish new therapies for the ongoing global pandemic.
1691492 | Immunophenotypic markers in renal cell carcinoma. UNLABELLED: We studied immunophenotypic and tumor cell markers in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) to determine if there are patterns of expression which may correlate with biologic behavior and response to therapy. Fourteen RCCs from 13 patients were stained by the immunoperoxidase technique using primary antibodies to Leu 4, Leu 14, Leu 2a, Leu 3a and b, lysozyme, dendritic reticulum cell (DRC), S-100, HLA-DR, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) and beta-2-microglobulin (B2-MG). Staining was correlated with tumor stage, nuclear grade, histologic patterns, degree of cellular infiltrate, and clinical followup. Four RCCs were stage T1, four T2, five T3, and one T4. Most tumors were clear or granular cell type, with a solid or tubular growth pattern. The number of infiltrating lymphocytes and monocytes correlated with tumor grade and stage. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) were predominantly Leu 3-positive (T-helper phenotype). B-cell markers were negative. Dendritic cells were rare. HLA-DR was present on endothelial cells in 11 tumors and on tumor cells in ten. HLA-DR expression increased with tumor grade. Tumor cells expressed EMA in 12 cases; B2-MG in four cases. Two patients, stages 3 and 4, died at 2 and 6 mo. CONCLUSIONS: (a) T-helper cells and monocytes infiltrate RCCs. Their numbers increase with tumor grade and stage. (b) HLA-DR expression by tumor cells tends to correlate with increasing stage and grade. (c) Dendritic cells are infrequent in RCCs.
2194213 | T-cell antigen-positive multiple myeloma. We report the simultaneous expression of T-cell antigens on the myeloma cells from six patients with multiple myeloma (MM). These six patients come from a total population of 215 samples (115 direct samples, clinical incidence of 5.2%) of plasmacytic malignancies immunotyped at the University of Arizona. Four patients expressed T helper antigen (Leu 3, CD4), one expressed T-cell antigen receptor (Leu 4, CD3), and one expressed E-rosette antigen receptor (Leu 5, CD2). The presenting clinical features, histology, and plasma cell morphology showed no differences from multiple myeloma patients who did not express T-cell antigen. However, although the survival duration ranged from 5 to 93 mo overall, survival from demonstration of T antigen expression was very short, (2 to 7+ mo), with five of six (80%) patients dying less than or equal to 5 mo after study. The reason for T antigen expression is unknown. It may indicate that myeloma can arise from a normally minor subpopulation of B cells involved with immunoregulation; conversely, it could be a coincidental aberrancy associated with malignant change in the plasma cells.
2220673 | Primary splenic lymphocyte-depletion Hodgkin's disease. A case of lymphocyte-depletion Hodgkin's disease is described for the purpose of reviewing the criteria currently used to distinguish this disease from other pleomorphic large-cell malignancies. A 76-year-old man with a 3-month history of daily fevers underwent extensive evaluation and exploratory laparotomy, which revealed only two large, separate splenic tumor nodules. Postoperatively, the patient remained asymptomatic. Histologically, the tumor was composed of giant cells, including both typical Reed-Sternberg forms and mononuclear variants with inflammatory stromal response along its borders. Immunoperoxidase showed tumor cells to be strongly reactive for Leu-M1 (CD15), BER-H2 (CD30), Leu-3 (CD4), and T11 (CD2) and weakly reactive for Leu-4 (CD3) but nonreactive for EMA, LCA, lysozyme, Leu-9, Leu-M3, Leu-M5, and immunoglobulin light chains. Southern blot analysis revealed an isolated clonal band for kappa light chain only. Included in the discussion of this case of primary splenic lymphocyte-depletion Hodgkin's disease is a review of clinical, histologic, immunohistochemical, and gene-rearrangement characteristics of what can be defined as lymphocyte-depletion Hodgkin's disease.
2422271 | Susceptibility of normal human lymphocytes to infection with HTLV-III/LAV. Normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes were tested for their susceptibility to infection with retroviruses isolated from patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or AIDS-related complex. Of 10 normal individuals tested, lymphocytes from all subjects became infected and produced virus as detected by assay for Mg+2-dependent reverse transcriptase. Lymphocytes from different individuals were demonstrated to be either high or low producers of reverse transcriptase after infection. The kinetics of virus production were similar in cells from both high- and low-producing individuals. A significant correlation was observed between high and low viral-producing lymphocytes and expression of the Leu-3/T4 (CD4) surface molecule. Mitogen-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes exposed to HTLV-III/LAV manifested productive viral infection, as reflected by the appearance of early syncytia, followed by reverse transcriptase. Unstimulated peripheral blood lymphocyte cultures displayed late syncytia but no detectable reverse transcriptase upon exposure to virus. The addition of anti-human interferon-alpha did not appear to have an appreciable effect on viral production in normal peripheral blood lymphocytes exposed to the virus.
2424980 | Antigen-specific and MHC-restricted Plasmodium falciparum-induced human T lymphocyte clones. We established and analyzed human T lymphocyte clones induced by crude Plasmodium falciparum antigens of schizont-enriched asexual blood stages. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were stimulated for 6 days with antigen, and the T cell blasts were separated and were transferred to limiting dilution cultures with antigen, irradiated PBMC, and recombinant interleukin 2. The following observations were made. Malaria antigen (M.Ag) induced similar proportions of T blasts in PBMC from infected individuals and noninfected controls, and the M.Ag-dependent clone frequencies (1/79 to 1/216) obtained with the blasts were similar. The majority of established clones derived from infected and noninfected subjects specifically recognized M.Ag and would not proliferate in response to red blood cells or autologous PBMC alone. They also required HLA class II determinant-compatible antigen-presenting (E-) cells. With three clones from one malaria patient, DR 1 or DR 5 specificities correlated with antigen presentation. Although T4+ and T8+ blasts were induced by M.Ag in PBMC, only T4 (Leu-3+) clones were obtained in our culture system. These clones secreted IL 2 in response to M.Ag. 4) Differential patterns of reactivity to native M.Ag, heat-stable antigens, and heat-precipitated antigens were exhibited by T cell clones, and the tested clones did not recognize Plasmodium berghei antigen. In conclusion, it is important with regard to previous observations on apparently nonspecific, mitogen-like effects of M.Ag in bulk T cell cultures that our results demonstrate specific recognition of P. falciparum by human T cells. The T cell clones obtained will be an important tool in the quest for a better understanding of the mechanisms involved in resistance to malaria infection.
2431729 | Studies on B lymphoid tumors treated with monoclonal anti-idiotype antibodies: correlation with clinical responses. Monoclonal anti-idiotype antibodies can be made which are exquisitely specific for B lymphocytic malignancies. We have conducted a clinical trial in which some patients' tumors regressed after infusion of such antibodies. Here, we evaluated characteristics of the antibodies, the tumors, and the patients to determine which features best correlated with the clinical response. Neither the isotype of the murine antibodies, nor their avidity were predictive of clinical outcome. The specific epitope to which the antibodies bound was characterized by immunochemical techniques. Reactivity with a heavy-light chain combinatorial determinant correlated somewhat with clinical effect. Variations in the characteristics of the individual tumors such as antigen sites per cell and ability to modulate the surface immunoglobulin were not predictive of response. In one patient with prolymphocytic leukemia the anti-idiotype antibody had a direct antiproliferative effect on tumor cells in vitro. This patient's tumor response was explainable by such a direct mechanism. In the other patients, who had lymphomas, therapeutic outcome correlated with the number of host nontumor cells infiltrating the tumor. The vast majority of these nontumor cells were mature T lymphocytes of the Leu 4, Leu 3 (T3, T4) phenotype. Thus, a preexistent host-tumor interaction seems to be important in the in vivo effect of anti-idiotype antibodies in B cell tumors.
2541265 | Cell-mediated immune cardiocyte injury in viral myocarditis of mice and patients. The cellular immune mechanism of cardiocyte injury in viral myocarditis was investigated by observing and analyzing the interactions among cardiocytes, T cells, B cells, natural killer (NK) cells and macrophages in situ in the myocardium of our murine model (C3H/He mice) and of human patients. In murine coxsackie B3 virus myocarditis, lymphocyte subsets were identified by light and electron microscopic immunohistochemical techniques with antibodies against specific antigens of pan T (Thy 1.2), helper/inducer T (Th/i) (Lyt 1+), cytotoxic/suppressor T (Tc/s) (Lyt 2+), B (Ig+) and asialo GM1+ cells in the myocardium. In the acute phase of myocarditis, asialo GM1+ (mostly NK) cells predominated over pan T cells and peaked on day 9. Pan T cells then reached a peak on day 14. The T4/T8 (Lyt 1+/Lyt 2+) ratio was 1.3 +/- 0.5 on day 5 and reached a peak of 9.1 +/- 3.6 with an increase of Lyt 1+ cells on day 14. Thereafter, NK cells and T cells gradually decreased and could still be seen in fibrotic foci even 3 and 12 months later. B cells were so scarce that no quantitative evaluation could be made. Electron microscopy revealed that macrophages were in close contact with Th/i cells, target cardiocytes and less commonly, B cells; Tc/s and NK cells also occasionally conjugated with apparently viable or degenerated cardiocytes. Some lymphocytes were located in widened intercellular spaces of dissociated intercalated discs, and in intracytoplasmic widened confines of some cardiocytes (emperipolesis). These results suggest that in the acute phase of myocarditis, NK cells initiate the reaction, and then sensitized cytotoxic T cells and activated macrophages aggravate cell-mediated injury by their close contacts with target cardiocytes; close contacts among macrophages; Th/i cells and a few B cells, and the increased T4/T8 ratio may facilitate regulation of the complex immune network; in the chronic phase, residual but active NK and cytotoxic T cells may sustain cytotoxicity. In the endomyocardial biopsies obtained from 8 patients with viral or idiopathic myocarditis from 3 to 48 days after the clinical onset, conventional electron microscopy revealed actual contacts among cardiocytes, macrophages and lymphocytes. As in our murine model, some lymphocytes had emperipolesed in cardiocytes or were located in widened spaces of dissociated intercalated discs. In 4 of these 8 patients infiltration of Leu 2a+ Tc/s, Leu 3+ Th/i and Leu 7+ cells was identified immunohistochemically, and T4/T8 ratios varied widely from 0.1 to 3.8 in the endomyocardial biopsides.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
2549799 | Follicular lymphoid hyperplasia of the skin with high content of Ki-1 positive lymphocytes. We report the case of a spontaneously regressing lymphocytic lesion on the neck of a 76-year-old man. Routine histopathological examination revealed a heterogeneous infiltrate composed of both lymphoid follicles and preferentially perifollicular and interfollicular sheets of large atypical cells. Immunohistologically, large atypical cells were positive for Ki-1/Ber-H2 (CD30), anti-Il-2 (CD25), Ber T9, anti-HLA-DR, Leu-5b (CD2), T3 (CD3), Leu-3 (CD4), Leu-1 (CD5) and, occasionally, Leu-M1 (CD15); that is, they showed an arrangement and immunophenotype similar to those of perifollicular Ki-1 positive cells in reactive lymphoid tissue. In contrast, antibodies To15 (CD22), anti-immunoglobulins, and anti-CALLA (CD10) stained polyclonal B-cells restricted to lymphoid follicles and small clusters representing remnants of follicles. We suggest that this lesion be termed \follicular lymphoid hyperplasia of the skin with high content of activated T-helper cells.\
2690947 | Site-directed mutagenesis of the T4 endonuclease V gene: the role of arginine-3 in the target search. Endonuclease V, a pyrimidine dimer specific endonuclease in T4 bacteriophage, is able to scan DNA, recognize pyrimidine dimer photoproducts produced by exposure to ultraviolet light, and effectively incise DNA through a two-step mechanism at the damaged bases. The interaction of endonuclease V with nontarget DNA is thought to occur via electrostatic interactions between basic amino acids and the acidic phosphate DNA backbone. Arginine-3 was chosen as a potential candidate for involvement in this protein-nontarget DNA interaction and was extensively mutated to assess its role. The mutations include changes to Asp, Glu, Leu, and Lys and deleting it from the enzyme. Deletion of Arg-3 resulted in an enzyme that retained marginal levels of AP specificity, but no other detectable activity. Charge reversal to Glu-3 and Asp-3 results in proteins that exhibit AP-specific nicking and low levels of dimer-specific nicking. These enzymes are incapable of affecting cellular survival of repair-deficient Escherichia coli after irradiation. Mutations of Arg-3 to Lys-3 or Leu-3 also are unable to complement repair-deficient E. coli. However, these two proteins do exhibit a substantial level of in vitro dimer- and AP-specific nicking. The mechanism by which the Leu-3 and Lys-3 mutant enzymes locate pyrimidine dimers within a population of heavily irradiated plasmid DNA molecules appears to be significantly different from that for the wild-type enzyme. The wild-type endonuclease V processively incises all dimers on an individual plasmid prior to dissociation from that plasmid and subsequent reassociation with other plasmids, yet neither of these mutants exhibits any of the characteristics of this processive nicking activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2830712 | Ki-1 lymphomas in childhood: immunohistochemical analysis and the significance of epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) as a new marker. Two cases of Ki-1 lymphomas in childhood were analyzed immunohistochemically and immunoelectron microscopically. They expressed Hodgkin's disease associated antigen, Ki-1, interleukin-2 receptor (IL2R), OKT9, and HLA-DR. Histologically, the tumour cells were large in size with abundant cytoplasm and atypical nuclei. Lymph node involvement was characterized by parafollicular and marginal sinus infiltration. These features were identical to those reported in Ki-1 lymphomas. Electron microscopically tumour cells had abundant cytoplasmic organelles with pleomorphic nuclei but had no specific granules. Some tumour cells had marked interdigitation of cell membrane. Immunoelectron microscopically Ki-1 was positive on cell membrane. Tumour cells had no T-cell or B-cell antigens except for Leu-3 (T4). Unexpectedly they expressed epithelial membrane antigen (EMA) strongly. EMA was positive on cell membrane and in the cytoplasm. EMA was detected effectively in paraffin-embedded sections. Among the malignant lymphomas in childhood tested, two cases were EMA-positive. The pattern of EMA-reactivity and the histology were very similar to Ki-1 lymphomas. These results strongly suggest that Ki-1 lymphomas in childhood may arise from non-lymphoid haematopoietic cells and that EMA can be used as a new marker to distinguish certain type of Ki-1 lymphomas in childhood.
2945787 | Human T helper cells specific for antigens of typhus group rickettsiae enhance natural killer cell activity in vitro. The peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 5 individuals immune to typhus group rickettsiae and from 13 nonimmune individuals were stimulated in vitro for 7 days with typhus group rickettsial antigen (TGRA). At the end of day 7, lysis of the natural killer (NK)-susceptible target K562 by these PBMC was determined. As controls, PBMC from both groups of donors were cultured in vitro for 7 days without antigen or were freshly isolated, and lysis of the K562 target was determined. There was no significant difference between the level of NK activity in freshly isolated PBMC from immune and nonimmune donors. PBMC from immune donors which were stimulated with antigen for 7 days exhibited significantly greater NK activity than did the control population, which was cultured for 7 days without antigen. PBMC from immune donors which were stimulated with TGRA demonstrated significantly higher NK activity than the same PBMC stimulated with antigen derived from an antigenically unrelated rickettsia, Coxiella burnetii. There was no significant difference, however, in the level of NK activity of nonimmune antigen-stimulated PBMC compared with that of the same PBMC population cultured without antigen. Most of the antigen-stimulated NK activity was mediated by Leu-11-positive cells as determined by electronic cell sorting. The ability of TGRA to sustain the NK activity of PBMC from immune donors was abolished when the T4/Leu-3-positive population of lymphocytes was eliminated by positive or negative selection prior to antigen stimulation. The ability of TGRA to sustain the NK activity of PBMC from immune donors was also significantly decreased in the presence of antibodies against human interleukin-2. The results suggest that the activity of human NK cells can be sustained in vitro by antigen-specific T helper cells and that the effect of the T helper cell is mediated, at least in part, by interleukin-2.
2963547 | Expression of T-cell antigens on Reed-Sternberg cells in a subset of patients with nodular sclerosing and mixed cellularity Hodgkin's disease. Expression of T-cell antigens by Reed-Sternberg (RS) cells has not been detected in most studies of Hodgkin's disease (HD). The authors employed an improved method of fixation (paraformaldehyde-lysine-periodate), which sharply defined cell borders and revealed T-cell antigens on RS cells in 8 of 30 (27%) cases of HD. Antigen-specific staining was confirmed by immunoelectron microscopy. RS cells expressed T11 (8/8 cases), Leu-3 or T4 (4/8 cases), Leu-4 or T3 (3/8 cases), but not other T-cell specific antigens (Leu-1, T8, T6, 3A1). RS cells were negative for leukocyte common antigen (LCA/T200), in contrast to positive LCA/T200 staining of RS-like cells in T-cell lymphomas. RS cells in all HD cases were positive for Ki-1 and/or Leu-M1 antigens. The percentage of RS cells expressing T-cell antigens was less than 20% (2 cases), 20-50% (3 cases), or greater than 50% (3 cases). This percentage and the specific T-cell antigens expressed varied in tissues from different sites in each of 2 cases. Expression of T-cell antigens by RS cells was found in nodular sclerosis (6 of 20 cases) and mixed cellularity (2 of 5 cases) but not in lymphocyte predominance (2 cases), lymphocyte depletion (1 case), or unclassified types (2 cases). Two cases of nodular sclerosis contained areas of necrosis surrounded by sheets of lacunar cells (syncytial variant of NSHD). Two other cases were associated with cutaneous lymphoma. One of these cases was mixed cellularity HD, which appeared to be confined to the skin. In a second case, tumor cells of similar phenotype (T4+, Ki-1+) were found in skin and lymph nodes of a patient with coexistent mycosis fungoides and HD. These results are consistent with an origin of RS cells from T cells in some cases of nodular sclerosing and mixed cellularity HD. They also suggest that the same cell type, an activated helper T-cell, is involved in the pathogenesis of both skin lesions and lymphadenopathy of some patients with coexistent mycosis fungoides and HD.
2971408 | T cell subpopulations defined by monoclonal antibodies after HLA-identical sibling marrow transplantation. II. Activated and functional subsets of helper-inducer and cytotoxic-suppressor subpopulations defined by two-colour fluorescence flow cytometry. Two-colour fluorescence flow cytometry was utilized to define subsets within the Leu-3+ (T4+) helper-inducer and the Leu-2+ (T8+) cytotoxic-suppressor T cell subpopulations in recipients of unmanipulated HLA-identical sibling bone marrow transplants. The absolute number of activated cytotoxic-suppressor T cells expressing the HLA-DR and OKT10 activation antigens was increased. The proportion (or relative number) of cells bearing each of these activation antigens was also elevated in  both the Leu-2+ and the Leu-3+ subpopulations, with up to 60% of Leu-2+ cells and up to 40% of Leu-3+ cells expressing them. Interestingly, absolute numbers of cells expressing two other activation-associated antigens, the interleukin-2 (IL-2) and transferrin receptors, were not increased in either major T cell subpopulation, although the relative number of Leu-3+ cells expressing both these surface structures was increased early post-transplant. Three putative functional subsets were also enumerated: the Leu-3+, Leu-8+ suppressor-inducer subset was depressed in absolute and relative numbers at most time points post-transplant. The Leu-4+, Leu-15+ suppressor-effector subset subpopulation was normal at all time points posttransplant, while the Leu-2+, 9.3+ cytotoxic precursor subset showed low relative and absolute numbers both early and late post-transplant. None of the abnormalities demonstrated in the present study was correlated with presence or absence of graft-versus-host disease. The study further demonstrates the heterogeneity of the abnormalities in the immune system after human marrow transplantation and lays the basis for functional studies involving these cell populations.
2976521 | Inhibitory effects of histamine on interleukin 2 and gamma interferon production of different human T helper cell subsets. We have previously demonstrated that histamine can inhibit human helper T cells by direct interaction with these cells. It has now been investigated whether histamine inhibits lymphokine production by various subsets of CD4+ human T cells separated with the Leu-8 (p80) and Leu-18 (anti-CD45R;p220) monoclonal antibodies (MoAb). Histamine was shown to suppress to a similar extent the production of interleukin 2 (IL-2) and gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) by Leu 3+, Leu 3+8+, and Leu 3+8- cell subsets. Mitogen-activated, unseparated Leu 3+ and purified Leu 3+8- cells produced maximal amounts of IL-2 after 24 h and IFN-gamma after 72 h of culture. In contrast, the Leu 3+18+ subset produced no IL-2 after 24 h, and maximal amounts of IL-2 no sooner than 48 h of culture, and only small amounts of IFN-gamma during the entire culture period of 96 h. Histamine suppressed the production of IL-2 by both subsets, both when produced early (after 24 h), as in the case of the Leu 3+18- subset, and late (after 48 h of culture), as for the Leu 3+18+ subset. The IFN-gamma production by the Leu 3+ and Leu 3+18- cells and the marginal production by Leu 3+18+ cells were significantly suppressed by histamine. Dual staining with Leu 8 and Leu 18 MoAb demonstrated that the Leu 18- cell compartment included both Leu 8+ and Leu 8- cells. It was shown that the inhibitory effect of histamine on the early production of IL-2 and the major production of IFN-gamma by T helper cells is mediated via action on both the Leu 3+18-8- and the Leu 3+18-8+ cells. The inhibitory effect of histamine on the late production of IL-2 is mediated mainly via action on Leu-18+ cells.
3010463 | AIDS retrovirus induced cytopathology: giant cell formation and involvement of CD4 antigen. The formation of multinucleated giant cells with progression to cell death is a characteristic manifestation of the cytopathology induced by the AIDS retrovirus in infected T lymphoid cells. The mechanism of giant cell formation was studied in the CD4 (T4/Leu 3) positive T cell lines JM (Jurkat) and VB and in variants of these lines that are negative for cell surface CD4 antigen. By means of a two-color fluorescent labeling technique, multinucleated giant cells in infected cultures were shown to form through cell fusion. Antibody to CD4 specifically inhibited fusion, and uninfected CD4 negative cells, in contrast to uninfected CD4 positive cells, did not undergo fusion with infected cells, suggesting a direct role for the CD4 antigen in the process of syncytium formation. These results suggest that, in vivo, cell fusion involving the CD4 molecule may represent a mechanism whereby uninfected cells can be incorporated into AIDS virus infected syncytia. Because the giant cells die soon after they are formed, this process may contribute to the depletion of helper/inducer T cells characteristically observed in AIDS.
3084644 | Human T lymphocytes and monocytes bear the same Leu-3(T4) antigen. An analysis of the cellular distribution, biosynthesis, and structure of the human T lymphocyte antigen Leu-3(T4) was performed. By using a sensitive ELISA as well as FACS analysis, relative quantities of the Leu-3(T4) antigen from whole cell lysates and from cell surfaces of six cell lines were determined. The T-T hybrid cell line 255.88, and the monocyte/macrophage cell line U937, proved to be high producers of the antigen and were chosen for additional investigation. The Leu-3(T4) antigens from the T lymphocyte cell line and the monocyte/macrophage cell were shown to be identical by SDS-PAGE. Leu-3(T4) was a polypeptide of 55,000 AMW under reducing conditions, and 63,000 AMW under nonreducing conditions. In the 255.88 cell line, a second band of 41,000 AMW was associated with the true Leu-3(T4) molecule. The 55,000 AMW Leu-3(T4) molecule was shown to possess a high mannose sugar side chain, and to contain few accessible tyrosine residues. These studies demonstrate that human T lymphocytes and monocytes produce and process similar molecules that react with the anti-Leu-3(T4) monoclonal antibody. They also characterize this important associative antigen recognition structure and suggest that cells other than the T lymphocyte may be targets for the retrovirus HTLV-III.
3086436 | Administration of monoclonal anti-T cell antibodies retards murine lupus in BXSB mice. Murine lupus in BXSB mice is associated with B cell hyperactivity, monocyte proliferation, and impaired T cell function. However, the significance of these abnormalities, and the relationship among them, has not been clearly established. To examine the role of T cells in the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease in BXSB mice, we depleted specific T cell subsets from BXSB males by using rat IgG2b monoclonal antibodies (MAb) to either Thy-1.2 (on all T cells) or L3T4 (on \helper/inducer\ T cells). A single injection of anti-Thy-1.2 (6 mg i.v.) at age 3 mo produced a sustained 40 to 50% reduction in circulating T cells for 6 mo. Treatment prevented monocytosis, reduced anti-DNA antibody concentration, and retarded renal disease, but it did not prolong life. Repeated injections of rat MAb to Thy-1.2 were precluded by the development of a host immune response to rat immunoglobulin (Ig) that can cause anaphylaxis in BXSB mice. In contrast, rat MAb to L3T4 stimulated little or no immune response to rat Ig. We therefore were able to treat BXSB mice weekly with anti-L3T4 (2 mg i.p.) from age 3 to 12 mo. Treatment reduced circulating L3T4+ cells beneath the level of detection by fluorescence analysis. It also significantly reduced monocytosis, anti-DNA antibody production, renal disease, and mortality. These findings establish that monocytosis and autoimmunity in BXSB mice are promoted by T cells. They extend our previous observation that MAb to L3T4 retard autoimmunity in NZB/NZW F1 mice. Our finding that treatment with MAb to L3T4 is effective in two strains of lupus-prone mice suggests that treatment with MAb to Leu-3/T4, the human homologue for L3T4, may be effective in people with systemic lupus erythematosus.
3106478 | Reversal of advanced murine lupus in NZB/NZW F1 mice by treatment with monoclonal antibody to L3T4. Murine lupus in NZB/NZW F1 (B/W) mice can be prevented by weekly treatment with monoclonal antibodies (MAb) to L3T4 (on \helper/inducer\ T cells) if treatment is begun prior to the onset of clinical illness. To determine whether anti-L3T4 could reverse as well as prevent murine lupus, we monitored a cohort of 30 B/W females until age 7 mo, when severe autoimmune disease was established, and then we examined the effects of weekly treatment with MAb to L3T4. The rate of target cell clearance by MAb was considerably slower in old B/W mice than it was in young B/W mice or in normal (BALB/c and C57BL/6) mice. Nonetheless, treatment with anti-L3T4 depleted 90% of circulating L3T4+ cells over 3 mo. In treated mice, the concentration of anti-DNA antibodies fell by 80%, renal insufficiency was reversed, and 1 yr survival was 75% compared to 17% in controls. These findings indicate that L3T4+ cells play an important role in perpetuating murine lupus in B/W mice even after severe disease is present. Because the L3T4 antigen in mice is homologous to the Leu-3/T4 (CD4) antigen in humans, these findings suggest that treatment with CD4 MAb may be effective in people with systemic lupus erythematosus.
3443989 | In situ analysis with monoclonal antibodies of lymphocyte subsets in myocardial biopsies from patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and idiopathic (viral) myocarditis. This light- and electron-microscopic immunohistochemical study using monoclonal antibodies analyzes of the in situ lymphocyte subsets in endomyocardial biopsies from 11 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and three patients with idiopathic (viral) myocarditis (MYO). In the DCM patients both Leu 2a+ cytotoxic/suppressor T cells (Tc/s) and Leu 3+ helper/inducer T cells (Th/i) were identifiable in the myocardial lesions, and mean Th/i/Tc/s (T4/T8) ratio was 0.7 +/- 0.6 (mean +/- SD). In 9 of the 11 DCM patients, Tc/s were more numerous than Th/i cells, so the T4/T8 ratio was less than 1.0. On the other hand, the T4/T8 ratios varied widely in the three MYO patients; one of them had marked mononuclear cell infiltrates with many Th/i in the inflammatory foci and a T4/T8 ratio of 2.6. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed some Th/i in close contact with macrophages. These T cells in the myocardium of DCM and MYO patients appeared to be in vivo effector cells playing an important role in cell-mediated immune responses.
3492033 | Characterization of mononuclear cells in cyclosporin A induced gingival enlargement. Gingival biopsies from five patients with cyclosporin A (CsA) induced enlargement of the gingiva contained prominent mononuclear infiltrates beneath the epithelial basement membrane. These infiltrates and surrounding tissues were studied using monoclonal antibodies directed against lymphocytes and their subgroups (OKT 3, OKT 4, OKT 8, Leu 3 and Leu 4), monocytes (OKM 1) and the framework structure of HLA-DR antigens (OKI al). As revealed by the reactivity of these antibodies the vast majority of the mononuclear cells in two individuals consisted of monocytes and in the others of T-lymphocytes. Virtually no B-lymphocytes were observed. The ratio between T-cells bearing T 4 and T 8 antigens, in separate biopsies, varied between 6 and 0.3. Control biopsies were obtained from the gingiva of seven healthy individuals without gingivitis. These biopsies contained relatively few mononuclear cells all of which had T-lymphocyte phenotype.
3544885 | \Plasmacytoid T cells\ in Castleman's disease. Immunohistologic phenotype. Plasmacytoid T cells in two cases of Castleman's disease were stained with a panel of monoclonal antibodies to hematopoietic cell-associated antigens, using an immunoperoxidase technique on frozen sections. The immunohistologic phenotype of these cells was T4/Leu-3+, HLA-DR+, T1/Leu-1-, T3/Leu-4-, T8/Leu-2-, T11/Leu-5-, B1-, B2-, Leu-14-, Ig-, CALLA-, OKM1-, Leu-M1-. In contrast to plasma cells of B lineage, plasmacytoid T cells were T200+, T10-. The phenotype was similar to that of two previously reported lymphomas of plasmacytoid T cells. Plasmacytoid T cells appear to be a unique subset of lymphoid cells, whose function remains to be established.
8954020 | Four families with loss of function mutations of the thyrotropin receptor. We observed four families with loss of function mutations of the TSH receptor gene. One patient had a homozygous Pro162 Ala substitution. The three other were compound heterozygotes: 1) Gln324-->Stop and Asp410 Asn2), Cys41 Ser and Phe525 Leu, 3) Cys390 Trp and Trp546-->Stop. In all patients, the plasma TSH concentration was increased, whereas T3 and T4 concentrations were normal. The TSH levels were normal in the heterozygous parents. These results confirmed the recessive character of TSH receptor defects. Expression of the various mutated receptors in transfected COS-7 cells demonstrated the impairment of their function. We studied the expression of the receptors on the cell surface by immunofluorescence, their ability to bind hormone, and their capacity to activate adenylate cyclase. Some mutations allowed us to identify sites that are especially important for receptor function. The substitution Cys390 Trp abolished high affinity hormone binding. Receptor mutated at Asp410 Asn bound the hormone normally, but failed to activate adenylate cyclase. This result underscores the role of this acidic extracellular residue, close to the first transmembrane segment, in signal transmission. The Phe525 Leu substitution also markedly impaired adenylate cyclase activation, underlining the importance of the second intracellular loop in receptor signaling.
21160047 | Functional characterization of a nonmammalian IL-21: rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss IL-21 upregulates the expression of the Th cell signature cytokines IFN-gamma, IL-10, and IL-22. In mammals, IL-21 is a common gamma chain cytokine produced by activated CD4(+) T cells and NKT cells that acts on multiple lineages of cells. Although IL-21 has also been discovered in birds, amphibians, and fish, to date, no functional studies have been reported for any nonmammalian IL-21 molecule. We have sequenced an IL-21 gene (tIL-21) in rainbow trout, which has a six-exon/five-intron structure, is expressed in immune tissues, and is induced by bacterial and viral infection and the T cell stimulant PHA. In contrast to mammals, calcium ionophore and PMA act synergistically to induce tIL-21. Recombinant tIL-21 (rtIL-21) induced a rapid and long-lasting (4-72 h) induction of expression of IFN-gamma, IL-10, and IL-22, signature cytokines for Th1-, Th2-, and Th17-type responses, respectively, in head kidney leukocytes. However, rtIL-21 had little effects on the expression of other cytokines studied. rtIL-21 maintained the expression of CD8alpha, CD8beta, and IgM at a late stage of stimulation when their expression was significantly decreased in controls and increased the expression of the Th cell markers CD4, T-bet, and GATA3. Intraperitoneal injection of rtIL-21 confirmed the in vitro bioactivity and increased the expression of IFN-gamma, IL-10, IL-21, IL-22, CD8, and IgM. Inhibition experiments revealed that the activation of JAK/STAT3, Akt1/2, and PI3K pathways were responsible for rtIL-21 action. This study helps to clarify the role of IL-21 in lower vertebrates for the first time, to our knowledge, and suggests IL-21 is a likely key regulator of T and B cell function in fish.
27482661 | Characterization and functional analyses of a novel chicken CD8alpha variant X1 (CD8alpha1). We provide the first description of cloning and of structural and functional analysis of a novel variant in the chicken cluster of differentiation 8 alpha (CD8a) family, termed the CD8alpha X1 (CD8alpha1) gene. Multiple alignments of CD8alpha1 with known CD8alpha and CD8beta sequences of other species revealed relatively low conservation of AA residues involved in the specific and unique structural domains among CD8alpha genes. For example, cysteine residues that are involved in disulfide bonding to form the V domain are conserved. In contrast, the O-linked glycosylation sites (XPXX motif) are not found in the chicken CD8alpha1 sequence, and the A beta strand and complementarity-determining region 1 and 2 sequences are poorly conserved between chicken CD8alpha1 and avian CD8alpha. Furthermore, the alignment showed that the transmembrane regions show relatively high sequence similarity, whereas the cytoplasmic regions show relatively low similarity, indicating poor conservation. Moreover, the motif (CXCP) that is thought to be responsible for binding the p56 lymphocyte cell kinase subunit (p56) is missing in the CD8alpha1 sequence. The chicken CD8alpha1 genomic structure is similar to that of chicken CD8alpha, but their protein structures differ. Phylogenetic analysis showed that chicken CD8alpha1 grouped with known avian CD8alpha sequences but was somewhat distantly related to the CD8alpha molecules of other species. Moreover, we analyzed the signal transduction and cytokine response to CD8alpha1 treatment to determine the specific biological functions of chicken CD8alpha1 in immune cells. The results showed that chicken CD8alpha1 is a key regulator of the expression of genes that are associated and cooperate with transcription factors in the major histocompatibility complex class I and II promoter regions and activates Janus kinase (JAK) 1/2, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT), and suppressor of cytokine signaling (SOCS) 1 signaling-related genes. Immune cells that express functional CD8alpha1 induce proinflammatory cytokines as well as innate immune responses. Therefore, our data indicate that CD8alpha1 may have immunoregulatory activity by regulating the expression of proinflammatory or anti-inflammatory cytokines via its effect on immune cells. 
27916934 | Immune-Related Gene Expression Patterns in GPV- or H9N2-Infected Goose Spleens. Goose parvovirus (GPV) and avian influenza virus subtype H9N2 are single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) and single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) viruses, respectively, both of which can spread in goslings and cause a significant economic loss. To explore the comprehensive transcriptome of GPV- or H9N2-infected goose spleens and to understand the immune responses induced by a DNA virus (GPV) or a RNA virus (H9N2), RNA-seq was performed on the spleens of goslings at the fifth day post infection. In the present study, 2604 and 2409 differentially expressed unigenes were identified in the GPV- and H9N2-infected groups, respectively. Through KEGG pathway enrichment analyses, the up-regulated transcripts in the two virus-infected groups were mainly involved in immune-related pathways. In addition, the two virus-infected groups displayed similar expression patterns in the immune response pathways, including pattern-recognition receptor signaling pathways, the antigen processing and presentation pathway, the NF-kappaB signaling pathway and the JAK-STAT signaling pathway, as well as cytokines. Furthermore, most of the immune-related genes, particularly TLR7, TRAF3, Mx, TRIM25, CD4, and CD8alpha, increased in response to GPV and H9N2 infection. However, the depression of NF-kappaB signaling may be a mechanism by which the viruses evade the host immune system or a strategy to achieve immune homeostasis.
35706733 | Thyroid Function Abnormalities in the Acute Phase of COVID-19: A Cross-Sectional Hospital-Based Study From North India. Introduction Viral illnesses like mumps, cytomegalovirus (CMV), and Cocksakievirus have been shown to affect the endocrine system, specifically the thyroid as a product of their systemic inflammatory process. The thyroid gland, having high levels of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) is also predisposed to dysfunction due to coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Methodology A cross-sectional study was conducted using retrospective data of thyroid function tests in patients with COVID-19. Results The majority of patients with COVID-19 had normal thyroid function while low serum T3, seen in 47.3% of patients with severe disease, stood out as the most common thyroid abnormality in the acute phase of the disease. The disease severity was seen to correlate with the extent of thyroid function abnormalities, with severely diseased patients having lower T3 values and normal to low thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) values. Furthermore, a significant negative correlation was seen between TSH and the bio-inflammatory marker, C-reactive protein (CRP). Conclusion The acute phase of COVID-19 affects thyroid function in direct correlation with the severity of the disease.
36601011 | COVID-19 and thyroid function: What do we know so far? Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) was characterized as a pandemic in March, 2020 by the World Health Organization. COVID-19 is a respiratory syndrome that can progress to acute respiratory distress syndrome, multiorgan dysfunction, and eventually death. Despite being considered a respiratory disease, it is known that other organs and systems can be affected in COVID-19, including the thyroid gland. Thyroid gland, as well as hypothalamus and pituitary, which regulate the functioning of most endocrine glands, express angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), the main protein that functions as a receptor to which SARS-CoV-2 binds to enter host cells. In addition, thyroid gland is extremely sensitive to changes in body homeostasis and metabolism. Immune system cells are targets for thyroid hormones and T3 and T4 modulate specific immune responses, including cell-mediated immunity, natural killer cell activity, the antiviral action of interferon (IFN) and proliferation of T- and B-lymphocytes. However, studies show that patients with controlled hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism do not have a higher prevalence of COVID-19, nor do they have a worse prognosis when infected with the virus. On the other hand, retrospective observational studies, prospective studies, and case reports published in the last two years reported abnormal thyroid function related to acute SARS-CoV-2 infection or even several weeks after its resolution. Indeed, a variety of thyroid disorders have been documented in COVID-19 patients, including non-thyroidal illness syndrome (NTIS), subacute thyroiditis and thyrotoxicosis. In addition, thyroid disease has already been reported as a consequence of the administration of vaccines against SARS-CoV-2. Overall, the data revealed that abnormal thyroid function may occur during and in the convalescence post-COVID condition phase. Although the cellular and molecular mechanisms are not completely understood, the evidence suggests that the \cytokine storm\ is an important mediator in this context. Thus, future studies are needed to better investigate the pathophysiology of thyroid dysfunction induced by COVID-19 at both molecular and clinical levels.
37020549 | Hormonal and inflammatory modulatory effects of hesperidin in hyperthyroidism-modeled rats. The goal of the current study was to investigate the hormonal modulatory efficiency of hesperidin, through its regulatory potential of immunological, inflammatory, and/or antioxidant changes in on hyperthyroidism modeled adult female albino rats. Both normal and hyperthyroidism modeled rats (140-160g) were randomly divided into four groups (10 animals each) as follows: 1) healthy animals were daily ingested with saline for six weeks, and served as control group, 2) healthy animals were intraperitoneally injected with hesperidin (50 mg/kg/day) for a similar period, 3) hyperthyroidism-modeled animals without any treatment acted as positive control, and 4) hyperthyroidism-modeled animals were treated intraperitoneally with hesperidin for a similar period. The findings showed that hesperidin significantly modulated hyperthyroidism deteriorations, this was evidenced by a remarkable decline in serum T4, FT4, T3, FT3, TNF-alpha, IL1beta-, IL4-, IL-6, and IL-10 levels, with a minor increase in TSH and significant raise in CD4+ level. Similarly, valuable improvement was observed in the oxidative status; serum SOD, GPx, CAT, and GSH levels were dramatically enhanced, associated with remarkable drop in MDA and NO levels. Also, hesperidin demonstrated nephro-hepatoprotective and anti-atherogenic potential, this was achieved from the notable reduction in ALAT and ASAT activities as well as urea, creatinine, cholesterol, and triglyceride close to the corresponding values of healthy group. These findings were supported by histological and immunohistochemical ones that showed a notable decrease in the expression of the calcitonin antibody. In conclusion, hesperidin possesses anti-hyperthyroidism, immunoinflammatory regulatory, and antioxidant activities that evidenced from the improvement of physio-architecture of the thyroid gland, reduction of inflammation and restoration of the impaired oxidative stress. This effect might be mechanized through immunological, inflammatory, apoptotic, and/or antioxidant modulatory pathways.
37200378 | Enhanced stability of the SARS CoV-2 spike glycoprotein following modification of an alanine cavity in the protein core. The spike (S) glycoprotein of SARS CoV-2 is the target of neutralizing antibodies (NAbs) that are crucial for vaccine effectiveness. The S1 subunit binds ACE2 while the S2 subunit mediates virus-cell membrane fusion. S2 is a class I fusion glycoprotein subunit and contains a central coiled coil that acts as a scaffold for the conformational changes associated with fusion function. The coiled coil of S2 is unusual in that the 3-4 repeat of inward-facing positions are mostly occupied by polar residues that mediate few inter-helical contacts in the prefusion trimer. We examined how insertion of bulkier hydrophobic residues (Val, Leu, Ile, Phe) to fill a cavity next to Ala1016 and Ala1020 in the 3-4 repeat affects the stability and antigenicity of S trimers. Substitution of Ala1016 with bulkier hydrophobic residues in the context of a prefusion-stabilized S trimer, S2P-FHA, was associated with increased thermal stability. S glycoprotein membrane fusion function was retained with Ala1016/Ala1020 cavity-filling mutations associated with improved recombinant S2P-FHA thermostability, however 2 mutants, A1016L and A1016V/A1020I, lacked ability to mediate entry of S-HIV-1 pseudoparticles into 293-ACE2 cells. When assessed as immunogens, two thermostable S2P-FHA mutants derived from the ancestral isolate, A1016L (16L) and A1016V/A1020I (VI) elicited neutralizing antibody with 50%-inhibitory dilutions (ID50s) in the range 2,700-5,110 for ancestral and Delta-derived viruses, and 210-1,744 for Omicron BA.1. The antigens elicited antibody specificities directed to the receptor-binding domain (RBD), N-terminal domain (NTD), fusion peptide and stem region of S2. The VI mutation enabled the production of intrinsically stable Omicron BA.1 and Omicron BA.4/5 S2P-FHA-like ectodomain oligomers in the absence of an external trimerization motif (T4 foldon), thus representing an alternative approach for stabilizing oligomeric S glycoprotein vaccines.
37255871 | Effects of mobile phone electromagnetic radiation on thyroid glands and hormones in Rattus norvegicus brain: An analysis of thyroid function, reactive oxygen species, and monocarboxylate transporter 8. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of mobile phone electromagnetic radiation (MP-EMR) on the thyroid glands and hormones in Rattus norvegicus brain in term of thyroid function, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and monocarboxylate transporter 8 (MCT8) concentration. Forty rats were divided into different groups: control (without EMR exposure), EMR1 (120-min/day exposure), EMR2 (150-min), and EMR3 (180-min). The levels of serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), thyroxine (T4), and malondialdehyde (MDA) and brain and MCT8 were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. One-way analysis of variance followed by the Duncan test was used to analyze the data. Our data indicated that the levels of serum TSH and T4 in all the EMR groups were lower significant postexposure compared to the control with P < 0.01 (EMR1 and EMR2) and P < 0.001 (EMR3), suggesting hypothyroidism due to MP-EMR exposure. Increased MDA and decreased MCT8 levels were also observed following the intervention; however, the changes in both concentrations were notably significant after being subjected to 150-min and 180-min of exposure. In conclusion, a significant reduction in TSH, T4, and MCT8 levels indicated thyroid dysfunction due to MP-EMR exposure.
37335032 | Changes of viral load, drug resistance, and CD4 cell count in HIV-1-infected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy in Hebei Province, China, 2003 - 2019. In this study, a total of 462 samples of whole blood were collected from 36 patients enrolled. During the entire course of ART from 2003 to 2019, both the CD4 cell count and VL of study patients were examined annually, and a HIV-1 genotypic DR assay was carried out using an in-house method when the HIV-1 VL was more than 1000 copies/ml. The Results indicated that 13 (36.1%) experienced treatment failure and 23 (63.9%) experienced treatment success among 36 patients. The proportion of patients with effective treatment after the adjustment of ART regimens was significantly higher than before adjustment (chi2=33.796, p<0.001). Furthermore, the frequencies of HIV-1 DR mutations before adjustment were higher than those after adjustment (t=3.345, p=0.002). In particular, among 23 patients with effective treatment after adjustment, the means +- standard deviations of the VLs and CD4 cell counts before adjustment were 3.85+-0.65 log RNA copies/ml and 226.83+-106.06 cells/mm3, respectively, compared with 2.19+-0.58 log RNA copies/ml and 367.68+-174.62 cells/mm3, respectively, after adjustment. Obviously, there were statistically significant differences in the changes in VL (t=8.728, p<0.001) and CD4 cell count (t=-4.476, p<0.001) before and after adjustment. Therefore, patients who received updated ART regimens containing LPV/r and TDF after adjustment achieved better therapeutic effects compared with patients who received initial ART regimens harboring D4T/AZT or NVP. This suggests that future research is needed to initiate the surveillance of DR, VLs, CD4 cell counts immediately after HIV diagnosis, and dynamic changes in these indicators so as to optimize ART effects.
37489616 | Retrospective analysis of low-dose interleukin-2 therapy on chronic autoimmune thyroid disease with concurrent systemic lupus erythematosus. INTRODUCTION: Low-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2) regulates the homeostasis of CD4+ T cells by modulating the proportions of effector and regulatory T cells, thus reducing disease activity in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). However, to date, no research has been carried out on the efficacy of low-dose IL-2 for treating autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD). The aim of this study was to observe the effects of IL-2 on AITD patients with concurrent SLE, and explore potential mechanism of action. METHODS: A retrospective analysis was conducted on 29 SLE patients with concurrent AITD. Among them, 11 patients were in IL-2 therapy group and 18 patients without IL-2 treatment were considered as control group. Two groups had similar disease activities and were treated with comparable regular strategy. Free triiodothyronine (FT3), free thyroxine (FT4), thyroxine(T4), triiodothyronine(T3), thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), thyroglobulin antibody (TG-Ab), thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPO-Ab) levels and immune cell subgroups were measured. RESULTS: After receiving low-dose IL-2 therapy, the TG-Ab and TPO-Ab levels decreased drastically (TG-Ab p = 0.008, TPO-Ab p = 0.007), and the majority of the AITD patients became seronegative, while there was no discernible change in control group. In IL-2 group, percentage of CD4+ T cells showed a significant increase after treatment (p = 0.029), with an upward trend in the ratio of regulatory T (Treg) cells to follicular helper T (Tfh) cells (Treg/Tfh). The percentage as well as absolute count of B cells demonstrated a decreasing trend. CONCLUSION: Low-dose IL-2 may downregulate the levels of TG-Ab and TPO-Ab by modulating the immune balance of Treg/Tfh and B-cells, providing new avenue for clinical treatment of AITD.
37516153 | T4 bacteriophage nanoparticles engineered through CRISPR provide a versatile platform for rapid development of flu mucosal vaccines. Vaccines that trigger mucosal immune responses at the entry portals of pathogens are highly desired. Here, we showed that antigen-decorated nanoparticle generated through CRISPR engineering of T4 bacteriophage can serve as a universal platform for the rapid development of mucosal vaccines. Insertion of Flu viral M2e into phage T4 genome through fusion to Soc (Small Outer Capsid protein) generated a recombinant phage, and the Soc-M2e proteins self-assembled onto phage capsids to form 3M2e-T4 nanoparticles during propagation of T4 in E. coli. Intranasal administration of 3M2e-T4 nanoparticles maintains antigen persistence in the lungs, resulting in increased uptake and presentation by antigen-presenting cells. M2e-specific secretory IgA, effector (TEM), central (TCM), and tissue-resident memory CD4+ T cells (TRM) were efficiently induced in the local mucosal sites, which mediated protections against divergent influenza viruses. Our studies demonstrated the mechanisms of immune protection following 3M2e-T4 nanoparticles vaccination and provide a versatile T4 platform that can be customized to rapidly develop mucosal vaccines against future emerging epidemics.
37771863 | Comprehensive analysis of cell-extracellular matrix protein Ras suppressor-1 in function and prognosis of gastrointestinal cancers. BACKGROUND: Ras suppressor 1 (RSU1), a highly conserved protein, plays an important role in actin cytoskeleton remodeling and cell-extracellular matrix adhesion. Aberration of RSU1 activity can cause changes in cell adhesion and migration, thereby enhancing tumor proliferation and metastasis. However, the correlation between RSU1 and gastrointestinal cancers (GICs), as well as its prognostic role related to tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs) remains unclear. AIM: To shows RSU1 plays a potential promoting role in facilitating tumor immune escape in GIC. METHODS: Differential expression of RSU1 in different tumors and their corresponding normal tissues was evaluated by exploring the Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA) dataset. The correlation between RSU1 expression and prognosis of GIC cancer patients was evaluated by Kaplan-Meier plotter. Then, RSU1-correlated genes were screened and functionally characterized via enrichment analysis. The correlation between RSU1 and TIICs was further characterized using the Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER). In addition, the correlation between RSU1 and immune cell surface molecules was also analyzed by TIMER. RESULTS: High RSU1 expression was associated with poor overall survival of gastric cancer patients, exhibiting a hazard ratio (HR) = 1.36, first progression HR = 1.53, and post progression survival HR = 1.6. Specifically, high RSU1 Levels were associated with prognosis of gastric cancer in females, T4 and N3 stages, and Her-2-negative subtypes. Regarding immune-infiltrating cells, RSU1 expression level was positively correlated with infiltration of CD4+ T cells, macrophages, neutrophils, and dendritic cells (DCs) in colorectal adenocarcinoma and stomach adenocarcinoma. RSU1 expression was also predicted to be strongly correlated with immune marker sets in M2 macrophage, DCs and T cell exhaustion in GICs. CONCLUSION: In gastrointestinal cancers, RSU1 is increased in tumor tissues, and predicts poor survival of patients. Increased RSU1 may be involved in promoting macrophage polarization, DC infiltration, and T cell exhaustion, inducing tumor immune escape and the development of tumors in GICs. We suggest that RSU1 is a promising prognostic biomarker reflecting immune infiltration level of GICs, as well as a potential therapeutic target for precision treatment through improving the immune response.
37954593 | Low levels of peripheral blood activated and senescent T cells characterize people with HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders. Background: HIV infection induces a 75% increase in the risk of developing neurocognitive impairment (NCI), which has been linked to immune activation. We therefore looked for immune activation markers correlating with NCI. Method: Sixty-five people aged 55-70 years living with controlled HIV-1 infection were enrolled in the study and their neurocognitive ability was assessed according to the Frascati criteria. Fifty-nine markers of T4 cell, T8 cell, NK cell, and monocyte activation, inflammation and endothelial activation were measured in their peripheral blood. White matter hyperintensities (WMH) were identified by magnetic resonance imaging. Double hierarchical clustering was performed for the activation markers and 240 patients including the 65 whose neurocognitive performance had been evaluated. Results: Thirty-eight percent of volunteers presented NCI. Twenty-four percent of them were asymptomatic and fourteen percent had a mild disorder. Strikingly, activated (HLA-DR+) as well as senescent (CD57+CD28-CD27+-) T4 cells and T8 cells were less prevalent in the peripheral blood of participants with NCI than in participants without the disorder. Accordingly, the percentage of HLA-DR+ T4 cells was lower in volunteers with periventricular and deep WMH. The double hierarchical clustering unveiled six different immune activation profiles. The neurocognitive performances of participants with two of these six profiles were poor. Here again, these two profiles were characterized by a low level of T4 and T8 cell activation and senescence. Conclusion: Our observation of low circulating levels of activated and senescent T cells in HIV-1 patients with NCI raises the interesting hypothesis that these lymphocytes may be recruited into the central nervous system.
38128800 | Recombinant bacteriophage T4 displaying key epitopes of the foot-and-mouth disease virus as a novel nanoparticle vaccine. Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) is a highly contagious pathogen that has caused significant economic losses in the livestock industry. Peptide vaccines engineered with the protective epitopes of FMDV have provided a safer alternative for disease prevention than the traditional inactivated vaccines. However, the immunogenicity of the peptide is usually poor and therefore an adjuvant is required. Here, we showed that recombinant T4 phages displaying the B-cell epitope of the FMDV VP1 protein (VP1130-158), without additional adjuvants, induced similar levels of antigen-specific IgG1 but higher levels of IgG2a compared to the peptide vaccine. Incorporation of a CD4+ T cell epitope, either 3A21-35 of FMDV 3A protein or P2830-844 of tetanus toxoid, further enhanced the immunogenicity of VP1-T4 phage nanoparticles. Interestingly, the extrinsic adjuvant cannot enhance the immunogenicity of the nanoparticles, indicating the intrinsic adjuvant activities of T4 phage. Furthermore, the recombinant T4 phage can be produced on a large scale within a short period of time at a relatively low-cost using Escherichia coli, heralding its potential in the development of a safe and effective FMDV vaccine.
38260276 | A Randomised Clinical Trial of the Safety and Pharmacokinetics of VRC07-523LS Administered via Different Routes and Doses (HVTN 127/HPTN 087). Background: Broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) are a promising approach for HIV-1 prevention. In the only bnAb HIV prevention efficacy studies to date, the Antibody Mediated Prevention (AMP) trials, a CD4-binding site targeting bnAb, VRC01, administered intravenously (IV), demonstrated 75% prevention efficacy against highly neutralization-sensitive viruses but was ineffective against less sensitive viruses. Greater efficacy is required before passively administered bnAbs become a viable option for HIV prevention; furthermore subcutaneous (SC) or intramuscular (IM) administration may be preferred. VRC07-523LS is a next-generation bnAb targeting the CD4-binding site and was engineered for increased neutralization breadth and half-life. Methods: Participants were recruited between 02 February 2018 and 09 October 2018. 124 healthy participants without HIV were randomized to receive five VRC07-523LS administrations via IV (T1: 2.5 mg/kg, T2: 5 mg/kg, T3: 20 mg/kg), SC (T4: 2.5 mg/kg, T5: 5 mg/kg) or IM (T6: 2.5 mg/kg or P6: placebo) routes at four-month intervals. Safety data were collected for 144 weeks following the first administration. VRC07-523LS serum concentrations were measured by ELISA after the first dose through Day 112 in all participants and by binding antibody multiplex assay (BAMA) thereafter in 60 participants (10 per treatment group) through Day 784. Compartmental population pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses were conducted to evaluate the VRC07-523LS serum pharmacokinetics. Neutralization activity was measured in a TZM-bl assay and anti-drug antibodies (ADA) were assayed using a tiered bridging assay testing strategy. Results: Injections were well-tolerated, with mild pain or tenderness reported commonly in the SC and IM groups, and mild to moderate erythema or induration reported commonly in the SC groups. Infusions were generally well-tolerated, with infusion reactions reported in 3 of 20 participants in the 20 mg/kg IV group. Peak geometric mean (GM) concentrations (95% confidence intervals) following the first administration were 29.0 mug/mL (25.2, 33.4), 58.5 mug/mL (49.4, 69.3), and 257.2 mug/mL (127.5, 518.9) in T1-T3 with IV dosing; 10.8 mug/mL (8.8, 13.3) and 22.8 mug/mL (20.1, 25.9) in T4-T5 with SC dosing; and 16.4 mug/mL (14.7, 18.2) in T6 with IM dosing. Trough GM concentrations immediately prior to the second administration were 3.4 mug/mL (2.5, 4.6), 6.5 mug/mL (5.6, 7.5), and 27.2 mug/mL (23.9, 31.0) with IV dosing; 0.97 mug/mL (0.65, 1.4) and 3.1 mug/mL (2.2, 4.3) with SC dosing, and 2.6 mug/mL (2.05, 3.31) with IM dosing. Peak VRC07-523LS serum concentrations increased linearly with the administered dose. At a given dose, peak and trough concentrations, as well as serum neutralization titres, were highest in the IV groups, reflecting the lower bioavailability following SC and IM administration. A single participant was found to have low titre ADA at a lone timepoint. VRC07-523LS has an estimated mean half-life of 42 days (95% CI: 40.5, 43.5), approximately twice as long as VRC01. Conclusions: VRC07-523LS was safe and well-tolerated across a range of doses and routes and is a promising long-acting bnAb for inclusion in HIV-1 prevention regimens.
38455622 | Normal intellectual ability and hyperprolactinemia as unique clinical manifestations of congenital hypothyroidism: A case report and review of hypotheses. Congenital hypothyroidism is the deficiency of thyroid hormone in infants and hyperprolactinemia is frequently observed. Previously reported cases typically involve intellectual disability, highlighting this particular unique case report to the first reported patient demonstrating normal intellectual ability despite experiencing growth and gonad dysfunction. This study aims to present a case and review medical hypotheses related to the patient's condition. A 19-year-old female presented with a chief complaint of irregular menstruation for up to 40 days or not occurring at all. The patient experienced the first menstruation at the age of 16 years old. The patient's height was 133 cm, body weight 40 kg, and body mass index 22.61 kg/m2; other family members were normal. Physical examination showed no abnormalities, and laboratory examination showed suppressed serum free T4 (FT4) level (6.41 pmol/L), elevated thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level (333.700 microIU/mL), and elevated prolactin hormone level (32.03 ng/mL). Ultrasound of the thyroid gland found hypoplasia of the left and right thyroid glands. The patient was a college student enrolled in a public national university and had never complained about academic performance throughout the patient's education. The patient was diagnosed with congenital hypothyroidism and hyperprolactinemia. The patient was administered up to 100 microg daily of oral levothyroxine, which improved the patient's menstrual cycles. The patient's delayed diagnosis may be attributed to central congenital hypothyroidism being underdiagnosed. We hypothesized that thyroid-releasing hormone receptor (TRHR) gene mutation might contribute to the underlying cause of hyperprolactinemia and normal intellectual ability of the patient. Further study on the significance of TRHR gene mutations in congenital hypothyroidism is required to improve diagnosis and treatment.
38455636 | Palliative radiotherapy for leptomeningeal metastases after photon-based intensity-modulated radiotherapy in a nasopharyngeal cancer patient. Leptomeningeal metastasis is a rare in nasopharyngeal carcinoma, affecting less than 5% of patients with a poor prognosis. The aim of this case report was to present management of palliative radiotherapy in leptomeningeal metastasis of nasopharyngeal carcinoma patient. A 33-year-old female presented with nasopharyngeal carcinoma with stage III, T3N3M0, WHO type III. The patient has received chemoradiation with photon-based intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) technique at the dose of 70 Gy in 33 fractions and showed a satisfactory outcome in 12 months follow-up. Later, at 18 months after chemoradiation completion, the patient complained of worsening bilateral sciatic pain, particularly during coughing, with slight limitations in bilateral hip flexion observed during straight leg raises. The whole spine contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination showed nodular enhancement of leptomeningeal thickening at the T4 level of the spinal cord lower than S3. Palliative radiation therapy utilized a three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT) technique producing 35 Gy in 14 fractions placed in a field spanning the T4-S3 vertebral bodies. Methotrexate was administered intravenously every two weeks for three cycles to ensure central nervous system penetration. After four months of follow-up, no evidence of disease was found at the primary site and metastatic areas on subsequent physical examination or imaging with MRI and there was satisfactory improvement in neurologic symptoms. In conclusion, leptomeningeal metastases with primary nasopharyngeal carcinoma are rare and typically cause neurological impairments in patients. Hematogenous or cerebrospinal fluid-mediated spread of the cancer is considered the most likely pathway for leptomeningeal dissemination. Strategic modalities, such as radiotherapy with chemotherapy, may improve outcomes in symptoms and quality of life.
38496355 | IFN-gamma, IL-17, IL-22+ CD4+ subset in patients with hepatitis C virus and correlation with clinical factor. BACKGROUND: CD4+ T cell responses in HCV infection have a crucial role in the immunopathology of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Our aim was to investigate the frequency of Th1, Th17, and Th22 cells in HCV-infected patients and elucidate their role in the progression of the disease. METHODS: Twenty-six HCV-infected patients and 26 healthy individuals were recruited. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were stained to separate CD4, IFN-gamma, IL-17, and IL-22 producing cells using flow cytometry. RESULTS: Results showed that the mean expression of IL-22 in CD4+ T cells was significantly lower in HCV-infected patients compared to healthy controls. About correlation with clinical factor and T subsets, a negative correlation between the frequency of CD4+ IFN-gamma+ cells and Thyroxine level (T4) was observed in the patients. The data showed a positive link between thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), cholesterol levels, and the frequency of Th17 cells. In addition, a positive correlation was seen between serum creatinine level with both Th1 and Th17. Ultimately, it was found that there was a positive link between viral burden and IL-17+ IL-22+ cells and a negative correlation between viral load and pure Th22. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that Th22 cells may play a part in the immunopathology of HCV and show the associations between Thelper subsets and the clinical signs of the disease.
1510436 | In vitro activity and beta-lactamase stability of LJC 10,627. The in vitro activity of LJC 10,627, a new carbapenem, was compared with those of imipenem, cefotaxime, ceftazidime, and gentamicin. LJC 10,627 inhibited 90% of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Enterobacter aerogenes, Enterobacter agglomerans, Enterobacter cloacae, Hafnia alvei, Citrobacter freundii, Citrobacter diversus, Proteus mirabilis, Morganella morganii, Proteus rettgeri, Serratia marcescens, Pseudomonas cepacia, salmonellae, shigellae, aeromonas, and yersiniae at less than or equal to 2 micrograms/ml. Haemophilus influenzae was inhibited by 0.5 microgram/ml, and moraxellae were inhibited by 0.12 microgram/ml. LJC 10,627 was twofold more active than imipenem against aerobic gram-negative organisms and inhibited ceftazidime-, cefotaxime-, and gentamicin-resistant members of the genera Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Citrobacter, and Serratia at less than or equal to 2 micrograms/ml. Xanthomonas maltophilia strains were resistant to the drug. Imipenem was two- to fourfold more active than LJC 10,627 against Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis. LJC 10,627 did not inhibit most methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis strains. LJC 10,627 inhibited Streptococcus pyogenes and Streptococcus pneumoniae at 0.06 and 0.12 microgram/ml, respectively. Bacteroides fragilis and other Bacteroides spp. were inhibited by 0.5 microgram of LJC 10,627 per ml. Serum (50%) did not affect the MICs. LJC 10,627 was not hydrolyzed by plasmid-mediated beta-lactamases of Bush types 2b, 2b', TEM-1, TEM-2, TEM-3, TEM-5, TEM-7, TEM-9, and SHV-1; the chromosomal beta-lactamases of Bush type 1; P-99; a Morganella enzyme; or a Citrobacter freundii enzyme. The Bush type 2c and 2d enzymes OXA-1, OXA-2, PSE-1, PSE-2, and PSE-4 did not hydrolyze LJC 10,627, nor did the beta-lactamases of Staphylococcus aureus, Moraxella spp., Bacteroides fragilis, and Proteus vulgaris. The beta-lactamase of Xanthomonas hydrolyzed LJC 10,627, albeit at approximately one-third the rate that imipenem was hydrolyzed.
1873972 | In vitro activity of an oxycephem OCP 9-176 compared with its sulfur analog and other beta-lactams. OCP 9-176 is an oxycephem antibiotic that contains a 2-aminothiazolyl, carboxypropyl side chain at C-7 and a pyridinium thiomethyl group at C-3. OCP 9-176 was generally twofold less active than its sulfur-containing analog ME 1228 against Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Klebsiella oxytoca, Providencia stuartii, Proteus vulgaris, and Serratia marcescens. Activity against Enterobacter cloacae and Citrobacter freundii was equivalent. OCP 9-176 was twofold less active than ME-1228 against Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Acinetobacter species. Activity of the two agents was similar against Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis. Although OCP 9-176 inhibited E. coli containing TEM-1 and TEM-2, it was less active than ME-1228. Klebsiella organisms with SHV-1 and K-2 beta-lactamases were inhibited, but TEM-3-containing isolates had MICs of 16 micrograms/ml. OCP 9-176 was minimally hydrolyzed by TEM-1, PSE-1, K-1, and P99, and it was a poor inhibitor of P99. Replacement of sulfur with oxygen does not increase the activity of compounds with sulfopyridinium methyl groups at C-3.
2279381 | In vitro activity of HRE 664, a penem antibiotic. HRE 664, a new penem antibiotic, inhibited 90% of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella, Citrobacter diversus, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Salmonella, Shigella, Providencia, Aeromonas, and Morganella at less than or equal to 2 micrograms/ml but was considerably less active than cefotaxime, ceftazidime, and imipenem. It did not inhibit Pseudomonas aeruginosa (MIC greater than 128 micrograms/ml). HRE 664 inhibited Enterobacter spp., Citrobacter freundii, and Serratia marcescens at 1-8 micrograms/ml, two- to fourfold higher MICs than imipenem. HRE 664 inhibited methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus epidermidis at less than or equal to 0.12 micrograms/ml, but methicillin-resistant S. aureus and S. epidermidis were resistant. Group A, C, and G streptococci and Streptococcus pneumoniae were inhibited by 0.06 micrograms/ml. Bacteroides and Clostridium species were inhibited by 0.25 micrograms/ml comparable to imipenem. HRE 664 was not hydrolyzed by beta-lactamases TEM-1, TEM-2, TEM-3, TEM-5, SHV-1, PSE-1, PSE-4, OXA-2, OXA-3, K-1, P99, Morganella, P. vulgaris, and S. aureus PC-1 but was hydrolyzed by the beta-lactamase of Xanthomonas maltophilia.
2789493 | In vitro activity and beta-lactamase stability of a new carbapenem, SM-7338. SM-7338, a new carbapenem, inhibited most members of the family Enterobacteriaceae at MICs of 0.015 to 0.25 microgram/ml, including Klebsiella oxytoca, Citrobacter freundii, Enterobacter cloacae, and Proteus vulgaris isolates resistant to cefotaxime, ceftazidime, piperacillin, and gentamicin. It was two- to eightfold more active than imipenem, but it inhibited Pseudomonas aeruginosa at 1 to 8 micrograms/ml, which was comparable to the activity of imipenem. Haemophilus, Neisseria, and Branhamella species were inhibited by less than or equal to 0.25 microgram/ml, which was superior to the activity of imipenem. SM-7338 inhibited Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative staphylococci at 0.25 microgram/ml, but for methicillin-resistant isolates MICs were 4 to 16 micrograms/ml. Group A, B, and C streptococci and Streptococcus pneumoniae were inhibited by less than or equal to 0.03 microgram/ml. Bacteroides species, including clindamycin-resistant isolates, were inhibited by 0.25 microgram/ml. There was no major inoculum size effect, and the MBCs were within a dilution of the MICs. SM-7338 was more active than imipenem at an acid pH under anaerobic conditions. Plasmid beta-lactamases of TEM-1, TEM-2, TEM-3, TEM-5, SHV-1, SHV-2, PSE-1, PSE-2, PSE-3, OXA-2, OXA-3, OXA-4, OXA-5, and OXA-7; Staphylococcus aureus enzymes; and the chromosomal beta-lactamases P-99 and K-1; Morganella species; and Proteus vulgaris did not hydrolyze SM-7338. The repeated transfer of organisms increased the MICs of SM-7338, as it did the MICs of imipenem.
2850139 | Beta-lactamase inhibition by acetylmethylene penicillanic acid compared to that of clavulanate and sulbactam. The beta-lactamase inhibitory properties of 6-acetylmethylene penicillanic acid (6-AMPA) were investigated and compared with those of other beta-lactamase inhibitors. 6-AMPA inhibited the TEM-1, TEM-2, SHV-1, PSE-1, PSE-2, PSE-3, PSE-4, OXA-2, OXA-3, and Staphylococcus aureus beta-lactamases. It also inhibited the chromosomally-mediated beta-lactamases of the Richmond-Sykes type Ia, Ic and Id type and the type IV Klebsiella enzymes. Beta-lactamases of Branhamella catarrhalis and Bacteroides fragilis were inhibited. The 6-AMPA I50 values for various enzymes were less than 0.01 microgram/ml TEM-1 and PSE-4, and 0.01 microgram/ml SHV-1, 0.02 microgram/ml S. aureus, 0.04 microgram/ml Proteus vulgaris, 0.04 microgram/ml K. oxytoca, 6.8 micrograms/ml P99, and 9.7 micrograms/ml Sabath-Abraham Pseudomonas enzyme. With isolated beta-lactamases 6-AMPA was a more potent inhibitor than clavulanate or sulbactam. 6-AMPA was an irreversible inhibitor of beta-lactamases. The penetration index for Escherichia coli JT4 was 23 compared to 3 for clavulanate. 6-AMPA at 10 micrograms/ml acted synergistically with ampicillin against beta-lactamase containing bacteria, but it was less active than clavulanate and did not act synergistically with ampicillin against Enterobacter, Citrobacter or Pseudomonas. Although 6-AMPA has excellent beta-lactamase inhibitory properties with isolated enzymes, it is less useful with intact organisms.
3496845 | In vitro activity and beta-lactamase stability of a new penem, CGP 31608. The in vitro activity of CGP 31608, a new penem, against aerobic and anaerobic organisms was evaluated and compared with those of other beta-lactams. CGP 31608 inhibited Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, K. oxytoca, Proteus mirabilis, Citrobacter diversus, and Salmonella, Shigella, Aeromonas, and Yersinia spp. with MICs for 50% of the strains (MIC50s) of 2 to 4 micrograms/ml and MIC90s of 4 micrograms/ml, compared with cefotaxime, ceftazidime, aztreonam, and imipenem MICs of less than 0.25 microgram/ml. MIC90s were 8 micrograms/ml for Enterobacter species and C. freundii, for which other agents had MICs of 32 micrograms/ml, except imipenem, which had equal activity. The MIC90 for Proteus vulgaris, Morganella morganii, Providencia stuartii, and Providencia rettgeri was 8 micrograms/ml, compared with less than 2 micrograms/ml shown by the other agents. Acinetobacter species resistant to other agents except imipenem were inhibited by 4 micrograms/ml, as were Pseudomonas aeruginosa, including piperacillin-, ceftazidime-, and gentamicin-resistant isolates. The MIC for P. cepacia, P. fluorescens, and P. acidovorans was less than or equal to 8 micrograms/ml, but that for P. maltophilia was greater than or equal to 128 micrograms/ml. Hemolytic streptococci A, B, C, G, and F were inhibited by less than 1 micrograms/ml, but the MIC for Streptococcus faecalis was greater than or equal to 32 micrograms/ml. MICs for Staphylococcus aureus methicillin-susceptible and -resistant strains were less than or equal to 1 microgram/ml, as were those for methicillin-susceptible and -resistant S. epidermidis. Bacteroides fragilis and Clostridium species and Fusobacterium spp. were inhibited by less than or equal to 4 micrograms/ml. CGP 31608 was not hydrolyzed by plasmid beta-lactamases TEM-1, TEM-2, SHV-1, PSE-1, OXA-2, PSE-4, or by S. aureus. Chromosomal beta-lactamases of type Ia in Enterobacter cloacae P99 and Morganella morganii, Ic in P. vulgaris, K-1 in K. oxytoca, and Id in P. aeruginosa also did not hydrolyze CGP 31608. It inhibited TEM-1, but the 50% inhibitory concentration was 14.2 micrograms/ml compared with 0.15 micrograms/ml for the P99 enzyme. CGP 31608 induced beta-lactamases in P. aeruginosa, E. cloacae, C. freundii and Providencia rettgeri, but there was no increase in MICs for the isolates and it did not select strains derepressed for beta-lactamase production. Synergy of CGP 31608 and gentamicin was found against 90% P. aeruginosa, 60% Enterobacter cloacae, and 50% Serratia marcescens strains. No synergy was found with rifampin. A postantibiotic effect was found against E. coli.
8335498 | The antimicrobial activity and beta-lactamase stability of cefpirome, a new fourth-generation cephalosporin in comparison with other agents. The antimicrobial activity of cefpirome was compared with amoxycillin/clavulanic acid, ampicillin/sulbactam, cefuroxime, ceftazidime, gentamicin and amikacin against 743 non-duplicate clinical isolates. MIC50 and MIC90 showed that the antibiotic was active against both Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms. Cefpirome was highly active against most of the Enterobacteriaceae, including indole-positive Proteus spp., Aeromonas spp. (MIC < or = 1 mg/L) and Salmonella spp. (MIC < or = 0.5 mg/L). Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Haemophilus influenzae (including beta-lactamase producers) were all susceptible, with MIC less than 0.5 and 0.25 mg/L respectively. Cefpirome was more active than cefuroxime and ceftazidime against Campylobacter spp. (MIC < or = 2 mg/L), but less active than ceftazidime against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Cefpirome was active against Streptococcus pneumoniae. Streptococcus bovis and coagulase-negative staphylococci (MIC < or = 0.5 mg/L) and methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MIC < or = 2 mg/L). Methicillin-resistant S. aureus, Gram-positive and Gram-negative anaerobes were resistant to cefpirome. The stability of cefpirome to TEM-1, TEM-2, PSE-1, SHV-1 and the chromosomal-mediated P99 and K-1 beta-lactamases was comparable to ceftazidime.
17411373 | Leukemia inhibitor factor (LIF) inhibits HIV-1 replication via restriction of stat 3 activation. Leukemia inhibitor factor (LIF) has been shown to potently inhibit HIV-1 replication in vitro and in human organ explant cultures. Furthermore, LIF activates the Jak/Stat signaling pathway with which many viruses, including HIV-1, interfere. We used CXCR4 and the LIF signaling receptor (gp130)-expressing cMAGI cells transfected with CD4, CCR5, and HIV-LTR-beta-galactosidase as a model system to investigate the potential involvement of Stat proteins in the anti-HIV-1 effect of LIF. Pretreatment with recombinant human (rh)LIF resulted in a significantly reduced uptake of HIV-1(BaL) , HIV-1(LAI), and SIVmac251 viral particles without affecting uptake of murine leukemia retroviral particles. HIV-1(BaL), HIV-1(LAI), as well as rhLIF selectively induced phosphorylation of Stat 3 but not Stat 1 or Stat 5. However, treatment of cMAGI cells with rhLIF prior to HIV-1 infection downregulated the HIV-1-mediated Stat 3 phosphorylation. In addition, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) transfected with Stat 3 siRNA prior to HIV-1(LAI) or HIV-1(BaL) infection produced significantly less HIV-1 p24 antigen as compared to nontransfected HIV-1(LAI) and HIV-1(BaL)-infected PBMCs. Thus, the Jak/Stat signaling pathway is important for the HIV-1 replication life cycle and rhLIF excerts its anti-HIV-1 activity by disrupting this signaling cascade.
18006867 | Effects of 30 min of aerobic exercise on gene expression in human neutrophils. Relatively brief bouts of exercise alter gene expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), but whether exercise changes gene expression in circulating neutrophils (whose numbers, like PBMCs, increase) is not known. We hypothesized that exercise would activate neutrophil genes involved in apoptosis, inflammation, and cell growth and repair, since these functions in leukocytes are known to be influenced by exercise. Blood was sampled before and immediately after 30 min of constant, heavy ( approximately 80% peak O(2) uptake) cycle ergometer exercise in 12 healthy men (19-29 yr old) of average fitness. Neutrophils were isolated using density gradients; RNA was hybridized to Affymetrix U133+2 Genechip arrays. With false discovery rate (FDR) <0.05 with 95% confidence, a total of 526 genes were differentially expressed between before and after exercise. Three hundred and sixteen genes had higher expression after exercise. The Jak/STAT pathway, known to inhibit apoptosis, was significantly activated (EASE score, P < 0.005), but 14 genes were altered in a way likely to accelerate apoptosis as well. Similarly, both proinflammatory (e.g., IL-32, TNFSF8, and CCR5) and anti-inflammatory (e.g., ANXA1) were affected. Growth and repair genes like AREG and FGF2 receptor genes (involved in angiogenesis) were also activated. Finally, a number of neutrophil genes known to be involved in pathological conditions like asthma and arthritis were altered by exercise, suggesting novel links between physical activity and disease or its prevention. In summary, brief heavy exercise leads to a previously unknown substantial and significant alteration in neutrophil gene expression.
18552348 | Schizophrenia susceptibility genes directly implicated in the life cycles of pathogens: cytomegalovirus, influenza, herpes simplex, rubella, and Toxoplasma gondii. Many genes implicated in schizophrenia can be related to glutamatergic transmission and neuroplasticity, oligodendrocyte function, and other families clearly related to neurobiology and schizophrenia phenotypes. Others appear rather to be involved in the life cycles of the pathogens implicated in the disease. For example, aspartylglucosaminidase (AGA), PLA2, SIAT8B, GALNT7, or B3GAT1 metabolize chemical ligands to which the influenza virus, herpes simplex, cytomegalovirus (CMV), rubella, or Toxoplasma gondii bind. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGR/EGFR) is used by the CMV to gain entry to cells, and a CMV gene codes for an interleukin (IL-10) mimic that binds the host cognate receptor, IL10R. The fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR1) is used by herpes simplex. KPNA3 and RANBP5 control the nuclear import of the influenza virus. Disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) controls the microtubule network that is used by viruses as a route to the nucleus, while DTNBP1, MUTED, and BLOC1S3 regulate endosomal to lysosomal routing that is also important in viral traffic. Neuregulin 1 activates ERBB receptors releasing a factor, EBP1, known to inhibit the influenza virus transcriptase. Other viral or bacterial components bind to genes or proteins encoded by CALR, FEZ1, FYN, HSPA1B, IL2, HTR2A, KPNA3, MED12, MED15, MICB, NQO2, PAX6, PIK3C3, RANBP5, or TP53, while the cerebral infectivity of the herpes simplex virus is modified by Apolipoprotein E (APOE). Genes encoding for proteins related to the innate immune response, including cytokine related (CCR5, CSF2RA, CSF2RB, IL1B, IL1RN, IL2, IL3, IL3RA, IL4, IL10, IL10RA, IL18RAP, lymphotoxin-alpha, tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF]), human leukocyte antigen (HLA) antigens (HLA-A10, HLA-B, HLA-DRB1), and genes involved in antigen processing (angiotensin-converting enzyme and tripeptidyl peptidase 2) are all concerned with defense against invading pathogens. Human microRNAs (Hsa-mir-198 and Hsa-mir-206) are predicted to bind to influenza, rubella, or poliovirus genes. Certain genes associated with schizophrenia, including those also concerned with neurophysiology, are intimately related to the life cycles of the pathogens implicated in the disease. Several genes may affect pathogen virulence, while the pathogens in turn may affect genes and processes relevant to the neurophysiology of schizophrenia. For such genes, the strength of association in genetic studies is likely to be conditioned by the presence of the pathogen, which varies in different populations at different times, a factor that may explain the heterogeneity that plagues such studies. This scenario also suggests that drugs or vaccines designed to eliminate the pathogens that so clearly interact with schizophrenia susceptibility genes could have a dramatic effect on the incidence of the disease.
23823820 | New insight into genes in association with asthma: literature-based mining and network centrality analysis. BACKGROUND: Asthma is a heterogeneous disease for which a strong genetic basis has been firmly established. Until now no studies have been undertaken to systemically explore the network of asthma-related genes using an internally developed literature-based discovery approach. This study was to explore asthma-related genes by using literature-based mining and network centrality analysis. METHODS: Literature involving asthma-related genes were searched in PubMed from 2001 to 2011. Integration of natural language processing with network centrality analysis was used to identify asthma susceptibility genes and their interaction network. Asthma susceptibility genes were classified into three functional groups by gene ontology (GO) analysis and the key genes were confirmed by establishing asthma-related networks and pathways. RESULTS: Three hundred and twenty-six genes related with asthma such as IGHE (IgE), interleukin (IL)-4, 5, 6, 10, 13, 17A, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha were identified. GO analysis indicated some biological processes (developmental processes, signal transduction, death, etc.), cellular components (non-structural extracellular, plasma membrane and extracellular matrix), and molecular functions (signal transduction activity) that were involved in asthma. Furthermore, 22 asthma-related pathways such as the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, hematopoietic cell lineage, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, chemokine signaling pathway, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, and 17 hub genes, such as JAK3, CCR1-3, CCR5-7, CCR8, were found. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a remarkably detailed and comprehensive picture of asthma susceptibility genes and their interacting network. Further identification of these genes and molecular pathways may play a prominent role in establishing rational therapeutic approaches for asthma.
23954656 | Immunopharmacological intervention for successful neural stem cell therapy: New perspectives in CNS neurogenesis and repair. The pharmacological support and stimulation of endogenous and transplanted neural stem cells (NSCs) is a major challenge in brain repair. Trauma to the central nervous system (CNS) results in a distinct inflammatory response caused by local and infiltrating immune cells. This makes NSC-supported regeneration difficult due to the presence of inhibitory immune factors which are upregulated around the lesion site. The continual and dual role of the neuroinflammatory response leaves it difficult to decipher upon a single modulatory strategy. Therefore, understanding the influence of cytokines upon regulation of NSC self-renewal, proliferation and differentiation is crucial when designing therapies for CNS repair. There is a plethora of partially conflicting data in vitro and in vivo on the role of cytokines in modulating the stem cell niche and the milieu around NSC transplants. This is mainly due to the pleiotropic role of many factors. In order for cell-based therapy to thrive, treatment must be phase-specific to the injury and also be personalized for each patient, i.e. taking age, sex, neuroimmune and endocrine status as well as other key parameters into consideration. In this review, we will summarize the most relevant information concerning interleukin (IL)-1, IL-4, IL-10, IL-15, IFN-gamma, the neuropoietic cytokine family and TNF-alpha in order to extract promising therapeutic approaches for further research. We will focus on the consequences of neuroinflammation on endogenous brain stem cells and the transplantation environment, the effects of the above cytokines on NSCs, as well as immunopharmacological manipulation of the microenvironment for potential therapeutic use.
24012995 | Male-to-female transfer of 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside during mating in Zygaena filipendulae (Lepidoptera). Zygaena filipendulae accumulates the cyanogenic glucosides linamarin and lotaustralin by larval sequestration from the food plant or de novo biosynthesis. We have previously demonstrated that the Z. filipendulae male transfers linamarin and lotaustralin to the female in the course of mating. In this study we report the additional transfer of 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside (5-(beta-d-glucopyranosyloxy)-L-Tryptophan) from the Z. filipendulae male internal genitalia to the female spermatophore around 5 h into the mating process. 5-Hydroxytryptophan glucoside is present in the virgin male internal genitalia, and production continues during the early phase of mating. Following initiation of 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside transfer to the female, the amount in male internal genitalia is drastically reduced until after mating where it is slowly replenished. For unambiguous structural identification, 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside was chemically synthesized and used as an authentic standard. The biological function of 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside remains to be established, although we have indications that it may be involved in inducing the female to stay in copula and delay egg-laying to prevent re-mating of the female. To our knowledge 5-hydroxytryptophan glucoside has not previously been reported present in animal tissues.
24120239 | Chemokine receptor CXCR4: role in gastrointestinal cancer. Chemokines (CK)s, small proinflammatory chemoattractant cytokines that bind to specific G-protein coupled seven-span transmembrane receptors, are major regulators of cell trafficking and adhesion. The CXCL12 [stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1)] binds primarily to CXC receptor 4 (CXCR4; CD184). The binding of CXCL12 to CXCR4 induces intracellular signaling through several divergent pathways initiating signals related to chemotaxis, cell survival and/or proliferation, increase in intracellular calcium, and gene transcription. CXCR4 is expressed on multiple cell types including lymphocytes, hematopoietic stem cells, endothelial and epithelial cells, and cancer cells. One of the most intriguing and perhaps important roles that CKs and the CK receptors have is in regulating metastasis. Here, CK receptors may potentially facilitate tumor dissemination at each of the key steps of metastasis, including adherence of tumor cells to endothelium, extravasation from blood vessels, metastatic colonization, angiogenesis, proliferation, and protection from the host response via activation of key survival pathways such as ERK/MAPK, PI-3K/Akt/mTOR, or Jak/STAT, etc. In addition, it is increasingly recognized that CKs play an important role in facilitating communication between cancer cells and non-neoplatic cells in the tumor microenvironment (TME), including endothelial cells and fibroblasts, promoting the infiltration, activation of neutrophils, and tumor-associated macrophages within the TME. In this review, we mainly focus on the roles of chemokines CXCL12 and its cognate receptors CXCR4 as they pertain to cancer progression. In particular, we summarizes our current understanding regarding the contribution of CXCR4 and SDF-1 to gastrointestinal tumor behavior and its role in local progression, dissemination, and immune evasion of tumor cells. Also, describes recent therapeutic approaches that target these receptors or their ligands.
24269868 | Sequestration, tissue distribution and developmental transmission of cyanogenic glucosides in a specialist insect herbivore. Considering the staggering diversity of bioactive natural products present in plants, insects are only able to sequester a small number of phytochemicals from their food plants. The mechanisms of how only some phytochemicals are sequestered and how the sequestration process takes place remains largely unknown. In this study the model system of Zygaena filipendulae (Lepidoptera) and their food plant Lotus corniculatus is used to advance the knowledge of insect sequestration. Z. filipendulae larvae are dependent on sequestration of the cyanogenic glucosides linamarin and lotaustralin from their food plant, and have a much lower fitness if reared on plants without these compounds. This study investigates the fate of the cyanogenic glucosides during ingestion, sequestration in the larvae, and in the course of insect ontogeny. To this purpose, double-labeled linamarin and lotaustralin were chemically synthesized carrying two stable isotopes, a (2)H labeled aglucone and a (13)C labeled glucose moiety. In addition, a small amount of (14)C was incorporated into the glucose residue. The isotope-labeled compounds were applied onto cyanogenic L. corniculatus leaves that were subsequently presented to the Z. filipendulae larvae. Following ingestion by the larvae, the destiny of the isotope labeled cyanogenic glucosides was monitored in different tissues of larvae and adults at selected time points, using radio-TLC and LC-MS analyses. It was shown that sequestered compounds are taken up intact, contrary to earlier hypotheses where it was suggested that the compounds would have to be hydrolyzed before transport across the gut. The uptake from the larval gut was highly stereo selective as the beta-glucosides were retained while the alpha-glucosides were excreted and recovered in the frass. Sequestered compounds were rapidly distributed into all analyzed tissues of the larval body, partly retained throughout metamorphosis and transferred into the adult insect where they were distributed to all tissues. During subsequent mating, isotope labeled cyanogenic glucosides were transferred from the male to the female in the nuptial gift. 
24710357 | Oncostatin M mediates STAT3-dependent intestinal epithelial restitution via increased cell proliferation, decreased apoptosis and upregulation of SERPIN family members. OBJECTIVE: Oncostatin M (OSM) is produced by activated T cells, monocytes, and dendritic cells and signals through two distinct receptor complexes consisting of gp130 and LIFR (I) or OSMR-beta and gp130 (II), respectively. Aim of this study was to analyze the role of OSM in intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) and intestinal inflammation. METHODS: OSM expression and OSM receptor distribution was analyzed by PCR and immunohistochemistry experiments, signal transduction by immunoblotting. Gene expression studies were performed by microarray analysis and RT-PCR. Apoptosis was measured by caspases-3/7 activity. IEC migration and proliferation was studied in wounding and water soluble tetrazolium assays. RESULTS: The IEC lines Caco-2, DLD-1, SW480, HCT116 and HT-29 express mRNA for the OSM receptor subunits gp130 and OSMR-beta, while only HCT116, HT-29 and DLD-1 cells express LIFR mRNA. OSM binding to its receptor complex activates STAT1, STAT3, ERK-1/2, SAPK/JNK-1/2, and Akt. Microarray analysis revealed 79 genes that were significantly up-regulated (adj.-p <= 0.05) by OSM in IEC. Most up-regulated genes belong to the functional categories \immunity and defense\ (p = 2.1 x 10(-7)), \apoptosis\ (p = 3.7 x 10(-4)) and \JAK/STAT cascade\ (p = 3.4 x 10(-6)). Members of the SERPIN gene family were among the most strongly up-regulated genes. OSM significantly increased STAT3- and MEK1-dependent IEC cell proliferation (p<0.05) and wound healing (p = 3.9 x 10(-5)). OSM protein expression was increased in colonic biopsies of patients with active inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). CONCLUSIONS: OSM promotes STAT3-dependent intestinal epithelial cell proliferation and wound healing in vitro. Considering the increased OSM expression in colonic biopsy specimens of patients with active IBD, OSM upregulation may modulate a barrier-protective host response in intestinal inflammation. Further in vivo studies are warranted to elucidate the exact role of OSM in intestinal inflammation and the potential of OSM as a drug target in IBD.
24906993 | Gene expression profile of LPS-stimulated dendritic cells induced by a recombinant Sj16 (rSj16) derived from Schistosoma japonicum. Sj16, a 16-kDa protein secreted from Schistosoma japonicum, has been demonstrated an anti-inflammatory effect in vitro and in vivo, but its mechanism is still not clear. In this study, microarray analysis was performed to investigate the effects of recombinant Sj16 (rSj16) on the gene expression of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated dendritic cells (DCs). Immature DCs were treated with LPS, LPS + recombinant Sj16 (rSj16), or rSj16 alone for 24 h, and the gene expression profiles were examined using complementary DNA (cDNA) microarrays. With the cutoff value of 2-fold change in the expression, 509 genes were affected, 226 genes upregulated, and 283 genes downregulated after adding rSj16. Analysis by functional annotation clustering tool showed that rSj16-affected genes mainly associated with inflammatory response, defense response, regulation of immune system process, apoptosis, and cell migration. The results revealed that rSj16 reduced the LPS-induced pro-inflammatory genes such as cytokines (e.g., IL6, IL18, IFN-gamma, IL12a, IL1b), chemokines, and receptors (e.g., CXCL1, CXCL9, CCL5, CCR5, CCR1, CCR2, CXCR3) and increased the anti-inflammatory gene IL-10. Further data mining of these genes by pathway analysis showed that genes regulated by rSj16 were significantly involved in cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, NOD-like receptor signaling pathway, Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, antigen processing and presentation, and Jak-STAT signaling pathway. In addition, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot analysis showed that rSj16 downregulated the expression of inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa-beta kinase subunit beta (IKKbeta) and nuclear factor-kappa beta p65 (NF-kappabeta) messenger RNA (mRNA) and inhibited the phosphorylation of IKKbeta and the NF-kappaB p65 protein, which implied that rSj16 exerting immunomodulatory effects by suppressing NF-kappaB signaling pathway. These results provide useful information in further understanding of the immunoregulation mechanisms of Sj16, and it is indicated that Sj16 could be as a potential molecule for the immunosuppressant drug development.
26851503 | The Janus kinase inhibitor ruxolitinib reduces HIV replication in human macrophages and ameliorates HIV encephalitis in a murine model. A hallmark of persistent HIV-1 infection in the central nervous system is increased activation of mononuclear phagocytes and surrounding astrogliosis, conferring persistent HIV-induced inflammation. This inflammation is believed to result in neuronal dysfunction and the clinical manifestations of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). The Jak/STAT pathway is activated in macrophages/myeloid cells upon HIV-1 infection, modulating many pro-inflammatory pathways that result in HAND, thereby representing an attractive cellular target. Thus, the impact of ruxolitinib, a Janus Kinase (Jak) 1/2 inhibitor that is FDA approved for myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera, was assessed for its potential to inhibit HIV-1 replication in macrophages and HIV-induced activation in monocytes/macrophages in culture. In addition, a murine model of HIV encephalitis (HIVE) was used to assess the impact of ruxolitinib on histopathological features of HIVE, brain viral load, as well as its ability to penetrate the blood-brain-barrier (BBB). Ruxolitinib was found to inhibit HIV-1 replication in macrophages, HIV-induced activation of monocytes (CD14/CD16) and macrophages (HLA-DR, CCR5, and CD163) without apparent toxicity. In vivo, systemically administered ruxolitinib was detected in the brain during HIVE in SCID mice and markedly inhibited astrogliosis. Together, these data indicate that ruxolitinib reduces HIV-induced activation and infiltration of monocytes/macrophages in vitro, reduces the replication of HIV in vitro, penetrates the BBB when systemically administered in mice and reduces astrogliosis in the brains of mice with HIVE. These data suggest that ruxolitinib will be useful as a novel therapeutic to treat humans with HAND.
26980025 | A favorable role of prolactin in human breast cancer reveals novel pathway-based gene signatures indicative of tumor differentiation and favorable patient outcome. Prolactin (PRL) hormone is known to play a key role in mammary gland development allowing for successful lactation. The role of this hormone in breast tumorigenesis is still controversial. Here, we evaluated PRL protein and gene expression levels in human breast cancer using tissue microarray of 100 breast cancer cases, as well as different publically available human breast cancer gene profiling databases. Interestingly, our results showed a significant downregulation of PRL expression in breast cancer compared to normal adjacent tissue. Moreover, expression of PRL was associated with more differentiated tumors, early stage, smaller tumor size and absence of distant metastasis. Importantly, our results indicate that higher PRL mRNA levels are significantly associated with prolonged relapse-free survival (RFS) in breast cancer patients (P=3.7 x 10(-9)). Additionally, examining expression of PRL pathway-based gene signature composed of PRL, PRLR, Jak2 and Stat5a showed a significant association with more differentiated tumors (P<.00001), prolonged RFS (P=1.8 x 10(-6)) as well as overall survival (OS) (P=.0026). As well, our results indicate that PRL-directed differentiation program in mammary epithelial cells offer good prognosis in human breast cancer. Indeed, expression of a gene signature composed of PRL-upregulated genes showed a significant association with well-differentiated tumors (P<.00001). Whereas expression of a gene signature composed of PRL-downregulated genes showed a significant association with shortened distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS) (P=.0086). Altogether our results highlight that PRL hormone and its signaling pathway may play an important role in maintaining tumor differentiation state and in turn better patient outcome.
28469959 | Treatment with the C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5)-inhibitor maraviroc suppresses growth and induces apoptosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common hematological malignancy diagnosed in children and is a malignant disorder that originates from one single hematopoietic precursor committed to B- or T-cell lineage. C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) is a chemokine and chemokine receptor pair playing critical roles in tumorigenesis. A highly potent competitive antagonist of CCR5, maraviroc, recently has been identified with suppression of cancer cells aggressive in a variety of cancers. However, the effects of maraviroc on ALL cells have not yet been defined. Here we report that CCR5 selective inhibitor significantly inhibited ALL cells SUP-B15 growth and induced SUP-B15 cells to undergo cell apoptosis. This cell apoptosis was associated with increased levels of cleavage of caspase-3 and caspase-9, and Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). Moreover, we demonstrated that maraviroc strongly inhibited SUP-B15 cells migration to C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12) and CXCL13, and adhesion to fibronectin and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1) in vitro. Importantly, CCR5-activated signaling proteins Janus Kinase 1 (JAK1), JAK2 and signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT3) were inhibited by maraviroc. Finally, maraviroc suppressed the growth of SUP-B15 xenograft tumors in athymic mice. Collectively, this study demonstrated that CCR5 inhibition by maraviroc has the potential for the treatment of human ALL.
29138292 | Impact of Regionalization of ST-Segment-Elevation Myocardial Infarction Care on Treatment Times and Outcomes for Emergency Medical Services-Transported Patients Presenting to Hospitals With Percutaneous Coronary Intervention: Mission: Lifeline Accelerator-2. BACKGROUND: Regional variations in reperfusion times and mortality in patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction are influenced by differences in coordinating care between emergency medical services (EMS) and hospitals. Building on the Accelerator-1 Project, we hypothesized that time to reperfusion could be further reduced with enhanced regional efforts. METHODS: Between April 2015 and March 2017, we worked with 12 metropolitan regions across the United States with 132 percutaneous coronary intervention-capable hospitals and 946 EMS agencies. Data were collected in the ACTION (Acute Coronary Treatment and Intervention Outcomes Network)-Get With The Guidelines Registry for quarterly Mission: Lifeline reports. The primary end point was the change in the proportion of EMS-transported patients with first medical contact to device time <=90 minutes from baseline to final quarter. We also compared treatment times and mortality with patients treated in hospitals not participating in the project during the corresponding time period. RESULTS: During the study period, 10 730 patients were transported to percutaneous coronary intervention-capable hospitals, including 974 in the baseline quarter and 972 in the final quarter who met inclusion criteria. Median age was 61 years; 27% were women, 6% had cardiac arrest, and 6% had shock on admission; 10% were black, 12% were Latino, and 10% were uninsured. By the end of the intervention, all process measures reflecting coordination between EMS and hospitals had improved, including the proportion of patients with a first medical contact to device time of <=90 minutes (67%-74%; P<0.002), a first medical contact to device time to catheterization laboratory activation of <=20 minutes (38%-56%; P<0.0001), and emergency department dwell time of <=20 minutes (33%-43%; P<0.0001). Of the 12 regions, 9 regions reduced first medical contact to device time, and 8 met or exceeded the national goal of 75% of patients treated in <=90 minutes. Improvements in treatment times corresponded with a significant reduction in mortality (in-hospital death, 4.4%-2.3%; P=0.001) that was not apparent in hospitals not participating in the project during the same time period. CONCLUSIONS: Organization of care among EMS and hospitals in 12 regions was associated with significant reductions in time to reperfusion in patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction as well as in in-hospital mortality. These findings support a more intensive regional approach to emergency care for patients with ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction.
30687750 | Neuronal Signal Transduction-Involved Genes in Pig Hypothalamus Affect Feed Efficiency as Revealed by Transcriptome Analysis. Feed efficiency (FE) is an important trait affecting costs in swine industry. Investigation on FE-related genes in different tissues is valuable for molecular breeding. Hypothalamus is a convergent and integrated centre for multiple nutrient-related signals. The present study identified 363 differentially expressed (DE) genes and 14 DE lincRNAs in the hypothalamus of high- and low-FE Yorkshire pigs. Furthermore, 983 significantly correlated DE gene-lincRNA pairs were identified through weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) and Pearson correlation analysis. These DE genes were primarily enriched in the neuronal signal transduction process containing the upregulated genes of VIPR1, CCR1, CCR5, LEPR, INSR, ADRA1A, CCKAR, and ADORA3 and the downregulated genes of GRM1, GRM4, GRM5, and VIPR2, which were located in the cell membrane. These signal receptors were mainly connected to downstream Jak-STAT signaling that involved the increased genes (JAK2, STAT3, and POMC) and mTOR signaling pathway, including the decreased genes (CAMKK2, AMPK, and MTOR). STAT3 and AMPK genes also played a role in two major hypothalamic neurons of POMC and NPY/AGRP. A total of eight DE lincRNAs also participated in the potential network. In conclusion, neuronal signaling transduction-involved genes and lincRNAs were related to FE variation in pig hypothalamus.
31636630 | Crossroads of Cancer and HIV-1: Pathways to a Cure for HIV. Recently, a second individual (the \London patient\) with HIV-1 infection and concomitant leukemia was cured of both diseases by a conditioning myeloablative regimen followed by transplantation of stem cells bearing the homozygous CCR5 Delta32 mutation. The substantial risks and cost associated with this procedure render it unfeasible on a large scale. This strategy also indicates that a common pathway toward a cure for both HIV and cancer may exist. Successful approaches to curing both diseases should ideally possess three components, i.e., (1) direct targeting of pathological cells (neoplastic cells in cancer and the HIV-infected reservoir cells), (2) subsequent impediment to reconstitution of the pool of pathological cells and (3) sustained, immunologic control of the disease (both diseases are characterized by detrimental immune hyper-activation that hinders successful establishment of immunity). In this review, we explore medications that are either investigational or FDA-approved anticancer treatments that may be employed to achieve the goal of curing HIV-1. These include: thioredoxin reductase inhibitors (phases 1-3), immune checkpoint inhibitors (phases 1, 3), Jak inhibitors (FDA approved for arthritis and multiple cancer indications, summarized in Table 1). Of note, some of these medications such as arsenic trioxide and Jak inhibitors may also reversibly down regulate CCR5 expression on CD4+ T-cells, thus escaping the ethical issues of inducing or transferring mutations in CCR5 that are presently the subject of interest as it relates to HIV-1 cure strategies.
32557565 | Rheumatoid arthritis synovial microenvironment induces metabolic and functional adaptations in dendritic cells. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune disease which causes degradation of cartilage and bone. It is well appreciated that the pathogenic hallmark of RA is the mass influx of inflammatory cells into the joint. However, the role that dendritic cells (DC) may play in this inflammatory milieu is still relatively unexplored. Moreover, the contribution this unique synovial microenvironment has on DC maturation is still unknown. Using monocyte-derived DC (MoDC), we established an in-vitro model to recapitulate the synovial microenvironment to explore DC maturation. MoDC treated with conditioned media from ex-vivo synovial tissue biopsy cultures [explant-conditioned media (ECM)] have increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines, chemokines and adhesion molecules. ECM DC have increased expression of CD83 and CC-chemokine receptor (CCR)7 and decreased expression of CCR5 and phagocytic capacity, suggestive of heightened DC maturation. ECM-induced maturation is concomitant with altered cellular bioenergetics, whereby increased expression of glycolytic genes and increased glucose uptake are observed in ECM DC. Collectively, this results in a metabolic shift in DC metabolism in favour of glycolysis. These adaptations are in-part mediated via signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT-3), as demonstrated by decreased expression of proinflammatory cytokines and glycolytic genes in ECM DC in response to STAT-3 inhibition. Finally, to translate these data to a more in-vivo clinically relevant setting, RNA-seq was performed on RA synovial fluid and peripheral blood. We identified enhanced expression of a number of glycolytic genes in synovial CD1c+ DC compared to CD1c+ DC in circulation. Collectively, our data suggest that the synovial microenvironment in RA contributes to DC maturation and metabolic reprogramming.
32726728 | Identification of genes related to dexamethasone-induced immunosuppression in chicken thymus using transcriptome analysis. The molecular mechanism of stress-induced immunosuppression (SIS) in certain poultry immune organs is not completely clear. In this study, we constructed a stress immunosuppression model by selecting 180 healthy 7-day-old Gushi chickens and dividing them randomly into two groups: a D_T group and a B_T group. The D_T group was given dexamethasone, and the B_T group was given normal saline, according to the treatment method established and reported in our previous study. Thymus samples were subsequently taken from both groups. RNA-seq was used to sequence the transcriptomes of the thymus samples from both groups, and 1278 significant differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were obtained, of which 845 genes were up-regulated and 433 genes were down-regulated (padj<0.05,  FC  >= 2, FPKM>1). We identified immune-related gene ontology (GO) terms including immune system processes, immune system process regulation, and T cell activation. The results of KEGG (http: //www.kegg.jp) analysis showed that the DEGs are involved in a variety of immune-related pathways, such as cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions, Jak-STAT signaling pathways, and cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). The cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction pathway involves the DEGs CCR6, CCR5, CD40LG and FAS. The DEGs in the Jak-STAT signaling pathway were SPRY2, BCL2L1. These DEGS play an important role in cell apoptosis. CD40L, CD8, among other genes, are involved in the CAMs pathway. The results of this study add to existing data on the genomic study of stress affecting immune function, and provide a basis for further studies of the molecular mechanisms of stress-influenced immune function.
32923146 | The role of circulating monocytes and JAK inhibition in the infectious-driven inflammatory response of myelofibrosis. Myelofibrosis (MF) is characterized by chronic inflammation and hyper-activation of the JAK-STAT pathway. Infections are one of the main causes of morbidity/mortality. Therapy with Ruxolitinib (RUX), a JAK1/2 inhibitor, may further increase the infectious risk. Monocytes are critical players in inflammation/immunity through cytokine production and release of bioactive extracellular vesicles. However, the functional behavior of MF monocytes, particularly during RUX therapy, is still unclear. In this study, we found that monocytes from JAK2V617F-mutated MF patients show an altered expression of chemokine (CCR2, CXCR3, CCR5) and cytokine (TNF-alpha-R, IL10-R, IL1beta-R, IL6-R) receptors. Furthermore, their ability to produce and secrete free and extracellular vesicles-linked cytokines (IL1beta, TNF-alpha, IL6, IL10) under lipopolysaccharides (LPS) stimulation is severely impaired. Interestingly, monocytes from RUX-treated patients show normal level of chemokine, IL10, IL1beta, and IL6 receptors together with a restored ability to produce intracellular and to secrete extracellular vesicles-linked cytokines after LPS stimulation. Conversely, RUX therapy does not normalize TNF-R1/2 receptors expression and the LPS-driven secretion of free pro/anti-inflammatory cytokines. Accordingly, upon LPS stimulation, in vitro RUX treatment of monocytes from MF patients increases their secretion of extracellular vesicles-linked cytokines but inhibits the secretion of free pro/anti-inflammatory cytokines. In conclusion, we demonstrated that in MF the infection-driven response of circulating monocytes is defective. Importantly, RUX promotes their infection-driven cytokine production suggesting that infections following RUX therapy may not be due to monocyte failure. These findings contribute to better interpreting the immune vulnerability of MF and to envisaging strategies to improve the infection-driven immune response.
33193341 | Transcriptomic Profiling of the Adaptive and Innate Immune Responses of Atlantic Salmon to Renibacterium salmoninarum Infection. Bacterial Kidney Disease (BKD), which is caused by a Gram-positive, intracellular bacterial pathogen (Renibacterium salmoninarum), affects salmonids including Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar). However, the transcriptome response of Atlantic salmon to BKD remained unknown before the current study. We used a 44K salmonid microarray platform to characterise the global gene expression response of Atlantic salmon to BKD. Fish (~54 g) were injected with a dose of R. salmoninarum (H-2 strain, 2 x 108 CFU per fish) or sterile medium (control), and then head kidney samples were collected at 13 days post-infection/injection (dpi). Firstly, infection levels of individuals were determined through quantifying the R. salmoninarum level by RNA-based TaqMan qPCR assays. Thereafter, based on the qPCR results for infection level, fish (n = 5) that showed no (control), higher (H-BKD), or lower (L-BKD) infection level at 13 dpi were subjected to microarray analyses. We identified 6,766 and 7,729 differentially expressed probes in the H-BKD and L-BKD groups, respectively. There were 357 probes responsive to the infection level (H-BKD vs. L-BKD). Several adaptive and innate immune processes were dysregulated in R. salmoninarum-infected Atlantic salmon. Adaptive immune pathways associated with lymphocyte differentiation and activation (e.g., lymphocyte chemotaxis, T-cell activation, and immunoglobulin secretion), as well as antigen-presenting cell functions, were shown to be differentially regulated in response to BKD. The infection level-responsive transcripts were related to several mechanisms such as the JAK-STAT signalling pathway, B-cell differentiation and interleukin-1 responses. Sixty-five microarray-identified transcripts were subjected to qPCR validation, and they showed the same fold-change direction as microarray results. The qPCR-validated transcripts studied herein play putative roles in various immune processes including pathogen recognition (e.g., tlr5), antibacterial activity (e.g., hamp and camp), regulation of immune responses (e.g., tnfrsf11b and socs1), T-/B-cell differentiation (e.g., ccl4, irf1 and ccr5), T-cell functions (e.g., rnf144a, il13ra1b and tnfrsf6b), and antigen-presenting cell functions (e.g., fcgr1). The present study revealed diverse immune mechanisms dysregulated by R. salmoninarum in Atlantic salmon, and enhanced the current understanding of Atlantic salmon response to BKD. The identified biomarker genes can be used for future studies on improving the resistance of Atlantic salmon to BKD.
33477250 | Utility of 1,3 beta-d-Glucan Assay for Guidance in Antifungal Stewardship Programs for Oncologic Patients and Solid Organ Transplant Recipients. The implementation of 1,3 beta-d-glucan (BDG) has been proposed as a diagnostic tool in antifungal stewardship programs (ASPs). We aimed to analyze the influence of serum BDG in an ASP for oncologic patients and solid organ transplant (SOT) recipients. We conducted a pre-post study. In the initial period (PRE), the ASP was based on bedside advice, and this was complemented with BDG in the post-period (POST). Performance parameters of the BDG assay were determined. Antifungal (AF) use adequacy was evaluated using a point score. Clinical outcomes and AF costs were also compared before and after the intervention. Overall, 85 patients were included in the PRE-period and 112 in the POST-period. Probable or proven fungal infections were similar in both groups (54.1% vs. 57.1%; p = 0.67). The determination of BDG contributed to improved management in 75 of 112 patients (66.9%). The AF adequacy score improved in the POST-period (mean 7.75 vs. 9.29; p < 0.001). Median days of empiric AF treatment was reduced in the POST-period (9 vs. 5 days, p = 0.04). All-cause mortality (44.7% vs. 34.8%; p = 0.16) was similar in both periods. The cost of AF treatments was reduced in the POST-period with a difference of 779.6 $/patient. Our data suggest that the use of BDG was a cost-effective strategy that contributed to safely improving the results of an ASP for SOT and oncologic patients.
33950983 | MicroRNA-363-3p promote the development of acute myeloid leukemia with RUNX1 mutation by targeting SPRYD4 and FNDC3B. BACKGROUND: Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is one of the most frequently mutated genes in most of hematological malignancies, especially in acute myeloid leukemia. In the present study, we aimed to identify the key genes and microRNAs based on acute myeloid leukemia with RUNX1 mutation. The newly finding targeted genes and microRNA associated with RUNX1 may benefit to the clinical treatment in acute myeloid leukemia. MATERIAL/METHODS: The gene and miRNA expression data sets relating to RUNX1 mutation and wild-type adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas database. Differentially expressed miRNAs and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by edgeR of R platform. Gene ontology and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses were performed by Metascape and Gene set enrichment analysis. The protein-protein interaction network and miRNA-mRNA regulatory network were performed by Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes database and Cytoscape software. RESULTS: A total of 27 differentially expressed miRNAs (25 upregulated and 2 downregulated) and 561 DEGs (429 upregulated and 132 downregulated) were identified. Five miRNAs (miR-151b, miR-151a-5p, let-7a-2-3p, miR-363-3p, miR-20b-5p) had prognostic significance in AML. The gene ontology analysis showed that upregulated DEGs suggested significant enrichment in MHC class II protein complex, extracellular structure organization, blood vessel development, cell morphogenesis involved in differentiation, embryonic morphogenesis, regulation of cell adhesion, and so on. Similarly, the downregulated DEGs were mainly enriched in secretory granule lumen, extracellular structure organization. In the gene set enrichment analysis of Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways, the RUNX1 mutation was associated with adherent junction, WNT signaling pathway, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, pathways in cancer, cell adhesion molecules CAMs, MAPK signaling pathway. Eleven genes (PPBP, APP, CCR5, HLA-DRB1, GNAI1, APLNR, P2RY14, C3AR1, HTR1F, CXCL12, GNG11) were simultaneously identified by hub gene analysis and module analysis. MicroRNA-363-3p may promote the development of RUNX1 mutation AML, targeting SPRYD4 and FNDC3B. In addition, the RUNX1 mutation rates in patient were obviously correlated with age, white blood cell, FAB type, risk(cyto), and risk(molecular) (P < .05). CONCLUSION: Our findings have indicated that multiple genes and microRNAs may play a crucial role in RUNX1 mutation AML. MicroRNA-363-3p may promote the development of RUNX1 mutation AML by targeting SPRYD4 and FNDC3B.
34322810 | Bioinformatic analyses suggest augmented interleukin-17 signaling as the mechanism of COVID-19-associated herpes zoster. Herpes zoster results from latent varicella zoster virus reactivation in the dorsal root ganglia, causing blistering rash along the dermatomal distribution and post-herpetic neuralgia. Increasing studies indicated that there may be a correlation between herpes zoster and COVID-19. Nevertheless, the detailed pathophysiological mechanism is still unclear. We used bioinformatic analyses to study the potential genetic crosstalk between herpes zoster and COVID-19. COVID-19 and herpes zoster were associated with a similar subset of genes involved in \cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction,\ \Jak-STAT signaling pathway,\ and \IL-17 signaling pathway,\ including TNF, IL10, ESR1, INFG, HLA-A, CRP, STAT3, IL6, IL7, and IL17A. Protein-protein interaction network assay showed that the combined gene set indicated a raised connectivity as compared to herpes zoster or COVID-19 alone, particularly the potentiated interactions with APOE, ARSA, CCR2, CCR5, CXCL13, EGFR, GAL, GP2, HLA-B, HLA-DRB1, IL5, TECTA, and THBS1, and these genes are related to \cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction\. Augmented Th17 cell differentiation and the resulting enhanced IL-17 signaling were identified in both COVID-19 and herpes zoster. Our data suggested aberrant interleukin-17 signaling as one possible mechanism through which COVID-19 could raise the risk of herpes zoster.
34785307 | A study of the mechanisms responsible for the action of new immunosuppressants and their effects on rat small intestinal transplantation. In a series of studies, using an identical rat intestinal transplantation model, we evaluated the effects of several drugs. FK-506 caused a significant attenuation in the proliferation of allogeneic CD4+ T cells and IFN-gamma secreting effector functions. FYT720 resulted in a marked reduction in the numbers of lymphocytes, associated with a reduction of T cell recruitment, in grafts. An anti-MAdCAM antibody was next reported to significantly down-regulate CD4+ T cell infiltration in intestinal grafts by blocking the adhesion molecule, and could be useful as an induction therapy. Concerning TAK-779, this CCR5 and CXCR3 antagonist diminished the number of graft-infiltrating cells by suppressing the expression of their receptors in the graft. As a result, it reduced the total number of recipient T cells involved in graft rejection. As the next step, we focused on the participation of monocytes/ macrophages in this field. PQA-18 has been the focus of a novel immunosuppressant that attenuates not only the production of various cytokines, such as IL-2 & TNF-alpha, on T cells, but the differentiation of macrophages by inhibiting PAK2 as well. In this report, we summarize our previous studies not only regarding the above drugs, but on an anti-complement drug and a JAK inhibitor as well.
35341232 | Role of JAK/STAT in the Neuroinflammation and its Association with Neurological Disorders. Background: Innate immunity is mediated by a variety of cell types, including microglia, macrophages, and neutrophils, and serves as the immune system's first line of defense. There are numerous pathways involved in innate immunity, including the interferon (IFN) pathway, TRK pathway, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway, interleukin (IL) pathways, chemokine pathways (CCR5), GSK signaling, and Fas signaling. Summary: JAK/STAT is one of these important signaling pathways and this review focused on JAK/STAT signaling pathway only. The overactivation of microglia and astrocytes influences JAK/STAT's role in neuroinflammatory disease by initiating innate immunity, orchestrating adaptive immune mechanisms, and ultimately constraining inflammatory and immunological responses. The JAK/STAT signaling pathway is one of the critical factors that promotes neuroinflammation in neurodegenerative diseases. Key message: Given the importance of the JAK/STAT pathway in neurodegenerative disease, this review discussed the feasibility of targeting the JAK/STAT pathway as a neuroprotective therapy for neurodegenerative diseases in near future.
35643225 | Comprehensive analysis of placental gene-expression profiles and identification of EGFR-mediated autophagy and ferroptosis suppression in intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) was the most common liver disease specific to pregnancy. The symptoms of ICP were maternal pruritus and increased bile acid level in serum which was related to preterm birth, fetal distress, meconium-stained amniotic fluid and stillbirth. However, the mechanism of ICP progression on fetal development remained obscure. Sequencing data of 2 normal placenta samples and 4 intrahepatic cholestasis samples during pregnancy was analyzed by GEO2R. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) were used for analysis of differentially expressed genes. MCODE - A plug-in of Cytoscape was used for molecular complex detection. STRING, Cytoscape, GeneMANIA, NetworkAnalyst, TransmiR, JASPAR, DGIdb and DrugBank were used in this study. Furthermore, histopathological and cell experiments were used to verify our results. Our study identified the key KEGG pathway and four MCODEs which were closely with ICP development, further, sorted by degree centrality, we showed top 30 genes from 7209 differential genes, such as TP53, SRC, EGFR, ESR1, IL10, CD8A, MAPK3, PTPRC, EGF, KIT, ITGAM, LEP and CSF2, etc. Moreover, these hub genes participated in JAK-STAT3 signaling pathway and STAT1/3 regulated these genes expression in a direct way or miRNA-mediated manner. Drug-target analysis about up-regulated genes among hub genes showed that these genes contained multiple drug action site. Furthermore, hub gene-EGFR was associated with destroyed autophagy and ferroptosis. In conclusion, our study analyzed key genes and pathways in ICP development. JAK-STAT3 pathway and EGFR might be a potential target for ICP therapy.
36139700 | Protein Profiling of Breast Carcinomas Reveals Expression of Immune-Suppressive Factors and Signatures Relevant for Patient Outcome. In cancer, the complex interplay between tumor cells and the tumor microenvironment results in the modulation of signaling processes. By assessing the expression of a multitude of proteins and protein variants in cancer tissue, wide-ranging information on signaling pathway activation and the status of the immunological landscape is obtainable and may provide viable information on the treatment response. Archived breast cancer tissues from a cohort of 84 patients (no adjuvant therapy) were analyzed by high-throughput Western blotting, and the expression of 150 proteins covering central cancer pathways and immune cell markers was examined. By assessing CD8alpha, CD11c, CD16 and CD68 expression, immune cell infiltration was determined and revealed a strong correlation between event-free patient survival and the infiltration of immune cells. The presence of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes was linked to the pronounced activation of the Jak/Stat signaling pathway and apoptotic processes. The elevated phosphorylation of PPARgamma (pS112) in non-immune-infiltrated tumors suggests a novel immune evasion mechanism in breast cancer characterized by increased PPARgamma phosphorylation. Multiplexed immune cell marker assessment and the protein profiling of tumor tissue provide functional signaling data facilitating breast cancer patient stratification.
36756126 | Autophagy-related IFNG is a prognostic and immunochemotherapeutic biomarker of COAD patients. Background: Numerous studies have shown autophagy affects cellular immune responses. This study aims to explore prognosis and immunotherapeutic biomarkers related to autophagy in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD). Methods: Based on R software, we performed the ssGSEA, differential expression analysis, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, correlation analysis, and enrichment analysis. For wet experiment, we did qRT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and CCK-8 experiments. Results: Using autophagy-related genes (ARGs) and the ssGSEA, COAD patients were divided into low and high autophagy groups. For immune score, stromal score, tumor purity, tumor infiltrating immune cells, co-signaling molecules, tumor mutational burden, microsatellite instability, mismatch repair, immune-related pathways, immune signatures, somatic mutations and subtype analysis, high autophagy group might benefit more from immunotherapy. Among 232 ARGs, IFNG was generally significantly correlated with tumor immunotherapy biomarkers (PD-L1, CD8A and cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL)). The disease-free survival of high IFNG group was significantly longer than that of low group. On above-mentioned immune-related research, the high IFNG group reached the same conclusion. The qRT-PCR and IHC analysis confirmed that IFNG was significantly higher expressed in dMMR samples compared to pMMR samples. For chemotherapy, the autophagy and IFNG were significantly negatively related to the chemosensitivity to cisplatin; IFNG inhibitor glucosamine increased cisplatin chemoresistance while IFNG increased cisplatin chemosensitivity; IFNG could reverse glucosamine induced chemoresistance. The functional enrichment analysis of IFNG, PD-L1, CD8A and 20 similar proteins were related to the activation of the immune system. The GSEA and ceRNA network partly described interaction mechanisms of IFNG with PD-L1 and CD8A. Conclusion: Autophagy score and IFNG expression were novel immunotherapy predictive biomarkers, which might play predictive effects through the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. IFNG might be a potential targeted therapy for cisplatin resistant colon cancer. Besides, IFNG was also a prognostic indicator.
37800814 | Identification of two immune subtypes and four hub immune-related genes in ovarian cancer through multiple analysis. Immune classification of ovarian cancer (OV) becomes more and more influential for its immunotherapy. However, current studies had few immune subtypes of OV. It is urgent to explore the immune subtypes and deeper hub immune-related genes (IRGs) of OV for follow-up treatment. A total number of 379 OV samples were obtained from UCSC online website. Single sample gene set enrichment analysis of 29 immune gene sets was used for identifying immune subtypes of OV and gene set variation analysis were used for exploring the hallmarks and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways of immune types. Two immunity subtypes (Immunity_H and Immunity_L) were identified by single sample gene set enrichment analysis. The OV patients in Immunity_H group had longer overall survival compared with those in Immunity_L group. The Immunity_H had higher stromal score, immune score and estimate score and the tumor purity had the adverse tendency. Besides, the gene set variation analysis enrichment results showed positive relationship between improved immunoreaction and pathways correlated to classical signaling pathway (PI3K/AKT/MTOR, P53, TNFA/NFkB signaling pathways) and immune responses (T/B cell receptor signaling pathways and primary immunodeficiency). Furthermore, 4 hub IRGs (CCR5, IL10RA, ITGAL and PTPRC) were jointly dug by weighted gene co-expression network construction and Cytoscape. Our team also explored the mutations of 4 hub IRGs and PTPRC showed nearly 7% amplification. Besides, 8 immune-checkpoint genes had higher expression in Immuity_H group compared with Immuity_L group, except CD276. The correlation between PD-1/PD-L1 and 4 hub IRGs were explored and gene set enrichment analysis were conducted to explore the underlying mechanisms of PTPRC in OV. Finally, western-blotting showed PTPRC could regulate immune checkpoint PD-L1 expression via JAK-STAT signaling pathway. In a word, 2 immune subtypes and 4 hub IRGs of OV were identified by multiple analysis.
38377177 | Activation of gp130 signaling in T cells drives TH17-mediated multi-organ autoimmunity. The IL-6-gp130-STAT3 signaling axis is a major regulator of inflammation. Activating mutations in the gene encoding gp130 and germline gain-of-function mutations in STAT3 (STAT3GOF) are associated with multi-organ autoimmunity, severe morbidity, and adverse prognosis. To dissect crucial cellular subsets and disease biology involved in activated gp130 signaling, the gp130-JAK-STAT3 axis was constitutively activated using a transgene, L-gp130, specifically targeted to T cells. Activating gp130 signaling in T cells in vivo resulted in fatal, early onset, multi-organ autoimmunity in mice that resembled human STAT3GOF disease. Female mice had more rapid disease progression than male mice. On a cellular level, gp130 signaling induced the activation and effector cell differentiation of T cells, promoted the expansion of T helper type 17 (TH17) cells, and impaired the activity of regulatory T cells. Transcriptomic profiling of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from these mice revealed commonly dysregulated genes and a gene signature that, when applied to human transcriptomic data, improved the segregation of patients with transcriptionally diverse STAT3GOF mutations from healthy controls. The findings demonstrate that increased gp130-STAT3 signaling leads to TH17-driven autoimmunity that phenotypically resembles human STAT3GOF disease.
38384415 | Systematic analysis of MASP-1 serves as a novel immune-related biomarker in sepsis and trauma followed by preliminary experimental validation. Background: Dysregulated immune response in trauma and sepsis leads to the abnormal activation of the complement and coagulation systems. Mannose-binding lectin (MBL)-associated serine protease-1 (MASP-1) activates the lectin pathway of the complement system and mediates proinflammatory and procoagulant reactions. However, the potential effects of MASP-1 in trauma and sepsis have not yet been explored. Methods: We obtained five sepsis, two trauma, and one sepsis and trauma RNA-sequencing dataset from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the expression pattern, biological functions, and diagnostic value of MASP-1 in trauma and sepsis. Additionally, we investigated the association between MASP-1 expression and clinicopathological characteristics of trauma and sepsis. Furthermore, we collected clinical specimens to preliminarily validate the expression level and diagnostic efficacy of MASP-1 as well as the correlation of MASP-1 with clinical features of trauma and sepsis. Subsequently, we conducted a correlation analysis among MASP-1, immune cell infiltration, and immune and molecular pathways. Finally, we mechanistically analyzed the relationship among MASP-1, specific immune cells, and pivotal molecular pathways. Results: MASP-1 expression was significantly upregulated in the trauma/sepsis samples compared to the control samples in the GEO datasets. MASP-1 exhibited excellent diagnostic values (AUC > 0.7) in multiple datasets and at multiple time points and could efficiently distinguish trauma/sepsis samples from the control samples. Moreover, MASP-1 expression was significantly positively correlated with the severity of the disease (APACHE-II, CRP, and neutrophil levels). These results were further validated by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that MASP-1 primarily promotes trauma and sepsis via the immune-related signaling pathway. MASP-1 was significantly correlated with the infiltration of specific immune cells (such as B cells, CD8 T cells, neutrophils, macrophages, and infiltrating lymphocytes) and immune and molecular pathways (such as checkpoint, HLA, IL6/JAK/STAT3 signaling, necrosis, T-cell co-inhibition, and T-cell co-stimulation). Finally, analysis of the transcription and single-cell data revealed that MASP-1 was specifically expressed in T cells, and further correlation analysis revealed a close correlation between MASP-1 expression, proportion of CD8 T cells, and IL6/JAK/STAT3 signaling scores. Conclusion: Our results suggest that MASP-1 can serve as an immune-related biomarker for the diagnosis and disease severity of trauma and sepsis. It may activate the IL6 JAK-STAT3 signaling pathway and promote CD8 T-cell depletion to trigger traumatic sepsis.
38446698 | Differential Effects of JAK1 vs. JAK2 Inhibition in Mouse Models of Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis. Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) comprises a severe hyperinflammatory phenotype driven by the overproduction of cytokines, many of which signal via the JAK/STAT pathway. Indeed, the JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib has demonstrated efficacy in pre-clinical studies and early-phase clinical trials in HLH. Nevertheless, concerns remain for ruxolitinib-induced cytopenias, which are postulated to result from the blockade of JAK2-dependent hematopoietic growth factors. To explore the therapeutic effects of selective JAK inhibition in mouse models of HLH, we carried out studies incorporating the JAK1 inhibitor itacitinib, the JAK2 inhibitor fedratinib and the JAK1/2 inhibitor ruxolitinib. All three drugs were well-tolerated and at the doses tested, they suppressed interferon-gamma (IFNg)-induced STAT1 phosphorylation in vitro and in vivo. Itacitinib, but not fedratinib, significantly improved survival and clinical scores in CpG-induced secondary HLH. Conversely, in primary HLH, where perforin-deficient (Prf1-/-) mice are infected with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), itacitinib and fedratinib performed suboptimally. Ruxolitinib demonstrated excellent clinical efficacy in both HLH models. RNA-sequencing of splenocytes from LCMV-infected Prf1-/- mice revealed that itacitinib targeted inflammatory and metabolic pathway genes in CD8 T cells, while fedratinib targeted genes regulating cell proliferation and metabolism. In monocytes, neither drug conferred major transcriptional impacts. Consistent with its superior clinical effects, ruxolitinib exerted the greatest transcriptional changes in CD8 T cells and monocytes, targeting more genes across several biologic pathways, most notably JAK-dependent pro-inflammatory signaling. We conclude that JAK1 inhibition is sufficient to curtail CpG-induced disease, but combined inhibition of JAK1 and JAK2 is needed to best control LCMV-induced immunopathology.
38482051 | Gypenoside induces apoptosis by inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway and enhances T-cell antitumor immunity by inhibiting PD-L1 in gastric cancer. Introduction: Gypenoside is a natural extract of Gynostemma pentaphyllum (Thunb.) Makino, a plant in the Cucurbitaceae family. It has been reported to have antitumor effects on the proliferation, migration and apoptosis of various types of cancer cells. However, the use of gypenoside in the treatment of gastric cancer has not been studied. In the present study, we explored the therapeutic effect of gypenoside on gastric cancer and the potential molecular mechanism. Methods and Results: Our results showed that gypenoside induced apoptosis in HGC-27 and SGC-7901 cells in a time-dependent and dose-dependent manner. Network pharmacology analyses predicted that gypenoside exerts its therapeutic effects through the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. Furthermore, molecular docking and western blot experiments confirmed that gypenoside induced the apoptosis of gastric cancer cells through the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. In addition, network pharmacological analysis revealed that the common targets of gypenoside in gastric cancer were enriched in the immune effector process, PD-L1 expression, the PD-1 checkpoint pathway, and the Jak-STAT signaling pathway. Furthermore, molecular docking and western blot assays demonstrated that gypenoside could bind to STAT3 and reduce its phosphorylation. Thus, the transcription of PD-L1 was inhibited in gastric cancer cells. Moreover, coculture experiments of gastric cancer cells with gypenoside and primary mouse CD8+ T cells showed that gastric cancer cells treated with gypenoside could enhance the antitumor ability of T cells. Animal experiments confirmed the antitumor effect of gypenoside, and the expression of PD-L1 was significantly downregulated in the gypenoside-treated group. Conclusion: Gypenoside induced the apoptosis of gastric cancer cells by inhibiting the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway and simultaneously inhibited the expression of PD-L1 in gastric cancer cells, thus enhancing the antitumor immunity of T cells. This study provides a theoretical basis for applying gypenoside as a new therapeutic agent to enhance the efficacy of immunotherapy in gastric cancer.
38500883 | Anti-synthetase syndrome is associated with a higher risk of hospitalization among patients with idiopathic inflammatory myopathy and COVID-19. Background: Data with fine granularity about COVID-19-related outcomes and risk factors were still limited in the idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIMs) population. This study aimed to investigate clinical factors associated with hospitalized and severe COVID-19 in patients with IIMs, particularly those gauged by myositis-specific antibodies. Methods: This retrospective cohort study was conducted in the Renji IIM cohort in Shanghai, China, under an upsurge of SARS-CoV-2 omicron variant infections from December 2022 to January 2023. Clinical data were collected and analyzed by multivariable logistic regression to determine risk factors. High-dimensional flow cytometry analysis was performed to outline the immunological features. Results: Among 463 infected patients in the eligible cohort (n=613), 65 (14.0%) were hospitalized, 19 (4.1%) suffered severe COVID-19, and 10 (2.2%) died. Older age (OR=1.59/decade, 95% CI 1.18 to 2.16, p=0.003), requiring family oxygen supplement (2.62, 1.11 to 6.19, 0.028), patients with anti-synthetase syndrome (ASyS) (2.88, 1.12 to 7.34, 0.027, vs. other dermatomyositis), higher IIM disease activity, and prednisone intake >10mg/day (5.59, 2.70 to 11.57, <0.001) were associated with a higher risk of hospitalization. Conversely, 3-dose inactivated vaccination reduced the risk of hospitalization (0.10, 0.02 to 0.40, 0.001, vs. incomplete vaccination). Janus kinase inhibitor (JAKi) pre-exposure significantly reduced the risk of severe COVID-19 in hospitalized patients (0.16, 0.04 to 0.74, 0.019, vs. csDMARDs). ASyS patients with severe COVID-19 had significantly reduced peripheral CD4+ T cells, lower CD4/CD8 ratio, and fewer naive B cells but more class-switched memory B cells compared with controls. Conclusion: ASyS and family oxygen supplement were first identified as risk factors for COVID-19-related hospitalization in patients with IIMs. JAKi pre-exposure might protect IIM patients against severe COVID-19 complications.
38520011 | Clinicopathological and molecular genetic alterations in monomorphic-epitheliotropic intestinal T-cell lymphoma of the small intestine. BACKGROUND: Small intestinal monomorphic-epitheliotropic intestinal T-cell lymphoma (MEITL) is a rare aggressive T-cell lymphoma originating in the gastrointestinal tract. This study aimed to investigate the clinicopathological features, immunophenotypes, and molecular genetic changes of MEITL. METHODS: The clinicopathological data for three patients with surgically resected MEITL of the small intestine were collected. Next, immunohistochemical labeling, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in situ hybridization, assessment of clonal rearrangement of T-cell receptor (TCR) genes, and next-generation sequencing (NGS) were performed. RESULTS: Of the three patients, two were male and one was female, with ages of 61, 67, and 73 years, respectively. Clinical manifestations were predominantly abdominal pain and distension. Histopathology revealed infiltrative growth of small-to-medium-sized lymphocytes with a consistent morphology between the intestinal walls, accompanied by an obvious pro-epithelial phenomenon. The expression of CD3, CD8, CD43, CD56, TIA-1, CD103, H3K36me3, and Bcl-2 was detected, and the Ki-67 proliferation index ranged from 50% to 80%. All three patients tested negative for EBER. However, monoclonal rearrangement of the TCR gene was detected in them. NGS testing showed a JAK3 mutation in all three cases. Further, STAT5B, SETD2, and TP53 mutations were each observed in two cases, and a BCOR mutation was found in one case. All patients were treated with chemotherapy after surgery. Two patients died 7 and 15 month post-operation, and one patient survived for 5 months of follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that mutations in JAK3 and STAT5B of the JAK/STAT pathway and inactivation of the oncogene SETD2 markedly contribute to the lymphomagenesis of MEITL.
38525693 | Indolent T Cell Lymphoproliferation of the Gastrointestinal Tract: An Evolving Disease Entity. Background: Indolent T cell lymphoproliferation of the gastrointestinal tract is a novel entity recently added to the 2016 WHO classification of lymphoid neoplasms. Classically, these patients demonstrate an immunophenotype consistent with T cell proliferation and can be either CD4-positive or CD8-positive but with a low Ki67 index, highlighting the indolent nature of this disease compared to its more aggressive T cell lymphoma counterparts such as enteropathy-associated T cell lymphoma and monomorphic epitheliotropic intestinal T cell lymphoma. Methods: Here, we describe one rare case of such a neoplasm under our care, initially presenting with non-specific signs and symptoms and requiring extensive investigations to diagnose. Available cases in the literature reflect a wide variety of ages and ethnicities affected, and any part of the gastrointestinal sites can be affected, which makes diagnosis difficult and prolonged; however, progression beyond lymph nodes is rare, and prognosis is otherwise favourable, particularly if CD8-positive. The optimal management of these patients remains yet to be defined, given the paucity of available cases currently. The current evidence suggests the utility of steroids, cyclosporine, radiotherapy, and a potential role for JAK inhibitors. Conclusions: Our case showed an excellent response to the initial course of steroids, with a subsequent successful transition to cyclosporine, keeping symptoms at bay with ongoing stable disease.
38533493 | Suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 expression and its regulation in relation to inflammation in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. Background: The family of Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling (SOCS) acts as a controller of the duration and intensity of cytokine function by negatively regulating the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. SOCS' role in inflammatory diseases in animal models is well demonstrated. However, its role in the development of human disease is still under investigation. SOCS3 plays an important role in tumor development where its downregulation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various solid tumors such as triple-negative breast cancer. Aim: The aim of this work was to study (1) the expression of SOCS3 in smokers' lungs and its relation to the degree of inflammation and (2) SOCS3 regulation by microRNA (miRNA) in alveolar-macrophage (AM)-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL). Methods: Group A: 35 smokers' [19 with COPD (SC) and 16 without COPD (S)] and 9 nonsmokers (NS); SOCS3, TNFalpha in AM, and CD8+ T cells were quantified by immunohistochemistry, in lung tissue. Group B: additional 9 SC, 11 S, and 5 NS; AM-EVs expressing SOCS3 (CD14+SOCS3+) and SOCS3 suppressors miRNA-19a-3p and 221-3p in EVs were quantified by flow cytometry and PCR, in BAL. Results: The percentage of SOCS3+ AM was higher in SC [68 (6.6-99)%] and S [48 (8-100)%] than in NS [9.6 (1.9-61)%; p = 0.002; p = 0.03] and correlated with % of TNFalpha+AM (r = 0.48; p = 0.0009) and CD8+ T cells (r = 0.44; p = 0.0029). In BAL, the CD14+SOCS3+ EVs/muL were increased in SC [33 (21-74)] compared to S [16 (8-37); p = 0.03] and NS [9 (7-21); p = 0.003]. Conversely, miRNA-19a-3p and miRNA-221-3p expression were increased in S when compared to SC [19 (2-53) vs. 3 (0.6-8); p = 0.03 and 3 (0.005-9.6) vs. 0.2 (0.08-0.7); p = 0.05]. Conclusions: The suppressor function of SOCS3 in COPD seems to be overridden by other factors and does not follow the animal-model paradigm. Expression of SOCS3 in BAL macrophage-derived EVs might be useful to assess the degree of inflammation and possible progression of COPD. Downregulation of SOCS3, by miRNA, in smokers without COPD might contribute to the risk of developing cancer in these patients.
38559795 | Successful treatment of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus with ruxolitinib: a case report. Hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a rare, life-threatening hematological disorder characterized by uncontrolled activation of CD8+ T and natural killer cells, leading to a cytokine storm and severe organ dysfunction. Although secondary HLH related to autoimmune diseases usually demonstrates a good treatment response to immunosuppressive therapy for underlying conditions, there is no consensus regarding the treatment in case of unresponsiveness to the treatment. Herein, we present a case of HLH that was unresponsive to high-dose glucocorticoid and cyclosporine treatment in a patient with newly diagnosed systemic lupus erythematosus. The patient's clinical features and laboratory abnormalities rapidly improved with ruxolitinib, an oral Janus kinase 1 and 2 (JAK1/2) inhibitor. This result suggests that blocking JAK-STAT pathway may be a potential treatment option in patients with refractory HLH secondary to autoimmune diseases.
38567708 | New insights into the anticancer therapeutic potential of icaritin and its synthetic derivatives. Icaritin is a natural prenylated flavonoid derived from the Chinese herb Epimedium. The compound has shown antitumor effects in various cancers, especially hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Icaritin exerts its anticancer activity by modulating multiple signaling pathways, such as IL-6/JAK/STAT3, ER-alpha36, and NF-kappaB, affecting the tumor microenvironment and immune system. Several clinical trials have evaluated the safety and efficacy of icaritin in advanced HCC patients with poor prognoses, who are unsuitable for conventional therapies. The results have demonstrated that icaritin can improve survival, delay progression, and produce clinical benefits in these patients, with a favorable safety profile and minimal adverse events. Moreover, icaritin can enhance the antitumor immune response by regulating the function and phenotype of various immune cells, such as CD8+ T cells, MDSCs, neutrophils, and macrophages. These findings suggest that icaritin is a promising candidate for immunotherapy in HCC and other cancers. However, further studies are needed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms and optimal dosing regimens of icaritin and its potential synergistic effects with other agents. Therefore, this comprehensive review of the scientific literature aims to summarize advances in the knowledge of icaritin in preclinical and clinical studies as well as the pharmacokinetic, metabolism, toxicity, and mechanisms action to recognize the main challenge, gaps, and opportunities to develop a medication that cancer patients can use. Thus, our main objective was to clarify the current state of icaritin for use as an anticancer drug.
38615319 | Targeting high circDNA2v levels in colorectal cancer induces cellular senescence and elicits an anti-tumor secretome. The efficacy of immunotherapy against colorectal cancer (CRC) is impaired by insufficient immune cell recruitment into the tumor microenvironment. Our study shows that targeting circDNA2v, a circular RNA commonly overexpressed in CRC, can be exploited to elicit cytotoxic T cell recruitment. circDNA2v functions through binding to IGF2BP3, preventing its ubiquitination, and prolonging the IGF2BP3 half-life, which in turn sustains mRNA levels of the protooncogene c-Myc. Targeting circDNA2v by gene silencing downregulates c-Myc to concordantly induce tumor cell senescence and the release of proinflammatory mediators. Production of CXCL10 and interleukin-9 by CRC cells is elicited through JAK-STAT1 signaling, in turn promoting the chemotactic and cytolytic activities of CD8+ T cells. Clinical evidence associates increased circDNA2v expression in CRC tissues with reductions in CD8+ T cell infiltration and worse outcomes. The regulatory relationship between circDNA2v, cellular senescence, and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes thus provides a rational approach for improving immunotherapy in CRC.
14739298 | A cleaved form of MAGE-A4 binds to Miz-1 and induces apoptosis in human cells. Gankyrin, a recently discovered oncoprotein, is a promising target for drug therapy because it is overexpressed in most hepatocellular carcinomas. Since gankyrin interacts with MAGE-A4, we made several MAGE-A4 mutants and assessed their effects on cell growth. We found that the C-terminal 107 amino acids of MAGE-A4 (MAGE-A4DeltaN1) induced p53-dependent and p53-independent apoptosis. MAGE-A4DeltaN1 increased the p53 protein level, but decreased the p21(Cip1) transcript and protein levels. During apoptosis Bcl-xL was down-regulated and mitochondrial integrity was disrupted. A yeast two-hybrid screen identified Miz-1 as a MAGE-A4DeltaN1-binding protein. MAGE-A4DeltaN1 was recruited through association with Miz-1 to the p21(Cip1) promoter and down-regulated transcription of p21(Cip1). In 293T cells and U-2 OS cells, full-length MAGE-A4 was processed to generate a C-terminal fragment of 104 amino acids with activities similar to MAGE-A4DeltaN1. Processing was inhibited with a broad range caspase inhibitor Z-VAD-FMK, but not by site-directed mutagenesis of aspartic acids in MAGE-A4, suggesting an indirect involvement of caspase(s) in the processing. The amount of the processed form was increased by exposure of cells to adriamycin. Transduction with a HIV Tat-MAGE-A4DeltaN1 fusion protein suppressed anchorage-independent growth of gankyrin-overexpressing cells in vitro and in vivo. These results demonstrate that the C-terminal fragment of MAGE-A4 induces apoptosis at least partly by binding to Miz-1, and that the fragment may be exploited as an anticancer agent. Furthermore, the finding that a C-terminal fragment with pro-apoptotic activity is generated from full-length MAGE-A4 after genotoxic stress in human cells suggests a novel function for MAGE-A4.
17027325 | Mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of a textile azo dye processing plant effluent that impacts a drinking water source. Recently a textile azo dye processing plant effluent was identified as one of the sources of mutagenic activity detected in the Cristais River, a drinking water source in Brazil [G.A. Umbuzeiro, D.A. Roubicek, C.M. Rech, M.I.Z. Sato, L.D. Claxton, Investigating the sources of the mutagenic activity found in a river using the Salmonella assay and different water extraction procedures, Chemosphere 54 (2004) 1589-1597]. Besides presenting high mutagenic activity in the Salmonella/microsome assay, the mutagenic nitro-aminoazobenzenes dyes CI Disperse Blue 373, CI Disperse Violet 93, and CI Disperse Orange 37 [G.A. Umbuzeiro, H.S. Freeman, S.H. Warren, D.P. Oliveira, Y. Terao, T. Watanabe, L.D. Claxton, The contribution of azo dyes in the mutagenic activity of the Cristais river, Chemosphere 60 (2005) 55-64] as well as benzidine, a known carcinogenic compound [T.M. Mazzo, A.A. Saczk, G.A. Umbuzeiro, M.V.B. Zanoni, Analysis of aromatic amines in surface waters receiving wastewater from textile industry by liquid chromatographic with eletrochemical detection, Anal. Lett., in press] were found in this effluent. After approximately 6 km from the discharge of this effluent, a drinking water treatment plant treats and distributes the water to a population of approximate 60,000. As shown previously, the mutagens in the DWTP intake water are not completely removed by the treatment. The water used for human consumption presented mutagenic activity related to nitro-aromatics and aromatic amines compounds probably derived from the cited textile processing plant effluent discharge [G.A. Umbuzeiro, D.A. Roubicek, C.M. Rech, M.I.Z. Sato, L.D. Claxton, Investigating the sources of the mutagenic activity found in a river using the Salmonella assay and different water extraction procedures, Chemosphere 54 (2004) 1589-1597; G.A. Umbuzeiro, H.S. Freeman, S.H. Warren, D.P. Oliveira, Y. Terao, T. Watanabe, L.D. Claxton, The contribution of azo dyes in the mutagenic activity of the Cristais river, Chemosphere 60 (2005) 55-64]. Therefore, it is important to evaluate the possible risks involved in the human consumption of this contaminated water. With that objective, one sample of the cited industrial effluent was tested for carcinogenicity in the aberrant crypt foci medium-term assay in colon of Wistar rats. The rats received the effluent in natura through drinking water at concentrations of 0.1%, 1%, and 10%. The effluent mutagenicity was also confirmed in the Salmonella/microsome assay with the strains TA98 and YG1041. There was an increased number of preneoplastic lesions in the colon of rats exposed to concentrations of 1% and 10% of the effluent, and a positive response for both Salmonella strains tested. These results indicate that the discharge of the effluent should be avoided in waters used for human consumption and show the sensitivity of the ACF crypt foci assay as an important tool to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of environmental complex mixtures.
17175442 | The cyanogenic glucoside composition of Zygaena filipendulae (Lepidoptera: Zygaenidae) as effected by feeding on wild-type and transgenic lotus populations with variable cyanogenic glucoside profiles. Zygaena larvae sequester the cyanogenic glucosides linamarin and lotaustralin from their food plants (Fabaceae) as well as carry out de novo biosynthesis of these compounds. In this study, Zygaena filipendulae were reared on wild-type Lotus corniculatus and wild-type and transgenic L. japonicus plants with differing content and ratios of the cyanogenic glucosides linamarin and lotaustralin and of the cyanoalkenyl glucosides rhodiocyanoside A and D. LC-MS analyses, free choice feeding experiments and developmental studies were used to examine the effect of varying content and ratios of these secondary metabolites on the feeding preferences, growth and development of Z. filipendulae. Larvae reared on cyanogenic L. corniculatus developed faster compared to larvae reared on L. japonicus although free choice feeding trials demonstrated that the latter plant source was the preferred food plant. Larvae reared on acyanogenic L. corniculatus showed decelerated development. Analysis of different life stages and tissues demonstrate that Z. filipendulae strive to maintain certain threshold content and ratios of cyanogenic glucosides regardless of the composition of the food plants. Despite this, the ratios of cyanogenic glucosides in Z. filipendulae remain partly affected by the ratio of the food plant due to the high proportion of sequestering that takes place.
19127546 | Pharmaceutical metabolite profiling using quadrupole/ion mobility spectrometry/time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The use of hybrid quadrupole ion mobility spectrometry time-of-flight mass spectrometry (Q/IMS/TOFMS) in the metabolite profiling of leflunomide (LEF) and acetaminophen (APAP) is presented. The IMS drift times (T(d)) of the drugs and their metabolites were determined in the IMS/TOFMS experiments and correlated with their exact monoisotopic masses and other in silico generated structural properties, such as connolly molecular area (CMA), connolly solvent-excluded volume (CSEV), principal moments of inertia along the X, Y and Z Cartesian coordinates (MI-X, MI-Y and MI-Z), inverse mobility and collision cross-section (CCS). The correlation of T(d) with these parameters is presented and discussed. IMS/TOF tandem mass spectrometry experiments (MS(2) and MS(3)) were successfully performed on the N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine glutathione (NAPQI-GSH) adduct derived from the in vitro microsomal metabolism of APAP. As comparison, similar experiments were also performed using hybrid triple quadrupole linear ion trap mass spectrometry (QTRAPMS) and quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (QTOFMS). The abilities to resolve the product ions of the metabolite within the drift tube and fragment the ion mobility resolved product ions in the transfer travelling wave-enabled stacked ring ion guide (TWIG) demonstrated the potential applicability of the Q/IMS/TOFMS technique in pharmaceutical metabolite profiling.
19954531 | 454 pyrosequencing based transcriptome analysis of Zygaena filipendulae with focus on genes involved in biosynthesis of cyanogenic glucosides. BACKGROUND: An essential driving component in the co-evolution of plants and insects is the ability to produce and handle bioactive compounds. Plants produce bioactive natural products for defense, but some insects detoxify and/or sequester the compounds, opening up for new niches with fewer competitors. To study the molecular mechanism behind the co-adaption in plant-insect interactions, we have investigated the interactions between Lotus corniculatus and Zygaena filipendulae. They both contain cyanogenic glucosides which liberate toxic hydrogen cyanide upon breakdown. Moths belonging to the Zygaena family are the only insects known, able to carry out both de novo biosynthesis and sequestration of the same cyanogenic glucosides as those from their feed plants. The biosynthetic pathway for cyanogenic glucoside biosynthesis in Z. filipendulae proceeds using the same intermediates as in the well known pathway from plants, but none of the enzymes responsible have been identified. A genomics strategy founded on 454 pyrosequencing of the Z. filipendulae transcriptome was undertaken to identify some of these enzymes in Z. filipendulae. RESULTS: Comparisons of the Z. filipendulae transcriptome with the sequenced genomes of Bombyx mori, Drosophila melanogaster, Tribolium castaneum, Apis mellifera and Anopheles gambiae indicate a high coverage of the Z. filipendulae transcriptome. 11% of the Z. filipendulae transcriptome sequences were assigned to Gene Ontology categories. Candidate genes for enzymes functioning in the biosynthesis of cyanogenic glucosides (cytochrome P450 and family 1 glycosyltransferases) were identified based on sequence length, number of copies and presence/absence of close homologs in D. melanogaster, B. mori and the cyanogenic butterfly Heliconius. Examination of biased codon usage, GC content and selection on gene candidates support the notion of cyanogenesis as an \old\ trait within Ditrysia, as well as its origins being convergent between plants and insects. CONCLUSION: Pyrosequencing is an attractive approach to gain access to genes in the biosynthesis of bio-active natural products from insects and other organisms, for which the genome sequence is not known. Based on analysis of the Z. filipendulae transcriptome, promising gene candidates for biosynthesis of cyanogenic glucosides was identified, and the suitability of Z. filipendulae as a model system for cyanogenesis in insects is evident.
30824557 | Menarche, pregnancies, and breastfeeding do not modify long-term prognosis in multiple sclerosis. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of menarche, pregnancies, and breastfeeding on the risk of developing multiple sclerosis (MS) and disability accrual using a multivariate approach based on a large prospective cohort of patients with clinically isolated syndrome (CIS). METHODS: A cross-sectional survey of the reproductive information of female participants in a CIS cohort was performed. We examined the relationship of age at menarche with the risk of clinically definite MS (CDMS), McDonald 2010 MS, and Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) 3.0 and 6.0. The effect of pregnancy (before and after CIS) and breastfeeding in the risk of CDMS, McDonald 2010 MS, and EDSS 3.0 was also examined. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed and findings were confirmed using sensitivity analyses and a propensity score model. RESULTS: The data of 501 female participants were collected. Age at menarche did not correlate with age at CIS and was not associated with the risk of CDMS or EDSS 3.0 or 6.0. Pregnancy before CIS was protective for CDMS in the univariate analysis, but the effect was lost in the multivariate model and did not modify the risk of EDSS 3.0. Pregnancy after CIS was protective for both outcomes in univariate and multivariate analyses when pregnancy was considered a baseline variable, but the protective effect disappeared when analyzed as a time-dependent event. Breastfeeding did not modify the risk for the 3 outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that menarche, pregnancies, and breastfeeding did not substantially modify the risk of CDMS or disability accrual using a multivariable and time-dependent approach.
35566068 | Characterization of Bioactive Compounds from Acacia concinna and Citrus limon, Silver Nanoparticles' Production by A. concinna Extract, and Their Biological Properties. The applications of bioactive compounds from medicinal plants as therapeutic drugs are largely increasing. The present study selected the bioactive compounds from Acacia concinna (A. concinna) and Citrus limon (C. limon) to assess their phytochemicals, proteins, and biological activity. The plant material was collected, and extraction performed as per the standard procedure. Qualitative analysis was undertaken, and identification of functional organic groups was performed by FTIR and HPLC. Antibacterial, anticancer, antioxidant, antihyperglycemic, antihyperlipidemic, and inhibition kinetics studies for enzymes were performed to assess the different biological activities. Flavonoids and phenols were present in a significant amount in both the selected plants. A. concinna showed significant antimicrobial activity against Z. mobilis, E. coli, and S. aureus, with minimum inhibition zones (MIZ) of 24, 22, and 20 mm, respectively. C. limon strongly inhibited all the tested pathogenic bacteria with maximum and minimum MIZ of 32 and 17 mm. A. concinna silver nanoparticles also exhibited potent antimicrobial activity. Both extracts showed substantial antioxidant, antihyperlipidemic, antidiabetic, anticancer (MCF-7), and anti-urease (antiulcer) properties. To conclude, these plants can be used to treat hyperlipidemia, diabetes, cancer, and gastrointestinal ulcers. They can also serve as antimicrobial and antioxidant agents. Thus, the studied plants must be exploited cost-effectively to generate therapeutic drugs for various diseases.
36141194 | Cross-Correlation- and Entropy-Based Measures of Movement Synchrony: Non-Convergence of Measures Leads to Different Associations with Depressive Symptoms. BACKGROUND: Several algorithms have been proposed to quantify synchronization. However, little is known about their convergent and predictive validity. METHODS: The sample included 30 persons who completed a manualized interview focusing on psychosomatic symptoms. The intensity of body motions was measured using motion-energy analysis. We computed several measures of movement synchrony based on the time series of the interviewer and participant: mutual information, windowed cross-recurrence analysis, cross-correlation, rMEA, SUSY, SUCO, WCLC-PP and WCLR-PP. Depressive symptoms were assessed with the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ9). RESULTS: According to the explorative factor analyses, all the variants of cross-correlation and all the measures of SUSY, SUCO and rMEA-WCC led to similar synchrony measures and could be assigned to the same factor. All the mutual-information measures, rMEA-WCLC, WCLC-PP-F, WCLC-PP-R2, WCLR-PP-F, and WinCRQA-DET loaded on the second factor. Depressive symptoms correlated negatively with WCLC-PP-F and WCLR-PP-F and positively with rMEA-WCC, SUCO-ES-CO, and MI-Z. CONCLUSION: More standardization efforts are needed because different synchrony measures have little convergent validity, which can lead to contradictory conclusions concerning associations between depressive symptoms and movement synchrony using the same dataset.
36253414 | Characterizing the composition of iPSC derived cells from bulk transcriptomics data with CellMap. Induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) derived cell types are increasingly employed as in vitro model systems for drug discovery. For these studies to be meaningful, it is important to understand the reproducibility of the iPSC-derived cultures and their similarity to equivalent endogenous cell types. Single-cell and single-nucleus RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) are useful to gain such understanding, but they are expensive and time consuming, while bulk RNA-seq data can be generated quicker and at lower cost. In silico cell type decomposition is an efficient, inexpensive, and convenient alternative that can leverage bulk RNA-seq to derive more fine-grained information about these cultures. We developed CellMap, a computational tool that derives cell type profiles from publicly available single-cell and single-nucleus datasets to infer cell types in bulk RNA-seq data from iPSC-derived cell lines.
36269668 | Quality Improvement Report: Safety Program for Prevention of Central Line-associated Bloodstream Infections. The increasing usage of peripherally inserted central catheters (PICCs) in medical imaging departments has led to a corresponding increase in cases of central line-associated bloodstream infection (CLABSI). However, this condition is preventable with proper monitoring and use of aseptic techniques. A Comprehensive Unit-based Safety Program (CUSP) is a quality improvement (QI) measure implemented by health care institutions to reduce the incidence of CLABSI. However, effective strategies have yet to be established. The authors describe a QI project that evaluated the implementation of CUSP at a teaching hospital to reduce PICC-associated bloodstream infection (BSI). The framework consists of a five-step process: understand and train staff on the science of safety, assemble a team, engage senior executives, identify defects through sensemaking, and implement teamwork and communication strategies in a series of related and sequential steps that use QI tools. Targets were identified for improvement from existing processes, and the workflow was reengineered. Nine months after the start of the CUSP intervention, PICC-associated BSI incidence in the hospital had been reduced from 3.4 to 2.7 per 1000 central lines days after intervention. The incidence of BSI was also reduced correspondingly from 8.8% to 5.9%. The QI processes in this study may be adopted by other hospitals, as they involve minimal cost with significant impact on patient safety and well-being. The QI sequential steps described capture the implementation processes that can be modified for use in other department settings where patient safety could be compromised. Online supplemental material is available for this article.  RSNA, 2022.
36823318 | Brain expression quantitative trait locus and network analyses reveal downstream effects and putative drivers for brain-related diseases. Identification of therapeutic targets from genome-wide association studies (GWAS) requires insights into downstream functional consequences. We harmonized 8,613 RNA-sequencing samples from 14 brain datasets to create the MetaBrain resource and performed cis- and trans-expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) meta-analyses in multiple brain region- and ancestry-specific datasets (n <= 2,759). Many of the 16,169 cortex cis-eQTLs were tissue-dependent when compared with blood cis-eQTLs. We inferred brain cell types for 3,549 cis-eQTLs by interaction analysis. We prioritized 186 cis-eQTLs for 31 brain-related traits using Mendelian randomization and co-localization including 40 cis-eQTLs with an inferred cell type, such as a neuron-specific cis-eQTL (CYP24A1) for multiple sclerosis. We further describe 737 trans-eQTLs for 526 unique variants and 108 unique genes. We used brain-specific gene-co-regulation networks to link GWAS loci and prioritize additional genes for five central nervous system diseases. This study represents a valuable resource for post-GWAS research on central nervous system diseases.
37131143 | scRNASequest: an ecosystem of scRNA-seq analysis, visualization, and publishing. BACKGROUND: Single-cell RNA sequencing is a state-of-the-art technology to understand gene expression in complex tissues. With the growing amount of data being generated, the standardization and automation of data analysis are critical to generating hypotheses and discovering biological insights. RESULTS: Here, we present scRNASequest, a semi-automated single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) data analysis workflow which allows (1) preprocessing from raw UMI count data, (2) harmonization by one or multiple methods, (3) reference-dataset-based cell type label transfer and embedding projection, (4) multi-sample, multi-condition single-cell level differential gene expression analysis, and (5) seamless integration with cellxgene VIP for visualization and with CellDepot for data hosting and sharing by generating compatible h5ad files. CONCLUSIONS: We developed scRNASequest, an end-to-end pipeline for single-cell RNA-seq data analysis, visualization, and publishing. The source code under MIT open-source license is provided at https://github.com/interactivereport/scRNASequest . We also prepared a bookdown tutorial for the installation and detailed usage of the pipeline: https://interactivereport.github.io/scRNAsequest/tutorial/docs/ . Users have the option to run it on a local computer with a Linux/Unix system including MacOS, or interact with SGE/Slurm schedulers on high-performance computing (HPC) clusters.
37893073 | Cytokine-Induced iNOS in A549 Alveolar Epithelial Cells: A Potential Role in COVID-19 Lung Pathology. BACKGROUND: In COVID-19, an uncontrolled inflammatory response might worsen lung damage, leading to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Recent evidence points to the induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2/iNOS) as a component of inflammatory response since NOS2 is upregulated in critical COVID-19 patients. Here, we explore the mechanisms underlying the modulation of iNOS expression in human alveolar cells. METHODS: A549 WT and IRF1 KO cells were exposed to a conditioned medium of macrophages treated with SARS-CoV-2 spike S1. Additionally, the effect of IFNgamma, IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNFalpha, either alone or combined, was addressed. iNOS expression was assessed with RT-qPCR and Western blot. The effect of baricitinib and CAPE, inhibitors of JAK/STAT and NF-kB, respectively, was also investigated. RESULTS: Treatment with a conditioned medium caused a marked induction of iNOS in A549 WT and a weak stimulation in IRF1 KO. IFNgamma induced NOS2 and synergistically cooperated with IL-1beta and TNFalpha. The inhibitory pattern of baricitinb and CAPE indicates that cytokines activate both IRF1 and NF-kappaB through the JAK/STAT1 pathway. CONCLUSIONS: Cytokines secreted by S1-activated macrophages markedly induce iNOS, whose expression is suppressed by baricitinib. Our findings sustain the therapeutic efficacy of this drug in COVID-19 since, besides limiting the cytokine storm, it also prevents NOS2 induction.
37991399 | Patterns of differential expression by association in omic data using a new measure based on ensemble learning. The ongoing development of high-throughput technologies is allowing the simultaneous monitoring of the expression levels for hundreds or thousands of biological inputs with the proliferation of what has been coined as omic data sources. One relevant issue when analyzing such data sources is concerned with the detection of differential expression across two experimental conditions, clinical status or two classes of a biological outcome. While a great deal of univariate data analysis approaches have been developed to address the issue, strategies for assessing interaction patterns of differential expression are scarce in the literature and have been limited to ad hoc solutions. This paper contributes to the problem by exploiting the facilities of an ensemble learning algorithm like random forests to propose a measure that assesses the differential expression explained by the interaction of the omic variables so subtle biological patterns may be uncovered as a result. The out of bag error rate, which is an estimate of the predictive accuracy of a random forests classifier, is used as a by-product to propose a new measure that assesses interaction patterns of differential expression. Its performance is studied in synthetic scenarios and it is also applied to real studies on SARS-CoV-2 and colon cancer data where it uncovers associations that remain undetected by other methods. Our proposal is aimed at providing a novel approach that may help the experts in biomedical and life sciences to unravel insightful interaction patterns that may decipher the molecular mechanisms underlying biological and clinical outcomes.
38004823 | Spring Viremia of Carp Virus Infection Induces Carp IL-10 Expression, Both In Vitro and In Vivo. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a pleiotropic cytokine with both immune enhancement and immunosuppression activities, but the main role is immunosuppression and anti-inflammatory ability. In order to use the immunosuppressive function of IL-10, many viruses, such as SARS-CoV-2, hepatitis B virus and EB virus, can evade the host's immune surveillance and clearance by increasing the expression of host IL-10. However, it has not been reported whether the aquatic animal infection virus can upregulate the expression of host IL-10 and the mechanisms are still unknown. Spring viremia of carp (SVC) is a fatal viral disease for many fish species and is caused by spring viremia of carp virus (SVCV). This disease has caused significant economic losses in the aquaculture industry worldwide. In this study, the expression of carp IL-10 with or without infection of SVCV in epithelioma papulosum cyprinid (EPC) cells, carp head kidney (cHK) primary cells and common carp tissues were analyzed using RT-PCR and ELISA. The results show that SVCV infection induced carp IL-10 mRNA and protein expression, both in vitro and in vivo. However, the upregulation of carp IL-10 by SVCV was hindered by specific inhibitors of the JAK inhibitor (CP-690550), STAT3 inhibitor (STA-21), NF-kappaB inhibitor (BAY11-7082) and p38 MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) inhibitor (SB202190), but not JNK inhibitor (SP600125). Furthermore, the results demonstrated that JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, TYK2 and STAT5 played important roles in carp IL-10 production induced by SVCV infection. Taken together, SVCV infection significantly induced carp IL-10 expression and the upregulation trigged in JAK-STAT, NF-kappaB and p38MAPK pathways. To our knowledge, this is the first time that a fish infection virus upregulated the host IL-10 expression through the JAK-STAT, NF-kappaB and p38MAPK pathways. Altogether, fish viruses may have a similar mechanism as human or other mammalian viruses to escape host immune surveillance and clearance.
38107402 | Crowdsourcing temporal transcriptomic coronavirus host infection data: Resources, guide, and novel insights. The emergence of severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) reawakened the need to rapidly understand the molecular etiologies, pandemic potential, and prospective treatments of infectious agents. The lack of existing data on SARS-CoV-2 hampered early attempts to treat severe forms of coronavirus disease-2019 (COVID-19) during the pandemic. This study coupled existing transcriptomic data from severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus 1 (SARS-CoV-1) lung infection animal studies with crowdsourcing statistical approaches to derive temporal meta-signatures of host responses during early viral accumulation and subsequent clearance stages. Unsupervised and supervised machine learning approaches identified top dysregulated genes and potential biomarkers (e.g. CXCL10, BEX2, and ADM). Temporal meta-signatures revealed distinct gene expression programs with biological implications to a series of host responses underlying sustained Cxcl10 expression and Stat signaling. Cell cycle switched from G1/G0 phase genes, early in infection, to a G2/M gene signature during late infection that correlated with the enrichment of DNA damage response and repair genes. The SARS-CoV-1 meta-signatures were shown to closely emulate human SARS-CoV-2 host responses from emerging RNAseq, single cell, and proteomics data with early monocyte-macrophage activation followed by lymphocyte proliferation. The circulatory hormone adrenomedullin was observed as maximally elevated in elderly patients who died from COVID-19. Stage-specific correlations to compounds with potential to treat COVID-19 and future coronavirus infections were in part validated by a subset of twenty-four that are in clinical trials to treat COVID-19. This study represents a roadmap to leverage existing data in the public domain to derive novel molecular and biological insights and potential treatments to emerging human pathogens.
38128126 | Properties of the full random-effect modeling approach with missing covariate data. During drug development, a key step is the identification of relevant covariates predicting between-subject variations in drug response. The full random effects model (FREM) is one of the full-covariate approaches used to identify relevant covariates in nonlinear mixed effects models. Here we explore the ability of FREM to handle missing (both missing completely at random (MCAR) and missing at random (MAR)) covariate data and compare it to the full fixed-effects model (FFEM) approach, applied either with complete case analysis or mean imputation. A global health dataset (20 421 children) was used to develop a FREM describing the changes of height for age Z-score (HAZ) over time. Simulated datasets (n = 1000) were generated with variable rates of missing (MCAR) covariate data (0%-90%) and different proportions of missing (MAR) data condition on either observed covariates or predicted HAZ. The three methods were used to re-estimate model and compared in terms of bias and precision which showed that FREM had only minor increases in bias and minor loss of precision at increasing percentages of missing (MCAR) covariate data and performed similarly in the MAR scenarios. Conversely, the FFEM approaches either collapsed at  >= $$  ge $$  70% of missing (MCAR) covariate data (FFEM complete case analysis) or had large bias increases and loss of precision (FFEM with mean imputation). Our results suggest that FREM is an appropriate approach to covariate modeling for datasets with missing (MCAR and MAR) covariate data, such as in global health studies.
38145241 | Estimating SARS-CoV-2 seroprevalence. Governments and public health authorities use seroprevalence studies to guide responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. Seroprevalence surveys estimate the proportion of individuals who have detectable SARS-CoV-2 antibodies. However, serologic assays are prone to misclassification error, and non-probability sampling may induce selection bias. In this paper, non-parametric and parametric seroprevalence estimators are considered that address both challenges by leveraging validation data and assuming equal probabilities of sample inclusion within covariate-defined strata. Both estimators are shown to be consistent and asymptotically normal, and consistent variance estimators are derived. Simulation studies are presented comparing the estimators over a range of scenarios. The methods are used to estimate severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) seroprevalence in New York City, Belgium, and North Carolina.
38155414 | Correcting for measurement error under meta-analysis of z-transformed correlations. This study mainly concerns correction for measurement error using the meta-analysis of Fisher's z-transformed correlations. The disattenuation formula of Spearman (American Journal of Psychology, 15, 1904, 72) is used to correct for individual raw correlations in primary studies. The corrected raw correlations are then used to obtain the corrected z-transformed correlations. What remains little studied, however, is how to best correct for within-study sampling error variances of corrected z-transformed correlations. We focused on three within-study sampling error variance estimators corrected for measurement error that were proposed in earlier studies and is proposed in the current study: (1) the formula given by Hedges (Test validity, Lawrence Erlbaum, 1988) assuming a linear relationship between corrected and uncorrected z-transformed correlations (linear correction), (2) one derived by the first-order delta method based on the average of corrected z-transformed correlations (stabilized first-order correction), and (3) one derived by the second-order delta method based on the average of corrected z-transformed correlations (stabilized second-order correction). Via a simulation study, we compared performance of these estimators and the sampling error variance estimator uncorrected for measurement error in terms of estimation and inference accuracy of the mean correlation as well as the homogeneity test of effect sizes. In obtaining the corrected z-transformed correlations and within-study sampling error variances, coefficient alpha was used as a common reliability coefficient estimate. The results showed that in terms of the estimated mean correlation, sampling error variances with linear correction, the stabilized first-order and second-order corrections, and no correction performed similarly in general. Furthermore, in terms of the homogeneity test, given a relatively large average sample size and normal true scores, the stabilized first-order and second-order corrections had type I error rates that were generally controlled as well as or better than the other estimators. Overall, stabilized first-order and second-order corrections are recommended when true scores are normal, reliabilities are acceptable, the number of items per psychological scale is relatively large, and the average sample size is relatively large.
38214399 | Immune and metabolic perturbations in COVID-19-associated pulmonary mucormycosis: A transcriptome analysis of innate immune cells. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The mechanisms underlying COVID-19-associated pulmonary mucormycosis (CAPM) remain unclear. We use a transcriptomic analysis of the innate immune cells to investigate the host immune and metabolic response pathways in patients with CAPM. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We enrolled subjects with CAPM (n = 5), pulmonary mucormycosis (PM) without COVID-19 (n = 5), COVID-19 (without mucormycosis, n = 5), healthy controls (n = 5) without comorbid illness and negative for SARS-CoV-2. Peripheral blood samples from cases were collected before initiating antifungal therapy, and neutrophils and monocytes were isolated. RNA sequencing was performed using Illumina HiSeqX from monocytes and neutrophils. Raw reads were aligned with HISAT-2 pipeline and DESeq2 was used for differential gene expression. Gene ontology (GO) and metabolic pathway analysis were performed using Shiny GO application and R packages (ggplot2, Pathview). RESULTS: The derangement of core immune and metabolic responses in CAPM patients was noted. Pattern recognition receptors, dectin-2, MCL, FcRgamma receptors and CLEC-2, were upregulated, but signalling pathways such as JAK-STAT, IL-17 and CARD-9 were downregulated; mTOR and MAP-kinase signalling were elevated in monocytes from CAPM patients. The complement receptors, NETosis, and pro-inflammatory responses, such as S100A8/A9, lipocalin and MMP9, were elevated. The major metabolic pathways of glucose metabolism-glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, pentose phosphate pathway, HIF signalling and iron metabolism-ferroptosis were also upregulated in CAPM. CONCLUSIONS: We identified significant alterations in the metabolic pathways possibly leading to cellular iron overload and a hyperglycaemic state. Immune responses revealed altered recognition, signalling, effector functions and a pro-inflammatory state in monocytes and neutrophils from CAPM patients.
38215170 | Monitoring SARS-CoV-2 genetic variability: A post-market surveillance workflow for combined bioinformatic and laboratory evaluation of commercial RT-PCR assay performance. OBJECTIVE: The speed at which Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) is mutating has made it necessary to frequently assess how these genomic changes impact the performance of diagnostic real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assays. Herein, we describe a generic three-step workflow to assess the effect of genomic mutations on inclusivity and sensitivity of RT-PCR assays. METHODS: Sequences collected from the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID) were mapped to a SARS-CoV-2 reference genome to evaluate the position and prevalence of mismatches in the oligonucleotide-binding sites of the QIAstat-Dx, an RT-PCR panel designed to detect SARS-CoV-2. The frequency of mutations and their impact on melting temperature were assessed, and sequences flagged by risk-based criteria were examined in vitro. RESULTS: Out of 8,900,393 SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences analyzed, only 173 (0.0019%) genomes contained potentially critical mutations for the QIAstat-Dx; follow-up in-vitro testing confirmed no impact on the assays' performance. CONCLUSIONS: The current study demonstrates that SARS-CoV-2 genetic variants do not affect the performance of the QIAstat-Dx device. It is recommended that manufacturers incorporate this workflow into obligatory post-marketing surveillance activities, as this approach could potentially enhance genetic monitoring of their product.
38221776 | A Bayesian framework for modeling COVID-19 case numbers through longitudinal monitoring of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in wastewater. Wastewater-based surveillance has become an important tool for research groups and public health agencies investigating and monitoring the COVID-19 pandemic and other public health emergencies including other pathogens and drug abuse. While there is an emerging body of evidence exploring the possibility of predicting COVID-19 infections from wastewater signals, there remain significant challenges for statistical modeling. Longitudinal observations of viral copies in municipal wastewater can be influenced by noisy datasets and missing values with irregular and sparse samplings. We propose an integrative Bayesian framework to predict daily positive cases from weekly wastewater observations with missing values via functional data analysis techniques. In a unified procedure, the proposed analysis models severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 RNA wastewater signals as a realization of a smooth process with error and combines the smooth process with COVID-19 cases to evaluate the prediction of positive cases. We demonstrate that the proposed framework can achieve these objectives with high predictive accuracies through simulated and observed real data.
38231281 | Evaluation of Genetic or Cellular Impairments in Type I IFN Immunity in a Cohort of Young Adults with Critical COVID-19. Several genetic and immunological risk factors for severe COVID-19 have been identified, with monogenic conditions relating to 13 genes of type I interferon (IFN) immunity proposed to explain 4.8% of critical cases. However, previous cohorts have been clinically heterogeneous and were not subjected to thorough genetic and immunological analyses. We therefore aimed to systematically investigate the prevalence of rare genetic variants causing inborn errors of immunity (IEI) and functionally interrogate the type I IFN pathway in young adults that suffered from critical COVID-19 yet lacked comorbidities. We selected and clinically characterized a cohort of 38 previously healthy individuals under 50 years of age who were treated in intensive care units due to critical COVID-19. Blood samples were collected after convalescence. Two patients had IFN-alpha autoantibodies. Genome sequencing revealed very rare variants in the type I IFN pathway in 31.6% of the patients, which was similar to controls. Analyses of cryopreserved leukocytes did not indicate any defect in plasmacytoid dendritic cell sensing of TLR7 and TLR9 agonists in patients carrying variants in these pathways. However, lymphocyte STAT phosphorylation and protein upregulation upon IFN-alpha stimulation revealed three possible cases of impaired type I IFN signaling in carriers of rare variants. Together, our results suggest a strategy of functional screening followed by genome analyses and biochemical validation to uncover undiagnosed causes of critical COVID-19.
38240082 | Essential contribution of the JAK/STAT pathway to carcinogenesis, lytic infection of herpesviruses and pathogenesis of COVID-19 (Review). The intracellular pathway of Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) and modification of nucleosome histone marks regulate the expression of proinflammatory mediators, playing an essential role in carcinogenesis, antiviral immunity and the interaction of host proteins with Herpesviral particles. The pathway has also been suggested to play a vital role in the clinical course of the acute infection caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus type 2 (SARS-CoV-2; known as coronavirus infection-2019), a novel human coronavirus initially identified in the central Chinese city Wuhan towards the end of 2019, which evolved into a pandemic affecting nearly two million people worldwide. The infection mainly manifests as fever, cough, myalgia and pulmonary involvement, while it also attacks multiple viscera, such as the liver. The pathogenesis is characterized by a cytokine storm, with an overproduction of proinflammatory mediators. Innate and adaptive host immunity against the viral pathogen is exerted by various effectors and is regulated by different signaling pathways notably the JAK/STAT. The elucidation of the underlying mechanism of the regulation of mediating factors expressed in the viral infection would assist diagnosis and antiviral targeting therapy, which will help overcome the infection caused by SARS-CoV-2.
38244862 | The interference between SARS-COV-2 and Alzheimer's disease: Potential immunological and neurobiological crosstalk from a kinase perspective reveals a delayed pandemic. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has infected over 700 million people, with up to 30% developing neurological manifestations, including dementias. However, there is a lack of understanding of common molecular brain markers causing Alzheimer's disease (AD). COVID-19 has etiological cofactors with AD, making patients with AD a vulnerable population at high risk of experiencing more severe symptoms and worse consequences. Both AD and COVID-19 have upregulated several shared kinases, leading to the repositioning of kinase inhibitors (KIs) for the treatment of both diseases. This review provides an overview of the interactions between the immune system and the nervous system in relation to receptor tyrosine kinases, including epidermal growth factor receptors, vascular growth factor receptors, and non-receptor tyrosine kinases such as Bruton tyrosine kinase, spleen tyrosine kinase, c-ABL, and JAK/STAT. We will discuss the promising results of kinase inhibitors in pre-clinical and clinical studies for both COVID-19 and Alzheimer's disease (AD), as well as the challenges in repositioning KIs for these diseases. Understanding the shared kinases between AD and COVID-19 could help in developing therapeutic approaches for both.
38250478 | More Powerful Selective Inference for the Graph Fused Lasso. The graph fused lasso-which includes as a special case the one-dimensional fused lasso-is widely used to reconstruct signals that are piecewise constant on a graph, meaning that nodes connected by an edge tend to have identical values. We consider testing for a difference in the means of two connected components estimated using the graph fused lasso. A naive procedure such as a z-test for a difference in means will not control the selective Type I error, since the hypothesis that we are testing is itself a function of the data. In this work, we propose a new test for this task that controls the selective Type I error, and conditions on less information than existing approaches, leading to substantially higher power. We illustrate our approach in simulation and on datasets of drug overdose death rates and teenage birth rates in the contiguous United States. Our approach yields more discoveries on both datasets. Supplementary materials for this article are available online.
38252025 | SARS-CoV-2-induced disruption of a vascular bed in a microphysiological system caused by type-I interferon from bronchial organoids. Blood vessels show various COVID-19-related conditions including thrombosis and cytokine propagation. Existing in vitro blood vessel models cannot represent the consequent changes in the vascular structure or determine the initial infection site, making it difficult to evaluate how epithelial and endothelial tissues are damaged. Here, we developed a microphysiological system (MPS) that co-culture the bronchial organoids and the vascular bed to analyze infection site and interactions. In this system, virus-infected organoids caused damage in vascular structure. However, vasculature was not damaged or infected when the virus was directly introduced to vascular bed. The knockout of interferon-related genes and inhibition of the JAK/STAT pathway reduced the vascular damage, indicating the protective effect of interferon response suppression. The results demonstrate selective infection of bronchial epithelial cells and vascular damage by cytokines and also indicate the applicability of MPS to investigate how the infection influences vascular structure and functions.
38260287 | Innate Immune Activation and Mitochondrial ROS Invoke Persistent Cardiac Conduction System Dysfunction after COVID-19. Background: Cardiac risk rises during acute SARS-CoV-2 infection and in long COVID syndrome in humans, but the mechanisms behind COVID-19-linked arrhythmias are unknown. This study explores the acute and long term effects of SARS-CoV-2 on the cardiac conduction system (CCS) in a hamster model of COVID-19. Methods: Radiotelemetry in conscious animals was used to non-invasively record electrocardiograms and subpleural pressures after intranasal SARS-CoV-2 infection. Cardiac cytokines, interferon-stimulated gene expression, and macrophage infiltration of the CCS, were assessed at 4 days and 4 weeks post-infection. A double-stranded RNA mimetic, polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (PIC), was used in vivo and in vitro to activate viral pattern recognition receptors in the absence of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Results: COVID-19 induced pronounced tachypnea and severe cardiac conduction system (CCS) dysfunction, spanning from bradycardia to persistent atrioventricular block, although no viral protein expression was detected in the heart. Arrhythmias developed rapidly, partially reversed, and then redeveloped after the pulmonary infection was resolved, indicating persistent CCS injury. Increased cardiac cytokines, interferon-stimulated gene expression, and macrophage remodeling in the CCS accompanied the electrophysiological abnormalities. Interestingly, the arrhythmia phenotype was reproduced by cardiac injection of PIC in the absence of virus, indicating that innate immune activation was sufficient to drive the response. PIC also strongly induced cytokine secretion and robust interferon signaling in hearts, human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs), and engineered heart tissues, accompanied by alterations in electrical and Ca 2+ handling properties. Importantly, the pulmonary and cardiac effects of COVID-19 were blunted by in vivo inhibition of JAK/STAT signaling or by a mitochondrially-targeted antioxidant. Conclusions: The findings indicate that long term dysfunction and immune cell remodeling of the CCS is induced by COVID-19, arising indirectly from oxidative stress and excessive activation of cardiac innate immune responses during infection, with implications for long COVID Syndrome.
38277610 | Observation of WZgamma Production in pp Collisions at sqrt[s]=13  TeV with the ATLAS Detector. This Letter reports the observation of WZgamma production and a measurement of its cross section using 140.1+-1.2  fb^{-1} of proton-proton collision data recorded at a center-of-mass energy of 13 TeV by the ATLAS detector at the Large Hadron Collider. The WZgamma production cross section, with both the W and Z bosons decaying leptonically, pp WZgamma l^{'}^{+-}nul^{+}l^{-}gamma (l^{(^{'})}=e, mu), is measured in a fiducial phase-space region defined such that the leptons and the photon have high transverse momentum and the photon is isolated. The cross section is found to be 2.01+-0.30(stat)+-0.16(syst)  fb. The corresponding standard model predicted cross section calculated at next-to-leading order in perturbative quantum chromodynamics and at leading order in the electroweak coupling constant is 1.50+-0.06  fb. The observed significance of the WZgamma signal is 6.3sigma, compared with an expected significance of 5.0sigma.
38283114 | A Bayesian Spatial Scan Statistic for Multinomial Data. Spatial scan statistics are commonly used to detect clustering. We present a Bayesian spatial scan statistic for multinomial data. After validating our method with a simulation study, we use it to detect clusters of SARS-CoV-2 infection/immunity in South Carolina.
38323709 | Innate immune response to SARS-CoV-2 infection contributes to neuronal damage in human iPSC-derived peripheral neurons. Severe acute respiratory coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) causes neurological disease in the peripheral and central nervous system (PNS and CNS, respectively) of some patients. It is not clear whether SARS-CoV-2 infection or the subsequent immune response are the key factors that cause neurological disease. Here, we addressed this question by infecting human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived CNS and PNS neurons with SARS-CoV-2. SARS-CoV-2 infected a low number of CNS neurons and did not elicit a robust innate immune response. On the contrary, SARS-CoV-2 infected a higher number of PNS neurons. This resulted in expression of interferon (IFN) lambda1, several IFN-stimulated genes and proinflammatory cytokines. The PNS neurons also displayed alterations characteristic of neuronal damage, as increased levels of sterile alpha and Toll/interleukin receptor motif-containing protein 1, amyloid precursor protein and alpha-synuclein, and lower levels of cytoskeletal proteins. Interestingly, blockade of the Janus kinase and signal transducer and activator of transcription pathway by Ruxolitinib did not increase SARS-CoV-2 infection, but reduced neuronal damage, suggesting that an exacerbated neuronal innate immune response contributes to pathogenesis in the PNS. Our results provide a basis to study coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) related neuronal pathology and to test future preventive or therapeutic strategies.
38375948 | Thermal stimulus task fMRI in the cervical spinal cord at 7 Tesla. Although functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is widely applied in the brain, fMRI of the spinal cord is more technically demanding. Proximity to the vertebral column and lungs results in strong spatial inhomogeneity and temporal fluctuations in B0 . Increasing field strength enables higher spatial resolution and improved sensitivity to blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal, but amplifies the effects of B0 inhomogeneity. In this work, we present the first task fMRI in the spinal cord at 7 T. Further, we compare the performance of single-shot and multi-shot 2D echo-planar imaging (EPI) protocols, which differ in sensitivity to spatial and temporal B0 inhomogeneity. The cervical spinal cords of 11 healthy volunteers were scanned at 7 T using single-shot 2D EPI at 0.75 mm in-plane resolution and multi-shot 2D EPI at 0.75 and 0.6 mm in-plane resolutions. All protocols used 3 mm slice thickness. For each protocol, the BOLD response to 13 10-s noxious thermal stimuli applied to the right thumb was acquired in a 10-min fMRI run. Image quality, temporal signal to noise ratio (SNR), and BOLD activation (percent signal change and z-stat) at both individual- and group-level were evaluated between the protocols. Temporal SNR was highest in single-shot and multi-shot 0.75 mm protocols. In group-level analyses, activation clusters appeared in all protocols in the ipsilateral dorsal quadrant at the expected C6 neurological level. In individual-level analyses, activation clusters at the expected level were detected in some, but not all subjects and protocols. Single-shot 0.75 mm generally produced the highest mean z-statistic, while multi-shot 0.60 mm produced the best-localized activation clusters and the least geometric distortion. Larger than expected within-subject segmental variation of BOLD activation along the cord was observed. Group-level sensory task fMRI of the cervical spinal cord is feasible at 7 T with single-shot or multi-shot EPI. The best choice of protocol will likely depend on the relative importance of sensitivity to activation versus spatial localization of activation for a given experiment. PRACTITIONER POINTS: First stimulus task fMRI results in the spinal cord at 7 T. Single-shot 0.75 mm 2D EPI produced the highest mean z-statistic. Multi-shot 0.60 mm 2D EPI provided the best-localized activation and least distortion.
38435118 | Therapeutic role of miR-19a/b protection from influenza virus infection in patients with coronary heart disease. Patients with pre-existing medical conditions are at a heightened risk of contracting severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), SARS-CoV-2, and influenza viruses, which can result in more severe disease progression and increased mortality rates. Nevertheless, the molecular mechanism behind this phenomenon remained largely unidentified. Here, we found that microRNA-19a/b (miR-19a/b), which is a constituent of the miR-17-92 cluster, exhibits reduced expression levels in patients with coronary heart disease in comparison to healthy individuals. The downregulation of miR-19a/b has been observed to facilitate the replication of influenza A virus (IAV). miR-19a/b can effectively inhibit IAV replication by targeting and reducing the expression of SOCS1, as observed in cell-based and coronary heart disease mouse models. This mechanism leads to the alleviation of the inhibitory effect of SOCS1 on the interferon (IFN)/JAK/STAT signaling pathway. The results indicate that the IAV employs a unique approach to inhibit the host's type I IFN-mediated antiviral immune responses by decreasing miR-19a/b. These findings provide additional insights into the underlying mechanisms of susceptibility to flu in patients with coronary heart disease. miR-19a/b can be considered as a preventative/therapy strategy for patients with coronary heart disease against influenza virus infection.
38458613 | Hydrogen-Assisted Thermal Treatment of Electrode Materials for Electrochemical Double-Layer Capacitors. The capacitance of electrode materials used in electrochemical double-layer capacitors (EDLCs) is currently limited by several factors, including inaccessible isolated micropores in high-surface area carbons, the finite density of states resulting in a quantum capacitance in series to Helmholtz double-layer capacitance, and the presence of surface impurities, such as functional groups and adsorbed species. To unlock the full potential of EDLC active materials and corresponding electrodes, several post-production treatments are commonly proposed to improve their capacitance and, thus, the energy density of the corresponding devices. In this work, we report a systematic study of the effect of a prototypical treatment, namely H2-assisted thermal treatment, on the chemical, structural, and thermal properties of activated carbon and corresponding electrodes. By combining multiple characterization techniques, we clarify the actual origins of the improvement of the performance (e.g., > +35% energy density for the investigated power densities in the 0.5-45 kW kg-1 range) of the EDLCs based on treated electrodes compared to the case based on the pristine electrodes. Contrary to previous works supporting a questionable graphitization of the activated carbon at temperatures <1000  C, we found that a \surface graphitization\ of the activated carbon, detected by spectroscopic analysis, is mainly associated with the desorption of surface contaminants. The elimination of surface impurities, including adsorbed species, improves the surface capacitance of the activated carbon (CsurfAC) by +37.1 and +36.3% at specific currents of 1 and 10 A g-1, respectively. Despite the presence of slight densification of the activated carbon upon the thermal treatment, the latter still improves the cell gravimetric capacitance normalized on the mass of the activated carbon only (CgAC), e.g., + 28% at 1 A g-1. Besides, our holistic approach identifies the change in the active material and binder contents as a concomitant cause of the increase of cell gravimetric capacitance (Cg), accounting for the mass of all of the electrode materials measured for treated electrodes compared to pristine ones. Overall, this study provides new insights into the relationship between the modifications of the electrode materials induced by H2-assisted thermal treatments and the performance of the resulting EDLCs.
38480165 | Revision of the Afrotropical genus Zetheumenidion Bequaert (Hymenoptera: Vespidae: Eumeninae). A taxonomic revision of the Afrotropical genus Zetheumenidion Bequaert, 1926 is presented. Four new species (Zetheumenidion abruptum sp. nov., Zetheumenidion concinnoide sp. nov., Zetheumenidion latum sp. nov. and Zetheumenidion minimum sp. nov.) are described; Zetheumenidion paeneplanum (Bequaert, 1926) stat. rev. is resurrected from synonymy with Z. pulchripenne (Cameron, 1910); Zetheumenidion femoratum flavissimum Giordani Soika, 1987 is raised to species level (Zetheumenidion flavissimum stat. nov.). A key to all known species is provided and the taxonomic placement of the genus is discussed.
38506674 | A Bayesian approach based on discounting factor for consistency assessment in multi-regional clinical trial. Multi-regional clinical trial (MRCT) has become an increasing trend for its supporting simultaneous global drug development. After MRCT, consistency assessment needs to be conducted to evaluate regional efficacy. The weighted Z-test approach is a common consistency assessment approach in which the weighting parameter W does not have a good practical significance; the discounting factor approach improved from the weighted Z-test approach by converting the estimation of W in original weighted Z-test approach to the estimation of discounting factor D. However, the discounting factor approach is an approach of frequency statistics, in which D was fixed as a certain value; the variation of D was not considered, which may lead to un-reasonable results. In this paper, we proposed a Bayesian approach based on D to evaluate the treatment effect for the target region in MRCT, in which the variation of D was considered. Specifically, we first took D random instead of fixed as a certain value and specified a beta distribution for it. According to the results of simulation, we further adjusted the Bayesian approach. The application of the proposed approach was illustrated by Markov Chain Monte Carlo simulation.
38508140 | STAT3 couples activated tyrosine kinase signaling to the oncogenic core transcriptional regulatory circuitry of anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) is an aggressive, CD30+ T cell lymphoma of children and adults. ALK fusion transcripts or mutations in the JAK-STAT pathway are observed in most ALCL tumors, but the mechanisms underlying tumorigenesis are not fully understood. Here, we show that dysregulated STAT3 in ALCL cooccupies enhancers with master transcription factors BATF3, IRF4, and IKZF1 to form a core regulatory circuit that establishes and maintains the malignant cell state in ALCL. Critical downstream targets of this network in ALCL cells include the protooncogene MYC, which requires active STAT3 to facilitate high levels of MYC transcription. The core autoregulatory transcriptional circuitry activity is reinforced by MYC binding to the enhancer regions associated with STAT3 and each of the core regulatory transcription factors. Thus, activation of STAT3 provides the crucial link between aberrant tyrosine kinase signaling and the core transcriptional machinery that drives tumorigenesis and creates therapeutic vulnerabilities in ALCL.
38509096 | Reciprocal inhibition between TP63 and STAT1 regulates anti-tumor immune response through interferon-gamma signaling in squamous cancer. Squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) are common and aggressive malignancies. Immune check point blockade (ICB) therapy using PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies has been approved in several types of advanced SCCs. However, low response rate and treatment resistance are common. Improving the efficacy of ICB therapy requires better understanding of the mechanism of immune evasion. Here, we identify that the SCC-master transcription factor TP63 suppresses interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) signaling. TP63 inhibition leads to increased CD8+ T cell infiltration and heighten tumor killing in in vivo syngeneic mouse model and ex vivo co-culture system, respectively. Moreover, expression of TP63 is negatively correlated with CD8+ T cell infiltration and activation in patients with SCC. Silencing of TP63 enhances the anti-tumor efficacy of PD-1 blockade by promoting CD8+ T cell infiltration and functionality. Mechanistically, TP63 and STAT1 mutually suppress each other to regulate the IFNgamma signaling by co-occupying and co-regulating their own promoters and enhancers. Together, our findings elucidate a tumor-extrinsic function of TP63 in promoting immune evasion of SCC cells. Over-expression of TP63 may serve as a biomarker predicting the outcome of SCC patients treated with ICB therapy, and targeting TP63/STAT/IFNgamma axis may enhance the efficacy of ICB therapy for this deadly cancer.
38523831 | Osband's principle for identification functions. Given a statistical functional of interest such as the mean or median, a (strict) identification function is zero in expectation at (and only at) the true functional value. Identification functions are key objects in forecast validation, statistical estimation and dynamic modelling. For a possibly vector-valued functional of interest, we fully characterise the class of (strict) identification functions subject to mild regularity conditions.
38527836 | [Efficacy and safety of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in 21 patients with Ph-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia]. Objective: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy followed by allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) in patients with Ph-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph-ALL) . Methods: Patients with Ph-ALL who underwent CAR-T therapy followed by allo-HSCT from March 2018 to August 2023 at the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University were included, and their clinical data were retrospectively analyzed. Results: Of the 21 patients, 14 were male and 7 were female. The median age at the time of CAR-T therapy was 22 (6-50) years. Seven patients had ABL1-like rearrangements, and 14 had JAK-STAT rearrangements. Prior to CAR-T therapy, 12 patients experienced hematologic relapse; 7 were multiparameter flow cytometry minimal residual disease (MFC-MRD) -positive and 2 were MFC-MRD-negative. CAR-T cells were derived from patients' autologous lymphocytes. Nine patients were treated with CD19 CAR-T cells, and 12 were treated with CD19/CD22 CAR-T cells. After assessment on day 28 after CAR-T therapy, 95.2% of the patients achieved complete remission, with an MRD-negative remission rate of 75%. Nineteen patients developed grade 0-2 cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and 2 patients suffered grade 3 CRS, all cases of which resolved after treatment. All patients underwent allo-HSCT after CAR-T therapy. The median time from CAR-T therapy to allo-HSCT was 63 (38-114) days. Five patients experienced relapse after CAR-T therapy, including four with hematologic relapse and one with molecular relapse. The 3-year overall survival (OS) rates in the ABL1 and JAK-STAT groups were (83.3+-15.2) % and (66.6+-17.2) %, respectively (P=0.68) . The 3-year relapse-free survival (RFS) rates were (50.0+-20.4) % and (55.6+-15.4) % in the ABL1 and JAK-STAT groups, respectively. There was no significant difference in 3-year OS or RFS between the two groups. Conclusions: CAR-T therapy followed by allo-HSCT leads to rapid remission in most patients with Ph-ALL and prolongs leukemia-free survival.
38561927 | Assessing efficacy in non-inferiority trials with non-adherence to interventions: Are intention-to-treat and per-protocol analyses fit for purpose? BACKGROUND: Non-inferiority trials comparing different active drugs are often subject to treatment non-adherence. Intention-to-treat (ITT) and per-protocol (PP) analyses have been advocated in such studies but are not guaranteed to be unbiased in the presence of differential non-adherence. METHODS: The REMoxTB trial evaluated two 4-month experimental regimens compared with a 6-month control regimen for newly diagnosed drug-susceptible TB. The primary endpoint was a composite unfavorable outcome of treatment failure or recurrence within 18 months post-randomization. We conducted a simulation study based on REMoxTB to assess the performance of statistical methods for handling non-adherence in non-inferiority trials, including: ITT and PP analyses, adjustment for observed adherence, multiple imputation (MI) of outcomes, inverse-probability-of-treatment weighting (IPTW), and a doubly-robust (DR) estimator. RESULTS: When non-adherence differed between trial arms, ITT, and PP analyses often resulted in non-trivial bias in the estimated treatment effect, which consequently under- or over-inflated the type I error rate. Adjustment for observed adherence led to similar issues, whereas the MI, IPTW and DR approaches were able to correct bias under most non-adherence scenarios; they could not always eliminate bias entirely in the presence of unobserved confounding. The IPTW and DR methods were generally unbiased and maintained desired type I error rates and statistical power. CONCLUSIONS: When non-adherence differs between trial arms, ITT and PP analyses can produce biased estimates of efficacy, potentially leading to the acceptance of inferior treatments or efficacious regimens being missed. IPTW and the DR estimator are relatively straightforward methods to supplement ITT and PP approaches.
38567833 | Interferons and epigenetic mechanisms in training, priming and tolerance of monocytes and hematopoietic progenitors. Training and priming of innate immune cells involve preconditioning by PAMPs, DAMPs, and/or cytokines that elicits stronger induction of inflammatory genes upon secondary challenge. Previous models distinguish training and priming based upon whether immune activation returns to baseline prior to secondary challenge. Tolerance is a protective mechanism whereby potent stimuli induce refractoriness to secondary challenge. Training and priming are important for innate memory responses that protect against infection, efficacy of vaccines, and maintaining innate immune cells in a state of readiness; tolerance prevents toxicity from excessive immune activation. Dysregulation of these processes can contribute to pathogenesis of autoimmune/inflammatory conditions, post-COVID-19 hyperinflammatory states, or sepsis-associated immunoparalysis. Training, priming, and tolerance regulate similar \signature\ inflammatory genes such as TNF, IL6, and IL1B and utilize overlapping epigenetic mechanisms. We review how interferons (IFNs), best known for activating JAK-STAT signaling and interferon-stimulated genes, also play a key role in regulating training, priming, and tolerance via chromatin-mediated mechanisms. We present new data on how monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation modulates IFN-gamma-mediated priming, affects regulation of AP-1 and CEBP activity, and attenuates superinduction of inflammatory genes. We present a \training-priming continuum\ model that integrates IFN-mediated priming into current concepts about training and tolerance and proposes a central role for STAT1 and IRF1.
38575075 | Modulating macrophage phenotype for accelerated wound healing with chlorogenic acid-loaded nanocomposite hydrogel. Wound healing involves distinct phases, including hemostasis, inflammation, proliferation, and remodeling, which is a complex and dynamic process. Conventional preparations often fail to meet multiple demands and provide prompt information about wound status. Here, a pH/ROS dual-responsive hydrogel (OHA-PP@Z-CA@EGF) was constructed based on oxidized hyaluronic acid (OHA), phenylboronic acid-grafted epsilon-polylysine (PP), chlorogenic acid (CA)-loaded ZIF-8 (Z-CA), and epidermal growth factor (EGF), which possesses intrinsic antibacterial, antioxidant, and angiogenic capacities. Due to the Schiff base and Phenylboronate ester bonds, the hydrogel exhibited excellent mechanical properties, strong adhesion, good biodegradability, high biocompatibility, stable rheological properties, and self-healing ability. Moreover, introducing Z-CA as an initiator and nanofiller led to the additional cross-linking of hydrogel through coordination bonds, which further improved the mechanical properties and antioxidant capabilities. Bleeding models of liver and tail amputations demonstrated rapid hemostatic properties of the hydrogel. Besides, the hydrogel regulated macrophage phenotypes via the NF-kappaB/JAK-STAT pathways, relieved oxidative stress, promoted cell migration and angiogenesis, and accelerated diabetic wound healing. The hydrogel also enabled real-time monitoring of the wound healing stages by colorimetric detection. This multifunctional hydrogel opens new avenues for the treatment and management of full-thickness diabetic wounds.
38578973 | American Society of Anesthesiologists 2023 Guidance on Neurologic Complications of Neuraxial Analgesia/Anesthesia in Obstetrics. 
38580172 | Potential Convergence of Olfactory Dysfunction in Parkinson's Disease and COVID-19: The Role of Neuroinflammation. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder that affects 7-10 million individuals worldwide. A common early symptom of PD is olfactory dysfunction (OD), and more than 90% of PD patients suffer from OD. Recent studies have highlighted a high incidence of OD in patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. This review investigates the potential convergence of OD in PD and COVID-19, particularly focusing on the mechanisms by which neuroinflammation contributes to OD and neurological events. Starting from our fundamental understanding of the olfactory bulb, we summarize the clinical features of OD and pathological features of the olfactory bulb from clinical cases and autopsy reports in PD patients. We then examine SARS-CoV-2-induced olfactory bulb neuropathology and OD and emphasize the SARS-CoV-2-induced neuroinflammatory cascades potentially leading to PD manifestations. By activating microglia and astrocytes, as well as facilitating the aggregation of alpha-synuclein, SARS-CoV-2 could contribute to the onset or exacerbation of PD. We also discuss the possible contributions of NF-kappaB, the NLRP3 inflammasome, and the JAK/STAT, p38 MAPK, TLR4, IL-6/JAK2/STAT3 and cGAS-STING signaling pathways. Although olfactory dysfunction in patients with COVID-19 may be reversible, it is challenging to restore OD in patients with PD. With the emergence of new SARS-CoV-2 variants and the recurrence of infections, we call for continued attention to the intersection between PD and SARS-CoV-2 infection, especially from the perspective of OD.
38583453 | The Lancet Commission on prostate cancer: planning for the surge in cases. 
38597801 | Pain during Cesarean Delivery: We Can and Must Do Better. 
