37919427 | Spatial metabolomics identifies distinct tumor-specific and stroma-specific subtypes in patients with lung squamous cell carcinoma. Molecular subtyping of lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) has been performed at the genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic level. However, LUSC stratification based on tissue metabolomics is still lacking. Combining high-mass-resolution imaging mass spectrometry with consensus clustering, four tumor- and four stroma-specific subtypes with distinct metabolite patterns were identified in 330 LUSC patients. The first tumor subtype T1 negatively correlated with DNA damage and immunological features including CD3, CD8, and PD-L1. The same features positively correlated with the tumor subtype T2. Tumor subtype T4 was associated with high PD-L1 expression. Compared with the status of subtypes T1 and T4, patients with subtype T3 had improved prognosis, and T3 was an independent prognostic factor with regard to UICC stage. Similarly, stroma subtypes were linked to distinct immunological features and metabolic pathways. Stroma subtype S4 had a better prognosis than S2. Subsequently, analyses based on an independent LUSC cohort treated by neoadjuvant therapy revealed that the S2 stroma subtype was associated with chemotherapy resistance. Clinically relevant patient subtypes as determined by tissue-based spatial metabolomics are a valuable addition to existing molecular classification systems. Metabolic differences among the subtypes and their associations with immunological features may contribute to the improvement of personalized therapy.
38213954 | Dissecting molecular mechanisms of immune microenvironment dysfunction in multiple myeloma and precursor conditions. Multiple myeloma (MM) is a disease of clonally differentiated plasma cells. MM is almost always preceded by precursor conditions, monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (MGUS), and smoldering MM (SMM) through largely unknown molecular events. Genetic alterations of the malignant plasma cells play a critical role in patient clinical outcomes. Del(17p), t(4;14), and additional chromosomal alterations such as del(1p32), gain(1q) and MYC translocations are involved in active MM evolution. Interestingly, these genetic alterations appear strikingly similar in transformed plasma cell (PC) clones from MGUS, SMM, and MM stages. Recent studies show that effectors of the innate and adaptive immune response show marked dysfunction and skewing towards a tolerant environment that favors disease progression. The MM myeloid compartment is characterized by myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), dendritic cells as well as M2-like phenotype macrophages that promote immune evasion. Major deregulations are found in the lymphoid compartment as well, with skewing towards immune tolerant Th17 and Treg and inhibition of CD8+ cytotoxic and CD4+ activated effector T cells. In summary, this review will provide an overview of the complex cross-talk between MM plasma cells and immune cells in the microenvironment and the molecular mechanisms promoting progression from precursor states to full-blown myeloma.
38298428 | Prognostic value of a modified-immune scoring system in patients with pathological T4 colorectal cancer. Tumor-infiltrating immune cells, such as lymphocytes and macrophages, have been associated with tumor aggressiveness, prognosis and treatment response in colorectal cancer (CRC). An immune scoring system, Immunoscore (IS), based on tumor-infiltrating T cells in stage I-III CRC, was used to predict prognosis. An alternative immune scoring signature of immune activation (SIA) reflects the balance between anti- and pro-tumoral immune components. The present study aimed to evaluate the prognostic value of modified IS (mIS) and modified SIA (mSIA) in locally advanced pathological T4 (pT4) CRC, including stage IV CRC. Immunohistochemical staining for immune cell markers, such as CD3 (pan-T cell marker), CD8 (anti-tumoral cytotoxic T cell marker) and CD163 (tumor-supportive macrophage marker), in specimens from patients with radically resected pT4 CRC at stages II-IV was performed. mIS levels in the T4 CRC cohort were not associated with prognosis. However, low mSIA levels were associated with low survival. Furthermore, low mSIA was an independent predictor of recurrence in patients with radically resected pT4 CRC. In patients with CRC who did not receive postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy, low mSIA was a major poor prognostic factor; however, this was not observed in patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy. Evaluation of the tumor-infiltrating immune cell population could serve as a valuable marker of recurrence and poor prognosis in patients with locally advanced CRC. mSIA assessment after radical CRC resection may be promising for identifying high-risk patients with pT4 CRC who require aggressive adjuvant chemotherapy.
38298433 | A pilot study on the safety and efficacy of neoadjuvant chemo-adoptive immunotherapy for locally advanced rectal cancer. The safety and efficacy of combination therapy of immune cell therapy and chemotherapy [chemo-adoptive immunotherapy (CAIT)] for patients with stage IV or recurrent colorectal cancer have been reported. In the present study, the safety and efficacy of neoadjuvant CAIT were investigated for preoperative therapy of locally advanced rectal cancer. The study included patients with cT3/T4 or cN (+) rectal adenocarcinoma scheduled for curative surgery. Six patients who consented to participate in the current study were selected as subjects. Neoadjuvant CAIT involves administration of activated autologous lymphocytes, alphabeta T cells, and mFOLFOX6 every 2 weeks for six courses, followed by surgery 4-6 weeks thereafter. Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events grade 3 neutropenia was observed in one patient. Neoadjuvant CAIT and curative surgery were performed on all the patients. The confirmed response rate was 67%. Downstaging was confirmed in five patients (83%). Regarding histological effects, two patients were grade 1a and four were grade 2. Regarding immunological reactions, both CD4+ and CD8+ T cell infiltration rates increased after treatment in three patients on tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) analysis. In peripheral blood analysis, the total lymphocyte count was maintained in all patients, and the CD8+ T cell count increased by >=3 times on the pretreatment count in two patients but may not be associated with changes in TILs. During the median postoperative follow-up duration of 24 months, liver and lung metastases occurred in one patient, but all patients survived. In conclusion, neoadjuvant CAIT (alphabeta T cells + mFOLFOX6) can be safely administered for the treatment of advanced rectal cancer. Verification of the efficacy of comprehensive immune cell therapy, especially the induction of antitumor immunity for the prevention of recurrence, will be maintained. The current study is registered with the Japan Registry of Clinical Trials (jRCT; ID, jRCTc030190248; January 21, 2019).
38357647 | Dynamics of Whole Transcriptome Analysis (WTA) and Surface markers expression (AbSeq) in Immune Cells of COVID-19 Patients and Recovered captured through Single Cell Genomics. Introduction: Single-cell multi-omics studies, such as multidimensional transcriptomics (whole transcriptomic analysis, WTA), and surface marker analysis (antibody sequencing, AbSeq), have turned out to be valuable techniques that offer inaccessible possibilities for single-cell profiling of mRNA, lncRNA, and proteins. Methods: We used this technique to understand the dynamics of mRNA and protein-level differences in healthy, COVID-19-infected and recovered individuals using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Our results demonstrate that compared to mRNA expression, protein abundance is a better indicator of the disease state. Results: We demonstrate that compared to mRNA expression, protein abundance is a better indicator of the disease state. We observed high levels of cell identity and regulatory markers, CD3E, CD4, CD8A, CD5, CD7, GITR, and KLRB1 in healthy individuals, whereas markers related to cell activation, CD38, CD28, CD69, CD62L, CD14, and CD16 elevated in the SARS-CoV-2 infected patients at both WTA and AbSeq levels. Curiously, in recovered individuals, there was a high expression of cytokine and chemokine receptors (CCR5, CCR7, CCR4, CXCR3, and PTGRD2). We also observed variations in the expression of markers within cell populations under different states. Discussion: Furthermore, our study emphasizes the significance of employing an oligo-based method (AbSeq) that can help in diagnosis, prognosis, and protection from disease/s by identifying cell surface markers that are unique to different cell types or states. It also allows simultaneous study of a vast array of markers, surpassing the constraints of techniques like FACS to query the vast repertoire of proteins.
38375253 | Establishment of a diagnostic model based on immune-related genes in children with asthma. Objective: Allergic asthma is driven by an antigen-specific immune response. This study aimed to identify immune-related differentially expressed genes in childhood asthma and establish a classification diagnostic model based on these genes. Methods: GSE65204 and GSE19187 were downloaded and served as training set and validation set. The immune cell composition was evaluated with ssGSEA algorithm based on the immune-related gene set. Modules that significantly related to the asthma were selected by WGCNA algorithm. The immune-related differentially expressed genes (DE-IRGs) were screened, the protein-protein interaction network and diagnostic model of DE-IRGs was constructed. The pathway and immune correlation analysis of hub DE-IRGs was analyzed. Results: Eight immune cell types exhibited varying levels of abundance between the asthma and control groups. A total of 112 differentially expressed immune-related genes (DE-IRGs) was identified. Through the application of four ranking methods (MCC, MNC, DEGREE, and EPC), 17 hub DE-IRGs with overlapping significance were further selected. Subsequently, 8 optimized were identified using univariate logistic regression analysis and the LASSO regression algorithm, based on which a robust diagnostic model was constructed. Notably, TNF and CD40LG emerged as direct participants in asthma-related signaling pathways, displaying a positive correlation with the immune cell types of immature B cells, activated B cells, activated CD8 T cells, activated CD4 T cells, and myeloid-derived suppressor cells. Conclusion: The diagnostic model constructed using the DE-IRGs (CCL5, CCR5, CD40LG, CD8A, IL2RB, PDCD1, TNF, and ZAP70) exhibited high and specific diagnostic value for childhood asthma. The diagnostic model may contribute to the diagnosis of childhood asthma.
38455049 | Comprehensive bioinformatics analysis and systems biology approaches to identify the interplay between COVID-19 and pericarditis. Background: Increasing evidence indicating that coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) increased the incidence and related risks of pericarditis and whether COVID-19 vaccine is related to pericarditis has triggered research and discussion. However, mechanisms behind the link between COVID-19 and pericarditis are still unknown. The objective of this study was to further elucidate the molecular mechanisms of COVID-19 with pericarditis at the gene level using bioinformatics analysis. Methods: Genes associated with COVID-19 and pericarditis were collected from databases using limited screening criteria and intersected to identify the common genes of COVID-19 and pericarditis. Subsequently, gene ontology, pathway enrichment, protein-protein interaction, and immune infiltration analyses were conducted. Finally, TF-gene, gene-miRNA, gene-disease, protein-chemical, and protein-drug interaction networks were constructed based on hub gene identification. Results: A total of 313 common genes were selected, and enrichment analyses were performed to determine their biological functions and signaling pathways. Eight hub genes (IL-1beta, CD8A, IL-10, CD4, IL-6, TLR4, CCL2, and PTPRC) were identified using the protein-protein interaction network, and immune infiltration analysis was then carried out to examine the functional relationship between the eight hub genes and immune cells as well as changes in immune cells in disease. Transcription factors, miRNAs, diseases, chemicals, and drugs with high correlation with hub genes were predicted using bioinformatics analysis. Conclusions: This study revealed a common gene interaction network between COVID-19 and pericarditis. The screened functional pathways, hub genes, potential compounds, and drugs provided new insights for further research on COVID-19 associated with pericarditis.
8649511 | Identification of a major co-receptor for primary isolates of HIV-1. Entry of HIV-1 into target cells requires cell-surface CD4 and additional host cell cofactors. A cofactor required for infection with virus adapted for growth in transformed T-cell lines was recently identified and named fusin. However, fusin does not promote entry of macrophage-tropic viruses, which are believed to be the key pathogenic strains in vivo. The principal cofactor for entry mediated by the envelope glycoproteins of primary macrophage-tropic strains of HIV-1 is CC-CKR-5, a receptor for the beta-chemokines RANTES, MIP-1alpha and MIP-1beta.
8649512 | HIV-1 entry into CD4+ cells is mediated by the chemokine receptor CC-CKR-5. The beta-chemokines MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta and RANTES inhibit infection of CD4+ T cells by primary, non-syncytium-inducing (NSI) HIV-1 strains at the virus entry stage, and also block env-mediated cell-cell membrane fusion. CD4+ T cells from some HIV-1-exposed uninfected individuals cannot fuse with NSI HIV-1 strains and secrete high levels of beta-chemokines. Expression of the beta-chemokine receptor CC-CKR-5 in CD4+, non-permissive human and non-human cells renders them susceptible to infection by NSI strains, and allows env-mediated membrane fusion. CC-CKR-5 is a second receptor for NSI primary viruses.
8658171 | CC CKR5: a RANTES, MIP-1alpha, MIP-1beta receptor as a fusion cofactor for macrophage-tropic HIV-1. Human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 (HIV-1) entry requires fusion cofactors on the CD4+ target cell. Fusin, a heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptor, serves as a cofactor for T cell line-tropic isolates. The chemokines RANTES, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta, which suppress infection by macrophage-tropic isolates, selectively inhibited cell fusion mediated by the corresponding envelope glycoproteins (Envs). Recombinant CC CKR5, a G protein-coupled receptor for these chemokines, rendered CD4-expressing nonhuman cells fusion-competent preferentially with macrophage-tropic Envs. CC CKR5 messenger RNA was detected selectively in cell types susceptible to macrophage-tropic isolates. CC CKR5 is thus a fusion cofactor for macrophage-tropic HIV-1 strains.
8674120 | A dual-tropic primary HIV-1 isolate that uses fusin and the beta-chemokine receptors CKR-5, CKR-3, and CKR-2b as fusion cofactors. Here, we show that the beta-chemokine receptor CKR-5 serves as a cofactor for M-tropic HIV viruses. Expression of CKR-5 with CD4 enables nonpermissive cells to form syncytia with cells expressing M-tropic, but not T-tropic, HIV-1 env proteins. Expression of CKR-5 and CD4 enables entry of a M-tropic, but not a T-tropic, virus strain. A dual-tropic primary HIV-1 isolate (89.6) utilizes both Fusin and CKR-5 as entry cofactors. Cells expressing the 89.6 env protein form syncytia with QT6 cells expressing CD4 and either Fusin or CKR-5. The beta-chemokine receptors CKR-3 and CKR-2b support HIV-1 89.6 env-mediated syncytia formation but do not support fusion by any of the T-tropic or M-tropic strains tested. Our results suggest that the T-tropic viruses characteristic of disease progression may evolve from purely M-tropic viruses prevalent early in virus infection through changes in the env protein that enable the virus to use multiple entry cofactors.
8756719 | Homozygous defect in HIV-1 coreceptor accounts for resistance of some multiply-exposed individuals to HIV-1 infection. Rare individuals have been multiply exposed to HIV-1 but remain uninfected. The CD4+ T-cells of two of these individuals, designated EU2 and EU3, are highly resistant in vitro to the entry of primary macrophagetropic virus but are readily infectable with transformed T-cell line adapted viruses. We report here on the genetic basis of this resistance. We found that EU2 and EU3 have a homozygous defect in CKR-5, the gene encoding the recently described coreceptor for primary HIV-1 isolates. These individuals appear to have inherited a defective CKR-5 allele that contains an internal 32 base pair deletion. The encoded protein is severely truncated and cannot be detected at the cell surface. Surprisingly, this defect has no obvious phenotype in the affected individuals. Thus, a CKR-5 allele present in the human population appears to protect homozygous individuals from sexual transmission of HIV-1. Heterozygous individuals are quite common (approximately 20%) in some populations. These findings indicate the importance of CKR-5 in HIV-1 transmission and suggest that targeting the HIV-1-CKR-5 interaction may provide a means of preventing or slowing disease progression.
8791590 | Genetic restriction of HIV-1 infection and progression to AIDS by a deletion allele of the CKR5 structural gene. Hemophilia Growth and Development Study, Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study, Multicenter Hemophilia Cohort Study, San Francisco City Cohort, ALIVE Study. The chemokine receptor 5 (CKR5) protein serves as a secondary receptor on CD4(+) T lymphocytes for certain strains of human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 (HIV-1). The CKR5 structural gene was mapped to human chromosome 3p21, and a 32-base pair deletion allele (CKR5Delta32) was identified that is present at a frequency of approximately0.10 in the Caucasian population of the United States. An examination of 1955 patients included among six well-characterized acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) cohort studies revealed that 17 deletion homozygotes occurred exclusively among 612 exposed HIV-1 antibody-negative individuals (2.8 percent) and not at all in 1343 HIV-1-infected individuals. The frequency of CKR5 deletion heterozygotes was significantly elevated in groups of individuals that had survived HIV-1 infection for more than 10 years, and, in some risk groups, twice as frequent as their occurrence in rapid progressors to AIDS. Survival analysis clearly shows that disease progression is slower in CKR5 deletion heterozygotes than in individuals homozygous for the normal CKR5 gene. The CKR5Delta32 deletion may act as a recessive restriction gene against HIV-1 infection and may exert a dominant phenotype of delaying progression to AIDS among infected individuals.
9147421 | Heterozygosity for a deletion in the CKR-5 gene leads to prolonged AIDS-free survival and slower CD4 T-cell decline in a cohort of HIV-seropositive individuals. OBJECTIVE: Recently, it has been shown that a homozygous 32 base-pair deletion in the gene encoding CKR-5, a major coreceptor for HIV-1, leads to resistance to infection with HIV-1. We have investigated whether HIV-seropositive individuals who were heterozygous for the CKR-5 deletion had a different course of the disease. DESIGN: Thirty-five high-risk HIV-seronegative and 99 HIV-seropositive Danish homosexual men followed form 1985 to 1996 and 37 blood donors were analysed for their CKR-5 genotype by polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: Two (6%) of the 35 HIV-seropositive subjects at high-risk of infection were homozygous and seven (20%) were heterozygous for the CKR-5 deletion. This was not significantly different from the distribution in normal donors. Twenty-two (22%) of the 99 HIV-seropositive subjects were heterozygous and none was homozygous. Two subgroups of patients who had an opposite course of the HIV disease were identified. Of nine long-term non-progressors, six (66%) were heterozygous for the deletion. This frequency is significantly higher than in nine rapid progressors of whom non was heterozygous. The frequency of heterozygotes in long-term non-progressors was also significantly higher than in the cohort as a whole. A Kaplan-Meier plot of the HIV-seropositive subjects, of whom 57 developed AIDS, showed a significantly better prognosis within the first 7 years of follow-up for those who were heterozygous for the deletion. Heterozygous individuals also had a significantly slower decrease in CD4 T-cell count per year. CONCLUSION: Individuals who are heterozygous for the 32-base-pair deletion in the CKR-5 gene have a slower decrease in their CD4 T-cell count and a longer AIDS-free survival than individuals with the wild-type gene for up to 11 years of follow-up.
9160656 | Expression of the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 coreceptors CXCR-4 (fusin, LESTR) and CKR-5 in CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells. CD34+ hematopoietic progenitor cells were assessed for mRNA expression of the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1) coreceptors CXCR-4, also termed fusin or LESTR, and CKR-5, also called CC-CKR-5 or CCR-5. The CD34+ cells were obtained from leukapheresis products of 17 patients after granulocyte colony-stimulating factor-supported cytotoxic chemotherapy. Using a two-step enrichment procedure including immunomagnetic bead separation and fluorescence-activated cell sorting, the CD34+ cells had a median purity of 99.8%. Assessing 9 CD34+ cell samples by polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription (RT-PCR), CXCR-4 mRNA was found in all samples, whereas CKR-5 mRNA was only present in 3 samples, even though a nested PCR was used. Eight additional CD34+ cell samples were sorted according to CD4 expression. Based on a three-color immunofluorescence analysis, the mean relative fluorescence intensity of HLA-DR was smaller on CD34+/CD4+ cells in comparison with CD34+/ CD4- cells. CXCR-4 mRNA was found in 5 of 8 CD34+/CD4+ samples and in 7 of 8 CD34+/CD4- samples, whereas CKR-5 mRNA was detected in 2 CD34+/CD4+ samples and in 1 CD34+/CD4- cell sample. Looking at the total number of CD34+ cell samples examined, the proportion of specimens containing CXCR-4 mRNA was 84% in comparison with 24% of specimens positive for CKR-5 mRNA. These data suggest that CD34+/CD4+ hematopoietic progenitor cells, including true stem cell candidates, could be susceptible to HIV-1 infection. Considering the relatively low incidence of CD34+ cell samples containing CKR-5 mRNA, CD34+/CD4+ cells appear to be particularly prone for HIV-1 infection via the CXCR-4 coreceptor. Because this chemokine receptor allows T-cell-tropic HIV-1 strains to infect cells, CD34+ cells expressing CD4 and CXCR-4 might be infected by HIV-1 during later stages of the disease, following a viral phenotype switch from macrophage- to T-cell-tropic HIV-1 strains.
9224818 | Development of resistance of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 to dextran sulfate associated with the emergence of specific mutations in the envelope gp120 glycoprotein. Polyanionic compounds are known to inhibit the binding of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) to CD4+ cells and the subsequent fusion step between the virus and cells. We selected an HIV-1 strain resistant to dextran sulfate (DS) by cultivation of HIV-1 (NL4-3)-infected MT-4 cells in the presence of DS Mr 5000. DS did not inhibit the binding of DS-resistant virus to MT-4 cells or syncytium formation between MOLT cells and HUT-78 cells persistently infected with the DS-resistant virus. In addition, a monoclonal antibody with specificity for the V3 loop of envelope gp120 glycoprotein did not recognize the DS-resistant HIV-1 gp120 V3 loop. The following mutations were found in the gp120 molecule of the DS-resistant HIV-1 strain but not in the wild-type strain: S114N in the V1 loop region; S134N in the V2 loop region; K269E, Q278H, and N293D in the V3 loop region; N323S in the C3 region; a deletion of five amino acids (Phe-Asn-Ser-Thr-Trp) at positions 364-368 in the V4 loop; and R3871 in the CD4 binding domain. Our results suggest that (i) DS interacts with specific amino acid residues in the gp120 molecule, (ii) the virus is able to overcome the inhibitory effect of DS on viral infectivity, (iii) cross-resistance developed against those polyanionic compounds that are structurally related to DS, and (iv) the molecular determinants of HIV cell tropism, syncytium-inducing ability, coreceptor (fusin/ CC-CKR5) utilization, and polyanion resistance seem to be located in the env genome of HIV and specifically in the V3 loop domain.
10392962 | Depletion of CD34+ CD4+ cells in bone marrow from HIV-1-infected individuals. Pancytopenia as a consequence of bone marrow abnormalities is commonly seen in HIV-infected individuals. To examine the effect that HIV-1 has on hematopoietic cells, we compared hematopoietic properties of bone marrow samples from HTV+ patients at various stages of disease with bone marrow samples from uninfected donors. While the absolute number of recovered CD34+ cells and the cloning efficiency of these cells did not differ significantly in HIV+ donors, the percentage of CD34+ CD4+ cells was significantly depleted in late-stage HIV+ patients. We observed a direct correlation between the numbers of CD34+ CD4+ cells in the bone marrow and the peripheral CD4 count. Further characterization of the CD34+ CD4+ subpopulation demonstrated that these cells expressed lower levels of HLA-DR on their surface compared with CD34+ CD4- cells, suggesting an immature phenotype. We also found evidence for expression of HIV-1 coreceptors CXCR-4 and CKR-5 message and protein in CD34+ bone marrow cells. While this finding suggested that hematopoietic cells might be susceptible to HIV infection at an early stage of maturation, thus affecting different cell lineages as they matured, we did not find any evidence for infection of HIV in these cells. These data suggest that HIV affects early hematopoietic progenitor cells either directly or indirectly, and in particular CD34+ CD4+ cells. This finding has important implications for disease pathogenesis and for application of gene therapy approaches that use CD34+ hematopoietic cells.
10606089 | New reporter cell lines to study macrophage-tropic HIV envelope protein-mediated cell-cell fusion. The infection of human cells by HIV-1 virus can be mimicked by a fusion process between cells expressing the HIV envelope protein (Env) and cells expressing both human CD4 (huCD4) and appropriate human chemokine receptors. In this study, a macrophage-tropic (M-tropic) HIV cell-cell fusion assay was established that utilized huCD4, human CCR5 (huCCR5), and HIV ADAgpl60 as fusion components and a Gal4/VP16-activated luciferase as a reporter system. By combining CHO cells expressing huCD4 and huCCR5 with CHO cells expressing HIV ADAgpl60, a 300-fold increase in luciferase activity could be elicited relative to control. No luciferase activity was detected when HXB2gpl60 (T-tropic) was used instead of ADAgpl60 (M-tropic) as the fusion partner in the assay. Addition of anti-huCD4 (RPA-T4) or anti-huCCR5 (2D7) monoclonal antibodies in the assay significantly inhibited the fusion event; in contrast, an anti-CXCR4 (12G5) monoclonal antibody had little effect, indicating that the fusion assay was huCD4 and huCCR5 dependent. The cell-cell fusion occurred in a time-dependent manner; the maximum luciferase activity was detected about 8 hr after mixing the cells. The fusion events could also be monitored by another reporter system in which Gal4/VP16 activated green fluorescent protein (GFP) was used as the reporter instead of luciferase. In combination with fluorescence microscopy, the GFP reporter system allowed visualization of the fusion events in real time. Compared with previously described HIV fusion models, this system has several advantages, including simplicity, sensitivity, and the ability to allow continuous monitoring of the HIV cell-cell fusion event. Finally, this cell-cell fusion system is easily adapted to study other HIV fusion events.
11363806 | NIAID researchers identify cofactors for entry of HIV into cells. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. 
11363902 | Basic science discovery: opening the door on HIV. 
11932429 | Highly stable trimers formed by human immunodeficiency virus type 1 envelope glycoproteins fused with the trimeric motif of T4 bacteriophage fibritin. The envelope glycoproteins of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) function as a trimer composed of three gp120 exterior glycoproteins and three gp41 transmembrane proteins. Soluble gp140 glycoproteins composed of the uncleaved ectodomains of gp120 and gp41 form unstable, heterogeneous oligomers, but soluble gp140 trimers can be stabilized by fusion with a C-terminal, trimeric GCN4 motif (X. Yang et al., J. Virol. 74:5716-5725, 2000). To understand the influence of the C-terminal trimerization domain on the properties of soluble HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein trimers, uncleaved, soluble gp140 glycoproteins were stabilized by fusion with another trimeric motif derived from T4 bacteriophage fibritin. The fibritin construct was more stable to heat and reducing conditions than the GCN4 construct. Both GCN4- and fibritin-stabilized soluble gp140 glycoproteins exhibited patterns of neutralizing and nonneutralizing antibody binding expected for the functional envelope glycoprotein spike. Of note, two potently neutralizing antibodies, immunoglobulin G1b12 and 2G12, exhibited the greatest recognition of the stabilized, soluble trimers, relative to recognition of the gp120 monomer. The observed similarities between the GCN4 and fibritin constructs indicate that the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein ectodomains dictate many of the antigenic and structural features of these fusion proteins. The melting temperatures and ligand recognition properties of the GCN4- and fibritin-stabilized soluble gp140 glycoproteins suggest that these molecules assume conformations distinct from that of the fusion-active, six-helix bundle.
12298263 | Chromosomal defects in 34 male homosexuals, half of them with HIV antibodies. Most of the research about viral interactions with human chromosomes was done during the sixties and early seventies and very few was performed after the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) appearance as an epidemic in the eighties. The objective of this work was to estimate if particular chromosomal changes follow the infection of homosexual males by HIV and to determine if the lifestyle, habits, sexual practices, of our sample of male homosexuals predisposes them to chromosomal abnormalities at a higher rate than the background level of cytogenetic damage the general population has. This was a double blinded case-control study, 17 individuals positive for HIV antibodies (HIV+) detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and confirmed by western blot (WB) were the cases, and 17 individuals negative for HIV antibodies (HIV-) the controls. These men were a very homogeneous population in terms of age, social status, lifestyles, drug abuse, sexual practices and education. Blood was collected between September 1988 and October 1989. Fresh whole blood was cultured in duplicate for 72 hr. Cell harvest followed conventional methods. Once all cell cultures were gathered, the tubes were picked up at random and air dried chromosome preparations were trypsin-giemsa banded (GTG) after overnight incubation at 60 C degrees. The percentage of gaps and breaks these men had was not different from the reported for the general population, nor were there significant difference among both groups (O.R. = 1.8) in items of amount of chromosomal fragility. The distinction among them was at the level of the specific chromosomal sites where the gaps and breaks located, being sites at 2p21 and at 3p21 four times more frequent among HIV+. These probably represent viral modification sites on chromosomes which are known to look like non-staining gaps which are caused by the virus or viral products. This presumption is supported by an earlier report of repeated breaks at 3p21.1, in fact this was the most common lesion site in this study of chromosomal aberrations of male homosexuals and the authors even considered the probability of \a new type of chromosome marker\. Furthermore, years later the CKR5 structural gene was mapped to human chromosome 3p21. This gene codes for the chemokine receptor 5 (CKR5) protein which serves as a secondary receptor on CD4+ T lymphocytes for certain strains of HIV-1. It is possible that this gene was being transcribed in HIV+ men and the consequent \staggering\ of DNA contributed to the production of gaps and breaks at 3p21.
12729474 | Relation of CD30 molecules on T-cell subsets to the severity of autoimmune thyroid disease. The prognosis of patients with autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) varies. To clarify the immunologic differences among patients with various severities of AITD, we examined two types of molecules on peripheral T lymphocytes: CD195 (CCR5), which express dominantly on CD4(+) type 1 helper T (T(H)1) cells, and CD30, which is known as a marker of CD4(+) type 2 helper T (T(H)2) cells and a regulatory molecule of CD8(+) autoreactive cytotoxic T cells. We found presence of patients with high proportion (> 9%) of CD30 expression in CD4(+) cells in a group of patients with Graves' disease (GD) in remission compared to the patients with intractable GD and a decrease in the intensity of CD30 expression on CD8(+) cells from patients with severe Hashimoto's disease (HD) treated for hypothyroidism compared to patients with untreated and euthyroid HD. There was no difference in CD195 expression between these patients with GD or HD with different severities, but there was a decreased intensity of CD195(+) cells in thyrotoxic patients with GD. These results indicate that CD30 molecules on CD4(+) and CD8(+) cells may be related to the severities of GD and HD, respectively.
12801524 | Characterization of novel stem cell factor responsive human mast cell lines LAD 1 and 2 established from a patient with mast cell sarcoma/leukemia; activation following aggregation of FcepsilonRI or FcgammaRI. Two novel stem cell factor (SCF) dependent human mast cell lines, designated LAD 1 and 2, were established from bone marrow aspirates from a patient with mast cell sarcoma/leukemia. LAD 1 and 2 cells have the ultrastructural features of human mast cells, and express FcepsilonRI, CD4, 9, 13, 14, 22, 31, 32, 45, 64, 71, 103, 117, 132, CXCR4 (CD184), CCR5 (CD195); and intracytoplasmic histamine, tryptase and chymase. LAD 1 and 2 do not exhibit activating mutations at codon 816 of c-kit. Both LAD 1 and 2 release beta-hexosaminidase following FcepsilonRI or FcgammaRI aggregation. The availability of these cell lines offers an unparalleled circumstance to examine the biology of human mast cells.
16918819 | Characterization of the expanded T-cell populations in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis. OBJECTIVES: Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by granulomatosis inflammation, systemic vasculitis and glomerulonephritis. In patients, the peripheral T cells are characterized by mono/oligoclonal CD4+/CD8+ T-cell AV/BV receptor expansions, with aberrant expression of activation markers. This study was designed to characterize the phenotypic differences between the expanded and nonexpanded T-cell populations. Expression of markers for activation, costimulation and adhesion molecules was examined. As earlier studies have shown aberrant expression of CD28/CD152, we also analysed the expression of another costimulatory system, the tumour necrotic factor receptor (TNFR) superfamily proteins. DESIGN: Fluorocrome-conjugated monoclonal antibodies and flow cytometry was used to analyse the expression of the different markers on the surface of the expanded and nonexpanded subsets of T cells. SETTING: The Karolinska Hospital and Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm, Sweden. SUBJECTS: Nine patients with WG (six men and three women) had 16 TCRAV/BV CD4+/CD8+ expanded populations that were characterized. RESULTS: The expanded TCRA/BV CD4+ and CD8+ cells had lower percentages of cells expressing CD28 and higher of those expressing CD152 (CTLA-4). The expanded CD4+ population had more cells expressing HLA-DR, CD57 and CCR5 (CD195), whilst the expression of CD25 was present on fewer of the expanded cells. The expanded CD8+ population contained more cells expressing CD137 (4-1BB), CD137 (4-1BBL), CD30 (Ki-1), CD40 and CD134 (OX40). CONCLUSIONS: There were marked differences in the phenotypes of expanded and nonexpanded T-cell populations.
17302896 | Activated T cell subsets in human type 1 diabetes: evidence for expansion of the DR+ CD30+ subpopulation in new-onset disease. An important limitation in T cell studies of human autoimmune (type 1) diabetes is lack of direct access to cells infiltrating the pancreas. We hypothesized that cells recently released from the pancreas into the blood might express a characteristic combination of markers of activation. We therefore examined the recently activated circulating T cell population [CD3+, human leucocyte antigen D-related (HLA-DR+)] using cytokine production and 10 additional subset markers [CD69, CD25, CD122, CD30, CD44v6, CD57, CD71, CCR3 (CD193), CCR5 (CD195) or CXCR3 (CD183)], comparing newly diagnosed adult (ND) (age 18-40 years) patients (n=19) to patients with diabetes for >10 years [long-standing (LS), n=19] and HLA-matched controls (C, n=16). CD3+ DR+ cells were enriched by two-step immunomagnetic separation. No differences in basal or stimulated production of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-10, IL-13 or interferon (IFN)-gamma by CD3+ DR+ enriched cells were observed between the different groups of subjects. However, among the CD3+ DR+ population, significant expansions appeared to be present in the very small CD30+, CD69+ and CD122+ subpopulations. A confirmatory study was then performed using new subjects (ND=26, LS=15), three-colour flow cytometry, unseparated cells and three additional subset markers (CD38, CD134, CD4/CD25). This confirmed the expansion of the CD3+ DR+ CD30+ subpopulation in ND subjects. We conclude that a relative expansion in the T cell subpopulation with the activated phenotype CD3+ DR+ CD30+ is seen in the peripheral blood of subjects with newly diagnosed type 1 diabetes. This subpopulation represents less than 0 x 7% of circulating T cells and may provide a rich source of disease-specific T cells that can be isolated from blood.
19223489 | Acute-phase CD4+ T-cell proliferation and CD152 upregulation predict set-point virus replication in vaccinated simian-human immunodeficiency virus strain 89.6p-infected macaques. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in humans and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infection in macaques are accompanied by a combined early loss of CCR5 (CD195)-expressing CD4(+) memory T cells, loss of T-helper function and T-cell hyperactivation, which have all been associated with development of high virus load and disease progression. Here, a cohort of vaccinated simian-human immunodeficiency virus strain 89.6p (SHIV(89.6p))-infected rhesus macaques, where preferential depletion of these memory T-cell subsets does not take place and CD4(+) T cells are relatively well maintained, was used to study the role of hyperactivation as an independent factor in the establishment of set-point virus load. In the acute phase of the infection, a transient loss of CD4(+) T cells, as well as strong increases in expression of proliferation and activation markers on CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, together with CD152 expression on CD4(+) T cells, were observed. Peak expression levels of these markers on CD4(+) T cells, but not on CD8(+) T cells, were correlated with high virus replication in the chronic phase of the infection. In addition, the peak expression level of these markers was correlated inversely with acute-phase, but not chronic-phase, HIV/SIV-specific gamma interferon responses. These data highlight a central role for an acute but transient CD4 decrease, as well as CD4(+) T-cell activation, as independent factors for prediction of set-point levels of virus replication.
19740335 | Peripheral blood T4 cell surface CCR5 density as a marker of activity in rheumatoid arthritis treated with anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody. The chemokine (C-C motif) receptor CCR5 and its ligand CCL5 play key roles in the intra-articular recruitment of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Therefore, using quantitative cytofluorometry, we followed T4 cell surface CCR5 density in 27 subjects with RA before and after treatment with the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab. We observed low T4 cell surface CCR5 densities before treatment, which correlated positively with disease activity, as determined using a disease activity score evaluated on 28 joints (DAS 28), and negatively with CCL5 mRNA concentrations in PBMC, contrasting with a high proportion of intracellular CCR5 molecules, a pattern compatible with ligand-induced CCR5 internalization. At 3 months post-treatment, CCL5 mRNA expression in PBMC declined, whereas T4 cell surface CCR5 densities increased proportionally to the decrease in DAS 28. Thus, peripheral blood T4 cell surface CCR5 density is a good surrogate marker of RA activity and of the efficiency of anti-CD20 therapy.
21180278 | mRNA expression of chemokine receptors on peripheral blood mononuclear cells and correlation with clinical features in systemic lupus erythematosus patients. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expressions of chemokine receptors and interleukin (IL) receptors on the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients and their correlations with clinical features as well as SLE disease activity index (SLEDAI). METHODS: The mRNA expressions of chemokine receptors and IL receptors on PBMCs of 93 SLE patients and 30 healthy controls were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, including CCR2, CCR3, CCR4, CCR5, CCR6, CCR8, CXCR3, CXCRS, CX3CR1, XCR1, IL-4R, and IL-10R. The clinical features of SLE patients were recorded. The correlations of chemokine receptors and IL receptors mRNA expressions with clinical features as well as SLEDAI were assayed using linear regression analysis. RESULTS: The level of CCR5 mRNA in SLE patients (including active and inactive SLE) was significantly higher than that in healthy controls (P < 0.05), and there was no significant difference between active and inactive patients in this respect (P > 0.05). CX3CR1 mRNA expression significantly increased from healthy control to inactive SLE to active SLE in sequence. The others (except for CCR8, CXCR3, and IL-10R) in active SLE patients were significantly higher than those in both inactive SLE patients and healthy controls (all P < 0.05). There were positive correlations between SLEDAI and CCR2 (r = 0.424, t = 4.313, P < 0.001), CCR3 (r = 0.518, t = 5.410, P < 0.001), CCR4 (r = 0.376, t = 3.851, P < 0.001), CCR6 (r = 0.457, t = 4.513, P < 0.001), CXCR5 (r = 0.455, t = 4.629, P < 0.001), CX3CR1 (r = 0.445, t = 4.523, P < 0.001), as well as XCR1 (r = 0.540, t = 5.445, P < 0.001). And CCR5 mRNA expression level was positively correlated with IL-4R mRNA (r = 0.313, t = 2.353, P < 0.05). The patients with myositis and cutaneous vasculitis simultaneously showed lower levels of CCR5 and CX3CR1, and CCR5 expression was negatively correlated with the scores of SLEDAI in SLE cases accompanied by photosensitivity (r = 0.426, t = -2.155, P < 0.05). CONCLUSION: Increased expressions of CCR5 and CX3CR1 on PBMCs may be indicators in clinical survey for SLE.
21289125 | Loss of asparagine-linked glycosylation sites in variable region 5 of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 envelope is associated with resistance to CD4 antibody ibalizumab. Ibalizumab (formerly TNX-355) is a first-in-class, monoclonal antibody inhibitor of CD4-mediated human immunodeficiency type 1 (HIV-1) entry. Multiple clinical trials with HIV-infected patients have demonstrated the antiviral activity, safety, and tolerability of ibalizumab treatment. A 9-week phase Ib study adding ibalizumab monotherapy to failing drug regimens led to transient reductions in HIV viral loads and the evolution of HIV-1 variants with reduced susceptibility to ibalizumab. This report characterizes these variants by comparing the phenotypic susceptibilities and envelope (env) sequences of (i) paired baseline and on-treatment virus populations, (ii) individual env clones from selected paired samples, and (iii) env clones containing site-directed mutations. Viruses with reduced susceptibility to ibalizumab were found to exhibit reduced susceptibility to the anti-CD4 antibody RPA-T4. Conversely, susceptibility to soluble CD4, which targets the HIV-1 gp120 envelope protein, was enhanced. No changes in susceptibility to the fusion inhibitor enfuvirtide or the CCR5 antagonist maraviroc were observed. Functionally, viruses with reduced ibalizumab susceptibility also displayed high levels of infectivity relative to those of paired baseline viruses. Individual env clones exhibiting reduced ibalizumab susceptibility contained multiple amino acid changes in different regions relative to the paired baseline clones. In particular, clones with reduced susceptibility to ibalizumab contained fewer potential asparagine-linked glycosylation sites (PNGSs) in variable region 5 (V5) than did paired ibalizumab-susceptible clones. The reduction in ibalizumab susceptibility due to the loss of V5 PNGSs was confirmed by site-directed mutagenesis. Taken together, these findings provide important insights into resistance to this new class of antiretroviral drug.
22097808 | [Design and expression of an inhibitor for HIV-1 targeting dendritic cell]. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infects the host cells by the fusion of viral and cell membranes. Blocking the combining between HIV and the receptors can prevent HIV from entering the host cells. We designed an invasion-inhibitor for HIV-1 targeting dendritic cell (DC), including 2 important HIV-1 receptors CD4 and CCR5, and 2 molecules Flt3-L and Mip-3alpha. With the synthetic gene of the inhibitor, 2 eukaryotic expression vectors pABK-CKR5-CD4/Flt3L-Mip3alpha (pABK-HIV-MF) and pABK-CKR5-CD4 (pABK-HIV-MT) were constructed and transfected into HEK 293 cells for expression. Results from RT-PCR, immunofluorescent assay, ELISA and Western blot approved that the invasion-inhibitor for HIV-1 was successfully and exactly expressed in the eukaryotic cells. Current study formed a solid base for the further research on the function of inhibitors for HIV-1 and elimination targeting DC.
22316480 | Several commercially available anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibodies lack specificity and should be used with caution. CCR5 (CD195) is a receptor for the chemokines RANTES, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta and is used by HIV-1 as a co-receptor for entry into macrophages and CD4+ T cells. CCR5 exists in multiple conformations in the membrane and is present at low levels on human macrophages, making it difficult to detect. Nine commercially available anti-CCR5 monoclonal antibodies were evaluated for their specificity and their recognition of CCR5 expressed by macrophages. Unexpectedly, we found that three of the nine clones tested displayed substantial background binding to CCR5 negative cells, suggesting that these antibodies may give unreliable results. We recommend the use of clones CTC8, 45531 (PE conjugated), and 45523 and advise that data obtained using CTC5, 45531 (unconjugated), and 45549 anti-CCR5 antibody clones should be interpreted with care.
24660852 | Characterization of gammadeltaT cells in naive and HIV-infected chimpanzees and their responses to T-cell activators in vitro. BACKGROUND: gammadeltaT cells are effector cells that eliminate cancer and virus-infected cells. Chimpanzees are an endangered species that can naturally and experimentally be infected with SIV and HIV, respectively, but no information about the functionality of gammadeltaT cells during chronic lentiviral infection is currently available. METHODS: Healthy and HIV-infected chimpanzee gammadeltaT cells were characterized by flow cytometry. gammadeltaT subsets were studied after stimulation with T-cell activators, and the release of cytokines was analyzed by Luminex assay. RESULTS: gammadeltaT-cell subsets, Vdelta1 and Vdelta2Vgamma9, showed different patterns in the expression of CD4, CD195, CD159a, and CD159c. Stimulation of gammadeltaT cells resulted in increased levels of CD4 and HLA-DR, which is more pronounced in Vdelta1 T cells. Distinct cytokine patterns were found between healthy and HIV-infected chimpanzees. CONCLUSIONS: Analyses of major chimpanzee gammadeltaT subsets show similarities to human gammadeltaT cells and suggest different functionality and roles in their immune response against HIV infection.
26668134 | Immune status of high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma patients and its therapeutic modulation under LenDex: a longitudinal analysis. There is significant interest in immunotherapy for the treatment of high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM), but no available data on the immune status of this particular disease stage. Such information is important to understand the interplay between immunosurveillance and disease transformation, but also to define whether patients with high-risk SMM might benefit from immunotherapy. Here, we have characterized T lymphocytes (including CD4, CD8, T-cell receptor gammadelta, and regulatory T cells), natural killer (NK) cells, and dendritic cells from 31 high-risk SMM patients included in the treatment arm of the QUIREDEX trial, and with longitudinal peripheral blood samples at baseline and after 3 and 9 cycles of lenalidomide plus low-dose dexamethasone (LenDex). High-risk SMM patients showed at baseline decreased expression of activation-(CD25/CD28/CD54), type 1 T helper-(CD195/interferon-gamma/tumor necrosis factor-alpha/interleukin-2), and proliferation-related markers (CD119/CD120b) as compared with age-matched healthy individuals. However, LenDex was able to restore the normal expression levels for those markers and induced a marked shift in T-lymphocyte and NK-cell phenotype. Accordingly, high-risk SMM patients treated with LenDex showed higher numbers of functionally active T lymphocytes. Together, our results indicate that high-risk SMM patients have an impaired immune system that could be reactivated by the immunomodulatory effects of lenalidomide, even when combined with low-dose dexamethasone, and support the value of therapeutic immunomodulation to delay the progression to multiple myeloma. The QUIREDEX trial was registered to www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00480363. 
27608299 | The tyrosine kinase inhibitor tyrphostin AG126 reduces activation of inflammatory cells and increases Foxp3+ regulatory T cells during pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. Protein tyrosine kinases are key mediators of the signal transduction cascades that control expression of many genes involved in the induction of inflammation caused by arthritis. Here we investigate the effect of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor tyrphostin AG126 on a mouse model of adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA). We report that when given at 5mg/kg i.p. every 48h from days 0-21, AG126 exerts potent anti-arthritic effects. Further, we investigated the role of AG126 on the key mediators of arthritic inflammation, namely, edema, arthritic score, presence of immunophenotypes including Foxp3+, CD4+Foxp3+, and CD25+Foxp3+ T regulatory (Treg) cells, as well as pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators. AG126 treatment significantly attenuated the severity of AIA and caused a substantial reduction in the percentage of CD2+, CD3+, CD4+, CD8+, CD23+, CD80+, CD86+ CD122+, CD195+, TCRbeta+, and GITR+ cells in whole blood. Moreover, administration of AG126 under arthritis-inducing conditions resulted in suppression of IL-17A+, IFN-gamma+, CD4+ and CD25+ populations while causing an increase in the Foxp3+, CD4+Foxp3+, and CD25+Foxp3+ Treg populations in the spleen. In addition, RT-PCR analysis revealed increased expression of CD4, CD8, IL-17A, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, and NF-kappaB p65 mRNAs and decreased IL-4 mRNA in the arthritic control (AC) mice, while treatment of animals with AG126 reversed these effects. Western blot analysis confirmed the decreased expression of IL-17, GITR, NF-kappaB p65 proteins and increased Foxp3 and IL-4 proteins following AG126 treatment of knee tissue. Thus, our findings provide new evidence that inhibition of protein tyrosine kinase activity decreases the progression of arthritis.
28963085 | T-cell profile and systemic cytokine levels in overweight-obese patients with moderate to very-severe COPD. This study aimed to evaluate the immune profile of lean and overweight-obese COPD patients. Forty patients with moderate to very severe COPD were divided into lean group (n=20; aged 62.00+-8.91years; BMI 22.26+-1.65kg/m2) or overweight-obese group (n=20; aged 65.40+-6.69years; BMI 29.19+-3.55kg/m2). The cytokine profile (IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, INF-gamma, and TNF-alpha) was evaluated through the Cytometric Bead Array technique, and the expression of CD4, CD8, CD25, CD45ra, CD45ro, CD69, CD195(CCr5) and HLA-DR were evaluated in CD3+ T-cells. Overweight-obese COPD group had lower levels of IL-2 (p=0.01) and higher INF-gamma levels (p=0.02) and IL-6 (p=0.003) than lean COPD. Lean COPD patients had higher CD25+ (p=0.01), CCr5 (p=0.04) and HLA-DR (p=0.007) expression on T cell surface compared to overweight-obese COPD participants. These changes are related to immune dysfunction of obesity, and excess of fat mass in COPD can be a key factor to low T-cells activation.
29892279 | Introduction of Human Flt3-L and GM-CSF into Humanized Mice Enhances the Reconstitution and Maturation of Myeloid Dendritic Cells and the Development of Foxp3+CD4+ T Cells. Two cytokines, fms-related tyrosine kinase 3 ligand (Flt3-L) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) are considered to be the essential regulators of dendritic cell (DC) development in vivo. However, the combined effect of Flt3-L and GM-CSF on human DCs has not been evaluated in vivo. In this study, we, therefore, aimed at evaluating this using a humanized mouse model. Humanized non-obese diabetic/SCID/Jak3null (hNOJ) mice were constructed by transplanting hematopoietic stem cells from human umbilical cord blood into newborn NOJ mice, and in vivo transfection (IVT) was performed by hydrodynamic injection-mediated gene delivery using plasmids encoding human Flt3-L and GM-CSF. Following IVT, Flt3-L and GM-CSF were successfully induced in hNOJ mice. At 10 days post-IVT, we found, in the spleen, that treatment with both Flt3-L and GM-CSF enhanced the reconstitution of two myeloid DC subsets, CD14-CD1c+ conventional DCs (cDCs) and CD14-CD141+ cDCs, in addition to CD14+ monocyte-like cells expressing CD1c and/or CD141. GM-CSF alone had less effect on the reconstitution of these myeloid cell populations. By contrast, none of the cytokine treatments enhanced CD123+ plasmacytoid DC (pDC) reconstitution. Regardless of the reconstitution levels, three cell populations (CD1c+ myeloid cells, CD141+ myeloid cells, and pDCs) could be matured by treatment with cytokines, in terms of upregulation of CD40, CD80, CD86, and CD184/CXCR4 and downregulation of CD195/CCR5. In particular, GM-CSF contributed to upregulation of CD80 in all these cell populations. Interestingly, we further observed that Foxp3+ cells within splenic CD4+ T cells were significantly increased in the presence of GM-CSF. Foxp3+ T cells could be subdivided into two subpopulations, CD45RA-Foxp3hi and CD45RA-Foxp3lo T cells. Whereas CD45RA-Foxp3hi T cells were increased only after treatment with GM-CSF alone, CD45RA-Foxp3lo T cells were increased only after treatment with both Flt3-L and GM-CSF. Treatment with Flt3-L alone had no effect on the number of Foxp3+ T cells. The correlation analysis demonstrated that the development of these Foxp3+ subpopulations was associated with the maturation status of DC(-like) cells. Taken together, this study provides a platform for studying the in vivo effect of Flt3-L and GM-CSF on human DCs and regulatory T cells.
36496008 | A 16-color full spectrum flow cytometric analysis for comprehensive evaluation of T-cell reconstitution in SIV-infected rhesus macaques. T-cell reconstitution is central in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection/disease progression. Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) have been the most widely used animal model for HIV research so far. An effective flow cytometry panel is crucial for monitoring the T cell reconstitution in SIV infection progression. We developed this sixteen-color flow cytometry-based panel for a T cell subsets analysis by manual gating and, once successfully gated, to characterize T cells function in-depth in rhesus macaques. This panel included markers to characterize CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells, T regulatory cells (Tregs), and T cell differentiation status (CD45RA and CCR7). Additionally, we included antibodies that measure T cell activation and proliferation molecules (CD69, HLA-DR, CD38 and Ki67), antibodies that examine the expressions of key PD-1 pathway molecule (PD-1), SIV potential target (CD32) and the primary SIV co-receptor CCR5 (CD195). High-dimensional single cell analysis was also performed to identify CD3+ T cells immunophenotypes of SIV-infected rhesus macaques. We designed this panel to evaluate the responses of different T cell subsets to SIV in whole blood from SIV-infected rhesus macaques.
37715885 | Natalizumab Treatment of Relapsing Remitting Multiple Sclerosis Has No Long-Term Effects on the Proportion of Circulating Regulatory T Cells. INTRODUCTION: Natalizumab (NTZ), a monoclonal antibody against the integrin alpha4beta1 (VLA-4) found on activated T cells and B cells, blocks the interaction of this integrin with adhesion molecules of central nervous system (CNS) endothelial cells and lymphocyte migration through the blood-brain barrier, effectively preventing new lesion formation and relapses in multiple sclerosis (MS). Whether NTZ treatment has additional effects on the peripheral immune system cells, and how its actions compare with other MS disease-modifying treatments, have not been extensively investigated. In particular, its effect on the proportions of circulating regulatory T cells (Treg) is unclear. METHODS: In this study, we investigated the effect of NTZ treatment in 12 patients with relapsing MS, at 6 and 12 months after the start of treatment. We evaluated the proportions of regulatory T cells (Treg), defined by flow cytometry as CD4+ CD25++ FoxP3+ cells and CD4+ CD25++ CD127- cells at these intervals. As an exploratory study, we also investigated the NTZ effects on the proportions of bulk T and B lymphocyte populations, and of those expressing novel the markers CD195 (CCR5), CD196 (CCR6), or CD161 (KLRB1), which are involved in MS pathogenesis but have been studied less in the context of MS treatment. The effects of NTZ were compared to those obtained with 11 patients under interferon-beta-1a (IFN-beta1a) treatment, and against 9 healthy volunteers. RESULTS: We observed a transient increment in the proportion of Treg cells at 6 months, which was not sustained at 12 months. We observed a reduction in the proportion of T cells expressing CD195 (CCR5) and CD161 (KLRB1) subsets of T cells. CONCLUSION: We conclude that NTZ does not have an effect on the proportion of Treg cells over 1 year, but it may affect the expression of molecules important for some aspects MS pathogenesis, in a manner that is not shared with IFN-beta1a.
38385000 | Ocrelizumab associates with reduced cerebrospinal fluid B and CD20dim CD4+ T cells in primary progressive multiple sclerosis. The anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody ocrelizumab reduces disability progression in primary progressive multiple sclerosis. CD20 is a prototypical B-cell marker; however, subpopulations of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid also express low levels of CD20 (CD20dim). Therefore, direct targeting and depletion of these CD20dim T-cell subpopulations may contribute to the therapeutic effect of ocrelizumab. The aim of this observational cohort study was to compare CD20+ B-cell and CD20dim T-cell distributions between peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid of ocrelizumab-treated or ocrelizumab-untreated people with primary progressive multiple sclerosis. Ocrelizumab treatment was associated with depletion of circulating B cells and CD20dim CD4+ and CD20dim CD8+ T cells (P < 0.0001, P = 0.0016 and P = 0.0008, respectively) but, in cerebrospinal fluid, only with lower proportions of B cells and CD20dim memory CD4+ T cells (P < 0.0001 and P = 0.0043, respectively). The proportional prevalence of cerebrospinal fluid CD20dim memory CD8+ T cells was not significantly reduced (P = 0.1333). Only in cerebrospinal fluid, the proportions of CD20dim cells within CD4+ and not CD8+ T cells positive for CCR5, CCR6 and CXCR3 were reduced in ocrelizumab-treated participants. The proportion of CD20dim CD4+ T cells and abundance of CD4+ relative to CD8+ T cells in cerebrospinal fluid correlated positively with age (R = 0.6799, P = 0.0150) and Age-Related Multiple Sclerosis Severity score (R = 0.8087, P = 0.0014), respectively. We conclude that, in contrast to cerebrospinal fluid CD20dim CD8+ T cells, B cells and CD20dim CD4+ T cells are reduced in cerebrospinal fluid of people with primary progressive multiple sclerosis with an ocrelizumab-associated depletion of circulating B cells and CD20dim T cells. Therefore, these cells are likely to contribute to the therapeutic effects of ocrelizumab in people with primary progressive multiple sclerosis.
38385695 | Distinct genetic clusters in HIV-1 CRF01_AE-infected patients induced variable degrees of CD4+ T-cell loss. CRF01_AE strains have been shown to form multiple transmission clusters in China, and some clusters have disparate pathogenicity in Chinese men who have sex with men. This study focused on other CRF01_AE clusters prevalent in heterosexual populations. The CD4+ T-cell counts from both cross-section data in National HIV Molecular Epidemiology Survey and seropositive cohort data were used to evaluate the pathogenicity of the CRF01_AE clusters and other HIV-1 sub-types. Their mechanisms of pathogenicity were evaluated by co-receptor tropisms, predicted by genotyping and confirmed with virus isolate phenotyping, as well as inflammation parameters. Our research elucidated that individuals infected with CRF01_AE clusters 1 and 2 exhibited significantly lower baseline CD4+ T-cell counts and greater CD4+ T-cell loss in cohort follow-up, compared with other HIV-1 sub-types and CRF01_AE clusters. The increased pathogenesis of cluster 1 or 2 was associated with higher CXCR4 tropisms, higher inflammation/immune activation, and increased pyroptosis. The protein structure modeling analysis revealed that the envelope V3 loop of clusters 1 and 2 viruses is favorable for CXCR4 co-receptor usage. Imbedded with the most mutating reverse transcriptase, HIV-1 is one of the most variable viruses. CRF01_AE clusters 1 and 2 have been found to have evolved into more virulent strains in regions with predominant heterosexual infections. The virulent strains increased the pressure for early diagnosis and treatment in HIV patients. To save more lives, HIV-1 surveillance systems should be upgraded from serology and genotyping to phenotyping, which could support precision interventions for those infected by virulent viruses.IMPORTANCERetroviruses swiftly adapt, employing error-prone enzymes for genetic and phenotypic evolution, optimizing survival strategies, and enhancing virulence levels. HIV-1 CRF01_AE has persistently undergone adaptive selection, and cluster 1 and 2 infections display lower counts and fast loss of CD4+ T cells than other HIV-1 sub-types and CRF01_AE clusters. Its mechanisms are associated with increased CXCR4 tropism due to an envelope structure change favoring a tropism shift from CCR5 to CXCR4, thereby shaping viral phenotype features and impacting pathogenicity. This underscores the significance of consistently monitoring HIV-1 genetic evolution and phenotypic transfer to see whether selection bias across risk groups alters the delicate balance of transmissible versus toxic trade-offs, since virulent strains such as CRF01_AE clusters 1 and 2 could seriously compromise the efficacy of antiviral treatment. Only through such early warning and diagnostic services can precise antiviral treatments be administered to those infected with more virulent HIV-1 strains.
38397455 | Bariatric Surgery Induces Alterations in the Immune Profile of Peripheral Blood T Cells. Low-grade inflammation is closely linked to obesity and obesity-related comorbidities; therefore, immune cells have become an important topic in obesity research. Here, we performed a deep phenotypic characterization of circulating T cells in people with obesity, using flow cytometry. Forty-one individuals with obesity (OB) and clinical criteria for bariatric surgery were enrolled in this study. We identified and quantified 44 different circulating T cell subsets and assessed their activation status and the expression of immune-checkpoint molecules, immediately before (T1) and 7-18 months after (T2) the bariatric surgery. Twelve age- and sex-matched healthy individuals (nOB) were also recruited. The OB participants showed higher leukocyte counts and a higher percentage of neutrophils. The percentage of circulating Th1 cells were negatively correlated to HbA1c and insulin levels. OB Th1 cells displayed a higher activation status and lower PD-1 expression. The percentage of Th17 and Th1/17 cells were increased in OB, whereas the CD4+ Tregs' percentage was decreased. Interestingly, a higher proportion of OB CD4+ Tregs were polarized toward Th1- and Th1/17-like cells and expressed higher levels of CCR5. Bariatric surgery induced the recovery of CD4+ Treg cell levels and the expansion and activation of Tfh and B cells. Our results show alterations in the distribution and phenotype of circulating T cells from OB people, including activation markers and immune-checkpoint proteins, demonstrating that different metabolic profiles are associated to distinct immune profiles, and both are modulated by bariatric surgery.
38420260 | HIV Productively Infects Highly Differentiated and Exhausted CD4+ T Cells During AIDS. Background: Throughout HIV infection, productively infected cells generate billions of viral particles and are thus responsible for body-wide HIV dissemination, but their phenotype during AIDS is unknown. As AIDS is associated with immunological changes, analyzing the phenotype of productively infected cells can help understand HIV production during this terminal stage. Methods: Blood samples from 15 untreated viremic participants (recent infection, n=5; long-term infection, n=5; active opportunistic AIDS-defining disease, n=5) and 5 participants virologically controlled on antiretroviral therapy (ART) enrolled in the Analysis of the Persistence, Reservoir and HIV Latency (APRIL) study (NCT05752318) were analyzed. Cells expressing the capsid protein p24 (p24+ cells) after 18 hours of resting or 24 hours of stimulation (HIV-Flow) revealed productively infected cells from viremic participants or translation-competent reservoir cells from treated participants, respectively. Results: The frequency of productively infected cells tended to be higher during AIDS in comparison with recent and long-term infections (median, 340, 72, and 32/million CD4+ T cells, respectively) and correlated with the plasma viral load at all stages of infection. Altogether, these cells were more frequently CD4low, HLA-ABClow, CD45RA-, Ki67+, PD-1+, with a non-negligible contribution from pTfh (CXCR5+PD-1+) cells, and were not significantly enriched in HIV coreceptors CCR5 nor CXCR4 expression. The comparison markers expression between stages showed that productively infected cells during AIDS were enriched in memory and exhausted cells. In contrast, the frequencies of infected pTfh were lower during AIDS compared to non-AIDS stages. A UMAP analysis revealed that total CD4+ T cells were grouped in 7 clusters and that productive p24+ cells were skewed to given clusters throughout the course of infection. Overall, the preferential targets of HIV during the latest stages seemed to be more frequently highly differentiated (memory, TTD-like) and exhausted cells and less frequently pTfh-like cells. In contrast, translation-competent reservoir cells were less frequent (5/million CD4+ T cells) and expressed more frequently HLA-ABC and less frequently PD-1. Conclusions: In long-term infection and AIDS, productively infected cells were differentiated and exhausted. This could indicate that cells with these given features are responsible for HIV production and dissemination in an immune dysfunction environment occurring during the last stages of infection.
38426750 | Stoichiometry for entry and binding properties of the Env protein of R5 T cell-tropic HIV-1 and its evolutionary variant of macrophage-tropic HIV-1. Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 typically requires a high density of CD4 for efficient entry as a mechanism to target CD4+ T cells (T-tropic), with CCR5 being used most often as the coreceptor. When target T cells are limiting, the virus can evolve to infect cells with a low density of CD4 such as macrophages (M-tropic). The entry phenotype is known to be encoded in the viral Env protein on the surface of the virus particle. Using data showing a dose response for infectivity based on CD4 surface density, we built a model consistent with T-tropic viruses requiring multiple CD4 molecules to mediate infection, whereas M-tropic viruses can infect cells using a single CD4 receptor molecule interaction. We also found that T-tropic viruses bound to the surface of cells with a low density of CD4 are released more slowly than M-tropic viruses which we modeled to be due to multiple interactions of the T-tropic virus with multiple CD4 molecules to allow the initial stable binding. Finally, we found that some M-tropic Env proteins, as the gp120 subunit, possess an enhanced affinity for CD4 compared with their T-tropic pair, indicating that the evolution of macrophage tropism can be reflected both in the closed Env trimer conformation on the virion surface and, in some cases, also in the open confirmation of gp120 Env. Collectively, these studies reveal differences in the stoichiometry of interaction of T-tropic and M-tropic viruses with CD4 and start to identify the basis of binding differences at the biochemical level. IMPORTANCE: Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 normally targets CD4+ T cells for viral replication. When T cells are limiting, the virus can evolve to infect myeloid cells. The evolutionary step involves a change from requiring a high surface density of CD4 for entry to being able to infect cells with a low density of CD4, as is found on myeloid lineage cells such as macrophage and microglia. Viruses able to infect macrophages efficiently are most often found in the CNS late in the disease course, and such viruses may contribute to neurocognitive impairment. Here, we examine the CD4 binding properties of the viral Env protein to explore these two different entry phenotypes.
38427640 | Effect of cryopreservation on CD4+ T cell subsets in foreskin tissue. Voluntary medical male circumcision (VMMC) reduces HIV acquisition by at least 60%, but the determinants of HIV susceptibility in foreskin tissues are incompletely understood. Flow cytometry is a powerful tool that helps us understand tissue immune defenses in mucosal tissue like the inner foreskin, but foreskin flow cytometry has only been validated using fresh tissue samples. This restricts immune analyses to timepoints immediately after surgical acquisition and hinders research in this area. We compared fresh analysis with whole tissue cryopreservation and later thawing and digestion to analyze CD4+ T cell populations relevant to HIV susceptibility (CCR5, CD25, CD127, CCR4, CXCR3, CCR6, CCR10, HLA-DR, and CD38). Eight foreskin samples from HIV-negative males aged >18 years were collected after VMMC. For each sample, half the foreskin was immediately cryopreserved for later digestion and flow cytometry analysis, while the remaining tissues were analyzed fresh. We demonstrate no significant impact of cryopreservation on CD4+ T cell expression of CD25, CCR4, CCR6, HLA-DR, CCR10, or CD127. Although expression levels of CCR5, CD38, and CXCR3 were increased after cryopreservation, the relative ranking of participants was retained. In conclusion, cryopreserved foreskin tissues may be suitable for subsequent digestion and flow cytometry phenotyping of HIV-susceptible T cell populations.
38479672 | Achyranthes bidentata polysaccharides improve cyclophosphamide-induced adverse reactions by regulating the balance of cytokines in helper T cells. The manuscript aimed to study the immune function maintenance effect of Achyranthes bidentata polysaccharides (ABPs). The mice were divided into the control group, cyclophosphamide-induced (CTX) group, and ABPs-treated (ABP) group. The results showed that, compared with the CTX group, ABPs could significantly improve the spleen index and alleviate the pathological changes in immune organs. Ex vivo study of whole spleen cells, the levels of interleukin-2 (IL-2), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were increased. The proliferation of lymphocytes and the proportion of CD3+CD4+ Th cells in peripheral blood mononuclear cells were increased. The transcription of GATA-3, Foxp3, and ROR gamma t were decreased, while the transcription of T-bet was increased. The transcriptome sequencing analysis showed that the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) caused by ABPs-treated were mostly downregulated in CTX-induced mice. The Th2-related genes were significantly enriched in DEGs, with representative genes, including Il4, II13, Il9, etc., while increasing the expression of immune effector genes simultaneously, including Ccl3, Ccr5, and Il12rb2. It was suggested that ABPs possibly regulated the balance of cytokines in helper T cells to ameliorate the immune function of CTX-induced mice.
38504093 | IFNalpha induces CCR5 in CD4+ T cells of HIV patients causing pathogenic elevation. BACKGROUND: Among people living with HIV, elite controllers (ECs) maintain an undetectable viral load, even without receiving anti-HIV therapy. In non-EC patients, this therapy leads to marked improvement, including in immune parameters, but unlike ECs, non-EC patients still require ongoing treatment and experience co-morbidities. In-depth, comprehensive immune analyses comparing EC and treated non-EC patients may reveal subtle, consistent differences. This comparison could clarify whether elevated circulating interferon-alpha (IFNalpha) promotes widespread immune cell alterations and persists post-therapy, furthering understanding of why non-EC patients continue to need treatment. METHODS: Levels of IFNalpha in HIV-infected EC and treated non-EC patients were compared, along with blood immune cell subset distribution and phenotype, and functional capacities in some cases. In addition, we assessed mechanisms potentially associated with IFNalpha overload. RESULTS: Treatment of non-EC patients results in restoration of IFNalpha control, followed by marked improvement in distribution numbers, phenotypic profiles of blood immune cells, and functional capacity. These changes still do not lead to EC status, however, and IFNalpha can induce these changes in normal immune cell counterparts in vitro. Hypothesizing that persistent alterations could arise from inalterable effects of IFNalpha at infection onset, we verified an IFNalpha-related mechanism. The protein induces the HIV coreceptor CCR5, boosting HIV infection and reducing the effects of anti-HIV therapies. EC patients may avoid elevated IFNalpha following on infection with a lower inoculum of HIV or because of some unidentified genetic factor. CONCLUSIONS: Early control of IFNalpha is essential for better prognosis of HIV-infected patients.
38507500 | JAK/STAT signaling pathway affects CCR5 expression in human CD4+ T cells. CCR5 serves as R5-tropic HIV co-receptor. Knocking out CCR5 in HIV patients, which has occurred <10 times, is believed important for cure. JAK/STAT inhibitors tofacitinib and ruxolitinib inhibit CCR5 expression in HIV+ viremic patients. We investigated the association of JAK/STAT signaling pathway with CCR5/CCR2 expression in human primary CD4+ T cells and confirmed its importance. Six of nine JAK/STAT inhibitors that reduced CCR5/CCR2 expression were identified. Inhibitor-treated CD4+ T cells were relatively resistant, specifically to R5-tropic HIV infection. Furthermore, single JAK2, STAT3, STAT5A, and STAT5B knockout and different combinations of JAK/STAT knockout significantly reduced CCR2/CCR5 expression of both RNA and protein levels, indicating that CCR5/CCR2 expression was positively regulated by JAK-STAT pathway in CD4+ T cells. Serum and glucocorticoid-regulated kinase 1 (SGK1) knockout affected CCR2/CCR5 gene expression, suggesting that SGK1 is involved in CCR2/CCR5 regulation. If cell surface CCR5 levels can be specifically and markedly down-regulated without adverse effects, that may have a major impact on the HIV cure agenda.
38517294 | Antibody-Suppressor CXCR5+CD8+ T Cells Are More Potent Regulators of Humoral Alloimmunity after Kidney Transplant in Mice Compared to CD4+ Regulatory T Cells. Adoptive cell therapy (ACT), especially with CD4+ regulatory T cells (CD4+ Tregs), is an emerging therapeutic strategy to minimize immunosuppression and promote long-term allograft acceptance, although much research remains to realize its potential. In this study, we investigated the potency of novel Ab-suppressor CXCR5+CD8+ T cells (CD8+ TAb-supp) in comparison with conventional CD25highFoxp3+CD4+ Tregs for suppression of humoral alloimmunity in a murine kidney transplant (KTx) model of Ab-mediated rejection (AMR). We examined quantity of peripheral blood, splenic and graft-infiltrating CD8+ TAb-supp, and CD4+ Tregs in KTx recipients and found that high alloantibody-producing CCR5 knockout KTx recipients have significantly fewer post-transplant peripheral blood and splenic CD8+ TAb-supp, as well as fewer splenic and graft-infiltrating CD4+ Tregs compared with wild-type KTx recipients. ACT with alloprimed CXCR5+CD8+ T cells reduced alloantibody titer, splenic alloprimed germinal center (GC) B cell quantity, and improved AMR histology in CCR5 knockout KTx recipients. ACT with alloprimed CD4+ Treg cells improved AMR histology without significantly inhibiting alloantibody production or the quantity of splenic alloprimed GC B cells. Studies with TCR transgenic mice confirmed Ag specificity of CD8+ TAb-supp-mediated effector function. In wild-type recipients, CD8 depletion significantly increased alloantibody titer, GC B cells, and severity of AMR pathology compared with isotype-treated controls. Anti-CD25 mAb treatment also resulted in increased but less pronounced effect on alloantibody titer, quantity of GC B cells, and AMR pathology than CD8 depletion. To our knowledge, this is the first report that CD8+ TAb-supp cells are more potent regulators of humoral alloimmunity than CD4+ Treg cells.
38567606 | The CRISPR-Cas9 induced CCR5 Delta32 mutation as a potent gene therapy methodology for resistance to HIV-1 variant: a review. Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) has continuously been the greatest epidemic for humanity over a period spanning almost five decades. With no specific cure or treatment available to date despite extensive research, the C-C Chemokine Receptor 5, Delta 32 (CCR5 Delta32) allele genetic point mutation plays an imperative role in the prevention of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). This comprehensive study aims to review the induction of the homozygous recessive deletion genotype using the Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats, Cas 9 Enzyme (CRISPR-Cas9), and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation under positive selection pressure for active immunity in seropositive patients' populations as the phenotype. A methodology is proposed to trigger a significant increase in the expression of Delta 32 beneficial mutant alleles within controlled modern healthcare facilities utilizing totipotent stem cells through somatic gene therapy. It acts upon two dysfunctional CCR5 genes, translating mutant G protein-coupled co-receptors, whose primary function is similar to that of C-X-C Motif Chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), by blocking the entry of viral RNA into the CD4+ T helper lymphocytes, halting infection and seizing viral life cycle. This modification is endemic in Northern Europe, where it naturally pertains to the Caucasian descent population samples in the form of polymorphism, p (X=0.01), where X is the probability of frequency of complete immunity against HIV-1 in population samples. The epigenetics of the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) are analyzed as they play a significant role in immunity distribution. Furthermore, a comparative analysis within the ethical boundaries of CRISPR-Cas9 is conducted to discuss the practical aspects and challenges of the presented methodologies and treatment alternatives. Additionally, the study assembles all available data and summarizes preexisting research while providing a promising solution to this ethical dilemma. Finally, a methodology is devised to answer the question of whether the variant-specific epidemic of AIDS caused by HIV-1 can be cured via artificially inducing immunity by CRISPR-Cas9.
38580334 | Therapeutic inhibition of monocyte recruitment prevents checkpoint inhibitor-induced hepatitis. BACKGROUND: Checkpoint inhibitor-induced hepatitis (CPI-hepatitis) is an emerging problem with the widening use of CPIs in cancer immunotherapy. Here, we developed a mouse model to characterize the mechanism of CPI-hepatitis and to therapeutically target key pathways driving this pathology. METHODS: C57BL/6 wild-type (WT) mice were dosed with toll-like receptor (TLR)9 agonist (TLR9-L) for hepatic priming combined with anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) plus anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) (\CPI\) or phosphate buffered saline (PBS) control for up to 7 days. Flow cytometry, histology/immunofluorescence and messenger RNA sequencing were used to characterize liver myeloid/lymphoid subsets and inflammation. Hepatocyte damage was assessed by plasma alanine transaminase (ALT) and cytokeratin-18 (CK-18) measurements. In vivo investigations of CPI-hepatitis were carried out in Rag2-/- and Ccr2rfp/rfp transgenic mice, as well as following anti-CD4, anti-CD8 or cenicriviroc (CVC; CCR2/CCR5 antagonist) treatment. RESULTS: Co-administration of combination CPIs with TLR9-L induced liver pathology closely resembling human disease, with increased infiltration and clustering of granzyme B+perforin+CD8+ T cells and CCR2+ monocytes, 7 days post treatment. This was accompanied by apoptotic hepatocytes surrounding these clusters and elevated ALT and CK-18 plasma levels. Liver RNA sequencing identified key signaling pathways (JAK-STAT, NF-KappaB) and cytokine/chemokine networks (Ifngamma, Cxcl9, Ccl2/Ccr2) as drivers of CPI-hepatitis. Using this model, we show that CD8+ T cells mediate hepatocyte damage in experimental CPI-hepatitis. However, their liver recruitment, clustering, and cytotoxic activity is dependent on the presence of CCR2+ monocytes. The absence of hepatic monocyte recruitment in Ccr2rfp/rfp mice and CCR2 inhibition by CVC treatment in WT mice was able to prevent the development and reverse established experimental CPI-hepatitis. CONCLUSION: This newly established mouse model provides a platform for in vivo mechanistic studies of CPI-hepatitis. Using this model, we demonstrate the central role of liver infiltrating CCR2+ monocyte interaction with tissue-destructive CD8+ T cells in the pathogenesis of CPI-hepatitis and highlight CCR2 inhibition as a novel therapeutic target.
38585261 | The immunomodulatory impact of naturally derived neem leaf glycoprotein on the initiation progression model of 4NQO induced murine oral carcinogenesis: a preclinical study. Introduction: Murine tumor growth restriction by neem leaf glycoprotein (NLGP) was established in various transplanted models of murine sarcoma, melanoma and carcinoma. However, the role of NLGP in the sequential carcinogenic steps has not been explored. Thus, tongue carcinogenesis in Swiss mice was induced by 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide (4NQO), which has close resemblance to human carcinogenesis process. Interventional role of NLGP in initiation-promotion protocol established during 4NQO mediated tongue carcinogenesis in relation to systemic immune alteration and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is investigated. Methods: 4NQO was painted on tongue of Swiss mice every third day at a dose of 25microl of 5mg/ml stock solution. After five consecutive treatment with 4NQO (starting Day7), one group of mice was treated with NLGP (s.c., 25microg/mice/week), keeping a group as PBS control. Mice were sacrificed in different time-intervals to harvest tongues and studied using histology, immunohistochemistry, flow-cytometry and RT-PCR on different immune cells and EMT markers (e-cadherin, vimentin) to elucidate their phenotypic and secretory status. Results: Local administration of 4NQO for consecutive 300 days promotes significant alteration in tongue mucosa including erosion in papillae and migration of malignant epithelial cells to the underlying connective tissue stroma with the formation of cell nests (exophytic-hyperkeratosis with mild dysplasia). Therapeutic NLGP treatment delayed pre-neoplastic changes promoting normalization of mucosa by maintaining normal structure. Flow-cytometric evidences suggest that NLGP treatment upregulated CD8+, IFNgamma+, granzyme B+, CD11c+ cells in comparison to 4NQO treated mice with a decrease in Ki67+ and CD4+FoxP3+ cells in NLGP treated cohort. RT-PCR demonstrated a marked reduction of MMP9, IL-6, IL-2, CD31 and an upregulation in CCR5 in tongues from 4NQO+NLGP treated mice in comparison to 4NQO treated group. Moreover, 4NQO mediated changes were associated with reduction of e-cadherin and simultaneous up-regulation of vimentin expression in epithelium that was partially reversed by NLGP. Discussion: Efficacy of NLGP was tested first time in sequential carcinogenesis model and proved effective in delaying the initial progression. NLGP normalizes type 1 immunity including activation of the CD8+T effector functions, reduction of regulatory T cell functions, along with changes in EMT to make the host systemically alert to combat the carcinogenic threat.
38636371 | KLRB1 defines an activated phenotype of CD4+ T cells and shows significant upregulation in patients with primary Sjogren's syndrome. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the role of KLRB1 (CD161) in human CD4+ T cells and elucidate its significance in primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS). METHODS: Peripheral blood samples from 37 healthy controls and 44 pSS patients were collected. The publicly available single-cell RNA-Seq data from pSS patient PBMCs were utilized to analyse KLRB1 expression in T cells. KLRB1-expressing T lymphocyte subset proportions in pSS patients and healthy controls were determined by flow cytometry. CD25, Ki-67, cytokine secretion, and chemokine receptor expression in CD4+ KLRB1+ T cells were detected and compared with those in CD4+ KLRB1- T cells. Correlation analysis was conducted between KLRB1-related T-cell subsets and clinical indicators. ROC curves were generated to explore the diagnostic potential of KLRB1 for pSS. RESULTS: KLRB1 was significantly upregulated following T-cell activation, and Ki-67 and CD25 expression was significantly greater in CD4+ KLRB1+ T cells than in CD4+ KLRB1- T cells. KLRB1+ CD4+ T cells exhibited greater IL-17A, IL-21, IL-22, and IFN-gamma secretion upon stimulation, and there were significantly greater proportions of CCR5+, CCR2+, CX3CR1+, CCR6+, and CXCR3+ cells among CD4+ KLRB1+ T cells than among CD4+ KLRB1- T cells. Compared with that in HCs, KLRB1 expression in CD4+ T cells was markedly elevated in pSS patients and significantly correlated with clinical disease indicators. CONCLUSION: KLRB1 is a characteristic molecule of the CD4+ T-cell activation phenotype. The increased expression of KLRB1 in the CD4+ T cells of pSS patients suggests its potential involvement in the pathogenesis of pSS and its utility as an auxiliary diagnostic marker for pSS.
38643381 | Cenicriviroc, a CCR2/CCR5 antagonist, promotes the generation of type 1 regulatory T cells. Cenicriviroc, a dual CCR2/CCR5 antagonist, initially developed as an anti-HIV drug, has shown promising results in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis phase 2 clinical trials. It inhibits the infiltration and activation of CCR2+/CCR5+ monocytes and macrophages to the site of liver injury, preventing liver fibrosis. However, the role of Cenicriviroc in the modulation of helper T cell differentiation and functions remains to be explored. In inflamed colons of Crohn's disease patients, CCR2+ and CCR5+ CD4+ T cells are enriched. Considering the role of CCR2+ and CCR5+ T cells in IBD pathogenesis, we investigated the potential role of Cenicriviroc in colitis. Our in vitro studies revealed that Cenicriviroc inhibits Th1-, Th2-, and Th17-cell differentiation while promoting the generation of type 1 regulatory T cells (Tr1), known for preventing inflammation through induction of IL-10. This study is the first to report that Cenicriviroc promotes Tr1 cell generation by up-regulating the signature of Tr1 cell transcription factors such as c-Maf, Prdm1, Irf-1, Batf, and EGR-2. Cenicriviroc displayed a protective effect in experimental colitis models by preventing body weight loss and intestinal inflammation and preserving epithelial barrier integrity. We show that Cenicriviroc induced IL-10 and inhibited the generation of pro-inflammatory cytokines IFN-gamma, IL-17, IL-6, and IL-1beta during colitis. Based on our data, we propose Cenicriviroc as a potential therapeutic in controlling tissue inflammation by inhibiting the generation and functions of effector T cells and promoting the induction of anti-inflammatory Tr1 cells.
8640552 | Fusin--a place for HIV-1 and T4 cells to meet. 
8751444 | Resistance to HIV-1 infection in caucasian individuals bearing mutant alleles of the CCR-5 chemokine receptor gene. HIV-1 and related viruses require co-receptors, in addition to CD4, to infect target cells. The chemokine receptor CCR-5 (ref.1) was recently demonstrated to be a co-receptor for macrophage-tropic (M-tropic) HIV-1 strains, and the orphan receptor LESTR (also called fusin) allows infection by strains adapted for growth in transformed T-cell lines (T-tropic strains). Here we show that a mutant allele of CCR-5 is present at a high frequency in caucasian populations (allele frequency, 0.092), but is absent in black populations from Western and Central Africa and Japanese populations. A 32-base-pair deletion within the coding region results in a frame shift, and generates a non-functional receptor that does not support membrane fusion or infection by macrophage- and dual-tropic HIV-1 strains. In a cohort of HIV-1 infected caucasian subjects, no individual homozygous for the mutation was found, and the frequency of heterozygotes was 35% lower than in the general population. White blood cells from an individual homozygous for the null allele were found to be highly resistant to infection by M-tropic HIV-1 viruses, confirming that CCR-5 is the major co-receptor for primary HIV-1 strains. The lower frequency of heterozygotes in seropositive patients may indicate partial resistance.
8752280 | The lymphocyte chemoattractant SDF-1 is a ligand for LESTR/fusin and blocks HIV-1 entry. Chemokines are chemotactic cytokines that activate and direct the migration of leukocytes. There are two subfamilies, the CXC and the CC chemokines. We recently found that the CXC-chemokine stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) is a highly efficacious lymphocyte chemoattractant. Chemokines act on responsive leukocyte subsets through G-protein-coupled seven-transmembrane receptors, which are also used by distinct strains of HIV-1 as cofactors for viral entry. Laboratory-adapted and some T-cell-line-tropic (T-tropic) primary viruses use the orphan chemokine receptor LESTR/fusin (also known as fusin), whereas macrophage-tropic primary HIV-1 isolates use CCR-5 and CCR-3 (refs 7-11), which are receptors for known CC chemokines. Testing of potential receptors demonstrated that SDF-1 signalled through, and hence 'adopted', the orphan receptor LESTR, which we therefore designate CXC-chemokine receptor-4 (CXCR-4). SDF-1 induced an increase in intracellular free Ca2+ and chemotaxis in CXCR-4-transfected cells. Because SDF-1 is a biological ligand for the HIV-1 entry cofactor LESTR, we tested whether it inhibited HIV-1. SDF-1 inhibited infection by T-tropic HIV-1 of HeLa-CD4 cells, CXCR-4 transfectants, and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), but did not affect CCR-5-mediated infection by macrophage-tropic (M-tropic) and dual-tropic primary HIV-1.
8752281 | The CXC chemokine SDF-1 is the ligand for LESTR/fusin and prevents infection by T-cell-line-adapted HIV-1. A putative chemokine receptor that we previously cloned and termed LESTR has recently been shown to function as a co-receptor (termed fusin) for lymphocyte-tropic HIV-1 strains. Cells expressing CD4 became permissive to infection with T-cell-line-adapted HIV-1 strains of the syncytium-inducing phenotype after transfection with LESTR/fusin complementary DNA. We report here the indentification of a human chemokine of the CXC type, stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1), as the natural ligand for LESTR/fusin, and we propose the term CXCR-4 for this receptor, in keeping with the new chemokine-receptor nomenclature. SDF-1 activates Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells transfected with CXCR-4 cDNA as well as blood leukocytes and lymphocytes. In cell lines expressing CXCR-4 and CD4, and in blood lymphocytes, SDF-1 is a powerful inhibitor of infection by lymphocyte-tropic HIV-1 strains, whereas the CC chemokines RANTES, MIP-1 alpha and MIP-1 beta, which were shown previously to prevent infection with primary, monocyte-tropic viruses, are inactive. In combination with CC chemokines, which block the infection with monocyte/macrophage-tropic viruses, SDF-1 could help to decrease virus load and prevent the emergence of the syncytium-inducing viruses which are characteristic of the late stages of AIDS.
8970955 | Primary, syncytium-inducing human immunodeficiency virus type 1 isolates are dual-tropic and most can use either Lestr or CCR5 as coreceptors for virus entry. A panel of primary syncytium-inducing (SI) human immunodeficiency virus type 1 isolates that infected several CD4+ T-cell lines, including MT-2 and C8166, were tested for infection of blood-derived macrophages. Infectivity titers for C8166 cells and macrophages demonstrated that primary SI strains infected macrophages much more efficiently than T-cell line-adapted HIV-1 strains such as LAI and RF. These primary SI strains were therefore dual-tropic. Nine biological clones of two SI strains, prepared by limiting dilution, had macrophage/C8166 infectivity ratios similar to those of their parental viruses, indicating that the dual-tropic phenotype was not due to a mixture of non-SI/macrophage-tropic and SI/T-cell tropic viruses. We tested whether the primary SI strains used either Lestr (fusin) or CCR5 as coreceptors. Infection of cat CCC/CD4 cells transiently expressing Lestr supported infection by T-cell line-adapted strains including LAI, whereas CCC/CD4 cells expressing CCR5 were sensitive to primary non-SI strains as well as to the molecularly cloned strains SF-162 and JR-CSF. Several primary SI strains, as well as the molecularly cloned dual-tropic viruses 89.6 and GUN-1, infected both Lestr+ and CCR5+ CCC/CD4 cells. Thus, these viruses can choose between Lestr and CCR5 for entry into cells. Interestingly, some dual-tropic primary SI strains that infected Lestr+ cells failed to infect CCR5+ cells, suggesting that these viruses may use an alternative coreceptor for infection of macrophages. Alternatively, CCR5 may be processed or presented differently on cat cells so that entry of some primary SI strains but not others is affected.
8995702 | Inhibition of human immunodeficiency virus fusion by a monoclonal antibody to a coreceptor (CXCR4) is both cell type and virus strain dependent. CXCR4 (also termed fusin, LESTR, or HUMSTR) is a member of the G-protein-coupled chemokine receptor family with seven membrane-spanning domains. CXCR4 acts as a coreceptor for syncytium-inducing human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) strains, conferring entry into CD4+ cells. We show here that a novel mouse monoclonal antibody (12G5) that recognizes CXCR4 blocked cell-to-cell fusion and cell free-virus infection of CXCR4+ CD4+ RD rhabdomyosarcoma cells by seven HIV-1 and HIV-2 strains that had various cell tropisms for different CD4+ human cell types. Yet the majority of the members of the same virus panel resisted 12G5 inhibition on T-cell lines. When inhibition was observed on these cell types, it was both cell type and virus strain dependent. In at least one situation, 12G5 failed to block LAI infection of cells expressing CXCR4 as the only available coreceptor. Our observations suggest that CXCR4 could be processed or presented differently depending on the cell type, allowing some strains to evade 12G5 inhibition. Alternatively, since several of the viruses could infect certain CXCR4- CD4+ cell lines, it is conceivable that alternative coreceptors are active, enabling individual HIV strains to choose between compatible coreceptors during entry into cells. Moreover, the strain dependency of 12G5 inhibition implies that the interaction of different HIVs with CXCR4 varies.
9024623 | CD4-independent association between HIV-1 gp120 and CXCR4: functional chemokine receptors are expressed in human neurons. BACKGROUND: Chemokines are a family of proteins that chemoattract and activate immune cells by interacting with specific receptors on the surface of their targets. We have shown previously that chemokine receptors including the interleukin-8 receptor B (CXCR2) and the Duffy blood group antigen are expressed on subsets of neurons in various regions of the adult nervous system. RESULTS: Using a combination of immunohistochemical staining and receptor binding studies, we show that hNT cells, which are differentiated human neurons derived from the cell line NTera2, express functional chemokine receptors of the C-X-X and C-C types. These chemokine receptors include CXCR2, CXCR4, CCR1 and CCR5. We demonstrate high-affinity binding of both types of chemokines to hNT neurons and dose-dependent chemotactic responses to these chemokines in differentiated, but no t undifferentiated, NTera 2 cells. In addition, we show that the envelop glycoprotein from the T-cell-tropic human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) strain IIIB is a CD4-independent, dose-dependent inhibitor of the binding of stromal cell-derived factor 1 to its receptor, CXCR4. CONCLUSIONS: These data support recent findings that members of the chemokine family, including CCR5 and LESTR/Fusin (CXCR4), function as coreceptors in combination with CD4 for HIV-1 invasion. This is the first report of functional expression of chemokine receptors on human neurons. Furthermore, our studies provide for direct CD4-independent association of the viral envelope protein of the HIV-1 strain III with the chemokine receptor CXCR4.
9060623 | Genetically divergent strains of simian immunodeficiency virus use CCR5 as a coreceptor for entry. Entry of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) requires CD4 and one of a family of related seven-transmembrane-domain coreceptors. Macrophage-tropic HIV-1 isolates are generally specific for CCR5, a receptor for the CC chemokines RANTES, MIP-1alpha, and MIP-1beta, while T-cell line-tropic viruses tend to use CXCR4 (also known as fusin, LESTR, or HUMSTR). Like HIV-1, simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) requires CD4 on the target cell surface; however, whether it also requires a coreceptor is not known. We report here that several genetically divergent SIV isolates, including SIVmac, SIVsmSL92a, SIVsmLib-1, and SIVcpzGAB, can use human and rhesus CCR5 for entry. CXCR4 did not facilitate entry of any of the simian viruses tested, nor did any of the other known chemokine receptors. Moreover, SIVmac251 that had been extensively passaged in a human transformed T-cell line retained its use of CCR5. Rhesus and human CCR5 differed at only eight amino acid residues, four of which were in regions of the receptor that could be exposed, two in the amino-terminal extracellular region and two in the second extracellular loop. The human coreceptor was as active as the simian for SIV entry. In addition, HIV-1 was able to use the rhesus homologs of the human coreceptors, CCR5 and CXCR4. The SIV strains tested were specific for CCR5 regardless of whether they were able to replicate in transformed T-cell lines or macrophages and whether they were phenotypically syncytium inducing or noninducing in MT-2 cells. However, SIV replication was not restricted to cells expressing CCR5. SIV strains replicated efficiently in the human transformed lymphoid cell line CEMx174, which does not express detectable amounts of transcripts of CCR5. SIV also replicated in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells that were genetically deficient in CCR5. These findings indicated that, in addition to CCR5, SIV can use one or more unknown coreceptors that are expressed on human PBMCs and CEMx174 cells.
9295051 | Two murine homologues of the human chemokine receptor CXCR4 mediating stromal cell-derived factor 1alpha activation of Gi2 are differentially expressed in vivo. Previous results have shown that pertussis toxin-sensitive Gi proteins are likely to be involved in regulating the emigration of mature thymocytes from the thymus. In this study, a low stringency polymerase chain reaction (PCR) approach was used to identify Gi protein-coupled cell surface receptors expressed in mouse thymocytes. Among the ten G protein-coupled receptor cDNA isolated, the most prevalent cDNA encoded a polypeptide highly homologous to the human leukocyte-expressed seven-transmembrane-domain receptor LESTR, also referred to as HIV entry cofactor, fusin, or CXCR4. Isolation of full-length cDNA revealed that alternative RNA splicing produces transcripts encoding two isoforms of the murine LESTR, differing by the presence of two amino acids in the N-terminal portion of the longer protein. Functional reconstitution of recombinant murine LESTR with recombinant heterotrimeric G proteins in baculovirus-infected insect cells showed that both receptor variants mediate stromal cell-derived factor 1alpha activation of the pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein Gi2. Receptor subtype-specific reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis revealed differential expression of the two receptor mRNA in lymphoid tissues and brain, indicating that distinct functions are mediated by the two receptor isoforms in these tissues. The presence of LESTR mRNA in very early thymocytes as well as in immature (CD4+ CD8+) thymocytes suggests that both CD4 and LESTR are co-expressed and render developing human thymocytes susceptible for HIV entry, which may affect generation of both CD4+ CD8- and CD4- CD8+ mature lineages.
9311827 | Coreceptor usage of primary human immunodeficiency virus type 1 isolates varies according to biological phenotype. The biological phenotype of primary human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) isolates varies according to the severity of the HIV infection. Here we show that the two previously described groups of rapid/high, syncytium-inducing (SI) and slow/low, non-syncytium-inducing (NSI) isolates are distinguished by their ability to utilize different chemokine receptors for entry into target cells. Recent studies have identified the C-X-C chemokine receptor CXCR4 (also named fusin or Lestr) and the C-C chemokine receptor CCR5 as the principal entry cofactors for T-cell-line-tropic and non-T-cell-line-tropic HIV-1, respectively. Using U87.CD4 glioma cell lines, stably expressing the chemokine receptor CCR1, CCR2b, CCR3, CCR5, or CXCR4, we have tested chemokine receptor specificity for a panel of genetically diverse envelope glycoprotein genes cloned from primary HIV-1 isolates and have found that receptor usage was closely associated with the biological phenotype of the virus isolate but not the genetic subtype. We have also analyzed a panel of 36 well-characterized primary HIV-1 isolates for syncytium induction and replication in the same series of cell lines. Infection by slow/low viruses was restricted to cells expressing CCR5, whereas rapid/high viruses could use a variety of chemokine receptors. In addition to the regular use of CXCR4, many rapid/high viruses used CCR5 and some also used CCR3 and CCR2b. Progressive HIV-1 infection is characterized by the emergence of viruses resistant to inhibition by beta-chemokines, which corresponded to changes in coreceptor usage. The broadening of the host range may even enable the use of uncharacterized coreceptors, in that two isolates from immunodeficient patients infected the parental U87.CD4 cell line lacking any engineered coreceptor. Two primary isolates with multiple coreceptor usage were shown to consist of mixed populations, one with a narrow host range using CCR5 only and the other with a broad host range using CCR3, CCR5, or CXCR4, similar to the original population. The results show that all 36 primary HIV-1 isolates induce syncytia, provided that target cells carry the particular coreceptor required by the virus.
9379028 | Cloning and analysis of the promoter region of CXCR4, a coreceptor for HIV-1 entry. The chemokine receptor CXCR4 (also designated fusin and LESTR) is a cofactor for fusion and entry of T cell-tropic strains of HIV-1. CXCR4 is expressed in various cell types; however, the mechanisms involved in the regulation of its expression remain unknown. To delineate these mechanisms, approximately 1.2 kb of DNA from the immediate 5' upstream region of CXCR4 gene was cloned, sequenced, and characterized. Transient expression assays using CXCR4 promoter/luciferase gene reporter constructs revealed that stimulation with PMA plus ionomycin up-regulates the CXCR4 promoter activity in the A3.01 CD4+ T cell line and PBL and that a DNA fragment from -93 to +59 relative to the transcription start site contributes markedly to the basal and induced activity. This fragment contains a consensus TATA box, two potential GC boxes, and a potential nuclear respiratory factor (NRF)-1 binding site, which were confirmed by gel mobility shift assays and footprinting analysis. Mutagenesis studies revealed that a NRF-1 site is especially important for the basal and induced activity of the CXCR4 promoter. Transient expression assays further revealed that stimulation of PBL with either IL-2 or Abs to CD3 and CD28 enhances the CXCR4 promoter activity. Inducibility of the CXCR4 promoter activity by T cell stimulation suggests that overexpression of CXCR4 may be one of the mechanisms whereby immune activation and/or perturbation of the cytokine network up-regulate HIV expression and replication and thus contribute to the progression of HIV disease.
9499113 | Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) envelope binds to CXCR4 independently of CD4, and binding can be enhanced by interaction with soluble CD4 or by HIV envelope deglycosylation. Chemokine receptor CXCR4 (also known as LESTR and fusin) has been shown to function as a coreceptor for T-cell-tropic strains of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). We have developed a binding assay to show that HIV envelope (Env) can interact with CXCR4 independently of CD4 but that this binding is markedly enhanced by the previous interaction of Env with soluble CD4. We also show that nonglycosylated HIV-1(SF-2) gp120 or sodium metaperiodate-treated oligomeric gp160 from HIV-1(451) bound much more readily to CXCR4 than their counterparts with intact carbohydrate residues did.
9770524 | CXCR4 and CD4 mediate a rapid CD95-independent cell death in CD4(+) T cells. AIDS is characterized by a progressive decrease of CD4(+) helper T lymphocytes. Destruction of these cells may involve programmed cell death, apoptosis. It has previously been reported that apoptosis can be induced even in noninfected cells by HIV-1 gp120 and anti-gp120 antibodies. HIV-1 gp120 binds to T cells via CD4 and the chemokine coreceptor CXCR4 (fusin/LESTR). Therefore, we investigated whether CD4 and CXCR4 mediate gp120-induced apoptosis. We used human peripheral blood lymphocytes, malignant T cells, and CD4/CXCR4 transfectants, and found cell death induced by both cell surface receptors, CD4 and CXCR4. The induced cell death was rapid, independent of known caspases, and lacking oligonucleosomal DNA fragmentation. In addition, the death signals were not propagated via p56(lck) and Gialpha. However, the cells showed chromatin condensation, morphological shrinkage, membrane inversion, and reduced mitochondrial transmembrane potential indicative of apoptosis. Significantly, apoptosis was exclusively observed in CD4(+) but not in CD8(+) T cells, and apoptosis triggered via CXCR4 was inhibited by stromal cell-derived factor-1, the natural CXCR4 ligand. Thus, this mechanism of apoptosis might contribute to T cell depletion in AIDS and might have major implications for therapeutic intervention.
9815249 | Unresponsive CD4+ T lymphocytes from Leishmania chagasi-infected mice increase cytokine production and mediate parasite killing after blockade of B7-1/CTLA-4 molecular pathway. Infection of BALB/c mice with Leishmania chagasi results in progressive increase of parasite burden in spleen, in spite of extensive T cell activation in situ. Explanted splenic CD4+ T cells showed decreased proliferation to anti-CD3, compared with controls, and no response to L. chagasi recombinant antigen Lcr1. Blockade of the negative costimulatory receptor CTLA-4 restored responses to anti-CD3 and induced vigorous responses to Lcr1. Blockade of B7-1, but not B7-2, also enhanced T cell responsiveness. CTLA-4 blockade completely restored activation-induced interleukin-2 secretion and increased interferon-gamma production. The effect, however, was not restricted to Th1 responses, since CTLA-4 blockade also enhanced antigen-induced interleukin-4 secretion. CTLA-4 blockade induced almost complete elimination of parasite burden in splenocyte cultures activated with anti-CD3 or Lcr1. These results indicate that CTLA-4 engagement by B7-1 plays an important role in maintaining unresponsiveness in CD4+ T cells in this model of chronic visceral leishmaniasis.
10555208 | In a human lymphomyeloid progenitor cell line (KG-1) HIV-1 gp120 binds to chemokine-receptors CXC-R4 and CCR5, only in the presence of CD4. A CD34+ human hematopoietic progenitor cell lines, KG-1, became susceptible to HIV-1 infection in the presence of a concurrent infection by human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6). We have now analyzed the possible mechanism(s) underlying this phenomenon, in the light of the recent demonstration that at least two members of the chemokine receptor family, CXCR4 (LESTR/fusin) and CCR5 molecules, are the HIV-1-specific co-receptors, necessary, together with the high affinity receptor CD4, for the entry into target cells of HIV-1. Cytofluorimetric analysis demonstrated that in KG-1 cells, after HHV-6 infection, more than 40% of cell population became CD4 positive and only in KG-1 cells expressing the CD4+ phenotype, the exposure to r-gp120 masks a significant amount, not only of CD4, but also of both CXCR4 and CCR5 chemokine receptors. In fact, only when pre-infected by HHV-6, KG-1 cells, after exposure to r-gp120, exhibit a significant reduction in the percentage of CXCR4 or CCR5-positive cells.
10738970 | Modulation of CD4, CXCR-4, and CCR-5 makes human hematopoietic progenitor cell lines infected with human herpesvirus-6 susceptible to human immunodeficiency virus type 1. Two CD34+ human hematopoietic progenitor cell (HPC) lines, KG-1 and TF-1, became susceptible to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in the presence of a concurrent infection by human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6). We have analyzed the possible mechanism(s) underlying this phenomenon in light of the recent demonstration that at least two members of the chemokine receptor family, CXCR4 (LESTR/fusin) and CCR5 molecules, are the HIV-1-specific coreceptors necessary, together with the high-affinity receptor CD4, for entry into target cells of T-tropic and M-tropic HIV-1 isolates, respectively. KG-1 cells show CXCR4 and CCR5 surface molecules in a large proportion of the cell population. Therefore, their susceptibility to both T-tropic and M-tropic HIV-1 strains, caused by HHV-6 infection, can be explained by the HHV-6-induced appearance of CD4 molecules in about 40% of the cell population. In TF-1 cells, 10%-15% of which are CD4+ and exhibit a consistent CCR5 presence in a large proportion of the cell population and a hardly detectable amount of CXCR4 in a very limited number of cells, HHV-6 infection does not modify the cell surface availability of HIV-1-specific high-affinity receptor or coreceptors.
10820198 | gp120 induces cell death in human neuroblastoma cells through the CXCR4 and CCR5 chemokine receptors. To infect target cells, the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) type I (HIV-1) must engage not only the well-known CD4 molecule, but it also requires one of several recently described coreceptors. In particular, the CXCR4 (LESTR/fusin) receptor allows fusion and entry of T-tropic strains of HIV, whereas CCR5 is the major coreceptor used by primary HIV-1 strains that infect macrophages and CD4(+) T-helper cells (M-tropic viruses). In addition, the alpha chemokine SDF1alpha and the beta chemokines MIP1alpha, MIP1beta, and RANTES, natural ligands of CXCR4 and CCR5, respectively, are potent soluble inhibitors of HIV infection by blocking the binding between the viral envelope glycoprotein gp120 and the coreceptors. Approximately two-thirds of individuals with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) show neurologic complications, which are referred to a syndrome called AIDS dementia complex or HIV-1-associated cognitive/motor complex. The HIV-1 coat glycoprotein gp120 has been proposed as the major etiologic agent for neuronal damage, mediating both direct and indirect effects on the CNS. Furthermore, recent findings showing the presence of chemokine receptors on the surface of different cell types resident in the CNS raise the possibility that the association of gp120 with these receptors may contribute to the pathogenesis of neurological dysfunction. Here, we address the possible role of alpha and beta chemokines in inhibiting gp120-mediated neurotoxicity using the human neuroblastoma CHP100 cell line as an experimental model. We have previously shown that, in CHP100 cells, picomolar concentrations of gp120 produce a significant increase in cell death, which seems to proceed through a Ca(2+) - and NMDA receptor-dependent cascade. In this study, we gained insight into the mechanism(s) of neurotoxicity elicited by the viral glycoprotein. We found that CHP100 cells constitutively express both CXCR4 and CCR5 receptors and that stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate down-regulates their expression, thus preventing gp120-induced cell death. Furthermore, all the natural ligands of these receptors exerted protective effects against gp120-mediated neuronal damage, although with different efficiencies. These findings, together with our previous reports, suggest that the neuronal injury observed in HIV-1 infection could be due to direct (or indirect) interactions between the viral protein gp120 and chemokine and/or NMDA receptors.
14625051 | Establishment of an HIV cell-cell fusion assay by using two genetically modified HeLa cell lines and reporter gene. Infection of human cells with the human immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV-1) can be mimicked by a fusion process between cells expressing the HIV envelope protein (Env) and cells expressing both human CD4 together with the appropriate human chemokine receptors. In this study, a T-tropic HIV cell-cell fusion assay was established that utilized CD4, human CXCR4 and HIV NL4-3 gp160 as fusion components and a T7 polymerase-activated luciferase as a reporter system. The HeLa T4 cells used, expressed CD4 and CXCR4, and the applied HeLa KS386 cells expressed HIV NL4-3 gp160. By combining HeLa T4 cells with HeLa KS386 cells, an approximately about 100- to 300-fold increase in luciferase activity could be elicited relative to the control. The addition of anti-CD4 monoclonal antibody (Mab) (RPA-T4) or anti-CXCR4 Mab (12G5) in the assay significantly inhibited the fusion event; in contrast, an anti-CCR5 Mab (2D7) had no effect, indicating that the fusion assay was CD4 and CXCR4 dependent. In this report, fusion events could be monitored by both the luciferase reporter system and syncytia formation. Fusion events were monitored and compared using these two approaches. The luciferase reporter system was found to be more sensitive than syncytia formation. Moreover, compared with previous HIV fusion models, such as using recombinant vaccinia viruses, this system has several advantages, including simplicity and sensitivity. Finally, the system provides a powerful tool to study fusion mechanisms mediated by T-tropic HIV gp160, as well as to screen for fusion-blocking antibodies and antiviral agents.
15967444 | Induction of 15-lipoxygenase-1 impairs expression of HIV-1 receptors CD4 and CXCR4 in monocytic cells. The lipoxygenase pathway of immunocompetent cells has been related to HIV infection and interleukins-4 and -13 have been described as major regulators of this metabolic route. To explore whether 15-lipoxygenase1 expression might impact the responsiveness of monocytic cells for HIV we induced expression of this enzyme by two independent ways (stable transfection of U937 cells and culturing of blood monocytes in vitro in the presence of granulocyte/monocyte colony stimulating factor and interleukin 4) and assayed the cellular content of the two HIV-1 receptors CD4 and CXCR4 (CD184) by real time RT-PCR and fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Wild-type U937 cells express CD4 and CXCR4 at high levels and expression was not altered when the cells were transfected with control plasmids. In contrast, expression of these proteins was strongly reduced when the cells were stably transfected with 15-lipoxygenase1. Similar effects were observed when blood monocytes were cultured in the presence of granulocyte/monocyte colony stimulating factor and interleukin-4. Under these conditions strong overexpression of 15-lipoxygenase1 was paralleled by downregulation of CD4 and CXCR4. Since these surface proteins are essential for the binding of T-tropic HIV-1 strains expression of 15-lipoxygenase1 may confer resistance against HIV infection to monocytic cells.
16146542 | Extensive flow cytometric characterization of plasmacytoid dendritic cell leukemia cells. OBJECTIVES: Accumulating evidence suggests that non-T, non-B cell CD4+CD56+ neoplasms with lymphoblastic morphology include clinically and immunophenotypically diverse entities. Although their cells of origin or classification are still controversial several entities clearly represent a distinct type of neoplasms that are clinically aggressive. METHODS: In this work we present the immunophenotypic and genotypic features of bone marrow (BM), peripheral blood (PB), lymph node and skin lymphocytes from a patient diagnosed as plasmacytoid dendritic cell leukemia involving the skin, BM, PB, lymph nodes, liver and spleen. For determination of immunophenotypic characteristics of malignant plasmacytoid dendritic cells 73 monoclonal antibodies detecting lineage markers, chemokine receptors, cytokine receptors, activation, and co-stimulatory molecules were used. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: The malignant cells proved to express CD4+, CD56+ lineage negative leukemia phenotype characteristically positive for CD36, CD38, CD40, CD45, CD45RA, CD68, CD123, CD184, HLA-DR, BDCA2, and granzyme-B corresponding to the preplasmacytoid dendritic cell developmental stage. The presence of CD11a/CD18, CD84, CD91, CD95, alphavbeta5, CDw197, and the absence of CD52 and CD133 in this case can be regarded as additional features of malignant cells. Completing the immunophenotypes with multidrug resistance function can provide additional information for characterizing pDC leukemia.
22133596 | The expression of the hypoxia markers CA9 and CXCR4 is correlated with survival in patients with neuroendocrine tumours of the ileum. BACKGROUND/AIM: The hypoxia-inducible factor pathway regulates the expression of a diverse group of molecules such as CA9 and CXCR4. Our aim was to investigate the expression of these markers in a series of patients with an ileal neuroendocrine tumour (IET) at various stages of tumorigenesis. METHODS: The immunohistochemical expression of CA9 and CXCR4 was examined in 51 patients with a resected IET. A 'hypoxic score' was calculated, integrating the expression of both CA9 and CXCR4 (hypoxic score 0: absence of expression of both molecules; hypoxic score 1: expression of CXCR4 and/or CA9). Results were compared to histoprognostic factors (including tumour size, stage and grade, WHO and TNM classifications, presence of vascular or perineural invasion, presence of a fibrotic stroma and microvascular density) and to survival. RESULTS: All tumours were well differentiated. 69% of tumours were less than 25 mm. 46% of tumours largely infiltrated the intestinal wall (>=T3, subserosa and serosa) and 90% were classified as N1 and/or 63% as M1. 57% of tumours were of grade G1, 43% of grade G2. Grade G2 (p=0.004) and larger tumour infiltration (>=T4; p=0.03) correlated with lower survival. Hypoxic score 1 correlated with a greater tumour size (p=0.034), larger tumour infiltration (T3 or T4; p=0.001), grade G2 (p=0.046), presence of lymph node metastasis (p=0.0066) and with lower survival of patients (p=0.03). CONCLUSION: The hypoxia-inducible factors CA9 and CXCR4 were found associated to the malignant progression of neuroendocrine tumours of the ileum. Their expression may reflect higher tumour aggressivity.
22140264 | Molecular determinants of HIV-2 R5-X4 tropism in the V3 loop: development of a new genotypic tool. OBJECTIVE: The use of CCR5 inhibitors requires a tool to predict human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2) tropism, as established in HIV-1. The aim of our study was to identify genotypic determinants of HIV-2 tropism located in the gp105 V3 loop. METHODS: HIV-2 tropism phenotypic assays were performed on 53 HIV-2 clinical isolates using GFP expressing human osteosarcoma T4 [GHOST(3)] cell lines expressing CD4 and CCR5 or CXCR4 coreceptors. The gp105 V3 loop was sequenced and analyzed. RESULTS: Thirty-four HIV-2 isolates were classified as R5, 7 as X4, and 12 as X4/R5 (dual). Substitution at residue 18 was always associated with a dual/X4 tropism (P < .00001). The following determinants were associated with dual/X4 tropism: a global net charge of more than +6 (P < .00001), V19K/R mutation (P < .00001), S22A/F/Y mutation (P < .002), Q23R mutation (P < .00001), and insertions at residue 24 (P < .00001), I25L/Y (P < .0004), R28K (P < .0004), and R30K (P < .014). These mutations were not found in R5 isolates, except R28K and R30K, which were detected in 4 and 5 R5 isolates, respectively. The 4 major genotypic determinants of dual/X4 tropism were mutation at residue 18, V19 K/R mutation, insertions at residue 24, and V3 global net charge. CONCLUSIONS: We established a strong association between HIV-2 phenotypic tropism and V3-loop sequences, allowing for the prediction of R5- and/or X4-tropic viruses in HIV-2 infection.
22363634 | alpha1Proteinase inhibitor regulates CD4+ lymphocyte levels and is rate limiting in HIV-1 disease. BACKGROUND: The regulation of adult stem cell migration through human hematopoietic tissue involves the chemokine CXCL12 (SDF-1) and its receptor CXCR4 (CD184). In addition, human leukocyte elastase (HLE) plays a key role. When HLE is located on the cell surface (HLE(CS)), it acts not as a proteinase, but as a receptor for alpha(1)proteinase inhibitor (alpha(1)PI, alpha(1)antitrypsin, SerpinA1). Binding of alpha(1)PI to HLE(CS) forms a motogenic complex. We previously demonstrated that alpha(1)PI deficiency attends HIV-1 disease and that alpha(1)PI augmentation produces increased numbers of immunocompetent circulating CD4(+) lymphocytes. Herein we investigated the mechanism underlying the alpha(1)PI deficiency that attends HIV-1 infection. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Active alpha(1)PI in HIV-1 subjects (median 17 microM, n = 35) was significantly below normal (median 36 microM, p<0.001, n = 30). In HIV-1 uninfected subjects, CD4(+) lymphocytes were correlated with the combined factors alpha(1)PI, HLE(CS) (+) lymphocytes, and CXCR4(+) lymphocytes (r(2) = 0.91, p<0.001, n = 30), but not CXCL12. In contrast, in HIV-1 subjects with >220 CD4 cells/microl, CD4(+) lymphocytes were correlated solely with active alpha(1)PI (r(2) = 0.93, p<0.0001, n = 26). The monoclonal anti-HIV-1 gp120 antibody 3F5 present in HIV-1 patient blood is shown to bind and inactivate human alpha(1)PI. Chimpanzee alpha(1)PI differs from human alpha(1)PI by a single amino acid within the 3F5-binding epitope. Unlike human alpha(1)PI, chimpanzee alpha(1)PI did not bind 3F5 or become depleted following HIV-1 challenge, consistent with the normal CD4(+) lymphocyte levels and benign syndrome of HIV-1 infected chimpanzees. The presence of IgG-alpha(1)PI immune complexes correlated with decreased CD4(+) lymphocytes in HIV-1 subjects. CONCLUSIONS: This report identifies an autoimmune component of HIV-1 disease that can be overcome therapeutically. Importantly, results identify an achievable vaccine modification with the novel objective to protect against AIDS as opposed to the current objective to protect against HIV-1 infection.
22513895 | Characterization of the homodimerization interface and functional hotspots of the CXCR4 chemokine receptor. The recent crystallographic structures of the human chemokine CXC Receptor 4 (CXCR4) provide experimental evidence of a human G Protein-Coupled Receptor (GPCR) dimer in atomic detail. The CXCR4 homodimers reveal an unexpected dimerization mode involving transmembrane helices TM5 and TM6, which is examined here using all-atom molecular dynamics (MD) simulations in the physiological environment of a lipid bilayer. The bacteriophage T4 lysozyme (T4L), which was fused to the crystallized protein but absent in our simulations, is found to slightly affect the observed relative position of the protomers in the two dimers studied here, and consequently some rearrangements of the dimerization interface are proposed. In addition, the simulations provide further evidence about the role of the two stabilizing single point mutations introduced to crystallize the receptor. Finally, this work analyzes the structural and dynamic role of key residues involved both in ligand binding and in the infection process of HIV. In particular, the different side chain conformations of His113(3.39) are found to influence the dynamics of the surrounding functional hotspot region being evaluated both in the presence and in the absence of the co-crystallized ligand IT1t. The analysis reported here adds valuable knowledge for future structure-based drug design (SBDD) efforts on this pharmacological target.
23495770 | Regulatory T cells, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), CXCL10, CXCL11, epidermal growth factor (EGF) and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) as surrogate markers of host immunity in patients with renal cell carcinoma. OBJECTIVE: To identify a phenotype that could be informative and prognostic in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) peripheral blood was evaluated for TH1, TH2, regulatory T cells (Tregs), natural killer (NK) and NKT cells and for cytokines/chemokines. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Peripheral blood from 77 patients with RCC and 40 healthy controls was evaluated by flow cytometry using monoclonal antibodies against CD4, CD25, FoxP3, CD45RA, CD45RO, CD152, CD184, CD279, CD3, CD16, CD56, CD161, CD158a, CD4, CD26, CD30, CD183 and CD184. A concomitant evaluation of 38 molecules was conducted in patients' serum using a multiplex biometric ELISA-based immunoassay. RESULTS: The number of NK cells CD3-/CD16+, CD3-/CD16+/CD161+ (NK) and CD3-/CD16+/CD161+/CD158a+ (NK- Kir 2+) was greater in the patients with RCC (P < 0.05); and the number of Treg cells CD4+/CD25(high+)/FOXP3+ and the subset CD4+/CD25(high+)/FOXP3+/CD45RA+ (naive) and CD45R0+(memory) cells, were greater in the patients with RCC (P < 0.001). An increase in the following was observed in the serum of patients with RCC compared with healthy controls: interleukin (IL)-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, G-CSF, CXCL10, CXCL11, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). According to Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA), CXCL10, IL-6, IL-8, epidermal growth factor (EGF), HGF and VEGF were associated with a network that controls cellular movement, tissue development and cellular growth. Kaplan-Meier analysis for disease-free survival showed that high numbers of CD4+/CD25(high+)/FOXP3+/CD45RA+ (Treg naive) and low numbers of CD3-/CD16+/CD161+/CD158a+ (NK-Kir+) cells predict short disease-free survival in patients with RCC. CONCLUSION: Concomitant evaluation of Treg (CD4+/CD25(high+)/FOXP3+ and CD4+/CD25(high+)/FOXP3+/CD45RA+) and of six soluble factors (IL-6, IL-8 ,VEGF, CXCL10, CXCL11, EGF, HGF) might be a surrogate marker of host immunity in patients with RCC.
26154172 | The Effects of the Recombinant CCR5 T4 Lysozyme Fusion Protein on HIV-1 Infection. BACKGROUND: Insertion of T4 lysozyme (T4L) into the GPCR successfully enhanced GPCR protein stability and solubilization. However, the biological functions of the recombinant GPCR protein have not been analyzed. METHODS: We engineered the CCR5-T4L mutant and expressed and purified the soluble recombinant protein using an E.coli expression system. The antiviral effects of this recombinant protein in THP-1 cell lines, primary human macrophages, and PBMCs from different donors were investigated. We also explored the possible mechanisms underlying the observed antiviral effects. RESULTS: Our data showed the biphasic inhibitory and promotion effects of different concentrations of soluble recombinant CCR5-T4L protein on R5 tropic human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection in THP-1 cell lines, human macrophages, and PBMCs from clinical isolates. We demonstrated that soluble recombinant CCR5-T4L acts as a HIV-1 co-receptor, interacts with wild type CCR5, down-regulates the surface CCR5 expression in human macrophages, and interacts with CCL5 to inhibit macrophage migration. Using binding assays, we further determined that recombinant CCR5-T4L and [125I]-CCL5 compete for the same binding site on wild type CCR5. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that recombinant CCR5-T4L protein marginally promotes HIV-1 infection at low concentrations and markedly inhibits infection at higher concentrations. This recombinant protein may be helpful in the future development of anti-HIV-1 therapeutic agents.
28655090 | [Molecular mechanisms and relationship of M2-polarized macrophages with early response in multiple myeloma]. Objective: To investigate the relationship between M2-polarized macrophages and early response in multiple myeloma and its molecular mechanism. Methods: Two hundred and forty bone marrow biopsy tissue were collected and M2-polarized macrophages were stained by anti-CD163 monoclonal antibody. In vitro M2-polarized macrophages were derived from human peripheral blood mononuclear cell or THP-1 cells and identified by flow cytometry. Two myeloma cell lines RPMI 8226 and U266 were co-cultured with M2 macrophages using a transwell system. We measured myeloma cells proliferation through CCK-8 method and the pro-inflammatory cytokines expression (TNF-alpha and IL-6) by ELISA. Real time PCR was applied to measure chemokines (CCL2 and CCL3) , chemokine receptors (CCR2, CCR5) , VEGF and their receptors. In addition, flow cytometry was used to analyze the apoptosis of myeloma cells induced by dexamethasone. Results: (1)Patients with high percentage of M2 macrophage involvement in bone marrow showed poorer response (23.9% versus 73.0%, chi(2)=60.31, P<0.001). (2) In vitro the proliferation of RPMI 8226 cells (P=0.005 at 24 h, P=0.020 at 36 h) or U266 myeloma cells (P= 0.030 at 24h, P=0.020 at 36h) co-cultured with M2-polarized macrophages was higher than control group. (3)In vitro the apoptotic rate of RPMI 8226 cells (29.0% versus 71.0%, t=4.97, P=0.008) or U266 myeloma cells (24.9% versus 67.7%, t=6.99, P=0.002) co-cultured with M2-polarized macrophages was lower than control group. (4) In vitro M2-polarized macrophages promoted myeloma cells secreting higher level of IL-6, TNF-alpha and higher expression of CCL2, CCL3, CCR2, CCR5, VEGFA, VEGFR-1,-2 compared with the non-macrophage co-culture system. Conclusion: M2-polarized macrophages promote myeloma cells proliferation and inhibit apoptosis through a very complex mechanism involving pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-alpha, chemokines and related receptors such as CCL2, CCL3, CCR2, CCR3, and VEGF as well as related VEGFR.
29221851 | CCR5 chemokine receptor gene polymorphisms in ocular toxoplasmosis. CC chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5) is a chemokine receptor that influences the immune response to infectious and parasitic diseases. This study aimed to determine whether the CCR5Delta32 and CCR5 59029 A/G polymorphisms are associated with the development of ocular toxoplasmosis in humans. Patients with positive serology for Toxoplasma gondii were analyzed and grouped as 'with ocular toxoplasmosis' (G1: n=160) or 'without ocular toxoplasmosis' (G2: n=160). A control group (G3) consisted of 160 individuals with negative serology. The characterization of the CCR5Delta32 and CCR5 59029 A/G polymorphisms was by PCR and by PCR-RFLP, respectively. The difference between the groups with respect to the mean age (G1: mean age: 47.3, SD+-19.3, median: 46 [range: 18-95]; G2: mean age: 61.3, SD+-13.7, median: 61 [range: 21-87]; G3: mean age: 38.8, SD+-17.9, median: 34 [range: 18-80]) was statistically significant (G1 vs.G2: p-value <0.0001; t=7.21; DF=318; G1 vs.G3: p-value <0.0001; t=4.32; DF=318; G2 vs. G3: p-value <0.0001; t=9.62; DF=318). The Nagelkerke r2 value was 0.040. There were statistically significant differences for the CCR5/CCR5 (p-value=0.008; OR=0.261), AA (p-value=0.007; OR=2.974) and AG genotypes (p-value=0.018; OR=2.447) between G1 and G2. Individuals with the CCR5/CCR5 genotype and simultaneously the CCR5-59029 AA or AG genotypes have a greater risk of developing ocular toxoplasmosis (4% greater), which may be associated with a strong and persistent inflammatory response in ocular tissue.
30776910 | Mozobil  (Plerixafor, AMD3100), 10 years after its approval by the US Food and Drug Administration. AMD3100 (plerixafor, Mozobil ) was first identified as an anti-HIV agent specifically active against the T4-lymphotropic HIV strains, as it selectively blocked the CXCR4 receptor. Through interference with the interaction of CXCR4 with its natural ligand, SDF-1 (also named CXCL12), it also mobilized the CD34+stem cells from the bone marrow into the peripheral blood stream. In December 2008, AMD3100 was formally approved by the US FDA for autologous transplantation in patients with Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma or multiple myeloma. It may be beneficially used in various other malignant diseases as well as hereditary immunological disorders such as WHIM syndrome, and physiopathological processes such as hepatopulmonary syndrome.
31428524 | CCR5 status and metastatic progression in colorectal cancer. Multiple reports have highlighted the importance of the local immunological cellular composition (i.e. the density of effector T cells and macrophage polarization state) in predicting clinical outcome in advanced metastatic stage of colorectal cancer. However, in spite of the general association between a high effector T cell density and improved outcome, our recent work has revealed a specific lymphocyte-driven cancer cell-supporting signal. Indeed, lymphocyte-derived CCL5 supports CCR5-positive tumor cell proliferation and thereby fosters tumor growth in metastatic liver lesions. Upon systematic analysis of CCR5 expression by tumor cells using immunohistochemistry, we observed that the intensity of CCR5 increases with primary tumor size and peaks in T4 tumors. In liver metastases however, though CCR5 expression intensity is globally heightened compared to primary tumors, alterations in the expression patterns appear, leading to \patchiness\ of the stain. CCR5 patchiness is, therefore, a signature of liver metastases in our cohort (n = 97 specimens) and relates to globally decreased expression intensity, but does not influence the extent of the response to CCR5 inhibitor Maraviroc in patients. Moreover, CCR5 patchiness relates to a poor immune landscape characterized by a low cytotoxic-to-regulatory T cell ratio at the invasive margin and enriched cellular and molecular markers of macrophage M2 polarization. Finally, because higher numbers of PD-1- and CTLA-4-positive cells surround tumors with patchy CCR5 expression, one can speculate that these tumors potentially respond to immune checkpoint blockade. This hypothesis is corroborated by the prolonged disease-free survival and disease-specific survival observed in patients with low gene expression of CCR5 in metastases from two publically available cohorts. These observations highlight the complex role of the CCL5-CCR5 axis in CRC metastatic progression and warrant further investigations.
33047584 | [Effectiveness of intraperitoneal chemotherapy for t4 colon cancer]. OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of intraperitoneal chemotherapy (IPC) with mitomycin C on expression of intraperitoneal cancer cells markers in patients with T4 colon cancer. MATERIAL AND METHODS: For the period from January 2019 to April 2020, 65 patients with T4 colon cancer were included in prospective comparative study. There were 46 patients in the main group and 19 patients in the control group. In the main group, surgical procedure was followed by IPC with mitomycin C. No IPC was performed in the control group. An effectiveness of IPC was evaluated using CD133, CD24, CD26, CD44, CD184 markers expression in peritoneal lavages. RESULTS: Significant between-group differences were observed for CD133 (p=0.0168), CD24 (p=0.0455) and CD44 (p=0.0012). There was a tendency to decrease in the level of CD184 expression in both groups in the second lavage (p=0.0605). CONCLUSION: IPC in patients with T4 colon cancer can reduce the expression and proliferative potential of free cancer cells.
34744730 | A Selective Neutraligand for CXCL12/SDF-1alpha With Beneficial Regulatory Functions in MRL/Lpr Lupus Prone Mice. Dysregulation of CXCL12/SDF-1-CXCR4/CD184 signaling is associated with inflammatory diseases and notably with systemic lupus erythematosus. Issued from the lead molecule chalcone-4, the first neutraligand of the CXCL12 chemokine, LIT-927 was recently described as a potent analogue with improved solubility and stability. We aimed to investigate the capacity of LIT-927 to correct immune alterations in lupus-prone MRL/lpr mice and to explore the mechanism of action implemented by this small molecule in this model. We found that in contrast to AMD3100, an antagonist of CXCR4 and agonist of CXCR7, LIT-927 reduces the excessive number of several B/T lymphocyte subsets occurring in the blood of sick MRL/lpr mice (including CD3+/CD4-/CD8-/B220+ double negative T cells). In vitro, LIT-927 downregulated the overexpression of several activation markers on splenic MRL/lpr lymphocytes. It exerted effects on the CXCR4 pathway in MRL/lpr CD4+ T spleen cells. The results underline the importance of the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis in lupus pathophysiology. They indicate that neutralizing CXCL12 by the neutraligand LIT-927 can attenuate hyperactive lymphocytes in lupus. This mode of intervention might represent a novel strategy to control a common pathophysiological mechanism occurring in inflammatory diseases.
36815832 | Characterization of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV-1) Envelope Glycoprotein Conformational States on Infectious Virus Particles. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) entry into cells involves triggering of the viral envelope glycoprotein (Env) trimer ([gp120/gp41]3) by the primary receptor, CD4, and coreceptors, CCR5 or CXCR4. The pretriggered (State-1) conformation of the mature (cleaved) Env is targeted by broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs), which are inefficiently elicited compared with poorly neutralizing antibodies (pNAbs). Here, we characterize variants of the moderately triggerable HIV-1AD8 Env on virions produced by an infectious molecular proviral clone; such virions contain more cleaved Env than pseudotyped viruses. We identified three types of cleaved wild-type AD8 Env trimers on virions: (i) State-1-like trimers preferentially recognized by bNAbs and exhibiting strong subunit association; (ii) trimers recognized by pNAbs directed against the gp120 coreceptor-binding region and exhibiting weak, detergent-sensitive subunit association; and (iii) a minor gp41-only population. The first Env population was enriched and the other Env populations reduced by introducing State-1-stabilizing changes in the AD8 Env or by treatment of the virions with crosslinker or the State-1-preferring entry inhibitor, BMS-806. These stabilized AD8 Envs were also more resistant to gp120 shedding induced by a CD4-mimetic compound or by incubation on ice. Conversely, a State-1-destabilized, CD4-independent AD8 Env variant exhibited weaker bNAb recognition and stronger pNAb recognition. Similar relationships between Env triggerability and antigenicity/shedding propensity on virions were observed for other HIV-1 strains. State-1 Envs on virions can be significantly enriched by minimizing the adventitious incorporation of uncleaved Env; stabilizing the pretriggered conformation by Env modification, crosslinking or BMS-806 treatment; strengthening Env subunit interactions; and using CD4-negative producer cells. IMPORTANCE Efforts to develop an effective HIV-1 vaccine have been frustrated by the inability to elicit broad neutralizing antibodies that recognize multiple virus strains. Such antibodies can bind a particular shape of the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein trimer, as it exists on a viral membrane but before engaging receptors on the host cell. Here, we establish simple yet powerful assays to characterize the envelope glycoproteins in a natural context on virus particles. We find that, depending on the HIV-1 strain, some envelope glycoproteins change shape and fall apart, creating decoys that can potentially divert the host immune response. We identify requirements to keep the relevant envelope glycoprotein target for broad neutralizing antibodies intact on virus-like particles. These studies suggest strategies that should facilitate efforts to produce and use virus-like particles as vaccine immunogens.
36961924 | Indoline CD4-mimetic compounds mediate potent and broad HIV-1 inhibition and sensitization to antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Binding to the host cell receptors, CD4 and CCR5/CXCR4, triggers large-scale conformational changes in the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) trimer [(gp120/gp41)3] that promote virus entry into the cell. CD4-mimetic compounds (CD4mcs) comprise small organic molecules that bind in the highly conserved CD4-binding site of gp120 and prematurely induce inactivating Env conformational changes, including shedding of gp120 from the Env trimer. By inducing more \open,\ antibody-susceptible Env conformations, CD4mcs also sensitize HIV-1 virions to neutralization by antibodies and infected cells to antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC). Here, we report the design, synthesis, and evaluation of novel CD4mcs based on an indoline scaffold. Compared with our current lead indane scaffold CD4mc, BNM-III-170, several indoline CD4mcs exhibit increased potency and breadth against HIV-1 variants from different geographic clades. Viruses that were selected for resistance to the lead indane CD4mc, BNM-III-170, are susceptible to inhibition by the indoline CD4mcs. The indoline CD4mcs also potently sensitize HIV-1-infected cells to ADCC mediated by plasma from HIV-1-infected individuals. Crystal structures indicate that the indoline CD4mcs gain potency compared to the indane CD4mcs through more favorable pi-pi overlap from the indoline pose and by making favorable contacts with the vestibule of the CD4-binding pocket on gp120. The rational design of indoline CD4mcs thus holds promise for further improvements in antiviral activity, potentially contributing to efforts to treat and prevent HIV-1 infection.
37133343 | Severe CD8+ T Lymphopenia in WHIM Syndrome Caused by Selective Sequestration in Primary Immune Organs. Warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis (WHIM) syndrome is an ultra-rare combined primary immunodeficiency disease caused by heterozygous gain-of-function mutations in the chemokine receptor CXCR4. WHIM patients typically present with recurrent acute infections associated with myelokathexis (severe neutropenia due to bone marrow retention of mature neutrophils). Severe lymphopenia is also common, but the only associated chronic opportunistic pathogen is human papillomavirus and mechanisms are not clearly defined. In this study, we show that WHIM mutations cause more severe CD8 than CD4 lymphopenia in WHIM patients and WHIM model mice. Mechanistic studies in mice revealed selective and WHIM allele dose-dependent accumulation of mature CD8 single-positive cells in thymus in a cell-intrinsic manner due to prolonged intrathymic residence, associated with increased CD8 single-positive thymocyte chemotactic responses in vitro toward the CXCR4 ligand CXCL12. In addition, mature WHIM CD8+ T cells preferentially home to and are retained in the bone marrow in mice in a cell-intrinsic manner. Administration of the specific CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100 (plerixafor) in mice rapidly and transiently corrected T cell lymphopenia and the CD4/CD8 ratio. After lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus infection, we found no difference in memory CD8+ T cell differentiation or viral load between wild-type and WHIM model mice. Thus, lymphopenia in WHIM syndrome may involve severe CXCR4-dependent CD8+ T cell deficiency resulting in part from sequestration in the primary lymphoid organs, thymus, and bone marrow.
37345240 | HIV Preintegration Transcription and Host Antagonism. Retrovirus integration is an obligatory step for the viral life cycle, but large amounts of unintegrated DNA (uDNA) accumulate during retroviral infection. For simple retroviruses, in the absence of integration, viral genomes are epigenetically silenced in host cells. For complex retroviruses such as HIV, preintegration transcription has been found to occur at low levels from a large population of uDNA even in the presence of host epigenetic silencing mechanisms. HIV preintegration transcription has been suggested to be a normal early process of HIV infection that leads to the syntheses of all three classes of viral transcripts: multiply-spliced, singly-spliced, and unspliced genomic RNA; only viral early proteins such as Nef are selectively translated at low levels in blood CD4 T cells and macrophages, the primary targets of HIV. The initiation and persistence of HIV preintegration transcription have been suggested to rely on viral accessory proteins, particularly virion Vpr and de novo Tat generated from uDNA; both proteins have been shown to antagonize host epigenetic silencing of uDNA. In addition, stimulation of latently infected resting T cells and macrophages with cytokines, PKC activator, or histone deacetylase inhibitors has been found to greatly upregulate preintegration transcription, leading to low-level viral production or even replication from uDNA. Functionally, Nef synthesized from preintegration transcription is biologically active in modulating host immune functions, lowering the threshold of T cell activation, and downregulating surface CD4, CXCR4/CCR5, and HMC receptors. The early Tat activity from preintegration transcription antagonizes repressive minichromatin assembled onto uDNA. The study of HIV preintegration transcription is important to understanding virus-host interaction and antagonism, viral persistence, and the mechanism of integrase drug resistance. The application of unintegrated lentiviral vectors for gene therapy also offers a safety advantage for minimizing retroviral vector-mediated insertional mutagenesis.
37417915 | Astragaloside IV restores Th17/Treg balance via inhibiting CXCR4 to improve chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has a high fatality rate and poses a great threat to human health. Astragaloside IV (AS-IV) is proven to attenuate cigarette smoke (CS)-induced pulmonary inflammation, based on which this research focuses on the mechanism of AS-IV in COPD. METHODS: To evaluate the effects of AS-IV, CD4+ T cells received different concentrations of AS-IV. CD4+ T cell viability, T helper 17 (Th17)/regulatory T (Treg) markers and CXCR4 expressions in CD4+ T cells or spleen/lung tissues were detected by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide assay, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. The proportions of Treg and Th17 cells were assessed by flow cytometry. Enzyme-linked immune sorbent assay was employed to determine cytokine contents in serum and lung tissues. RESULTS: AS-IV with concentration exceeding 40 microM inhibited CD4+ T cell viability. In vitro, AS-IV suppressed the expressions of CXCR4, retinoid-related orphan receptor gammat (RORgammat), and interleukin (IL)-17A as well as Th17 cells but promoted the expressions of forkhead box p3 (Foxp3) and IL-10 as well as Treg cells, while CXCR4 overexpression reversed the effects of AS-IV. In vivo, AS-IV alleviated COPD, and CS-induced Th17/Treg imbalance in mice and reduced CS-induced down-regulation of IL-10 in serum and lung tissues and Foxp3 and up-regulation of IL-1beta, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), IL-6, and IL-17A in serum and lung tissues and RORgammat. AS-IV mitigated CS-induced CXCR4 up-regulation. Above effects of AS-IV on mice were offset by CXCR4 overexpression. CONCLUSIONS: AS-IV restores Th17/Treg balance via impeding CXCR4 to ameliorate COPD.
37591865 | HIV infection. The AIDS epidemic has been a global public health issue for more than 40 years and has resulted in ~40 million deaths. AIDS is caused by the retrovirus, HIV-1, which is transmitted via body fluids and secretions. After infection, the virus invades host cells by attaching to CD4 receptors and thereafter one of two major chemokine coreceptors, CCR5 or CXCR4, destroying the host cell, most often a T lymphocyte, as it replicates. If unchecked this can lead to an immune-deficient state and demise over a period of ~2-10 years. The discovery and global roll-out of rapid diagnostics and effective antiretroviral therapy led to a large reduction in mortality and morbidity and to an expanding group of individuals requiring lifelong viral suppressive therapy. Viral suppression eliminates sexual transmission of the virus and greatly improves health outcomes. HIV infection, although still stigmatized, is now a chronic and manageable condition. Ultimate epidemic control will require prevention and treatment to be made available, affordable and accessible for all. Furthermore, the focus should be heavily oriented towards long-term well-being, care for multimorbidity and good quality of life. Intense research efforts continue for therapeutic and/or preventive vaccines, novel immunotherapies and a cure.
37685911 | HIV Infection: Shaping the Complex, Dynamic, and Interconnected Network of the Cytoskeleton. HIV-1 has evolved a plethora of strategies to overcome the cytoskeletal barrier (i.e., actin and intermediate filaments (AFs and IFs) and microtubules (MTs)) to achieve the viral cycle. HIV-1 modifies cytoskeletal organization and dynamics by acting on associated adaptors and molecular motors to productively fuse, enter, and infect cells and then traffic to the cell surface, where virions assemble and are released to spread infection. The HIV-1 envelope (Env) initiates the cycle by binding to and signaling through its main cell surface receptors (CD4/CCR5/CXCR4) to shape the cytoskeleton for fusion pore formation, which permits viral core entry. Then, the HIV-1 capsid is transported to the nucleus associated with cytoskeleton tracks under the control of specific adaptors/molecular motors, as well as HIV-1 accessory proteins. Furthermore, HIV-1 drives the late stages of the viral cycle by regulating cytoskeleton dynamics to assure viral Pr55Gag expression and transport to the cell surface, where it assembles and buds to mature infectious virions. In this review, we therefore analyze how HIV-1 generates a cell-permissive state to infection by regulating the cytoskeleton and associated factors. Likewise, we discuss the relevance of this knowledge to understand HIV-1 infection and pathogenesis in patients and to develop therapeutic strategies to battle HIV-1.
37696048 | Alterations in gp120 glycans or the gp41 fusion peptide-proximal region modulate the stability of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) envelope glycoprotein pretriggered conformation. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) envelope glycoprotein (Env) trimer mediates entry into host cells by binding receptors, CD4 and CCR5/CXCR4, and fusing the viral and cell membranes. In infected cells, cleavage of the gp160 Env precursor yields the mature Env trimer, with gp120 exterior and gp41 transmembrane Env subunits. Env cleavage stabilizes the State-1 conformation, which is the major target for broadly neutralizing antibodies, and decreases the spontaneous sampling of more open Env conformations that expose epitopes for poorly neutralizing antibodies. During HIV-1 entry into cells, CD4 binding drives the metastable Env from a pretriggered (State-1) conformation into more \open,\ lower-energy states. Here, we report that changes in two dissimilar elements of the HIV-1 Env trimer, namely particular gp120 glycans and the gp41 fusion peptide-proximal region (FPPR), can independently modulate the stability of State 1. Individual deletion of several gp120 glycans destabilized State 1, whereas removal of a V1 glycan resulted in phenotypes indicative of a more stable pretriggered Env conformation. Likewise, some alterations of the gp41 FPPR decreased the level of spontaneous shedding of gp120 from the Env trimer and stabilized the pretriggered State-1 Env conformation. State-1-stabilizing changes were additive and could suppress the phenotypes associated with State-1-destabilizing alterations in Env. Our results support a model in which multiple protein and carbohydrate elements of the HIV-1 Env trimer additively contribute to the stability of the pretriggered (State-1) conformation. The Env modifications identified in this study will assist efforts to characterize the structure and immunogenicity of the metastable State-1 conformation. IMPORTANCE The elicitation of antibodies that neutralize multiple strains of HIV-1 is an elusive goal that has frustrated the development of an effective vaccine. The pretriggered shape of the HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein (Env) spike on the virus surface is the major target for such broadly neutralizing antibodies. The \closed\ pretriggered Env shape resists the binding of most antibodies but is unstable and often assumes \open\ shapes that elicit ineffective antibodies. We identified particular changes in both the protein and the sugar components of the Env trimer that stabilize the pretriggered shape. Combinations of these changes were even more effective at stabilizing the pretriggered Env than the individual changes. Stabilizing changes in Env could counteract the effect of Env changes that destabilize the pretriggered shape. Locking Env in its pretriggered shape will assist efforts to understand the Env spike on the virus and to incorporate this shape into vaccines.
37762230 | Simufilam Reverses Aberrant Receptor Interactions of Filamin A in Alzheimer's Disease. Simufilam is a novel oral drug candidate in Phase 3 clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. This small molecule binds an altered form of filamin A (FLNA) that occurs in AD. This drug action disrupts FLNA's aberrant linkage to the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7nAChR), thereby blocking soluble amyloid beta1-42 (Abeta42)'s signaling via alpha7nAChR that hyperphosphorylates tau. Here, we aimed to clarify simufilam's mechanism. We now show that simufilam reduced Abeta42 binding to alpha7nAChR with a 10-picomolar IC50 using time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer (TR-FRET), a robust technology to detect highly sensitive molecular interactions. We also show that FLNA links to multiple inflammatory receptors in addition to Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in postmortem human AD brains and in AD transgenic mice: TLR2, C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5), and T-cell co-receptor cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4). These aberrant FLNA linkages, which can be induced in a healthy control brain by Abeta42 incubation, were disrupted by simufilam. Simufilam reduced inflammatory cytokine release from Abeta42-stimulated human astrocytes. In the AD transgenic mice, CCR5-G protein coupling was elevated, indicating persistent activation. Oral simufilam reduced both the FLNA-CCR5 linkage and the CCR5-G protein coupling in these mice, while restoring CCR5's responsivity to C-C chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3). By disrupting aberrant FLNA-receptor interactions critical to AD pathogenic pathways, simufilam may promote brain health.
37833581 | Higher Infectivity of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus in Sensitive Cells with a Modification of the CCR5 Gene. As a natural mutation of the human ccr5 gene has been shown to confer resistance to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, a new avenue has opened in the development of alternative treatment approaches through genome editing. One of the two chemokine co-receptors of the plasma membrane is utilized by HIV-1 to infect CD4+ cells. HIV-1 strains that utilize CCR5 circulate in early infection, and strains that utilize CXCR4 circulate at advanced stages. A complex relationship may exist in the expression regulation of the receptors and may affect virus replication in cells that normally do not express CCR5 on the membrane, such as the MT-4 cell line. MT-4 cells were used to study the effect of ccr5 modification HIV-1 replication in vitro. Genetic modification of ccr5 in MT-4 cells was shown to increase the activities of HIV-1 strains, especially in homozygote. The results indicate that genome editing should be performed with caution in human cells and that the issue needs comprehensive investigation.
37939456 | Tracking coreceptor switch of the transmitted/founder HIV-1 identifies co-evolution of HIV-1 antigenicity, coreceptor usage and CD4 subset targeting: the RV217 acute infection cohort study. BACKGROUND: The CCR5 (R5) to CXCR4 (X4) coreceptor switch in natural HIV-1 infection is associated with faster progression to AIDS, but the mechanisms remain unclear. The difficulty in elucidating the evolutionary origin of the earliest X4 viruses limits our understanding of this phenomenon. METHODS: We tracked the evolution of the transmitted/founder (T/F) HIV-1 in RV217 participants identified in acute infection. The origin of the X4 viruses was elucidated by single genome amplification, deep sequencing and coreceptor assay. Mutations responsible for coreceptor switch were confirmed by mutagenesis. Viral susceptibility to neutralization was determined by neutralization assay. Virus CD4 subset preference was demonstrated by sequencing HIV-1 RNA in sorted CD4 subsets. FINDINGS: We demonstrated that the earliest X4 viruses evolved de novo from the T/F strains. Strong X4 usage can be conferred by a single mutation. The mutations responsible for coreceptor switch can confer escape to neutralization and drive the X4 variants to replicate mainly in the central memory (CM) and naive CD4 subsets. Likely due to the smaller viral burst size of the CM and naive subsets, the X4 variants existed at low frequency in plasma. The origin of the X4 viruses preceded accelerated CD4 decline. All except one X4 virus identified in the current study lost the conserved V3 N301 glycan site. INTERPRETATIONS: The findings demonstrate co-evolution of HIV-1 antigenicity, coreceptor usage and CD4 subset targeting which have implications for HIV-1 therapeutics and functional cure. The observations provide evidence that coreceptor switch can function as an evolutionary mechanism of immune evasion. FUNDING: Institute of Human Virology, National Institutes of Health, Henry M. Jackson Foundation for the Advancement of Military Medicine, Inc, Thai Red Cross AIDS Research Centre, Gilead Sciences, Merck, and ViiV Healthcare.
37946732 | Macrophage migration inhibitory factor receptor CD74 expression is associated with expansion and differentiation of effector T cells in COVID-19 patients. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) caused millions of COVID-19 cases and deaths worldwide. Severity of pulmonary pathologies and poor prognosis were reported to be associated with the activation non-virus-specific bystander T cells. In addition, high concentrations of the macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) were found in serum of COVID-19 patients. We hypothesized that these two pathogenic factors might be related and analyzed the expression of receptors for MIF on T cells in COVID-19. T cells from PBMCs of hospitalized patients with mild and severe COVID-19 were characterized. A significantly higher proportion of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from COVID-19 patients expressed CD74 on the cell surface compared to healthy controls. To induce intracellular signaling upon MIF binding, CD74 forms complexes with CD44, CXCR2, or CXCR4. The vast majority of CD74+ T cells expressed CD44, whereas expression of CXCR2 and CXCR4 was low in controls but increased upon SARS-CoV-2 infection. Hence, T cells in COVID-19 patients express receptors that render them responsive to MIF. A detailed analysis of CD74+ T cell populations revealed that most of them had a central memory phenotype early in infection, while cells with an effector and effector memory phenotype arose later during infection. Furthermore, CD74+ T cells produced more cytotoxic molecules and proliferation markers. Our data provide new insights into the MIF receptor and co-receptor repertoire of bystander T cells in COVID-19 and uncovers a novel and potentially druggable aspect of the immunological footprint of SARS-CoV-2.
38011900 | Reduced fertility in an adenomyosis mouse model is associated with an altered immune profile in the uterus during the implantation period. STUDY QUESTION: Does a reduction in fertility and/or systemic immune cell change occur during the early implantation period in a mouse model of adenomyosis? SUMMARY ANSWER: A reduction in fertility was observed in mice with adenomyosis, coinciding with local and systemic immune changes observed during the implantation period. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Adenomyosis is a pathology responsible for impaired fertility in humans, with a still unclear pathophysiology. One hypothesis is that changes in immune cells observed in adenomyosis-affected uteri may alter fertility, notably the physiological immune environment necessary for successful implantation and a healthy pregnancy. STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: Randomly selected CD-1 female neonatal pups were orally dosed by administration of tamoxifen to induce adenomyosis (TAM group), while others received solvent only (control group). From 6 weeks of life, CD-1 mice of both groups were mated to study impaired fertility and related local and/or systemic immune cell changes during the early implantation period. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTINGS, METHODS: To evaluate fertility and pregnancy outcomes, ultrasound imaging was performed at E (embryonic day) 7.5 and E11.5 to count the number of gestational sacs and the number of resorptions in eight mice of the TAM group and 16 mice of the control group. The mice were sacrificed at E18.5, and morphometric, functional (quantitative reverse transcription PCR; RT-qPCR), and histological analyses were performed on the placentas. To identify local and/or systemic immune changes during the early implantation period, 8 mice of the TAM group and 12 mice of the control group were sacrificed at E4.5. Uterine horns and spleens were collected for flow cytometry and RT-qPCR analyses to study the immune cell populations. To investigate the profile of the cytokines secreted during the early implantation period at the systemic level, supernatants from stimulated spleen cells were analyzed by multiplex immunoassay analysis. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: By ultrasound imaging, we observed a lower number of implantation sites (P < 0.005) and a higher number of resorptions (P < 0.001) in the TAM group, leading to smaller litters (average number of fetuses per litter: 1.00 [0.00; 5.25] in the TAM group versus 12.00 [9.50; 13.75] in the control group (P < 0.001). Histological and morphometric analyses of the placentas at E18.5 showed a higher junctional/labyrinthine area ratio in the TAM group (P = 0.005). The expression levels of genes that play a role in vascularization and placental growth (Vegf (P < 0.001), Plgf (P < 0.005), Pecam (P < 0.0001), and Igf2 (P = 0.002)) were reduced in the TAM group. In the TAM group, the percentages of macrophages, natural killer (NK) cells, and dendritic cells (DC) were significantly decreased in the uterus around the implantation period. However, the number of M1 macrophages was increased. Both macrophages and DC had an increased activation profile (higher expression of MCHII, P = 0.012; CD80, P = 0.015; CCR7, P = 0.043 for macrophages, and higher expression of CD206, P = 0.018; CXCR4, P = 0.010; CCR7, P = 0.006, MCHII, P = 0.010; and CD80, P = 0.012 for DC). In spleen, an increase in the activation of macrophages (CCR7, P = 0.002; MCHII, P = 0.001; and CD80, P = 0.034) and DC was observed in the TAM group (CCR7, P = 0.001; MCHII, P = 0.001; Ly6C, P = 0.015). In the uteri and the spleen, we observed increased percentages of CD4+ T lymphocytes (P = 0.0237 and P = 0.0136, respectively) in the TAM group and, in the uteri, an increased number of regulatory T cells (P = 0.036) compared with the controls. LARGE SCALE DATA: Not applicable. LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: This study is limited by the use of an animal model and the lack of intervention. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: These data support involvement of innate and adaptive immune cells in the implantation failure and the increased rate of resorption observed in the mouse model of adenomyosis. This substantiates the need for additional research in this domain, with the goal of addressing fertility challenges in women affected by this condition. STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTEREST(S): None.
38127856 | Insights to HIV-1 coreceptor usage by estimating HLA adaptation with Bayesian generalized linear mixed models. The mechanisms triggering the human immunodeficiency virus type I (HIV-1) to switch the coreceptor usage from CCR5 to CXCR4 during the course of infection are not entirely understood. While low CD4+ T cell counts are associated with CXCR4 usage, a predominance of CXCR4 usage with still high CD4+ T cell counts remains puzzling. Here, we explore the hypothesis that viral adaptation to the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex, especially to the HLA class II alleles, contributes to the coreceptor switch. To this end, we sequence the viral gag and env protein with corresponding HLA class I and II alleles of a new cohort of 312 treatment-naive, subtype C, chronically-infected HIV-1 patients from South Africa. To estimate HLA adaptation, we develop a novel computational approach using Bayesian generalized linear mixed models (GLMMs). Our model allows to consider the entire HLA repertoire without restricting the model to pre-learned HLA-polymorphisms. In addition, we correct for phylogenetic relatedness of the viruses within the model itself to account for founder effects. Using our model, we observe that CXCR4-using variants are more adapted than CCR5-using variants (p-value = 1.34e-2). Additionally, adapted CCR5-using variants have a significantly lower predicted false positive rate (FPR) by the geno2pheno[coreceptor] tool compared to the non-adapted CCR5-using variants (p-value = 2.21e-2), where a low FPR is associated with CXCR4 usage. Consequently, estimating HLA adaptation can be an asset in predicting not only coreceptor usage, but also an approaching coreceptor switch in CCR5-using variants. We propose the usage of Bayesian GLMMs for modeling virus-host adaptation in general.
38190037 | Efficient Editing of the CXCR4 Locus Using Cas9 Ribonucleoprotein Complexes Stabilized with Polyglutamic Acid. Gene editing using the CRISPR/Cas9 system provides new opportunities to treat human diseases. Approaches aimed at increasing the efficiency of genome editing are therefore important to develop. To increase the level of editing of the CXCR4 locus, which is a target for gene therapy of HIV infection, the Cas9 protein was modified by introducing additional NLS signals and ribonucleoprotein complexes of Cas9 and guide RNA were stabilized with poly-L-glutamic acid. The approach allowed a 1.8-fold increase in the level of CXCR4 knockout in the CEM/R5 T cell line and a 2-fold increase in the level of knock-in of the HIV-1 fusion peptide inhibitor MT-C34 in primary CD4+ T lymphocytes.
38455423 | A landscape of patient-derived cancer-associated fibroblast signals in endometrial cancers. In conversation with endometrial tumor cells, the endometrial cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are the \partners in crime\ of uterine neoplasm's highly heterogeneous tumor microenvironment (TME). We designed a laboratory-friendly method to culture endometrial CAFs on a patient-to-patient basis for studying the CAF-TME and CAF-tumor cell interaction(s). Here, we present a comprehensive characterization of endometrial CAFs derived from patients' tumor tissues (T) and tumor-adjacent normal tissues (N). We used more than 80 T and N from 53 consecutive consented patients with endometrial cancers at the Avera Cancer Institute. We derived TCAF and NCAF in a non-enzymatic feeder-layer culture and characterized their expression of markers by qRT-PCR, flow cytometry, immunocytochemistry, immunofluorescence, and Western blot. Although similar in the expression pattern of EpCAM-/CK18-/vimentin+ as in ovarian CAFs, endometrial NCAFs, and TCAFs characteristically presented dual morphology in culture. Endometrial CAFs were EpCAM-/CK18-/CD45-/CD31-/SMA+/TE-7+/PDGFRA+/CXCL12+/Meflin+/CD155+/CD90+ with patient-specific positivity for S100A4/FAP/PD-L1/CD44. Endometrial CAFs expressed mRNAs for signaling proteins of several pathways and receptor-ligands, including (1) cell cycle pathway, (2) TGF pathway, (3) FGF pathway, (4) Wnt-beta-catenin pathway, (5) HER pathway, (6) tyrosine kinase receptor ligands, and (7) steroid receptors. We tested the hypoxic response of CAFs to show that endometrial CAFs upregulate MMP1 in a HIF-1a-independent manner. In trying to delineate the relationship between expressions of CAF markers and T-cells in the tumor tissue, we observed that FAP-positive CAFs that are derived from CD4/CD8 positive tumor tissue expressed CXCL12 mRNA. The data indicate the role of the CXCL12-CXCR4 pathway of the CAF-rich stroma in the lymphocytic infiltration of the tumor. We demonstrate that endometrial CAFs can be cultured in an enzymatic-digestion-independent manner, and their signaling landscape can be mapped toward understanding CAF-TME dialogue. Our data will help unearth the functional relevance of endometrial CAFs in the context of clinical outcomes and designing CAF-inclusive therapy in the future.
12952348 | ELDKWA-epitope-specific monoclonal antibodies inhibit HIV env-mediated syncytium formation. Recent studies demonstrated that the N- and C-domains of HIV-1 gp41 are involved in virus-mediated membrane fusion resulting in HIV-entry into target cells. Synthetic N- and C-domain peptides, such as DP107 and DP178, potently inhibit membrane fusion induced by both laboratory-adapted strains and primary isolates of HIV-1. Monoclonal antibody (mAb) 2F5 recognizing ELDKWA-epitope on the gp41 C-domain has shown broad neutralizing activity to many HIV stains even primary isolates. To test the neutralizing mechanism of the ELDKWA-epitope-specific antibody, mAbs with predefined ELDKWA-epitope-specificity were induced by synthetic epitope-peptide instead of a natural or recombinant gp41 bearing this epitope. All of five mAbs were identified to recognize ELDKWA-epitope on recombinant soluble gp41 in ELISA-assay. In flow cytometry analysis, four out of five mAbs could bind to HIV-Env+ CHO-WT cells and such binding could be inhibited by ELDKWA-epitope peptide, which suggests that these mAbs could recognize native envelope protein expressed on cell membranes. Interestingly, two out of five mAbs could inhibit membrane fusion between the CXCR4- and CD4-expressing 3T3.T4.CXCR4 cells and HIV-Env+ CHO-WT cells in a dose-dependent manner, consistent with their potent binding capability to HIV-Env+ CHO-WT cells. Parren et al. (1998) suggested that neutralization of HIV-1 by antibody may be determined primarily by occupancy of sites and spatial obstruction which blocks virus entry. Based on this theory, a model was suggested to explain the neutralizing activities of mAbs against the epitope ELDKWA.
18077770 | Genomic aberrations and immunohistochemical markers as prognostic indicators in multiple myeloma. As patients with multiple myeloma (MM) have a variable clinical course, predictive markers would help determine the appropriate treatment strategy. Clinical staging is commonly used to predict outcome, but tumour marker expression and the underlying genetic changes are increasingly used to assess the biological aggressiveness of the disease. Recent studies have demonstrated the utility of immunohistochemistry in detecting prognostic markers, including fibroblast growth factor receptor 3, cyclin D1, c-maf and p53, which have been associated with various genetic aberrations, including t(4;14), t(11;14), t(14;16) and del(17p). While t(4;14), t(14;16) and del (17p) have been documented to confer a poor prognosis, t(11;14) appears to be a neutral or even favourable factor in some studies. CD56, CD33, CD20 and CXCR4 are promising surface markers due to their roles in MM progression, but further studies of larger cohorts are necessary to assess their prognostic relevance. In this review, the biological function and clinical relevance of the main prognostic markers in MM is discussed, and also the role of immunohistochemistry in the stratification of patients into appropriate risk categories.
18665212 | Demonstration of a novel HIV-1 restriction phenotype from a human T cell line. BACKGROUND: Although retroviruses may invade host cells, a productive infection can be established only after the virus counteracts inhibition from different types of host restriction factors. Fv1, APOBEC3G/F, TRIM5alpha, ZAP, and CD317 inhibit the replication of different retroviruses by interfering with viral uncoating, reverse transcription, nuclear import, RNA stability, and release. In humans, although APOBEC3G/3F and CD317 block HIV-1 replication, their antiviral activities are neutralized by viral proteins Vif and Vpu. So far, no human gene has been found to effectively block wild type HIV-1 replication under natural condition. Thus, identification of such a gene product would be of great medical importance for the development of HIV therapies. METHOD AND FINDINGS: In this study, we discovered a new type of host restriction against the wild type HIV-1 from a CD4/CXCR4 double-positive human T cell line. We identified a CEM-derived cell line (CEM.NKR) that is highly resistant to productive HIV-1 infection. Viral production was reduced by at least 1000-fold when compared to the other permissive human T cell lines such as H9, A3.01, and CEM-T4. Importantly, this resistance was evident at extremely high multiplicity of infection. Further analyses demonstrated that HIV-1 could finish the first round of replication in CEM.NKR cells, but the released virions were poorly infectious. These virions could enter the target cells, but failed to initiate reverse transcription. Notably, this restriction phenotype was also present in CEM.NKR and 293T heterokaryons. CONCLUSIONS: These results clearly indicate that CEM.NKR cells express a HIV inhibitory gene(s). Further characterization of this novel gene product(s) will reveal a new antiretroviral mechanism that directly inactivates wild type HIV-1.
24330967 | [Regulation effect of adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells on pancreatic cancer cells]. OBJECTIVE: To analyze the effects of adipose tissue-derived stem cells (ADSCs) on the proliferation and invasion of pancreatic cancer (PaCa) cells and the the possible mechanism involved. METHODS: ADSCs were isolated and co-cultured with PaCa cells. CCK-8 assay was used to detect the proliferation of PaCa cells. An ELISA was used to determine the concentration of stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1) in the supernatants. The proliferation of PaCa cells by SDF-1 was measured. AMD3100 regulated the co-culture of ADSCs and PaCa. The tumor growth of PaCa cells was assessed after treatment by ADSCs in vivo. RESULTS: ADSCs can promote the proliferation and invasion of PaCa cells (proliferation: SW1990: 1.535 +- 0.153; PANC-1: 1.370 +- 0.100; the value of control was 1; invasion: SW1990: 47.0 +- 2.6 vs. 28.3 +- 1.3; PANC-1: 40.3 +- 1.8 vs. 24.3 +- 1.3; t = 4.332-9.558, P < 0.05). The expression of SDF-1 was high in ADSCs, but not in PaCa cells (69 +- 5 vs. 0 and 0, F = 389.134, P < 0.01). The promotion of SDF-1 on PaCa cells depends on the concentration. AMD3100 significantly downregulates these growth-promoting effects of ADSCs on PaCa cells. ADSCs significantly promoted the growth of SW1990 in nude mice at the 5(th) week (volume: (1295 +- 102) mm(3) vs. (967 +- 81) mm(3), t = 5.614, P < 0.05) , but not in PANC-1 cell. CONCLUSION: ADSCs can promote the proliferation and invasion of PaCa cells, which may involve the SDF-1/CXCR4 axis.
24376850 | Targeting paraprotein biosynthesis for non-invasive characterization of myeloma biology. PURPOSE: Multiple myeloma is a hematologic malignancy originating from clonal plasma cells. Despite effective therapies, outcomes are highly variable suggesting marked disease heterogeneity. The role of functional imaging for therapeutic management of myeloma, such as positron emission tomography with 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose (18F-FDG-PET), remains to be determined. Although some studies already suggested a prognostic value of 18F-FDG-PET, more specific tracers addressing hallmarks of myeloma biology, e.g. paraprotein biosynthesis, are needed. This study evaluated the amino acid tracers L-methyl-[11C]-methionine (11C-MET) and [18F]-fluoroethyl-L-tyrosine ((18F-Fet) for their potential to image myeloma and to characterize tumor heterogeneity. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: To study the utility of 11C-MET, 18F-Fet and 18F-FDG for myeloma imaging, time activity curves were compared in various human myeloma cell lines (INA-6, MM1.S, OPM-2) and correlated to cell-biological characteristics, such as marker gene expression and immunoglobulin levels. Likewise, patient-derived CD138+ plasma cells were characterized regarding uptake and biomedical features. RESULTS: Using myeloma cell lines and patient-derived CD138+ plasma cells, we found that the relative uptake of 11C-MET exceeds that of 18F-FDG 1.5- to 5-fold and that of 18F-Fet 7- to 20-fold. Importantly, 11C-MET uptake significantly differed between cell types associated with worse prognosis (e.g. t(4;14) in OPM-2 cells) and indolent ones and correlated with intracellular immunoglobulin light chain and cell surface CD138 and CXCR4 levels. Direct comparison of radiotracer uptake in primary samples further validated the superiority of 11C-MET. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that 11C-MET might be a versatile biomarker for myeloma superior to routine functional imaging with 18F-FDG regarding diagnosis, risk stratification, prognosis and discrimination of tumor subtypes.
34178415 | CXCL12 Retargeting of an Oncolytic Adenovirus Vector to the Chemokine CXCR4 and CXCR7 Receptors in Breast Cancer. Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer in women under 60, and the second most diagnosed cancer in women over 60. While significant progress has been made in developing targeted therapies for breast cancer, advanced breast cancer continues to have high mortality, with poor 5-year survival rates. Thus, current therapies are insufficient in treating advanced stages of breast cancer; new treatments are sorely needed to address the complexity of advanced-stage breast cancer. Oncolytic virotherapy has been explored as a therapeutic approach capable of systemic administration, targeting cancer cells, and sparing normal tissue. In particular, oncolytic adenoviruses have been exploited as viral vectors due to their ease of manipulation, production, and demonstrated clinical safety profile. In this study, we engineered an oncolytic adenovirus to target the chemokine receptors CXCR4 and CXCR7. The overexpression of CXCR4 and CXCR7 is implicated in the initiation, survival, progress, and metastasis of breast cancer. Both receptors bind to the ligand, CXCL12 (SDF-1), which has been identified to play a crucial role in the metastasis of breast cancer cells. This study incorporated a T4 fibritin protein fused to CXCL12 into the tail domain of an adenovirus fiber to retarget the vector to the CXCR4 and CXCR7 chemokine receptors. We showed that the modified virus targets and infects CXCR4- and CXCR7-overexpressing breast cancer cells more efficiently than a wild-type control vector. In addition, the substitution of the wild-type fiber and knob with the modified chimeric fiber did not interfere with oncolytic capability. Overall, the results of this study demonstrate the feasibility of retargeting adenovirus vectors to chemokine receptor-positive tumors.
34356484 | Clinical and Biological Characteristics of Medullary and Extramedullary Plasma Cell Dyscrasias. Background: Extramedullary plasma cell (PC) disorders may occur as extramedullary disease in multiple myeloma (MM-EMD) or as primary extramedullary plasmocytoma (pEMP)/solitary osseous plasmocytoma (SOP). In this study, we aimed to obtain insights into the molecular mechanisms of extramedullary spread of clonal PC. Methods: Clinical and biological characteristics of 87 patients with MM-EMD (n = 49), pEMP/SOP (n = 20) and classical MM (n = 18) were analyzed by using immunohistochemistry (CXCR4, CD31, CD44 and CD81 staining) and cytoplasmic immunoglobulin staining combined with fluorescence in situ hybridization (cIg-FISH). Results: High expression of CD44, a cell-surface glycoprotein involved in cell-cell interactions, was significantly enriched in MM-EMD (90%) vs. pEMP/SOP (27%) or classical MM (33%) (p < 0.001). In addition, 1q21 amplification by clonal PC occurred at a similar frequency of MM-EMD (33%), pEMP/SOP (57%) and classical MM (44%). Conversely, del(17p13), t(4;14) and t(14;16) were completely absent in pEMP/SOP. Besides this, 1q21 amplification was identified in 64% of not paraskeletal samples from MM-EMD or pEMP compared to 9% of SOP or paraskeletal MM-EMD/pEMP and 44% of classical MM samples, respectively (p = 0.02). Conclusion: Expression of molecules involved in homing and cytogenetic aberrations differ between MM with or without EMD and pEMP/SOP.
35729596 | The clinicopathological and prognostic value of CXCR4 expression in patients with lung cancer: a meta-analysis. BACKGROUND: The C-X-C chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) has been suggested to play an important role in several types of cancers and is related to biological behaviors connected with tumor progression. However, the clinical significance and application of CXCR4 in lung cancer remain disputable. Thus, we conducted a meta-analysis to investigate the impact of CXCR4 expression on survival and clinicopathological features in lung cancer. METHODS: Comprehensive literature searches were conducted in PubMed, Embase and Web of Science for relevant studies. We pooled hazard ratios (HRs)/odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) by STATA 12.0 to evaluate the potential value of CXCR4 expression. RESULTS: Twenty-seven relevant articles involving 2932 patients with lung cancer were included in our meta-analysis. The results revealed that CXCR4 expression was apparently associated with poor overall survival (OS) (HR 1.61, 95% CI 1.42-1.82) and disease-free survival (HR 3.39, 95% CI 2.38-4.83). Furthermore, a significant correlation with poor OS was obvious in non-small cell lung cancer patients (HR 1.59, 95% CI 1.40-1.81) and in patients showing CXCR4 expression in the cytoplasm (HR 2.10, 95% CI 1.55-2.84) and the membrane (HR 1.74, 95% CI 1.24-2.45). CXCR4 expression was significantly associated with men (OR 1.32, 95% CI 1.08-1.61), advanced tumor stages (T3-T4) (OR 2.34, 95% CI 1.28-4.28), advanced nodal stages (N > 0) (OR 2.34, 95% CI 1.90-2.90), distant metastasis (OR 3.65, 95% CI 1.53-8.69), advanced TNM stages (TNM stages III, IV) (OR 3.10, 95% CI 1.95-4.93) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) expression (OR 2.44, 95% CI 1.44-4.12) but was not associated with age, smoking history, histopathology, differentiation, lymphatic vessel invasion or local recurrence. CONCLUSION: High expression of CXCR4 is related to tumor progression and might be an adverse prognostic factor for lung cancer.
37151698 | DISC1 as a prognostic biomarker correlated with immune infiltrates in gastric cancer. Multiple mental diseases could arise in people who have the disrupted in schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) gene. However, it was unknown how DISC1 might contribute to the development of tumors and immune responses. We extracted data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and TISIDB databases from stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) patients, which revealed that DISC1 overexpression was closely associated with tumor histological type (mucinous vs. tubular, OR = 2.860, CI = 1.423-5.872, p = 0.004), as well as tumor stage and grade. Furthermore, the higher the DISC1 expression, the lower the overall 10-year survival rate. Patients with low DISC1 expression had a significantly longer progression-free interval (PFI) and disease-specific survival (DSS) than patients with high DISC1 expression. However, patients with higher DISC1 expression in the T3&T4, N0&N1 and M0 subgroups had poorer prognosis in terms of OS, DSS and PFI, as could be seen in the subgroup survival analysis. Public datasets were used to predict lncRNA-miRNA-DISC1 regulation. DISC1 was significantly up-regulated in GC(gastric cancer), and its expression levels showed a moderate to strong positive correlation with infiltration levels of effector memory T cells (Tem) and central memory T cells (Tcm), and a negative correlation was observed with Th17 cells and NK CD56bright cells. In addition, concomitant with the high expression of the DISC1 gene was a decrease in MHC-I (Major Histocompatibility Complex-I)expression and an increase in MHC-II expression, and altered chemokine expression. The upregulation of CXCL12 and CXCR4 expression could be caused by an increase in DISC1 expression. The above expression variability and correlation suggest a role for DISC1 in regulating tumor immunity in GC. These findings suggest that high expression of DISC1 could be an independent prognostic factor for GC.
38056899 | Differential requirements for CD4+ T cells in the efficacy of the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 and anti-PD-1+CTLA-4 combinations in melanoma flank and brain metastasis models. BACKGROUND: Although the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 and the anti-PD-1+CTLA-4 combinations are effective in advanced melanoma, it remains unclear whether their mechanisms of action overlap. METHODS: We used single cell (sc) RNA-seq, flow cytometry and IHC analysis of responding SM1, D4M-UV2 and B16 melanoma flank tumors and SM1 brain metastases to explore the mechanism of action of the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 and the anti-PD-1+CTLA-4 combination. CD4+ and CD8+ T cell depletion, tetramer binding assays and ELISPOT assays were used to demonstrate the unique role of CD4+T cell help in the antitumor effects of the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 combination. RESULTS: The anti-PD-1+CTLA-4 combination was associated with the infiltration of FOXP3+regulatory CD4+ cells (Tregs), fewer activated CD4+T cells and the accumulation of a subset of IFNgamma secreting cytotoxic CD8+T cells, whereas the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 combination led to the accumulation of CD4+T helper cells that expressed CXCR4, TNFSF8, IL21R and a subset of CD8+T cells with reduced expression of cytotoxic markers. T cell depletion studies showed a requirement for CD4+T cells for the anti-PD-1+LAG-3 combination, but not the PD-1-CTLA-4 combination at both flank and brain tumor sites. In anti-PD-1+LAG-3 treated tumors, CD4+T cell depletion was associated with fewer activated (CD69+) CD8+T cells and impaired IFNgamma release but, conversely, increased numbers of activated CD8+T cells and IFNgamma release in anti-PD-1+CTLA-4 treated tumors. CONCLUSIONS: Together these studies suggest that these two clinically relevant immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) combinations have differential effects on CD4+T cell polarization, which in turn, impacted cytotoxic CD8+T cell function. Further insights into the mechanisms of action/resistance of these clinically-relevant ICI combinations will allow therapy to be further personalized.
38156317 | Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals common and unique gene expression profiles in primary CD4+ T cells latently infected with HIV under different conditions. Background: The latent HIV reservoir represents the major barrier to a cure. One curative strategy is targeting diseased cells for elimination based on biomarkers that uniquely define these cells. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has enabled the identification of gene expression profiles associated with disease at the single-cell level. Because HIV provirus in many cells during latency is not entirely silent, it became possible to determine gene expression patterns in a subset of cells latently infected with HIV. Objective: The primary objective of this study was the identification of the gene expression profiles of single latently infected CD4+ T cells using scRNA-seq. Different conditions of latency establishment were considered. The identified profiles were then explored to prioritize the identified genes for future experimental validation. Methods: To facilitate gene prioritization, three approaches were used. First, we characterized and compared the gene expression profiles of HIV latency established in different environments: in cells that encountered an activation stimulus and then returned to quiescence, and in resting cells that were infected directly via cell-to-cell viral transmission from autologous activated, productively infected cells. Second, we characterized and compared the gene expression profiles of HIV latency established with viruses of different tropisms, using an isogenic pair of CXCR4- and CCR5-tropic viruses. Lastly, we used proviral expression patterns in cells from people with HIV to more accurately define the latently infected cells in vitro. Results: Our analyses demonstrated that a subset of genes is expressed differentially between latently infected and uninfected cells consistently under most conditions tested, including cells from people with HIV. Our second important observation was the presence of latency signatures, associated with variable conditions when latency was established, including cellular exposure and responsiveness to a T cell receptor stimulus and the tropism of the infecting virus. Conclusion: Common signatures, specifically genes that encode proteins localized to the cell surface, should be prioritized for further testing at the protein level as biomarkers for the ability to enrich or target latently infected cells. Cell- and tropism-dependent biomarkers may need to be considered in developing targeting strategies to ensure that all the different reservoir subsets are eliminated.
38160538 | Single-cell sequencing of the retina shows that LDHA regulates pathogenesis of autoimmune uveitis. Autoimmune uveitis (AU) is a severe disorder causing poor vision and blindness. However, the cellular dynamics and pathogenic mechanisms underlying retinal injury in uveitis remain unclear. In this study, single-cell RNA sequencing of the retina and cervical draining lymph nodes in experimental autoimmune uveitis mice was conducted to identify the cellular spatiotemporal dynamics and upregulation of the glycolysis-related gene LDHA. Suppression of LDHA can rescue the imbalance of T effector (Teff) cells/T regulator (Treg) cells under inflammation via downregulation of the glycolysis-PI3K signaling circuit and inhibition of the migration of CXCR4+ Teff cells towards retinal tissue. Furthermore, LDHA and CXCR4 are upregulated in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada patients. The LDHA inhibitor suppresses CD4+ T cell proliferation in humans. Therefore, our data indicate that the autoimmune environment of uveitis regulates Teff cell accumulation in the retina via glycolysis-associated LDHA. Modulation of this target may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for treating AU.
38181545 | High prevalence of diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) among obese young patients - A retrospective observational study. OBJECTIVE: Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH) is characterized by ossification of ligaments and entheses, and most commonly affects the spinal column. The prevalence of DISH is increasing with age and is considered uncommon before the age of 50 years, with an estimated prevalence of less than 5 %. DISH is known to be highly associated with metabolic syndrome and obesity. We aim to assess the prevalence of DISH among young (<=50 yr.) patients suffering from severe obesity (BMI of 35 kg/m2 or higher). METHODS: A retrospective analysis assessing chest and spine radiographs (including Computed Tomography, CT) of patients with BMI>=35 visiting the bariatric ambulatory clinic in an academic medical center from 2013 to 2022. Patients included in the analysis were 31-50 years old. Diagnosis of DISH was made according to the Resnick criteria. The prevalence of DISH was calculated. Demographic, clinical and laboratory data were collected and compared between the DISH and non-DISH groups. RESULTS: 183 young (mean age: 40.4; 118 females, 64.2 %) obese (BMI median: 40.6; range 35-73) patients were included in the radiographic review. DISH was diagnosed in 33 patients (18.0 %; 95 % CI: 13.1-24.2 %) which was significantly higher than the expected 10 % (Z = 3.62, p<.001); another 8 patients (4.4 %; 95 % CI: 2.2-8.4 %) were considered as \near DISH\ (not fulfilling yet the Resnick criteria) as it represents a pre-disease state. Patients diagnosed with DISH were significantly older than patients without DISH (t = 4.54, p<.001), as the prevalence of DISH increased by age (linear association=14.95, p<.001). There was a statistically significantly higher prevalence of hypertension (chi2 = 8.30, p<.004), smoking (chi2 = 4.69, p<.03) and OSA (chi2 = 6.16, p<.013) in the DISH group as compared to their non-DISH counterparts. CONCLUSION: The prevalence of DISH among obese young patients was 18 %, which is much higher than in the general population. Early-onset DISH should be regarded as a musculoskeletal obesity-related complication.
38186097 | [Intraoperative cochlear nerve monitoring in microvascular decompression of hemifacial spasm and resection of vestibular schwannoma]. Objective: To analyze the application of direct cochlear nerve monitoring technology-cochlear nerve action potential (CNAP) monitoring in resection of vestibular schwannoma (VS) and to compare with which in microvascular decompression (MVD) of hemifacial spasm (HFS), in order to provide reference for identification of the cochlear nerve during VS resection surgery and predicting postoperative hearing preservation. Methods: From June 2018 to March 2022, patients with facial spasm and vestibular schwannoma who underwent retrosigmoid approach surgery at the Chinese PLA General Hospital were collected. Before surgery, there were a total of 11 HFS patients and 30 VS patients. Before surgery, the former had hearing level of class A(AAO-HNS), while the latter had serviceable hearing (AAO-HNS class A-B), with a maximum tumor diameter of<=20 mm. CNAP combined with Auditory Brainstem Response (ABR) monitoring was performed during surgery. SPSS 23.0 software was used to analyze the differences of ABR and CNAP parameters between the two groups. Results: The preoperative ABR test in the VS group showed that the latency of wave V and I-V interval were significantly prolonged compared to the HFS group (t=8.36, P<0.001; t=4.61, P<0.001).In VS group, all tumors were totally removed with preserved facial nerve function (House-Brackmann grade I-II). The serviceable hearing preservation rate was 63.3%. In the HFS group, the initial CNAP waveforms were triphasic and biphasic, with N1 wave latency of (4.32+-0.37) ms and amplitude of 25.20 [15.63, 35.40]muV. The distribution of CNAP waveforms before tumor resection in the VS group was the same as that in the HFS group, and which in the hearing preservation group after surgery was also the same. Compared with the HFS group, the latency of N1 wave was prolonged (t=2.670, P=0.011;t=4.584, P<0.001), and the amplitude of N1 wavein the VS group before tumor resection was lower (Z=-3.001, P=0.003). The amplitude of N1 wave in the hearing preservation group after surgery was 20.20 [6.23, 40.90] muV,which was significantly higher than that before tumor resection (Z=-2.133, P=0.033), but there was no statistically significant difference compared to the HFS group (Z=-0.495, P=0.621). Conclusions: The reference range of CNAP in normal hearing population can be preliminarily obtained by the analysis of CNAP in MVD surgery. The latency of N1 wave in VS patients is prolonged and the amplitude of N1 wave is decreased due to tumor compression. The CNAP waveform combined with the change of N1 wave amplitude can provide reference for intraoperative mapping of the cochlear nerve and prediction of postoperative hearing preservation.
38223424 | Immune-Related Genes and Immune Cell Infiltration Characterize the Maturation Status of Arteriovenous Fistulas: An Integrative Bioinformatics Study and Experimental Validation Based on Transcriptome Sequencing. Purpose: Arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is the preferred vascular access for hemodialysis, but the low maturation rate is concerning. Immune cells' impact on AVF maturation lacks bioinformatics research. The study aims to investigate the potential predictive role of immune-related genes and immune cell infiltration characteristics in AVF maturation. Patients and Methods: We analyzed the high-throughput sequencing dataset to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Then, we performed enrichment analyses (GO, KEGG, GSEA) on immune-related genes and pathways in mature AVF. We focused on differentially expressed immune-related genes (DEIRGs) and constructed a PPI network to identify hub genes. These hub genes were validated in other databases and experiments, including qPCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC). The immune cell infiltration characteristics in native veins, failed AVFs, and matured AVFs were analyzed by cibersortX. Partial experimental validation was conducted using clinical samples. Results: Our results showed that immune-related genes and signaling pathways are significantly enriched in mature AVF. We validated this in other databases and ultimately identified three hub genes (IL1B, IL6, CXCR4) in combination with experiments. Significant differences in immune cell infiltration characteristics were observed among native veins, failed AVFs, and matured AVFs. Immune cell infiltration analysis revealed that accumulation of CD4+ T cells, dendritic cells, mast cells and M2 macrophages contribute to AVF maturation. These immune-related genes and immune cells have the potential to serve as predictive factors for AVF maturation. We partially validated this experimentally. Conclusion: From a bioinformatics perspective, our results have identified, for the first time, a set of immune-related genes and immune cell infiltration features that can characterize the maturation of AVF and significantly impact AVF maturation. These features hold potential as predictive indicators for AVF maturation outcomes.
38231835 | Validation of a Bacteriophage Hide Application to Reduce STEC in the Lairage Area of Commercial Beef Cattle Operations. Finalyse, a T4 bacteriophage, is a pre-harvest intervention that utilizes a combination of bacteriophages to reduce incoming Escherichia coli O157:H7 prevalence by destroying the bacteria on the hides of harvest-ready cattle entering commercial abattoirs. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of Finalyse, as a pre-harvest intervention, on the reduction in pathogens, specifically E. coli O157:H7, on the cattle hides and lairage environment to overall reduce incoming pathogen loads. Over 5 sampling events, a total of 300 composite hide samples were taken using 25 mL pre-hydrated Buffered Peptone Water (BPW) swabs, collected before and after the hide wash intervention, throughout the beginning, middle, and end of the production day (n = 10 swabs/sampling point/timepoint). A total of 171 boot swab samples were also simultaneously taken at the end of the production day by walking from the front to the back of the pen in a pre-determined 'Z' pattern to monitor the pen floor environment from 3 different locations in the lairage area. The prevalence of pathogens was analyzed using the BAX  System Real-Time PCR Assay. There were no significant reductions observed for Salmonella and/or any Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) on the hides after the bacteriophage application (p > 0.05). Escherichia coli O157:H7 and O111 hide prevalence was very low throughout the study; therefore, no further analysis was conducted. However, boot swab monitoring showed a significant reduction in E. coli O157:H7, O26, and O45 in the pen floor environment (p < 0.05). While using Finalyse as a pre-harvest intervention in the lairage areas of commercial beef processing facilities, this bacteriophage failed to reduce E. coli O157:H7 on the hides of beef cattle, as prevalence was low; however, some STECs were reduced in the lairage environment, where the bacteriophage was applied. Overall, an absolute conclusion was not formed on the effectiveness of Finalyse and its ability to reduce E. coli O157:H7 on the hides of beef cattle, as prevalence on the hides was low.
38237304 | Tozasertib activates anti-tumor immunity through decreasing regulatory T cells in melanoma. Although immune checkpoint therapy has significantly improved the prognosis of patients with melanoma, urgent attention still needs to be paid to the low patient response rates and the challenges of precisely identifying patients before treatment. Therefore, it is crucial to investigate novel immunosuppressive mechanisms and targets in the tumor microenvironment in order to reverse tumor immune escape. In this study, we found that the cell cycle checkpoint Aurora kinase B (AURKB) suppressed the anti-tumor immune response, and its inhibitor, Tozasertib, effectively activated T lymphocyte cytokine release in vitro and anti-tumor immunity in vivo. Tozasertib significantly inhibited melanoma xenograft tumor growth by decreasing the number of inhibitory CD4+ Treg cells in the tumors, which, in turn, activated CD8+ T cells. Single-cell analysis revealed that AURKB suppressed anti-tumor immunity by increasing MIF-CD74/CXCR4 signaling between tumor cells and lymphocytes. Our study suggests that AURKB is a newly identified anti-tumor immunity suppressor, whose inhibitors may be developed as novel anti-tumor immunity drugs and may have synergistic anti-melanoma effects with immune checkpoint therapies.
38239974 | Evolution Driven By A Varying Host Environment Selects For Distinct HIV-1 Entry Phenotypes and Other Informative Variants. HIV-1 generates remarkable intra- and inter-host viral diversity during infection. In response to dynamic selective pressures of the host environment, HIV-1 will evolve distinct phenotypes - biological features that provide fitness advantages. The transmitted form of HIV-1 has been shown to require a high density of CD4 on the target cell surface (as found on CD4+ T cells) and typically uses CCR5 as a co-receptor during entry. This phenotype is referred to as R5 T cell-tropic (or R5 T-tropic); however, HIV-1 can switch to a secondary co-receptor, CXCR4, resulting in a X4 T cell-tropic phenotype. Macrophage-tropic (or M-tropic) HIV-1 can evolve to efficiently enter cells expressing low densities of CD4 on their surface (such as macrophages/microglia). So far only CCR5-using M-tropic viruses have been found. M-tropic HIV-1 is most frequently found within the central nervous system, and infection of the CNS has been associated with neurological impairment. It has been shown that interferon resistance phenotypes have a selective advantage during transmission, but the underlying mechanism of this is still unclear. During untreated infection, HIV-1 evolves under selective pressure from both the humoral/antibody response and CD8+ T cell killing. Sufficiently potent antiviral therapy will suppress viral replication, but if the antiviral drugs are not sufficiently potent to stop replication then the replicating virus will evolve drug resistance. HIV-1 phenotypes are highly relevant to treatment efforts, clinical outcomes, vaccine studies, and cure strategies. Therefore, it is critical to understand the dynamics of the host environment that drive these phenotypes and how they affect HIV-1 pathogenesis. This review will provide a comprehensive discussion of HIV-1 entry, transmission, and drug resistance phenotypes. Finally, we will assess the methods used in previous and current research to characterize these phenotypes.
38275376 | Genes Associated with Altered Brain Structure and Function in Obstructive Sleep Apnea. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) has been widely reported to cause abnormalities in brain structure and function, but the genetic mechanisms behind these changes remain largely unexplored. Our research aims to investigate the relationship between sleep characteristics, cognitive impairments, genetic factors, and brain structure and function in OSA. Using structural and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data, we compared cortical morphology and spontaneous brain activity between 28 patients with moderate-to-severe OSA and 34 healthy controls (HCs) utilizing voxel-based morphology (VBM) and the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations (ALFF) analyses. In conjunction with the Allen Human Brain Atlas, we used transcriptome-neuroimaging spatial correlation analyses to investigate gene expression patterns associated with changes in gray matter volume (GMV) and ALFF in OSA. Compared to the HCs, the OSA group exhibited increased ALFF values in the left hippocampus (t = 5.294), amygdala (t = 4.176), caudate (t = 4.659), cerebellum (t = 5.896), and decreased ALFF values in the left precuneus (t = -4.776). VBM analysis revealed increased GMV in the right inferior parietal lobe (t = 5.158) in OSA. Additionally, functional enrichment analysis revealed that genes associated with both ALFF and GMV cross-sampling were enriched in gated channel activity and synaptic transmission, glutamatergic synapse, and neuron.
38287310 | Demographic and imaging features of oral squamous cell cancer in Serbia: a retrospective cross-sectional study. BACKGROUND: The mortality of oral squamous cell cancer (OSCC) in Serbia increased in the last decade. Recent studies on the Serbian population focused mainly on the epidemiological aspect of OSCC. This study aimed to investigate the demographic and imaging features of OSCC in the Serbian population at the time of diagnosis. METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed computed tomography (CT) images of 276 patients with OSCC diagnosed between 2017 and 2022. Age, gender, tumor site, tumor volume (CT-TV, in cm3), depth of invasion (CT-DOI, in mm), and bone invasion (CT-BI, in %) were evaluated. TNM status and tumor stage were also analyzed. All parameters were analyzed with appropriate statistical tests. RESULTS: The mean age was 62.32 +- 11.39 and 63.25 +- 11.71 for males and females, respectively. Male to female ratio was 1.63:1. The tongue (36.2%), mouth floor (21.0%), and alveolar ridge (19.9%) were the most frequent sites of OSCC. There was a significant gender-related difference in OSCC distribution between oral cavity subsites (Z=-4.225; p < 0.001). Mean values of CT-TV in males (13.8 +- 21.5) and females (5.4 +- 6.8) were significantly different (t = 4.620; p < 0.001). CT-DOI also differed significantly (t = 4.621; p < 0.001) between males (14.4 +- 7.4) and females (10.7 +- 4.4). CT-BI was detected in 30.1%, the most common in the alveolar ridge OSCC. T2 tumor status (31.4%) and stage IVA (28.3%) were the most dominant at the time of diagnosis. Metastatic lymph nodes were detected in 41.1%. CONCLUSION: Our findings revealed significant gender-related differences in OSCC imaging features. The predominance of moderate and advanced tumor stages indicates a long time interval to the OSCC diagnosis.
38329750 | Acanthamoeba Keratitis in China: Genotypic and Clinical Correlations. Purpose: To investigate the relationship between Acanthamoeba genotypes, clinical manifestations, and outcomes in Acanthamoeba keratitis (AK) patients. Methods: This retrospective study included 159 culture-confirmed AK patients. Patients' data were collected, including demographics, initial diagnosis, treatments, and clinical features. The genotype of Acanthamoeba was identified through sequencing the Diagnostic Fragment 3 (DF3) region in the small ribosomal subunit RNA genes. The phylogenetic tree was constructed using the ClustalW model and maximum likelihood method. Cases with \poor outcome\ were defined based on specific clinical criteria, including corneal perforation, keratoplasty, other eye surgery, duration of anti-amoebic therapy >=8.0 months, and final visual acuity <=20/80. \Better outcome\ cases were the remainder. The correlation between T4 subtypes, clinical phenotypes, and clinical prognosis were further analyzed. Results: In this study, AK was primarily attributed to the T4A genotype, with a positive correlation between geographical and genetic distances. The primary clinical associated with T4 subtypes was deep stromal infiltration. Results was also showed a significant association between T4 subtypes and clinical outcomes (P = 0.021). Further analysis revealed that T4C was closely associated with a better prognosis (P = 0.040) and T4D with worse outcomes (P = 0.013). Conclusions: In China, AK was predominantly caused by the T4A subtype. Geographical distance positively correlated with genetic distance. Clinical prognosis varied among different subtypes, notably in T4C and T4D. Translational Relevance: This study demonstrated the association between T4 subtypes and clinical phenotypes, as well as the effects of T4 subtypes on clinical prognosis.
38332460 | Determinants of early change in serum creatinine after initiation of dolutegravir-based antiretroviral therapy in South Africa. AIMS: Dolutegravir increases serum creatinine by inhibiting its renal tubular secretion and elimination. We investigated determinants of early changes in serum creatinine in a southern African cohort starting first-line dolutegravir-based antiretroviral therapy (ART). METHODS: We conducted a secondary analysis of data from participants in a randomized controlled trial of dolutegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) or tenofovir alafenamide fumarate (TAF) (ADVANCE, NCT03122262). We assessed clinical, pharmacokinetic and genetic factors associated with change in serum creatinine from baseline to Week 4 using linear regression models adjusted for age, sex, baseline serum creatinine, HIV-1 RNA concentration, CD4 T-cell count, total body weight and co-trimoxazole use. RESULTS: We included 689 participants, of whom 470 had pharmacokinetic data and 315 had genetic data. Mean change in serum creatinine was 11.3 (SD 9.9) mumol.L-1 . Factors that were positively associated with change in serum creatinine at Week 4 were increased log dolutegravir area under the 24-h concentration-time curve (change in creatinine coefficient [beta] = 2.78 mumol.L-1 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.54, 5.01]), TDF use (beta = 2.30 [0.53, 4.06]), male sex (beta = 5.20 [2.92, 7.48]), baseline serum creatinine (beta = -0.22 [-0.31, -0.12]) and UGT1A1 rs929596 A G polymorphism with a dominant model (beta = -2.33 [-4.49, -0.17]). The latter did not withstand correction for multiple testing. CONCLUSIONS: Multiple clinical and pharmacokinetic factors were associated with early change in serum creatinine in individuals initiating dolutegravir-based ART. UGT1A1 polymorphisms may play a role, but further research on genetic determinants is needed.
38349178 | Higher and Sustained Cell-Mediated Immune Responses after Three Doses of mRNA COVID-19 Vaccine In Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease on Anti-TNF Therapy. INTRODUCTION: Studies suggest that the generation of durable T cell immunity following COVID-19 vaccination protects against severe disease. The aim of this study was to measure cell mediated immune response (CMIR) one to two months and six months after a third dose of a COVID-19 mRNA vaccine. METHODS: This prospective study (HERCULES) evaluated CMIR at 28-65 days (t1) after dose 2, 28-65 days (t2) (n=183) and six months (+/-45 days) (t3) (n=167) after a third dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine. A small cohort had blood available 28-65 days (t4) (n=55) after a fourth dose. Primary outcomes were CMIR at (t2) and (t3). Secondary outcomes included the effect of immunosuppressing IBD medications on CMIR and response at (t4). RESULTS: All patients had measurable CMIR at all time points. CMIR increased at t2 compared to t1 (median 1467 responding cells per million (interquartile range (IQR) 410-5971) vs 313 (94-960) p< 0.001). There was no significant waning when comparing t2 vs t3 or significant boosting at t4. Those on anti-TNF monotherapy had a higher CMIR compared to those not on this therapy at t2 (4132 ( IQR 1136-8795) vs. 869 (IQR 343-3221) p <0.001) and t3 (2843 (IQR 596-6459) vs 654 (IQR 143-2067) p<0.001). In univariable analysis, anti-TNF monotherapy was associated with a higher CMIR at t2 (p< 0.001) and t3 (p< 0.001) and confirmed in a multivariable model (p< 0.001). CONCLUSION: A third dose of a COVID-19 vaccine boosts CMIR, and the response is sustained in patients with IBD.
38357816 | Single-Cell Transcriptome Reveals Potential Mechanisms for Coronary Artery Lesions in Kawasaki Disease. BACKGROUND: Coronary artery lesions (CALs) are the most common and major complication of Kawasaki disease (KD) in developed countries. However, the underlying immunologic mechanisms of CAL development in KD remain unclear. METHODS: Here, we conducted single-cell transcriptome analyses of 212 210 peripheral blood mononuclear cells collected from a cross-sectional cohort of 16 children, including 4 patients with KD with CALs, 5 patients with KD without CALs, 4 healthy controls, and 3 febrile controls. RESULTS: KD altered the proportion of peripheral blood mononuclear cells, including an increasing trend in inflammatory cells (megakaryocytes and monocytes) and a decreasing trend in lymphocytes (eg, CD4+ T, CD8+ T, mucosal-associated invariant T, natural killer, and gammadelta T cells), highlighting the potential presence of lymphopenia phenomenon in KD. Our data indicated the presence of inflammatory cytokine storm in patients with KD with CALs, caused by systemic upregulation of TNFSF13B, CXCL16, TNFSF10, and IL1RN, mainly produced by monocytes (especially for the Mono_CD14-CD16 cluster) and megakaryocytes. We also found that myeloid cells of patients with KD, particularly in those with CALs, might play a role in vascular injury (eg, increased MMP [matrix metalloproteinase] 9, MMP17, and MMP25) and immune cell recruitment. The immune landscape of patients with KD with CALs was featured by lower exhaustion levels in natural killer cells, a high cytotoxic state in the CD8_Pro cluster, and activation of the complement system in monocytes. Additionally, the activation of B cells was more pronounced in the early stage of KD. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, this study provides a comprehensive understanding of the roles of various immune cells and inflammatory cytokine storms in the development of CALs in KD and offers a valuable resource for identifying novel therapeutic targets for patients with KD with CALs.
38372621 | PHARMACOKINETICS OF SINGLE VERSUS DOUBLE-DOSE DOLUTEGRAVIR AFTER SWITCHING FROM A FAILING EFAVIRENZ-BASED REGIMEN. BACKGROUND: Dolutegravir exposure is reduced after switching from efavirenz, which could select for dolutegravir resistance if switching occurs during virologic failure. METHODS: We measured serial dolutegravir trough concentrations after switching from efavirenz in a clinical trial, which randomised some participants to a supplemental dolutegravir dose or placebo for the first 14 days. Changes in dolutegravir trough concentrations between days 3, 7, 14 and 28 were evaluated. The primary outcome was the geometric mean ratio (GMR) of dolutegravir trough concentrations on day 7 versus day 28. RESULTS: Twenty-four participants received double-dose dolutegravir (50 mg twice daily) and 11 standard-dose for the first 14 days. Baseline characteristics were: 77% female, median age 36 years, CD4 cell count 254 cells/mm3, and HIV-1 RNA 4.0 log10 copies/mL. The GMR (90% CI) of dolutegravir trough concentrations on day 7 versus day 28 were: 0.637 (0.485 to 0.837) in the standard-dose group and 1.654 (1.404 to 1.948) in the double-dose group. There was a prolonged induction effect at day 28 in participants with efavirenz slow metaboliser genotypes. One participant in the double-dose group had a dolutegravir trough concentration below the protein-binding adjusted concentration needed to inhibit 90% of HIV-1 (PA-IC90) at day 3. CONCLUSIONS: No participants on standard-dose dolutegravir had dolutegravir trough concentrations below the PA-IC90. Slow efavirenz metaboliser genotypes had higher baseline efavirenz concentrations and more pronounced and longer period of induction post-switch. These findings suggest that a 14-day lead-in supplemental dolutegravir dose may not be necessary when switching from a failing efavirenz-based first-line regimen.
38374756 | Integrated Bioinformatic Analysis and Validation Identifies Immune Microenvironment-Related Potential Biomarkers in Alzheimer's Disease. BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases, accompanied by cognitive and memory impairment, accounting for about 60% - 80% of dementia types. The pathogenesis of AD has not been clarified, and there is no effective therapy to prevent or treat AD. In this study, we aimed to identify the potential biomarkers involved in the brain immune microenvironment in AD. METHODS: AD datasets from GEO database were obtained to identify the differentially expressed disease-related genes (DEDRGs) in AD through weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and differential expression analysis. Functional Enrichment analysis was performed to explore the potential biological function of DEDRGs. The hub DEDRGs were identified through the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. Furthermore, the CIBERSORT algorithm was employed to bulk gene expression profiles of AD to depict the immune microenvironment characteristics in AD. Pearson's correlation analysis was utilized to depict the correlation between each of immune cells and hub DEDRGs. RESULTS: A total of 27 DEDRGs were identified through WGCNA and differential expression analysis. Functional enrichment analysis of 27 DEDRGs indicated that chemokine signaling pathway was the most significantly enriched KEGG pathway, response to biotic stimulus was the most significantly enriched GO term, and most of DEDRGs were enriched into urinary system cancer in DO analysis. 6 hub DEDRGs, ANGPT1, CCL2, CD44, CXCR4, GJA1 and VCAM1, were screened through PPI network and all of them were up-regulated in AD. Immune infiltration analysis revealed that there were higher infiltration levels of T cells CD4 memory activated, T cells gamma delta, NK cells resting and macrophages M0, and lower infiltration level of NK cell activated in AD, and macrophages M2 owned the highest positively association with VCAM1 and CXCR4, but VCAM1 was statistically and negatively correlated to T cells CD8. CONCLUSION: Our study identified 6 hub DEDRGs, ANGPT1, CCL2, CD44, CXCR4, GJA1 and VCAM1, were statistically associated with immune infiltrating cells, and were significantly related to the pathological development of AD, which may provide a theoretical basis for developing potential biomarkers and implementing effective therapies against AD.
38391733 | Impact of Adjunctive VNS on Drug Load, Depression Severity, and Number of Neuromodulatory Maintenance Treatments. Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is a long-term adjunctive treatment option in patients with difficult-to-treat depression (DTD). A total of n = 20 patients (mean age 52.6 years) were included in the multicenter, prospective, observational, naturalistic RESTORE-LIFE study and were treated with adjunctive VNS as an add-on to treatment as usual. Exploratory and secondary outcome parameters from a single center were investigated for this present analysis. The overall mean drug load slightly decreased from 4.5 at baseline to 4.4 at 12 months (Z = -0.534, p = 0.594). The drug load was lower in previous electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) responders than in non-responders. There was a reduction in the mean number of hospitalizations per month after VNS implantation (Z = 1.975, p = 0.048) and a significant decrease in the mean Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score from 27.3 at baseline to 15.3 at 12 months (T = 4.230, degree of freedom (df) = 19, p = 0.001). A history of ECT response at baseline was associated with greater improvement in the MADRS score after 12 months of VNS (F = 8.171, p = 0.013). The number of neuromodulatory maintenance treatments decreased during the follow-up period. In summary, there was an alleviation in the burden of illness among DTD patients treated with VNS.
38391781 | Analysis of HLA-G 14 bp Insertion/Deletion Polymorphism and HLA-G, ILT2 and ILT4 Expression in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients. HLA-G is the checkpoint molecule involved in the suppression of the immune response. Increased expression of HLA-G and its ILTs receptors have been correlated with tumor progression in various cancer types. In head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) tumors, the effect of HLA-G, ILT2 and ILT4 expression on cancer development has to be explained. The 34 HNSCC patients and 98 controls were genotyped for the HLA-G 14 bp ins/del polymorphism. In HNSCC lesions, HLA-G, ILT2 and ILT4 mRNA expression was analysed using real-time PCR. The association between HLA-G, ILT2 and ILT4 mRNA expression and clinical variables (age at onset, TNM staging system and p16 positivity) was also evaluated. No genetic association between the HLA-G 14 bp ins/del and HNSCC risk was detected (p > 0.05). However, in the non-metastatic HNSCC group, a significantly higher HLA-G mRNA expression was noted in tumors in the T4 stage compared to those in the T1 and T2 stages (p = 0.0289). ILT2 mRNA expression was significantly increased in non-metastatic vs. metastatic tumors (p = 0.0269). Furthermore, a significantly higher ILT4 mRNA expression was noted in tumors in the T1+T2 stage compared to those in the T3 stage (p = 0.0495). Our results suggest that the HLA-G molecule creates an immunological microenvironment involved in HNSCC development.
38396081 | Motivation levels and white matter microstructure in children living with HIV. Central nervous system involvement in HIV infection leads to neurobehavioural sequelae. Although apathy is a well-recognised symptom in adults living with HIV linked to alterations in brain structure, there is scarce research examining motivation in children living with HIV (CLWH). We used the Children's Motivation Scale (CMS; normative mean = 50, SD = 10) to assess motivation levels in 76 CLWH aged 6-16 years (63 on antiretroviral therapy [ART]; 13 ART-naive slow progressors) in South Africa. Overall, CLWH scored low on the CMS (mean = 35.70 [SD = 5.87]). Motivation levels were significantly reduced in children taking ART compared to ART-naive slow progressors (p = 0.02), but were not correlated with markers of HIV disease (CD4 + cell count or viral load), or neurocognitive function (p > 0.05). CMS scores were correlated with diffusion tensor imaging metrics of white matter microstructure in specific frontostriatal brain regions (p < 0.05). On multiple regression, associations with the anterior limb of the internal capsule, a subcortical white matter region, remained significant after adjusting for potential confounders. These findings suggest that reduced motivation may be an important neurobehavioural symptom in CLWH and may reflect changes in white matter microstructure of frontostriatal brain regions.
38396459 | Validation of Artificial Intelligence (AI)-Assisted Flow Cytometry Analysis for Immunological Disorders. Flow cytometry is a vital diagnostic tool for hematologic and immunologic disorders, but manual analysis is prone to variation and time-consuming. Over the last decade, artificial intelligence (AI) has advanced significantly. In this study, we developed and validated an AI-assisted flow cytometry workflow using 379 clinical cases from 2021, employing a 3-tube, 10-color flow panel with 21 antibodies for primary immunodeficiency diseases and related immunological disorders. The AI software (DeepFlow , version 2.1.1) is fully automated, reducing analysis time to under 5 min per case. It interacts with hematopatholoists for manual gating adjustments when necessary. Using proprietary multidimensional density-phenotype coupling algorithm, the AI model accurately classifies and enumerates T, B, and NK cells, along with important immune cell subsets, including CD4+ helper T cells, CD8+ cytotoxic T cells, CD3+/CD4-/CD8- double-negative T cells, and class-switched or non-switched B cells. Compared to manual analysis with hematopathologist-determined lymphocyte subset percentages as the gold standard, the AI model exhibited a strong correlation (r > 0.9) across lymphocyte subsets. This study highlights the accuracy and efficiency of AI-assisted flow cytometry in diagnosing immunological disorders in a clinical setting, providing a transformative approach within a concise timeframe.
38399453 | Development and Evaluation of a Quantitative Systems Pharmacology Model for Mechanism Interpretation and Efficacy Prediction of Atezolizumab in Combination with Carboplatin and Nab-Paclitaxel in Patients with Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. Immunotherapy has shown clinical benefit in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Due to the limited response of monotherapy, combining immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) and chemotherapy is considered a treatment option for advanced NSCLC. However, the mechanism of combined therapy and the potential patient population that could benefit from combined therapy remain undetermined. Here, we developed an NSCLC model based on the published quantitative systems pharmacology (QSP)-immuno-oncology platform by making necessary adjustments. After calibration and validation, the established QSP model could adequately characterise the biological mechanisms of action of the triple combination of atezolizumab, nab-paclitaxel, and carboplatin in patients with NSCLC, and identify predictive biomarkers for precision dosing. The established model could efficiently characterise the objective response rate and duration of response of the IMpower131 trial, reproducing the efficacy of alternative dosing. Furthermore, CD8+ and CD4+ T cell densities in tumours were found to be significantly related to the response status. This significant extension of the QSP model not only broadens its applicability but also more accurately reflects real-world clinical settings. Importantly, it positions the model as a critical foundation for model-informed drug development and the customisation of treatment plans, especially in the context of combining single-agent ICIs with platinum-doublet chemotherapy.
38422171 | The timing of HIV-1 infection of cells that persist on therapy is not strongly influenced by replication competency or cellular tropism of the provirus. People with HIV-1 (PWH) on antiretroviral therapy (ART) can maintain undetectable virus levels, but a small pool of infected cells persists. This pool is largely comprised of defective proviruses that may produce HIV-1 proteins but are incapable of making infectious virus, with only a fraction (~10%) of these cells harboring intact viral genomes, some of which produce infectious virus following ex vivo stimulation (i.e. inducible intact proviruses). A majority of the inducible proviruses that persist on ART are formed near the time of therapy initiation. Here we compared proviral DNA (assessed here as 3' half genomes amplified from total cellular DNA) and inducible replication competent viruses in the pool of infected cells that persists during ART to determine if the original infection of these cells occurred at comparable times prior to therapy initiation. Overall, the average percent of proviruses that formed late (i.e. around the time of ART initiation, 60%) did not differ from the average percent of replication competent inducible viruses that formed late (69%), and this was also true for proviral DNA that was hypermutated (57%). Further, there was no evidence that entry into the long-lived infected cell pool was impeded by the ability to use the CXCR4 coreceptor, nor was the formation of long-lived infected cells enhanced during primary infection, when viral loads are exceptionally high. We observed that infection of cells that transitioned to be long-lived was enhanced among people with a lower nadir CD4+ T cell count. Together these data suggest that the timing of infection of cells that become long-lived is impacted more by biological processes associated with immunodeficiency before ART than the replication competency and/or cellular tropism of the infecting virus or the intactness of the provirus. Further research is needed to determine the mechanistic link between immunodeficiency and the timing of infected cells transitioning to the long-lived pool, particularly whether this is due to differences in infected cell clearance, turnover rates and/or homeostatic proliferation before and after ART.
38422245 | Analysis of Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12   and Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG on underweight and malabsorption in premature infants. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to explore and analyze the therapeutic effect of the combination of Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12  and Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG on underweight and malabsorption in premature infants. METHODS: This is a retrospective study. The clinical data of 68 premature infants admitted to Beijing United Family Hospital (Private Secondary Comprehensive Hospital, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China) from January 2016 to January 2022 were analyzed retrospectively. Preterm infants less than 37 weeks of gestational age admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit were included in the study. Patients with intestinal malformations, necrotizing enterocolitis, etc., who require long-term fasting were excluded. A telephone follow-up was performed 3-6 months after discharge. They were classified as treatment groups A and B according to the treatment plan. The treatment group A included parenteral nutrition, enteral nutrition, etc. In treatment group B, based on treatment group A, the premature infants were treated with Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12  and Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG. The time to regain birthweight and the weight on day 30 were compared between the two groups, as was the duration of transition from parenteral nutrition to total enteral nutrition. RESULTS: The time of weight regain birthweight in group B was shorter than that in group A (t=-2.560; t=-4.287; p<0.05). The increase of weight on day 30 in group B was significantly higher than that in group A (t=2.591; t=2.651; p<0.05). The time from parenteral nutrition to total enteral nutrition in group B was shorter than that in group A (z=-2.145; z=-2.236; p<0.05). CONCLUSION: In the treatment of premature infants, the combination of Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis BB-12  and Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG can have a better therapeutic effect on the underweight and malabsorption of premature infants, and this treatment method can be popularized in clinics.
38429734 | Changes of Mycobacterium tuberculosis specific antigen-stimulated CD27-CD38+IFN-gamma+CD4+ T cells before and after anti-tuberculosis treatment. BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to investigate whether the expression of CD27-CD38+ in interferon (IFN)-gamma+CD4+ T cells stimulated by the specific antigen early secreted antigenic target-6 (ESAT-6)/culture filter protein-10 (CFP-10) could be a potential new therapeutic evaluation indicator for anti-tuberculosis (TB) treatment. METHODS: Newly diagnosed active pulmonary TB patients, latent TB infection (LTBI) and healthy controls were enrolled from January 2021 to December 2021. PTB patients were treated by standard anti-TB regimen 2HREZ/4HR (2 months of isoniazid (H), rifampin (R), ethambutol (E), and pyrazinamide (Z) followed by 4 months of isoniazid (H) and rifampin (R)). The difference of CD27-CD38+ expression in IFN-gamma+CD4+ T cells before treatment, 2 months after treatment, and 6 months after treatment were compared. RESULTS: Total 45 PTB patients, 38 LTBI cases and 43 healthy controls were enrolled. The expression of CD27-CD38+ decreased significantly after anti-TB treatment and was comparable with that in LTBI and healthy controls when the 6-month anti-TB treatment course was completed. The decline rate of CD27-CD38+ between 6 months after treatment and baseline was positively correlated with erythrocyte sedimentation rate (r = 0.766, P < 0.0001), C-reactive protein (r = 0.560, P = 0.003) and chest computerized tomography severity score (r = 0.632, P = 0.0005). The area under receiver operator characteristic curve of CD27-CD38+ in distinguish pulmonary TB patients before and after treatment was 0.779. CONCLUSION: The expression of CD27-CD38+ in ESAT-6/CFP-10 stimulated IFN-gamma+CD4+T cells can well reflect the changes of the disease before and after anti-TB treatment, which is expected to be a potential new therapeutic evaluation index. Clinical Registry number chiCTR1800019966.
38441327 | Immune modulation by nutritional intervention in malnourished children: Identifying the phenotypic distribution and functional responses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Malnourished children are susceptible to an increased risk of mortality owing to impaired immune functions. However, the underlying mechanism of altered immune functions and its interaction with malnutrition is poorly understood. This study investigates the immune function and evaluates the effect of a particular nutritional intervention on the immune cells of undernourished children. Stunted (LAZ <-2) and at-risk of being stunted (length-for-age Z-scores, LAZ <-1 to -2) children aged between 12 and 18 months were enrolled and were provided with the daily nutritional intervention of one egg and 150 mL cow's milk for 90 days. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated at enrolment and upon completion of the intervention. Phenotypic profiles for CD3+ cells, CD4+ cells, CD8+ cells, NKT cells, and B cells were similar in both cohorts, both before and after the intervention. However, activated B cells (CD25+) were increased after nutritional intervention in the at-risk of being stunted cohort. Several pro-inflammatory cytokines, IL-6, IFN-gamma, and TNF-alpha, were elevated in the stunted children following the nutritional intervention. The results of the study indicate that nutritional intervention may have a role on activated B cells (CD25+) s in children who are at-risk of being stunted and may alter the capacity of PBMC to produce inflammatory cytokines in stunted children.
38448719 | Structure-based drug design and characterization of novel pyrazine hydrazinylidene derivatives with a benzenesulfonate scaffold as noncovalent inhibitors of DprE1 tor tuberculosis treatment. In this study, we present a novel series of (E)-4-((2-(pyrazine-2-carbonyl) hydrazineylidene)methyl)phenyl benzenesulfonate (T1-T8) and 4-((E)-(((Z)-amino(pyrazin-2-yl)methylene)hydrazineylidene)methyl)phenyl benzenesulfonate (T9-T16) derivatives which exert their inhibitory effects on decaprenylphosphoryl-beta-D-ribose 2'-epimerase (DprE1) through the formation of hydrogen bonds with the pivotal active site Cys387 residue. Their effectiveness against the M. tuberculosis H37Rv strain was examined and notably, three compounds (namely T4, T7, and T12) exhibited promising antitubercular activity, with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 1.56 microg/mL. The target compounds were screened for their antibacterial activity against a range of bacterial strains, encompassing S. aureus, B. subtilis, S. mutans, E. coli, S. typhi, and K. pneumoniae. Additionally, their antifungal efficacy against A. fumigatus and A. niger also was scrutinized. Compounds T6 and T12 demonstrated significant antibacterial activity, while compound T6 exhibited substantial antifungal activity. Importantly, all of these active compounds demonstrated exceedingly low toxicity without any adverse effects on normal cells. To deepen our understanding of these compounds, we have undertaken an in silico analysis encompassing Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, and Excretion (ADME) considerations. Furthermore, molecular docking analyses against the DprE1 enzyme was conducted and Density-Functional Theory (DFT) studies were employed to elucidate the electronic properties of the compounds, thereby enhancing our understanding of their pharmacological potential.
38480731 | HLA-class II restricted TCR targeting human papillomavirus type 18 E7 induces solid tumor remission in mice. T cell receptor (TCR)-engineered T cell therapy is a promising potential treatment for solid tumors, with preliminary efficacy demonstrated in clinical trials. However, obtaining clinically effective TCR molecules remains a major challenge. We have developed a strategy for cloning tumor-specific TCRs from long-term surviving patients who have responded to immunotherapy. Here, we report the identification of a TCR (10F04), which is human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DRA/DRB1*09:01 restricted and human papillomavirus type 18 (HPV18) E784-98 specific, from a multiple antigens stimulating cellular therapy (MASCT) benefited metastatic cervical cancer patient. Upon transduction into human T cells, the 10F04 TCR demonstrated robust antitumor activity in both in vitro and in vivo models. Notably, the TCR effectively redirected both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells to specifically recognize tumor cells and induced multiple cytokine secretion along with durable antitumor activity and outstanding safety profiles. As a result, this TCR is currently being investigated in a phase I clinical trial for treating HPV18-positive cancers. This study provides an approach for developing safe and effective TCR-T therapies, while underscoring the potential of HLA class II-restricted TCR-T therapy as a cancer treatment.
38482090 | Subacute Thyroiditis Due to COVID-19 Vaccine. In this report, we present a case of a 90-year-old female who exhibited a sudden onset of confusion and severe generalized weakness after receiving her second dose of mRNA SARS-CoV-19 vaccination 19 days prior to her admission in 2021. Her thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels were low, while her thyroxine (T4), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels were elevated. Triiodothyronine (T3) level was not measured. Ultrasonography of the thyroid revealed multiple nodules with heterogeneous tissue, and a nuclear medicine thyroid uptake scan showed very low uptake. These findings indicated limited thyroid destruction in the form of subacute thyroiditis, likely triggered by the mRNA SARS-CoV-2 vaccine. This case illustrates an acute complication due to a novel vaccine. There are three key takeaways for physicians. First, there should be a discussion of the benefits and risks of Covid-19 vaccine. Second, patients who present with encephalopathy should have their thyroid function checked. Third, clinicians must be aware of the signs and symptoms of potentially life-threatening hyperthyroidism. Additional studies are needed to identify those patients at highest risk for Covid-19 vaccine complications.
38486826 | A Nursing Pre-Transplant Intervention to Reduce Patients' Uncertainty about Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation. Patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) procedures often experience high levels of uncertainty. In this study, we developed and implemented a nursing intervention program to help patients recognize and reduce pre-transplant uncertainty. This study used a pretest-posttest single-group design without a control group. Eighteen patients undergoing HSCT participated in the intervention program-which included informational support, confirmation that the patients understood the information provided, and emotional support. Outpatients received the intervention at their initial outpatient visits after their procedure dates were determined, while inpatients received it at discharge following their procedures. The Universal Uncertainty in Illness Scale (UUIS), which consists of 26 items and six subscales, was used as the primary outcome measure. The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale were used as secondary outcome measures. The sample included 18 individuals (13 male and five female participants; median age, 52 years). Most participants had acute lymphoblastic leukemia and had previously undergone bone marrow transplantations. Following our intervention, the total UUIS score significantly decreased, from 80.83 +- 18.42 before the intervention to 63.06 +- 23.53 afterward (t = 4.98, p < .001). Furthermore, significant post-intervention reductions were observed for all six subscales of the UUIS. There were no significant differences in the functional EORTC QLQ-C30 scale scores; however, the symptom scale showed a significant decrease in fatigue (pre = 35.19 +- 19.53, post = 25.93 +- 17.04, Z = -1.99, p < 0.046) and constipation (pre = 20.37 +- 20.26, post = 7.41 +- 14.26, Z = -2.11, p = 0.035). There were no significant differences in anxiety and depression levels pre- and post-intervention. Overall, the intervention effectively reduced both UUIS total and subscale scores related to pre-HSCT uncertainties. Assessing uncertainty prior to HSCT is vital to assisting patients in coping with the procedure. Nurses not only provide information but also tailor the information to the patients' cognitive abilities, thereby simplifying their understanding of the disease and its treatment.
38518400 | Second generation Al18F-labeled D-amino acid peptide for CXCR4 targeted molecular imaging. BACKGROUND: The C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) is overexpressed in many cancers, e.g. multiple myeloma and acute leukemia, yet solely [68Ga]PentixaFor is used for clinical PET imaging. The aim of this study was to develop and assess a second generation Al18F-labeled D-amino acid peptide based on the viral macrophage inflammatory protein II for CXCR4 targeted molecular imaging. METHODS: We designed a library of monomer and multimer constructs and evaluated their binding affinity for human and mouse CXCR4. Based on these results, we selected the best vector molecule for development of an Al18F-labeled ligand, [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s), which was further evaluated in a cell-based binding assay to assess its binding properties and specificity for CXCR4. Next, pharmacokinetics and tumor uptake of [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) were evaluated in naive mice and mice with xenografts derived from U87.CXCR4 cells. Finally, we performed an imaging study in a non-human primate to assess the in vivo distribution of this novel radioligand in a species closely related to humans. RESULTS: The lead ligand AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) showed six-fold higher affinity for human CXCR4 compared to Ga-Pentixafor. The corresponding radiotracer was obtained in a good radiochemical yield of 40.1 +- 13.5 % (n = 4) and apparent molar activity of 20.4 +- 3.3 MBq/nmol (n = 4) after optimization. In U87.CD4.CXCR4 cell binding assays, the total bound fraction of [18F]AlF-NOTA-(2x)DV1(c11sc12s) was 32.4 +- 1.8 %. This fraction could be reduced by 82.5 % in the presence of 75 muM AMD3100. In naive mice, [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) accumulated in organs expressing mouse CXCR4, e.g. the liver (SUVmean (mean standardized uptake value) 75 min p.i. 11.7 +- 0.6), which was blockable by co-injecting AMD3100 (5 mg/kg). In U87.CXCR4 xenografted tumor mice, the tumor uptake of [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) remained low (SUVmean 0.5 +- 0.1), but was reduced by co-administration of AMD3100. Surprisingly, [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) exhibited a similar biodistribution in a non-human primate as in mice indicating off-target binding of [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) in liver tissue. We confirmed that [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) is taken up by hepatocytes using in vitro studies and that the uptake can be blocked with AMD3100 and rifampicin, a potent organic anion-transporting-polypeptide (OATP)1B1 and OATP1B3 inhibitor. CONCLUSION: The second generation D-peptide AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) showed high affinity for human CXCR4 and the corresponding radiotracer was produced in good radiochemical yields. However, [18F]AlF-NOTA-2xDV1(c11sc12s) is not specific for CXCR4 and is also a substrate for OATP1B1 and/or OATP1B3, known to mediate hepatic uptake. Therefore, D-amino acid peptides, based on the viral macrophage inflammatory protein II, are not the prefered vector molecule for the development of CXCR4 targeting molecular imaging tools.
38553515 | CD4+ T cell mitochondrial genotype in Multiple Sclerosis: a cross-sectional and longitudinal analysis. Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is a chronic autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS), with a largely unknown etiology, where mitochondrial dysfunction likely contributes to neuroaxonal loss and brain atrophy. Mirroring the CNS, peripheral immune cells from patients with MS, particularly CD4+ T cells, show inappropriate mitochondrial phenotypes and/or oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos) insufficiency, with a still unknown contribution of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). We hypothesized that mitochondrial genotype in CD4+ T cells might influence MS disease activity and progression. Thus, we performed a retrospective cross-sectional and longitudinal study on patients with a recent diagnosis of either Clinically Isolated Syndrome (CIS) or Relapsing-Remitting MS (RRMS) at two timepoints: 6 months (VIS1) and 36 months (VIS2) after disease onset. Our primary outcomes were the differences in mtDNA extracted from CD4+ T cells between: (I) patients with CIS/RRMS (PwMS) at VIS1 and age- and sex-matched healthy controls (HC), in the cross-sectional analysis, and (II) different diagnostic evolutions in PwMS from VIS1 to VIS2, in the longitudinal analysis. We successfully performed mtDNA whole genome sequencing (mean coverage: 2055.77 reads/base pair) in 183 samples (61 triplets). Nonetheless, mitochondrial genotype was not associated with a diagnosis of CIS/RRMS, nor with longitudinal diagnostic evolution.
38570727 | Comparative single-cell transcriptomic profile of hybrid immunity induced by adenovirus vector-based COVID-19 vaccines. In this study, antibody response and a single-cell RNA-seq analysis were conducted on peripheral blood mononuclear cells from five different groups: naive subjects vaccinated with AZD1222 (AZ) or Ad5-nCoV (Cso), individuals previously infected and later vaccinated (hybrid) with AZD1222 (AZ-hb) or Ad5-nCoV (Cso-hb), and those who were infected and had recovered from COVID-19 (Inf). The results showed that AZ induced more robust neutralizing antibody responses than Cso. The single-cell RNA data revealed a high frequency of memory B cells in the Cso and Cso-hb. In contrast, AZ and AZ-hb groups exhibited the highest proportion of activated naive B cells expressing CXCR4. Transcriptomic analysis of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells demonstrated a heterogeneous response following vaccination, hybrid immunity, or natural infection. However, a single dose of Ad5-nCoV was sufficient to strongly activate CD4+ T cells (naive and memory) expressing ANX1 and FOS, similar to the hybrid response observed with AZ. An interesting finding was the robust activation of a subset of CD8+ T cells expressing GZMB, GZMH, and IFNG genes in the Cso-hb group. Our findings suggest that both vaccines effectively stimulated the cellular immune response; however, the Ad5-nCoV induced a more robust CD8+ T-cell response in previously infected individuals.
38583059 | [The impact of augmented reality glasses on human visual efficiency and digital eye fatigue]. Objective: To investigate the differences in reading efficiency and visual fatigue between the use of augmented reality (AR) glasses and laptops. Methods: A prospective self-controlled study was conducted. Healthy students from Capital Medical University who frequently engaged in long-term near work and used laptops and other digital display devices were recruited as subjects at Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University between November 1 and November 15, 2023. LogMAR visual acuity, visual functions (accommodation, convergence, and fusion), and visual fatigue scores (Likert visual fatigue scale) of the participants were assessed. The order of using the laptop and AR glasses for each participant was determined by a coin toss. Reading efficiency (reading speed and error rate multiplied by the detection rate of incorrect numbers) with different devices for 10 minutes at the same time on different dates and visual fatigue scores after watching a 20-minute video were measured. Statistical analyses were performed using paired t-tests and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests. Results: A total of 20 eligible subjects were included, comprising 7 males and 13 females, with a mean age of (25.45+-2.27) years. There was no significant change in binocular visual acuity before and after using AR glasses and laptops (both P>0.05). The reading speed and reading efficiency of using AR glasses [(34.03+-9.25) and (29.19+-7.62) digits/min, respectively] were significantly lower than those of using laptops [(39.43+-10.36) and (35.67+-9.87) digits/min, respectively] (t=4.36, P<0.001), while the difference in error detection rate was not statistically significant (t=1.29, P=0.213). There was no statistically significant difference in visual fatigue scores before watching videos with the two devices (Z=-0.71, P=0.480). However, the visual fatigue score after watching videos with AR glasses [(20.55+-5.04) points] was significantly higher than that with laptops [16.50 (13.00, 19.75) points] (Z=-2.85, P=0.004). The visual fatigue scores after watching videos with both devices were significantly higher than before (P<0.05), with a more significant increase observed with AR glasses [(6.05+-3.50) points] (Z=-3.41, P<0.001). Conclusion: Compared with using laptops, the reading speed and efficiency were lower, and the visual fatigue was more pronounced with the use of AR glasses at the current technical level. Further optimization and improvement of AR glasses are warranted.
38589804 | Anxiety, depression, and stress: a comparative study between couples with male and female infertility. BACKGROUND AND AIM: Although infertility as a significant cause of marital crises is prevalent almost equally in men and women, infertile women are under more pressure and distress than infertile men. Therefore, this study was conducted aiming to compare anxiety, depression, and stress between couples with male and female infertility. METHODS: In this descriptive-analytical cross-sectional study, 40 couples (n = 80) with male infertility and 40 couples (n = 80) with female infertility were referred to the infertility clinic of Al-Zahra Educational and Medical Center, Rasht, Iran. Eligible infertile couples were selected by convenience sampling method. The data collection tool was a two-part questionnaire consisting of a demographic information form and a short form of the standard Depression Anxiety Stress Scale-21 (DASS-21). Data analysis was carried out using descriptive and inferential statistical tests at a significant level of p < 0.05. RESULTS: The severity of depression, anxiety, and stress also had a statistically significant difference between men and women. The severity of depression was mild in 57.5% of infertile women and moderate in 40% of infertile men. The severity of anxiety was moderate in 42.5% of infertile women and mild in 57.5% of infertile men. The severity of stress was Severe in 37.5% of infertile women and mild in 40% of infertile men. There was a statistically significant difference between infertile women and men in terms of depression (t=-4.213, df = 1619, p < 0.001), anxiety (t=-7.261, df = 2274, p < 0.001), and stress (t=-9.046, df = 2308, p < 0.001) subscales, and the total scores (t=-7.709, df = 2315, p < 0.001). The depression, stress and anxiety levels were higher in infertile women than in healthy women with infertile spouses. This difference was statistically significant (p < 0.01). The depression, anxiety, and stress levels were significantly different between infertile men and healthy men with infertile wives (p < 0.001). CONCLUSION: The results of this study indicated that depression, anxiety, and stress were more prevalent in infertile women than in infertile men. The severity levels of depression, anxiety, and stress in the wives of infertile men were higher than those in the spouses of infertile women.
2064322 | Defective mitogen-induced cellular cytotoxicity in myelodysplastic syndromes. Recovery after alpha-interferon administration. Peripheral blood mitogen - induced cellular cytotoxicity (MICC) and natural killer- cell cytotoxicity (NKCC) were assessed in 25 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Both MICC and NKCC were examined under the same experimental conditions using the 18 hr chromium release assay, except that cultures for MICC were stimulated in vitro by the addition of phytohemagglutinin (PHA). Patients' MICC was found significantly reduced, in relation to controls (p less than 0.001), but significantly higher than patients' NKCC (p less than 0.001). Furthermore, patients CD3+ cells and CD4+ cells, as well as the CD4+/CD8+ ratio, were significantly decreased (p less than 0.01, p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.001, respectively), while CD8+ cells and CD16+ cells were within normal limits. No relationship was noted between patients' MICC and total lymphocyte count or any lymphocyte subpopulation. In eleven patients who were subsequently subjected to a-interferon (a-IFN) administration, MICC values were found within normal range one month after the cessation of alpha-IFN, while NKCC values were significantly increased (p less than 0.01), but they still remained below the lower limit of the control (p less than 0.001). Percentages of CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ cells, as well as the CD4+/CD8+ ratio, did not change after alpha-IFN, but the absolute numbers of CD3+ cells and CD8+ cells were significantly reduced. A statistically significant rise was noted in CD16+ cells. Post- IFN rises in MICC did not correlate with lymphocyte subpopulations. The findings indicate that MDS patients display very low MICC, which can be restored by alpha-IFN administration. The cause of this disturbance and the mechanism of its restoration by alpha-IFN remain unclear.
2765520 | Binding energetics of phosphorus-containing inhibitors of thermolysin. The importance of a specific hydrogen bond between thermolysin and a phosphonamidate inhibitor, Z-NHCH2-PO(O-)-Leu-Leu (1) [Bartlett, P. A., & Marlowe, C. K. (1987) Science (Washington D.C.) 235, 569-571], has been reevaluated. We have determined the inhibition constants (binding free energies) for thermolysin of phosphonamidate n-hexyl-P(O)(O-)-Leu-Trp-NHMe (4), phosphonate n-hexyl-P-(O)(O-)OCH(iBu)CO-Trp-NHMe (5), and phosphinates n-hexyl-P(O)(O-)CH2CH(iBu)CO-Trp-NHMe (6) and Z-NHCH2PO(O-)CH2CH(iBu)CO-Leu (3). Replacement of the P-NH group by P-CH2 (1----3 and 4----6) weakens the overall binding free energy by about 1.5 kcal/mol. A negligible difference in solvation energy has been measured for these pairs, and the basicity of the P-O- ligand for zinc in each pair remains nearly unchanged as determined by pH titration of their 31P NMR resonances. Therefore, this value of 1.5 kcal/mol can be assigned to the specific hydrogen bond known to exist between the P-NH of 1 and thermolysin [Tronrud, D. E., Holden, H. M., & Matthews, B. W. (1987) Science (Washington, D.C.) 235, 871-574] and inferred to exist between 4 and the enzyme. Substitution of P-O for P-NH (1----2 [Bartlett, P. A., & Marlowe, C. K. (1987) Science (Washington, D.C.) 235, 569-571] and 4----5) weakens the overall binding free energy by 4.1 kcal/mol for each pair as the basicity of the P-O- ligand decreases by about 1.6 pH units. The measured solvation energy difference between 4 and 5 (and by inference between 1 and 2) is negligible.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
2831674 | [Clinical and immune-modulating effects of the treatment with unsaturated fatty acids in atopic dermatitis]. The metabolism of essential unsaturated fatty acids seems to show changes in patients with atopic dermatitis (AD). A defect or a deficiency of a Delta-6-Desaturase, which transforms cis-linoleic acid into gamma-linolenic-acid will be discussed. We examined the influence of a treatment with unsaturated fatty acids on clinical phenotype and the surface antigens of lymphocytes in peripheral blood. Prolonged recurrence free intervals as well as a faster ability to control relapse were established. Dysbalance in the lymphocytic system was able to be positively influenced. We found an increase of Leu 2 a-antigen carrying T-suppressor-lymphocytes and of the Leu 3+8+- antigen carrying subpopulation of T-helper-lymphocytes, which are responsible for activation of precursor T-suppressor cells into.
15595835 | Complex of an active mu-opioid receptor with a cyclic peptide agonist modeled from experimental constraints. Site-directed mutagenesis and design of Zn(2+)-binding centers have been used to determine a set of specific tertiary interactions between the mu-opioid receptor, a rhodopsin-like G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR), and its cyclic peptide agonist ligand, Tyr(1)-c(S-Et-S)[d-Cys(2)-Phe(3)-d-Pen(4)]NH(2) (JOM6). The binding affinity of the tetrapeptide is strongly dependent on the nature of its first and third residues and on substitutions at positions 213, 216, 237, 300, 315, and 318 of the mu-opioid receptor. His(1) and His(3) analogues of the ligand were able to form metal-binding complexes with the V300C and G213C/T315C receptor mutants, respectively. Direct contact of the Phe(3) residue of JOM6 with Gly(213), Asp(216), Thr(315), and Trp(318) of the receptor was suggested by the binding affinities of His(3)-, Nle(3)-, Leu(3)-, Aci(3)-, Delta(E)Phe(3)-, and Delta(Z)Phe(3)-substituted peptides with the G213C/T315C, D216V, T315C, and W318L mutants. The improved binding affinity of the free carboxylate analogue of JOM6 for binding to the E229D mutant revealed an interaction between the C-terminal group of the peptide and Glu(229) of the receptor. The experimental constraints that were obtained were applied for distance geometry modeling of the mu-receptor in complex with the tetrapeptide agonist ligand, JOM6. The active conformation of the opioid receptor was calculated using the crystal structure of \inactive\ rhodopsin and published engineered and intrinsic metal-binding sites and disulfide bonds that allow or facilitate activation of GPCRs. Interhelical H-bonds existing in the mu-receptor were applied as additional distance constraints. The calculated model of the receptor-ligand complex can serve as a prototype of the active state for all rhodopsin-like GPCRs. It displays a strongly shifted transmembrane helix 6 (TM6) and reorientation of the conserved Trp(293) residue in TM6 upon its interaction with the agonist. Importantly, the binding pockets of the active and inactive states are not identical, which implies distinct interaction modes of agonists and antagonists. In the active state, the binding pocket of the mu-receptor is complementary to the previously proposed receptor-bound conformation of JOM6.
28559889 | Characterization of Lipopeptide Biosurfactants Produced by Bacillus licheniformis MB01 from Marine Sediments. Antibiotic resistance has become one of the world's most severe problems because of the overuse of antibiotics. Antibiotic-resistant bacteria are more difficult to kill and more expensive to treat. Researchers have been studied on antibiotic alternatives such as antimicrobial peptides and lipopeptides. A functional bacteria MB01 producing lipopeptides which can be used as bacteriostat was isolated from the Bohai Sea sediments, which had been identified as Bacillus licheniformis by the morphological, physiological, and biochemical identification and 16s rDNA sequence. The lipopeptides produced by MB01 were determined to be cyclic surfactin homologs by LC-ESI-MS structural identification after crude extraction and LH-20 chromatography. [M+H]+m/z 994, 1008, 1022, and 1036 were all the characteristic molecular weight of surfactin homologs. CID analysis revealed that the molecular structure of the lipopeptides was Rn-Glu1-Leu/Ile2-Leu3-Val4-Asp5-Leu6-Leu/Ile7. The lipopeptides showed well resistance to UV light and the change of pH and temperature.
36062301 | PSMB5 overexpression is correlated with tumor proliferation and poor prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma. Aberrant expression of members of the proteasome subunit beta (PSMB) family (including PSMB2, PSMB4, PSMB7 and PSMB8) has been reported in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However the role of PSMB5 in HCC is unclear. To address this issue, we examined the expression of PSMB5 in HCC tissues using the The Cancer Genome Atlas, International Cancer Genome Consortium and Gene Expression Omnibus databases. A quantitative real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry were performed to validate the expression of PSMB5 in HCC. The survival mutation status and immune cell infiltration of PSMB5 were also evaluated in HCC. We then examined the effect of knocking down PSMB5 expression through RNA interference in the HCC cell line Huh7. High expression of PSMB5 was observed in HCC tissues and was associated with poor prognosis. PSMB5 expression and clinical characteristics were then incorporated to build a prognostic nomogram. We observed that PSMB5 expression was closely related to the abundance of B cells, CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells, dendritic cell macrophages and neutrophils. Moreover silencing of PSMB5 in Huh7 significantly suppressed cell proliferation and migration at the same time as increasing apoptosis. Inhibition of the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/Akt/mechanistic target of rapamycin pathway was observed after PSMB5 downregulation in Huh7 cells. Our findings suggest that PSMB5 may promote the proliferation of HCC cells by inactivating the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/Akt/mechanistic target of rapamycin signaling pathway and thus PSMB5 may have potential as a biomarker for diagnosis and prognosis of HCC.
37476145 | Evaluation of Thyroid Function Tests in Patients With COVID-19. Background SARS-CoV-2 infects cells via angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). ACE2 levels are high in the thyroid gland. Although the thyroid gland can be directly infected in COVID-19 patients, the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis is also affected. Therefore, changes in thyroid function occur in COVID-19 patients. This study aimed to examine the effect of thyroid function tests on the prognosis of COVID-19. Methodology A total of 146 patients who were diagnosed with COVID-19 and treated in the intensive care unit between August and November 2021 and who had no previous history of thyroid disease were included in the study. Demographic information, laboratory tests, and thyroid hormone levels during hospitalization and discharge patterns were evaluated. The patients were divided into two groups: group I included those who were discharged after recovery, and group II included those who did not respond to treatment and died. Results When the fT3 and fT4 levels of the patients were compared, the hormone levels decreased as the clinical severity of the disease increased. The amount of decrease in hormone levels was mostly seen in group II. In the recovered patient group, the amount of hormone decreased was less. The difference between fT3 and ft4 values between the groups was found to be statistically significant (P = 0.015 and P = 0.004). In addition, the difference between the groups' C-reactive protein (CRP), D-dimer, and ferritin values was statistically significant (P = 0.036, P = 0.022, and P < 0.000, respectively). There was no statistically significant difference between the groups in terms of demographic characteristics (P > 0.05). Conclusions Thyroid hormone changes were found to be an important prognostic parameter affecting disease severity and mortality in COVID-19 patients and can be used to predict mortality.
37498399 | Efficacy and safety of tixagevimab-cilgavimab (Evusheld ) in people with Multiple Sclerosis on Ocrelizumab: preliminary evidence. BACKGROUND: Evusheld (EVS) was authorized by FDA and EMA as pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) in people at high risk of severe Covid-19 outcomes, including people with Multiple Sclerosis (pwMS) on B-cell depleting (BCD) therapies-such as Ocrelizumab (OCR). In this population, no data on possible adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to EVS, B-lymphocytes (CD20 +) counts pre- and post-EVS injection, and comparison of percentage increase of IgG antibodies directed against SARS-CoV-2 trimeric spike protein (anti-TSP IgG) post-EVS and Covid-19 vaccine was available. The aim of this study was to better characterize the efficacy and safety profile of EVS in pwMS on BCD agents. METHODS: 17 pwMS on OCR agreed to receive EVS as PrEP for Covid-19. Sera samples were collected before the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine (T0), 4 weeks after the second dose (T1), 4 weeks after third dose (T2), immediately before (T3) and 4 weeks after (T4) EVS. RESULTS: Covid-19 vaccine ADRs were mild-to-moderate, whereas no ADRs were reported after EVS injection. A significant increase of anti-TSP IgG was found only at T0-T1 (Z = -3.059, p = .002) and T3-T4 (Z = -3.621, p < .001) time-points. The median percentage increase between T3-T4 was significantly higher with respect to the T0-T1(Z = -3.296, p = .001) and T1-T2 (Z = -3.059, p = .002) time-points. CONCLUSIONS: These results further support EVS safety and efficacy in boosting anti-TSP IgG titers in pwMS on OCR, with a statistically greater increase than that observed after completion of a full Covid-19 vaccine cycle, plus a booster dose.
37584227 | Longitudinal investigation of factors influencing mental health during centralized quarantine for COVID-19. BACKGROUND: Centralized quarantine was applied in response to the coronavirus disease 2019 outbreak. The present study aimed to investigate changes in psychological status of isolated individuals before and after quarantine. METHODS: Between August 2020 and July 2021, 648 participants completed the following psychometric evaluations before and after centralized quarantine: 9-item Patient Health Questionnaire for depression, 7-item Generalized Anxiety Disorder for anxiety, the Chinese version of the Connor Davidson Resilience Scale for psychological resilience, the Chinese version of the Simplified Coping Style Questionnaire for coping style, Jiang's revised Chinese version of the Perceived Social Support Scale for social support and the Chinese version of the Impact of Events Scale for stress. RESULTS: At the beginning of centralized quarantine, 83.2% (n=539) of participants had no depressive mood, 11% (n=71) had mild depressive mood and 5.8% (n=38) had moderate-severe depressive mood. At the end of quarantine, 80.8% (n=524) of participants had no depressive mood, 13% (n=84) had mild depressive mood and 6.2% (n=41) had moderate-severe depressive mood. At the beginning of the centralized quarantine, 86.7% (n=562) of participants had no anxiety, 9.6% (n=62) had mild anxiety and 3.7% (n=24) had moderate-severe anxiety. At the end of quarantine, 85.8% (n=556) of participants had no anxiety, 11.6% (n=75) had mild anxiety and 2.6% (n=17) had moderate-severe anxiety. After 2 weeks of centralized quarantine, anxiety (t=2.175, p<0.05), stress (t=7.453, p<0.01) and three stress subscale scores (p<0.01) decreased significantly; psychology resilience (t=-3.63, p<0.01), tenacity (t=-4.747, p<0.01), active coping style (t=-3.83, p<0.01) and support outside family (t=-3.07, p<0.05) all increased significantly. No significant change was observed in depression, strength, optimism, passive coping style or support inside family. Depression and anxiety scores associated significantly with resilience, stress, coping styles and social support scores. Anxiety (B=0.488, beta=0.413, p<0.01), psychological resilience (B=-0.047, beta=-0.203, p<0.01) and stress (B=1.475, beta=0.167, p<0.1) scores before centralized quarantine were associated with depression after quarantine. Depression (B=0.323, beta=0.422, p<0.01), psychological resilience (B=-0.022, beta=-0.123, p<0.01) and stress (B=1.408, beta=0.207, p<0.01) scores before quarantine also influenced anxiety levels after quarantine. A cross-lagged panel model indicated that depression, anxiety, resilience and stress scores at the first assessment were predictive of depression and anxiety levels at the second assessment. CONCLUSIONS: Good mental health during centralized quarantine was associated with high scores of psychological resilience, impact of events, coping styles and social support and did not become worse in settings where adequate support was available.
37592162 | Lack of vitamin D predicts impaired long-term immune response to COVID-19 vaccination. PURPOSE: Low vitamin D levels were reported to negatively influence the outcome of acute COVID-19, as well as to be linked to Long-COVID. However, few studies have investigated, so far, its effects on humoral-response to anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, reporting conflicting results. We aimed to evaluate the impact of baseline 25(OH)vitamin D (25(OH)D) levels on humoral-response to a two-dose cycle of Pfizer-BioNTech-vaccine up to 9-10 months after immunization. METHODS: We retrospectively included 119 consecutive healthcare-workers (median age 53 years) without a previous history of acute COVID-19 or anti-SARS-CoV-2 immunoglobulins presence immunized with two doses of Comirnaty-vaccine from January to February 2021. 25(OH)D was measured at time of first-immunization. Immune response was evaluated at: time 0 (T0), before the first-dose; T1, time of second-dose (21 days after T0); T2, T3, T4 at 1, 5 and 9 months after T1, respectively. RESULTS: Median 25(OH)D levels were 25.6 ng/mL, and vitamin D deficiency (25(OH)D <20 ng/mL) was observed in 29 subjects (24.8%). In those with vitamin D deficiency, we found a non-significant trend towards lower antibody-titers at T3, and significantly lower titers at T4 as compared to those not vitamin D-deficient, also observing a more pronounced antibody-titers negative drop from peak-T2 and T4 in those with vitamin D deficiency. A positive correlation between 25(OH)D levels and antibody-titers at T4 (p = 0.043) was found. In multiple linear-regression analysis, 25(OH)D deficiency and older-age resulted as negative independent factors associated with antibody titer at T4 (p = 0.026, p = 0.004; respectively). CONCLUSION: In our relatively young cohort presenting low prevalence of hypovitaminosis D, the long-term humoral response to anti-SARS-CoV-2 vaccination was negatively influenced by low baseline 25(OH)D. Vitamin D supplementation could be tested as a strategy to optimize the vaccination campaigns to prevent severe COVID-19.
37679040 | mRNA COVID-19 Vaccination Does Not Exacerbate Symptoms or Trigger Neural Antibody Responses in Multiple Sclerosis. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: In people with multiple sclerosis (pwMS), concern for potential disease exacerbation or triggering of other autoimmune disorders contributes to vaccine hesitancy. We assessed the humoral and T-cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 after mRNA vaccination, changes in disease activity, and development of antibodies against central or peripheral nervous system antigens. METHODS: This was a prospective 1-year longitudinal observational study of pwMS and a control group of patients with other inflammatory neurologic disorders (OIND) who received an mRNA vaccine. Blood samples were obtained before the first dose (T1), 1 month after the first dose (T2), 1 month after the second dose (T3), and 6 (T4), 9 (T5), and 12 (T6) months after the first dose. Patients were assessed for the immune-specific response, annualized relapse rate (ARR), and antibodies to onconeuronal, neural surface, glial, ganglioside, and nodo-paranodal antigens. RESULTS: Among 454 patients studied, 390 had MS (22 adolescents) and 64 OIND; the mean (SD) age was 44 (14) years; 315 (69%) were female; and 392 (87%) were on disease-modifying therapies. Antibodies to the receptor-binding domain were detected in 367 (86%) patients at T3 and 276 (83%) at T4. After a third dose, only 13 (22%) of 60 seronegative patients seroconverted, and 255 (92%) remained seropositive at T6. Cellular responses were present in 381 (93%) patients at T3 and in 235 (91%) patients at T6 including all those receiving anti-CD20 therapies and in 79% of patients receiving fingolimod. At T3 (429 patients) or T6 (395 patients), none of the patients had developed CNS autoantibodies. Seven patients had neural antibodies that were already present before immunization (3 adult patients with MS had MOG-IgG, 2 with MG and 1 with MS had neuronal cell surface antibodies [unknown antigen], and 1 with MS had myelin antibody reactivity [unknown antigen]. Similarly, no antibodies against PNS antigens were identified at T3 (427 patients). ARR was lower in MS and not significantly different in patients with OIND. Although 182 (40%) patients developed SARS-CoV-2 infection, no cases of severe COVID-19 or serious adverse events occurred. DISCUSSION: In this study, mRNA COVID-19 vaccination was safe and did not exacerbate the autoimmune disease nor triggered neural autoantibodies or immune-mediated neurologic disorders. The outcome of patients who developed SARS-CoV-2 infection was favorable.
37724517 | Long follow-up of BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine in healthcare workers (2020-2022): A retrospective longitudinal SARS-CoV-2 serological surveillance. SARS-CoV-2 anti-spike IgG production and protection from severe respiratory illness should be explored in greater depth after COVID-19 booster vaccination. This longitudinal observational retrospective study investigated the anti-spike IgG response elicited by the first, second and booster doses of BNT162b2 mRNA vaccine in healthcare workers (HCW) at San Martino IRCCS Policlinico Hospital (Genoa) up to the 12th month. Sequential blood sampling was performed at T0 (prior to vaccination), T1 (21 days after the 1st dose of vaccine), T2, T3, T4, T5, T6 (7 days and 1, 3, 6 and 9 months after the 2nd dose, respectively), T7 and T8 (1 and 3 months after a booster dose). A SARS-CoV-2 IgG panel (Bio-Rad, Marnes-la-Coquette, France) was used to determine levels of receptor-binding domain (RBD), spike-1 (S1), spike-2 and nucleocapsid structural proteins of SARS-CoV-2. In the 51 HCWs evaluated, seroprevalence was 96% (49/51) at T1 and 100% (51/51) from T2 to T5 for RBD and S1. At T6, only one HCW was negative. T2 [RBD = 2945 (IQR:1693-5364); S1 = 1574 (IQR:833-3256) U/mL], and T7 [RBD = 8204 (IQR:4129-11,912); S1 = 4124 (IQR:2124-6326) U/mL] were characterized by the highest antibody values. Significant humoral increases in RBD and S1 were documented at T7 and T8 compared to T2 and T4, respectively (p-value < .001). Following vaccination with BNT162b2 and a booster dose in the 9th month, naive and healthy subjects show high antibody titers up to 12 months and a protective humoral response against COVID-19 disease lasting up to 20 months after the last booster.
37750659 | Clinical and thyroid profile in patients with COVID-19 hospitalized in an intensive care unit. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to summarize the epidemiological and clinical features of thyroid function in COVID-19 patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Civil Fray Antonio Alcalde Hospital in Mexico. PATIENTS AND METHODS: This is a cross-sectional study that included 63 ICU patients with COVID-19 from August 2021 to December 2021. Thyroid function was evaluated through the TSH, T4, T3, and FT3 measures. Comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus type 2 (T2DM), arterial hypertension (HT), body mass index (BMI), and biochemical biomarkers, including procalcitonin (PCT) and C reactive protein (CRP), were also analyzed. RESULTS: A total of 63 patients with COVID-19 were hospitalized in the ICU; 42 (67%) were male, and 21 (33%) were female, with a mean age of 47 (range of 26-76 years). A total of 49 (78%) patients were non-vaccinated, 5 (8%) had an incomplete vaccination schedule, and 4 (6%) had completed the vaccination schedule. Regarding BMI, 10 (16%) were overweight, and 26 (40%) reported obesity. When assessing thyroid function, 8 (13%) patients were euthyroid, and 55 (87%) showed alterations on the thyroid hormonal axis, mainly a low concentration of TSH (0.56+-0.79; p=0.0001) and FT3 (2.34+-0.52; p=0.0006). In addition, increased PCT concentrations were associated with a higher risk to decease (1.22 vs. 8.21; p=0.0001) in this group of patients. CONCLUSIONS: Based on our findings, it appears that COVID-19 patients with low TSH and FT3 levels, who have not been vaccinated against SARS-CoV-2, are overweight or obese, and exhibit high levels of PCT are more likely to experience a poor prognosis and even mortality.
38085648 | Programmable Aptasensor for Regulating CRISPR/Cas12a Activity. CRISPR-mediated aptasensors have gained prevalence for detecting non-nucleic acid targets. However, there is an urgent need to develop an easily customizable design to improve the signal-to-noise ratio, enhance universality, and expand the detection range. In this article, we report a CRISPR-mediated programmable aptasensor (CPAS) platform. The platform includes single-stranded DNA comprising the aptamer sequence, locker DNA, and a crRNA recognition region, forming a hairpin structure through complementary hybridization. With T4 DNA polymerase, the crRNA recognition region was transformed into a complete double-stranded DNA through stem-loop extension, thereby activating the trans-cleavage activity of Cas 12a and generating fluorescence signals. The specific binding between the target molecule and aptamer disrupted the formation of the hairpin structure, altering the fluorescence signals. Notably, the CPAS platform allows for easy customization by simply changing the aptamer sequence and locker DNA, without entailing adjustments to the crRNA. The optimal number of bases in the locker DNA was determined to be seven nucleotides for the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein and four nucleotides for ATP. The CPAS platform exhibited high sensitivity for S protein and ATP detection. Integration with a lateral flow assay enabled sensitive detection within 1 h, revealing its excellent potential for portable analysis.
38102898 | The changing clinical presentation of COVID-19 in children during the course of the pandemic. AIM: To investigate the evolution of clinical symptoms of COVID-19 in children throughout the pandemic. METHODS: In this national prospective surveillance study, symptoms in children hospitalised with COVID-19 were collected from all paediatric hospitals in Switzerland between March 2020 and March 2023. Data was analysed across four time periods, according to the predominantly circulating SARS-CoV-2 variant: T1 (wild-type), T2 (Alpha), T3 (Delta) and T4 (Omicron), as well as by age group. RESULTS: The study included 1323 children. The proportion of children admitted to an intensive care unit remained stable throughout the pandemic. However, the pattern and frequency of clinical manifestations changed over time. Respiratory symptoms were less prevalent during T1 (wild-type), fever during T2 (Alpha) and rash during T4 (Omicron). In contrast, fever and neurological symptoms were more prevalent during T4 (Omicron). Newly described symptoms during T4 (Omicron) included conjunctivitis, laryngotracheitis and seizures. Fever was more prevalent among neonates and infants whereas respiratory symptoms were more common among infants. Gastrointestinal symptoms were more frequent among toddlers, while both toddlers and school-aged children presented with neurological symptoms more often than other age groups. CONCLUSION: Continuous surveillance is required to detect changes in manifestations and there by be prepared for the optimal management of complications in children with COVID-19.
38109021 | Reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) primer design based on Indonesia SARS-CoV-2 RNA sequence. BACKGROUND: The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the importance of tracking cases by using various methods such as the Reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) which is a fast, simple, inexpensive, and accurate mass tracker. However, there have been no reports about the development of RT-LAMP primer designs that use genome sequences of viruses from Indonesia. Therefore, this study aimed to design an RT-LAMP primer using SARS-CoV-2 genome sequences from Indonesia and several other countries representing five continents in the world, as well as genomes from five Variants of Concern (VOC). RESULT: The results showed that the consensus sequence of 70 SARS-CoV-2 virus sequences was obtained with a length of 29,982 bases. The phylogenetic test confirmed that the consensus sequence had a close kinship with the SARS-CoV-2 Wuhan Isolate. Furthermore, the SimPlot analysis showed that there was a high genetic diversity of sequences from the Coronaviridae tribal virus at base sequences of 1,500-5,000, 6,500-7,500, and 23,300-25,500. A total of 139 sets of primers were obtained from the primer design with 4 sets namely T1_6, T1_9, T4_7, and T4_52 having the best characteristics. Based on the secondary structure analysis test on 4 sets of primers, T1_6 and T1_9 were predicted not to form secondary structures at RT-LAMP operational temperatures. The primer set T1_9 showed better specificity in BLAST NCBI and eLAMP BLAST tests. CONCLUSION: This study obtained a primer set of T1_9 with base sequence F3: CACTGAGACTCATTGATGCTATG, B3: CCAACCGTCTCTAAGAAACTCT, F2: GTTCACATCTGATTTGGCTACT, F1c: GAAGTCAACTGAACAACACCACCT, B2: CCTTCCTTAAACTTCTCTTCAAGC, B1c: GTGGCTAACTAACATCTTTGGCACT, LB: TGAAAACAAACCCGCCGTCCTTG, which meets the ideal parameters and has the best specificity. Therefore, it is recommended for use in further tests to recognize SARS-CoV-2 from Indonesia, other five continents, as well as five VOCs, including the new Omicron sub-variant.
38140145 | Long Term Assessment of Anti-SARS-CoV-2 Immunogenicity after mRNA Vaccine in Persons Living with HIV. (1) Background: Waning of neutralizing and cell-mediated immune response after the primary vaccine cycle (PVC) and the first booster dose (BD) is of concern, especially for PLWH with a CD4 count <=200 cells/mm3. (2) Methods: Neutralizing antibodies (nAbs) titers by microneutralization assay against WD614G/Omicron BA.1 and IFNgamma production by ELISA assay were measured in samples of PLWH at four time points [2 and 4 months post-PVC (T1 and T2), 2 weeks and 5 months after the BD (T3 and T4)]. Participants were stratified by CD4 count after PVC (LCD4, <=200/mm3; ICD4, 201-500/mm3, and HCD4, >500/mm3). Mixed models were used to compare mean responses over T1-T4 across CD4 groups. (3) Results: 314 PLWH on ART (LCD4 = 56; ICD4 = 120; HCD4 = 138) were enrolled. At T2, levels of nAbs were significantly lower in LCD4 vs. ICD4/HCD4 (p = 0.04). The BD was crucial for increasing nAbs titers above 1:40 at T3 and up to T4 for WD614G. A positive T cell response after PVC was observed in all groups, regardless of CD4 (p = 0.31). (4) Conclusions: Waning of nAbs after PVC was more important in LCD4 group. The BD managed to re-establish higher levels of nAbs against WD614G, which were retained for 5 months, but for shorter time for Omicron BA.1. The T cellular response in the LCD4 group was lower than that seen in participants with higher CD4 count, but, importantly, it remained above detectable levels over the entire study period.
38184779 | Graves' Disease Exacerbation with Impending Thyroid Storm After SARS-CoV-2 Infection: A Case Report. BACKGROUND Since the COVID-19 pandemic, several cases of COVID-19 have been linked to the development of autoimmune disorders, including of the thyroid. Graves' disease (GD) is a rare complication that can occur following SARS-CoV-2 infection. Reports have linked COVID-19 to new onset and exacerbation of GD. We present a case of a 42-year-old woman with a history of GD presenting with impending thyroid storm 3 weeks following a diagnosis of COVID-19. CASE REPORT A 42-year-old woman with a history of GD presented to the Emergency Department (ED) for an acute exacerbation of hyperthyroidism 3 weeks after SARS-CoV-2 infection was diagnosed on a home test. Symptoms included daily headaches, increased bilateral eye pressure, fatigue, muscle weakness, episodes of confusion and agitation, persistent heart palpitations, and goiter. Elevated free T4 of 5.57, free T3 of 15.68, total T3 of 4.43, and near-absent thyroid stimulating hormone were noted. The Burch-Wartofsky scale was 40, which was concerning for an impending thyroid storm; however, at the time of admission, she was not in a thyroid storm. Treatment included propylthiouracil, potassium iodide oral solution, and propranolol, with symptom improvement. Due to prior history of intolerance to antithyroid medications and recent exacerbation, a thyroidectomy was performed once she was in a euthyroid state. CONCLUSIONS Our case demonstrates the importance of recognizing COVID-19 as an etiology or a trigger for new onset or exacerbation of GD. Our case highlights that being vigilant to recognize the association between COVID-19 and thyroid abnormalities for early diagnosis and treatment is imperative.
38235145 | T4 apoptosis in the acute phase of SARS-CoV-2 infection predicts long COVID. Background: As about 10% of patients with COVID-19 present sequelae, it is important to better understand the physiopathology of so-called long COVID. Method: To this aim, we recruited 29 patients hospitalized for SARS-CoV-2 infection and, by Luminex , quantified 19 soluble factors in their plasma and in the supernatant of their peripheral blood mononuclear cells, including inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines, Th1/Th2/Th17 cytokines, and endothelium activation markers. We also measured their T4, T8 and NK differentiation, activation, exhaustion and senescence, T cell apoptosis, and monocyte subpopulations by flow cytometry. We compared these markers between participants who developed long COVID or not one year later. Results: None of these markers was predictive for sequelae, except programmed T4 cell death. T4 lymphocytes from participants who later presented long COVID were more apoptotic in culture than those of sequelae-free participants at Month 12 (36.9 +- 14.7 vs. 24.2 +- 9.0%, p = 0.016). Conclusions: Our observation raises the hypothesis that T4 cell death during the acute phase of SARS-CoV-2 infection might pave the way for long COVID. Mechanistically, T4 lymphopenia might favor phenomena that could cause sequelae, including SARS-CoV-2 persistence, reactivation of other viruses, autoimmunity and immune dysregulation. In this scenario, inhibiting T cell apoptosis, for instance, by caspase inhibitors, could prevent long COVID.
38330189 | COVID-19 monitoring of school personnel through molecular salivary test and dried blood spot analysis. Background: When the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic broke out, most countries enforced school closures as a precautionary measure. Although COVID-19 is still present three years later, schools have been reopened. We aimed to test the association of molecular salivary testing (MST) and dried blood spot (DBS) analysis for community surveillance by investigating the immunological profile of a group of school staff during and following COVID-19 vaccination. Methods: We conducted the study in a school in Milan from April 2021, when school staff were administered the first dose of vaccine against SARS-CoV-2, until the school year ended in June 2022. Each participant provided samples for MST and DBS one month (T1, W1) after receiving their first dose of vaccine. Subsequently, they collected weekly MST samples for five weeks (W2-W6), plus a DBS sample in the last week (T2). Both samples were collected one (T3), four (T4), and seven months (T5) after the administration of the second vaccine dose in May 2021. A final DBS sample was collected one year (T6) after T3. Results: Sixty participants provided 327 MSTs and 251 DBSs. None of the MST samples tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 RNA during the study period. A total of 201 DBS samples tested positive for the IgG semiquantitative analysis. Negative samples were found only at T1 (20.45%) and T2 (7.32%). We observed borderline results at T1 (4.55%), T2 (7.32%), and T4 (2.70%). The anti-SARS-CoV-2 average antibody ratio increased after the second dose between T2 and T3, and the trend peaked after the third dose between T4 and T6. We performed an immunoenzymatic assay of antibodies against nucleocapsid protein on samples collected at T1 from five participants who reported having been infected before the study and from four subjects with an abnormal increase in the antibody values at T4. Two samples tested positive in the first group and two in the second one. Conclusions: Our findings show that MST and DBS could be effective tools in the active surveillance of school personnel and that schools could be considered safe settings in view of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Vaccines might have contributed to case and/or symptom reduction.
38343436 | Dynamics of humoral and cellular response to three doses of anti-SARS-CoV-2 BNT162b2 vaccine in patients with hematological malignancies and older subjects. Background: Few data are available about the durability of the response, the induction of neutralizing antibodies, and the cellular response upon the third dose of the anti-severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) vaccine in hemato-oncological patients. Objective: To investigate the antibody and cellular response to the BNT162b2 vaccine in patients with hematological malignancy. Methods: We measured SARS-CoV-2 anti-spike antibodies, anti-Omicron neutralizing antibodies, and T-cell responses 1 month after the third dose of vaccine in 93 fragile patients with hematological malignancy (FHM), 51 fragile not oncological subjects (FNO) aged 80-92, and 47 employees of the hospital (healthcare workers, (HW), aged 23-66 years. Blood samples were collected at day 0 (T0), 21 (T1), 35 (T2), 84 (T3), 168 (T4), 351 (T pre-3D), and 381 (T post-3D) after the first dose of vaccine. Serum IgG antibodies against S1/S2 antigens of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein were measured at every time point. Neutralizing antibodies were measured at T2, T3 (anti-Alpha), T4 (anti-Delta), and T post-3D (anti-Omicron). T cell response was assessed at T post-3D. Results: An increase in anti-S1/S2 antigen antibodies compared to T0 was observed in the three groups at T post-3D. After the third vaccine dose, the median antibody level of FHM subjects was higher than after the second dose and above the putative protection threshold, although lower than in the other groups. The neutralizing activity of antibodies against the Omicron variant of the virus was tested at T2 and T post-3D. 42.3% of FHM, 80,0% of FNO, and 90,0% of HW had anti-Omicron neutralizing antibodies at T post-3D. To get more insight into the breadth of antibody responses, we analyzed neutralizing capacity against BA.4/BA.5, BF.7, BQ.1, XBB.1.5 since also for the Omicron variants, different mutations have been reported especially for the spike protein. The memory T-cell response was lower in FHM than in FNO and HW cohorts. Data on breakthrough infections and deaths suggested that the positivity threshold of the test is protective after the third dose of the vaccine in all cohorts. Conclusion: FHM have a relevant response to the BNT162b2 vaccine, with increasing antibody levels after the third dose coupled with, although low, a T-cell response. FHM need repeated vaccine doses to attain a protective immunological response.
38374864 | Subacute Thyroiditis in Active COVID-19 Infection: A Report of Two Cases With a Systematic Review of the Literature. Subacute thyroiditis (SAT) is a self-limiting inflammatory condition of the thyroid gland with distinct symptoms and a predictable outcome. During the current COVID-19 pandemic, there have been multiple isolated reports of SAT either during the active viral illness or following recovery. Here, we report two such cases of COVID-19 infection presenting with SAT. A 65-year-old male presented with a two-week history of anterior neck pain, odynophagia, high-grade fever (38.9 C), sweating, palpitations, and tremulousness. At physical examination, the patient presented with a slightly increased heart rate and a tender and enlarged thyroid on palpation. Laboratory examination showed high C-reactive protein levels, with elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and thyroid function tests were suggestive of thyrotoxicosis. Ultrasonography showed a heterogeneous thyroid gland with ill-defined hypoechoic areas, and thyroid scintigraphy showed reduced uptake, confirming the diagnosis of SAT. In another case, a 52-year-old male presented with fever, cough, and myalgias, and was diagnosed with mild COVID-19 pneumonia, and managed conservatively. After two weeks, the patient had a recurrence of high-grade fever, odynophagia, palpitations, and tremors. Examination revealed tachycardia, hyperhidrosis, and a tender and enlarged thyroid on palpation. Thyroid function tests revealed low thyroid-stimulating hormone, with normal total T4 and total T3. Ultrasonography examination showed a heterogeneous thyroid gland with bilateral ill-defined hypoechoic areas. In our systematic review, including 103 SAT cases, it has been suggested that SAT should be recognized as an uncommon extra-pulmonary clinical manifestation of COVID-19 infection and clinicians need to be aware of the association. Pending larger multicentric studies, management of the condition has to be on a case-by-case basis.
38427375 | Commentary to: Pectoralis Muscle Area Measured at T4 Level is Closely Associated With Adverse COVID-19 Outcomes in Hospitalized Patients. 
38496688 | Systemic immune index predicts tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte intensity and immunotherapy response in small cell lung cancer. Background: Despite recent progresses in immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) in small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), a lack of understanding regarding the systemic tumor immune environment (STIE) and local tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) makes it difficult to accurately predict clinical outcomes and identify potential beneficiaries from ICB therapy. Methods: We enrolled 191 patients with stage I-III SCLC and comprehensively evaluated the prognostic role of STIE by several quantitative measurements, and further integrate it with a local immune score system (LISS) established by eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) machine learning algorithm. We also test the value of STIE in beneficiary selection in our independent advanced SCLC cohort receiving programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) blockade therapy. Results: Among several systemic immune markers, the STIE as assessed by prognostic nutritional index (PNI) was correlated with disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS), and remained as an independent prognostic factor for SCLC patients [hazard ratio (HR): 0.473, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.241-0.929, P=0.030]. Higher PNI score was closely associated with inflamed SCLC molecular subtype and local tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). We further constructed a LISS which combined top three important local immune biomarkers (CD8+ T-cell count, PD-L1 expression on CD8+ T-cell and CD4+ T-cell count) and integrated it with the PNI score. The final integrated immune risk system was an independent prognostic factor and achieved better predictive performance than Tumor Node Metastasis (TNM) stages and single immune biomarker. Furthermore, PNI-high extensive-stage SCLC patients achieved better clinical response and longer progression-free survival (PFS) (11.8 vs. 5.9 months, P=0.012) from PD-L1 blockade therapy. Conclusions: This study provides a method to investigate the prognostic value of overall immune status by combining the PNI with local immune biomarkers in SCLC. The promising clinical application of PNI in efficacy prediction and beneficiary selection for SCLC immunotherapy is also highlighted.
38497717 | Th1 cell immune response in Talaromyces marneffei infection with anti-interferon-gamma autoantibody syndrome. Anti-interferon-gamma autoantibody (AIGA) syndrome may be the basis of disseminated Talaromyces marneffei infection in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-negative adults. However, the pathogenesis of Th1 cell immunity in T. marneffei infection with AIGA syndrome is unknown. A multicenter study of HIV-negative individuals with T. marneffei infection was conducted between September 2018 and September 2020 in Guangdong and Guangxi, China. Patients were divided into AIGA-positive (AP) and AIGA-negative (AN) groups according to the AIGA titer and neutralizing activity. The relationship between AIGA syndrome and Th1 immune deficiency was investigated by using AP patient serum and purification of AIGA. Fifty-five HIV-negative adults with disseminated T. marneffei infection who were otherwise healthy were included. The prevalence of AIGA positivity was 83.6%. Based on their AIGA status, 46 and 9 patients were assigned to the AP and AN groups, respectively. The levels of Th1 cells, IFN-gamma, and T-bet were higher in T. marneffei-infected patients than in healthy controls. However, the levels of CD4+ T-cell STAT-1 phosphorylation (pSTAT1) and Th1 cells were lower in the AP group than in the AN group. Both the serum of patients with AIGA syndrome and the AIGA purified from the serum of patients with AIGA syndrome could reduce CD4+ T-cell pSTAT1, Th1 cell differentiation and T-bet mRNA, and protein expression. The Th1 cell immune response plays a pivotal role in defense against T. marneffei infection in HIV-negative patients. Inhibition of the Th1 cell immune response may be an important pathological effect of AIGA syndrome.IMPORTANCEThe pathogenesis of Th1 cell immunity in Talaromyces marneffei infection with anti-interferon-gamma autoantibody (AIGA) syndrome is unknown. This is an interesting study addressing an important knowledge gap regarding the pathogenesis of T. marneffei in non-HIV positive patients; in particular patients with AIGA. The finding of the Th1 cell immune response plays a pivotal role in defense against T. marneffei infection in HIV-negative patients, and inhibition of the Th1 cell immune response may be an important pathological effect of AIGA syndrome, which presented in this research could help bridge the current knowledge gap.
38502137 | Whole Genome Sequencing Highlights the Pathogenic Profile in Nocardia Keratitis. Purpose: Nocardia keratitis is a serious and sight-threatening condition. This study aims to reveal the virulence and antimicrobial resistance gene profile of Nocardia strains using whole genome sequencing. Methods: Whole-genome sequencing was performed on 23 cornea-derived Nocardia strains. Together with genomic data from the respiratory tract and the environment, 141 genomes were then utilized for phylogenetic and pan-genome analyses, followed by virulence and antibiotic resistance analysis. The correlations between virulence genes and pathogenicity were experimentally validated, including the characteristics of Nocardia colonies and clinical and histopathological evaluations of Nocardia keratitis mice models. Results: Whole-genome sequencing of 141 Nocardia strains revealed a mean of 220 virulence genes contributed to bacterial pathogenesis. The mce gene family analysis led to the categorization of strains from the cornea into groups A, B, and C. The colonies of group C had the largest diameter, height, and fastest growth rate. The size of corneal ulcers and the clinical scores showed a significant increase in mouse models induced by group C. The relative expression levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (CD4, IFN-gamma, IL-6Ralpha, and TNF-alpha) in the lesion area exhibited an increasing trend from group A to group C. Antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) spanned nine distinct drug classes, four resistance mechanisms, and seven primary antimicrobial resistance gene families. Conclusions: Whole genome sequencing highlights the pathogenic role of mce gene family in Nocardia keratitis. Its distribution pattern may contribute to the distinct characteristics of the growth of Nocardia colonies and the clinical severity of the mice models.
38551451 | Drug resistance and influencing factors in HIV-1-infected individuals under antiretroviral therapy in Guangxi, China. OBJECTIVES: To assess the profiles and determinants of drug resistance in HIV-1-infected individuals undergoing ART in Guangxi. METHODS: Samples and data were collected from HIV-1-infected individuals experiencing virological failure post-ART from 14 cities in Guangxi. Sequencing of the HIV-1 pol gene was conducted, followed by analysis for drug resistance mutations using the Stanford University HIV Drug Resistance Database. Logistic regression was employed to identify potential risk factors associated with both HIV drug resistance and mortality. RESULTS: A total of 8963 individuals with pol sequences were included in this study. The overall prevalence of HIV-1 drug resistance (HIVDR) was 42.43% (3808/8963), showing a decrease from 59.62% to 41.40% from 2016 to 2023. Factors such as being aged >=50 years, male, Han nationality, lower education levels, occupations including workers, peasants and children, AIDS, pre-treatment CD4 T cell counts <200 cells/mm3, infection with CRF01_AE and CRF55_01B subtypes, and ART regimen lamivudine/zidovudine/nevirapine were associated with higher susceptibility to HIVDR. The common mutations were M184V (17.38%) and K103N (22.14%). Additionally, the prevalence of M184V, S68G, M41L and G190A were different between the Han and Zhuang populations. Factors including age, gender, ethnicity, education level, occupation, infectious route, clinical stage, viral load, subtype, ART regimen and HIVDR showed significant associations with mortality. CONCLUSIONS: The factors contributing to drug resistance in the HIV-1 ART individuals in Guangxi appear to be notably intricate. Continuous reinforcement of drug resistance surveillance is imperative, accompanied by the optimization of ART regimens to mitigate virological failures effectively.
38564144 | Daily Activities in European Children and Adolescents During COVID-19 School Closure: A Longitudinal Study Exploring Physical Activity, Use of Screens, and Sleep Patterns. This longitudinal study aimed to analyze the evolution of patterns of daily activities (physical activity time, screen usage time, and sleep hours) in European youth during school closure due to the COVID-19 health crisis. Participants were 624 caregivers of children and adolescents aged 3-18 from Italy, Spain, and Portugal. Evaluations were online, and four time-points were considered: retrospective measurement of daily activities before confinement (T1), and two (T2), five (T3), and eight (T4) weeks after starting the lockdown. Generally accepted international guidelines on physical activity time, screen usage time, and hours of sleep by age group were used to determine whether the pattern might increase the risk for ill health or not. To estimate the evolution of daily activities, generalized estimating equations (GEE) were used. The percentage of children who practiced less than 60 min of daily exercise increased significantly from before home confinement (47.8%) to T2 (86.4%); it slightly decreased at T3 (79.8%), and remained stable at T4 (76.1%). The percentage of children who made excessive use of screens (according to their age group) significantly increased from T1 to T2 and remained stable and high in the rest of the evaluations. The percentage of children who slept fewer or more hours than recommended for their age group remained stable between T1 and T4, although there was a significant increase at T3. In general, results found unhealthier behaviors as confinement was extended. Results are discussed in order to find strategies for promoting healthy daily activities for future pandemics.
38594373 | An easy to use tool for the analysis of subcellular mRNA transcript colocalisation in smFISH data. Single molecule fluorescence in situ hybridisation (smFISH) has become a valuable tool to investigate the mRNA expression of single cells. However, it requires a considerable amount of programming expertise to use currently available open-source analytical software packages to extract and analyse quantitative data about transcript expression. Here, we present FISHtoFigure, a new software tool developed specifically for the analysis of mRNA abundance and co-expression in QuPath-quantified, multi-labelled smFISH data. FISHtoFigure facilitates the automated spatial analysis of transcripts of interest, allowing users to analyse populations of cells positive for specific combinations of mRNA targets without the need for computational image analysis expertise. As a proof of concept and to demonstrate the capabilities of this new research tool, we have validated FISHtoFigure in multiple biological systems. We used FISHtoFigure to identify an upregulation in the expression of Cd4 by T-cells in the spleens of mice infected with influenza A virus, before analysing more complex data showing crosstalk between microglia and regulatory B-cells in the brains of mice infected with Trypanosoma brucei brucei. These analyses demonstrate the ease of analysing cell expression profiles using FISHtoFigure and the value of this new tool in the field of smFISH data analysis.
38645169 | Respiratory viral infection promotes the awakening and outgrowth of dormant metastatic breast cancer cells in lungs. Breast cancer is the second most common cancer globally. Most deaths from breast cancer are due to metastatic disease which often follows long periods of clinical dormancy 1 . Understanding the mechanisms that disrupt the quiescence of dormant disseminated cancer cells (DCC) is crucial for addressing metastatic progression. Infection with respiratory viruses (e.g. influenza or SARS-CoV-2) is common and triggers an inflammatory response locally and systemically 2,3 . Here we show that influenza virus infection leads to loss of the pro-dormancy mesenchymal phenotype in breast DCC in the lung, causing DCC proliferation within days of infection, and a greater than 100-fold expansion of carcinoma cells into metastatic lesions within two weeks. Such DCC phenotypic change and expansion is interleukin-6 (IL-6)-dependent. We further show that CD4 T cells are required for the maintenance of pulmonary metastatic burden post-influenza virus infection, in part through attenuation of CD8 cell responses in the lungs. Single-cell RNA-seq analyses reveal DCC-dependent impairment of T-cell activation in the lungs of infected mice. SARS-CoV-2 infected mice also showed increased breast DCC expansion in lungs post-infection. Expanding our findings to human observational data, we observed that cancer survivors contracting a SARS-CoV-2 infection have substantially increased risks of lung metastatic progression and cancer-related death compared to cancer survivors who did not. These discoveries underscore the significant impact of respiratory viral infections on the resurgence of metastatic cancer, offering novel insights into the interconnection between infectious diseases and cancer metastasis.
1468595 | [Athyreotic congenital hypothyroidism in two sisters]. Two sisters with athyreotic congenital hypothyroidism are described. This is the fifth report on athyreotic congenital hypothyroidism in siblings. The elder sister is 14 years old and the younger one is 12. The parents have no consanguinity or family history of thyroid disease. Both of the patients were born before the start of neonatal screening tests for congenital hypothyroidism. After birth, they had jaundice, abdominal distention and constipation, which are typical symptoms of congenital hypothyroidism. Serum T4 levels were decreased, and the serum TSH levels were markedly increased. Therefore we diagnosed them as having congenital hypothyroidism. They have received replacement therapy with thyroxine since diagnosis and have shown normal development physically and psychologically. They were tested for thyroid scintigram when the elder sister was 9 years old and the younger one was 7. 123I thyroid uptakes were 0.69% and 0.64%, respectively. The thyroid scans demonstrated no focus of accumulation of 123I. They do not have trapping defect of iodine, because 123I ratio of saliva and serum were 41.3 and 46.3, respectively. From these results, we diagnosed them as having athyreotic congenital hypothyroidism. They and their mother do not have any antithyroid antibodies. We suppose that some genetic factor is responsible for the athyreotic congenital hypothyroidism.
1904196 | Immunogenetic susceptibility for post-schistosomal hepatic fibrosis. In 19 children with hepatic fibrosis as the result of continued schistosomiasis mansoni and 20 children without hepatic fibrosis, the following studies were carried out: HLA antigen typing for 30 antigens, immune response of T lymphocytes to schistosome antigen by measuring DNA synthesis evidenced by 3H-thymidine uptake, and measurement of total OKT3+, OKT4+, and OKT8+ cells using monoclonal antibodies. Patients with hepatic fibrosis were mostly high responders in contrast with those without fibrosis. High immune response and susceptibility to post-schistosomal hepatic fibrosis were associated with a high frequency of A2 and B12 antigens and a lack of DR2 antigens, while low response was associated with the presence of the DR2 antigen. The T4+:T8+ ratio showed increased suppressor proportions in patients with low immune response and/or with no hepatic fibrosis. We suggest an immunogenetic susceptibility for post-schistosomal hepatic fibrosis, probably controlled by HLA-linked genes via the suppressor T cells.
2420881 | HLA-DR-restricted cytotoxicity of cytomegalovirus-infected monocytes mediated by Leu-3-positive T cells. Mononuclear leukocytes from 14 cytomegalovirus (CMV)-seropositive and six CMV-seronegative normal healthy donors were treated with soluble CMV antigen for 5 days to generate cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) activity. CMV-antigen-stimulated lymphocytes from CMV-seropositive but not CMV-seronegative donors lysed autologous peripheral blood monocyte targets infected with CMV in 13 of 14 donors (mean percentage of virus-specific lysis = 19.0 +/- 4.5%, effector to target ratio of 50:1). Freshly donated, unstimulated lymphocytes displayed little or no lysis of CMV-infected monocytes. Lysis was virus specific in that CMV-stimulated CTL did not kill herpes simplex virus-infected monocytes. The mean level of lysis of CMV-infected autologous targets was equivalent to that of HLA-DR-matched targets (20.0 +/- 8.0%), and was significantly greater than that of HLA-A/B-matched targets (6.3 +/- 2.5%, p less than 0.035) and HLA-mismatched targets (3.3 +/- 2.5%, p less than 0.01). Enrichment for T cell subsets with the use of selective depletion methods with monoclonal antibodies showed that CTL activity against autologous and HLA-DR-matched allogeneic targets was present predominantly in Leu-3-positive T lymphocytes. These results show for the first time that short term stimulation of heterogeneous lymphocytes from CMV-seropositive donors with CMV antigen can generate CMV-specific, Leu-3-positive CTL that are primarily restricted in their activity to autologous and class II, HLA-DR-matched targets. Our findings suggest a role for Leu-3-phenotypic CTL in immunity to CMV, and provide a model for analysis of this antiviral effector function during immunodeficient states.
2435685 | Human mumps virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes: quantitative analysis of HLA restriction. To obtain quantitative information about the use of HLA antigens as restriction element by antiviral cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL), we have analyzed precursors of human mumps virus-specific CTL by limiting dilution. CTL generated by restimulation of peripheral blood T lymphocytes with autologous mumps virus (MV)-infected stimulator cells were restricted by autologous HLA class I antigens, and derived from the T4-8+ population. They were specific for MV and did not lyse autologous target cells infected with other viruses. Frequencies of MV-specific CTL precursors ranged from 1/500 to 1/8000. HLA restriction was analyzed by split-well analysis of individual CTL colonies. CTL recognizing HLA-A or B antigens were unequally distributed: HLA-B7, -B13, and -B27 were found to function as predominant, in some cases as exclusive, restriction elements, whereas other antigens such as HLA-A24 were never or rarely used. In several combinations, there was no evidence for antigenic variants of HLA molecules as reason for the failure to be recognized. The proportion of CTL precursors recognizing HLA-A2 and -B8 seemed to be dependent on the presence or absence of \dominant\ restriction elements. We conclude that CTL precursors recognizing certain virus-HLA combinations are preferentially expanded during an infection, but that low responsiveness to a given combination is not necessarily absolute.
2452835 | Activation of T lymphocytes by immobilized monoclonal antibodies to CD3. Regulatory influences of monoclonal antibodies to additional T cell surface determinants. The effect of soluble or immobilized MAb directed at various additional surface proteins on the proliferation of highly purified T4 cells induced by two immobilized MAb to CD3, OKT3 and 64.1, was examined. High density 64.1 stimulated nearly all T4 cells to enter and progress through the cell cycle. Maximal T4 cell proliferation required stimulation with immobilized 64.1 throughout the length of the incubation and was not effected by any of the additional soluble or immobilized MAb employed. In contrast, low density immobilized 64.1 and all densities of immobilized OKT3 employed stimulated a minority of the cells to enter the cell cycle and proliferate. Immobilized MAb directed at CD2, class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) encoded gene products or CD11a (LFA-1) dramatically enhanced the response, whereas soluble MAb directed at these determinants did not. Both immobilized and soluble MAb directed at CD5 and CD28 (Tp44) enhanced responses, but they were less effective than immobilized MAb to CD2, LFA-1 or HLA-A,B,C. Soluble anti-CD4 MAb inhibited responses somewhat, whereas immobilized anti-CD4 enhanced responses. Costimulation was observed when MAb to CD3 and class I MHC molecules but not CD2, LFA-1 or CD4 were immobilized to separate surfaces. The data suggest that when anti-CD3 stimulation is suboptimal, responses can be enhanced by MAb to CD5 or CD28 (Tp44) or by immobilized MAb to CD4, CD2, CD11a (LFA-1), or class I MHC encoded gene products. Although crosslinking of CD4, CD2, or CD11a with CD3 may be necessary for costimulation, immobilized MAb to CD3 and class I MHC molecules appear to deliver independent signals that result in enhanced T4 cell activation and proliferation.
2837101 | The cells of giant cell tumor of tendon sheath resemble osteoclasts. To determine whether the mononuclear cells (MC) and multinucleated giant cells (GC) of giant cell tumor of tendon sheath (GCTTS) exhibit evidence of monocyte/macrophage lineage, we studied their antigenic features (seven cases, paraffin sections; two cases, frozen sections) and enzymatic features in situ (four cases, plastic sections). Both MC and GC expressed a monocyte/macrophage phenotype: HLA-A,B,C+, HLA-DR+, T200+ (leukocyte common antigen), Leu-M3+ and Leu-3+. MC and GC also expressed similar enzymatic phenotypes which resembled that of osteoclasts. Both were rich in acid phosphatase and contained smaller, variable amounts of ATPase, beta-glucuronidase, alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase, and 5'-nucleotidase. Both lacked alkaline phosphatase. Reactive osteoclasts in plastic and paraffin sections were also T200+, a finding strongly supporting their bone marrow derivation and leukocytic differentiation. In plastic sections, osteoclasts were additionally reactive with macrophage antigen EBM11. In aggregate, these data suggest that GCTTS is a true histiocytic lesion of monocyte/macrophage lineage composed of phenotypically similar MC and GC that most closely resemble osteoclasts. We found no evidence that GCTTS cells resemble osteoblasts, fibroblasts, or synovial sarcoma cells. Furthermore, expression of the Ki-67 nuclear antigen by 1-2% of MC but not by GC suggests that the proliferating cells in GCTTS are restricted to its MC component.
2897006 | HLA haplotype A1 B8 DR3 as a risk factor for HIV-related disease. Of 32 patients exposed to a single batch of factor VIII contaminated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), 18 became antibody positive. Serial T cell subset analyses over the succeeding four years have shown a progressive decline in circulating T4 cells in those 18 but no change in the 14 who remain seronegative. 2 of the seroconverters have died and a further 7 have symptoms attributable to HIV infection. In the group as a whole, the HLA haplotype A1 B8 DR3 was weakly associated with an increased risk of seroconversion on exposure to the virus while, in those who seroconverted, it was strongly associated with a rapid decline in T4 cells and development of HIV-related symptoms within four years of infection.
2939279 | Immunopathology of renal allograft rejection analyzed with monoclonal antibodies to mononuclear cell markers. The composition of the mononuclear cell infiltrate in rejecting renal allografts was determined on 96 renal biopsies and 22 nephrectomy specimens by the use of monoclonal antibodies to mononuclear cell surface markers and an indirect immunoperoxidase staining technique. During rejection the composition of the infiltrate was heterogeneous, with T cells (T11), monocytes (OKM1) and HLA-DR expressing mononuclear cells the most frequent sub-populations. B cells (B1) and activated T cells, identified by OKT10, were always in the minority. The T cells infiltrate usually included the helper/inducer (T4) and cytotoxic (T8) subclasses, which suggests that both may contribute to the mediation of rejection. Whether T4 or T8 predominated in the graft did not relate to the ratio of T4:T8 in blood, the HLA A, B or DR incompatibilities of the graft, or the immunosuppressive used. The frequency of T11, T4, T8, HLA-DR positive cells and monocytes, but not B cells, increased with the severity of rejection and was similar in biopsies from patients immunosuppressed with Cyclosporine (CSA) to those given a combination of azathioprine, prednisone and antilymphocyte globulin (AZA). Severe rejection episodes which did not respond to treatment with corticosteroids were more often characterized by a predominance of T8 over T4 cells and T cells infiltrating the glomeruli. In grafts with evidence of cellular rejection, renal tubular cells were shown to have a marked increase in their expression of HLA-DR antigens compared to normal kidneys or grafts with minimal rejection. The expression of HLA-DR antigens on graft tubular cells correlated with the presence of T cells in the interstitium and the severity of rejection, except for moderate rejection in CSA treated biopsies, in which HLA-DR expression was lower than in AZA biopsies. These immunopathological studies have demonstrated that a variety of potential effector cells exist within the graft, and several features have been identified which may assist in assessing the prognosis of the rejection episode.
2972943 | Presence of T-cytotoxic suppressor and leucocyte common antigen positive cells in Alzheimer's disease brain tissue. Cells expressing leucocyte common antigen (LCA) as well as T-cytotoxic-suppressor (T8) and T-helper-inducer (T4) antigens were detected in significant numbers in the hippocampus and temporal cortex of Alzheimer but not normal brain tissue. Leucocytes and reactive microglia strongly expressed LCA, as well as the class II major histocompatibility complex (MCH) glycoprotein HLA-DR, but astrocytes stained negatively. Such staining indicates the immunocompetent status of microglia, as well as their phenotypic linkage to blood borne mesodermal lines. T8 and T4 positive lymphocytes were detected in capillaries and the surrounding matrix in smaller numbers than LCA positive cells. The MHC class I (HLA-A,B,C) antigens were detected on capillaries in both Alzheimer and control tissue. The significance of LCA, T4 and T8 cells in Alzheimer's disease is unknown but may be indicative of a cell mediated immune response in the disease.
3012568 | Functional role of HLA class I cell-surface molecules in human T-lymphocyte activation and proliferation. This investigation addressed the role of major histocompatibility complex-encoded class I molecules in the activation and proliferation of human lymphocytes. We studied the effect of antibodies specific for HLA-A and HLA-B locus gene products on mitogen-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) subpopulations. Three individually derived, well-characterized anti-HLA class I monoclonal antibodies were demonstrated to inhibit the proliferation of human PBMC stimulated by either OKT3 or the calcium ionophore ionomycin. The antibody directed against HLA-A, -B, and -C locus gene products (W6/32) and the antibody directed against HLA-B locus gene products (4E) inhibited proliferation induced by either mitogen by 70-90%. The HLA-A locus-specific antibody (131), though inhibiting ionomycin-induced proliferation by 80-90%, was much less effective when OKT3 was the stimulus. The inhibition affected T4+ and T8+ cells and was not mediated by DR+ accessory cells. The inhibitory effect of these antibodies was associated with a decrease in the level of interleukin 2 activity present in culture supernatants, decreased interleukin 2 receptor expression, and decreased transferrin receptor expression and was not overcome by the addition of exogenous interleukin 2. Our results suggest that HLA class I molecules are directly involved in the early critical events of human lymphocyte activation and proliferation.
3113742 | Spontaneous human T-cell cytotoxicity against murine hybridomas expressing the OKT3 monoclonal antibody: comparison with natural killer cell activity. Human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) exhibited spontaneous cytotoxicity against OKT3 monoclonal antibody (mAb)-expressing murine hybridoma cells (OKT3 hybridomas). In contrast, other murine hybridomas expressing OKT4, OKT8, anti-HLA DR, and anti-HLA A, B, and C mAb were not lysed. PBL showed much lower levels of cytotoxicity (3 folds) against OKT3 hybridomas as compared with NK activity against the K562 targets. Lymph node (LN) cells exhibited the inverse relationship of cytotoxicity levels. The addition of OKT3 mAb to the effector cells totally blocked both the binding and the lysis of OKT3 hybridoma targets, indicating that the CD3 antigen on the effector cells may be involved in recognition of the targets. The addition of concanavalin (Con A) also inhibited the cytotoxicity of OKT3 hybridomas. OKT4 mAb-expressing hybridomas became susceptible to lysis after chemical attachment of OKT3 mAb with CrCl3. The kinetics of lysis of OKT3 hybridomas resembled that of NK activity. Both cytotoxicities were detectable after 1 to 2 hr and reached plateau levels by 4 to 6 hr. Effector cells responsible for lysis of OKT3 hybridomas expressed T3, T8, and Leu 7 antigens, but lacked T4 and Leu 11b antigens, and were sensitive to the treatment with L-leucine methyl ester. These results indicate that T3+, T8+, Leu 7+ and T4-, and Leu 11- granular lymphocytes have a spontaneous cytotoxic activity against OKT3 hybridomas which is different from classic NK activity. These findings may provide a method for the assessment of T-cell cytotoxicity mediated presumably by in vivo generated cytotoxic T lymphocytes in blood and the other immune organs.
3160777 | Antigen-specific suppressor T lymphocytes in man make use of the same set of surface molecules as do cytolytic T lymphocytes: roles of Leu-2/T8, Leu-4/T3, Leu-5/T11, LFA-1 molecules. When cultured with autologous antigen-primed Leu-3+ lymphoblasts, Leu-2+ cells differentiate into suppressor T cells (Ts) that specifically inhibit the responses of fresh autologous Leu-3+ cells to the priming antigen. We have shown previously that the Leu-4/T3 (CD-3) molecular complex and HLA-A,B molecules on the surface of Leu-3+ inducer blasts are recognized by Leu-2+ Ts during their differentiation. This study examines the role of various cell surface molecules expressed by Leu-2+ Ts during the inductive and effector phases of suppression. Leu-2+ cells were treated in the absence of complement with a variety of monoclonal antibodies recognizing distinct human lymphoid antigens either before or after their activation with alloantigen-primed Leu-3+ blasts. Antibodies to Leu-2/T8 (CD-8) and lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) (CDw-18) molecules inhibited not only the generation but also the effector function of Leu-2+ Ts. Although antibodies to Leu-4/T3 (CD-3) and Leu-5/T11 (CD-2) molecules caused profound inhibition of the activation of Ts, these antibodies failed to inhibit the effector function of Ts. On the contrary, anti-Leu-4 antibody consistently augmented the suppressor effect of Ts. Antibodies directed against Leu-1/T1 (CD-5), Leu-3/T4 (CD-4), LFA-3, and class I (HLA-A,B,C) and class II (HLA-DR,DQ) major histocompatibility complex molecules had no effect on either the generation or the effector function of Ts. These results suggest the involvement of Leu-2/T8 (CD-8), Leu-4/T3 (CD-3), Leu-5/T11 (CD-2), and LFA-1 (CDw-18) molecules on the surfaces of Leu-2+ cells in the activation and effector functions of Ts.
3522244 | Specific lysis of murine cells expressing HLA molecules by allospecific human and murine H-2-restricted anti-HLA T killer lymphocytes. The lysis by human and murine anti-HLA cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) of murine cells expressing class I HLA molecule after gene transfection has been studied using two different murine cells: LMTK- and P815-HTR-TK-. Weak but significant HLA-A11-specific lysis was found occasionally with human CTL on the HLA-A11+ L cells. On the contrary, P815-A11 or P815-A2 cells were lysed strongly and specifically by HLA-A11 or HLA-A2-specific human CTL. The T8+T4- phenotype of the effector cells was confirmed and the reaction was inhibited by anti-HLA class I monoclonal antibodies. Despite their higher sensitivity to human CTL, the P815-HLA+ cells did not express higher levels of HLA antigens than L cells, and the presence or the absence of human beta 2 microglobulin was irrelevant. Anti-human LFA-1 antibodies abrogated the lysis of P815-A11+ cells showing that the LFA-1 receptor which is apparently lacking on the L cell surface was on the contrary expressed on P815 cells. On the other hand, murine anti-HLA CTL have been prepared by immunizing mice against syngeneic HLA-A11+ L cells. They lysed very efficiently and specifically these cells, but appeared completely devoid of activity against human HLA-A11 target cells. This barrier was apparently due to the H-2 restriction of these H-2k anti-HLA murine CTL, as shown by their inability to lyse allogeneic H-2d cells expressing HLA-A11, and by the blocking of their activity by anti H-2k antibodies. By contrast, xenogeneic anti-HLA CTL obtained by immunizing murine lymphocytes against human cells lysed both human and murine HLA+ cells but they reacted with a monomorphic epitope of the HLA molecule in a nonrestricted way. These results show that human cells lyse very efficiently P815 murine cells expressing HLA class I antigens; the higher sensitivity of P815 cells compared to L cells is probably due to the presence of a LFA-1 receptor on these cells; a class I molecule of human origin can be seen as an H-2-restricted minor histocompatibility antigen in another species.
3985124 | Human dendritic cells and macrophages. In situ immunophenotypic definition of subsets that exhibit specific morphologic and microenvironmental characteristics. Using a panel of monoclonal antibodies and antisera in situ, the authors have defined subsets of human dendritic cells and macrophages that exhibit specific morphologic and microenvironmental characteristics. All subsets contained cells that reacted with antibodies directed against HLA-A,B,C, HLA-Dr, leukocyte common, Leu-M3, and Leu-3(T4) antigens. R4/23 and anti-S100 defined three major subsets. R4/23+, S100- cells constituted the B-cell-related follicular dendritic cells, which were identified only within the germinal center/mantle microenvironment of lymphoid follicles. R4/23-, S100+ cells constituted the T-cell-related dendritic cell subset. Anti-Leu-6(T6) further subdivided this group into Leu-6(T6)- interdigitating cells within the T-cell microenvironments of lymphoid organs and Leu-6(T6)+ Langerhans cells found predominantly in epithelial microenvironments, especially the skin. R4/23-, S100- cells constituted the nondendritic tissue macrophage subset which was widely distributed, primarily outside of dendritic-cell microenvironments. These data indicate that although dendritic cells and macrophages share several common antigenic features, morphologically and microenvironmentally distinct subsets express distinct immunologic phenotypes. Such data may provide insight into the ontogeny and function of these subsets and constitute a basis for the comparison of normal dendritic cells and macrophages to various histiocytic proliferative disorders.
6195259 | Alloantigen-specific cytotoxic and suppressor T lymphocytes are derived from phenotypically distinct precursors. Although Leu-2+ (OKT8+) T cells activated in the mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR) mediate both alloantigen-specific cytotoxicity and suppression of alloantigen-induced proliferation, it is not known whether these functions derive from a single cell type or phenotypically distinct cells. This study was undertaken to examine the alloantigen-specific cytolytic and suppressor potential of two subpopulations of Leu-2+ cells distinguishable from one another on the basis of their binding to the monoclonal antibody 9.3. Leu-2+, 9.3+ and Leu-2+, 9.3- populations were purified from peripheral blood, cultured for 7 days with autologous helper/inducer (Leu-3+) cells and allogeneic non-T cells, and reisolated before testing for cytotoxicity and suppression. All detectable alloantigen-specific cytolytic activity was confined to the Leu-2+, 9.3+ subpopulation. Killing by this subset was specific for the HLA-A and B (class I) major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens of the priming cell. By contrast, suppression of proliferation was mediated predominantly by the Leu-2+, 9.3- cells, and suppression by this subpopulation was specific for the HLA-DR (class II) MHC antigens of the priming cell. The development of suppression by Leu-2+, 9.3- cells was unaffected by cyclosporin A (CsA), an agent shown previously to block the development of cytolytic but not suppressor cells in MLR. Alloactivated Leu-2+, 9.3+ cells were slightly inhibitory of fresh MLR, but this effect as well as the development of cytolytic cells was completely abrogated by CsA. These results indicate that suppressor and cytolytic Leu-2+ T cells activated in MLR are derived from distinct precursors separable by antibody 9.3.
6205073 | Activation of antigen-specific suppressor T lymphocytes in man involves dual recognition of self class I MHC molecules and Leu-4/T3-associated structures on the surface of inducer T lymphocytes. We showed previously that fresh Leu-2+ T cells respond to autologous antigen-primed Leu-3+ T cells by proliferation and differentiation into suppressor T cells (Ts) that specifically inhibit the response of fresh Leu-3+ cells to the original priming antigen. This study was undertaken to characterize the role of various cell surface molecules expressed by antigen-primed Leu-3+ cells in their activation of Leu-2+ Ts cells. Alloactivated Leu-3+ blasts were treated in the absence of complement with a variety of monoclonal antibodies recognizing distinct antigens on human lymphoid cells, and then were examined for their functional effects on fresh autologous T cells. Prior treatment of Leu-3+ blasts with anti-Leu-4 or anti-HLA-A,B,C framework antibodies, but not with anti-Leu-1, anti-Leu-3, anti-Leu-5, or anti-HLA-DR framework-specific antibodies, not only blocked proliferation of fresh Leu-2+ cells, it also prevented their differentiation into Ts cells. Furthermore, after their activation by Leu-3+ blasts, Leu-2+ Ts cells inhibited the response of fresh Leu-3+ cells from only those individuals who shared HLA-A,B phenotypes with suppressor-effector cells. These results suggest that both the inductive and effector phases of suppression involve dual recognition of autologous class I MHC molecules and structures associated with the Leu-4 (T3) molecule on the surface of antigen-reactive Leu-3+ cells.
6381283 | Histiocytosis X cells and Langerhans cells: enzyme histochemical and immunologic similarities. The proliferating cell in histiocytosis X has been thought to be an abnormal Langerhans cell since the identification in 1965 of the characteristic X-bodies morphologically identical to the Birbeck granules of epidermal Langerhans cells. This conclusion is based primarily on this finding and on morphologic similarities at the light microscopic level. Enzyme histochemical data have been somewhat conflicting and have not provided strong support for this conclusion. Recently, immunohistochemical studies have shown data consistent with a Langerhans cell origin for histiocytosis X cells. This study documents the presence of nonspecific esterase, acid phosphatase, and adenosine triphosphatase in both Langerhans cells and histiocytosis X cells. Both types of cells also react with antibodies directed against widely distributed leukocyte antigens (HLA-A,B,C; Ia; L3B12); Langerhans cell/thymocyte antigen [Leu 6(T6)]; histiocyte antigen (Leu-M3); helper T-cell/histiocyte antigen [Leu-3(T4)]; and S-100 protein. These results complement earlier immunologic studies and add enzyme histochemical data that strongly support the concept of histiocytosis X as a proliferative disorder of cells of Langerhans lineage.
6457863 | Activation of human T lymphocyte subsets: helper and suppressor/cytotoxic T cells recognize and respond to distinct histocompatibility antigens. This study was directed at determining the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens recognized by helper (Leu-3) and suppressor-cytotoxic (Leu-2) T lymphocyte subsets in man. These 2 subsets were isolated from peripheral blood with monoclonal antibodies and challenged in vitro with various stimuli. Only Leu-3 cells proliferated in response to autologous nonrosetting cells and soluble antigens, suggesting that helper but not suppressor-cytotoxic T cells recognize autologous HLA-DR antigen. Furthermore, only Leu-3 T cells responded to allogeneic DR antigen; this was shown in reactions between 2 siblings who were HLA-identical except for a single disparity at HLA-DR caused by a crossover event. Leu-3 cells activated in primary allogeneic mixed leukocyte reactions (MLR) responded equally in secondary allogeneic MLR to the priming cells and to cells that were identical at HLA-DR but discordant at HLA-A, B, and C to the priming cell. The antigens responsible for stimulating Leu-2 cells in allogeneic MLR were not identified, although the results are compatible with a role for HLA-A and B antigens and exclude a dominant role for HLA-DR. These data indicate that the helper and suppressor-cytotoxic T cell subsets in man respond differentially to MHC antigens in a manner analogous to the murine Lyt-2- 3- and Lyt-2+ 3+ populations.
8031607 | [The expression of HLA, Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen and the infiltration of T lymphocyte subsets in nasopharyngeal biopsy tissues]. The HLA typing, EBV-EBNA expression and the infiltration of T cell subsets in nasopharyngeal biopsies were investigated using APAAP (Alkaline phosphatase and anti-alkaline phosphatase) and anti-complement immunofluorescence method with a panel of monoclonal antibodies which are W6/32 (anti-HLA-A,B,C), CR3/43 (anti-HLA-DR, DP, DQ), serum from nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC, anti-EBNA) and T4, T8, T11(anti-Th, Tc, T3, respectively). There were 25 cases of NPC, 10 of chronic nasopharyngitis (CNP), CNE-2Z cell line and transplants of CNE-2Z, NCN-Z-1 and fetal nasopharynx mucosa under detection. The results showed that the tumor cells of NPC expressed not only HLA-I but also HLA-II. The expression of HLA-II was stronger than that of HLA-I in NPC. The expression of HLA-I and II in epithelial cells of CNP was weak. There was a significant distinction between those groups (P < 0.05). The expression of HLA-I, II was the strongest in CNE-2Z smears and transplants in under mice of CNE-2Z, NCN-Z-1, both negative in fetal nasopharyngeal epithelial transplants. It suggested that HLA express abnormally during carcinogenesis, the cancer cells with HLA-II be not recognized by EBV specific T cells, hence escape from the immune surveillance. Also it demonstrated that the EBNA expression in the cancer cells of NPC was strongly positive, the cells of T3, Th, and Tc in NPC were decreased. It needs further study whether or not the EB virus infection can induce HLA phenotype changes in tumor cells and what the biological functions of HLA-II expression in tumor cells are.
9353427 | HLA-A2 antigen status predicts metastasis and response to immunotherapy in gastric cancer. Our previous studies have shown that HLA-DR4 and -B52 antigens are associated with an increased risk of lymph node metastasis in patients with gastric cancer. We hypothesized that a putative HLA antigen, correlated with a low risk of lymph node metastasis, may also be correlated with the response to anticancer therapy. The microcytotoxicity assay was used to examine 49 HLA antigens of the A, B, C, DR, and DQ loci, and the association between HLA class I and II antigen status and lymph node metastasis in 847 patients with gastric cancer as well as the response to the therapy in 739 patients were analyzed. HLA-A2 antigen was significantly associated with a low risk of lymph node metastasis in patients with T2-T4 advanced cancer [58.8% compared to 37.0% in patients with lymph node metastasis; corrected P, Pc (98), = 0.011], especially in those with moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma [71.0% compared to 26.4% in patients with lymph node metastasis, Pc (294) = 0.00294] and with a better response to post-operative immunotherapy using protein-bound polysaccharide K (PSK), a nonspecific immunomodulator, than to chemotherapy. HLA alleles may be associated with resistance or susceptibility to lymph node metastasis and HLA-A2 antigen may be a useful predictor of the response to PSK. The data suggest that the predictive power of this HLA antigen may prove useful in the selection of anticancer therapy.
16498064 | Novel neuroanatomical pathways for thyroid hormone action in the human anterior pituitary. OBJECTIVE: An increasing number of proteins appear to be involved in thyroid hormone feedback action at the level of the anterior pituitary, but the cell types expressing these proteins are largely unknown. The aim of the present study was to identify cell types in the human anterior pituitary that express type II and type III deiodinase (D2 and D3), the recently described thyroid hormone transporter (MCT8) and thyroid hormone receptor (TR) isoforms by means of double-labeling immunocytochemistry. RESULTS: We found TR isoforms to be expressed most prominently in gonadotropes and - although to a lesser extent - in thyrotropes, corticotropes, lactotropes and somatotropes. D3 staining showed a distribution pattern that was remarkably similar. By contrast, D2 immunoreactivity was observed exclusively in folliculostellate (FS) cells showing coexpression with human leukocyte antigen (HLA), a marker of major histocompatibility complex (MHC)-class II. MCT8 immunostaining was present in FS cells without HLA coexpression. CONCLUSIONS: From these results, we propose a novel neuroanatomical model for thyroid hormone feedback on the human pituitary, with a central role for FS cells in thyroid hormone activation, which thus play an important role in the suppression of TSH secretion by circulating thyroxine (T(4)).
16761627 | Loss of heterozygosity at 6p21.3 underlying HLA class I downregulation in gastric cancer. Human major histocompatibility complex (HLA), located on 6p21.3, encodes for genes involved in antigen processing and presentation. Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at 6p21.3 may cause downregulated expression of HLA, thus provide tumor cells with an immune-escape tumor phenotype. In the present study, we detected HLA class I expression in gastric cancer and correlated it with LOH at 6p21.3. The expression of HLA class I antigen was analyzed by immunohistochemical procedure in 50 fresh surgically removed gastric cancers and corresponding normal tissues using 5 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). LOH studies were detected by using 6 microsatellite markers located at 6p21.3, 1 marker located at 6q21 and 2 microsatellite markers flanking the beta2m gene. HLA class I complex was obviously downregulated in gastric cancer compared with corresponding normal tissues (t=4.00, p<0.01). The expression of beta2m gene was also downregulated in tumor, but not concordant with HLA class I surface downregulation. Out of the 50 tumors, 25 (50%) showed LOH of at least one STR marker at 6p21.3 while only 11 (22%) showed LOH of the two markers flanking the beta2m gene. The LOH frequency of D6S105, which is close to HLA-A gene, was the highest in all STR markers studied (34%). Downregulation of HLA class I expression was correlated with loss of chromosomal regions at 6p21.3 (chi-squared = 5.13, p<0.05). Our results suggested that LOH of 6p21.3 contributed to HLA class I downregulated expression in gastric cancer especially at HLA-A locus. LOH of HLA-A gene might be one of the mechanisms underlying the abnormal expression of HLA class I complex.
23663759 | [PD-1 expression in HBcAg-specific CD8+ T cells of adolescents with chronic HBV infection]. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the differential expression of programmed death-1 (PD-1) in the hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg)17-28-specific CD8+ T cell subsets of adolescent patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection during the immune tolerant phase and the immune clearance phase. METHODS: A total of 105 patients between the ages of 12-28 years old (mean age 17.20+/-6.35) with chronic HBV infection and 15 healthy age-matched individuals were enrolled in the study. The patients were divided into two groups according to their current status in immune clearance phase (n = 55) or immune tolerant phase (n = 50), as determined by hepatic biopsy pathology. Flow cytometry was used to detect HLA-A2 type and PD-1 expression on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and HBcAg17-28-specific CD8+ T cells. PD-1 mRNA levels in PBMCs were measured by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Independent samples t-test was used to compare means between the two groups, and one-way ANOVA was used to compare means among multiple groups. Pearson's correlation coefficient was used to assess the significance of correlation. RESULTS: The frequency of HBcAg18-27-specific CD8+ T cells was significantly higher in the immune clearance phase group than in the immune tolerant phase group (t = 18.08, P less than 0.01), but the expression of PD-1 on the HBcAg18-27 specific CD8+ T cells was significantly lower in the immune clearance phase group than in the immune tolerant phase group (t = 4.72, P less than 0.01). A negative correlation existed between the frequency of HBcAg18-27-specific CD8+ T cells and PD-1 expression (r = -0.463, P less than 0.01). A positive correlation existed between HBV viral load and PD-1 expression on the HBcAg18-27-specific CD8+ T cells in chronic HBV infection patients (r = 0.882, P less than 0.01), and there was a negative correlation between PD-1 expression levels on HBcAg18-27-specific CD8+ T cells and hepatic tissue inflammation score (r = -0.76, P less than 0.01). PD-1 mRNA in PBMCs was significantly higher in the immune tolerant phase group than in the immune clearance phase group (t = 30.89, P less than 0.01). CONCLUSION: Up-regulated expression of PD-1 is associated with HBV-specific CD8+ T cells and may play a crucial role in inhibiting their function during the immune tolerance phase of chronic HBV infection in adolescents.
24645320 | [Relationship between serum HBV DNA level and follicular helper T lymphocyte in patients with chronic hepatitis B and its significance]. OBJECTIVE: To explore relationship between HBV DNA level and peripheral blood follicular helper T lymphocyte (Tfh) in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) and its significance. METHODS: HBV DNA levels of 179 cases of CHB patients with positive HBV DNA, positive HBeAg and positive human leukocyte antigen(HLA)-A2 were tested with real time fluorescent quantitative PCR. Tfh and HBV specific CTL were tested with flow cytometry. IL-21 was also tested. 179 cases of CHB patients were divided into group A and group B based on HBV DNA levels, 86 cases in group A, HBV DNA levels were 10(4)-10(5) copies/ml, 93 cases in group B, HBV DNA levels were 10(6)-10(7) copies/ml. Above testing indexes of the two groups were compared. RESULTS: HBV DNA levels of group A were (4.85 +/- 0.37) log10 copies/ml, HBV DNA levels of group B were (6.83 +/- 0.31 ) log10 copies/ml, t = 27.31, P < 0. 001; Tfh of group A was (5.96 +/- 1.59)%, higher than that of group B (3.71 +/- 2.15)%, t = 4.92, P < 0.01; IL-21 of group A was (42.61 +/- 15.11)ng/L, higher than that of group B (14.91 +/- 3.15) ng/L, t = 8.62, P < 0.01; HBV specific CTL of group A was (0.36 +/- 0.08)%, higher than that of group B (0.18 +/- 0.06)%, t = 19.99, P < 0.001. CONCLUSION: Serum HBV DNA level of CHB patients is related to the level of peripheral blood Tfh level: patients with low HBV DNA level have high Tfh level, high IL-21 level and high HBV specific CTL level. Patients with high HBV DNA level have low Tfh level, low IL-21 level and low HBV specific CTL level. The mechanism of baseline HBV DNA level affecting anti-viral therapy may be related to Tfh level.
