31679624 | ClC-3 Deficiency Impairs the Neovascularization Capacity of Early Endothelial Progenitor Cells by Decreasing CXCR4/JAK-2 Signalling. BACKGROUND: Endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) therapy has been suggested as a major breakthrough in the treatment of ischemic diseases. However, the molecular mechanism that underlies EPC functional regulation is still unclear. METHODS: We examined the angiogenic capacity of EPCs in a hindlimb ischemia model of wild-type and ClC-3 knockout mice. RESULTS: Mice lacking of ClC-3 exhibited reduced blood flow recovery and neovascularization in ischemic muscles 7 and 14 days after hind limb ischemia. Moreover, compared with wild-type EPCs, the hindlimb blood reperfusion in mice receiving ClC-3 knockout EPCs was significantly impaired, accompanied by reduced EPC homing and retention. In vitro, EPCs derived from ClC-3 knockout mice displayed impaired migratory, adhesive, and angiogenic activity. CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) expression was significantly reduced in EPC from ClC-3 knockout mice compared with wild-type. Moreover, the expression and phosphorylation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK-2), a downstream signalling of CXCR4, was also reduced in ClC-3 knockout EPC, indicating that CXCR4/JAK-2 signalling is dysregulated by ClC-3 deficiency. Consistent with this assumption, the migratory capacity of wild-type EPCs was attenuated by either CXCR4 antagonist AMD3100 or JAK-2 inhibitor AG490. More importantly, the impaired migratory capacity of ClC-3 knockout EPCs was rescued by overexpression of CXCR4. CONCLUSIONS: ClC-3 plays a critical role in the angiogenic capacity of EPCs and EPC-mediated neovascularization of ischemic tissues. Disturbance of CXCR4/JAK-2 signalling may contribute to the functional impairment of ClC-3 deficient EPCs. Thus, ClC-3 may be a potential therapeutic target for modulating neovascularization in ischemic diseases.
31696204 | CXCR3 from chemokine receptor family correlates with immune infiltration and predicts poor survival in osteosarcoma. BACKGROUND: Chemokine receptors have a crucial role in regulating tumor mediating immunity and are also implicated in the prognosis of some cancers. Here, the association between CXC chemokine receptors (CXCR2-5) and prognosis in osteosarcoma was studied. METHODS: Differences between CXCR2, CXCR3, CXCR4, and CXCR5 expression and overall survival (OS) and event-free survival (EFS) were compared using Kaplan-Meier analyses. The associations of CXCR3 expression with clinical features and the prognosis were also analyzed. The signaling pathways modulated by CXCR3 were investigated. The correlations between CXCR3 and immune infiltrates were investigated. RESULTS: The expression of CXCR2, CXCR4, and CXCR5 was not associated with the prognosis, but CXCR3 low expression was correlated with worse OS and EFS of osteosarcoma, especially for female, patients aged less than 15.1 years, or patients without metastasis. Low CXCR3 expression was related to tumor site and histologic response (P<0.05), but not associated with other clinical characteristics. Multivariate Cox analysis revealed that CXCR3 remained independently associated with the prognosis, especially for OS (hazard ratio (HR) = 3.26, 95% CI = 1.15-9.24, P=0.026). The cell adhesion, apoptosis, metabolism, KRAS, P53, NOTCH, reactive oxygen species (ROS), PI3K/Akt/mTOR, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), inflammation, and immune-related pathways such as IL-6/JAK/STAT3, TNF-alpha via NF-kappaB, Toll/NOD-like receptor, and complement were modulated by CXCR3. CXCR3 expression showed an especially positive correlation with immune infiltration of T cells CD8, macrophages M1, plasma cells, and NK cells activated. CONCLUSIONS: CXCR3 may be an independent risk factor for the prognosis and is most likely to benefit from immunotherapy in osteosarcoma.
32321802 | Defective Influenza A Virus RNA Products Mediate MAVS-Dependent Upregulation of Human Leukocyte Antigen Class I Proteins. Influenza A virus (IAV) increases the presentation of class I human leukocyte antigen (HLA) proteins that limit antiviral responses mediated by natural killer (NK) cells, but molecular mechanisms for these processes have not yet been fully elucidated. We observed that infection with A/Fort Monmouth/1/1947(H1N1) IAV significantly increased the presentation of HLA-B, -C, and -E on lung epithelial cells. Virus entry was not sufficient to induce HLA upregulation because UV-inactivated virus had no effect. Aberrant internally deleted viral RNAs (vRNAs) known as mini viral RNAs (mvRNAs) and defective interfering RNAs (DI RNAs) expressed from an IAV minireplicon were sufficient for inducing HLA upregulation. These defective RNAs bind to retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) and initiate mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS) protein-dependent antiviral interferon (IFN) responses. Indeed, MAVS was required for HLA upregulation in response to IAV infection or ectopic mvRNA/DI RNA expression. The effect was partially due to paracrine signaling, as we observed that IAV infection or mvRNA/DI RNA-expression stimulated production of IFN-beta and IFN-lambda1 and conditioned media from these cells elicited a modest increase in HLA surface levels in naive epithelial cells. HLA upregulation in response to aberrant viral RNAs could be prevented by the Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor ruxolitinib. While HLA upregulation would seem to be advantageous to the virus, it is kept in check by the viral nonstructural 1 (NS1) protein; we determined that NS1 limits cell-intrinsic and paracrine mechanisms of HLA upregulation. Taken together, our findings indicate that aberrant IAV RNAs stimulate HLA presentation, which may aid viral evasion of innate immunity.IMPORTANCE Human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) are cell surface proteins that regulate innate and adaptive immune responses to viral infection by engaging with receptors on immune cells. Many viruses have evolved ways to evade host immune responses by modulating HLA expression and/or processing. Here, we provide evidence that aberrant RNA products of influenza virus genome replication can trigger retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)/mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS)-dependent remodeling of the cell surface, increasing surface presentation of HLA proteins known to inhibit the activation of an immune cell known as a natural killer (NK) cell. While this HLA upregulation would seem to be advantageous to the virus, it is kept in check by the viral nonstructural 1 (NS1) protein, which limits RIG-I activation and interferon production by the infected cell.
32581241 | Synergism between IL7R and CXCR4 drives BCR-ABL induced transformation in Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is characterized by the expression of an oncogenic fusion kinase termed BCR-ABL1. Here, we show that interleukin 7 receptor (IL7R) interacts with the chemokine receptor CXCR4 to recruit BCR-ABL1 and JAK kinases in close proximity. Treatment with BCR-ABL1 kinase inhibitors results in elevated expression of IL7R which enables the survival of transformed cells when IL7 was added together with the kinase inhibitors. Importantly, treatment with anti-IL7R antibodies prevents leukemia development in xenotransplantation models using patient-derived Ph+ ALL cells. Our results suggest that the association between IL7R and CXCR4 serves as molecular platform for BCR-ABL1-induced transformation and development of Ph+ ALL. Targeting this platform with anti-IL7R antibody eliminates Ph+ ALL cells including those with resistance to commonly used ABL1 kinase inhibitors. Thus, anti-IL7R antibodies may provide alternative treatment options for ALL in general and may suppress incurable drug-resistant leukemia forms.
32801035 | Tackling the autoimmune side in Spondyloarthritis: A systematic review. Spondyloarthritis (SpA) are a heterogeneous group of inflammatory chronic diseases characterized by sharing common pathogenic, clinical and radiologic features. The aim of this review is to support clinicians in understanding and managing this complex disease, from pathogenesis to therapeutic targets, through a systematic review of the current literature in accordance with PRISMA guidelines and checklist. HLA-B27 has been found to be associated with axial involvement either in SA and in PsA patients: it might be involved through presentation of an \arthritogenic peptide\ to autoreactive CD8+ T cells or might accumulate in misfolded form and induce production pro-inflammatory cytokines by binding to several innate immune receptors. This genetic background in combination with mechanical stress leads to the activation of both innate and acquired immune responses as well as a possible role of autoimmunity in SpA pathogenesis. The release of IL-23 and IL-17 is relevant for their systemic and local effect on bone, inducing the activation of osteoclasts. Thus, the regulatory role of IL-17 on fibroblasts, osteoblasts and chondrocytes has an impact in both synovial inflammation and joint destruction. Innovative therapies targeting IL-12/23 and IL-17 and the use of small targeted synthetic molecules, as JAK-inhibitors, proved to be effective in SpA patients representing an alternative strategy to TNF-inhibitors.
32885389 | Treatment of Juvenile Spondyloarthritis: Where We Stand. Juvenile spondyloarthritis is a subset of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) with onset in late childhood and adolescence and a strong association with human leukocyte antigen (HLA) B-27 positivity and familial aggregation that has the potential for axial involvement, potentially leading to ankylosing spondylitis. Current therapy for severe disease relies heavily on tumor necrosis factor inhibitors (TNFi). Treatment paradigms in children largely consist of extrapolation from studies on adults with spondyloarthritis. Additional therapies studied in adults include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), blockade of the interleukin-17 (IL-17) and IL-23 axes, blockade of T-cell stimulation, phosphodiesterase (PDE)-4 inhibition, and Janus-activated kinase (JAK) pathway alteration. IL-17 blockade and IL-23 blockade are guideline approved after TNFi failure (and even as an alternative to TNFi) in adults, depending on concomitant inflammatory bowel and skin disease, with JAK and PDE-4 inhibition options following biologic failure. Neither pediatric nor adult guidelines address IL-6 blockade, T-cell co-stimulation blockade, or combination biologic therapy.
34957697 | FasL+ PD-L2+ Identifies a Novel Immunosuppressive Neutrophil Population in Human Gastric Cancer That Promotes Disease Progression. Neutrophils constitute abundant cellular components in human gastric cancer (GC) tissues, but their protumorigenic subset in pathogenesis of GC progression is unclear. Here, it is found that patients with GC show significantly higher neutrophil infiltration in tumors that is regulated by CXCL12-CXCR4 chemotaxis. These tumor-infiltrating neutrophils express high level immunosuppressive molecules FasL and PD-L2, and this FasL+ PD-L2+ neutrophil subset with a unique phenotype constitutes at least 20% of all neutrophils in advanced GC and predicts poor patient survival. Tumor induces neutrophils to express FasL and PD-L2 proteins with similar phenotype to those in GC tumors in both time-dependent and dose-dependent manners. Mechanistically, Th17 cell-derived IL-17A and tumor cell-derived G-CSF can significantly induce neutrophil FasL and PD-L2 expression via activating ERK-NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT3 signaling pathway, respectively. Importantly, upon over-expressing FasL and PD-L2, neutrophils acquire immunosuppressive functions on tumor-specific CD8+ T-cells and promote the growth and progression of human GC tumors in vitro and in vivo, which can be reversed by blocking FasL and PD-L2 on these neutrophils. Thus, the work identifies a novel protumorigenic FasL+ PD-L2+ neutrophil subset in GC and provides new insights for human cancer immunosuppression and anti-cancer therapies targeting these pathogenic cells.
35391709 | Fluid Shear Stress Ameliorates Prehypertension-Associated Decline in Endothelium-Reparative Potential of Early Endothelial Progenitor Cells. This study investigated the effects of prehypertension and shear stress on the reendothelialization potential of human early EPCs and explored its potential mechanisms. Early EPCs from the prehypertensive patients showed reduced migration and adhesion in vitro and demonstrated a significantly impaired in vivo reendothelialization capacity. Shear stress pretreatment markedly promoted the in vivo reendothelialization capacity of EPCs. Although basal CXCR4 expression in early EPCs from prehypertensive donors was similar to that from healthy control, SDF-1-induced phosphorylation of CXCR4 was lower in prehypertensive EPCs. Shear stress up-regulated CXCR4 expression and increased CXCR4 phosphorylation, and restored the SDF-1/CXCR4-dependent JAK-2 phosphorylation in prehypertensive EPCs. CXCR4 knockdown or JAK-2 inhibitor treatment prevents against shear stress-induced increase in the migration, adhesion and reendothelialization capacity of the prehypertensive EPCs. Collectively, CXCR4 receptor profoundly modulates the reendothelialization potential of early EPCs. The abnormal CXCR4-mediated JAK-2 signaling may contribute to impaired functions of EPCs from patients with prehypertension.
36311731 | Dysregulation of B7 family and its association with tumor microenvironment in uveal melanoma. Background: Uveal melanoma (UVM) is the most common primary intraocular malignancy in adults with a poor prognosis. B7 family is an important modulator of the immune response. However, its dysregulation and underlying molecular mechanism in UVM still remains unclear. Methods: Data were derived from TCGA and GEO databases. The prognosis was analyzed by Kaplan-Meier curve. The ESTIMATE algorithm, CIBERSORT algorithm, and TIMER database were used to demonstrate the correlation between B7 family and tumor immune microenvironment in UVM. Single-cell RNA sequencing was used to detect the expression levels of the B7 family in different cell types of UVM. UVM was classified into different types by consistent clustering. Enrichment analysis revealed downstream signaling pathways of the B7 family. The interaction between different cell types was visualized by cell chat. Results: The expression level of B7 family in UVM was significantly dysregulated and negatively correlated with methylation level. The expression of B7 family was associated with prognosis and immune infiltration, and B7 family plays an important role in the tumor microenvironment (TME). B7 family members were highly expressed in monocytes/macrophages of UVM compared with other cell types. Immune response and visual perception were the main functions affected by B7 family. The result of cell chat showed that the interaction between photoreceptor cells and immune-related cells was mainly generated by HLA-C-CD8A. CABP4, KCNJ10 and RORB had the strongest correlation with HLA-C-CD8A, and their high expression was significantly correlated with poor prognosis. CABP4 and RORB were specifically expressed in photoreceptor cells. Conclusions: Dysregulation of the B7 family in UVM is associated with poor prognosis and affects the tumor immune microenvironment. CABP4 and RORB can serve as potential therapeutic targets for UVM, which can be regulated by the B7 family to affect the visual perception and immune response function of the eye, thus influencing the prognosis of UVM.
36738160 | Novel therapeutic perspectives for crescentic glomerulonephritis through targeting parietal epithelial cell activation and proliferation. INTRODUCTION: Kidney injury is clinically classified as crescentic glomerulonephritis (CrGN) when >=50% of the glomeruli in a biopsy sample contain crescentic lesions. However, current strategies, such as systemic immunosuppressive therapy and plasmapheresis for CrGN, are partially effective, and these drugs have considerable systemic side effects. Hence, targeted therapy to prevent glomerular crescent formation and expansion remains an unmet clinical need. AREAS COVERED: Hyperproliferative parietal epithelial cells (PECs) are the main constituent cells of the glomerular crescent with cell-tracing evidence. Crescents obstruct the flow of primary urine, pressure the capillaries, and degenerate the affected nephrons. We reviewed the markers of PEC activation and proliferation, potential therapeutic effects of thrombin and thrombin receptor inhibitors, and how podocytes cross-talk with PECs. These experiments may help identify potential early specific targets for the prevention and treatment of glomerular crescentic injury. EXPERT OPINION: Inhibiting PEC activation and proliferation in CrGN can alleviate glomerular crescent progression, which has been supported by preclinical studies with evidence of genetic deletion. Clarifying the outcome of PEC transformation to the podocyte phenotype and suppressing thrombin, thrombin receptors, and PEC hyperproliferation in early therapeutic strategies will be the research goals in the next ten years.
37513344 | Fast and Sensitive Bioanalytical Method for the Determination of Deucravacitinib in Human Plasma Using HPLC-MS/MS: Application and Greenness Evaluation. Plaque psoriasis is a common, long-lasting illness that affects the immune system and causes significant negative impacts on a patient's physical health, well-being, and ability to work effectively. Deucravacitinib (DEU) is the first oral medication used in the treatment of plaque psoriasis, a chronic skin condition that causes red, scaly patches on the skin. DEU is a type of medication called an oral Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor, which works by blocking specific enzymes that play a role in the inflammation and immune response associated with psoriasis. Therefore, a quick, easy, novel, reliable, sensitive, and straightforward liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) approach was used to analyze DEU in plasma samples. The LC-MS/MS method for the determination of DEU in human plasma was based on using trimethoprim as an internal standard (IS). The separation of DEU and IS was carried out via liquid-liquid extraction (LLE). The extract was then subjected to the chromatographic system separation using the ACE-C18 column (4.6 x 100 mm, 5 microm). The mobile phase employed consisted of methanol and a solution of 2 mM ammonium formate (80:20 v/v, respectively). The flow rate used was set at 0.9 mL min-1. The creative strategy was performed by running an ABSCIEX API 4000 mass spectrometer with an electron spray ionization source in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. The ion transitions m/z 426.3   358.2 were used for DEU quantitation, while the ion transitions m/z 291.1   261.1 were used for trimethoprim quantitation. The accuracy, precision, linearity, recovery, and selectivity of DEU were deemed acceptable when validated for a concentration range between 0.500 and 601.050 ng/mL, utilizing a weighting factor of 1/x2.
37597651 | Highly proliferative and hypodifferentiated CAR-T cells targeting B7-H3 enhance antitumor activity against ovarian and triple-negative breast cancers. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell immunotherapy is highly effective against hematological neoplasms. However, owing to tumor variability, low antigen specificity, and impermanent viability of CAR-T cells, their use in the treatment of solid tumors is limited. Here, a novel CAR-T cell targeting B7-H3 and incorporating a 4-1BB costimulatory molecule with STAT3-and STAT5-related activation motifs was constructed using lentivirus transduction. B7-H3, a tumor-associated antigen, and its scFv antibody endowed CAR-T cells with tumor-specific targeting capabilities. Moreover, the integration of the trIL2RB and YRHQ motifs stimulated STAT5 and STAT3 in an antigen-dependent manner, inducing a remarkable increase in the proliferation and survival of CAR-T cells via the activation of the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Besides, the proportion of less-differentiated T cells increased among BB-trIL2RB-z(YRHQ) CAR-T cells. Moreover, BB-trIL2RB-z(YRHQ) effectively inhibited ovarian cancer (OC) and triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) in vivo at low doses, without high serum levels of inflammatory cytokines and organ toxicity. Therefore, our study proposes a combination of elements for the construction of superior pluripotent CAR-T cells to provide an effective strategy for the treatment of intractable solid tumors.
37633642 | Cattle-FRETS71, a Novel Fluorogenic Substrate with Broad Applicability for Characterizing ADAMTS13 Properties and Function. BACKGROUND: Current ADAMTS13 activity assays are important for diagnosing thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) but are unreliable to assay ADAMTS13 activity in animal models. The Cattle-FRETS71 assay is capable of detecting ADAMTS13 activity in plasma from multiple animal species, making it a potentially useful reagent at all stages of clinical research. The performance of Cattle-FRETS71 in TTP diagnosis is not yet known. AIMS: We evaluated the performance of the Cattle-FRETS71 substrate against the human FRETS-rVWF71 and the FRETS-VWF73 commercial substrates in human plasma and serum samples to validate its utility in diagnosing TTP in patients. METHODS: Internal validation was performed using heparinized plasma samples (n=81). External validation was a blinded study using serum samples from the Oklahoma TTP Registry (n=118, collected 2004-2014) that had been initially assayed by FRETS-VWF73 within 1 year of collection. Additional validation was done with citrated plasma samples having variable ADAMTS13 activities (n=32) that were analyzed by FRETS-VWF73. RESULTS: There was an excellent correlation (r=0.94) between Cattle-FRETS71 and FRETS-rVWF71 for assayed heparinized plasma samples (n=81). Assay results between Cattle-FRETS71 and FRETS-VWF73 of Oklahoma TTP Registry serum samples (n=118) as well as of citrated plasma samples (n=32) were comparably good (r=0.81 and r=0.85, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: The Cattle-FRETS71 assay is comparable with other assays in quantifying ADAMTS13 activity in human plasma collected from patients with documented or suspected TTP. The versatility of Cattle-FRETS71 combined with its specificity and sensitivity, makes it a useful tool for the standardization of ADAMTS13 activity across basic and clinical research paradigms.
37641144 | Discovery of novel JAK1 inhibitors through combining machine learning, structure-based pharmacophore modeling and bio-evaluation. BACKGROUND: Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) plays a critical role in most cytokine-mediated inflammatory, autoimmune responses and various cancers via the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. Inhibition of JAK1 is therefore an attractive therapeutic strategy for several diseases. Recently, high-performance machine learning techniques have been increasingly applied in virtual screening to develop new kinase inhibitors. Our study aimed to develop a novel layered virtual screening method based on machine learning (ML) and pharmacophore models to identify the potential JAK1 inhibitors. METHODS: Firstly, we constructed a high-quality dataset comprising 3834 JAK1 inhibitors and 12,230 decoys, followed by establishing a series of classification models based on a combination of three molecular descriptors and six ML algorithms. To further screen potential compounds, we constructed several pharmacophore models based on Hiphop and receptor-ligand algorithms. We then used molecular docking to filter the recognized compounds. Finally, the binding stability and enzyme inhibition activity of the identified compounds were assessed by molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and in vitro enzyme activity tests. RESULTS: The best performance ML model DNN-ECFP4 and two pharmacophore models Hiphop3 and 6TPF 08 were utilized to screen the ZINC database. A total of 13 potentially active compounds were screened and the MD results demonstrated that all of the above molecules could bind with JAK1 stably in dynamic conditions. Among the shortlisted compounds, the four purchasable compounds demonstrated significant kinase inhibition activity, with Z-10 being the most active (IC50 = 194.9 nM). CONCLUSION: The current study provides an efficient and accurate integrated model. The hit compounds were promising candidates for the further development of novel JAK1 inhibitors.
37722054 | The smallest functional antibody fragment: Ultralong CDR H3 antibody knob regions potently neutralize SARS-CoV-2. Cows produce antibodies with a disulfide-bonded antigen-binding domain embedded within ultralong heavy chain third complementarity determining regions. This \knob\ domain is analogous to natural cysteine-rich peptides such as knottins in that it is small and stable but can accommodate diverse loops and disulfide bonding patterns. We immunized cattle with SARS-CoV-2 spike and found ultralong CDR H3 antibodies that could neutralize several viral variants at picomolar IC50 potencies in vitro and could protect from disease in vivo. The independent CDR H3 peptide knobs were expressed and maintained the properties of the parent antibodies. The knob interaction with SARS-CoV-2 spike was revealed by electron microscopy, X-ray crystallography, NMR spectroscopy, and mass spectrometry and established ultralong CDR H3-derived knobs as the smallest known recombinant independent antigen-binding fragment. Unlike other vertebrate antibody fragments, these knobs are not reliant on the immunoglobulin domain and have potential as a new class of therapeutics.
37794185 | The PTPN2/PTPN1 inhibitor ABBV-CLS-484 unleashes potent anti-tumour immunity. Immune checkpoint blockade is effective for some patients with cancer, but most are refractory to current immunotherapies and new approaches are needed to overcome resistance1,2. The protein tyrosine phosphatases PTPN2 and PTPN1 are central regulators of inflammation, and their genetic deletion in either tumour cells or immune cells promotes anti-tumour immunity3-6. However, phosphatases are challenging drug targets; in particular, the active site has been considered undruggable. Here we present the discovery and characterization of ABBV-CLS-484 (AC484), a first-in-class, orally bioavailable, potent PTPN2 and PTPN1 active-site inhibitor. AC484 treatment in vitro amplifies the response to interferon and promotes the activation and function of several immune cell subsets. In mouse models of cancer resistant to PD-1 blockade, AC484 monotherapy generates potent anti-tumour immunity. We show that AC484 inflames the tumour microenvironment and promotes natural killer cell and CD8+ T cell function by enhancing JAK-STAT signalling and reducing T cell dysfunction. Inhibitors of PTPN2 and PTPN1 offer a promising new strategy for cancer immunotherapy and are currently being evaluated in patients with advanced solid tumours (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier NCT04777994 ). More broadly, our study shows that small-molecule inhibitors of key intracellular immune regulators can achieve efficacy comparable to or exceeding that of antibody-based immune checkpoint blockade in preclinical models. Finally, to our knowledge, AC484 represents the first active-site phosphatase inhibitor to enter clinical evaluation for cancer immunotherapy and may pave the way for additional therapeutics that target this important class of enzymes.
37847297 | [Is JAK inhibition an option in the treatment of interstitial lung disease in rheumatoid arthritis?] A 69-year-old male patient with seropositive erosive rheumatoid arthritis (RA) presented to our clinic due to progressive dyspnea. High-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) and immunological bronchioalveolar lavage revealed ground-glass opacities and a lymphocytic alveolitis caused by interstitial lung disease (ILD) in RA. Considering previous forms of treatment, disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) treatment was switched to tofacitinib. Tofacitinib treatment demonstrated a 33% reduction in ground-glass opacities by artificial intelligence-based quantification of pulmonary HRCT over the course of 6 months, which was associated with an improvement in dyspnea symptoms. In conclusion, tofacitinib represents an effective anti-inflammatory therapeutic option in the treatment of RA-ILD.
37972288 | Vaccine Effectiveness Against Pediatric Influenza-A-Associated Urgent Care, Emergency Department, and Hospital Encounters During the 2022-2023 Season, VISION Network. BACKGROUND: During the 2022-2023 influenza season, the United States experienced the highest influenza-associated pediatric hospitalization rate since 2010-2011. Influenza A/H3N2 infections were predominant. METHODS: We analyzed acute respiratory illness (ARI)-associated emergency department or urgent care (ED/UC) encounters or hospitalizations at three health systems among children and adolescents aged 6 months-17 years who had influenza molecular testing during October 2022-March 2023. We estimated influenza A vaccine effectiveness (VE) using a test-negative approach. The odds of vaccination among influenza-A-positive cases and influenza-negative controls were compared after adjusting for confounders and applying inverse-propensity-to-be-vaccinated weights. We developed overall and age-stratified VE models. RESULTS: Overall, 13,547 of 44,787 (30.2%) eligible ED/UC encounters and 263 of 1,862 (14.1%) hospitalizations were influenza-A-positive cases. Among ED/UC patients, 15.2% of influenza-positive versus 27.1% of influenza-negative patients were vaccinated; VE was 48% (95% confidence interval [CI], 44%-52%) overall, 53% (95% CI, 47%-58%) among children aged 6 months-4 years and 38% (95% CI, 30%-45%) among those aged 9-17 years. Among hospitalizations, 17.5% of influenza-positive versus 33.4% of influenza-negative patients were vaccinated; VE was 40% (95% CI, 6%-61%) overall, 56% (95% CI, 23%-75%) among children ages 6 months-4 years and 46% (95% CI, 2%-70%) among those 5-17 years. CONCLUSIONS: During the 2022-2023 influenza season, vaccination reduced the risk of influenza-associated ED/UC encounters and hospitalizations by almost half (overall VE 40-48%). Influenza vaccination is a critical tool to prevent moderate-to-severe influenza illness in children and adolescents.
38030681 | Amplification of poly(I:C)-induced interleukin-6 production in human bronchial epithelial cells by priming with interferon-gamma. Proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-6 was associated with disease severity in patients with COVID-19. The mechanism underlying the excessive IL-6 production by SARS-Cov-2 infection remains unclear. Respiratory viruses initially infect nasal or bronchial epithelial cells that produce various inflammatory mediators. Here, we show that pretreatment of human bronchial epithelial cells (NCl-H292) with interferon (IFN)-gamma (10 ng/mL) markedly increased IL-6 production induced by the toll-like receptor (TLR) 3 agonist poly(I:C) (1 microg/mL) from 0.4 +- 0.1 to 4.1 +- 0.4 ng/mL (n = 3, P < 0.01). A similar effect was observed in human alveolar A549 and primary bronchial epithelial cells. TLR3 knockdown using siRNA in NCl-H292 cells diminished the priming effects of IFN-gamma on poly(I:C)-induced IL-6 production. Furthermore, the Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor tofacitinib (1 microM) inhibited IFN-gamma-induced upregulation of TLR3, and suppressed poly(I:C)-induced IL-6 production. Quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation revealed that IFN-gamma stimulated histone modifications at the IL-6 gene locus. Finally, IFN-gamma priming significantly increased lung IL-6 mRNA and protein levels in poly(I:C)-administrated mice. Thus, priming bronchial epithelial cells with IFN-gamma increases poly(I:C)-induced IL-6 production via JAK-dependent TLR3 upregulation and chromatin remodeling at the IL-6 gene locus. These mechanisms may be involved in severe respiratory inflammation following infection with RNA viruses.
38035035 | Blood pressure control in hypertensive sleep apnoea patients of the European Sleep Apnea Database cohort - effects of positive airway pressure and antihypertensive medication. Aims: We analysed longitudinal blood pressure (BP) data from hypertensive obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) patients in the European Sleep Apnea Database cohort. The study investigated the interaction between positive airway pressure (PAP)-induced BP change and antihypertensive treatment (AHT). Methods and results: Hypertensive patients with AHT [monotherapy/dual therapy n = 1283/652, mean age 59.6 +- 10.7/60.6 +- 10.3 years, body mass index (BMI) 34.2 +- 6.5/34.8 +- 7.0 kg/m2, apnoea-hypopnoea index 46 +- 25/46 +- 24 n/h, proportion female 29/26%, respectively] started PAP treatment. Office BP at baseline and 2- to 36-month follow-up were assessed. The interaction between AHT drug classes and PAP on BP was quantified and the influences of age, gender, BMI, co-morbidities, BP at baseline, and study site were evaluated. Following PAP treatment (daily usage, 5.6 +- 1.6/5.7 +- 1.9 h/day), systolic BP was reduced by -3.9 +- 15.5/-2.8 +- 17.7 mmHg in mono/dual AHT and diastolic BP by -3.0 +- 9.8/-2.7 +- 10.8 mmHg, respectively, all P < 0.0001. Systolic and diastolic BP control was improved following PAP treatment (38/35% to 54/46% and 67/67% to 79/74%, mono/dual AHT, respectively). PAP treatment duration predicted a larger BP improvement in the monotherapy group. Intake of renin-angiotensin blockers [angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI)/angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB)] alone or in any AHT combination was associated with better BP control. The AHT-dependent BP improvement was independent of confounders. Conclusion: In this pan-European OSA patient cohort, BP control improved following initiation of PAP. Longer PAP treatment duration, was associated with a favourable effect on BP. Our study suggests that ACEI/ARB, alone or in combination with other drug classes, provides a particularly strong reduction of BP and better BP control when combined with PAP in OSA.
38071510 | Serious infections in patients with VEXAS syndrome: data from the French VEXAS registry. INTRODUCTION: Vacuoles, E1 enzyme, X-linked, autoinflammatory, somatic (VEXAS) syndrome is an acquired autoinflammatory monogenic disease with a poor prognosis whose determinants are not well understood. We aimed to describe serious infectious complications and their potential risk factors. METHODS: Retrospective multicentre study including patients with VEXAS syndrome from the French VEXAS Registry. Episodes of serious infections were described, and their risk factors were analysed using multivariable Cox proportional hazards models. RESULTS: Seventy-four patients with 133 serious infections were included. The most common sites of infection were lung (59%), skin (10%) and urinary tract (9%). Microbiological confirmation was obtained in 76%: 52% bacterial, 30% viral, 15% fungal and 3% mycobacterial. Among the pulmonary infections, the main pathogens were SARS-CoV-2 (28%), Legionella pneumophila (21%) and Pneumocystis jirovecii (19%). Sixteen per cent of severe infections occurred without any immunosuppressive treatment and with a daily glucocorticoid dose <=10 mg. In multivariate analysis, age >75 years (HR (95% CI) 1.81 (1.02 to 3.24)), p.Met41Val mutation (2.29 (1.10 to 5.10)) and arthralgia (2.14 (1.18 to 3.52)) were associated with the risk of serious infections. JAK inhibitors were most associated with serious infections (3.84 (1.89 to 7.81)) compared with biologics and azacitidine. After a median follow-up of 4.4 (2.5-7.7) years, 27 (36%) patients died, including 15 (56%) due to serious infections. CONCLUSION: VEXAS syndrome is associated with a high incidence of serious infections, especially in older patients carrying the p.Met41Val mutation and treated with JAK inhibitors. The high frequency of atypical infections, especially in patients without treatment, may indicate an intrinsic immunodeficiency.
38084635 | Human STAT1 gain of function with chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis: A comprehensive review for strengthening the connection between bedside observations and laboratory research. Germline human heterozygous STAT1 gain-of-function (GOF) variants were first discovered a common cause of chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis (CMC) in 2011. Since then, numerous STAT1 GOF variants have been identified. A variety of clinical phenotypes, including fungal, viral, and bacterial infections, endocrine disorders, autoimmunity, malignancy, and aneurysms, have recently been revealed for STAT1 GOF variants, which has led to the expansion of the clinical spectrum associated with STAT1 GOF. Among this broad range of complications, it has been determined that invasive infections, aneurysms, and malignancies are poor prognostic factors for STAT1 GOF. The effectiveness of JAK inhibitors as a therapeutic option has been established, although further investigation of their long-term utility and side effects is needed. In contrast to the advancements in treatment options, the precise molecular mechanism underlying STAT1 GOF remains undetermined. Two primary hypotheses for this mechanism involve impaired STAT1 dephosphorylation and increased STAT1 protein levels, both of which are still controversial. A precise understanding of the molecular mechanism is essential for not only advancing diagnostics but also developing therapeutic interventions. Here, we provide a comprehensive review of STAT1 GOF with the aim of establishing a stronger connection between bedside observations and laboratory research.
38129594 | Immunomodulatory drugs have divergent effects on humoral and cellular immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination in people living with rheumatoid arthritis. Understanding the efficacy of SARS-CoV-2 vaccination in people on immunosuppressive drugs, including those with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), is critical for their protection. Vaccine induced protection requires antibodies, CD4+ T cells, and CD8+ T cells, but it is unclear if these are equally affected by immunomodulatory drugs. Here, we determined how humoral and cellular SARS-CoV-2 vaccination responses differed between people with RA and controls, and which drug classes impacted these responses. Blood was collected from participants with RA on immunomodulatory drugs and controls after their second, third, and fourth SARS-CoV-2 vaccinations. Receptor binding domain (RBD)-specific antibodies were quantified by ELISA. Spike-specific memory T cells were quantitated using flow cytometry. Linear mixed models assessed the impact of age, sex, and immunomodulatory drug classes on SARS-CoV-2 vaccination responses. Compared to non-RA controls (n = 35), participants with RA on immunomodulatory drugs (n = 62) had lower anti-RBD IgG and spike-specific CD4+ T cell levels, but no deficits in spike-specific CD8+ T cells, following SARS-CoV-2 vaccination. Use of costimulation inhibitors was associated with lower humoral responses. JAK inhibitors were associated with fewer spike-specific CD4+ T cells. Participants with RA on immunomodulatory drugs mounted weaker responses to SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, with different drug classes impacting the cellular and humoral compartments.
38162155 | Genetic Profiling of Pediatric Patients with B-Cell Precursor Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) is a heterogeneous leukemia subgroup. It has multiple sub-types that are likely to be classified by prognostic factors. Following a systematic literature review, this study analyzed the genes correlated with BCP-ALL prognosis ( IKZF1, PAX5, EBF1, CREBBP, CRLF2, JAK2, ERG, CXCR4, ZAP70, VLA4, NF1, NR3C1, RB1, TSLP, ZNRF1, and FOXO3A) , specifically their nucleotide variations and expression profiles in pediatric BCP-ALL samples. The study included 45 pediatric BCP-ALL patients with no cytogenetic anomaly and a control group of 10 children. The selected genes' hot-spot regions were sequenced using next-generation sequencing, while Polymorphism Phenotyping v2 and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program were used to identify pathogenic mutations. The expression analysis was performed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The mutation analysis detected 328 variants (28 insertions, 47 indels, 74 nucleotide variants, 75 duplications, and 104 deletions). The most and least frequently mutated genes were IKZF1 and CREBBP , respectively. There were statistically significant differences between patients and controls for mutation distribution in eight genes ( ERG, CRLF2, CREBBP, TSLP, JAK2, ZAP70, FOXO3A, and NR3C1 ). The expression analysis revealed that JAK and ERG were significantly overexpressed in patients compared with controls (respectively, p  = 0.004 and p  = 0.003). This study combined genes and pathways previously analyzed in pediatric BCP-ALL into one dataset for a comprehensive analysis from the same samples to unravel candidate prognostic biomarkers. Novel mutations were identified in all of the studied genes.
38182048 | Choosing immunomodulating therapies for the treatment of COVID-19: recommendations based on placebo-controlled trial evidence. BACKGROUND: Immunomodulatory therapy has been extensively studied in randomized clinical trials for the treatment of patients hospitalized for COVID-19 with inconsistent findings. Guideline committees, reviewing the same clinical trial data, have generated different recommendations for immunomodulatory therapy. OBJECTIVES: We hypothesize that trial design differences, specifically whether the study utilized an open-label or placebo-controlled design, accounted for the inconsistent mortality effects reported in clinical trials of immunomodulator therapies for COVID-19. SOURCES: We reviewed COVID-19 treatment guidelines (World Health Organization [WHO], Infectious Diseases Society of America [IDSA] and The National Institutes of Health [NIH]) and identified the meta-analyses associated with glucocorticoids, IL-6 inhibitors, JAK kinase inhibitors, and complement C5a inhibitors that were available to the guideline authors at the time recommendations were either made or updated. CONTENT: We identified a meta-analysis for each of the immunomodulator classes that are included in current COVID-19 treatment guidelines: glucocorticoids [WHO Rapid Evidence Appraisal for COVID-19 Therapies (REACT) Working Group; Shankar-Hari M, Vale CL, Godolphin PJ, Fisher D, Higgins JPT, et al. Association between administration of IL-6 antagonists and mortality among patients hospitalized for COVID-19: A meta-analysis. JAMA. 2021;326:499-518] (cited 419), IL-6 antagonists [WHO Rapid Evidence Appraisal for COVID-19 Therapies (REACT) Working Group; Shankar-Hari M, Vale CL, Godolphin PJ, Fisher D, Higgins JPT, et al. Association between administration of IL-6 antagonists and mortality among patients hospitalized for COVID-19: A meta-analysis. JAMA. 2021;326:499-518] (cited 419), JAK inhibitors [Kramer A, Prinz C, Fichtner F, Fischer AL, Thieme V, Grundeis F, et al. Janus kinase inhibitors for the treatment of COVID-19. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2022;6:CD015209] (cited 34), and complement C5a inhibitors [Tsai CL, Lai CC, Chen CY, Lee HS. The efficacy and safety of complement C5a inhibitors for patients with severe COVID-19: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Expert Rev Anti Infect Ther. 2023;21:77-86] (cited 1). Using the same randomized clinical trials, we evaluated the four meta-analyses accounting for trial design: placebo-controlled or open-label. Glucocorticoids (Risk Ratio [RR] 0.91 [95% CI, 0.49-1.69]), IL-6 inhibitors sarilumab (RR 1.17 [95% CI, 0.96-01.43]), and tocilizumab (RR 0.95 [95% CI, 0.76-1.19]) did not reduce mortality in placebo-controlled trials, whereas baricitinib did confer a large survival benefit (RR 0.65 [95% CI, 0.52-0.81]). The complement C5a inhibitor, vilobelimab, also reduced mortality in a single placebo-controlled trial (RR 0.76 [95% CI, 0.57-1.0]). IMPLICATIONS: Placebo-controlled trial evidence indicates that baricitinib should be the first choice immunomodulator for patients hospitalized for COVID-19 who require any form of oxygen support-low- or high-flow oxygen, non-invasive or invasive ventilation. Vilobelimab warrants study in a large placebo-controlled trial. Treatment guidelines for future pandemics should prioritize the results of placebo-controlled trials.
38183092 | Biological and glucocorticoids treatment impair the medium-term immunogenicity to SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccines in autoimmune inflammatory rheumatic diseases. BACKGROUND: This study aims to assess the sustained immunological response to the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine in patients with autoimmune inflammatory rheumatic diseases (AIRD) undergoing different treatment regimens. METHODS: We conducted a prospective observational study involving 157 AIRD patients without prior COVID-19 infection. Treatment regimens included non-treatment or glucocorticoid-only (not-treated/GCs), non-biological drugs, biological therapy, and JAK inhibitors. All participants completed the two-dose vaccine schedule, and 110 of them received an additional booster dose. Serum samples were collected approximately 3-6 months after the second and third vaccine doses to measure antibodies against the Spike protein (antiS-AB) and neutralizing antibodies (nAB) targeting six SARS-CoV-2 variants. RESULTS: Following the third dose, all patients exhibited a significant increase in antiS-AB (FC = 15, p < 0.0001). Patients under biological therapy had lower titres compared to the non-biological (66% decrease, p = 0.038) and the not-treated/GCs group (62% decrease, p = 0.0132), with the latter persisting after the booster dose (86% decrease, p = 0.0027). GC use was associated with lower antiS-AB levels in the biological group (87% decrease, p = 0.0124), although not statistically significant after confounders adjustment. nABs showed the highest positivity rates for the wild-type strain before (50%) and after the booster dose (93%), while the Omicron variant exhibited the lowest rates (11% and 55%, respectively). All variants demonstrated similar positivity patterns and good concordance with antiS-AB (AUCs from 0.896 to 0.997). CONCLUSIONS: The SARS-CoV-2 vaccine booster strategy effectively elicited a sustained antibody immune response in AIRD patients. However, patients under biological therapies exhibited a reduced response to the booster dose, particularly when combined with GCs.
38236950 | VLDL Biogenesis and Secretion: It Takes a Village. The production and secretion of VLDLs (very-low-density lipoproteins) by hepatocytes has a direct impact on liver fat content, as well as the concentrations of cholesterol and triglycerides in the circulation and thus affects both liver and cardiovascular health, respectively. Importantly, insulin resistance, excess caloric intake, and lack of physical activity are associated with overproduction of VLDL, hepatic steatosis, and increased plasma levels of atherogenic lipoproteins. Cholesterol and triglycerides in remnant particles generated by VLDL lipolysis are risk factors for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and have garnered increasing attention over the last few decades. Presently, however, increased risk of atherosclerosis is not the only concern when considering today's cardiometabolic patients, as they often also experience hepatic steatosis, a prevalent disorder that can progress to steatohepatitis and cirrhosis. This duality of metabolic risk highlights the importance of understanding the molecular regulation of the biogenesis of VLDL, the lipoprotein that transports triglycerides and cholesterol out of the liver. Fortunately, there has been a resurgence of interest in the intracellular assembly, trafficking, degradation, and secretion of VLDL by hepatocytes, which has led to many exciting new molecular insights that are the topic of this review. Increasing our understanding of the biology of this pathway will aid to the identification of novel therapeutic targets to improve both the cardiovascular and the hepatic health of cardiometabolic patients. This review focuses, for the first time, on this duality.
38304729 | Multispecies-targeting siRNAs for the modulation of JAK1 in the skin. Identifying therapeutic oligonucleotides that are cross-reactive to experimental animal species can dramatically accelerate the process of preclinical development and clinical translation. Here, we identify fully chemically-modified small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) that are cross-reactive to Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) in humans and a large variety of other species. We validated the identified siRNAs in silencing JAK1 in cell lines and skin tissues of multiple species. JAK1 is one of the four members of the JAK family of tyrosine kinases that mediate the signaling transduction of many inflammatory cytokine pathways. Dysregulation of these pathways is often involved in the pathogenesis of various immune disorders, and modulation of JAK family enzymes is an effective strategy in the clinic. Thus, this work may open up unprecedented opportunities for evaluating the modulation of JAK1 in many animal models of human inflammatory skin diseases. Further chemical engineering of the optimized JAK1 siRNAs may expand the utility of these compounds for treating immune disorders in additional tissues.
38310397 | Pharmacokinetics of Anti-Rheumatic drugs Methotrexate and Tofacitinib with its metabolite M9 in Rats by UPLC-MS/MS. BACKGROUND: Tofacitinib is an oral JAK inhibitor for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The clinical efficacy and safety of an administered tofacitinib, either monotherapy or in combination with conventional synthetic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, mainly methotrexate (MTX), have been evaluated. The high plasma concentration with delayed medicine clearance may affect the liver and/or kidney functions. In this study, an ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC- MS/MS) method for the quantitative analysis of methotrexate, tofacitinib, and metabolite M9 in plasma of Sprague Dawley (SD) rats was developed, and its effectiveness was validated as well. METHODS: Methotrexate, tofacitinib, M9 and fedratinib (internal standard, IS) were separated by gradient elution. The chromatography was performed on an Acquity BEH C18 (2.1 mm x 50 mm, 1.7 mum) column with the mobile phases of acetonitrile and 0.1% formic acid aqueous solution with different proportions at the flow rate of 0.30 mL/min. In the positive ionization mode, the analyzes were detected using a Xevo TQ-S triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometer, with the following mass transition pairs: m/z 313.12   148.97 for tofacitinib, m/z 329.10   165.00 for M9 and m/z 455.12   308.05 for methotrexate. RESULTS: The obtained results manifested good calibration linearity over the ranges of tofacitinib at 0.1-100 ng/mL, M9 at 0.05-100 ng/mL, and methotrexate at 0.05-100 ng/mL. The lower limit of quantifications (LLOQs) of methotrexate, tofacitinib and M9 were 0.05 ng/mL, 0.1 ng/mL and 0.05 ng/mL, respectively. Intra-day and inter-day accuracy values were confirmed with a range of -6.3% to 12.7%, while intra-day and inter-- day precision values were <=14.4%. Additionally, recoveries were greater than 86.5% for each compound without significant matrix effects. CONCLUSION: The currently established analytical method exhibited great potential for the evaluation of plasma concentrations of methotrexate, tofacitinib and M9 simultaneously, greatly reducing the detection time, which would serve as a supplementary role in formulating dose decisions to achieve personalized treatment, identify drugs that cause adverse reactions and finally, to assess drug-drug interactions on clinical studies.
38424178 | Anaemia and red blood cell transfusion in women with placenta accreta spectrum: an analysis of 38,060 cases. Placenta accreta spectrum (PAS) has become a significant life-threatening issue due to its increased incidence and associated morbidity and mortality. Pregnancy is often associated with states of anaemia, and severe maternal haemorrhage represents a major risk factor for red blood cell (RBC) transfusion. The present study retrospectively analyzed the prevalence of anaemia, transfusion requirements and outcome in women with PAS. Using data from the German Statistical Office pregnant patients with deliveries hospitalized between January 2012 and December 2021 were included. Primary outcome was the prevalence of anemia and administration of RBCs. Secondary outcome were complications in women with PAS who received RBC transfusion. In total 6,493,606 pregnant women were analyzed, of which 38,060 (0.59%) were diagnosed with PAS. The rate of anaemia during pregnancy (60.36 vs. 23.25%; p < 0.0001), postpartum haemorrhage (47.08 vs. 4.41%; p < 0.0001) and RBC transfusion rate (14.68% vs. 0.72%; p < 0.0001) were higher in women with PAS compared to women without PAS. Women with PAS who had bleeding and transfusion experienced significantly more peripartum complications than those who did not. A multiple logistic regression revealed that the probability for RBC transfusion in all pregnant women was positively associated with anaemia (OR 21.96 (95% CI 21.36-22.58)). In women with PAS, RBC transfusion was positively associated with the presence of renal failure (OR 11.27 (95% CI 9.35-13.57)) and congestive heart failure (OR 6.02 (95% CI (5.2-7.07)). Early anaemia management prior to delivery as well as blood conservation strategies are crucial in women diagnosed with PAS.
38441463 | The serological immunogenicity of the third and fourth doses of COVID-19 vaccine in patients with inflammatory rheumatic diseases on different biologic or targeted DMARDs: a Swedish nationwide study (COVID-19-REUMA). Studies investigating the immunogenicity of additional COVID-19 vaccine doses in immunosuppressed patients with inflammatory rheumatic diseases (IRD) are still limited. The objective was to explore the antibody response including response to omicron virus subvariants (sBA.1 and sBS.2) after third and fourth COVID-19 vaccine doses in Swedish IRD patients treated with immunomodulating drugs compared to controls. Antibody levels to spike wild-type antigens (full-length protein and S1) and the omicron variants sBA.1 and sBA.2 (full-length proteins) were measured. A positive response was defined as having antibody levels over cut-off or >=fourfold increase in post-vaccination levels for both antigens. Patients with arthritis, vasculitis, and other autoimmune diseases (n = 414), and controls (n = 61) receiving biologic/targeted synthetic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) with or without conventional synthetic DMARDs participated. Of these, blood samples were available for 370 patients and 52 controls after three doses, and 65 patients and 15 controls after four doses. Treatment groups after three vaccine doses were rituximab (n = 133), abatacept (n = 22), IL6r inhibitors (n = 71), JAnus Kinase inhibitors (JAK-inhibitors) (n = 56), tumor necrosis factor inhibitor (TNF-inhibitors) (n = 61), IL12/23/17 inhibitors (n = 27), and controls (n = 52). The percentage of responders after three and four vaccine doses was lower in rituximab-treated patients (59% and 57%) compared to controls (100%) (P < 0.001). After three doses, the percentage of responders in all other groups was 100%, including response to omicron sBA.1 and sBA.2. In rituximab-treated patients, higher baseline immunoglobulin G (IgG) and longer time-period between rituximab and vaccination predicted better response. In this Swedish nationwide study including IRD patients three and four COVID-19 vaccine doses were immunogenic in patients treated with IL6r inhibitors, TNF-inhibitors, JAK-inhibitors, and IL12/23/17-inhibitors but not in rituximab. As >50% of rituximab patients responded to vaccines including omicron subvariants, these patients should be prioritized for additional vaccine doses. IMPORTANCE: Results from this study provide further evidence that additional doses of COVID-19 vaccines are immunogenic and result in satisfactory antibody response in a majority of patients with inflammatory rheumatic diseases (IRD) receiving potent immunomodulating treatments such as biological or targeted disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) given as monotherapy or combined with traditional DMARDs. We observed that rituximab treatment, both as monotherapy and combined with csDMARDs, impaired antibody response, and only roughly 50% of patients developed a satisfactory antibody response including response to omicron subvariants after the third vaccine. In addition, higher IgG levels at the last rituximab course before the third vaccine dose and a longer time after the last rituximab treatment increased the chance of a satisfactory antibody response. These results indicate that rituximab-treated patients should be prioritized for additional vaccine doses. CLINICAL TRIALS: EudraCT (European Union Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical Trials Database) with number 2021-000880-63.
38568967 | SARS-CoV-2 nsp15 endoribonuclease antagonizes dsRNA-induced antiviral signaling. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV)-2 has caused millions of deaths since its emergence in 2019. Innate immune antagonism by lethal CoVs such as SARS-CoV-2 is crucial for optimal replication and pathogenesis. The conserved nonstructural protein 15 (nsp15) endoribonuclease (EndoU) limits activation of double-stranded (ds)RNA-induced pathways, including interferon (IFN) signaling, protein kinase R (PKR), and oligoadenylate synthetase/ribonuclease L (OAS/RNase L) during diverse CoV infections including murine coronavirus and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS)-CoV. To determine how nsp15 functions during SARS-CoV-2 infection, we constructed a recombinant SARS-CoV-2 (nsp15mut) expressing catalytically inactivated nsp15, which we show promoted increased dsRNA accumulation. Infection with SARS-CoV-2 nsp15mut led to increased activation of the IFN signaling and PKR pathways in lung-derived epithelial cell lines and primary nasal epithelial air-liquid interface (ALI) cultures as well as significant attenuation of replication in ALI cultures compared to wild-type virus. This replication defect was rescued when IFN signaling was inhibited with the Janus activated kinase (JAK) inhibitor ruxolitinib. Finally, to assess nsp15 function in the context of minimal (MERS-CoV) or moderate (SARS-CoV-2) innate immune induction, we compared infections with SARS-CoV-2 nsp15mut and previously described MERS-CoV nsp15 mutants. Inactivation of nsp15 had a more dramatic impact on MERS-CoV replication than SARS-CoV-2 in both Calu3 cells and nasal ALI cultures suggesting that SARS-CoV-2 can better tolerate innate immune responses. Taken together, SARS-CoV-2 nsp15 is a potent inhibitor of dsRNA-induced innate immune response and its antagonism of IFN signaling is necessary for optimal viral replication in primary nasal ALI cultures.
38578007 | Coexistence of ankylosing spondylitis and Behcet's disease: Successful treatment with upadacitinib. BACKGROUND: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and Behcet's disease (BD) are distinct inflammatory disorders, but their coexistence is a rare clinical entity. This case sheds light on managing this complex scenario with Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors. CASE PRESENTATION: A 42-year-old woman presented with a decade-long history of lower back pain, nocturnal spinal discomfort, recurrent eye issues, oral and genital ulcers, hearing loss, pus formation in the left eye, and abdominal pain. Multidisciplinary consultations and diagnostic tests confirmed AS (HLA-B27 positivity and sacroiliitis) and BD (HLA-B51). Elevated acute-phase markers were observed. CONCLUSION: This case fulfills diagnostic criteria for both AS and BD, emphasizing their coexistence. Notably, treatment with upadacitinib exhibited promising efficacy, underscoring its potential as a therapeutic option in patients with contraindications for conventional treatments. Our findings illuminate the intricate management of patients presenting with these two diverse systemic conditions and advocate for further exploration of JAK inhibitors in similar cases.
38634132 | JAK inhibition during the early phase of SARS-CoV-2 infection worsens kidney injury by suppressing endogenous antiviral activity in mice. Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) induces respiratory dysfunction as well as kidney injury. Although the kidney is considered a target organ of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and affected by COVID-19-induced cytokine storm, the mechanisms of renal reaction in SARS-CoV-2 infection are unknown. In this study, a murine COVID-19 model was induced by nasal infection with mouse-adapted SARS-CoV-2 (MA10). MA10 infection induced body weight loss along with lung inflammation in mice four days after infection. Serum creatinine levels and the urinary albumin/creatinine ratio increased on day 4 after MA10 infection. Measurement of the urinary neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin/creatinine ratio and hematoxylin and eosin staining revealed tubular damage in MA10-infected murine kidneys, indicating kidney injury in the murine COVID-19 model. Interferon (IFN)-gamma and interleukin-6 upregulation in the sera of MA10-infected mice, along with the absence of MA10 in the kidneys, implied that the kidneys were affected by the MA10 infection-induced cytokine storm rather than by direct MA10 infection of the kidneys. RNA-sequencing analysis revealed that antiviral genes, such as the IFN/Janus kinase (JAK) pathway, were upregulated in MA10-infected kidneys. Upon administration of the JAK inhibitor baricitinib on days 1-3 after MA10 infection, an antiviral pathway was suppressed, and MA10 was detected more frequently in the kidneys. Notably, JAK inhibition upregulated the hypoxia response and exaggerated kidney injury. These results suggest that endogenous antiviral activity protects against SARS-CoV-2-induced kidney injury in the early phase of infection, providing valuable insights into the pathogenesis of COVID-19-associated nephropathy.
9535713 | Cytokine-receptor complexes as chaperones for nuclear translocation of signal transducers. A variety of ligands that include interleukins, interferons, and growth hormones activate STAT transcriptions factors. When activated, STATs are translocated to the nucleus apparently through the well described importin/Ran system where they activate target genes. Molecules utilizing this nuclear import system require specific nuclear localization sequences (NLSs). Paradoxically, such NLSs are not identifiable on STATs, raising the question of how they are imported into the nucleus. Surprisingly, most ligands and/or receptors that signal through STATs contain putative NLSs, and where examined either ligand or receptor undergo nuclear translocation. We hypothesize that these ligands and/or their receptors serve as chaperones in the nuclear translocation of STATs, and that they may be directly involved in signal transduction. Using IFN gamma as a model system we provide a possible mechanism for how this direct role is fulfilled. A C-terminal domain of IFN gamma has been identified that contains a functional NLS. Besides the fact that this domain, and the NLS in particular, is crucial for the biological properties of IFN gamma, a peptide encompassing this domain is sufficient to induce an antiviral state. Moreover, this domain interacts exclusively with an internal cytoplasmic domain of a subunit of the receptor complex in a region that is directly involved in the recruitment and activation of the elements of the JAK/STAT pathway. We suggest that this novel mode of receptor recognition and activation may be a driving force for nuclear translocation of molecules like STATs that are associated with the ligand-receptor complex.
9648932 | Hypothesis: ligand/receptor-assisted nuclear translocation of STATs. The STAT transcription factors are mediators of signal transduction of a variety of factors, including interferons (IFNs), interleukins, growth factors, and peptide hormones. Subsequent to activation, STATs are translocated to the nucleus apparently through the well-described importin/Ran system, where they activate target genes. Molecules utilizing this nuclear import system require specific nuclear localization sequences (NLSs). Paradoxically, such NLSs are not identifiable on STATs, thus raising the question of how they are imported into the nucleus. Of considerable interest is the observation that ligands and/or receptors that signal through STATs contain putative NLSs and, where examined, either ligand or receptor undergoes nuclear translocation. We hypothesize that ligands and/or their receptors serve as vehicles for the nuclear translocation of STATs, and that they may be directly involved in signal transduction. Using IFNgamma as a model system, we provide a possible mechanism for how this direct role is fulfilled. A functional NLS has been identified in a C-terminal domain of IFNgamma. This domain and the NLS contained within are crucial for the biological properties of IFNgamma in that a peptide encompassing this domain is sufficient to induce an antiviral state. Further, this domain binds specifically to a membrane-proximal region internal cytoplasmic domain of the alpha subunit of the receptor complex in a region that is directly involved in the recruitment and activation of the JAK/STAT pathway. We suggest that this novel mode of receptor recognition and activation may be a driving force for nuclear translocation of molecules like STATs that are associated with the ligand-receptor complex.
9867857 | The carboxyl terminus of interferon-gamma contains a functional polybasic nuclear localization sequence. Cytokines such as interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), which utilize the well studied JAK/STAT pathway for nuclear signal transduction, are themselves translocated to the nucleus. The exact mechanism for the nuclear import of IFN-gamma or the functional role of the nuclear translocation of ligand in signal transduction is unknown. We show in this study that nuclear localization of IFN-gamma is driven by a simple polybasic nuclear localization sequence (NLS) in its COOH terminus, as verified by its ability to specify nuclear import of a heterologous protein allophycocyanin (APC) in standard import assays in digitonin-permeabilized cells. Similar to other nuclear import signals, we show that a peptide representing amino acids 95-132 of IFN-gamma (IFN-gamma(95-132)) containing the polybasic sequence 126RKRKRSR132 was capable of specifying nuclear uptake of the autofluorescent protein, APC, in an energy-dependent fashion that required both ATP and GTP. Nuclear import was abolished when the above polybasic sequence was deleted. Moreover, deletions immediately NH2-terminal of this sequence did not affect the nuclear import. Thus, the sequence 126RKRKRSR132 is necessary and sufficient for nuclear localization. Furthermore, nuclear import was strongly blocked by competition with the cognate peptide IFN-gamma(95-132) but not the peptide IFN-gamma(95-125), which is deleted in the polybasic sequence, further confirming that the NLS properties were contained in this sequence. A peptide containing the prototypical polybasic NLS sequence of the SV40 large T-antigen was also able to inhibit the nuclear import mediated by IFN-gamma(95-132). This observation suggests that the NLS in IFN-gamma may function through the components of the Ran/importin pathway utilized by the SV40 T-NLS. Finally, we show that intact IFN-gamma, when coupled to APC, was also able to mediate its nuclear import. Again, nuclear import was blocked by the peptide IFN-gamma(95-132) and the SV40 T-NLS peptide, suggesting that intact IFN-gamma was also transported into the nucleus through the Ran/importin pathway. Previous studies have suggested a direct intracellular role for IFN-gamma in the induction of its biological activities. Based on our data in this study, we suggest that a key intracellular site of interaction of IFN-gamma is the one with the nuclear transport mechanism that occurs via the NLS in the COOH terminus of IFN-gamma.
11440631 | Differential properties of two putative nuclear localization sequences found in the carboxyl-terminus of human ifn-gamma. Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), a protein that uses the Jak-Stat pathway for signal transduction, translocates rapidly to the nucleus in cells treated extracellularly with the cytokine. A nuclear localization sequence (NLS) has been identified and characterized in the C-terminus of IFN-gamma. Both human and murine IFN-gamma contain this NLS. We show in this report that human IFN-gamma (HuIFN-gamma) contains a second NLS at an upstream site, as determined in standard import assays using digitonin-permeabilized HeLa cells. The primary sequence, analogous with the NLS sequence identified in murine IFN-gamma, representing amino acids 122-132 of HuIFN-gamma was capable of mediating the nuclear import of the autofluorescent protein allophycocyanin (APC) in an energy-dependent manner. The second sequence, representing amino acids 78-92 of HuIFN-gamma, was also capable of mediating the nuclear import of APC in an energy-dependent manner but to a greatly reduced extent. The nuclear import of both sequences conjugated to APC was strongly blocked by competition with unconjugated HuIFN-gamma(122-132). Competition by the sequence HuIFN-gamma(78-92) effectively blocked the import of APC-conjugated HuIFN-gamma(78-92) but, at the same concentration, was not capable of inhibiting the nuclear import of APC-conjugated HuIFN-gamma(122-132), suggesting that HuIFN-gamma(78-92) was a less efficient NLS than HuIFN-gamma(122-132). This is consistent with >90% loss of antiviral activity of HuIFN-gamma lacking the downstream NLS in 122-132. The nuclear import of APC-conjugated HuIFN-gamma(122-132) was inhibited by a peptide containing the prototypical polybasic NLS of the SV40 T NLS, which suggests that the same Ran/importin cellular machinery is used in both cases.
15857993 | Nuclear localization of the Nipah virus W protein allows for inhibition of both virus- and toll-like receptor 3-triggered signaling pathways. The Nipah virus V and W proteins, which are encoded by the P gene via RNA editing, have a common N-terminal domain but unique C-terminal domains. They localize to the cytoplasm and nucleus, respectively, and have both been shown to function as inhibitors of JAK/STAT signaling. Here we report that V and W proteins also block virus activation of the beta interferon (IFN-beta) promoter and the IFN regulatory factor 3 (IRF3)-responsive IFN-stimulated gene 54 promoter. Surprisingly, only W protein shows strong inhibition of promoter activation in response to stimulation of Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) by extracellular double-stranded RNA. This activity is dependent on the nuclear localization of W protein. Within the unique C-terminal domain of W protein, we have identified a nuclear localization signal (NLS) that requires basic residues at positions 439, 440, and 442. This NLS is responsible for mediating the preferential interaction of W protein with karyopherin-alpha 3 and karyopherin-alpha 4. Nuclear localization of W protein therefore enables it to target both virus and TLR3 pathways, whereas the cytoplasmic V protein is restricted to inhibiting the virus pathway. We propose that this discrepancy is in part due to the V protein being less able to block signaling in response to the kinase, TBK-1, whereas both V and W can prevent promoter activation in response to IKKepsilon. We demonstrate that, when the TLR3 pathway is stimulated, the levels of phosphorylated IRF3 are reduced in the presence of W protein but not V protein, confirming the differential effects of these proteins and illustrating that W protein-mediated inhibition is due to a loss of active IRF3.
16051670 | hZimp7, a novel PIAS-like protein, enhances androgen receptor-mediated transcription and interacts with SWI/SNF-like BAF complexes. Members of the PIAS (protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription) family are negative regulators of the Janus family of tyrosine kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription pathway. Recently, PIAS proteins have been shown to interact with multiple signaling pathways in various cellular processes, and it has been demonstrated that PIAS and PIAS-like proteins interact with nuclear hormone receptors. In this study, we have identified a novel human PIAS-like protein, provisionally termed hZimp7, which shares a high degree of sequence similarity with hZimp10 (human zinc finger-containing, Miz1, PIAS-like protein on chromosome 10). hZimp7 (human zinc finger-containing, Miz1, PIAS-like protein on chromosome 7) possesses a molecular mass of approximately 100 kDa and contains a conserved Miz (msx-interacting zinc finger) domain, a nuclear translocation signal sequence, and a C-terminal transactivation domain. Northern blot analysis revealed that hZimp7 is predominantly expressed in testis, heart, brain, prostate, and ovary. Moreover, immunohistochemical staining of prostate tissues revealed that endogenous hZimp7 protein localizes to the nuclei of prostate epithelial cells and costains with the androgen receptor (AR). Further analysis of hZimp7 subcellular localization revealed that hZimp7 and the AR colocalize within the nucleus and form a protein complex at replication foci. Transient transfection experiments showed that hZimp7 augments the transcriptional activity of the AR and other nuclear hormone receptors. In contrast, reduction of endogenous hZimp7 protein expression by RNA interference decreased AR-mediated transcription. Finally, we determined that hZimp7 physically associates with Brg1 and BAF57, components of the ATP-dependent mammalian SWI/SNF-like BAF chromatin-remodeling complexes. The above data illustrate a potential role for hZimp7 in modulation of AR and/or other nuclear receptor-mediated transcription, possibly through alteration of chromatin structure by SWI/SNF-like BAF complexes.
16777850 | The novel PIAS-like protein hZimp10 enhances Smad transcriptional activity. Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) plays critical roles in the control of cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. Smad proteins are substrates of the TGF-beta type I receptor and are responsible for transducing receptor signals to target genes in the nucleus. The PIAS (protein inhibitor of activated STAT) proteins were originally identified as transcriptional co-regulators of the JAK-STAT pathway. Subsequently, cross-talk between the PIAS proteins and other signaling pathways has been shown to be involved in various cellular processes. Importantly, PIAS proteins modulate TGF-beta signaling by regulating the transcriptional activity of Smad3. In this study we tested whether hZimp10, a novel PIAS-like protein, acts as other PIAS proteins to regulate Smad3-mediated transcription. We show that expression of exogenous hZimp10 enhances the transcriptional activity of Smad3, which appears to be Smad4-dependent and responsive to TGF-beta induction. Furthermore, knockdown of endogenous hZimp10 reduced the transcriptional activity of Smad3. A protein-protein interaction between Smad3 and Smad4 with hZimp10 was identified in glutathione S-transferase-pulldown and co-immunoprecipitation assays. The Miz domain of hZimp10 and the MH2 domains of Smad3 and Smad4 were mapped as the regions responsible for binding. Results from immunostaining assays further demonstrated that Smad3, Smad4, and hZimp10 co-localize within cell nuclei. Finally, we demonstrated that Smad3/4-mediated transcription is significantly impaired in response to TGF-beta induction in Zimp10 null (zimp10-/-) embryonic fibroblasts. Taken together, these results provide the first line of evidence to demonstrate a role for Zimp10 in regulating the TGF-beta/Smad signaling pathway.
19891557 | Host genetic determinants of spontaneous hepatitis C clearance. Acute infection with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) induces a wide range of innate and adaptive immune responses. A total of 20-50% of acutely HCV-infected individuals permanently control the virus, referred to as 'spontaneous hepatitis C clearance', while the infection progresses to chronic hepatitis C in the majority of cases. Numerous studies have examined host genetic determinants of hepatitis C infection outcome and revealed the influence of genetic polymorphisms of human leukocyte antigens, killer immunoglobulin-like receptors, chemokines, interleukins and interferon-stimulated genes on spontaneous hepatitis C clearance. However, most genetic associations were not confirmed in independent cohorts, revealed opposing results in diverse populations or were limited by varying definitions of hepatitis C outcomes or small sample size. Coordinated efforts are needed in the search for key genetic determinants of spontaneous hepatitis C clearance that include well-conducted candidate genetic and genome-wide association studies, direct sequencing and follow-up functional studies.
20552027 | Host and viral genetic correlates of clinical definitions of HIV-1 disease progression. BACKGROUND: Various patterns of HIV-1 disease progression are described in clinical practice and in research. There is a need to assess the specificity of commonly used definitions of long term non-progressor (LTNP) elite controllers (LTNP-EC), viremic controllers (LTNP-VC), and viremic non controllers (LTNP-NC), as well as of chronic progressors (P) and rapid progressors (RP). METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We re-evaluated the HIV-1 clinical definitions, summarized in Table 1, using the information provided by a selected number of host genetic markers and viral factors. There is a continuous decrease of protective factors and an accumulation of risk factors from LTNP-EC to RP. Statistical differences in frequency of protective HLA-B alleles (p-0.01), HLA-C rs9264942 (p-0.06), and protective CCR5/CCR2 haplotypes (p-0.02) across groups, and the presence of viruses with an ancestral genotype in the \viral dating\ (i.e., nucleotide sequences with low viral divergence from the most recent common ancestor) support the differences among principal clinical groups of HIV-1 infected individuals. CONCLUSIONS: A combination of host genetic and viral factors supports current clinical definitions that discriminate among patterns of HIV-1 progression. The study also emphasizes the need to apply a standardized and accepted set of clinical definitions for the purpose of disease stratification and research.
20566692 | Leishmania donovani amastigotes impair gamma interferon-induced STAT1alpha nuclear translocation by blocking the interaction between STAT1alpha and importin-alpha5. The protozoan parasite Leishmania donovani, the etiological agent of visceral leishmaniasis, is renowned for its capacity to sabotage macrophage functions and signaling pathways stimulated by activators such as gamma interferon (IFN-gamma). Our knowledge of the strategies utilized by L. donovani to impair macrophage responsiveness to IFN-gamma remains fragmentary. In the present study, we investigated the impact of an infection by the amastigote stage of L. donovani on IFN-gamma responses and signaling via the Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway in mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages. The levels of IFN-gamma-induced expression of major histocompatibility complex class II and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) were strongly reduced in L. donovani amastigote-infected macrophages. As the expression of those genes is mediated by the transcription factors STAT1alpha and IFN regulatory factor 1 (IRF-1), we investigated their activation in amastigote-infected macrophages treated with IFN-gamma. We found that whereas STAT1alpha protein levels and the levels of phosphorylation on Tyr701 and Ser727 were normal, IRF-1 expression was inhibited in infected macrophages. This inhibition of IRF-1 expression correlated with a defective nuclear translocation of STAT1alpha, and further analyses revealed that the IFN-gamma-induced STAT1alpha association with the nuclear transport adaptor importin-alpha5 was compromised in L. donovani amastigote-infected macrophages. Taken together, our results provide evidence for a novel mechanism used by L. donovani amastigotes to interfere with IFN-gamma-activated macrophage functions and provide a better understanding of the strategies deployed by this parasite to ensure its intracellular survival.
21167753 | Transcription factor miz-1 is required to regulate interleukin-7 receptor signaling at early commitment stages of B cell differentiation. B cell development requires the coordinated action of transcription factors and cytokines, in particular interleukin-7 (IL-7). We report that mice lacking the POZ (Poxvirus and zinc finger) domain of the transcription factor Miz-1 (Zbtb17(DeltaPOZ/DeltaPOZ)) almost entirely lacked follicular B cells, as shown by the fact that their progenitors failed to activate the Jak-Stat5 pathway and to upregulate the antiapoptotic gene Bcl2 upon IL-7 stimulation. We show that Miz-1 exerted a dual role in the interleukin-7 receptor (IL-7R) pathway by directly repressing the Janus kinase (Jak) inhibitor suppressor of cytokine signaling 1 (Socs1) and by activating Bcl2 expression. Zbtb17(DeltaPOZ/DeltaPOZ) (Miz-1-deficient) B cell progenitors had low expression of early B cell genes as transcription factor 3 (Tcf3) and early B cell factor 1 (Ebf1) and showed a propensity for apoptosis. Only the combined re-expression of Bcl2 and Ebf1 could reconstitute the ability of Miz-1-deficient precursors to develop into CD19(+) B cells.
22000024 | The role of the transcription factor Miz-1 in lymphocyte development and lymphomagenesis-Binding Myc makes the difference. The Myc interacting zinc finger protein 1 (Miz-1) is a BTB/POZ domain containing transcription factor that can function as an activator or repressor depending on its binding partners. In a complex with co-factors such as nuclophosmin or p300, Miz-1 stimulates transcription of genes that encode regulators of cell cycle progression such as p21(Cip1) or p15(Ink4b) or inhibitors of apoptosis such as Bcl-2. In contrast, Miz-1 becomes a transcriptional repressor when it binds to c-Myc or Bcl-6, which replace nucleophosmin or p300. During lymphocyte development, Miz-1 functions as a regulator of the IL-7 signaling pathway at very early steps in the bone marrow and thymus. When the IL-7 receptor (IL-7R) recognizes its cognate cytokine, a cascade of events is initiated that involves the recruitment of janus kinases (JAK) to the cytoplasmic part of the IL-7R, the phosphorylation of Stat5, its dimerization and relocation to the nucleus, enabling a transcriptional programming that governs commitment, survival and proliferation of lymphoid lineage cells. Miz-1 is critical in this signal transduction pathway, since it controls the expression of Socs1, an inhibitor of JAKs and thus of Stat5 activation and Bcl-2 expression. A lack of Miz-1 blocks IL-7 mediated signaling, which is detrimental for early B- and T-lymphoid development. These functions of Miz-1 during early lymphocyte development are c-Myc-independent. In contrast, when c-Myc is constitutively over-expressed, for instance during c-Myc induced lymphomagenesis, the interaction between Miz-1 and c-Myc becomes important and critical for the initiation and maintenance of c-Myc-dependent lymphoid malignancies.
23399412 | [Host's genetics in HIV disease]. In the 1990 s, the variability of responses to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) could only be tracked by phenotypic criteria such as the number of CD4T lymphocytes, the occurrence of opportunistic infection, the disease free survival without treatment. In 1996, the viral load is the leading phenotype for genetic studies. Ever since, thanks to a better understanding of the HIV infection pathophysiology, numerous studies helped to highlight the influence of genetic variability on inter-individual response to this virus. Among the genes having an impact, we can quote the following examples: CCR5, HLA-B and HLA-C genes. Practical applications of genetics in clinical medicine include search for HLA-B*57:01 before abacavir introduction. Recently, an eradicating treatment for HIV disease after bone marrow transplantation with a donor homozygote for a CCR5 gene non-functional variant (CCR5Delta32) has been reported. Interest in genetics of chronic viral infection is not specific to HIV. It has also been used on other viral diseases and it has gained a major place on the management of diseases.
23449802 | Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus Nsp1beta inhibits interferon-activated JAK/STAT signal transduction by inducing karyopherin-alpha1 degradation. Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) inhibits the interferon-mediated antiviral response. Type I interferons (IFNs) induce the expression of IFN-stimulated genes by activating phosphorylation of both signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) and STAT2, which form heterotrimers (interferon-stimulated gene factor 3 [ISGF3]) with interferon regulatory factor 9 (IRF9) and translocate to the nucleus. PRRSV Nsp1beta blocks the nuclear translocation of the ISGF3 complex by an unknown mechanism. In this study, we discovered that Nsp1beta induced the degradation of karyopherin-alpha1 (KPNA1, also called importin-alpha5), which is known to mediate the nuclear import of ISGF3. Overexpression of Nsp1beta resulted in a reduction of KPNA1 levels in a dose-dependent manner, and treatment of the cells with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 restored KPNA1 levels. Furthermore, the presence of Nsp1beta induced an elevation of KPNA1 ubiquitination and a shortening of its half-life. Our analysis of Nsp1beta deletion constructs showed that the N-terminal domain of Nsp1beta was involved in the ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of KPNA1. A nucleotide substitution resulting in an amino acid change from valine to isoleucine at residue 19 of Nsp1beta diminished its ability to induce KPNA1 degradation and to inhibit IFN-mediated signaling. Interestingly, infection of MARC-145 cells by PRRSV strains VR-2332 and VR-2385 also resulted in KPNA1 reduction, whereas infection by an avirulent strain, Ingelvac PRRS modified live virus (MLV), did not. MLV Nsp1beta had no effect on KPNA1; however, a mutant with an amino acid change at residue 19 from isoleucine to valine induced KPNA1 degradation. These results indicate that Nsp1beta blocks ISGF3 nuclear translocation by inducing KPNA1 degradation and that valine-19 in Nsp1beta correlates with the inhibition.
23630526 | Innate and Adaptive Immunity in Long-Term Non-Progression in HIV Disease. Long-term non-progressors (LTNP) were identified after 10-15 years of the epidemic, and have been the subject of intense investigation ever since. In a small minority of cases, infection with nef/3'LTR deleted attenuated viral strains allowed control over viral replication. A common feature of LTNP is the readily detected proliferation of CD4 T-cells in vitro, in response to p24. In some cases, the responding CD4 T-cells have cytotoxic effector function and may target conserved p24 epitopes, similar to the CD8 T-cells described below. LTNP may also carry much lower HIV DNA burden in key CD4 subsets, presumably resulting from lower viral replication during primary infection. Some studies, but not others, suggest that LTNP have CD4 T-cells that are relatively resistant to HIV infection in vitro. One possible mechanism may involve up-regulation of the cell cycle regulator p21/waf in CD4 T-cells from LTNP. Delayed progression in Caucasian LTNP is also partly associated with heterozygosity of the Delta32 CCR5 allele, probably through decreased expression of CCR5 co-receptor on CD4 T-cells. However, in approximately half of Caucasian LTNP, two host genotypes, namely HLA-B57 and HLA-B27, are associated with viral control. Immunodominant CD8 T-cells from these individuals target epitopes in p24 that are highly conserved, and escape mutations have significant fitness costs to the virus. Furthermore, recent studies have suggested that these CD8 T-cells from LTNP, but not from HLA-B27 or HLA-B57 progressors, can cross-react with intermediate escape mutations, preventing full escape via compensatory mutations. Humoral immunity appears to play little part in LTNP subjects, since broadly neutralizing antibodies are rare, even amongst slow progressors. Recent genome-wide comparisons between LTNP and progressors have confirmed the HLA-B57, HLA-B27, and delta32 CCR5 allelic associations, plus indicated a role for HLA-C/KIR interactions, but have not revealed any new genotypes so far. Nevertheless, it is hoped that studying the mechanisms of intracellular restriction factors, such as the recently identified SAMHD1, will lead to a better understanding of non-progression.
24286865 | Oxidative stress impairs multiple regulatory events to drive persistent cytokine-stimulated STAT3 phosphorylation. Although cytokine-driven STAT3 phosphorylation and activation are often transient, persistent activation of STAT3 is a hallmark of a range of pathologies and underpins altered transcriptional responses. As triggers in disease frequently include combined increases in inflammatory cytokine and reactive oxygen species levels, we report here how oxidative stress impacts on cytokine-driven STAT3 signal transduction events. In the model system of murine embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), combined treatment with the interleukin-6 family cytokine Leukemia Inhibitory Factor (LIF) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) drove persistent STAT3 phosphorylation whereas STAT3 phosphorylation increased only transiently in response to LIF alone and was not increased by H2O2 alone. Surprisingly, increases in transcript levels of the direct STAT3 gene target SOCS3 were delayed during the combined LIF + H2O2 treatment, leading us to probe the impact of oxidative stress on STAT3 regulatory events. Indeed, LIF + H2O2 prolonged JAK activation, delayed STAT3 nuclear localisation, and caused relocalisation of nuclear STAT3 phosphatase TC-PTP (TC45) to the cytoplasm. In exploring the nuclear import/ export pathways, we observed disruption of nuclear/cytoplasmic distributions of Ran and importin-alpha3 in cells exposed to H2O2 and the resultant reduced nuclear trafficking of Classical importin-alpha/3-dependent protein cargoes. CRM1-mediated nuclear export persisted despite the oxidative stress insult, with sustained STAT3 Y705 phosphorylation enhancing STAT3 nuclear residency. Our studies thus reveal for the first time the striking impact of oxidative stress to sustain STAT3 phosphorylation and nuclear retention following disruption of multiple regulatory events, with significant implications for STAT3 function.
24554650 | 3Cpro of foot-and-mouth disease virus antagonizes the interferon signaling pathway by blocking STAT1/STAT2 nuclear translocation. UNLABELLED: Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) causes a highly contagious, debilitating disease in cloven-hoofed animals with devastating economic consequences. To survive in the host, FMDV has evolved to antagonize the host type I interferon (IFN) response. Previous studies have reported that the leader proteinase (L(pro)) and 3C(pro) of FMDV are involved in the inhibition of type I IFN production. However, whether the proteins of FMDV can inhibit type I IFN signaling is less well understood. In this study, we first found that 3C(pro) of FMDV functioned to interfere with the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Expression of 3C(pro) significantly reduced the transcript levels of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) and IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE) promoter activity. The protein level, tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT2, and their heterodimerization were not affected. However, the nuclear translocation of STAT1/STAT2 was blocked by the 3C(pro) protein. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated that 3C(pro) induced proteasome- and caspase-independent protein degradation of karyopherin alpha1 (KPNA1), the nuclear localization signal receptor for tyrosine-phosphorylated STAT1, but not karyopherin alpha2, alpha3, or alpha4. Finally, we showed that the protease activity of 3C(pro) contributed to the degradation of KPNA1 and thus blocked STAT1/STAT2 nuclear translocation. Taken together, results of our experiments describe for the first time a novel mechanism by which FMDV evolves to inhibit IFN signaling and counteract host innate antiviral responses. IMPORTANCE: We show that 3C(pro) of FMDV antagonizes the JAK-STAT signaling pathway by blocking STAT1/STAT2 nuclear translocation. Furthermore, 3C(pro) induces KPNA1 degradation, which is independent of proteasome and caspase pathways. The protease activity of 3C(pro) contributes to the degradation of KPNA1 and governs the ability of 3C(pro) to inhibit the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. This study uncovers a novel mechanism evolved by FMDV to antagonize host innate immune responses.
25119688 | On stand by: host genetics of HIV control. The impact of host genetic variation on determining the differential outcomes after HIV infection has been studied by two approaches: targeting of candidate genes and genome-wide association studies (GWASs). The overlap in genetic variants that has been identified by these two means has essentially been restricted to variants near to the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I genes, although variation in the CCR5 locus, which was first shown to have an effect on HIV outcomes using the candidate gene approach, does reach significance genome-wide when very large samples sizes (i.e. thousands) are used in GWAS. Overall, many of the variants identified by the candidate gene approach are likely to be spurious, as no additional variants apart from a novel variant near the HLA-C gene have been consistently identified by GWAS. Variants with low frequency and/or low impact on HIV outcomes are likely to exist in the genome and there could be many of them, but these are not identifiable, given current GWAS sample sizes. Several loci centrally involved in the immune response, including the immunoglobulin genes, T-cell receptor loci, or leukocyte receptor complex, are either poorly covered on the GWAS chips or difficult to interpret due to their repetitive nature and/or the presence of insertion/deletion polymorphisms in the region. These loci warrant further interrogation, but genetic characterization of these regions across a range of individuals will first be required. Finally, synergistic interactions between loci may affect outcome after infection, as suggested by associations of specific, functionally relevant HLA and killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor variants with HIV disease outcomes, and these require further consideration as well. 
26647083 | Functional advantage of educated KIR2DL1(+) natural killer cells for anti-HIV-1 antibody-dependent activation. Evidence from the RV144 HIV-1 vaccine trial implicates anti-HIV-1 antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) in vaccine-conferred protection from infection. Among effector cells that mediate ADCC are natural killer (NK) cells. The ability of NK cells to be activated in an antibody-dependent manner is reliant upon several factors. In general, NK cell-mediated antibody-dependent activation is most robust in terminally differentiated CD57(+) NK cells, as well as NK cells educated through ontological interactions between inhibitory killer immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIR) and their major histocompatibility complex class I [MHC-I or human leucocyte antigen (HLA-I)] ligands. With regard to anti-HIV-1 antibody-dependent NK cell activation, previous research has demonstrated that the epidemiologically relevant KIR3DL1/HLA-Bw4 receptor/ligand combination confers enhanced activation potential. In the present study we assessed the ability of the KIR2DL1/HLA-C2 receptor/ligand combination to confer enhanced activation upon direct stimulation with HLA-I-devoid target cells or antibody-dependent stimulation with HIV-1 gp140-pulsed CEM.NKr-CCR5 target cells in the presence of an anti-HIV-1 antibody source. Among donors carrying the HLA-C2 ligand for KIR2DL1, higher interferon (IFN)-gamma production was observed within KIR2DL1(+) NK cells than in KIR2DL1(-) NK cells upon both direct and antibody-dependent stimulation. No differences in KIR2DL1(+) and KIR2DL1(-) NK cell activation were observed in HLA-C1 homozygous donors. Additionally, higher activation in KIR2DL1(+) than KIR2DL1(-) NK cells from HLA-C2 carrying donors was observed within less differentiated CD57(-) NK cells, demonstrating that the observed differences were due to education and not an overabundance of KIR2DL1(+) NK cells within differentiated CD57(+) NK cells. These observations are relevant for understanding the regulation of anti-HIV-1 antibody-dependent NK cell responses. 
26692933 | STAT3 signaling pathway is involved in decitabine induced biological phenotype regulation of acute myeloid leukemia cells. OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the role of signal transduction and transcriptional activator STAT3 and relevant signaling pathway in the DAC regulated biological phenotype of AML cells. METHODS: The effect of DAC at different concentrations on the proliferation of HL-60 cells was determined. After DAC treatment for 48 h, the killing capability of NK cells against HL-60 cells and the protein expressions of STAT3, JAK1, JAK2, SOCS-1 and SOCS-3 were evaluated. RESULTS: DAC markedly inhibited the proliferation of HL-60 cells. After the treatment of 48 hr with 0.2, 0.5 and 1.0 mol/L DAC, the HL-60 viability was reduced by 25+-13%, 39+-8% and 50+-7% (P<0.01), respectively, and the early apoptosis rate was increased to 24.77+-7.5%, 27.1+-4.48% and 30.53+-3.93%, respectively (control: 3.11+-0.12%, P<0.01). DAC up-regulated the expression of MICA/B, ULBP-1 and ULBP-3 in HL-60 cells, and increased the killing activity of NK cells to HL-60 cells. DAC significantly induced the apoptosis of HL-60 cells and up-regulated the expression of NKG2D ligands in a dose dependent manner. Western blot assay showed the protein expression of STAT3, JAK, JAK2, phosphorylated STAT3, phosphorylated JAK1 and phosphorylated JAK2 decreased, while that of SOCS-1 and SOCS-3 increased in HL-60 cells after DAC treatment. CONCLUSION: In HL-60 cells, DAC can markedly inhibit their proliferation and up-regulate the expression of NKG2D ligands, and DAC also increase the cytotoxicity of NK cells to HL-60 cells, which may be related to the STAT3 related signaling pathway.
28525837 | Differentially expressed JAK-STAT signaling pathway genes and target microRNAs in the spleen of necrotic enteritis-afflicted chicken lines. The JAK signal transducer and STAT signaling pathway is an important regulator of cell proliferation, differentiation, survival, motility, apoptosis, immune response, and development. In this study, we used RNA-Sequencing, qRT-PCR, and bioinformatics tools to investigate the differential expression of JAK-STAT pathway genes, their interactions, and regulators in the spleen of two genetically disparate chicken lines (Marek's disease-resistant line 6.3 and MD-susceptible line 7.2) induced necrotic enteritis (NE) disease by co-infection with Eimeria maxima and Clostridium perfringens. Using RNA-Seq analysis, we identified a total of 116 JAK-STAT pathway genes that were differentially expressed in the spleen of these chickens. All of the identified genes were analyzed through clustering, mapping to the KEGG chicken JAK-STAT pathway, and the Pathway Studio program. Of the 116 JAK-STAT pathway genes, 20 were further verified by qRT-PCR. According to the RNA-Seq results, several key genes, including STAT1-6, JAK1-3, TYK2, AKT1, AKT3, SOCS1-5, PIAS1, PIAS2, PIAS4, SHP1, SHP2, and PIK3, showed marked differential expression in the two lines, relative to their respective controls. Moreover, the RNA-Seq results of many key genes were highly correlated with the qRT-PCR results. Finally, we predicted 63 mature miRNAs that variably target JAK-STAT pathway genes and are differentially expressed in the spleen of chickens of both lines. To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first to analyze most of the genes, interactions, and regulators of the JAK-STAT pathway in the innate immune response to NE disease in chickens.
29693186 | Combined inhibition of JAK1,2/Stat3-PD-L1 signaling pathway suppresses the immune escape of castration-resistant prostate cancer to NK cells in hypoxia. Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) is difficult to treat in current clinical practice. Hypoxia is an important feature of the CRPC microenvironment and is closely associated with the progress of CRPC invasion. However, no research has been performed on the immune escape of CRPC from NK cells. The present study focused on this subject. Firstly, when the CRPC cell lines C4-2 and CWR22Rv1 were induced by hypoxia, the expression of the UL16 binding protein (ULBP) ligand family of natural killer (NK) group 2D (NKG2D; ULBP-1, ULBP-2 and ULBP-3) and MHC class I chain-related proteins A and B (MICA/MICB) decreased. NKG2D is the main activating receptor of NK cells. Tumor cells were then co-cultured with NK cells to conduct NK cell-mediated cytotoxicity experiments, which revealed the decreased immune cytolytic activity of NK cells on hypoxia-induced CRPC cells. In exploring the mechanism behind this observation, an increase in programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in CRPC cells induced by hypoxia was observed, while the addition of PD-L1 antibody effectively reversed the expression of NKG2D ligand and enhanced the cytotoxic effect of NK cells on CRPC cells. In the process of exploring the upstream regulatory factors of PD-L1, inhibition of the Janus kinase (JAK)1,2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (Stat3) signaling pathway decreased the expression of PD-L1 in CRPC cells. Finally, it was observed that combined inhibition of JAK1,2/PD-L1 or Stat3/PD-L1 was more effective than inhibition of a single pathway in enhancing the immune cytolytic activity of NK cells. Taking these results together, it is thought that combined inhibition of the JAK1,2/PD-L1 and Stat3/PD-L1 signaling pathways may enhance the immune cytolytic activity of NK cells toward hypoxia-induced CRPC cells, which is expected to provide novel ideas and targets for the immunotherapy of CRPC.
30584347 | Expression analysis of protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) genes in IFNbeta-treated multiple sclerosis patients. Objectives: Protein inhibitors of activated STAT (PIAS) are transcription co-regulator of the Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription signaling pathway as well as nuclear factor-kappaB family of transcription factors. Both of them are involved in cytokine release during inflammatory response. Patients and methods: Considering the role of cytokine imbalance in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS), we compared blood expressions of PIAS1-4 genes in 48 interferon beta (IFNbeta)-treated MS patients with those of healthy subjects by means of real time PCR. Results: Although the expression levels of these genes were not significantly different between MS patients and healthy subjects, significant inverse correlations have been found between PIAS1 expression and age at disease onset. PIAS2 and PIAS3 expressions were inversely correlated with Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) in patients. Moreover, PIAS3 expression was correlated with disease duration in patients and with age in controls. In addition, PIAS4 expression was inversely correlated with EDSS and age at disease onset while it was positively correlated with disease duration. Conclusion: The present study provides evidences for altered expression of PIAS genes in IFNbeta-treated MS patients compared with healthy subjects. However, future studies are needed for elaboration of their exact function in this disorder.
32151676 | Duck PIAS2 negatively regulates RIG-I mediated IFN-beta production by interacting with IRF7. The protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) proteins are important signal transduction modulator family and regulate the innate immune signaling pathway induced by certain transcription factors, including NF-kappaB, IRF3, and JAK/STAT. The PIAS protein mechanism that regulates innate immune response in mammals has been well described in the literature; however, whether the PIAS gene exists in ducks as well as the role of PIAS in duck IFN-beta expression is still unclear. Here, we cloned duck PIAS (duPIAS), finding PIAS2 could repress IFN-beta production. DuPIAS2 contains SAP-PINIT-RLD-S/T characteristic domains, and its overexpression could inhibit virus-induced IFN-beta promoter activation. Moreover, duPIAS2 interacts with duck interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7) and inhibits IFN-beta promoter activation induced by duck IRF7. Additionally, its inhibitory function does not rely on its SUMO E3 ligase activity but rather its C-terminal portion. The above results demonstrate that duPIAS2 is a repressor of IFN-beta production induced by duck IRF7.
36670997 | Alopecia Areata: A Review of the Role of Oxidative Stress, Possible Biomarkers, and Potential Novel Therapeutic Approaches. Alopecia areata (AA) is a dermatological condition characterized by non-scarring hair loss. Exact etiopathogenesis of AA is still unknown although it is known that several factors contribute to the collapse of the hair-follicle (HF)-immune-privileged (IP) site. Oxidative stress (OS) plays an important role in skin diseases. The aim of this review was to clarify the role of OS in AA pathogenesis and diagnosis, and to discuss potential treatment options. Oxidative-stress markers are altered in serum and skin samples of patients with AA, confirming a general pro-oxidative status in patients with AA. OS induces MHC class I chain-related A (MICA) expression in HF keratinocytes that activates the receptor NKG2D, expressed in NK cells and CD8+ T cytotoxic cells leading to destabilization of the HF immune-privileged site through the production of IFN-gamma that stimulates JAK1 and JAK2 pathways. OS also activates the KEAP1-NRF2 pathway, an antioxidant system that contributes to skin homeostasis. In addition, a decrease of ATG5 and LC3B in the hair matrix and an increase in p62 levels indicates a reduction of intrafollicular autophagy during the evolution of AA. Potential biomarkers of OS in AA could be: malondialdehyde (MDA), advanced glycation end-products (AGEs), and ischemic-modified albumin (IMA). JAK inhibitors are the new frontier in treatment of AA and the use of nutraceuticals that modulate the OS balance, in combination with standard treatments, represent promising therapeutic tools.
38023123 | Transient TKI-resistant CD44+pBAD+ blasts undergo intrinsic homeostatic adaptation to promote the survival of acute myeloid leukemia in vitro. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients have frequent mutations in FMS-like receptor tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3-mut AML), who respond poorly to salvage chemotherapies and targeted therapies such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Disease relapse is a common reason of treatment failures in FLT3-mut AML patients, but its intracellular refractory mechanism remains to be discovered. In this study, we designed serial in vitro time-course studies to investigate the biomarkers of TKI-resistant blasts and their survival mechanism. First, we found that a group of transient TKI-resistant blasts were CD44+Phosphorylated-BAD (pBAD)+ and that they could initiate the regrowth of blast clusters in vitro. Notably, TKI-treatments upregulated the compensation pathways to promote PIM2/3-mediated phosphorylation of BAD to initiate the blast survival. Next, we discovered a novel process of intracellular adaptive responses in these transient TKI-resistant blasts, including upregulated JAK/STAT signaling pathways for PIM2/3 expressions and activated SOCS1/SOCS3/PIAS2 inhibitory pathways to down-regulate redundant signal transduction and kinase phosphorylation to regain intracellular homeostasis. Finally, we found that the combination of TKIs with TYK2/STAT4 pathways-driven inhibitors could effectively treat FLT3-mut AML in vitro. In summary, our findings reveal that TKI-treatment can activate a JAK/STAT-PIM2/3 axis-mediated signaling pathways to promote the survival of CD44+pBAD+blasts in vitro. Disrupting these TKIs-activated redundant pathways and blast homeostasis could be a novel therapeutic strategy to treat FLT3-mut AML and prevent disease relapse in vivo.
38286854 | Repurposing proteasome inhibitors for improved treatment of triple-negative breast cancer. Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is associated with poor prognosis and limited treatment options due to the lack of important receptors (estrogen receptor [ER], progesterone receptor [PR], and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 [HER2]) used for targeted therapy. However, high-throughput in vitro drug screening of cell lines is a powerful tool for identifying effective drugs for a disease. Here, we determine the intrinsic chemosensitivity of TNBC cell lines to proteasome inhibitors (PIs), thereby identifying potentially potent 2-drug combinations for TNBC. Eight TNBC cell lines (BT-549, CAL-148, HCC1806, HCC38, HCC70, MDA-MB-436, MDA-MB-453, and MDA-MB-468) and two controls (MCF-10A and MCF-7) were first exposed to 18 drugs (11 PIs and 7 clinically relevant chemotherapeutic agents) as monotherapy, followed by prediction of potent 2-drug combinations using the IDACombo pipeline. The synergistic effects of the 2-drug combinations were evaluated with SynergyFinder in four TNBC cell lines (CAL-148, HCC1806, HCC38, and MDA-MB-468) and three controls (BT-474, MCF-7, and T47D) in vitro, followed by further evaluation of tumor regression in zebrafish tumor models established using HCC1806 and MCF-7 cells. Monotherapy identified nine effective drugs (bortezomib, carfilzomib, cisplatin, delanzomib, docetaxel, epoxomicin, MLN-2238, MLN-9708, and nedaplatin) across all cell lines. PIs (e.g., bortezomib, delanzomib, and epoxomicin) were highly potent drugs in TNBC cells, of which bortezomib and delanzomib inhibited the chymotrypsin-like activity of the 20 S proteasome by 100% at 10 microM. Moreover, several potent 2-drug combinations (e.g., bortezomib+nedaplatin and epoxomicin+epirubicin) that killed virtually 100% of cells were also identified. Although HCC1806- and MCF-7-derived xenografts treated with bortezomib+nedaplatin and carboplatin+paclitaxel were smaller, HCC1806 cells frequently metastasized to the trunk region. Taken together, we show that PIs used in combination with platinum agents or topoisomerase inhibitors exhibit increased efficiency with almost 100% inhibition in TNBC cell lines, indicating that PIs are therefore promising compounds to use as combination therapy for TNBC.
38354486 | Mystery of COVID 19: Focusing on important ncRNAs and effective signaling pathways. This article provides a thorough investigation of the essential role of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) in the context of COVID-19, emphasizing their impact on the complex molecular dynamics of the viral infection. By conducting a systematic review of existing literature, we identify key ncRNAs involved in different stages of the viral life cycle, modulation of host immune response, and disease progression. The importance of microRNAs, long non-coding RNAs, and other ncRNA types emerges as influential factors in shaping the interaction between the host and the virus. Additionally, the study delves into the effective signaling pathways linked to COVID-19 pathogenesis, uncovering intricate molecular cascades that govern viral entry, replication, and host cell response. This exploration encompasses established pathways such as IL-6/JAK/STAT signaling, highlighting their interplay within the context of COVID-19. By synthesizing this knowledge, our aim is not only to enhance our understanding of the molecular complexities of COVID-19 but also to reveal potential therapeutic targets. Through elucidating the interaction between ncRNAs and signaling pathways, our article seeks to contribute to ongoing efforts in developing targeted interventions against COVID-19, ultimately advancing our ability to address this global health crisis.
38366110 | Priority index for critical Covid-19 identifies clinically actionable targets and drugs. While genome-wide studies have identified genomic loci in hosts associated with life-threatening Covid-19 (critical Covid-19), the challenge of resolving these loci hinders further identification of clinically actionable targets and drugs. Building upon our previous success, we here present a priority index solution designed to address this challenge, generating the target and drug resource that consists of two indexes: the target index and the drug index. The primary purpose of the target index is to identify clinically actionable targets by prioritising genes associated with Covid-19. We illustrate the validity of the target index by demonstrating its ability to identify pre-existing Covid-19 phase-III drug targets, with the majority of these targets being found at the leading prioritisation (leading targets). These leading targets have their evolutionary origins in Amniota ('four-leg vertebrates') and are predominantly involved in cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions and JAK-STAT signaling. The drug index highlights opportunities for repurposing clinically approved JAK-STAT inhibitors, either individually or in combination. This proposed strategic focus on the JAK-STAT pathway is supported by the active pursuit of therapeutic agents targeting this pathway in ongoing phase-II/III clinical trials for Covid-19.
38371751 | High-Resolution Structure of RNA G-Quadruplex Containing Unique Structural Motifs Originating from the 5'-UTR of Human Tyrosine Kinase 2 (TYK2). Tyrosine kinase 2 (TYK2) is a member of the JAK family of nonreceptor-associated tyrosine kinases together with highly homologous JAK1, JAK2, and JAK3 paralogues. Overexpression of TYK2 is associated with several inflammatory diseases, including severe complications during the COVID-19 infection. Since the downregulation of JAK paralogues could lead to serious health consequences or even death, it is critical to avoid it when designing drugs to suppress TYK2. To achieve the required specificity only for TYK2, researchers have recently selectively targeted TYK2 mRNA by developing antisense oligonucleotides. In this work, we expand the target space of TYK2 mRNA by showing that the mRNA adopts tetra-helical noncanonical structures called G-quadruplexes. We identified a TYKwt RNA oligonucleotide from the 5'-UTR of TYK2 mRNA, which adopts multiple different parallel G-quadruplexes that exist at equilibrium. Using NMR spectroscopy, we showed that some of the G-quadruplexes adopt unique structural motifs, mainly due to the formation of a stable GA bulge. Using guanine to uridine substitutions, we prepared the oligonucleotide TYK3_U6, which serves as an excellent model for the bulged G-quadruplexes formed by the TYKwt oligonucleotide. NMR structural analysis, including data on the residual coupling constants (RDC) of the loop regions, unveiled that the studied three-quartet parallel G-quadruplex contains many unusual structural features such as a G(U)A bulge, a guanine residue in the syn conformation, A and U residues stacked on the top G-quartet, and a well-defined adenine from a three-residue long propeller loop oriented in the groove, all of which could be valuable targets for future drug design.
38391212 | Long-term efficacy and safety of baricitinib in patients with severe alopecia areata: 104-week results from BRAVE-AA1 and BRAVE-AA2. BACKGROUND: Efficacy of the Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitor baricitinib for severe alopecia areata (AA) continuously increased over 52 weeks in two Phase 3 trials. There are limited long-term data on JAK inhibitors in AA. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate efficacy and safety of baricitinib for severe AA through 104 weeks of continuous therapy. METHODS: Integrated data from the BRAVE-AA1 and BRAVE-AA2 Phase 3 trials included adults with Severity of Alopecia Tool (SALT) scores >=50 (>=50% scalp hair loss) randomized to and continuously treated with 2-mg or 4-mg baricitinib through Week 104. Patients who qualified to remain on continuous treatment included subjects who achieved SALT score <=20 at Week 52 (Week-52 responders; 2-mg: N = 65; 4-mg: N = 129) and baricitinib 4-mg-treated patients who had SALT score >20 at Week 52 but achieved SALT score <=20 at prior visit(s) and/or had significant improvement in eyebrow or eyelash hair growth relative to baseline by Week 52 (Week-52 mixed responders; N = 110). Week-104 outcomes included the proportion of patients achieving SALT score <=20 (<=20% scalp hair loss). Data were censored after treatment discontinuation. RESULTS: Among baricitinib 4-mg-treated and baricitinib 2-mg-treated Week-52 responders, 90.7% and 89.2%, respectively, maintained SALT score <=20 at Week 104. Among Week-52 mixed responders, 39.1% reached SALT score <=20 by Week 104. Continued improvement in eyebrow and eyelash regrowth was observed across groups. The most frequent treatment-emergent adverse events were COVID-19, upper respiratory tract infection, headache, nasopharyngitis, acne, urinary tract infection and creatine phosphokinase increase. CONCLUSIONS: Baricitinib demonstrated a high level of maintenance of efficacy over 104 weeks in patients with severe AA. Efficacy increased in Week-52 mixed responders, illustrating that long-term treatment is necessary to observe maximum benefit in some patients. No new safety signals were observed.
38395305 | SADS-CoV nsp1 inhibits the STAT1 phosphorylation by promoting K11/K48-linked polyubiquitination of JAK1 and blocks the STAT1 acetylation by degrading CBP. The newly discovered zoonotic coronavirus swine acute diarrhea syndrome coronavirus (SADS-CoV) causes acute diarrhea, vomiting, dehydration, and high mortality rates in newborn piglets. Although SADS-CoV uses different strategies to evade the host's innate immune system, the specific mechanism(s) by which it blocks the interferon (IFN) response remains unidentified. In this study, the potential of SADS-CoV nonstructural proteins (nsp) to inhibit the IFN response was detected. The results determined that nsp1 was a potent antagonist of IFN response. SADS-CoV nsp1 efficiently inhibited signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 (STAT1) phosphorylation by inducing Janus kinase 1 (JAK1) degradation. Subsequent research revealed that nsp1 induced JAK1 polyubiquitination through K11 and K48 linkages, leading to JAK1 degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Furthermore, SADS-CoV nsp1 induced CREB-binding protein (CBP) degradation to inhibit IFN-stimulated gene (ISG) production and STAT1 acetylation, thereby inhibiting STAT1 dephosphorylation and blocking STAT1 transport out of the nucleus to receive antiviral signaling. In summary, the results revealed the novel mechanisms by which SADS-CoV nsp1 blocks the JAK-STAT signaling pathway via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. This study yielded valuable findings on the specific mechanism of coronavirus nsp1 in inhibiting the JAK-STAT signaling pathway and the strategies of SADS-CoV in evading the host's innate immune system.
38486196 | Mental health effects associated with COVID-19 financial assistance in South Korea: a comparison of employment status. BACKGROUND: COVID-19 has created tensions across different sectors of the society, but the impact has been unequal. Vulnerable people have been most affected, especially those with insecure employment and who have experienced economic hardships due to unemployment and lost wages. The combination of social change and economic hardships due to the pandemic increases the risk of poor mental health. Some countries have utilized financial assistance to alleviate economic hardships caused by COVID-19, and in South Korea, the central and local governments have implemented COVID-19 financial assistance. This study analysed the impact of financial assistance on mental health associated with working status during the COVID-19 pandemic in South Korea. METHODS: The participants of this study were randomly selected from residents of Gyeonggi-do after being proportionally allocated by resident registration population status. A total of 1,000 adult males and females aged 19 years or older in Gyeonggi-do who received financial assistance from the central and local governments were selected. A retrospective pre-post-study design was applied, and mental health surveys including the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9), Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (GAD-7) were applied. RESULTS: The results show that depression scores averaged 5.5 and anxiety scores averaged 4.4 before COVID-19 Financial Assistance. It is similar to the national average of 5.1 and 4.5 respectively at that time. After the assistance, depression scores dropped to 4.5, and anxiety scores dropped to 3.2. Before the assistance, depression and anxiety were higher among temporary day labourers with less job security, and they showed the most significant improvement in mental health. For full-time workers, there was no significant change in anxiety or depression after receiving the assistance. CONCLUSIONS: Financial assistance can provide material resources and also positively affect mental health. In particular, it had a greater impact on the relatively vulnerable groups, such as those in unstable employment.
38557174 | Deletion of the TMEM30A gene enables leukemic cell evasion of NK cell cytotoxicity. Natural killer (NK) cell immunotherapy has gained attention as a promising strategy for treatment of various malignancies. In this study, we used a genome-wide CRISPR screen to identify genes that provide protection or susceptibility to NK cell cytotoxicity. The screen confirmed the role of several genes in NK cell regulation, such as genes involved in interferon-gamma signaling and antigen presentation, as well as genes encoding the NK cell receptor ligands B7-H6 and CD58. Notably, the gene TMEM30A, encoding CDC50A-beta-subunit of the flippase shuttling phospholipids in the plasma membrane, emerged as crucial for NK cell killing. Accordingly, a broad range of TMEM30A knock-out (KO) leukemia and lymphoma cells displayed increased surface levels of phosphatidylserine (PtdSer). TMEM30A KO cells triggered less NK cell degranulation, cytokine production and displayed lower susceptibility to NK cell cytotoxicity. Blockade of PtdSer or the inhibitory receptor TIM-3, restored the NK cell ability to eliminate TMEM30A-mutated cells. The key role of the TIM-3 - PtdSer interaction for NK cell regulation was further substantiated by disruption of the receptor gene in primary NK cells, which significantly reduced the impact of elevated PtdSer in TMEM30A KO leukemic cells. Our study underscores the potential significance of agents targeting the interaction between PtdSer and TIM-3 in the realm of cancer immunotherapy.
9921273 | JAK/STAT-deficient cell lines. Mutant cell lines B3 and B10, which are unresponsive to both interferon (IFN)-alpha and IFN-gamma, and line B9, which does not respond to IFN-gamma stimulation, are described. The mutants were submitted to fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) from a cellular pool, which was obtained from the parental cell line 2C4 after several rounds of mutagenesis. The unresponsiveness to IFN stimulation was observed both in terms of expression of cell surface markers (CD2, class I and II HLAs) and mRNA expression of IFN-stimulated genes (2'-5' oligoadenylate synthetase (OAS), 9-27, and guanylate binding protein (GBP)). Genetic crossing of B3, B9 and B10 with U3 (STAT1-), gamma 2a (JAK2-) and U4 (JAK1-) mutants, respectively, did not restore IFN responsiveness to the hybrid cell lines. However, when these cell lines were crossed with the same mutants, but using the pairwise crosses B3 x U4, B9 x U3 and B10 x U3, the cell hybrids recovered full IFN responsiveness. The present genetic experiments permitted us to assign the mutant cell lines B3, B9 and B10 to the U3, gamma 2 and U4 complementation groups, respectively. These conclusions were supported by the analysis of IFN-stimulated genes in the mutants.
15296650 | Effects of the hepatitis C virus core protein on innate cellular defense pathways. The hepatitis C virus (HCV) core protein is thought to contribute to HCV pathogenesis through its interaction with various signal transduction pathways. In this study, we explored the interaction of the core protein with innate defense pathways (interferon [IFN] regulatory factor [IRF], Jak-Stat, and inducible nitric oxide synthase [iNOS]) in HeLa and Huh7 human cell lines. Expression of a patient-derived genotype 1b core protein activated human IRF-1 and guanylate-binding protein-2 (GBP-2) promoters, induced IRF-1 mRNA, but failed to induce IRF-3 phosphorylation. HCV core protein caused dose-dependent induction of the IFN-beta promoter and IFN-beta mRNA but not the IFN-alpha1 and IFN-alpha4 promoters. In the presence of IFN-alpha, core expression was associated with increased IFN-stimulated gene factor 3 (ISGF3) binding to the IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE) and tyrosine phosphorylation of Stat1. Core expression resulted in dose-dependent activation of the ISRE and gamma activated sequence (GAS) promoters, in both the absence and the presence of either IFN-alpha or IFN-gamma. Core stimulated the human iNOS promoter and induced iNOS protein. The data indicate that HCV core can modulate IRF, Jak-Stat, and iNOS pathways and suggest mechanisms by which core could affect HCV persistence and pathogenesis.
16124062 | Gene expression profiles in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of SARS patients. AIM: To investigate the role of inflammatory and anti-viral genes in the pathogenesis of SARS. METHODS: cDNA microarrays were used to screen the gene expression profiles of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in two SARS patients (one in the acute severe phase and the other in the convalescent phase) and a healthy donor. In addition, real-time qualitative PCR was also performed to verify the reproducibility of the microarray results. The data were further analyzed. RESULTS: Many inflammatory and anti-viral genes were differentially expressed in SARS patients. Compared to the healthy control or the convalescent case, plenty of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1, TNF-alpha, IL-8, and MAPK signaling pathway were significantly upregulated in the acute severe case. However, anti-inflammatory agents such as IL-4 receptor, IL-13 receptor, IL-1Ra, and TNF-alpha-induced proteins 3 and 6 also increased dramatically in the acute severe case. On the contrary, a lot of IFN-stimulated genes like PKR, GBP-1 and 2, CXCL-10 and 11, and JAK/STAT signal pathway were downregulated in the acute severe case compared to the convalescent case. CONCLUSION: Gene expression in SARS patients mirrors a host state of inflammation and anti-viral immunity at the transcription level, and understanding of gene expression profiles may make contribution to further studies of the SARS pathogenesis.
16266868 | [Negative regulation of the JAK/STAT: pathway implication in tumorigenesis]. Cytokines, hormones or growth factors induce a variety of biological responses including proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. After binding to their specific cell surface receptors, these stimuli induce the activation of a number of signaling pathways including the activation of JAK (JAnus Kinase) proteins by auto and transphosphorylation. Activated JAK phosphorylate the receptor chains on tyrosines, creating docking sites for cytoplasmic transcription factors named STAT (Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription). Furthermore, the JAK phosphorylate the STAT which form dimers and migrate to the nucleus where they bind to specific DNA sequences leading to the activation of transcription. The multiplicity of JAK (4 members) and STAT (7 members) and their associations with multiple possible partners allow the formation of various STAT homo and heterodimers and STAT-containing transcriptional complexes. Each of these complexes lead to the specific regulation of gene transcription. Negative regulation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway is crucial to switch off the cytokine/growth factors' signal. Three families of proteins : the phosphotyrosine phosphatases (SHPs, CD45, PTP1B/TC-PTP), the SOCS proteins (Suppressors Of Cytokine Signaling) and the PIAS (Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT) are involved in this process. These proteins act at various levels of the JAK/STAT pathway. Thus, tyrosine-phosphatases dephosphorylate activated JAK, STAT or cytokine receptors. PIAS interact with activated STAT and inhibit their DNA binding or their transactivating capacity, probably in relation with their intrinsic SUMO E3-ligase activity. The tyrosine phosphatases and the PIAS are constitutively present in the cell and represent a first level of regulation. The SOCS, which represent a second level of JAK/STAT negative control, are induced by cytokines and exert a negative feed-back loop. Indeed, they interact with activated JAK or with phosphorylated receptors, inhibiting the recruitment of STAT, the activation of the JAK enzymatic activity, or inducing the proteasome-dependant degradation of activated JAK or receptors.
16689661 | In silico genomic analysis of the human and murine guanylate-binding protein (GBP) gene clusters. The guanylate-binding proteins (GBPs) were among the first interferon (IFN)-stimulated genes (ISGs) discovered, but until recently, little was known about their functions and even less about the composition of the gene family. Analysis of the promoter of human GBP-1 contributed significantly toward the understanding of Jak-Stat signaling and the delineation of the IFN-gamma activation site (GAS) and IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE) promoter elements. In this study, we have examined the genomic arrangement and composition of the GBPs in both mouse and humans. There are seven GBP paralogs in humans and at least one pseudogene, all of which are located in a cluster of genes on chromosome 1. Five of the six MuGBPs and a GBP pseudogene are clustered in a syntenic region on chromosome 3. The sixth MuGBP, MuGBP-4, and three GBP pseudogenes are located on chromosome 5. As might be expected, the GBPs share similar genomic organizations of introns and exons. Five of the MuGBPs had previously been shown to be coordinately induced by IFNs, and as expected, all of the MuGBPs have GAS and ISRE elements in their promoters. Interestingly, not all of the HuGBPs have GAS and ISRE elements, suggesting that not all GBPs are IFN responsive in humans.
17371985 | TGF-beta suppresses IFN-gamma-STAT1-dependent gene transcription by enhancing STAT1-PIAS1 interactions in epithelia but not monocytes/macrophages. IFN-gamma and TGF-beta are important regulators of mucosal immunity, typically functioning in opposition to each other. In this study, we assessed whether TGF-beta could modulate IFN-gamma-induced STAT1 signaling. Model epithelial cell lines (HEp-2, HT-29, and T84) or monocytes/macrophages (THP-1 cell line, human blood mononuclear cells) were pretreated with TGF-beta (1 ng/ml; 5-60 min), followed by IFN-gamma exposure (20 ng/ml; 30 min), and then STAT1 transcriptional activity, DNA-binding activity, phosphorylation, and methylation were assessed. Some epithelia were transfected with an expression plasmid encoding SMAD7 to block TGF-beta-SMAD signaling. Epithelia, but not macrophages, pretreated with TGF-beta were hyporesponsive to IFN-gamma stimulation as indicated by reduced expression of four STAT1-regulated genes and reduced STAT1 DNA binding on EMSA. However, STAT1 Tyr(701)-, Ser(727) phosphorylation, and nuclear recruitment of STAT1 were not significantly different in IFN-gamma with or without TGF-beta-treated cells, indicating that the effects of TGF-beta are downstream of IFN-gammaR-JAK-STAT1 interaction. The TGF-beta effect was not dependent on ERK1/2, p38, or JNK activation but was prevented by overexpression of the inhibitory SMAD7 protein. Additional studies suggest that TGF-beta blockade of IFN-gamma activity in epithelia is via enhanced sequestering of STAT1 by pre-existing protein inhibitor of activated STAT1. These results demonstrate that TGF-beta rapidly suppresses IFN-gamma-driven STAT1 signaling by reducing DNA binding via promotion of STAT1-protein inhibitor of activated STAT1 interactions and not inhibition of STAT1 activation; an event that may be specific to epithelia and represent a novel mode of action of TGF-beta.
19857525 | Inhibition of STAT1 methylation is involved in the resistance of hepatitis B virus to Interferon alpha. As a major therapy for hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, Interferon alpha (IFN-alpha) triggers intracellular signal transduction including JAK-STAT pathway to produce various antiviral effector mechanisms. However, patients with chronic hepatitis B usually show low response to IFN-alpha treatment and the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In the present study, HepG2 and HepG2.2.15 cells were used to examine the Type I IFN receptors expression, phosphorylation and methylation of STAT1. STAT1-PIAS1 interaction in cells was tested by protein co-immunoprecipitation. The potential improvement of S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) in the antiviral effect of IFN-alpha was also investigated. Our data demonstrated that both chains of the Type I IFN receptors were expressed for a much higher extent in HepG2.2.15 cells than in HepG2 cells. HBV inhibited dramatically the methylation rather than the phosphorylation of STAT1, which was consistent with an increased STAT1-PIAS1 interaction. Combined with IFN-alpha, SAM treatment effectively improved STAT1 methylation and attenuated STAT1-PIAS1 binding, followed by increased PKR and 2',5'-OAS mRNA expression, thus significantly reducing the HBsAg, HBeAg protein levels and HBV DNA load in the supernatant of HepG2.2.15 cells. Less STAT1 methylation and subsequent increased STAT1-PIAS1 interaction are involved in the mechanism of the IFN-alpha-antagonistic activity of HBV. By improving STAT1 methylation, SAM can enhance the antiviral effect of IFN-alpha.
19913854 | Dysregulation of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c in livers of morbidly obese women is associated with altered suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 and signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 signaling. We compared hepatic expression of genes that regulate lipid biosynthesis and metabolic signaling in liver biopsy specimens from women who were undergoing gastric bypass surgery (GBP) for morbid obesity with that in women undergoing ventral hernia repair who had experienced massive weight loss (MWL) after prior GBP. Comprehensive metabolic profiles of morbidly obese (MO) (22 subjects) and MWL (9 subjects) were also compared. Analyses of gene expression in liver biopsies from MO and MWL were accomplished by Affymetrix microarray, real-time polymerase chain reaction, and Western blotting techniques. After GBP, MWL subjects had lost on average 102 lb as compared with MO subjects. This was accompanied by effective reversal of the dyslipidemia and insulin resistance that were present in MO. As compared with MWL, livers of MO subjects exhibited increased expression of sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP)-1c and its downstream lipogenic targets, fatty acid synthase and acetyl-coenzyme A-carboxylase-1. Livers of MO subjects also exhibited enhanced expression of suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 protein and attenuated Janus kinase signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling. Consistent with these findings, we found that the human SREBP-1c promoter was positively regulated by insulin and negatively regulated by STAT3. These data support the hypothesis that suppressor of cytokine signaling-3-mediated attenuation of the STAT signaling pathway and resulting enhanced expression of SREBP-1c, a key regulator of de novo lipid biosynthesis, are mechanistically related to the development of hepatic insulin resistance and dyslipidemia in MO women.
20235152 | Curcumin suppresses constitutive activation of STAT-3 by up-regulating protein inhibitor of activated STAT-3 (PIAS-3) in ovarian and endometrial cancer cells. Signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT-3) is constitutively activated in ovarian and endometrial cancers and is implicated in uncontrolled cell growth. Thus, its disruption could be an effective approach to control tumorigenesis. Curcumin is a dihydroxyphenolic compound, with proven anti-cancer efficacy in various cancer models. We examined the anti-tumor mechanism of curcumin on STAT-3 and on the negative regulators of STAT-3, including suppressors of cytokine signaling proteins (SOCS-1 and SOCS-3), protein inhibitors of activated STAT (PIAS-1 and PIAS-3), and SH2 domain-containing phosphatases (SHP-1 and SHP-2) in ovarian and endometrial cancer cell lines. Treatment of cancer cells with curcumin induced a dose- and time-dependent decrease of constitutive IL-6 expression and of constitutive and IL-6-induced STAT-3 phosphorylation, which is associated with decreased cell viability and increased cleavage of caspase-3. The inhibition of STAT-3 activation by curcumin was reversible, and phosphorylated STAT-3 levels returned to control levels 24 h after curcumin removal. Compared to normal cells baseline expression of SOCS-3 was high in cancer cells and a marked decrease in SOCS-3 expression was seen following curcumin treatment. Overexpression of SOCS-3 in curcumin-treated cells increased expression of phosphorylated STAT-3 and resulted in increased cell viability. Normal ovarian and endometrial cells exhibited high expression of PIAS-3 protein, whereas in cancer cells the expression was greatly reduced. Curcumin increased PIAS-3 expression in cancer cells. Of significance, siRNA-mediated knockdown of PIAS-3 overcomes the inhibitory effect of curcumin on STAT-3 phosphorylation and cell viability. In conclusion, curcumin suppresses JAK-STAT signaling via activation of PIAS-3, thus attenuating STAT-3 phosphorylation and tumor cell growth.
21261500 | Transcriptional deregulation of oncogenic myocyte enhancer factor 2C in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C) encodes a transcription factor which is ectopically expressed in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cell lines, deregulated directly by ectopically expressed homeodomain protein NKX2-5 or by loss of promoter regions via del(5)(q14). Here, we analyzed the MEF2C 5'-region, thus identifying potential regulatory binding sites for GFI1B, basic helix-loop-helix proteins, STAT5, and HOXA9/HOXA10. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and overexpression analyses demonstrated direct activation by GFI1B and LYL1 and inhibition by STAT5. HOXA9/HOXA10 activated expression of NMYC which in turn mediated MEF2C repression, indicating an indirect mode of regulation via NMYC interactor (NMI) and STAT5. Lacking comma: Chromosomal deletion of the STAT5 binding site in LOUCY cells reduced protein levels of STAT5 in some MEF2C-positve T-ALL cell lines, and the presence of inhibitory IL7-JAK-STAT5 signaling highlighted the repressive impact of this factor in MEF2C regulation. Taken together, our results indicate that the expression of MEF2C in T-ALL cells is principally deregulated via activating leukemic transcription factors GFI1B or NKX2-5 and by escaping inhibitory developmental STAT5 signaling.
21683644 | Expression of Bcl2l1, Clcf1, IL-28ra and Pias1 in the mouse heart after single and repeated administration of chlorpromazine. Several chlorpromazine (CPZ)-related deaths have been suspected in forensic autopsies but these are difficult to identify precisely because only low concentrations of CPZ can usually be detected. Patients on CPZ therapy exhibit various cardiovascular diseases, such as arrhythmia and cardiomyopathy. As our previous study revealed that CPZ administration affects the expression of immediate early genes that are induced before any other genes, we expected that CPZ probably affects the heart and, in particular, the gene expression in heart. CPZ changes tumor necrosis factor (TNF) production. After stimulation of TNF, the Janus kinase signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signaling pathway is activated via TNF receptor (TNF-R), and the pathway participates in the regulation of cellular responses such as apoptosis [1]. We used semi-arrays to determine the JAK-STAT signaling pathway in a mouse cardiomyocyte cell line, HL-1, and real-time quantitative-PCR to determine whether the semi-array data applied in vivo in mouse heart after single and once-daily repeated (1-4weeks) low-dose (0.75mg/kg) or high-dose (7.5mg/kg) CPZ treatment. We found that expression of B cell lymphoma 2 like 1 (Bcl2l1), Cardiotrophin-like cytokine factor 1 (Clcf1), Interleukin-28 receptor alpha (IL-28ra) and Protein inhibitor of activated STAT-1 (Pias1) were significantly changed in vivo. All these genes are associated with apoptosis. The expression level of Bcl2l1 was elevated after a single high-dose CPZ treatment and after 1week of repeated high doses, but returned to baseline from week 2 to week 4. Clcf1 and IL-28ra expression increased from week 2 or 3 after low-dose CPZ treatment. Pias1 also increased from week 2 after low-dose CPZ treatment. Our results indicate that different doses of CPZ can induce distinct patterns of gene expression for preventing the apoptotic progression in mouse cardiomyocytes, suggesting that CPZ can affect cardiomyocytes via the JAK-STAT signaling pathway and that this might lead to cardiomyopathy. In addition, our data may help to clarify the pathophysiology of cardiomyopathy induced by CPZ and to diagnose cardiac sudden death following CPZ treatment.
21992896 | Salvianolic acid B suppresses IFN-gamma-induced JAK/STAT1 activation in endothelial cells. INTRODUCTION: Dysfunction of the endothelium contributes to pathological conditions of the arterial wall including atherosclerosis as a result of immunological and/or inflammatory responses. Salvianolic acid B (Sal B), a pure and active compound extracted from the Chinese herb Salvia miltiorrhizae (SM) was characterized for its anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant properties on vascular system. METHODS AND RESULTS: Sal B pretreatment significantly inhibited the IFN-gamma-induced phosphorylations of JAK2 (Tyr 1007/1008) and STAT1 (Tyr701 and Ser727). Consistently, IFN-gamma-induced STAT1 downstream targets CXC chemokines' IP-10, Mig, and I-TAC were suppressed by Sal B pretreatment. Sal B inhibited promoter activities of IP-10 and the secretion of IP-10 protein. The monocyte adhesion to IFN-gamma-treated ECs was observed to be reduced after Sal B pretreatment. ECs treated with Sal B alone also increased the expression of PIAS1 and SOCS1 which may also contribute to its inhibitory effect on JAK-STAT1 signaling pathways. CONCLUSIONS: The anti-inflammatory properties of Sal B on IFN-gamma-induced JAK-STAT1 activation were demonstrated in the present study which provides a molecular basis for possible therapeutic usage on vascular disorders.
22972521 | Protein inhibitor of activated STAT-1 is downregulated in gastric cancer             tissue and involved in cell metastasis. Protein inhibitor of activated STAT-1 (PIAS1) is a novel modulator of the             JAK/STAT signaling pathway that negatively regulates the inflammatory response.             It has been also reported to be downregulated in a variety of human cancer cell             lines. However, the role of PIAS1 in gastric cancer remains unclear. In this study,             we investigated the prognostic value of PIAS1 expression and its regulated mechanisms             in gastric cancer cell metastasis. Therefore, the expression of PIASI was explored             in gastric cancer tissues and adjacent tissues of gastric cancer with 31 cases             of patients, and the prognostic value was analyzed. In addition, the growth and             invasion in SGC7901 cells were investigated in the restoration of PIAS1 expression             with Ad5/F35-PIAS1 or Ad5/F35-vector or PBS treatment, and the activity of P38MAPK,             P-P38MAPK, JNK/SAPK, P-JNK/SAPK, ERK and P-ERK, were detected by western blotting.             The tumor migratory factors MMP-9, MMP-2 and ICAM-1 were analyzed by western blotting.             The results demonstrated that 22 of 31 (70.9%) gastric cancer specimens showed             low levels of PIAS1 expression from immunohistochemistry staining using tissue             microarrays. Statistical analysis suggested that the downregulation of PIAS1 was             significantly correlated with tumor staging. Furthermore, we found that the restoration             of PIAS1 expression mediated by Ad5/F35 virus suppressed cell proliferation and             invasion accompanied by the inhibition of P38MAPK and ERK protein expression and             activity, but not JNK/SAPK protein. Notably, PIAS1 restoration with the transfection             of Ad5/F35-PIAS1 robustly decreased the expression of tumor migratory factors             including MMP-9, MMP-2 and ICAM-1 compared to Ad5/F35-vector. These data suggest             that PIAS1 may function as a tumor suppressor to regulate gastric cancer cell             metastasis by targeting the MAPK signaling pathway.
23279849 | Morin inhibits STAT3 tyrosine 705 phosphorylation in tumor cells through activation of protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP1. The major goal of cancer drug discovery is to find an agent that is safe and affordable, yet effective against cancer. Here we show that morin (3,5,7,2',4'-pentahydroxyflavone) has potential against cancer cells through suppression of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway, which is closely linked to the transformation, survival, proliferation, and metastasis of cancer. We found that morin completely suppressed inducible and constitutively activated STAT3 and blocked the nuclear translocation of STAT3 and its DNA binding in multiple myeloma and head and neck squamous carcinoma cells. Morin inhibited activated Src, JAK-1, and JAK-2, all of which are linked to STAT3 activation, while up-regulating a protein inhibitor of activated STAT3, PIAS3. Pervanadate reversed the effects of morin on STAT3 phosphorylation, indicating the role of a protein tyrosine phosphatase. Furthermore, morin induced SHP1 expression at both the mRNA and protein levels, and silencing of SHP1 abrogated the effect of morin on STAT3 phosphorylation, indicating that morin mediates its effects on STAT3 through SHP1. Suppression of STAT3 correlated with the down-regulation of various gene products linked to tumor survival, proliferation, and angiogenesis and led to sensitization of tumor cells to thalidomide and bortezomib. Comparing the activities of morin with those of four structurally related flavonols demonstrated the importance of hydroxyl groups in the B ring in inhibiting STAT3 activation. These findings suggest that morin suppresses the STAT3 pathway, leading to the down-regulation of STAT3-dependent gene expression and chemosensitization of tumor cells.
23665184 | Pleiotropic effects of methionine adenosyltransferases deregulation as determinants of liver cancer progression and prognosis. Downregulation of liver-specific MAT1A gene, encoding S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) synthesizing isozymes MATI/III, and upregulation of widely expressed MAT2A, encoding MATII isozyme, known as MAT1A:MAT2A switch, occurs in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Being inhibited by its reaction product, MATII isoform upregulation cannot compensate for MATI/III decrease. Therefore, MAT1A:MAT2A switch contributes to decrease in SAM level in rodent and human hepatocarcinogenesis. SAM administration to carcinogen-treated rats prevents hepatocarcinogenesis, whereas MAT1A-KO mice, characterized by chronic SAM deficiency, exhibit macrovesicular steatosis, mononuclear cell infiltration in periportal areas, and HCC development. This review focuses upon the pleiotropic changes, induced by MAT1A/MAT2A switch, associated with HCC development. Epigenetic control of MATs expression occurs at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. In HCC cells, MAT1A/MAT2A switch is associated with global DNA hypomethylation, decrease in DNA repair, genomic instability, and signaling deregulation including c-MYC overexpression, rise in polyamine synthesis, upregulation of RAS/ERK, IKK/NF-kB, PI3K/AKT, and LKB1/AMPK axis. Furthermore, decrease in MAT1A expression and SAM levels results in increased HCC cell proliferation, cell survival, and microvascularization. All of these changes are reversed by SAM treatment in vivo or forced MAT1A overexpression or MAT2A inhibition in cultured HCC cells. In human HCC, MAT1A:MAT2A and MATI/III:MATII ratios correlate negatively with cell proliferation and genomic instability, and positively with apoptosis and global DNA methylation. This suggests that SAM decrease and MATs deregulation represent potential therapeutic targets for HCC. Finally, MATI/III:MATII ratio strongly predicts patients' survival length suggesting that MAT1A:MAT2A expression ratio is a putative prognostic marker for human HCC. 
24120699 | PIAS3 may represent a potential biomarker for diagnosis and therapeutic of human colorectal cancer. Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a challenging problem both for the developed and underdeveloped countries. Despite numerous improvements in early diagnosis and treatment, the incidence and mortality is still keeping in a high level. Molecule targeted therapy has drawn much attention as next generation anticancer agents for diagnosis and therapeutic of CRC. Protein Inhibitor of Activated Signal Transducer and Activators of Transcription 3 (PIAS3) as a novel biomarker has been focused to have a role in the development of malignancy, which was expressed at a higher level in most common malignancies compared with corresponding normal tissues. Furthermore, evidences suggest that the expression of PIAS3 can affect the growth of cancer cells by inhibiting the JAK/STAT and PI3-K/Akt signaling pathways or regulating its SUMO (small-ubiquitin like modifiers) ligase activity in some malignancy. Therefore, we hypothesized that PIAS3 may be a potential biomarker target for early cancer detection and therapeutic of human CRC. 
24301930 | Decreased expression of PIAS1 and PIAS3 in essential thrombocythemia patients. Gain of function mutation of Janus kinase 2 (JAK2V617F) has been identified in Philadelphia-negative myeloproliferative diseases; about half of essential thrombocythemia (ET) patients harbor this mutation. The activated JAK-STAT pathway promotes cell proliferation, differentiation and anti-apoptosis. We studied the role of negative regulators of the JAK-STAT pathway, PIAS, and SOCS in ET patients. Twenty ET patients and 20 healthy individuals were enrolled in the study. Thirteen of the ET patients harbored the JAK2V617F mutation based on mutation analysis. Quantitative-PCR was applied to assay the expression of SOCS1, SOCS3, PIAS1, PIAS3. The expression levels of PIAS1 and PIAS3 were significantly lower in ET groups than that in normal individuals. There was no significant difference between JAK2V617F (+) and JAK2V617F (-) patients. SOCS1 and SOCS3 expression did not differ between ET patients and normal individuals, or between JAK2V617F (+) and JAK2V617F (-) patients. We suggest that failed negative regulators of the JAK-STAT pathway take part in the pathomechanism of ET. 
24486434 | Sesquiterpene dimmer (DSF-27) inhibits the release of neuroinflammatory mediators from microglia by targeting spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) and Janus kinase 2 (Jak2): Two major non-receptor tyrosine signaling proteins involved in inflammatory events. Non-receptor protein tyrosine kinases (NRPTKs)-dependent inflammatory signal transduction cascades play key roles in immunoregulation. However, drug intervention through NRPTKs-involved immunoregulation mechanism in microglia (the major immune cells of the central nervous system) has not been widely investigated. A main aim of the present study is to elucidate the contribution of two major NRPTKs (Syk and Jak2) in neuroinflammation suppression by a bioactive sesquiterpene dimmer (DSF-27). We found that LPS-stimulated BV-2 cells activated Syk and further initiated Akt/NF-kappaB inflammatory pathway. This Syk-dependent Akt/NF-kappaB inflammatory pathway can be effectively ameliorated by DSF-27. Moreover, Jak2 was activated by LPS, which was followed by transcriptional factor Stat3 activation. The Jak2/Stat3 signal was suppressed by DSF-27 through inhibition of Jak2 and Stat3 phosphorylation, promotion of Jak/Stat3 inhibitory factors PIAS3 expression, and down-regulation of ERK and p38 MAPK phosphorylation. Furthermore, DSF-27 protected cortical and mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons against neuroinflammatory injury. Taken together, our findings indicate NRPTK signaling pathways including Syk/NF-kappaB and Jak2/Stat3 cascades are potential anti-neuroinflammatory targets in microglia, and may also set the basis for the use of sesquiterpene dimmer as a therapeutic approach for neuroinflammation via interruption of these pathways. 
25817464 | Stimulation of the JAK/STAT pathway by LIF and OSM in the human granulosa cell line COV434. The development of the follicle and competent oocyte is highly coordinated, requiring interplay among several systems. These implicate endocrine, immune, and metabolic signals, intrafollicular paracrine factors from theca, mural, and cumulus granulosa cells, and the oocyte itself. Granulosa cells play a key role in their interaction. COV434 is one of the few human granulosa cell lines that can be used as an in vitro model for ovarian research. We aimed to evaluate the possible activation of the Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling pathway by IL-6-type cytokines leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) and oncostatin M (OSM) in COV434 cells. Expression of GP130 (glycoprotein 130), STAT3 (signal transducer and activators of transcription 3), PIAS3 (protein inhibitor of activated STAT 3), and SOCS3 (suppressor of cytokine signaling 3) genes after stimulation with LIF or OSM was assessed using RT-qPCR (real-time PCR). GP130 transcripts were significantly upregulated after incubation with LIF or OSM for 24h. Expression of the STAT3 gene was stimulated only after incubation with LIF, but not OSM. SOCS3 showed significant upregulation for all time periods and the levels of PIAS3 were initially down- and after 24h upregulated. Furthermore, the major signaling components of the JAK/STAT pathway, GP130 and STAT3, and the kinase activation patterns of STAT3, were examined at protein level. We found constitutive protein expression for GP130, STAT3, pSTAT3(ser727) and upregulation of pSTAT3(tyr705) by LIF and OSM. Our results demonstrate the activation of the JAK/STAT pathway by LIF and OSM in human granulosa cells. 
25955018 | An Autocrine Cytokine/JAK/STAT-Signaling Induces Kynurenine Synthesis in Multidrug Resistant Human Cancer Cells. BACKGROUND: Multidrug resistant cancer cells are hard to eradicate for the inefficacy of conventional anticancer drugs. Besides escaping the cytotoxic effects of chemotherapy, they also bypass the pro-immunogenic effects induced by anticancer drugs: indeed they are not well recognized by host dendritic cells and do not elicit a durable anti-tumor immunity. It has not yet been investigated whether multidrug resistant cells have a different ability to induce immunosuppression than chemosensitive ones. We addressed this issue in human and murine chemosensitive and multidrug resistant cancer cells. RESULTS: We found that the activity and expression of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1), which catalyzes the conversion of tryptophan into the immunosuppressive metabolite kynurenine, was higher in all the multidrug resistant cells analyzed and that IDO1 inhibition reduced the growth of drug-resistant tumors in immunocompetent animals. In chemoresistant cells the basal activity of JAK1/STAT1 and JAK1/STAT3 signaling was higher, the STAT3 inhibitor PIAS3 was down-regulated, and the autocrine production of STAT3-target and IDO1-inducers cytokines IL-6, IL-4, IL-1beta, IL-13, TNF-alpha and CD40L, was increased. The disruption of the JAK/STAT signaling lowered the IDO1 activity and reversed the kynurenine-induced pro-immunosuppressive effects, as revealed by the restored proliferation of T-lymphocytes in STAT-silenced chemoresistant cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our work shows that multidrug resistant cells have a stronger immunosuppressive attitude than chemosensitive cells, due to the constitutive activation of the JAK/STAT/IDO1 axis, thus resulting chemo- and immune-evasive. Disrupting this axis may significantly improve the efficacy of chemo-immunotherapy protocols against resistant tumors.
26157031 | The proinflammatory role of HECTD2 in innate immunity and experimental lung injury. Invading pathogens may trigger overactivation of the innate immune system, which results in the release of large amounts of proinflammatory cytokines (cytokine storm) and leads to the development of pulmonary edema, multiorgan failure, and shock. PIAS1 is a multifunctional and potent anti-inflammatory protein that negatively regulates several key inflammatory pathways such as Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) and nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB). We discovered a ubiquitin E3 ligase, HECTD2, which ubiquitinated and mediated the degradation of PIAS1, thus increasing inflammation in an experimental pneumonia model. We found that GSK3beta phosphorylation of PIAS1 provided a phosphodegron for HECTD2 targeting. We also identified a mislocalized HECTD2 polymorphism, HECTD2(A19P), that was present in 8.5% of the population and functioned to reduce inflammation. This polymorphism prevented HECTD2/PIAS1 nuclear interaction, thus preventing PIAS1 degradation. The HECTD2(A19P) polymorphism was also protective toward acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). We then developed a small-molecule inhibitor, BC-1382, that targeted HECTD2 and attenuated lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- and Pseudomonas aeruginosa-induced lung inflammation. These studies describe an unreported innate immune pathway and suggest that mutation or antagonism of the E3 ligase HECTD2 results in reduced severity of lung inflammation by selectively modulating the abundance of the anti-inflammatory protein PIAS1. 
26353790 | Tofacitinib regulates synovial inflammation in psoriatic arthritis, inhibiting STAT activation and induction of negative feedback inhibitors. BACKGROUND: Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a chronic inflammatory disease, characterised by synovitis and destruction of articular cartilage/bone. Janus-kinase and signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK-STAT) signalling pathway is implicated in the pathogenesis of PsA. OBJECTIVES: To examine the effect of tofacitinib (JAK inhibitor) on proinflammatory mechanisms in PsA. METHODS: Primary PsA synovial fibroblasts (PsAFLS) and ex vivo PsA synovial explants were cultured with tofacitinib (1 microM). PhosphoSTAT3 (pSTAT3), phosphoSTAT1 (pSTAT1), suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 (SOCS3), protein inhibitor of activated Stat3 (PIAS3) and nuclear factor kappa B cells (NFkappaBp65) were quantified by western blot. The effect of tofacitinib on PsAFLS migration, invasion, Matrigel network formation and matrix metallopeptidase (MMP)2/9 was quantified by invasion/migration assays and zymography. Interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, IFN-gamma-inducible protein 10 (IP-10) monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, IL-17, IL-10, MMP3 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 3 (TIMP3) were assessed by ELISA. RESULTS: Tofacitinib significantly decreased pSTAT3, pSTAT1, NFkappaBp65 and induced SOCS3 and PIAS3 expression in PsAFLS and synovial explant cultures (p<0.05). Functionally, PsAFLS invasion, network formation and migration were inhibited by tofacitinib (all p<0.05). In PsA explant, tofacitinib significantly decreased spontaneous secretion of IL-6, IL-8, MCP-1, MMP9/MMP2, MMP3 (all p<0.05) and decreased the MMP3/TIMP3 ratio (p<0.05), with no effect observed for IP-10 or IL-10. CONCLUSIONS: This study further supports JAK-STAT inhibition as a therapeutic target for the treatment of PsA.
26727233 | Coordinating Role of RXRalpha in Downregulating Hepatic Detoxification during Inflammation Revealed by Fuzzy-Logic Modeling. During various inflammatory processes circulating cytokines including IL-6, IL-1beta, and TNFalpha elicit a broad and clinically relevant impairment of hepatic detoxification that is based on the simultaneous downregulation of many drug metabolizing enzymes and transporter genes. To address the question whether a common mechanism is involved we treated human primary hepatocytes with IL-6, the major mediator of the acute phase response in liver, and characterized acute phase and detoxification responses in quantitative gene expression and (phospho-)proteomics data sets. Selective inhibitors were used to disentangle the roles of JAK/STAT, MAPK, and PI3K signaling pathways. A prior knowledge-based fuzzy logic model comprising signal transduction and gene regulation was established and trained with perturbation-derived gene expression data from five hepatocyte donors. Our model suggests a greater role of MAPK/PI3K compared to JAK/STAT with the orphan nuclear receptor RXRalpha playing a central role in mediating transcriptional downregulation. Validation experiments revealed a striking similarity of RXRalpha gene silencing versus IL-6 induced negative gene regulation (rs = 0.79; P<0.0001). These results concur with RXRalpha functioning as obligatory heterodimerization partner for several nuclear receptors that regulate drug and lipid metabolism. 
26793711 | Is There Any Reason to Prefer Cord Blood Instead of Adult Donors for Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplants? As cord blood (CB) enables rapid access and tolerance to HLA mismatches, a number of unrelated CB transplants have reached 30,000. Such transplant activity has been the result of international accreditation programs maintaining highly qualified cord blood units (CBUs) reaching more than 600,000 CBUs stored worldwide. Efforts to increase stem cell content or engraftment rate of the graft by ex vivo expansion, modulation by molecules such as fucose, prostaglandin E2 derivative, complement CD26 inhibitors, or CXCR4/CXCL12 axis have been able to accelerate engraftment speed and rate. Furthermore, introduction of reduced intensity conditioning protocols, better HLA matching, and recognition of the importance of HLA-C have improved CB transplants success by decreasing transplant-related mortality. CB progenitor/stem cell content has been compared with adult stem cells revealing higher long-term repopulating capacity compared to bone marrow-mesenchymal stromal cells and lesser oncogenic potential than progenitor-induced stem cells. This chapter summarizes the advantages and disadvantages of CB compared to adult stem cells within the context of stem cell biology and transplantation. 
27324722 | 3-Formylchromone inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis of multiple myeloma cells by abrogating STAT3 signaling through the induction of PIAS3. Constitutive activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) is frequently observed and closely linked with proliferation, survival, metastasis and angiogenesis of various cancer cells, and thus its inhibition can be considered a potential therapeutic strategy. We found that 3-formylchromone (3FC) inhibited both constitutive and inducible STAT3 activation in multiple myeloma (MM) cells. Besides the inhibition of STAT3 phosphorylation, 3FC also abrogated constitutive activity and nuclear translocation of STAT3. This suppression was mediated through the inhibition of phosphorylation of Janus-activated kinase (JAK) 1/2 and Src. Furthermore, 3FC induced the expression of the protein inhibitors of activated STAT3 (PIAS3), and gene silencing of the PIAS3 by small interfering RNA abolished the ability of 3FC to inhibit STAT3 activation, suggesting a critical role for PIAS3 in the action of 3FC. 3FC also downregulated the expression of STAT3-regulated gene products such as Bcl-2, Bcl-xl, Mcl-1, Survivin, inhibitor of apoptosis protein-1 (IAP-1), Cyclin D1, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and matrix metalloproteinases-9 (MMP-9) in MM cells. This correlated with induction of substantial apoptosis as indicated by an increase in the sub-G1 cell population and caspase-3 induced poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP) cleavage. Overall, these results suggest that 3FC is a novel blocker of STAT3 activation pathway thus may have a potential in therapy of MM and other cancers. 
27845432 | Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT3 Suppresses Oxidized LDL-induced Cell Responses during Atherosclerosis in Apolipoprotein E-deficient Mice. Atherosclerosis is a serious public health concern. Excessive inflammatory responses of vascular cells are considered a pivotal pathogenesis mechanism underlying atherosclerosis development. It is known that Janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (JAK/STAT3) signalling plays an important role in atherosclerosis progression. Protein inhibitor of activated STAT3 (PIAS3) is the key negative regulator of JAK/STAT3 signalling. However, its effect on atherogenesis is unknown. Here, we observed that PIAS3 levels are reduced in atherosclerotic lesions and that PIAS3 expression decreases in conjunction with increases in interleukin-6 expression and atherosclerosis severity. Oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL), an atherogenic stimulus, reduced PIAS3 expression, an effect that may be attributed to nitric oxide synthesis upregulation. In turn, PIAS3 overexpression effectively suppressed ox-LDL-induced inflammation, lipid accumulation and vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation. These results indicate that PIAS3 is a critical repressor of atherosclerosis progression. The findings of this study have contributed to our understanding on the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and have provided us with a potential target through which we can inhibit atherosclerosis-related cellular responses.
27932984 | Curcumin Suppressed Activation of Dendritic Cells via JAK/STAT/SOCS Signal in Mice with Experimental Colitis. Dendritic cells (DCs) play a pivotal role as initiators in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease and are regulated by the JAK/STAT/SOCS signaling pathway. As a potent anti-inflammatory compound, curcumin represents a viable treatment alternative or adjunctive therapy in the management of chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The mechanism of curcumin treated IBD on DCs is not completely understood. In the present study, we explored the mechanism of curcumin treated experimental colitis by observing activation of DCs via JAK/STAT/SOCS signaling pathway in colitis mice. Experimental colitis was induced by 2, 4, 6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid. After 7 days treatment with curcumin, its therapeutic effect was verified by decreased colonic weight, histological scores, and remitting pathological injury. Meanwhile, the levels of major histocompatibility complex class II and DC costimulatory molecules (CD83, CD28, B7-DC, CD40, CD40 L, and TLR2) were inhibited and followed the up-regulated levels of IL-4, IL-10, and IFN-gamma, and down-regulated GM-CSF, IL-12p70, IL-15, IL-23, and TGF-beta1. A key finding was that the phosphorylation of the three members (JAK2, STAT3, and STAT6) of the JAK/STAT/SOCS signaling pathway was inhibited, and the three downstream proteins (SOCS1, SOCS3, and PIAS3) from this pathway were highly expressed. In conclusion, curcumin suppressed the activation of DCs by modulating the JAK/STAT/SOCS signaling pathway to restore immunologic balance to effectively treat experimental colitis.
28027695 | Inhibitory Mechanism of the Outer Membrane Growth of Chronic Subdural Hematomas. We previously demonstrated that the inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) activates the Janus kinase (JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway in fibroblasts within the outer membranes of chronic subdural hematomas (CSDHs), and the activation of this pathway may induce CSDH outer membrane growth. The inhibitory system for this signal transduction pathway is unknown. CSDH fluids were obtained from 10 patients during trepanation surgery as the case group, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples were obtained from seven patients suffering from subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) on Day 1 as the control group. The concentrations of IL-6, soluble IL-6 receptor (sIL-6R), and soluble gp130 (sgp130) in CSDH fluid and CSF were measured using enzyme immunoassay kits. The co-localization of IL-6 and sgp130 in CSDH fluid was examined by immunoprecipitation. The expression levels of STAT3, JAK2, suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3), and protein inhibitor of activated Stat3 (PIAS3) in the outer membranes of CSDHs were examined by immunostaining. Soluble IL-6R and sgp130 concentrations in CSDH fluid were significantly higher than those in CSF after SAH. Sgp130 and IL-6 were co-immunoprecipitated from CSDH fluid. Immunostaining revealed STAT3, JAK2, SOCS3, and PIAS3 expression in fibroblasts located in the outer membranes of CSDHs. Soluble gp130 binds to IL-6/sIL-6R and acts as an antagonist of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway. SOCS3 also binds to JAK and inhibits its signaling pathway. In addition, PIAS3 regulates STAT3 activation. These factors might down-regulate the IL-6/JAK/STAT signaling pathway in fibroblasts within CSDH outer membranes. Therefore, these molecules may be novel therapeutic targets for the inhibition of CSDH growth.
28494922 | Analysis of JAK-STAT signaling pathway genes and their microRNAs in the intestinal mucosa of genetically disparate chicken lines induced with necrotic enteritis. The JAK-STAT signaling pathway plays a key role in cytokine and growth factor activation and is involved in several cellular functions and diseases. The main objective of this study was to investigate the expression of candidate JAK-STAT pathway genes and their regulators and interactors in the intestinal mucosal layer of two genetically disparate chicken lines [Marek's disease (MD)-resistant line 6.3 and MD-susceptible line 7.2] induced with necrotic enteritis (NE). Through RNA-sequencing, we investigated 116 JAK-STAT signaling pathway-related genes that were significant and differentially expressed between the intestinal mucosa of the two lines compared with respective uninfected controls. About 15 JAK-STAT pathway genes were further verified by qRT-PCR, and the results were in agreement with our sequencing data. All the identified 116 genes were annotated through Gene Ontology and mapped to the KEGG chicken JAK-STAT signaling pathway. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to represent the transcriptional analysis of a large number of candidate genes, regulators, and potential interactors in the JAK-STAT pathway of the two chicken lines induced with NE. Several key genes of the interactome, namely, STAT1/3/4, STAT5B, JAK1-3, TYK2, AKT1/3, SOCS1-5, PIAS1/2/4, PTPN6/11, and PIK3, were determined to be differentially expressed in the two lines. Moreover, we detected 68 known miRNAs variably targeting JAK-STAT pathway genes and differentially expressed in the two lines induced with NE. The RNA-sequencing and bioinformatics analyses in this study provided an abundance of data that will be useful for future studies on JAK-STAT pathways associated with the functions of two genetically disparate chicken lines induced with NE.
28972958 | Immunoexpression analysis of selected JAK/STAT pathway molecules in patients with non- small-cell lung cancer. INTRODUCTION    Signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins are critically involved in tumorigenesis in various cancers, including lung cancer. OBJECTIVES    The aim of the study was to analyze the immunoexpression levels of 3 STAT proteins: STAT3, STAT5, and STAT6 in their phosphorylated forms (pSTATs), STAT inhibitors PIAS3 and SOCS3, and additionally cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), as potential diagnostic and prognostic markers in lung cancer. PATIENTS AND METHODS    The study included 71 patients diagnosed with non- small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The immunoexpression levels of the proteins were assessed in lung tissue samples, using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Tumors were staged using the postoperative TNM classification. RESULTS    All studied STATs were overexpressed in 54% to 55% of NSCLC specimens. Significantly higher STAT3 and STAT6 immunoexpression levels were observed in squamous cell carcinoma. Significant differences between NSCLC samples and controls were found for STAT5. Significantly higher STAT5 levels were observed in pT2 tumors. The COX-2 overexpression was observed in 55% of NSCLC specimens and was significantly higher in T2 tumors. STAT inhibitors were underexpressed in 56% to 58% of NSCLC specimens. The PIAS3 immunoexpression was significantly lower in non-squamous cell carcinoma. The SOCS3 level was significantly lower in smaller tumors (pT1). Negative correlations between STAT5 and PIAS3 levels, as well as between STAT6 and SOCS levels, and a positive correlation between STAT5 and COX-2 levels were observed. CONCLUSIONS    The deregulated expression of the studied pSTATs and their inhibitors may be involved in the development and progression of lung cancer. The observed differences between the histotypes suggest the potential usefulness of STAT proteins as diagnostic markers. Our results may contribute to the search for targets in lung cancer therapy.
29927095 | JAK-1 Inhibition Suppresses Interferon-Induced BAFF Production in Human Salivary Gland: Potential Therapeutic Strategy for Primary Sjogren's Syndrome. OBJECTIVE: To examine whether a JAK inhibitor regulates functional responses of human salivary gland epithelial cells (SGECs) and disease parameters in an animal model of Sjogren's syndrome (SS). METHODS: Common differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were analyzed among peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with primary SS and other data sets, using blood and SG tissue. Validation of expression in SGs was analyzed by focus score. Inhibition of messenger RNA expression of DEGs and BAFF by filgotinib was analyzed using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in primary SGECs. SG organoid cultures were used to determine the association between DEGs and BAFF via knockdown using small interfering RNAs or to determine regulation of BAFF by JAK inhibitor. Filgotinib (1.5 mg/kg) was intraperitoneally injected into 8-week-old NOD/ShiLtJ mice 3 times per week to analyze manifestations of disease. Finally, STAT signaling was assessed in human and mouse SGECs. RESULTS: Expression of the DEGs IFNG and BAFF increased in SGs from patients with primary SS, as assessed by focus score. There was a significant correlation between IFIT2 and BAFF expression. JAK inhibitor suppressed interferon (IFN)-induced transcription of DEGs and BAFF in human primary SGECs. Knockdown of DEGs or inhibition of JAK caused reduced secretion of BAFF in human SG organoid cultures. In addition, filgotinib-treated mice exhibited increased salivary flow rates and marked reductions in lymphocytic infiltration of SGs. JAK inhibitor regulated IFNalpha- and IFNgamma-induced pSTAT-1Y701 , pSTAT-3Y705 , and protein inhibitor of activated STAT-3 (PIAS-3) in human SGECs as well as IFNgamma-induced pSTAT-1Y701 , pSTAT-3S727 , and PIAS-1 in mouse SGECs. CONCLUSION: JAK inhibition controls aberrant activation of SGECs and may be a novel therapeutic approach for primary SS.
31784083 | IL-17 promotes hepatocellular carcinoma through inhibiting apoptosis induced by IFN-gamma. Interleukin-17 (IL-17) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), two inflammatory cytokines, are present in cancerous liver tissues. IL-17 was recently identified as an oncogenic factor in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but its underlying mechanisms are largely obscure. Here, we aimed to investigate the interaction between IL-17 and IFN-gamma and its influence on HCC cell apoptosis and growth in vitro and in vivo. We found that the expression of IL-17, but not IFN-gamma, was obviously increased in HCC tissues. Higher IL-17 expression in tumor tissues correlated with shorter survival times. IFN-gamma apparently increased apoptosis of HCC cells. IL-17 alone had no effect on apoptosis of HCC cells but reversed apoptosis induced by IFN-gamma. IFN-gamma mildly promoted the expression of protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activators of transcription 1 (PIAS1) and the activation of NF-kappaB, and these effects were greatly enhanced when combined with IL-17. PIAS1 silencing not only further amplified apoptosis induced by IFN-gamma alone but also abolished the inhibitory effects of IL-17 on IFN-gamma-induced apoptosis in HCC cells. An NF-kappaB inhibitor obviously decreased the upregulated expression of PIAS1 induced by IFN-gamma plus IL-17 and IFN-gamma alone. IFN-gamma treatment retarded the tumor growth of HCC cells in an in vivo xenograft tumor model, which could be largely inhibited by combined treatment with IL-17. In conclusion, IL-17 obviously inhibits the antitumor effects of IFN-gamma in hepatoma cells and, in turn, accelerates HCC development through upregulating the expression of the negative feedback regulator PIAS1 of the JAK/STAT1 pathway via enhancing activation of NF-kappaB.
31835700 | A Hierarchical Machine Learning Model to Discover Gleason Grade-Specific Biomarkers in Prostate Cancer. (1) Background:One of the most common cancers that affect North American men and men worldwide is prostate cancer. The Gleason score is a pathological grading system to examine the potential aggressiveness of the disease in the prostate tissue. Advancements in computing and next-generation sequencing technology now allow us to study the genomic profiles of patients in association with their different Gleason scores more accurately and effectively. (2) Methods: In this study, we used a novel machine learning method to analyse gene expression of prostate tumours with different Gleason scores, and identify potential genetic biomarkers for each Gleason group. We obtained a publicly-available RNA-Seq dataset of a cohort of 104 prostate cancer patients from the National Center for Biotechnology Information's (NCBI) Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) repository, and categorised patients based on their Gleason scores to create a hierarchy of disease progression. A hierarchical model with standard classifiers in different Gleason groups, also known as nodes, was developed to identify and predict nodes based on their mRNA or gene expression. In each node, patient samples were analysed via class imbalance and hybrid feature selection techniques to build the prediction model. The outcome from analysis of each node was a set of genes that could differentiate each Gleason group from the remaining groups. To validate the proposed method, the set of identified genes were used to classify a second dataset of 499 prostate cancer patients collected from cBioportal. (3) Results: The overall accuracy of applying this novel method to the first dataset was 93.3%; the method was further validated to have 87% accuracy using the second dataset. This method also identified genes that were not previously reported as potential biomarkers for specific Gleason groups. In particular, PIAS3 was identified as a potential biomarker for Gleason score 4 + 3 = 7, and UBE2V2 for Gleason score 6. (4) Insight: Previous reports show that the genes predicted by this newly proposed method strongly correlate with prostate cancer development and progression. Furthermore, pathway analysis shows that both PIAS3 and UBE2V2 share similar protein interaction pathways, the JAK/STAT signaling process.
32041526 | The draft genome of horseshoe crab Tachypleus tridentatus reveals its evolutionary scenario and well-developed innate immunity. BACKGROUND: Horseshoe crabs are ancient marine arthropods with a long evolutionary history extending back approximately 450 million years, which may benefit from their innate immune systems. However, the genetic mechanisms underlying their abilities of distinguishing and defending against invading microbes are still unclear. RESULTS: Here, we describe the 2.06 Gbp genome assembly of Tachypleus tridentatus with 24,222 predicted protein-coding genes. Comparative genomics shows that T. tridentatus and the Atlantic horseshoe crab Limulus polyphemus have the most orthologues shared among two species, including genes involved in the immune-related JAK-STAT signalling pathway. Divergence time dating results show that the last common ancestor of Asian horseshoe crabs (including T. tridentatus and C. rotundicauda) and L. polyphemus appeared approximately 130 Mya (121-141), and the split of the two Asian horseshoe crabs was dated to approximately 63 Mya (57-69). Hox gene analysis suggests two clusters in both horseshoe crab assemblies. Surprisingly, selective analysis of immune-related gene families revealed the high expansion of conserved pattern recognition receptors. Genes involved in the IMD and JAK-STAT signal transduction pathways also exhibited a certain degree of expansion in both genomes. Intact coagulation cascade-related genes were present in the T. tridentatus genome with a higher number of coagulation factor genes. Moreover, most reported antibacterial peptides have been identified in T. tridentatus with their potentially effective antimicrobial sites. CONCLUSIONS: The draft genome of T. tridentatus would provide important evidence for further clarifying the taxonomy and evolutionary relationship of Chelicerata. The expansion of conserved immune signalling pathway genes, coagulation factors and intact antimicrobial peptides in T. tridentatus constitutes its robust and effective innate immunity for self-defence in marine environments with an enormous number of invading pathogens and may affect the quality of the adaptive properties with regard to complicated marine environments.
32044269 | Cyanidin prevents the hyperproliferative potential of fibroblast-like synoviocytes and disease progression via targeting IL-17A cytokine signalling in rheumatoid arthritis. The hyperplastic phenotype of fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) plays an important role for synovitis, chronic inflammation and joint destruction in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Interleukin 17A (IL-17A), a signature pro-inflammatory cytokine effectively influences the hyperplastic transformation of FLS cells and synovial pannus growth. IL-17A cytokine signalling participates in RA pathology by regulating an array of pro-inflammatory mediators and osteoclastogenesis. Cyanidin, a key flavonoid inhibits IL-17A/IL-17 receptor A (IL-17RA) interaction and alleviates progression and disease severity of psoriasis and asthma. However, the therapeutic efficacy of cyanidin on IL-17A cytokine signalling in RA remains unknown. In the present study, cyanidin inhibited IL-17A induced migratory and proliferative capacity of FLS cells derived from adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA) rats. Cyanidin treatment reduced IL-17A mediated reprogramming of AA-FLS cells to overexpress IL-17RA. In addition, significantly decreased expression of IL-17A dependent cyr61, IL-23, GM-CSF, and TLR3 were observed in AA-FLS cells in response to cyanidin. At the molecular level, cyanidin modulated IL-17/IL-17RA dependent JAK/STAT-3 signalling in AA-FLS cells. Importantly, cyanidin activated PIAS3 protein to suppress STAT-3 specific transcriptional activation in AA-FLS cells. Cyanidin treatment to AA rats attenuated clinical symptoms, synovial pannus growth, immune cell infiltration, and bone erosion. Cyanidin reduced serum level of IL-23 and GM-CSF and expression of Cyr 61 and TLR3 in the synovial tissue of AA rats. Notably, the level of p-STAT-3 protein was significantly decreased in the synovial tissue of AA rats treated with cyanidin. This study provides the first evidence that cyanidin can be used as IL-17/17RA signalling targeting therapeutic drug for the treatment of RA and this need to be investigated in RA patients.
32204510 | Human Heme Oxygenase-1 Induced by Interleukin-6 via JAK/STAT3 Pathways Is a Tumor Suppressor Gene in Hepatoma Cells. Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) has several important roles in hepatocytes in terms of anti-inflammation, anti-apoptosis, and antioxidant properties. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a pleiotropic cytokine associated with liver regeneration and protection against injury. The aim of this study was to determine the potential crosstalk between HO-1 and IL-6, and to elucidate the signaling pathways involved in the induction of HO-1 by IL-6 in human hepatoma cells. Ectopic overexpression of HO-1 not only attenuated cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, but also blocked the reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced by H2O2 and the pyocyanin in HepG2 or Hep3B cells. IL-6 expression was negatively regulated by HO-1, while IL-6 induced signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) phosphorylation and HO-1 gene expression in HepG2 cells. The co-transfected HO-1 reporter vector and a protein inhibitor of the activated STAT3 (PIAS3) expression vector blocked the IL-6-induced HO-1 reporter activity. Both interferon gamma and interleukin-1beta treatments induced STAT1 but not STAT3 phosphorylation, which had no effects on the HO-1 expression. Treatments of AG490 and luteolin blocked the JAK/STAT3 signaling pathways which attenuated IL-6 activation on the HO-1 expression. Our results indicated that HO-1 is the antitumor gene induced by IL-6 through the IL-6/JAK/STAT3 pathways; moreover, a feedback circuit may exist between IL-6 and HO-1 in hepatoma cells.
33329485 | The Network of Interactions Between Classical Swine Fever Virus Nonstructural Protein p7 and Host Proteins. Classical swine fever (CSF) is a highly contagious viral disease causing severe economic losses to the swine industry. As viroporins of viruses modulate the cellular ion balance and then take over the cellular machinery, blocking the activity of viroporin or developing viroporin-defective attenuated vaccines offers new approaches to treat or prevent viral infection. Non-structural protein p7 of CSF virus (CSFV) is a viroporin, which was highly involved in CSFV virulence. Deciphering the interaction between p7 and host proteins will aid our understanding of the mechanism of p7-cellular protein interaction affecting CSFV replication. In the present study, seven host cellular proteins including microtubule-associated protein RP/EB family member 1 (MAPRE1), voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1), proteasome maturation protein (POMP), protein inhibitor of activated STAT 1 (PIAS1), gametogenetin binding protein 2 (GGNBP2), COP9 signalosome subunit 2 (COPS2), and contactin 1 (CNTN1) were identified as the potential interactive cellular proteins of CSFV p7 by using yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) screening. Plus, the interaction of CSFV p7 with MAPRE1 and VDAC1 was further evaluated by co-immunoprecipitation and GST-pulldown assay. Besides, the p7-cellular protein interaction network was constructed based on these seven host cellular proteins and the STRING database. Enrichment analysis of GO and KEGG indicated that many host proteins in the p7-cellular protein interaction network were mainly related to the ubiquitin-proteasome system, cGMP-PKG signaling pathway, calcium signaling pathway, and JAK-STAT pathway. Overall, this study identified potential interactive cellular proteins of CSFV p7, constructed the p7-cellular protein interaction network, and predicted the potential pathways involved in the interaction between CSFV p7 and host cells.
33408175 | Inducible Guanylate-Binding Protein 7 Facilitates Influenza A Virus Replication by Suppressing Innate Immunity via NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT Signaling Pathways. Guanylate-binding protein 7 (GBP7) belongs to the GBP family, which plays key roles in mediating innate immune responses to intracellular pathogens. Thus far, GBP7 has been reported to be a critical cellular factor against bacterial infection. However, the relationship between GBP7 and influenza A virus (IAV) replication is unknown. Here, we showed that GBP7 expression was significantly upregulated in the lungs of mice, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), and A549 cells during IAV infection. Using the CRISPR-Cas9 system and overexpression approaches, it was found that GBP7 knockout inhibited IAV replication by enhancing the expression of IAV-induced type I interferon (IFN), type III IFN, and proinflammatory cytokines. Conversely, overexpression of GBP7 facilitated IAV replication by suppressing the expression of those factors. Furthermore, GBP7 knockout enhanced IAV-induced nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation and phosphorylation of stat1 and stat2; overexpression of GBP7 had the opposite effect. Our data indicated that GBP7 suppresses innate immune responses to IAV infection via NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. Taken together, upon IAV infection, the induced GBP7 facilitated IAV replication by suppressing innate immune responses to IAV infection, which suggested that GBP7 serves as a therapeutic target for controlling IAV infection.IMPORTANCE So far, few studies have mentioned the distinct function of guanylate-binding protein 7 (GBP7) on virus infection. Here, we reported that GBP7 expression was significantly upregulated in the lungs of mice, human PBMCs, and A549 cells during IAV infection. GBP7 facilitated IAV replication by suppressing the expression of type I interferon (IFN), type III IFN, and proinflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, it was indicated that GBP7 suppresses innate immune responses to IAV infection via NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT signaling pathways. Taken together, our results elucidate a critical role of GBP7 in the host immune system during IAV infection.
33582208 | CXCR1 correlates to poor outcomes of EGFR-TKI against advanced non-small cell lung cancer by activating chemokine and JAK/STAT pathway. OBJECTIVE: CXCR1, a member of the seven-transmembrane chemokine receptor family, promotes cell proliferation and metastasis in many tumors. The present study was undertaken to explore the interrelation between CXCR1 expression and the prognosis of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in addition to the efficacy of epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). METHODS: The expression of CXCR1 in NSCLC tissues was assessed by immunohistochemistry. The relationships between CXCR1 expression and clinical-pathological factors were investigated. Concomitantly, the relationship between CXCR1 expression and EGFR-TKI treatment efficacy was investigated. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was employed for the exploration of pathway enrichment, tumor immune estimation resource (TIMER) and gene expression profiling interactive analysis (GEPIA) for the inspection of the interrelationship between infiltration immune cells and CXCR1. After gain-and loss-of-function of CXCR1 in NSCLC cells, qRT-PCR and Western blot were applied to measure the levels of proteins associated with the chemokine pathway (CCL3 and CXCL2) and the JAK/STAT pathway (IL9R, PIAS4 and STAT5A). RESULTS: CXCR1 significantly correlated with poor prognosis of NSCLC patients. Additionally, CXCR1 limited the clinical efficacy of EGFR-TKIs in advanced LUAD (P = 0.029). In the tumor microenvironment, CXCR1 was positively associated with infiltration levels of immune markers in lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) and LUAD. High expression of CXCR1 was implicated in the NOD-like receptor (NLR), cytokine/cytokine receptor, JAK/STAT and chemokine signaling pathways in LUAD and LUSC. Overexpression of CXCR1 in NSCLC cell lines enhanced expressions of CCL3, CXCL2, IL9R, PIAS4 and STAT5A, while knockdown of CXCR1 repressed expressions of CCL3, CXCL2, IL9R, PIAS4 and STAT5A. CONCLUSION: CXCR1 is correlated with poor prognosis of NSCLC and affects the efficacy of EGFR-TKIs in LUAD.
34054823 | Expression Analysis of Protein Inhibitor of Activated STAT in Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy. Protein inhibitors of activated STAT (PIAS) are involved in the regulation of the JAK/STAT signaling pathway and have interactions with NF-kappaB, p73 and p53. These proteins regulate immune responses; therefore dysregulation in their expression leads to several immune-mediated disorders. In the present study, we examined expression of PIAS1-4 in peripheral blood of patients with acute/chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (AIDP/CIDP) compared with healthy subjects. We demonstrated down-regulation of all PIAS genes in both AIDP and CIDP cases compared with controls. Similarly, comparisons in gender-based groups revealed down-regulation of these gene0s in patients of each gender compared with gender-matched controls. There was no significant difference in expression of PIAS genes between AIDP and CIDP cases. Based on the area under the receiver operating characteristic curves, PIAS1-4 genes could distinguish between inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy and healthy status with accuracy values of 0.87, 0.87, 0.79 and 0.80, respectively. In differentiation between AIDP cases and healthy controls, these values were 0.92, 0.92, 0.83 and 0.86, respectively. Finally, PIAS1-4 genes could discriminate CIDP from healthy status with accuracy values of 0.82, 0.83, 0.75 and 0.75, respectively. The current study underscores the role of PIAS genes in the pathogenesis of inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy and their potential usage as biomarkers.
34331975 | Grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idellus) PIAS1 inhibits innate immune response via interacting with STAT1. Protein inhibitor of activated signal transducer and activator of transcription (PIAS) family protein involved in gene transcriptional regulation acts as negative regulator in Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling pathway. But until now, the roles of PIAS in fish are not clear. In this study, we identified the two mammalian PIAS1 orthologs from Ctenopharyngodon idellus, namely CiPIAS1a and CiPIAS1b, respectively. They can respond to the stimulation from Polyribocytidylic acid (Poly I:C), Grass Carp Reovirus (GCRV) and Lipopolysaccharides (LPS) respectively, so we suggested that they could participate in interferon (IFN)-mediated antiviral and antibacterial immune response. The subcellular localization and nuclear cytoplasm extraction showed that CiPIAS1a and CiPIAS1b were mainly distributed in the nucleus. In addition, Co-IP showed that they separately inhibited the phosphorylation of STAT1 via interacting with it, which leads to the reduction of IFN1 expression.
34423038 | Effect of MiR-210 on the Chemosensitivity of Breast Cancer by Regulating JAK-STAT Signaling Pathway. The study is aimed at exploring the effect of microribonucleic acid- (miR-) 210 on the chemosensitivity of breast cancer and its potential molecular mechanism. Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) was applied to detect the half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) of cisplatin (DDP) on cell, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was carried out to measure the relative expression level of miR-210. The IC50 value of DDP on cells was detected via CCK-8 after downregulating the expression of miR-210 in MCF-7/DDP cells. Flow cytometry and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) confirmed the effect of themiR-210 downregulation on the apoptosis of drug-resistant MCF-7/DDP cells. Besides, the impacts of the miR-210 downregulation on apoptosis-related proteins and Janus-activated kinase- (JAK-) signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) signaling pathway-related proteins were examined by Western blotting. The interaction between miR-210 and the target protein was detected through luciferase activity assay, qPCR, and Western blotting. Drug-resistant MCF-7/DDP cells had significantly stronger resistance to DDP and a remarkably higher expression level of miR-210 than control parental MCF-7 cells (p < 0.05). After the downregulation of the miR-210 expression, MCF-7/DDP cells had markedly reduced resistance but obviously increased sensitivity to DDP (p < 0.05). MiR-210 downregulation increased the apoptosis of MCF-7/DDP cells (p < 0.05). In addition, after miR-210 was knocked down, the expression level of b-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) was decreased, while the expression levels of Bcl-2-associated X protein (Bax) and cysteinyl aspartate-specific proteinase-3 (caspase-3) were increased. Besides, miR-210 was able to suppress the expression of protein inhibitor of the activated STAT 4 (PIAS4) gene by directly targeting its 3' untranslated region (3'UTR). The expression of miR-210 has a correlation with chemoresistance of breast cancer MCF-7 cells. MiR-210 regulates the JAK-STAT signal transduction pathway by targeting PIAS4, thus exerting an effect on breast cancer chemosensitivity.
34535012 | Genetic profiles of subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma and clinicopathological impact of HAVCR2 mutations. Recent studies identified germline mutations in HAVCR2 (encoding T-cell immunoglobulin mucin 3) as a genetic factor that predisposes to subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma (SPTCL). However, the differences between HAVCR2-mutated (HAVCR2MUT) and HAVCR2 wild-type (HAVCR2WT) SPTCLs remain unclear. A nationwide cohort of 53 patients with SPTCL diagnosed at 8 Korean institutions was established. Whole-exome sequencing and RNA-sequencing were performed on 8 patients in the discovery set. In the validation set, targeted gene sequencing or direct sequencing of HAVCR2 was performed. Of 49 patients with available HAVCR2 status, 25 (51.0%) were HAVCR2Y82C. HAVCR2Y82C was associated with younger age (P = .001), development of hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis or hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis-like systemic illness (P < .001), and short relapse-free survival (RFS) (P = .023). Most mutated genes in SPTCLs were involved in immune responses, epigenetic modifications, and cell signaling. Mutations in UNC13D, PIAS3, and KMT2D were more frequent in HAVCR2WT SPTCLs. At the gene expression level, HAVCR2Y82C SPTCLs were enriched in genes involved in IL6-JAK-STAT3 signaling and in tumor necrosis factor-alpha signaling via NF-kappaB. CCR4 was significantly upregulated in HAVCR2WT SPTCLs both at the messenger RNA level and at the protein level. We established a risk stratification system for SPTCL by integrating clinical and histopathological features, including age and HAVCR2 mutation status. This risk stratification system was strongly associated with RFS (P = .031). In conclusion, the HAVCR2Y82C mutation was common in Korean patients with SPTCL and was associated with unique clinicopathological and genetic features. Combining clinicopathological parameters could aid in predicting prognosis for patients with SPTCL.
35106192 | Use of Baricitinib in Combination With Remdesivir and Steroid in COVID-19 Treatment: A Multicenter Retrospective Study. Introduction Hospitalized patients infected with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) can develop severe complications. Baricitinib, a Janus kinase (JAK) JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, has been proposed to prevent intracellular uptake of SARS-CoV-2 by targeting the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor, suppressing cytokine storm. We evaluated the effects of baricitinib on coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) patient survival. Methods We conducted a retrospective study of 100 COVID-19 patients hospitalized in Southern California, United States, throughout September 2021. Univariate analysis of study variables was conducted with bivariate analysis of their relationships using chi-square and t-test with p-value <0.05 considered significant. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was performed to compare outcomes of COVID-19 patients treated with baricitinib and those that were not. Results Our study included a patient population with a mean age of 62 years. Twenty-four percent of our patients were admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), 16% were placed on mechanical ventilation, and 27% were expired. Patients receiving baricitinib were more likely to be admitted to the ICU and receive concomitant remdesivir therapy. Use of baricitinib increased median survival (p = 0.045). Conclusion Baricitinib administered with remdesivir and dexamethasone was shown to increase the survival of hospitalized patients with COVID-19. More studies are required to evaluate the benefits of conjunctive therapy with baricitinib, remdesivir, and dexamethasone. Though our study shows increased survival in patients receiving therapy, our study is limited by small sample size and there was not enough data to confirm whether baricitinib therapy decreased disease progression. Further studies are required.
35109786 | The roles of Eph receptors, neuropilin-1, P2X7, and CD147 in COVID-19-associated neurodegenerative diseases: inflammasome and JaK inhibitors as potential promising therapies. The novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has spread worldwide, and finding a safe therapeutic strategy and effective vaccine is critical to overcoming severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Therefore, elucidation of pathogenesis mechanisms, especially entry routes of SARS-CoV-2 may help propose antiviral drugs and novel vaccines. Several receptors have been demonstrated for the interaction of spike (S) protein of SARS-CoV-2 with host cells, including angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE2), ephrin ligands and Eph receptors, neuropilin 1 (NRP-1), P2X7, and CD147. The expression of these entry receptors in the central nervous system (CNS) may make the CNS prone to SARS-CoV-2 invasion, leading to neurodegenerative diseases. The present review provides potential pathological mechanisms of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the CNS, including entry receptors and cytokines involved in neuroinflammatory conditions. Moreover, it explains several neurodegenerative disorders associated with COVID-19. Finally, we suggest inflammasome and JaK inhibitors as potential therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative diseases.
36208271 | [Transcriptional Modification and Potential Intracellular Signaling Mechanisms in Human Macrophages Primed by Interferon-gamma]. OBJECTIVE: To explore the transcriptional gene expression profile up-regulated in human macrophages stimulated by interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and the underlying intracellular signaling mechanisms. METHODS: RNA-seq was used to sequence and compare the differential gene expression profiles of human macrophage cell line U937 before and after IFN-gamma stimulation, and the significantly up-regulated genes were screened out, which were verified by fluorescence-based real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) in U937 and THP1 cell lines, respectively. JAK/STAT, MAPK/ERK and PI3K/AKT pathway inhibitors were added to simultaneously to the cultured U937 cells upon IFN-gamma priming to detect their effects on the expressions of the up-regulated genes to explore the key regulatory mechanisms. RESULTS: RNA-seq and qPCR results showed that, the well-recognized chemokines CXCL9, CXCL10 and CXCL11, the APOL family including APOL1, APOL2, APOL3, APOL4, APOL6 and GBP family GBP1, GBP2, GBP3, GBP4 and GBP5 as well were significantly up-regulated in IFN-gamma-stimulated U937 cells. JAK/STAT3 pathway inhibitor inhibited the upregulation of APOL1, APOL4, GBP1, GBP4 and GBP5 genes induced by IFN-gamma, while MAPK/ERK pathway inhibitor inhibited the upregulation of CXCL10 gene. PI3K/AKT pathway inhibitor inhibited the upregulation of APOL1,APOL4, APOL6, GBP1 and GBP5 genes induced by IFN-gamma, all three signal pathway inhibitors could inhibit the upregulation of CXCL9 gene, and none of them could inhibit the upregulation of APOL3 gene. CONCLUSION: Upon IFN-gamma stimulation, some family molecules of APOL and GBP in macrophages are significantly up-regulated, and PI3K/AKT, JAK/STAT3 and MAPK/ERK pathways have positive regulation on their expressions, respectively.
36224441 | Investigation of molecular mechanisms underlying JAK/STAT signaling pathway in HPV-induced cervical carcinogenesis using 'omics' approach. The precise mechanism of action of Janus Kinases (JAK)/Signal Transducer and activator of Transcription (STAT) signaling in human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated cervical cancer (CaCx) is poorly defined. The present study dissected the underlying components of JAK/STAT signaling in HPV-positive cervical neoplasms. Whole transcriptome profile of CaCx cohort from TCGA database revealed elevated STAT3 and its impact on CaCx patients' survival. Using the RT2 Profiler PCR Array, we analyzed 84 genes of interest associated with JAK/STAT signaling in mRNA derived from HPV-negative and HPV-positive cervical lesions which revealed 21 differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Analyses of DEGs using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery tool indicated maximum genes enriched in immune response and negative regulation of apoptotic process. Protein-protein network analysis indicated IL4, STAT5A, STAT4, and JAK3 to be the key genes in the interaction network. Further, 7 key DEGs (IL4R, IRF1, EGFR, OAS1, PIAS1, STAT4, and STAT5A) were validated in TCGA cohort using R2 platform. These genes were differentially expressed among HPV-positive cervical tissues and their correlation with STAT3 was established. EGFR and IL4R showed a comparatively strong correlation with STAT3 that supports their involvement in pathogenesis of CaCx. Finally, the Kaplan-Meier analysis established the prognostic association of the key DEGs, in CaCx cohort. The STAT3 and associated key genes discovered from our study establish a strong pathogenic role of JAK/STAT3 pathway in HPV-mediated cervical carcinogenesis.
36899906 | Okadaic Acid Activates JAK/STAT Signaling to Affect Xenobiotic Metabolism in HepaRG Cells. Okadaic acid (OA) is a marine biotoxin that is produced by algae and accumulates in filter-feeding shellfish, through which it enters the human food chain, leading to diarrheic shellfish poisoning (DSP) after ingestion. Furthermore, additional effects of OA have been observed, such as cytotoxicity. Additionally, a strong downregulation of the expression of xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes in the liver can be observed. The underlying mechanisms of this, however, remain to be examined. In this study, we investigated a possible underlying mechanism of the downregulation of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes and the nuclear receptors pregnane X receptor (PXR) and retinoid-X-receptor alpha (RXRalpha) by OA through NF-kappaB and subsequent JAK/STAT activation in human HepaRG hepatocarcinoma cells. Our data suggest an activation of NF-kappaB signaling and subsequent expression and release of interleukins, which then activate JAK-dependent signaling and thus STAT3. Moreover, using the NF-kappaB inhibitors JSH-23 and Methysticin and the JAK inhibitors Decernotinib and Tofacitinib, we were also able to demonstrate a connection between OA-induced NF-kappaB and JAK signaling and the downregulation of CYP enzymes. Overall, we provide clear evidence that the effect of OA on the expression of CYP enzymes in HepaRG cells is regulated through NF-kappaB and subsequent JAK signaling.
37197735 | Syringic acid demonstrates an anti-inflammatory effect via modulation of the NF-kappaB-iNOS-COX-2 and JAK-STAT signaling pathways in methyl cellosolve-induced hepato-testicular inflammation in rats. Syringic acid (SACI) is an emerging nutraceutical and antioxidant used in modern Chinese medicine. It has potential neuroprotective, anti-hyperglycemic, and anti-angiogenic properties. Methyl cellosolve (MCEL) has been reported to induce tissue inflammation in the testis, kidney, liver, and lung. This study aimed to investigate the effect and probable mechanism of action of SACI on MCEL-induced hepatic and testicular inflammation in male rats. Compared to the control group, administration of MCEL to rats significantly increased the levels of IL-6, TNF-alpha, iNOS, COX-2, and NF-kappaB in the liver and testis. Additionally, the total mRNA expressions of JAK1 (in the liver only), STAT1, and SOCS1 were significantly increased in both the liver and testis, while testicular JAK1 total mRNA levels were significantly decreased. The expression of PIAS1 protein was significantly higher in the liver and testis. Treatments with SACI at 25 (except liver iNOS), 50, and 75 mg/kg significantly decreased the levels of IL-6, TNF-alpha, iNOS, COX-2, and NF-kappaB compared to the control group. Furthermore, the total mRNA expressions of JAK1 and SOCS1 in the liver were significantly reduced by all doses of SACI investigated, while the total mRNA levels of liver and testis STAT1 were significantly reduced by 25 and 50 mg/kg of SACI only. In the testis, the mRNA level of SOCS1 was significantly reduced by all doses of SACI compared to MCEL only. Additionally, SACI (at 75 mg/kg) significantly reduced PIAS1 protein expression in the liver, while in the testis, SACI at all investigated doses significantly reduced the expression of PIAS1. In conclusion, SACI demonstrated a hepatic and testicular anti-inflammatory effect by inhibiting the MCEL-induced activation of the NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT signaling pathways in rats.
37679586 | NMI Functions as Immuno-regulatory Molecule in Sepsis by Regulating Multiple Signaling Pathways. Sepsis-induced tissue and organ damage is caused by an overactive inflammatory response, immune dysfunction, and coagulation dysfunction. Danger-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) molecules play a critical role in the excessive inflammation observed in sepsis. In our previous research, we identified NMI as a new type of DAMP molecule that promotes inflammation in sepsis by binding to toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) on macrophage surfaces, activating the NF-kappaB pathway, and releasing pro-inflammatory cytokines. However, it is still unknown whether NMI plays a significant role in other pathways. Our analysis of bulk and single-cell transcriptome data from the GEO database revealed a significant increase in NMI expression in neutrophils and monocytes in sepsis patients. It is likely that NMI functions through multiple receptors in sepsis, including IFNAR1, IFNAR2, TNFR1, TLR3, TLR1, IL9R, IL10RB, and TLR4. Furthermore, the correlation between NMI expression and the activation of NF-kappaB, MAPK, and JAK pathways, as well as the up-regulation of their downstream pro-inflammatory factors, demonstrates that NMI may exacerbate the inflammatory response through these signaling pathways. Finally, we demonstrated that STAT1 phosphorylation was enhanced in RAW cells upon stimulation with NMI, supporting the activation of JAK signaling pathway by NMI. Collectively, these findings shed new light on the functional mechanism of NMI in sepsis.
9505193 | Interleukin-7 (IL-7) knockout mice. Implications for lymphopoiesis and organ-specific immunity. Interleukin-7 (IL-7) is produced by both immune and non-immune cells including stromal cell lines, B-cells, monocytes/macrophages, follicular dendritic cells, keratinocytes, and gut epithelial cells. The development of IL-7 knockout mice aided to elucidate the role of this multifaceted cytokine in lymphopoiesis. Additionally, IL-7 gene-deleted mice may represent an excellent model in order to define the functional role of locally secreted IL-7 in organ-specific immunity and in anti-microbial responses as well. For instance, analysis of IL-7 gene-deleted mice revealed reduced numbers of total T-lymphocytes with preservation of the CD4/CD8 ratio and increased ratio of alpha beta + T-cells compared to gamma delta + T-cells. Transition of pro-T-cells to pre-T-cells was impaired. Cell marker analysis of thymocytes in IL-7 -/- mice suggested that IL-7 may induce expression of as yet unidentified cytokine receptors, and that IL-7 may also be critically involved in T-cell differentiation. However, there are clear differences in the requirements of alpha beta or gamma delta T-cells for IL-7. In general, IL-7 appears to serve as the major growth and differentiation factor for gamma delta T-cells. IL-7 -/- mice are characterized by a block of maturation of V gamma 3low, CD24+ T-cells to V gamma 3high, CD24low T-cells. Thus, IL-7 does not only represent a 'maintenance factor', but rather a cytokine required for successful thymic and extrathymic development and maturation of gamma delta T-cells. gamma delta + intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes (iIEL) are absent in IL-7 -/- animals. In contrast, alpha beta + iIEL can be detected in IL-7 gene-deleted animals, but not in gamma c, or in JAK-3 deficient mice suggesting that alternative cytokines may be involved in development of iIEL alpha beta + T-cells, but not necessarily for gamma delta T-cells. To this end, IL-7 has predominantly been studied in the context of B- and T-cell development. With the availability of IL-7 gene-deleted mice, the paracrine effects of IL-7, which may be secreted in vivo by non-immune cells including keratinocytes or gut epithelial cells, can now be critically examined.
12015764 | Activation of Stat-3 as one of the early events in tobacco chewing-mediated oral carcinogenesis. BACKGROUND: The Jak/Stat signaling pathway transmits signals from many cytokines and growth factor receptors to target genes in the nucleus. Constitutive activation of Stat-3 recently has been observed in many tumor cells, and dysregulation of the Stat signaling pathway has been proposed to be implicated in malignant transformation. In the current study for the first time to the authors's knowledge, the expression of STAT-3 was analyzed in various stages and sites of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC). METHODS: Tissue samples from 90 patients of tobacco chewing-mediated HNSCC representing various stages, sites, and differentiation states were selected for studying STAT-3 protein and RNA expression. In vivo localization of STAT-3 was studied by immunohistochemistry of paraffin embedded sections. The presence of STAT-3 and its phophorylated and activated form pSTAT-3 was checked by Western blotting. mRNA expression was analyzed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Apoptosis analysis was conducted by in situ ENA nick end labeling assay and hematoxylin and eosin staining. RESULTS: Overall, 58.9% of HNSCC tumors showed very high Stat-3 protein accumulation, and 23.3% showed intermediate accumulation whereas 17.8% of HNSCC tumors were negative for Stat-3. No Stat-3 was detected in normal samples, and only one of eight premalignant lesions showed intermediate Stat-3 accumulation. On immunoblotting, very high protein accumulation was detected in T1 and T2 classification, moderate in T3 and T4 (P = 0.033, chi-square test), whereas no Stat-3 was detected in normal samples. Similar trend also was found in Stat-3 mRNA expression by RT-PCR analysis which was high in T1 and T2 (early stages), moderate in T3 and T4 (late stages), and no expression in normal samples. The mean apoptotic indices were 1.75, 1.88, and 1.66 for normal, premalignant lesions, and HNSCC cases, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Stat-3 activation is an early event in head and neck carcinogenesis though its role in blocking the apoptosis in vivo in solid tumors was not observed.
15090793 | Defective interleukin-2-dependent STAT5 signalling in CD8 T lymphocytes from HIV-positive patients: restoration by antiretroviral therapy. BACKGROUND: CD8 T lymphocytes are critical in the control of HIV replication and disease progression. Our previous studies demonstrated that CD8 T cells from chronically infected patients with high virus load proliferated poorly in response to interleukin-2 (IL-2), a cytokine critical in CD8 T cell growth and differentiation, even though relatively high levels of IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) were expressed. This suggested that signal transduction defects in response to IL-2 might be involved. The STAT5 transcription factor is important in IL-2-dependent biological responses and it is known that there are defects in unstimulated CD3 and CD4 cells in HIV-infected patients. OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether the induction of STAT5 by IL-2 is altered in the CD8 T cells from HIV-positive individuals and the impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) on its status. METHODS: CD8 T lymphocytes were purified from the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of HIV-positive patients before and after HAART. Ex vivo IL-2-induced STAT5 activation was evaluated by immunoblotting and electrophoretic mobility shift assays. RESULTS: CD8 T cells from a subset of untreated HIV-positive patients were unable to activate STAT5a and STAT5b proteins functionally in response to IL-2. This defect was not a result of alterations in IL-2R expression but correlated with an impaired activation of the upstream kinase Jak-3, known to mediate STAT5 activation. Overall, HAART restored Jak/STAT signalling in such patients. CONCLUSIONS: These results further uncover a potential mechanism by which CD8 T cell function is impaired in HIV-infected patients.
16314797 | Effects of JAK3 inhibition with CP-690,550 on immune cell populations and their functions in nonhuman primate recipients of kidney allografts. BACKGROUND: Janus Kinase (JAK) 3 is a tyrosine kinase essential for proper signal transduction downstream of selected cytokine receptors and for robust T-cell and natural killer cells activation and function. JAK3 inhibition with CP-690,550 prevents acute allograft rejection. To provide further insight into the mechanisms of efficacy, we investigated the immunomodulatory effects of CP-690,550 in vitro and in vivo in nonhuman primates. METHODS: Pharmacodynamic assessments of lymphocyte activation, function, proliferation and phenotype were performed in three settings: in vitro in whole blood isolated from untransplanted cynomolgus monkeys (cynos), in vivo in blood from untransplanted cynos dosed with CP-690,550 for 8 days, and in vivo in blood from transplanted cynos immunosuppressed with CP-690,550. Cell surface activation markers expression, IL-2- enhanced IFN-gamma production, lymphocyte proliferation and immune cell phenotype analyzes were performed with multiparametric flow cytometry. RESULTS: In vitro exposure to CP-690,550 resulted in significant reduction of IL-2-enhanced IFN-gamma production by T-cells (maximum inhibition of 55-63%), T-cell surface expression of CD25 (50% inhibitory concentration (IC50); 0.18 microM) and CD71 (IC50; 1.6 microM), and T-cell proliferative capacities measured by proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression (IC50; 0.87 microM). Similar results were observed in animals dosed with CP-690,550. In addition, transplanted animals displayed significant reduction of NK cell (90% from baseline) and T-cell numbers whereas CD8 effector memory T-cell populations were unaffected. CONCLUSIONS: Potent in vitro and in vivo immunomodulatory effects of the JAK3 inhibitor CP-690,550 likely contribute to its efficacy in the prevention of organ allograft rejection.
17142955 | Mitogenic signals initiated via interleukin-6 receptor complexes in cooperation with other transmembrane molecules in myelomas. Cytokines exert multiple biological functions through binding to their specific receptors that triggers activation of intracellular signaling cascades. The cytokine-mediated signals may produce variable and even opposing effects on different cell types, depending on cellular context that is also dictated by the differentiation stage of the cell. Multiple myeloma (MM) is a monoclonal proliferative disorder of human plasma cells. Myeloma cells appear to include mixed subpopulations in accordance with the expression of their surface antigens, such as CD45. Although interleukin-6 (IL-6) is widely accepted as the most relevant growth factor for myeloma cells, only a few subpopulations of tumor cells, such as CD45(+) immature cells, proliferate in response to IL-6. The activation of both signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 3 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 is not sufficient for IL-6-induced proliferation of myeloma cells that requires the src family kinase activation associated with a rapid translocation of CD45 to lipid rafts. The CD45 expression renders myeloma cells competent for not only mitogenic but also apoptotic stimuli, resulting in either proliferation or apoptosis of CD45(+) myeloma cells dependently upon the circumstantial stimuli. In contrast, in CD45(-) myeloma cells highly expressing IL-6 receptor alpha chain (IL-6Ralpha), IL-6Ralpha and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I receptors exist on plasma membrane in close proximity, facilitating efficient assembly of two receptors in response to IL-6. The synergistic effects of IL-6Ralpha on IGF-I receptor-mediated signals provide a novel insight into a Jak-independent IL-6 signaling mechanism of receptor cross talk in human myeloma cells. Furthermore, the signaling cross talk between the cytokine receptor, IL-6Ralpha/gp130 and the growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase, fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) 3 appears in myeloma cells carrying t(4;14)(p16.3;q32). In this review we propose several mechanisms of the IL-6-induced cell proliferation that is strictly dependent upon the cellular context in myelomas.
17392282 | Curcumin prevents tumor-induced T cell apoptosis through Stat-5a-mediated Bcl-2 induction. Patients with advanced cancer exhibit multifaceted defects in their immune capacity, which are likely to contribute to an increased susceptibility to infections and disease progression. We demonstrated earlier that curcumin inhibits tumor growth and prevents immune cell death in tumor-bearing hosts. Here we report that tumor-induced immunodepletion involves apoptosis of thymic CD4+/CD8+ single/double positive cells as well as loss of circulating CD4+/CD8+ T cells. Administration of curcumin to tumor-bearing animals resulted in restoration of progenitor, effecter, and circulating T cells. In fact, tumor burden decreased the expression level of the pro-proliferative protein Bcl-2 while increasing the pro-apoptotic protein Bax in T cells. Curcumin down-regulated the Bax level while augmenting Bcl-2 expression in these cells, thereby protecting the immunocytes from tumor-induced apoptosis. A search for the upstream mechanism revealed down-regulation of the common cytokine receptor gamma chain (gammac) expression in T cells by tumor-secreted prostaglandin E2. As a result, Jak-3 and Stat-5a phosphorylation and to a lesser extent Stat-5b phosphorylation were also decreased in T cells. These entire phenomena could be reverted back by curcumin, indicating that this phytochemical restored the cytokine-dependent Jak-3/Stat-5a signaling pathway in T cells of tumor bearers. Overexpressed Stat-5a/constitutively active Stat-5a1*6 but not Stat-5b could efficiently elevate Bcl-2 levels and protect T cells from tumor-induced death, whereas C-terminal truncated Stat-5a713 overexpression failed to do so, indicating the importance of Stat-5a signaling in T cell survival. Thus, these results raise the possibility of inclusion of curcumin in successful therapeutic regimens against cancer.
18845095 | Cutaneous granulomas with predominantly CD8(+) lymphocytic infiltrate in a child with severe combined immunodeficiency. BACKGROUND: Combined immunodeficiency disorders comprise a heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by both humoral and cell-mediated immunodeficiency. Cutaneous granulomas manifestations in children with combined immunodeficiency are rare. OBJECTIVE: We report the case of a 6-year-old boy who presented with disseminated cutaneous granulomas and a history of multiple infections. METHODS AND RESULTS: Laboratory evaluation revealed severe combined immunodeficiency, and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) analysis confirmed mutations on a gene of chromosome 19 that encodes an enzyme called Janus kinase 3 (Jak-3). Immunohistochemistry revealed expression of CD8(+) in the perivascular lymphocytic infiltrate CONCLUSION: Disseminated granulomatous lesions in children with a history of frequent infections should prompt the clinician to initiate detailed immunocompetence evaluation as they might prove to be the first manifestation of immunologic impairment.
21325169 | JAK2 rearrangements, including the novel SEC31A-JAK2 fusion, are recurrent in classical Hodgkin lymphoma. The genetics of classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) is poorly understood. The finding of a JAK2-involving t(4;9)(q21;p24) in 1 case of cHL prompted us to characterize this translocation on a molecular level and to determine the prevalence of JAK2 rearrangements in cHL. We showed that the t(4;9)(q21;p24) leads to a novel SEC31A-JAK2 fusion. Screening of 131 cHL cases identified 1 additional case with SEC31A-JAK2 and 2 additional cases with rearrangements involving JAK2. We demonstrated that SEC31A-JAK2 is oncogenic in vitro and acts as a constitutively activated tyrosine kinase that is sensitive to JAK inhibitors. In vivo, SEC31A-JAK2 was found to induce a T-lymphoblastic lymphoma or myeloid phenotype in a murine bone marrow transplantation model. Altogether, we identified SEC31A-JAK2 as a chromosomal aberration characteristic for cHL and provide evidence that JAK2 rearrangements occur in a minority of cHL cases. Given the proven oncogenic potential of this novel fusion, our studies provide new insights into the pathogenesis of cHL and indicate that in at least some cases, constitutive activation of the JAK/STAT pathway is caused by JAK2 rearrangements. The finding that SEC31A-JAK2 responds to JAK inhibitors indicates that patients with cHL and JAK2 rearrangements may benefit from targeted therapies.
23117887 | PNUTS functions as a proto-oncogene by sequestering PTEN. PTEN is a well-defined tumor suppressor gene that antagonizes the PI3K/Akt pathway to regulate a multitude of cellular processes, such as survival, growth, motility, invasiveness, and angiogenesis. While the functions of PTEN have been studied extensively, the regulation of its activity during normal and disease conditions still remains incompletely understood. In this study, we identified the protein phosphatase-1 nuclear targeting subunit PNUTS (PPP1R10) as a PTEN-associated protein. PNUTS directly interacted with the lipid-binding domain (C2 domain) of PTEN and sequestered it in the nucleus. Depletion of PNUTS leads to increased apoptosis and reduced cellular proliferation in a PTEN-dependent manner. PNUTS expression was elevated in certain cancers compared with matched normal tissues. Collectively, our studies reveal PNUTS as a novel PTEN regulator and a likely oncogene.
23906223 | Effects of interaction of incubator CO2 levels and mixing hatching eggs of different embryo growth trajectory on embryo physiological and hatching parameters. 1. Two experiments were designed to investigate the effects of mixing eggs of different genotype and incubating with different CO2 concentrations on embryonic parameters. Half of the eggs were incubated in a CO2 controlled incubator (VCO2) during the first 10 d of incubation and the other half was incubated at standard incubation ventilation rate (SV). 2. From 10 to 18 d of incubation, thick albumen and embryos were weighed. Blood samples were collected at d 18 of incubation, at internal pipping and at hatch for determination of triiodothyronine (T3), thyroxine (T4) and corticosterone concentration. During the last 2 d of incubation, hatching events of individual eggs were monitored every 2 h. 3. From 4 to 5 d of incubation in the SV group of Experiment 1, pH values of Ross strain chickens were lower than those of Isa Brown. From d 12 of incubation onwards, Ross embryos grew faster than those of Isa Brown. At 14 and 16 d of incubation, Ross eggs in the CO2 controlled incubator had lower albumen weights compared to all other treatments. 4. T3 concentrations in Ross embryos were higher than those of Isa Brown embryos. Chicken weight at hatch was in the following order: Isa Brown SV < Isa Brown VCO2 = Ross SV < Ross VCO2. 5. In Experiment 2, incubation time of VCO2 eggs until internal pipping, external pipping and hatch was significantly shorter than that of SV eggs. 6. It was concluded that mixing of hatching eggs of differential embryo developmental trajectory affects their hatching process. 
24204300 | PNUTS/PP1 regulates RNAPII-mediated gene expression and is necessary for developmental growth. In multicellular organisms, tight regulation of gene expression ensures appropriate tissue and organismal growth throughout development. Reversible phosphorylation of the RNA Polymerase II (RNAPII) C-terminal domain (CTD) is critical for the regulation of gene expression states, but how phosphorylation is actively modified in a developmental context remains poorly understood. Protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) is one of several enzymes that has been reported to dephosphorylate the RNAPII CTD. However, PP1's contribution to transcriptional regulation during animal development and the mechanisms by which its activity is targeted to RNAPII have not been fully elucidated. Here we show that the Drosophila orthologue of the PP1 Nuclear Targeting Subunit (dPNUTS) is essential for organismal development and is cell autonomously required for growth of developing tissues. The function of dPNUTS in tissue development depends on its binding to PP1, which we show is targeted by dPNUTS to RNAPII at many active sites of transcription on chromosomes. Loss of dPNUTS function or specific disruption of its ability to bind PP1 results in hyperphosphorylation of the RNAPII CTD in whole animal extracts and on chromosomes. Consistent with dPNUTS being a global transcriptional regulator, we find that loss of dPNUTS function affects the expression of the majority of genes in developing 1(st) instar larvae, including those that promote proliferative growth. Together, these findings shed light on the in vivo role of the PNUTS-PP1 holoenzyme and its contribution to the control of gene expression during early Drosophila development. 
24481607 | Severe combined immunodeficiency in Serbia and Montenegro between years 1986 and 2010: a single-center experience. Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), including the 'variant' Omenn syndrome (OS), represent a heterogeneous group of monogenic disorders characterized by defect in differentiation of T- and/or B lymphocytes and susceptibility to infections since birth. In the period of 25 years, between January 1986 and December 2010, a total of 21 patients (15 SCID, 6 OS) were diagnosed in Mother & Child Health Institute of Serbia, a tertiary-care teaching University hospital and a national referral center for patients affected with primary immunodeficiency (PID). The diagnoses were based on anamnestic data, clinical findings, and immunological and genetic analysis. The median age at the onset of the first infection was the 2nd month of life. Seven (33 %) patients had positive family history for SCID. Out of five male infants with T-B+NK- SCID phenotype, mutation analysis revealed interleukin-2 (common) gamma-chain receptor (IL2RG) mutations in 3 with positive X-linked family history, and Janus-kinase (JAK)-3 gene defects in the other two. Six patients had T-B-NK+ SCID phenotype and further 6 features of OS, 11 of which had recombinase-activating gene (RAG1or RAG2) and 1 Artemis gene mutations. One child with T+B+NK+ SCID phenotype as well had proven RAG mutation. One child each with T-B+NK+ SCID phenotype, CD8 lymphopenia and unknown phenotype remained without known underlying genetic defect. Of the eight patients who underwent hematopoetic stem cell transplant (HSCT) 5 survived, the other 13 died between 2 days and 12 months after diagnosis was made. Early diagnosis of SCID, before onset of severe infections, offers possibility for HSCT and cure. Education of primary-care pediatricians, in particular including awareness of the risk of using live vaccines and non-irradiated blood products, should improve prognosis of SCID in our setting.
25809546 | Imputation of class I and II HLA loci using high-density SNPs from ImmunoChip and their associations with Kawasaki disease in family-based study. Kawasaki disease (KD) is the leading cause of acquired heart disease in children in most developed countries including the United States. The etiology of KD is not known; however, epidemiological and immunological data suggest infectious or immune-related factors in the manifestation of the disease. Further, KD has several hereditary features that strongly suggest a genetic component to disease pathogenesis. Human leucocyte antigen (HLA) loci have also been reported to be associated with KD, but results have been inconsistent, in part, because of small study samples and varying linkage disequilibrium (LD) patterns observed across different ethnic groups. To maximize the informativeness of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotypes in the major histocompatibility (MHC) region, we imputed classical HLA I (A, B, C) and HLA II (DRB1, DQA1, DQB1) alleles using SNP2HLA method from genotypes of 6700 SNPs within the extended MHC region contained in the ImmunoChip among 112 White patients with KD and their biological parents from North America and tested their association with KD susceptibility using the transmission disequilibrium test. Mendelian consistency in the trios suggested high accuracy and reliability of the imputed alleles (class I = 97.5%, class II = 96.6%). While several SNPs in the MHC region were individually associated with KD susceptibility, we report over-transmission of HLA-C*15 (z = +2.19, P = 0.03) and under-transmission of HLA-B*44 (z = -2.49, P = 0.01) alleles from parents to patients with KD. HLA-B*44 has been associated with KD in other smaller studies, and both HLA-C*15 and HLA-B*44 have biological mechanisms that could potentially be involved in KD pathogenesis. Overall, inferring HLA loci within the same ethnic group, using family-based information is a powerful approach. However, studies with larger sample sizes are warranted to evaluate the correlations of the strength and directions between the SNPs in MHC region and the imputed HLA alleles with KD.
26320253 | Tissue-Specific Education of Decidual NK Cells. During human pregnancy, fetal trophoblast cells invade the decidua and remodel maternal spiral arteries to establish adequate nutrition during gestation. Tissue NK cells in the decidua (dNK) express inhibitory NK receptors (iNKR) that recognize allogeneic HLA-C molecules on trophoblast. Where this results in excessive dNK inhibition, the risk of pre-eclampsia or growth restriction is increased. However, the role of maternal, self-HLA-C in regulating dNK responsiveness is unknown. We investigated how the expression and function of five iNKR in dNK is influenced by maternal HLA-C. In dNK isolated from women who have HLA-C alleles that carry a C2 epitope, there is decreased expression frequency of the cognate receptor, KIR2DL1. In contrast, women with HLA-C alleles bearing a C1 epitope have increased frequency of the corresponding receptor, KIR2DL3. Maternal HLA-C had no significant effect on KIR2DL1 or KIR2DL3 in peripheral blood NK cells (pbNK). This resulted in a very different KIR repertoire for dNK capable of binding C1 or C2 epitopes compared with pbNK. We also show that, although maternal KIR2DL1 binding to C2 epitope educates dNK cells to acquire functional competence, the effects of other iNKR on dNK responsiveness are quite different from those in pbNK. This provides a basis for understanding how dNK responses to allogeneic trophoblast affect the outcome of pregnancy. Our findings suggest that the mechanisms that determine the repertoire of iNKR and the effect of self-MHC on NK education may differ in tissue NK cells compared with pbNK. 
26575988 | Selection of an HLA-C*03:04-Restricted HIV-1 p24 Gag Sequence Variant Is Associated with Viral Escape from KIR2DL3+ Natural Killer Cells: Data from an Observational Cohort in South Africa. BACKGROUND: Viruses can evade immune surveillance, but the underlying mechanisms are insufficiently understood. Here, we sought to understand the mechanisms by which natural killer (NK) cells recognize HIV-1-infected cells and how this virus can evade NK-cell-mediated immune pressure. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Two sequence mutations in p24 Gag associated with the presence of specific KIR/HLA combined genotypes were identified in HIV-1 clade C viruses from a large cohort of infected, untreated individuals in South Africa (n = 392), suggesting viral escape from KIR+ NK cells through sequence variations within HLA class I-presented epitopes. One sequence polymorphism at position 303 of p24 Gag (TGag303V), selected for in infected individuals with both KIR2DL3 and HLA-C*03:04, enabled significantly better binding of the inhibitory KIR2DL3 receptor to HLA-C*03:04-expressing cells presenting this variant epitope compared to the wild-type epitope (wild-type mean 18.01 +- 10.45 standard deviation [SD] and variant mean 44.67 +- 14.42 SD, p = 0.002). Furthermore, activation of primary KIR2DL3+ NK cells from healthy donors in response to HLA-C*03:04+ target cells presenting the variant epitope was significantly reduced in comparison to cells presenting the wild-type sequence (wild-type mean 0.78 +- 0.07 standard error of the mean [SEM] and variant mean 0.63 +- 0.07 SEM, p = 0.012). Structural modeling and surface plasmon resonance of KIR/peptide/HLA interactions in the context of the different viral sequence variants studied supported these results. Future studies will be needed to assess processing and antigen presentation of the investigated HIV-1 epitope in natural infection, and the consequences for viral control. CONCLUSIONS: These data provide novel insights into how viruses can evade NK cell immunity through the selection of mutations in HLA-presented epitopes that enhance binding to inhibitory NK cell receptors. Better understanding of the mechanisms by which HIV-1 evades NK-cell-mediated immune pressure and the functional validation of a structural modeling approach will facilitate the development of novel targeted immune interventions to harness the antiviral activities of NK cells.
26809736 | Killer-cell Immunoglobulin-like Receptor (KIR) gene profiles modify HIV disease course, not HIV acquisition in South African women. BACKGROUND: Killer-cell Immunoglobulin-like Receptors (KIR) interact with Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) to modify natural killer- and T-cell function. KIR are implicated in HIV acquisition by small studies that have not been widely replicated. A role for KIR in HIV disease progression is more widely replicated and supported by functional studies. METHODS: To assess the role of KIR and KIR ligands in HIV acquisition and disease course, we studied at-risk women in South Africa between 2004-2010. Logistic regression was used for nested case-control analysis of 154 women who acquired vs. 155 who did not acquire HIV, despite high exposure. Linear mixed-effects models were used for cohort analysis of 139 women followed prospectively for a median of 54 months (IQR 31-69) until 2014. RESULTS: Neither KIR repertoires nor HLA alleles were associated with HIV acquisition. However, KIR haplotype BB was associated with lower viral loads (-0.44 log10 copies/ml; SE = 0.18; p = 0.03) and higher CD4+ T-cell counts (+80 cells/mul; SE = 42; p = 0.04). This was largely explained by the protective effect of KIR2DL2/KIR2DS2 on the B haplotype and reciprocal detrimental effect of KIR2DL3 on the A haplotype. CONCLUSIONS: Although neither KIR nor HLA appear to have a role in HIV acquisition, our data are consistent with involvement of KIR2DL2 in HIV control. Additional studies to replicate these findings are indicated.
26887815 | STAT4-associated natural killer cell tolerance following liver transplantation. OBJECTIVE: Natural killer (NK) cells are important mediators of liver inflammation in chronic liver disease. The aim of this study was to investigate why liver transplants (LTs) are not rejected by NK cells in the absence of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matching, and to identify a tolerogenic NK cell phenotype. DESIGN: Phenotypic and functional analyses on NK cells from 54 LT recipients were performed, and comparisons made with healthy controls. Further investigation was performed using gene expression analysis and donor:recipient HLA typing. RESULTS: NK cells from non-HCV LT recipients were hypofunctional, with reduced expression of NKp46 (p<0.05) and NKp30 (p<0.001), reduced cytotoxicity (p<0.001) and interferon (IFN)-gamma secretion (p<0.025). There was no segregation of this effect with HLA-C, and these functional changes were not observed in individuals with HCV. Microarray and RT-qPCR analysis demonstrated downregulation of STAT4 in NK cells from LT recipients (p<0.0001). Changes in the expression levels of the transcription factors Helios (p=0.06) and Hobit (p=0.07), which control NKp46 and IFNgamma expression, respectively, were also detected. Hypofunctionality of NK cells was associated with impaired STAT4 phosphorylation and downregulation of the STAT4 target microRNA-155. Conversely in HCV-LT NK cell tolerance was reversed, consistent with the more aggressive outcome of LT for HCV. CONCLUSIONS: LT is associated with transcriptional and functional changes in NK cells, resulting in reduced activation. NK cell tolerance occurs upstream of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I mediated education, and is associated with deficient STAT4 phosphorylation. STAT4 therefore represents a potential therapeutic target to induce NK cell tolerance in liver disease.
29518602 | Sex-specific effects of prepubertal stress and high-fat diet on leptin signaling in rats. OBJECTIVE: Both stress exposure and high-fat diet (HFD) are contributors to the alarming prevalence of obesity. Leptin is secreted from adipose tissue and regulates appetite and body weight via the JAK-STAT3 pathway in the hypothalamus; it also regulates the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis, modulating energy homeostasis. Leptin signaling may be impaired by HFD intake, and here we investigate whether social isolation during the prepubertal period, associated with chronic HFD, can exert long-term effects on metabolic parameters in a sex-specific manner. METHODS: Wistar male and female rats were divided into two groups (receiving standard chow or standard chow and HFD), which were subdivided into (1) exposed to social isolation during the prepubertal period or (2) not exposed. RESULTS: HFD induced sex-specific effects on leptin signaling and on the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis; males receiving HFD presented increased T4 but a reduced T3:T4 ratio and higher caloric efficiency during development. A stress x diet interaction was noted for leptin signaling in males, where pSTAT3 was higher when these factors were applied together. On the other hand, females were more susceptible to early stress, which reduced pSTAT3 in the hypothalamus. CONCLUSION: Both stress during the prepubertal period and chronic consumption of HFD had long-term sex-specific effects on hormonal signaling related to energy balance. However, the effects of HFD were more pronounced in males, whereas prepubertal stress had greater effects on leptin signaling in females.
30180214 | HLA-C downregulation by HIV-1 adapts to host HLA genotype. HIV-1 can downregulate HLA-C on infected cells, using the viral protein Vpu, and the magnitude of this downregulation varies widely between primary HIV-1 variants. The selection pressures that result in viral downregulation of HLA-C in some individuals, but preservation of surface HLA-C in others are not clear. To better understand viral immune evasion targeting HLA-C, we have characterized HLA-C downregulation by a range of primary HIV-1 viruses. 128 replication competent viral isolates from 19 individuals with effective anti-retroviral therapy, show that a substantial minority of individuals harbor latent reservoir virus which strongly downregulates HLA-C. Untreated infections display no change in HLA-C downregulation during the first 6 months of infection, but variation between viral quasispecies can be detected in chronic infection. Vpu molecules cloned from plasma of 195 treatment naive individuals in chronic infection demonstrate that downregulation of HLA-C adapts to host HLA genotype. HLA-C alleles differ in the pressure they exert for downregulation, and individuals with higher levels of HLA-C expression favor greater viral downregulation of HLA-C. Studies of primary and mutant molecules identify 5 residues in the transmembrane region of Vpu, and 4 residues in the transmembrane domain of HLA-C, which determine interactions between Vpu and HLA. The observed adaptation of Vpu-mediated downregulation to host genotype indicates that HLA-C alleles differ in likelihood of mediating a CTL response that is subverted by viral downregulation, and that preservation of HLA-C expression is favored in the absence of these responses. Finding that latent reservoir viruses can downregulate HLA-C could have implications for HIV-1 cure therapy approaches in some individuals.
30507971 | Amino acid residues in five separate HLA genes can explain most of the known associations between the MHC and primary biliary cholangitis. Primary Biliary Cholangitis (PBC) is a chronic autoimmune liver disease characterised by progressive destruction of intrahepatic bile ducts. The strongest genetic association is with HLA-DQA1*04:01, but at least three additional independent HLA haplotypes contribute to susceptibility. We used dense single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data in 2861 PBC cases and 8514 controls to impute classical HLA alleles and amino acid polymorphisms using state-of-the-art methodologies. We then demonstrated through stepwise regression that association in the HLA region can be largely explained by variation at five separate amino acid positions. Three-dimensional modelling of protein structures and calculation of electrostatic potentials for the implicated HLA alleles/amino acid substitutions demonstrated a correlation between the electrostatic potential of pocket P6 in HLA-DP molecules and the HLA-DPB1 alleles/amino acid substitutions conferring PBC susceptibility/protection, highlighting potential new avenues for future functional investigation.
30520960 | Impact of HLA Allele-KIR Pairs on HIV Clinical Outcome in South Africa. BACKGROUND: HLA class I contributes to HIV immune control through antigen presentation to cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) and natural killer (NK) cells. In contrast to investigations of CTL, studies of NK cells in HIV control through HLA-killer immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) interactions remain sparse in African cohorts. METHODS: Treatment-naive, chronically HIV-infected adults (N = 312) were recruited from South Africa, and the effects of HLA-KIR pairs on clinical outcome were analyzed. RESULTS: There was no significant difference in viral load among all subjects with HLA alleles from the HLA-C1 group (P = .1). However, differences in HLA-C type significantly influenced viremia among 247 KIR2DL3 positives (P = .04), suggesting that specific HLA-KIR interactions contribute to immune control. Higher viral load (P = .02) and lower CD4+ T-cell counts (P = .008) were observed in subjects with HLA-C*16:01+KIR2DL3+. Longitudinal analysis showed more rapid progression to AIDS among HLA-C*16:01+KIR2DL3+ subjects (adjusted hazard ratio 1.9, P = .03) than those without this genotype, independent of CD4+ T-cell count and viral load. CONCLUSIONS: These results highlight the existence of unique anti-HIV innate immunity within distinct populations and the contribution of KIR on NK cells and some CTLs to the well-described HLA-mediated impact on HIV disease progression.
31238687 | Latest findings on the placenta from the point of view of immunology, tolerance and mesenchymal stem cells. OBJECTIVE: Overview of current placental findings from the point of view of immunology, tolerance and mesenchymal stem cells. TYPE OF STUDY: Review. SETTING: Medicinske centrum Praha. CONCLUSION: The placenta is an important organ that connects mother and developing fetus during pregnancy. For the uncomplicated course of pregnancy and fetal development the placental function is crucial. The placenta provides not only the replacement of breathing gases, nutrients and waste materials, but also creates an immunological interface between the mother and the fetus. Maternal tolerance towards the fetus carrying paternal antigens is induced at the fetomaternal interface due to the mutual molecular interactions. Immune tolerance at the interface between placenta and decidua is ensured mainly due to the expression of HLA-C, HLA-E, HLA-F, and HLA-G on trophoblasts and their interactions with receptors expressed on uterine NK cells. Regulatory T cells and DC-10 cells also play an important role at the fetomaternal interface on the mothers side of placenta. However, some fetal cells, such as Hofbauer cells or granulocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells are also partially involved in inducement of maternal tolerance towards the fetus. Recently, considerable attention is also paid to mesenchymal stem cells derived from both placental and umbilical tissues. These mesenchymal stem cells play an important role in inducement of immune tolerance and exhibit better immunomodulatory properties than mesenchymal stem cells isolated from adult human tissues.
32675288 | Genetic determinants of the humoral immune response in MS. OBJECTIVE: In this observational study, we investigated the impact of genetic factors at the immunoglobulin heavy chain constant locus on chromosome 14 and the major histocompatibility complex region on intrathecal immunoglobulin G, A, and M levels as well as on B cells and plasmablasts in the CSF and blood of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). METHODS: Using regression analyses, we tested genetic variants on chromosome 14 and imputed human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles for associations with intrathecal immunoglobulins in 1,279 patients with MS or clinically isolated syndrome and with blood and CSF B cells and plasmablasts in 301 and 348 patients, respectively. RESULTS: The minor alleles of variants on chromosome 14 were associated with higher intrathecal immunoglobulin G levels (beta = 0.58 [0.47 to 0.68], lowest adjusted p = 2.32 x 10-23), and lower intrathecal immunoglobulin M (beta = -0.56 [-0.67 to -0.46], p = 2.06 x 10-24) and A (beta = -0.42 [-0.54 to -0.31], p = 7.48 x 10-11) levels. Alleles from the HLA-B*07:02-DRB1*15:01-DQA1*01:02-DQB1*06:02 haplotype were associated with higher (lowest p = 2.14 x 10-7) and HLA-B*44:02 with lower (beta = -0.35 [-0.54 to -0.17], p = 1.38 x 10-2) immunoglobulin G levels. Of interest, different HLA alleles were associated with lower intrathecal immunoglobulin M (HLA-C*02:02, beta = -0.45 [-0.61 to -0.28], p = 1.01 x 10-5) and higher immunoglobulin A levels (HLA-DQA1*01:03-DQB1*06:03-DRB1*13:01 haplotype, beta = 0.40 [0.21 to 0.60], p = 4.46 x 10-3). The impact of HLA alleles on intrathecal immunoglobulin G and M levels could mostly be explained by associations with CSF B cells and plasmablasts. CONCLUSION: Although some HLA alleles seem to primarily drive the extent of humoral immune responses in the CNS by increasing CSF B cells and plasmablasts, genetic variants at the immunoglobulin heavy chain constant locus might regulate intrathecal immunoglobulins levels via different mechanisms.
33273184 | HIV-1 evades a Gag mutation that abrogates killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor binding and disinhibits natural killer cells in infected individuals with KIR2DL2+/HLA-C*03: 04+ genotype. : HIV-1 sequence variations impact binding of inhibitory killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) to human leukocyte antigen class I (HLA-I) molecules modulating natural killer cell function. HIV-1 strains encoding amino acids that mediate binding of inhibitory KIRs might therefore have a selective benefit in individuals expressing the respective KIR/HLA genotypes. Here, we demonstrate that HIV-1 clade C avoids a p24 Gag mutation that abolishes binding of KIR2DL2 to HLA-C03:04 and disinhibits natural killer cells in individual encoding for this genotype.
33632228 | Diversity of KIR genes and their HLA-C ligands in Ugandan populations with historically varied malaria transmission intensity. BACKGROUND: Malaria is one of the most serious infectious diseases in the world. The malaria burden is greatly affected by human immunity, and immune responses vary between populations. Genetic diversity in KIR and HLA-C genes, which are important in immunity to infectious diseases, is likely to play a role in this heterogeneity. Several studies have shown that KIR and HLA-C genes influence the immune response to viral infections, but few studies have examined the role of KIR and HLA-C in malaria infection, and these have used low-resolution genotyping. The aim of this study was to determine whether genetic variation in KIR and their HLA-C ligands differ in Ugandan populations with historically varied malaria transmission intensity using more comprehensive genotyping approaches. METHODS: High throughput multiplex quantitative real-time PCR method was used to genotype KIR genetic variants and copy number variation and a high-throughput real-time PCR method was developed to genotype HLA-C1 and C2 allotypes for 1344 participants, aged 6 months to 10 years, enrolled from Ugandan populations with historically high (Tororo District), medium (Jinja District) and low (Kanungu District) malaria transmission intensity. RESULTS: The prevalence of KIR3DS1, KIR2DL5, KIR2DS5, and KIR2DS1 genes was significantly lower in populations from Kanungu compared to Tororo (7.6 vs 13.2%: p = 0.006, 57.2 vs 66.4%: p = 0.005, 33.2 vs 46.6%: p < 0.001, and 19.7 vs 26.7%: p = 0.014, respectively) or Jinja (7.6 vs 18.1%: p < 0.001, 57.2 vs 63.8%: p = 0.048, 33.2 vs 43.5%: p = 0.002, and 19.7 vs 30.4%: p < 0.001, respectively). The prevalence of homozygous HLA-C2 was significantly higher in populations from Kanungu (31.6%) compared to Jinja (21.4%), p = 0.043, with no significant difference between Kanungu and Tororo (26.7%), p = 0.296. CONCLUSIONS: The KIR3DS1, KIR2DL5, KIR2DS5 and KIR2DS1 genes may partly explain differences in transmission intensity of malaria since these genes have been positively selected for in places with historically high malaria transmission intensity. The high-throughput, multiplex, real-time HLA-C genotyping PCR method developed will be useful in disease-association studies involving large cohorts.
33852776 | TYK2 is a prognostic biomarker and associated with immune infiltration in the lung adenocarcinoma microenvironment. BACKGROUND: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remains a major disease with high morbidity and mortality. The Janus kinases (JAKs) play a significant part in cellular biological process, inflammation and immunity. The role of JAK family in LUAD is still ambiguous. METHODS: Various bioinformatics web portals were applied to explore the prognostic value of JAK family and their correlation with immune infiltration in LUAD. RESULTS: JAK1/2 was downregulated, whereas JAK3/TYK2 was upregulated in patients with LUAD compared with the healthy controls in subgroup analyses based on gender, age, smoking habits, cancer stage, TP53 mutation status, and nodal metastasis status. Drug sensitivity indicated that low expression of JAK3 and TYK2 were resistant to most of the small molecules or drugs. High TYK2 expression was associated with favorable overall survival and relapse free survival in LUAD. Moreover, univariate and multivariate analysis revealed that clinical stage, lymphatic node metastasis and TYK2 expression were the independent factors affecting the prognosis of LUAD patients. TYK2 expression in LUAD patients was positively associated with the abundance of immune cells (B cells, CD8+ T cells, CD4+ T cells, neutrophils, and dendritic cells) and immune biomarker sets. Moreover, TYK2 was mainly involved in RNA binding, transcriptional mis-regulation in cancer and cell cycles. We also identified several TYK2-associated miRNA or transcription factor targets in LUAD. CONCLUSION: Our results indicated that TYK2 was a biomarker and associated with prognosis and immune infiltration in LUAD, laying a foundation for further study about the role of TYK2 in the carcinogenesis and progression of LUAD.
33991459 | No strong HLA association with MOG antibody disease in the UK population. Improvements in assays for detecting serum antibodies against myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) have led to the appreciation of MOG-antibody-associated disease (MOGAD) as a novel disorder. However, much remains unknown about its etiology. We performed human leukocyte antigen (HLA) analysis in 82 MOGAD patients of European ancestry in the UK population. No HLA class II associations were observed, thus questioning the mechanism of anti-MOG antibody generation. A weak protective association of HLA-C*03:04 was observed (OR = 0.26, 95% CI = 0.10-0.71, pc  = 0.013), suggesting a need for continued efforts to better understand MOGAD genetics and pathophysiology.
34814696 | Three-dimensional navigation in maxillofacial surgery - the way to minimize surgical stress and improve accuracy in fibula free flap and Eagles syndrome surgical procedures. BACKGROUND: Surgical navigation with three-dimensional (3D) printing techniques presents two major advantages: First, from a technical aspect, it facilitates orientation in target anatomical structures resulting in improvement of the accuracy of surgery. Moreover, it shortens the time of complex surgical interventions by preparing the exact position of customized autologous grafts with fixation devices. Second, from a clinical point of view, it also lessens the impact of surgical stress to adjacent tissues by decreasing the duration of surgery. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Two maxillofacial procedures were evaluated in this study using 3D navigation and planning approach - resection of the styloid process due to Eagles syndrome and microvascular mandibular reconstruction with the fibula free flap. All patients who underwent these procedures were divided into two groups (with or without 3D navigation). RESULTS: In the Eagles syndrome group procedure independent t-test showed  significant difference in the operating time between group 1 (M = 148; SD = 0) and group 2 (M = 78; SD = 4.24) t (1) = 13.472; P = 0.047. There was no significant difference in the duration of postoperative hospitalization (2 days), which was equal in all patient groups. Regarding the fibula free flap procedure, the independent t-test revealed significant difference in operating time with (M = 8: 40 : 25; SD = 0 : 58 : 07) and without 3D printing guides (M = 10 : 43 : 15; SD = 3 : 04 : 32) t (14)=2.133, P = 0.051. Similarly, there was no significant difference between groups (group 1 M = 15.5; SD = 0,71; group 2 M = 13; SD = 1,63) in the duration of postoperative hospitalization time t (4) =1,98; P = 0.119. CONCLUSION: In summary, reduction in operation time in Eagles syndrome and in microvascular mandibular reconstruction with the fibula free flap group mitigates the surgical stress on target tissues enabling faster tissue healing and quicker recovery.
34895266 | Clinicopathological and molecular genomic features of monomorphic epitheliotropic intestinal T-cell lymphoma in the Chinese population: a study of 20 cases. BACKGROUND: Monomorphic epitheliotropic T-cell lymphoma (MEITL) is an aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma with a high fatality rate. This study was aimed to explore the clinicopathological and molecular genetic features of MEITL in the Chinese population. METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed based on the clinical manifestations and pathological features of 20 Chinese MEITL. 9 cases with paired diseased-normal tissues were also analyzed for molecular information by whole-exome sequencing. RESULTS: There were 14 men and 6 women with a median age of 58.5 (28-81) years. 17(17/20) lesions were located in the jejunum or ileum; 13(13/20) cases had ulcers or perforations. Microscopically, except for 1(1/20) case of pleomorphic cells, the monomorphic, middle-sized tumor cells infiltrating into the intestinal epithelial and peripheral intestinal mucosa recess could be seen in the other 19 cases. Immunohistochemistry showed that most of the tumor cells in MEITL were positive for CD3(20/20), CD8(17/20), CD43(19/20), and CD56(15/20), but negative for CD5(20/20). The most frequently mutated genes of these Chinese cases were STAT5B (4/9) and TP53 (4/9), not SETD2(2/9). JAK3 mutations (3/9) were also detected with a high mutated frequency. We demonstrated that mutations of JAK-STAT pathway-related genes and the amplification of Chromosome 9q appeared at the same time in most cases(5/9). CONCLUSIONS: The clinicopathological features were consistent with that in previous western studies, but a special case with pleomorphic cells was found in this study. The co-occurrence of JAK-STAT pathway-related gene mutations and the amplification of Chr9q is a molecular feature of MEITL.
34980830 | Clinicopathologic and Genetic Features of Primary T-cell Lymphomas of the Central Nervous System: An Analysis of 11 Cases Using Targeted Gene Sequencing. Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) of peripheral T-cell lineage (T-PCNSL) is rare, and its genetic and clinicopathologic features remain unclear. Here, we present 11 cases of T-PCNSL in immunocompetent individuals from a single institute, focusing on their genetic alterations. Seven cases were subject to targeted panel sequencing covering 120 lymphoma-related genes. Nine of the eleven cases were classified as peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS), of which one was of gammadeltaT-cell lineage. There was one case of anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma and another of extranodal natural killer (NK)/T-cell lymphoma (ENKTL) of alphabetaT-cell lineage. The male to female ratio was 7 : 4 and the age ranged from 3 to 75 years (median, 61 y). Most patients presented with neurological deficits (n=10) and showed multifocal lesions (n=9) and deep brain structure involvement (n=9). Tumor cells were mostly small-to-medium, and T-cell monoclonality was detected in all nine evaluated cases. PTCL-NOS was CD4-positive (n=4), CD8-positive (n=3), mixed CD4-positive and CD8-positive (n=1), or CD4/CD8-double-negative (n=1, gammadeltaT-cell type). Cytotoxic molecule expression was observed in 4 (67%) of the 6 evaluated cases. Pathogenic alterations were found in 4 patients: one PTCL-NOS case had a frameshift mutation in KMT2C, another PTCL-NOS case harbored a truncating mutation in TET2, and another (gammadeltaT-cell-PTCL-NOS) harbored NRAS G12S and JAK3 M511I mutations, and homozygous deletions of CDKN2A and CDKN2B. The ENKTL (alphabetaT-cell lineage) case harbored mutations in genes ARID1B, FAS, TP53, BCOR, KMT2C, POT1, and PRDM1. In conclusion, most of the T-PCNSL were PTCL-NOS, but sporadic cases of other subtypes including gammadeltaT-cell lymphoma, anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma, and ENKTL were also encountered. Immunophenotypic analysis, clonality test, and targeted gene sequencing along with clinicoradiologic evaluation, may be helpful for establishing the diagnosis of T-PCNSL. Moreover, this study demonstrates genetic alterations with potential diagnostic and therapeutic utility in T-PCNSL.
35052377 | Somatic Reversion of a Novel IL2RG Mutation Resulting in Atypical X-Linked Combined Immunodeficiency. Mutations of the IL2RG gene, which encodes for the interleukin-2 receptor common gamma chain (gammaC, CD132), can lead to X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (X-SCID) associated with a T-B+NK- phenotype as a result of dysfunctional gammaC-JAK3-STAT5 signaling. Lately, hypomorphic mutations of the IL2RG gene have been described causing atypical SCID with a milder phenotype. Here, we report three brothers with low-normal lymphocyte counts and susceptibility to recurrent respiratory infections and cutaneous warts. The clinical presentation combined with dysgammaglobulinemia suspected an inherited immunity disorder, which has been proven by Next Generation Sequencing as a novel c.458T > C; p.Ile153Thr IL2RG missense-mutation. Subsequent functional characterization revealed impaired T-cell proliferation, low TREC levels and a skewed TCR Vbeta repertoire in all three patients. Interestingly, investigation of various subpopulations showed normal expression of CD132 but with partially impaired STAT5 phosphorylation compared to healthy controls. Additionally, we performed precise genetic analysis of subpopulations revealing spontaneous somatic reversion, predominately in lymphoid derived CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Our data demonstrate that the atypical SCID phenotype noticed in these three brothers is due to the combination of hypomorphic IL-2RG function and somatic reversion.
35102139 | Genomic characterization of functional high-risk multiple myeloma patients. Multiple myeloma (MM) patients with suboptimal response to induction therapy or early relapse, classified as the functional high-risk (FHR) patients, have been shown to have poor outcomes. We evaluated newly-diagnosed MM patients in the CoMMpass dataset and divided them into three groups: genomic high-risk (GHR) group for patients with t(4;14) or t(14;16) or complete loss of functional TP53 (bi-allelic deletion of TP53 or mono-allelic deletion of 17p13 (del17p13) and TP53 mutation) or 1q21 gain and International Staging System (ISS) stage 3; FHR group for patients who had no markers of GHR group but were refractory to induction therapy or had early relapse within 12 months; and standard-risk (SR) group for patients who did not fulfill any of the criteria for GHR or FHR. FHR patients had the worst survival. FHR patients are characterized by increased mutations affecting the IL-6/JAK/STAT3 pathway, and a gene expression profile associated with aberrant mitosis and DNA damage response. This is also corroborated by the association with the mutational signature associated with abnormal DNA damage response. We have also developed a machine learning based classifier that can identify most of these patients at diagnosis.
35492074 | Morphine in Combination with Ketamine Improves Cervical Cancer Pain and Suppresses Immune Function via the JAK3/STAT5 Pathway. Background: The role of ketamine as an adjuvant for morphine in the treatment of cancer pain and immune functions has been confirmed. This study aimed to explore the role of morphine and ketamine on cancer pain and T cells of patients with cervical cancer (CC). Methods: T cells were isolated from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of CC patients by positive selection using anti-CD3 beads. The isolated T cells were assigned into three groups: the control group, the morphine group, and the morphine + ketamine (Mor + Ket) group. The percentages of CD4+ and CD8+ were analyzed by flow cytometry. The levels of interferon (IFN)-gamma, interleukin (IL)-2, and IL-17 and the corresponding mRNA expression in vitro were determined using ELISA and qRT-PCR, respectively. Western blotting was used for detection of JAK3/STAT5 pathway-related proteins after naltrexone treatment in vitro. Afterwards, all the patients were further divided into the morphine group and the Mor + Ket group in accordance with the principles of the randomized and double-blind method to assess pain intensity. Results: Our in vivo results showed that drug combinations relieved cancer pain more effectively than morphine intervention. The in vitro results demonstrated that the combination of morphine and ketamine may decrease CD4+ percentage, CD4+/CD8+ ratio, and the levels of IFN-gamma, IL-2, and IL-17 via the JAK3/STAT5 pathway. Conclusions: Our finding indicated that morphine-ketamine combination could improve cancer pain and repress immune function via the JAK3/STAT5 pathway in the progression of CC.
35551151 | Targeted Next-generation Sequencing Reveals a Wide Morphologic and Immunophenotypic Spectrum of Monomorphic Epitheliotropic Intestinal T-Cell Lymphoma. Primary intestinal T-cell lymphoma (PITL) is highly aggressive and includes celiac disease-related enteropathy-associated T-cell lymphoma (EATL), monomorphic epitheliotropic intestinal T-cell lymphoma (MEITL), and primary intestinal peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified (ITCL-NOS). MEITL is the most common PITL in Asia, comprising of monomorphic medium-sized cells typically expressing CD8, CD56, and cytotoxic granules. Occasional cases with intermediate features between MEITL and ITCL-NOS are difficult to be classified and warrant further investigation. We collected 54 surgically resected PITLs from Taiwan, with 80% presenting with bowel perforation. The overall outcome was poor with a median survival of 7 months. Based on histopathology (monomorphic vs. pleomorphic) and immunophenotype, we classified these cases into 4 groups: MEITL with typical immunophenotype (n=34), MEITL with atypical immunophenotype (n=5), pleomorphic PITL with MEITL-like immunophenotype (n=6), and ITCL-NOS (n=9). There was no EATL in our cohort. Targeted next-generation sequencing of the first 3 groups showed highly prevalent loss-of-function mutations for SETD2 (85%, 80%, and 83%, respectively) and frequent activating mutations for STAT5B (64%, 60%, and 50%, respectively) and JAK3 (38%, 20%, and 50%, respectively). In contrast, ITCL-NOS cases had less frequent mutations of SETD2 (56%) and STAT5B (11%) and rare JAK3 mutations (11%). Our results suggest that there is a wider morphologic and immunophenotypic spectrum of MEITL as currently defined in the 2017 WHO classification. MEITL with atypical immunophenotype and PITL with MEITL-like immunophenotype shared clinicopathologic and molecular features similar to MEITL but distinct from ITCL-NOS, indicating that such cases may be considered as immunophenotypic or histopathologic variants of MEITL.
35708139 | Monomorphic epitheliotropic intestinal T-cell lymphoma comprises morphologic and genomic heterogeneity impacting outcome. Monomorphic epitheliotropic intestinal T-cell lymphoma (MEITL) is a rare aggressive T-cell lymphoma most reported in Asia. We performed a comprehensive clinical, pathological and genomic study of 71 European MEITL patients (36 males, 35 females, median age 67 years). The majority presented with gastrointestinal involvement and had emergency surgery, and 40% had stage IV disease. The tumors were morphologically classified into two groups: typical (58%) and atypical (i.e., non-monomorphic or with necrosis, angiotropism or starry-sky pattern) (42%), sharing a homogeneous immunophenotypic profile (CD3+ [98%] CD4- [94%] CD5- [97%] CD7+ [97%] CD8+ [90%] CD56+ [86%] CD103+ [80%] cytotoxic marker+ [98%]) with more frequent expression of TCRgd (50%) than TCRab (32%). MYC expression (30% of cases) partly reflecting MYC gene locus alterations, correlated with non-monomorphic cytology. Almost all cases (97%) harbored deleterious mutation(s) and/or deletion of the SETD2 gene and 90% had defective H3K36 trimethylation. Other frequently mutated genes were STAT5B (57%), JAK3 (50%), TP53 (35%), JAK1 (12.5%), BCOR and ATM (11%). Both TP53 mutations and MYC expression correlated with atypical morphology. The median overall survival (OS) of 63 patients (43/63 only received chemotherapy after initial surgery) was 7.8 months. Multivariate analysis found a strong negative impact on outcome of MYC expression, TP53 mutation, STAT5B mutation and poor performance status while aberrant B-cell marker expression (20% of cases) correlated with better survival. In conclusion, MEITL is an aggressive disease with resistance to conventional therapy, predominantly characterized by driver gene alterations deregulating histone methylation and JAK/STAT signaling and encompasses genetic and morphologic variants associated with very high clinical risk.
35719936 | Integration of scRNA-Seq and TCGA RNA-Seq to Analyze the Heterogeneity of HPV+ and HPV- Cervical Cancer Immune Cells and Establish Molecular Risk Models. Background: Numerous studies support that Human papillomavirus (HPV) can cause cervical cancer. However, few studies have surveyed the heterogeneity of HPV infected or uninfected (HPV+ and HPV-) cervical cancer (CESC) patients. Integration of scRNA-seq and TCGA data to analyze the heterogeneity of HPV+ and HPV- cervical cancer patients on a single-cell level could improve understanding of the cellular mechanisms during HPV-induced cervical cancer. Methods: CESC scRNA-seq data obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and the Seurat, Monocle3 package were used for scRNA-seq data analysis. The ESTIMATE package was used for single-sample gene immune score, CIBERSORT package was used to identify immune scores of cells, and the \WGCNA\ package for the weighted correlation network analysis. Univariate Cox and LASSO regression were performed to establish survival and relapse signatures. KEGG and GO analyses were performed for the signature gene. Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis was used for Pan-cancer analysis. Results: In the HPV+ CESC group, CD8+ T cells and B cells were down-regulated, whereas T reg cells, CD4+ T cells, and epithelial cells were up-regulated according to scRNA-seq data. Survival analysis of TCGA-CESC revealed that increased expression of naive B cells or CD8+ T cells favors the survival probability of CESC patients. WGCNA, univariate Cox, and LASSO Cox regression established a 9-genes survival signature and a 7-gene relapse model. Pan-cancer analysis identified IKZF3, FOXP3, and JAK3 had a similar distribution and effects in HPV-associated HNSC. Conclusion: Analysis of scRNA-seq and bulk RNA-seq of HPV+ and HPV- CESC samples revealed heterogeneity from transcriptional state to immune infiltration. Survival and relapse models were adjusted according to the heterogeneity of HPV+ and HPV- CESC immune cells to assess the prognostic risk accurately. Hub genes represent similar protection in HPV- associated HNSC while showing irrelevant to other potential HPV-related cancers.
35795663 | Case Report: Successful Treatment of Alopecia Universalis With Tofacitinib and Increased Cytokine Levels: Normal Therapeutic Reaction or Danger Signal? Alopecia universalis (AU) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by non-scarring hair loss in the scalp, eyebrows, beard, and nearly the entire body, negatively affecting patient prognosis. Available treatments are usually unsatisfactory. The autoimmune attacks of hair follicles induced by CD8+ T cells and the collapse of hair follicle immune privilege are believed to be the leading causes of AU. Additionally, interferon (IFN)-gamma plays an important role in triggering the collapse of hair follicle immune privilege and impairing hair follicle stem cells. Furthermore, the upregulation of Janus kinase (JAK)3 and phospho-signal transducer and activator of transcription (pSTAT)3/STAT1 in alopecia areata patients suggest that JAK inhibitors can be a potentially promising choice for AU patients for the reason that JAK inhibitors can interfere with JAK-STAT signaling pathways and inhibit IFN-gamma. Herein, we report a case of AU successfully treated with tofacitinib. However, this beneficial response in the patient was accompanied by a remarkable increase in peripheral blood cytokine levels during tofacitinib treatment.
35933528 | A motley of possible therapies of the COVID-19: reminiscing the origin of the pandemic. The 2019 outbreak of corona virus disease began from Wuhan (China), transforming into a leading pandemic, posing an immense threat to the global population. The WHO coined the term nCOVID-19 for the disease on 11th February, 2020 and the International Committee of Taxonomy of Viruses named it SARS-CoV-2, on account of its similarity with SARS-CoV-1 of 2003. The infection is associated with fever, cough, pneumonia, lung damage, and ARDS along with clinical implications of lung opacities. Brief understanding of the entry target of virus, i.e., ACE2 receptors has enabled numerous treatment options as discussed in this review. The manuscript provides a holistic picture of treatment options in COVID-19, such as non-specific anti-viral drugs, immunosuppressive agents, anti-inflammatory candidates, anti-HCV, nucleotide inhibitors, antibodies and anti-parasitic, RNA-dependent RNA polymerase inhibitors, anti-retroviral, vitamins and hormones, JAK inhibitors, and blood plasma therapy. The text targets to enlist the investigations conducted on all the above categories of drugs, with respect to the COVID-19 pandemic, to accelerate their significance in hindering the disease progression. The data collected primarily targets recently published articles and most recent records of clinical trials, focusing on the last 10-year database. The current review provides a comprehensive view on the critical need of finding a suitable treatment for the currently prevalent COVID-19 disease, and an opportunity for the researchers to investigate the varying possibilities to find and optimized treatment approach to mitigate and ameliorate the chaos created by the pandemic worldwide.
36062760 | Effect of Janus kinase inhibitors on T cell responses to herpes zoster in rheumatoid arthritis patients. OBJECTIVES: The incidence of herpes zoster (HZ) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients is greater than that in healthy controls (HC), particularly in RA patients treated with Janus kinase inhibitors (JAKi). Here, we examined the effect of JAKi on CD4+/CD8+ T cells, cytokine production, and regulation of transcriptional factors in RA patients and HC. METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) obtained from RA patients (n=14) and HCs (n=7) were stimulated with varicella zoster virus lysates and exposed to three JAKi inhibitors (ruxolitinib [JAK1/2 inhibitor]; AG490 [JAK2 inhibitor]; and WHI-P154 [JAK3 inhibitor]) in the presence/absence of methotrexate. The CD4+ and CD8+ T cell populations were measured by flow cytometry. Cytokine levels in culture medium were measured by ELISA. Transcription factor expression was examined by RT-qPCR. RESULTS: There was a reduction in the CD4+IFN-gamma+, CD4+CD69+IFN-gamma+, CD8+IFN-gamma+, and CD8+CD69+IFN-gamma+ populations, and an increase in the CD4+CD25highFoxp3+ cell population, in PBMCs from RA patients and HCs after exposure to the three JAKi. ELISA revealed a reduction in IFN-gamma and granzyme B levels in the presence of JAKi. JAKi reduced expression of mRNA encoding STAT1 and T-bet, but increased that of mRNA encoding STAT5 and Foxp3. Methotrexate plus the highest dose of each JAKi did not affect the Th1, cytotoxic T cell, or Treg populations, the levels of IFN-gamma and granzyme B, or expression of transcription factors, significantly. CONCLUSIONS: JAKi reduce the Th1/cytotoxic T cell population and increase the Treg population in both RA patients and HC patients.
36099926 | Adjuvant atezolizumab versus placebo for patients with renal cell carcinoma at increased risk of recurrence following resection (IMmotion010): a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, phase 3 trial. BACKGROUND: The standard of care for locoregional renal cell carcinoma is surgery, but many patients experience recurrence. The objective of the current study was to determine if adjuvant atezolizumab (vs placebo) delayed recurrence in patients with an increased risk of recurrence after resection. METHODS: IMmotion010 is a randomised, double-blind, multicentre, phase 3 trial conducted in 215 centres in 28 countries. Eligible patients were patients aged 18 years or older with renal cell carcinoma with a clear cell or sarcomatoid component and increased risk of recurrence. After nephrectomy with or without metastasectomy, patients were randomly assigned (1:1) to receive atezolizumab (1200 mg) or placebo (both intravenous) once every 3 weeks for 16 cycles or 1 year. Randomisation was done with an interactive voice-web response system. Stratification factors were disease stage (T2 or T3a vs T3b-c or T4 or N+ vs M1 no evidence of disease), geographical region (north America [excluding Mexico] vs rest of the world), and PD-L1 status on tumour-infiltrating immune cells (<1% vs >=1% expression). The primary endpoint was investigator-assessed disease-free survival in the intention-to-treat population, defined as all patients who were randomised, regardless of whether study treatment was received. The safety-evaluable population included all patients randomly assigned to treatment who received any amount of study drug (ie, atezolizumab or placebo), regardless of whether a full or partial dose was received. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03024996, and is closed to further accrual. FINDINGS: Between Jan 3, 2017, and Feb 15, 2019, 778 patients were enrolled; 390 (50%) were assigned to the atezolizumab group and 388 (50%) to the placebo group. At data cutoff (May 3, 2022), the median follow-up duration was 44 7 months (IQR 39 1-51 0). Median investigator-assessed disease-free survival was 57 2 months (95% CI 44 6 to not evaluable) with atezolizumab and 49 5 months (47 4 to not evaluable) with placebo (hazard ratio 0 93, 95% CI 0 75-1 15, p=0 50). The most common grade 3-4 adverse events were hypertension (seven [2%] patients who received atezolizumab vs 15 [4%] patients who received placebo), hyperglycaemia (ten [3%] vs six [2%]), and diarrhoea (two [1%] vs seven [2%]). 69 (18%) patients who received atezolizumab and 46 (12%) patients who received placebo had a serious adverse event. There were no treatment-related deaths. INTERPRETATION: Atezolizumab as adjuvant therapy after resection for patients with renal cell carcinoma with increased risk of recurrence showed no evidence of improved clinical outcomes versus placebo. These study results do not support adjuvant atezolizumab for treatment of renal cell carcinoma. FUNDING: F Hoffmann-La Roche and Genentech, a member of the Roche group.
36100323 | Prognostic value of JAK3 promoter methylation and mRNA expression in clear cell renal cell carcinoma. INTRODUCTION: Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) is a well-established oncogene in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC). The methylation status of oncogene promoters has emerged as biomarkers for cancer diagnosis and prognosis. OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the biological and clinical significance of JAK3 promoter methylation in ccRCC. METHODS: We analyzed the relationship of JAK3 promoter methylation with its mRNA expression, overall survival, and immune cell infiltration in a cohort obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), which was further validated by another independent cohort. We further validated correlations of JAK3 promoter methylation with JAK3 expression, overall survival, and immune cell infiltration in an independent ccRCC cohort (Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center (SYSUCC) cohort) by methods of immunohistochemistry (IHC) and pyrosequencing. RESULTS: We found JAK3 promoter was significantly hypomethylated in tumor tissues compared to normal adjacent tissues in ccRCC, and JAK3 promoter hypomethylation was strongly correlated with high JAK3 mRNA expression in all three ccRCC cohorts we examined. JAK3 promoter hypomethylation predicted advanced clinicopathological characteristics and shorter overall survival (TCGA cohort and SYSUCC cohort). Furthermore, we found that JAK3 promoter methylation was significantly associated with immune cell infiltration and expression of immune checkpoint molecules (TCGA cohort and CPTAC cohort). Finally, our SYSUCC cohort validated that JAK3 promoter methylation was correlated with CD4+ and CD8+ T cell infiltration in ccRCC tumor tissues. CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrated that the crucial role of JAK3 promoter methylation in its expression regulation and tumor microenvironment. JAK3 promoter methylation and expression are associated with clinicopathological characteristics, overall survival, and immune cell infiltration in ccRCC. We propose a rationale for further validation of JAK3 promoter methylation as a molecular biomarker for predicting responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors in ccRCC.
36248803 | The third dose of mRNA SARS-CoV-2 vaccines enhances the spike-specific antibody and memory B cell response in myelofibrosis patients. Vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 using mRNA-based vaccines has been highly recommended for fragile subjects, including myelofibrosis patients (MF). Available data on the immune responsiveness of MF patients to mRNA SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, and the impact of the therapy with the JAK inhibitor ruxolitinib, are still fragmented. Here, we profile the spike-specific IgG and memory B-cell response in MF patients, treated or not with ruxolitinib, after the second and the third dose of SARS-CoV-2 BNT162b2 (BioNTech) and mRNA-1273 (Moderna) vaccines. Plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells samples were collected before vaccination, post the second and the third doses and tested for spike-specific antibodies, ACE2/RBD antibody inhibition binding activity and spike-specific B cells. The third vaccine dose significantly increased the spike-specific IgG titers in both ruxolitinib-treated and untreated patients, and strongly enhanced the percentage of subjects with antibodies capable of in vitro blocking ACE2/RBD interaction, from 50% up to 80%. While a very low frequency of spike-specific B cells was measured in blood 7 days after the second vaccination dose, a strong and significant increase was elicited by the third dose administration, generating a B cell response similar to the one detected in healthy controls. Despite the overall positive impact of the third dose in MF patients, two patients that were under active concomitant immunosuppressive treatment at the time of vaccination, and a patient that received lymphodepleting therapies in the past, remained low responders. The third mRNA vaccine dose strongly increases the SARS-CoV-2 specific humoral and B cell responses in MF patients, promoting a reactivation of the immune response similar to the one observed in healthy controls.
36494712 | Clinicopathological and molecular features of indolent natural killer-cell lymphoproliferative disorder of the gastrointestinal tract. AIMS: Indolent natural killer (NK) cell lymphoproliferative disorder of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract (iNKLPD) is a rare, recently recognised neoplasm. Most of the reported tumours are confined to the GI tract, while a small subset of the tumours harbour JAK3 mutations. We collected four cases of iNKLPD with the goal of adding additional information to the current knowledge of this disease regarding the clinicopathological, immunohistochemical and molecular features. METHODS AND RESULTS: Similar features including medium- to large-sized lymphoid cells with variable amounts of pale or slightly eosinophilic cytoplasm, and no evidence of EBER, TCR rearrangement were found in four cases. JAK3 K563_C565del mutation was found in one of three cases that were subjected to targeted next-generation sequencing. Unique findings of our study include one iNKLPD encountered for the first time in nasopharynx, where lesions could be inadvertently diagnosed as extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma, and one iNKLPD located in the gallbladder extended deeply into muscular and adventitial layers. Exceptional CD8-positive expression was observed in one iNKLPD. In addition, positive staining of phospho-STAT5, phospho-STAT3 and phospho-p38 were found in our cases. None of the four patients received therapy for lymphoma, but all had a benign clinical outcome during a follow-up time of 20-99 months. CONCLUSIONS: We present four iNKLPDs with clinical, immunohistochemical and molecular features similar to the reported cases, as well as some unusual characters, which expand our knowledge on this disease, and further support the neoplastic nature of iNKLPDs.
36883805 | T-Cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia With t(X;14)(q28;q11.2): A Clinicopathologic Study of 15 Cases. OBJECTIVES: T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL) is a rare mature T-cell leukemia usually characterized by inv(14)(q11.2q32)/t(14;14)(q11.2;q32). In this study, we aimed to investigate the clinicopathologic features and molecular profile of T-PLL associated with t(X;14)(q28;q11.2). METHODS: The study group included 10 women and 5 men with a median age of 64 years. All 15 patients had a diagnosis of T-PLL with t(X;14)(q28;q11.2). RESULTS: All 15 patients had lymphocytosis at initial diagnosis. Morphologically, the leukemic cells had features of prolymphocytes in 11 patients, small cell variant in 3, and cerebriform variant in 1. All 15 patients had hypercellular bone marrow with an interstitial infiltrate in 12 (80%) cases. By flow cytometry, the leukemic cells were surface CD3+/CD5+/CD7+/CD26+/CD52+/TCR alpha/beta+ in 15 (100%) cases, CD2+ in 14 (93%) cases, CD4+/CD8+ in 8 (53%) cases, CD4+/CD8- in 6 (40%) cases, and CD4-/CD8 + in 1 (7%) case. At the cytogenetic level, complex karyotypes with t(X;14)(q28;q11.2) were seen in all 15 patients assessed. Mutational analysis showed mutations of JAK3 in 5 of 6 and STAT5B p.N642H in 2 of 6 patients. Patients received variable treatments, including 12 with alemtuzumab. After a median follow-up of 17.2 months, 8 of 15 (53%) patients died. CONCLUSIONS: T-PLL with t(X;14)(q28;q11.2) frequently shows a complex karyotype and mutations involving JAK/STAT pathway, and it is an aggressive disease with a poor outcome.
37777018 | Improvements in Immune/Melanocyte Biomarkers With JAK3/TEC Family Kinase Inhibitor Ritlecitinib in Vitiligo. BACKGROUND: Vitiligo is an autoimmune depigmenting disorder with no effective and safe treatments. Its pathogenesis is not fully elucidated. OBJECTIVE: This substudy of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2b trial (NCT03715829) evaluated effects of ritlecitinib, an oral JAK3/TEC family kinase inhibitor, on skin and blood biomarkers in participants with non-segmental vitiligo (NSV). METHODS: 65 adults with NSV participated in the substudy and received daily treatment for 24 weeks with placebo (n=14) or ritlecitinib with or without a 4-week loading dose: 200 (loading dose)/50 mg (n=13), 100/50 mg (n=12), 50 mg (n=11), 30 mg (n=8), or 10 mg (n=6). Skin (lesional and nonlesional) biopsies were taken at baseline, 4, and 24 weeks. Changes from baseline to weeks 4 and 24 in skin and blood molecular/cellular biomarkers were evaluated by RNA-seq/RT-qPCR/proteomics/flow cytometry. RESULTS: Ritlecitinib-treated groups showed downregulation of immune biomarkers and upregulation of melanocyte-related markers at weeks 4 and 24 compared with baseline and/or placebo. Significant reductions were seen in CD3+/CD8+ T-cell infiltrates, with significant increases in melanocyte markers (tyrosinase; Melan-A) in NSV lesions in the 50-mg ritlecitinib groups (both P<0.05). There was significant, dose-dependent downregulation in T-cell activation/NK/cytotoxic/regulatory markers in lesional skin (IL-2/IL2-RA/IL-15/CCR7/CD5/ CRTAM/NCR1/XCL1/KIR3DL1/FASLG/KLRD; P<0.05). Th1 and Th2 markers were also downregulated in lesional skin and blood in a dose-dependent manner (P<0.05). Changes in immune biomarkers correlated with clinical response. CONCLUSION: Ritlecitinib significantly downregulated pro-inflammatory biomarkers and increased melanocyte products in skin and blood of participants with NSV, suggesting its potential in treatment. Ritlecitinib-mediated changes positively correlated with clinical response.
37877017 | Effect of tofacitinib therapy on angiotensin converting enzyme activity in rheumatoid arthritis. Introduction: The Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone system (RAAS) has been implicated in the regulation of the cardiovascular system and linked to rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Little information has become available on the effects of Janus kinase (JAK) inhibition on RAAS. Here we studied the effects of 12-month tofacitinib treatment on angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), ACE2 production and ACE/ACE2 ratios in RA along with numerous other biomarkers. Patients and methods: Thirty RA patients were treated with tofacitinib in this prospective study. Serum ACE concentrations were assessed by ELISA. ACE2 activity was determined by a specific quenched fluorescent substrate. ACE/ACE2 ratios were calculated. We also determined common carotid intima-media thickness (ccIMT), brachial artery flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) and carotid-femoral pulse-wave velocity (cfPWV) by ultrasound. C-reactive protein (CRP), rheumatoid factor (RF) and anti-citrullinated protein autoantibodies (ACPA) were also determined. All measurements were performed at baseline, as well as after 6 and 12 months of tofacitinib treatment. Results: After the dropout of 4 patients, 26 completed the study. Tofacitinib treatment increased ACE levels after 6 and 12 months, while ACE2 activity only transiently increased at 6 months. The ACE/ACE2 ratio increased after 1 year of therapy (p < 0.05). Logistic regression analyses identified correlations between ACE, ACE2 or ACE/ACE2 ratios and RF at various time points. Baseline disease duration also correlated with erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) (p < 0.05). One-year changes of ACE or ACE2 were determined by tofacitinib treatment plus ACPA or RF, respectively (p < 0.05). Conclusion: JAK inhibition increases serum ACE and ACE/ACE2 ratio in RA. Baseline inflammation (ESR), disease duration and ACPA, as well as RF levels at various time points can be coupled to the regulation of ACE/ACE2 ratio. The effect of tofacitinib on RAAS provides a plausible explanation for the cardiovascular effects of JAK inhibition in RA.
38022501 | Inhibition of T-cell activity in alopecia areata: recent developments and new directions. Alopecia areata (AA) is an autoimmune disease that has a complex underlying immunopathogenesis characterized by nonscarring hair loss ranging from small bald patches to complete loss of scalp, face, and/or body hair. Although the etiopathogenesis of AA has not yet been fully characterized, immune privilege collapse at the hair follicle (HF) followed by T-cell receptor recognition of exposed HF autoantigens by autoreactive cytotoxic CD8+ T cells is now understood to play a central role. Few treatment options are available, with the Janus kinase (JAK) 1/2 inhibitor baricitinib (2022) and the selective JAK3/tyrosine kinase expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (TEC) inhibitor ritlecitinib (2023) being the only US Food and Drug Administration-approved systemic medications thus far for severe AA. Several other treatments are used off-label with limited efficacy and/or suboptimal safety and tolerability. With an increased understanding of the T-cell-mediated autoimmune and inflammatory pathogenesis of AA, additional therapeutic pathways beyond JAK inhibition are currently under investigation for the development of AA therapies. This narrative review presents a detailed overview about the role of T cells and T-cell-signaling pathways in the pathogenesis of AA, with a focus on those pathways targeted by drugs in clinical development for the treatment of AA. A detailed summary of new drugs targeting these pathways with expert commentary on future directions for AA drug development and the importance of targeting multiple T-cell-signaling pathways is also provided in this review.
38266761 | T cell lymphoma and secondary primary malignancy risk after commercial CAR T cell therapy. We report a T cell lymphoma (TCL) occurring 3 months after anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell immunotherapy for non-Hodgkin B cell lymphoma. The TCL was diagnosed from a thoracic lymph node upon surgery for lung cancer. The TCL exhibited CD8+ cytotoxic phenotype and a JAK3 variant, while the CAR transgene was very low. The T cell clone was identified at low levels in the blood before CAR T infusion and in lung cancer. To assess the overall risk of secondary primary malignancy after commercial CAR T (CD19, BCMA), we analyzed 449 patients treated at the University of Pennsylvania. At a median follow-up of 10.3 months, 16 patients (3.6%) had a secondary primary malignancy. The median onset time was 26.4 and 9.7 months for solid and hematological malignancies, respectively. The projected 5-year cumulative incidence is 15.2% for solid and 2.3% for hematological malignancies. Overall, one case of TCL was observed, suggesting a low risk of TCL after CAR T.
38352883 | Construction of disulfidptosis-based immune response prediction model with artificial intelligence and validation of the pivotal grouping oncogene c-MET in regulating T cell exhaustion. Background: Given the lack of research on disulfidptosis, our study aimed to dissect its role in pan-cancer and explore the crosstalk between disulfidptosis and cancer immunity. Methods: Based on TCGA, ICGC, CGGA, GSE30219, GSE31210, GSE37745, GSE50081, GSE22138, GSE41613, univariate Cox regression, LASSO regression, and multivariate Cox regression were used to construct the rough gene signature based on disulfidptosis for each type of cancer. SsGSEA and Cibersort, followed by correlation analysis, were harnessed to explore the linkage between disulfidptosis and cancer immunity. Weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) and Machine learning were utilized to make a refined prognosis model for pan-cancer. In particular, a customized, enhanced prognosis model was made for glioma. The siRNA transfection, FACS, ELISA, etc., were employed to validate the function of c-MET. Results: The expression comparison of the disulfidptosis-related genes (DRGs) between tumor and nontumor tissues implied a significant difference in most cancers. The correlation between disulfidptosis and immune cell infiltration, including T cell exhaustion (Tex), was evident, especially in glioma. The 7-gene signature was constructed as the rough model for the glioma prognosis. A pan-cancer suitable DSP clustering was made and validated to predict the prognosis. Furthermore, two DSP groups were defined by machine learning to predict the survival and immune therapy response in glioma, which was validated in CGGA. PD-L1 and other immune pathways were highly enriched in the core blue gene module from WGCNA. Among them, c-MET was validated as a tumor driver gene and JAK3-STAT3-PD-L1/PD1 regulator in glioma and T cells. Specifically, the down-regulation of c-MET decreased the proportion of PD1+ CD8+ T cells. Conclusion: To summarize, we dissected the roles of DRGs in the prognosis and their relationship with immunity in pan-cancer. A general prognosis model based on machine learning was constructed for pan-cancer and validated by external datasets with a consistent result. In particular, a survival-predicting model was made specifically for patients with glioma to predict its survival and immune response to ICIs. C-MET was screened and validated for its tumor driver gene and immune regulation function (inducing t-cell exhaustion) in glioma.
38547614 | Baicalein alleviates cardiomyocyte death in EAM mice by inhibiting the JAK-STAT1/4 signalling pathway. BACKGROUND: The experimental autoimmune myocarditis (EAM) model is valuable for investigating myocarditis pathogenesis. M1-type macrophages and CD4+T cells exert key pathogenic effects on EAM initiation and progression. Baicalein (5,6,7-trihydroxyflavone, C15H10O5, BAI), which is derived from the Scutellaria baicalensis root, is a primary bioactive compound with potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties. BAI exerts good therapeutic effects against various autoimmune diseases; however, its effect in EAM has not been thoroughly researched. PURPOSE: This study aimed to explore the possible inhibitory effect of BAI on M1 macrophage polarisation and CD4+T cell differentiation into Th1 cells via modulation of the JAK-STAT1/4 signalling pathway, which reduces the secretion of pro-inflammatory factors, namely, TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma, and consequently inhibits TNF-alpha- and IFN-gamma-triggered apoptosis in cardiomyocytes of the EAM model mice. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Flow cytometry, immunofluorescence, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (q-PCR), and western blotting were performed to determine whether BAI alleviated M1/Th1-secreted TNF-alpha- and IFN-gamma-induced myocyte death in the EAM model mice through the inhibition of the JAK-STAT1/4 signalling pathway. RESULTS: These results indicate that BAI intervention in mice resulted in mild inflammatory infiltrates. BAI inhibited JAK-STAT1 signalling in macrophages both in vivo and in vitro, which attenuated macrophage polarisation to the M1 type and reduced TNF-alpha secretion. Additionally, BAI significantly inhibited the differentiation of CD4+T cells to Th1 cells and IFN-gamma secretion both in vivo and in vitro by modulating the JAK-STAT1/4 signalling pathway. This ultimately led to decreased TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma levels in cardiac tissues and reduced myocardial cell apoptosis. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that BAI alleviates M1/Th1-secreted TNF-alpha- and IFN-gamma-induced cardiomyocyte death in EAM mice by inhibiting the JAK-STAT1/4 signalling pathway.
3150915 | In vitro activity of E-1040, a novel cephalosporin with potent activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The in vitro activity of E-1040 [(6R,7R)-3-[(4-carbamoyl-1-quinuclidinio)methyl]-7-[2-(5-amino-1,2 ,4- thiadiazol-3-yl)-(Z)-2-methoxyiminoacetoamido]-8-oxo-5-thia- 1- azabicyclo(4,2,0)oct-2-ene-2-carboxylate], a novel cephalosporin, was compared with that of ceftazidime, cefpirome, cefepime, imipenem, and gentamicin. E-1040 inhibited 50% of members of the family Enterobacteriaceae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Haemophilus and Neisseria species at less than or equal to 0.25 microgram/ml, and the MIC for 90% of strains tested ranged from 0.06 to 2 micrograms/ml. It was two- to fourfold more active than ceftazidime and similar in activity to cefepime and cefpirome. It inhibited Enterobacter, Citrobacter, Serratia, and Morganella species that were resistant to ceftazidime. E-1040 inhibited imipenem-, piperacillin-, aztreonam-, and tobramycin-resistant P. aeruginosa. It was less active against Xanthomonas maltophilia and P. cepacia but inhibited other Pseudomonas species. The activity of E-1040 against staphylococci and hemolytic streptococci was similar to that of ceftazidime, but E-1040 was less active than cefepime and cefpirome. It did not inhibit Bacteroides spp. There was no inoculum effect or medium effect, and MBCs were within a dilution of MICs. Plasmid beta-lactamases TEM-1, TEM-2, TEM-3 (CTX-1), SHV-1, Staphylococcus aureus, PSE, and CARB did not hydrolyze E-1040. Chromosomal beta-lactamases P99 and K-1 did not hydrolyze E-1040; E-1040 had poor affinity for these enzymes, with a Ki of greater than 100 microM.
7695279 | In vitro activity of SCE-2787, a new cephalosporin with potent activity against Pseudomonas aeruginosa and members of the family Enterobacteriaceae. The in vitro activity of SCE-2787, 7-[(Z)-2-(5-amino-1,2,4-thiadiazol-3- yl)-2-methoxyiminoacetamido]-3-(1-imidazo[1,2-b]pyridazinium)methy l-3- cephem-4-carboxylate, was compared with those of ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, and imipenem against recent clinical isolates. SCE-2787 inhibited 50% of tested isolates of the family Enterobacteriaceae at < or = 0.25 micrograms/ml. SCE-2787 was equally active as or more active than ceftazidime and ceftriaxone against members of the Enterobacteriaceae, with the exception of Proteus vulgaris. The MIC of SCE-2787 at which 90% of the isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa were inhibited was 2 micrograms/ml, two- to fourfold lower than those of imipenem and ceftazidime, respectively. SCE-2787, like ceftazidime and imipenem, did not inhibit the majority of strains of Pseudomonas cepacia and Xanthomonas maltophilia. SCE-2787 inhibited beta-hemolytic streptococci at < or = 0.12 micrograms/ml, but it did not inhibit Enterococcus faecalis, Listeria monocytogenes, or the anaerobic species tested. Methicillin-resistant staphylococci required SCE-2787 MICs of > or = 16 micrograms/ml, whereas methicillin-susceptible staphylococci were inhibited by 2 micrograms/ml. No difference between the MICs and MBCs was noted, except for P. aeruginosa, for which there was a fourfold difference. SCE-2787 was active over a pH range of 6 to 8. The inoculum size of 10(5) to 10(7) CFU caused only a twofold change in the MIC for Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus but a 4- to 16-fold change in Enterobacter cloacae and P. aeruginosa. beta-Lactamases from Bush groups 1, 2a, and 2b did not hydrolyze SCE-2787. There was significant hydrolysis of SCE-2787 by the beta-lactamases designated 2b', i.e., TEM-3, TEM-5, TEM-7, and TEM-9, and by the group 2d beta-lactamases. SCE-2787 had poor affinity for group 1 and group 2b enzymes and constitutively produced chromosomal beta-lactamases such as P-99 of Enterobacter cloacae and plasmid-mediated TEM-1 of E. coli. SCE-2787 has in vitro activity comparable to that of current parenteral cephalosporin and is more active against P. aeruginosa and S. aureus.
7699694 | Synthesis and biological activity of 7-alkylidenecephems. Several 7-alkylidenecephalosporins were synthesized and biologically evaluated as beta-lactamase inhibitors. The three beta-lactamase enzymes used in this study included two type C beta-lactamases, derived from Enterobacter cloacae P99 and E. cloacae SC12368, and one type A beta-lactamase, derived from Escherichia coli WC3310. Of the cephalosporins prepared, compound 7e, the sodium salt of 7-[(Z)-(2'-pyridyl)methylene]cephalosporanic acid sulfone, was found to have excellent inhibitory properties against both type C enzymes. Also, compound 7f, the sodium salt of 7-[(Z)-(tert-butoxycarbonyl)methylene]cephalosporanic acid sulfone showed high activity as an inhibitor of the type A enzyme. The inhibition kinetics of 7e were further explored. The IC50 value of 7e indicated that this compound was approximately 20-fold more active than tazobactam against the enzyme derived from E. cloacae P99 and 167-fold more active than tazobactam against the enzyme derived from E. cloacae SC12368. A plot of enzymatic activity vs incubation time with stoichiometric amounts of inhibitor reveals a rapid deactivation of the enzyme followed by an extremely slow reactivation. 7e exhibited a second-order rate constant of k3' = 5.3 x 10(6) L/mol.min, and a partition ratio of approximately 20:1 inhibitor:enzyme was determined for this inhibitor. After separation of excess inhibitor with Sephadex filtration, a rate constant of enzyme reactivation was measured at kreactiv = 1.0 x 10(-3) s-1. Following 24 h of incubation of enzyme with a large excess of inhibitor and sephadex filtration to remove excess inhibitor, the enzyme was able to recover only 43% of its original activity, indicating an irreversible component to the inhibition. Potential mechanisms of inhibition for both 7e and 7f are suggested.
10322150 | The role of cytokine receptor signaling in lymphocyte development. Cytokine receptor signaling plays an essential role in the early stages of lymphocyte development. Signals through various cytokine receptors - such as c-kit, flt3/flk2, CXCR4, the IL-7 receptor and the IL-15 receptor - are known to promote the expansion and survival of uncommitted progenitor cells as well as their migration to the appropriate microenvironment and subsequent differentiation into B, T or natural killer cells. The recent generation of mice deficient in one or more of these signaling pathways has revealed which cytokines play unique and/or redundant roles in each of these lymphocyte lineages during this developmental process.
10506573 | The chemokine SDF-1alpha triggers CXCR4 receptor dimerization and activates the JAK/STAT pathway. The chemokine stromal cell-derived factor (SDF-1alpha), the ligand for the CXCR4 receptor, induces a wide variety of effects that include calcium mobilization, chemotactic responses, bone marrow myelopoiesis, neuronal patterning, and prevention of HIV-1 infection. Nonetheless, little is known of the biochemical pathways required to achieve this variety of responses triggered after receptor-chemokine interaction. We developed a set of monoclonal antibodies that specifically recognize the CXCR4 receptor and used them to identify the signaling pathway activated after SDF-1alpha binding in human T cell lines. Here we demonstrate that SDF-1alpha activation promotes the physical association of Galpha(i) with the CXCR4. Furthermore, within seconds of SDF-1alpha activation, the CXCR4 receptor becomes tyrosine phosphorylated through the activation and association with the receptor of JAK2 and JAK3 kinases. After SDF-1alpha binding, JAK2 and JAK3 associate with CXCR4 and are activated, probably by transphosphorylation, in a Galpha(i)-independent manner. This activation enables the recruitment and tyrosine phosphorylation of several members of the STAT family of transcription factors. Finally, we have also observed SDF-1alpha-induced activation and association of the tyrosine phosphatase Shp1 with the CXCR4 in a Galpha(i)-dependent manner. As occurs with the cytokine receptors in response to cytokines, the CXCR4 undergoes receptor dimerization after SDF-1alpha binding and is a critical step in triggering biological responses. We present compelling evidence that the chemokines signal through mechanisms similar to those activated by cytokines.
11278738 | Rantes activates Jak2 and Jak3 to regulate engagement of multiple signaling pathways in T cells. The chemokine RANTES (regulated on activation normal T cell expressed and secreted) and its cognate receptor CC chemokine receptor 5 (CCR5) have been implicated in regulating immune cell function. Previously we reported that in T cells, RANTES activation of CCR5 results in Stat1 and Stat3 phosphorylation-activation, leading to Stat1:1 and Stat1:3 dimers that exhibit DNA binding activity and the transcriptional induction of a Stat-inducible gene, c-fos. Given that RANTES and CCR5 have been implicated in T cell activation, we have studied RANTES-induced signaling events in a CCR5-expressing T cell line, PM1. RANTES treatment of PM1 T cells results in the rapid phosphorylation-activation of CCR5, Jak2, and Jak3. RANTES-inducible Jak phosphorylation is insensitive to pertussis toxin inhibition, indicating that RANTES-CCR5-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation events are not coupled directly to Galpha(i) protein-mediated events. In addition to Jaks, several other proteins are rapidly phosphorylated on tyrosine residues in a RANTES-dependent manner, including the Src kinase p56(lck), which associates with Jak3. Additionally our data confirm that the amino-terminally modified RANTES proteins, aminooxypentane-RANTES and Met-RANTES, are agonists for CCR5 and induce early tyrosine phosphorylation events that are indistinguishable from those inducible by RANTES with similar kinetics. Our data also demonstrate that RANTES activates the p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase pathway. This is evidenced by the rapid RANTES-dependent phosphorylation and activation of p38 MAP kinase as well as the activation of the downstream effector of p38, MAP kinase-activated protein (MAPKAP) kinase-2. Pharmacological inhibition of RANTES-dependent p38 MAP kinase activation blocks MAPKAP kinase-2 activity. Thus, activation of Jak kinases and p38 MAP kinase by RANTES regulates the engagement of multiple signaling pathways.
12096225 | A 588-gene microarray analysis of the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of spondyloarthropathy patients. OBJECTIVES: To identify genes which are more highly expressed in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of patients with spondyloarthropathy (SpA), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and psoriatic arthritis (PsA), in comparison to normal subjects. METHODS: A 588-gene microarray was used as a screening tool to select a panel of such genes from PBMC of these subjects and of normal subjects. Results were then validated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). RESULTS: The following genes were more highly expressed in arthritis patients than in normal subjects: macrophage differentiation marker MNDA (myeloid nuclear differentiation antigen), MRP8 and MRP14 (migratory inhibitory factor-related proteins); signalling molecules JAK3 (janus kinase 3) and MAP kinase p38 (mitogen-activated protein kinase); receptors TNFR2/p75, C-C-chemokine receptor type 1 (CCR1), C-X-C-chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) and integrin beta1; and the cytokines/chemokines interleukin (IL) 1beta and IL-8. Expression of CXCR4 was unexpectedly high among all arthritis subjects. Using RT-PCR, ELISA and immunohistology, expression of stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1) was demonstrated in arthritis joints. CONCLUSIONS: The CXCR4/SDF-1 is a potential pro-inflammatory axis for RA, PsA and SpA.
12482141 | What's in the pipeline? New immunosuppressive drugs in transplantation. In the pipeline, there are a number of novel immunosuppressive drugs in preclinical development or in early clinical trials. The major target of new agents are cell-surface molecules important in immune cell interactions (especially the costimulatory pathway), signaling pathways that activate T cells, T-cell proliferation and trafficking and recruitment of immune cells responsible for rejection. The most promising biologic agents include a humanized anti-CD11a (anti-LFA1), humanized anti-B7.1/B7.2, a second-generation CTLA4Ig (LEA29Y) and a humanized antibody to anti-CD45 RB. Inhibitors of T-cell activation and signaling are still in preclinical development. The most interesting inhibitors of T-cell proliferation include inhibitors of the Janus protein tyrosine kinase, JAK3, and FK778, a leflunomide analog. Chemokines play an important role in rejection by virtue of their critical role as regulator of trafficking and activation of lymphocytes. Early trials of FTY720, a synthetic small molecule with functional homology to sphingosine-1 phosphate leading to lymphocyte sequestration, appear very promising; however, enthusiasm for this drug is mitigated by its potential cardiac side-effects. Antagonists to several chemokine receptors, including CCR1, CXCR3 and CCR5, have been shown to be effective in experimental transplantation and are likely to be considered for clinical development.
14660590 | Hydrolysis of third-generation cephalosporins by class C beta-lactamases. Structures of a transition state analog of cefotoxamine in wild-type and extended spectrum enzymes. Bacterial resistance to the third-generation cephalosporins is an issue of great concern in current antibiotic therapeutics. An important source of this resistance is from production of extended-spectrum (ES) beta-lactamases by bacteria. The Enterobacter cloacae GC1 enzyme is an example of a class C ES beta-lactamase. Unlike wild-type (WT) forms, such as the E. cloacae P99 and Citrobacter freundii enzymes, the ES GC1 beta-lactamase is able to rapidly hydrolyze third-generation cephalosporins such as cefotaxime and ceftazidime. To understand the basis for this ES activity, m-nitrophenyl 2-(2-aminothiazol-4-yl)-2-[(Z)-methoxyimino]acetylaminomethyl phosphonate has been synthesized and characterized. This phosphonate was designed to generate a transition state analog for turnover of cefotaxime. The crystal structures of complexes of the phosphonate with both ES GC1 and WT C. freundii GN346 beta-lactamases have been determined to high resolution (1.4-1.5 Angstroms). The serine-bound analog of the tetrahedral transition state for deacylation exhibits a very different binding geometry in each enzyme. In the WT beta-lactamase the cefotaxime-like side chain is crowded against the Omega loop and must protrude from the binding site with its methyloxime branch exposed. In the ES enzyme, a mutated Omega loop adopts an alternate conformation allowing the side chain to be much more buried. During the binding and turnover of the cefotaxime substrate by this ES enzyme, it is proposed that ligand-protein contacts and intra-ligand contacts are considerably relieved relative to WT, facilitating positioning and activation of the hydrolytic water molecule. The ES beta-lactamase is thus able to efficiently inactivate third-generation cephalosporins.
19104082 | Cytokine-induced human IFN-gamma-secreting effector-memory Th cells in chronic autoimmune inflammation. T-helper (Th) cells activated by cytokines in the absence of T-cell receptor ligation are suspected to participate in inflammatory processes by production of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma). Still, the relevance of such a mechanism has not been addressed in humans. Here we demonstrate that a subset of human effector-memory Th cells expressing functional interleukin-12R (IL-12R), IL-18Ralpha, and CCR5 ex vivo can be induced to secrete IFN-gamma by cytokines signaling via the IL-2R common gamma-chain in combination with IL-12 and IL-18. Cytokine-driven IFN-gamma production depends on JAK3- and p38 mitogen-activated kinase signals and is sensitive to suppression by CD25(++) regulatory T cells. Contrary to IFN-gamma(+) Th cells induced upon antigen-specific stimulation, their cytokine-activated counterparts characteristically lack expression of costimulator 4-1BB (CD137). Strikingly, the majority of Th cells infiltrating inflamed joints of rheumatoid arthritis patients is equipped with receptors prerequisite for cytokine-induced IFN-gamma secretion. Among these cells, we detected a substantial fraction that secretes IFN-gamma directly ex vivo but lacks 4-1BB expression, indicating that cytokine-induced IFN-gamma(+) Th cells operate in autoimmune inflammation. Our data provide a rationale for how human effector-memory Thcells can participate in perpetuating inflammatory processes in autoimmunity even in the absence of T-cell receptor ligation.
21575160 | Chronic insulin treatment of diabetes does not fully normalize alterations in the retinal transcriptome. BACKGROUND: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a leading cause of blindness in working age adults. Approximately 95% of patients with Type 1 diabetes develop some degree of retinopathy within 25 years of diagnosis despite normalization of blood glucose by insulin therapy. The goal of this study was to identify molecular changes in the rodent retina induced by diabetes that are not normalized by insulin replacement and restoration of euglycemia. METHODS: The retina transcriptome (22,523 genes and transcript variants) was examined after three months of streptozotocin-induced diabetes in male Sprague Dawley rats with and without insulin replacement for the later one and a half months of diabetes. Selected gene expression changes were confirmed by qPCR, and also examined in independent control and diabetic rats at a one month time-point. RESULTS: Transcriptomic alterations in response to diabetes (1376 probes) were clustered according to insulin responsiveness. More than half (57%) of diabetes-induced mRNA changes (789 probes) observed at three months were fully normalized to control levels with insulin therapy, while 37% of probes (514) were only partially normalized. A small set of genes (5%, 65 probes) was significantly dysregulated in the insulin-treated diabetic rats. qPCR confirmation of findings and examination of a one month time point allowed genes to be further categorized as prevented or rescued with insulin therapy. A subset of genes (Ccr5, Jak3, Litaf) was confirmed at the level of protein expression, with protein levels recapitulating changes in mRNA expression. CONCLUSIONS: These results provide the first genome-wide examination of the effects of insulin therapy on retinal gene expression changes with diabetes. While insulin clearly normalizes the majority of genes dysregulated in response to diabetes, a number of genes related to inflammatory processes, microvascular integrity, and neuronal function are still altered in expression in euglycemic diabetic rats. Gene expression changes not rescued or prevented by insulin treatment may be critical to the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy, as it occurs in diabetic patients receiving insulin replacement, and are prototypical of metabolic memory.
22057786 | Pathology of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome in multiple sclerosis with natalizumab-associated progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. Natalizumab is an approved medication for highly active multiple sclerosis (MS). Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) may occur as a severe side effect of this drug. Here, we describe pathological and radiological characteristics of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS), which occurs in natalizumab-associated PML after the cessation of therapy, and we differentiate it from ongoing PML. Brain biopsy tissue and MRI scans from five MS patients with natalizumab-associated PML were analyzed and their histology compared with non-MS PML. Histology showed an extensive CD8-dominated T cell infiltrate and numerous macrophages within lesions, and in nondemyelinated white and grey matter, in four out of five cases. Few or no virally infected cells were found. This was indicative of IRIS as known from HIV patients with PML. Outstandingly high numbers of plasma cells were present as compared to non-MS PML and typical MS lesions. MRI was compatible with IRIS, revealing enlarging lesions with a band-like or speckled contrast enhancement either at the lesion edge or within lesions. Only the fifth patient showed typical PML pathology, with low inflammation and high numbers of virally infected cells. This patient showed a similar interval between drug withdrawal and biopsy (3.5 months) to the rest of the cohort (range 2.5-4 months). MRI could not differentiate between PML-associated IRIS and ongoing PML. We describe in detail the histopathology of IRIS in natalizumab-associated PML. PML-IRIS, ongoing PML infection, and MS exacerbation may be impossible to discern clinically alone. MRI may provide some clues for distinguishing different pathologies that can be differentiated histologically. In our individual cases, biopsy helped to clarify diagnoses in natalizumab-associated PML.
23301078 | Expansion of activated memory CD4+ T cells affects infectivity of CCR5-tropic HIV-1 in humanized NOD/SCID/JAK3null mice. Humanized mice reconstituted with human hematopoietic cells have been developed as an experimental animal model for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection. Myeloablative irradiation is usually performed to augment the engraftment of donor hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) in recipient mice; however, some mouse strains are susceptible to irradiation, making longitudinal analysis difficult. We previously attempted to construct humanized NOD/SCID/JAK3(null) (hNOJ) mice, which were not irradiated prior to human HSC transplantation. We found that, over time, many of the reconstituted CD4(+) T cells expanded with an activated effector memory phenotype. Therefore, the present study used hNOJ mice that were irradiated (hNOJ (IR+)) or not (hNOJ (IR-)) prior to human HSC transplantation to examine whether the development and cellularity of the reconstituted CD4(+) T cells were influenced by the degree of chimerism, and whether they affected HIV-1 infectivity. Indeed, hNOJ (IR+) mice showed a greater degree of chimerism than hNOJ (IR-) mice. However, the conversion of CD4(+) T cells to an activated effector memory phenotype, with a high percentage of cells showing Ki-67 expression, occurred in both hNOJ (IR+) and hNOJ (IR-) mice, probably as a result of lymphopenia-induced homeostatic expansion. Furthermore, when hNOJ (IR+) and hNOJ (IR-) mice, which were selected as naive- and memory CD4(+) T cell subset-rich groups, respectively, were infected with CCR5-tropic HIV-1 in vivo, virus replication (as assessed by the plasma viral load) was delayed; however, the titer subsequently reached a 1-log higher level in memory-rich hNOJ (IR-) mice than in naive-rich hNOJ (IR+) mice, indicating that virus infectivity in hNOJ mice was affected by the different status of the reconstituted CD4(+) T cells. Therefore, the hNOJ mouse model should be used selectively, i.e., according to the specific experimental objectives, to gain an appropriate understanding of HIV-1 infection/pathogenesis.
28918882 | Genome-Wide Associations Related to Hepatic Histology in Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Hispanic Boys. OBJECTIVE: To identify genetic loci associated with features of histologic severity of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in a cohort of Hispanic boys. STUDY DESIGN: There were 234 eligible Hispanic boys age 2-17 years with clinical, laboratory, and histologic data enrolled in the Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis Clinical Research Network included in the analysis of 624 297 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). After the elimination of 4 outliers and 22 boys with cryptic relatedness, association analyses were performed on 208 DNA samples with corresponding liver histology. Logistic regression analyses were carried out for qualitative traits and linear regression analyses were applied for quantitative traits. RESULTS: The median age and body mass index z-score were 12.0 years (IQR, 11.0-14.0) and 2.4 (IQR, 2.1-2.6), respectively. The nonalcoholic fatty liver disease activity score (scores 1-4 vs 5-8) was associated with SNP rs11166927 on chromosome 8 in the TRAPPC9 region (P = 8.7-07). Fibrosis stage was associated with SNP rs6128907 on chromosome 20, near actin related protein 5 homolog (p = 9.9-07). In comparing our results in Hispanic boys with those of previously reported SNPs in adult nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, 2 of 26 susceptibility loci were associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease activity score and 2 were associated with fibrosis stage. CONCLUSIONS: In this discovery genome-wide association study, we found significant novel gene effects on histologic traits associated with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease activity score and fibrosis that are distinct from those previously recognized by adult nonalcoholic fatty liver disease genome-wide association studies.
32509861 | Database Mining of Genes of Prognostic Value for the Prostate Adenocarcinoma Microenvironment Using the Cancer Gene Atlas. BACKGROUND: Prostate adenocarcinoma (PRAD) is a common malignant tumor in elderly men. Our research uses The Cancer Gene Atlas (TCGA) database to find potential related genes for predicting the prognosis of patients with PRAD. METHODS: We downloaded gene expression profiles and clinical sample information from TCGA for 490 patients with PRAD (patient age: 41-78 years). We calculated stromal and immune scores using the ESTIMATE algorithm to predict the level of stromal and immune cell infiltration. We categorized patients with PRAD in TCGA into high and low score arrays according to their median immune/stromal scores and identified differentially expressed genes (DEGs) that were significantly correlated with the prognosis of PRAD. Then, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses were performed. The association between DEGs and overall survival was investigated by weighted Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and multivariate analysis. Furthermore, the protein-protein interaction network (PPI) of DEGs was constructed using the STRING tool. Finally, the hub genes were identified by analyzing the degree of association of PPI networks. RESULTS: We found that 8 individual DEGs, C6, S100A12, MLC1, PAX5, C7, FAM162B, CAMK1G, and TCEAL5, were significantly predictive of favorable overall survival and one DEG, EPYC, was associated with poor overall survival. GO and KEGG pathway analyses revealed that the DEGs were associated with immune responses. Moreover, 30 hub genes were obtained using the PPI network of DEGs: ITGAM, CD4, CD3E, IL-10, LCP2, ITGB2, ZAP-70, C3, CCL19, CXCL13, CXCL9, BTK, CCL21, CD247, CD28, CD3D, FCER1G, PTPRC, TYROBP, CCR5, ITK, CCL13, CCR1, CCR2, CD79B, CYBB, IL2RG, JAK3, PLCG2, and CD19. These prominent nodes had the most associations with other genes, indicating that they might play crucial roles in the prognosis of PRAD. CONCLUSIONS: We extracted a list of genes associated with the prostate adenocarcinoma microenvironment, which might contribute to the prediction and interpretation of PRAD prognosis.
33285254 | The influence of adult hip shape genetic variants on adolescent hip shape: Findings from a population-based DXA study. OBJECTIVE: Hip shape is a well-recognized risk factor for hip osteoarthritis (OA) and hip fracture. We aimed to investigate whether the genetic variants known to be associated with adult hip shape were also associated with adolescent hip shape. METHODS: Hip DXA scans, obtained in offspring from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC) at two time points (mean ages 13.8 and 17.8 years), were used to quantify hip morphology using a 53-point Statistical Shape Model (SSM). Principal component analysis was used to generate hip shape modes (HSMs). Genetic variants which had previously shown genome-wide significant association with specific HSMs in adults were tested for association with the same HSMs in adolescents (at each timepoint separately) using SNPTEST v2. RESULTS: Complete genotypic and phenotypic data were available for 3550 and 3175 individuals at 14 and 18 years, respectively. The strongest evidence for association with adolescent hip shape was for a variant located near SOX9 (rs2158915) with consistent effects across both time points for HSM1 (age 14: beta -0.05, p = 9.9 x 10-8; age 18: -0.05, p = 3.3 x 10-6) and HSM5 (age 14: beta -0.07, p = 1.6 x 10-4; age 18: -0.1, p = 2.7 x 10-6). There was also strong evidence of association between rs10743612 (near PTHLH) and HSM1 (age 14: 0.05, p = 1.1 x 10-5; age 18: 0.04, p = 0.003) and between rs6537291 (near HHIP) and HSM2 (age 14: -0.06, p = 0.001; age 18: -0.07, p = 0.001) across both time points. The genes with the strongest associations with hip shape in adolescents, (SOX9, PTHLH and HHIP) are known to be involved in endochondral bone formation. HSM1 indicates narrower aspect ratio of the upper femur, whereas both HSM2 and HSM5 reflect variation in the femoral head size and femoral neck width, features previously found to be related to the risk of OA in later life. The SOX9 locus has previously been found to associate with increased risk of hip fracture. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, variants implicated in endochondral bone formation appear to consistently influence hip shape between adolescence and adulthood, including those aspects related to risk of hip OA and/or fracture in later life.
34975502 | Therapeutic Mechanism and Key Alkaloids of Uncaria rhynchophylla in Alzheimer's Disease From the Perspective of Pathophysiological Processes. Presently, there is a lack of effective disease-modifying drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Uncaria rhynchophylla (UR) and its predominant active phytochemicals alkaloids have been studied to treat AD. This study used a novel network pharmacology strategy to identify UR alkaloids against AD from the perspective of AD pathophysiological processes and identified the key alkaloids for specific pathological process. The analysis identified 10 alkaloids from UR based on high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) that corresponded to 127 targets correlated with amyloid-beta (Abeta) pathology, tau pathology and Alzheimer disease pathway. Based on the number of targets correlated with AD pathophysiological processes, angustoline, angustidine, corynoxine and isocorynoxeine are highly likely to become key phytochemicals in AD treatment. Among the 127 targets, JUN, STAT3, MAPK3, CCND1, MMP2, MAPK8, GSK3B, JAK3, LCK, CCR5, CDK5 and GRIN2B were identified as core targets. Based on the pathological process of AD, angustoline, angustidine and isocorynoxeine were identified as the key UR alkaloids regulating Abeta production and corynoxine, isocorynoxeine, dihydrocorynatheine, isorhynchophylline and hirsutine were identified as key alkaloids that regulate tau phosphorylation. The findings of this study contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of the key alkaloids and mechanisms of UR in the treatment of AD, as well as provide candidate compounds for drug research and development for specific AD pathological processes.
35543923 | Relevance of the MHC region for breast cancer susceptibility in Asians. BACKGROUND: Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes play critical roles in immune surveillance, an important defence against tumors. Imputing HLA genotypes from existing single-nucleotide polymorphism datasets is low-cost and efficient. We investigate the relevance of the major histocompatibility complex region in breast cancer susceptibility, using imputed class I and II HLA alleles, in 25,484 women of Asian ancestry. METHODS: A total of 12,901 breast cancer cases and 12,583 controls from 12 case-control studies were included in our pooled analysis. HLA imputation was performed using SNP2HLA on 10,886 quality-controlled variants within the 15-55 Mb region on chromosome 6. HLA alleles (n = 175) with info scores greater than 0.8 and frequencies greater than 0.01 were included (resolution at two-digit level: 71; four-digit level: 104). We studied the associations between HLA alleles and breast cancer risk using logistic regression, adjusting for population structure and age. Associations between HLA alleles and the risk of subtypes of breast cancer (ER-positive, ER-negative, HER2-positive, HER2-negative, early-stage, and late-stage) were examined. RESULTS: We did not observe associations between any HLA allele and breast cancer risk at P < 5e-8; the smallest p value was observed for HLA-C*12:03 (OR = 1.29, P = 1.08e-3). Ninety-five percent of the effect sizes (OR) observed were between 0.90 and 1.23. Similar results were observed when different subtypes of breast cancer were studied (95% of ORs were between 0.85 and 1.18). CONCLUSIONS: No imputed HLA allele was associated with breast cancer risk in our large Asian study. Direct measurement of HLA gene expressions may be required to further explore the associations between HLA genes and breast cancer risk.
35648703 | Neoantigen T-Cell Receptor Gene Therapy in Pancreatic Cancer. A patient with progressive metastatic pancreatic cancer was treated with a single infusion of 16.2x109 autologous T cells that had been genetically engineered to clonally express two allogeneic HLA-C*08:02-restricted T-cell receptors (TCRs) targeting mutant KRAS G12D expressed by the tumors. The patient had regression of visceral metastases (overall partial response of 72% according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1); the response was ongoing at 6 months. The engineered T cells constituted more than 2% of all the circulating peripheral-blood T cells 6 months after the cell transfer. In this patient, TCR gene therapy targeting the KRAS G12D driver mutation mediated the objective regression of metastatic pancreatic cancer. (Funded by the Providence Portland Medical Foundation.).
35727847 | Selective modulation of cell surface proteins during vaccinia infection: A resource for identifying viral immune evasion strategies. The interaction between immune cells and virus-infected targets involves multiple plasma membrane (PM) proteins. A systematic study of PM protein modulation by vaccinia virus (VACV), the paradigm of host regulation, has the potential to reveal not only novel viral immune evasion mechanisms, but also novel factors critical in host immunity. Here, >1000 PM proteins were quantified throughout VACV infection, revealing selective downregulation of known T and NK cell ligands including HLA-C, downregulation of cytokine receptors including IFNAR2, IL-6ST and IL-10RB, and rapid inhibition of expression of certain protocadherins and ephrins, candidate activating immune ligands. Downregulation of most PM proteins occurred via a proteasome-independent mechanism. Upregulated proteins included a decoy receptor for TRAIL. Twenty VACV-encoded PM proteins were identified, of which five were not recognised previously as such. Collectively, this dataset constitutes a valuable resource for future studies on antiviral immunity, host-pathogen interaction, poxvirus biology, vector-based vaccine design and oncolytic therapy.
36203601 | Induction of T cell exhaustion by JAK1/3 inhibition in the treatment of alopecia areata. Alopecia areata (AA) is an autoimmune disease caused by T cell-mediated destruction of the hair follicle (HF). Therefore, approaches that effectively disrupt pathogenic T cell responses are predicted to have therapeutic benefit for AA treatment. T cells rely on the duality of T cell receptor (TCR) and gamma chain (gammac) cytokine signaling for their development, activation, and peripheral homeostasis. Ifidancitinib is a potent and selective next-generation JAK1/3 inhibitor predicted to disrupt gammac cytokine signaling. We found that Ifidancitinib robustly induced hair regrowth in AA-affected C3H/HeJ mice when fed with Ifidancitinib in chow diets. Skin taken from Ifidancitinib-treated mice showed significantly decreased AA-associated inflammation. CD44+CD62L- CD8+ T effector/memory cells, which are associated with the pathogenesis of AA, were significantly decreased in the peripheral lymphoid organs in Ifidancitinib-treated mice. We observed high expression of co-inhibitory receptors PD-1 on effector/memory CD8+ T cells, together with decreased IFN-gamma production in Ifidancitinib-treated mice. Furthermore, we found that gammac cytokines regulated T cell exhaustion. Taken together, our data indicate that selective induction of T cell exhaustion using a JAK inhibitor may offer a mechanistic explanation for the success of this treatment strategy in the reversal of autoimmune diseases such as AA.
36338940 | Relationship between KIR genotypes and HLA-ligands with SARS-CoV-2 infection in the Saudi population. Aim: To ascertain whether killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIR) genes polymorphisms and HLA-I ligands are associated with COVID-19 in Saudi Arabia. Methods: Eighty-seven COVID-19 patients who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and one hundred and fourteen healthy controls were enrolled in this study for genotyping of the 16 KIR genes, HLA-C1 and -C2 allotypes and HLA-G 14-bp indels polymorphisms using the sequence specific primer polymerase chain reaction (SSP-PCR) method. KIR genotype frequency differences and combination KIR-HLA-C ligand were tested for significance. Results: Framework genes KIR2DL4, KIR3DL2, KIR3DL3, and KIR3DP2 were present in all individuals. The frequencies of KIR2DL2 and KIR2D4 were higher in COVID-19 positive patients than in healthy individuals. The frequencies of the combination KIR2DL2-HLA-C2 was also significantly higher in patients affected by COVID-19 compared with healthy controls. Conclusion: It was found that the inhibitory KIR2DL2 gene in isolation or combined with its HLA-C2 ligand could be associated with susceptibility to COVID-19 in the Saudi population.
36366349 | Association of Human Leucocyte Antigen Polymorphism with Coronavirus Disease 19 in Renal Transplant Recipients. Human leucocyte antigens (HLAs) are highly polymorphic glycoproteins expressed at the surface of all nucleated cells. It is required for the SARS-CoV-2 peptide antigen presentation to immune cells for their effector response. However, polymorphism in HLA significantly impacts the binding of SARS-CoV-2 antigenic peptide to the HLA pocket and regulates immune activation. In this study, 514 renal transplant recipients (RTRs) were recruited from the outpatient department and categorized either into symptomatic (n = 173) or asymptomatic groups (n = 341) based on Coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19) symptoms. The anti-SARS-CoV-2 spike protein-specific IgG antibody titer was measured by chemiluminescent microparticle immune-assay methods in 310 RTRs. The HLA details of 514 patients were retrieved from the electronic medical records and analyzed retrospectively. We found that HLA antigen allele A*24 was significantly associated with asymptomatic infection in 22.78%, HLA C*02 in 4.51%, DRB1*12 in 10.85%, and HLA DQA1*02 in 27.74% of RTRs. Whereas HLA A*29 in 3.46%, A*33 in 26.01%, B*13 in 10.40%, DRB1*10 in 4.62%, DRB1*15 in 39.30%, DRB1*30 in 1.15%, and DQA1*60 in 3.57% of RTRs were associated with symptomatic infection. HLA DRB1*13 and DRB1*15 were associated with moderate to severe degrees of COVID-19 disease. The seroconversion rate in asymptomatic patients was 118/137 (86.13%), had a median titer of 647.80 au/ml, compared to symptomatic patients 148/173 (85.54%) with a median titer of 400.00 au/ml, which was not significant between the two groups (P = 0.88 and 0.13). In conclusion, HLA alleles A*24, C*02, DRB1*12, and DQA1*02 were significantly associated with asymptomatic infection, and A*29, A*33, B*13, DRB1*10, DRB*15, and DRB1*30 were significantly associated with symptomatic infection. HLA DRB1*13 and DRB1*15 were associated with moderate to severe degrees of COVID-19 disease.
36427410 | On the peptide binding affinity changes in population-specific HLA repertoires to the SARS-CoV-2 variants Delta and Omicron. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the changes of Spike protein-HLA binding affinity profiles between the Wuhan strain and two dominant variants, the Delta and the Omicron strains, among the Taiwanese, the British and the Russian populations. METHODS: The HLA frequencies and the HLA-peptide binding affinity profiles in the T-CoV database were combined to conduct the study. We focused on the public alleles in the three populations (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, HLA-DRB1, and/or HLA-DPA1/DPB1 alleles) and the altered peptides of the spike protein (compared to the Wuhan strain) in the Delta G/478K V1 (B.1.617.2 + AY.1 + AY.2) and the Omicron (BA.1) strains. RESULTS: For the Delta strain, tight bindings of the altered peptides to the HLA alleles decrease in all three populations and almost vanish in the Taiwanese population. For the Omicron strain, tight bindings are mostly preserved for both HLA classes and in the Taiwanese and the British populations, with a slight reduction in HLA class II in the Taiwanese (1.4%), while the Russian population preserves a relatively high fraction of tight bindings for both HLA classes. CONCLUSION: We comprehensively reported the changes in the HLA-associated SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein peptide binding profiles among the Taiwanese, the British, and the Russian populations. Further studies are needed to understand the immunological mechanisms and the clinical value of our findings.
36560396 | A Novel Finding of an HLA Allele's and a Haplotype's Relationship with SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine-Associated Subacute Thyroiditis. Subacute thyroiditis (SAT) is a thyroid disease associated with viral infections. Its relationship with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigens was shown before. SAT cases triggered by different types of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) vaccines have been reported. In this study, human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genotypes of 27 SAT patients (13 vaccine-associated (V-SAT) and 14 non-SARS-CoV-2-infection non-vaccine-associated (non-V-SAT)) were compared with those of 362 healthy donors. HLA analyses were performed with low-resolution DNA-based sequence-specific oligonucleotide or sequence-specific primer methods. Statistical analyses were performed using IBM SPSS Statistics 25 and Stata/MP 14.1 with the hapipf function. Allele and haplotype frequencies were estimated by PyPop and gene[RATE] tool programs. The allele frequencies of HLA-A*11, HLA-B*35, and HLA-C*04 were higher in the patient groups. Both the allele frequency of HLA-A*11 and the haplotype frequency of A*11-B*35-C*04 were higher in the V-SAT group. The A*11-B*35-C*04 haplotype, including all three loci of MHC class I genes, is shown to be associated with the disease for the first time, especially in the V-SAT group. This finding will contribute to a better understanding of the etiopathogenesis of vaccine-associated SAT and the role of HLA genotypes in the functioning mechanisms of the SARS-CoV-2 vaccines.
36574092 | Impact of BSG/CD147 gene expression on diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic strategies towards malignant cancers and possible susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2. BACKGROUND: BSG (CD147) is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily that shows roles for potential prognostics and therapeutics for metastatic cancers and SARS-CoV-2 invasion for COVID-19. The susceptibility of malignant cancers to SARS-CoV-2 as well as the correlations between disease outcome and BSG expression in tumor tissues have not been studied in depth. METHODS: In this study, we explored the BSG expression profile, survival correlation, DNA methylation, mutation, diagnostics, prognostics, and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) from different types of cancer tissues with corresponding healthy tissues. In vitro studies for cordycepin (CD), N6-(2-hydroxyethyl) adenosine (HEA), N6, N6-dimethyladenosine (m62A) and 5'-uridylic acid (UMP) on BSG expression were also conducted. RESULTS: We revealed that BSG is conserved among different species, and significantly upregulated in seven tumor types, including ACC, ESCA, KICH, LIHC, PAAD, SKCM and THYM, compared with matched normal tissues, highlighting the susceptibility of these cancer patients to SARS-CoV-2 invasion, COVID-19 severity and progression of malignant cancers. High expression in BSG was significantly correlated with a short OS in LGG, LIHC and OV patients, but a long OS in KIRP patients. Methylation statuses in the BSG promoter were significantly higher in BRCA, HNSC, KIRC, KIRP, LUSC, PAAD, and PRAD tumor tissues, but lower in READ. Four CpGs in the BSG genome were identified as potential DNA methylation biomarkers which could be used to predict malignant cancers from normal individuals. Furthermore, a total of 65 mutation types were found, in which SARC showed the highest mutation frequency (7.84%) and THYM the lowest (0.2%). Surprisingly, both for disease-free and progression-free survival in pan-cancers were significantly reduced after BSG mutations. Additionally, a correlation between BSG expression and immune lymphocytes of CD56bright natural killer cell, CD56dim natural killer cell and monocytes, MHC molecules of HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C and TAPBP, immunoinhibitor of PVR, PVRL2, and immunostimulators of TNFRSF14, TNFRSF18, TNFRSF25, and TNFSF9, was revealed in most cancer types. Moreover, BSG expression was downregulated by CD, HEA, m62A or UMP in cancer cell lines, suggesting therapeutic potentials for interfering entry of SARS-CoV-2. CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, our study highlights the values of targeting BSG for diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic strategies to fight malignant cancers and COVID-19. Small molecules CD, HEA, m62A and UMP imply therapeutic potentials in interfering with entry of SARS-CoV-2 and progression of malignant cancers.
36605212 | HLA variants have different preferences to present proteins with specific molecular functions which are complemented in frequent haplotypes. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes are the most polymorphic loci in the human genome and code for proteins that play a key role in guiding adaptive immune responses by presenting foreign and self peptides (ligands) to T cells. Each person carries up to 6 HLA class I variants (maternal and paternal copies of HLA-A, HLA-B and HLA-C genes) and also multiple HLA class II variants, which cumulatively define the landscape of peptides presented to T cells. Each HLA variant has its own repertoire of presented peptides with a certain sequence motif which is mainly defined by peptide anchor residues (typically the second and the last positions for HLA class I ligands) forming key interactions with the peptide-binding groove of HLA. In this study, we aimed to characterize HLA binding preferences in terms of molecular functions of presented proteins. To focus on the ligand presentation bias introduced specifically by HLA-peptide interaction we performed large-scale in silico predictions of binding of all peptides from human proteome for a wide range of HLA variants and established which functions are characteristic for proteins that are more or less preferentially presented by different HLA variants using statistical calculations and gene ontology (GO) analysis. We demonstrated marked distinctions between HLA variants in molecular functions of preferentially presented proteins (e.g. some HLA variants preferentially present membrane and receptor proteins, while others - ribosomal and DNA-binding proteins) and reduced presentation of extracellular matrix and collagen proteins by the majority of HLA variants. To explain these observations we demonstrated that HLA preferentially presents proteins enriched in amino acids which are required as anchor residues for the particular HLA variant. Our observations can be extrapolated to explain the protective effect of certain HLA alleles in infectious diseases, and we hypothesize that they can also explain susceptibility to certain autoimmune diseases and cancers. We demonstrate that these differences lead to differential presentation of HIV, influenza virus, SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 proteins by various HLA alleles. Taking into consideration that HLA alleles are inherited in haplotypes, we hypothesized that haplotypes composed of a combination of HLA variants with different presentation preferences should be more advantageous as they allow presenting a larger repertoire of peptides and avoiding holes in immunopeptidome. Indeed, we demonstrated that HLA-A/HLA-B and HLA-A/HLA-C haplotypes which have a high frequency in the human population are comprised of HLA variants that are more distinct in terms of functions of preferentially presented proteins than the control pairs.
36786990 | Differences in Presentation of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Strain Variant BA.1-BA.5 Peptides by HLA Molecules. In this work, we analyzed the binding affinities of mutated peptides of Omicron strain variants BA.1-BA.5 and the worldwide prevalent HLA alleles. Bioinformatics analysis was conducted with the use of T-CoV web portal. We showed that, for all five viral variants, mutations cause a significant reduction in the number of tightly binding peptides for HLA-B*07:02 and HLA-C*01:02 molecules. At the same time, there were novel potential mutant epitopes (binding affinity less than 50 nM) in case of HLA-A*32:01 allele. Interestingly, mutations caused multidirectional effect on the binding affinities of the viral peptides and HLA-DRB1*03:01. Specifically, Spike protein mutations in the BA.1 variant caused more than 100-fold decrease in PINLVRDLPQGFSAL binding affinity, 10-fold decrease in affinity in the case of BA.2, BA.4, and BA.5 variants, and 30% increase in affinity for the BA.3 variant.
36797091 | Impact of HLA polymorphisms on the susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection and related mortality in patients with renal replacement therapy. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection could present in a clinical spectrum of varying severity. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is a crucial component of the viral antigen presentation pathway and immune response to the virus. Therefore, we aimed to assess the impact of HLA allele polymorphisms on the susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 infection and related mortality in Turkish kidney transplant recipients and wait listed patients, along with clinical characteristics of the patients. We analysed data from 401 patients with clinical characteristics according to presence (n = 114, COVID+) or absence of SARS-CoV-2 infection (n = 287, COVID-) who had previously been HLA typed to support transplantation. The incidence of coronavirus disease-19 (COVID-19) was 28 %, and the mortality rate was 19 % in our wait listed/ transplanted patients. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that a significant HLA association between HLA- B*49 (OR = 2.57, 95 % CI, 1.13-5.82; p = 0.02) and HLA- DRB1*14 (OR = 2.48, 95 % CI, 1.18-5.20; p = 0.01) with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Besides, in COVID + patients, HLA-C*03 was correlated to mortality (OR = 8.31, 95 % CI, 1.26-54.82; P = 0.03). The new finding from our analysis suggests that HLA polymorphisms could be associated with the occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 infection and COVID-19 mortality in Turkish patients with renal replacement therapy. This study may provide new information for the clinician to identify and manage sub-populations at risk in the setting of the current COVID-19 pandemic.
36818472 | Differential haplotype expression in class I MHC genes during SARS-CoV-2 infection of human lung cell lines. Introduction: Cell entry of SARS-CoV-2 causes genome-wide disruption of the transcriptional profiles of genes and biological pathways involved in the pathogenesis of COVID-19. Expression allelic imbalance is characterized by a deviation from the Mendelian expected 1:1 expression ratio and is an important source of allele-specific heterogeneity. Expression allelic imbalance can be measured by allele-specific expression analysis (ASE) across heterozygous informative expressed single nucleotide variants (eSNVs). ASE reflects many regulatory biological phenomena that can be assessed by combining genome and transcriptome information. ASE contributes to the interindividual variability associated with the disease. We aim to estimate the transcriptome-wide impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection by analyzing eSNVs. Methods: We compared ASE profiles in the human lung cell lines Calu-3, A459, and H522 before and after infection with SARS-CoV-2 using RNA-Seq experiments. Results: We identified 34 differential ASE (DASE) sites in 13 genes (HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, BRD2, EHD2, GFM2, GSPT1, HAVCR1, MAT2A, NQO2, SUPT6H, TNFRSF11A, UMPS), all of which are enriched in protein binding functions and play a role in COVID-19. Most DASE sites were assigned to the MHC class I locus and were predominantly upregulated upon infection. DASE sites in the MHC class I locus also occur in iPSC-derived airway epithelium basal cells infected with SARS-CoV-2. Using an RNA-Seq haplotype reconstruction approach, we found DASE sites and adjacent eSNVs in phase (i.e., predicted on the same DNA strand), demonstrating differential haplotype expression upon infection. We found a bias towards the expression of the HLA alleles with a higher binding affinity to SARS-CoV-2 epitopes. Discussion: Independent of gene expression compensation, SARS-CoV-2 infection of human lung cell lines induces transcriptional allelic switching at the MHC loci. This suggests a response mechanism to SARS-CoV-2 infection that swaps HLA alleles with poor epitope binding affinity, an expectation supported by publicly available proteome data.
36879263 | HLA typing of patients who developed subacute thyroiditis and Graves' disease after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination: a case report. BACKGROUND: Cases of subacute thyroiditis (SAT) after severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) vaccination have been reported. A human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allele, HLA-B*35, appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of SAT. CASE PRESENTATION: We conducted HLA typing of one patient with SAT and another with both SAT and Graves' disease (GD), which developed after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination. Patient 1, a 58-year-old Japanese man, was inoculated with a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (BNT162b2; Pfizer, New York, NY, USA). He developed fever (38  C), cervical pain, palpitations, and fatigue on day 10 after vaccination. Blood chemistry tests revealed thyrotoxicosis and elevated serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and slightly increased serum antithyroid-stimulating antibody (TSAb) levels. Thyroid ultrasonography revealed the characteristic findings of SAT. Patient 2, a 36-year-old Japanese woman, was inoculated twice with a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine (mRNA-1273; Moderna, Cambridge, MA, USA). She developed fever (37.8  C) and thyroid gland pain on day 3 after the second vaccination. Blood chemistry tests revealed thyrotoxicosis and elevated serum CRP, TSAb, and antithyroid-stimulating hormone receptor antibody levels. Fever and thyroid gland pain persisted. Thyroid ultrasonography revealed the characteristic findings of SAT (i.e., slight swelling and a focal hypoechoic area with decreased blood flow). Prednisolone treatment was effective for SAT. However, thyrotoxicosis causing palpitations relapsed thereafter, for which thyroid scintigraphy with 99mtechnetium pertechnetate was conducted, and the patient was diagnosed with GD. Thiamazole treatment was then initiated, which led to improvement in symptoms. CONCLUSION: HLA typing revealed that both patients had the HLA-B*35:01, -C*04:01, and -DPB1*05:01 alleles. Only patient 2 had the HLA-DRB1*11:01 and HLA-DQB1*03:01 alleles. The HLA-B*35:01 and HLA-C*04:01 alleles appeared to be involved in the pathogenesis of SAT after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination, and the HLA-DRB1*11:01 and HLA-DQB1*03:01 alleles were speculated to be involved in the postvaccination pathogenesis of GD.
36980183 | Complete Freund's Adjuvant Induces a Fibroblast-like Synoviocytes (FLS) Metabolic and Migratory Phenotype in Resident Fibroblasts of the Inoculated Footpad at the Earliest Stage of Adjuvant-Induced Arthritis. The fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) have a crucial role in the pathogenesis of Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA); however, its precise mechanisms remain partially unknown. The involvement of the fibroblast in activating adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA) has not been previously reported. The objective was to describe the participation of footpads' fibroblasts in the critical initial process that drives the AA onset. Wistar rats were injected with Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA) or saline solution in the hind paws' footpads and euthanized at 24 or 48 h for genetic and histological analyses. Microarrays revealed the differentially expressed genes between the groups. The CFA dysregulated RA-linked biological processes at both times. Genes of MAPK, Jak-STAT, HIF, PI3K-Akt, TLR, TNF, and NF-kappaB signaling pathways were altered 24 h before the arrival of immune cells (CD4, CD8, and CD68). Key markers TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6, NFkappaB, MEK-1, JAK3, Enolase, and VEGF were immunodetected in fibroblast in CFA-injected footpads at 24 h but not in the control group. Moreover, fibroblasts in the CFA inoculation site overexpressed cadherin-11, which is linked to the migration and invasion ability of RA-FLS. Our study shows that CFA induced a pathological phenotype in the fibroblast of the inoculation site at very early AA stages from 24 h, suggesting a prominent role in arthritis activation processes.
